============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 37, Number 6
Date: July 1944
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "GOV’T" by SERVICE
  2. "on actual shop practice" by Yon yonrknowledgebsfote
  3. "send one Free Demonstration Lesson and Book of Radio Information" by Mail Coupon today. No cost
  4. "in time to grace the capon which Nora Me- "Yes!" I repeated" by Miss Mkhaelson was I
  5. "seemed utterly at peace with all the world. "Not more than half an hour, sir" by Maybe f
  6. "To de Grandin I explained: "Just one of call?— the cramper-in- the-stomach? He is althose things that keep life from becoming ways complaining, that one" by You must not
  7. "Heading b7 A. R" by TILBURNE
  8. "quits with life and fate" by But for the one
  9. "little that I do know is not good" by He came
  10. "here since you went away" by You never heard
  11. "red" by As we stepped into die car beside him
  12. "Fate unfold" by These men had never heard of
  13. "knife" by They were lilce two chemicals that
  14. "T S" by AVEUNG so smoothly we were
  15. "Coiquitt stepped soundlessly across the <»rridor to the reception room" by At the door
  16. "I thought "Of course" by Miss Castevens. Did
============================================================
============================================================
GOV’T
by SERVICE
============================================================
A Jules de Grandin story by Seabury Quinn

The Beasts of Barsac” by P'^BERT BLOCH



An ad for reasonable men oni] who prefer billows of lather instead of billows of claims

Dear Sir;- Your face has probably been a testing laboratory for a lot of shaving theories and tools, soaps and aeams, lotions and salves.

Yet, in the fullness of time and experience, each man learns that shaving is at best a nuisance and a bore. And that even when it is not downright painful, the word pleasure shouldn’t be mentioned in the same breath with shaving.

Does this mean that the future of shaving is all black as a man’s beard? Not at all.

For the sake of your comfort (and incidentally, our business) we have lavished our technical skill and resources on producing a quality shaving cream. One which we could offer fairly as a semible shaving aid. One which would do as much as any reasonable man could expect, to make shaving as painless as possible.

Literally, a fraction of an inch of our Listetine Shaving Cream gives lots and lots of good, rich lather. Brushes up quickly into a big, moisture-laden blanket of foam. And the mote water you add, the better.,; because water is really the secret of the whole beardV softening mystery.

If all this sounds like good sense to you, we'd like you to meet Listetine Shaving Bv Cream face to face. Ask for it at any drug ^ counter. The price is low_„SSH^lHbe. lasts long; so it is just as. smart to bu^j^j.it is smattless to use. Sincerely,

Lambert Pharmacai Co., St. i»/!, Mo.

WHENCE came tbe knowledge tliat builtthe Pyramids and the mighty Temples of the Pharaohs? Civilization began in the Nile Valley centuries ago. Where idid its first builders acquire their astounding w^om that started man oa his upward climb? Beginning, with naught they overcame nature’s forces and gave the world its first sciences and arta Did dieir knowledge come from a race now submerged beneath the sea, or were they touched with lignite inspiration? From what cmicealed source came the wisdom ithat.produced such characters as Amenhotep IV, Leonardo da Vind, l^ac Newton, and a host of others?

Today it is \noum that they discovered and learned to inter-* pret certain Secret Methods for fhe development of their inner power of mind. They learned to command the inner forces within their own beings, and to master life. This secret art of living has been preserved and handed down throughout tile ages. Today it is extended to those who dare to use its profound prindples to meet and solve tiie problems of life in these complex times.

This Sealed Book — -FREE

Has life brought you diet personal satisfactioa, the seiise of adile^ SQent and happiness that you desire? If not, it is your ^uty to your* self to learn about this rational method of applying natural laws fort the mastery of life. To the thoughtful person it is obvious that every' one cannot be entrusted with an intimate knowledge of the mysteries ' of life,.for everyoi?e is not capable of properly using it. But if you are one of those possessed of a true desire to forge ahead and wish to make use of the subtle influences of life, Ae Rdsiaudana (not-a religiqua organization) will send you A Sealed Book of explanation ■without obligation. This Sealed Book tells how you, in the privacy of your own home, without interference wiUr your persona! affairs or manner of living, may receive these secret teachings. Not weird or

SSENHOTEPIV Pounder of MrKesr SchooU

tJsefSfs coupm for FREE

copy of boo^

t'LISTERINE

l> '. SHAVING CREAM

SCRIBE

The Rosictucians (AMORCX San Jose, California Reaae tend free copy of 8e tsdiicb I abaU read as directed.

REMEMBER, TNERf ARE 2 TYPES OF IISTERIKE SHAVING CRM

Out of this tube come swell shaues, *

for ■men xubo prefer no-brush cream

The ROSICRUCIANS

SAN JOSE

(amorc)


ALL STORIES NEW— NO REPRINTS

Cover by A. E. Tilbume

great spider — keeping the records!


its CTumbiing battlements against a sullen. Mood-streaked sky SHORT STORIES

JOHN THUNSTONE'S INHERITANCE Manly Wade Wellman 17

... Ike atmosphere alone proved the existence of spirit forcesl

PLANE AND FANCY P. Schuyler Miller 26

Might not there be a "fancier'" geometry than the "plane"’ one he struggled tmsrHlmgly to digest?

STRANGER IN THE MIRROR George N. Laws 32

Suppose you looked in a mirror one day and saw not you. • • but someone else?

GUARD IN THE DARK.... Allison V. Harding 52

- There was a reason wftu ike boy demanded toy soldiers, a reason ' ■ to be found only in the treacherous dark!

THE SPARE BOOM Crawford Sullivan 62

THERE WAS AN OLD WOMAN • Ray Bradbury 74

You can"t talk me info that silly wicker basket — she said — for I don’t believe in dying

THE MAN WHO WOULDN’T HANG Stanton A. Coblents 82

The condemned man was mighty cool on the gallows — almost


. Page Cooper 51 Bok and Nichol 73'

SUPERSTITIONS AND TABOOS Irwin J. W^l 61.

THE EYRIE AND WEIRD TALES CLUB 93

Except for personal experiences the contents of this magazine is fiction- Any use of the name of asvy living person or reference to actual events is purely coincidental

LAMOKT BUCBAKAK, Aesoetate Edttor.

:quire

LAW

Whether ybn go info military service or remain in Civilian ranka, radio offers yon the bis opportunity for bigger pay. rapid promotion and snhstantlal positions during and after the war Radio Technicians are needed everywhere. Ton don’t have to give up your present Job to start-. Radio Training, tee- National Schools of Los Angeles has developed a home plan of practical Radio Training to fit ^,,-i your needs, regardless of

ssilf-'' your age, education or draft status

AT HOME

^T^HOUSANDS of men today, who never 1. intend to pi-actice before the bar, are studying law.

They realize that the law-trained man is u leader — that law training makes keen, clear, quick, correct thinking — that there is a re«J reason why legally-trained men head many of America’s greatest corporations.

PRACTICAL Lato Through Home Study

The home study Law trtdning offered by LaSalle has proven itself practical and v^uable far bej-ond the


NO PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE NEEDED!

[ I National trained men "go COMMAND ANV places"! National men serve In OF THESE JOSS critical posts with Uncle Sam’s I armed forces... hold big pay positions with the great radio chains and stations... own and operate their own profitable radio repair businesses! Ton, too, can enter this great industry— flge or education no bar — no pievions experience in radio needed I

RADIO EXPERT BROADCASTING AIRCRAFT— MARINE INDUSTRIAU

ELECTRONICS STUDIO TECHNICIAN GOV’T. SERVICE REMANUFACTURE

AMOST VNVSVAL Law Library


Every phase of your Home Step by step you build

Training is supervised by an actual set from

experienced Radio Instmo- parts 've furnish. Yon tors and engineers, based can start to cash In on on actual shop practice. Yon yonrknowledgebsfote learn by doing. you finish the course.

So that you can aelt-demonstrate your ability to learn Radio by National's Tested Plan we will send one Free Demonstration Lesson and Book of Radio Information. Mail Coupon today. No cost... no obligation


ACORRESPONDENCE JNSTirOTIOH Dept 675-LR Chicago pr-—

PiBASB mention Newsstand FicnoM Unit when answering adveiiisements

I I ' UI.I'llM.

I'l> 1)1 fll>\\l)'\

JUI^S DB GRANDIN, looking even fided as he toc^ a half-swaJIoTV of Qiaf-;

mofe diminutive and dapper in his treose and followed it with a sip of black i

uniform of major in the Service del coffee. "I am tired like twenty dogs and *

Rensiegmenis than in civilian attire, re- half as many so small puppies. I wo>jId not

S rded tiie highly polished tip of his tan budge from this chair if — ” >

ot with every sign of approval as he ex- The shrilling of the telephone sawed •

haled two columns of smoke through narrow through his statement and with a nod of i

nostrils. Dinner had been something of a apology I picked up the instrument. "Yes?” j

function that evening, for at a little place I inquired. \

in East Fifty-third Street he 'had found that "This is Michaelson, Doctor," die wo- ^

afternoon a half-case of Nidts St. Georges man’s voice came to me from the other end (

whidi he had borne home triumphantly just of the wire. [

in time to grace the capon which Nora Me- "Yes!" I repeated. Miss Mkhaelson was I

Ginnis had been simmering in claret for our night supervisor of the maternity floor at f

evening meal. Now, fed to repletion, with Mercy Hospital, and when she called I knew coffee on the stand at his elbow and some- what impended.,

thing like a thimbleful of green Chartreuse "Mrs. Morrissey in Fifty-eight — "

left in the poussc cafe beside his cup, he "How long?’’ I interrupts. [

seemed utterly at peace with all the world. "Not more than half an hour, sir. Maybe f

'"The day has been a trying one at the Bu- less. If £ were in your place — ” '

reau des Remiegments, my friend,” he con- "If you were in my place, I should be in v

yours, and not have to drive thirty blocks hunted up my case of instruments and got through zero weather,” I broke in somewhat into my greatcoat. "But I thought you were rudely. "Have them make the delivery room too tired — ”

ready, if you please, and give her half a "Ah bah!" The little laughter-wrinkles grain’ of morphine if the pain becomes too deepened at the outei corners of his eyes, great. I’m starting right away.” ' "That Jules de Giandin, he is what you

To de Grandin I explained: "Just one of call?— the cramper-in- the-stomach? He is althose things that keep life from becoming ways complaining, that one. You must not too dull for the doctor. "The population of put too mucK credence in his lamentations.” New Jersey is due for an addition ia- the

next half hour, and I have to be there as JT WAS an ordinary case. Miranda Morpart of the welcoming committee — ” -L tissey was young and strong, and^^de

"Will you permit that I go with you to Grapdin’s obstetrical skill was amazing. "So assist?” he asked. “Me, I have so long been — now — my small sinner,” he spanked the busily engaged in reducing the sum total of ' small, red bfanf s small, ted posterior with humanity that it will be a novelty to take a wet towel, “weep and wail, and breathe part in its increase. Besides, my hand grows the breath of life in the process. What?” as awkward for the lack of practice.” the baby refused to respond to his com-

'T’ll be delighted,” I assured him as 1 mand. "You will not? By blue, I say you

For everyone who cheats deaSh, death must have another vktiml

Heading b7 A. R. TILBURNE


$hall! You are too young to <^efy y^ elders. T^e that, petit diablotm! _ He struck a second, sharper blow, and a pipmg, outraged wail answered the assault. "Ah, that is better — much better!” He wrapf^ the now-wriggling small, wrinkled bundle of humanity in a warmed turkish towel and bore it toward the bed where Miranda rested with all the pride of a cook carrying a chef-d’oeuvre. "Behold your man-child, mother," he announced as he laid the baby on her bosom. "He is not happy now, but in your arms he will find happiness. Le hen Dieu grant the- world in whicli he has been both may be a better one than that into which we came!”

As we walked down the corridor he drew his hand across his eyes wearily. "There is something more solemn in a birth than a death," he confided. "For the dead one aU is over, his troubles are behind him, he is quits with life and fate. But for the one who is beginning life — helai, who can say what he has stepped into? A quarter-century ago when little boys came into the world we thought diey were inheritors of peace and safety and security; that we had won the war to end all war. Today?” He spread his hands and raised his shoulders in the sort of shrug no one but a Frenchman can attain, "Who can prophesy, who can predict what —harbe d’un houc vert, who in Satan’s name is diat?” he broke o€ sharply.

I looked at him in amazement. His small, pointed chin was thrust forward and in his little round blue eyes there was the flash of sudden anger, while his delicate, slim nostrils twitched like those of a hound scenting danger or quarry. "Who? Where?” I asked.

"Yonder by the elevator, my friend. Do not you see him? Parhleu, if the Iscariot had descendants, I make no ctoabt that he is one of theml”

I looked where his glance indicated and gave a shrug of disgust. "That’s Coiquitt,” I answered. "Dr. Henri Coiquitt.”

‘'Hein?"

’T don't know much about him, and the little that I do know is not good. He came here since you went away. You never heard of him.”

"Thank God for that,” he answered piously. "But something tells me I shall heat

more of him in the future, and that he shall hear of Jules de Grandin.”

The object of our colloquy turned toward us as the elevator stopped in answer to his ring, and in die light that flowed from the car we saw him outlined clearly as an actor in a spotlight on a darkened stage. He w^ a big man, six feet tail, at least, and his height seemed greater because of his extreme slenderness. He was in black throughout, a long, loose cape like a naval officer’s boaN doak hung from his shoulders, his broadbrimmed hat was black velour; his dothes, too, seemed to be of a peculiar shade of black that caught and p^eted die light. The only highlight in his costume was the... band of white that marked his collar above his wide, flowing black crarat, and in complement to the somberness of his attire bis skin was pale olive and his lips intensely, red. As we stepped into die car beside him we caught the scent of perfumed soap and bath powder, but underneath the more agreeable odor, it seemed to me, there was a faint, repulsive smell of decay and corruption. ', \

Coiquitt bowed gracefully ^ we joined him, arid de Grandin, not to be outdone in courtesy, returned the bow punctiliously, but for a moment, as their glances crossed, both nKn seemed pjoised and alert, like duelisfs wiio seek an opening in each others’ guards.

I fek a shiver of something like awe run through me. It seemed to me as 1 sat in a box seat and watched a drama staged by Fate unfold. These men had never heard of each (^er, never before set eyes on each other, yet in the glance of each there ^one a sudden hatred, cold and deadly as a bared knife. They were lilce two chemicals that waited only for a catalyst to ejqjlode them.

T S.AVEUNG so smoothly we were scarcely aware of its motion, the elevator drew to a stq> at the ground floor, and Coiquitt stepped soundlessly across the <»rridor to the reception room. At the door Camilla Castevens rushed to meet him. "How is he. Doctor?” we heard her ask in a trembling whisper. "Is be — is there any. itBprovement?”

He bowed to her with a superb gentility, • yet the gesture had a hint of mockery in it, I thought "Of course. Miss Castevens. Did

i

DEATH’S BOOKKEEPER


I not promise you — He turned and cast could have happened. Only — ” I paused, a glance half quizzical, half mocking, at de at loss for words to continue, and be

Grandin and me, and with a guilty start I prompted softly. "Yes, only — ”

realized we had halted almost at his elbow, Well, — oh, this sounds utterly absurd, I

drinking in each word he and Camilla said know — I’d never think of mentioning it to

to each other. anybody else, but — hang it all, man, it seems

"Good evening, Dr. Trowbridge,” Cam- to me there’s something like black magic in ilia nodded coldly as she recognized me, and his cures.” with an answering bow I took de.Grandin’s "Ah-ha? How do you say?”

elbow and guided him toward the door, "In every instance where a cure has been

feeling like a naughty little boy who had effected someone in the patient’s family has been caught eavesdropping on his elders’ taken ill and died within a year. Sometimes conversation. sooner, but never later.”

"Now, what in Satan’s name is it all He w'as silent for a moment, then, "Perabout?” the little Frenchman demanded as haps,” he admitted thoughtfully. "The we stepped into the stinging cold of the Greeks knew of such things — "

February night. "How’s that?”

I. laughed without humor. "I wish I "I cannot say, at least not now, «<5« knew. Dr. Coiquitt is a newcomer to Har- I did but think aloud, and not to any great risonville, as I told you. Where he came effect, I fear.” from goodness only knows. We know only

that he had credentials from half a dozen TT MIGHT have been a week later, perEuropen universities, and had no difficulty X haps ten days, when Camilla Castevens in obtaining a license to practice. Since he called on me. She was a tall young woman -r-^. _ set up shop in Dahlenega Road he’s raised with copper hair and steady blue eyes, past the ver;^? devil with the medical profession.” the first flush of her youth — some thii^-two "Ah? ^How is that, is he a quack?” or -three — but with the added attractiveness

wish I knew. He’s certainly not that early maturity gives to a woman. In ffie

orthodox. The first case I have real know- light of the consulting-room lamp her face edge of is one he took from Perry. I think looked sad, her cheeks seemed hollow, and you know Perry. First-rate heart man. He’d her red lips dipped in a pathetic downward been treating Mrs. Delame for angina pec- airve. 'Tm frightened, Dr. Trowbridge,” toris, and having no more luck with her than she confessed.

was to be expected in the circumstances. I found it hard not to be sarcastic. It was Then somehow Delarue met Coiquitt' and on the tip of my tongue to ask her why took the case from Perry. Within two she did not take her fears to Dr. Coiquitt, months his wife was as completely cured but better sense prevailed, and instead I as if she’d never had a moment’s illness, looked at her inquiringly. Like the priest. That started it. Case after case the rest of the doctor has to be long-suffering and us had given up as hopeless wa.s taken to patient.

Coiquitt, and in every instance he effected "I — I’m terribly afraid,” she went on as

a complete cure, even with Bernice Stevens, I said nothing to help her. "I don’t want who was so far gone with carcinoma hysteria to die.” that none of us would operate, b«ause there "Few of us do, my dear.”

wouldn’t have been enough left of her to "But I shall have to if”— ^he paused a

bury when we’d cut the mprbid growth long, agonized moment, then with a burst away.” of something tike hysteria — "if Richard is

"U’m?” he pursed his lips. "I take it to get well. He says I must!” there is something more here than mere "He? Who?”

professional jealousy, my friend?” "Dr. Coiquitt, sir. Don’t you know,

'T ^ook my head hopelessly. "Of course, haven't you noticed? He was treating Mrs. there is, We'd have been chagrinned to have Delarue for an incurable ailment. She got a stranger take, our cases and effect cures wdl — ^yes, well, when all the other doctors.when we'd abandoned all hope, but that said she hadn’t a chance! — but her son Don*



In cases such as this there are no little things; all is of the importance, and 1 would know all that I may be of assistance to you. Begin at die beginning, Mademoiselle, if you please.”

She rehearsed die story she had told me, and he nodded emphatic agreement as she finished. "I do not know how he does it, Mademoiselle,'' he admitted as she brought her recital to a close, “but I am as convinced as you that there is something unholy about this business. What it is remains for us to find out. Meantime, if you will oblige us by submitting to a physical examination” — ^he rose and nodded toward the examination room — "we should like to assure gurselves of your condition; perhaps to prescribe treatment.”

There was no doubt in either of our minds when we had finished our inspection. There was a widespread area of dullness round her heart, the pulmonary second sound was sharply accented, and a murmur was discernible in the second interspace to the left of die sternum at the level of the third rib, so harsh as to be audible over the entire pericardium. Camilla Castevens was undoubtedly a victim of myocarditis, and in an advanced, almost hopeless stage.

"I shall not hold the truth from you, Mademoiselle,” de Grandin told her gravely when she returned to the consultation room. “You are a very ill person, and in utmost danger. These"' — ^he saibbled a prescription for some three-grain amyl nitrite capsules — “will ease the pain when it comes on. Crusih one in your handkerchief and inhale the fumes freely. For the rest,” his slender fingers tapped a fuguelike rhythm on the edge of the desk, "we shall have to seek the cause of your illness, and it is not in you, I assure you. Do not hesitate to call on us if-you feel the need of our assistance.”

"And I should dismiss Dr. Coiquitt?”

“Not at all; by no means. Desist from taking his nostrums, if you have not already done so, but permit him to attend your fiance by all means — ”

"But look here,” I protested, “if your theory is correct he’s already done Camilla immeasurable harm. If we permit him to stay in the case — ”

“We shall know where he is and what he’s up to, pafbleu,” de Grandin returned.

"He will be within the orbit of our observation. WTien the hunter stalks the tiger, he tethers a goat to a stake in a clearing, and waits in concealment till the striped one makes his appearance. Then, when the moment is propitious, he fires, and there is one more handsome rug to decorate a floor. So it is in this case. Mademoiselle and Monsieur her fiance are the bait which we leave for this debased species of a charlatan. Do keep up your courage, Mademoiselle," he cast a smile of reassurance at Camilla, “and we shall do the rest. “Be brave; we shall not fail you.”

^^rpHE pair of you are crazy as a brace of

JL loons,” I fumed when she had taken her departure. *T can understand Camilla. It’s the power of suggestion working on her. Theie’s a book about that sort of thing in the library, written by a man named Manly Wade Wellman. He’s made a studyof the matter and decided that if belief in illness is induced in someone who firmly believes what is told him, he will become ill — even die — of the disease he has been told h^"” has. It may be that Camilla had a tendaticy toward a weak heart. Now, if ''Gc'^i’itt induced her to believe she would develop myocarditis, and administered some eviltasting drug to be taken regularly and so keep her attention fixed on the suggestion, it might easily be that her constant worry and the fear of impending sickness and death have combined to make that latent heart-weakness active. But as for your believing such rubbish- — ”

"Ah, bah, my friend," he patted back a yawn, “you bore me. Always you must rationalize a thing you do not understand, taking the long route around the barn of Monsieur Rt^in Hood in order to arrive at a false conclusion.

“It was the power of suggestion, you say?

Let us for the sake of argument admit that suggestion could induce such an organic condition as that we found in Mademoiselle Camille. Tre bien. So much for her. But was it also suggestion that caused Madame Stevens to recover from advanced carcinoma — and her husband to develop it and die almost as she regained health? Was it the power of suggestion that pulled the young man’s plane out of the sky and dashed him

©BATH’S BOOKKEEPER


to his death against the earth? Coincidence, anguished peal, almost as if it wailed in

you say. Perhaps in one case, and possibly pain, and as the shrilling of the gong ceased

in two, but in the three of which we know, someone beat upon the panels with a frenand in the many which we damn suspect zied knodc.

coinddenra has ceased to take a great part. I hunied to answer the summons, and Parbleu, to say otherwise would be to pull Camilla Castevens almost fell into my arms,

toe long arm of coincidence dear out of ’’Oh, Dr. Trowbridge,” she gasped as I

joint! Non, my friend. There is something steadied her, "he’s found out that I came to

more sinister in this business-of-the-monkey you! I don’t know how he did it, but he we are dealing with. Just what it. is I do called me on the ’phone a little while ago not know, but 1 sh^l make it my affair to and told me tliat my time » up. Rick vill secure toe necessary information, you may get well--he seemed positively gloating be assured.” when he told me that — -but I must die to-

"How’ll you go about it?” I demanded, night — ” Her voice trailed off in a gasp nettled by his air of assurance. and if I had not held her she would have

He spread his hands and raised his shoul- skimped to the floor in a swoon, ders. "How should I know? The case re- 1 carried her into the study and stretched quires toought, and thought requires food, her on the sofa while de Grandin bathed Hiere is an excellent dinner awaiting us. her temples with cologne and held a glass Let os give it otu attention and dismiss of brandy to her lips when she revived a tois never-quite-sufficiently-to-be-anathema- little.

tized 0>iquitt person from our thoughts a She was pitiable in bet terror. Her Lttle while.” lower lip began to quiver and she caught it

savagely between her teeto to steady it. Her TTB WAS rather bte to dinner the next fingers twisted and untwisted toemselves, evening, and Nora McGinnis was call- and at the base of her throat we could see ■ lug on high heaven to witness that the voq toe pulsing of an artery as her tortured heart vin Hone she had prepared especially jumped like a fri^tened rabbit with each for him would be entirely ruined when he beat. "Be calm, ma pauvte” de Grandin bustled m with that peculiar smile that told ordered gently. "You will do yourself an he was mudi pleased with himself on his injury if you give way. Now, tell us jmt face. what happened. You say he threatened

"Me, I have dose reseafch at the city hall you?” tois afternoon,” he toM me. "At the bureau "No, sir. I wouldn’t call it a thr^t so of siaiistiques vitdei I delved into the rec- much as a statement — like a judge praords. 'This Coiquitt person is the very devil oounemg sentence. He told me I should of a fellow. A hundred cases he has had never see another sunrise — ” since he began the malfwactice of medicine "'Nom d’m bouc pert! Did he, indeed? in the city, and I find he has prolonged a And who in Satan’s stinking name is he to hundred hves for a greater or less time, but pas judgment of life and death upon his at the cost of an equal number. He is not fellow aeatures, and especially on the patighteous, my friend. He has no business tients of Jules de Grandin and Samuel to do such things. He armoys me exces- Trowbridge, both reputable physicians? Do sively, par les comes d’un crapaudl” you rest quietly beside the fire, MademoiDespite myself I could not foibear a grin, ' seile. If you should have a fit of oppression

"What are you going to do about it?” I use the amyl -nitrite capsules we gave you.

asked. If you desire it, a little brandy cannot do you

He tweaked the waxed ends of bis harm. Meanwhile — come, friend Trowsmall mustache alternately, teasing them to bridge,” he turned to me imperatively, "we needie-toarpness. “I do not quite know,” have important duties to perform.” he confessed. "At times I think perhaps It “Duties? Where?”

would be best if I went — mon Dieu, is it “At Di. Colquitt’s, in the street of the

toat we are attacked?” funny name, pardiea! We shall talk wito

^ The front doorbell had given a quid;, that one, and in no uncertain words—'*


"We can’t go barging in on a man like head of the stairway,” the servant answered

fjijj ” as we stepped across a long hall carpeted in

"Can we not, indeed? Observe Jules de black, with black, lack-luster walls and ceilGrandin, if you please, my friend, and you ings.

shall see the finest instance of barging ever "He is a Haitian, that one,” de Grandin barged, or I am one infernal, not-to-be-be- confided as we crept up the black-carpeted lieved liar. Come, dons; dlez-vous-en!” stairway. ""He tliinks that I am an initiate

of voodoo, a papdoi. I did not tell him that

D r. COIQUITT’S house in Dahlonega I was — in just so many words — but neither KOad loomed dark as Dolorous did I deny it.. And now” — he halted, braced Garde against the smalt blue of the winter himself as for a physical encounter, and sky. In keeping with his bizarre person- struck the black-enameled door before us ality its owner had had the place painted with his knuckles.

black, with no relieving spot of color, save "Entrez," a deep voice answered, and we for the silver nameplate on the door that stepped across the threshold, bore the single word Coiquitt. No diink The room was positively bewildering. It showed in the tightly drawn shutters, no ran across the full width of the house, some ray or spot of light came from the house, but thirty feet or mote, and the floor above had not to oe deterred by the tomblike air of been removed so that the vaulted ceiling die place de Grandin beat a tattoo on the was at least eight yards above us. The floor panels with the handie of his military swag- was of some black and shining composition, ger stick. "Norn d’un nom d’un nom d’un strewn with rugs of leopard skin with the artichaut," he promised savagely, 'T shall heads and claws left on, and the glass eyes stand here hammering until I bring the set in ±e beasts’ stuffed heads blazed at us filthy place down on his ears, or till he an- with a threatening fury. The walls were dull swers me!” black and emblazoned with a great gold

At last his persistence was rewarded. A dragon that seemed marching round and - ' sh ufflin g step sounded beyond the portal round the room, while across the farther and the door drew back on a crack, not end was built a divan upholstered in black swinging on hinges, but sliding in a groove silk and strewn with red and cloth-of-gold on oiled bearings. It would have tScen a piLows. Here and there against the walls battering-ram to force the place, I thought, were cabinets of ebony or buhl containing as I noted the strong steel of the track in large and strangely-bound books, scientific which the heavy oak door traveled. paraphernalia and bits of curiosa such as

A Negro, heavy-set and obviously power- skeletons of small animals, stuffed gila monful, but dreadfully hunchbacked, peered at sters and serpents coiled as if forever in the us through the aperture. "The doctaire is act of striking, and baby crocodiles. A hunot seeing patients now,” he announced in man skeleton, fully articulated, swung from an accent I. could not quite place, but which a frame of ebony like a gallows, and in 'a*- sounded vaguely French. tiled fireplace there stood a retort hissing

"Nevertheless, he will see us, mon vieux," over a great bunsen burner. Incongruously, de Grandin promised, and launched into a on a book-strewn table in the center of the torrent of words, speaking in a patois I room, there was a massive silver vase con* could not make out, but which the other taining a great bouquet of orchids, understood instantly. The man who sat at the table raised his

"Oiie moment, if you please, Msieu," eyes as we entered, and as I met his gaze 1

he' begged as he drew back the door and felt a sudden tingling in my spine — the sort

stood aside for us to enter. "I shall be of feeling one has when in the reptile house

pleased to tell the doctaire — ” at the zoo he looks down into a pit filled

"Non, by no means,” de Grandin denied, with lizards and nameless crawling things.

"Do not disturb him at his lucubrations. Colquitt's eyes were black as polished We shall go to him all quietly. I know that obsidian and strangely shiny, yet unchanghe will see us gladly.” ing in their stare as th^ of one newly dead,

"Bien, Msieu. You will find him at the and almost idly, as one takes minute note

DEATH’S BOOKKEEPER


of such trifles at such times, I noticed that the lids above the odd, unchanging eyes had a faint greenish tinge and a luster like that of old silk. For a moment he raked us with a glance of cold, ophidian malignancy, then abruptly lowered his lids, as if he drew a curtain between us and his thoughts.

“Good evening, gentfcmen — dare I say colleagues?” There was suave mockery that direatened to become stark savagery at any moment in his voice. "To what am I indebted for the honor of this wholly unexpected and I’m sure quite undeserved visit?”

The anger that had shewn in Jules de Grandin’s face had given way to a puzzled frown, and beneath his sliarply waxed, diminutive mustache his lips were pursed as if he were about to wliisde. For a long moment be made no reply, and his silence seemed to goad the other into sudden fury. "Quoi?" he demanded almost shrilly. "Is it that you come to see a marvel, and are stricken speechless ^ the sight? I am not on display, my simple ones. Speak up and state your btainess and be off!”

' "MorUeu!" Surprise seemed to have forced the word from de Grandin.

"What is it that you—” began the other, but de Grandin ignored him completely.

“Not Coiquitt!” he airacst shouted at me. "Not Coiqokt, Trowbridge, pour f amour d’un pore touche! It is Dessiles, Pierre Dessiles, the ^state, false alike to his country and his Aesculapian ealh as a physician! Dessiles the necromancer, the sate espion, difflnissed from the faeuite de medicine, convicted of conniving with the filthy Bodie to sdl his country’s secrets, and condemned to penal servitude for life on Devil’s Island!” He levded his small swagger stick at the other as if it were a w^pon and continued his denunciation: "I had heard he had escaped from confinement and made his way to Haiti and become a member of the voodooists, and when I first saw him at the hospital I was almost sure I recognized him, though when he turned to face me I was just as certain that I was mistaken, for in the olden days his eyes were gray, now they are blade. I do not know how he has done it, but I know beyond a doubt sow that he is Dessiles, despite the changed color of his eyes. I cannot be mistaken in that voia, ffiat monstrous egotism of fte ass who struts

about in a lion’s skin. However much the leopard has succeeded in effacing his spots or Dessiles in changing his eye-color, the leopard still is but an overgrown, great pussy-cat and Dessiles remains a stinking charlatan and traitor!”

<<rp0UCHE!” the man behind the table J- laughed with a low hard raucousness like the crackling of crushed paper. "You are right on every count, my little droll one, and since your knowledge goes no farther than yourself, and you shall go no farther than this room, you might as well know all.” With an almost incredibly quick motion he flung open a drawer in the table and snatched a heavy automatic pistol from It, swinging it in a quick arc between de Grandin and me, steady as a pendulum and deadly as a serpent poised to strike. "Be seated, gentlemen,” he ordered rather than invit^. "When the time has come to say an ‘voir you may stand, if you wish, but until then I must insist that you sit— -and keep your hands in plain si^t.”

I collapsed into the nearest chair, but de Grandin looked about him deliberately, chose a comfortable divan, and dropped on it, resting his short swagger stick across his knees and beating a tattoo on it with lean, nervous fingers. “And now,” he prompted, heedless alike of the menacing, blank siare in Colquitt’s glassy eyes and the threat of the pointed pistol, “you were about to regale us with the story of your adventures, were you not, Monsieu?’’

"I was about to say that I survived the green hell of the lie du Diahle. They penned me in like a brute beast, staled me on stinking straw in a sty no pig with amour propre would consent to live in, made me drag a ball and chain behind me, starved me, beat me — but I survived. And I escaped. Throug^i swamps that swarmed with aocodiles and poison snakes and reeked with pestilence and fever, I escaped. Through shark-infested waters and shores that swarmed with gendarmes on the watdi for me, I escaped, and found safe sanctuary in the ho^mforti of the voudois.

“They welcomed me for my learning, but, pardieu, they had much to teach me, too!

I learned, by example, how to make a zombi, how to draw me soul from the body



aid who was her idol died just as he was ing fires around them, then, when die tor* about to receive his commission in the Air ture had become unbearable, offering the Corps when his plane crashed in his final poor wretches bowls of cool water, only to practice flight. Oh, I know you’ll say it dash them from their lips as they were about was coincidence; ±at his plane would have to drink. ITiat’s the way its been with Ride cracked up just the same if his mother had and me for neatly twelve years. Doctor, died instead of getting well. But it didn't. We’ve starved and thirsted for eadi other, She got well and he died. TTien there was and time and again it seemed our period of Bernice Stevens. Nobody thought she had waiti^ had come to a close when” — die an earthly chance, and she herself prayed raisedner hands in a gesture of futility — daily for death to release her from her "something else happaied to postpone our dreadful suffering; but he took her case and marriage. At last the war came, and Rick got cured her — and Bert Stevens died within ten his commission. 'There seemed nothing that months. Of cancer, too. Perhaps thal was rould halt us now, and then — this unsuscoincideace, also. How many coincidences pected heart ailment appeared; Rick was do we have to have to mdee a certainty, discharged from the Army on a medical Doctor? certificate and went to Dr. Dahlgren and

"I’JI tell you — ” She leaned forward, and half a dozen other specialists. All told him intheli^of my desk lampher eyes seemel the same thing. He might live one year, hard and expressionless as blue gems inlaid maybe two — ^he might dropdeadanyminute. in an ivory face. "I have proof! The man's "I wanted to get married right away. I’m a wizard; just as much a wizard as those making fifty dollars a week now, and that dreadful men they hanged and burned in would keep us. I could love cherish medieval days. He is-^e is!" Her voice him for whatever time remained to us, and rose almost to a ^iek, and as I smiled in* — oh, Doctor, I love him so!” She broke credulously, "Listen: down utterly and bowed her head upon her-

"You know that Richard Bream and I clasped hands, crying almost silently with have been in love for years. We went in body-shaking sobs. At last; “I was desper* grade school together, and to high school, ate, Dr. Trowbridge. I’d heard about the and afterwards to college. We’d planned wonderful cures Dr. Coiquitt had made, and to be married just after commencement, but went to see him.” A shudder, mote- of horthe depression came along just then, and ror than of fear, it seemed to me, ran Richard ccnildnl get a start in his law prac- dirough her. "I tell you, the man is a wizard, tice. They took his furniture for debt, and sir.

evicted him from his office, and he couldn’t "His oflice is more like a necromancer’s get even a clerkship anywhere; finally he was den than a physician’s place. No daylight forced to take a place as a soda dispenser penetrates it; everything about the place is in a drag store— Richard Bream, Escpiiie, blade — black floors, black walls, blade ceilbachelor and master of laws, Phi Beta Kappa ing; black furniture upholstered in blade and Sigmu Nu Tau, a soda-jerker at ten silk brocade. The only ii^t in the place is dollars a we^, and glad to get that muchl from a black-shaded lamp on (he desk where I had twelve dollars weekly from my work he sits and waits like a— 4ike a great spider, as a stenographer, but two people can’t live sir! He wasn’t kind and sympathetic as a on twenty-two dollars a weA, and besides, I doctor ought to be; he -wasn’t glad to see had mo^er to look after. Then finally Rick me; he didn’t even seem surprised ffiat I secured a pia« as law clerk with Addleman had cesne. It was as if he knew I'd have and Sinclair, and just as we were planning to come to him, and bad been waiting with to get married his father died, and he bad the patience of a great cat sitting at a rat* his mother to support. It was just one thing hole.

after another. Doctor. Every time we thought "When I told him about Rick's case he our period of waiting was over somediing seemed scarcely interested; but when I’d came up to destroy our hopes. I've heard finished fcalkinghe said in that heavy fordgn the Indians sometimes tormenting their accent of his: These matters have to be ad* prisoners by tying them to stakes and li^t- justed. Miss Castevens. I can cure your

DEATH’S BOOKKEEPER


lover, but the risk to you is great. Do you love him more than you love life?’

"Of course 1 vowed I did, that I would gladly die if Ridr could live, and he smiled at me — I think that Satan must smile like that when a new damned soul is brought to him.

“ 'For every one who leaves the world another comes into k,’ he told me. ’For every one who cheats Death, Death must have another victim. I have pondered long upon this matter; I have learned the wisdom of the ancients and of people you Americans in your ignorance call savage. I know whereof I speak. I do not presaibe fof the ailing. I give my medicine — and thought — to the well, and they, by sympathy, affect the suffering. If you will agree to do just as I " say I can care your lover, but it may be that your life will be (he forfeit demised for his. You must understMid this dearly; I would not have you embark on the case unknowingly.’

"Well, it sounded utterly absurd, but I was desperate, so I agreed. He went into a __back room and I heard him clinking glass OTL glass, then presently he came out with a sj^lnge which he thrust into my arm and drew blood from it. Then he disappeared again for a short time, and finally came bad: -with a tall glass in which some blade liquor steamed and boiled. 'Drink this,’ he ordered, ‘and as you drink it pronounce after me, "Of my own free will and accord I agree to give myself in his stead, whatever may betide." ' I took the glass into both hands and drained it at a gulp as I p^oounced (he words he told me, and instead of being boiling hot the liquid seemed as cold as ice — so cold it seemed to send a chill thiou^ every vein and artery in my body, to make my toes and fingers ahnost ache with sudden chill, and freeze my h^rt and lungs until I breaffted with difficulty.

“Before I left he gave me another bottle filled with black liquor and told me, 'Take this three times a day, once before each meal and once before you say your prayers at night. You do pray, don’t you?’

" 'Yes, sir,’ I answered. 'Every night and • morning.’

'"So much the better. Take an extra dose of this before your morning prayer, fljen, and I shall call on Mr. Bream m the morning, make a careful note of his condition, and report to you. In three days he should begin to improve. In two mon(hs he should be completely recovered.’ That was all, and I left that' queer, black-walled den of hk feeling foolish as if I’d been to consult a fortune-teller

"But the next day when I called the hospi(al to inquire after Richard they told me he was showing marked improvment, and his improvement has been constant ever since.”

“That’s wonderful,” I commented, and she caught me up abruptly, sarcastically:

"Yes, isn’t it? It’s wonderful, too, that as ' Richard gained in strength I’ve lost weight steadily, and for the past two wedcs have suffered agonizing pain in my right breart and arm, and have these dreadful smothering fits when it seems that a pillow has been clamped across my nose and mouth. 1 tdl you, Dottor Trowbridge, I am dying; dying surely as if I had been sentenced to death by a court. Rick’s getting well, and, of course, I want that; but I'm afraid, sir, terribly afraid. Besides, if I die, what sh^ we have gained? Rick will have life, but not me, and I — I shall have nothing at all!" Her voice rose to a wail of pure despair.

'H3amiIIa!” I admonished sharply. "Such things don’t happen. They can’t — ”

"By blue, my friaid, I ffiink thg^ do and can,” de Grandin’s diarp denial came as he stepped into the consulting room. "You must excuse me, Mademoistlle," he bowed to Camilla, "but I could not help hearing something of the things you said to Doctor Trovihridge as I came in. You need have no fear your confidence will be violated. I, too, am a phj^ician, and whatever I have heard is under the protection of my oath of confidence. However,” he lifted brows and shoulders in the faint suggestion of a shrug, "if you will consent ttutt I try, I think perhaps tiiat I can help you, for I am Jules de Grandin, and a very dever person, I assure you.”.

R eminded by Ws announcement that the amenities had not been observed,

I introduced them formally, and he dropped into a seat facing her. "Now, if you please,” he ordered, "tell me all fhati,you have told Friend Trowbridge, and l«ve out noffiing.



and leave only an automaton that moves and small mustache. "We have heard all we debreathes, but has no mind or reason. I sired, and — ”

learned from them how it is possible to cast "And now the time has come to say the illness out of one and into another — 'Adieu pour I'etemhH’ ” the other broke in even how to swerve the clutching hand of savagely as he leveled the pistol, steadying death from one to another. Poor little fool, his dbow on the table. "You think — ” do you know that in the mountain fastnesses "l^on, by blue, it is that I damn know!” of Haiti there are men and women still de Grandin’s voice was hard and sharp as a

young and strong and virile who were, old razor as he raised one knee slightly, pressed

when Toussaint I’Ouverture and Henri his hand against the leather knob of his

Christophe raised the banner of revolt swagger stidc and gave it a sharp half-turn,

against the French? How? Because, parbleu, Tlie report was no louder than the burstthey know the secret I alone of all white men ing of an electr ic light bulb, and there was have learned from them — how to turn the no smoke from the detonation of the carhand of death from one man to another, tridge in the gun-batiel hidden in the cane,

But there must be a willing victim for the but the missile sped to its mark with thesacrifice. accuracy of an iron-filing flying to a magnet,

"There must be one who says that he and Coiquitt swayed a little in his chair, as will die in place of the other. Granted if he had been struck by an unseen fist, this, and granted the such power as I possess, Then, between the widow’s peak of the the rest is easy. Life begins at forty, some black hair that grew well down on his foreYankee has said fatuously. Pardieu, it can head and the sharply accented black brows begin again at seventy or eiglity or a hun- above the glassy, unchanging black eyes, dred, or flow back strong and vibrant into there came a spot of red no larger than a one who lies on death’s doorsill, provided dime, but which spread till it reached the always there is one who will become the sub- size of a quarter, a half-dollar, and finally stitute of him whose time is almost sped. splayed out in an irregular ted splash that "That is the secret of the cures I’ve made, covered almost the entire forehead. There my silly little foolish one. I have not was a look of shocked surprise, almost of dianged the score. Death still collects his reproof, in the raid visage, and the Hk rlf, forfeit, but he takes a different victim; that lack-luster eyes kept staring fixedly at de is all. Yet I grow rich upon the hope and Grandin. the credulity of those who see only the

credit columns of the ledger Death keeps. rpHEN suddenly, appallingly, the m fi n They do not realize, the fools! that every i seemed to melt. The pistol dropped «edit has its corresponding debit, and when from his unnerved hand with a clatter and Death finally strikes his balance. Too bad,’ his head crashed down upon the table, jar-

&ey_say, 'he had so much to live for, yet ring the great silver bowl of orchitis till it

he died just as she regained heaith.’_ Ha-ha, nearly overturned, and dislodging a pile of

It is to laugh at human gullibility, mes books so they crashed to the floor. enjantt. You, by example, would nex'er "And that, unless 1 am much more misstqop of practicing such chicanery, I am cer- taken than I think, is that, my friend,” de

tain. Oh, no! If ydu could not effect a cure Grandin rose and walked across the room

you would permit the patient to die peace- to stand above the dead man slumped across

fully, and raise yoiir hands and eyes to the table. "The English, a most estimable

heaven in pious resignation. Me, I am dif- people, have a proverb to the effect that the

k -As long as there are fools there will one who would take supper with the devil

^ those to prey on them,_ and I shall keep would be advised to bring with him a long

Death s books, collect my stipend for my spoon. Eh bien, I took that saying to heart

work, and be known as the great doctor who before coming to this place, mon vieux. This

® — ” kittle harmless-seeming cane, she is a very

I frar you have lost this one, cher valuable companion in the tight fix, I do SMant, the ghost of an ironic grin.appeared assure you. One never knows when he may

beneath the waxed ends of de Grandin’s find himself in a rase where he cannot

DEA'TH’S BOOKKEEPER

1?

use of his pistol, when to make a move to draw a weapon would be to sign one’^ own death warrant; but he who would shoot quickly if he saw you readi for a weapon would never give a second thought of glance to this so lifie, harmless seeming stick of mine. No, certainly. Accordingly, when he had bidden us be seated and threatened us with his pistol, I took great care to seat myself where 1 could aim my cane at him as I held it across my knees, with nothing intervening to spoil the shot- 1 knew I must take at him sooner or later. Tiem, am I not the clever one, mon vieux? But certainlyj I • should say yes.”

"You certainly got us out of a figltt fix,” I admitted. "Five minutes ago I shouldn’t have cared to offer a nickel for our diance af getting out of here alive.”

He locSced at me reproadifuliy. "While I was widi you, Friend Trowbridge?”

For a moment be bent over the man sprawled across die table, then, "Ah-ha!” he cried jubilantly. "Ah-ha-ha! Behold his stratagem, my friend!”

I went a little skk as I looked, for it seemed to me he gouged the dead man’s eyes out of their sockets, but as I too^k a second glance I understood. Over his eyeballs, fitted neatly underneath the ' lids, Coiquitt had worn a pair of contact lenses that siraul.’ ted natural eyes so well that only a fixed stare betrayed ti^m, and they were made with black irides, entirely cotKralmg the natural gray of his eyes.

"He had the omning, that one,” de G^andin grudgingly admitted as he dropped the little hemispheres of glass upon the table. "He made but one great mistake. He underestimated Jules de Graadin. It is not wise to do that, Friend Trowbridge.”

"How will you explain his death,” I asked. "Of course, you shot in self-defense, but — ”

"But be stewed in sulphur and served hot with brimstone for Sato’s breakfast,” he broke in. "The man was an escaped convict, a traitor to France and a former agent of the Boche. I am an officer of the Republic, and had the right to apprehend him for the American authorities. He resisted arrest, and” — his shrug was a masterpiece, even for him — "he is no longer present. C’est tout simple, n’eit-ce-pas?”

The telephone began to ring with a shrill insistence and instinctively I reached for it, but he put out his hand to attest me. "Let it ring, my friend. He is past all interest in such things, and as for us, we have more important business elsewhere. I would inspect Mademoiselle Camille — ”

"You think she may have — ”

"I do not know just what to think. I have the hope, but I cannot be sure. Come, hasten, rush, fly; I entreat you!”

CCAMILLA lay upon the study sofa much ■i as we had left her, and smiled wanly at us as he hurried into the room. "You did see him, didn’t you?” she asked with something akin to animation in her voice.

"We did, indeed, Mademoiselle’' de Grandin assured her, "and.what was much more to the point, he saw us.”

"I knew you must have talked to him and made him relent, for just a little while ago — it couldn’t have been more than ten or fifteen minutes — I had another dreadful attock, and ji«t when I had given up all hope and knew that I was dying it stopped, and I found I could breathe freely a^in. Now I feel almost well once more. Perhaps”— hope struggled with fear in her eyes — "perhaps I shril reraver?”

"Perhaps you shall, Indeed, Mademoiselle,” he nodded reassuringly. "Come into &e examin^ion room if you will be so kind. It k that we should like tb see what we can see.”

It was amazing, but it was true. The most minute examination failed to show a symptom of angina pectoris. There was no area of dullness, no faint suggestion of a heart murmur, and her pulse, though rather li^t and rapid, was quite steady.

"Accept out most sincere congratulation^ Mademoiselle,” de Grandin murmured as he helped her from the table. It seems you are on tiie highway to complete recovery.”

"Oh!” her exclamation was a small, sad sound, and there was an enmeshed, desperate look in her eyes. “Rick! If I get wdl, he'll—”

De Grandin made a little deprecating sound with his ton^e against his teeth. "It may be even as you say, ma chhe. I would not give you the false hope. Again, it may

I



be quite otherwise. Have you courage to go but it can play the very devil with a nornal

with us to the hospital and see?” heart, when one is not so strong — ^have the

discretion, Mademoiselle.”

T he supervisor of the third floor where “I'm hanged if I can understand it,” I young Bream’s room was, met us at the confessed as we left the hospital. "First elevator. "It’s really amazing,” she confided Bream is dying, then Colquitt, or Dessiles, as we walked down the corridor. "Mr. seems to cure him, but makes Camilla wilt Bream has been improving steadily these and wither like a flower on the stem as he past six weeks, but shortly after ten o’clock improves. Then, when you shoot him, she tonight he had a dreadful paroxysm, and makes an amazing recovery and Bream we diought it was the end. We had to get seems practically well If he had retrogressed Dr. Carver the house physician, for all our as she recovered — ” efforts to get Dr. Coiquitt on the 'phone He chuckled delightedly. "He called himwere useless. Dr. Carver gave us no hope, self Death’s Bookkeeper. Tres bon. He was but suddenly — almost miraculously, it balancing the books of Death when I shot seemed to me — the spasm passed and Mr. him, and as you say so drolly in America, Bream began to breathe freely. In a little caught him off his balance. The scales were while he fell asleep and has been resting even. She he had sent the psychic message ever since. I never knew a patient sick as to, but not in quite enough force. Had he he was with myocarditis to recover fully, endured five little minutes longer, he might but; — ” have forced her to her death. As it was I

"Strange things are happening every day, damn think I did not delay one little minute

Madame,” de Grandin reminded her. "Per- too long in eliminating him. At the same

haps this is one of them.” time he endeavored to cause her to die he

I had not treated Bream, and so had no attempted to undo the work he had done basis of comparison between his condition for young Monsieur Bream, but his death as I found him and his former state, but cut short that bit of double-dealing, also, careful examination revealed nothing alarm- and the young man lapsed again into the ing. state of almost-wellness he had attained

His pulse was weak and inclined to when the sale tfompeut tried to kill him to be thready, and his respiration not quite death. Yes, undoubtedly it is so. I can no satisfactory, but there was no evidence of more explain it than I can say why a red organic affection. With bed-rest and good cow who eats green grass gives white milk, nursing he should make an excellent pros- I know only that it is so. pect for some life insurance salesman in a "And in the meantime, if we walk a block year or less, I thought. De Grandin agreed in this direction, then turn twenty paces to with me, and turned to Camilla, eyes agleam the left, we shall arrive at a place where they with delight. "You may congratulate him on purvey a species of nectar called an oldhis impending recovery, Mademoiselle,” he fashioned — a lovely drink with quantities of whispered, "but do it softly — ^gently, The lovely whiskey in it. Why do we delay here, aching sweetness of a lover’s kiss — morbleu, my friend?”

John

Thunstone’s

Inheritance

I T WAS not a first-rate hotel, not even for that section of Manhattan, but Sabine Loel’s drawing room on the seventh floor was handsomely kept and softly lighted. Sabine Loel herself was worth looking at twice, a tall, mature woman of a figure both opulent and graceful. She had splendid black eyes and slim white hands that half-concealed themselves in the wide sleeves of her black gown. Her dark hair, brindled with one lock of white, she wore combed well back from her almost Grecian

face, and her mouth, though sullen, was I;,

curved and warm. 'J

' Heading by ELTON FAX i

By MANLY WADE WELLMAN

They say 1 want to practice evil enchantments, fc I called him tivice and the third time...!




"Ms. Hjunstone,” she greeted her caller, QTRETCHING his long arm across the wiflj a formality that half sneered. 'Won't O desk, he turned the folded will and you sit down? I hope this is going to be a showed another passage: friendly visit — last time we met you were

downright unpleasant about my approach to... with the understanding that the said occultism. You did say, however,” and she John Thunstone shall institute a serious smiled slightly, that I was attractive. and complete study of the phenomena

Thunstone sat down across the writing which have excited so much discussion..., desk from her. He was laiger for a man

thai she for a woman, with a thoughtful when Sabine Loel had finished, Thunredanguiat face and a short, neat moustache stone took the document back and restored blade enough for an Arab. His deep-set it to his pocket.

bright eyes did not flicker under her search- 'T’m in honor bound to study the place, ing^ 2 e. ^ eygn jf j weren’t eager to do so. But Garrett

You re enbtely too attractive,” he as- was deceived in one particailat — ^I’m. not sent^ d^ply, especially as you have poten- psychic, not a medium, You are. I want you tiairties for danger, in your unusual attitudes to come witli me.”

toward, and stodies of, the supernatural. She did not reply at once. Finally: "I However, I m here on business. didn’t know you knew James Garrett, Mr.

Busmess?” she echoed, Mid her eyes Thunstone.” glowed^^ his big left h^d thrust itself into "i didn’t. I knew only about his place, the inside pocki^ of his jacket, where his and the strange stories. He seems to know wmet wc«ild be. me only by my flattering reputation. But

But he brought out a document in- that’s beside the point. WiU you come?” something legal-lodcing m a blue She smiled, with a great deal of maddenfoMer, so creased and doubled as to exhibit jog mystery. "Why not ask your friend the one ^pewritten paragraph. He passed it Frenchman— Jules de Grandin? You and to Safame ^el, who leaned back to let light he are very dose. Are you surprised to learn fall upon it: that I keep some watch on your movements?”

He answered her questions in order. "I... and to John Thunstone, the chararter iavited de Grandin, but he and Dr. Trowand success of whose investigations into bridge have ail they can do in that line just psydiical matters I have observed with now. No, I’m not so much surprised as interest, I do hereby bequeath my house warned.”

Imown as Bertram Dower, situated one Still she temporized. "Once you sugmile, north of the town of Darrington, gested, in public, that I was dishonest m counly of... claiming to communicate with the spirit

world."

"I know about Bertram Dower House,” “Yet you have the power to communicate, Sabine Loel. "What student of the oc- and to do honest business when you widi. cult hasn’t heard of it? Conan Doyle, said If a broker sells spurious stock, can’t he the atmoyhere alone proved the existence change arid sell honest shares? I’ve kept of spirit forces; and John Mulholland isn't track of you, too. I venture to say that you all Peptic when he talks about it. The house need money now, this minute.” belonged to old James Garrett, who Again he put his hand into his inside wouldn't let anyone enter. And there’s that pocket.

story of hidden treasure — ” She broke off, This time he brought forth a noteand licked her full, curved lips with a tiny case, fiom which he took several bills. She pointed tongue. "What’s this on the mar- accepted them giavely but readily, folded The bit, written in ink?” them^ small between her slender, white

"Apparently it’s for me,” said Thunstone, fingers.

"but it’s cryptic. Something to the effect of "When do we stMt?” she asked.

'Call him^ twice, and the ttiird time he comes "Let’s have an early tea, then I’ll fetch

uncalled.’ Read on.” my cat around. There’s a storm threatening.

JOHN THUNSTONE’S INHERITANCE 19

but we can reach Darrington before it breves.”

"I’ll get my wraps,” she said.

I T WAS twilight when they passed through the little toyni of Darrington. Thunstone, who had a marked bit of road map to guide him drove up a steep, winding stretch of concrete where he had to put his car into second gear. Trees, their winter-stripped branches making strange traceries against the last pallor of light in the sky, crowded thickly at each brink of the pavement. Almost at the top of the slope, he turned off upon a very rough and narrow dirt road, lAich brought them at last to Bertram Dower. The house was a tall, sturdy-looking structure, almost like a fort. As they rolled into the yard, sleet began to fall.

"I trust,” said Sabine Loel in a murmurous, mocking voice, "that you came prepared with wolfbane and holy water.”

"Wolfbane’s out of season,” replied Thunstone, and made the car creep into a tumbledown shed at the rear of the house. “And I’m no priest, so I bring no holy things. Aren't there other ways of confronting the supernatural?” Shutting off the engine, he turned on the inner lights. Sabine Loel’s face, a frosty white oval among dark furs, turned sidewise to him.

"This inheritance of yours — ” she began, and then broke off. "Shall I help you with your packages?”

"if you like.” He banded her two wrapped bottles. He himself took a much larger parcel, slid out of the car and i held the door open for her. Then he snapped off the lights. In unfamiliar gloom they walked slowly around the big house to the roofless porch. Thunstone produced a key, and the lock whined protestingly at its turning. They entered threk darkness.

"What’s that white thing?” gasped Sabine Loel, suddenly cowering back.

"A chair in a muslin cover,” Thunstone reassured her, and groped his way to a table where he set down his package. Peering about, he made out a fireplace almost directly opposite. Crossing to it, he felt for and discovered logs and kindling. Rapidly he nude a fire. It burned small for a moment, then strong and bright. The sleet began to rattle at the windows like hard, insistent little fingertips demanding admittance.

The fire showed them a spacious room, occupying the whole width of the house’s front. A door stood open at the rear, and to one side mounted a staircase. All was panelled in dark wood, and bookcases loomed bate, while the furniture was swaddled against dust.

To Thunstone’s mind came, all unbidden, the lines of the ancient Lyke-Wake Song;

This ae nighte, this ae nighte.

Every nighte and alle.

Fire and sleete....

The fire was doing well now, shedding its first cheerful heat. Sabine Loel moved gratefully towaid it. The redness made her pallor seem more healthy. "I wonder where the treasuie is,” she ventured.

"NcAiody seems to know about it, not even whether it exists oi not,” returned' Thunstone, "The stoiy is that some Revolutionary War looter hid it — a bad character, to judge from the implication of ghosts around it.” From his parcel he dug a fat coach-candle and held a match to it. He set it in its own wax at the edge of the table.

... Fire and sleete and candle-Hghte, And Christe receive thy saule.

He had no desire to give up his soul this night, or for many nights to come; but the memory of the quaint old lines might be a gdod omen. Bishop Peter Binfel’s witchbistory, be reflected, points out that holy names are protection against ill magic.

'This is going to be cozy,” said S^ine Loel, and dropped into the muslin-covered chair that hacf startled her. "Are you worrying? Remember old beliefs and stories?” And she laughed, as if in triumfh that she - had half-read his mind.

He smiled back at her, withoirt any pique, and opened his package further. There were more candles, some paper napkins, sand-, wiches in oiled paper, fruit, and two glasses. Unwrapping one of the bottles, he skilfully forced its cork and poured out red wine.

"Supper?” he suggested, and Sabine Loel made a gay gesture of applause. He uncov20


ered two straight chairs and held one for her as she came to the table.

But she paused, in the very act of sitting down, paused with her knees half bent and her head lifted. It was as though she had frozen in mid-motion.

"T^-there!” she wailed. "At the door!’’

rpHUNSTONE could not see what she J- was talking about, for the candle glared in fais eyes. He moved, lightning swift for all his size, around the table and to the door beyond — the inner door, that stood open to the rear of the house. All was black there, save for the wash of light that beat dimly past him.

"Don't leave me here alone,” Sabine Loel was pleading, and he strode quickly back to the table, but only to seize and light another candle. Holding it hi^, he pushed iMo the rearward room. It was huge, musty, full of furniture. He saw another door, closed. As he touched the knob, he started. Something was moving softly up behind him.

"I was afraid to stay there by myself,” Sabine Loel breathed in his ear. "Can’t I come along?”

"Come,” he granted shortly. He peered through the door he had opened. "Here’s the kitchen, evidently. And there, to the ri^t, a pantry. Now, then, for upstairs. Are you game?”

"I hav«i’t told you yet,” she half-chattered, "what it was I saw.”

"No, I’ve not given you much time. Was it something human?”

“Yes. That is, it stood erect, as tail as a man, wilh a head and a long body.” They had wMked back irtfo the front room togd:her. "But It wasn’t flesh. It was all misty, and I didn’t see any limbs or features.” She gulped and ^ivered.

"Well, it wasn’t in the back of the house. Not downstairs, anyway. You want to come up?” And Thunstone started for the staircase.

She almost ran to keep up with him. "What if you meet it?”

"Gome along and see.” |dis feet were heavy but confident on the stairs. He held aloft the candle to illuminate a little cell of an, upper hallway, from which opened several rooms. *

"'Ihis,” he pronotinced, gazing into the

first, "is a bedroom. Look at tliat fine old walnut bureau. This next one is a bathroom. Fixtures archaic, but service^Ie. Another bedroom here — and anotlier. Tliat’s all. No phenomena to greet us. At least none that shows itself.

Sleet bombarded the slopes of the roof as they turned back down the stairs.

"You didn’t pry too closely,” observed Sabine Loel, and her voice was steady enough now. "Afraid of finding something?”

He shook his dark head. "If anythir^ is afraid, it's whatever you saw. If you saw

r SILENCE tliey descended. Thunstone poked the fire-logs with a long, heavy poker of wrought iron, and up sprang sparks and banners of flame. Again they went to the table, and this time there was no interruption. Sabine Loel took her seat facing the inner door, and Thunstone’s broad back turned toward that dark rectangle, almost within dutdiing distance of it. He could not deny a feeling of apprehension, but his big hand was steady as it lifted his wine glass.

"A toast,” said Sabine Loel, lifting heis in turn, and at least she spilled none. "I drink to — realities!”

"To realities,” repeated Thunstone. "Sometimes they are stranger than fancies.” They drank, and Sabine Loel laughed quietly over the rim of her glass. But her shining eyes were fixed on the darkness behind her companion. He pretended not to notice.

When they had finished eating, and had emptied one of the bottles of wine, both returned to the fireplace. "It seems to be smoking,” pointed out Sabine Loel.

"Perhaps the chimney’s clogged.” Thunstone again took the iron poker, and probed exploringly upward. A shower of soot descend^, and he jumped quickly back to - keep from being soiled. Not so Sabine Loel, who cried out in excitement, and snatched up something else that had fallen down, from a ledge within the fireplace.

"A little box — the treasure!’’ she exulted. "No, it’s a book.- A ledger, tied shut widi cord, and dirty.”

With a quidc pull she broke the cord and opened the book. "Look, here on the first

21 ’

JOHN THUNSTONE’S INHERITANCE

page. 'The name of James Garrett, and some sort of warning: 'This book is for my eyes alone.' ” She turned a page. "Don’t tell me drat he was a psychical investigator, too!” “Give it to me, please,” said John Thunstone.

"I want to look through it,” she demurred.

"Give it to me,” he treated. "I’m owner of this house, and it’s MSt that I examine documents.” He took it from her hand, not roughly, but without waiting for her to offer it. She stared, with a sort of bright hardness, and wiped her sooty fingers on a paper napkin.

"Will you pardon me?” asked Thunstone. He drew an armchair close to the fire. By its^ light he began to read the slovenly handwriting. What James Garrett had written began very ponderously:

I had best enter my thoughts and findings on paper. If this is not a record to impress others, it will at least give me calmness in the writing, perhaps strengthen me against follies of imagination.

They do me wrong who say I want to practice evil enchantments. It is only that I bought this old house,.with its weird reputation; haunted, the countrj’- side calls it, and haunted I believe it to be. It is also true that there is' a hidden treasure in the cellar — a treasure that I will never let my kinsmen hunt for in their turn. ^

'Thunstone 's eyes widened a trifle. "That's why he left the place to me,” he said aloud.

"May I take more wine,” asked Sabine Loel, at the table. He nodded, and read on:

I have dug deep and its guard must know that I am dose at hand. 'The least touch of my pick or spade brings him to drive me away. For I called him twice out of curiosi^, and the third time...

Sabine Loel screamed loudly and wildly, and dropped her wine glass to shatter on the floor.

Thunstone had been leaning back in his chair, as relaxed and comfortable in seeming as a cat. But, like a cat, he was up and

out of the chair before one could well follow his movement. The book spun out of his lap and fell on the hearth, His hand caught up the heavy poker and brought it along.

SABINE LOEL faced toward the staifose.

She did not turn toward him as he carfie •to her side, but kept her eyes fixed on the darkness at the top. “It started to come down,” she whispered hoarsely, and choked on the rest.

Thunstone seized one of the candles and went up the stairs again, two and three at a time. Sabine Leel remained by the table, leaning upon it with one slim, pale hand, her face a mask of expectant terror.

As Thunstone mounted into the upper hall he lifted his candle high, but for the moment it was as if the darkness muffled and enclosed that quivering little blade of light. He had - to strain his eyes to see, though he had seen well ' enough the first time up. In spite of his steady native courage, he hesitated for ever so little. He forced himself to enter the nearest bedroom.

As he crossed the threshold, he thought that something crept to face him; but it v/as only a shadow, jumping as his candleflame moved. All else was quiet in the close,, cold air. He thought of a creepy witticism in a novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald: "If there’s a ghost in the room, it’s nearly always under the bed.” That was the sense, if not the actual wordiirg. Thunstone wished that all men were here who joked about supernatural dangers. Stooping, he thrust his poker under the bed. Something stirred ' — a cloud of dust.

Sneezing, he went to the other rooms in turn. Nothing moved in them but shadows, nothing spoke but the sleet on windows and roof. Yet, as he descended the steps once more, he felt weary.

Sabine Loel stood exactly as he had left her. She questioned him with her midnight eyes, and he shook his head. "I found nothing,” he told her.

She smiled back, ruefully. “You must forgive me, Mr. Thunstone. I came here expecting things, I’m not sure just what. I may be mistaken in what I seem to see. But you did say that you believe in my psychic powers.”



"I do believe in them,” he assured her. ''You Iiaven’t always used them wisely or honorably, but you have them.”

He laid the poker on the table and stuck his candle beside its fellow. Then he went back to the fire. As he came close to the hearth, he stifled an exclamation.

The book in which James Garrett had •written his secrets of treasure and terror was ablaze in the fire,

"How did that happen?” he cried, and quickly dragged it out with the toe of his shoe. Too late, he saw at once. The thing was consumed beyond restoration.

"What’s the matter?” be heard Sabine Loel asking, but he was too busy to reply. Kneeling, he slapped out the fire in the book. Oiily a few bits of the inner leaves remained uncharred. He put together two of them, then a third, lilce bits of a puzzle. Pwt of a sentence became legible:

... terialized, it can do harm; but materialized, it can also be harmed itself...

He turned toward the hearth to look for more remains. As he did so, something seemed to explode in his head, and lightning and thunder filled the room. He collapsed forward, and did rtot see, hear or feel.

HIS wto returned slowly and cautioizsly, as to a place both dangerous and unfamiliar. The back of his head housed a red-hot throbbing, and his nose pressed against the warm stone of the hearth. He knew that he lay on the floor, face down, but for the moment he could not move, not even for the sense of peril hovering over him.

"Who hit me?” be mumbled thickly. Sabine Loel did not answer, and he made drift to rise to his hands and one knee, shaking his head to clear it, like a groggy boxer. The dim room, distorted to his vision, was empty of her. As he straightened his body, something slid along it and fell with a startling clang — the stout iron poker, diat had been lying across his back. Getting shakily to his feet, he shook his head again. It still hurt, but bis strength was flowing bade into him.

Sri^ine Loel’s fur coat still hung draped aaoss the back of the chair in which she had sat to eat and drink. One of the candles was gone from where it had stuck in its own wax. Thunstone tottered to the table, dutched it, and bent and gazed at the floor.

A blob of candle-grease stuck to the planks, ^ midway to the open door that led to the silent back of the house.

Thunstone shakily put out his big hand for the other candle, then thought better of it. The weakness was leaving his knees.

After a moment he moved again, and this time with the strange, wise silence that his big but capable bod^y could achieve. There was little light in the room to the rear, but.. enough for him to see that the kitchen door now stood open. He groped his way through it.

A great section of the kitchen floor had been lifted up and back, like a trapdoor.

From beneath beat up a feeble, pale radiance. Thunstone settled on one knee at the edge of the open hole and peered down.

The cellar of Bertram Dower House was simply a great squared hole in the hard earth, walled by uncemented banks of rough i

soil. Crude, solid stairs, almost as steep asa ladder, led downward fully twelve feet. j

Thunstone lowered 'his still' aching head until he could see well below the level of' the floor, and gazed downward, in the direrSion of the front of the house.

From that direction blazed the ligjit, the big candle that had been taken from the table. It was now stuck i^ii a rock or clod of earth on the cellar fl^r, and riied its yellow light into a cavelike hole in the frontward bank. Here stooped a human figUK in a dark gown, toiling with a spade. Thunstone caught a momentary glimpse of the pale face, stamped wifli an almost murderous d^ermination — the digger was Sabine Loel.

She knelt as he watched, and thrust one hand into the loosened soil. For riie s^e of a breath she groped, then voiced a little cry of triumph- She lifted a palmful of gleaming stuff, yellower and brighter than the candle-light. It was gold.

Again she took up the spade and began delving, swiftly but shakily. Her head and shoulders pushed themselves deeply into the little cavern, just below a pair or graying

JOHN THUNSTONE’S INHERITANCE


hm^ on the lips of the bank. Thunstone, substance chiuniog and ■whirling within

straining his eyes, could not decide what strange, sharp conmes. It’s head, set on top

those lumps were. without benefit of neck or shoulders, looked

Biff he saw them stir. to be without a aanium as well — it had

He bent lower, lying at full length on great, gross lips and jaws, and pointed batthe floor. The candlewick in the cellar sent eats jiffted from it, but tiiere were rff> eyes up a momentary flare of strong bluish light, or brow that he could see. Hands, at the It showed him that •whole part of the cdlar ends of scrawny, jointless arms, lifted toin brief radiance, and he identified the gray- ward him, as though they were trying to ish objects. fumble at his throat. Thunstone bad a sense

They were a head and a hand, strangely as at the presetKe of an unthinkable, revoltshaped and indistinct but unmistakable, ing foulness; but he did not retreat or falter. And they ■were moving, slowly and His big right fist sped straight at the headstealthily. blob.

Thunstone's Hps opened, but no sound No impact, only a swirling and sucking came out. The smaUer lump, the hand, inward of the TOpois. The whole body-form crawled deliberately over the lip of the drifted backward, like smoke before the bank and down the face of earth, above swing of a fan. It hung like a smudge Sabine Loel’s stooped, straining shoulders, against the bank, and there he saw ttiat it It was somehow only half -formed, a rounded thickened, immediately and consider^ly, to -rabble of some foggy substance, and its arm a slimy wetness. It was no more like moulded •was reed-thin and jointless. The effect was vapor, but like a dank daub upon the eartlien of a strange gray spider with thick, short face, a foul stagnant pool set upon on end. legs, descending on a preternaturally stout And it moved back toward him. strand of web. "nie hand opened, the fingers Its hands came up gropingly as before, to quivered, like the spider-limbs clutching for ttie level of his face, prey.

They touched Sabine Loel’s neck. And TYE felt a moist flick, as if wind had blown she looked up, and shrieked with a wild, -O. a bit of stinking spray upon his cheek, trapped terror. Despite all his determination, he broke

John Thunstone rolled himself into the ground before the advancing filthiness. As opening, his hands holding toe brink to he did so, he alm<»t stumbled backward break his fall. He spun in toe'air, dropped over the crumpled form of Sabine Loel. several feet and landed upright on soggy Stooping quickly, he scooped her up under earth. one arm and dragged her back with him

His nostrils suddenly filled with a,daJnp toward the ladderlike stairs. His eyes did mouldy smell, and the shock of his heavy not falter from the presence that slowly descent made the blue candle-flame quiver, pursued.

All these little details he noted, even as he It had changed yet again. Now it was rushed. no longer liquid, but solid,

The rest of what had been on the dark Still it presented the ungainly gargc^Ie

bank above Stoine was coming down. It outline it had first shown, degenerate head

flowed swiftly and unsubstantially, like a upon misshapen body, with gross hands ‘ heavy cloud of greasy-gray vapor settling upon reed-like arms. But it had gained subthiou^ lighter atmosphere. Beneath it, stance, as mudi substance as jeton "fbunSabine Loel was collapsing, but whether in stone’s own big frame had. Details were

a faint of under the weight of the thing now sickeningly clear. Its loose slab lips Thunstone could not take time to decide, twitched and gaped open, showing a toothThree plunging leaps took him across the less mouth full of the blackest shadow. Its earthy floor. big hands hooked their fingers like grapnels.

'The creature faced him, rising to his own They bore claws at their tips, daws as black hei^t, and higher. as crystallized vegetable decay.

It was like a grotesque body moulded To his wire-tense mind came a sudden of thick, opaque steam or smoke, its blessed memory, the memory of that sur24


viving scrap pf James Garrett's burned hooking a toe bdiind a hand on xvhidi it ledger: was rasing and dragging it into another

sprawl. A third kick hefted its slack,

"... materialized, it can do harm, but, squirming weight bodily into the hallowedmsderialized, it can also be harmed it- out cavern where Sabine Loel had toiled, self....” Tliere his enemy seemed to recover itself.

Shrinking clear of him, it struggled to rise.

He let go of die slack form of Sabine But Thunstone had caught up the fallen 3joel, and as she sank to the earthen floor, spide and poised it for a downward sweep, still swooning, he stepped in front of her. Though there were no eyes or excuses for Had her eyes been open, she would have eyes in th^ gray face, the creature knew seen Thunstcme’s face grow suddenly danger and cowered back. Candlelight, bright and purposeful, his lips drawn taut strongest here, showed it suddenly wet like beneath his dark moustache. His wide shoul- filthy snow in the sun — ^it was dissolving • ders hunched themselves, as if power great- into flowing liquid again, hoping to trickle ened within him. For a tliird time he set away to escape, reorganization, new attack, himself in the way of the entity’s advance. "Thunstone struck with his s)hovel, n<^ - Yet again the hands stole toward him. into tire hole but above it.

His left arm sras extended, pugilist fashion, A shower of clods fell from the walls wid and the bands found it and dosed upon it. roof of the depression, momentadiy ovaHe' felt those claws of hard rock as they whelming the form inside. It was already pierced his coat-sleeve, but he did not try half-mel^ into dampness, and into that to pull or struggle loose. Shifting his dampness fell earth and muck, mingling stance, he drove his right arm with all the and disorganizing. Thunstone struck again strength he could put l:^k of it, powerfully and again at the earth above and around j; and scientifically, at that woridng, grimacing it, piling shovelfuls of dods as into a grave, mouth. “What — what — •”

His knuckles pulped the blub lips over It was the voice of Sabine Loel. The noise something hard— thing must have teeth of the struggle must have roused her. Sie ^ after all, chalk-textured rather than bony, was on her feet, moving close. Her pale.

The witless-locfcing head snafped ba«ik handsome face showed no terror, only m)^- from his blow like a batted IsM, carrying tification and some embarrassment. Plainly » with it riie body^ the arms,- the hands. Cloth she only half remembered what had fri^tripped as the talons tore from their hold on ened her, literally, out of her wits.

Thimstone’s sleeve, and with his freed left ThuiKtone paid no attention, but hurled fist Thunstone sped a long, dean jab. From still more eartii into the cave, and more, somexvhere a moan drifted tip, the thing Some black dampness seeped through for a could feel pain. Thunstone stepped in, moment, and he flung a fresh spadeful' upon crouchii^ hw. The talons, missing a grab it. Then he paused, at his n^, scrabbled clumsily in his dus- "L^ it finish its change now,” he said, ordered dark hair. He dug his ri^t fist, when he caught his breath. "Even if it‘s thcaa his left, into the spongy-seeming mid- vapor again, this dirt will confine it tonight, die of the b^y. Then his tight fist cut up- Tcsnorrow I’ll be back with workmen and ward to where normal beings have a chin, cement mixers. This cellar shall be filled Thete was a sudden floundering fall be- to the brim with concrete — ^marked witii fore him, and there rose at him two floufBh- protecting symbols — ” ing, kicking extremities that he could not S^ine Loel was at his side. Now she vras call feet. remembering. Her eyes flickered in horror.

She held out a trembling right band, in

H e LAUNCHED a kick himself, and which she still clutched half a dozen broad wondered half -foolishly if the torso be pieces of gold, struck had ribs to break. Again he kicked "I found these — ” she began, and shoved, and the misshapen form tried Rou^y, Ibunstone snatdied them from to. roll clear, to get up. He kept after it, her and flung them into tiie pit. He shoveled

John thunstone’s inheritance

tooce dirt upon tiiem. She cried out in p»rotest, a hand ai her brow from which sproiSed tiie waving gray lock of hair.

"You can testify now to the meaning of tainted rocMiey,” Thunstone told her flatly. '"Ihe treasure and its guardian seem to go togetiier. It threatened James Garrett, it threatens us. Some would be trhe and call the gold accursed. I call it unprofitable.” Once again he threw in earth. "Let the thing stay shut up here, and its gold with it.”

"Bii there’s a fortune,” protested Sabine Loel frantically. 'Td touched only the top. There’s enough to — ”

"It was left to me, by the will of James Garrett.” Thunstone toiled on without easing. "I half-guessed tiut something like this would happen. You, with your power and your deceit, were exactly what was needed to tempt the thing forth, so that it ccmid be defeated and hereafter kej^ out of reckoning. As I construct it, you read James Garrett’s ledger while I was upstairs alone.”

"^ly,” she stammered in confusion, "why — ”

He smiled as he dug his spade into fresh earth. 'Til hazard a guess. I’d pid you to hunt spirUs, so you I^gan by pretaiding — only pretending — to see som^ing as we sat down to eat.”

SHE did not deny it, but lowered her head.

"That was only mischief on your prt,” he went on. "Then, wheni I found the book in the chimney, you pretended again to see something cm the stairs. That was to start me on another chase, so that you’d have a chance to read. You quickly skimmed throu^ what Garrett had written about where the treasure was to be dug for. To keep me from seeing it too, you threw the bocik into the fire. Isn't that true?”

Still she keprt guilty silence. ’Thunstone smiled more broadly, completely without malice.

"And you hit me on the head with the poker, eh? 'Thought to get the money while I lay unconscious. But I woke up sooner than you tiiought, just in time to save you from what you had summcmed.”

"I!” she cried, finding her 'TCoce at 1^. "I summoned it!”

"You were too greedy to remember what James Garrett wrote in his book, and on the ' margin of the copy of the will sent to me. 'CalJ him twice, and the third time he comes uncled.' That’s exactly what you did. Twice you pretended to see something terrible, to deceive me. The third time, there was no deception. The guardian of the treasure rose to deal with you.”

Sabine Loel's face was white, but calm, "listen,” she pleaded. "Be sensible. There is too much money here to let lie.”

"No,” he replied, "there is not too muc3i money here to let lie.” Stooping, he gazed at his heap of earth. Above it huc^ a s-wid of grayish vapor, no larger than the upward waft of a cigarette’s smoke. He patted the place wMi the bottom of the q>ade, and the vapor vanished.

"We could both be rich,” Sabine Loel persisted. "We can come and dig tomorrow, by daylight. We could bring crucifixes, priests, any protection you want.”

"We’ll never dig for it,” he said,

"We must,” she fairly ^bed. Hervhite hand caught his sleeve, the same sleeve that' 'had been torn filthy talons. "Listen, I say. You admit I’m attractive — well, I’M be yours. I’ll spend my life making you happy beyond any dream. I can do tiiat. YouTl have both fee gold and me.”

He did not answer, did not even look at her.

She brought her beautiful white mask of a face close to his, fixing his eyes with hers. "Am I so easy for a man to refuse?” slie murmured softly.

"No,” said John ’Thunstone honestly. "You are by no means easy for a man to refuse. But I refuse you. I’ll fill this bcde toiiighti Tomorrow it’ll be sealed so that only dynamite will ever open it. Of course, if you feel that you can’t live without the treasure, I’ll go away now. You may rem^n alone, with die spade and the candle, and dig up everything I’ve buried.”

Sabine Loel drew back, and 'bowed her head again. This time she was accepting defeat.

Jcflm 'Thunstone resumed his shoveling.

Nettie

ctrid

By P. SCHUYLER MILLER

I T WAS one of those golden autumn days when the air is like crystal and the hills are adrift in sunshine. It was a day when tiie cliffs of Keer would be smoky purple curtains drawn across the plain, and the hill towns would be white p^Ies strewn over the gray moorland. It was a day to be in the saddle, breathing the drift of smoke from the bog fires, hearing the drum of a stallion’s hooves on the hard-packed road, feeling the wind sing by. It was no day to be ij^^ool.

Tommy Darrow’s seat was near the window, and he could see the hills back of Eastham. They were good hills. He had roamed them, mostly alone, ever since he was old enough to be away. The colors of autumn were painting them— the red fire of a maple, yellow drifts of birdies, scarlet lines of sumac tracing the fence rows. The pines were dark forefingers pointing at the sky, and the cedars advanced across die high pastures like a storming army. The window was open, and he could smell leaves burning on the playground outside the school.

He looked at the book which lay open on

Heading by A. R. TILBURNE

The land of Keer is a strange world — certainly not of this earth — in some ways feudal, in others oddly advanced.

PLANE AND FANCY '27

bis desk. Plane Geometry by Tundiffe, Witherail and Jenkins. He looked at the diagrams of lines and angles printed on its well-thumbed pa^. If they had ever had a meaning, it was lost to him.

Somebody was poking him: Jimmy Johnson, in the seat behind. He looked up. They were all looking at him. Mr. Andrews, the new math teacher, was watching him, tapping with his fingernails on a crisper, cleaner copy of the same brown book.

“Well Darrow — we’re waiting.’’ Mr. Andrews had come to Eastham from a private school, and he found die atmosphere of public education a Ikde trying. Tommy got slowly to his feet.

“Well, Darrow? I understand this is your third term in this class. Surely you can explain die theorem?”

Tommy licked his lips. It was always the same. There was oo meaning in the stuff — it didn't hang together. It had been the same ail throu^ grade school. Arithmetic — algdira— they weren’t right. His mind rejected them. He’d trained himself to memorize stuff — take k on faith — parrot it oat when the teachers asked for it, but this geometry was the worrf of the lot. It was twisted-distorted — wrong. He licked his lips.

“Mr. Andrews,” be said thoughtfully; "this book — it's 'plain’ geometry. Isn’t there any fancy geometry?”

Lying in his bed, snug up under the slope of the roof, with the moonlight making ranges of hills across the bed-quilt, Tommy wondered about it. Why shouldn't there be a fancy geometry as well as the plain kind? Why shouldn’t there be a kind of geomrtry that didn’t refuse to fit togedier when he tried to reason it out? Why wasn’t diere anodier kind of geometry — his kind of geometry?

He was still wondering when bis eyes dosed and the purple cliffs of Keer rose in the moonlight.

T his is not a story of Keer or its people.

We have Tommy Darrow’s own stories to give us some idea of that marvelous realm. His aunt, being a practical woman, never thought mtKh of them, but the teacher who had taught him to write, back itt the little district sdiool at Beeman’s Corners, had always saved them. They tell iw wdiat little we know of Keer.

It goes back further than that, really. Almost as soon as he could talk, Tommy Darrow would tell his stories. If there was no one to listen, he would slip away behind the barn and babble to himself. His aunt tried to discourage it; she thought it queer, and was afraid that others would a^ee. There had never been aueerness in her family, and she didn't want gossip starting. She might have tried to stop the moon from rising.

In the one-room country school there was no place for much but the regulation three R’s, but the new teacher was freffr from normal school and had had a brief contact with some of the newer ideas in education. She asked the children to write little stories of their own about the things they did, and if they couldn’t write she let them tell them te the class, and she would write them down. The first stories of Keer are in her writing.

They are a child’s stories — stories of little things, things a child would find wonderful. Put they are dream stories, of a beautiful far-off land where people and things axe as they riiould be in dreams.,They mature quiddy, as though the Toxniny Danow who roamed the fabled moors of Keer grew older than the rather quiet little boy who sat in his corner, tongue in his teeth, scrawling his stories painfully on a ten cent pad.

The other children liked them. They recognized that Tommy was queer, but it was a fascinating sort of queerness, and — which is rather strange when one considers the normal savagery of children of their age toward the outlander — they accepted it. When diere was a new boy who migfa have picked on him, they protected him, and I doubt that he ever realized that he was being shielded. In Keer it was he who was the shield — he who rode the night, his cloak flung out behind him, his sword loose in its srabbard. He was glad that they liked to listen when he had a story to tell. Ife was glad they sometimes ask^ him to tell one when they were out of school, off in the hills after nuts or squirrels. He would sit on a rock with them sprawled in die grass at his feet, and keep them spellbound

?WEIRD TALES

with the magic of his cloud-swept kingdom beyond the purple cliffs. When the five districts were consolidated and they went in to Easdiam to the new central school, he was glad that his teacher went with them, because it was she who suggested that they could have a paper of their own — not as fine, perhaps, as the high school journal, but a little mimeographed leaflet which they could plap and print and sell to flieir schoolmates. In its pages Tommy’s chronicles of Keer gained a wider and a more demanding audience.

I N THESE stories, and in the tales whldi Tommy Darrow’s boyhood friends remember, Keer takes shape. It was a strange world, certainly not of fliis earth — in some ways feudal, in others oddly advanced. It had its sorcerers, black and white, but we mi^t have call^ them scientists. It had its lords and ladies and pomp and ceremony, but it was a nobility of the common people. Tommy’s father in that other world was a smith, a bearded, brawny man who forged swords of miraculous- strength and keenness, respected by all, feared by none, with a hearty, roaring laugh that would echo down the glens of a frosty morning. His mother was young and golden haired, with a voice that soared up in the morning like a bird’s, and a firm but gentle hand for a horse. His own parents, here in our world, he had never known.

Even when they reached high school. Tommy’s schoolmates never tired of his tales, and he was kept busy writing them out in his laborious saawl for the school paper. One girl, a year younger than Tommy, had fried to illustrate them, but she had never seen Keer. She grew tearful when he tried to explain where the difference lay.

'The girls in Keer were not like the girls he knew in Eastham. They were more mature and less concerned with the proper affairs of men. He was a shy boy, or at least a retiring one. He still loved to roam the hills, but it was alone now, or with a dog. He had an irritating way of treating his fellow pupils, boys and girls alike, as though they were children.

It was early October ^hen Tommy Darrow first began to wonder whether there might not be another — a "fancier” — geometry than the one he struggled to digest in school. He had set his teeth and resolved to swallow the stuff, logic or no logic, and he was getting on better wife Damon Andrews, Ki.D. The young teacher recognized that what Tommy was giving him was purely parrot-talk, but he decided that after three terms in the class it was all that anyone could ask of the boy if he passed the Regents with a decent mark. Tommy’s aunt, his mother’s older sister, was a trustee of the school.

In school Euclid was fee law, but out of school, when the chores were done and he could go up to his room or climb up to the open ledges back of town, the other, fancier brand of geometry gradually took shape In his mind. Once it was started it came easily to him. It was not too much different from the "plain” variety of the little brown boot, but what differences there were seemed to be fundamental, and he began to see why Euclid seemed alien, and unreasonable. He had all of the simpler theorems in his head before he wrote any of it down, and then he did it in the' hieratic script of Keer, which he had never before put on paper. It somehow seemed to fit the odd, nonEuclidiao structure which he was building.

It was soon dear to him that this was the geometry of Keer itself that he was setting down — not alone of the misted moorland kingdom with its five towns, but of its world — its entire universe. When he had the rudiments of the geometry down on' paper he went back to the algebra, and saw where it was that he had gone astray, and where the altered laws should lead. It all fell together simply and beautifully. His fingers seemed almost to run of themselves, and one afternoon as he sat at his attic window writing he looked up and through fee flawed panes saw the purple cliffs of Keer striding away into the twiliglit behind the patched roof of his unde’s barn.

T he new passion that had gripped him was soon evident to his teachers. Tommy had been a good student, though never a brilliant one save in his writing, and feey were on the wild side, tolerated mainly because of the vogue for self-expression which was finding its way into places like Eastham under the impetus of teachers’ conventions

PLANE ^ND FANCY 29

aad bulletins from Albany. He had. In a literal sense, known the answers — word for w'ord, once he his mind to it — and had even earned himself a "B” in plane geometry and was doing well in solid. Then bad come a change. It was gradual, and it did n<X affect all his studies at one rime. It seemed to be a slow loss of interest — even in his writing — which affected everyfeing tuxt his mathematics. Tbe faculty was nt first inclined to accuse Damon Andrews of overworking the bcty, and then they joined forces to agree that he must be dealt with aarotding to fee precepts of child psy dioiogy.

Helen Wlnship was the teacher who had come with Tommy from the little one room school where she had first taugjit and he had first listened patiently and politely to her teaching. She was a little older now, but not too old to believe in a kind of magic.

She volunteered to talk with Tommy, to find out what was wrong, before more drastic stros were taken to bring him into line. And so she was fee first to see th'e strange new geometry of fabled Keer.

He took fee notdx>oks out of the hole under the floor boards where he kept them. His aunt would have had no sympafey wife such truck had she known of it; even his stories wae hidden there, although she was rather proud of fee grudging deference which me parents of souk of his school'- mates showed her for harboring so "talented" a boy. The characters of the saipt were, of course, unintelligible,to fee teadier, rwid the diagrams were..extremely odd, seeming somehow ill-fitted to the flat surface of fee paper. Some of them seemed almost to have depth and extension, and even a kind of motion of their own. They meant nothing to her as they were, but she asked to borrow them, and he agreed.

Helen Wlnship had a great respect, and maybe a little more than respect, for Damon Andrews. He was young; he had made a brilliant record in college; and she had accidentally come across his name in a mathematical journal where one would scarcely look for a paper by a villas schoolmaster. She took 'Tommy Darrow^ notebooks to him. When he snorted and pushed them back at her, she smiled her sweetest and sat

patiently opposite him while he turned the pages.

At first she could see that he was skimming — obliging her, but nothing more. She was glad that he wanted to oblige. Then, about a third of the way through the first book, something caught his eye or registered on his brain. He stopped, frowned, bent over the page. He riffled back a few pages and seemed to follow an argument which was developed there. Finally he turned clear back to fee beginning, and she could see the muscles of his jaw working slowly as he toiled through fee unaccustomed symbols. He never even looked up when she finally slipped away.

T he next day was Saturday. Damon Andrews missed the morning colloquium ai fee post office, and he wasn’t in the ice cream parlor that night at the regular time. He was not in church on Sunday, although he had a class in fee boys’ department. He came into her homeroom on Monday morning, just after fee passing bell, wife Tommy’s notebooks in his hand. She stepped out into the hall wife him.

"’This stuff is amazing,” he told her. **I don’t see why he’s had to write it in this gibberish, but what I can follow is real. It’s true. It isn’t Euclid, God knows. It isn’t anything I’ve ever seen or heard of — ” Tommy calls it fancy geometry,” she interrupted.

"Of course, but feat’s only a name. It’s a kind of private joke.” He hesitated. "If fee kid can do this kind of thing, why can’t he get Euclid?”

"I thought you understood that. He doesn’t believe in Euclid. It isn’t real — not for him.”

He snorted. "You mean that crazy stuff he writes? That Flash Gordon — Grustark — Taizan nonsense? What’s feat got to do with it?”

She took the notebooks from him. "Let me have these,” she said. "The bell will be ringing, and I promised Tommy that he would get them back feis morning. Perhaps we can talk about it at lunch.”

Winter had gone by, and it was spring. There was a chill in the air, and the ground was frozen along the north slopes, but a thin green gauze was veiling fee willows


as diey climbed flie hill behind die school and picked a sun-warmed boulder to shelter them from the wind while they ate their lunch.

She bad the notrf>ooks with her. They unwrapped their packets of sandwidies, uncorked their thermos bottles of coffee, and chewed diligently while somewhere below them a redwing shouted for pure glee, ■^en they had finished he gave her a cigarette, took one himself, and leaned back against the rock.

"Someone who can really understand die ^uff should see those books, you know,” he told her. ’T think they’re important. It’s beyond me how a kid like Tommy Darrow could have produced them, but I’ll take your word for it. I want you to get his permission to teke them to a man I know of — a man who lectured at Columbia last summer while I was there. Nobody much was ^ the lecture, but he said some amazing diings. He could tell what this means, if anyone can.”

She frowned. "Is that fair, do you think? It’s Tommy’s work. Shouldn’t he present it, rather than some third person?”

Andrews flushed. "I hope you don’t think I’d claim credit for it myself! I never taught him this, or anything like it. I couldn’t. No one could. But I want Halcyon to see it and pass on it before anyone tries to do anything about it.”

She stubbed her cigarette out on the ground beside her and gathered up the pas from her lunch. The noon bdl would ringing soon.

"I’ll ta& to Tranmy,” she said. "I think he should go along.”

It was a long trip, and there were the school authorities to persuade, because it would take more than a week-end. 'Then Tommy’s aunt had to be convinced that this was something wbicli would bring credit to her line rather than further notoriety to the no-good Dartows, and that there might — there just might — be money in it in the long tun. They decided to defy gossip and use Helen’s car, because it would save them a day.

It was a glorious drive,- the April sunshine warm on their faces, the smell of springtime moist and rich in their nostrils, the soft blue of spring in the sky. Helen

drove and Tommy sat between diem, his gaze far away — -beyond the woods and mountains — beyond the green expanse of the sea when they came to it — among the hills of Keer.

TWO journeys were made that day In spring. As Helen Winship’s car raced on beside the sea, Shannakar ©f Keer rode over the high plateau beyond the purple cliffs with two tried friends. 'They were on a mission, and what its nature might be was not entirely clear, even to Shannakar, for diete was a wise woman’s prophecy mixed up in it, and a message written in gall on soft white silk, and a lock of raven halr.^ They were not in the livery of Keer, ahd their skins were stained dark, and their collars pulled up around their chins as they rode down out of the moors into the oak forests beside the black, still sea. Their horses’ hooves drummed on the packed sands, and in the distance they heard the deeper thunder where the great breakers which came swefeping out of the east broke against the savage rock of Vrann.

"We’ll be there soon,” Andrews said over the boy’s head. "Hear the surf pounding? His place is out on a headland, with nothing between him and Spain except Atlantis.” He glanced down. "Tlie kid asleep?”

She shook her head. "Dreaming, I think, but not asleep. Let him be. Time enough when we're there.”

There were no sentries out, and it bothered Shannakar. They had taken the usual precautions, but he wondered whether Sagai’s seers might not have a magic which would pierce the veil he had woven. As they drew near to the crag the pattern of his quest began to take shape in his mind. It was a matter of a spell — a ritual of words and diagrams which somehow linked Keer, w'ith that other world he often visited in dreams — a formula which would somehow open gates which might not easily be closed. There was a danger to Keer, though wha£ it was he could not precisely say. Enough that he was going alone into the ca»tle of his enemy to seek it — or to use it.

The place was a looming heap of stone, almost a part of the headland on which it wa§ set. No lights were showing in the

■PLANE AND FANCY

arched windows as Helen turned the car into the winding drive which circled round the base of the crag and ran out along the narrow spine of r^dr which joined it to the mainland.

"Are you sure he’s here?” she asked.

"He said he’d be.” Andrews leaned out and peered ahead. "Maybe it’s the blackout. Gloomy old pile, isn't it?”

T he three companions left their horses at the l»se of the crag and approached

X at the l»se of the crag and approached the castle on foot. Shannakar’s brain was clearing fast, and a deep fear was growing in him. Was this his secret after all, or was it a ruse of Sagai’s- — a magic of some Idnd, luring them hither for purposes of the Black Prince’s own? Momentarily a curtain droppal over his eyes, and he could not"" recognize the faces of the two who strode beside him, their naked swords frosty in the starlight.

Then the high arch of the doorway rose before them, black and empty against the grim gray wall of the castle. The man on his right — was it Hannar or a stranger?-—- kno^ed with the pommel of

his sword on the oaken door, setting the echoes ringing.

They stood a moment in the darkness, waiting. Then the door opened and yellow lamplight flooded out into the stone paved vestibule, silhouetting the ga\mt black figure of an old man. He stepped aside, and the lamplight played over a hooked beak of a nose, over a straggling white beard, thin lips, and a deep-lined face. Shadows made skull-pits of the hot old eyes.

Shannakar of Keer — ^Tommy Darrow of Eastham — stepped into the house of the Black Prince Sagai. The two who were with him moved soullessly behind him, trapped by the malign power of those ancient eyes. The little fooks with thar written secrets — ^the symbols and diagrams of the strange geometry which would link Earth and Keer, and give their master free range and power over both, here in this place where the two worlds were one — dropped from Helen Winship’s hand.

And Sagai smiled and picked them up as he closed the great oak door with its carved kingfishers— the halcyon standard of the evil breed of Vrann.

Like the Lady at the p.ight

YOU’LL not want to miss a copy of V/EIRD TALES with its strange and mystic stories of the unnatural and the occult, its vampires and werewolves and monsters and... indescribable horrors!

• • •

/ T IS true that WEIRD TALES is thinner, due to government paper restrictions — and we are glad to comply with any request helping the war eSort — but you get the same number of stories, the same number of words and the same amount of top-notch “weird" reading as before.

Heading by A. R. TIL3URNE

H ello, warden. Nice of you to being. And I guess I’m still that, even if come in. They asked me if I I’ll only be a memory tomorrow, wanted a priest, but I told them Sit down here, and have some candy. I had no quarrel with God, just a few Nice of you folks to let ray girl bring it

things to talk over with a fellow human to me right along. Good, isn’t it? Odd

You who fear the tenor of dreams, remember — there are some hideous terrors of living far greater!



sort of flavor, but it grows on you. Have delicious stuff. My girl made it. I guess some more. I mentioned that.

Do you mind if we leave the light out, Yes, we have few pleasures here in here in the cell? That yellow light in the Death Row. But I can assure you, when

corridor is enough to see by, and it has Guido burned, I felt a happiness that was a pleasant, quieting sort of effect on me. out of this world.

Reminds me of the soft lights you see in So you’re no student of the occult? 'That certain of the old masters. And since we means, of course, that you don’t believe in have to keep our voices low, the light seems anything you can’t see, or can’t explain, or tight for it. have explained to you by the oit-and-dried

Yes. I want to talk; I want to spill a lot rules by which you live, of things that never came out at my trial. Warden, do me one courtesy. Don’t inTomorrow, I’ll just be a few lines of type suit my integrity by concluding that I’m’ in the newspapers — "Thor Holderson, con- acting crazy in order to play for a lastvicted of the murder of Jacob Bachman, minute reprieve. And please don’t insult went to his death in the electric chair at my intelligence by concluding that I really Walden Prison this morning at 5:55 a.m.,” am crazy. I know it’s too late for the and so on. But before I go, I want at least governor to do anything, even if you one man to know the whole story.’ phoned him now. And I’m as sane as you

Do you believe in occult matters,, war- are. den? Or do you believe only in powers

that you, yourself, possess? 'This story may T COULD be aazy, warden; believe me, be a little — frightening. Of course, it’s 2 could be crazy, what I’ve seen in the not fearsome to me, but then. I’ve been all past six months.

through it, and I’m not easily scared. Warden, here in Death Row, I’ve You’ll remember a week ago, when Guido thought a lot about the reality of the life Oseletti got it? You know how everyone we lead, and its dullness when you o>melse in Death Row pulled the usual stereo- pre it with the tremendously more vifatl typed demonstration — the eerie wailing, reality of the dreams we dream. Maybe it’s the muffled beating on the Vails, when the a form of escapism, a sort of mystical sour lights went dim and the hum of the gen- grapes, but I firmly believe that the life my erators went up from out there past the mind lives outside my body is a thousand little green door? Hell, warden, if you’ll times more intense and stirring than the check up, you can find that 1 didq’t blow dull and stupid life that the two of them — my top. I laughed. soul and body — ^live together.

Honestly, now, did you ever kiss a

S eems strange, doesn’t it, when Guido woman in real life that gave you the terandhismotherdidtheirbesttohelpme rible, beautiful passion you’ve had from at my trial? Well, that’s part of the story, women in your dreams? Have you ever Futmy how Guido wnt to the chair for enjoyed one triumph in life that measured killing his mother. And I don’t mean up to the nobility of your victories when peculiar, I mean funny. Laughable, I you sleep? If more people thought of such mean. To you, that seems callous, I’m matters, maybe they wouldn’t make such sure, but you must remember, warden, I’m a grim struggle of.hanging on to life, a product of Hell’s Kitchen, and a con- Of course, the terror of dreams is greater victed murderer to boot. than the terrors of living— at least some say

Have some more candy, warden. Very so. But you could, if you tried, imagine



some tenors that would malce the hideous stuff of dreams seem pallid by comparison. I like to imagine such things, here in this rather oppressive lonesomeness that's the Death Row at Walden.

Suppose — just let your mind run on it a minute — suppose you looked in a mirror one day, and saw someone else. Just think about it. Simple thing — you pull yourself up to a mirror, expecting to see a familiar, if disappointing face, and it’s someone else. ' Warden, that's a real soul-shaker, isn’t it?

Think of it. You’ve seen the same face all your life. To be sure, time has altered it, but so subtly that it’s hardly noticeable. As a child, you played with that image, laughed at it, made faces at it. As a young man, you checked it carefully foi blemishes and for the first faint crawl of beard that proved your manhood, and scanned it anxiously when you went on your first dates with girls. And when you w'ere grown up, occasionally you stared at it bitterly, realizing that in spite of yourself, the face and the man behind it were growing older. Sometimes, after a bad night, you’ve looked at it reluctantly, your nerves a-jangle, and the signs of eidiaustion and dissipation have made it seem'-almost like a stranger’s face. But at least, with all its faults, it was still your face.

But suppose, some day when you had such a hangover, and your nerves were practically on the outside of your skin, you faced up to a mirror and the image that looked bade, and imitated your every move, was not you, but someone else?

Here, move just a little, so you can see my face. I want you to see that I’m as calm and quiet as my voice — that my eyes are steady, and my face placid. You must not believe I’m crazy. But warden, I looked in a mirror once, and Guido Caseletti looked bade.

I knew Guido Caseletti and his mother all my life. He was a little older tlian I,

and wiser, and stronger. So I admired him. His mother, too. She was young, vital, beautiful. That alone was enough to make her unusual, in a poverty-ridden slum where most women are old at thirty, toothless hags at forty, and dead at fifty. My mother, thank God, died when she was thirty, and missed the worst of the life I knew.

AND it was Guido’s mother who gave *^^me the only taste of what a home might be. She went out working, to take care of herself and her son, like most other mothers where we lived. But where, the other women came back haggard from their night’s work charring in office buildings, or their day’s work in factory or laundry, Guido’s mother came back — ^well, radiant — as though her life and vitality had somehow been renewed.

Their home was luxurious, sinfully luxurious, by our standards. 'There was food in greater abundance than most of us knew, and there was — knowledge. I have the fortune, or misfortune, to be better educated than most Hell’s Kitchen boys, wouldn’t you say? Well, I got my education from the books in Guido’s home, and from Guido’s mother. She was not bnly educated, she was intelligent.

I’ve seen her stop and pass a few words widr an occasional professor from the big college a few blocks over, when they'd come venturing down to Hell’s Kitchen to sit in the sunlit park that had more tradition than beauty to recommend it. And I’ve seen their faces actually troubled and puzzled after a few such passages, and Guido's mother, her head on one side, laughing at their amazement like a naughty child.

And once, when I was sick — she pideed me up in the gutter, outside Jacob Badiman’s drug store~she gave orders to Bachman with more authority and sureness than any young interne from City Hospital.



Snapped out a prescription in what must for it brou^t me into hb home even more, have been Latin, and old Jake filled it au- where I could see and talk to his mother, tomatically, looking at her with respect and Here, warden, have some more candy, wonder. Oh, she was a smart woman, a tre- Angela Caseletti — that’s Guido’s mother — mendously brilliant, bold, beautiful woman, used to make candy like this for me. My Of coune, you understand that my real girl, who brings it here to Walden, b an intimacy witli Guido only began this last Italian, too.

year or so, but I was In and out of their Angela used to sit and tallc to me, there house a thousand times as I grew up. in that old kitchen, with the single yellow

Guido was a queer one. He had the bulb, and the brown shadows playing in same inner strength, and the confidence the corners, just like this cell is this minute, that came from it, as hb mother. It would "Oh, they were kind to me, Guido and have made him a leader in any of the gangs his mother.

in our old Hell’s Kitchen. You were in The tilings I went through in my boythe cops in those days; you know what hood there in Hell’s Kitchen — well, you’ll those gangs were like. To be a leader in understand, because you were in the cops such a gang meant money and power. But once, yourself, and you saw the rough side. Guido didn’t want to be a leader. He I was there at their home the night of — stayed aloof, usually having only one close the killing. Old Jake Bachman’s killing, friend, and their goings and comings were I mean, tiie one I was convicted for. I matters of great interest and speciation, felt nervous, because the gang had been in simply because Guido, rather than the pals some trouble with Bachman, and I was in he had, commanded our attention. on it. You see, I still ran with tiie gang,

He was a sort of idol to us younger kids, although Guido didn’t. When he was certainly to me, and you can imagine how away, now aod then, I’d hang around at proud I was when he suddenly picked me Bachman’s with the gang. He didn’t like for his dose friend. Fat Driscoll had been it, nahually. Did you ever know an old thick with Guido, and you remember the drug-store man who liked a bunch of noterrible, tragic thing that happened to him good loafers hanging around, stealing —how he was found, shot to pieces by the andy and cigarettes, keeping good custemwatchman in Hobart’s warehouse, with the ers scared away?

watchman dead, too. They claim the rest I don’t know why it happened tirat I had of the gang got away with a hundred thou- trouble with Bachman. To give myself

sand in furs — sables and mink and ermine, credit, I was tiie least tough of the bunch,

And Pat’s death had been hard on Guido, and he and I had always been fairly

I remember the teats in his great, dark eyes, friendly. But he’d threatened me that day,

and the strangeness in his face, as though and I had a feeling— but you don’t believe

he couldn’t understand sudi things. Be- in the occult, warden, so you wouldn’t because, you see, Guido was rt^er mixed up lieve in premonitions, of course, in any rough stuff. The cop on that beat More candy? Eat it all, once you get had actually sat in Guido’s mother’s kitchen started it’s hard to stop; I won’t be needing during the time the robbery was commit- any after tomorrow. Not funny, huh? ted, with Guido asleep in a chair. Not Sorry, I guess that is a little morbid, that anyone suspected Guido anyhow; it

was just routine to question him, since Pat there we sat diat night,

and he had been so close. » * and Guido’s mother must have sensed

And I loved being Guido’s close friend, my nervousness and my melancholy. She



was so attentive and so bent on helping me that she actually had no time for Guido. She made me some of this candy, and talked to me, soothingly, in that quiet voice of hers. Once, when Guido moved in the siiadows, she actually oideied him out of the room.

We drank a little, a few glasses of sour, bradcish Dago Red, and after awhile I felt ^ sleepy. My nervousness was gone, and the let-down of the tension just folded me up. She understood. I remember she called me "poor boy,” and led me into Guido’s room, Stood there just like a mother, while I peeled down to my underwear, and after I was in bed, she tucked me in.

Warden, that was (he worst night of my life. I woke up, very late. The room was so black it seemed thicker than air, and more 'oppressive. The sounds were all gone from the street down below. The gassy smell from the river came drifting in as it always does with the late mists, and it just simply felt late. And there in that dark I lay, with my heart pounding, feelmg that something was terribly wrong, fe^ng torn to pieces, v/ith a strangeness and a pull on my nerves and mind that was •■stranger and more terrible than anything I had ever felt in my life.

Somehow, I got up and stumbled to the light switch. My feet felt funny, and in the strangeness of Guido’s room, I gashed my shins against a chair, but the oain while intense, didn’t feel like any pain I'd known before. And there was a separation of detab in the pain, as though the ^ment of its happening was hours long.

I felt the flesh being opened, and the bite of the sharp wood on bone, and then the pain started, but with it and overlying it,

I could even feel the little drops of blood well out and gather, and slide down the skin of my legs. And all this time, that dreadful feeling of strangeness was like a living panic in my mind.

Somehow, I got the light on, and seeing

the familiar planes and surfaces and shadows of Guido’s room, that hard knot in my breast relaxed, and I lost a fraction of the animal fear that was lifting the hairs on my neck. Then I turned to the mirror.

Warden, it was not 1 in that mirror; if wat Guido. Now wait, don’t say It was imagination, the result of drunkenness, or bad light. The light in that room was as bright as the one the cops kept in my face the next day. The mirror was fine plate glass, because the Caseletti’s had nothing but the best in their home. Guido, you will remember, was half a head taller than I am, bigger all over, and he was dark where I am fair. It was not a mistake. The man in the mirror was Gnido.

Think it over, warden. You’re sick and shaken and weighted with a fear that is su'b-hLimaa. You wake in a strange room, turn on the light, and~the face in the mir-. ror isn’t yours.

They can talk about witches and werewolves and warlocks and vampires. They can load it up with the fancy writing of a Poe or a Stevenson. If you're reading it alone at night, with the proper accompaniments of wind and crewing shutters and rain, such things can give the imaginative quite a little thrill.

But if you want your mind to shrink into a tight, hard little ball, and go cringing into a skull-corner in a fear that’s the same size and shape as death, just try the plain, everyday action of looking into a mirroi, and seeing another person looking back at you. 'Would it hit you hard.^

I tell you what it did to me. I fainted. Yes, fainted like a girl. I must have. Because when I came to, I was on the floor in Guido’s room, still only half-conscious, and standing above me, talking to Guido’s mother, was — me.

Yes, me, but nothing like the me I had always known. My clothes were bloody, there was a deep gash down the side of my face (I could see all this, through h a l fSTRANGER IN THE MIRROR

closed ej'es) and I was talking in a quick,. nervous voice — my voice — to Guido’s mother.

B ut tliat woman who talked to the person that was me, even while I lay there, she wasn’t the Angela Caseletti I had known, the calm and beautiful woman who had talked to me so quietly and kindly.

Her gorgeous olive skin waS sallow, and mottled with crimson spots, the flush of a rage more violent than even a Hell’s Kitchen boy had ever seen. 'The cords in her neck stood out as though she were carrying a great weight on her back, and her arms were curved up in such a frenzy that die tendons at the wrist looked like wires.

I was dose to fainting again. If I had been so fully conscious that I could have grasped all this — me, standing there while I also lay half-conscious on the floor — me, talking to a sane woman turned suddenly into a nightmarish fury — I think I would have died. But every sense in me was so shaken that I could only lie there, unmoving, and almost unfeeling.

1 remember her saying, in a voice that vibrated like the whip of electridty when you touch an open socket accidentally-— “You fool, you didn’t give him enough!” Have some more candy, warden? Well, it’s rather rich; it’s easy to get enough.

And I remember me, laughing back at her, reckless and crazy — that me who stood there — and saying; "The old fool had more blood in him than a hog. It was beautiful, mother!”

Well, warden, you know how they found me at Guido's — passed out, with my clothes stiff with blood, and that gash on my cheek. They found skin tissue from my cheek under old Jake Bachman’s fingernails. Not that diey needed..all that scientific horseplay to send me to the chair. After all, ten people had seen me shoot old

Jake down — ten people who had known me all my life.

And they saw me stuffing the money from his old money-can into my pockets.

Of course, you know they never found the money. Some said it was two thousand dollars.

Warden, that’s very funny. It was more like twenty thousand, I found out later.

You’ll remember how I went through the trial like an automaton? I couldn’t remember — things. My mind would come whirling up to the edges of a dark dream, and then I guess it was the common-sense of instinctive caution that swept it back. My mind, automatically refusing to think, about anything so dreadful.

You’ll remember how I accepted a public defender, and went through the motions of pleading not guilty, and the farce of a trial. I couldn’t think. Even when the judge finally called on me to stand up for sentence, my mind was numbed. I knew it had been a quick trial. I knew that, of all the people I knew, only Guido and Angela Caseletti had tried to help me.

But when that judge had finished his dirty little chore, and ended with the stereotyped, hypocritical invocation; “and may God have mercy on your soul!” I began to think. Because at that moment, Guido stretched his legs out straight, and then brought them back again, and his trousers hitched up above his socks. That’s when I saw the black scabs of those two deep cuts across the shins. And I remembered that' night, and how / had felt the pain of those cuts. And I remembered all that had happened.

I guess everyone still recalls ffiat preposterous attempt I made to escape, and the almost unbelievable fact that I got away. That in itself made a bigger story than old Jake’s murder, or — what will happen tomorrow.

And one reason I made the escape good was the fact that I came right bade to



Hell’s Kitchen, where no sane man would have gone, back to Guido and his mother. I kept my -eyes away from that woman — I was afraid of the depths of knowledge in her eyes — but I asked them for help, and they gave me money to get to the coast.

T he coast, hell! I was never more than a mile from them. And in two months, as soon as my beard had grown, I came back and rented the room above their kitchen. That’s where I wanted to be. There were some things I needed to learn.

I knew tiieir kitchen like the palm of my hand. I knew where they sat, and where they wouldn't look, and I bored a hole through the floor of my room, taking cate to open just a pin-point in flieir ceiling so I could see all they did.

You don’t believe in the occult, warden? Well, that’s your privilege. But there are strange and unfathomable hiding places in the Italian spirit. And there are strange knowledges in those craggy Italian mountains where civilization began, so long ago.

I found out how Guido had entered my body, a^d I had been put into bis.

You know how dreams are. How a you not of the body goes adventuring into lands that are strange and beautiful, with companions never seen in this life, but somdiow more familiar than the people you touch and love and talk to? You know bow, at sudi times, another world is easier to believe in than our own world. 'There is this you, then, which is obviously not of tire body, but as real — ^perhaps even more real than your known self. Would you all it the soul? Whatever, we call it, we know it exists.

The preachers say that the body is only a shell, to be laid aside some bri^t day, a machine that wears out, a suit of flesh (hat clothes the spirit.

And all that had happened to me was &3t Guido and his mother had arranged

it so that his spirit and mine had changed clothes — ^for the time it tock to murder and rob Jacob Bachman.

I learned how that was done. It was very simple. It's a matter of achieving a tranquility in another man, you can make the transfer of your soul into his fledUy envelope. It’s quite simple — ^ drug that is little known but easy to get — undisturbed quiet, in a light that is neutral, not too bright — and the rhythmic drumming of quiet, monotonous talk. Not hypnotism, something simpler and greater.

I learned how it was done. Who else do you think killed Guido’s mother? Guido? Don’t be silly, warden, nodding your head in that odd fashion. Listen to me; you can still hear quite well, I know. Guido loved his mother. And besides, hadn’t she made him rich, wkh no work on his part, and little or no danger?

Do you remember that Pat Driscoll was killed in Hobart’s, while Guido slept at home? Yes, but a hundred thousar^ in furs had disappeared before Pat died. And I have seen Angela Caseletti wrapped in sables worth a fortune, strutting alone in her vanity, while I watched from that pinhole in the ceiling of her kitchen.

Do you remember Banco Gordon.’ Do you remember how he cut old man Severance's throat, and took a double handful of diamonds out of his pocket? Those stones drifted back into the market, so cleverly that the cops never got close to what happened. But fltete was one giant star ruby &at never showed up. I have seen that ruby on Angela Caseletti’s finger.

There was a box, a common bread box, in their kitchen. In it was Jake Bachman's twenty thousand dollars, and ten times that much from other crimes that men died for, fighting off the cops, or here in the electric chair at Walden. Pat Driscoll had been Guido’s friend, and so had Banco Gordon. So had Dave Wallis, and Ty Cardwin, and Toots Moscovitz, and Legs Airigoni. You


I



remember them all, and how ffiey died, some under the guns, and some here at Walden.

And what they died for, all of it, was m that bread box of Guido’s mother’s — a neat little fortune to keep them safe from harm. Now, the money’s in another, safer place.

No, warden, Guido would never kill the mother he loved, and who had made him safe and comfortable and rich.

B ut still, he was seen snealdng out of the house early in the morning of the day she was found dead. Mrs. Moreni saw him slip out, and saw him drop some* thing in the deep grass at the alley. And Mrs. Erickson saw him, wild-eyed and bloody, coming back upstairs.’” And after all, the axe they found in the grass had Guido’s fingerprints all over it. I took care of all that.

And I took care that he was found, unconscious, beside her. Of course, he claimed no knowledge of it. Perhaps he had none. I’d given him plenty of the stuff. But there he was, and there she was, murdered. His dumb stare couldn’t back up his claim of insanity. Matikide is a pretty ugly crime. Juries don t like it.

I knew that Angela would never let anyone but Guido get neat enough to harm her. But remember, I knew her secret. I watched her make that candy. The drug’s moie palatable in candy, this particular kind of candy, with the odd taste. But it s acceptable in wine, and Guido liked wine. You take good claret, and the drug just gives it a brackish, puckery taste, like cheap Dago Red.

It was easy to get Guido to drink; I just slipped down and left an open bottle where he’d find It, one day when his mother had gone out. And the rest — the quiet, the light, the drumming of monotonous talk, they were easy.

I'll never forget how she walked right

up to me, so unsuspecting. She laid her hand on Guido’s hair, and kissed tire back of Guido’s necic, and all the time, Guido lay in his room, in my body. "Dear, she called me; “dear,” and "heart of my heart.”

Then I turned, and slie saw my eyes, and — the axe.

I gave myself up shortly after Guido was convicted and sentenced. Not just because I wanted to be here and see the lights go dim and hear ffie other dead-to-be bowling in their cells. Naturally, I didn’t want to miss that, but I had other reasons.

You see, I had now really committed a murder, and somehow, I felt like expiating it. I had been sentenced to burn for a murder Guido had committed. That wasn't good. Now, he had burned for a killing I had done. Somehow, it seemed like justice that I should die, too.

But the more I’ve thought about it, ffre less I like the idea. After all, I did the world a service in killing that woman. I’m as good a citizen as you are, warden, and maybe better, from what I’ve heard of you, and, the various frame-ups you’ve gotten away with. It doesn’t seem right for me to die, warden.

Walden, October— Thor Holdefkm, youthful gangster who was convicted of the brutal murder of Jaccb Bachman six months ago, went to his death in the electric chair at Walden Prison at 6:02 diis - morning. Holdetson, who had been stoical during his trial and confinement, broke down completely before his execution. Either in real or feigned frenzy, he struggled with guards until given a sedative, insisting 'that he was the warden of the penitentiary.

Warden James Goiz, whose nerves have been shaken by the recent, unprecedented, number of electrocutions, announced today that he plans to resign in the near future. '

Old Barsac was too fat to he a vampire, too indolent to become a werewolf — bat there are other things!

feasts of Barsac

By ROBERT BLOCH

Heading hy JOHN GIUNTA

I T WAS twili^t when Doctor Jerome readied the ogre’s castle. He moved through the fairy-tale land of a child’s picture book; a realm of towering mountain crags, steeply slanting roads ascending to forbidden heights, and douds that hovered like bearded wraiths watching his progress from on high.

ITie castle itself was built of dream-stuff. Nightmare qualities predominated in the great grey bulk, rearing its crumbling battlements against a sullen, blood-streaked sky, A chill wind sang its weird welcome as Doctor Jerome advanced towards the rastle on the hilltop, and an autumn moon rose above the topmost tower.

As tile moon stared down on man and castle alike^ a black cloud burst from the, ruined battlements ard soared squeaking to the sky. Bats, of course. The final touch of fantasy.

Doctor Jerome shru^ed and trudged across weed-choked flagstones in the castle courtyard until he reaped the great oaken door,

Now to raise the iron knocker... the door would swing open slowly, on creaking hinges... the tall, gaunt figure would emerge.... "Greetings, stranger. I am Count Dracula!”

Doctor Jerome grinned. "Like hell,” he muttered.

For the whole fantasy collapsed when he thought of Sebastian Barsac. This might be an ogre’s castle, but Barsac was no ogre.

Nine years ago, at the Soibonne, he’d 'made friends with shy, fat little Barsac. Since then they had taken different paths — but it was impossible for Doctor Jerome to imagine his old companion as the ideal tenant of a haunted castle.

Not that Barsac didn’t have some queer ideas. He’d always been a little eccentric, and his theories on biological research weie

far from orthodox — but Jerome could bank on one tiling. Barsac was too fat to be a vampire, and too indolent to become a werewolf.

Still, there was something strange about this invitation, coming after a three years’ lapse in correspondence. Merely a scribbled note, suggesting that Doctor Jerome come down for a month or so to look over experimental data — ^but that was Barsac’s usual way of doing things.

Ordinarily, Doctor Jerome would ignore such a casual offer, but right now it came as a life-saver. For Doctor Jerome was strap^d. He’d been let out of the Foundation, he owed three installments on his rent, and he had — literally — ^no place to lay his head. By pawning the remnants of his precious equipment he'd managed to cross the Qiannei and reach Castle Barsac. A month in a real castle with his old friend — it might lead to something.

So Jerome had seized Opportunity before the echo of its knocking had died away. And now he banged tiie iron knocker, watched the castle wot swing open. It did squeak, a bit.

Footsteps. A shadow. And then- —

"Delighted to see you!” Sebastian Barsac embraced his friend in the Frencli fashion and began to make Gallic noises of enthusiasm.

"Welcome to Castle Barsac,” said the little man. "You are tired after your long march from the railroad station, no? I will show you to your room — servants I do not retain. And after a shower we shall talk. Yes?”

U P THE winding stairs, pursued by a babbie of incoherent conversation. Doctor Jeiome toiled, bags in hand.- He found his oak-paneiled chambers, was instructed in the mysteries of the antique mechanical



shower arrangement; then was left to bathe and dress.

He had no time to marshal his impres- ■ s'ons. It was not until later — after a surprisingly good dinner in a small apartment downstairs — that Jerome was able to sit back and appraise his host.

They retired to a parlor, lit cigars, and sat back before the grateful warmth emanating from the stone fireplace, where a blaze rose to push back the shadows in the room. Doctor Jerome’s fatigue had lifted, and he •felt stimulated, alert.

As Sebastian Barsac began to discuss his recent work, Jerome took the opportunity •to scrutinize his friend.

TITTLE BARSAC had aged, definitely.

He was fat, but flabby rather than rolypoly. The dark hair had receded on his domed fordiead, and his myopic eyes peered from spectacles of increased thickness. Despite verbal enthusiasm, the little lord of Castle Barsac seemed oddly languid in his physical movements. But from his talk, Doctor Jerome recognized that Barsac’s spirit was unchanged.

The words began to form a pattern in Jerome s mind — a pattern holding a meaning he did not understand.

So you can see what I have been doing these nine years past. All of my life since I left t-he Sorbonne has been devoted to one

— discovering the linkage between man and animal through the alteration of cellstructure in the brain. It is an evolutionary process, this thing I seek — an evolutionary process wherein the cycle occurs in the lifespan of the individual animal. And my key? My key is simple. It lies in the recognition of one fact — that the human soul is divisible.”

‘What is all this?” Doctor Jerome interrupted. "I don’t see what you’re driving at, Barsac. Where’s the connection between biology, alteration of cell-structure in the brain, and evolution? And what part does a divisible human soul play in all this?”

' I will be blunt, my friend. I believe that human characteristics can be transferred to animals by means of mechanical hypnosis.

I believe that portions of the human soul essence or psyche can be transmitted from man to animal— and that the animal will

then begin to ascend the evolutionary scale. In a word, the animal will show humat 7 characteristics.”

Dector Jerome scowled.

“In the nine years that you’ve been dabbling in this unscientific romanticism here in your castle retreat, a new word has come into being to desaibe your kind, Barsac,” he said. “The word is ‘screwball.’ And that’s what I think of you, and that’s w’hat I think of, your theory.”

“Theory?” Barsac smiled. "It is more than a tlieory.”

"It’s preposterous!” Jerome interrupted. “To begin with, your statement about the human soul being divisible. I defy you to show me a human soul, let alone piove that you can cut it in half.”

“I cannot show you one, I grant,” said Barsac.

‘‘Then what about your mechanical hypnosis? I’ve never heard it explained.”

"I cannot explain it.”

“And what, in an animal, are human characteristics? What is your basis of measurement?”

“I do not know.”

“Then how do you expect me to understand your ideas?”

Sebastian Barsac rose. His face was pale, despite the fire’s ruddy glow.

“I cannot show you a human soul,” he muimured, "but I can show you what happens to animals when they possess part of one.

"I cannot explain mechanical hypnosis, but I can show you the machine I use to hypnotize myself and the animals in order to transfer a portion of my soul.

"I cannot measure the human characteristics of the animals undergoing my treatment, but I can show you what they look like and let you judge.

"Even then you may not understand my ideas — but you will see tl;^ I am actually carrying them out!”

By this time. Doctor Jerome had also risen to his feet. “You mean you’ve been transferring your soul to an animal body?” Sebastian Barsac shrugged. “I have been transferring part of what I call my soul to the bodies of many animals,” he amended.

"But you an’t — it’s biologically impossible. It defies the laws of Reality!"

THE BEASTS OF BARSAC 43

BEHIbH!) the bulging spectacles, Barsac’s coming of light. Doctor Jerome entered and eyes gleamed oddly. stood dazzled in the doorway.

"What is Reality and who makes its Set in the mouldering tower of the old laws?” he mocked. "Come, and see for castle was a spacious, white-tiled, comyourself the success of my experiments.” pletely modem laboratory unit. A great He led the way across the chamber, down outer room, filled with electrical equipment, tile hall, and up the great circular staircase, was displayed before him, All of the "niey reached the second floor on which appurtenances necessary to micro-biology Jerome’s room lay, but did not pause. Select- were ranged on shelves and cabinets, ing a panel switch from the open box on “Does it please you, Jerome?” asked Barthe wall, Barsac threw it and illumined the sac. “It was not easy to assemble this, no. upper stoirs. They began to climb again. The very tiles were transported up the steep And all the while Barsac was talking, mountain passways to the castle, and the talking. "You have seen the gods of ancient shipping of each bit of equipment was Egypt?” he said. “The anthropomorphic costly. But behold — is it not a perfect spot stone figures with the bodies or men and in which to work?” the heads of animals? You have heard the

legend of the werewolf, of lycantiiropic 1~\OCTOR JEROME nodded, absently, dianges whereby man, becomes beast and -a-' His inward thoughts were tinged with beast becomes man? definite envy. Barsac here was squandering

"Fables, all fables. And yet behind the his genius and his wealth on th^ crazy dabfables lurked a trutii. The truth lurks no bling, and he had every scientific luxury at longer, for I have found it. The seat of his command, While he, Jerome, a capable evoUrtion lies in the stMil, and in the soul’s scientist with a sound outlook, had nothing; human instrument of expression, the brain, no job, no- future, nothing to work with. « We have grafted cellular structures of one It wasn’t right, it wasn’t just. And yet —

body onto another — why not graft portions "Even an electrical plant,” Barsac was of one soul to another? Hypnosis is the exclaiming. “We manufacture out own key to transference, as I have said. power here, you see. Look around. All is

^ “All this I have learned by much thought, of the finest! Or perhaps you ate eager to

much experimentation. I have worked for see what I promised to show you?” nine years, perfecting techniques and meth- Doctor Jerome nodded again. He couldn’t odolo^. Many trrnes I failed. To my stand the sight of this spotless laboratory laboratory I have brought animals, thou- because of the jealousy it aroused. He sands of «iima!s. Many of them died. And wanted to get it over with, get out of here. I procured others, working endlessly towards Now Barsac opened the door of a second one goal. I have paid tiie ptice^ myself, room, beyond. It was nearly as large as dying a thousand mental deaths with the the first, but the walls were untiled. The failure of each mistaken attempt. Even a original castle stones lent startling contrast physical price I have paid. A monkey — ■ to the great gleaming metal cabinet which sde cochon! — took from me my finger. So.” dominated the center of the chamber.

Barsac paused and held up his left hand “This room I had not the heart to in a dramatic gesture to reveal the stump change,” Barsac explained., "It Is here, acwhere his left thumb was missing. cording to family tradition, that my greatThen he smiled. “But it Is not my wounds'* great grandfather conducted his experiof battle I wish to display to you — it is tire meats in alchemy. He was a sotcetor.” fruits of victory. ‘'Gane.” “So is his great-great grandson,” Doctor

They had reached the topmost tower at Jerome murmured, last. Doctor Jerome gazed down the dizzy- "You refer to the machine?” Barsac ing spiral of the stairs they had ascended, stepped over and opened the metal door In tiien turned his head forward as Barsac un- tiie side of the cabinet. Within the large locked the panelled door of his laboratory exposed area was a chair, fastened with and gestured him inside. clamps from which led a number of conThe did: of a wall-switcb heralded the voluted tubes and metal valves which, in

44 WEIRD TALES

turn were fastened to a switchboard bearing Out of one batch I could hope for two or an imposing number of dials and levers. three — reactions. That is, until recently.

Then I began to find that almost all of my

T he chair faced a glass prism — a window subjects showed changes.”

in the metal that had the general appear- Barsac moved towards the fourth wall, ance of a gigantic lense. Before this prism where no cages loomed. Here were shelves was a wheel of radiating wires, so fine as to filled with jais. Preserving jars. Doctor be almost transparent. Various tubes from Jerome decided.

the chair led to the tips of the wires at dif- He moved closer for another look, but. ferent points of the wneel-rim. Barsac turned. He halted him, left hand on

"This is not magic but science,” Barsac Jerome’s shoulder, so that Etoctor Jeiome said. "You see before you the mechanical looked down upon the trembling stump hypnotic device I have perfected. The human where the thumb had been, subject is seated in the chair, so. The attach- "Before I show you this,” he whispered, ments are made, the adjustments calculated, "are you sure that you will not be shocked?

The cabinet is closed. "The power is tiuned I do not wish to startle you unduly.” on — to be automatically generated for a "Let me see,” muttered Doctor Jerome,

time-span set beforehand. The subject gazes "I shall only permit you to gaze upon

into the prism. The wires before the prism the last experiments,” Barsac whispered. "I revolve and various -arcs are actuated across could show you dogs with human legs, mice its surface. Mechanical hypnosis results — with human skulls and no tails, monkeys and then, by means of electrical impulse, that are hairless and possessed of human something of the life-essence, the soul it- faces.. But you would mock at me and say self, is released. It flows through the glass they were freaks, hybrids — or tell me I could prism, a vital force, and impinges upon the produce monstrosities by using infra-red or animal subjects set before the cabinet in the gamma rays. a,

focal range of the glass. The animals receive “So I shall show you my last experimental the essence and — change. The transference results only. The ones that prove not only is complete. Something of the human goes that human characteristics can be transinto the animals. By graduating the focal ferred to animals — but that my characterrange I can work with a dozen animals at istks have been transfened. The transferOftce. Naturally, each experiment drains my ence of my mental powers caniiot be meas* strength and taxes my vitality.” ured. I shall let you judge the physkd re-

"It taxes ray aedulity,” Doctor Jerome suits only, interjected. "Perhaps they will not excite you very

Barsac shrugged dolefully. "Very well. I much, these creatures of mine. They are not could explain minutely the workings of my as grotesque as the earlier ones, but the machine, but I see you demand visual proof reproduction of an exact characteristic exof.its work. Come with me.” cites me more than the semi-anthropomor-

'The third door was opened and Doctor phic strudures in the earlier bodies. It shows Jerome stood in the last chamber. me that I am on the right track at last. My

It was hot in here, and a sharp scent smote next step will produce not creatures that his nostrils. An animal reek permeated the are dianged and dead, but creatures changed bare room. Lining the wails were cages — and living. I — ”

dozens of cages. Some held tats, some white - "Show me!” Doctor Jerome commanded, mice, and there was tier upon tier of glass "You will not be impressed.” Barsac

containers housing guinea pi§s. Rats insisted. "They are only rats and you may squealed, mice squeaked, and guinea pigs not even notice — ” chittered._ "Show me!”

"Experimental subjects,” Barsac..com- "Then, look.” m^ted. "Alas, the supply is continuously Barsac stepped aside and Doctor Jerome being exhausted. I work on batches of gazed down at the jars. 'The • bodies of twenty or more at once. You see, not -all twenty rats floated in the preserving fluid, animals are — responsive — to the treatment. Jerome stared. They were rats and only rats


— thdr dead grey bodies were unchanged. Barsac was mad, quite mad.

And then Doctor Jerome saw it. He stared at one rat and saw the left forepaw tiiat was not a forepaw — but a tiny desskated hand!

He stated at the other tats in the other jars and saw that each left forepaw was alike. Each forepaw was like a human hand —like the left hand of Sebaitian Barsac on which the thumb was missing!

of Barsac, and wlthlrt their flaming eyes was the laughing gaze of Barsac, and Jerome recognized them for what they were and screamed again.

But screaming did not stop them. Nothing stopped them as the mannikin-horde and the wol^horde flowed in a furry flood towards his writhing body on the bed. He Felt the touch of their horrid paws everywhere, tensed himself for the moment when he would feel their claws, their jaws — •

A shriek v’renched from his throat as

2. Jerome sat bolt upiiglit in the bed.

Moonlight streamed tranquilly through

SOMETHING was climbing the’ ivy out- the castle window, and its bright pattern side the castle walls. Something was was etched upon a bare floor and unpeering Enough the castle window — peer-' shadowed walls.

ing with little red-rimmed eyes that held a The creatures were gone. They had never li^t of gleeful and atrocious gloating, existed, save in his own disordered dreams. Something chuckled as it scrambled throu^ Doctor Jerome sighed and dropped bade the open window and dropped to the floor as the hot perspiration trickled down into of the castle bedroom on tiny paws; paws his eyes. He drifted off to sleep again, that scraped and padded as they advanced It seemed to him as though the oaken towards tire great bed. door opened as he slept, and Barsac crept

Suddenly Jerome felt it aawling up the into the room. The little fat man was smilcounterpane. He writhed and twisted, strik- ing a secret smile as he advanced on the ing out with his hands to dislodge it; but bed. In his arms he held a rabbit — a white the creature crawled upwards, and now he rabbit. He stroked the furry head until the could h«r it chudding in a voice that was ears lay flat and the pink-timmed eyes were a shrill mockery of human laughter. open and alert. Then Barsae’s eyes opened

Then its head rose on a level with and he gazed on Jerome and he fixed Jerome’s qfes, and he saw it — saw the furry Jerome’s gaze witii unshakable intensity, figure, the monkeylike body and the manor- Barsac’s bulging eyes held a command and kin head of a witch’s familiar — saw and a ghastly promise, and Jerome could not recognized the hideous little monster for turn away. Barsac’s very being seemed conwhat it was... an animal, but with Barsac’s centrated in his eyes, and as he stared, face! ' Jerome felt his own being rise to meet that

He screamed, then, and knew without any ghastl‘'-,gaze. further indication that the creature was not He i. It himself flowing out... out... alone. and somehow he knew that he was no

The room was full of them. They were longer staring at Barsac but at the white crawling out of the shadows in the corners, rabWt. The white rabbit was absorbing his they were creeping along the panelling of personality through the hypnotic stare, the walls; they crowded through the door Jerome felt weak, giddy. His head reeled, and slithered through rat-holes in the worm- and through a blurred mist he saw the figriddled flooring. me of the white rabbit. The white rabbit

They were all about him now, chattering was growing. The furry body was larger. It and squealing as they climbed tov/ards him. slipped out of Barsac’s hands and crouched Then through the door came the man- on the floor, looming upwards as it swelled sizecT figures; the man-sized figures with the and grew.

shaggy bodies and flaming eyes and the acrid its long white ears were melting into a scent of the werewolf seeping forth from skull that in itself was changing. The pink between their carrion fangs. And beneath muzzle blended back into the face. The tabtheir shaggy bodies was the flesh and form bit’s eyes were moving farther apart Mid a



mouth sprang into prominence above a suddenly protruding chin. The rabbit had a face.

There was something terribly familiar about the rabbit’s face. Jerome strove to cleanse his mind of loathing and concentrate upon recognition. He had seen that face before and he knew that he must remember whose it was.

Then, in a wave of supreme terror, he recognized the face upon the rabbit.

It was his oum —

3.

T^OCTOR JEROME didn’t tell Barsac -L/ about his dreams. But Barsac must have noted his pallor and the dark pouches under his eyes, and drawn his own conclusions.

'T fear my accommodations are not of the best,” herald, over the breakfast table. 'Tt is my hope that you will soon beccrae a<xustomed to the simple life. After we begin working together, things will probably adjust themselves, no?”

*T^o,” said Doctor Jerome. "And what makes you think I’m going to work with you?”

"But of course you are going to work with me, my friend,” Barsac declared. "It was for this reason I asked you to come here. I appreciate your brilliance, my friend, and I need your tsdents badly here.

"I have waited for you before resuming my experiments so that we could complete the final steps together. I realize that you were shocked by what I showed you last night, but I trust your reason has prevailed over your emotions.

’Toge^er we can carry this experiment to its ultimate conclusion. Up to-now I have produced monstrosities — and then managed to reproduce my own physical chatacteristics in a group of animals. I can go further than that, I think. I have evolved a relihement of my technique. Using other animals than rats, I hope to make the changes and keep them alive.

Then I can determine whether I have transmitted a portion of my mind as well as a force that changes the bodies to resemble me. You perceive the significance?”

Doctor Jerome did not look as though

he perceived anything except a most unpleasant prospect. He shook his head slowly. "I — I can’t,’’ he murmured.

"Wait, you misunderstand! I shall not ask you to submit to hypnosis if you do not wish to. I shall take that risk myself. All I desire is that you remain here and help to supervise the work, take notes, and act as a scientific witness to corroborate my findings.”

"It's no use, Barsac.” Doctor Jerome did not attempt to disguise the disgust that worked in his features. "I can’t stand it — I won’t set foot in that laboratory again..” Barsac clucked sympathetically. "You will get over your aversion,” he predicted. "And,

I hope, soon. For I shall now proceed with the last experiment. If it succeeds — and I know it will — ^you must be convinced. And if you are convinced, you can carry on alone.”

"Gurry cxi? Alone?”

Barsac lowered his head. The little fat man addressed the wall rather than his breakfast companion.

"Yes. I am not long for this earth, my friend. The doctors, they tell me of my heart. The strain of long experimentation has taken its toll. And this last one may well prove to be the end of further work, if not of my life itself. My vital energy is drained by the T, gnosis. No, Jerome, a man cannot give of his soul and retain life for long.” Doctor Jerome stared at Barsac’s earnest face. Barsac avoided his gaze and continued. ' "That is why I invited you and asked you to consider working with me. When I die, I wish that you will carry on my work. For the saire of our friendship, and because of my respect for your abilities ard brilliance. Have no fear, v'hether you choose to enter the laboratory or not, I have compiled all of the notes and data necessary for you to take over.

"And one thing more.” Barsac’s voice was quite faint. "I have made the other arrangements. I have seen my advocate and prepared my will. You will be left eveiything when I die; my entire estate goes to you to continue in this work."

Jerome rose. *Tt’s no use,” be said. "I won't go into that laboratory w&h you.”

"Very well. I understand. But this I ask of you — please stay here with me during


■'47

the nejd two days. I shall proceed at once with &e operations I have in mind. I hope to be able to give you complete proof of success — living animals that will not only bear a physical resemblance to me, but inherit my mental processes as well.”

Doctor Jerome shuddered slightly.

"Please,” said Barsac. "Do not leave me during these next two days. 1 shall stay in the laboratory and work if you will prepare the meals. You underhand, I cannot keep servants here. They are ignorant, superstitious fools— easily frightened, And I must have some one here to rely on. You will stay?”

Jerome was silent for a long moment. Then he nodded. "Yes,” he whispered. "I will stay.”

Barsac clasped his hand. Doctor Jerome felt the cold, flalAy fingers and drew back involuntarily. To him, the light of gratitude in Barsac’s bulging eyes was too reminiscent of the look he had glimpsed there in his dreams.

"I shall not wait,” Barsac promised. "I go now to prepare. I will be in the laboratory — ^you need only to bring meals to the outer door. Within foity-eight hours I hope to announce success. Meanwhile, you are at liberty to amuse yourself as you will.”

He turned. "I will leave you now. My gratitude, Jerome.”

Barsac left the room.

Doctor Jerome smiled grimly as he gazed up at the forbidding stone ceiling.

"Amuse myself as I wifi,” he muttered.

H e finished his cigar, then rose and walked aimlessly down the hall. His footsteps tang eerily liirough the empty corridors. At a turn in the hail Jerome saw the figure standing against the wall in the shadows and started back.

Then he recognized the outlines of a suit of armor. Of course — Castle Barsac would have suits of armors. And all the trimmings, too. Perhaps he could amuse himself for a few hours, exploring the castle.

Etoctor Jerome set about his explorations with scientific precision. He covered the ground floor thoroughly, entering a score of dusty chambers and apartments — being careful in each instance to turn on the lights before venhuiag into a strange room.

He found much to interest and delight him. Massive Regency furniture, elaborate tapestries, a full gallery of oils. ’The family portraits of the Barsac line gazed down austerely from a long chamber at the rear of the castle, and Jerome speculated as to the identity of tliat gr&it-gieat grandfather with the sorcerous piodivities.

Everything hinted of great age and great wealth. If the castle was haunted, it was haunted by the past alone. Again Jerome was leminderf-of the story-book atmosphere. Ail that was needed was a family vault in the cellar.

A vault? Why not?

Jerome explored. He discovered the stairs that descended to the lower levels and here he found the cataccrris.

Catacombs they weie in tiuth. On marble slabs lay the stone sarcophagi of the Baisacs. Row on row they rested in eternal slumber here below. Now only Sebastian Barsac remained, the last of his line, and soon he too would join these ranks of the dead.

The last of the Barsacs, and he was mad. Mad and soon to die.

Motv soon.’

There in the dank and silent catacombs, the thought came to Jerome.

He could die <^uiie soon.

Why not? Let him die soon, and quietly.

Then there would no longer be a Castle Barsac. Jerome would have the castle, have the laboratory, have the money. And why not? Barsac was mad. And he was all alone. The doctors had said he would die, and it need hardly be called murder. Perhaps a strong shock would do it.

Yes, a shock. Baisac would weaken himself in these aazy experiments. And then it would be so easy to precipitate a stroke, a seizure. He could be frightened.

The will was made, and all that remained was the deed. Mad Barsac would lie here on the last empty slab, and it would be ended.

Doctor Jerome ascended the stairs slowly. He went out and walked through the hills, returning only at dusk. He had wrestled with temptation and put it aside. There was no thought of putting poison in the food he took upstairs at dinner. He left the tray outside the laboratory door and knocked. He descended quickly before Barsac opened



the door, and ate a solitary supper in tiie great castle kitchen below.

He was resigned to waiting, now. After all, in a few weeks Baisac might die a natural death. Meanwhile, let his work go on. Perhaps he might succeed.

Jerome listened to the-reveberation from the laboratory above his head. A steady humming sound^, accompanied by a rhythmic pulsing. Batsac must be in his cabinet now, working the focal prism and hypnotizing himself and his animals. Doctor Jerome wondered what sort of animals he was using in these "improved” experiments.

On second thought he didn’t care to know. The vibrations were beginning to affect his nerves. He decided to turn in early. One more day and it would be over. If he could get a good night’s sleep, now, his morbid fancies would vanish.

Accordingly, Jerome ascended to bed, switching off the lights as he proceeded down the hall. He undressed, donned pajamas, plunged the castle bedroom into darkness, and sought sleep.

Sleep came.

A nd then Barsac came. He wheeled in - the cabinet, the great met^l cabinet, and once again his bright eyes ca..* ht and captured Jerome’s astonished stare. Jerome’s will slipped away and he entered the cabinet. He was clamped into the seat as a prisoner is clamped in the electric chair. Like a prisoner, Jerome knew he was facing the execution of a death-sentence. Yet his will was a prisoner — and now, as Barsac turned the dials, his soul was imprisoned too.

Jerome stared tliiough the great glass prism that loomed before his eyes. He could not look away, for the gigantic lense was in itself a hypnotic agent,- pulling at his retina, impelI4ng him to gaze ahead into the hugely magnified world of the focal field. He waited for the animals to appear in the field — but there were no animals.

There was only Baisac. For suddenly a great face loomed through the glass — a monstrous face with the bulging eyes of Barsac, and the great domed forehead.

Barsac was smiling and his yellow teeth were exposed, but Jerome could only see the eyes. The eyes that glared and pulled at his own eyes, at his brain behind them.

Pulled his being into ffie glass, for as ffie humming rose insanely about him, Doctor Jerome felt himself plunging forward. His body was clamped to the seat, but his soul soared through the weird prism and lost itself in Barsac’s mad eyes —

Doctor Jerome awoke. It was daylight at last, but he did not sit up to gieet its coming. He felt weak, drained.

Drained.

A dreadful suspicion was forming in Jerome’s mind. He knew that he had dreamed — but he did not know what he hadn't dreamed. Giuld it be that there was a distorted truth in his symbolic nightmare?

Was Baisac lying to him? Perhaps his machine could drain some of the vital essence from a man’s soul. Perhaps Barsac wanted him to assist in the experiments so that a part of his soul would be removed — not to be incorpoiated into animals, but into Barsac! Hypnotic, scientific vampirism!

Had Barsac been in this room last night while he slept and dreamed? Had Barsac hypnotized him in his sleep, seeking to snare his soul?

Something had happened. Jerome felt weak.

And then he was strong — strong with sudden purpose. The thoughts of yesterday came back, but they came now as a resolution.

He would kill Barsac, today.

He would kill him befoie he died himself. He would kill Baisac because he was a madman, because his experiments were blasphemous, because he deserved to die.

lioctor Jerome would kill Barsac for the sake of Science.

That was it. For the sake of Science.

Doctor Jerome rose, dressed, prepared breakfast, took Barsac’s tray upstairs, returned to the castle chambers below, and began to plan anew.

Madman or genius, Barsac would die. He had to die. Suppose he were really doing what he claimed? Suppose he actually managed to create animals with human physical attributes and with human rninds? Minds like Barsac’s mind?

Wouldn’t that be the ultimate horror? And shouldn’t that horror be avoided, stamped out?

Of course. He, Jerome, would save huTHE BEASTS OF BARSAC


inanity from this monstrous affront to the fury over the castle, and the rumbling swallaws of life. He would do the deed as he lowed the noise of the vibrations from the had planned, by shock. Tonight. laboratory upstairs.

Yes, tonight. He’d short the electrical Jerome peered out of the window as current in the castle, go up to the laboratory jagged lightning slithered between the in die dark, and shock Barsac to death, mountain aags.

Never lay a hand on him. A siui,ple plan, 'The thunder grew louder,

and it would succeed. It must succeed. Doctor Jerome turned back to get Barsac’s

Jerome knew it must succeed by late tray ready. Then he paused, afternoon — for when the vibrations sounded "Why bother?” he whispered. Yes, why

from above he realized he couldn’t wait bother? Why wait any longer. He’d go upmuch longer. He couldn’t stand the sound stairs now, shut off all Ae lights, knock or the visions it conjured up. Barsac, drain- on the laboratory door. Barsac would aping his soul into the bodies of a horde of pear, expecting hjs dinner-tray. Instead, he’d animals — it was impossible to bear the find death.

thought. Yes. He’d do it now, while the resoluWhat were the animals? Not rats, he had tion held, said. Jerome remembered the rats. Barsac As the thunder mounted, Doctor Jerome

had refused to show him the other mon- walked up the stairs on his grim errand,

slrosities. He only showed the rats with Lighting flidcered as he leadhed the seethe deformed paws. The paws with the miss- ond landing. Jerome moved towards the ing finger or missing claw. switch panel on the wall, Then came the

Jerome prepared dinner and laughed. His blinding bolt, and as thunder followed, the apprehensions faded away with the memory lights went out.

of Iiis dream. The storm had struck. It was an omen.

Jerome exulted.

T he paws. Of course! How foolish he Now he moved up die spiral staircase was, letting Barsac’s crazy talk and the leading to the laboratory landing at the top morbid atmosphere of the castle affect him. of the great castle tower. He groped his way

Because of that and a few bad dreams he’d slowly, in utter darkness, tensing himself

tricked himself into swallowing the gro- for the moment when he would reach the tesque claims of an obvious lunatic. oaken door and knock.

There was a machine — but any lunatic, Then he listened, above the howling of given the funds and a scientific training, the storm, for the vibrations from behind can build an imposing machine. That didn’t the door.

prove that it actually worked as Batsac Th^ had ceased, abruptly, when the claimed it did. lightning struck.

There had been no other monstrosities for Jerome reached the top of the stairway. Jerome to see— for they didn’t exist. Bar- He edged towards the door. He was ready, sac’s talk about previous experiments was now— merely talk. The door opened, swiftly.

There were the rats, but what of it? Doctor Jerome heard Barsac’s labored Barsac had been cunning. He had taken breathing.

twenty rats, killed them, and removed their "Jerome!” called Barsac. 'The voice was individual claws on the left forepaws. faint, but filled with overtones of triumph.

■ That was all there was to it. "Jerome — where are you? I’ve succeeded,

Barsac was aazy, and there was nothing Jerome, I’ve succeeded beyond my wildest to fear. dieams!”

Doctor Jerome laughed again. That made Jerome was very glad Barsac had called it easier. He would kill the madman and out. It enabled him to locate Barsac's body take over. No more nightmares, no more in the darkness.

fears. - Now he glided forward and brought his

His laughter blended with the thunder, cold hands up to Barsac’s neck. SuddeQ. A storm was breaking. It shattered in shock, a fright —


But Barsac did not screana with fear. He screamed with anger.

''Jerome, it’s you!” he shouted.

So he knew. Knew Jerome meant to kill him. Therefore he must die. Jerome's hands, which had risen merely to frighten, now remained to strangle.

He tightened his grip about Barsac’s throat. Barsac tried to daw him off, but he could not see, and his gestures were pitifully weak.

Now Barsac did not cry out. He merely gurgled as Doctor Jerome pressed his windpipe and then dragged him back along the corridor. He dragged him swiftly, purposefully, and with his own feet be felt for the edge of the great staircase.

Then he thrust Barsac forward. There was a single shriek as Sebastian Barsac reeled in darkness, and then only a dreadful series of rubbery thumps as he plunged down the black well of the spiral staircase.

Doctor Jerome stood there as the thunder came again. When its muttering reverberation died away, the thumping had’ ended.

Barsac was at the bottom of the stairs.

Cautiously, Doctor Jerome descended the staircase. His feet groped for the next stair, and groped for the feel of Barsac’s body. But it was not until he reached the bottom that his shoes met the resistant flesh of Barsac

Jerome knelt and passed his hands over that flesh, finding it quite cold. As cold as death.

So it was done. Barsac was dead. Long live the new ruler of Castle Barsac!

Doctor Jerome straightened up with a grin. It was easy, after all. “Gentlemen, it was in unavoidable accident. Sebastian Barsac was at work in his laboratory when the lights went out. He came out into the hall, evidently with the purpose of descending the stairs. In the dark he must have rhade a misstep and fallen down the staircase.”

He whispered the words aloud, just ffie way he meant to repeat them at the inquest. He heard their echoes rustle and die away.

And then he heard the other rustling. •,

It came from far overhead, from a room at the top of the stairs. A room at the top of the stairs — a rustling from the laboratory!

Jerome bounded up the stairs.

The animals were loose. He’d better lock the l^oiatory door, at once.

He heard the shrill squeaking as he made the second landing and turned to climb the last flight to the tower level.

'Then he paused. For there was a drumming from me floor above — a padding and a scraping as small bodies moved down the hail. They had already left the laboratory.

For the first time he detected the ominous note in the squeaking sounds. Shrill little cries of anger resounded from the head of the stairs. They were angry, as Barsac had been angry when he had died. Barsac, who had come out, crowing in triumph that his experiments were successful beyond his wildest dreams.

His experiments were juccessjul!

"I will transfer the physical attributes of myself, and also the mental attributes.”

Jerome knew the meaning of fear, then.

T he creatures of Barsac’s experiments were loose. The creatures whose bodies he had changed. Whose minds were a part of Barsac ’s mind.

They knew and they were loose. Loose and coming after him to seek revenge!

Jerome heard them creeping down the stairway. They were after him. They knew he was there — they could see in the dark! he turned in blind panic down the hallway. He'd hide in his room. That was it, his room. He stumbled through the pitch-black corridor, and heard them at his heels.

The beasts were swift. He reached the door, groped for his key. He fumbled m his pockets, cursing. The key wasn’t on hrs ring. And the door was locked.

Perhaps he’d dropped it now, dropped it on the floor. He stcKDped to feel around.

And his hand encountered the warmth of flesh. Flesh that was furry, but not furry enough. Flesh that wriggled through his fingers.

The creatures had come!

Fangs nipped at his thumb. He stood up, hastily, and kicked out at the furry beast. But another body brushed his other ankle, and then they were all around him. Their squealing rose. One of the tiny monstrosities was crawling up his leg, and he felt the touch of minute fingers clinging to bis body.


Jffome screamed, and knew Barsac had spoken the truth. The monsters he had aeated with his mind were going to kill him in revenge for Barsac’s death. And there was no escape.

Their squealing filled the corridor and their bodies blo^ed it completely. They swarmed around Doctor Jerome like ravening rats, but they were not rats. Jerome knew that if he should see them he would go mad. And if he did not see them they would crawl up his body and sink their horrible little mouths in his throat, stroke his face with their ghastly fingers.

Jerome wheeled and charged down the corridor again. 'The nightmare ranks broke for a moment and he sped down the blade corridor of the haunted castle with the beasts of Barsac at his heels. He was playing tag with death in a nighted lair,-and death ran behind him on purposeful paws. Death squealed and chattered, and Jerome fled.

He had to get out before they reached him, touched him, took him. He had to.

Gasping in agony he reached the corridor’s end, knowing tliat the horde was keeping pace. He turned again, ran forward. He never gave a tliought to the stairs.

And then, as the squealing rose, and echoed in his ears, Doctor Jerome tumbled down the castle staircase and landed with a sickening little crunch that he never heard. His head lolled grotesquely on the broken stem of a neck. He lay next to the body of Sebastian Barsac, and like Barsac, he tm quite dead.

It was casual Irony that chose this moment for the castle li^ts to flicker on a^iin.

They revealed nothing but the two bodies lying at the foot of the stairs. Mad Barsac lay dead, and so did mad Jerome.

On the landing above, the twenty escaped guinea pigs blinked down with stupid, uncomprehending eyes.

A Charm

By PAGE COOPER

N ightshade and mistletoe

Squeezed with the womb of a virgin doe, Juice of spider, sting of bee; '•

With love’s old magic I conjure thee.

Thrice three the circle round,

I sweep with curlew’s wing the ground. Prick my breast on a black thorn tree. With the blood of my heart I cry to thee.

By ALLISON V. HARDING

twelve-year-old boy to Jeffry Wilburts as he pointed to another part of the shelf whereon lay squad after squad of tiny toy figures, each with a machine gun — sub-machine guns and light and heavy ones.

Jeffry nodded interestedly and took sc«ne of the pieces off the shelf to locJc at them more closely.

"Be very careful!” the little boy cautioned

E— ^ the new tutor his row on row of shiny M lead soldiers... soldiers in the painted khaki of the army, in the navy dark blue, and in the blue with red trimming of the marines. Some were standing,,some were marching, some lying on their stomachs, guns pointed forward.

"Lrok at my machine gunners,” said the

Heading by BORIS DOLGOV

The tin soldien were not just playthings — they were in a fuleless war of horror



25 Wilburts minutely examined a soldier holding the minature replica of an automatic rifle.

"Sure I will. Tell me, Rcmald, why do you have so many? You must have several hundred soldiers here.”

"Need ’em,” said the youngster, his mouth setting in a tight line.

"Do you like to recreate battles, I mean out some of the campaigns of the war?” It had occurred to Wilburts that perhaps his pupil’s mania for toy soldiers had sudi a significance.

"Nope.”

"Well, what then?”

"I have to have them.” Ronald Fr<Mt turned away from his toy closet with a fist full of marines. Jeffry watched him as he meticulously replaced the tin soldiers thjrt had been clustered in groups on the tables and floor of his bedroom.

Jeffry Wilburts smiled to himself. "Ah, changing the guard, eh?”

"Yes." No more than that. Not very communicative.

j Wilburts noticed that Ronald placed the. soldiers in a careful pattern. They formed a circle of toy-soldier protection around the center of the room. The center where Rcmald fc, Frost’s bed was!

WHEN Jeffry WUburts, fresh from a teacher’s college course, had interviewed Mr. and Mrs. Frost for the job, this had been the main thing they had told him that day in the Frost’s pleasant suburban home.

"He’s not at all a drill boy,” said Mis. Frost wMi a sort of a perplexed pride, "but he has this fixation about soldiers.”

"I’d have to tell you what our bill is supplying the boy with these lead soldiers,” snorted Mr. Frost. "And besides, I think Ronald is getting about old enou^ to give up playing with toy things like that.”

'The Frosts had liked young Wilburts and he them. He had taken up residence there as companion and tutor to Ronald. He soon realized that the young Frost lad was no ordinary twelve-year-old. The boy was bright when he wanted to be. He had imag- ■ ination.

But with all of this Jeffry detected a certain listlessness that was most unbecoming a chap of Ronald’s years. He shunned the company of other liildren of his age in the neighborhood, and although he did passably well in school — ^his teacher told Wilburts that he would be an honor-roll pupil if he would only try — ^liis social adjustments were not at all normal.

He detested the games that went on in the school yard and was in the habit of sneaking off home after class was out instead of mixing with his peers in a raid on the local ice-cream parlor.

"We need somebody to bring him out,” said Mrs. Frost to Wilburts. “Heaven knows Mr. Frost and I have tried to do all we can for him....”

"You might be able to help my son, ef, if I had one, but you can’t help your own,” quoted Wilburts brightly from something he remembered in a child psychology class.

"It seems you’re right,” sighed Mrs. Frost. "We can’t help turn, appa.tendy. I still think a lot of this has to do with Chose stupid soldiers he’s so preoccupied with!”

"High time the boy ^ over these ideas,” said Mr. Frost with an angry rustle of Che paper. "But don’t try to just take the soldiers away from him. It's an impossible task.” Mr. Frost elaborately rolled his eyes ceilingward. “I tried it once and he got so excited... well, we had to call Dr. Brown."

Properly warned and initiated on the w^ things stood Wilburts started to apply his great knowledge of child psychology, learned from dusty library tomes and agw professors who were much neater their second childhood than their first.

Jeffry quietly decided that he would closely observe the boy. It was preposterous to try and bully the lad. You never got anywhere that way. And it was most oldfashioned.

In the corner of the room, almost behiml a screen that hid Pwash basin, was an easy chair. Jeffry made it his in the evenings, obtensibly to chat witli Ronald, but really to watch the ritual that went on, commencing when the li^t sneaked slowly from the room across the sky into the west.

Out of bis play closet Ronald would bring scores more soldiers to supplement the ones that, all day, had been grouped in small clusters around the room. Jeffry watched this





procedure for several nights before he felt that it was time to pop a few questions.

T his evening Wilburts watched as the twelve-year-old arranged his miniature troops. The tutor was once more taken with the precise and scientific way the lad coveted the room with his knots of soldiers. “Ronald.”

"Um?”

"^'hy do you do this every night?”

" ’Cause I need to, that’s why.”

"You like to have them around you, eh?” The litde boy’s face was tight-lipped and glim for one so young. He said nothing for a moment.

"I have to have them around me.”

He placed six blue-dad soldiers on the edge of the washstand beside Jeffry. Wilburts found himself staring at the soldiers fascinatedly. Their uniforms were such exact replicas of the real thing, their equipment so cleverly copied, their little fi^es stalwart inirigid posture — only their little graywhite lead faces completely unllfelike, expressionless like putty-wax dolls. Wilburts looked from one to the other of the six little figurines. AH their faces wore a blank, mystmous, nothingness expression, an ageless passiveness that could only be achieved in lead.

Jeffry Wilburts counted forty-five soldiers around the room. Some were on the bed table, others, numbering among them several madiine gunners, were on the floor at the four corners of the bed.

Wilburts shook his head and after good nights were said went off to his room down the hall. The situation was an intriguing one. Here was a lad who was logical on all subjects as far as he, Jeffry Wilburts, could make out — and he could make out very well- — and yet he had an obsession on soldiers. Wilburts comforted himself to deep with the thought that the Frost’s could *K>t have gotten in a better man for the job • of handling Ihe bc^.

In the morning, violating his usual custom of dressing and going tight down to breakfast, Wilburts went in Ronald’s roc«n still in slippers and bathrobe. The bc^ was bending over something on the floor and didn’t hear Jeffry.

"Morning,” said Wilburts lustily.

Young Frost turned quickly, putting his hand behind his back. He glowered at the tutor.

Wilburts started forward slowly. Ah faa, here was something interesting. He was determined to see what Ronald was hiding. The boy backed away from him as he came on.

“Ronald, what is it you have there?”

The boy said nothing but merely stepped backward until he came against the dosrt door. He was fumbling for the knob, his eyes hatefully on Jeffry when the companion stepped forward quickly and pinned Ronald’s arms to his sides.

"Now, let me see,” gritted Wilburts, surprised at the strength in the youngster’s body. The two swayed together for a minute, Ronald’s face white with strain and then the man’s strength forced the boy’s hands outward and forward and then finally the small, tight fingers opened and objects dropped to the floor. Wilburts stepped back, one hand still holding the boy’s wrist and bent over.

With his other hand he explored downward. The objects were toy soldiers, or at least, parts of them. Heads and torsos, legs and arms, little guns broken loose from the solder that held them to tiny lead bodies — like real soldiers who have been in battle... a score of soidifcrs, broken and bent — dead soldiers!

Ronald stood back now, breathing rapidly. He looked at the floor and then at Wilburts. Jeffry hardly knew what to do. His first impulse was to grin flie whole matter off.

"Say, you’ve busted up a lot of those soldiers, Ronald.”

To cover his own lack of assurance he put a note of reprimand in his voice as he talked.

i '

i

-t

T ^E boy said nothing. He simply knell down and began to gather up pieces of the broken soldiers. He turned and walked slowly into the closet arid Jeffry heard the noise as they were diof^ied into a receptacle there. Not knowing what else to do Wilburts walked back to his own room and after dressing quickly, went downstairs.

Before Ronald arrived he had pcaired out his story to Mr. and Mrs. Frost. If his soul

needed absolution, he got it from the two.

"That's just it,” said Mr. Frost. "He demands these soldiers for birthday and Christum and God knows any other time that I can be wheedled out of a dollar or so, but the bc^ is so destructive with them it’s endless. We can’t keep up with him.

"Don’t worry about it, Mr. Wilburts.” Mrs. Frost also put in her oar. "I just wish you could get him away from those soldiers permanently. I sometimes tliink tliey mean more to him than his father and I do.”

Thus, his consicence surfeited, Wilburts attacked his wheat c^es with vigor and did not even look up when Ronald stole in a few minutes later with a small good morning to his parents.

Despite his smugness and the disadvantage of theoretical training, Jeffry Wilburts was not entirely lacking in sense. He realized that Ronald, who before had merely tolerated him without question or enthusiasm, now attempted to avoid him as much as possible. This would never do. The first goal for the companion or tutor is to win and hold the youngster’s confidence and friendship. Both fiom the standpoint of his future as a teacher and tutor and for the sake of his immediate pocketbook it would never do to alienate Ronald to the degree where the Frosts, despite their obvious liking for him, would have to look for somebody else.

Obviously, his campaign to win back Ronald’s tolerance would have to be centered around the soldiers. On his day off in town Wilburts paid a visit to the^ toy department of a large department store where, after not a little thought, he discovered a set of khaki-clad troops, each with a sub-machine gun, and led by. a nattily dressed officer with holsteied revolver. Three dollars.

On his way out to the suburbs, Wilburts took the set from its wrappings and eyed the soldiers with satisfaction. Three dollars meant a good deal to Jeffry Wilburts, but after all, he philosophized, you have to spend money in this world if you’re going to get ahead. He looked closely at the soldiers and marveled casually at the care with which they were made, the uniforms and guns so precisely duplicating the real thing. The same deadpan faces, though. A faint

spot of color on the cheeks and then a lifeless putty white-lead face. Jeffry picked up the officer and scrutinized him closely. He grinned at the expressionless tiny face and then suddenly realized that the passenger sitting opposite was eyeing him amusedly.

He put his package away carefully and settled back in the day coach with a copy of "Approach to Education.”

Jeffry Wilburts’ scheme worked.

"For me?” said Ronald with brightening interest as Jeffry took the cover off the box revealing the contents.

"Golly,” and the youngsters inade a grab at the precious package.

The lad took the soldiers out one by one, examining them closely. His face was bright and the look he turned on Wilburts was worth three dollars and more.

"Oh, thank you, thank you so much, Mr. Wilburts. I need them so,” and Ronald ran off toward his room. It seemed that Jeffry had so3red with his ward.., but not with the Frosts.

- “Now what the dickens did you go and do that for?” said Mr. Frost in an annexed voice.

Wilburts realized that some explaining was in order. It wouldn’t do to win back the boy at the cost of the patents’ regard,

"I’m trying to work diis problem out, Mr. Frost. 'This is my line of work and you’ve got to let me handle it in my own way. I don’t want the boy to think I'm against him.”

Mr. Frost took Jeffry’s side. 'T think he’s right, dear. If Mr. Wilburts can get Ronald’s confidence he’ll be able to do more with him.”

Mr. Frost harrumphed. "I think the best thing to do would be to take all those damn soldiers and chuck ’em out.” He went back to his paper with an angiy rustle.

"You know what Dr. Brown said, dear,” Mis. Frost reminded. "The child is emotional.”

D ays passed and with the gift Ronald and Jeffry Wilburts came somewhat closer. Whatever his peculiarities, little Frost was a clever lad and Wilburts begari to see visions of himself receiving accolades as his young pupil went on to take hi^ honors in sAool.



Ronald seemed to resent less Jeifry’s more frequent visits to his room, and the longer time spent tdiere. It was interesting to Wilburts that the new' soldiers that he had brought, to the boy weren’t immediately used. Ronald put them away in the closet.

"Aren’t they all right?” the tutor queried anxiousy.

"Oh, sure, but they aren’t quite ready yet.”

"Ready for what, Ronald? I don’t understand.”

The young boy got an impatient tilt to his head. "You don’t put troops into real battle without training, do you?” And he leveled a most scathing look at Wilburts Chat seemed to say "any fool should know that.”

"Cfli, of course,” said the companion hastily.

It was a week afterv'ard 'that Mr. Frost met Wilburts outside and called him ovct to the side of the house where the waste receptacle stood.

"Look,” Frost said pointing.

WILBURTS followed the direction of the pointing, and there, in among the throwouts was a pile of broken tin soldiers — easily a half a hundred of them.

"It’s a disgraceful waste. I will not allow iny son to grow up with such a streak- of ■wanton destruction in 'him," stormed Frort.

Wilburts ta<±fully agrwd with him and said he would speak to Ronald that evening.

It was dark outside when the two, tutor and young boy, retired to the latter’s room. Automatically, the lad.wertt dxiut his job of placing out the soldier patrols. Jelfry notked idly that by now Ronald was using die madiine gunners he had given him.

Wilburts broke the silence. "I saw a whole lot of your broken soldiers outside in die waste receptacle.”

The boy showed little interest.

Wilburts went on. '"That’s pretty costly, you breaking them that way. Ronald. I hope you’re not going to do that to the ones I gave you.”

don’t break them,” Ronald turned to the tutor. "I don’t break them.”

"It’s an expensive thing to do,” went on Wilburts, ignoring the boy’s denial. "'J^y not conserve the ones you have. Just between us, young feller, I don’t think your father

liked my giving you those soldiers the other day.”

Ronald paled and came over toward Wilburts. "I’ve got to have soldiers, Mr. Wilburts. I've just got to. I need more now. Every night some get killed.”

"You mean you break them,” corrected Jeffry with a smile.

"I don’t break them,” Ronald cried. "I’ve told Mummy and Dad that, too.”

"Well, every morning there are a few more all broken... how come?”

"Th^’re dead.”

“Ronald!”

"I don’t break them.”

"You’re talking foolishness, yoimg feller. If you don’t break them, who does? And it happens at night when you’re in here alone. Suiely you don't think I or your parents come in here and break your soldiers, do you?”

"No.”..

"Well, what then?”

Ronald hung silent, then said finally, “I don’t exactly know.”

Jeffry Wilbmts persisted. "Now you’re adding one bad habit to another. You’re telling an untruth. We’re not Chinking of punishing you because you break your soldiers. They’re yours, but we're trying to make you see that it is a dreadful waste. It makes your father very angry. You want more and more soldiers — why mother says ^e bought twenty -five dollars’ worth of lead soldiers for your last birthday. That’s a lot... and then you go and break them.” Ronald was nearly on the point of tears. "But I don’t break them, I tell you."

"Oh Ronald,” Wilburts turn^ away with a feigned attitude of disgust.

"They protect me!”

"The soldiers?”

"Yes, and Cliey get killed protecting me.’' "Oh,” so the lad wanted to carry this fantasy further, eh. "And just what is it that kills them, Germans and Japs, I suppose! Ri^t here!”

"No,” aied Ronald. '"I tell you I don’t know exactly. It’s something I can feel at night. It comes in here. Into this room.” "And ycHi need the soldiers to protect you, like a bodyguard?”

"Yes,” Che youn^ter turned beseeching eyes toward the older man. "I have to have



more soldiers. Please help me get them. I don’t know what will happen if I can’t.”

T hat night after Ronald had gone to bed Wilburts had a long talk with the Frosts.

"It’s my opinion,” said Wilburts pompously, "that you ought to have your doctor look over this ohap.”

"Oh dear, you don’t think he’s coming down with anything, do you? There’s been a lot of scarlet...”

Wilburts interrupted. "No, no, I don’t mean anything like that. I mean, I think this soldier complex has gone a bit too far.... I think we ought to 'have a doctor...” and Jeffry tapped his ^ead.

"Oh,” said Mrs. Frost.

"We’ll get Dr. Brown,” boomed Mr. Frost. "I'll call him before I leave for town tomorrow and we'll have him stop by. I think it’s a good idea, Wilburts,”

On his way to his room Jeffry silently opened the door of Ronald’s room and peered inside. The room was dark and from the bed came the sound of the boy’s breathing, deep and regular. Certainly nothing going on now. At least sleep kept him from playing his games. As he turned softly to go his foot almost stnidc a lone soldier on the floor near the door. He stooped and saw it was one of the madiine gunners he had given Ronald, gun at ttie ready in a lifelike poise. Wilburts smiled and tiptoed into the hall.

Dr. Brown, prototype of the solid, jolly,-' <»timistic country doctor, was in,ttie next day in the late afternoon. He examined Ronald thoroughly and came downstairs with the opinion th^ “the young chap was hi^ strung with a nervous constitution but physicaUy he’s sound... nothing to worry about.”

After Brown had huffed and grunted his way into his great coat and departed, Wilburts thought seriously about telling Mrs. Frost that the country practitioner wasn't exactly the kind of doctor he had had in mind when he’d suggested that somebody look at Ronald, but Mrs. Frost seemed so carefree since the physician’s visit and verdict that he decided to put it off for a while.

And when Mr. Frost came in at ni^t and received the news he snorted and said.

"Just what I thought, there’s nothing the matter with the young scalawag; he just needs to be tau^t some good common sense,” and looked meaningfully at Jeffry Wilburts, who thereupon decided to put off delivering his opinion of Brown for good.

Time passed and Ronald’s pleadings for new soldiers became incessant and frenzied.

"But it’s not nearly Christmas yet, Ronald. We can’t be buying you things every time you have the wish,” Mrs. Frost reasoned.

"And for Christmas it’s time you wanted something like boxing gloves or a fishing rod,” roared Mi. Frost to his son. "No more of these soldiers, my boy. That’s for children. You don’t want to be like a child now you’re twelve.”

It was increasingly evident that night by night Ronald’s troops were being thinned out, by some contrary or destructive process, reasoned Wilburts.

Late one fall evening Ronald did something unprecedented. He crept into Jeffry Wilburts’ room. The tutor was moved by this visit from the boy and adopted his most friendly attitude.

"Well, hello there. Are you still walking around at this hour?”

"Mr. Wilburts, I want to talk to you, please.” His eyes were downcast.

"Sure, Ron^d. Go ^ead,” and Wilburts dropped the book he was reading and smiled in friendly fashion at the youngster.

The boy stcx^ for a moment unsurely in the center of the floor and then looked up from his slipper toes and at Jeffry.

"It’s about the soldiers,” he breathed out.

Wilburts didn’t say anything.

"You see how my Mummy and Dad are about it. But I thought, I thought maybe you could — would get me some more. I need them, Mi. Wilburts.”

WILBURTS frowned and shook his head. "You know what your family thinks about this, Ronald. You wouldn’t want me to do anything behind their backs, would you!”

“It’s that I don’t have much mote,” pleaded Ronald. “After a few more nights I don’t know what’ll happen.”

"Nonsense,” expostulated Wilburts, not undeistanding what the boy could be going



on about "Just stop breaking them and you’ll have enough,”

"I don't break them.” Ronald stamped obstinately.

"All right, then, •whoever does, see they don’t. No, I can’t get you any mote, Ronald. Most likely you’ll be breaking mine soon,” this last petulantly with thou^t of his own cash outlay. "Now you’d better makes tracks tack off to bed.”

WMKrat another word the little boy turned and went off to bed.

The next day with Ronald off at sdiool Jeffry took ffie opportunity to investigate the clos^ 'where the wy ke{i his precious soldiers. He noted that stock of lead soldiers •was truly low. And in a metal basket at the corner of the room were the broken parts of several dozen soldiers. It was wrong the way the boy kq>t breaking them. Why couldn’t they be feed up?

That night when Ronald was setting up his soldiers — all that ■were left unbroken — Wilburts brightly said, "The thing to do is to solder the broken parts together. Don’t just chuck them out that way. How about it, Ronald?”

'The boy turned toward him, "Don’t you see, that doesn’t do any ^jod. When a soldier is dead, he’s dead. You can’t stick him together and make him a soldier again. He’s just a statue.”

I give up, thought Wilburts.

The next morning Jeffry found the boy picking up the usual broken and twisted soldiers. More than ever the lad’s bedroom looked like the scene of a horrendous battle. 'The thought appealed to Wilburts. World campaigns fought on a small scale with toy soldiers! It was intrigiiing.

All through the day the boy moped, diowing little interest in anything. Dark circles under his eyes testified to the fact, that he had not slept too well. He answered solicitous queries from his mother asking bow he felt with short replies.

As night, aj^roached he claused himself and went uj^airs early. Mr. Frost hat- ( rumped the whole business off. Mrs. Frost

' tJ»ught maybe he was coming down with

som^ing. Jeffry Wilburts, after saying good ni^t himself, decided to go upstairs \ and see what was going on.

: With greater care &an ever before

Ronald was arrangmg ms blank-faced little soldiers — at his table and on the fioor

around 'his bed. Jeffry sat in tire diair by die washstand and watched, ignored by young Frost.

"You haven’t very many left,” accused Wilburts.

“Not enough tooi^t, not nearly enough," replied the boy half to himself.

The preparations -went on for some time and then Ronald undressed himself and got into bed. "Good night, Mr. Wilburts.”

Somewhat taken aback at the lad’s perfunctory attitude the tutor mumbled good night and left the room. Several hours later, in his own chamber, it sleepily occurred tp the half-awake Wilburts that it might be a good idea to watch the youngster for a while. And ■when he got up in Sie night to step on his soldiers in some perversion of fantasy, why Jeffry would catch him ledhanded. (tabbing a large loose-leaf notebook in which to jot down anything of worth and sticking a pencil in his pocket he stole down the corridor, opened Ronald’s door ever so softly and crept into the darkened room.

Ah, die chair by the washstand. That would be a fine vantage spot. The man seated himself and settled into the most comfortable position. As his eyes became accustomed to the gloom, the room began to assume shape The bedtable and (he bed loomed up slowly out of (he blackness. The softly breathing bundle on the bed was Ronald. His pupils enlarging to compensate for the gloom, Jeffry began to make out the little knots of soldiers, some of diem his gift to Ronald, around the room. He smiled to himself. Now just wait for that little imp to get up and start to break his soldiers just as an excuse to get some new ones!

T ime at night and in the dark barely exists. It is the hand of a watch slowly creeping around a luminous dial, the slow breadiing of a human, the strange night sound of soundlessness. How long Jeffry sat there before he began to nod he did not guess or try to guess.

He drifted out of nothingness to awareness for no immediately appreciable reason. 'The room took a vague, unreal form before him. The window was a quartered



square of faint lightness to his left. 'Ihe curtains moved sluggisihly in the niglit air — but there was something else! There was some other movement in the room. Jeffry’s bands felt numb in his lap. The white there was his open notebook. Was Ronald astir? No, he could see — yes, (hat must be Ronald’s head there on the pillow. Suddenly Wilburts felt his eyes drawn inexorably to something moving on the floor near him,

He looked — ^he could move 'his eyes but the rest of him was seemingly paralyzed. 'Ihat movement was — a soldier, soldiers! 'Ihe toy soldiers were moving! All the while Wilburts clearly registered ttiese thoughts, his mind was anesthetized ■with a numbness of shock Of sleep — or death. It was quite impossible. All around in the dark corners sm^l tilings were deploying — small lead figures, running and crouching, holding dieir tiny guns in readiness!

But the mind-shocking fantasy was not over — this hallucination, for that it must be, reasoned one small hindmost part of Jeffry Wilburts’ brain, was not passing.

What had awakened him, he realized now, was the Breathing. Not from the bed,. not from little Ronald, but frcm somewhere — soiheone else. A breathing that was like ffie eidialations from the lungs of a dozen dying men, like the mournful wash of sea on an open coast, like a thousand things, all unpleasant — all inhuman or soon to be!

Then the breathing was a shadow. A shadow that was dark and made ffie rest of the room seem light in comparison. A blotch of preposterously shaped blackness ‘tlut had no reason and no reality, except that it u/as. Slowly it was coming. From the window and the door and the ceiling and the walls... all at once!

Wilburts could barely move. His fingers twitched in his lap, on the sides of the notcbcx^ that lay in his lap. For the paralysis of his body, fais eyes tried to make up. For they were darting everywhere. Jeffry liooked at the bed and there was Ronald sitting up, his eyes white discs of blank, stark fear.

Great activity was taking place on the floor around the bed. Suddenly a tiny flash, followed by others in rapid succession from different sectior« of the room, attracted the tutor's eye. The soldiers were fighting har-lrt

T3UT whatever it was they were fighting was still coming. A breathing, panting noise of a thing. Nameless, descriptionless except for the grotesque shadow it threw. Itie soldiers were scattering as the shadow darkened and grew in intensity around the bed. Jeffry saw that one after another the toy guards were going down, The flashes of firing were growing less frequent. Still the noises in the room were the distant, indistinct but recognizable noises of battle heard from afar — and all the time the heavy, slobbeiy breathing grew in volume until its wheezing inhalations were like a giant bellows half-full of unhealthy water.

But the crowning blow of terror came to Jeffry Wilburts when 'he felt a tug and pulling on his trousers and suddenly, as he looked down, a tiny figure pulled itself desperately into his lap. That part of Wilburts’ mind still functioning in a semirational manner dimly recognized the tin soldier as the officer of the ones he had given to Rtmald.

But now the officer, standing on Wilburts’ open notebook, had his revolver out of his holster and was shooting toward the center of the room — shooting upward, upward ■where something black was hovering over ffie bed upon which a little boy sat and stated with the gaze of one who cannot see beyond the inside of his eyes.

The breathing sound was deafening and suffocating. The air was filled with a dampness, a vibration that was maddening, the armed resistance from the floor and bedtable had ceased. The monster — ■whatever it was — had won. Jeffry wished himself awake and with a terrific effort of will’ forced his hands upward. He pushed his notebook shut and drove himself up and toward the door. He had no memory of opening it and stefpiing out into the hall, or of getting into his own bed, throwing the notebook into his bag and falling on his bed.

The next morning Ronald didn’t come down to breakfast. Wilburts, although he had a memory of a very bad dream, attached jio significance to (his — that was until Mrs. Frost went upstairs and let out a screen for the others. Jeffry and Mr. Frost ran up the stairs. Ronald was sitting up in bed grinning at them strangely. Briefly, Wilburts’ attention went to the floor. EverywhcK,



were the soldiers— every ot:e broken. Another pitiful cry came from Mrs. Frost as the two men rushed closer. It was frightfully obvious. The boy was utterly mad; he had turned Into a complete, raving idiot in the night!

As he rode toward the city Jeffry Wilhurts thought unpleasantly of that last day at the Frosts. He remembered the strange cawing noises the boy had made, the drooling from the mouth, Dr. Brown’s visit and the call for specialists. He shuddered. It was most unpleasant. And most of all the remembrance of his own terrifying dream. But he did remember planning to go down to Ronald’s room and sit there for a while to see what would go on. Yes, of course, he’d even taken a notebook to report anything of significance.

On inspiration Jeffry reached into his bag and brou^t forth the large loose-leaf book.

As he pulled it onto his lap he noticed the bulge. He flipped open the pages and caught the object as it fell out.

It was the toy soldier-officer! Wilburts wet his lips and his head pounded.

The one that had come with the soldiers he had given Ronald not so many weeks ago. The one that had crawled upon his lap and onto the notebook in his dregful dream last night!

Wilburts’ mind worked slowly over the details, chewing each fact slowly while his face tingled and dampened.

He btcught the soldier closer, much closer to his face. Wilburts' fingers trembled. It was all quite impossible!

The tiny lead face should be a blob ofexpressionless putty and paint. But it wasn’t.

Instead the toy soldier’s countenance was frozen in a grimace of unspeakable horror — rivaled only by the face of the man so near its own!

iBinw'jLU iiiiiwLiin I I I III II M 1 1 mini ii ii rr ir>ii<iTiiiivi I'n mimn'iii MqwmwiiiiiiiirijiiiiMiiiiiii imjira

Another New Book from Arkham House!


by Donald Wandrei

Here ia this volume, unifoim with Out of Spece end Time, are such utterly outre masterpieces of horror as The Painted Mirror, The Lady in Gray, The Tree-Men of M’Bwa,

The Witch-Makers, It Will Grow on You, The Blinding Shadows, and a dozen others— among them, for the fira time in print, the cMoplcte, uncut version of that weird classic.

The Red Brain, The book will be published in October, 1944, wartime conditions permitting, and we urge you to send in your orders no-w, for paper restrictions make it possible to publish only 1,000 copies. THE EYE AND THE FINGER will sell at $J.OO the copy. WARNING: Arkham House books will soon be out of print- Already THE OUTSIDER AND OTHERS, by Loveaaft, is gone. Only 87 copies of OUT OF SPACE AND TIME, by Clark Ashton Smith; 177 copies of SOMEONE IN THE DARK, by August Derleth, and 297 copies of BEYOND THE WALL OF SLEEP, by H. P. Lovecraft, remain to be sold.

9B9EIS NOW — TODAY!

ARKHAM HOUSE, Sauk City, Wisconsin

Please send me the following, for which 1 enclose payment in full:

— —... copies of BEYOND THE WALL OF SLEEP at $5'.00,

copies of OUT OF SPACE AND TIME at $3 00

— copies of SOMEONE IN THE DARK at $2 00

copies of THE EYE AND THE FINGER at $3.00 (to be delivered on publication).

Hama - AtUrass

:iiii:iiii!i:::i:ii':ii

First Tooa times tuat aki apache ) hoi an 'WENT OUT ON THE WAR-PATH HE WAS SOUND TO REFRAIN' SC/?ATCMWS W/S head W/Tf! Ms F/MSeRS \ FROMi-STTMG WATsa TaucF M3.t./fSQ HS HAD To SCRA-TCH H?S HEAD: ■WITH A STICK AND DRINK THROU6H A HOi.LOW REED OR CA(4g ^


i<o)

G/pa

2/ pare Room

By CRAWFORD SULLIVAN

E d JACOBS hadn’t wanted to buy the house in die first place; he had been trying to save three thousand dollars to buy half interest in Mr. Cash’s hardware busmess. But Ellen pleaded and aied, and said a home was the best investment a couple cordd make — and furthermore drey could rent out the spare room until th^ decided to raise a family. Ed said no.

positively; the payments would be mote than diey <x>uld afford, and the bouse wasn’t worth the money. Two days later Ellen took him down to the bank to sign the papers.

The house was sandwiched in between two other houses whidi were exactly like it. It was two stories high, long and narrow, with a staircase on one side and the



rooms on the odier. All in all, it was not much different from thousands of other bouses, but Ellen Jacobs thought it was very extraordinary. As it turned out, she wasn’t wrong. The house was probably the most extraordinary residence in Brooklyn,

Ed held down a pretty good job selling merchandise for the J. M. Cash Hardware Store. Being a hardware merchant is something like being a doctor: you have to diagnose everybody’s plumbing troubles, doorbell failures, electrical leakages and so on. Ed had a friendly, conservative manner which made customers trust him like an unde. He seemed to know everything about everything, and he could make you feel like you were getting ten dollars worffi of information with a dollar sixty-nine cent purchase.

Ellen was one of those extremely feminine women who scream bloody murder at the sight of a mouse. She was slightly faded — the way most blondes.get when they slide over the thirty-year mark — but she was still attractive enough to be whistled at now and then. Ed and Ellen had been married a long time, and they got along fine. The only thing they had serious ^disagreements about was what movie to see on Saturday night. Ellen liked love stories, musicals and sophisticated comedies; but Ed went for those Grade B horror pictures that packed the audiences in down at the Lyric.

"I can’t understand why you like those awful shorvs," Ellen protested. "The last time we went I didn’t sleep a wink for two nights.”

Ed gave an unsympathetic chuckle. "I love ’em," he said. "They make you forget about everything else. It’s a sort of relaxation."

“I don’t see anything relaxing, about it. Especially that last one, where the girl turned into a wolf and nearly bit her lover’s arm off.”

"Didn’t bother me a bit. The trouble with you is, you let your imagination run away with you. ’’

“Of course I know that such things don’t ever really happen,” Ellen said qiziddy. "But just the same — ”

"Did you read that book, Watlocks and Werewolves, I got out of the public lb brary?” Ed asked. "The guy that wrote it

claims that supernaturd things happen all the time. People have just gotten so civilized they donf like to admit it. The guy ought to know what he’s talking about; he’s a professor at New York University — name’s Matthew Faust. He sounds like a smart Joe.”

"He can’t be very smart if he believes in those kind of things," sniffed Ellen.

"Can’t fell,” sai.d Ed archly. "We might have a ghost right in this house. Sometimes at night w^hen I hear the doors creak I think that — ”

"Ed — quit it!”

Ed laughed his head off. He always liked to get a rise out of her.

T hey had lived in the house a month or so when Ellen put an ad in the paper to rent the room. The first person who answered it was a girl from the dime store; but Ellen turned her down. "I don’t want a woman,” she told Ed. "They always want to borrow your clothes and use your electric iron. I’d like a nice, substantial b^elor, around middle age.”

Shortly after dinner a man came to the door. He wore a black tcqjcoat and a snapbrimmed hat with a blade satin band. He inquked about the room, speaking in a low voice that had a trace of an accent — something like Charles Boyer. Ed invited him in.

"My name’s Jacobs,” he said. "This is my wife, Mr. — I didn’t get the name.” "Kiaken,” the man replied. "Mr. Kraken.” He removed his hat and bowed in Ellen’s direction. His hair was shiny black and seemed glued to the top of his head. His eyebrows started in the vicinity of his temples and extended down to the bridge of his nose in a kind of "V.” He was a rather distinguished-iooking man, Ellen thought.

"You work near here, Mr. Kraken?” she inquired.

"At the shipyard,” he nodded. "I am on the night drift.”

Ed glanced at the man’s hands. Th^ were IcMig and slender, with tapering fingers and sli^tly pointed nails. "You do some sort of clerical work?”

“I am a draftsman,” Mr. Kraken replied. "I must sleep during the day, aivd I do not



wish to be disturbed. I am anxious to find a room where I can have complete privacy. I am willing to pay fifty-five dollars a month if the room is suitable." •

"Oh.” Ellen swailov'ed hard. She had intended to ask thirty-five and get thirty.

They showed Mr. Kraken the room, and he seemed satisfied with it — so satisfied, in fact, that he paid a full month’s rent on the spot.

H e arrived at seven the following evening widi a small suitcase and left for work about an hour later. Ed didn’t pay much attention at the time because he was listening to his favorite radio program, The Green Ghoul. Ed hardly gave Mr. Kraken another thought until quite a while — three weeks, to be exact — ^after he had moved in.

"I’ve only seen that guy about twice,” he told Ellen. "Where does he keep himself?” "In his room, I guess.” She was busy maJdng a pie for Sunday dinner and didn’t want to be bothered. "He sleeps all day." "Even on Sunday.”

"I guess so. We don’t see him much because he goes in and out the back door. He says he’s afraid he’ll disturb us if he goes tramping through the house late at night.” "Ma^e he’s wanted by the police,” Ed suggested.

"Heavens, no,” said Ellen. "If that was the case, he wouldn’t be working at the shipyard. He’s just naturally shy.’

Ed thought it over. “Wonder if he’s in his room now?”

Ellen put the dough into a pie pan and pressed little dents around the edges. "Maybe.”

'"Iliink I'll go up and see.”

“You better not.” She looked perturbed. "He said he wanted absolute privacy during the day.”

“He couldn’t get sore if I just tap on the door and ask him down for a cup of <35ffee. It’s nearly four o'clock.”

Ed went up stairs. He started to knock on Mr. Kraken’s door, then paused. The transom was closed and dark, indicating that the window blinds were drawn. Maybe he was still asleep. Ed walked away, changed his mind, came back and rapped on the door. No reply. He rapped again. — this time a little harder. Still no reply. He tried

the door and found it locked. Insatiably curious, he crouched down and peeked through the keyhole. His perimeter of visibility included a smoothly covered bed, a bare-topped bureau, an unoccupied diair no sign of Mr. Kraken.

"What are you doing?”

Ed jumped up, looking guilty as a sheep dog munching mutton, and saw Ellen standing at the end of the hall. "I — I thought maybe he was sick or something,” he blurted. "But he isn’t there.”

"Dear me, can’t the man go out on Sunday afternoon if he wants?”

"I didn't see him go out — and I’ve been in the house all day.” • ■ ^

"He probably went out the back while you were in the parlor. Ed, sometimes you are like a nosey old woman. It’s a good thing we don’t run a hotel.”

Ed went downstairs muttering something under his breath. He felt ashamed of himself, and it nude him mad at the world in general and Mr. Kraken in particular. He was going to lay for tiut guy and have a talk with him. If Mr. Kraken wanted to. live there, he could use the front door like everybody else — instead of sneaking up and down the back stairs.

A fter dinner, while Ellen was listening to the radio, Ed went to the kitchen, locked the back door and bolted it, He then parked himself on the front steps and smoked a cigarette. When Mr. Kraken came home, he’d have to use his front door, and Ed was detennined to be there waiting for him.

Hardly anybody was on the street. It was time for Jack Benny, and all the radios in the block were blaring. After about ten minutes Ed was tempted to give up his vigil and go inside. The program sounded like it might be funny.

"Don’t you find it rather cold out here?” Ed looked over his shoulder and saw Mr. Kraken standing behind him — in the doorway! He looked taller than usual, and the U^t from the street lamp made his eyes shine.

"Where did —? I thought you were out!” Ed said, fumbling for words.

"Surely you h^ no reason to think that?” Mr. Kraken stared at Ed squarely, his.swe^

THE SPARE ROOM 6?

ing eyebrows resembling a couple of question marks.

"Only that it’s Sunday,” asserted Ed. "Most everyone goes some place on Sunday.” He lit another cigarette and tried to appear unconcerned.

“I work every night and sleep every day,” declared Mr. Kraken. “I live in a purgatory where there is neither sun nor Sunday.”

Ed was definitely perplexed. He knew perfectly well that Mr, Kraken hadn’t been in the room that afternoon — unless he had happened to be standing out of sight when Ed looked through the keyhole. One thing certain — ^Mr. Kraken hadn't been asleep. Ed had seen that much with his own eyes.

"You’re going to work now?” Ed asked.

Mr. Kraken nodded.

"I have to get some cigarettes,” Ed lied. "Mind if I walk a ways with you?”

"Not at aU.” The reply was politely insincere, as if to let Ed know that his company would be tolerated but not preferred.

Mr. Kraken had a brisk, gliding walk that made Ed husde to keep up with him. All the time Ed was wondering where Mr. Kraken had been that afternoon. He must have been in the h<wse. He couldn’t have come in the back door and gone out the front, because the back door was locked. Ed could not make up his mind whether to ask him point blank what the score was or to try to draw the truth out of him by subtle questioning.

'They had walked about half a block when a little black dog pounced out of a doorway and came running toward them lideety-split. It was Mr. Ewalding’s dog, Mo|»ie, and she was a great friend of Ed’s because he always petted her and occasionally gave her a handful of aackers from his lunch bucket.

Mopsie was no more than three feet away when she stopped suddenly, nearly tripping over her ears. Her legs stiffened, her hackles rose and her lips curled away from her teeth. She growled- — not the type of growl you would expect from a thoroughly domestic spaniel — but a deep-throated, savage sound that made Ed step back in alarm.

Mr. Ktdcen paused for a moment. "Do not be frightened,” he told Ed. “The beast will not attack us.”

Ed wasn’t so sure. The white savagery

in Mopsie’s eyes reminded him erf a mad dog he had seen shot when he was a kid. There was an instant when she looked like she might spring; then her tail swished down like a semaphore, and she raced for home, homing as she ran.

“Dogs,” sard Mr. Kraken, "do not like me.”

Ed could believe that, but he could not figure out why the very sight of Mr. Kraken should make Mopsie turn into a canine lunatic. "I’m very fond of animals,” he said.

"Why?” asked Mr. Kraken. “All animal life is predatory: the higher forms feeding upon the lower. If you were hungry enou^, starting, let us say — ^you would look upon the dog differently.”

"CcHild be.” Ed gave a forced chuckle, hoping that Mr. Kraken was merely indulging in a little gruesome jocularity. He found nothing in Mr. Kraken’s duaiky countenance to encourage that hope.

They came to the corner drug store, and Ed happened to glance sideways, toward the drug store window. Something was wrong. Ed couldn’t figure it out immediately, but he knew something was wrong. It had to do with the drug store window.

"Here’s where I get my dgarettes,” said Ed. "See you later.”

"Good night, sir," said Mr. Kraken, with a snail bow.

As Mr. Kraken walked away, Ed turned toward the window again. He saw what it^ was rills time, and his legs became rubbery. He leaned against a lamp post, just staring at the glass.

E D’S IMAGE was plainly visible in the window, but Mr. Kraken’s image was missing. Mr. Kraken had walked between: Ed and the window — and he bad cast no. reflection.

The truth hit Ed like a sledgehammermade him so weak he nearly folded on the spot. He had seen it in the movies, heard it on the radio, read about it in books; but he never really believed k could be true. He knew, though, that there is only one creature v/ho does not cast a reflection in a glass.

_ No doubt about it — ^Mr. Kraken was ^ vampire.

Ed was considerably worried when ha reached home. Having a vampire for a!



roomer was oot the most customery occurrence in the world, and he could no‘ decide ofl^and how to deal with the problem. It is somewhat to Ed’s credit that, when the first shock had passed, he approached the problem with the same scientific detachment that might be expected of a zoologist who had just found a sabre-tooth tiger living in his backyard. Ed realized, first of all, the value of his discovery. A real, dead vampire -—brought to the limelight — would be worth ten times as much as a live sabre-toothed tiger. Of course there was a certain amcxmt of danger; but vampires, like tigers, could be handled. Having studied the stfi)ject ectensively, Ed knew all the approved methods.

At this point it may be well to explain that Ed Jacobs was just as excited as anybody else would be under similar circumstances, but it was much like the excitement people experience upon meeting their favorite movie star face to face. Ed had seen so many vampires on the screen and heard so many of them on the radio that he was entirely familiar with their peculiarities Vampires, he knew, prowled only at night, nourishing themselves on the blood of some unfortunate victim. From dawn to sunset they remained dead as fence posts, andiored to their earthly remains. Therefore, 'sdiile Mr. Kralcen was supposedly turning out blueprints at file shipyard, he w«. really roaming the streets of Brooklyn with an eye out for some luckless individual s corpmcles. During the day — instead of sleeping in the spare room — he was quietly mouldering in a secret sepulchre.

Ed decided not to mention his discovery to Ellen. He remembered the time a man had been sideswiped 1^ a beer truck and Ellen had him brought into the parlor until the ambulance arrived. The man recovered in two days, but Ellen was a total wreck for a week, srorrying about him. She invariably went to pieces whenever anything upset the well-ordered routine of her life. Ed was more rugged.

Next day, Ed was so preoccupied he missed out on three sure-fire sales, and he undercharged a lady forty-nine cents on a coffee pot. Mr. Cash sensed that sometning was wrong, but mistook it for the flu and sent him home an hour early.

A note was waiting for him on top of the radio. It read:

“Ed dear,

"Mother has had another one of her

S ells. I tried to call you at the store but e line was busy twice. I am leaving for East Orange and will be gone a couple of weeks probably. That’s ail the longer they usually last. You will find meat and milk in the ice box. You iiave plenty of clean shirts and if I am going to stay longer I will let you know. Don’t forget to colled: the rent from Mr. Kraken.

"Love, Ellen”

E d was neither surprised nor displeased.

Ellen’s mother had had these spells before — always when there was spring housecleaning Of heavy sewing to be done. It couldn’t have been timed better. Now he could study Mr. Kralcen like a scientist studies an ameba — ^without anyone looking over his shoulder. Furthermore, there might be a certdn amount of personal risk, and he was glad Ellen was out of it.

The house was as silent as a well-managed mortuary. Ed went upstairs, took a skeleton key from his pocket and opened the door to Mr. Kraken’s room. The shades were still drawn, and slender fingers of sunlight crept beneath them, clutching at the window sill. There wasn’t much time. Mr. Kraken would prcJjably put in an appearance soon after sunset.

_ Ed entered the room, trying to look in all directions at once. 'The place smelled musty, the chair seat was covered with dust and file chenille bedspread was as smooth as when Ellen had first laid it. Opposite the bed was an old-fashioned bureau with drawers ou each side and a full length mirror in the middle. Ed looked, into the drawers and found them empty. Opening the clothes closet, he discovered only a bunch of unused hangers and an indolent spider. Then his eye fell on the small suitease Mi. Kraken had brought with him; it was lying flat teneath the b^. He pulled the suitcase out and opened it. Nothing inside but the manufacturer’s inspection ticket. Mr. Kraken had evidently purchased the suitcase so that he would not arouse suspicion by moving into the room without any luggage.

f

'i"


As Ed snapped the suitcase shut, he noticed that the fingers of sunlight had slipped away from the window sill. Then he noticed something else, and his Adam’s apple gave a sudden leap, nearly choking him.

Mr. Kraken was watching him from the doorway.

' Ed tried his best to look like a man waiting for a street car and succeeded miser^Iy. He got up off the floor and said, “Home early tonight, aren’t you?”

"Hak!” said Mr. Kraken. His eyes had a carnivorous gleam, and file skin over his high cheddiones appeared so transparent fiiat the form of a skull seemed visible behind it.

Ed stole a quick look at the bureau mirror. According to the mirror, there was no Mr. Kraken — nothing but an empty doorway.

“Why did you do that?” demanded Mr. Kraken.

"Do — ^what?” Ed did not like the expression on Mr. Kraken’s face. It reminded him of a mandrill he had once seen at the Bronx ^ zoo.

“The brute had glowered at him brood* ingly, as fiiou^ the crowning achievement of its career would be to break him into m small pieces and then jump on the fragments with both feet.

“I wonder why that mirror should interest you so greatly?” Mr. Kraken said, smiling. It was the first time Ed had ever seen him smile. His teeth were white and shiny, and four of them were regular tusks. He moved forward with his fingers outstretiiied, as if itching for the feel of Ed’s throat.

“Stay where you are!” Ed reached into 'his vest pocket, withdrew a small brownish bottle and wailed it at Mr. Kraken threateningly.

“Wolf’s-bane!” Mr. Kraken recoiled like

from a long line of distinguished vampires.”

"I don’t hold it against you,” said Ed. “Only I don’t want you prowling around the neighborhood scaring people to death — ”

“How did you find out about me?”

“It was easy,” said Ed. “Tve been to a lot of movies whidi featured vampires, and I’ve studied th&r weak points. I ^so read Professor Faust’s book on the subject — which I have, in case )wu'd like to borrow it. When I learned what you weie, I knew just what to do. I got the druggist to give me some tincture of aconite, which is made from wolf’s-faane. As long as I keep it in my pocket, you can’t lay a hand on me.”

“That’s true,” Mr. Kraken admitted resentfully.

'Tell me djout yourself,” Ed urged. “How did you get in this deploi^le condition?”

“It was easy,” said Mr. Kraken. “I died.”

“Of nature! causes, I hope?”

“I was murdered,” stated Mr. Kraken. “Murdered in this very house.”

Ed was flabbergasted. "That’s not possible!” he exclaimed.

“No?” Mr. Kraken exposed his upper tusks in a smug grimace. "Didn’t you buy this house from a man called Benjamin Schlik?”

“That’s right,” Ed nodded. “He was leaving for Arizona for his health.”

"Hak!” Mr. Kraken made that unpleasant noise again. “Schlik’s real name is Josq>h Guloff. He is the man who had me murdered.”

"He seemed like such a nice little guy tcxv" mused Ed.

“I was Guloff’s partner, and he did not wish to divide fifty thousand dollars with me,” continued Mr. Kraken. "I know he

a st^ped-on snake.

"You guessed it,” said Ed, his confidence sweeping back. “I figured you would.” “Why?”

"Because you’re a vampire, that’s why. Now, don’t deny it.”

TV /TR. KRAKEN looked crestfallen. “Why IVX ^ould I deny it?” he said sullenly, “There’s no disgrace in being a vampire, yampirism is strictly hereditary, and I come

i

is still in town, and I will walk the streets every night until I find him. 'Ihen I will drain every drop of blood from his fat carcass.”

Ed shuddered. “I beg your pardon,” he said delicately, “but are your — er — earthly remains located in this house?”

“They are,” replied Mr. Kraken. "And I know just what you are thinking. You want to find out where I am buried, so you can get rid of me. A stake through the heart is



the mo^ conventional way — or perhaps you M'ould ratlier scatter my dust over the sea?” "Oh, no,” protested Ed. "That was the farthest thing from my mind.”

"Then let it remain so,” said Mr. Kraken harshly. "I intend to be your guest for a long, long time.”

So speaking, he swished his coat around himself and vanished down the hall like a swift shadow.

O N THE following evening Ed went up to Mr. Kraken’s room again and sat on the bed, waiting. Sure enough, shortly after sundown, Mr. Kraken appeared.

"I want you to ke^ out of here,” Mr. Kraken said severely. "I've paid my rent like a human being, and I insist upon being treated; like one."

"Did you find Guioff last night?” Ed asked.

"That’s my business,” snapped Mr. Krakeo. "Let me warn you — it infuriates me to have anyone pry into my affairs.”

"You know,” said Ed pensively, "if I were in your condition, I’d forget about Guioff. A guy in your condition could pick up some cash for himself.”

“I'ln not interested in money,” Mr. Kraken replied. 'Tve found that it is of no use to you after you’re dead.”

"But jwi’re only dead during the daytime — ”

"Nevertheless, it changes one’s attitude considerably,” Mr. Kraken informed him. "The only thing I hunger for is blood; fresh, warm blood.”

"Naturally,” Ed agreed. "But I thirik you could cure yourself of that uncoutii craving jf you put your mind to it Have you ever wanted to go on the radio?” "Certainly not,” bristled Mr.. Kraken. "With your voifo you’d be a natural for one of those midnight to dawn record pro* grams,” asserted Ed. "However, that would only be the beginning. With me handling the business end of it, we’d — ”

"No!” Mr. Kraken exclaimed harshly. "Now get out of here before I tear your heart from your body and eat it before your eyes!”

Ed replied by patting the bulge in his vest pocket. That little bottle of wolfsbane made him feel as secure as if he were

watching Boris Karloff fr<MH the third row of the Lyric Theater. “You can’t scare me,” he said. "No, sir, not one little bit You might as well realize, Mr. Kraken, that 1 have big plans for you and th^ don’t include letting you run wild on the streets and getting me into all sorts of trouble.”

- “I will not be exploited!” Mr. Kraken’s voice sounded like someone trying to rip up a board.

"Who’s exploiting you?” countered Ed. "With a puss like yours, you could put Karloff and Lugosi out of business. I’ll guarantee you a movie contract within — ”

"And I’ll guarantee you something else,” interrupted Mr. Kraken. "Guioff shall be my first victim, but you will be the second. Some evening I shall find you without that bottle of wolf’s-bane on your person. When that time comes — hak!” He rattled his teeth hoi-iibly.

Ed was a little disappointed in. Mr. Kraken's attitude; but, having made a specialty of selling people things they didn’t want, he had supreme ccxifidence in his powers of persuasion. Mr. Kraken always came to the spate room soon after sundown, and for three consecutive nights Ed was on hand to greet him. Ed tried every angle he knew, but, instead of improving, Mr. Kraken’s attitude became increasingly hostile; He finally decided there was just one mote method of persuasion left: force. He could threaten to destroy him.

In order to do this he would have to find out where the remains were located. The cellar was tiie most likely place, but he had already inspected it carefully, without finding anything.

The next day Ed stayed home from work and went over the house with a fine-toothed comb- He even pulled up the flooring on the back porch and tore oi^ part of the bathroom wail. In the end he was convinced more than ever that Mr. Kraken was somewhere in the cellar.

Toward sundown he hid in the cellar behind a packing box. The place was dank and musty, and a big spider was sitting in a web in front of the small window which fronted the street, at sidewalk level. Slowly, the sunlight faded away from the window, and die cellar became dark. Then a street light went on, casting a yellow light into



the cellar. Ed could see the outline of the furnace, the big spider — nothing else.

It became late. Ed had been tensely expectant when the sun went down, but now, after waiting at least an hour, he began to wonder if anything was going to happen. Perhaps he had guessed wrong. Mr. Kraken usually put in an appearance before now.

rpHERE was a sudden rustling noise — as -L if mice had gotten into the furnace. Ed’s vertebrae seemed to crawl down his back like a cobra. The furnace door rattled for a second on its hinges; creaked open.

It looked at first like black smoke issuing from the furnace; then it oozed together the way a chocolate pudding does when you rook it long enough — and there was Mr. Kraken.

Mr. Kraken stood motionless for a long time, and the yellow light Cutting aaoSs his face made him look particulaiiy repulsive. Finally, with silent footsteps, he moved toward the spot 'where Ed was hidden. Ed sudced in a deep breath and held it until Mr. Kraken went on up the stairs. After hearing the cellar door open and close, he followed quietly.

Mr. Kraken went straight to the front of die house. He opened the front door, and Ed saw him bend down and pick up a white object which lay on the doorsill. Ed gave Mr. Kraken a quarter-of-a-block head start, then trailed behind him, hugging buildings wherever possible.

'They walked a long ways — about five miles, Ed figured. They v/ere somewhere in the vicinity of the East Rivet when Mr.

was up on a third story window sill. A sickish feeling assaulted Ed’s middle as he saw Mr. Kraken shove up the sash and step inside. Somebody was about to meet a ghastly end, and Ed felt more than certain that the luckless individual was Joe Guioff.

While he was wondering what to do about it, a shrill cry emanated from the upper portion of the hotel. It was quite a horrible noise, and it made him turn cold all over. He ran up to the hotel entrance and found the door locked. All he could see was a flight of stairs and a dim liglit globe sticking out of the bare wall. He rang the night bell, hammered on the door pane; but got no r^ly. A tougher chaiacter. than Ed Jacobs might have smashed in the door, but Ed was a great respecter of otiier people’s doors and, besides he had no desire to become suspiciously involved in a murder. What Ed wanted most was a cop.

TT WAS one of those dockside neighbor- ■L hoods full of bleak-faced wardiouses and deserted lumberyards, and the nearest outpost of human activity 'was a small beer joint about three blocks up the street. A juke box was bellowing at the top of its audiocontrol when Ed barged into die place. Gr^ bing a wall phone, Ed inserted a nickel and yelled for the police station. He got a quick connection.

"I want to rqrort a murder!” he diouted at the voice which answered.

"Yes? What address, please?” 'Ihe voice at the other end sounded tired and disinterested.

Kraken stopped in front of a saggy, thfee-; story building that had an abandoned pool

- hall on the lower floor. A sign overhangi ing the sidewalk read, "Export Stre^

i Hotel.”

I Ed ducked into a doorway and then peered

I out like an inquisitive cat. ' Except for Mr.

I Kraken, the street was deserted. The teleI phone wires made aadding noises, and a

beat whistle moaned out on the river.

Mr. Kraken stood still as a stone gargoyle; tiien, with remarkable agilit]', he went strai^t up the wall.

He 'W^nt up swiftly and easily — ^very much like a spider on a thread. Ed could hardly believe his eyes. One minute Mr. Kraken was there on the sidewalk, and the next, he

“Export Street Hotel. There’s a man there named Joe Guioff — ”

"Joe Guioff, did you say?”

"Joe Guioff,” Ed repeated. "I don’t think he’s dead yet, but you’d better hurrj'!” "And what is your name?” 'The voice had sudd^y acquired an inquisitorial ring, like Mr. J>istrict Attorney.

Ed told him.

“Address?”

Ed told him ffiat too.

"There’s nothing to ■worry about, Mr. Jacobs,” said the voice consickrately. "The squad car’s on its way. There’ll be some questioning, of course; but don’t hide anything. It’ll be to your advantage to tell idl you know.”

•TO WEIRD

"Yessif," said Ed. He wiped his forehead with a handkerchief, went over to the bar and ordered a double bourbon with a lemon peel.

Pretty soon two police cars came screaming down the street, and their sirens subsided to £ grow] as they pulled up in front of the Export Street Hotel. Ed stayed at ^e bar, crunching a pretzel thoughtfully. What could he tell them? The whole truth and nothing but the truth dx)ut Mr. Kraken? No. There wasn’t a cop in New York City N^dio’d believe him.

He drained his drink, chewed a moment on the lemon peel and started back toward the hotel. A sizeable crowd had gathered in the street; policemen were shouting. An ambul^ce slid around the comer.

A cold breeze seemed to touch die bade of his neck. He turned and saw Mr. Kraken standing behind him.

"Why did you call them?” demanded Mr. Kraken wolfishly. "Answer me!”

"Murder is not my idea of good dean fun,” said Ed reproachfully. "Did you kill him?”

Mr. Kraken’s mandible worked up and down like the jaw of a snake. "I only needed a few more moments. Miserable, meddling idiot! ”

"You listo to me," said Ed, shaking his forefinger sternly. “From now on, bloodsnatching is distinctly out. Either ycni wrll toe the mark and en^rk upon some honest enterprise, or I will shovel the ashes out of my furnace and chuck them into the river. You see — ” he added, " — I know where the body’s buried.”

ilr. Kraken’s face bvitched in a dozen places. He si^ed bitterly. “Whai I first came back to this world, I was full of high hopes. I had been a failnre in life, but I felt certain I had all the requisites of an admirable vampire. I’ve failed again.”

"You’re just beginning,” Ed told him. "We’ll go down to the police station and tell tliem who you are. Once the story hits the papers, you’ll be famous — ”

"I won’t do it!” Mr. Kraken exclaimed in a shrill voice. "I won’t be hounded by you! ”

"Now, see here — ” Before he could get any further, Ed found he was talking to qace.

Mr. Kraken had vanished. ^

TALES


The crowd was dispersing by this time, and the police cars were wheeling away. Ed went to a hotel that night because he knew the police would be waiting to question hkn when he got home. He didn't want to lie; but how could he make them believe his story? He rolled and tossed all night trying to think of a solution. It came to him about six a.m. The police might not believe him, but they would certainly listen to that' eminent scholar and authority on the supernatural, Professor Matthew Faust.

E d looked up Professor Faust that morning. The professor was an oidirii gentleman with a large nose and a bemused manner that made you think of a bam owl. He appeared pleased when Ed told him he had read his book. "So few persons are interested in the study of hyperphysical phenomena," he remarl^d. "’J^^iat p^ of the book did you find most interesting?” "The chapter on vampires,” Ed told him. 'T’ve got one living at my house.”

"I beg pardon?” frowned Professor Faust.

"That’s why I came to you for help,” said Ed. He started right from the beginning and told old Professor Faust everything. 'The professor seemed puzzled at first, and by the time Ed had finidied the narrative he looked downright alarmed.

"The police wouldn’t believe me if I told ’em about Mr. Kraken,” Ed concluded. "That’s why I want you to help me. What do you say?”

Professor Faust moved toward the door gingerly. "I would say, sir, that you are a sick man. I suggest that you — er — see a psychiatrist immediately.”

Ed was stunned. "Yo*— don’t believe me?”

"I’m afraid you took my book too literally. It was meant to be a compilation of primitive superstitions and folklore — " "And you think I’m nuts because I believed what you wrote!"

"Tbe power of autosuggestion often brings on hallucinations. According to Freud — ”

Ed got out of there as fast as he could. He was disappointed, disillusioned and hopping mad. There was now owy one thing to do. He would sneak into toe house about

I sundown, find Mr. Kraken and threaten him; with certain extinction if he didn’t make a clean breast of things to the police. It might work.

Having some time to kill, Ed went to Central Park and spent toe afternoon feeding squirrels. It was hot, so he took oS his coat and vest and snoozed a while in the suntoine.

; He reached home shortly after dark,

sneaking down toe alley and entering through toe back door to avoid any cops vitoo might be posted near the house. Qimfaing the back stairway, he went straight to toe spare room and sat on toe bed, waiting for Mr. Kraken to appear. An hour passed,; and nothing happened. Ed had waited for Mr. Kraken before, but this time he was ex1 traordinarily nervous. 'The longer he waited,

' toe more he began to suspect that Professor

\ Faust might be right. Maybe he waj crazy.

5 Maybe Mr. Kraken was n<^ing but an hd-

; lucination after all. All those horror movies

‘ he had seen might have brought it on. He

I made up his mind never to see another one

; * again.

: Then he heard a creaking door down-

! stairs and the sound of moving footsteps, and he felt better. Mr. Kraken was comi ing! He was teal, after all. i Ed stood up. A spindly moon cast a

I faint beam across the bedspread. He did

i not see the door open, nor see it close, but

1 all of a sudden he noticed a black figure I standing in front of toe bureau.

I "You’re late,” said Ed.

Mr. Kraken did not reply. A pair of sl^iny; eyes glared into Ed’s face.

‘ At that mcMnent he sensed something

wrong. He placed his hand against his stomach for reassurance, feeling for the little bottle he always kept in his vest.

Hfj ve.it was gone. He had left it hang-: ing on the bench in toe park.

I Ed tried to speak, but the words clogged

.j_. his throat. Ail he could see was those teri rible eyes and toe black shadow that remained as stiffly frozen as himself. WithI out that protective bottle of wolf’s-bane he

i was as helpless as a rabbit in front of a boa

i constrictor.

{ Suddng down a deep breato, Ed took a

j jittery step toward the door. The black

figure moved toward toe door also. He envisioned those terrtt)le tusks slavering for his throat. Sweat trickled down the bridge of his nose, and his mouth tasted salty.

He clenched his fists; bolted for the hall. He managed to reach the top of the front.itairs, giatbed for the rail and lost his balance. His forward momentum, combined with the pull of gravity, sent him looping through toe air like a projectile from a weEaimed mortar. He landed on his bad: somewhere in toe vicinity of the bottom newel post.

The impact knocked out his wind and made him feel as if he were being pushed around in a revolving door. The whirling sensation ceased — and he became conscious of a pair of 'icy bands creeping about his throat.

Ed let out a toridc that would have made a banshee run for cover. He struck out with both fists, and his knuckles sank into something paunchy.

"Ed — ^stop it! Ed!”

H e opened his eyes and saw Ellen standing beside him. A jug-shaped policeman leaned against the stair rail, clutching his midriff and groaning mistily. It was Sergeant O’Calltoan of the Flatbush Detail.

."What’s wrong with you, Ed?” Ellen asked, massaging his neck again. "’OCtoat faafp>ened?”

"He — tried to kill me—” Ed faltered, "He caught me without my bcktle — ” "Looks like he had too much of the bottle,” growled Sergeant O’Callahan.

""rhe police have been loddng for you all day,” said Ellen.

"I figured they would be,” sighed Ed. "It was lucky toey reached Joe Guloff in time.”

"I’ll say it was,” nodded Sergeant O’Callahan. "We rounded up the whole gang. They were usin’ toe hotel as a hideout.” "What gang?” frowned,

"Guioff’s gang, to be sure. We’ve been lookin’ for them ever since they heisted toe shipyard payroll. What we want to know is how you Imew where they were hiding?” Ed remain^ on toe floor for a few seconds, just locking stupid. Finally he crawled to his feet. "I didn’t know Guloff was a gangster,” he said.- "I called the



cops beause I thought he was being murdered.”

"Yeah?” The sergeant scratched the back of his bristly scalp. "Guloff claimed he was bein' murdered, too. He was so weak he couldn’t walk, and when we got him to the station house he went absolutely berserk — like a crazy mao. Kept yellin’ about scane guy used to be his partner — guy by Uie name of McCracken.”

“Kraken,” said Ed. 'T found out that Mr. Ktaken was going to kill Guloff and I followed him to the Export Street Hotel.”

"Mr. Kraken is our roomer,” Ellen explained. "Ed never liked him from the first.”

"Where’s he now?” the policeman asked.

"I — ^think he may be — upstairs,” Ed stammered.

"That we’ll soon discover.” Sergeant O’Callaban took a.large, dangerous-looking weapon from his holster and started up the staircase with it.

"I think Mr. Kraken’s gone,” Ellen whispered to Ed. "I looked into his room this morning, and all his ffiings were gone — ”

"This morning? When did you come home?” Ed was surprised to see her all over again.

"Atxxit nine,” she said. "Didn’t you get my special delivery letter? Oh, you must have — or you wouldn’t have hired the man to dean out the furnace."

"The what?”

"The furnace. A man came and cleaned it out. He said you phoned him late last night and hired him to do It. He charged me fifteen^ dollars,"

"You mean — he deaned everything out of the furnace?”

“I saw to k that he did a good job,” she nodded. "He said you insisted that he dump the ashes an fee river.”

"Best place in fee world to dump ashes.”

"Oh, sure — ^the river,” said Ed groggily.

Then it came to him. He recalled how

Mr. Kraken had picked up something jutt before leaving the house last night. Ellen’s letter — feey always left spedals under fee door. Mr. Krsdcen knew that 'Ellen would be home next day, so he had gone and called fee furnace man. It was the same as suicide.

But if Mr. Kraken was now peacefully at rest in the bottom of fee river, whom had Ed seen in fee spare room not less than fi:fteen minutes ago?

Ed hurried up the stairs and nearly knocked over Sergeant O’Callahan, who was coming down. He stepped into fee dark room and was immediately confronted by a shadowy figure that seemed to grow larger as he moved toward it. He didced on the liglit and found 'himself looking into the big bureau mirror — ^looking at his own image! He had nearly scared himself to death on account of something feat wasn’t there.

"He’s not here, lad,’' said Sergeant O’Callahan. "We’H pick him up before long. And as for yourself — ^I’ll see to it personally that you get what’s coming-to you.”

"Get what?”

"The reward. There’s a twaity-seven hundred dollar reward for information leading to fee arrest and capture of Joe Guloff. I thought you knew.”

"That’s wonderful!” exulted Ellen. "Now you can buy into Mr. Cash’s business. Aren’t you glad we let Mr. Kraken have the. spare room?”

Ed’s wobbled. He had to go sk on the bed.

Ed Jacobs says he has -investigated fee matter thoroughly, and he is;^tisfied beyond the shadow of a doubt feat fee furnace man dumped fee ashes into the river some place below Greenpoint. Therefore, if you, are ever in BrocWyn and you see a tall, gaunt man in a long overcoat following you some night, there is nothing to be worried about. It couldn’t possibly be Mr. Kraken.

Still — ^you never can tell.


'here Was An Old Woman

By RAY BRADBURY

I won't let the mortkiam get my body — she said — cut and saw it so it ain't no good to no one

it TW "T O, THERE’S no leif arguing. I mind if I pour myself a bit of coffee. There.

got my mind fixed. You If you’d Been a bit more polite, I mielita JL ^ sashay off widi your silly offered you sane; but you stride in here wicker basket. Land, Land, where you ever high and mighty and you never rapped on

g et notions like that? You |ust skit out of the door no nothing. I don’t like that kind ere and don’t bother me, I got my tatting of doing. You think you own the place.” and knitting to do, and no never minds Aunt Tildy fussed with her lap. "Land, about tall dark gentlemen with fangied now, where’d I lay the yarn. I’m making ideas.” myself a comforter. These winters gets on

The tall dark young man stood quietly, mighty chill. I’ll allow, and it ain’t fittin’ for not moving. Aunt Tildy hurried on with a lady witii bones like rice-paper to be settin’ her talk. ir. a drafty old house like this without warm-

"You heard what I said, young man. If ing herself.” you ^t a mind to speechify me, well, you The tail dark man sat down,

can talk, but meantime I hope you don’t "That’s an antique chair, so be gentle

Heading by BORIS DOLGOV

THERE WAS AN OLD WOMAN 75

with it," warned Aunt 'Tildy. "Now, If you want to start again, tell me what you got to tell, L'U listen respectful. But keep your voice dovra and stop staring at me with fimny lights in your eyes. Land, it gives me shudders.”

The grandfather dock in the hall had just finished striking three,. There were four men out in the hall grouped around the wicker, strangely quiet and hardly moving, like they were frozen.

“Now, about that wicker basket,” began Aunt. It's over six feet long, and by the look of it, it ain’t laimdry. And those four men you got with you, you don’t need them — why, it’s light as thistles. Eh?”

'The dark young man was leaning forward on the antique chair. He said, “The basket won’t be light after awhile. 'Theie’Ii be something in it.”

“Shaw, now.” Aunt Tildy mused. "Now where have I seen a wicker like that before? Seems it was only a couple years ago. Seems to me— oh. Now I remeni>ers. Certainly I do, It was when Mrs. Dwyer passed away next door.”

Aunt 'Tildy put her coffee cup down, sternly. "So that’s what you’re up to? I tiiought you were trying to sell me something. Just wait until my little Emily comes home from college this afternoon. I wrote her a note the other day. Not admitting, of course, that I wasn’t feeling quite ripe and

E rt, but sort of hinting that I’d like to see r again, it’s been a bunch of we^s. She living in New York and all. Almost like my own daughter, Emily is. ^

“Now, she’ll take care of you. She’ll shoo you out’n this parlor so quick it’ll — ” “Aren’t you tired?” asked the dark young man.

"No, I’m not.”

"It would be so nice for you to rest,” said the dark young man.

"Great sons of Gosehen on the Gilbery Dike! I got a hundred comforters, two hundreds of sweaters and six hundred pol-holders left in these skinny fingers fumbling with clicking needles and bri^t yarns. You go away and come back when I'm done, and maybe I’ll talk to you.” Aunt Tildy shifted subjects. "Let me tell joxs about Emily. She’s such a sweet, fair child.”

Aunt Tildy nodded thou^tfully. Emily.

With hair like the tassles of light yellow corn, just as soft and sweet.

“I well remember the day her mother died, twenty years ago, leaving Emily to my house. That’s why I’m mad at you and your wicker baskets an sech goings-on. Who ever heard of people dying for any good cause. Young man, I don’t like it. Why, I remember^ — ”

Aunt Tildy paused, a brief memory of pain toudjing her heart. She remembered 25 years ago, and her fatiier’s voice back in that old fragment of time:

"Tildy,” he’d said, "what are you going to do in life? 'The way you act, men don’t have much with you. Nothing permanent, I mean. You kiss and run. You don’t settle down and raise children.”

“Papa,” Tildy snapped right back at him. "I likes laughing ana playing and singing, but I’m not the marrying kind. You know why?”

“Why?” asked Papa.

"I can’t find a man who has my philosophy, Papa.”

"What philosophy is that?”

"That death is silly. And it is. It took away Mama when we needed her most of all. Now, do you call that intelligent?”

PAPA looked at her and his eyes got wet and gray and bleak. He patted her shoulder. "You’re always right, Tildy. But what can we do? Death 'comes to everybody?”

"Fight back,” she aied. "Strike it below the belt. Fight it. Don’t believe in it!”

"It can’t be done,” said Papa, sadly. "You’re all alone in the world.”

"There’s got to be a beginning somewhere. I’m beginning my own philosophy here and now,” Tildy declared. “Why, it’s just silly that people live a couple years and then are dropped like a wet seed in a hole and nothing sprouts but a smell. What good do they do Chat way? They lay there a million years, doing no good for nobody. Most of ’em fine, nice and neat people, or at least trying.”

So, after a few years, Papa died. Aunt 'Tildy remembered how she had tried to talk him out of it, but he passed on anyway. Then she ran away. She couldn't stay with him after he was dead. He was a denial of



lier phDosophy. She didn’t attend his butial. She didn’t do anything but set up this antique shop on the front of this old house and live alone for years, that is imtil Emily came.

Tildy didn’t want to take the girl in. Why? Because Emily believed in dying. But her mother was an old friend, and Tildy had promised.

“ Emil y,'' continued Aunt Tildy, to the man in black, "was the first person to live in this lumse with me in years. I never got married. I didn’t like the idea of living with a man for twenty-thirty year and then have him up and die on me. It would shake my philosof&y down like a house of cards. I shied away from the world pretty much. I guess I got pretty persnickety at people if 5iey ever so much as mentioned death to me."

The young man politely interrupted now, and took up Aunt Tildy’s story for her in even, calm and quiet tones:

"Ail throu^ the last World War, as I recall, you never read a newspaper. You beat a man over the head with your umbrella and drove him from your shop, when he insisted on telling you about the battle of the Argorme.

"Wien radio came in, you stuck by your old phonograph. You played the nice old records. Harry Lauder singing Roamin’ in the Gleamin’, and Madame SchumatmHe^ with her lullabies. As the years p^ed, you tried to teach Emily, but her mind was made up about — certain things. She was nice enou^ to respect your way of thinking, and she never mentioned — morbid — things."

Aunt Tildy sniffed. "Think you’re smart, hifii? How you know all those things?” She shmgged her shoulders. "Well, now, if you think you can come and talk me into ffiat silly wicker basket, you’re way off the trestle. If you so much as Jay a hand on me I’ll spit right in your face!”

'Ihe young man smiled. Aunt'Tildy sniffed again.

"Now, you don’t have to simper at me like a sick dog. I’m too old to be made love at. That’s all twisted dry, like an old tube of paint, and left bdiind in the years.”

There was a noise. The dock in the hall struck three. Strange. It seemed to Aunt

Tildy that it had just done that once before, a moment ago. She liked Ihe old dock. Ivory and ebony with gold angels hanging naked around the face of it. Nice tone. Like cathedral chimes sounding softly.

"Are you just going to sit ^ere, young man?”

'T am.”

“Then you won’t mind if I take a nap. Just a little cat nap. Now, don’t you get up off that chair. You set right there. You set ' there and don’t come creeping round me, toddying. Just gonna dose my eyes for a wee bit. That’s right. That’s right....”

Nice and cool and restful time of day. No noise. Silence. Just the dock a ticking away busy as termites in wood. Just the old room smelling of polished mahogany and leather in the morris diair, and books sitting stiff on the shelves. So nice.

You aren't getting up from the chm, ate you, Mister? Better not. 1 got one eye open for you. Yes, indeed I have. Yes, I have. Oh. Ah. Hmm.

So nice. So drowsy. So quiet. Oh, so nice.

Who’s that moving aroimd in the dark with my eyes dosed?

Wio’s that kissing ray cheek? 'That you, Emily? No. No. Guess it was my imagina* tion. Only — dreaming. Land, yes, that’s what it is. Drifting off, off, off....

A h? what SAY? OH!

“Just a moment while I put on my glasses. There.”

The clock, unpredictably, still said only a few minutes after three. Shame, old dock. Have to have it fixed.

The young man in dark dothing stood near the door. Aunt Tildy nodded her head.

“You leaving so soon, young man? Good thing. Emily’s coming home and she’d fix you. Had to give up, didn’t you? Couldn’t convince me, could you? I’m mule-stubborn. You couldn’t get me out of this house, nositree. Well, young man, you needn’t bother coming back to try again.”

The young man bowed with slow dignity. ‘T have no intention of coming again. Never.”

“Fine," dedared Aunt Tildy. "I always told.Papa I’d win out. Why, I’m gonna sit here by this window and knit for the next



thousand years. 'Ihey’ll have to rip its boards down around me to get me out.”

The dark young man was smiling funny. "Why you smirking?” demanded Aunt Tildy. "You just get out, and quit looking like the cat that ate the canary. And you tote that old fool wicker basket with you.” The four men were already treading heavily out the front door. Aunt Tildy studied the way they handled the basket. It wasn’t heavy, -and yet they were staggering under its weight.

"Here, now!” Aunt TUdy arose in tremulous indignation. "Did you steal something from my antique riwp? My books.” She glanced about concernedly. “No. The docks? No. What you got in that wicker?” "Curious?” asked ffre young man, softly. “Curious? Me? Shaw, no. Get out. Get it outa here!”

"Good-by."

"Good-by to you, too. Go away!”

T he door closed. That was better. Gone.

Darned fool men with their funny ideas. No never minds about the wicker. If they stole something, she didn’t care, as long as they let her be.

“Here now,” said Aunt Tildy, pleased. "Here comes Emily home from college. About time. Lovely girl, walking-along. But, Lord, the girl looks pale and funny today. Walking so slow. I wonder why. Looks worried, she does. Poor girl. Tired, maybe. I’ll just hustle her up a pot of coffee and a tray of cakes.”

Emily came up the front steps. While Aunt Tildy was bustling ^und, die could hear the slow, deliTjeratrve steps. What ails the girl, thought Tildy. Didn’t sound like she had no more spunk ffian a dead lirard, "The door opened in front. Emily stood out in the hall. Why didn’t come in? Funny girl.

“Oh, Emily?” called Aunt Tildy.

Emily came walking in.

"Oh, fliere you ate, Emily. I been waiting for you to come. There was the darndest fool men roaming about in here with a wicker bask^, and a young man who tried talking me into something I didn’t want. You just missed them. Glad you’re home. Makes it right cozy — ”

Aunt Tildy stopped talking. Sie realized

th a t- for a full mmute Emily had been staring at her. Staling hard.

“Emily: Wliat’s wrong? Why you looking at me like that, Emily? Stop your staring? Here, now, I'll bring you a cup of coffee. There.

“Emily, why you backing away from me? “Emily, stop screaming, child. Stop screaming, Emily! Stop screaming! You keep screaming, like that, you go crazy. Emily, get up off the floor, get away from that wail, cringing, Emily! Emily, stop screaming, screaming, child! I won’t hurt you.

"Land, if it ain’t one thing it’s another. "Emily, what’s WRONG, child...?”

E mily groaned and put her hands up to her face.

"Emily, child, here now. Sip this water. Here now, child. That's it.”

Emily opened her eyes, stared, and then shut them, quivering, and pulled back. “Oh, Aunt Tildy. Oh.”

"Stop that!’’ Aunt Tildy slapped her. "What ails you?’’

Emily forced herself to look upon Tildy again.

She thrust out her young fingers and they vanished inside of Aunt Tildy.

"What fool notion thing are you messing with!" aied Tildy, surprised. 'Take your hand away! Take it away, I say!”

Emily trembled again and turned away •her head, shaking her golden hair into shining temblors. “You’re not here, you’re gone. Crti, you’re gone. Oh, you’re gone. I’m just dreaming.” \

"You’re not dreaming. Hush, baby. Lands of Ghoshen!”

"You’re dead. Oh, it’s awful. You’re dead. You CANT be here.”

This sort of talk upset Tildy a great deal. She took Emily’s hand and it passed clean through her lacy bosom. Instantly, Auftt Tildy raged to her feet, stomping them.

"Why — ^why — ” she muttered angrily, "that — that fitber, that liar — that sneakthief!" Her thin hands knotted into wiry hard pale fists. "That dark, dark fiend! He stole it, he stole it! He took it away, he did, oh, he did, he did! Why, I — ” She could find no words to symbolize the steaming wralJi within her. Her pale blue eyes were



fire. She spluttered off into an indignant Auntie.” She collapsed over the wheel, bat silence. Then she turned to Emily. "Qiild, Aunt Tildy was already skedaddled from get up off diat floor. I need your help. Get the open door and trotting with mincing up, now!” skirt up the conaete drive and around in

Emily lay there, shivering. back to where the shining black hearse was

"Aii tight,” declared Aunt Tildy. "PART unloading a wicker basket, of me is here. By the Lord Harry, what’s Aunt Tildy thrust to the attack, immedileft of me will have to do, momentarily, ately.

Now stop gawking and fetch my cloak and "Young man,” she directed her shout at bonnet!’', one of tiie four men unloading the basket,

Emily confessed. “I'm — scared. I’m — so “young man, put down that basket. Put it

scared.” right down!”

Aunt Tildy planted fists on bustled hips. The four men carrying the basket paid “Is you scared of me?" little attention.

"Yes.” One of them said, "Step aside, lady.

"Why? I’m no booger. I’m just me. You We’re doing our job. Let us do it, please.” known me most of your life. Now’s no time "But that’s my body you got tucked into snivel %d sopp. You fetch up on your there!” declared Auntie, brandishing her feet or I'll slap you straight across the parasol.

bridge of your nose!” "That I wouldn’t know anything about,”

Emily rose in sobbing haste. She stood said a third man. "Please don’t blodc traffic, like a cornered animal, trying to decide Madame. This tiling is heavy.” ishich direction to bolt in. That probed a painful wound in Aunt

"Where’s your car, Emily?” Tiidy’s pride. i

"Out — in — front, Ma’am.” "Sir,” she cried. ‘T’ll have you know I

"Good.” Aunt Tildy hirstled her out the only weigh one hundred and ten pounds!” frontdoor. ""Now — ” Her sharp stare poked He looked at her with funny eyes. "I’m

both directions of the street. "Which way not interested in your hip measurements, is it to the mortuary?” lady. I just wanna go home and eat dirmer.

Emily had to hold onto the rail of the My wife’ll kill me if I’m late.” steps fiunhling down. "What are you going The four of them forged ahead. Aunt to do, Aunt Tildy?” Tildy in hot pursuit through a large door

"Do?” cried Tildy, tottering after her, into a hall, down the hall and into a prepajowls shaking in a thin, pale fury. "Why, rations room.

get my body bade, of course! Get my body A man in a clean white smock stood back'. Go onl" awaiting its arrival with a rather pleased

smile on his long, eager-looking face.

T he car roared, Emily dendied to the Aunt Tildy didn’t care for the avidity steering-wheel, staring straight ahead at of that face, or the personality of the entire the curving rain-wetted streets. Aunt Tildy man himself. The basket was deposited and diode her parasol. ttie four men retreated.

"Hurry, child, hurry. Hurry before they 'The man in the white smock, evidently a squirt juices into my body and dices and mortician, glanced at Auntie and said: cubes in the way them persnickety morticians "Madame, this is no fit place for a gentlehave a habit of doing. 'They cuts and sews woman.”

it so it ain’t no good to no one!” "Well,” said Auntie, gratified, 'Tm glad

"Oh, Auntie, Auntie, leave me go, don’t you feel that way. Them is my sentiments, make me drive. It won’t do no good, rio but I can’t seem to convince those other men. good at all,” sighed the girl. That’s exactly what I tried to tell that dark-

"Humph!” was ail the old woman would clothed young man.” say. "Humph!" 'The mortiaan puzzled. "What darkEmily pulled into the curb and cut tiie clothed young man is tiiat?” motor. 'The one who came puddling around my

“Here,” she said, wearily. "Here we are, house, that's who.”



"We have no one of that description working for us — ”

"Well,” Auntie continued, "as you just so intelligently said, this is no place for a gentle lady like me. And I don't want me here. I want me home, I want me cooking turkey for Sunday visitors, it s almost Easter time. I got people to worry about. Emily to feed, all them sweaters to finish knitting—”

The mortician was patient but beginning to get perturbed.. "I’m sure you’re quite ^ilosophical and philanthropical, Madame, but I have no time. A body has just arrived.” 'This last, he said with evident relish, and a glance at his assorted scalpels and instruments.

Aunt Tildy bristled. "If you lays so much as a cuticle on that body. I'll beat you,” she assured him. Again, the parasol.

He brushed her aside like a little old moth.

"Oh, Heimings,” he called gently to one of the men. "Escort this little lady out-, side, please.”

Aunt Tildy glared at the fellow.

"Show me your backside, going the other way!”

The assistant came and held onto Aunt Tiidy’s wrists. “This way, please.”

T ildy extricated hersH easily. It wasn’t hard with the way her flesh sort of — slipped. It even amazed Tildy. Such an unexpected talent to develop at this late stage. “There,” said Auntie, much pleased at her ability. "See? You can’t budge me. I want mp body back!”

The mortician opened the wicker basket ■ casually, then in a recurrent series of doubletakes realized that the body was— it seemed —maybe — ^yes— no — well, uh — it couldn’t

be but "Ah,” he exhaled suddenly. He

turned. His eyes were wide.

"Madame,” he said, cautiously. ”Eh — this lady in here. Eh — is she — relative of, yours?” „

"A very dear relative. Be careful of her. "A twin sister, perhaps.” He grasped at a straw of dwindling logic, hopefully.

"No, you fool. Me, do you hear? Me!” The mortician considered the proposition.. He shook his head to dear the fog. "No,” he decided. "Things like this don’t happen.” He busied himself dx>ut the room.

make preparations. “Take her away, William. Get the other men and take her away.

I can’t work with a crank around.”

When the four men assembled and converged upon her. Aunt Tildy was a fortress in lavendered lace. Arms crossed in muscular defiance she said, "I won't budge.

She continued to repeat that phrase as she was evicted in consecutive moves, like a pawn on a chessboard, from preparation room to resting room to hail, to waiting chamber, to funeral parlor, where she made her last stand by sitting herself down on % chair in the very center of the funeral vestibule. There were pews going back into gray silence, and a smell of flowers.

"You can't sit there, lady,” sard one of the men. "That's where the body rests for the service tomorrow.”

"I’m sitting right plumb here until I get what I want. Sit right here on this spot,” was Auntie’s instant retort.

T hey tried to move her. She just sat there, pale fingers fussing with her fussy lace at her throat, jaw set, one high shining shoe tapping impatiently. If they got near enough she quickly whopped them a whop with her parasol. And vmen they touched her she sort of— slipped— away.

Mr. Carrington, the Mortuary President, heard the disturbance from his office in back and came toddling in to see what the commotion was about. He scurried down the aisle. "Here, here,” he whispered, finger to mouth, "Show more respect. What is this? Oh. Madame, may I help you?”

She looked him up and down. ‘You may.”

"And how may I be of service, please? "Go in that room over diere,” directed Aunt Tildy.

"Yes?”

“And tell that eager young investigator to quit fiddling with my body. I’m a maiden lady, and my moles, birthmarks, scars and other bric-a-hrac, induding the turn of my ankle, are my own secrets. I don’t warit him prying around, cutting it or hurting it in any way.” ^

This was a trifle vague to Mr. Carrmgton, who had not as yet had an opportunity to correlate bodies. "I don’t — see, he said. In vague helplessness.


.WEIRD TALES

"He’s got me in there on his table like a turkey ready to be drawn and stuffed — ”

Mr. Carrington hustled off to verify this claim. After fifteen minutes of waiting silence and horrified arguing, comparing of notes with the mortician behind the dosed door, Mr. Carrington returned, pale and shaking, to confront Auntie.

"Well?” said Auntie.

"Uh — that is. Most irregular. You can’t — sit — there.”

"an’t I?”

Carrington dropped his glasses, picked them up, fumbled them on his nose and said, "You are making it difficult for us.”

“1? I!” raged Auntie. "Saint Vitus in the morning! Now, looky here, Mister Blood and Bones or whatever, you tell that — ”, "But he’s already extracting the blood from the body.”

"What!” Auntie swayed and coughed. It was like a kick in the face with an iron boot. "What’d you say?”

"Yes, yes, oh, I assure you, yes. So you just go away, there's nothing to be done. The mood is running from the body and it’ll soon be all filled with nice fresh A-1 formaldehyde.” He laughed nervously. "Out mor-

* tician is also performing a brief autopsy to determine the cause of death.”

Auntie was on her feet, burning. "Cutting me, is he?”

"Y-yes.”

"He can’t do that. Only coroners are allowed to do that.”

"Well, we sometimes allow a little — ” "Young man!”

"Yes'm?”

"You are going to march plumb straight into that room now and you are going to tell that Gutemup to pump all that nice New England blue blood right back into that fineskinned old body, and if he's taken anything out of that body, for him to attach it back in so it’ll function proper, and then you’ll turn that body, fresh as paint back into my keeping. You hear, you HEAR!”

“There’s nothing I can do. Nothing.” "Awright then, snigger-britches. Tell you

. WHAT. I’m setting here on this spot for the next two hundred years. You hear? And

• every time anyone comes in I’ll spit ectoplasm right square in their left nostril!”

. Carrington fumbled that thought around

in me weakening interior emitted a squeak. "Oh, no. No. You’ll dislocate our business. Heavens. Millions of dollars will be lost. You wouldn’t do that?”

Auntie smiled pleasantly. "Wouldn't I?”

Carrington ran up the dark aisle and in the distance one could hear him frantically fingering a dial-phone and then talking to a series of important people. It took him half an hour and then huge cars began roaring up in front of the mortuary and the brothers Harrington arrived to bolster their hysterical president.

All six of them ume down the aisle like a delegation ‘of diplomats. “What seems to be the trouble?”

Auntie told them with a few well-cho«n cu^ words.

They held a conference, meanwhile notifying the mortician to discontinue his home-work until such time as an amenable agreement had been reached, mortician came out of his chamber and stood smiling quietly and smoking a cigar.

Auntie looked at the cigar.

"Where did you put the ashes?” she cried, horrified.

The mortician only smiled imperturbably and puffed.

The committee finally decided. Harrington Number One represented the others.

"Madame, we need this vestibule to carry on out business. We need it badly. Now, in all fairness, you wouldn’t throw us out on the street to continue our services, would you?”

A untie looked the vultures over. "Oh, I wouldn’t mind. No, i wouldn't mind at all.”

Harrington wiped sweat from his cheeks. "Our proposition is this. You can have yout body back.”

"Ha!” shouted Auntie. Then, with caution: "Intact?”

"Intact.”

“Without formaldehyde?”

"Without formaldehyde!”

"With blood in it?”

"Blood. Yes, yes, oh, my God, yes, if only you'll take it and go.”

Auntie nodded a prim head. "Fair enough. Fix it up, and it's a deail”



!

!

Harrington glared at the mortician. ‘"Well, don’t stand there! Fix it up!”

"And be careful with that dgar butt,” added Auntie.

"EASY, EASY,” said Aunt Tildy. "Pul the wicker basket down on the floor where 1 can step in it easy.”

They placed flie wicker on the floor. She didn’t look at the body much. Her only comment was, "Natural looking.” "Then she let herself fall backward into Ae wicker.

There was a sudden biting sensation of arctic coldness, a great twisting nausea and a spinning. It was like two drops of matter coalescing. Water trying to seep into concrete. So slow to do. So hard. Like a butterfly trying to back into its discarded husk of chrysalis.

Ail the faces watched Aunt Tildy in her struggles. Mr. Harrington was evidently concerned. He kept wringing his fingers apprdiensively and trying to help with gestures. 'The mortician was ftanldy skeptical and in grim humor. The others just stared.

Seeping into cold granite stone. Seeping into a frozen and ancient statue. Fighting all the way...

"Come alive, damn ye!” shouted Aunt Tildy to herself. "Raise up a bit.”

The body half rose, fumbling inside the dry wicker.

"Get to your kgs, woman!”

The body rose further, blindly groping.

"See!" shouted Aunt Tildy.

Lighf«nteted the web^d blind eyes.

"Feel!” urged Aunt Tildy.

The body felt the warmth of the room, the sudden presence of the preparations table against which to lean, panting.

"Mjve!”

The body took a creridngly unsteady step.

"Hear!” she shouted.

The body walked.

"Think!” Auntie said.

’The old brain thought.

"Now — speak!" she ordered.

’The body spoke, bowing to the mortician’s aew.

"Much obliged. Thank you.”

"Now,” said Aunt Tildy, finally. "Cry!” And she began to cry tears of utter I»ppiness.

A nd now, any afternoon, about four, if you want to visit Aunt Tildy, you just walk around to her antique shop and rap ai the door. There’s a big blade funeral wreath on the door. But don’t mind that. Aunt Tildy left it there. She has some sense of humor.

You rap on the door. It’s double-barred and triple-locked, and when you rap her voice shrills out at you:

"Is that the man in black?”

And you laugh and say no, no, it’s only me, Aunt Tildy.

And she laughs and says, "Come in

a uick!” and die whips the door open and aras it shut back of you so no man in black can ever slip in behind you. Then she escorts you in and pours you your cup of coffee and shows you her latest tokted sweater for the boys overseas. She’s not as fast as she used to be, and can’t see as good, but she gets along.

“And, if you’re especially good,” Aunt Tildy declares, setting her coffee-cup to one side, 'Til give you a little treat."-.

“What’s that?” visitors will ask.

"This,” says Auntie, pleased with her little uniqueness, her litlie joke.

Then with modest nioves of her fingers she will unfasten the white lace at her neck and chest and for a brief moment show

All the noises of the place came into the what lies beneath, dulled ears. Opening up to let them in. The The long blue scar where the autopsy was harsh, expectant breathing of the mortician neatly sewn together.

•SIi3”the whimpering Mr. Harrington, “Not bad sewing for a she allows.

"Walk!” she cried. "Oh, some more coffee? There."


H e was a burl7 man with a beaked nose, and hard, cold, glittering eyes. For thirty years he had been the official State executionerj and, consequently, he had interesting if grisly stories to tell. There is one of his yarns that I am not likely soon to forget.

"Did anybody ever get away from you.?” one of us put the inevitable question. And Carrigan flung himself far back in his

Heading by A.


chair, gave his mat of grizzled hair a violent toss, and stroked his bony projecting chin.

"Well, nobody ever broke out of the death-cell, if that’s what you mean,” he answered, slowly. "But one fellow did get away, just the same.”

All of us leaned forward eagerly.

"Yes, sirree, one fellow got away, but you wouldn’t beUeve me if I told you

B. TILBURNB t WWW dMW MW I WWW I

would have given a burnt-out dgat butt for his chances. And there he was, joking up to the last minute; eating a hearty Iweakfast, and all. Usually they begin to look a little downhearted about this time; lots of 'em get morose. But not Scar-Face. You’d of thought he was being honored, the way he smiled when we led him off to the execution chamber. ’What’s the matter with the guy? Is he dippy?’ I wcHidered.... Made a little speech when they asked if he had any last word; cracked a lot of jokes, and ended with, 'Well, boys, see you all in Kingdom Come!’ Speaking of coolness — he had a cucumber backed plumb off the map!”

W E ALL sat about, voiceless; while Carrigan, as if re-living the scene, took out his handkerchief and mopped uneasily at his bullet brow.

"Actually helped us blindfold hint, would you believe it? The last I saw of those funny popping black eyes of his, they seemed to be sparkling— yes, by God! Sparkling just as if he was enjoying a joke on us! Eton’t that just beat hell? Well, I never mentioned it to anybody before, but a sort of spooky feeling came over me, like something was holding back my hands and didn’t want me to execute that fellow. I think the reporters and spectators felt it, too; it was like a wave that went through them, and they all trembled together. Sounds daffy, don’t It? But wait till you hear what happened!”

"Well, what did happen?”

“Nothing you’d of looked for. Acting sort of against my will, I got ever>'thing ready. The prisoner climbed the gallows, and was all strapped up in the proper place. All I had to do was pull the lever, and the trap would give way, and he'd fall and break his blasted neck. Guess I’d done it fifty times before if I’d done it once, so there wasn’t any reason to hold back, was there?”

The official State executioner had one story to tell he was not likely ever to forget....

about it. Hardly believe it myself, when I (xtine to think of it. It was the doggonest case you ever heard of.”

He paused long enough to light a cigarette; then resumed.

"Twenty-five years ago it all happened, but I remember the poor devil just as plain as if I met him yesterday. A little sawed-off guy, wilii a round head and funny popping big black eyes. There was an old scar ffiat ran down from his left temple to just over his right eye. It didn’t make him look what you’d call pretty. Perkins or Parkins or something like that was his name, but we all called him ScarFace. Just a common no-good; tried to hold up a bank with three other thugs, and a clerk got killed. Always swore he didn’t fire the shot, but what ie hell’s the difference? Law says he’s guilty whether he fired or not, don’t it? Jury wasn’t out one hour!”

"So he was sentenced to be hanged?’’ irree, hanged by the neck till he didn’t waste any sympathy on bums, believe me. Just the same, I to admire the fellow’s spunk, when the time came round. Was game as a fighting cock. Smiled and laughed; you’d of thought he was going to a party. Why, he turned out to be such a good sport I was sort of sotcy when the morning came for springing the trap.”

"Maybe he expected a pardon from the Governor?’’ I suggested. ^

Carrigan flicked out the ashes from his cigarette with a contemptuous toss of one hand.

"Pardon? Like hell! Who was ScarFace, anyway? Didn’t have the influence of a gutter-rat! No, sirree, old Governor Horton wasn’t the man to be wasting ink on such curs. The poor brute knew damned well he wouldn’t get a pardon!" “Then some confederate — ”

"A whale of a lot any confederate could do! I tell you, there wasn’t none of us



"None that I can see.”

"None that anybody could see. Just the same, I did hold back. Must of been all of ten minutes. Made all sorts of fishy excuses. Just couldn’t get myself to pull tliat blamed lever. It was like.something was dragging back my arms. I must of been about paralyzed till I heard the prisoner himsdf talking — or, at least, I thou^t it was him. 'What the hell you waiting for.^’ But he didn’t sound angry or impatient— not the least. Swear to God, it was just like the guy was daring me!”

"So then you opened the trap?”

"Ves, ‘so iien I opened the trap.” Carrigan’s fingers seemed to be quivering, as he took out and lit another cigarette..

"By Christ! I thought that was the end. By all the rules of the game, ScarFace should of been dead. But he wasn’t.” "You mean,” one of us gasped, "when the trap fell, it didn’t kill him?”

“No,” returned Carrigan, slowly and solemnly, "I mean the trap didn’t fall.” The fire by this time had burnt low, and our host had risen to stir the embers and add a log. It was a minute before the narrator could resume.

"No, by heaven!” he testified. "The trap didn’t fall! It was the first time that ever happened, and we couldn’t figure out what was wrong. I pulled the lever again and again — no resuh! So we brought Scar-Face down from the gallows, and then tried the trap without him. I’m a blinking four-eyed jackass if it didn’t work perfectly!”

"Whatever was wrong must have fixed itself automatically,” I suggested.

"That’s just what we thought. Still, we went over the whole shooting match with a fine comb before trying it again with the prisoner. There wasn’t so much as a screw out of joint. No reason under the sun why it wouldn’t work. But all the

time we were examining it, we could hear Scar-Face complaining— no, not complain* ing, kidding the dickens out of us. 'Why don’t you fellows get a move on?... What you keeping me waiting for?... I got an important appointment, and you’re making me late!'

"Well, finally we made up our minds the trap had to work this time. Just simply.had to. So we hauled Scar-Face upstairs again, and got ready to finish him off. I was getting sort of riled at him by now, for not hanging decent and proper.

But when I pulled that lever again — ^you can blast me to perdition if I lie — nothing happened. Nothing at all! That trap still wouldn’t open!”

"Must have been bewitched,” someone threw out, facetiously.

"You're damned right! Bewitched is the word. That’s just how it looked to us. Weil, we went over the whole rotten contraption again, so carefully you couldn’t miss a bolt. Seemed in A One order. Every time we let down the nobody in it, it worked like a charm. you what I did then. Had myself tied by — • ropes around the middle, and my assistant pulled the lever, letting me down through the trap. Of course, it didn’t hurt me much except for the jerk.”

"But did it work?”

"Work? You bet it did! If it ud had me round the neck, you wouldn’t see me here today, boys! ’Ihere wasn’t anything wrong with that trap, the way it let me down! But what do you think happened next time we tried it on Scar-Face?”

We remained silent.

"Well, the pesky thing just gave a sort of rattling, like it didn’t know how to make up its mind, and stayed shut. I tell you, boys, we were plumb tuckered out by then. Just had to give up. So we -hauled Scar-Face back to the death-cell, and sent word to the Governor we couldn’t hang him.”

ITHE MAN WHO WOULDN’T HANG

>0 did the Governor take it?”

"How do you think he took it? Set np a hell of a row. ’Threatened to fire me.

^ But I had plenty of witnesses, so he finally

'*■ set a new execution date, and came dovm

himself, with three members of the State prison board, to see matters done right and proper. We had a new gallows ali rigged up, too, guaranteed fool-proof. But diink that made any difference?”

"Should have,” I ventured.

"’Ihen you’ve got another guess coming. Why, I never saw four more surprised looking fellows in my life than Governor Horton and the prison directors. We tried the trap first, of course, and it was beautiful to see the way it worked. Then we put Scar-Face on. He seemed to think it was a great joke; bowed to the Governor I before we tied him up, and said, *I don’t

t mind so much getting hanged, friends,

L now that it’s coming to be a habit.’ But

s we bundled him up good and fast, and I

didn’t waste much time about pulling that — — ^, JqvpT. hoping it’d be the end of Scar-Face '1 and ^1 trouble. But somehow I knew

.. A -•:v^=wouIdn’t be.”

"So he still didn’t hang?”

( '1ARRIGAN turned and spat disgustedly into the fire, which was blazing with uncanny fitfulness.

"No, curse him! Right there before the Governor, he wouldn’t hang. That ‘trap was balkier than an army mule. The Governor, I tell you, went pretty near white when be watched me trying time and again. They say he had a superstitious vein in him, old Governor Horton. After a while he got up and said, Twaint no more use trying, Mr. Carrigan. I commute his sentence to life impriscMiment.’ And then he got out so fast you’d of thought somebody ■■was chasing him.”

The ex-hangman shifted his long bulky legs, lit another cigarette, and went on. "So that’s the only man I ever knewthat dieated the gallows. But dieie’s & sequel to the story. Five or six years later a member of his old gang died, and swore on his death-bed Scar-Face ^dn’t have anything to do with that bank killing — wasn’t even around when k happened. There was a new Governor then, and after looking into the facts he issued a pardon. So far as I can make out, ScarFace has led a decent life ever since.”

We all shifted uneasily in our seats, glancing by turns at the eerily flickering fire and at the bard, grizzled face of tfie narrator.

I do not know which of us it was that asked:

"Have you any theory, Mr. Carrigan, as to why Scar-Face wouldn’t hang?”

A slightly furtive, almost a frightened look came into the executtooer’s eyes. He shuddered; and then hesitantly, in slow, grave tones, replied:

"Well, yes, folks, I have got a theory. Don’t know as you’ll follow me — matter of fact, I’ve never let on to a soul. Still, what I saw, the last time I put Scar-Face on the gallows — guess it was what old Horton saw, too, before he commuted the sentence.”

"What did you see?”

Carrigan drew a long breath, almost like a sigh.

"Nothing you could describe very well. At first it was like a pale, shining mist. But after a while it seemed — swear to God, boys, I wasn’t dreaming — seenwd that mist took form. The shape was like two hands. At one end they reached to a big shadowy something that I couldn’t quite make out. But, at the other end — I tell you the hair on my head prickled when I saw it — ^the fingers were tugging at the trap, holding it shut!”

The beads of perspiration that came out on Caitigan’s brow, and the glaring, haunted look in his eyes, testified th.at be was re-living a terrible experience.

Macbeth of Pimley Square

By AUGUST DERLETH

M rs. ABERNETHY JENKS was one of those vain, silly women who fancy themselves great (if thwarted) actresses, and when the Pimley Square Community Players, of wiiich she was a member, presented Macbeth with herself in the role of Macbeth’s lady, she achieved such a minor success that it- went to her head in a most distressing fashion. In short, she began to develop genuine illusions about herself and her role, and these grew with such persistence that her husband.

after due consultation with his older brother, Repley, who lived with them in the house in Pimley Square, felt called upon to seek the services of a psycliiatrist.

So Dr. Wightman was sent for.

Dr. Wightman was a man of some little reputation, achieved largely by shrewd guessing and only incidentally by genuine Imowledge. That is not to say that he was not without sense; indeed, he was not. He had grown wealthy literally on his wits, and, after listening to Abernethy Jenks for half

Hoiv do you solve murder committed by a person who wai manifeilly somewhere else?

Heading by BORIS DOLGOV

lADY MACBETH OF PIMLEY SQUARE

an hour, it was perfectly dear to him that he was dealing with a case of dual personalia ondoubt^ly rising out of a Icmg-standing frustration which only the utmost p^eoce would cure. Dr. Wi^tman, of course, reassured Mr. Jenks, collected a retainer, and out for the house with him to pay his respects to his patient.

Mrs. Jenks was a slender, hatahet-faced woman, wkh license dark eyes and unruly dark hair; she was not at all bad-looking, whh the kind of looks which at first do not poitkiilarly attr^ men, but end up almost anpossible to be forgotten by men. She was not a ve^ dominant personality, but seemed ultra-refined, quite a Iktie of teis being the - veneer of conventioimlity adopted to conceal her natural shortcomings, and was, witiial, pleasant enough to deal with. Moreover, she seemed to be normal, save for her unusual of occasionally quoting Lady Macbeth’s lines from the play, and Dr.Wi^tman was quite favorably impressed. He fn^de a maital estimate of how much it would take to cure the lady — that is, in _ „.tfee matter of his fee, purely — and had some I ^ersatioii with her.

I •. i.'iis was in keeping with her role. He

' ^ked her point-blank whether she considered herself ideal for the role of Lady Macbetti.

"Indeed, I do,’’ she responded, thinking he had something to do with the theatre, 'Since he had not been introduced as a psychiatrist.

He encouraged her to talk about herself.

It appeared that not only was she convinced she had a calling for the stage and particularly the role of Lady Macbeth, but Sie had the persistent illusion that she was two people-4ierself, and the character she had so successfully played.

"In what way, two people?” he asked.

"Well, sometimes I am convinced that she is with me, too. A part of me. As if my astral self had become Lady Macbeth. Do you understand?”

Dr. Wightman certainly did not understand, but fortunately he had his own way of pigeon-holing information, important or not, and when he saw Abernethy Jenks he imparted to him his grave conclusion that Mrs. Jenks was schizophrenic. This was a little beyond Jenks, so he explained that he

meant that Mrs. Jenks had a spli peisoi^- ity. He shook his head seriously and implied that it would take time and money to cu« the condition. 'The symptoms were all too common — fits of depression —

"But she seems if anything exhilarated, protested Jenks.

"Yes, the other extreme,” agreed Wr^- man suavely.

D r. WIGHTMAN called several times to see Mrs. Jenks, and, because he listened attentively, he began to leam a deal about her case. Correctly interpreting what he heard, however, was another matter.

-It seemed that Mrs. Jenks believed ^ery timp she lay down to rest or sleep, a "part of” herself slipped out of her and wertt prowling around in the guise and semblana ~ of Lady Macbeth. Privately, Dr. Wightman considered tiiis a si 5 )temely ridiculous delusion, but he was mudi too wise to say as much. He asked where she went. Oh, was about setting the stage, replied Mrs. Jenks naively.

It did not occur to Dr. Wightman to inquire for what she was setting the stage. He burned her parlance was that of the tbe^re, and envisioned somebody ^fting wings and scenery. Nevertheless, Dr. Wigbtman was sufficiently enlightened to root around in (he background a little, and thus he hapE d upon the fact that the Jenks hous^ represented a Macbeth- pattern in miniature. That is, Repley Jenks, the older brother, was absolute master of business, and Abernethy was but the junior partner, whose rise to control was resolutely thwarted by Repley as a matter of self-preservation.

Mrs. Jenks, naturally, chafed at the frustration imposed upon her Abernethy, though Abernethy himself was far from minding, since the assumption of major responsibilities by Repley left him free. Having got so far in his casual investigation, k was a pity Dr. Wi^itman did not see fit to go just a little farther. But he did not.

He did, however, suggest to Abernethy Jenks that he sponsor another presentation of Macbeth, and arrange for Mrs. Jenks to get scathing reviews. This, he thought, would rock her back on her heels and give her a different perspective on the stage in her life. Abernethy was enthusiastic, and.


tfter &e usual consultation -with Repley, he agreed to do just what the doctor had suggested. Tlie arrangements were made, Mrs. Jenks was delighted at the opportunity to do herself proud once more, and everything went off on schedule — ^but not quite as it had been plaimed.

For Mrs. Jenks was a natural. Slie was so good in her role ffiat all the aitics who had been paid to disparage her acting went to town and gave her rave notices, whidi, for a community playhouse, was virtually udoelievable. Yet there it was. Mrs. Jenks, said the sum total of the accounts, was an' actress who merited a far wider stage — indeed, the widest.

V- Mr. Jenks was vexed.

Mrs. Jenks was in seventh heaven.

Mr. Repley Jenks observed very practically that the whole affair seemed only to have increased the dangers of Mrs. Jenks' condition.

Even Dr. Wightman was somewhat dismayed, but with the resilience of people who ' believe in themsdves very much, he boimded bade in half a week’s time with otlier ideas. He came to the house one evening to expound daon, and sat talking them over with the Jenks brothers in the living room. They were not much impressed., They talked back and forth, over and across, but could not seemingly reach much agreement. Mrs. Jenks was, naturally, not present; she was upstairs lying down.

However, in the middle of their converdid, too!” Saying vdiich, he produad the key from his pocket.

The two men went quickly up the stairs to try Mis. Jenks’ door. It was locked. lv£r. Jenks inserted the key, turned the knob, and quietly entered the room. Mrs. Jenks was sound asleep, just as he had left her.

''How the devil did she do that?” he demanded of Wightman on the stairs.

"She managed somehow,” said the doctor pompously. "There is always an explanation for these things.”

A t that propitious moment, they were both startled by a loud moan from the kitchen, and went thither without delay. There they found Repl^ dragging hims^ to his feet from the floor where he had been' lying; it took them a moment to discover that the spot on his shoulder was not water, but blood. Repley had been stabbed — fortunately, not fatally — but he was in no condition to say what had happened. He had been busy mixing the diinks.hehadthou^t someone was in the room with him, he had seen no one, but he had been stabbed ju^^ the same.

"It was Mrs. Jenks,” said Dr. Wightn^P®

"The devil it was!” said Repley, now relaxing despite the pain in his shoulder while waiting for a certified M. D. to make

bis appearance.

Dr. Wightman was seriously disturbed, as well he might be. Mrs. Jenks was clearly becoming a menace, but until he could exsation, when Repley had gone into the plain how she could have got out of that kitchen to mix a few drinks, Mrs. Jenks room when her husband had, it appeared, came glidings down the stairs, smiled the only key to its door, he could take no obliquely at them, and went into that part steps to have her certifi^. Abeinethy and of the house where her brother-in-law was Repley were both perplexed and troubled, clinking ice and glasses. In a little while and looked to Dr. wightman to solve the she came out again, paused briefly, and said, mystery. But the mysteries of mind were "Was the hope drunk, wherein you dress’d one aspect of detection, and those of mateiial yourself? hath it slept sirice, and wakes it things were another, not in Dr. Wightman’s now, to look so green and pale at what it field. He could deal very well with the undid so freely?” and returned up the stairs, known, since all he needed was an air of "That’s what I mean,” said Abernethy. authoritativeness and some reason, which 'The end of the first act.” • wcwld serve very well to confound the lay-

"Yes, I see,” said Dr. Wightman gravely, man, whose knowledge of the unknown was looking after her with puzzled eyes and no less profound than Dr. Wightman’s, save pursed lips. that he knew it not.

“By George! I thought I locked her door Meanwhile, the story of Mrs. Jenks’ curlfrom the outside!” exclaimed Aberndhy,'" ous malady got around, looking a little wildly at Dr. Wi^tman. "I One afternoon Dr. Wi^tman was called



upon by a rather diatby individual who in-. Dr. Wi^tman’s opinion of Abrams was tfoduced himself despite the psydiiatrist’s censorable, and he lost no time in seeing cold superiority as a "doctor of s^itual- him out. The psychi^rist thought that he ism.” Dr. Wightman amid be offensive, was being very wise in keeping the story indeed, and he had no use whatsoever for of Abrams’ visit strictly to himself; so he believers in spiritualism and the like. Never- imparted nothing of it to the brothers Jenks, theless, Mr. Abrams, for such was his name, who were in any case busy with Repley’s was nothing daunted by Dr. Wightman’s recovery and dieit joint concern about me scorn, so poorly concealed that it might have peculiarities of Mrs. Abernethy Jenks. been embarrassing to anyone less thickskinned than the spiritualist. IVP^- however, was annoyingly

'He informed the psychiatrist that he was IVi persistent. He wrote Dr. Wightman a by way of being a '^student of occult mat- nasty little note saying that unless the proper ters,” that die story of Mrs. Jenks had steps were taken at once, he was likely to be reached his ears, and that her case was as an unwitting aid to murder, though he adplain as a pikestaff, and he could not under- mitted that locked doors were no barrier to stand why Dr. Wightman had not yet astrals, which had no substance. Wightman ordered the woman confined in some safe ignored him, which was difficult to do, in place — though he openly doubted that such view of his insolence., confinement would help now that the matter 2drs. Jenks in the cour se of tiie next few had gone this far. days, had increasingly lucid periods, and her

"I am sorry to disagree with you,” said solicitude for her brother-in-law was toudrWdghtmaa stiffly, "but Mrs. Jenks’ is a most ing. She could not keep him comfortable complicated case, not at all plain.” enough, it seemed, and this care and atten-

"Oh, no,” said Abrams congenially, as tion, so alien to the Mrs. Jenks, RepI^ had if to a fellow-studet^. “It’s plain that her always known, was both surprising and astral self is completely Identified with Lady pleasurable.. By this time, too, he had come Macbeth, and you look for the Mac- to look upon Dr. Wightman as an intimate beth pattern to work itself out in some friend of her husband’s, and one evening

form. Let me see — it was Demean who she invited him over to dinner. It was the

stood in Macbeth’s way, didn’t he? And first evening Repley was considered well

Lady Macbeth arranged to have him re- enough to come to the table for an hour or

moved, ur^g her husband to murder, so, after which it was deemed advisable that

Well, now, obviously Mrs. Jenks’ husband he return to his own room and relax once

is not the type to respond to such treat* more.

ment; so she will have to do it herself. As Mrs. Jenks was in good spirits, and, oiTe I understand it, Repley Jenks stands in the she escaped that strange fhobia, she was viway of Abernethy Jenks’ control of their vacious and cheerful, determined to make business. An attack was made on Replqr — her guests at dinner feel at their best. She I know thep tried to keep it quiet, but I had hired a cook for the occasion, and a

learned of it — and there, I ^tulate, is maid, too, so that the dinner was presented

the initial step.” with taste. She had made up the menu her-

'That attack has not been explained, Mr. self, and had given some direction to the

Abrams,” said Wightman. “Mrs. Jenks was preparation of the food. Indeed, she put

locked in her room at the time.” herself out to such a degree to be agreeable

"Oh, yes— her physical self. But not her that Dr. Wi^tman secretly complimented astral self.” himself on the talks he had had with bet

"What do you mean by 'astral,' Mr. and, once she was out of the roewn, pointAbrams?” edly referred to his "treatment,” as having

"Why, her essential life stuff, Dr. Wight- helped Mrs. Jenks to a greater stability,

man. I don’t know that it could be put any which was manifest to all of them,

more clear than that. It can arise and leave Nevertheless, there were certain annoyher body in sleep, or ia coma, or in any ing little manifestations, land of similar state.”, {Continued on page 91)



Lady Macbeth of Pimley Square

{Continued from page 89)

When Repley hesitated to help himself to some broccoli, for instance, Mrs. Jenks hastened to assure him that he might do so in safety, "it hath no poison in’t." She was observed at this moment to gaze at him with a strange glittering in her ^_yes. Dr. Wightman thought it a little unnerving, but later contented himself with the reflection that the whole thing was a misconstruction of a simple jest.

When Abernethy had occasion to hand his brother a carving knife, Mrs. Jenks observed gravely, shaking her head, "My hands are of your colour, but I shame to wear a heart so white.

This, of course, was pure Macbeth.

In a moment, however, Mrs. Jenks was conversing with the utmost naturalness, and the incident was overlooked as but another brief halt on the way to her ultimate recovery. The dinner proceeded smoothly; there was considerable talk about the progress of the war and the prospects of peace, and by and by the dinner was over, Reple)' Jenks retired to his room, and presently Mrs. Jenks, too, made her excuses, saying she must rest, and away she went to do so.

Thereupon Abernethy, as he had done for the past fortnight, took himself off up the stairs and lock^ his wife in her room. Then he rejoined Dr. Wightman, who began at once to make some rather vague iuquiries into the business In which Repley arid Abernethy were engaged, thus discovering that if anyffiing happened to Repley, Abernethy would indeed come into a commanding position, though he had no great inclination toward it, and was for his partjquite content.

"It’s only that Mrs. Jenks keeps after me," he admitted.

"Has she always done so?"

"For many years. Sie has always seemed discontented that I should not stir myself and better my position. However, I’m quite content with my position; I am by nature a simple man, and being in a sulwrdinstfe position enables me to spend my leisure as I see fit — and I should not see fit to worry


about the business. Better for^ Repley to do that; he’s a good hand at it.”

It ann^ed Dr. Wightman a little that the psychic, Abrams, hsud been able to get a dearer picture of the Jenks household than he had, but then, Abrams had had the overall view, and he had been concerned primarily with Mrs. Jenks’ strange mania. Astral self, nonsense! The woman was a plain psychotic.

T hey had talked for about an hour, when they were disturbed by what sounded like a struggle in Repley Jenks’ room. There was a sudden eruption of sound, a muffled cry, and then a long, shuddering moan, equally muffled.

"Good (^d!” exdaimed Abernethy, "What was that?”

Dr. Wightman, fully as startled as his host, was unable to say.

Both men had come iristinctively to their feet, and were standing in that brief indecision preceding actioQ — of what kind, neither had yet decided — when Mrs, Jenks appeared at the head of the stairs,:,iooking (^wn at them. She stood there but for a moment; then she began to descend the stairs, ignoring her husband’s wild question; she came strai^t down at them, and was observed to be rubbing her hands together as if she were washing them.

At Abernethy’s repetition of his <pestion about what had happened, she said withont glancing in his direction, "What need we fear who knows it, when none can call out power to account? Yet who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him?”

Then she went on past the two men toward the door opening to the outside.

Abernethy ^anced fearfully at Dr. Wightman, who returned his host’s glance with equal fear. As if the sudden thought which had entered their minds at that moment were not enough, they had the folly to turn once more toward Mrs. Abernethy Jenks, who was at that moment engaged in a performance the like of which neiffier of the gentlemen in her audience had ever before seen or were ever likely to see again.

She was in the act of passing through the door.

Abernethy blinked and looked again, but



f ags *

f Voff the ftmafear and pref«e9lOBal nrHnt Contains over S50 iUnstrations, eharte and notes. ctTinc dotiUlod ' study of every part of the body.

ENRIGHT CO., Dept. NS-2 724M dune Street, Ferosi Hills, H. Y.

TKEHEWEUGOMPAHV I”"*!?! 000 Ctavtnn Sta., St. Uuls, Uo.

“Facts about EPILEPSY."

This most intecescing and helpful Booklet teill be nailed to anyone while the supply lasts. I will send a flee copy to anyone who wtites foi it.


Address Dept. F>25, 1840 W. 44th Street, Cleveland,


JurwiTtrSttS nop 0«f ta- 'w

TOOur'e book todu am nlaabla "InnaUa BMoeiTt ll form. A« j BEBMAN )i

^ im *lbe» Buiid^r* 8. P.

CURE ~1

dandruff:

• ARTHEiTIS - NiURITIS «

Get Mendenhall's Number 40 (torn youo. droggist or by mail posipaid for $1.25. Money back i( ftist bocile fails to sacisty.i. I. C. MENDENHAU MEDICINE CO. Soph 4 EvwisvUfo, Indeas

^ was gone. He gazed at Di. Wigbtmaa.

"Hallucination,’’ muimured t±ie psydii* atiist thickly.

It was Jenks who led the way up to Repley’s room. They found the older man as dead as a mackerel; he had been stabbed not once, but several times, and he lay in a blood-soaked bed. Apparently a pillow had been held over his head while the deed was done. Without pausing to call the doctor, Abernethy went to his wife’s room.

It was still locked; he had to use his key. Entering, they found Mrs. Abernethy JenlsS in what was either a deep coma or a cataleptic trance, for die was immovable in her bed, and quite incapable of being aroused.

It was a very nas^ business.

Quite unknown to either Abernethy Jenks or Dr. Wightman, a young girl across the city, who had lain down to rest before going on to play the role of Lady Macbeth in her school’s performance of Macbeth, woke up feeling mighty strange indeed, "like another person,’’ as she s^equently said, and went out upon the stage to play her role with such superb art that she brought down the house. Unfortunately,—, immediately after the play she was seizM with such a drowsiness that she had to lie down again, and from a short, deep sleep, woke up with no knowledge whatever about her perfromance.

Coincident with her waking — while the police were all over the Jenks’ hoiise, badgeiing poor Abernethy and putting Dr. Wightman through such paces tlut he began to have serious doubts about resuming his practise of psychiatry — Mrs. Abernethy Jenks came out of her coma,.out of her room, and, frightened by the police, tripped and fell down the stairs, breaking her neck.

It was the end of a great, if little appreciated, career.

Man with a Room

ANEWCOMER to our pages, Crawford Sullivan, who rents out "The Spare Room” in this issue, tells us how he came about doing this.

Confesses Mr. Sullivan;

I've been in the writing game for quite a while, but this is the liret attempt I’ve ever made at a story of this type. Perhaps it’s because I had an inspiration. Now, if most writers sat around and waited for a genuine inspiration, they’d probably starve before the year was out. As a matter of fact, a great many do. The true inspiration that smkes you like a bolt from the blue does its smiting all too seldom.

- The inspiration for "The Spare Room” happened to be a chap who, perhaps like many readers of Weird Tales, sought an escape from this world of blow torches and riveting machines by deliberately giving himself the creeps. After reading everything ghostly and ghastly he could lay hands on, after witnessing every horror movie ever made and.after listening to every radio chiller the dials had to offer, he became super-disaiminating. The conventional slab-faced zombie and slaver-flecked werewolf left him cMd. Without moving an eyelash, he could relax by the loudspeaker and listen adamantly to the shrieks of an unfortunate young girl about to be dissected by a tusked fiend. He could take it. He had become a case-hardened horror addict.

In spite of his addiction, he remained a quiet, pleasant-mannered little guy who would not willfully step on a snail.

All of which brought to my dinial mind the question: What would happen if, one fine

LASALLE EXTENSION university

x> know how I can ptepar* for post-war com-

. Send me your tree- Dooblet on w field I have

□ForemaneDIp

□BoakfeeepiBg

□ TrstSc Maoag

□ LawsLL.B. De



Fistula Facts— Free


49-page Back— teiU facts about

Fistula, Kectal Abscess. Plies and other rectal and colon disordeTS; also related aliments and latest coccectivetreatinentsIThornton & Minor Clinic, Suite C-G02, S26 McGee, Kansas City, Mo.



iliGKARD Brothers

27 WOODS BUILOIHO

day, a supernatural creature — a vampiie, sty, re^ly walked into his bouse?

Well, you’ll have to read "The Spare Room” to find out what might have happened. Maybe I’ll have another inspiration sometime.

Crawford Sullivan.

Writer and Character

We’ve got the idea that this chap, John Thiinstone who is making regular appearanres in Weird Tales these days, is something like another guy named Manly Wade Wellman, who, just incidentaUy, happens to be the author of the Thunstone yarns.

Wellman was bom of an old American family deep in Portuguese West Africa ^^diich is a nice beginning for a writer of fantasy and adventure. His enthusiastic interest in occultism survived two university degrees and brief terms of working as farm hand, bouncer, actor, soldier, archivist and newspaper man.

Physically, Wellman is big and heavy. In school he was a footballer, a boxer and a fencer. Despite the fact that he was turned down for combat. duty in the present World War he looks to us capable of Thunstone feats today.

All this, of course, is about Manly Wade Wellman; not Thunstone. But one thing, we’re sure they have in common. Both men look for adventures and would pr<rf> ably rather experience them than tell about them.

READERS’ VOTE

GUARD IN THE DARK THE SPARE ROOM THERE WAS AN OtO WOMAN

THE MAN WHO WOULDN'T NANG LAOr MACRETH OP PIMLET SQUARE


Here’s a list of nine stoTles in this Issue Won’t yon let us know wbicli three yon consider the best? Just place the numbeis: 1. 2, and 8 respectively against your three favorite tales— then clip It out and mail It in to us.

★ ★ *

★

'k

BEJY WAB BONE»§

See For Yourself Hoiv ITroirYoi; it Home'-' Be a RADIO Techiiiciii

ttooDFoRBon

line, so tit we can enroll; icTU".?. club roster, and publish your name and adless in the magazine.

• A membership card carrying the above design-personal token of your fellowship with the weird and the fantastic — whi be sent on request (A stamped, addressed envelope should be eaclosed.)

niii min,ui8iMHinnmmmm»mmiimiijiinnui


^ a Allen, 7n Ba.st MUani St, Mexia, Texas

u.... missourn, M iJoriuitorles, Bast

A re the tales o( strange human powers False? Can the mysterious feats per* formed by the mystics of the Orient be explained away as only illusions? Is there an Intangible Erand ‘with the universe beyond which draws mankind on? Does a mighty Cosmic intelligence From the teaches of space ebb and Row through the deep recesses of the mind, forming a river of wisdom which can carry men and women to the heights of personal achievement?

Have You Had These Experiences?

that unmistakable Feeling that you'have

taken the wrong course of action, that you have violated some inner, unexpressed, better judgment. The sudden realization that the silentwhisperings of self ate cautioning you to keep your own counsel^not to speak words on the lip of your tongue in presence of another. Tiiat something which pushes you forward %vhen you hesitate, or reslrains you when you are apt to make af wrong move.

These urges ate the subtle in/fuence which when understood and directed has made thousands of men ^nd women masters of their lives. There IS a source oF intelligence within you as natural as your senses of sight and heating, and

mote dependable, which you are NOT using nowl Challenge this statementl Dare the Rosicrucians to reveal the functions of this Cosmic mind and its great possibilities to you.

Let This Free Book Explain *

Take this infinite power into your partnership.' You can use it in a rational and practical way without interference with your religions beliefs or personal affairs. The Rosicrucians. a woddwioe philosophical movemertt, invife you to use the coupon below, now, today, and obtain a free coi>^ of the fascinatirrg book. "The Mastery of Life,' which explains further.

■ - USS THIS COUPON - ' ■

ScrtteI.L.O.

TKe Rosicmcrana. AMORC. San Jose. Caliicmla.

I am stnceMly Interested tn Imowins more akoi iKis unseen, vital power wliisdi can l>e used in aesiui Ins the iullness acid happinese of hie. Please send m without cost, the bo,^. "^e Master' of Ufe." whk

The ROSICRUCIANS

(AMORC)

(TTie Rosicfociaiia ate NOT a religious otgastf saBon >

i

—

\

Please oientloa Newssiand Piction Unit witea answering adveicisemeals

[THE END]

============================================================
by Yon yonrknowledgebsfote
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Mail Coupon today. No cost
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
IN TIME TO GRACE THE CAPON WHICH NORA ME- "YES!" I REPEATED
by Miss Mkhaelson was I
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
SEEMED UTTERLY AT PEACE WITH ALL THE WORLD. "NOT MORE THAN HALF AN HOUR, SIR
by Maybe f
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
TO DE GRANDIN I EXPLAINED: "JUST ONE OF CALL?— THE CRAMPER-IN- THE-STOMACH? HE IS ALTHOSE THINGS THAT KEEP LIFE FROM BECOMING WAYS COMPLAINING, THAT ONE
by You must not
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
HEADING B7 A. R
by TILBURNE
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by But for the one
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by He came
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by You never heard
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
RED
by As we stepped into die car beside him
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by These men had never heard of
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
KNIFE
by They were lilce two chemicals that
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
T S
by AVEUNG so smoothly we were
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
COIQUITT STEPPED SOUNDLESSLY ACROSS THE <»RRIDOR TO THE RECEPTION ROOM
by At the door
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
ITHOUGHT "OF COURSE
by Miss Castevens. Did
============================================================

[THE END]
