============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: June 1930
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Across the Hall August W" by Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
by Derleth
============================================================
mend your ways, ’ ’ de Grandin agreed with a grin. “Meantime, as damnation is a hot and thirsty business, I vote we adjourn to Friend Trowbridge’s and absorb a drink.”

A Pathetic Litt/e Story Is

Across the Hall

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

AMN!”

Rodney Market threw his pen to the floor. In so doing, he turned his head slightly, and saw a vision in white possessed of the threshold of his room. He turned. The girl stood with raised eyebrows, staring severely at him. Her head was turned a little to one side; cocked, one might almost say.

“Oh! pardon me. I wasn’t aware that I had a visitor. Not really. You’re Miss... Miss...”

She did not volunteer to help him out.

“Miss... from across the hall,” he finished lamely.

She nodded almost imperceptibly. He waited for her to say something.

“I’ve got to write a letter.”

He looked at her. She was perfectly serious; a frown had jumped into being on her forehead.

“I’ve got to write a letter,” she said again, as if she had not said it before. “Got to,” she repeated for emphasis.

“Is it imperative?” he asked, smiling.

“Got to,” she said again, making a queer, mad movement with her free hand; Rodney noticed now that she held a pen in one of her pale, white hands.

“What’s the matter? Bad pen, or something?”

“No ink.”

“Won’t you come in and sit down for a few minutes?”

“No. I ’ve got to write a letter. ’ ’

“Perhaps I can find you some ink. Will red ink do?” he asked, looking askance at the bottle on his desk.

“Oh! no. I shouldn’t wish to write in red ink. Wotild you?” She made a wry grimace with her face.

Rodney shook his head. “Blue, then,” he said. “The color of your eyes. Surely blue will do! ”

“Yes, blue will do. Blue.”

Rodney Market got the ink-bottle out of his drawer and proffered it. She made no step toward him. Instead she held the pen out and stood



looking expectantly at him. There was an awkward pause. He walked over to her; standing before her, the bottle held in one hand, the cork in the other, he watched her dip her pen into the ink.

‘ ‘ Hadn ’t you better take the bottle? You’ll be out of ink again before long. ’ ’

“Oh! no. This will do. Thank you very much. ’ ’

Without another word she crossed the hall and vanished into the room opposite his. He stood looking after her. He could not remember when he had seen such an appealing girl.

The night was oppressively hot. He went back to his desk and began again the task at which he had been working when the girl came. He wondered half-consciously what her name was; he was not aware that there was a roomer across the hall. He had been in this room only three days, and hadn’t yet gotten the chance to acquaint himself with his surroundings, least of all his fellow tenants. He thought that he would like to know the girl better. Suddenly a low cough from the door interrupted him. The girl was standing there, holding out her pen.

“ I ’ve got to finish the letter. ’ ’ She smiled and looked meaningly at the bottle before him. There was just an edge of fright in her voice, which escaped Rodney at first. He smiled in return and took up the ink-bottle.

“Why didn’t you take the bottle? I won’t have any need of it until tomorrow anyway. I can call for it then,” he added as an afterthought.

‘ ‘ No, ’ ’ she said. ‘ ‘ I don ’t want the bottle; I just want a little ink. It’s just a short letter... just a short one. I ’m sure I didn ’t think I ’d need more than just one pen of ink. I’m sorry....”

He went over to her again with the bottle and stood admiring her while she dipped her pen into the ink. He would have to get the landlady to introduce him to her in the morning. He

felt an instinctive liking for her; he could not help hoping that she would reciprocate it. She turned her face upward.

‘ ‘ Thank you again. I hate to bother you... but I ’ve simply got to finish that letter. ’ ’

She moved across the hall again, a little slower this time. At her door she turned her head.

“Good-night.”

“Good-night,” he answered, and smiled.

He went back into his room and left the door open again, hoping vaguely that she would need more ink. He sat down to begin a letter of his own. He wrote slowly and laboriously, “May 17, 1928;” then his pen balked again, and he threw it from him with an exclamation of disgust. He turned toward the door again and again, half expecting to see the girl there, but he was disappointed, for she did not again appear. At last he retired, thinking of her, already beginning to build air castles about her.

In the morning when he awoke, his first thought was of her. He got into his clothes as hastily as he could, and went hurriedly to the bathroom, hoping to see the girl on the way. But no; he saw nothing of her, though he lingered as long as he dared. He sat down and waited for the landlady, who usually came up the stairs at about eleven o’clock; he could always tell when she came, for she had a habit of dragging her broom after her; he could always recognize the sound. When at last she came, he stood in the hall waiting.

‘ 1 Good morning, Mrs. Simpson. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Good morning. ’ ’

He fumbled awkwardly.

“Nice morning.”

“Pine.”

He turned to go back into his room.

“Oh! by the way, Mrs. Simpson, I’d like to'ask a favor of you. Might

I?”

‘‘Ask away.”

“Could you... would you intro812


dnce me to the girl who rooms across the hall?”

For a moment the landlady frowned; then she started to laugh.

“Girl across the hall? What did you have for supper last night that, made you dream that? There ’s not a girl rooming in this house.”

“ Oh! biit I say... but I saw her. She came to get ink from me twice last night.”

“Nonsense. Come on, I’ll show you.”

The landlady fumbled among her keys for a moment; then she stepped across the hall and unlocked the door of the room. He walked into the room after the landlady.

“Look,” she said. “Empty I Has been for nearly ten years.”

The room was bare of furniture, except for a rickety table off to one side. Close to it, down on the floor, he saw a yellow scrap of paper, elosely folded. The landlady paid no attention to him. He went over toward the table and picked up the scrap of paper. Then he noticed the pen on the dustcovered table. It was very old, but there was a curiously fresh blue discoloration on the rusty steel point.

He opened the paper hurriedly. There were three lines written on it in a neat feminine hand. The last line was broken off in the middle, as if the pen had gone dry. Below the last line were several oddly cryptic scrawls, as if someone had added to the paper at a later date. He read the letter:

Dearest Mark:

Why didn’t yon send me the money I asked for? It wasn’t much. I’ve got to have it; got to...

Then he looked up at the date, and was half conscious of the landlady calling him from the threshold. He started from the room, holding the paper tightly in his hand.

The letter was dated “May 17, 1908.”

“Once had a girl there,” the landlady was saying as he stepped into the hall. “But she had a bit of bad luck. A man, I suspected.... Dam this lock! It always gives me trouble. ’ ’

Rodney stepped forward mechanically. He started to turn the key. “What happened to her?” he asked in an undertone.

“The girl? Oh! she killed. herself. Prussic acid, the doctor said.”

7he BUCK MINA 14 H j

Y-PAsVC-fcRNJT

“They were shaken like a stick in a whirlpool."

The Story Thus Far

I N HIS distant laboratory Professor Eden photographs and locates a hitherto unsuspected evil genius who rules the world from an underground palace in North Africa. At his death he sends his adopted son. Professor Sanderson, on a crusade against him. Sanderson joins forces with Neal Emory, whose father has been murdered by the machinations of the Black Monarch. They enter the Black Kingdom and find a race of automatons ruled by the despot, Rez. They are captured and brought to the throneroom of Rez, who speaks to them through the voice of a beautiful girl, Who lies apparently lifeless beside a great blue disk. Rez taunts them with their helplessness, demonstrates his miraculous scientific abilities, and reduces Neal to an automaton by a drug which steals away his mind. He reserves Sanderson for a surgical operation to reduce him to the same condition. Sanderson, realizing that the disk is the source of Rez’s power, instructs Neal how to break the disk, and orders him to strike, carefully concealing his thoughts from Rez the while, so that the monster can not read his intention.

15. The End of the Quest

THE fraction of a second that followed Sanderson’s command seemed hours long. He gazed imploringly at Neal from the comer of his eye. Would he remember the desperate rehearsals in the prison rooms below? And if he did remember — would he be able to move in obedience? Or was he still held by the mental grip of Rez? In all this time he had not moved a finger. Was it because he could not?

In the next instant, even as Rez wheeled to stare at them with his chill

This story begran in WEIRD TALES for February.




eyes, he received the answer to, his agonized questions.

Whether it was that Rez was actually powerless to bind mentally a man in Neal’s' present state of mindlessness, or whether he had been too sure of Neal’s docile harmlessness, will never be known. The fact remained that Neal could move. And, at the rehearsed word of command, move he did!

He stooped to pick up the metal bench that was beside them. Bearing it in his arms, he walked placidly but swiftly toward the diamond disk.

He swung the bench back to the full length of his arms. Behind him Rez was bounding over the stretch of floor. Just as the great figure leaped at him, Neal crashed the metal bench squarely into the center of the disk.

An instant later he flras flung against the wall, but Rez had been too. late. The curtain behind the disk bellied a moment under the weight of the dozen fragments of the shattered jewel, then straightened as the pieces fell to the floor. With hands spread at his sides in a gesture of impotence and dismay, Rez surveyed the wreck of his disk. Then, slowly, he turned to face Sanderson.

For a dozen seconds light gray eyes stared from spiky black beard, and chill, distorted ones peered from metal helmet — to clash in cold ferocity.

Then Sanderson moved his great arms tentatively. He flexed the muscles of legs and back, and experimentally took a few steps to see if he were completely free from the spell of Rez. He was. He could move with ease — and before him, no longer protected by the hypnotic power of the diamond, was his unearthly enemy.

“And now,” he rumbled, his eyes fixed on the vulnerable airhole in the base of the muscular throat, “we will see whether my lifelong training has been for nothing 1”

L ike two great panthers they sidled slowly and alertly about each other. Sanderson, ever watching the chill eyes behind the thick lenses, came a little closer and sought for an opening. He assumed the other was doing the same. In a moment he was aware of his error — Rez jumped %wdy from him and toward the curtain^ door.

Immediately Sanderson was aft&r him. Above all things he must not be allowed to leave the room and enlist the help of his guards. At the very doorway he caught up with 'him and smashed out with his fist. His doubled hand crashed against the metal hood, A streak of pain told him he ’d broken a finger. But Rez staggered back from the entrance, plainly dazedly the impact against his metal skull, and in that instant Sanderson caught a heavy table and pulled it in front of the door. A poor barrier, but it would impede the other for the few seconds necessary to stop him should he try to leave the chamber again.

As he turned from the task Rez was upon him, and for the first time he felt his superhuman strength to the full. Enormous hands closed around his throat. A great leg was curved around his own legs. He felt himself lifted clear of the floor and dashed down again. But in his fall he clutched at the broad belt around the other’s waist, and when he fell Rez fell too.

Both were up almost as soon as they had touched the floor, and again they circled warily about each other; while from the comer where he had been flung after breaking the disk, Neal watched the two giants with round, bewildered eyes. ‘

As the two gazed at each other, seeking for another opening, Sanderson was frantically trying to beat down a weakness resulting from an unexpected thing — the feel of the skin of Rez! In their brief grapple his hands had recoiled involuntarily from

THE BLACK MONARCH 015

further touch. It was nauseating, the feel of that scaly, hairless skin — so repulsive that he felt faint from the momentary contact.

While he wavered in his indecision, Rez was upon him again. He was thrown to the rock floor under the crash of the meeting, and on him was the great weight of Rez. Just above him was the airhole at the base of tlje metal helmet. He could feel the air sucking in and blowing out as it fed the panting lungs.

£ He wrenched his right arm free apd, at the same instant as fingers shut around his own throat, pressed his hand down over the airhole. In the clutch of those great hands he was shaken like a child, but he kept his palm tenaciously over the airhole till he felt the other’s grip slacken a trifle. Then he arched his knees under him, kicked out with all his strength, and was free.

A section of the rough white drapery was torn from the wall as Rez clutched it to steady himself. With it came two of the crossed javelins hung there in ornament. Rez snatched up one of these, held it close to the blade like a short-sword, and charged Sanderson.

With a writhe of his body Sanderson eluded the thrust, but a twinge in his side and the feel of something warm trickling over his skin told him how slight had been his escape. As the other’s hand was raised for a second blow, he caught the descending wrist and checked it. Then he groped for the, airhole, but his own wrist was grasped with a force that numbed his arm.

The strength of Rez surpassed even his own enormous muscular power, as he was soon to learn. In spite of his utmost effort, the hand that held the javelin was pressed lower and lower, while he was held powerless to check its advance or tear himself free. Down it crept, an inch at a time, until it was within a few inches of his chest. Then he caught a side glimpse of Neal, who

was watching them with child-like wonder.

‘‘Neal!” he gasped. “Help me! Hit his helmet with something!”

Neal stared about him, obviously in search of something with which to carry out orders.

“Your sandal ”

The point of the javelin was very near him now.

Mechanically Neal took off one sandal and approached with the light metal thing in his hand. Rez swung the body of Sanderson as a shield between them, but a moment later Neal reached around and swung the sandal at the cylindrical hood.

Sanderson tore loose from the weakened grip of his antagonist but was not quick enough to prevent his next move.

Rez wheeled toward Neal, who was standing defenseless save for his sandal, his arms swinging harmlessly at his side — and crashed his fist against his head just above the ear. Neal went down against the wall with his legs crumpled under him like a broken doll.

With his back toward the doorway, Sanderson moved toward Rez, but stopped uncertainly. The cold eyes were looking over his shoulder, and Rez was pointing at him in a commanding way. Wheeling quickly he saw the guard leader just launching himself from the table top. Hearing the noise of the fight, he had evidently broken rules for once in his life and had come to the disk room unsummoned.

As he leaped and closed, Rez sprang from the other side. But, swinging the guard’s body like a giant pendulum, Sanderson managed to check his attack. Then he loosed his hold of the flying body. The guard leader smashed against the wall, his helmet crushed down over his eyes, bleeding from nose and mouth.

With the momentum of the swing, Sanderson closed with Rez, now maddened instead of nauseated by the



feel of that dry, abhorrent skin. Disregarding a rain of blows on face and body, he clamped his hand over the airhole again — the vulnerable spot, this hole in the heavy throat. Incapable now of clear thinking, he yet remembered that. It was several seconds before he was thrown off by the convulsive ferocity of the evil monster.

He glanced toward the door, struck by a sudden apprehension that more guards might appear. But a moment later this fear was laid. The disk was broken now, and without its transmitting power Rez was unable to call help. The leaders, with their fragments of the diamond in their helmets, could receive no message through the great parent stone. They would probably be uninterrupted in their grim battle.

Bracing his shoulders, he met a fresh charge from Rez, and the struggle was recommenced. On and on they fought. Rez seemed as tireless and invincible as a thing of steel. Sanderson could not down him. And meanwhile he protected himself with increasing difficulty from the bull-like rushes, the tremendous clutching hands, and the battering fists.

All that kept him up now was the superlative training and physical treatments he had received from Eden and had kept up of his own volition after Eden’s death. Almost too exhausted to think, his muscles carried him of themselves. He was nearly out, but his body continued to function, to stand the punishment it was receiving from the heavier muscles of his antagonist.

And always, whenever they closed, he felt blindly for the airhole.

Back and forth over the torn carpet they rocked, until they were near the wall where lay the curtain Rez had wrenched down in his effort to keep from falling. Here was the second javelin of the two that had fallen with the curtain. Rez stooped to pick

it up. Sanderson sprang toward him to prevent it.

Raising his heavily sandaled foot, Rez kicked him backward with all his strength. Sanderson staggered a dozen feet and fell to the floor. Rez caught up the second javelin, poised it at arm’s length, and threw it at the head of the fallen man.

Plashing in the light of the rinay plates, it sped toward the bearded face. It never reached its destination. In his fall Sanderson had grasped at one of the metal benches. Now he managed to swing it in front of him before the spear could reach him. It glanced from the smooth surface as though fx’om a shield and ripped into the carpet a dozen paces beyond.

Rez reached up for another javelin, but before he could get it Sanderson whirled the heavy bench at him with all his remaining strength. Rez caught most of the force of the blow on his huge arms, but a comer of the bench went beyond his guard and smashed against the cylindrical hood.

The impact plainly jarred the brain beneath the metal. Rez was dazed for a moment, and showed it. He moved his grotesque skull slowly to right and left as though trying to shake loose from an enveloping fog, and behind the heavy lenses his eyes blinked uncertainly.

Leaping to follow up the advantage, Sanderson flung himself on his antagonist, his hand coming down over the vulnerable airhole as he closed. This time it looked as though he were to be successful in holding it there. Shaken like a stick in a whirlpool by the frenzied effort of Rez to loose himself, he clung to his grip. The great body under him grew markedly weaker....

Then Rez drew away a few inches, bent his artificial head back, and brought it down on Sanderson’s temple like a club with all the weight of his powerful neck behind the blow.



Sanderson ’sfjfrip was relaxed, and Rez staggered free.

His feet touched something near the end curtain — the fragments of the broken disk. Instantly he picked one up and threw it at Sanderson. It caught him on the shoulder, and a; jagged streak of red marked where its edge had struck.

Swaying unsteadily, seeing his nightmare opponent through the mists of exhaustion, Sanderson moved to attack him again. It was his last attempt and he knew it. There would be no more reserves of strength on Which to call if he failed in this final effort to overcome the devil with the metal skull.

He lurched blindly toward the dimly seen figure and lashed out with his fist. Again he landed on the metal hood — with his broken hand. But the pain was welcome. It slashed across the veils of fading consciousness for an instant, and braced him like a plunge into cold water.

On his cheek he felt the gasping breaths from the airhole. There was blood around it now, where the metal rim had eut into the encircling flesh with the straining of the throat muscles. If he could cover that for a moment

Circling the thick torso with his right arm, he caught the right wrist of Rez and forced it up and across in a wrestling hold. Then he twisted his legs around the legs of his opponent and threw him heavily to the floor. In the fall his left hand sought the airhole and clamped down over it with the firmness of despair.

Rez tore fiercely at the imprisoning hand, and pushed his fist into the sweaty, bearded face above him, but Sanderson kept his hold. He ignored the wrenching fingers that sought his own throat in a last attempt to dear the distressing hand away from the airhole. Ever more firmly he pressed down on the screened opening through which Rez breathed and therefore lived.

W.T.— 3

The great body under him moved more and more sluggishly. The hand that sought to throttle him, to push his face away, hurt him not at all — due to the deadened condition of his own nerves as much as to the failing force of his antagonist.

As before, Rez brought his head forward on Sanderson’s temple like a club. But this time, stretched on the floor as he was with no room given him for a back swing, and with his neck held almost immovable by the professor’s right hand, the blow did little harm.

Suddenly he was struggling no longer, writhing and twisting no more. Under the weight of the earthman he had mocked, he lay still, gone at last to the death to which he had condemned so many others in the thousands of years of his unnatural and monstrous life.

For moments Sanderson kept his hand pressed against the airhole in the now rigid throat. It did not occur to him that there was no longer need of the deadly grip. He did not notice that the heavy limbs of the devil beneath him had ceased to twitch and jerk. Indeed he was beyond conscious thought, holding himself from fainting by sheer force of will. All that he could recollect was that he must keep his hand pressed over the hole. He must not relax his grip. He must

The overstrained body bore down the last barrier of blind will. He sighed deeply. His eyes closed, jerked feebly open, closed again. He sagged against the body of the evil genius he had conquered, rolled from it, and lay senseless by its side.

16. The Escape

A uttui later Sanderson opened his eyes and gazed bewilderedly around at the wrecked disk room. Then he saw the body of Rez lying huge and motionless beside him, and he got quickly to his feet as memory



caught up With the events that had taken place.

In one corner Neal lay unconscious. Sanderson went over to him and began to chafe his hands in an attempt to bring him to. There was a lump on his head above his right ear, but there seemed to be no other injury. He touched the spot tentatively, and Neal stirred and sat up.

“I bumped my head,” he murmured, and Sanderson’s heart sank at the blank look in his eyes. Rez was dead, but the injury done to Neal by his devilish drug still persisted.

Neal gazed at him with a pleased expression. “I broke the circle,” he said proudly. 4 4 I did everything you told me, didn’t I?”

“Yes,” said the professor With a sigh. “You saved our lives and made it possible for me to accomplish tny mission — but God knows if you’ll ever be able to realize it!”

He stopped as Neal stared wonderingly over his shoulder.

“Look!” he said. “The pretty lady!”

Sanderson turned then to see what he was pointing at, and gasped with surprize at what he saw.

' In the opening made by the fallen curtain near the broken disk stood a graceful, white-robed figure. A girl.

Her face was firmly molded and beautiful. Her hair was dark and! lustrous in the light of the rinay plates. She swayed a little, and it was seen that she was hardly aisle to stand upright. Her cheeks were white as the garment that covered her; but even as Sanderson stared at her he saw a tinge of color touch them, saw her sway less uncertainly as she grew accustomed to standing again. Her eyes, brown with a tinge of gold in them, regarded the room confusedly, and finally looked questioningly at the bearded giant who was watching her.

Then she saw the great form on the stone floor, and she shrank back with a gasp of terror. She spoke, and it was the voice that had issued from the

disk, but now it was a,.voice warm with life.

“What — what is tins place! Why am I here?” Her eyes fell on the grotesque form of Rez again. “That head!” she whispered. “The nightmare dreams I’ve had!...”

Sanderson felt Neal stir restlessly, and as he turned to look at him he thought he saw a light of intelligence struggling to return to the blue of his eyes.

“The voice!” he murmured; “the voice ” But he could get no farther on his backward mental journeying.

Ho rose and walked toward the girl with a child-like smile on his face!-!— an expression so at variance with the breadth of his shoulders and ' the stubble of beard on his face that she drew away from him and glanced; appealingly at the professor.

“It’s all right,”' said Sanderson. “He won’t hurt you.”

“But who is he? And why am I here?”

“Don’t you remember how you got here?”

“I remember nothing,” she said. ‘“Nothing! I was walking along the road near the hotel at Hammam Meskoutine in the evening, and some men dressed as Arabs approached., I felt a cloth pressed against my mouth and nose — and after that I remember nothing until now. Only ’ ’ — she shuddered and pointed — “only that awful head! It seemed as though I were sleeping and trying to wake up. And I would see that head ”

“You’ve been asleep,” said Sanderson. “But very soundly! How long have you been here, Miss ”

“My name is Eileen Sanger. It was November tenth that the Arabs captured me ”

‘ ‘ They were no Arabs, Miss Sanger. They were of a far more exotic race! And it is now some time in March. ”

“But ” she began helplessly.

Sanderson interrupted her. “I’ll explain something of this to you later.


819.

Now we must leave at once before we ’re recaptured. ’ ’

“You’re hurt,” she protested, catching sight of the red stain on his tunic and moving toward him.

“It’s only a scratch. Come, we must go. At once! ’ ’

With the girl on one side of him and Neal moving mechanically on the other, he started down the broad steps that led from the disk room.

A t the last turn of the stairs he motioned for them to wait while he went ahead to see if any of the lieutenants were in the guardroom. In a moment he came back up around the bend, his finger to his lips.

“There’s one of the leaders in there now,” he whispered. “But they’re changing the guard, and he’ll probably be leaving soon. ”

On tiptoe they filed after him, Neal grinning delightedly at the interesting game they were playing, and clinging to the girl’s hand. They peered cautiously into the guardroom; the leader was no longer in sight.

As calmly as they might, the three walked among the motionless puppets of Rez’s guard, out the door, and down the ramp to the floor of the tremendous cavern in the middle of which was the bizarre double palace of Rez — the palace that was now only a great tomb for the ruler it had housed so long.

Sanderson glanced hurriedly around the edge of the cave till he found the tunnel Rez had so mockingly shown them in the disk — the tunnel that led eventually to the normal world above them. Quickly they traversed the great floor and entered the passage mouth.

The professor sighed with relief, then, and slackened their pace as much as he dared in consideration of the girl. Eileen was very weak after her long spell of hypnotic inactivity. Sanderson marveled that she could walk at all, and he could only conclude that whatever food essence had

been fed her during that long unconsciousness must be far more strength-sustaining than any he knew of.

“I think we’re safe now,” he said to her. “As we go I’ll try to explain things to you briefly — give you some idea of the devil who kept you prisoner all this time, and how it is that my unfortunate young friend thinks he knows your voice....”

I n the room of the disk, the guard leader whom Sanderson had left for dead stirred and sat up with a moan. Stonily he gazed at the gigantic figure with the metal head. It told him nothing. Neither he nor any other man of Rez had ever seen that head — and lived to tell of it afterward. Because the fallen giant had pointed at the man with the black beard, he had attacked him. He did not know clearly why he had obeyed the gesture, save that there had been something commanding in it — something that inspired in him the same feeling of obedience he experienced when commanded by the disk.

Here he gazed at the place where the diamond used to be — and scrambled to his feet. This was something he could understand! The blue diamond, the mouthpiece of the god, Rez, was destroyed. It could only have been done by the man with the beard, or by the smaller man with him. They must be caught and brought back to the god for punishment!

He spVang down the stairs to the guardroom and shouted a command. With the precision of machinery the men formed into a double file and followed him at a run-down the ramp and out onto the floor of the central cavern. One of the guards there was questioned, and answered by raising his arm and pointing to the tunnel entrance over which was the symbolic mural monster.

Toward this the men sped, following the disheveled, bloody figure of


their leader, to capture the ones who had dared to break the blue diamond of Rez, and to bring them back for punishment.

A S SANDERSON finished his brief outline, the girl looked up at him with wonder in her eyes.

“So you destroyed this evil power just as you set out to do so many years ago!” she exclaimed. “Why, it’s more wonderful than the winning of the greatest battle ever fought! If the world knew ”

“I’m afraid the world wouldn’t believe it even if it were told,” said the professor dryly. “But I didn’t do it for medals or votes of thanks. And I’m not the only one to be praised, remember. I devoted my life to the cause — but Neal has given his mind!”

Eileen touched Neal’s arm gently.

“Will he always be like this?”*

“No, he’ll probably learn all over again to be a man, just as any child grows to manhood in the course of time...

At that instant they rounded a bend in the tunnel and saw before them the blank wall that had been shown them in the disk.

“Here we are!” said Sanderson thankfully. “And there’s the lever that swings the door....”

He stopped abruptly to listen. Behind them came a noise of sandaled feet on the rock floor, and even as Eileen gazed fearfully at him, the pursuing Rezians rounded the turn and poured toward them.

With an exclamation Sanderson leaped for the lever and pulled it down. At the pressure the roek door trembled slightly, then began to slide up in its invisible grooves.

“Under it!” cried the professor. “Roll under it!”

They leaped to obey him. He jammed the lever to its closed position and, as the door began to slide downward, he threw all his weight sideways and snapped the heavy metal

strip close to its slot in the stone. Then he rolled under the slab and joined them in safety on the other side.

But though the pursuers could not follow them, at the order of their leader they did something else almost as alarming. They bent down to the diminishing space under the descending door and shouted. Twice they yelled in chorus before the thick slab ground down and cut off the noise as a knife slashes a string. Ahead of the escaping prisoners the sound, through; some trick of acoustics, echoed along the tunnel in a warning roar that did not die completely for several seconds.:

Sanderson frowned anxiously as they hurried down the passage to the outer gate of the kingdom. Unless he was mistaken, that had been a signal of warning to the men in the outpost. And of these, as he remembered it, there were twelve!

Hastily he sketched the situation to Eileen.

“This is what we’ll do,” he said. “In this cave we’re approaching there is another lever arrangement like the first. We’ll charge the place and run for the lever. You will press it down while Neal and I hold the guards away from you. As soon as the door swings up you two roll under it. Then I’ll start it down, break off the lever as I did before, and join you. You understand?”

“Yes.”

“And you, Neal? You ’re to keep anyone from hurting Eileen. You don’t want Eileen to be hurt, do you?”

Neal scowled. “No!” he said, shaking his head vigorously. “No! I wouldn ’t let anyone hurt her. Ever! ”

Eileen pressed his arm, and smiled at Sanderson though her lips were pallid with alarm.

Soon they drew near to the outer cave — the last outpost of the leaderless kingdom of Rez. Could they win through that, they would be free. A narrow passage, a crevice of soft dirt



that could be easily widened to admit their passage; and they would stand in the direct light of sky again in-' stead of in the reflected light of the metal plates.

At length Sanderson was able to look ahead and see the entrance of the outpost cave. Drawn up across it, stiffly forbidding, were the twelve guards. The entrance was wide, and, to -reach across it, the little band had to stand in a single line; but they stood close together, and it looked impossible to break through even for a moment ’s work at the lever.

* Sanderson stooped and picked up two large rock fragments, motioning Neal to do the same.

Throw at the two men on the right side,” he whispered. “That side, there. I’ll take the two at the left.”

.Drawing back his arm for a throw, Sanderson suddenly sprang from behind the boulder that had concealed them momentarily, and ran forward with Neal and Eileen close behind.

Before the puppets could move, both on the professor’s end had dropped under his throws, made from such short range that it was almost impossible to miss; and one on the right went down with a broken head under Neal ’s cast, while the man next td him doubled up under the force of a rock that caught him in the stomach.

Without an instant’s pause they rushed forward. The two center men reached for Sanderson. There was a sickening sound as their heads were smashed together. Another was bowled out of the way — and the giant professor had cleared a path for the two behind him.

“To the lever!” he shouted; and Eileen ran across the cave. But there she paused uncertainly. There were two.

“Which lever?” she called to him. “The yellow one?”

“My God, no!” cried Sanderson, the words of Rez ringing in his ears: the one of yellow metal starts in

motion the process of measured vibration that caused the rock slide....

“Pull the gray lever!” he shouted. “The gray ”.

He was surrounded by the men of Rez, the heart of a whirling group that now and then split apart to show him in its center, indomitably lashing out with his great arms.

Eileen pressed the lever indicated. Two of the guards jumped toward her. “Neal ” she implored.

A struggling mass of three fighting figures suddenly disentangled itself, and Neal leaped between the girl and the. advancing pair. The glare of his eyes as he faced the two was appalling. He was like an animal gone mad. They hesitated an instant before continuing their rush, and as they wavered he took the initiative himself. One crumpled backward as a fist crashed against his unprotected body just above the heart. The other went down with Neal on top and feeling for his throat.

On the opposite side the professor was more than holding his own. His great fists were performing deadly work among the men of Rez who had never before seen a man hit with his bare fists and who had no notion of how to guard themselves. One he caught fairly in the chest with his swollen right hand. It was excruciatingly painful to hit with that hand, but he had no chance to spare it. With this blow he felt the flesh give under his knuckles, felt rather than heard a dull snap — and the guard went down with a broken collarbone.

Meanwhile the door was responding to the touch of the lever. Up it slid, revealing a narrow dark passage with a crack of light in the far distance that was unlike the eternal sun-yellow of the rinay plates — for this was the gray light of a clouded sky. Now there was room to roll under the door....

The guards charged with new fury at the escaping prisoners. For a moment Neal was down and helpless, but



Sanderson managed to win clear of his own assailants and help him up again.

Behind him the guard with the broken collarbone was creeping painfully toward the two levers.

“Run!” the professor commanded. “I can hold them a little longer.”

But Neal was deaf to his order. One of the guards had caught Eileen by the arm in an attempt to drag her away from the door, and Neal had gone more berserk than ever.

“Run, I say!” gasped Sanderson. “Eileen — make him go with you!”

At the touch of her hand, Neal quieted a little and allowed himself to be urged out of the fight. Reluctantly he followed her under the door, which was almost at the top of its swing.

Sanderson redoubled his efforts to throw off the figures that leaped and clung to him. He must somehow win enough time to reach the lever and start the door down again.

Unseen behind him, crawling slowly along the rock wall, the guard with the broken collarbone edged his way toward the door. His eyes were fixed unblinkingly on the lever block, as though, that being his goal, he would draw strength enough from its sight to allow him to reach it.

The professor stumbled and nearly fell over a motionless body at his feet. Quickly he stooped and picked it up. As the others charged he threw it at them with all the power left him, and won a second’s breathing space.

Neal and Eileen were through in safety. All that remained was to start the door on its descent, beat off the guard for just a moment or two longer, and then join them.

He jammed the lever up and threw his weight against it to break it off as he had the other one....

The lever did not break. It bent in his hands till it lay at right angles along the slotted block of stone in which it moved. But break it would not!

And now his short, interval of freedom was over. Back came the remnant of the guard, their number swelled by the one whom Neal had hit in the stomach with his rock. They seemed not to know pain, these puppets of the black kingdom. Man by man Sanderson hurled them to the floor, flung them aside, knocked them, over; but man by man they came on. Never for an instant did he have an opportunity of tearing entirely free, from their clutching hands.

He was drugged with exhaustion, and his right hand was swollen into a small pillow that hurt no one but himself when he struck with it. His blows were not crippling any longer. Under their impact the automatons found it easier and easier to rise and renew their charges.

The door had reached a fatally low level in its slow, even descent. In a few more seconds it would have swung too low for him to pass under it....’

Beside it the guard with the broken collarbone stopped in his painful crawling, his goal reached at last.

Laboriously he reached for one of the levers — the yellow one. He couldn’t quite grasp it — groped up again. The effort was too much for him. As he made a last attempt his eyes closed and he fell back to the floor. t r

But, clenched in his unconscious hand, moving down as he moved, was the yellow lever!

“Coming!” As though from a great distance, Eileen’s cry reached Sanderson’s dulled hearing. “Oh, Neal!” he heard an instant later. “They must have got him! The door’s almost closed and he’s still in ”

The enormous slab of rock thudded into place and Sanderson could hear no more.

He was terribly weak. The superhuman exertions of his fight with Rez, the killing pain of his broken hand, the impossible odds in the outer cave, had entirely worn him out.



Working his way back toward the levers, He fhttiblea behind him with his puffed right hand while pounding away with Ms left. The bent lever coaid not be moved. Unless there were some auxiliary mechanism of control the door would never be opened to let him out.

The still figure of the guard by the block at his feet, he was unable to see. Nor did he see the ominous yellow lever pulled down to its last notch by the rigid hand.

And now the solid rock of the floor beneath him seemed to sway and tremble. He brushed his hand wearily across his eyes. Under the rush of two of the guards he staggered for a moment, then recovered Ms balance. His recovery was only momentary.

Three more charged him. Hitting out at them feebly, he fell.. *. ' -

I N the narrow dirt passage outside, Eileen stared, horrified, at the closed door. Through it no slightest sound issued, and the silence, after the noise of fighting, was as oppressive as the silence of a crypt. Behind the thick barrier, hopelessly walled in, was Sanderson — gigantic, heroic Sanderson. Could nothing be done to help him?

At her impulsive direction, Neal put his fingers under the great slab and tried to raise it. The effort was useless, of course; a crane could hardly have lifted it. The block was as immovable as the solid wall in which it was set.

For a few moments she waited there, hoping to the last that the door would swing up again and the professor Would come to meet them. Then she turned to Neal.

“We won't help him any by just standing here,” she said with a broken sigh that showed how near she was to utter collapse. “Let’s enlarge the passage so it will be big enough to get out of when — if — he does win through.”

“All right,” Neal agreed; “what shall I do now?”

“Dig,” said Eileen, setting him an example with her own slim hands.

There was only a yard or so of the too narrow crevice that needed to be widened. The walls were of soft, crumbing mold, easy to tear loose even with unaided fingers. In a few minutes they should be through with their task. But as they worked something occurred that spurred them on to frantic haste.

The earth around them began to tremble. It swayed rhythmically back and forth, its motion gradually increasing in violence till it was like the rocking of a tall building in a gale of wind. There was something measured and deliberate about the movement. It was like the swinging of a long suspension bridge under regularly marching feet — oscillating more and more in response to the measured footfalls until the whole structure is set in dangerous motion by a few pounds weight.

“Hurry!” cried Eileen. “It’s an earthquake!” ’

Behind them a large section of earth loosened and fell from the roof of the passage. Dirt began to pour down on them in ever growing clumps. But now Neal was so nearly through that he could reach his head and arm out the opening. With a heave of his back, he broke the ground clear and crawled free.

Eileen reached her hand toward him and he caught it quickly, pulling her toward him into the clear air. Just as she was half through the entrance, however, she exclaimed and bit her lip with sudden pain as a large piece of dirt fell on her ankle. And hardly had she left the tunnel mouth than the whole passage caved.

Confusedly they looked around them.

'T'hev had emerged at the base of a small mound of earth completely covered with bushes and thorn-trees.



No one would have dreamed that in the midst of the harmless-looking bank of vegetation there was an entrance leading down to a vast subterranean city.

The mound was at the foot of Block Mountain, hardly four hundred yards away from it. As they lay there, clinging dazedly to the rocking earth, Neal raised his hand and pointed to the great, square hill of gray rock.

“Look!” he cried. “ It is moving! ”

It was. Huge pieces were being chipped from its swaying sides, some of them rolling down the slope of the hill and coming dangerously near to their place of refuge. Cracks appeared in its cliffs, which widened even as they gazed at them. The mountain seemed to be dancing, to be capering monstrously in time to some measured drum-beat.

The spectacle could not endure much longer — it was impossible for rock to stand that shaking without flying to pieces.

With a last increase in violence the earth about them quaked and tilted. Olive- and palm-trees for hundreds of yards around were uprooted and flung down. Huge gaps appeared in the earth, and closed and opened like dry wounds in the heaving breast of a giant. A fountain of water shot up to incredible heights as the underground lake was compressed to rebellion by the collapse of a great section of its rock covering.

And then with a roar that left them stunned and deafened for hours afterward, Block Mountain, in a boiling cloud of rock dust, sank in upon itself as though the foundation had been jerked from under it. For an average of a hundred feet, it dropped, thousand-ton fragments of stone piling up on one another like beach pebbles tossed in the waves of the sea.

Beneath it, with a mountain for a tombstone, was the annihilated kingdom of Rez — and Professor Eden Sanderson, its destroyer.

17. The New Era

I n all the newspapers of the world there was announcement of a new peace pact signed by the powers of Europe, Asia and America. True, this announcement was located generally on the inside pages. As usual the man in the street had been unaware that war threatened. But many a graybearded statesman sighed with relief at the news. What had caused the last moment aversion to war they did npt know— nor care. Peace was the important fact. Peace — when all t,he signs had pointed to red struggle!

In the same papers began to be printed evei*-growing lists of endowments by wealthy men of all nations. A wave of philanthropy swept the earth, as inexplicable as it was beneficial. Philosophers of every race observed the wholesale, kindly changes and wondered at their cause, gome astrologers spoke of heavenly disturbances, claiming that the puzzling red spot on Jupiter was the reason for the unbelievably prosperous and peaceful era.

All knew that an enormous change for the better had taken place on earth. All wondered vaguely what had brought it about. But in all the world only one person knew the answer to the benevolent riddle.

At the moment when China and America were celebrating the second anniversary of their initial peace pact, this knowledgeable person, a girl with lustrous dark hair who wore a curious blue diamond ring on her finger, sat in the office of a famous brain specialist and watched him apply various mental tests to an unremarkable-looking young man with wide blue eyes and the perplexed, searching appearance of one who tries to remember some half-forgotten thing.

The specialist rose, on terminating the examination, and motioned for her to go with him to another room. “He's coming along splendidly,”


he said when they were out of the patient’s ihharing. “You say he remembers his life up until the time he went abroad after his father’s death?”

“Most of it,” the girl replied. “There are still occasional blind spots. Now and then he’ll meet some old acquaintance without recognizing him, and a few incidents of his later years •With his father are gone. But the only section of his life that remains completely blank is what happened after he sailed on the cruise boat.”

* ‘ Hmm. That was about the time he took the drug, wasn’t it?”

“Yes, it was shortly afterward.”

“I wish you could tell me the name •f the drug. I’ve never heard of any with so lasting an effect on the mind. ’ ’

“I don’t know what it was myself,” murmured the girl.

“And how did you say he came to take it?” probed the specialist.

Eileen smiled to herself as she imagined how the doctor would receive a detailed account of the circumstances in which Neal had lost his


memory. Professor Sanderson — Rez — the metal skull — the crusade. He would probably insist on treating her as a patient, too, if she told him of the heroic quest of the big, blackbearded scientist.

“I didn’t say,” she evaded his interrogation. Then she changed the subject. “In your opinion he is entirely normal again? ’ ’

“Save for that one blank spot in his memory — yes. And I suppose you can inform him on that if you choose? ’ ’

“I know most of his story,” she admitted. “And some day soon I’ll tell him about it.” She rose and drew on her gloves. “Thank you a thousand times for your help and kindness.”

“There’s nothing to thank me for, Mrs. Emory,” answered the doctor. “Though it might have taken a little longer, eventually your husband would have recovered just as well without my services. After all, the only thing a specialist is able to do is aid nature on her course....”

The new era was complete.

[THE END]

A Bizarre Weird-Scientific Story

The Frog

By GRANVILLE S. HOSS

T* OVEMBEB 4th. — It has long /\/ been my Contention that the -A. v great difference in the intelligence and advancement of man, in comparison with the lower animals, has not been due to any innate superiority or peculiar advantage arbitrarily bestowed by the creator. I have held the theory that man ’s leadership of all created life has been due to the more rapid absorption by his brain of certain chemical properties which have tended to promote growth of the brain cells with corresponding expansion of his intellect.

I have believed that if it were possible to reduce to concrete form the chemical elements which have given



growth and development to the mind of man, it would be possible to inject the resulting substance into the brain of one of the lower forms of life and raise the subject of the experiment to the intellectual level of man.

This thought first came to me in my college days. It has been with me throughout all the years since that time. Never but once have I shared these views with another. Fifteen years ago I admitted my closest friend, Dr. Mark Potter, to my thoughts. I talked enthusiastically and at length, giving in detail what I considered substantial reasons for my conclusions, ending by suggesting that he join me in the effort to verify the deductions at which I had arrived.

His laughter was like a basin of ice water dashed in my face. “Illingham,” he cried, “you are crazy, or soon will be if you continue to dwell on such thoughts. Forget that idle twaddle and give your time to advancing in your profession. One way leads to fortune and renown; the other, to the madhouse."

I made no reply to this tirade, but changed the conversation and for the remainder of the time we were together discussed the latest issue of the Medical and Surgical Review.

But my efforts were continued. My leisure hours and for the past ten years my whole time has been given to what has become the one absorbing interest of my life, and now I am ready for the final grand test. I shall soon know if the years have been wasted or if I have found one of the great secrets of life.

I am too nervous to write any more tonight. I must go out for a walk.

November 5th. — While this diary is not meant to be seen by other eyes than my own, I shall nevertheless not go into details of the composition of my brain serum, as life is uncertain and the record might fall into the hands of others. It has been a weary task to gain the small phial of the

precious substance now Reposing in my safe. In order to get it, I have been many times guilty of what the law pronounces to be serious crimes. I have not hesitated to violate the grave and betray the most sacred trusts. If failure is my portion, then my life will have been worse than wasted. In that event I shall not face the light of another day, but seek rest in Nirvana. On the other hand, success will wipe clean the slate and I will have added inestimably to the world’s knowledge. The veil which hides many of the phenomena of earthly life will have been pierced.

November 8th. — For three days I have been attempting to decide on a subject for the final great test. Shall it be bird, beast or reptile? In my opinion, any specimen will answer. As my supply of brain serum is very limited, I think I shall select a small creature; so if the results are not immediately what I expect, I can discontinue the injections and select some other species. I must give this matter the thought it deserves.

November 11th. — My decision is made. I have chosen a bullfrog, a fine, healthy fellow which I obtained from the lake adjacent to the city. I have constructed him a home in my laboratory, a small pool of cement with a bottom of mud and water plants. My greatest difficulty will be suitable food, but I think it can be managed. Tonight I shall administer the first injection of brain serum. I am nervous and laboring under great excitement. This will not do. I must be calm.

November 12th. — Mr. Frog withstood the operation beautifully. I was quite alarmed at first, as he lay in a comatose state for an hour and wa3 quite dazed for a much longer period. He is active now. I am unable to observe any change in him, unless it is that he moves about more than formerly. I feel much encouraged. The results are all I have hoped for from the first tiny injection of serum..

THE FROG


Xobeih&Sr 17th. — Eureka! Success has attended me. After three more injections of serum, my frog shows unmistakable signs of an awakening intelligence. He starts at sudden noises, and, instead of at once plunging into the basin, he immediately faces in the direction from whence they come, seeming to ponder the cause. He apparently watches me as I move about the room and seems to have no fear. He spends less time in the water and moves about the room in a restless manner. I wish now my Selection had been different. A creature higher in the scale of life — a monkey, for instance — might in time |iave been taught to communicate with trie. However, it is too late now for regrets and I shall keep on with the frog. T

.■ November 25th. — Undoubtedly, my theory has been proven correct. Each ‘day my frog grows in intelligence. He patches my every movement and Observes me at my meals, which I have formed the habit of preparing in my laboratory, where I also sleep. At first he would eat nothing but insects, but the other day I tried, him with a small piece of vegetable on the end of my knife. His tongue at once seized the morsel, which he promptly swallowed. Since then, he always partakes with me when I eat. He seems to be losing his appetite for insects, for when offered a fly alongside a tiny bit from my plate, he rejected the fly for the other. He spends less and less time in the water.

I have been under a nervous strain since commencing the experiment and seem unable to throw it off. This positively will not do. I must relax.

' November 30th. — My frog has developed a memory. He has seemed to recognize me for several days, and when I enter the room from an excursion to the outside he hops toward me with every appearance of delight, uttering queer little croaking noises. Lpst night I offered him a small portion of food sprinkled with quinine

powder; he accepted it, but immediately emitted a raucous cry and attempted to eject the bitter dose. He acted completely disgusted, moved from my vicinity and would have nothing more to do with me the whole evening. This episode is full of interest.

December 4th. — Mr. Bullfrog has become quite an imitator. He not only follows me about, seemingly interested in my every movement, but tonight attempted to stand upright. He was only partly successful, maintaining his balance for but a few seconds, then falling to the floor. He also tries to use his hands, keeping one continually moving, while resting on the other. He picks up small articles,; such as match sticks and any other tiny objects he finds in his way. I now call him and he responds. He quails at a note of anger in my voice, much in the manner of a puppy. In the light of my present success, I now wish more than ever I had selected some creature higher in the scale of life for the experiment. However, it is too late. My malady increases. My nights are broken.

December 10th. — I am disappointed. While my frog develops in mind each day, I can now see that he has not a human mind and never will have. His brain might expand to the utmost in cunning, but it would still be reptilian. I experienced an example of this a few nights ago. I crossed the room hurriedly in answer to the ringing of the telephone and stepped on one of the frog ’s feet, with the result that he is now a cripple. He uttered a loud cry, sprang upon my foot and attempted to bite me. Of course this was impossible, considering that he has no teeth, but his actions quite shocked me. He now will have nothing to do with me, backing away at my approach and uttering ribald raucous cries. I know of no other words to describe his noise. He has formed a bitter hatred for me, watching me unceasingly with what



appears to be a baleful glare in his eyes, ready at my first movement in his direction to back away with his awful cries.

December 15th. — My old nervous disorder has returned upon me with full vigor. I have been unable to sleep for three nights and suppose I shall have to go back to drugs in order to get necessary sleep. The frog still refuses all my friendly advances and exhibits an unholy cunning.

December 20th. — Last night I enjoyed the first sound sleep I have had for a week, but was awakened in the most extraordinary manner, which would be ridiculous were it not for the shattered condition of my nerves. I was aroused by a cold sensation on my chest, to find the frog seated there, his little hands gripping my throat and apparently attempting to the utmost of his puny strength to strangle me. At my first awakening, he leaped to the floor and retreated to his pool, uttering his unearthly cries, which to my half-aroused senses seemed to be charged with threats. I wish I could kill the monster, but can not. He seems like a creature of my own creation, being, as he is, the culminating result of years of preparation.

December 22nd. — I was reawakened last night in the same ghoulish manner, with the addition that this time he was attempting to bite. Had he been gifted with fangs, they would certainly have been buried in my throat. I shall be compelled to confine the beast if this continues, I wonder if ray snores annoy him. I am aware that I snore dreadfully and know it must be worse than ever when sleep is induced by artificial means, as is now necessary with me. Anyway, the hatred of the frog is mounting, as shown by attacks on two successive nights.

December 23rd. — Again! This time the rascal was clawing and tearing at my mouth. As I sat up, he leaped to

the floor and hurried tp his pool, where I heard him plunge in. His cries were fearful, baleful, and to my drug-clouded senses, laden with warning. This positively will not do. Today I shall build a fine wire fence about his pool. Let him use the brain I have given him and climb out if he can.

Extract from the Evening Star, December 24th

Dr. John Illingham, a well known retired physician of this city, was discovered dead in his bed today. Death was due to strangulation. Lodged firmly in his throat, as though he had made an effort to swallow it, was a full grown bullfrog.

Medical examination disclosed the fact that Dr. Illingham had been in the habit of using large quantities of drugs, and it has been suggested that he had become temporarily insane and attempted to swallow the frog. Only a crazed man would attempt such a feat. The frog was quite dead when removed from the throat of the deceased.

In the combined laboratory and bedroom, where the body was discovered, a small concrete pool had been built and around it erected a fine wire fence about five feet in height.

A strange diary was found among Dr. Illingham’s effects, which seems to bear out the insanity theory. In this diary is mentioned the name of Dr. Mark Potter, a well known physician of this city. In the absence of any known relatives or Dr. Illingham, the diary has been turned over to Dr. Potter.

Statement by Dr. Mark Potter

I have read the diary of my old friend Dr. Hlingbam and have been asked to make a statement thereon. There is little I can say. It is true that years ago he mentioned some such theory as that described in the diary. Whether it contained any truth or not, who can now say? If the diary is a strict record of fact, then it is apparent that the frog took the only method at his command to make an end of one whom he had come to hate and fear. If the coroner’s theory is correct and the diary contains the ravings of a madman, then the conclusion arrived at by that official is probably true.

D R. JOHN STORELY, bachelor, of middle age and very comfortable circumstances, had lately retired from his extensive practise in London, while still in sound health and activity; for, as he justly remarked, what was the good of keeping in harness till you were too old and infirm to enjoy a well-earned leisure? He still spent most of the year in town, for he was of sociable habits, and the country, so he thought, was a very dreary place for a single man, who neither hunted nor shot, from the time when the autumn leaves begin to fall until spring had definitely established itself again. There were fogs and darkness, it was true, in London, but there were also gas-lamps

and pavements, and a brisk walk along lighted streets to his elub, where he would find a rubber of bridge before dinner was infinitely preferable to a tramp in dim and dripping country lanes, and the return again to his house at Trench, a small country town at the edge of the Romney Marsh, where he would spend a solitary evening. Winter days in the country closed in early, a servant came round and drew the curtains, and there yon were shut up in your box till morning, whereas in London there were many friends about, and pleasant dinners at home or abroad, and amusements of all sorts ready to hand. As to going to some winter resort like the Riviera,

the thought was anathema to him.




People went to the Riviera to get sunshine and all they got was blizzards and possibly pneumonia. London, to his mind, was the ideal place in which to spend the winter.

He had therefore arranged his life on these lines. His delightful little house down at Trench was in the hands of a caretaker and his wife from November till April; during the late spring and early autumn Storely was often down there for a week or a week-end, and then Mr. and Mrs. Lamp looked after him, she as cook with housemaid’s help got in from the town, and her husband as general man servant. When summer arrived he moved his London household down there for two or three solid months, while the caretakers took charge of his house in London. Like a sensible man, he knew that a motor, now that he had no rounds of professional visits to pay, was a mere encumbrance in town, and accordingly he left his car at Trench throughout the winter.

He had bought this house some three years ago, just before he retired, and I had often been down to stay with him for those week-ends of spring and autumn, and for longer periods during the summer. It stood half-way down one of those steep, cobbled streets for which Trench is famous, and was the most adorable little abode. Three small gables of timber and rough-cast faced the road, and from the front it seemed rather shut in, but once inside, It opened out into a dignified and spacious privacy. There was a little paneled hall, with an oak staircase leading up to the first floor, and on each side of it a big ceiling-beamed room with wide open fireplace, and all these rooms looked out at the back on to a full acre of unexpected lawn and garden screened by high red brick walls from the intrusion of neighboring eyes. He had done the house up with due regard for its picturesque antiquity but with an equal regard for all possible demands of modem comfort: electric light was most conveniently installed, central heating supplemented the lb£-brirning open hearths, and the three big bedrooms on the first floor had each its own bathroom. Just as perfect were the ministrations of the caretaking couple when Storely went down for the shorter periods of his sojourn, Lamp deft and silent-footed, and his wife, mostly invisible in her kitchen, manifesting her presence there by the most admirable meals. One saw her occasionally when she came up after breakfast to submit to Storely her proposed caterings for the day, a handsome, high-colored woman, with a hard smart air about her, and considerably younger than her husband; sometimes one met her in the town with her marketing-basket, and many smiles and ribands.

I was engaged in the spring of this year to spend a week at Easter with my friend. A few days before, I met him in the cardroom at the club, arid we cut into a table of bridge together. After a couple of rubbers we cut out again, and he beckoned me aside to a remote comer, where we could talk privately.

“Upsetting news from Trench yesterday morning, ’ ’ he said. ‘ ‘ A couple of days ago Mrs. Lamp, my caretaker’s wife — do you remember her?” “Indeed I do,” said I.

“Well, she disappeared and has not been seen since. She used often to take long walks in the country by herself, when the two were alone there in the winter, and a couple of days ago she appears to have started for one, as was quite usual with her, but when the evening closed in, and it had got dark, she had not returned. Lamp behaved very sensibly and properly: he went to a house or two in the town where his wife sometimes visited, but no one had seen her, and about eleven o’clock that night, now feeling very uneasy, he went round to the police station, and told the inspector that she was still missing. They telephoned to



various villages in the neighborhood, and to;tsrhybde stations on the line, but get no news of her. But beyond that there was nothing more that could be done that night. Morning came, but there was still no sign of her, and Lamp telephoned to me to say what had happened. I went down there after breakfast this morning, and he disclosed to me a state of things of which I had no suspicion at all.”

“A man!” I asked.

“Yes: the foreman in some builder’s establishment in Hastings. Lamp and his wife had had words about him before, and a fortnight ago in consequence of what he had seen, he told the man he mustn’t set foot in the house again, but he had been seen in Trench on the day that his wife disappeared. All this Lamp told me, but he had not mentioned it to the police, since naturally he did not want scandal to get about. But now, when his wife disappeared, it seemed to me that it was necessary to let the police know, in case she had gone to him, and I sent for the inspector and told him about it. He made enquiries in Hastings, but nothing could be heard about her. The foreman admitted that he had been in Trench that day, but said he had not seen her. He admitted also, when more closely questioned, that he and Mrs. Lamp had agreed that she should leave her husband and come to live with him. They intended to marry if Lamp would divorce her.”

“And how is Lamp taking it?” I asked.

“My own opinion is that he will be much happier without her. He believes that she has gone to the foreman, though why, if she has, they should try to make a secret about it, it is impossible to say. But that is his firm conviction. The two, so Lamp told me, have had a horrible time of it this winter and if she was never heard of again, I don’t think that he would be sorry. She certainly has

made their life together a wretched business.”

“But at present there’s no clue as to what has happened to her?” I asked.

“Absolutely none. The police suggest loss of memory and sense of identity, as they always do when anyone disappears, and they’re keeping an eye on the man at Hastings. It was painful to hear Lamp tell the story of all this, but he did it very frankly; they’re convinced that he has told all he knows. Apparently there is quite sufficient evidence for him to get his divorce, and if Bhe tries to come back to him again, he means to do it.”

Storely got up.

“I thought I would just tell you,” he said, “for we’ll go down there as arranged the day after tomorrow. Lamp says he can get a woman from Trench to eome in and cook, and like a sensible fellow he wants to get back to work again. Par the best thing for him to do. ”

S o we went down together as had been settled: Trench looked more attractive and idyllic than ever in this sudden burst of spring and warm April weather. The red-brick houses climbing up the hill glowed in the mellow sunshine, its gardens were gay with fresh leaf and blossom. In the reclaimed marshland outside, the hawthorn hedges were in bud, innumerable lambs bleated and gambolled over the meadows, and the woods in the country round about were tapestried with primrose and anemone, and curled bracken-shoots. It is a land of greenness and streams and slow rivers winding over the levels to the sea; on the east side of the small town the Roop wanders along under the steep hill, on the west side the bigger Inglis sweeps widely past the south of the town and joins the other. Halfway down this western slope of the hill was Storely ’s house looking out on to the narrow cobbled street lined



with gabled cottages. At the bottom of it, not fifty yards from his door stood granaries and warehouses on the banks of the river Inglis, up which at high tide vessels of considerable tonnage can come to anchor and discharge their freights. The road to Hastings passes along this bank, then crosses the river by a bridge at the side of which are sluice-gates to be opened or shut to let through or limit the tide.

We strolled out, across the bridge, Storely and I, after tea on the day of our arrival. The tide was low, and one could see how deeply the flows and ebbs of the water had scooped out below the sluice great holes lined with soft shining mud, while others deeper yet were still undiscovered. Prom there we struck into a path leading across the daisied meadows of the marsh and bordered by dikes still brimming with the winter rains and fringed with the new growth of the reeds that pricked up through the dead raffle of last year. The sun was low to its setting, and now after this hot day skeins of mist were beginning to form over the level in the chill of the evening, shallow at present, but so opaque that at a little distance they appeared like sheets of gray floodwater through which stood up the trunks of the scattered thorn trees. Then, turning, we set our faces toward Trench, the topmost houses of which perched on the hill still glowed in the sunlight, though now on this lower land we walked in shadow. As we crossed again the bridge over the Inglis the mist had formed very thick upon the river and like a tide had crept across the quay-side. The air was chilly now and we walked more briskly to the foot of the steep cobbled street half-way up which stood Storely ’s house.

The pavement was narrow, not giving room for two to walk abreast, and I fell behind him.

Just here there joined this street on our right, a narrow footway faced

with houses leading round to the south face of the hill, and as We passed this I saw there was a woman standing there. Her back was toward me, and she was looking up the street in the direction of Storely ’s* house. He was a few paces ahead of me, and as I came directly opposite her, she turned, and I felt sure that her face was familiar to me, though for the moment I could not recollect who she was. Then close on the heels of that came recognition, and I knew that she was Mrs. Lamp. It was dusk, it was misty, and I could not see her face very precisely but I had no doubt of her identity.

I took a few quick steps forward and touched Storely on the shoulder.

“Turn round,” I said quietly, “and have a look at that woman standing at the corner just below. See if you recognize her.”

He turned, peering into the dusk.

“But I don’t see any woman at all, ’ ’ he said. ‘ ‘ There ’s no one there. ”

I turned also, and even as Storely had said, she was no longer there. I ran back to the comer where the footpath joined the street, and there die was moving quickly up it away from us. I beckoned to him, pointing up the footway.

“But what’s all this about?” he asked.

“I want you to see her,” said I. “She’s walking up that path. Be quick, or she’ll have gone.”

He laughed.

“But I really can’t go in pursuit of women in the dusk about the streets of Trench, ” he said. “Who is it that you want me to identify?”

“I feel sure it’s Mrs. Lamp,” I answered.

Instantly he joined me.

“What? Mrs. Lamp?” he said ia a changed voice. “Where? that woman ahead there? I’ll soon see.”

I waited at the comer while he went quickly after her. They both passed out of sight round a bend in the footJAMES LAMP


path. In a couple of minutes he returned

“I lost sight of her somehow,” he said. ‘‘She must have turned into one of those houses there, though I didn’t see her do so. Are you sure it was she?”

‘‘No: that’s why I wanted you to see her. But if it wasn’t she, it was somebody most extraordinarily like her.”

He thought a moment.

“I think we had better not say anything either to Lamp or the police at present, ” he said. “We ’re not certain enough, for it’s dusk and after all you’ve only seen her a few times before. But if it is she, you may depend upon it that someone else will see her. W e shall soon know. ’ ’

amp was in the sitting-room when we got to the house. It was already chilly and he had just put a thatch to the fire of logs and brushwood in the hearth, had turned the lights on, and was now drawing the curtains. I thought he peered oddly and intently up and down the street before he pulled the heavy folds across the window. Somehow the sight (or so I believed) of the missing woman had roused an uneasy feeling in my mind, but how utterly illogical and senseless that was! For if it was she, all fear of her having come to febine ill end was over, while if it was not she, there could be nothing unsettling in having seen some other woman who strongly reminded me of her. But it was odd, it was also regrettable that Storely had lost sight of her like that. If he had only had one decent look at her, the question would have been settled.

We spent a quiet evening, playing a rather serious game of chess after dinner. About ten o’clock while the game was still in progress, Lamp brought in a tray of water and spirits, and while he was in the room there came a soft tapping, very light, against the low diamond-paned window behind the curtains looking out on to the street. At the moment he was pouring some whisky into a glass, and looking up I saw he had paused as if listening.

“What was that tapping?” asked Storely absently as he considered his move.

“A butterfly, sir,” said Lamp. “I saw one fluttering about on the window when I drew the curtains this evening.”

“Must have been encouraged to come out after the winter by this hot sun,”, said Storely. “That’s all we shall want, Lamp. You can go to bed: I’ll put out the lights.”

Lamp left us< Storely made his move, and. as I wgs considering mine the soft tapping came again. He rose and went to the window.

“It sounded just as if someone was tapping at the pane from outside, ’ ’ he said. 'v--

He parted the curtains and looked out. There was silence for a moment.

“Just come here,” he said to me.

The light from inside the room as he drew the curtain had cast a field of illumination into the street, and outside looking into the window was the figure of a woman. I could see her face clearly, and it was certainly that of her whom I had seen that evening in the dusk as we returned from our walk. She looked at Storely, then at me, and then between us into the room behind as if she was wanting somebody but not one of us.

“Stop there and watch her,” said Storely to me, and he went out into the hall, and I heard him unlock the front door. The woman turned at the sound, and moved away from the window into the darkness. I heard Storely ’s step on the pavement outside, and he beckoned and called to me through the window,

“She’s gone,” he said. “Did you see which way she went? ’ ’

“I think down the hill,” I said, and I heard his steps following her.



I went out after him into the street. It was an exceedingly dark night, and misty. I could not Bee more than a few yards in any direction. The light in the hall shone out of the open door, and I saw also that at the top of the house was a lit window against which was framed a man’s head. Lamp had evidently gone up to bed, and hearing the sound of Storely’s voice in the street was looking out. In a few minutes I heard Storely's returning steps.

‘ * Come in, ” he said. * ‘ I lost her at once, for the fog is fearfully thick at the bottom of the hill.”

•He closed the door, and we sat down again on either side of our chess-board. Though the game was only half over he began putting the pieces back in the box.

“What are we to do?” he said. “There’s no doubt who it was. But why is she here, and why does she come at night and tap atthe window and then make off again? Did you see her looking between us as if she wanted somebody else? And if it’s Lamp she wants, why doesn’t she come and ask for him? Anyhow I must go round to the police station in the morning to tell them they needn’t make any further enquiries about her, as she has certainly been seen. They aren’t concerned about her connubial affairs, but only about her disappearance, and now that we’ve seen she’s alive, there’s nothing more for them to investigate. Hullo, I’ve scrapped our game. I’ll play you another if you like, but it’s late, and I know I shan’t be able to concentrate. ”

He stared into the smoldering embers of the fire for a moment in silenee, then wheeled round to me.

“It’s all rather odd,” he said. “I’ve no doubt it is she, absolutely none. But why did she come here at all, if it was only to sheer off again in that mysterious way? I wonder if by any chance Lamp has seen her? Surely he would have told me if he had.”

Even as he spoke thedooropened and Lamp came in.

“I beg your pardon, sir,” he said, “but I had just gone up to bed when I heard you go out and call from the street. I came down to see if you were wanting anything.”

Storely pointed to the window.

“Your wife was standing about there a few minutes ago, ' ’ he said. ‘ * I went out to see what she was doing here.”

I was watching Lamp closely now, for an idea, wild and fantastic no doubt, had entered my head. He was standing by the electric light and I saw sudden beads of perspiration break out on his forehead, and his lips moved as if for speech, but no words came. But he quickly recovered himself.

“Indeed, sir?” he said. “And may I ask if you got speech with her?”

“No, she disappeared in the fog before I could come up with her. But you can dismiss from your mind now any fear that some accident has happened to her. I shall go round to the police station in the morning, and tell them they need not continue their search for her.”

“Thank you very much, sir,” said Lamp. “But I was never really afraid of that. I always thought that she had gone off with that man of hers.... And there’s another thing, sir, if you wouldn ’t mind my mentioning it. I’ll get all her clothes and bits of things ready packed for her, if it’s that she’s hanging about for, but I hope you won’t allow her into the house again after what she’s done.”

“No, that’s reasonable,” said Storely. “I won’t let her bother you if I can help it. You haven’t seen her, I suppose?”

Again I watched Lamp. I saw him gulp in his throat before he spoke, and moisten his lips.

“No sir, and I don’t want to,” ha said.

Storely nodded.



, “Tbat’s jali then, Lamp,” he said. "I’ll go to the police tomorrow.”

* * Thank yon, sir, ’ ’ said Lamp again. VOf course it’s a great relief to me to know that she’s come to no bodily harm.”

“But you said you weren't afraid of that,” said Storely.

, “I wasn’t, sir,” he said. “But it’s another thing to be certain of it.”

N ow, Storely, like most people accounted sensible, both distrusts grid despises all theories that admit the existence of occult and unexplained phenomena: the material world is sufficient for him, and the supernatural is'a subject which he and I, though our topics are of decently wide range, always avoid. So I did not say anything to him about the notion which had entered my head, and which proved, when I had got to bed, to be very firmly and uncomfortably established there. In a word, I did not believe that the woman we had both seen was the living and material presentment of Lamp’s wife. I believed that it was some bodiless phantom of her, and that Lamp also had seen her, and that he knew it was not her actual bodily presence we had all beheld. He had seen, I felt sure, what we had seen and was terrified of it. His explanation and suggestion were certainly plausible enough: he would pack up her clothes and have them ready, and it was natural that he did not want her to come inside the house at all. But it was not the thought of that which made the sweat to stand on his forehead, and his throat to gulp, but something very different. The thought haunted me; often I half dropped off to sleep, but as many times I woke again with the sense that there was something creeping up to the house, like the fog that was now thick outside my window, and seeking admittance. And often in these wak* ings, I heard from the room above, which was Lamp’s, a soft footfall going backward and forward. It went to

the window and then I heard the creak of the opening sash; then the window was closed again, and the blind drawn down over it. But toward morning 1 slept more soundly and woke to find him already in my room, deftly putting out my clothes.

Storely went off to the police station directly after breakfast. He had told Lamp to bring the car round from the garage which adjoined the house, for we were to spend the day on the links. The fog had quite cleared under a breath of north wind, the morning was of a crystalline brightness, and while waiting for Storely, I strolled down the street and out on to the riverside. In this radiant day of spring, I almost thought that my uneasy imaginings were but nightmare notions, as unreal as a dream. Certainly they had left the surface of my conscious mind, and I cared little whether they had dispersed altogether or were lurking in the shadows within, so long as they did not trouble me.

When I got hack to the house, the car was standing at the door, and casually glancing into it, as I passed, I thought I saw that huddled up on the hack seat was sprawling the figure of a woman. The impression was absolutely momentary, for at once it resolved itself into a medley of coat and rug with a patch of oval sunlight for a face. A good lesson, thought I, of the tricks the imagination can play, for clearly this was a piece of that nightmare stuff which had been troubling me, and which had no existence in fact.

T x was dusk when we drew up at the f door again that evening, after a salubrious day in the open. A tranquil pleasant fatigue possessed me. I looked forward to my bath and my dinner and cozy fireside hours before bed-time. Storely had passed into the house leaving the front door open, and I lingered on the threshold a minute, watching Lamp back the ear into the garage. As I stood there, I felt some836


thing brush by me. and pass invisibly into the house. Simultaneously I heard Storely ’s voice from the hall inside call out “Hullo, what’s that?” I came in, shutting the door.

4 ‘ What was it? ” I asked.

“I don’t know. I was reading my letters at the table, when something brushed by me, and I thought it was you. But there was nothing to be seen. The door into the sitting-room swung open and closed again. Where ’s Lamp? ’ ’

“He’s putting the car into the garage,” I said.

“But something did go in there,” he said. 4 4 Turn on the light. ’ ’

I found the switch and turned it, and the dusky room leaped into brightness. But it was quite empty.

“Odd,” he said. 4 4 It must have been a draft. But it felt more solid than that.”

“It brushed by me too, as I stood in the doorway,” I said.

4 4 Of course it was a draft then, ’ ’ he said. “Strong eddies of air often come up this narrow street. We’ll shut them all out. ’ ’

We drew our chairs up near the fire, for the evening had turned philly. I had looked forward to this drowsy hour, with the evening paper to glance at, and a book to doze over, but instead I found myself eagerly alert. But I could not give my attention to my book because something was going on far more arresting than anything which the world of books could contain. It was no subjective unrest that kept me thus on wires; it was that the whole of my mind was waiting for something quite outside myself to develop, and it, whatever it was, was in the room. It watched, it moved about, it waited, and now the air was growing misty and I supposed that the fog had formed again outside, and was leaking in. But when I went up to dress, I looked out from my bedroom window, and saw that the sky overhead was full of bright burning stars, and that the street below, though

dark, was so clear that I could see the dew which had fallen, and lay on the cobbles shimmering in the starlight.

During dinner I noticed that Storely as well as I was observing Lamp. The man was evidently not himself; ordinarily deft-handed and silentfooted, he clattered with the dishes, and when he stood waiting for us to eat our course, he kept glancing uneasily round. At the end of dinner, as he poured out a glass of port for his master he made some awkward jerk with his hand, and upset it. An impatient exclamation was on the tip of Storely ’s tongue, but he checked it.

“Anything the matter, Lamp?” he asked, as he mopped up the spilt wine. “Aren’t you well?”

“No sir. I’m right enough,” he said. “But it’s queer how the house is full of fog. The kitchen: why you can hardly see across it.”

T)resentlt we were back in the sitting-room, where the chess-board was already set. The woman who came in to cook did not sleep in the house, and soon there came the tapping of her steps down the flagged kitchen passage, and the opening and shutting of the back door; we heard Lamp lock and bolt it as soon as she was gone. During the next hour, while our game was in progress, he must have come into the room half m dozen times; his hands trembled as he swept up the hearth, his face was ashen, and it was evident that he was in a state of acute nervous tension, and made every excuse to himself for coming into the room instead of biding alone in the kitchen. Finally Storely told him that we wanted nothing more that night, and that he could get to bed. But we heard him moving about the house overhead, and when an hour later we finished our game and went upstairs, he was still astir in the room above me.

I got to bed and instantly fell asleep, and woke again with the faint light of early dawn shining in



through the window knowing that some, noise had aroused me. There was the sound of steps coming from the floor above, and they passed my door and went on downstairs into the hall. I got out of bed, turned on my light, and went to the door and opened it. But not a yard could I see in front of me, so dense was the fog that filled the passage. Yet somebody — were these not the steps of two people? — had just passed quickly by as if it was full daylight. Then suddenly from below came the sound of voices, and with a thrill of nameless horror I heard that one of them was the voice of a woman.!

“So now you’ve got to come with me, James Lamp,” it said, “and take me where you took me before. You’ll drive me down in the car, as you drove Hie before, and you’ll come down into the water where you threw me, and I’ll be waiting for you there, so close and loving.”

Then came the other voice. It was Lamp’s voice, and it rose to a scream as it spoke.

“No, no,” he cried. “No, not that! I won’t come, I tell you. Ah, take your hand off me: it’s hot as fire: I can’t bear it.”

“Come on then obediently,” said the other. “ It ’s cool in the water. ’ '

The door of Storely’s room, just opposite mine, opened. I heard him click on the switch in the passage, and very faintly above our heads in the dense air there shone out, white but hardly luminous, the electric light from the ceiling.

“Ah, you’ve heard it too,” he said, seeing me. “What is it? What’s happening? There were voices and a yell. And there ’s the front door opened and shut again. Come down. ’ ’

We groped our way along the passage, but on the stairs it was absolutely pitch-dark. There was a switch somewhere there but he could not find it, and he went back to his room to get a box of matches. With the help of that light he got hold of the switch, but even so we had to proceed with shuffling steps, so dense was the fog. We crossed the hall, and after fumbling at the front door, he threw it open, and there came in the faint clear light of the dawn. Even as we stood on the threshold, the motor emerged from the garage close by, and I saw that by the side of Lamp, who drove it, there sat a woman. It turned and went swiftly down the street toward! the river.

“But, good God, what’s happening?” cried Storely. “That’s Lamp, But where is he going? And who was that woman with him? Couldn’t yon see?”

And in the gray light of morning we read the answering horror in each, other’s faces.

T he rest of the story, as it came out at the inquest held next day at Trench, is probably known to my readers. Storely’s empty car was found by a laborer going out to his work, drawn up on the bridge across the river Inglis, and the deep pool below the sluice was dragged. Two bodies were found there, one of a woman, the other of James Lamp. The woman’s body had evidently been in the water for several days; his only for a few hours. But her hands were so tightly locked round the throat of the man, that it was with difficulty that the two could be separated. In the woman’s head was a wound caused by a revolver bullet; it had entered the back of her skull and was embedded in her brain. Medical evidence showed that she was certainly dead before she had been thrown into the water, and round her neck was a heavy iron weight. The body was quite recognizable, being that of Lamp ’s wife.

A Brief, Strange Story

The Magic-Maker

By AMELIA REYNOLDS LONG

MORTIMER smiled into his beard, and stirred the mixture in the crucible. “Soon he will be here, Pepin,” he said to the little marmoset perched upon his shoulder; “this Hildebrandt who would have me renew his youth.... I knew a Hildebrandt once — back in the Golden Age when I was young. He was handsome, and his back had no hump, as mine has.” His face hardened, and his voice grew bitter. “Women demand a comely face and well-formed person, Pepin.”

The smart rap of a heavy stick upon oaken panels sent the echoes rocking about the vaulted ceiling. Mortimer crossed to the door, and opened it.

A man strode past him into the room. His dress paraded all the fopperies of youth, but his eyes were pouchy and his jowls were sagging. He had the unhealthy look of an old man who had spent Ids life in riotous living. He cast a curious glance around him, then flung his hat and gloves upon a table.

“Is it true that you have discovered the secret of youth and age, Dr. Mortimer?” he demanded abruptly.

“I told you so when I answered your letter, Lord Hildebrandt,” replied Mortimer.

Hildebrandt jangled a fistful of gold pieces suggestively. “I suppose my name is not unknown to you,” he remarked.

“No, it is not unknown to me.” Mortimer regarded him from out the dark caverns that were his eyes. “In my youth I knew one of that name.” “What!” Hildebrandt started, and

scrutinized him sharply. His eyes rested upon the misshapen hump between Mortimer’s shoulders. “You are not 1”

“But he was not a mighty lord,” finished Mortimer.

Hildebrandt released his breath in a sigh of relief. The hunchback apparently had not recognized him; no more than had he, upon first entering, recognized the hunchback. A look of cunning crept across his face.

“Then your other Hildebrandt could not have given you red gold, as: I can,” he said with assumed carelessness; “as I will give you for — shall we say a little medicine?”

Mortimer’s face was hidden as he bent over his alembic. “ I do not want your gold,” he said. “I am an alchemist. All I ask in return for my elixir of youth is that you tell me why you want it.”

Hildebrandt laughed coarsely. “Why does any man want youth?” he returned. “Women demand a comely face and well-formed person.”

“Then there is a lady concerned?” asked Mortimer.

“A beauty,” answered Hildebrandt enthusiastically, “and too innocent to realize her own charm. But the old man does not please her. Ah, Mortimer, she should have known me thirty years ago! ” He guffawed.

“The Hildebrandt whom I knew also loved a lady,” said Mortimer. “But his love was not deep; after he had married her, he left her to die.”

His visitor fidgeted uneasily. “The incident seems to have impressed



you.” He strove to make his tone casual.

"The lady was she whom I was to marry,” answered Mortimer.

Hildebrandt was silent. He dared not risk detection by saying more. He watched Mortimer furtively. In the red glow from the retort, the alchemist’s features had become a demoniac mask. The nobleman found himself shuddering as he looked at it.

wonder, Dr. Mortimer,” he sg4d at last, speaking to relieve the oppressiveness of the silence, "why you do not take this elixir of youth yourself. Is it true that a doctor can n$t be cured by his own medicine?”

Mortimer smiled. "I do not take it because I am wise, ” he said. "Youth is. too painful, too volcanic. Ninetenths of our follies are committed in o^r. youth.”

*{“And our sins?” asked Hildebrandt idly. "When are they committed?”

"At all times,” Mortimer replied gravely.

He left the room, and returned with two flagons of beaten silver.

"In one,” he said, holding them up, "is the elixir of youth; in the other, that of old age. Are you sure you want youth, Lord Hildebrandt? Are you positive?”

Hildebrandt ’s eyes grew greedy. "Positive?” he sniggered. "W T ho would not be positive — for this?”

He took from around his neck a locket which he opened and handed to Mortimer. In it was the pictured face of a young girl; a face with the innocence of a child and the grace of an angel. Mortimer had once known another face like that.

"Remember,” he said, holding Hildebrandt ’s eyes with his, "it has been wisely said that a man is most utterly damned by the fulfilment of his dearest wish.”

Hildebrandt laughed. "Then let me be damned,” he returned.

An instant Mortimer hesitated.

Then he closed the locket, and returned it to its owner. Uncorking one of the flagons, he poured part of its contents into a crystal beaker. The fluid scintillated like liquid emeralds.

"A pretty color,” commented Hildebrandt; "the color of life.” \

"Two things, and two only, are green,” said Mortimer; "young growing things, and festering mold.” He poured the ichor into the crucible. There was a sharp report, and a puff of heavy black smoke arose and writhed its way. to the brooding shadow's of the ceiling. Mortimer chuckled; and the little marmoset, chattering with fear, sprang from its master’s shoulder to seek safety on the ledge over the door.

Mortimer removed the alembic, and poured the hot liquid into a waiting

chalice " Drink, ” he said, extending

it to Hildebrandt.,The nobleman needed no urging.

"And now',” said the alchemist, "you have only' to sit in your chair and wait. The elixir works rapidly. Within an hour it will have altered you beyond recognition. While you wait, I will play for you.”

He drew back the heavy curtains at one side of the room, exposing an organ. Seating himself before it, he began to play.

The first chords were hauntingly sweet, like the tender light that fills the sky at the close of a spring day. Hildebrandt scarcely heard them, so excited w as he by the thing that was about to happen to him. Presently the music became troubled, and halfdiscords stole into its burthen. Gradually it crept into a minor strain of fear that worked its way into the small, high-pitched pipes of the instrument and w’ent wailing about the chamber. Hildebrandt shivered uncomfortably. The long, black shadows in the comers darted toward and! away from liim. An unfelt draft stirred the velvet curtains that still covered three sides of the room. An unnatural chill w r as permeating the



air. He moved hie chair closer to the brazier.

Suddenly the music broke into a wild macabre dance, pierced with eldritch yells and shrieks. It beat against the walls with the force of great wings. It swept through the chamber, taunting, gibbering, derisive. The marmoset screamed with terror, and pressed its little hands over its ears. Hildebrandt tried to rise, but the volume of sound pinned him to his chair; he tried to cry out, but it crammed his voice back into his throat. Then as abruptly as the revel of horror had begun, it was ended, giving place to the slow, cumbrous rhythm of a funeral march.

Hildebrandt ’s heart was beating to suffocation, and his breath whistled in his lungs. “Stop, stop!" he cried frantically. His voice was thin and cracked, so that he hardly recognized it. He put out a trembling hand; and as his eyes rested upon it, his brain reeled in horror. It was the bloodless, emaciated hand of a very old man!

Mortimer rose from the organ. “Did you think, Hildebrandtj that I did not know you?” he asked. “I suspected your identity even before you arrived. But you did not know me, or you would not have come, eh?” He regarded the other through halfclosed, speculative eyes. “I had intended to give you the elixir of youth,” he went on, “and let you drown yourself in your own folly. I would have done it had you not

shown me the locket. But I could not let you drag down with you another so like — but let it suffice that I gave you the other elixir. You are an old, old man, Hildebrandt. In a few months you will be dead.”

Hildebrandt began to screech unintelligibly for mercy; then his eye fell on the other flagon. Craftily he began to edge toward it.

Mortimer read his intention. With a single gesture he seized the flagon, wrenched out the cork, and poured its contents upon the hot coals of the brazier. There was a blinding flash of white light, and the flames leaped high in the air, then collapsed upon themselves. With a howl of despair, Hildebrandt clawed at the hot coals.

With the toe of his slipper Mortimer spumed back the puling, sniveling wretch at his feet. “You make a gratifying picture,” he commented. “After all, this way is as satisfying as the other would have been.”

“You can't leave me like this,” whined the dotard. “You couldn’t leave me to die! ’ ’

“Old man,” asked Mortimer, “can you go home alone, or shall I accompany you?”

Hopelessly Hildebrandt got to his feet, and took up the jaunty hat from the table. It fell down over his eyes with an air of ribald buffoonery. Leaning heavily upon his stick, he stumbled from the room.

Mortimer smiled silently into his beard.

The Rats in the Walls'

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

O N JULY 16,1923,1 moved into Exham Priory after the last workman had finished his labors. The restoration had been a stupendous task, for little had remained of the deserted pile but a shell-like ruin; yet because it had been the seat of my ancestors I let no expense deter me. The place had not been inhabited since the reign of James the First, when a tragedy of intensely hideous, though largely unexplained, nature had struck down the master, five of his children, and several servants; and driven forth under a cloud of suspicion and terror the third son, my lineal progenitor and the only survivor of the abhorred line.

With this sole heir denounced as a murderer, the estate had reverted to the crown, nor had the accused man made any attempt to exculpate himself or regain his property. Shaken by some horror greater than that of conscience or the law, and expressing only a frantic wish to exclude the ancient edifice from his sight and memory, Walter de la Poer, eleventh Baron Exham, fled to Virginia and there founded the family which by the next century had become known as Delapore.

Exham Priory had remained untenanted, though later allotted to the estates of the Norrys family and much studied because of its peculiarly composite architecture; an architecture involving Gothic towers resting on a Saxon or Romanesque substructure, whose foundation in turn was of a still earlier order or blend of orders — Roman, and even Druidic or native Cymric, if legends speak truly. This foundation was a very singular thing, being merged on one side with the solid limestone of the precipice from whose brink the priory overlooked a desolate valley three miles west of the village of Anchester.

Architects and antiquarians loved to examine this strange relic of forgotten centuries, but the country folk hated it. They had hated it hundreds of years before, when my ancestors lived there, and they hated it now, with the moss and mold of abandonment on it. I had not been a day in Anchester before I knew I came of an accursed house. And this week workmen have blown up Exham Priory, and are busy obliterating the traces of its foundations.

T he bare statistics of my ancestry I had always known, together with the fact that my first American forebear had come to the colonies ua841

•From WEIRD TAL®S for March, 1»2*.



tier a strange cloud. Of details, however, I had been kept wholly ignorant through the policy of reticence always maintained by the Delapores. Unlike our planter neighbors, we seldom boasted of crusading ancestors or other mediaeval and Renaissance heroes; nor was any kind of tradition handed down except what may have been recorded in the sealed envelope left before the Civil War by every squire to his eldest son for posthumous opening. The glories we cherished were those achieved since the migration; the glories of a proud and honorable, if somewhat reserved and unsocial Virginia line.

During the war our fortunes were extinguished and our whole existence changed by the burning of Carfax, our home on the banks of the James. My grandfather, advanced in years, had perished in that, incendiary outrage, and with him the envelope that bound us all to the past. I can recall that fire today as I saw it then at the age of seven, with the Federal soldiers shouting, the women screaming, and the negroes howling and praying. My father was in the army, defending Richmond, and after many formalities my mother and I were passed through the lines to join him.

When the war ended we all moved north, whence my mother had come; and I grew to manhood, middle age, and ultimate wealth as a stolid Yankee. Neither my father nor I ever knew what our hereditary envelope had contained, and as I merged into the grayness of Massachusetts business life I lost all interest in the mysteries which evidently lurked far back in my family tree. Ilad I suspected their nature, how gladly would I have left Exham Priory to its moss, bats, and cobwebs!

My father died in 1904, but without any message to leave to me, or to my only child, Alfred, a motherless boy of ten. It was this boy who reversed the order of family information, _ for although I could give him only jesting conjectures about the past, he wrote me of some very interesting ancestral legends when the late war took him to England in 1917 as an aviation officer. Apparently the Delapores had a colorful and perhaps sinister history, for a friend of my son’s, Captain Edward Norrys of the Royal Flying Corps, dwelt near the family seat at Anchester and related some peasant superstitions which few novelists could equal for wildness and incredibility. Norrys himself, of course, did not take them seriously; but they amused my son and made good material for his letters to me. It was this legendxy which definitely turned my attention to my transatlantic heritage, and made me resolve to purchase and restore the family seat which Norrys showed to Alfred in its picturesque desertion, and offered to get for him at a surprizingly reasonable figure, since his own uncle was the present " owner.

I bought Exham Priory in 1918, but was almost immediately distracted from my plans of restoration by the return of my son as a maimed invalid. During the two years that he lived I thought of nothing but his care, having even placed my business under the direction of partners.

In 1921, as I found myself bereaved and aimless, a retired manufacturer no longer young, I resolved to divert my remaining year's with my new possession. Visiting Anchester in December, I was entertained by Captain Norrys, a plump, amiable young man who had thought much of my son, and secured his assistance in gathering plans and anecdotes to guide in the coming restoration. Exham Priory itself I saw without emotion, a jumble of tottering mediaeval ruins covered with lichens and honeycombed with rooks’ nests, perched perilously upon a precipice, and denuded of floors or other interior features save the stone walls of the separate towers.

As I gradually recovered the image of the edifice as it had been when my



ancestors left it over three centuries before, I began to hire workmen for the reconstruction. In every case I was forced to go outside the immediate locality, for the Anchester villagers had an almost unbelievable fear and hatred of the place. This sentiment was so great that it was sometimes communicated to the outside laborers, causing numerous desertions; whilst its scope appeared to include both the priory and its ancient family.

My son had told me that he was somewhat avoided during his visits because he was a de la Poer, and I now found myself subtly ostracized for a like reason until I convinced the peasants how little I knew of my heritage. Even then they sullenly disliked me, so that I had to collect most of the village traditions through the mediations of Norrys. What the people could not forgive, perhaps, was that I had come to restore a symbol so abhorrent to them; for, rationally or not, they viewed Exham Priory as nothing less than a haunt of fiends and werewolves.

T>iecing together the tales which -*• Norrys collected for me, and supplementing them with the accounts of several savants who had studied the ruins, I deduced that Exham Priory stood on the site of a prehistoric temple; a Druidical or ante-Druidical thing which must have been contemporary with Stonehenge. That indescribable rites had been celebrated there, few doubted, and there were unpleasant tales of the transference of these rites into the Cybele-worship which the Romans had introduced.

Inscriptions still visible in the subcellar bore such unmistakable letters as “DIY... OPS... MAGNA. MAT...” sign of the Magna Mater whose dark worship was once vainly forbidden to Roman citizens. Anchester had been the camp of the third Augustan legion, as many remains attest, and it was said that the temple

of Cybele was splendid and thronged with worshippers who performed nameless ceremonies at the bidding of a Phrygian priest. Tales added that the fall of the old religion did not end the orgies at the temple, but that the priests lived on in the new faith without real change. Likewise was it said that the rites did not vanish with the Roman power, and that certain among the Saxons added to what remained of the temple, and gave it the essential outline it subsequently preserved, making it the center of a cult feared throughout the heptarchy. About 1000 A. D. the place is mentioned in a chronicle as being a substantial stone priory housing a strange and powerful monastic order and surrounded by extensive gardens which needed no walls to exclude a frightened populace. It was never destroyed by the Danes, though after the Norman Conquest it must have declined tremendously; since there was no impediment when Henry the Third granted the site to my ancestor, Gilbert de la Poer, First Baron Exham, in 1261.

Of my family before this date there is no evil report, but something strange must have happened then. In one chronicle there is a reference to a de la Poer as “cursed of God” in 1307, whilst village legendry had nothing but evil and frantic fear to tell of the castle that went up on the foundations of the old temple and priory. The fireside tales were of the most grisly description, all the ghastlier because of their frightened reticence and cloudy evasiveness. They represented my ancestors as a race of hereditary daemons beside whom Gilles de Retz and the Marquis de Sade would seem the veriest tyros, and hinted whisperingly at their responsibility for the occasional disappearances of villagers through several generations.

The worst characters, apparently, were the barons and their direct heirs: at least, most was whispered



about these. If of healthier inclinations, it was said, an heir would early and mysteriously die to make way for another more typical scion. There seemed to be an inner cult in the family, presided over by the head of tho house, and sometimes closed except to a few members. Temperament rather than ancestry was evidently the basis of this cult, for it was entered by several who married into the family. Lady Margaret Trevor from Cornwall, wife of Godfrey, the second son of the fifth baron, became a favorite bane of children all over the countryside, and the demon heroine of a particularly horrible old ballad not yet extinct near the Welsh border. Preserved in balladry, too, though not illustrating the same point, is the hideous tale of Lady Mary de la Poer, who shortly after her marriage to the Earl of Shrewsfield was killed by him and his mother, both of the slayers being absolved and blessed by the priest to whom they confessed what they dared not repeat to the world.

These myths and ballads, typical as they were of crude superstition, repelled me greatly? Their persistence, and their application to so long a line of my ancestors, were especially annoying; whilst the imputations of monstrous habits proved unpleasantly reminiscent of the one known scandal of my immediate forebears — the case of my cousin, young Randolph Delapore of Carfax, who went among the negroes and became a voodoo priest after he returned from the Mexican War.

I was much les^ disturbed by the vaguer tales of wails and howlings in the barren, windswept valley beneath the limestone cliff; of the graveyard stenches after the spring rains; of the floundering, sciuealing white thing on which Sir John Clave’s horse had trod one night in a lonely field; and of the servant who had gone mad at what he saw in the priory in the full light of day. These things were hackneyed spectral lore, and I was at that

time a pronounced skeptic. The accounts of vanished peasants were less to be dismissed, though not especially significant in view of medieval custom. Prying curiosity meant death, and more than one severed head had been publicly shown on the bastions — now effaced — around Exham Priory.

A few of the tales were exceedingly picturesque, and made me wish I had learnt more of comparative mythology in my youth. There was, for instance, the belief that a legion of bat-winged devils kept witches’ sabbath each night at the priory — a legion whose sustenance might explain the disproportionate abundance ■ of coarse vegetables harvested in the vast gardens. And, most vivid of all, there was the dramatic epic of the rats — the scampering army of obscene vermin which had burst forth from the castle three months after the tragedy that doomed it to desertion — the lean, filthy, ravenous army which had swept all before it and devoured fowl, cats, dogs, sheep, and even two hapless human beings before its fury was spent. Around that unforgettable rodent army a whole separate cycle of myths revolves, for it scattered among the village homes and brought curses and horrors in its train.

Such was the lore that assailed me as I pushed to completion, with an elderly obstinacy, the work of restoring my ancestral home. It must not be imagined for a moment that these tales formed my principal psychological environment. On the other hand, I was constantly praised and encouraged by Captain Norrys and the antiquarians who surrounded and aided me. When the task was done, over two years after its commencement, I viewed the great rooms, wainscotted walls, vaulted ceilings, mullioned windows, and broad staircases with a pride which fully compensated for the prodigious expense of the restoration.

Every attribute of the Middle Ages was cunningly reproduced, and the



new parts blended perfectly with the original walls and foundations. The seat of my fathers was complete, and I looked forward to redeeming at last the local fame of the line which ended in me. I would reside here permanently, and prove that a de la Poor (for I had adopted again the original spelling of the name) need not be a fiend. My comfort was perhaps augmented by the fact that, although Exham Priory was medievally fitted, its interior was in truth wholly new and free from old vermin and old ghosts alike.

A s i have said, I moved in on July 16, 1923. My household consisted of seven servants and nine cats, of which latter species I am particularly fond. My eldest cat, “Nigger-Man,” was seven years old and had come -with me from my home in Bolton, Massachusetts; the others I had accumulated whilst living with Captain Norms’ family during the restoration of the priory.

For five days our routine proceeded with the utmost placidity, my time being spent mostly in the codification of old family data. I had now obtained some very circumstantial accounts of the final tragedy and flight of Walter de la Poer, which I conceived to be the probable contents of the hereditary paper lost, in the fire at Carfax. It appeared that my ancestor Avas accused with much reason of having killed all the other members of his household, except four servant confederates, in their sleep, about two weeks after a shocking discovery which changed his whole demeanor, but which, except by implication, he disclosed to no one save perhaps the servants who assisted him and afterward fled beyond reach.

This deliberate slaughter, which included a father, three brothers, and two sisters, was largely condoned by the villagers, and so slackly treated by the law that its perpetrator escaped honored, unharmed, and undisguised

to Virginia; the general whispered sentiment being that he had purged the land of an immemorial curse. What discovery had prompted an act so terrible, I could scarcely even conjecture. Walter de la Poer must have lmown for years the sinister tales about his family, so that this material could have given him no fresh impulse. Had he, then, witnessed some appalling ancient rite, or stumbled upon some frightful and revealing symbol in the priory or its vicinity? He was reputed to have been a shy, gentle youth in England. In Virginia he seemed not so much hard or bitter as harassed and apprehensive. He was spoken of in the diary of another gentleman adventurer, Francis Harley of Bellview, as a man of unexampled justice, honor and delicacy.

On July 22 occurred the first incident which, though lightly dismissed at the time, takes on a preternatural significance in relation to later events. It was so simple as to be almost negligible, and could not possibly have been noticed under the circumstances; for it must be recalled that since I Avas in a building practically fresh and new except for the Avails, and surrounded by a well-balanced staff of servitors, apprehension Avould have been absurd -despite the locality.

What I afterward remembered is merely this — that my old black cat, whose moods I knoAv so Avell, was undoubtedly alert and anxious to an extent Avholly out of keeping Avith his natural character. He roved from room to room, restless and disturbed, and sniffed constantly about the walls which formed part of the old Gothic structure. I realize hoAv trite this sounds — like the inevitable dog in the ghost story, which ahvays groAvls before his master sees the sheeted figure — yet I can not consistently suppress it.

The following day a servant complained of restlessness among all the cats in the house. He came to me in


S4<;

my study, a lofty west room on the second story, with groined arches, black oak paneling, and a triple Gothic window overlooking the limestone cliff and desolate valley; and even as he spoke I saw the jetty form of Nigger-Man creeping along the west wall and scratching at the new panels which overlaid the ancient, stone.

I told the man that there must be some singular odor or emanation from the old stonework, imp"' ieptible to human senses, but affecting the delicate organs of cats even through the new woodwork. This I truly believed, and when the fellow suggested the presence of mice or rats, I mentioned that there had been no rats there for three hundred years, and that even the field mice of the surrounding country' could hardly be found in these high walls, where they had never been known to stray. That afternoon I called on Captain Norrys, and he assured me that it would be quite incredible for field mice to infest the priory in such a sudden and unprecedented fashion.

That night, dispensing as usual with a valet, I retired in the west tower chamber which I had chosen as my own, reached from the study by' a stone staircase and short gallery — the former partly ancient, the latter entirely restored. This room was circular, very high, and without wainscotting, being hung with arras which I had myself chosen in London.

Seeing that Nigger-Man was with me, I shut the heavy Gothic door and retired by the light of the electric bulbs which so cleverly' counterfeited candles, finally switching off the light and sinking on the carved and canopied four-poster, with the venerable cat in his accustomed place across my feet. I did not draw the curtains, but gazed out at the narrow north window which I faced. There was a suspicion of aurora in the sky, and the delicate traceries of the window were pleasantly silhouetted.

At some time I must have fallen quietly asleep, for I recall a distinct sense of leaving strange dreams when the cat started violently from his placid position. I saw him in the faint auroral glow, head strained forward, forefeet on my ankles, and hind feet stretched behind. He was looking intensely at a point on the wall somewhat west of the window, a point which to my eye had nothing to mark it, but toward which all my' attention was now directed.

And as I watched, I know that Nigger-Man was not vainly excited. Whether the arras actually moved I can not say. I think it did, very slightly. But what I can swear to is that behind it I heard a low, distinct scurrying as of rats or mice. In a moment the cat had jumped bodily on the screening tapestry, bringing the affected section to the floor with his weight, and exposing a damp, ancient wall of stone; patched here and there by the restorers, and devoid of any trace of rodent prowlers.

Nigger-Man raced up and down the floor by this part of the wall, clawing the fallen arras and seemingly trying at times to insert a paw between the wall and the oaken floor. He found nothing, and after a time returned warily to his place across my feet. I had not moved, but T did not sleep again that night.

In the morning I questioned all the servants, and found that none of them had noticed anything unusual save that the cook remembered the actions of a eat which had rested on her window-sill. This cat had howled at some unknown hour of the night, awaking the cook in time for her to see him dart purposefully out of the open door down the stairs. I drowsed away' the noontime, and in the afternoon called again on Captain Norrys, who became exceedingly interested in what I told him. The odd incidents — so slight yet so curious — appealed to his sense of the picturesque, and elicited from him a number of reminiscences of


local ghostly lore. We were genuinely perplexed at the presence of rats, and Norrys lent me some traps and parisgreen, which I had the servants place in strategic localities when I returned.

I retired early, being very sleepy, but was harassed by dreams of the most horrible sort. I seemed to be looking down from an immense height upon a twilit grotto, knee-deep with filth, where a white-bearded daemon swineherd drove about with his staff a flock of fungous, flabby beasts whose appearance filled me with unutterable loathing. Then, as the swineherd paused and nodded over his task, a mighty swarm of rats rained down on the stinking abyss and fell to devouring beasts and man alike.

From this terrific vision I was abruptly awaked by the motions of Nigger-Man, who had been sleeping as usual across my feet. This time I did not have to question the source of his snarls and hisses, and of the fear which made him sink his claws into my ankle, unconscious of their effect; for on every side of the chamber the walls were alive with nauseous sound — the verminous slithering of ravenous, gigantic rats. There was now no aurora to show the state of the arras — the fallen section of which had been replaced — but I was not too frightened to switch on the light.

As the bulbs leapt into radiance I saw a hideous shaking all over the tapestry, causing the somewhat peculiar designs to execute a singular dance of death. This motion disappeared almost at once, and the sound with it. Springing out of bed, I poked at the arras with the long handle of a warming-pan that rested near, and lifted one section to see what lay beneath. There was nothing but the patched stone wall, and even the cat had lost his tense realization of abnormal presences. When I examined the circular trap tliat had been placed in the room, I found all of the openings sprung,

B41)

though no trace remained of whaf had been caught and had escaped.

Further sleep was out of the question, so, lighting a candle, I opened the door and went out in the gallery toward the stairs to my study, NiggerMan following at my heels. Before we had reached the stone steps, however, the cat darted ahead of me and vanished down the ancient flight. As I descended the stairs myself, I became suddenly aware of sounds in the great room below; sounds of a nature which could not be mistaken.

The oak-paneled walls were alive with rats, scampering and milling, whilst Nigger-Man was racing about with the fury of a baffled hunter. Reaching the bottom, I switched on the light, which did not this time cause the noise to subside. The rats continued their riot, stampeding with such force and distinctness that I could finally assign to their motions a definite direction. These creatures, in numbers apparently inexhaustible, were engaged in one stupendous migration from inconceivable heights to some depth conceivably, or inconceivably, below.

I now heard steps in the corridor, and in another moment two servants pushed open the massive door. They were searching the house for some unknown source of disturbance which had thrown all the cats into a snarling panic and caused them to plunge precipitately down several flights of stairs and squat, yowling, before the closed door to the sub-cellar. I asked them if they had heard the rats, but they replied in the negative. And when I turned to call their attention to the sounds in the panels, I realized that the noise had ceased.

With the two men I went down to the door of the sub-cellar, but found the cats already dispersed. Later, I resolved I would explore the crypt below; but for the present I merely made a round of the traps. All were sprung, yet all were tenantless. Satisfying myself that no one had heard



the rats save the felines and me, I sat in my study till morning, thinking profoundly, and recalling every scrap »f legend I had unearthed concerning the building I inhabited.

I slept some in the forenoon, leaning back in the one comfortable library chair which my mediaeval plan of furnishing could not banish. Later I telephoned to Captain Norrys, who came over and helped me explore the sub-cellar.

. Absolutely nothing untoward was found, although we could not repress a thrill at the knowledge that this vault was built by Roman hands. Every low arch and massive pillar was Roman — not the debased Romanesque of the bungling Saxons, but the severe and harmonious classicism of the age of the Ctesars; indeed, the walls abounded with inscriptions familiar to the antiquarians who had repeatedly explored the place — things like “P. GETAE. PROP... TEMP... DONA...” and “L. PRAEC... VS... PONTIFI... ATYS...”

The reference to Atys made me shiver, for I had read Catullus and knew something of the hideous rites of the Eastern god, whose worship was so mixed with that of Cybele. Norrys and I, by the light of lanterns, tried to interpret the odd and nearly effaced designs on certain irregularly rectangular blocks of stone generally held to be altars, but could make nothing of them. We remembered that one pattern, a sort of rayed sun, was held by students to imply a nonRoman origin, suggesting that these altars had merely been adopted by the Roman priests from some older and perhaps aboriginal temple on the same site. On one of these blocks were some brown stains which made me wonder. The largest, in the center of the room, had certain features on the upper surface which indicated its connection with fire — probably burnt offerings.

Such were the sights in that crypt

before whose door the cats had howled, and where Norrys and I now determined to pass the night. Couches were brought down by the servants, who were told not to mind any noc-. turnal actions of the cats, and NiggerMan was admitted as much for help as for companionship. We decided to keep the great oak door — a modern reproduction with slits for ventilation — tightly closed; and, with this attended to, we retired with lanterns still burning to await whatever might occur.

The vault was very deep in the foundations of the priory, and undoubtedly far down on the face of the beetling limestone cliff overlooking the waste valley. That it had been the goal of the scuffling and unexplainable rats I could not doubt, though why, I could not tell. As we lay there expectantly, I found my vigil occasionally mixed with half-formed dreams from which the uneasy motions of the cat across my feet would rouse me.

These dreams were not wholesome, but horribly like the one I had had the night before. I saw again the twilit grotto, and the swineherd with his unmentionable fungous beasts wallowing in filth, and as I looked at these things they seemed nearer and more distinct — so distinct that I could almost observe their features. Then I did observe the flabby features of one of them — and awaked with such a scream that Nigger-Man started up, whilst Captain Norrys, who had not slept, laughed considerably. Norrys might have laughed more — or perhaps less — had he known what, it was that made me scream. But I did not remember myself till later. Ultimate horror often paralyzes memory in a merciful way.

Norrys waked me when the phenomena began. Out of the same frightful dream I was called by his gentle shaking and his urging to listen to the cats. Indeed, there was much to listen to, for beyond the



closed door at the head of the stone steps was a veritable nightmare of feline yelling and clawing, whilst Nigger-Man, unmindful of his kindred outside, was running excitedly around the bare stone walls, in which I heard the same babel of scurrying rats that had troubled me the night before.

An acute terror now rose within me, for here were anomalies which nothing normal could well explain. These rats, if not the creatures of a madness which I shared with the cats alone, must be burrowing and sliding in Roman walls I had thought to be of solid limestone blocks... unless perhaps the action of water through more than seventeen centuries had eaten winding tunnels which rodent bodies had worn clear and ample.... But even so, the spectral horror was no less; for if these were living vermin why did not Norrys hear their disgusting commotion? Why did he urge me to watch Nigger-Man and listen to the cats outside, and why did he guess wildly and vaguely at what could have aroused them?

By the time I had managed to tell him, as rationally as I could, what I thought I was hearing, my ears gave me the last fading impression of the scurrying; which had retreated still downward, far underneath this deepest of sub-cellars, till it seemed as if the whole cliff below were riddled with questing rats. Norrys was not as skeptical as I had anticipated, but instead seemed profoundly moved. He motioned to me to notice that the cats at the door had ceased their clamor, as if giving up the rats for lost; whilst Nigger-Man had a burst of renewed restlessness, and was clawing frantically around the bottom of the large stone altar in the center of the room, which was nearer Norrys ’ couch than mine.

My fear of the unknown was at this point very great. Something astounding had occurred, and I saw that Captain Norrys, a younger, stouter, and presumably more naturally materialistic man, was affected fully as much as myself — perhaps because ©f his lifelong and intimate familiarity with local legend. We could for the moment do nothing but watch the old black cat as he pawed with decreasing fervor at the base of the altar, occasionally looking up and mewing to me in that persuasive manner which he used when he wished me to perform some favor for him.

Norrys now took a lantern close to the altar and examined the place where Nigger-Man was pawing; silently kneeling and scraping away the lichens of centuries which joined the massive pre-Roman block to the tesselated floor. He did not find anything, and was about to abandon Ms efforts when I noticed a trivial circumstance which made me shudder, even though it implied nothing more than I had already imagined.

I told him of it, and we both looked at its almost imperceptible manifestation with the fixedness of fascinated discovery and acknowledgment. It was only this — that the flame of the lantern set down near the altar was slightly but certainly flickering from a draft of air which it had not before received, and which came indubitably from the crevices between floor and altar where Norrys was scraping away the lichens.

We spent the rest of the night in the brilliantly lighted study, nervously discussing what we should do next. The discovery that some vault deeper than the deepest known masonry of the Romans underlay this accursed pile; some vault unsuspected by the curious antiquarians of three centuries; would have been sufficient to excite us without any background of the sinister. As it was, the fascination became twofold; and we paused in doubt whether to abandon our search and quit the priory for ever in superstitious caution, or te gratify our sense of adventure and brave whatever horrors might await us in the unknown depths.



By morning we had compromised, and decided to go to London to gather a group of archeologists and scientific men fit to cope with the mystery. It should be mentioned that before leaving the sub-cellar we had vainly tried to move the central altar which we now recognized as the gate to a new pit of nameless fear. What secret would open the gate, wiser men than we would have to find.

During many days in London Captain Norrys and I presented our facts, conjectures, and legendry anecdotes to five eminent authorities, all men who could be trusted to respect any family disclosures which future explorations might develop. We found most of them little disposed to scoff, but, instead, intensely interested and sincerely sympathetic. It is hardly necessary to name them all, but I may say that they included Sir William Brinton, whose excavations in the Troad excited most of the world in their day. As we all took the train for Anchester I felt myself poised on the brink of frightful revelations, a sensation symbolized by the air of mourning among the many Americans at the unexpected death of the President on the other side of the world.

/~\n the evening of August 7th we ^ reached Exham Priory, where the servants assured me that nothing unusual had occurred. The cats, even old Nigger-Man, had been perfectly placid; and not a trap in the house had been sprung. We were to begin exploring on the following day, awaiting which I assigned well-appointed rooms to all my guests.

I myself retired in my own tower chamber, with Nigger-Man across my feet. Sleep came quickly, but hideous dreams assailed me. There was a vision of a Roman feast like that of Trimalchio, with a horror in a covered platter. Then came that damnable, recurrent thing about the swineherd and his filthy drove in the twilit grotto. Yet when I awoke it was full

daylight, with normal sounds in the house below. The rats, living or spectral, had not troubled me; and Nigger-Man was still quietly asleep. On going down, I found that the same tranquillity had prevailed elsewhere; a condition which one of the assembled savants — a fellow named Thornton, devoted to the psychic — rather absurdly laid to the fact that I had now been shown the thing which certain forces had wished to show me.

All was now ready, and at eleven a. m. our entire group of seven men, bearing powerful electric searchlights and implements of excavation, went down to the sub-cellar and bolted the door behind us. Nigger-Man was with us, for the investigators found no occasion to despise his excitability, and were indeed anxious that he be present in case of obscure rodent manifestations. We noted the Roman inscriptions and unknown altar designs only briefly, for three of the savants had already seen them, and all knew their characteristics. Prime attention was paid to the momentous central altar, and within an hour Sir William Brinton had caused it to tilt backward, balanced by some unknown species of counterweight.

There now lay revealed such a horror as would have overwhelmed us had we not been prepared. Through a nearly square opening in the tiled floor, sprawling on a flight of stone steps so prodigiously worn that it was little more than an inclined plane at the center, was a ghastly array of human or semi-human bones. Those which retained their collocation as skeletons showed attitudes of panic fear, and over all were the marks of rodent gnawing. The skulls denoted nothing short of utter idiocy, cretinism, or primitive semi-apedom.

Above the hellishly littered steps arched a descending passage seemingly chiseled from the solid rock, and conducting a current of air. This current was not a sudden and noxious rush as from a closed vault, but a



cool breeze with something of freshness in it. We did not pause long, but shiveringly began to clear a passage down the steps. It was then that Sir William, examining the hewn walls, made the odd observation that the passage, according to the direction of the strokes, must have been chiseled from, beneath.

I must be very deliberate now, and choose my words.

After plowing down a few steps amidst the gnawed bones we saw that there was light ahead; not any mystic ■ phosphorescence, but a filtered daylight which could not come except from unknown fissures in the cliff that overlooked the waste valley. That such fissures had escaped notice from outside was hardly remarkable, for not only is the valley wholly uninhabited, but the cliff is so high and ^eetling that only an aeronaut could study its face in detail. A few steps ithbre, and our breaths were literally snatched from us by what we saw; so literally that Thornton, the psychic investigator, actually fainted in the arms of the dazed man who stood behind him. Norrys, his plump face utterly white and flabby, simply cried out inarticulately; whilst I think that what I did was to gasp or hiss, and ©Over my eyes.

*' The man behind me — the only one of the party older than I — croaked the hackneyed “My God!” in the most cracked voice I ever heard. Of seven cultivated men, only Sir William Brinton retained his composure, a thing the more to his credit because he led the party and must have seen the sight first.

It was a twilit grotto of enormous height, stretching away farther than any eye could see; a subterraneous world of limitless mystery and horrible suggestion. There were buildings and other architectural remains — in one terrified glance I saw a weird pattern of tumuli, a savage circle of monoliths, a low-domed Roman

ruin, a sprawling Saxon pile, and an early English edifice of wood — but all these were dwarfed by the ghoulish spectacle presented by the general surface of the ground. For yards about the steps extended an insane tangle of human bones, or bones at least as human as those on the steps. Like a foamy sea they stretched, some fallen apart, but others wholly or partly articulated as skeletons; these latter invariably in postures of daemoniac frenzy, either fighting off some menace or clutching other forms with cannibal intent.

When Dr. Trask, the anthropologist, stooped to classify the skulls, he found a degraded mixture which utterly baffled him. They were mostly lower than the Piltdown man in the scale of evolution, but in every case definitely human. Many were of higher grade, and a very few were the skulls of supremely and sensitively developed types. All the bones were gnawed, mostly by rats, but somewhat by others of the half-human drove. Mixed with them were many tiny bones of rats — fallen members of the lethal army which closed the ancient epic.

I wonder that any man among us lived and kept his sanity through that hideous day of discovery. Not Hoffmann or Huysmans could conceive a scene more wildly incredible, more frenetically repellent, or more Gothically grotesque than the twilit grotto through which we seven staggered; each stumbling on revelation after revelation, and trying to keep for the nonce from thinking of the events which must have taken place there three hundred, or a thousand, or two thousand, or ten thousand years ago. It was the antechamber of hell, and poor Thornton fainted again when Trask told him that some of the skeleton things must have descended as quadrupeds through the last twenty or more generations.

Horror piled on horror as we began to interpret the architectural remains.



The quadruped things — with their occasional recruits from the biped class — had been kept in stone pens, out of which they must have broken in their last delirium of hunger or rat-fever. There had been great herds of them, evidently fattened on the coarse vegetables whose remains could be found as a sort of poisonous ensilage at the bottom of huge stone bins older than Rome. I knew now why my ancestors had had such excessive gardens — would to heaven I could forget! The purpose of the herds I did not have to ask.

Sir William, standing with his searchlight in the Roman ruin, translated aloud the most shocking ritual I have ever known; and told of the diet of the antediluvian cult which the priests of Cybele found and mingled with their own. Norrys, used as he was to the trenches, could not walk straight when he came out of the English building. It was a butcher shop and kitchen — he had expected that — but it was too much to see familiar English implements in such a place, and to read familiar English graffiti there, some as recent as 1610. I could not go in that building — that building whose daemon activities were stopped only by the dagger of my ancestor Walter de la Poer.

What I did venture to enter was the low Saxon building, whose oaken door had fallen, and there I found a terrible row of ten stone cells with rusty bars. Three had tenants, all skeletons of high grade, and on the bony forefinger of one I found a seal ring with my own coat-of-arms. Sir William found a vault with far older cells below the Roman chapel, but these cells were empty. Below them was a low crypt with cases of formally arranged bones, some of them bearing terrible parallel inscriptions carved in Latin, Greek and the tongue of Phrygia.

M eanwhile, Dr. Trask had opened one of the prehistoric tumuli, and brought to light skulls which were slightly more human than a gorilla’s and which bore indescribable ideographic carvings. Through all this horror my cat stalked unperturbed. Once I saw him monstrously perched atop a mountain of bones, and wondered at the secret that might lie behind his yellow eyes.

Having grasped to some slight degree the frightful revelations of this twilight area — an area so hideously foreshadowed by my recurrent dream — we turned to that apparently boundless depth of midnight cavern where no ray of light from the cliff could penetrate. We shall never know what sightless Stygian worlds yawn beyond the little distance we went, for it was decided that such secrets are not good for mankind. But there was plenty to engross us close at hand, for we had not gone far before the searchlights showed that accursed infinity of pits in which the rats had feasted, and whose sudden lack of replenishment had driven the ravenous rodent army first to turn on the living herds of starving things, and then to burst forth from the priory in that historic orgy of devastation which the peasants will never forget.

God! those carrion black pits of sawed, picked bones and opened skulls! Those nightmare chasms choked with the pithecanthropoid, Celtic, Roman, and English bones of countless unhallowed centuries! Some of them were full, and none can say how deep they had once been. Others were still bottomless to our searchlights, and peopled by unnamable fancies. What, I thought, of the hapless rats that stumbled into such traps amidst the blackness of their quests in this grisly Tartarus?

Onee my foot slipped near a horribly yawning brink, and I had a



moment of ecstatic fear. I must have been musing a long time, for I could not see any of the party but the plump Captain Norrys. Then there came a sound from that inky, boundless, farther distance that I thought I knew; and I saw my old black cat dart past me like a winged Egyptian god, straight into the illimitable gulf of the unknown. But I was not far behind, for there was no doubt after another second. It was the eldritch scurrying of those fiend-bom rats, always questing for new horrors, and determined to lead me on even unto those grinning caverns of earth ’s center where Nyarlathotep, the mad faceless god, howls blindly in the darkness to the piping of two amorphous idiot flute-players.

My searchlight expired, but still I ran. I heard voices, and yowls, and echoes, but above all there gently rose that impious, insidious scurrying; gently rising, rising, as a stiff bloated corpse gently rises above an oily.river that flows under endless onyx bridges to a black, putrid sea.

Something bumped into me — something soft and plump. It must have been the rats; the viseous, gelatinous, ravenous army that feast on the dead and the living.... Why shouldn’t rats eat a de la Poer as a de la Poer eats forbidden things?... The war ate my boy, damn them all... and the Yanks ate Carfax with flames and burnt Grandsire Delapore and the secret... No, no, I tell you, I am not that dfflmon swineherd in the twilit grotto! It was not Edward Norrys’ fat face oa that flabby, fungous

thing! Who says I am a de la Poer? He lived, but my boy died!... Shall a Norrys hold the lands of a de la Poer?... It’s voodoo, I tell you... that spotted snake... Curse you, Thornton, I ’ll teach you to faint at what my family do!... ’Sblood, thou stinkard, I’ll learn ye how to gust... wolde ye swynko me thilke wys?... Magna Mater! Magna Mater!... Atys... Dia ad aghaidh ’s ad aodaun... agys has dunach ort! Dhonas ’s dholas ort, agus leat-sa!... TJngl... nngl... rrrlh... chchch....

That is what they say I said when they found me in the blackness after three hours; found me crouching in the blackness over the plump, halfeaten body of Captain Norrys, with my own cat leaping and tearing at my throat. Now they have blown up Exham Priory, taken my Nigger-Man away from me, and shut me into this barred room at Hanwell with fearful whispers about my heredity and experiences. Thornton is in the next room, but they prevent me from talking to him. They are trying, too, to suppress most of the facts concerning the priory. When I speak of poor Norrys they accuse me of a hideous thing, but they must know that I did not do it. They must know it was the rats; the slithering, scurrying rats whose scampering will never let me sleep; the dsemon rats that race behind the padding in this room and beckon me down to greater horrors than I have ever known; the rats they can never hear; the rats, the rats in the walls!



The Empty Road

( Continued from page 768)

the lights of the town twinkled gayly. In its slip on the East River Stanley thought he glimpsed the Celtic, which was to take him to London in the morning. Odd! He gasped, elated with the wonder of it all.

“It’s chilly here,” said the host, still resting his fingers on the tabletop. “We will return.”

As he spoke they were again in the warm atmosphere of the dining-hall.

“And my reward if I join you?” queried Stanley, still on his feet.

“Pow’er beyond your wildest dreams, you fool!” shouted his host. “An equal place with us in the realm of free spirits. Why, we shall be as the gods of old and rale the world as Jupiter and his favorites did from Parnassus. We can defy death. We can be lords of life itself.”

For some reason Warden still hesitated. Although the theory seemed real enough, it was beyond his grasp — just as the fourth dimension was. It sounded magnificent and yet — and yet — he wanted something tangible.

Brown seemed to read his mind.

“Oh, I see,” he nodded, his black eyes sparkling evilly. “Doubting Thomas wants something real — something alive and within his limits. You will outgrow' that, but in the meantime — Mathy, see what you can do for this youngster in the way of a tangible reward for his rebellion.”

T he host sat down slowly and the author rose in his stead. Again his yellow, cigarette-stained fingers writhed upon the back of his chair as he smiled wolfishly upon the gathering.

“I believe it would not be amiss, after this wonderful evening,” he breathed, scarcely audibly, “if we had a little glimpse of pleasure and youth and beauty. I have in mind a scene

from my new novel, The Otherworldling, which I shall make real to you.”

He paused for effect, lit a long cigarette which was speckled wuth tiny spots of color, like a robin’s egg, then continued reflectively, as his eyes roved over his auditors.

‘ ‘ Let us say we are in a world vdiere evolution has taken a different trend, wdiere the flowers have developed beautiful, semi-human bodies; where a man can float in a poppy daze without the unpleasant after-effects; where beauty is exotic and supreme; where the ones we love are transformed into beings we can possess voluptuously and without restraint.”

His voice trailed off. His face seemed to shrink and harden. Only his widely spaced green eyes seemed alive as they blinked slowly. With a shock Stanley observed that their pupils dilated vertically like those of a cat.

As he stared the walls and table seemed to dissolve and take new forms. The night vanished. A great, warm sun caressed him. With the other guests he found himself wandering in a bower of giant flowers. A sweet, penetrating aroma, which seemed to have been pressed from all the. blooms that ever had opened, sw'ept over them.

fie felt a touch on his elbow and turned to behold the flower-women. Strangely human they were, as they swayed shoulder-high on their slender stalks — nodding, bowing in the breeze, smiling gayly the while like ladies in some old, old cotillion. Their slender, naked bodies glowed pinkly in the sunshine, exquisite and beautiful. Their scarlet lips seemed begging for love. But their eyes were dead! Now and then one, stirred by the scented zephyrs, would break from her mooring, in the midst of what seemed a



gigantic rose, and drift toward them, arms outstretched.

‘ ‘ These are but the figments of my imagination,” Stanley heard Mathy’s voice crooning softly beside him. ‘‘They have no being of their own, and are built by me only for your delectation. They are made for love. Have pity upon them.”

•But the effect upon Stanley was not what the author evidently had expected. Something within him seemed fighting desperately for air. His old horror of flowers swept over him. This sticky sweetness reminded him nauseatingly of the time when he had been buried under the roses and had fought the petals and thorns and entangling roots for life. He panted for breath. He wanted to scream, to run wildly down this jewel-strewn path.

“But I see Mr. Warden is not yet satisfied,” the silken, stubborn voice droned on. “Perhaps he dreams of Jerry, who is not here. Oh, yes, we know of Jerry. A charming maiden, but puritanical. We will place her here and see the effect. Look!”

And, as he turned a comer of the path, Stanley beheld in the center of a giant yellow rose the likeness of Jerry swaying slowly toward him. As beautiful as ever she was, yet changed, as when one sees the face of a friend in a nightmare, as if she had been “crossed” with a flower by some devil’s chemistry.

“Jerry!” he gasped.

Slowly her face turned toward him, as gradually as when a sunflower swings toward the sun.

He shrieked with horror. It was the face of a saint in purgatory; of a soul in its death throes.

“Do not be foolish,” intoned Mathy’s voice, into which had crept a faint tinge of menace. “The silly girl seems to take it hard, but she will grow used to it and become happy here in this garden, with the perfumes, the sun, the other flower maidens — and you. She will be your

slave for as long as you wish. When you tire of her she will — pass on. Pluck your posy, my boy, and amuse yourself till dawn.”

With a cry of anguish Stanley hurled himself upon Mathy, whose figure, apparently clothed in silks of strange colors, he could see beside him.

“You fiend! You devil!” he snarled. ‘ ‘ Do with me what you will, but leave Jerry untouched.”

His fingers closed upon the soft throat of the author. There was a crash of glassware and a thunder of chairs overturned. -

Out of the comer of his eye he could see that the dining-hall had closed once more about them. He and Mathy were writhing in a tangle of dishes and napery while the other guests crowded about, trying to tear them apart.

“You fool! You utter fool!” he heard Brown shouting. “You almost killed them all. Get back, you fellows. Let me beat some reason into his young head. Damn me if I’ll have rebellion among the rebels! It’s my will that rules here. Back, I say!”

With a superhuman effort Stanley scrambled to his feet. He had gone berserk. Those crooked, vulpine faces about him seemed birds of prey, ready to tear his very soul to tatters.

With the strength of despair he gripped the now conscious Mathy by the heels and used the body as a flail to sweep a path before him toward the door.

He sensed that the others were reaching skinny fingers toward him. He saw Brown, all his suavity vanished, his face a mask of death, dancing about, a rapier in his hand, trying to get an opening.

And now, for the first time, he saw what was wrong with his host’s feet.

The revelation drove him completely mad. He hurled the limp form of Mathy through the doorway, which had been blocked by the hunchback butler and a group of other horrors.



evidently from the servants ’ quarters, and leaped after it.

A lithe form dropped on his back from above, choking him, as he crashed against the entrance door. He heard the fellow’s skull crush against the jamb.

By a miracle the door was unlocked. He dashed into the street and across it, toward his apartment. He couldn’t resist turning to look back, however, and saw the whole ghastly crew piling through the door into the dim light of dawn.

That look almost proved his undoing, for some dim form gripped his leg and tripped him. The mob was on him, pulling at his clothes, scratching at his throat, and only prevented from killing him by their numbers and excitement.

Squirming and kicking he fought his way across the dim street. If he could gain his apartment! If he could call Jerry! If he could reunite the chain of the everyday world he knew he would be safe.

At the door he fought them off a

moment and snatched his telephone. * ‘ Humboldt 5225, ’ ’ he panted.

He heard the crash of the door as his enemies broke it down. He felt them upon him. The end had come!

Then, like a voice from heaven, he heard Jerry on the wire.

“It’s Stanley, darling,” he screamed. “Promise you won’t read the letter from me that you will receive this morning, Jerry. Promise inc that.”

A skinny claw clutched the receiver but he held fast and as he fell beneath a stunning blow on the head rolled against the wall so they could not reach the cord.

‘ ‘ What on earth is that noise? ” he dimly heard the girl answer. “Why of course I won ’t read the letter, silly. Are you ill? What makes you shout so?”

He could not answer, but as his senses reeled into darkness he felt the pressure about him relax; the blows upon his head cease. He had won back to the world of everyday, where demons in human form could not yet approach.

THE CROW

By LIDA WILSON TURNER

A blue-black crow, like the raven of Poe,

Came one day to my patio,

And perched on top of the white-washed wall. With a knowing look, he surveyed it all:

The pool where the water hyacinths grow,

The vine swung low, where I came to sew In the early evening’s coral glow.

I saw by his face he deemed it no place For a bird of his morbid, foreboding race;

He flew to the brooding woods near by,

Where pines grow black on the sunset sky.

Then with a grimace, I tried to retrace My rosebud pattern outlined with lace,

But a blue-black feather covered the space!



The Moon of Skulls

( Continued from page 751)

ing when he sought to raise them to his aching, throbbing head.

He lay in utter darkness but he could not determine whether this was absence of light, or whether he was still blinded by the blow. He dazedly collected his scattered faculties and realized that he was lying on a damp stone floor, shackled by wrist and ardde with heavy iron chains which Were rough and rusty to the touch.

How long he lay there, he never kpew. The silence was broken only by the drumming pulse in his own aching. head and the scamper and chattering of rats. At last a red glow sprang up in the darkness and grew before his eyes. Framed in the grisly radiance rose the sinister and sardonic face of Nakari. Kane shook his head, striving to rid himself of the illusion. But the light grew and as his eyes accustomed themselves to it, he saw that it emanated from a torch borne in the hand of the queen.

In the illumination he now saw that he lay in a small dank cell whose walls, ceiling and floor were of stone. The heavy chains which held him captive were made fast to metal rings set deep in the wall. There was but one door, which was apparently of bronze.

Nakari set the torch in a niche near the door, and coming forward, stood over her captive, gazing down at him in a manner rather speculating than mocking.

“You are he who fought the men on the cliff.” The remark was an assertion rather than a question. “They said you fell into the abyss — did they lie? Did you bribe them to lie? Or how did you escape? Are you a magician and did you fly to the bottom of the chasm and then fly to my palace? Speak!

Are You Drifting?

Do you seem to be unable to reach the goal of your ambitions t Does life seem like an endless sea with no light to guide you?

Are you unable to steer your career to Peace, Health and Happiness?

FREE BOOK PpINTS THE WAY

Let us send you a copy of a new book that tells how men and women in all walks of life may be helped to bring their DREAMS INTO REALIZATION. A hand of fellowship and good will is extended to every man and woman drifting on life's sea by the Rosicrucians. A large group of men and women, who have found the secrets to ATTAINMENT. HAPPINESS and HEALTH, unite in offering to share their knowledge with others. Not a sectarian or religious plan, not a commercial scheme. Just a friendly system for bringing new LIFE, new KNOWLEDGE, new POWER INTO the LIVES of EVERYONE. Write for a copy of the free book today and learn how you may study these helpful principles. Address your letter to:

LIBRARIAN H. F. J. Rosicrucian Brotherhood

(AMORC)

SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA

( Perpetuating the Original Fraternity)

Banish the craving for tobacco as thousands have. Make yourself free and happy with Tobacco Redeemer. Not a substitute, not habit forming. Write for free booklet telling of injuriouseffectof tobacco and dependable, easy way to relieve* the craving many men have. Newell Pharmacal Co.

Dept 917. Clayton, Mo.l


you that I will teach you, by mail in one leieon, the simplest, ahorteet, method. Not telepathy. You can read one's mind to a dot by only looking in the eye» of partner, chum, aweetheart, etc. Praised by New York, Boston, Montreal Police Chiefs, colleges, Thurston, Blackstone, etc. If fake, let them arrest me. Send In all 11.00.

A. Henigman, Sta. E. P. 0. B. 85, Sec. WT- A, Montreal, Can,



Kane remained silent. Nakari cursed.

“Speak or I will have your eyes tom out! I will cut your fingers off and bum your feet!”

She kicked him viciously, but Kane lay silent, his deep somber eyes boring up into her face, until the feral gleam faded from her eyes to be replaced by an avid interest and wonder.

She seated herself on a stone bench, resting her elbows on her knees and her chin on her hands.

“I never saw a white man before,” she said, “Are all white men like you? Bah! That can not be! Most men are fools, black or white. I know most black men are fools, and white men are not gods, as the river tribes say — they are only men. I, who know all the ancient mysteries, say they are only men.

“But white men have strange mysteries too, they tell me — the wanderers of the river tribes, and Mara. They have war clubs that make a noise like thunder and kill afar off — that thing which you held in your right hand, was that one of those clubs?”

Kane permitted himself a grim smile.

“Nakari, if you know all mysteries, how can I tell you aught that you know not already?”

“How deep and cold and strange your eyes are!” the queen said as if he had not spoken. “How strange your whole appearance is — and you have the bearing of a king! You do not fear me — I never met a man who neither loved nor feared me. You would never fear me, but you could learn to love me. Look at me, white man — am I not beautiful?”

“You are beautiful,” answered Kane.

Nakari smiled and then frowned. “The way you say that, it is no compliment. You hate me, do you not?”

“As a man hates a serpent, ’ ’ Kane replied bluntly.

Nakari ’s eyes blazed with almost insane fury. Her hands clenched until the long nails sank into the palms; then as quickly as her anger had arisen, it ebbed away.

“You have the heart of a king,” she said calmly, “else you would fear me. Are you a king in your land?”

“I am only a landless wanderer.”

“You might be a king here,” Nakari said slowly.

Kane laughed grimly. “Do you offer me my life?”

“I offer you more than that!” Kane’s eyes narrowed as the queen leaned toward him, vibrant with suppressed excitement. “White man, what is it that you want more than anything else in the world?”

“To take the white girl you call Mara, and go.”

Nakari sank back with an impatient exclamation,

“Yon can not have her; she is the promised bride of the Master. Even I could not save her, even if I wished. Forget her. I will help you forget her. Listen, white man, listen to the words of Nakari, queen of Negari! You say you are a landless man — I will make you a king! I will give you the world for a toy!

“No, no! Keep silent until I have finished,” she rushed on, her words tumbling over each other in her eagerness. Her eyes blazed, her whole body quivered with dynamic intensity. “I have talked to travelers, to captives and slaves, men from far countries. I know that this land of mountains and rivers and jungle is not all the world. There are far-off nations and cities, and kings and queens to be crushed and broken.

“Negari is fading, her might is crumbling, but a strong man beside her queen might build it up again — might restore all her vanishing glory. Listen, white man! Sit by me on the


85?

throne of Negari! Send afar to your people for the thunder-clubs to arm my warriors! My nation is still lord of central Africa; together we will band the conquered tribes — call back the days when the realm of ancient Negari spanned the land from sea to sea! We will subjugate all the tribes of the river, the plain and the sea-shore, and instead of slaying them all, we will make one mighty army of them! And then, when all Africa is under our heel, we will sweep forth upon the world like a hungry lion to rend and tear and destroy!”

Solomon’s brain reeled. Perhaps it was the woman’s fierce magnetic personality, the dynamic power she instilled in her fiery words, but at the moment her wild plan seemed not at all wild and impossible. Lurid and chaotic visions flamed through the Puritan ’s brain — Europe tom by civil and religious strife, 'divided against herself, betrayed by her rulers, tottering — aye, Europe was in desperate straits now, and might prove an easy victim for some strong savage race of conquerors. What man can say truthfully that in his heart there lurks not a yearning for power and conquest? For a moment the Devil sorely tempted Solomon Kane; then before his mind’s eye rose the wistful sad face of Marylin Taferal, and Solomon cursed.

‘‘Out on ye, daughter of Satan! Avaunt! Am I a beast of the forest to lead your black devils against mine own race? Nay, no beast ever did so. Begone! If you wish my friendship, set me free and let me go with the girl.”

Nakari leaped like a tiger-cat to her feet, her eyes flaming now with passionate fury. A dagger gleamed in her hand and she raised it high above Kane’s breast with a feline scream of hate. A moment she hovered like a shadow of death above him; then her arm sank and she laughed.

the Craters the MOON'

Astronomical and Terrestrial TELESCOPE Magnifies SO Times

Own a genuine Astronomer's Telescope. See thousands of miles away. Make sun, moor

S ian eta, stars your next oor rerghbore. Moon Craters, Sun Spots,

Eclipses, Comets _.

enlarged 80 Price

Only

$3.95

Hours of fun looking at scenery, games, bathing beauties. Great for tripe, and v-oyages. Made like telescopes used in observator- [ lea. Gerding wrote, "Moon i seemed 10 yards away.

Landscapes, Games, Ooesn Soanes, Enlarged SO Times!

ieter 2 inches. Special on adjustment for foising. Adjustable bracket id clai

EARN HO A DAY Cfcirgs 25c ts lash si the moan

__ can be fastened

to oh air. fence, branch, etc. Finest materials. Will last lifetime.

Five Days Free Trial

Rush only 11.00 now. Pay balance ($2. 96 plus postage), when pos man delivers. Keep 6 days; if not delighted, return telescope and money will be refunded.

ROLL-O SPECIALTY CO. DspL G-363

220 E. Srd St., Cincinnati, Ohis

I Prices on

Lowe st A ndmu>tip£j>

BlgReductionsonGoodrlch, Goodyear, Firestone,

DR. KASZYNSKI’S

RHEUMATIC Bi

For 70 years thia Famous Doctor’s Prescription baa been helping: thousands of sufferers — In all cases of Rheumatism and Gout. GUARANTEED TO HELP or your Money Back. Stop suffering:! Send $1.00 cash or money order now, and get this famous Rheumatic Treatment by return mail. Mail Coupon below now! GEOJ. SLADKY._DeptJ 24. 801 M ilwaukee Ave.. Chicago

risEORGE J. SLADKY, R. Pt»„ Dept. IN*""

I 801-3 Milwaukee Avo„ CHICAGO, ILL.

* Dear Druggist: Please Bend me your $1.00 Rheumatic \ I Treatment by return mail. I am to be absolutely satis- I | fled, otherwise 1 get my money back. |

| Warns -

I Address—

I

| City

-StateYOU MEN WHO LACK VIGOR TRY THIS TEST AT OUR RISKI 77*7 FORMULA

Composed of ACTUAL GLAND MATERIALS and stimulative tonic-tablet form.

Send 52 for a full strength package. Absolute Satisfaction GUARANTEED or Money I Refunded. YouTakeNoRisk. _

2 Full Packages for S3. OO 1 CERES CO. WT-13, 830 Arch St., Phlla.. Pa.



“Freedom? She will find her freedom when the Moon of Skulls leers down on the black altar. As for you, you shall rot in this dungeon. You are a fool; Africa's greatest queen has offered you her love and the empire of the world — and you revile her! You love the white girl, perhaps? Until the Moon of Skulls she is mine and I leave you to think about, this: that she shall be punished as I have punished her before — hung up by her wrists, naked, and whipped until she swoons!”

Nakari laughed as Kane tore savagely at his shackles. She crossed to the door, opened it, then hesitated and turned back for another word.

“This is a foul place, white man, and maybe you hate me the more for chaining you here. Maybe in Nakari ’s beautiful throneroom, with wealth and luxury spread before you, you will look upon her with more favor. Very soon I shall send for you, but first I will leave you here awhile to reflect. Remember — love Nakari and the kingdom of the world is yours; hate her — this cell is your realm.”

The bronze door clanged sullenly, but more hateful to the imprisoned Englishman was the venomous, silvery laugh of Nakari.

T ime passed slowly in the darkness.

After what seemed a long time the door opened again, this time to admit a huge black who brought food and a sort of thin wine. Kane ate and drank ravenously and afterward slept. The strain of the last few days had worn him greatly, mentally and physically, but when he awoke he felt fresh and strong.

Again the door opened and two great black warriors entered. In the light of the torches they bore, Kane saw that they were giants, clad in loin-cloths and ostrich plume headgear, and bearing long spears in their hands.

‘ ‘ Nakari wishes you to come to her, white man, ’ ’ was all they said, as they took off his shackles. He arose, exultant in even brief freedom, his keen brain working fiercely for a way of escape.

Evidently the fame of his prowess had spread, for the two warriors showed great respect for him. They motioned him to precede them, and Avalked carefully behind him, the pohits of their spears boring into his back. Though they were two to one, and he was unarmed, they were taking no chances. The gazes they, directed at him were full of awe and suspicion, and Kane decided that Nakari had told the truth when she had said that he Avas the first white man to come to Negari.

Down a long dark corridor they ■went, his captors guiding him with light prods of their spears, up a narrow winding stair, down another passageway, up another stair, and? then they emerged into the vast maze of gigantic pillars into which Kane had first come. As they started down this huge hall, Kane’s eyes suddenly fell on a strange and fantastic picture painted on the Avail ahead of him. His heart gave a sudden leap as he recognized it. It Avas some distance in front of him and he edged imperceptibly toward the Avail until he and his guards Avere Avalking along very close to it. Noav he Avas almost abreast of the picture and could even make out the mark his dagger had made upon it.

The warriors following Kane were amazed to hear him gasp suddenly like a man struck by a spear. He wavered in his stride and began clutching at the air for support. They eyed each other doubtfully and prodded him, but he cried out like a dying man, and slowly crumpled to the floor, Avhere he lay in a strange imnatural position, one leg doubled ba ck under him and one arm half supWEIRD TALES


porting his lolling body. The blacks looked at him fearfully. To all appearances he was dying, but there was no wound upon him. They threatened him with their spears but he paid no heed. Then they lowered their weapons uncertainly and one of them bent over him.

Then it happened. The instant the black stooped forward, Kane came up like a steel spring released. His right fist following his motion curved up from his hip in a whistling half -circle and crashed against the black giant’s jaw. Delivered with all the power of arm and shoulder, propelled by the upthrust of the powerful legs as Kane straightened, the blow was like that of a slung-shot. The negro slumped to the floor, unconscious before his knees gave way.

The other warrior plunged forward with a bellow, but even as his victim fell, Kane twisted aside and his frantic hand found the secret spring in the painting and pressed. All happened in the breath of a second. Quick as the warrior was, Kane was quicker, for he moved with the dynamic speed of a famished wolf. For an instant the falling body of the senseless black hindered the other warrior’s thrust, and in that instant Kane felt the hidden door give way. From the comer of his eye he saw a long gleam of steel shooting for his heart. He twisted about and hurled himself against the door, vanishing through it even as the stabbing spear slit the skin on his shoulder.

To the dazed and bewildered warrior, who stood with weapon upraised for another thrust, it seemed as if the white man had simply vanished through a solid wall, for only a fantastic picture met his gaze and this did not give to his efforts.

The grim glories and hideous splendors of forgotten Atlantis are vividly painted in the riot of death which brings this story to a conclusion in next month’s WEIRD TALE8.

Stopped

His Whiskey

Drinking

Try It FREE

Wives, mothers, sisters, it is you that the man who drinks Whiskey, Wine or Beer to excess must depend upon to help sa ve him from a ruined life and a drunkard’s grave. Take heed from the thousands of men going to ruin daily through vile bootlegger’s Whiskey, and the horrible stuff called home brew from private stills. Once he gets it in his system he finds it difficult to stop — but you can help him. What It has done for others is an example of what it should do for you. AH you have to do is to send your name and address and we will send absolutely FREE, in plain wrapper, a trial package of GOLDEN TREATMENT. You will be thankful aa long as you live that you did it. Address


3921 Glenn Building Cincinnati. Ohio

DAM-ZINE

For Sick Glands Caused From Agei Abuse, Disease, Etc.

A product of medical research prescribed by Physicians in the treatment of starved glands. You take no chances and waste no money. Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded. We invite correspondence with Physicians. Packed 26 Dam-Zines, $1.00, 200 for $6.00. A $1.00 order now means a $5.00 order later. Special Physicians offer 1,000 Dam-Zincs for $21.25. All goods sent in plain sealed package postpaid. No C. O. D. Send cash or money order and expect Dam-Zines by first return mail. No delay. Write now. All correspondence confidential.


P. O. Box 101 Columbus, Ohio

HI DISEASES — No Watte?

DLUUU How Bad or Old the Casa

•r What’s the Cause send for rREK Booklet about Dr. Pantar’s Treatment used successfully for over IS years in the most severe and chronic cases. Write now. Or. Pantar, 179 W. Washington St., Room M-B17. Chicago

ASTROLOGY IS AN KXACT SCIENCE!,

Your Horoscope is unlike that of any other Person! It infallibly reveals your most intimate nature and hidden powers. Send details of birth with five dollars for your own secret. Individual chart and how you can use it to obtain your Heart's Desire! C. Frederick Russell, Secretary. CHORONZON CLUB. P. O. Bor 181, Chicago. 111. •

STEAMSHIP POSITIONS— EUROPE, ORIENT. Good pay; Experience unnecessary; List of positions free. Box 292, Mount Vernon, N. T.



Haunted Hands

( Continued from page 761 )

until she had fallen asleep and then had crept up to her soft throat.

“On and on that wild song of triumph played, whispering its ghastly tale to me, hour after hour until, numb with exhaustion, I managed to tear myself away from the piano. I did not look at her. I knew only too well what had happened. I rushed out into the street, brought you gentlemen here, and the rest you know.

“I suppose you will want to place me under arrest, now, charge me with murder and go through with all the formality of the law. Do so, if you wish. It matters very little what you do with me. The end is only a matter of a few hours at best. Very soon, now, I must sleep. And when I sleep again, he will conquer. That is one of the things he told me through that hellish music last night.

“And I am anxious to have it over with, to go to her out there in the dark and stand beside her when she faces him and his followers from the Pit. And, somehow, I know that, out there, we shall win. She said that love is the greatest power in the universe — that no power of hell could overcome a love like oui’s. And I believe! Yes, yes, I am quite anxious to have it over with and go to her out there where she is facing him.”

The man broke off and stared almost placidly into the gray dawn that was breaking through the windows. The captain of detectives blew his nose quite ostentatiously when he produced his handkerchief, but Cardigan and the other patrolman were frankly wiping their eyes.

“You poor devil!” It was the doctor who spoke. “And all the time you never thought of the one simple thing that would have saved you. Ropes, man! And that’s what we’ll

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BT THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912,

Of Weird Tales, published monthly at Indlonap* olis, Indiana, for April 1, 1930.

State of Illinois 1 County of Cook i

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wm. R. Sp render, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and if a daily paper, the circulation)* etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 411, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company* 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Editor — Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Managing Editor — None.

Business Manager — William R. Sprenger,. £40 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

S. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must, be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those of each Individual member must be given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 /H. "Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind. *

Wm. R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.

Farnsworth Wright. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.

George M. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

George H. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. W. Cornelius. 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana,

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees* and other security holders owning or holding I per cent or more of total amount of bonds, morU gages, or other securities are: (If there are none, eo state). None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or indirect, in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each

issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the six months preceding the date shown above is. (This information is required from daily publications only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER, Business Manager.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 1st day of April, 1930. D. G. WIELAND,

[SEAL] Notary Public.

My commission expires December 11, 1933.



do with you now. Down at the station house we’ll tie your hands to a bunk — even chain them if it will make you feel any better — and you can sleep for a week if you like. After that, you ’ll have to go through a trial, of course, but it will be very brief. A mere formality. In next to no time, you’ll be out of it and in a comfortable sanitarium where you can receive treatment. And there’s always hope, young man, always hope. Can’t make any promises, of course — unusually severe case of hallucinations, induced by severe mental shock — but there’s always hope. Yes, certainly there’s always hope.”

He cleared his throat briskly and fingered the leaves of his notebook. The man shook his head gently.

“You simply don’t know him. You could set these hands into a concrete wall and still they would do his bidding. If — if you had heard them flaying a few hours ago, you would understand....”

Tt was quite early the next afternoon when Dr. Hughes entered the station house — much earlier than his round of duties called for. Cardigan was bending over a newspaper as he entered.

“Well, Cardigan,” the doctor asked, “how is our young man today?”

: Cardigan looked up from the newspaper with bewilderment written large upon his face.

“Well — ’tis a strange thing that has happened, Doctor. The lad is dead. You remember how we handcuffed his hands to the sides of his bunk, and, besides that, set that young rookie to watch beside him? Well, the rookie reports that about ten o’clock he got up and went to the end of the cell corridor for a drink of water. He swears that he was not gone more than three and a half or four minutes at the most, but when he got back, the lad was

What Made His Hair Grow?

Read His Letter for the Answer

"Two years ago I wail bald all over the top of tho head.

"I felt ashamed for people to see my head. I tried to overcome this, but I remained bald until I used Kotalko.

“New hair came almost immediately and kept on growing. In a short time I had a splendid head of hair, which has been perfect ever since — and no return of the baldness.’*

This statement la by Mr.H.A. Wild. He is but one of those who voluntarily attest Kotalko has stopped falling hair, eliminated dandruff or aided new, luxuriant hair growth.

Women also report new hair growth through KOTALKO. Many testimonials from men and women whose health was undoubtedly good and whose hair roots were not dead.

Is your physical condition equal to theirs? And are your hair roots alive but dormant? If so, they may be stimulated into growing hair through Kotalko, the right sort of invigorant. Sold by busy druggists.

« n To prove the efficacy of

LB* A A D Ay Kotalko, for men’s, women’s II VV ftJU A and children’s hair, the producers arc giving Proof Boxes.

Kota! Co., B-81 1, Station 0, New York

Please send me FREE Proof Box of KOTALKO* Name — — - — — —

Full Address — - —


No man or woman can escape the harmfu 1 effects of tobacco, d Don't try to banish unaided J the hold tobacco haa upon you. i Join the thousands of invetor-\

ate tobacco users that have ___________

found It easy toquit with the aid of theKeeleyTreatment.


STOPS

Tobacco Habit

Quickly banishes all craving for tobacco. Write today for tree Book telling how toquickiy Free yourself from too tobacco habit and our Money Back Guarantee.

. THE KEELEY INSTITUTE

P[eg < LB^-801 Dwight, Illinois

KEEL

SONG WRITERS; SUBSTANTIAL ADVANCE

Royalties are paid on publisher’s acceptance. New booklet, “Song Requirements of Talking Pictures,” sent free. Newcomer Associates. 784 Earl Building, New York.

TOBACCO HABIToT£$£5

Over 600,000 used Superba Remedy to help stop Cigars, Cigarettes, Pipe, Chewing, Snuff. Write for full treatment on trial. Cost* $100 if Moceeefel, nothing if not SUPERBA CO. H-50, Baltimoro, Md




The

BRIDE of DEWER

By SEABURY QUINN

A n eery novelette, brimful of horror and blood-freezing situations. Old Dewer, the Huntsman of the North, famed in Old English legend, rides again through this fascinating story; and the hideous results of his ride are terror and grisly panic. One of the weirdest stories Seabury Quinn has ever written.

A n eldritch tale indeed is this story of the little French occultist and scientist, Jules de Grandin. If you have not *yet made the acquaintance of this fascinating fictional character — ghost-breaker and phantom-fighter, quick-tempered and vain, yet wholly lovable — then you have a rare treat in store. Meet the mercurial Frenchman in this story, which will be printed complete in the

July issue of


On Sale June 1st

Clip and Mail this coupon today/

WEIRD TAXES 840 N. Michigan Are.,

Chicago* 111.

Enclosed find $1 for special 5 months sub* ccription to "Weird Tales” to begin with the July Issue ($1.26 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Kame

Address.. _.

City State

strangled to death. 'And, Holy Mother, but you ought to see the lad’s throat, sir! It’s mangled worse than hers, sir. And” — Cardigan cleared his throat nervously — “and — well, the rookie says, sir, that the lad’s hands were still moving although the lad himself was lying perfectly still. ’Tis a strange business, indeed, Doctor, and would you be having a look at this, sir?”

He handed the doctor the newspaper he had been reading and pointed to a small item at the bottom of the page. It was a single paragraph and was dated the day before:

Turgot, N. Y., August 11, 19 —. A curious matter occurred here, today, where thi old Turgot cemetery is being moved to make way for the new dam. One of the graves opened was that of Wladimir Tchianski, one of the greatest pianists of his day. His skeleton was found to be in perfect condition except for the bones of the hands. Prom the wrists down, the bones of both hands were missing and in their place was a peculiar green slime which emitted a powerful stench when the grave was opened. Local authorities think it the result of some little known disease and are attempting to analyze the green slime. So far their efforts have met with no success.

FOR SALE

Complete set (12 issues) of 1928 and 1929 Issues of "Weird Tales" — $3.60 per set. or 30c per single copy for any issue in either 1928-or 1929. WEIRD TALES, 840 N*. Michigan Ave.. Chicago. 111.

Anyone Interested In

Occult Sciences and Mysteries,

send us your name and address. Join new Mental Science League, no charge.

Mental Science League

109 N. Dearborn St. Chicago, III.

HtC MAGIC BOOK 10c

Amase and Mystify! "Book of 1.000 Wonders explains many startling tncfce you can do. Also catalogs big hne Magic, Jokes, Puzzles, etc. 100 pages Write today! LYLE DOUGLAS, STATION A-6, DALLAS. TEXAS.

1V/ITH back to the wall he watched

VV them. They were waiting for him to collapse before they killed him. He had not slept, he had not eaten— he could barely breathe. He had tended theseman-eatingblacksintheirmisery and now this fiendish attack was his reward.

Suddenly from nowhere appeared this rosy cheeked, clear-eyed girl to help defend him. Alone on this far-off South Sea island they fought the two hundred!

What strange trick of fate could have driven this young American to cast his lot among savages? Who was this mysterious girl? How came she there? What was the fate of these two strangely assorted companions?

Let Jack London tell you theanswerto this and a hundred other thrilling, gripping adventures and amazing romances in the

No other form of entertainment offers you so much thrilling delight and education, rolled into one, for so little money. Good books are by far the most economical form of enjoyment today.



.The First Uniform Edition Ever Published —12 Priceless Volumes of Education and Wild Delight at a Bargain That May Never Be Repeated— Quantity on hand is limitedl

T)E the first in your community to own these— the World’s greatest stories of raging adventure, flaming conflict and daring romance ever written I Sailor, gold miner, philosopher, tramp, oyster pirate and university student, never a man lived as Jack London! And into his books he poured the accumulated wealth of his own turbulent career. So vivid, so realistic are these absorbing pages you feel yourself actually taking part in every situation.

4600 Absorbing Pages of Adventure

In breathless succession you race from one thrilling episode to another — from arctic Siberia to torrid Africa— from the South Sea Islands to England’s misty shores — for these are extraordinary tales, so stirringly told that you will never tire of reading them over and over again. They help you relax and increase your efficiency.

small edition far below the regular publisher’s price! Made possible only by eliminating editorial and plate costs altogether and by manufacturing the books in the dull season.

These sets are going fast.

ACT TODAY!

Ten Days Free Inspection

Simply mail the bargain couponand read theseglorious volumes 10 days

free. No money down! BUT DON’T WAIT! 4

This opportunity 4 may never + come your A „. way agam!

•O 0-30

OT McKINUY, ^ STONE & ' ^MACKENZIE, 114E.16thSt.N.V.

r Sendmefor free exami nation, all charges pre-.<£> paid, your new Uniform ^ Edition of the World

Priced For Quick Action

For years the public has clamored for a uniform library edition of Jack London at a popularprice. And here it is — a special

McKinlay, Stone & Mackenzie, Dept. 248 114 East 16th Street, New York City, N.Y.

TEAR OFF


. mou8 Work9 of Jack London, in 12 volumes, handsomely b° und in cloth. If at the end of <V 10 days I am more than delighted, *0 I shall keep them and send you SI JST promptly and $1 a month thereafter for only 14 months. Otherwise I will return theset in 10 days at your expense, the examination to cost me nothing.

Name.

f Occupation..

f Age: Over 21?

( 5°)o off for cash)

Under 21?...

♦ • tu-iu oil iui cubii; For rich Art Craft binding with gilt tops, change above to $1.50 a month for the same number of months.


TOO LATE

to read one of the most popular stories that has been printed in this magazine to date. Through popular demand we have published a cloth-bound edition of “The Moon Terror,” by A. ft. Birch, to fulfill the wishes of those who were not fortunate enough to read this startling story when it appeared serially in the early issues of Weird Tales.

If you haven’t read this book of shuddery horror and utter weirdness we know you have missed something that is really worth while.

This hook is beautifully hound in rieh blue cloth with attractive orange-colored jacket. It will make a valuable addition to vour library.

EAD the thrilling: adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the

.eminent American astronomer,

in his encounters with Kwo-Sungtao, high priest of the Seuen-H’sin (the Sect of Two Moons). The Seuen-H’sin are the sorcerers of China, and the most murderously diabolical breed of human beings on this earth. Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham to take part in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God — when he crosses the Mountains of Fear — half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz’chuen — swims the River of Death — sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwiu. where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their campfires on their journey to Nirvana. Here is a story that will thrill you.

Send for this fascinating book at once. Special publishers’ price $1.50 postpaid.

Book Dept. M-26,

WEIRD TALES,

840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, Illinois

[THE END]
