============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: November 1934
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Mist on the Meadows" by Marion Doyle
  2. "Anne Boleyn" by Dorothy Quick
  3. "The People of the Black Circle (end)" by Robert E. Howard
  4. "Feigman’s Beard" by August W. Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
MIST ON THE MEADOWS
by Marion Doyle
============================================================
There, on the bass strings where Lucchesi had hastily thrust them, were pen¬ ciled sheets of music.

The priceless score, Lucchesi’s missing masterpiece!

the Meadows

By MARION DOYLE

Strange portents there are— What gain to deny them?— ’Twixt twilight and dawning: What use to defy them?

And now you contend this Is mist on the meadow—

I never heard of a Mist casting shadow.

It is not mist, but The uneasy dead Trailing their long shrouds Low overhead,

Blurring the high moon And blotting the stars, Caught in the Judas-trees— Death’s avatars.

This is unholy:

If you would be Inviolate Eternally,

Turn you about And flee—

And flee!

•He fell back, gasping, fighting madly against the stupefying vapor."

tail of the Cloven Hoof

A startling weird mystery story, of strange deaths on the desolate Moor of Exham, and the mysterious creature known as "The Terror of the Moor”

The Story Thus Far HAT is the real explanation of the mysterious monster—horned, cloven-footed, yet speaking with a human voice—which haunts the deso¬ late recesses of Exmoor? This problem confronts Hugh Trenchard in a dramatic guise when he stumbles on Silas Marie lying stunned and helpless one misty

night, and the subsequent disappearance of the old man’s body only serves to deepen the mystery.

With the aid of a former fellow-stu¬ dent, Ronnie Brewster, Hugh determines to solve the mystery, and his resolution is strengthened when he learns that Silas Marie has bequeathed his entire fortune to him on that very condition, AccomTkis story began in WEIRD TAXES for July

THE TRAIL OF THE CLOVEN HOOF


panied by Ronnie, he motors to Moor Lodge, Marie’s former home, and in a safe there discovers a letter which seems to give the clue to the origin of the Terror of the Moor.

According to this statement, Marie had discovered a method whereby the nitro¬ gen of the atmosphere, combined with the natural elements contained in every living body, might be utilized as a means of wholesale slaughter. The secret of the chemical formula by which this may be effected is contained in a sealed envelope, which Hugh places, unopened, in the safe. Marie’s letter further states that he had taken into his employ a half-witted lad known as Crazy Jake, who, having memorized the formula, was about to be¬ tray it to Professor Lucien Felger, a sus¬ pected secret agent in the employ of a foreign power.

As the only means of preserving the secret, Marie determined to use his new invention on Jake as he made his way across the Moor to Felger’s house. Marie examines the body of his victim after the explosion has taken place, and finds that the entire lower portion of the body has been completely destroyed.

Leaving the remains lying on the Moor, he hurries home, thinking his dread secret safe for all time. Some six months later, however, he is horrified to see the face of his victim gazing in at him through the library window. Later, when he examines the spot where the appari¬ tion has been standing, he finds the un¬ mistakable trail of cloven hoofs. . . .

An attempt of Professor Felger to ob¬ tain the fateful formula is frustrated by Hugh’s presence of mind. Next morning, determined to solve the secret of the pro¬ fessor’s mysterious entry, he searches the ground in the vicinity of the lodge in the hope of finding a secret passage. In a cavern in the near-by cliff, he comes upon

Inspector Renshaw of Scotland Yard, who offers to show him the workings of the abandoned lead mine which lie beyond.

At a point where a dank, earthy smell pervades the atmosphere, Renshaw sud¬ denly extinguish his lamp, leaving Hugh in utter darkness.


ere,” said Renshaw’s voice from the darkness, and Hugh felt himself grasped by the arm and urged gently forward. "Mind your head, the roof is very low. Round to your left, and here’s what I brought you to see.”

Turning an angle formed by a buttress of smooth rock, Hugh became aware of a thin shaft of golden sunlight slanting through the blackness and falling in an irregular circle on the opposite wall of rock. By its light he perceived that he was in a tiny natural chamber. The wel¬ come daylight, as well as the twisted roots of some large tree which partly formed, partly supported the roof, showed that he was not far beneath the surface of the ground. The hole which admitted the ray of light was about a man’s height from the floor of the cave; its outer rim was fringed with grass, and it had every appearance of being a natural rabbit burrow.

"My observation post,” Renshaw ex¬ plained, indicating the hole with a wave of his hand. “Care to have a look?”

Hugh Trenchard stepped up to the hole and peered through, and it was as much as he could do to stifle an outcry of amazement at what he saw. Separated from him only by the width of the grassbordered moorland track,, was his own house—Moor Lodge! Facing as it did the front right-hand angle of the house, this strange peephole commanded a view which included the front entrance as well



as the door at the side which gave access to the garden at the rear. It was impos¬ sible for any one to enter or leave, or even to approach the house without being observed by a concealed watcher in the little underground cave. A single glance satisfied him on this point, and he quickly turned to the detective by his side.

"Now I understand what you meant that night when you told me that you had my place under constant observation. And it also explains how you and your men managed to be on the spot so quick¬ ly after Ronnie and I entered the house. Of course you were already posted here before we arrived?”

Inspector Renshaw coughed modestly.

"Well, hardly that, sir,” he hastened to disclaim. "You could hardly expect me to know just when somebody was going to turn up—we’ve had the place under observation for weeks previous to that, ever since the day following Marie’s murder, in fact; and during that time not a soul has come near the place. We only keep one man at the 'observation hole’; the rest are quartered in a cottage about two miles down the combe—a mere hut it is. If the man on watch sees any¬ thing suspicious, or needs help at any time, he just flashes an agreed signal from the mouth of the cave overlooking the valley. Of course, all this is in con¬ fidence, sir.”

"You may rely on my discretion, in¬ spector,” Hugh assured him. "I shan’t mention your very ingenious arrange¬ ments to a soul—with the exception, maybe, of my close friend Doctor Brew¬ ster-”

"Not to anybody, if it’s all the same to you, sir,” said Renshaw quickly. "My ex¬ perience teaches me that, no matter how clever an actor a man may be, he always acts most convincingly when he thinks he is speaking the truth, and it is of the

utmost importance to my plans that every¬ thing should go on at Moor Lodge in exactly the same manner as if it were not under observation. That is most im¬ portant.”

"Very well, inspector. I will keep my own counsel. By the way,” Hugh added suddenly, "were you watching the house last night?”

"Naturally.” The inspector smiled slightly. "I saw you come into the gar¬ den from the direction of the rear of the house and meet Miss Endean, and I saw you both enter by the front door. But I will admit that I didn’t notice you leave the house in the first place.”

"No, you wouldn’t!” said Hugh grim¬ ly. "I made my exit head first through the back upstairs window!” And in a few words he told him of the attempted hold-up by Professor Felger.

"That must have been the shot I heard just before I saw you,” Renshaw said musingly when he had finished. "I thought it sounded too faint to have come from die house itself. But I’ll take my oath that nobody entered the house by either door.”

Hugh Trenchard slapped his knee triumphantly.

"Just as I thought—there’s a secret door somewhere!”

“Ttyf - aybe,” said the detective, slowly 1VA stroking his heavy mustache. "Maybe.”

"How about making a thorough ex¬ ploration of this old mine to see if any of the side passages lead directly beneath the house?”

Inspector Renshaw hailed the sug¬ gestion with enthusiasm.

"That’s a good idea, sir. I’ll signal for my men and we’ll make a search without delay. It’ll be a longish job, for this mine is as complicated as a maze,

THE TRAIL OF THE CLOVEN HOOF


once you quit the main galleries. The only way you can find your way about is to take a ball of twine and unwind it as you enter, and follow the line back in order to get out again. You might wan¬ der for days if you lost your bearings. But you may rely on us to go over it with a fine tooth comb.”

There was a short pause, during which Renshaw remained deep in thought.

"Curious that you should have men¬ tioned the possibility of some one else using the mine besides us,” he remarked presently. "If it’s true, it explains some¬ thing that has puzzled me more than a little.”

"And what is that?”

"When we first found this place we saw signs that there had been swarms of rabbits here recently — our observation hole was one of their burrows—but since then we’ve not caught sight of a single, solitary one.”

Hugh murmured a perfunctory agree¬ ment, although in his own mind he did not attach much importance to this sud¬ den migration. It was, he thought, far more likely that the advent of Inspector Renshaw himself had caused the rabbits to seek fresh fields and pastures new. That, however, was an unimportant de¬ tail; the great outstanding fact was the comforting knowledge that Moor Lodge, instead of being lonely and isolated, was watched and guarded far better than the average suburban villa. When, soon afterward, Hugh took his departure, he had a much enhanced opinion of the capabilities of the man from Scotland Yard. That morning he had fully made up his mind to lose no time in trans¬ ferring the precious sealed envelope to the vaults of a safe deposit company in London; now, however, he was quite content to allow it to remain in the in¬ genious chemical-guarded safe that had

been devised by Silas Marie. His mind was pleasantly at ease when, after having eaten a solitary cold lunch, he locked the door of Moor Lodge and set off to walk to Excombe.

In passing he threw a keen glance in the direction of Renshaw’s observation post. It must lie, he decided, beneath that low grassy bank, overshadowed by the spreading branches of two dwarf oak trees. There were several rabbit-holes visible on the slope of the bank, but it was quite impossible to tell which one was being used by the hidden watcher. With a cheery but unobtrusive wave of his walking-stick, Hugh turned into the path which struck across the Moor.

H is first step was to call on Mr.

Andrew Shale. Making his way along the straggling High Street, with its quaintly blended mixture of ancient and modem architecture, he halted before a double-fronted Georgian house whose rounded bay-windows were half covered with old-fashioned wire blinds bearing the legend in letters of faded gilt, "Shale & Shale, Solicitors and Commissioners for Oaths.”

He presented his card to the clerk in the outer office, and was soon ushered into the inner sanctum. The lawyer ad¬ vanced to meet him as he entered, and Hugh was struck by the unusual warmth of the old man’s greeting.

"Good morning, Doctor Trendhard, This is indeed an unexpected pleasure. Take a chair, my dear sir, take a chair. Your visit is most opportune—a most for¬ tunate coincidence. I had intended to drive over and see you this very afternoon about a little matter that has cropped up with regard to Moor Lodge, but you have saved me that journey.”

Hugh was conscious of a vague feeling of uneasiness.



"I hope there’s no flaw in my in¬ heritance?” he questioned.

"Oh, not at all, not at all. Your title is sound enough in that respect—unless, of course, Silas Marie should suddenly turn up and claim his property.” Andrew Shale gave the ghost of a dry smile, as though at some hidden joke. "No, sir, you may rest easy on that score; the busi¬ ness I had in mind will be to your ad¬ vantage rather than otherwise. But that can wait for the moment, for I presume you have come here to consult me on business of your own?”

At this hint, Hugh immediately plunged into the matter that had brought him there. The solicitor listened without speaking until he had finished, then nodded his gray head and again smiled genially.

"Of course, my dear sir, of course,” he said. "You really need not have troubled to come personally about such a trifling matter. I intended to make it clear at our last interview that you might draw on me for any reasonable amount of ready money. It is true that the legal formali¬ ties, which will result in the handing over to you of Mr. Marie’s large bank balance, have not yet been completed, but to all intents and purposes it is at your dis¬ posal. But it would be advisable for you to regard me as your banker for the time being.”

He opened a drawer and produced an imposing check-book.

"Just tell me how much you require.”

"It’s rather a large sum,” Hugh hesi¬ tated. "You see, I must have a car if I’m to live in such an isolated place, and a car will mean a garage to be built adjoining the house. I don’t mean the ordinary type of garage, with brick walls and slate roof, but one specially planned to harmonize with the exterior of the old house—oak half-timbering, and weathered red tiles.

and so forth. I shall have to consult an architect before I can tell you how much that will cost.”

"H’m,” purred the lawyer, thought¬ fully stroking his gray side-whisker. "You need have no fear about the money not being forthcoming, but you may not need that garage after all.”

"What do you mean?”

Andrew Shale opened a box-file and selected a letter.

"This morning I received a communi¬ cation from a firm which styles itself 'The Country Hotel Development Syndicate.’ Apparently it is a company that has been newly formed with the object of acquir¬ ing genuinely old houses situated amid pleasant and picturesque surroundings, and turning them into small residential hotels, while preserving their original Old World interest and comfort. You will perceive that they have made a very tempting offer for Moor Lodge.”

He pushed the letter across the desk as he spoke. Hugh Trenchard looked at the figure and gasped. In his wildest dreams he had never imagined that the property could be worth one quarter of the huge sum which, quoted in figures and again in bracketed words to avoid the possibil¬ ity of mistake, stared him in the face from the neatly typed sheet. As he looked, he felt an indefinite but profound suspicion forming in his mind.

"Do you know anything about this 'Country Hotel Development Syndi¬ cate’?” he asked, and the lawyer shrugged.

"I have already explained that it is a newly formed company, but their finances are sound enough. Their bankers’ refer¬ ence is unassailable. If I might venture to advise you, sir, I think it would be sound policy to close with the offer at once. It is a very tempting proposition.”

"It’s far more than the place is worth,” Hugh objected.

W. T.—4

THE TRAIL OF THE CLOVEN HOOF


"That is their look-out. They have offered the money, and this signed letter constitutes a legal contract from which they can not withdraw without your con¬ sent. After aU, value in house property is a very elastic term. A residence which would have a merely nominal value to a private individual like yourself might ap¬ pear very different to the directors of a syndicate desirous of developing it on novel and money-making lines.”

‘Til think it over,” said Hugh, rising to his feet.

Andrew Shale’s gray brows flashed up¬ ward in an expression of deprecatory amazement.

"I don’t see that it requires much thought, Doctor Trenchard. Most people would jump at such a tempting offer.”

"It’s a jolly long sight too tempting, Mr. Shale, and that's what makes me sus¬ picious.”

The genial smile had vanished from Shale’s face and he was biting his under lip in unconcealed disappointment.

"I am only an intermediary in this matter, and it concerns me very little whether you decide one way or the other,” he said with a belated pretense of indifference. "But I really fail to see your motive in declining to sell. Is it that you have taken a fancy to living in the neighborhood of the Moor? If so, there are plots of land to be acquired on the outskirts of this town, and the proceeds of the sale of Moor Lodge would cover the cost of the erection of an up-to-date bungalow, complete with garage, and leave a very handsome balance into the bargain.”

But Hugh refused to be drawn into an argument.

"I’ll think it over,” he repeated, add¬ ing: "May I take this letter with me?”

"Certainly—I have already filed a copy for reference. But pray take care of it,” W. T.—5

he went on anxiously, "for it will come in useful if they try to back out of their offer.”

There was a rather grim smile on Hugh Trenchard’s face as he placed the letter in his wallet and crossed to the door.

"I don’t anticipate any desire to back out on their part,” he said quietly. "Good afternoon, Mr. Shale.”

A brisk ten minutes’ walk brought him to Ronnie’s surgery, where he dis¬ covered that far from hard-worked young man indulging in an after-dinner siesta. Ronnie listened with lazy indifference while Hugh told him of the amazing offer he had received, and at the con¬ clusion expressed his opinion of his chum’s business capabilities in terms which left nothing to the imagination.

"Well, of all the unmitigated asses!” he exclaimed contemptuously. "Why didn’t you jump to it with both feet? I only wish some misguided dive-promoter would offer a tenth of the money for this old shack; then my economizing days would be over for good! You surely don’t mean to say that you’re going to turn down the offer of this—this whatdo-they-call-themselves?”

Hugh drew the letter from his wallet. "The Country Hotel Development Syndicate,” he informed as he read the engraved heading. “And the offer is signed by a certain Cleve Marchmount.”

He had merely glanced casually at the signature as he spoke, but now a strange sense of familiarity about the neat writ¬ ing thrust itself into his mind. He looked closer, and then, moved by a sudden im¬ pulse, drew from his wallet the letter of assignation which had led to his exciting adventure at the Devil’s Cheesepress. Placing them side by side, he compared the writing, then sat back with a gasp,



his heart hammering against his ribs, his eyes snapping with excitement.

Line for line, curve for curve, the handwriting was identical. The mag* nificent offer for the purchase of Moor Lodge had been signed by the same hand that had penned the note that had lured him to the midnight ambush in the Val¬ ley of Rocks!

Thrusting the two letters back in his wallet, he rose to his feet and faced his friend.

"Care to come and help me choose a car and see about the erection of a garage at Moor Lodge?” he queried of the astonished Ronnie. "I intend to stick to that house like a limpet, and to play the game through to the end!”


hf. architect on whom Hugh Trenchard’s random choice alighted proved to be the very man for the job. He was young, enthusiastic, and energetic; more¬ over, he had made a hobby of the study of the domestic architecture of bygone ages, and Hugh’s unexpected commission came to him as a heaven-sent opportunity for the display of his specialized knowl¬ edge. He lost no time in visiting Moor Lodge and preparing a scale plan of the front elevation, and from this succeeded in evolving a garage-annex which so har¬ monized with the prevailing style that—• on paper at any rate—it seemed part of the original structure.

By a lucky chance there happened to be a row of four Sixteenth Century cot¬ tages in the purlieus of the little market town, and these the owner had allowed to fall into such a state of dilapidation that they had been ordered to be demolished in the interests of public safety. The owner was only too glad to cut his loss by selling the material for a very modest sum, and, provided with this lucky wind¬

fall of antique oak beams, ready-weath¬ ered, hand-made bricks and tiles, to say nothing of the pick of the blown-glass, leaded windows, the architect mobilized his bricklayers and laborers and set them to work. Instead of inviting the usual tenders from building contractors, he superintended the job himself with the zest of a man whose heart was in his work. The result was a perfect gem of correct period craftsmanship, which sub¬ sequently figured in a supplementary colored plate in one of the leading jour¬ nals' devoted to practical architecture, and was incidentally the means of introducing this budding genius to more ambitious things.

The question of the car was settled even more speedily, and the venerable bricks and timbers that had sheltered generations of plowmen and farm labor¬ ers for four hundred years now found themselves sheltering a monster of shin¬ ing enamel and gleaming metal, so un¬ ashamedly modern that it proclaimed itself a model of the year that had not yet dawned. It was, in short, a sixcylinder sports model with a torpedo pat¬ tern body, and capable of a speed that was never likely to be attained off a rac¬ ing-track, unless the driver aspired to break a record—or his neck.

During the two weeks when the soli¬ tude of his moorland home had been in¬ vaded by a gang of workmen, and its deep silence broken by the noise of saw and hammer, and the ring of bricklayers’ trowels, Hugh Trenchard had seen noth¬ ing of Joan Endean. In vain he hung about the empty house in Excombe, where he had talked with her when she had ap¬ peared so effectively disguised. He even took to calling at Ronnie’s surgery at such times when he knew his friend would be absent visiting his patients, and from the front windows watched the windows of

THE TRAIL OF THE CLOVEN HOOF


the mysterious house through a pair of field glasses. But she might have com¬ pletely vanished off the face of the earth for all he could see of her. Coming out of the vastness of the lonely waste of bog, bracken and frowning crags of gran¬ ite; passing through his life for a brief space like a storm-driven wraith, it seemed almost as if the desolate Moor, which had brought her to him, had again taken her to its broad, mysterious, mistveiled bosom and had claimed her for its own.

As the weeks glided by, he kept his eyes and ears open for signs of fresh activity on the part of the homed appari¬ tion which Silas Marie had graphically dubbed "The Terror of the Moor.” But it was through the medium of the local press that he received the first news of the elusive monster’s reappearance.

H e was seated in the sitting-room of Moor Lodge, idly glancing through the pages of the weekly newspaper which maintained a somewhat sluggish circula¬ tion through the district, when, wedged between the report of a local cattle sale and a description of a new type of reap¬ ing-machine, his eye lighted on a para¬ graph which brought him to his feet with tingling pulses. It bore a double heading:

STRANGE STORY FROM GUPWORTHY

mediately turned his horse in the direction of die supposedly injured man.

We have been unable to ascertain with any de*

f ree of exactitude what subsequently occurred, ut our representative gathered from the brief statement that Mr. Thacker was able to give him, that he found himself confronted by the figure of a naked, or half-naked man who, he states, ap¬ peared to be riding on the back of a large stag. Mr. Amos Vokes, however, who seems to have had a better view of this unexpected sight, stedfastly adheres to his statement that the unclothed man was not riding on the back of the stag, but actual¬ ly formed part of the animal itself. To quote his own expressive words: "The gashly thine were half-and-half.”

While not committing ourselves by expressing an opinion as to the accuracy of the impression afforded by Mr. Vokes's admittedly hurried glimpse in the uncertain light, we regret to state that the injuries sustained by both men leave no doubt that the unknown made a violent and mur¬ derous attack on the two defenseless men, though happily the injuries of neither are likely to prove

Sergeant Jopling, our popular and energetic representative of the County Constabulary, was promptly on the scene, and we have been given to understand that there is every possibility of an early arrest being effected in connection with the matter.

Meanwhile the fact of such a thing being at large on the Moor has given rise to a feeling of uneasiness among the dwellers in this sparsely populated district.

Although the local scribe had infused a fair amount of caution—not to say skepticism—into his work, Hugh Trenchard’s own experience enabled him to sup¬ ply the gaps fairly vividly. But he was de¬ termined to know more, and ten minutes after his eye had lighted on the headline he was seated at the wheel of his new car, speeding to the scene of the affray.

WELL-KNOWN FARMER ATTACKED BY FEROCIOUS BEAST

An alarming and in some respects mysterious occurrence took place on the Excombe Road, near Gupworthy, at a late hour last night. Mr. John Thacker, of Uphill farm, Gupworthy (a familiar and much-respected figure in local agricultural cir¬ cles), was in the act of returning to his home after having attended Excombe Market. Accompanied by one of his drovers, an elderly man named Amos Vokes, he set out from Excombe shortly after 10 p. m., and whilst passing over the extensive stretch of uncultivated ground commonly known as Gal¬ lows Heath, he was surprized to hear a voice, ap¬ parently coming from a dense clump of bushes, calling on him to halt. Thinking the cry emanated from some wayfarer who had met with an accident and was in need of assistance, Mr. Thacker im¬

G allows heath was an undulating shoulder of ground of a slightly higher elevation than the rest of the up¬ land wilderness. At a spot just before the narrow ribbon of road dipped out of sight over the farther slope, a few slabs of moss-grown stone still remained to mark the spot where formerly had stood the grim erection that had served both as an instrument of harsher justice than pre¬ vails today, and as a warning text whose meaning could not have been miscon596


strued by the most illiterate passer-by. For in those far-off days the body of the malefactor, suitably coated with pitch and adorned with rusty chains, was pressed into service to point the moral of his own untimely fate.

Hugh did not have a long search before finding the exact spot where Thacker and his drover had been attacked. There was but one clump of bushes large enough to conceal a man. This was situated on the opposite side of the road from the site of the ancient gallows, and in the dense shade of the overhanging boughs the ground was as soft and plastic as the keenest amateur detective could desire. Footprints were there in plenty, but they were not the ones that Hugh Trenchard was anxious to see. The date of the paper had told him that four days had elapsed since the affray had taken place, and dur¬ ing that time the place had been overrun by scores of curious sightseers, and such tracks as might have been left by the Terror had been hopelessly obliterated.

Hugh gave one long, searching look at the ground, then, with a resigned shrug, turned and re-entered his car. He was scarcely surprized at drawing a blank; but he hoped to learn something from the two injured men, provided that they were sufficiently recovered to grant him an in¬ terview. He started the car and swooped down the inclined road which pointed straight to the distant cluster of houses which represented Gupworthy.

He had fully expected to find the two victims in their beds, or at the best re¬ clining in easy-chairs. But his knock on the door of Uphill Farm brought a bux¬ om, rosy-cheeked lass who, in the slow, burring dialect of broadest "Zummerzet,” informed him that ''Maister be upalong at poun-’ouse.”

"And where may that be?” asked the frankly puzzled Hugh.

"The poun-*buse be the wring’ouse," she explained with the air of one impart¬ ing the fullest possible explanation.

"Wring-house? I fear I’m very igno¬ rant, but-”

"That be place weer they presses the apples for zider, zur.”

A light broke on Hugh. "Oh, the cider-press? And how do I get there?”

"Coom wi’ me and I’ll show ’ee. ’Tain’t var away, zur.”

Hugh followed the girl through the house and out into a wide stone-paved yard lined on either side with thatched byres and stables, and having a large pump in the center. Hugh could not help noticing the fact that the place appeared unusually silent and deserted, and he made a remark to that effect. His guide explained that it "weer apple-harvest toime”, and everybody except herself was either in the orchards helping to gather in the fruit, or in the wring-house engaged in turning the apples into cider.

The cider-house was an ancient and somewhat dilapidated structure standing about fifty yards from the farmhouse. Against one wall was heaped a very mountain of russet-hued fruit, a moun¬ tain whose bulk never diminished, in spite of the efforts of the two brawny laborers who were engaged in shovelling the apples through a square aperture which led to the hopper of the crushingmill inside; for as fast as they shovelled, a constant stream of men, women, boys and girls kept up the supply from their brimming baskets.

Stepping inside, Hugh Trenchard became aware of a scene of Old World rustic picturesqueness that would call for the brush of a Morland to do it justice. The greater part of the rambling build¬ ing was wrapped in deep, umberous shadow, but here and there broad shafts of the mellow October sunshine slanted

THE TRAIL OF THE CLOVEN HOOF


through the unglazed windows, throwing random splashes of light and color which, however, only served to deepen the dusky mystery of the surrounding gloom. The air was fragrant with the sweet, pen¬ etrating vapor which arose from the fer¬ menting cider that was stored in the long row of shadowy vats standing along one wall. In the center was the grindingmill, a huge primitive contrivance with great iron cog-wheels, red with rust ex¬ cept on the actual working-parts, and grinding-rollers of ponderous stone, beneath whose slow revolutions there seethed and squelched the pulpy mass which would eventually become the clear, sparkling beverage that had been termed, not inaptly, the "Vintage of the West.” A little apart, a sober old cart-horse ceaselessly trudged his slow, circling path, communicating the necessary motion to the pulping-gear.

At Hugh’s entry, a hale, weather-beaten old man glanced round from his task of lubricating the moving machinery.

"A ge’mman to see ’ee, varther,” the girl announced, and immediately hurried back to her interrupted duties.

F armer Thacker at once laid down the oil-can, wiped his hands on a wisp of straw, and advanced to Hugh.

"Good marnin’, zur. What moight ’ee be wantin’ wi’ I?” he inquired with rough civility.

Hugh kept his eyes on the old man as he proceeded to explain the object of his visit. Save for a large patch of courtplaster on his forehead, Farmer Thacker showed but little signs of his recent en¬ counter with the Terror of the Moor. But the trained eye of the young doctor noticed an unusual sluggishness in his movements, and the eyes which were peering at him from beneath the shaggy gray brows were abnormally dull and

vacant. When Hugh had finished speak¬ ing the old man stared at him for a few moments, then passed his hand across his brow in a bewildered and helpless man¬ ner.

"I dunno as how I can tell ’ee owermuch, zur,” he said slowly. “Ever since that night I feels all mazed and witless.”

"What was it that attacked you?”

"Can’t rightly zay, zur,” replied Thack¬ er, shaking his head.

"Was it a man?”

"Belike it weer—I couldn’t rightly zee. Theer warn’t no moon that night, zur, just a zort o’ dimpsy-light from the stars.”

"But you told Sergeant Jopling that you heard some words spoken,” Hugh persisted, more than a little puzzled at the man’s vague manner.

"Aye, you’m right theer, zur. I hears ’un, speakin’ same’s you or me. But when he coomed out from the clutter o’ bushes

"Yes?” Hugh prompted eagerly.

Thacker stopped dead, and again passed his hand across his forehead.

“I—I doan seem to mind what hap¬ pened then. My brain seems dazed an’ dead-loike.”

Suddenly Hugh leant forward, his eyes fixed on the upper portion of the old man’s arm which showed below his uprolled shirt sleeve. Showing red and angry against the sun-tanned skin were several marks which Hugh immediately recognized as the punctures made by a recently used hypodermic syringe.

"Who has been giving you injections?” he asked, sharply, all his vague sus¬ picions crystallizing in an instant into one staggering fact. It was clear by the old man’s expression that he did not under¬ stand; so Hugh repeated his question in a simpler form:

"What doctor attended to your in¬ juries, Mr. Thacker?”



"Theer weer two on ’em as happened to be passin’ a’most the same time as I got back-along home to the varm, and they weer kind enow to see to my hurts and those of my man, Amos.”

"Humph! their arrival was very for¬ tunate!” was Hugh’s somewhat dry com¬ ment. "And did these kind gentlemen prick your arm?”

"Iss, fay,” said the old man, nodding, "and they stucked needle into me every time they called since then. It tooked away the pain voine.”

"I dare say it did,” Hugh muttered, his eyes hardening to points of steel. "And what were the names of these good fellows?”

Thacker shook his head.

"They didn’t zay, zur. But my gal said that she recognized one of ’em. She said he lived at the big house beyond Worplecombe and that his name was Doctor Felger.”

"Felger?” Hugh jerked out the ex¬ clamation in a gasp. "The devil!”

"I fear you exaggerate, my dear Doc¬ tor Trenchard,” said a smooth voice behind him, and, swinging round, Hugh saw for the first time the face of his elusive enemy.


he newcomer had removed his hat with a sweeping bow as he had uttered his cynical greeting, and now stood bareheaded in the full glare of a shaft of sunlight which illuminated his face with the intensity of a theatrical spot¬ light, rendering each feature clear and distinct. There was no sign of furtiveness in Professor Felger’s manner now. The position he had taken and the attitude he had assumed both seemed indicative of mocking defiance, as though he were in¬ viting Hugh Trenchard to examine the features which he had till then kept care¬ fully concealed.

Hugh, on his part, was not slow to take advantage of the opportunity, and as he looked he realized, with secret satis¬ faction, that the personal appearance of the Austrian scientist was striking enough to be easily remembered. Slightly above the average height, his well-proportioned body hinted at the litheness of a panther rather than the possession of great strength. His age was difficult to guess, for the almost blue-black hue of his hair and beard was suggestive of the use of dye. His complexion was so sallow that Hugh decided that he must either be in very poor health or else have a strong strain of Eastern blood in his veins. His hair, which was plentiful, was brushed straight back from a decided point in the center of his forehead, and this, com¬ bined with his short pointed beard and up-turned, waxed mustaches, gave him an aspect that was startlingly Mefistofelian. There was a look of sardonic amusement in the pale eyes which, keen as spear-points, challenged Hugh's from beneath the oblique brows.

There ensued a long pause, during which the eyes of the two men met, watch¬ ful and challenging as two duellists awaiting the first clash of steel. Then Professor Felger, replacing his hat with a slow, sweeping movement of his hand, broke the tense silence.

"It would seem that my presence here occasions you some surprize, Doctor Trenchard?” he murmured, and once again Hugh was aware of the note of mockery hidden in the silky tones.

"On the contrary,” he returned stead¬ ily, looking the other full in the face, "considering the curious nature of Mr. Thacker’s symptoms, your presence here seems perfectly natural.”

Professor Felger’s jet-black brows flickered upward and a slow smile curved his bearded lips.

THE TRAIL OF THE CLOVEN HOOF


"Symptoms?” he repeated the word with an air of amiable tolerance. "You speak with the air of one who has dis¬ covered a—how do you call it?—a—a nest of a mare. So, you have observed his symptoms?”

"I have!” Hugh said grimly, "—all of them!”

"So?” Felger’s manner expressed no more than a polite and gratified interest as he went on. "Truly it is touching to see a novice in medical science evince such an altruistic interest in an unfortu¬ nate sufferer—especially when that suf¬ ferer happens to be under the care of another medical man. But I have yet to learn that it is a recognized ethic of your English medical etiquette for one doctor to interfere with the patient of another. You see, I am but a stranger in your soexcellent country, and I should be obliged if you will be kind enough to enlighten my ignorance on that point, Doctor Trenchard.”

"I will do more, sir,” Hugh cried, stung into sudden anger by the scarcely veiled insult. "I will enlighten your ignorance on a point of law. It is an in¬ dictable offense for an alien doctor to practise in the so-called country of his adoption (as you term it), especially when such practise includes the injection of drugs which do not figure in the British Pharmacopeia ”

Hugh had expected his words to be greeted with an outburst of fury, but Felger merely laughed.

"Ah, but that is a very wise provision on the part of your lawmakers,” he said in a tone of hearty agreement, "but in this case their edicts have not been vio¬ lated in the least degree. Mr. John Thacker is not my patient—I have no more interest in his case than, say, a friendly and disinterested inquirer like yourself. My excellent colleague. Doctor

Nathaniel Mutley, is in sole charge of the case, and I feel sure that such an old and experienced practitioner would not in¬ ject anything except the recognized pal¬ liatives, or maybe a—ah—narcotic to soothe pain.”

Before answering, Hugh glanced at the old farmer, who had been listening open-mouthed. Luckily the conversation had so far been as unintelligible as so much Greek to his simple understanding, but now Hugh had something to say that was for Felger’s ears alone.

"I should like a word with you in private,” he said to Felger.

"By all means—a thousand if you wish.” The professor turned to the gap¬ ing farmer and gracefully raised his hat. "Good morning, Mr. Thacker. I am de¬ lighted to see you so hale and active. Allow me to congratulate you on such a rapid and complete recovery from your injuries. Good morning.” And, after shaking the old man heartily by the hand, he followed Hugh out into the deserted farmyard. Once outside, however, he cast a keen, lightning glance at the young man’s face.

“T f you are so desirous of a private -I- interview with me, why not call at the Sanatorium?” he asked suavely. "There would be no risk of our talk being overheard there, and we would be quite safe from interruption.”

"I dare say we should,” Hugh com¬ mented, a hint of dryness in his voice. "But I prefer to say what I’ve got to say right here and now.”

"As you please,” shrugged the other, and waited.

And there, amid the drowsy peace of that Old World rustic scene, his voice, accompanied by the distant cackle of poultry, bleating of sheep and lowing of kine, Hugh Trenchard spoke of life and

m


death * , . and of a thing worse than death.

"Have you ever heard of ’The Apple of Lethe’?” was his first question.

Felger repeated the question slowly, then shook his head.

"I am afraid my Greek mythology must be somewhat rusty,” he said with an apologetic shrug. ”1 can only remember the Waters of Lethe, the river of forget¬ fulness in the classical Hades, of which the spirits drank before entering Elysium. But I certainly have no recollection of an Apple of Lethe.”

"I will refresh your memory by calling it by its modern botanical name,” said Hugh. "Does Datura obliterate suggest anything to you?”

"No!” Felger jerked out the denial with a cold, rasping ring.

"Then, at the risk of boring you, I will explain,” Hugh went on calmly. "Datura obliterate is a rare species of the genus of plants which are classed under the gen¬ eral name of Solanaceee. A very curious feature of this widely distributed order is that some varieties yield valuable food products, some have a recognized medici¬ nal value, while others are powerful nar¬ cotic poisons. Stranger still, some vari¬ eties have certain parts with poisonous properties, while other parts of the same plant are innocuous.”

"All this is very interesting, no doubt,” interrupted the other impatiently. "And I congratulate you on your detailed knowledge, but-”

"You can cut out the congratulations for the present, and just listen. The peculiar properties of the Datura group have long been recognized. In India the seeds of the Datura fastuosa have been employed from time immemorial by thieves and other criminals; the Peru¬ vians prepare a delirium-producing bev¬ erage from the seeds of Datura sanguin¬

ed; while in China a tincture of Datura stramonium is voluntarily swallowed by its devotees to induce erotic visions and hallucinations. All these, as I said, have long been known. But the most danger¬ ous species of all was not known to scientific botanists until fairly recently. It was in 1913 that Rudolf Brauschiitter— a fellow countryman of yours, by the way —discovered a new variety growing wild on Lanzarote, a small island of the Canaries group, off the west coast of Africa, and to this he gave the very ap¬ propriate name of Datura obliterare. Brauschiitter on returning to his native land published a monograph on his find, a work that is now extremely rare owing to the amazing fact that he almost imme¬ diately suppressed it and forbade the pub¬ lication of more copies. I was lucky enough to get hold of one, however, very recently, and it greatly interested me. The author, who seems to be an excellent all-round scientist, introduced his sub¬ ject by a curious reference to the mythol¬ ogy of ancient Greece. After remarking that the local name for the fruit of the newly discovered plant was a word mean¬ ing 'Apple of Lethe’, he proceeded to propound the startling theory that Lan¬ zarote, the only place where it grew, was the island described by Homer in the Odyssey under the name of the Island of Aiaea, where dwelt the enchantress Circe. Quoting from the original Greek of the ancient poem, Brauschiitter went on to declare that Circe’s 'charmed cup’ in which were mixed 'infusing drugs’ meant nothing else than an infusion of Datura obliterare, and the subsequent metamor¬ phoses of the followers of the Greek hero into 'swine in head and voice, bristles and shape’ was simply a poetical mode expressing the brain-destroying proper¬ ties of the drug, and the 'harmful venom* which made 'their country vanish from

THE TRAIL OF THE CLOVEN HOOF

601’

their thought’ was but a naive way of de¬ scribing the complete atrophy of the nerves of the anterior lobes of the brain which control the memory.”

"Your little lecture may be very inter¬ esting to one interested in fairy-tales, ancient or modern, but I can scarcely see the point of your inflicting it on me,” Felger burst out angrily.

"Wait! the point will soon be plain enough. Herr Brauschiitter described the outward symptoms which follow the in¬ jection of his new drug, and those symp¬ toms coincide in every respect with those of the man whom you and your partner have been attending! Doctor Felger, why have you gone to so much trouble to en¬ sure the silence of the only man who could describe the appearance of the mon¬ ster that is known as the Terror of the Moor?”

F elger had anticipated the accusation, and had braced himself to meet it. As Hugh’s scathing words rang out, the Austrian turned and stared him full in the face, and in his cold gray eyes was the fixed, baleful glare of a snake about to strike. Only his lips were smiling as he replied:

"I really can’t persuade myself that you intend me to take your accusation seriously, my dear Doctor Trenchard.”

"Maybe Scotland Yard will be able to persuade you,” Hugh suggested grimly.

The professor indulged in an elaborate shrug.

"The most that Scotland Yard would do would be to listen to your story with polite interest and then dismiss you with the stock phrase which they keep for all the spinners of airy theories who waste their time.”

“What if I offered them something more than airy theories—the record of Silas Marie’s experiments, and the de¬

scription of the Apple of Lethe from Herr Brauschiitter’s book?”

There was a few seconds’ pause.

"The latter might be somewhat diffi¬ cult to offer,” Felger then said slowly. "I understand that the publication is very rarely met with nowadays.”

"But I happen to have a copy,” Hugh cried in quick triumph.

Professor Lucien Felger raised his hand to the brim of his soft felt hat, at the same time bending his body in a low, ironical bow.

"In that case, allow me to compliment you on your forethought—and to bid you 'Good day’.”

He raised his hat as he spoke, and Hugh glimpsed a tiny metal nozzle point¬ ing straight at him from the inside of the crown. Instinctively he stepped back¬ ward. But, quick as he was, the profes¬ sor was a fraction of a second quicker. His hand pressed the yielding crown and a dense spray of liquid drenched Hugh’s face.

Hugh fell back, reeling, gasping, fight¬ ing madly against the cloud of stupefying vapor that was like a palpable but in¬ visible hand clutching his throat. Then a curtain of darkness seemed to descend on his mind, and like a man in a dream he heard the low purring of the swift car that was bearing his exultant foe— whither?

Then came a sensation of being borne dizzily downward in a lift that had no end, and then he remembered no more.


ugh trenchard’s mind was still spinning in a confused maelstrom when, after a space of utter blankness which seemed to have lasted ages, he again opened his eyes.

With a dull sense of wonder he realized that it was still day, but the light



which greeted his eyes was the tempered sunshine that filtered through the drawn curtains of the window in his own bed¬ room at Moor Lodge. He was lying on his bed, and presently he began to specu¬ late whether his encounter with the pro¬ fessor was nothing but an unpleasantly vivid dream. With a great effort of will, he re-opened his eyes, and immediately came to the conclusion that he was still dreaming.

But now, he decided, his dream had taken a pleasing phase, and he devoutly hoped that it would continue. For there, seated by the table near the window, was the mystery-girl who had been ever pres¬ ent in his waking dreams—Joan Endean.

With a supine sense of contentment he allowed his eyes to rest on her slender, girlish figure as she sat busily writing in a dainty note-book. Her face was in shadow, but the sunshine behind her framed her head with the nimbus of the saintly ideal of some old Italian painter, outlining the perfect curve of her brow and neck, drenching with a deeper gold her mass of gleaming hair.

A faint murmur of admiration escaped Hugh’s lips, and abruptly a fantasm much less pleasing to Hugh’s idea of beauty in¬ truded itself into his vision. It was his red-headed chum, Ronnie Brewster, with a medicine glass in his hand and an anxious grin on his good-humored but by no means handsome features.

"Behold, the wounded hero awakes!” he said dramatically. "And if the wound¬ ed hero aforesaid doesn’t show more originality than to bleat out the usual Where am I?’ as his first articulate speech, I will undo all Miss Endean’s and my own good work by braining the wounded hero forthwith! Has that hor¬ rific threat trickled into your returning consciousness? Good! Then drink this.”

He held the glass to Hugh’s lips.

"A simple prescription, and one not wholly unknown outside medical circles,” Ronnie commented with another grin. "Did you like it?”

"It tasted like whisky,” Hugh said slowly.

Ronnie gave a chuckle of delight and rubbed his hands.

"Capital! Capital! You haven’t lost your memory, at any rate, since you are able to recognize your old friends so un¬ erringly. Speaking of old friends, here is Miss Endean, who found you this morn¬ ing roosting peacefully among the ducks and geese in old Thacker’s farmyard.”

He stood aside and Joan came forward and laid her hand for an instant in Hugh’s.

"You?” he looked up at her with un¬ concealed wonder in his eyes. "At last you have come to me?”

"Yes—and in the jolly old nick of time—just like a movie-film,” interpolated the irrepressible Ronnie. "By Jove! she must have arrived on the scene almost as if she knew that it was your turn to be sent down for the long count by that highly scientific thug—for I naturally as¬ sume it was either Felger or his amiable myrmidons who downed you?”

Hugh struggled to rise as recollection came back.

"It was!” he muttered fiercely. "He squirted some fluid in my face-”

"And the subsequent proceedings in¬ terested you no more?” quoted Ronnie, "But whatever made him do a thing like that? You—you didn’t try to arrest him or anything?”

Hugh shook his head and immediately went on to give an outline of what had occurred. At the conclusion Ronnie’s customary smile appeared a trifle twisted.

"Holy smoke! the mystery is getting more turbid and sticky than ever!” he exclaimed. "Gosh! I only wish to whiskTHE TRAIL OF THE CLOVEN HOOF


ers that I could get the chance to inject a little of that Apple-of-Lethe-tincture into some of my creditors, and make them forget what I owe ’em! That stuff would be worth a guinea a drop to me!”

"Oh, for goodness’ sake try to be seri¬ ous for once in your life,” Hugh expostu¬ lated, but his friend only shook a grin¬ ning head at him.

"I couldn’t, old bean. It’d take a major operation to eradicate my sense of humor. But I will relieve you of my exhilarating presence by departing—I am sure you and your fair rescuer will have a lot of things to talk over, and I should not like to spoil the interview with my ribald com¬ ments. Ta-ta for the present. Just ring the bell when you feel you’d like the prescription repeated.”

D uring the long silence which ensued after Ronnie had made his laughing exit Hugh glanced at the girl once or twice out of the corner of his eye, and the look which he surprized in her eyes sent his pulses racing. Her eyes had only met his for the merest fraction of a sec¬ ond, but in that second a miracle seemed to have happened. She loved him. The sudden realization was like a breath of pure oxygen to a suffocating man. It in¬ flamed him with an overwhelming long¬ ing to take her in his arms, to tell her of his own love; to leap, as it were, the dark gulf which stretched between them and force from those sweet lips the true ex¬ planation of the mystery that surrounded her life.

But he had the good sense to recognize that this was scarcely the time or place for such an avowal. He schooled his voice to a casual tone when at length he spoke;

"So you too paid a visit to Thacker’s Farm this morning! Was that due to mere curiosity on your part or—something else?”

"Idle curiosity is a luxury that is de¬ nied to such as I.” The smile which ac¬ companied her words held a suspicion of wistfulness. “To be quite frank, I went there for the same purpose as you did— to get Thacker’s story of the Terror of the Moor. As I approached the side road which leads to the farm, a car was driven past me at full speed, and I was forced to crouch into the hedge at the side of the lane to avoid being run down. I caught but a fleeting glance at the driver, but it was enough to enable me to recog¬ nize Professor Felger. He was crouched over the steering-wheel, his eyes glaring straight ahead, and the expression on-his features was simply diabolical. I at once suspected that something was wrong, and hurried up the lane and went straight through to the yard—and there I found you. Two of the farm hands carried you to your car; I drove you back here, calling for Doctor Brewster on the way; and— and that’s all there is to tell.”

"Scarcely all,” smiled Hugh, shaking his head. "There still seems to be quite a lot of things to explain.”

She slowly raised her head and he saw that her expression was almost defiant.

"What sort of things are they that need explaining?” she asked coldly.

"Oh, all sort of things,” he returned, endeavoring to speak lightly. "About yourself, for instance-”

“Please leave me out of it.” She seemed to catch her breath as she spoke, uttering the words so low that he could scarcely hear them.

"I can’t leave you out of it. As far as I’m concerned you are the central and most attractive figure in the whole of this ghastly business. Forgive me if I pur¬ sue the matter, but—is your name really Joan Endean?”

He saw the fingers of her clasped hands writhe together and a tinge of



deeper red creep up her smooth throat and bum in her cheeks.

"My—my name is Joan.”

"Endean?” He put the query in a low voice, at the same time taking her hand in his.

"That is an alias.” The girl laughed with an assumption of defiant abandon which, however, did not for a moment deceive the keen-eyed Hugh Trenchard. "Oh, there’s nothing to be surprized at in that. Every suspicious character, such as I, uses an alias.”

She made to withdraw her hand, but he grasped it tighter as he went on:

"You may be mysterious, but not sus¬ picious, at least not to me,” he said ten¬ derly. "I do not seek to force your con¬ fidence, but I can not call you by a name that is not your own. Since 'Endean’ is but an alias, I must call you by your only real name that I know. But won’t you trust me . . . Joan?”

It was several breathless seconds before she spoke, and in her voice was a wistful note that thrilled like a chord of music.

"Freely will I trust you with all that is my own”—the quick flash of her laugh¬ ing eyes gave point to the double entendre which lay in her words—"but who I am, what I am, and the mission that has brought me to Exmoor are secrets that are not my own. You asked me to trust you just now. Well, now I will repeat your words and ask you to trust me. Soon— very soon, maybe—you will know all. Till then-”

"Till then we will trust each other, eh?’* cried Hugh, and thereupon he sealed the compact in the convincing manner that was in vogue between man and maid long before the invention of written agreements or contract-notes.

At length she disengaged herself and smoothed her ruffled hair.

"Am I to regard your extraordinary

conduct as a symptom of relapse, or an indication of complete recovery?” she asked severely, though her eyes were danc¬ ing. "If your medical adviser-”

"If you mean Ronnie, you may tell my medical adviser to go to blazes,” Hugh cried with a laugh. "Or—stop!—tell him that his patient never felt so blithe and gay in all his life, and that he’ll be up and dressed in about three minutes from now.”

A wild elation filled Hugh’s mind when the girl had left the room. The memory of her so recently in his arms tinged his whole mental outlook with an alluring, rose-tinted hue, and if for an instant there obtruded through that rosy dream the vision of a homed head with baleful, leering eyes of lumi¬ nous green, it was not sufficiently dis¬ tinct to abate one jot of his new-found happiness. Joan was his!—the unravel¬ ling of the mystery of the Terror could wait. Thus ran his thoughts as he hastily dressed, with the dark hand of impend¬ ing catastrophe casting not the faintest shadow of its coming on his carefree mind.

"Well, old bean, what’s the next jolly old move in your duel of wits with the professor?” drawled Ronnie as Hugh entered the library. "This affair reminds me of nothing so much as a game of blindfold chess—you know, the game where both players are unable to see the board and have to keep in mind both their own and their opponent’s moves, as well as the position of every piece on the board. It’s a nice, brainy pastime, but a trifle too slow for my liking. I prefer a game with a bit more dash in it.”

"Before long there will be enough ‘dash’ in this particular game to satisfy your craving for excitement,” said Hugh, "and it is not so much a blindfold game

THE TRAIL OF THE CLOVEN HOOF


«s yofl imagine. At least I have seen the face of Professor Felger, and after what happened this morning I have grounds on which to prefer a definite charge against him.”

Ronnie Brewster indulged in a con¬ temptuous grimace.

"Yes—a charge of assault and battery, with yourself as the only witness! Even if you proved your case, which is very doubtful, what good would it do to get Felger fined forty bob, or even a few days in jail? No, old chap, you must wait till you have a bigger charge against him than that. You said just now that you had seen his face. Well, I’ve gone one better than you. I’ve snapped his face.”

"Snapped his face?” Hugh shook his head with a puzzled expression. "Is that a riddle?”

"Not on your life. I mean I’ve snapped his face with a camera.” Ronnie lit a cig¬ arette and puffed it with an air of supreme satisfaction. "It happened like this. I was passing the gates of the Torside Sanatorium yesterday, when who should come out but a tall, black-bearded guy who looked like the Devil in mufti.”

That was the professor!” Hugh burst out with some excitement.

"Just what I thought myself at the time, dear boy, and I thanked my lucky stars that I had my camera with me. I stepped up to him, raised my hat polite¬ ly, and asked to be directed to a village on the farther side of the Moor. I fear I must have appeared very dull, for he had to explain the route to me twice before I seemed to assimilate the informa¬ tion, and during that time I managed to press the button twice, and got two lovely photos—full-face and profile—without the professor being any the wiser. Here

are the enlarged prints-” and he laid

two unmounted photographs on the table.

Hugh seized on them eagerly.

"Excellent! The authorities at Scotland Yard will be delighted to get these.”

"I dare say they will, but they’re not going to get them,” Ronnie responded dryly. "I didn’t go to all that trouble to help some flat-footed copper get promo¬ tion. I intend to have some fun of my own before I let the police in on this. How would you say the professor’s height compares with mine?” he asked, apparently going off at a tangent.

Hugh cast a critical eye over the pro¬ portions of his chum.

"About the same, as nearly as I can remember.”

"Good! And the build?”

"Also about the same. But what is the idea?”

"See here”—Ronnie took up the pho¬ tographs and held them so that his fin¬ gers covered the hair and beard of each— "I’m not trying to shower bouquets on myself, but I think you’ll agree that at a casual glance those features are not wide¬ ly different from my own. With a clever¬ ly made wig and beard, and a touch of black grease-paint on my eyebrows, I wouldn’t make a bad impersonation of Professor Lucien Felger. At any rate I intend to have a shot at it. I’ve been complimented on my amateur acting on more than one occasion, as you yourself will admit, and I flatter myself I could keep my end up as far as the voice and foreign accent were concerned. I’m going to start rehearsing as soon as I get back home, and I’ll give you a dress rehearsal all to yourself before I make the great attempt.”

Hugh looked doubtful.

"What, exactly, is your plan?”

"Haven’t got more than the barest out¬ line of one at present,” Ronnie confessed with a grin. "But if I succeed in getting inside the Torside Sanatorium without my real identity being discovered, it’ll be



a fanny thing if I don’t get hold of some evidence that will bring that infernal scoundrel’s career to an abrupt termina¬ tion.”

H ard upon his words came a knock on the front door. Hugh glanced through the window and gave an ex¬ clamation of surprize.

"It’s Inspector Renshaw of the C. I. D.,” he muttered just loud enough for Ronnie to hear. “I wonder why he has taken it into his head to call?”

"A Scotland Yard man?” Ronnie laid his hand on his friend’s arm. "Don’t breathe a word of my little stunt to him —it would spoil everything to have the police in this. They can come in after¬ ward to clear up the mess, but I want to have my bit of fun all to myself first.”

Hugh nodded his head in token of agreement, and went to admit his unex¬ pected caller. Inspector Renshaw favored him with a long, keen glance as he entered.

"You seem to have recovered pretty quickly from your nasty experience, sir,” he observed. "What did he use—chloro¬ form?”

“Something much more effective,” Hugh returned with a rueful laugh. "But who told you of my experience?”

"Nobody.” The inspector lowered his voice. "From my peephole I saw you being carried unconscious into the house,

and I put two and two together, and sur¬ mised that you had gone to the farm to get details from the injured man. But you should have left that to us.”

"Should I?” cried Hugh, with a par¬ donable feeling of pride. "Well, it may interest you to know that my medical knowledge has shown me something whuth would have escaped a layman. Thacker has been doped with a rare drug which acts on the nerve centers that con¬ trol the memory. Come into the library, and I will show you a monograph written by Herr Brauschiitter, the scientist who discovered the rare plant from which it is prepared.”

Hugh Trenchard led the way into the room as he spoke and halted opposite the shelves of books which covered one wall. He was in the act of running his eyes along the volumes when he suddenly whirled round with a gasped question:

"Who entered this house today, in¬ spector?”

"Only Doctor Brewster and yourself— and, of course, Miss Endean.”

"You’re sure of that?”

"Positive!”

"Then that proves my theory of the existence of a secret entry into the house,” Hugh cried. "Some time within the past four hours Herr Brauschiitter’s mono¬ graph, which describes the action of the memory-stealing drug, has been stolen from that bookcase!”

The mystery deepens in next month’s thrilling chapters of this story, as Hugh Trenchard explores the cellars of the Torside Sanatorium

A thrill-tale of ancient magic, brought from the black island of Haiti to the United States—with shocking consequences

“"■k IT Y INTEREST in psychopathic 1 V I researc h> as ^ affects crime or otherwise, does not extend to private practise,” Doctor Forest Loring coldly informed his visitors. "There is nothing in this case to warrant an excep¬ tion.”

Captain Frane flushed angrily beneath the tan of his strong, lean face. The dark

eyes of the white-faced girl beside him grew deeper with somber hopelessness.

"Our mutual friend, the district attor¬ ney, advised me to see you-” Frane

began, but was bruskly interrupted.

"So you have said before, I believe,” Doctor Loring retorted. "I have helped him in one or two cases, because they in¬ volved factors of interest in my line of



psychological research. In your own case, there has not even been a crime. Your wife apparently entertains a form of persecu¬ tion complex—which hardly justifies in¬ terruption of some very pressing experi¬ ments I am conducting.”

Controlling his anger as he turned toward his wife, Frane said, merely, "Come, my dear. Let us go.”

As he rose stiffly to his feet, a deepthroated growl sounded beneath the open window at Doctor Loring’s side. A shag¬ gy head with a lean, pointed muzzle heaved into view; long, slavering fangs gleamed in a saturnine snarl. With its forepaws upon the low sill, a monstrous, wolfish thing glared through the win¬ dow, its eyes hot with red ferocity.

Natalie Frane stifled a scream.

"There it is!” her husband exclaimed, his voice not quite steady. "Perhaps my wife's fear of her stepbrother is a 'perse¬ cution complex’, but his police dog—un¬ less the thing’s really a wolf!—has fol¬ lowed us here!”

Without haste, Doctor Loring reached into a drawer of his desk. Taking out an object somewhat resembling a small auto¬ matic pistol, he pointed it toward the window, and a thin, needle-like stream of liquid spurted toward the dog.

With a roar that changed abruptly to choking gasps, the sinister muzzle dropped from view; the gasping coughs retreated rapidly. The smell of ammonia cleared quickly from the room.

"A very effective weapon, as I have found on other occasions,” Doctor Loring calmly announced. “You say the dog be¬ longs to your wife’s unpleasant relative? I shall ring for Tou-Tou, and find out why it was permitted inside my yard,”

"The brute can jump walls higher than yours,” Frane answered him, with a mirthless laugh.

He picked up his hat and stick, as a

door opened and Tou-Tou, the doctor's black and gaunt Haitian servant, slipped through. He handed his master a small, manila-wrapped box, with the laconic explanation—

"Bell rang; I looked and found this. No one was there.”

Captain Frane, ex-Marine with four years of Haitian service to his credit, un¬ derstood the words of creole patois. As the black man departed, the captain un¬ easily regarded the mysterious parcel.

"I can’t help wondering,” he hesitant¬ ly offered, "whether Polynice Poynter’s hand mayn’t be in that. His ugly brute is seldom far from his side, and it is evi¬ dent we were followed here. Poynter may have sent that as a warning for you not to take our case. If so—and it would tie in with his theatrical nature—it likely will be something unpleasarit, even dan¬ gerous.”

Doctor Loring gently shook the pack¬ age, which obviously was a wrapped card¬ board box, holding it close to an ear. His expression non-committal, he decided—

"Well, we can see! Like to come along, Captain?”

After requesting Mrs. Frane to resume her chair and wait, he led her husband to a bathroom and turned on the faucets of the tub. When there was enough water to cover it completely, the doctor put ia the box, wrapped as he had received it. The thing was light, and floated.

B orrowing the stick which Frane still had in his hand, Doctor Loring im¬ mersed the parcel. Carefully, he forced the cane’s ferrule through the wrapping and the cardboard underneath. As the water ran into the hole, a scuffling noise came faintly from inside the box. With a motion of his wrist, Doctor Loring en¬ larged the hole in the now soggy card¬ board, and withdrew the cane.

W. T.—5

VOODOO VENGEANCE


"Now watch,” he invited.

For a moment, nothing happened. Then, squeezing through the small hole he had made, came a dark, scale-sheathed wedge; two feet of sinuous, convulsed length swiftly followed the serpent’s head. The reptile swam to and fro, its angry forked tongue flashing with increasing rapidity as it vainly sought to climb the smooth porcelain of the tub.

^'Fer-de-lance, if I ever saw one!” Doc¬ tor Loring exclaimed.

Frane nodded, several shades paler be¬ neath his tan.

"Poynter may have robbed the zoo, or he may have brought this one and others from Haiti—he’s like that!” said the captain.

"So this Poynter has been in Haiti?” mused the doctor.

"He is Haitian,” Frane corrected. He stiffly anticipated Doctor Loring’s unspok¬ en question. "He is an octoroon, yes. You recall that I said he is my wife’s step¬ brother.”

"If he sent that snake, he’s a damn’ villain, one way or another!” the doctor heatedly announced. "Those things”— motioning toward the tub—"are an un¬ usually nasty species.”

"I know,” Frane soberly agreed; "I’ve seen what they can do. But then,” he ironically reminded, "Polynice Poynter runs to nasty things—such as causing 'persecution complexes’, for instance!”

"Tell me the details before we rejoin your wife—those you must have omitted the other time,” Doctor Loring abruptly demanded. He made a wry grimace: "I have conceived a dislike for your Polynice Poynter!

“Come, come!” he prodded testily, as Frane hesitated. “Give me the really im¬ portant facts: how an octoroon happens to be stepbrother to your wife, and his motive for wating to injure her,”

W. T.—6

"It’s simple,” Frane responded. "Nata¬ lie’s—my wife’s—father was a canegrower in Haiti. Natalie’s mother died, and her father remarried—a Haitian woman who had been his mistress for many years; for so many years, in fact, that Polynice, who is about thirty, is be¬ lieved by everyone in Port au Prince to be old Poynte^s natural son. At any rate, Poynter legally adopted him, after marry¬ ing his mother. The situation was un¬ bearable for Natalie—I married her, im¬ mediately afterward resigning my commis¬ sion in order to leave Haiti with her.

"As to the motive you spoke of,” he rapidly went on, "unless it has been changed recently, Haitian law prohibits whites from outright ownership of land in Haiti. So old Poynter invested his in¬ come here in the States, with such shrewd¬ ness that Natalie inherited a sizable for¬ tune at his death.

"It’s as simple as this: If Natalie dies without issue, Polynice gets everything. Do you see?”

"The motive is plain,” Doctor Loring admitted. "But what has this Polynice actually done? You have told me merely that your wife’s mind and health were being destroyed by fear of him, the basis for which was not mentioned. Tell me what you have kept back.”

Captain Frane hesitated. "You must realize,” he said, at length, "that Natalie was born in Haiti. Some things that would seem absurd to the average Amer¬ ican girl are seriously real to her. Haiti is a strange island, Doctor Loring, and Natalie believes in voodoo.”

"Ah!” nodded the doctor; "I follow ' you. Indeed, I am well ahead of you! This Polynice has persuaded your wife of his control of dark powers, and used the fact to influence her. Do you know in what way?”

Frane made a baffled, embarrassed ges610


ture. "He has her believing that her—• her soul—a part of it, at least—oh, hell! It’s childish, but it’s going to kill Natalie, if you can’t stop it. She believes he’s put part of her into a silly little block of ma¬ hogany, a piece of dry wood no bigger than a small book. And he tells her, daily by ’phone or in person, that he is going to destroy that block, and her with it, in the near future.”

"And she will die if he does destroy it,” Doctor Loring promptly confirmed. "The power of induced suggestion makes that a reasonable certainty. But,” he dep¬ recated, "any half-baked psychologist could remedy that for you. . . . However, I will do it myself. I have, I repeat, con¬ ceived a dislike for this Polynice who sends snakes to people.”

After a moment of thought, he added, "The only difficulty is that block of wood. To have it is not absolutely necessary, for¬ tunately; but it would simplify matters.”

"Natalie herself keeps It,” Frane eager¬ ly returned. "It’s in her handbag, now.”

Doctor Loring pursed his lips in a soundless whistle. "The fellow is clever!” he conceded. "That was a master-stroke, to let her have it, the power of his sug¬ gestion strengthening as she continually regards it, strives constantly to keep it from harm. Suggestion is the most pow¬ erful force in the world, Captain Frane. In this case, it will be the fire with which we fight the devil.

"Come! We have nearly the whole af¬ ternoon, and we shall use it to confound this voodoo that was born in the African jungles.”

B ack in the study, Frane quietly in¬ formed his wife that Doctor Loring had reconsidered, and was prepared to take her case. The doctor regarded her with searching scrutiny for the first time. Natalie Frane was at least a dozen

years her husband’s junior; about twentyfive, Doctor Loring judged. She would have been beautiful, except for the haunt¬ ed look in her somber eyes. From instincts reaching back to the years when he had been a mere general practitioner, the doc¬ tor automatically disapproved of her pal¬ lor, which was the more noticeable by con¬ trast with the dark hair that was drawn simply back into a heavy knot upon her neck. She looked like a pale, troubled madonna; quite the type, impressionable and hyper-sensitive, to respond to subtle influences.

"I came because John wished it, Doc¬ tor Loring,” she said, a defensive note un¬ derlying the listless words. "I doubt that a physician can help me, or even under¬ stand the thing that saps my strength and will.”

"My dear,” Doctor Loring gently as¬ sured her, "it is true that I am a physician. But I am also a psychologist, which is more. Further, I am a psychopathist— and that is much, much more.”

He leaned forward, confidentially:

"Beyond all that, I have lived and learned in Haiti. I have lived among the natives as one of them, in order to fur¬ ther my scientific investigations. I know as much of voodoo as Polynice, plus other things of which he has no knowledge whatever. I can help you. Will you let me?”

Natalie Frane looked up into his face; and what she found there brought a light of breathless, incredulous hope into her own. Impulsively she caught his hand.

"Yes!” she whispered, "oh, yes!”

There was a low couch in the study, from the doctor’s habit of taking cat-naps at odd minutes; and to this he led the girl.

"Lie down,” he persuaded. "Stretch out and relax.”

When she had complied, he resumed:

VOODOO VENGEANCE


’1 take it for granted that when”—he motioned toward the bag still clutched tightly in her hand—"when it happened, you either were asleep or in a state of induced coma. The same condition is requisite to a reversal of matters. . .

Still talking, the doctor placed a cu¬ rious contrivance upon his desk, a series of small mirrors arranged in a common frame. A cord plugged into a wall socket set the mirrors spinning. As they spun, they merged into a disk of shimmering, hypnotic light. Natalie Frane looked into the whirling, compelling radiance; and looking, she sighed and relaxed. The precious handbag dropped from her limp fingers.

“An effective mechanical adjunct to hypnosis,” Doctor Loring explained, still¬ ing the spinning mirrors. Removing the contrivance, he pressed the button be¬ neath the desk.

"Bring me a hatchet, or a heavy knife —that machete you use to prune the hedges will do nicely,” he directed, when Tou-Tou appeared.

"When I wake her,” he resumed to Frane, "we will tell her that whatever part of her ego may have been in the block has been forced out and restored to her. When she has accepted that, we shall show her the splintered block as proof. Afterward, you have only to keep your Poiynice from further contact with her. As time goes on, her Haitian impres¬ sions will dim and disappear.”

Tou-Tou returned with the machete, a long, heayy-bladed implement. Frane got the mahogany block from his wife’s bag; and Doctor Loring set it on a maga¬ zine upon the desk. The machete rose, descended smartly. The dry, aged wood split cleanly — but neither Frane nor Doctor Loring watched its halves fall apart.

At the moment the blade bit into the

block, Natalie Frane screamed. She screamed, and then seemed to stifle, to choke on other screams that her working throat would not emit. Her body stif¬ fened convulsively, knees drawing up with a jerk.

"My God!” cried Doctor Loring; "this is no mummery—it’s stark, terribly gen¬ uine voodoo!”

"What is it?—In the fiend’s name, what have you done?”

"Never mind that!” snapped the doc¬ tor, whipping into action; "Get out of my way. ...”

He dashed out a doorway. In scant minutes he was back, a hypodermic syringe in his hand.

“That devil’s business can’t succeed, not quite, while she is in a hypnotic con¬ dition,” he muttered, more to himself than to Frane. "But the coma won’t last long, of itself; and if she wakes now— she dies! So——

He sent home the needle’s plunger. Almost as Doctor Loring released her arm, Natalie relaxed under the influence of the opiate. Even then, there was a curious intensity underlying her quiescent pose. The doctor whirled on Frane:

"Do you know how to reach that devil?”

"Poiynice? Yes, by ’phone. But for God’s sake what is-”

"No time for that, now!” Doctor Lor¬ ing jerked him short. "You ’phone Poiy¬ nice: tell him exactly what has happened. Tell him that you agree to anything he demands, if he will come immediately and help me undo his voodoo. Tell him any¬ thing, but get him hare—quickly. Move!”

F rane searched feverishly through the directory, threw it aside with an oath. He dialed "Information,” and Doctor Loring heard him ask for the wanted



number. Then Frane slowly replaced the receiver, a baffled look on his face.

"The ’phone’s priVsttely listed. She wouldn’t give me the number. And," he added despairingly, "I’ve no idea where he lives.”

"If we can’t get him here shortly-”

The significance of the doctor’s unspoken words was plain.

"Look here!” blazed the ex-captain of Marines. "Do you mean to tell me that, now you’ve forced matters to a crisis, you can’t mend your bungling? Do something! You boasted that you knew more than Polynice—can’t you do whatever he could?”

"Polynice couldn’t save your wife,” Doctor Loring returned paradoxically. "I’ll do that. But Polynice is a necessary factor.”

"You talk in riddles,” Frane grated. "I put Natalie blindly in your hands— and look! You’ve pushed matters beyond your control. And I don’t even know what’s happened to my wife, nor why. If you know, it’s time you told me!”

"I bungled,” Doctor Loring bitterly admitted. "That fer-de-lance did it. I thought it a piece of crude theatrics, but instead, it was as clever as I thought it stupid. It threw me off the trail, angered me into becoming a catspaw for Poly¬ nice. I thought he was working on your wife’s fears until she would eventually have broken under his pretended voodooism. There are very few genuine adepts, even among the Haitian papalois —but Polynice evidently is one of the few.”

"Do you mean to tell me there is such a thing as genuine voodoo sorcery?” An¬ gry disbelief struggled with sick dread as Frane’s tortured eyes flashed toward the couch.

"Sorcery, in the sense you mean—no,” Doctor Loring promptly answered his question. "There is nothing that can not

be explained in scientific terms, though sometimes the explanation is obscure. Voodoo, as a black art, is nothing more than induced auto-suggestion. It is a fairly common phenomenon among sav¬ age or semi-civilized peoples, to find indi¬ viduals with a high degree of natural psychic control. Polynice has it, from that part of his heritage rooted in the jungles.

"He has dominated your wife’s mind with the belief that he has induced a part of her—something of what, for want of a better term, we may call her spiritual self—into that mahogany block. To all practical intents, because he made her believe it, he actually did it!

"The matter was static, without serious¬ ly affecting her while it remained so. But when I destroyed the block by violence, a sympathetic psychic reaction affected your wife as you have seen. In her coma, the psychic shock was partly neutralized; but if she wakens now, what will happen is comparable to trying to start a motor with a nearly discharged battery. We must re¬ charge her psychic battery before she re¬ turns to consciousness and exhausts what little force remains. Otherwise-”

Doctor Loring spread his hands in a gesture more eloquent than words.

"And you must have Polynice to save her?” Frane groaned. "Why?”

The girl on the couch stirred, and the question went unanswered as the doctor sprang quickly to her side. His thin, quizzing fingers held her wrist a mo¬ ment; then he dropped it and wordlessly refilled the hypodermic syringe.

W hen the drug had been adminis¬ tered, Doctor Loring visibly braced himself as he turned to Frane.

"That is all I dare give her,” he slow¬ ly announced. "More would kill her. It should maintain her coma for three or four hours longer.”

VOODOO VENGEANCE


His eyes held Frane’s for a bleak, ghastly minute. There was hell in Frane’s face as he turned, finally, to look at the still, helpless figure of his wife. The doctor pressed his call button.

"Tou-Tou,” he demanded of the Hai¬ tian, "do you understand what has hap¬ pened here?”

The whites of Tou-Tou’s eyes showed eerily, as his gaze swept around the room. He nodded, silently.

"Is there a way,” Doctor Loring asked hesitantly, almost fearfully, ”—a way out?”

"One,” Tou-Tou answered softly. A significant look passed between them; it seemed they understood each other. Doc¬ tor Loring nodded slowly as Tou-Tou went out.

"One way,” he murmured to himself, his face bleak. "One way—and no means of finding him.”

Frane raised his head from his hands. Stark murder looked out of his eyes.

"Polynice-” he muttered, thickly;

"if she dies, the law can’t touch him”—• his lean fingers crooked in promise—"but God help him!”

They sat silent, then, waiting. The tip of Frane’s tongue drew haltingly across his dry lips. . . .

The telephone rang.

Doctor Loring placed the receiver to his ear with a startled jerk; then motioned to Frane. "Calling you,” he said.

Watching him, the doctor saw Frane’s dull eyes light with excitement.

"It’s Polynice!” he cried, a trembling hand across the transmitter. "What shall I tell him?”

"Tell him—no, let me tell him!” Doc¬ tor Loring rapped out. Taking the ’phone, he spoke crisply.

"Hello! . . . Doctor Loring speaking. Mrs. Frane is here in a critical condition, following my destruction of a certain

mahogany block—your understand me, of course. I must have your assistance in re¬ storing her to a normal condition, from the mesmeric control under which I barely hold her.

"In consideration of your help Captain Frane is ready to accept any terms you may name. I pledge my own word that there will be no subsequent reprisal from him or the police. . . . Oh, yes! I think my testimony would make criminal action quite possible!”

The doctor’s lips twisted sardonically as he added, with visible calculation, "Captain Frane himself is in a pitiful state. You had better come at once.”

After the receiver had clicked into place, he turned to Frane in grim tri¬ umph.

"That got him, that part about you being shot to pieces. He couldn’t resist coming to gloat. Besides, he feels quite sure of himself,”

"You promised him immunity!” Frane retorted bitterly.

"I did not!” Doctor Loring contradict¬ ed. "I told him that you were ready to make any terms for your wife’s safety— as you are; and that there would be no criminal action. . . .”

He paused, his fingers feeling under the edge of his desk.

"There will be no need!” he quietly amended, with a significance that was lost on Frane.

D octor loring parted his lips to speak, as Tou-Tou slipped in, then hesitated. After an uncertain glance at Frane, he altered his original decision, motioning the Haitian back.

"I have some preparations to make for our visitor,” he explained abruptly. The door closed after him.

Frane paced back and forth across the study, his haunted eyes turning always to



rest upon the pale, bloodless face of the still form upon the couch. He glanced up quickly as Doctor Loring re-entered.

"You look as if you were all set,” he slowly observed, "waiting for something to break”

"All set,” grimly nodded the doctor, "to fight the devil with his own fire!”

Any questions Frane might have asked were forestalled by the faint sound of a bell in the recesses of the house.

"And there,” Doctor Loring softly ex¬ claimed, his eyes snapping, "there comes the devil!”

Through the cracked door, Tou-Tou jabbered in his French patois:

"It is that one! He will not enter with¬ out the dog.”

Doctor Loring snapped his fingers with an exclamation—"The dog, TouTou! The dog you have agreed will do as well as any goat!”

The whites of the Haitian’s eyes flashed as he tinned away. He came back, usher¬ ing in a man beside whom walked a gaunt, wolfish dog, stiff-legged with sus¬ picion. It was the same animal that had snarled through the doctor’s window.

The man, who needed no introduction as the much-wanted Polynice, was of me¬ dium height, but broad. His skin, slight¬ ly jaundiced in appearance rather than swarthy, betrayed little of his hybrid origin; nor did his straight, black hair. His arresting feature was a pair of evil, hypnotic eyes, as black and opaque as jet.

"Ah!” he murmured, in faintly accent¬ ed English, with a slight bow; "Doctor Loring, I presume—and the estimable Captain Frane!” With purring malice, he added, "And my poor stepsister!”

The muscles stood out on Frane’s clamped jaws, but Doctor Loring’s voice was mildly urgent as he admonished—

"Come in, please. We’ve no time to lose.”

Shaking his head regretfully, the octo¬ roon advanced into the room.

"In spite of Captain Frane’s contrary belief, I have no designs against his wife’s person or, er—possessions. Surely I am not to blame for her regrettable mental disorder, and I am not a man of science. Eager as I wish it, there is nothing I can do to help, Doctor Loring.”

"So you think to stand by, gloating, while Mrs. Frane dies when her coma passes?” Doctor Loring’s voice was de¬ ceptively gentle: "Well, you are a cheat all around. The shock she has sustained is too great for you to remedy, even if you would.”

"Then why ask me here?” murmured Polynice.

"Because I can help her, now! But it is going to be hard on you!”

Doctor Loring gestured fiercely to TouTou, who hovered like an eager shadow.

The gaunt black man jerked a hand from behind him, and the noose of a rope flipped over the octoroon’s shoul¬ ders, pinning his arms. But they reckoned without the fierce, wolf-like thing that sprang as its master cried out in startled anger. The dog leaped in slavering fury at Tou-Tou, who dropped the rope to ward off slashing fangs.

Polynice, free of the noose in a twink¬ ling, jerked a pistol from the breast of his coat. He leaped toward the open win¬ dow, but Frane swiftly interposed. The edge of his hand struck Polynice's wrist, and a shot went wild; the pistol spun across the room. The ex-Marine’s fist smashed out, rocking Polynice back against the desk—the desk upon which a heavy machete lay. Lean, sallow fingers darted forward; the murderous blade slashed out at Frane, who barely threw himself aside.

As Polynice leaped again for the win-.

VOODOO VENGEANCE


dow, to which the way was dear, Doctor Loring flung his slight form after him. Something glittered in the doctor’s own fist, stabbed viciously down into the Hai¬ tian’s left shoulder.

With a startled snarl of rage and pain, Polynice whirled the machete in an awk¬ ward cross sweep, which Doctor Loring evaded narrowly. Before he could turn toward the doctor, or slash out at Frane, rushing in on him again, Polynice stag¬ gered in his tracks. The machete dropped to the floor.

"Don’t hit him!” Doctor Loring cried. But Frane already had stopped short, star¬ ing at Polynice’s twitching face.

"Damn you!” choked the jaundicedlooking Haitian. He would have slumped to the floor, had not the doctor caught and held him. Frane helping, he lowered Polynice to a chair.

"Strong stuff in that hypodermic!” gasped the doctor; "but it won’t last long. Tie him up.”

They had been too busy to observe Tou-Tou’s battle with the dog. Now, as Frane turned to get the rope, the black man was holding the dog’s throat with one hand, seemingly well in control. TouTou’s coat was slashed, and his free hand dripped blood; but the dog looked dazed, subdued. Its eyes were unaccountably glassy.

"Wring the brute’s neck!” Frane growled over his shoulder as, rope in hand, he crossed anxiously toward the neglected girl, who remained motionless upon the couch.

"No,” contradicted the doctor; "we need it a while longer. Take it on to the garden, Tou-Tou.”

While Doctor Loring bent over Nata¬ lie, Frane trussed Polynice to the chair. Satisfied that the girl’s condition remained unchanged, the doctor transferred his own attentions to the captive.

P olynice already showed signs of returning consciousness. The doctor helped him along with a bottle of smell¬ ing-salts held beneath his nostrils. The octoroon moved his head aside, writhed in the chair with a groan. Tilting his chin, Doctor Loring forced him to swal¬ low something he had mixed in a glass. Polynice’s eyes opened dully; then cleared, became bright with venom.

"Now you’re out of it,” Doctor Loring observed. "That is good; because I want you to understand thoroughly what I am about to say.”

Giving Polynice no chance to inter¬ rupt, he continued sharply: "You know all about Haitian voodoo—and so do I! For months, I studied it in the moun¬ tains near the Dominican border. My servant comes from the region* as you may have learned.”

"You did not know enough to save Mrs. Frane!” Polynice snarled.

"Ah! There you are mistaken,” softly corrected Doctor Loring. "Until your in¬ fluence is completely exterminated, it is true that I can not cleanse her mind.” He paused significantly, then added deliber¬ ately—"So I propose to remove you!”

His hearer’s face drained, leaving it the hue of a dead fish’s belly.

"You dare not!” Polynice hissed; "I took care that several people knew I came here.”

"You credit me with very little sub¬ tlety,” Doctor Loring chided dryly. "I intend nothing so crude and, in this case, ineffective as physical violence. . . . There is no way of holding you accountable to the law, if Mrs. Frane dies; nor could the police protect her for the future if I undid your work temporarily. But I pro¬ pose to issue my own injunction”—his voice blazed up wrathfuliy—"and pun¬ ish you everlastingly for the crime already committed!”



"You dare not harm me!” Polynice snarled in repetition, through dry lips.

"So?” hissed Doctor Loring. ^ "Un¬ doubtedly you have seen the thing® have in mind, at petro ceremonies?—the girl and the goat? Well, my sender of snakes, Tou-Tou was a papaloi in the Haitian mountains; and he says that your dog will substitute for the goat. And while you surely are no virgin maid, still—I think we shall manage!”

Frane had listened with impatience and lade of understanding, but the doctor’s meaning evidently was horribly dear to Polynice.

"Not that!” he screamed, straining frenziedly at his bonds. Panting, he strove helplessly, but suddenly ceased. A sly look crept across his face.

"Have you the drug they give the girl, before the ceremony?” he demanded tri¬ umphantly. "I don’t believe it, and you can’t do without it. Your narcotics will not substitute—the mind must be undo: control, not deadened. The only other way is to hypnotize me, and my mind will never yield to yours! You can’t hyp¬ notize me, and you dare not murder me!”

"I’d like to take your challenge—on both counts,” Doctor Loring retorted, with a twisted smile. "But the time is too short to risk my patient’s life for my own vanity. I have delayed this long only because it was necessary that your mind be fully aware of what is to happen. Al¬ ready it grows dark; and tonight the moon comes up almost with the dusk. . .

Once more, the contraption with the mirrors was placed upon the desk. Al¬ most apologetically, while he adjusted the mirrors Doctor Loring told Polynice, "Your psychic inheritance from African witch-doctors hasn’t much chance against modem science.”

Uncomprehending but uneasy, the Haitian watched while the mirrors began

their spinning. Too late, he realized that he was trapped. Desperately he tried to tear away his eyes; corded veins throbbed at his damp temples. For long minutes Polynice fought a silent, agonized battle with an impersonal thing that beat down his will. With a stifled sigh, he relaxed in the chair, eyes staring, unseeing.

T ou-TOU slipped in like a weird, si¬ lent shadow. Behind the impassivity of his black face, there was an unholy eagerness. A gaudy handkerchief was wound about his wooly head, and there was a curiously twined wand in his hand.

"I have made a staff with the bones of the serpent that one sent!” he half chant¬ ed, in his slurred patois. "The dog is ready, and the moon comes up.”

"This one also is ready,” grimly re¬ turned the doctor. Motioning toward Na¬ talie, he directed Frane—"Bring her in your arms. I hope that enough of what is to happen will reach her subconscious mind to register the impression of her release. . . . Come!”

Gripping Polynice by one arm, while Tou-Tou took the other, Doctor Loring murmured commandingly: "Rise! Walk to your gods, walk to Damballa!”

Half shuffling, half carried, Polynice sagged between the two. Taking Natalie gently up in his arms, Frane followed behind them.

The moon, a thin crescent, looked over the high wall of the wide garden. Flow¬ ers that were a riot of color by day, looked up with faces ghostly white or falsely drab in the pale light. Toward a clump of silent, secretive shrubbery in the center of the garden, the group moved. The wolfish dog, tethered to the bushes, whim¬ pered as they approached.

Frane lowered his wife into a canvas garden chair he found in place. Doctor Loring released his hold on Polynice, and

VOODOO VENGEANCE


helped adjust die chair until the girl lay half reclining. He passed his fingers lightly across her forehead, with a low command—

"Rest, and observe Hell take back its evil.”

Tou-Tou had forced Polynice to hands and knees, facing the now quiet dog. The pale blob of the man's face was scant inches from the dark muzzle of the beast.

"You will have to overlook the trap¬ pings,” Doctor Loring muttered to Frane. "They are psychologically vital."

He moved away and took from out the shadows something that had been placed there in readiness; Frane saw with wonderment that it was a large guitar. Squatting with the incongruous thing upon the ground before him, the doctor com¬ menced to drum measuredly upon its re¬ verse.

Tou-Tou swayed upon his feet in re¬ sponse to the weird, throbbing cadence of the drumming fingers.

"Legba, open the road! Great Damballa-Ouedo, take this thing we offer!”

He stopped shuffling, and bent above die strangely assorted pair, that stared in their queer fixity—the man and the beast, face and muzzle almost touching. The wand, with its twining snake vertebras, described immemorial, cabalistic strokes above them. The doctor maintained the steady, monotonous tempo of his fingers upon the improvised drum.

"The thing is done!” Tou-Tou an¬ nounced, his voice a thin whisper. The doctor’s beat increased to a staccato pitch, sharp, imperative. Moonlight glinted fieetingly upon the knife in Tou-Tou’s fist. The beginning of a scream, un¬ earthly but seemingly human, died in a choked gurgle. The dog dropped upon its side, twitched briefly.

"My God!” the cry burst from Frane. "Polynice-”

"Is it Polynice?” rasped Doctor Loring, his fingers stilled.

For Polynice, upon all fours, held back his he^d —and bayed wolfshly at the moon!

"Bring Mrs. Frane back into the house. Hurry! She may wake at any minute, and I do not want her to see any of this, not consciously.”

N atalis was already beginning to stir, as Frane laid her again on the couch, back in the study. Doctor Loring bent over her, held her wrist briefly.

"A few minutes more,” he promised, "and she will awaken—and be normal. Her subconscious mind has registered its freedom from the threat of Polynice. That should counteract the shock she sustained when I split the block.”

"Thank God for that!” Frane fervently exclaimed. "But Doctor Loring! Poly¬ nice? That dog screamed like a human, and Polynice howled on all fours like a dog. I’ve heard of voodoo priests making such exchanges, but I didn’t believe it— damn it, I don’t believe it now!”

"Of course not,” agreed Doctor Lor¬ ing; "but Polynice believed it! Every vol¬ untary cell in his brain is sealed, for ever, with the impression he received and be¬ lieved in, at the moment Tou-Tou cut the dog’s throat. To all practical pur¬ poses, his personality was in the dog when it died, and the dog’s in him.

"It is the same thing that happened to your wife, repeated in his case. I told you that we would fight the devil with his own fire! So we frustrated a heinous attempted crime, which the law was powerless to check; and the criminal has been punished.”

He consulted his watch, adding—"I have ’phoned for the police; they should come for Polynice at any minute. To¬ morrow I shall sign the papers commit618


ing him to the State insane asylum.”

He broke off, to step swiftly toward the couch. Frane reached his wife first, as the girl stirred, opened her eyes. Her husband, his face tense with anxiety, helped her as she struggled to sit upright.

"I am so tired,” she sighed. The wan, strained lines of her face accentuated its pallor. Then Doctor Loring moved aside, deliberately. Natalie Frane’s eyes wid¬ ened, and her fingers flew to her mouth to stifle a scream. Then a look of wonder dawned in her face; a suspicion of color flushed the pale cheeks.

"Oh, John!” she cried to her husband, with the ghost of a choked, happy little laugh that was close to tears of amazed relief. ''You’ve cut the block in two!—• there isn’t anything to voodoo, after all!”

"Absolutely correct!” Doctor Loring crisply approved, as the door-bell rang. With nis arms tightening around his wife, Captain John Frane stifled a startled im¬ pulse to contradict.


[THE END]

============================================================
ANNE BOLEYN
by Dorothy Quick
============================================================
Faintly through the open window came the mournful, terrified howls of a dog—• howls with a note that was oddly, disquietingly human.

J

nne Boleyn

By DOROTHY QUICK

Anne Boleyn from the Tower came With sparkling eyes and cheeks of flame, With regal pomp and jewels proud Amid the cheering of the crowd.

And as she walked across the square No sign of her dark fate was there.

With head held high and heart serene She left the Tower to be crowned Queen!

Anne Boleyn from the Tower came Without a crown, without a name,

Without a glance to left or right For those who pitied most her plight;

And as she walked across the square The scaffold and the sword were there.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE PEOPLE OF THE BLACK CIRCLE (END)
by Robert E. Howard
============================================================
With head bent low with anguished thought She paid the price her crown had brought.

Vhe

eople of the Black Circle

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

A stupendous story of Conan the barbarian soldier of fortune, and a tremendous adventure in the castle of the Black Seers

The Story Thus Far through the sorcery of the Black Seers

rASMINA DEVI, queen of Veo- of Yimsha, magicians who .dwelt on a

dhya, sought vengeance for her mountain in Ghulistan, a wild, barbaric

brother, who had met his death hill country.

This story began in WEIRD TAXES for September




To secure the assistance of Conan, chief of the Afghulis of that country, she had the governor of Peshkhauri capture seven Afghuli headmen as hostages. But Conan kidnapped Yasmina and carried her into the mountains.

Three others desired to secure posses¬ sion of Yasmina: Kerim Shah, a spy of Yezdigerd, king of Turan, who plotted the conquest of Vendhya; Khemsa, a for¬ mer acolyte of the Black Seers, and his sweetheart, Gitara, Yasmina’s treacherous maid. These two wished to wring a huge ransom from Vendhya. Khemsa employed his black magic to kill the seven Afghuli headmen so they could not be used to buy Yasmina’s release from Conan, and he and Gitara followed Conan into the hills.

Conan, in the meantime, had sought shelter with his friend Yar Afzal, chief of the Wazulis. Khemsa killed Yar Afzal with his magic, and tricked the Wazulis into driving Conan from their village. He then sought to take Yasmina from Conan, but during a fight between the two, the Black Seers themselves arrived on the scene. They destroyed Gitara and Khemsa, and carried Yasmina away with them. Before Khemsa died he gave Conan a Stygian girdle of great magic powers.

Conan, riding toward Afghulistan to gather his followers to rescue Yasmina, met five hundred of them seeking him. They had learned of the death of the sev¬ en headmen, and believed he had be¬ trayed them. Escaping from them, he met the spy, Kerim Shah, with a band of Irakzai, riding to meet a Turanian army which was forcing its way through the hills to capture Yasmina, whom they thought a captive among the Afghulis.

Striking a temporary truce, Conan and Kerim Shah rode together toward Yimsha.

In the meantime Yasmina, in the wiz¬

ard castle, had met the mysterious figure called the Master, who told her she was to be his slave. To terrify her into sub¬ jection he forced her to relive all her past incarnations, and when she awoke, she saw a hooded shape near her in the gloom. It clasped her in its bony arms, and she screamed to see a fleshless skull grinning from the shadow of the hood.

9. The Castle of the Wizards

he sun had risen over the white Himelian peaks. At the foot of a long slope a group of horsemen halted and stared upward. High above them a stone tower poised on the pitch of the mountainside. Beyond and above that gleamed the walls of a greater keep, near the line where the snow began that capped Yimsha’s pinnacle. There was a touch of unreality about the whole—pur¬ ple slopes pitching up to that fantastic castle, toy-like with distance, and above it the white glistening peak shouldering the cold blue.

"We’ll leave the horses here,” grunted Conan. "That treacherous slope is safer for a man on foot. Besides, they’re done.”

He swung down from the black stallion which stood with wide-braced legs and drooping head. They had pushed hard throughout the night, gnawing at scraps from saddle-bags, and pausing only to give the horses the rests they had to have.

"That first tower is held by the acolytes of the Black Seers,” said Conan. "Or so men say; watch-dogs for their masters— lesser sorcerers. They won’t sit sucking their thumbs as we climb this slope.”

Kerim Shah glanced up the mountain, then back the way they had come; they were already far up on Yimsha’s side, and a vast expanse of lesser peaks and crags spread out beneath them. Among those labyrinths the Turanian sought in

THE PEOPLE OF THE BLACK CIRCLE


vain for a movement of color that would betray men. Evidently the pursuing Afghulis had lost their chief’s trail in the night.

"Let us go, then.” They tied the weary horses in a clump of tamarisk and with¬ out further comment turned up the slope. There was no cover. It was a naked in¬ cline, strewn with boulders not big enough to conceal a man. But they did conceal something else.

The party had not gone fifty steps when a snarling shape burst from behind a rock. It was one of the gaunt savage dogs that infested the hill villages, and its eyes glared redly, its jaws dripped foam. Conan was leading, but it did not attack him. It dashed past him and leaped at Kerim Shah. The Turanian leaped aside, and the great dog flung it¬ self upon the Irakzai behind him. The man yelled and threw up his arm, which was tom by the brute’s fangs as it bore him backward, and the next instant half a dozen tulwars were hacking at the beast. Yet not until it was literally dismembered did the hideous creature cease its efforts to seize and rend its attackers.

Kerim Shah bound up the wounded warrior’s gashed arm, looked at him nar¬ rowly, and then turned away without a word. He rejoined Conan, and they re¬ newed the climb in silence.

Presently Kerim Shah said: "Strange to find a village dog in this place.”

"There’s no offal here,” granted Co¬ nan.

Both turned their heads to glance back at the wounded warrior toiling alter them among his companions. Sweat glistened on his dark face and his lips were drawn back from his teeth in a grimace of pain. Then both looked again at the stone tower squatting above them.

A slumberous quiet lay over the up¬ lands. The tower showed no sign of life,

nor did the strange pyramidal structure beyond it. But the men who toiled up¬ ward went with the tenseness of men walking on the edge of a crater. Kerim Shah had unslung the powerful Turanian bow that killed at five hundred paces, and the Irakzai looked to their own lighter and less lethal bows. ■

But they were not within bow-shot of the tower when something shot down out of the sky without warning. It passed so close to Conan that he felt the wind of the rushing wings, but it was an Irakzai who staggered and fell, blood jetting from a severed jugular. A hawk with wings like burnished steel shot up again, blood dripping from the simitar-beak, to reel against the sky as Kerim Shah's bow¬ string twanged. It dropped like a plum¬ met, but no man saw where it struck the earth.

Conan bent over the victim of the at¬ tack, but the man was already dead. No one spoke; useless to comment on the fact that never before had a hawk been known to swoop on a man. Red rage began to vie with fatalistic lethargy in the wild souls of the Irakzai. Hairy fin¬ gers nocked arrows and men glared vengefully at the tower whose very silence mocked them.

But the next attack came swiftly. They all saw it—a white puffball of smoke that tumbled over the tower-rim and came drifting and rolling down the slope toward them. Others followed it They seemed harmless, mere woolly globes of cloudy foam, but Conan stepped aside to avoid contact with the first. Be¬ hind him one of the Irakzai reached out and thrust his sword into the unstable mass. Instantly a sharp report shook the mountainside. There was a burst of blind¬ ing flame, and then the puffball had van¬ ished, and of the too-curious warrior re¬ mained only a heap of charred and black622


ened bones. The crisped hand still gripped the ivory sword-hilt, but the blade was gone—melted and destroyed by that awful heat. Yet men standing almost within reach of the victim had not suffered except to be dazzled and half blinded by the sudden flare.

"Steel touches it off,” grunted Conan. "Look out—here they come!”

The slope above them was almost cov¬ ered by the billowing spheres. Kerim Shah bent his bow and sent a shaft into the mass, and those touched by the arrow burst like bubbles in spurting flame. His men followed his example and for the next few minutes it was as if a thunder¬ storm raged on the mountain slope, with bolts of lightning striking and bursting in showers of flame. When the barrage ceased, only a few arrows were left in the quivers of the archers.

T hey pushed on grimly, over soil charred and blackened, where the naked rock had in places been turned to lava by the explosion of those diabolical bombs.

Now they were almost within arrowflight of the silent tower,and they spread their line, nerves taut, ready for any horror that might descend upon them.

On the tower appeared a single figure, lifting a ten-foot bronze horn. Its stri¬ dent bellow roared out across the echoing slopes, like the blare of trumpets on Judg¬ ment Day. And it began to be fearfully answered. The ground trembled under the feet of the invaders, and rumblings and grindings welled up from the sub¬ terranean depths.

The Irakzai screamed, reeling like drunken men on the shuddering slope, and Conan, eyes glaring, charged reck¬ lessly up the incline, knife in hand, straight at the door that showed in the tower-wall. Above him the great horn

roared and bellowed in brutish mockery. And then Kerim Shah drew a shaft to his ear and loosed.

Only a Turanian could have made that shot. The bellowing of the horn ceased suddenly, and a high, thin scream shrilled in its place. The green-robed figure on the tower staggered, clutching at the long shaft which quivered in its bosom, and then pitched across the parapet. The great horn tumbled upon the battlement and hung precariously, and another robed figure rushed to seize it, shrieking in hor¬ ror. Again the Turanian bow twanged, and again it was answered by a deathhowl. The second acolyte, in fallings struck the horn with his elbow and knocked it clattering over the parapet to shatter on the rocks far below.

At such headlong speed had Conan covered the ground that before the clat¬ tering echoes of that fall had died away, he was hacking at the door. Warned by his savage instinct, he gave back suddenly as a tide of molten lead splashed down from above. But the next instant he was back again, attacking the panels with re¬ doubled fury. He was galvanized by the fact that his enemies had resorted to earthly weapons. The sorcery of the aco¬ lytes was limited. Their necromantic re¬ sources might well be exhausted.

Kerim Shah was hurrying up the slope; his hillmen behind him in a straggling crescent. They loosed as they ran, their arrows splintering against the walls or arching over the parapet.

The heavy teak portal gave way be¬ neath the Cimmerian’s assault, and he peered inside warily, expecting anything. He was looking into a circular chamber from which a stair wound upward. On the opposite side of the chamber a door gaped open, revealing the outer slope— and the backs of half a dozen greenrobed figures in full retreat

THE PEOPLE OF THE BLACK CIRCLE


Conan yelled, took a step into the tower, and then native caution jerked him back, just as a great block of stone fell crashing to the floor where his foot had been an instant before. Shouting to his followers, he raced around the tower.

The acolytes had evacuated their first line of defense. As Conan rounded the tower he saw their green robes twinkling up the mountain ahead of him. He gave chase, panting with earnest blood-lust, and behind him Kerim Shah and the Irakzai came pelting, the latter yelling like wolves at the flight of their enemies, their fatalism momentarily submerged by tem¬ porary triumph.

The tower stood on the lower edge of a narrow plateau whose upward slant was barely perceptible. A few hundred yards away this plateau ended abruptly in a chasm which had been invisible farther down the mountain. Into this chasm the acolytes apparently leaped without check¬ ing their speed. Their pursuers saw the green robes flutter and disappear over the edge.

A few moments later they themselves were standing on the brink of the mighty moat that cut them off from the castle of the Black Seers. It was a sheer-walled ravine that extended in either direction as far as they could see, apparently gird¬ ling the mountain, some four hundred yards in width and five hundred feet deep. And in it, from rim to rim, a strange, translucent mist sparkled and shimmered.

Looking down, Conan grunted. Far below him, moving across the glimmering floor, which shone like burnished silver, he saw the forms of the green-robed aco¬ lytes. Their outline was wavering and in¬ distinct, like figures seen under deep water. They walked in single file, moving toward the opposite wall.

K erim shah nocked an arrow and sent • it singing downward. But when it struck the mist that filled the chasm it seemed to lose momentum and direction, wandering widely from its course.

"If they went down, so can we!” grunted Conan, while Kerim Shah stared after his shaft in amazement. "I saw

them last at this spot-”

Squinting down he saw something shining like a golden thread across the canyon floor far below. The acolytes seemed to be following this thread, and there suddenly came to him Khcmsa’s cryptic words—"Follow the golden vein!” On the brink, under his very hand as he crouched, he found it, a thin vein of sparkling gold running from an outcrop¬ ping of ore to the edge and down across the silvery floor. And he found some¬ thing else, which had before been invisi¬ ble to him because of the peculiar re¬ fraction of the light. The gold vein fol¬ lowed a narrow ramp which slanted down into the ravine, fitted with niches for hand and foot hold.

"Here’s where they went down,” he grunted to Kerim Shah. "They’re no adepts, to waft themselves through the

air! We’ll follow them-”

It was at that instant that the man who had been bitten by the mad dog cried out horribly and leaped at Kerim Shah, foaming and gnashing his teeth. The Turanian, quick as a cat on his feet, sprang aside and the madman pitched head-first over the brink. The others rushed to the edge and glared after him in amazement. The maniac did not fall plummet-like. He floated slowly down through the rosy haze like a man sinking in deep water. His limbs moved like a man trying to swim, and his features were purple and convulsed beyond the contortions of his madness. Far down at last on the shin¬ ing floor his body settled and lay still.



'There’s death in that chasm,” mut¬ tered Kerim Shah, drawing back £rom the rosy mist that shimmered almost at his feet. "What now, Conan?”

"On!” answered the Cimmerian grim¬ ly. "Those acolytes are human; if the mist doesn’t kill them, it won’t kill me.”

He hitched his belt, and his hands touched the girdle Khemsa had given him; he scowled, then smiled bleakly. He had forgotten that girdle; yet thrice had death passed him by to strike another victim.

The acolytes had reached the farther wall and were moving up it like great green flies. Letting himself upon the ramp, he descended warily. The rosy cloud lapped about his ankles, ascending as he lowered himself. It reached his knees, his thighs, his waist, his arm-pits. He felt it as one feels a thick heavy fog on a damp night. With it lapping about his chin he hesitated, and then ducked under. Instantly his breath ceased; all air was shut off from him and he felt his ribs caving in on his vitals. With a frantic effort he heaved himself up, fight¬ ing for life. His head rose above the surface and he drank air in great gulps.

Kerim Shah leaned down toward him, spoke to him, but Conan neither heard nor heeded. Stubbornly, his mind fixed on what the dying Khemsa had told him, the Cimmerian groped for the gold vein, and found that he had moved off it in his descent. Several series of hand-holds were niched in the ramp. Placing him¬ self directly over the thread, he began climbing down once more. The rosy mist rose about him, engulfed him. Now his head was under, but he was still drink¬ ing pure air. Above him he saw his com¬ panions staring down at him, their fea¬ tures blurred by the haze that shimmered over his head. He gestured for them to follow, and went down swiftly, without

waiting to see whether they complied or not.

Kerim Shah sheathed his sword without comment and followed, and the Irakzai, more fearful of being left alone than of the terrors that might lurk below, scram¬ bled after him. Each man clung to the golden thread as they saw the Cimmerian do.

Down the slanting ramp they went to the ravine floor and moved out across the shining level, treading the gold vein like rope-walkers. It was as. if they walked along an invisible tunnel through which air circulated freely. They felt death pressing in on them above and on either hand, but it did not touch them.

The vein crawled up a similar ramp on the other wall up which the acolytes had disappeared, and up it they went with taut nerves, not knowing what might be waiting for them among the jutting spurs of rock that fanged the lip of the preci¬ pice.

I T was the green-robed acolytes who awaited them, with knives in their hands. Perhaps they had reached the lim¬ its to which they could retreat. Perhaps the Stygian girdle about Conan’s waist could have told why their necromantic spells had proven so weak and so quickly exhausted. Perhaps it was knowledge of death decreed for failure that sent them leaping from among the rocks, eyes glar¬ ing and knives glittering, resorting in their desperation to material weapons.

There among the rocky fangs on the precipice lip was no war of wizard craft. It was a whirl of blades, where real steel bit and real blood spurted, where sinewy arms dealt forthright blows that severed quivering flesh, and men went down to be trodden under foot as the fight raged over them.

One of the Irakzai bled to death among W. T.— 6

THE PEOPLE OF THE BLACK CIRCLE


the rocks, but the acolytes were down—■ slashed and hacked asunder or hurled over the edge to float sluggishly down to the silver floor that shone so far below.

Then the conquerors shook blood and sweat from their eyes, and looked at one another. Conan and Kerim Shall still Stood upright, and four of the Irakzai.

They stood among the rocky teeth that serrated the precipice brink, and from that spot a path wound up a gentle slope to a broad stair, consisting of half a dozen steps, a hundred feet across, cut out of a green jade-like substance. They led up to a broad stage or roofless gallery of the same polished stone, and above it rose, tier upon tier, the castle of the Black Seers. It seemed to have been carved out of the sheer stone of the mountain. The architecture was faultless, but unadorned. The many casements were barred and masked with curtains within. There was no sign of life, friendly or hostile.

They went up the path in silence, and v/arily as men treading the lair of a ser¬ pent. The Irakzai were dumb, like men marching to a certain doom. Even Kerim Shah was silent. Only Conan seemed un¬ aware what a monstrous dislocating and uprooting of accepted thought and action their invasion constituted, what an un¬ precedented violation of tradition. He was not of the East; and he came of a breed who fought devils and wizards as promptly and matter-of-factly as they bat¬ tled human foes.

He strode up the shining stairs and across the wide green gallery straight toward the great golden-bound teak door that opened upon it. He cast but a sin¬ gle glance upward at the higher tiers of the great pyramidal structure towering above him. He reached a hand for the bronze prong that jutted like a handle from the door—then checked himself, grinning hardly. The handle was made W. T.—7

in the shape of a serpent, head lifted on arched neck; and Conan had a suspicion that that metal head would come to grisly life under his hand.

He struck it from the door with one blow, and its bronze clink on the glassy floor did not lessen his caution. He flipped it aside with his knife-point, and again turned to the door. Utter silence reigned over the towers. Far below them the mountain slopes fell away into a pur¬ ple haze of distance. The sun glittered on snow-clad peaks on either hand. High above, a vulture hung like a black dot in the cold blue of the sky. But for it, the men before the gold-bound door were the only evidence of life, tiny figures on a green jade gallery poised on the dizzy height, with that fantastic pile of stone towering above them.

A sharp wind off the snow slashed them, whipping their tatters about. Co¬ nan’s long knife splintering through the teak panels roused the startled echoes. Again and again he struck, hewing through polished wood and metal bands alike. Through the sundered ruins he glared into the interior, alert and suspi¬ cious as a wolf. He saw a broad chamber, the polished stone walls untapestried, the mosaic floor uncarpeted. Square, polished ebon stools and a stone dais formed the only furnishings. The room was empty of human life. Another door showed in the opposite wall.

"Leave a man on guard outside,” grunted Conan. "I’m going in.”

Kerim Shah designated a warrior for that duty, and the man fell back toward the middle of the gallery, bow in hand. Conan strode into the castle, followed by the Turanian and the three remaining Irakzai. The one outside spat, grumbled in his beard, and started suddenly as a low mocking laugh reached his ears.

He lifted his head and saw, on the



tier above him, a tall, black-robed figure, naked head nodding slightly as he stared down. His whole attitude suggested mockery and malignity. Quick as a flash the Irakzai bent his bow and loosed, and the arrow streaked upward to strike full in the black-robed breast. The mocking smile did not alter. The Seer plucked out the missile and threw it back at the bow¬ man, not as a weapon is hurled, but with a contemptuous gesture. The Irakzai dodged, instinctively throwing up his arm. His fingers closed on the revolving shaft.

Then he shrieked. In his hand the wooden shaft suddenly writhed. Its rigid outline became, pliant, melting in his grasp. He tried to throw it from him, but it was too late. He held a living ser¬ pent in his naked hand, and already it had coiled about his wrist and its wicked wedge-shaped head darted at his muscu¬ lar arm. He screamed again and his eyes became distended, his features purple. He went to his knees shaken by an awful convulsion, and then lay still.

The men inside had wheeled at his first cry. Conan took a swift stride toward the open doorway, and then halted short, baffled. To the men behind him it seemed that he strained against empty air. But though he could see nothing, there was a slick, smooth, hard surface under his hands, and he knew that a sheet of crystal had been let down in the doorway. Through it he saw the Irakzai lying mo¬ tionless on the glassy gallery, an ordinary arrow sticking in his arm.

Conan lifted his knife and smote, and the watchers were dumfounded to see his blow checked apparently in midair, with the loud clang of steel that meets an unyielding substance. He wasted no more effort. He knew that not even the legendary tulwar of Amir Khutum could shatter that invisible curtain.

In a few words he explained the mat¬ ter to Kerim Shah, and the Turanian shrugged his shoulders. "Well, if our exit is barred, we must find another. In the meanwhile our way lies forward, does it not?”

W ith a grunt the Cimmerian turned and strode across the chamber to the opposite door, with a feeling of tread¬ ing on the threshold of doom. As he lifted his knife to shatter the door, it swung silently open as if of its own ac¬ cord. He strode into a great hall, flanked with tall glassy columns. A hundred feet from the door begat' the broad jade-green steps of a stair that tapered toward the top like the side of a pyramid. What lay beyond that stair he could not tell. But between him and its shimmering foot stood a curious altar of gleaming black jade. Four great golden serpents twined their tails about this altar and reared their wedge-shaped heads in the air, facing the four quarters of the compass like the en¬ chanted guardians of a fabled treasure. But on the altar, between the arching necks, stood only a crystal globe filled with a cloudy smoke-like substance, in which floated four golden pomegranates.

The sight stirred some dim recollec¬ tion in his mind; then Conan heeded the altar no longer, for on the lower steps of the stair stood four black-robed fig¬ ures. He had not seen them come. They were simply there, tall, gaunt, their vul¬ ture-heads nodding in unison, their feet and hands hidden by their flowing gar¬ ments.

One lifted his arm and the sleeve fell away revealing his hand—and it was not a hand at all. Conan halted in mid-stride, compelled against his will. He had en¬ countered a force differing subtly from Khemsa’s mesmerism, and he could not advance, though he felt it in his power

THE PEOPLE OF THE BLACK CIRCLE


to retreat if he wished. His companions had likewise halted, and they seemed even more helpless than he, unable to move in either direction.

The Seer whose arm was lifted beck¬ oned to one of the Irakzai, and the man moved toward him like one in a trance, eyes staring and fixed, blade hanging in limp fingers. As he pushed past Conan, the Cimmerian threw an arm across his breast to arrest him. Conan was so much stronger than the Irakzai that in ordinary circumstances he could have broken his spine between his hands. But now the muscular arm was brushed aside like a straw and the Irakzai moved toward the stair, treading jerkily and mechanically. He reached the steps and knelt stiffly, proffering his blade and bending his head. The Seer took the sword. It flashed as he swung it up and down. The Irakzai’s head tumbled from his shoulders and thudded heavily on the black marble floor. An arch of blood jetted from the severed arteries and the body slumped over and lay with arms spread wide.

Again a malformed hand lifted and beckoned, and another Irakzai stumbled stiffly to his doom. The ghastly drama was re-enacted and another headless form lay beside the first.

As the third tribesman clumped his way past Conan to his death, the Cim¬ merian, his veins bulging in his temples with his efforts to break past the unseen barrier that held him, was suddenly aware of allied forces, unseen, but waking into life about him. This realization came without warning, but so powerfully that he could not doubt his instinct. His left hand slid involuntarily under his Bakhariot belt and closed on the Stygian girdle. And as he gripped it he felt new strength flood his numbed limbs; the will to live was a pulsing white-hot fire, matched by the intensity of his burning rage.

The third Irakzai was a decapitated corpse, and the hideous finger was lifting again when Conan felt the bursting of the invisible barrier. A fierce, involun¬ tary cry burst from his lips as he leaped with the explosive suddenness of pent-up ferocity. His left hand gripped the sor¬ cerer’s girdle as a drowning man grips a floating log, and the long knife was a sheen of light in his right. The men on the steps did not move. They watched calmly, cynically; if they felt surprize they did not show it. Conan did not allow himself to think what might chance when he came within knife-reach of them. His blood was pounding in his temples, a mist of crimson swam before his sight. He was afire with the urge to kill—to drive his knife deep into flesh and bone, and twist the blade in blood and entrails.

Another dozen strides would carry him to the steps where the sneering demons stood. He drew his breath deep, his fury rising redly as his charge gathered mo¬ mentum. He was hurtling past the altar with its golden serpents when like a levinflash there shot across his mind again as vividly as if spoken in his external ear, the cryptic words of Khemsa: "Break the crystal ball!”

His reaction was almost without his own volition. Execution followed im¬ pulse so spontaneously that the greatest sorcerer of the age would not have had time to read his mind and prevent his action. Wheeling like a cat from his headlong charge, he brought his knife crashing down upon the crystal. Instantly the air vibrated with a peal of terror, whether from the stairs, the altar, or the crystal itself he could not tell. Hisses filled his ears as the golden serpents, sud¬ denly vibrant with hideous life, writhed and smote at him. But he was fired to the speed of a maddened tiger. A whirl of steel sheared through the hideous



trunks that waved toward him, and he smote the crystal sphere again and yet again. And the globe burst with a noise like a thunder-clap, raining fiery shards on the black marble, and the gold pome¬ granates, as if released from captivity, shot upward toward the lofty roof and were gone.

A mad screaming, bestial and ghastly, was echoing through the great hall. On the steps writhed four black-robed fig¬ ures, twisting in convulsions, froth drip¬ ping from their livid mouths. Then with one frenzied crescendo of inhuman ululation they stiffened and lay still, and Conan knew that they were dead. He stared down at the altar and the crystal shards. Four headless golden serpents still coiled about the altar, but no alien life now animated the dully gleaming metal.

K erim shah was rising slowly from his knees, whither he had been dashed by some unseen force. He shook his head to clear the ringing from his ears.

"Did you hear that crash when you struck? It was as if a thousand crystal panels shattered all over the castle as that globe burst. Were the souls of the wiz¬ ards imprisoned in those golden balls?— Ha!”

Conan wheeled as Kerim Shah drew his sword and pointed.

Another figure stood at the head of the stair. His robe, too, was black, but of richly embroidered velvet, and there was a velvet cap on his head. His face was calm, and not unhandsome.

"Who the devil are you?” demanded Conan, staring up at him, knife in hand.

"I am the Master of Yimsha!” His voice was like the chime of a temple bell, but a note of cruel mirth ran through it.

"Where is Yasmina?” demanded Ker¬ im Shah.

The Master laughed down at him.

"What is that to you, dead man? Have you so quickly forgotten my strength, once lent to you, that you come armed against me, you poor fool? I think I will take your heart, Kerim Shah!”

He held out his hand as if to receive something, and the Turanian cried out sharply like a man in mortal agony. He reeled drunkenly, and then, with a splin¬ tering of bones, a rending of flesh and muscle and a snapping of mail-links, his breast burst outward with a shower of blood, and through the ghastly aperture something red and dripping shot through air into the Master’s outstretched hand, as a bit of steel leaps to the magnet. The Turanian slumped to the floor and lay motionless, and the Master laughed and hurled the object to fall before Conan's feet—a still-quivering human heart.

With a roar and a curse Conan charged the stair. From Khemsa’s girdle he felt strength and deathless hate flow into him to combat the terrible emanation of power that met him on the steps. The air filled with a shimmering steely haze through which he plunged like a swimmer, head lowered, left arm bent about his face, knife gripped low in his right hand. His half-blinded eyes, glaring over the crook of his elbow, made out the hated shape of the Seer before and above him, the outline wavering as a reflection wavers in disturbed water.

He was racked and torn by forces be¬ yond his comprehension, but he felt a driving power outside and beyond his own lifting him inexorably upward and onward, despite the wizard’s strength and his own agony.

Now he had reached the head of the stairs, and the Master’s face floated in the steely haze before him, and a strange fear shadowed the inscrutable eyes. Co¬ nan waded through the mist as through

THE PEOPLE OF THE BLACK CIRCLE


ft surf, and his knife lunged upward like a live thing. The keen point ripped the Master’s robe as he sprang back with a low cry. Then before Conan’s gaze, the wizard vanished—simply disappeared like a burst bubble, and something long and undulating darted up one of the smaller stairs that led up to left and right from the landing.

Conan charged after it, up the lefthand stair, uncertain as to just what he had seen whip up those steps, but in a berserk mood that drowned the nausea and horror whispering at the back of his consciousness.

He plunged out into a broad corridor whose uncarpeted floor and untapestried walls were of polished jade, and some¬ thing long and swift whisked down the corridor ahead of him, and into a cur¬ tained door. From within the chamber rose a scream of urgent terror. The sound lent wings to Conan’s flying feet and he hurtled through the curtains and headlong into the chamber within.

A frightful scene met his glare. Yasmina cowered on the farther edge of a velvet-covered dais, screaming her loath¬ ing and horror, an arm lifted as if to ward off attack, while before her swayed the hideous head of a giant serpent, shining neck arching up from dark-gleaming coils. With a choked cry Conan threw his knife.

Instantly the monster whirled and was upon him like the rush of wind through tall grass. The long knife quivered in its neck, point and a foot of blade show¬ ing on one side, and the hilt and a hand’sbreadth of steel on the other, but it only seemed to madden the giant reptile. The great head towered above the man who faced it, and then darted down, the ven¬ om-dripping jaws gaping wide. But Co¬ nan had plucked a dagger from his girdle and he stabbed upward as the head

dipped down. The point tore through the lower jaw and transfixed the upper, pinning them together. The next instant the great trunk had looped itself about the Cimmerian as the snake, unable to use its fangs, employed its remaining form of attack.

Conan’s left arm was pinioned among the bone-crushing folds, but his right was free. Bracing his feet to keep upright, he stretched forth his hand, gripped the hilt of the long knife jutting from the serpent’s neck, and tore it free in a shower of blood. As if divining his purpose with more than bestial intelligence, the snake writhed and knotted, seeking to cast its loops about his right arm. But with the speed of light the long knife rose and fell, shearing half-way through the reptile’s giant trunk.

Before he could strike again, the great pliant loops fell from him and the mon¬ ster dragged itself across the floor, gush¬ ing blood from its ghastly wounds. Co¬ nan sprang after it, knife lifted, but his vicious swipe cut empty air as the serpent writhed away from him and struck its blunt nose against a paneled screen of sandalwood. One of the panels gave in¬ ward and the long, bleeding barrel whipped through it and was gone.

Conan instantly attacked the screen. A few blows rent it apart and he glared into the dim alcove beyond. No horrific shape coiled there; there was blood on the marble floor, and bloody tracks led to a cryptic arched door. Those tracks were of a man’s bare feet. . . .

"Conan!” He wheeled back into the chamber just in time to catch the Devi of Vendhya in his arms as she rushed across the room and threw herself upon him, catching him about the neck with a frantic clasp, half hysterical with terror and gratitude and relief.



H is wild blood had been stirred to its uttermost by all that had passed. He caught her to him in a grasp that would have made her wince at another time, and crushed her lips with his. She made no resistance; the Devi was drowned in the elemental woman. She closed her eyes and drank in his fierce, hot, lawless kisses with all the abandon of passionate thirst. She was panting with his violence when he ceased for breath, and glared down at her lying limp in his mighty arms.

"I knew you’d come for me,” she mur¬ mured. "You would not leave me in this den of devils.”

At her words recollection of their en¬ vironment came to him suddenly. He lifted his head and listened intently. Si¬ lence reigned over the castle of Yimsha, but it was a silence impregnated with menace. Peril crouched in every corner, leered invisibly from every hanging.

"We’d better go while we can,” he muttered. "Those cuts were enough to kill any common beast—or man —but a wizard has a dozen lives. Wound one, and he writhes away like a crippled snake to soak up fresh venom from some source of sorcery.”

He picked up the girl and carrying her in his arms like a child, he strode out into the gleaming jade corridor and down the stairs, nerves tautly alert for any sign or sound.

"I met the Master,” she whispered, clinging to him and shuddering. "He worked his spells on me to break my will. The most awful was a moldering corpse which seized me in its arms—I fainted then and lay as one dead, I do not know how long. Shortly after I regained consciousness I heard sounds of strife be¬ low, and cries, and then that snake came slithering through the curtains—ah!” She

shook at the memory of that horror. "I knew somehow that it was not an illu¬ sion, but a real serpent that sought my life.”

"It was not a shadow, at least,” an¬ swered Conan cryptically. "He knew he was beaten, and chose to slay you rather than let you be rescued.”

"What do you mean, he?" she asked uneasily, and then shrank against him, crying out, and forgetting her question. She had seen the corpses at the foot of the stairs. Those of the Seers were not good to look at; as they lay twisted and contorted, their hands and feet were ex¬ posed to view, and at the sight Yasmina went livid and hid her face against Co¬ nan’s powerful shoulder.

10. Yasmina and Conan

C onan passed through the hall quick¬ ly enough, traversed the outer cham¬ ber and approached the door that let upon the gallery. Then he saw the floor sprin¬ kled with tiny, glittering shards. The crys¬ tal sheet that had covered the doorway had been shivered to bits, and he remem¬ bered the crash that had accompanied the shattering of the crystal globe. He be¬ lieved that every piece of crystal in the castle had broken at that instant, and some dim instinct or memory of esoteric lore vaguely suggested the truth of the monstrous connection between the Lords of the Black Circle and the golden pome¬ granates. He felt the short hair bristle chilly at the back of his neck and put the matter hastily out of his mind.

He breathed a deep sigh of relief as he stepped out upon the green jade gal¬ lery. There was still the gorge to cross, but at least he could see the white peaks glistening in the sun, and the long slopes falling away into the distant blue hazes. The Irakzai lay where he had fallen,

THE PEOPLE OF THE BLACK CIRCLE


an ugly blotch on the glassy smoothness. As Conan strode down the winding path, he was surprized to note the position of the sun. It had not yet passed its zenith; and yet it seemed to him that hours had passed since he plunged into the castle of the Black Seers.

He felt an urge to hasten, not a mere blind panic, but an instinct of peril grow¬ ing behind his back. He said nothing to Yasmina, and she seemed content to nes¬ tle her dark head against his arching breast and find security in the clasp of his iron arms. He paused an instant on the brink of the chasm, frowning down. The haze which danced in the gorge was no longer rose-hued and sparkling. It was smoky, dim, ghostly, like the life-tide that flick¬ ered thinly in a wounded man. The thought came vaguely to Conan that the spells of magicians were more closely bound to their personal beings than were the actions of common men to the actors.

But far below, the floor shone like tarnished silver, and the gold thread sparkled undimmed. Conan shifted Yas¬ mina across his shoulder, where she lay docilely, and began the descent. Hurried¬ ly he descended the ramp, and hurriedly he fled across the echoing floor. He had a conviction that they were racing with time, that their chances of survival de¬ pended upon crossing that gorge of hor¬ rors before the wounded Master of the castle should regain enough power to loose some other doom upon them.

When he toiled up the farther ramp and came out upon the crest, he breathed a gusty sigh of relief and stood Yasmina upon her feet.

"You walk from here,” he told her; "it’s downhill all the way.”

She stole a glance at the gleaming pyra¬ mid across the chasm; it reared up against the snowy slope like the citadel of silence and immemorial evil.

“Are you a magician, that you have ■L~V conquered the Black Seers of Yimsha, Conan of Ghor?” she asked, as they went down the path, with his heavy arm about her supple waist.

"It was a girdle Khemsa gave me be¬ fore he died,” Conan answered. "Yes, I found him on the trails It is a curious one, which I'll show you when I have time. Against some spells it was weak, but against others it was strong, and a good knife is always a hearty incanta¬ tion.”

"But if the girdle aided you in con¬ quering the Master,” she argued, "why did it not aid Khemsa?”

He shook his head. "Who knows? But Khemsa had been the Master's slave; perhaps that weakened its magic. He had no hold on me as he had on Khemsa. Yet I can’t say that I conquered him. He retreated, but I have a feeling that we haven’t seen the last of him. I want to put as many miles between us and his lair as we can.”

He was further relieved to find horses tethered among the tamarisks as he had left them. He loosed them swiftly and mounted the black stallion, swinging the girl up before him. The others followed, freshened by their rest.

"And what now?” she asked. "To Afghulistan?”

"Not just now!” He grinned hardly. "Somebody—maybe the governor—killed my seven headmen. My idiotic followers think I had something to do with it, and unless I am able to convince them other¬ wise, they’ll hunt me like a wounded jackal.”

"Then what of me? If the headmen are dead, I am useless to you as a hos¬ tage. Will you slay me, to avenge them?”

He looked down at her, with eyes fierce¬ ly aglow, and laughed at the suggestion.

"Then let us ride to the border,” she



said. "You’ll be safe from the Afghulis there-”

"Yes, on a Vendhyan gibbet.”

"I am queen of Vendhya,” she re¬ minded him with a touch of her old imperiousness. "You have saved my life. You shall be rewarded.”

She did not intend it as it sounded, but he growled in his throat, ill pleased.

"Keep your bounty for your city-bred dogs, princess! If you’re a queen of the plains, I’m a chief of the hills, and not one foot toward the border will I take you!”

"But you would be safe-” she be¬

gan bewilderedly.

"And you’d be the Devi again,” he broke in. "No, girl; I prefer you as you are now—a woman of flesh and blood, riding on my saddle-bow.”

"But you can’t keep me!” she cried. "You can’t-”

"Watch and see!” he advised grimly.

"But I will pay you a vast ransom-”

"Devil take your ransom!” he answered roughly, his arms hardening about her supple figure. "The kingdom of Ven¬ dhya could give me nothing I desire half so much as I desire you. I took you at the risk of my neck; if your courtiers want you back, let them come up the Zhaibar and fight for you.”

"But you have no followers now!” she protested. "You are hunted! How can you preserve your own life, much less mine?”

"I still have friends in the hills,” he answered. "There is a chief of the Khurakzai who will keep you safely while I bicker with the Afghulis. If they will have none of me, by Crom! I will ride northward with you to the steppes of the kozaki. I was a hetman among the Free Companions before I rode southward. I’ll make you a queen on the Zaporoska River!”

"But I can not!” she objected. "You must not hold me-”

"If the idea’s so repulsive,” he de¬ manded, "why did you yield your lips to me so willingly?”

"Even a queen is human,” she answered, coloring. "But because I am a queen, I must consider my kingdom. Do not carry me away into some foreign country. Come back to Vendhya with me!”

"Would you make me your king?” he asked sardonically.

"Well, there are customs-” she

stammered, and he interrupted her with a hard laugh.

“Yes, civilized customs that won’t let you do as you wish. You’ll marry some withered old king of the plains, and I can go my way with only the memory of a few kisses snatched from your lips. Ha!”

"But I must return to my kingdom!” she repeated helplessly.

"Why?” he demanded angrily. "To chafe your rump on gold thrones, and listen to the plaudits of smirking, velvetskirted fools? Where is the gain? Listen: I was bom in the Cimmerian hills where the people are all barbarians. I have been a mercenary soldier, a corsair, a kozak, and a hundred other things. What king has roamed the countries, fought the bat¬ tles, loved the women, and won the plun¬ der that I have?

"I came into Ghulistan to raise a horde and plunder the kingdoms to the south— your own among them. Being chief of the Afghulis was only a start. If I can conciliate them, I’ll have a dozen tribes following me within a year. But if I can’t I’ll ride back to the steppes and loot the Turanian borders with the kozaki. And you’ll go with me. To the devil with your kingdom; they fended for them¬ selves before you were bom.”

She lay in his arms looking up at him.

THE PEOPLE OF THE BLACK CIRCLE

63:

and she felt a tug at her spirit, a lawless, reckless urge that matched his own and was by it called into being. But a thou¬ sand generations of sovereignship rode heavy upon her.

"I can’t! I can’t!” she repeated help¬ lessly.

"You haven’t any choice,” he assured her. "You—what the devil!”

They had left Yimsha some miles be¬ hind them, and were riding along a high ridge that separated two deep valleys. They had just topped a steep crest where they could gaze down into the valley on their right hand. And there a running fight was in progress. A strong wind was blowing away from them, carrying the sound from their ears, but even so the clashing of steel and thunder of hoofs welled up from far below.

They saw the glint of the sun on lancetip and spired helmet. Three thousand mailed horsemen were driving before them a ragged band of turbaned riders, who fled snarling and striking like flee¬ ing wolves.

' ’Turanians!” muttered Conan. "Squad¬ rons from Secunderam. What the devil are they doing here?”

"Who are the men they pursue?” asked Yasmina. "And why do they fall back so stubbornly? They can not stand against such odds.”

"Five hundred of my mad Afghulis,” he growled, scowling down into the vale. "They’re in a trap, and they know it.”

T he valley was indeed a cul-de-sac at that end. It narrowed to a highwalled gorge, opening out further into a round bowl, completely rimmed with lofty, unscalable walls.

The turbaned riders were being forced into this gorge, because there was no¬ where else for them to go, and they went reluctantly, in a shower of arrows and a

whirl of swords. The helmeted riders harried them, but did not press in too rashly. They knew the desperate fury of the hill tribes, and they knew too that they had their prey in a trap from which there was no escape. They had recog¬ nized the hillmen as Afghulis, and they wished to hem them in and force a sur¬ render. They needed hostages for the purpose they had in mind.

Their emir was a man of decision and initiative. When he reached Gurashah valley, and found neither guides nor emis¬ sary waiting for him, he pushed on, trust¬ ing to his own knowledge of the country. All the way from Secunderam there had been fighting, and tribesmen were lick¬ ing their wounds in many a crag-perched village. He knew there was a good chance that neither he nor any of his helmeted spearmen would ever ride through the gates of Secunderam again, for the tribes would all be up behind him now, but he was determined to carry out his orders —which were to take Yasmina Devi from the Afghulis at all costs, and to bring her captive to Secunderam, or if confront¬ ed by impossibility, to strike off her head before he himself died.

Of all this, of course, the watchers on the ridge were not aware. But Conan fidgeted with nervousness.

"Why the devil did they get them¬ selves trapped?” he demanded of the uni¬ verse at large. "I know what they’re do¬ ing in these parts—they were hunting me, the dogs! Poking into every valley —and found themselves penned in before they knew it. The poor fools! They’re making a stand in the gorge, but they can’t hold out for long. When the Tura¬ nians have pushed them back into the bowl, they’ll slaughter them at their leisure.”

The din welling up from below in¬ creased in volume and intensity. In the



strait of the narrow gut, the Afghulis, fighting desperately, were for the time holding their own against the mailed riders, who could not throw their whole weight against them.

Conan scowled darkly, moved restless¬ ly, fingering his hilt, and finally spoke bluntly: "Devi, I must go down to them. I’ll find a place for you to hide until I come back to you. You spoke of your kingdom—well, I don’t pretend to look on those hairy devils as my children, but after all, such as they are, they’re my henchmen. A chief should never desert his followers, even if they desert him first. They think they were right in kick¬ ing me out—hell, I won’t be cast off! I’m still chief of the Afghulis, and I’ll prove it! I can climb down on foot into the gorge.”

"But what of me?” she queried. "You carried me away forcibly from my people; now will you leave me to die in the hills alone while you go down and sacrifice yourself uselessly?”

His veins swelled with the conflict of his emotions.

"That’s fight,” he muttered helplessly. "Crom knows what I can do.”

She turned her head slightly, a curious expression dawning on her beautiful face. Then:

"Listen!” she cried. "Listen!”

A distant fanfare of trumpets was borne faintly to their ears. They stared into the deep valley on the left, and caught a glint of steel on the farther side. A long line of lances and polished helmets moved along the vale, gleaming in the sunlight.

"The riders of Vendhya!” she cried exultingly.

"There are thousands of them!” mut¬ tered Conan. "It has been long since a Kshatriya host has ridden this far into the hills.”

"They are searching for me!” she ex¬ claimed. "Give me your horse! I will ride to my warriors! The ridge is not so precipitous on the left, and I can reach the valley floor. Go to your men and make them hold out a little longer. I will lead my horsemen into the valley at the upper end and fall upon the Turan¬ ians! We will crush them in the vise! Quick, Conan! Will you sacrifice your men to your own desire?”

The burning hunger of the steppes and the wintry forests glared out of his eyes, but he shook his head and swung off the stallion, placing the reins in her hands.

"You win!” he grunted. "Ride like the devil!”

S he wheeled away down the left-hand slope and he ran swiftly along the ridge until he reached the long ragged cleft that was the defile in which the fight raged. Down the rugged wall he scrambled like an ape, clinging to pro¬ jections and crevices, to fall at last, feet first, into the melee that raged in the mouth of the gorge. Blades were whick¬ ering and clanging about him, horses rearing and stamping, helmet plumes nodding among turbans that were stained crimson.

As he hit, he yelled like a wolf, caught a gold-worked rein, and dodging the sweep of a simitar, drove his long knife upward through the rider’s vitals. In another instant he was in the saddle, yelling ferocious orders to the Afghulis. They stared at him stupidly for an in¬ stant; then as they saw the havoc his steel was wreaking among their enemies, they fell to their work again, accepting him without comment. In that inferno of licking blades and spurting blood there was no time to ask or answer questions. The riders in their spired helmets and

THE PEOPLE OF THE BLACK CIRCLE


gold-worked hauberks swarmed about the gorge mouth, thrusting and slashing, and the narrow defile was packed and jammed with horses and men, the war¬ riors crushed breast to breast, stabbing with shortened blades, slashing murder¬ ously when there was an instant’s room to swing a sword. When a man went down he did not get up from beneath the stamping, swirling hoofs. Weight and sheer strength counted heavily there, and the chief of the Afghulis did the work of ten. At such times accustomed habits sway men strongly, and the war¬ riors, who were used to seeing Conan in their vanguard, were heartened mightily, despite their distrust of him.

But superior numbers counted too. The pressure of the men behind forced the horsemen of Turan deeper and deeper into the gorge, in the teeth of the flick¬ ering tulwars. Foot by foot the Afghulis were shoved back, leaving the defile-floor carpeted with dead, on which the riders trampled. As he hacked and smote like a man possessed, Conan had time for some chilling doubts—would Yasmina keep her word? She had but to join her warriors, turn southward and leave him and his band to perish.

But at last, after what seemed cen¬ turies of desperate battling, in the val¬ ley outside there rose another sound above the clash of steel and yells of slaughter. And then with a burst of trumpets that shook the walls, and rushing thunder of hoofs, five thousand riders of Vendhya smote the hosts of Secunderam.

That stroke split the Turanian squad¬ rons asunder, shattered, tore and rent them and scattered their fragments all ovef the valley. In an instant the surge had ebbed back out of the gorge; there was a chaotic, confused swirl of fighting, horsemen wheeling and smiting singly and in clusters, and then the emir went

down with a Kshatriya lance through his breast, and the riders in their spired hel¬ mets turned their horses down the valley, spurring like mad and seeking to slash a way through the swarms which had come upon them from the rear. As they scattered in flight, the conquerors scat¬ tered in pursuit, and all across the valley floor, and up on the slopes near the mouth and over the crests streamed the fugitives and the pursuers. The Afghu¬ lis, those left to ride, rushed out of the gorge and joined in the harrying of their foes, accepting the unexpected alliance as unquestioningly as they had accepted the return of their repudiated chief.

T he sun was sinking toward the dis¬ tant crags when Conan, his garments hacked to tatters and the mail under them reeking and clotted with blood, his knife dripping and crusted to the hilt, strode over the corpses to where Yasmina Devi sat her horse among her nobles on the crest of the ridge, near a lofty precipice.

"You kept your word, Devi!” he roared. "By Crom, though, I had some bad sec¬ onds down in that gorge —look out!”

Down from the sky swooped a vulture of tremendous size with a thunder of wings that knocked men sprawling from their horses.

The simitar-like beak was slashing for the Devi’s soft neck, but Conan was quicker—a short run, a tigerish leap, the savage thrust of a dripping knife, and the vulture voiced a horribly human cry, pitched sideways and went tumbling down the cliffs to the rocks and river a thousand feet below. As it dropt, its black wings thrashing the air, it took on the semblance, not of a bird, but of a bladerobed human body that fell, arms in wide black sleeves thrown abroad.

Conan turned to Yasmina, his red knife still in his hand, his blue eyes smolder616


ing, blood oozing from wounds on his thickly-muscled arms and thighs.

"You are the Devi again,” he said, grinning fiercely at the gold-clasped gos¬ samer robe she had donned over her hillgirl attire, and awed not at all by the im¬ posing array of chivalry about him. "I have you to thank for the lives of some three hundred and fifty of my rogues, who are at least convinced that I didn’t betray them. You have put my hands on the reins of conquest again.”

"I still owe you my ransom,” she said, her dark eyes glowing as they swept over him. "Ten thousand pieces of gold I will pay you-”

He made a savage, impatient gesture,

shook the blood from his knife and thrust it back in its scabbard, wiping his hands on his mail.

"I will collect your ransom in my own way, at my own time,” he said. "I will collect it in your palace at Ayodhya, and I will come with fifty thousand men to see that the scaies are fair.”

She laughed, gathering her reins into her hands. "And I will meet you on the shores of the Jhumda with a hundred thousand!”

His eyes shone with fierce appreciation and admiration, and stepping back, he

[THE END]

============================================================
FEIGMAN’S BEARD
by August W. Derleth
============================================================
lifted his hand with a gesture that was like the assumption of kingship, indicat¬ ing that her road was clear before her.

[ THE END ]

^eigman’s Beard

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

A brief and eery tale of hexerei

M ARTHA FEIGMAN looked cau¬ tiously from behind the curtain into her half-brother’s bedroom. Her eyes swept the room, the unoccupied bed, and fixed upon Eb’s big form at the mirror. As usual, he was combing out his beard, the red mop of which he was so fond. He was bent forward, his eyes intent on the reflection of the long red hair which hid most of his face. passed his comb through the beard again and again, and finally, putting the comb down, he stroked the beard with his blunt fingers.

The woman withdrew softly, her fin¬ gers catching nervously together. He

had not said a word to her when he came into the house that evening, not a word about those hogs. She knew he had sold them, hers with his, because the hog rack was empty as he drove into the yard. But he had paid her nothing and, worse, he gave no hint that he meant to pay.

Impulsively, she pulled aside the cur¬ tain and stepped into his room. "I want my money, Eb,” she said uncertainly.

He turned, his head outthrust. "What’re you talkin’ about?” he asked harshly, his eyes flashing anger.

"My money,” she repeated. "My money for them hogs. I know you sold ’em. You ain’t paid me my share yet.”

FEIGMAN’S BEARD


"You ain’t got no money cornin’,” he said shortly.

"I hev so,” she replied. ”1 raised them hogs. They’re mine. You went an’ sold ’em ’thout my knowin’ anything about it. ’Tain’t no more ’n right i get my money for them hogs.”

He rose slowly and came casually over to her, his hands hanging at his sides. Then suddenly he had his fingers at her throat and was shaking her, his rough beard thrust into her face. She flailed weakly with her arms, and screamed until he choked her off. He released her abruptly and flung her beyond the cur¬ tain into the adjoining room.

She fell against the floor, and for a moment she lay there. Then she pulled herself up, her eyes fixed in fright upon the towering bulk of her half-brother standing in the doorway to his bedroom.

"You ain’t got no money cornin’,” he said in a cold voice. "Don’t forget that.”

She was too frightened to speak.

"You hear me?” he demanded.

She nodded, not daring to make a move.

He stood for a moment looking down at her, then turned and disappeared be¬ hind the curtain, where the noise of a chair being pulled up indicated to Martha that he had returned to the table and was now again engaged with his beard.

She got up slowly and painfully, felt gingerly of her throat, and went through the house to the kitchen, where she stood in the dark, looking out over the moonlit fields toward the square of light in the small house where the widow Klopp lived. The sight of the lamp burning in the widow’s house gave her hope of get¬ ting her money from Eb.

For the widow Klopp, as everybody knew, was a hex, a witch-woman, who could do anything for money. It was whispered that she had once sent her

broom over to Hepshell’s and killed four of his cows because he had said some¬ thing about her. And once, too, she had cured a whole family of diphtheria. As Martha thought of these things, she felt that the old woman could help her get her money. If she couldn’t, no one could.

She slipped out of the house, hoping Eb had not heard her. But he would be too busy with his beard. As she thought of his beard, Martha wondered if there might not be a way to punish him through his mop of red hair. Perhaps Mrs. Klopp could make it fall out.

She hurried.

T he widow Klopp was at home, as the light had indicated. She was a very old woman, almost helpless with age, it seemed. She made Martha wel¬ come in a few short words.

"You’ve come because that Eb’s got to be too much for you, ain’t so?” she asked.

This confirmation of her motive with¬ out her having said a word astonished Martha and convinced her at once of the old woman’s powers. She nodded.

"That’s it,” she said. "He went ’n sold my hogs, an’ now he ain’t figurin’ to give me my money.”

The widow Klopp looked speculative¬ ly across the table. "What you aim to hev me do?” she asked quietly.

"I want my money.”

The old lady grunted. "Didja ever know it was Eb who stole most-a my land from me when my old man died?” she asked suddenly, a curiously hard light in her eyes.

"No!”

"Sure,” said the old woman. "I knew I couldn’t do nothin’ then. And since then, Eb’s been mighty careful ’bout where he lets his things lay around.”



"What you mean?” asked Martha breathlessly.

"I mean I hev t’ hev somethin’ that’s his before I c’n do anything ’bout your money.”

"Oh,” said Martha uneasily. "But it’s only my money I want. I don’t want nothin’ else, except maybe something to make his beard fall out.”

"That’s it,” said the widow. "Go right home, an’ when he’s asleep, you cut off a couple-a hairs from that beard an’ you bring ’em back here. An’ bring the looking-glass he uses, too.”

I N ten minutes Martha was home again, standing breathlessly in the kitchen, listening for any sound to indi¬ cate that Eb was not asleep. The only sounds she heard were the persistent calls of whippoorwills from the meadow, and the snoring sound of Eb’s breathing.

Quickly, she got her scissors, crept into the bedroom, and with great caution snipped off a few of the long red hairs from his bushy beard. Then she snatched up the mirror and backed carefully from the room, her heart pounding excitedly.

She went out into the moonlight again and ran across the fields toward the yel¬ low square of lamplight beyond which the widow Klopp waited for her. Once she paused to look back, but there was nothing in the dark silence of the house she had left to indicate that Eb might have awakened.

Misgivings came to Martha at sight of the eagerness with which the old woman took the strands of hair and the mirror from her.

"What you aim to do?” she asked nervously.

The widow Klopp smiled, exposing her worn and almost toothless gums. "I aim to ask the devil to sit on this glass. I reckon Eb’ll never see such another

sight as I aim to make him see. He ain’t never seen it, and he won’t see it again.”

"An’ my money?”

The old woman’s laugh came like the lash of a whip. "You’ll get your money, Martha. Yes, an’ a good deal besides, or I ain’t no good at figurin’ no more.”

For the first time Martha was afraid. A sense of peril took possession of her, and she watched the old woman nerv¬ ously, marvelling at the speed with which she got around.

The widow Klopp turned the lamp low and hung a red cloth about it. Then she laid the mirror, glass up, on the table, and on the glass she laid the strands of hair Martha had brought. Around it she drew a circle, and the line of the circle she covered with a gray powder.

She turned to Martha suddenly and said, "Better you look the other way. Ain’t a good thing to see.”

Then she took a match and touched it to the hairs on the glass, reciting a quaint gibberish, a mixture of broken English and old German incomprehensible to Martha. A green glow of fire circled the mirror, playing on the glass. Martha watched in fascination, unable to draw her eyes away.

Suddenly there was a puff of crimson smoke that seemed to fill the small room, and a ghastly stench came to fill Martha’s nostrils. She coughed and gasped against the widow’s steady gibbering. Blinded, she half rose, one hand feeling before her.

"It’s too much for me,” she gasped.

Abruptly the old woman leaned for¬ ward, turned up the lamp and took away the red cloth. Just as suddenly, the smoke and flame vanished, and Martha saw dazedly that not only was the wid¬ ow’s table untouched by any mark of fire,

FEIGMAN’S BEARD


but the looking-glass was not marred by any blackness from the flame that had burned on it.

A smile broke into the old woman’s face. "That’s all,” she said, one claw¬ like hand gently caressing the mirror. "That’s all, Martha. You c’n take the glass home now and put it where he keeps it. When he looks into it in the mornin’, you’ll get that money. But mind you don’t look into it on the way home. An’ don’t look into it before sun-up in the mornin’, nohow.”

"How much is it?” asked Martha, hop¬ ing it would not cost her too much.

The old woman shook her head. " 'Tain’t anythin’,” she said. "I been waitin’ fer this chance a good many years now. Who’d-a thought his own halfsister’d give it t' me! But mind you don’t look into the glass before the sun comes up, no matter what you might think you’ll see there; because then you’ll have to pay—an’ you won’t pay me, you’ll pay him as sat on it. An’ it won’t be nice pay. So mind.”

T he women parted, and Martha made her way back to the house where her hateful half-brother lay asleep. The widow’s spell had taken longer than she had thought, for the moon was slanting westward, and even the whippoorwills were silent. The creak of the kitchen door sounded unnaturally loud, and for a moment fear caught and held her quiet on the threshold.

But no sound came from Eb’s room to break the stillness. Reassured. Martha closed the door, tiptoed to his room, and replaced the looking-glass. Then she went quietly to her own room, a sense of relief flooding her. She had got even with Eb at last, for all he had done to her. And in the morning she would have her money, and more, the widow

had said. Only she must not look into the glass; even as she thought it, she felt an odd, overpowering urge to see what Eb would see, and it was only with effort that she repressed it.

As she lay in bed, she wondered pres¬ ently what the widow could have meant when she said that Martha would get a good deal more money than was coming to her from the sale of the hogs. She thought of this for some time, and at last, unable to satisfy herself as to its meaning, she got up and lit a candle to guide her upstairs to the tiny attic where her father had many years ago put the Seventh Book of Moses, in which the sec¬ rets of hexerei and witchcraft were hid¬ den away.

After some search, she found the slim volume, and sat by the light of her can¬ dle leafing through . it. She pondered over cures for falling hair, measles, lum¬ bago, and countless common ailments, and did not notice the passing of time.

Presently she came upon a paragraph which dealt with death curses. There her eyes were caught and held by a sen¬ tence—"To frighten an enemy to death, contrive to get his looking-glass and ask the devil to sit upon it, for the Evil One will put into the glass a being not of this world to bring about the death of the desired one.” So that was what the wid¬ ow Klopp had meant—Eb’s death would leave her sole owner of the farm.

At that moment two sounds came to her ears. The old-fashioned kitchen clock began to strike four, and from her half-brother’s room came the customary noise of his early rising.

A match was struck below, and a lamp chimney lifted and replaced. Then came sounds of Eb walking across the floor in his bare feet, the lamp being put on the table, and a chair scraping the floor. Then Eb sat down.



Now he would be taking up his comb, she thought, and passing it through his hateful beard.

A frightful scream, hoarse with terror, drove into the attic from below. A chair crashed to the floor. Then came the sound of a heavy body striking the floor.

For a moment Martha made no move. Then she dropped the book in her lap, snatched up the candle, and went hur¬ riedly down the attic stairs. She ran through her room into Eb’s.

Eb lay on the floor, motionless, his mouth agonizingly wide, gaping at her from the depths of his bushy beard. On his beard were black marks—as if black¬ ened fingers had brushed repeatedly through it.

She fell to her knees at his side and felt for his heart. He was dead. She knelt for a moment, looking at his dead body with mingled relief and pleasure. Then she rose and went to the tiny closet where she knew he kept his money. Be¬ hind a half-dozen old coats she found it, a heavy bag of silver hanging on a long leather cord.

She took it down and carried it, with some effort, into the bedroom, where she looked into it by the light of her candle. It was almost full of silver dollars, the way in which Eb had chosen to keep his money, since he had always scorned paper. It was probably all the money Eb had, and now it was hers! That was what the widow Klopp had meant.

She looked down at her half-brother’s body with fierce joy. Her memory, stirred, brought to her attention some long-lost words of her father’s—"Those who invoke the devil’s help will have to pay him when the time comes!”—but this she thrust coldly away. She won¬ dered instead, curiously, about the mir¬ ror. There was an urge upon her, now that she had the money, to look into the

glass and see what had frightened Eb to death. Scorning the widow Klopp’s warning, she reveled in the strength she felt with the leather cord of Eb’s money¬ bag in her hand.

She located the glass out of the corner of her eyes—then she faced it and looked into it. The glass was black, and upon its surface played lambent fire, outlining a hellish face, a face that was Eb Feigman’s and yet was not, a face without eyes, with rotting, bleeding nose and lips, a face through which yellowing bones pushed out. And behind it was some¬ thing even more terrible, something alive!

In an access of terror, Martha blew out the candle to blot out sight of the glass. Then she saw something coming out of the mirror, slithering evilly from the black glass. It was looking at her. She screamed, and swung at it with the heavy bag of silver, swinging it wildly, fran¬ tically in the darkness. She thought something touched her neck, and whirled the bag around her.

Then something closed about her neck, jerking upward. She fell, striking her head against the bureau, and descended into blackness.

I T was the widow Klopp who found the Feigmans. The doctor who exam¬ ined them said that Eb had died of heartfailure. He had had trouble with his heart for a long time. But Martha’s death was strange. She had been stran¬ gled. He could not understand how it had happened. She had been strangled by the bag of silver dollars—somehow the loop of the cord had caught on a clothes hook near the bureau, she had fallen unconscious, and the leather cord, looped twice about her neck and weight¬ ed by the heavy bag, had choked the life from her frail body.

W. T.—7

ude With a Dagger

By JOHN FLANDERS

The old money-lender bumped into a weird problem that all his hardness could not penetrate

O LD GRYDE was a money-lender, and a hard oae. In the course of his career, five thousand clients owed him money, he was the occasion of one hundred and twelve suicides, of nine sensational murders, of assignments, bankruptcies and financial disasters with¬ out number.

A hundred thousand maledictions were called down on his head, and he laughed at all of them. But the hundred thousand and first malediction killed him, in the strangest and most frightful fashion.

I owed him two hundred pounds, he ground out of me the most abominable interest payments every month, and yet he had made me his intimate friend. As a matter of fact, this was only a way he had of torturing me, for I was forced to sub¬ mit to every sort of cruelty, and malice at his hands, to echo his boisterous laugh¬ ter as his victims begged, entreated, and even died at his hands.

He scrupulously recorded all this suffer¬ ing and blood in his day-book and his ledger, as his ill-gotten fortune grew day after day.

But today I do not regret the pain he caused me, because I was allowed at last to witness his death-agony. And I wish all his dear colleagues a like fate.

O ne morning I found him in his of¬ fice engaged in an argument with a client, a very pale and very handsome young man.

The young man was speaking:

W. T.—8

"It is impossible for me to pay you, Mr. Gryde, but I implore you not to sell me out. Take this painting. It is the one good piece of work I have done. I have worked it over a hundred times; I have put my heart’s blood into it. Even now I realize that it isn’t quite finished. There is something lacking still—I can’t tell exactly what it is—but I know I shall find out in time, and then I will finish it.

"Take it for this debt which is killing me—and is killing my poor mother]"

Gryde sneered. When he noticed me, he called my attention to a moderately large painting which stood against his bookcase. When I caught sight of it, I started with surprize and admiration. It seemed to me that I had never seen any¬ thing so perfect.

It was a life-size nude, a man as hand¬ some as a god, standing out against a vague, cloudy background, a background of tempest, night and flame.

"I don’t know yet what I shall call it,” said the artist in a voice filled with pain. "That figure you see there—I have been dreaming of it ever since I was a child; it came to me in a dream just as certain mel¬ odies came from heaven in the night to Mozart and Haydn.”

"You owe me three hundred pounds, Mr. Warton,” said Gryde.

The young man clasped his hands to¬ gether.

"And my painting, Mr. Gryde! It is



worth twice that, three times that, ten times that!”

"In a hundred years,” assented Gryde. "I shan't live long enough to get the good of it.”

But as he spoke I seemed to catch in his face a sort of vacillating glimmer which was different from the steel-hard gaze I had always seen there before. Was it admiration of an artistic masterpiece, or was it the prospect of fabulous profit?

Then Gryde went on:

"I am sorry for you,’' 1 'he said, "and jtway down in my heart I have a weakness for artists. I will take it and credit you with a hundred pounds on your debt.”

The artist opened his mouth to reply. The usurer cut him off.

"You owe me three hundred pounds, payable at the rate of ten pounds a month. I will sign a receipt for ten months. Don’t forget to be prompt in your payment eleven months from today, Mr. Warton!”

Warton had covered his face with his beautiful hands.

"Ten months! You are giving me ten months free from worry, ten months of relief for Mother—Mother is sadly nerv¬ ous and ill, Mr. Gryde—and I can work hard in these ten months-”

He took the receipt.

"But,” added Gryde, "you admit your¬ self that there is something still lacking to the picture. You must put the finishing touch to it, and you must find a name for it by the time the ten months are up.”

The artist promised all this, and the picture was hung on the wall above old Gryde’s desk.

E leven months went by, and Warton was unable to pay his installment of ten pounds. He begged and implored Gryde to allow him more time, but to no avail. The usurer secured an order for the sale of the poor boy’s effects. When the

officers came, they found mother and son sleeping the sleep of death in a room filled with asphyxiating fumes from a brazier of live coals.

On the table, there was a letter for Gryde.

"I agreed to furnish you a name for my picture,” the artist had written him. "You may call it Vengeance. And as for my promise to finish the picture, I will keep that promise, too.”

Gryde was very much annoyed.

"The name,” he argued "doesn’t fit the picture at all. And how can a dead man come back and finish a picture?”

But his challenge to the other world was answered.

O ne morning I found Gryde terribly worried and excited.

"Look at the painting!” he cried, the moment I entered the room. "Don’t you see something strange about it?”

I studied the painting, but I could dis¬ cover no change in it. My assurance seemed to relieve him greatly.

"Do you know-” he began. He

passed his hand over his forehead, and I could see drops of perspiration standing out on his brow.

"It was last night, sometime after mid¬ night. I had gone to bed; then all at once I remembered that I had left some very important papers lying on my desk.

"I got up at once to see that they were put away safely. I never have any trouble in finding my way about in the dark in this house, for I know every comer and crevice of it. I came into my office here without taking the trouble to turn on a light. There was really no need for one, for the moonlight fell square on my desk. As I leaned over my papers, I had a feel¬ ing that something was moving between

the window and me-

"Lode at the picture! Look at the picNUDE WITH A DAGGER


ture!” Gryde cried out suddenly in ab¬ ject terror.

Then, in a moment, he murmured: "I must be imagining things. I have heard of hallucinations but I can’t remember ever having had one—I thought I saw the man in the picture move again.

"Well, when I came in here last night, it seemed to me I saw—no, I swear I did see that man in the painting reach out his arm to seize me!"

"You’re going crazy,” said I.

"I wish I Could explain it so,” said Gryde; "that would be better than-”

"Well, why don’t you destroy the painting, if you think all this isn't just imagination?”

Gryde’s face brightened.

"That hadn’t occurred to me,” he said; "I suppose because it was too simple.”

He opened a drawer and took out a long-bladed dagger with a delicately chis¬ eled handle.

He walked toward the picture with the dagger in his hand. Then, suddenly, he seemed to change his mind.

"No!” he said. "I’m not going to fling a hundred pounds into the fire just be¬ cause I had a bad dream. You’re the one that’s crazy, young friend.”

And he flung the weapon angrily down on his desk.

W hin I went back the next day, I did not find the same Gryde. In his stead was a broken old man with the eyes of a tracked beast, shaking with in¬ sane terror.

"No,” he howled, "I’m not crazy, I’m not an imbecile! I know what I’m talk¬ ing about. I got up again last night, and came in here to see if the other thing had been a dream. And I tell you—I tell you —be came out of the picture,” Gryde bellowed, twisting his hands around each other, "and—and—look at the picture, you damned fool! He took my dagger away from me!”

I put my hands up to my head. I felt myself turning as crazy as old Gryde was. The thing was impossible, but it was true. The nude figure in the painting held in his hand a dagger which had not been there the day before, a dagger that I rec¬ ognized by the artistic carving on the han¬ dle. It was the weapon which Gryde had flung down on the desk when I was here last!

I begged Gryde, by all he held sacred, to destroy the painting. But mad with terror though he was, he could not bring himself to wreck an object that had money value.

He still did not believe that War ton ivould keep his promise!

G i ryde is dead.

S’ We found him in his armchair, his body emptied of blood, his throat cut clear across. The murderous steel had slashed into the leather of the chair.

And when I looked at the painting, I saw that the blade of the dagger was red to the hilt.

of Erich Zann*

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

I HAVE examined maps of the city with the greatest care, yet have never again found the Rue d’Auseil. These maps have not been modern maps alone, for I know that names change. I have, on the contrary, delved deeply into all the antiquities of the place; and have person¬ ally explored every region, of whatever name, which could possibly answer to the street I knew as the Rue d’Auseil. But despite all I have done, it remains an humiliating fact that I can not find the house, the street, or even the locality, where during the last months of my im¬ poverished life as a student of meta¬ physics at the university, I heard the music of Erich Zann.

That my memory is broken, I do not wonder; for my health, physical and mental, was gravely disturbed throughout the period of my residence in the Rue d’Auseil, and I recall that I took none of my few acquaintances there. But that I can not find the place again is both singu¬ lar and perplexing; for it was within a half-hour’s walk of the university and was distinguished by peculiarities which

* From WEIRD TALES for May, 1923.


could hardly be forgotten by anyone who had been there. I have never met a per¬ son who has seen the Rue d’Auseil.

The Rue d’Auseil lay across a dark river bordered by precipitous brick blearwindowed warehouses and spanned by a ponderous bridge of dark stone. It was always shadowy along that river, as if the smoke of neighboring factories shut out the sun perpetually. The river was also odorous with evil stenches which I have never smelled elsewhere, and which may some day help me to find it, since I should recognize them at once. Beyond the bridge were narrow cobbled streets with rails; and then came the ascent, at first gradual, but incredibly steep as the Rue d’Auseil was reached.

I have never seen another street as nar¬ row and steep as the Rue d’Auseil. It was almost a cliff, closed to all vehicles, con¬ sisting in several places of flights of steps, and ending at the top in a lofty ivied wall. Its paving was irregular, sometimes stone slabs, sometimes cobblestones, and sometimes bare earth with struggling greenish-gray vegetation. The houses were tall, peaked-roofed, incredibly old.

THE MUSIC OF ERICH ZANN


and crazily leaning backward, forward, and sidewise. Occasionally an opposite pair, both leaning forward, almost met across the street like an arch; and certain¬ ly they kept most of the light from the ground below. There were a few over¬ head bridges from house to house across the street.

The inhabitants of that street im¬ pressed me peculiarly. At first I thought it was because they were all silent and reticent; but later decided it was because they were all very old. I do not know how I came to live on such a street, but I was not myself when I moved there. I had been living in many poor places, always evicted for want of money; until at last I came upon that tottering house in the Rue d’Auseil kept by the paralytic Blandot. It was the third house from the top cf the street, and by far the tallest of them all.

My room was on the fifth story; the only inhabited room there, since the house was almost empty. On the night I arrived I heard strange music from the peaked garret overhead, and the next day asked old Blandot about it. He told me it was an old German viol-player, a strange dumb man who signed his name as Erich Zann, and who played evenings in a cheap theater orchestra; adding that Zann’s desire to play in the night after his return from the theater was the reason he had chosen this lofty and isolated gar¬ ret room, whose single gable window was the only point on the street from which one could look over the terminating wall at the declivity and panorama beyond.

Thereafter I heard Zann every night, and although he kept me awake, I was haunted by the weirdness of his music. Knowing little of the art myself, I was yet certain that none of his harmonies had any relation to music I had heard before; and concluded that he was a composer of

highly original genius. The longer I lis¬ tened, the more I was fascinated, until after a week I resolved to make the old man’s acquaintance.

One night, as he was returning from his work, I intercepted Zann in the hall¬ way and told him that I would like to know him and be with him when he played. He was a small, lean, bent per¬ son, with shabby clothes, blue eyes, gro¬ tesque, satyr-like face, and nearly bald head; and at my first words he seemed both angered and frightened. My obvious friendliness, however, finally melted him; and he grudgingly motioned to me to follow him up the dark, creaking and rickety attic stairs. His room, one of only two in the steeply pitched garret, was on the west side, toward the high wall that formed the upper end of the street. Its size was very great, and seemed the great¬ er because of its extraordinary bareness and neglect. Of furniture there was only a narrow iron bedstead, a dingy washstand, a small table, a large bookcase, an iron music-rack, and three old-fashioned chairs. Sheets of music were piled in dis¬ order about the floor. The walls were of bare boards, and had probably never known plaster; whilst the abundance of dust and cobwebs made the place seem more deserted than inhabited. Evidently Erich Zann’s world of beauty lay in some far cosmos of the imagination.

M otioning me to sit down, the dumb man closed the door, turned the large wooden bolt, and lighted a candle to augment the one he had brought with him. He now removed his viol from its moth-eaten covering, and taking it, seated himself in the least uncomfortable of the chairs. He did not employ the musicrack, but, offering no choice and playing from memory, enchanted me for over an hour with strains I had never heard



before; strains which must have been of his own devising. To describe their exact nature is impossible for one unversed in music. They were a kind of fugue, with recurrent passages of the most captivating quality, but to me were notable for the absence of any of the weird notes I had overheard from my room below on other occasions.

Those haunting notes I had remem¬ bered, and had often hummed and whistled inaccurately to myself; so when the player at length laid down his bow I asked him if he would render some of them. As I began my request the wrin¬ kled satyr-like face lost the bored placid¬ ity it had possessed during the playing, and seemed to show the same curious mixture of anger and fright which I had noticed when first I accosted the old man. For a moment I was inclined to use per¬ suasion, regarding rather lightly the whims of senility; and even tried to awaken my host’s weirder ■ mood by whistling a few of the strains to which I had listened the night before. But I did not pursue this course for more than a moment; for when the dumb musician recognized the whistled air his face grew suddenly distorted with an expression wholly beyond analysis, and his long, cold, bony right hand reached out to stop my mouth and silence the crude imitation. As he did this he further demonstrated his eccentricity by casting a startled glance toward the lone curtained window, as if fearful of some intruder—a glance doubly absurd, since the garret stood high and inaccessible above all the adjacent roofs, this window being the only point on the steep street, as the concierge had told me, from which one could see over the wall at the summit.

The old man’s glance brought Blandot’s remark to my mind, and with a cer¬ tain capriciousness I felt a wish to look

out over the wide and dizzying panorama of moonlit roofs and city lights beyond the hilltop, which of all the dwellers in the Rue d’Auseil only this crabbed musi¬ cian could see. I moved toward the win¬ dow and would have drawn aside the nondescript curtains, when with a fright¬ ened rage even greater than before, the dumb lodger was upon me again; this time motioning with his head toward the door as he nervously strove to drag me thither with both hands. Now thorough¬ ly disgusted with my host, I ordered him to release me, and told him I would go at Once. His clutch relaxed, and as he saw my disgust and offense, his own anger seemed to subside. He tightened his re¬ laxing grip, but this time in a friendly manner, forcing me into a chair; then with an appearance of wistfulness cross¬ ing to the littered table, where he wrote many words with a pencil, in the labored French of a foreigner.

The note which he finally handed me was an appeal for tolerance and forgive¬ ness. Zann said that he was old, lonely, and afflicted with strange fears and nerv¬ ous disorders connected with his music and with other things. He had enjoyed my listening to his music, and wished I would come again and not mind his eccentricities. But he could not play to another his weird harmonies, and could not bear hearing them from another; nor could he bear having anything in his room touched by another. He had not known until our hallway conversation that I could overhear his playing in my room, and now asked me if I would arrange with Blandot to take a lower room where I could not hear him in the night. He would, he wrote, defray the difference in rent.

As I sat deciphering the execrable French, I felt more lenient toward the old man. He was a victim of physical

THE MUSIC OF ERICH ZANN


and nervous suffering, as was I; and my metaphysical studies had taught me kind¬ ness. In the silence there came a slight sound from the window — the shutter must have rattled in the night-wind, and for some reason I started almost as vio¬ lently as did Erich Zann. So when I had finished reading I shook my host by the hand, and departed as a friend.

The next day Blandot gave me a more expensive room on the third floor, be¬ tween the apartments of an aged money¬ lender and the room of a respectable up¬ holsterer. There was no one on the fourth floor.

I T was not long before I found that Zann’s eagerness for my company was not as great as it had seemed while he was persuading me to move down from the fifth story. Pie did not ask me to call on him, and when I did call he appeared uneasy and played listlessly. This was always at night—in the day he slept and would admit no one. My liking for him did not grow, though the attic room and the weird music seemed to hold an odd fascination for me. I had a curious desire to look out of that window, over the wall and down the unseen slope at the glitter¬ ing roofs and spires which must lie out¬ spread there. Once I went up to the gar¬ ret during theater hours, when Zann was away, but the door was locked.

What I did succeed in doing was to overhear the nocturnal playing of the dumb old man. At first I would tiptoe up to my old fifth floor; then I grew bold enough to climb the last creaking stair¬ case to the peaked garret. There in the narrow hall, outside the bolted door with the covered keyhole, I often heard sounds which filled me with an indefinable dread—the dread of vague wonder and brooding mystery. It was not that the sounds were hideous, for they were not;

but that they held vibrations suggesting nothing on this globe of earth, and that at certain intervals they assumed a symphon¬ ic quality which I could hardly conceive as produced by one player. Certainly, Erich Z*nn was a genius of wild power. As the weeks passed, the playing grew wilder, whilst the old musician acquired an increasing haggardness and furtive¬ ness pitiful to behold. He now refused to admit me at any time, and shunned me whenever we met on the stairs.

Then one night as I listened at the door I heard the shrieking viol swell into a chaotic babel of sound; a pandemonium which would have led me to doubt my own shaking sanity had there not come from behind that barred portal a piteous proof that the horror was real — the awful, inarticulate cry which only a mute can utter, and which rises only in mo¬ ments of the most terrible fear or anguish. I knocked repeatedly at the door, but re¬ ceived no response. Afterward I waited in the black hallway, shivering with cold and fear, till I heard the poor musician’s feeble effort to rise from the floor by the aid of a chair. Believing him just con¬ scious after a fainting fit, I renewed my rapping, at the same time calling out my name reassuringly. I heard Zann stumble to the window and close both shutter and sash, then stumble to the door, which he falteringly unfastened to admit me. This time his delight at having me present was real; for his distorted face gleamed with relief, while he clutched at my coat as a child clutches at its mother’s skirts.

Shaking pathetically, the old man forced me into a chair whilst he sank into another, beside which his viol and bow lay carelessly on the floor. He sat for some time inactive, nodding oddly, but having a paradoxical suggestion of in¬ tense and frightened listening. Subse¬ quently he seemed to be satisfied, and



crossing to a chair by the table wrote a brief note, handed it to me, and returned to the table, where he began to write rapidly and incessantly. The note im¬ plored me in the name of mercy, and for the sake of my own curiosity, to wait where I was while he prepared a full ac¬ count in German of all the marvels and terrors which beset him. I waited, and the dumb man’s pencil flew.

It was perhaps an hour later, while I still waited and while the old musician’s feverishly written sheets still continued to pile up, that I saw Zann start as from the hint of a horrible shock. Unmistakably he was looking at the curtained window and listening shudderingly. Then I half fancied I heard a sound myself; though it was not a horrible sound, but rather an exquisitely low and infinitely distant musi¬ cal note, suggesting a player in one of the neighboring houses, or in some abode beyond the lofty wall over which I had never been able to look. Upon Zann the effect was terrible, for, dropping his pencil, suddenly he rose, seized his viol, and commenced to rend the night with the wildest playing I had ever heard from his bow save when listening at the barred door.

I T would be useless to describe the playing of Erich Zann on that dread¬ ful night. It was more horrible than anything I had ever overheard’ because I could now see the expression of his face, and could realize that this time the mo¬ tive was stark fear. He was trying to make a noise; to ward something off or drown something out—what, I could not imagine, awesome though I felt it must be. The playing grew fantastic, delirious, and hysterical, yet kept to the last the qualities of supreme genius which I know this strange old man possessed. I recog¬ nized the air—it was a wild Hungarian

dance popular in the theaters. This was the first time I had ever heard Zann play the work of another composer.

Louder and louder, wilder and wilder, mounted the shrieking and whining of that desperate viol. The player was drip¬ ping with an uncanny perspiration and twisted like a monkey, always looking frantically at the curtained window. In his frenzied strains I could almost see shadowy satyrs and bacchanals dancing and whirling insanely through seething abysses of clouds and smoke and light¬ ning. And then I thought I heard a shriller, steadier note that was not from the viol; a calm, deliberate, purposeful, mocking note from far away in the west.

At this juncture the shutter began to rattle in a howling night-wind which had sprung up outside as if in answer to the mad playing within. Zann’s screaming viol now outdid itself, emitting sounds I had never thought a viol could emit. The shutter rattled more loudly, unfastened, and commenced slamming against the window. Then the glass broke shiveringly under the persistent impacts, and the chill wind rushed in, making the candles sputter and rustling the sheets of paper on the table where Zann had begun to write out his horrible secret. I looked at Zann, and saw that he was past conscious observation. His blue eyes were bulging, glassy and sightless, and the frantic play¬ ing had become a blind, mechanical orgy that no pen could even suggest.

A sudden gust, stronger than the others, caught up the manuscript and bore it toward the window. I followed the flying sheets in desperation, but they were gone before I reached the demol¬ ished panes. Then I remembered my old wish to gaze from this window, the only window in the Rue d’Auseil from which one might see the slope beyond the wall, (Please turn to page 655)

Coming Next Month

“ripl ARAMIS has instituted human sacrifice, and since her mating with Constan- | tius, no less than five hundred men, women and children have been immo¬ lated. Some of these have died on the altar she has set up in the temple, her¬ self wielding tire sacrificial dagger, but most have met a more horrible doom.

"She has placed some sort of monster in a crypt in the temple. What it is, and whence it came, none knows. But shortly after she had crushed the desperate revolt of her soldiers against Constantius, she spent a night alone in the desecrated temple, alone except for a dozen bound captives, and the shuddering people saw thick, foul¬ smelling smoke curling up from the dome, heard all night the frenetic chanting of the queen, and the agonized cries of her tortured captives; and toward dawn another voice mingled with these sounds—a strident, inhuman croaking that froze the blood of all who heard.

"In the full dawn Taramis reeled drunkenly from the temple, her eyes blazing with demoniac triumph. The captives were never seen again, nor the croaking voice heard. But there is a room in the temple into which none ever goes but the queen, driving a human sacrifice before her. And this victim is never seen again. All know that in that grim chamber lurks some monster from the black night of ages, which devours the shrieking humans Taramis delivers up to it.

"I can no longer think of her as a mortal woman, but as a rabid she-fiend, crouch¬ ing in her blood-fouled lair amongst the bones and fragments of her victims, with taloned, crimsoned fingers. That the gods allow her to pursue her awful course un¬ checked almost shakes my faith in divine justice.” . . .

This tale of the old, forgotten times, a vivid weird novelette of uncanny power and fascinating episodes, is in many ways the most gripping story that Mr. Howard has yet written. It will be published complete in Weird Tales for December:

A WITCH SHALL BE BORN

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

-ALSOBLACK GOD’S SHADOW By C. L. Moore

A*other fascinating story about Jirel of Joiry, who went down into a terrible place of darkness to re¬ lease a human soul from torment.

THE GRAVEYARD DUCHESS By John Flanders

The tale of a ghastly horror that stalked at night through the cemetery—a blood-chilling story of the Undead.

THE VENGEANCE OF TI FONG By Bassett Morgan

A thrilling, fascinating tale of talking apes and the weird genius of a Chinese scientist who had mastered too many of Nature's laws.

XEETHRA

By Clark Ashton Smith A strange weird tale, exquisitely told, about a goatherd who had been king in the olden days, and how he regained and lost again his kingship.

December WEIRD TALES Out December 1

649.

R EADERS, we can not reiterate too often that Weird Tales belongs to ■ you. We welcome your suggestions, and you will find no magazine more respon¬ sive to your wishes than Weird Tales. We especially invite discussion of the stories themselves. We want to know what stories you like best, and why you like them. And if there are any stories that you don’t like, we want to know about those, too. Write a letter to the Eyrie, Weird Tales, or fill out the coupon at the end of the Eyrie and mail it to us. As this issue goes to press three stories are in a neck-and-neck race for most popular story in our September issue. These are Seabury Quinn’s story of Jules de Grandin, The Jest of Warburg Tantavul; the opening installment of Robert E. Howard’s tale of Conan, The People of the Black Cir¬ cle; and the third part of Arlton Eadie’s novel, The Trail of the Cloven Hoof.

WT Opens New Vistas dyed Birdie Bacon, of Vashon, Washing¬ ton, writes: "My husband and I have been steady readers of your magazine since first we found a copy among a pile of discarded books. It has opened new vistas, much as did the key in that rather breath-taking story, Through the Gates of the Silver Key, in your July issue. The Three Marked Pennies in the August number is a masterpiece in prose.

I wouldn’t be surprized to find it in a book of little classics some day.”

New Idea in Fantasy Fiction Harold F. Keating, of Quincy, Massachu¬ setts, writes: "The September issue of Weird Tales was just about perfect. The People of the Black Circle promises to be up to How¬ ard’s usual high standard, while the third part of The Trail of the Cloven Hoof is

Eadie’s best yet. It introduces an entirely new idea in fantasy fiction; at least, new to me. Vine Terror, by Howard Wandrei, is one of those rare stories that entirely gripped my attention to the very end. I did not care much for The Pale Man, as it seemed quite senseless to me, and attempted no explana¬ tion whatsoever. . . . The Sinister Painting was very good, and Naked Lady was perfect. The Jest of Warburg Tantavul, needless to say, was superb, as Seabury Quinn could not write any other kind.”

A Plea for Shorter Stories Jack Snow, of Dayton, Ohio, writes: "There isn’t a weak story in your latest issue, but I wonder why it is that your Eyrie writers never put in a word for the shorter stories. For years I have noticed that these stories— two, three, four and five pages in length— are usually much more entertaining and in most cases weirder than the longer efforts. I think this is because the longer stories are usually written intentionally; that is, they are carefully planned and plotted to develop so much material, while the shorter stories in many cases are the result of a sudden flash of inspiration and take complete form before the author touches the typewriter. At any rate, such stories as Mary Elizabeth Counselman’s tale of the three pennies and Paul Ernst’s madman story in the August issue are many times more effective than some of the longer stories. And I don’t think Lovecraft’s longer stories such as the one of the silver key in the July issue can touch his old tales of a few years ago—the shorter ones— The Outsider and Pickman’s Model."

First Place to Robert E. Howard Claude H. Cameron, of Toronto, writes: "I have just finished the September issue of



WT and I find it so exceptionally good that I am breaking my silence of several months. I vote first place to my old favorite, Howard, for the first installment of The People of the Black Circle. It is Conan at his best, a truly absorbing story that didn’t allow my some¬ what .jaded interest to falter. It appears that this serial will make history for WT, I give second place to Mindret Lord for Naked Lady. At last it appears that we have a suc¬ cessor to the late Rev. Whitehead. Enough said. ... I liked Julia Green’s poem, The Return. I am glad to read that you do not contemplate an author’s page. I doubt if it would materially enhance modern fiction of the weird type to know that author so-and-so eats dill pickles. However, I must say, in deference to other opinions, that a more thorough understanding of Poe is obtained by a careful reading of his life story. . . . The cover design is O. K. It certainly is truly weird. It is evident that M. Brundage has been reading and benefiting by the fans’ let¬ ters of criticism.”

A Crack at Conan

Robert Bloch, of Milwaukee, writes: "The present issue of WT is rather remarkable in that the short stories by far excel the longer ones—a fact which each successive issue makes more evident. Conan is rapidly be¬ coming a stereotyped hero, but I was greatly pleased with Francis Flagg; a real writer, with something to say. I am awfully tired of poor old Conan the Cluck, who for the past fifteen issues has every month slain a new wizard, tackled a new monster, come to a violent and sudden end that was averted (in¬ credibly enough!) in just the nick of time, and won a new girl-friend, each of whose penchant for nudism won for her a place of honor, either on the cover or on the inner illustration. Such has been Conan’s history, and from the realms of the Kushites to the lands of Aquilonia, from the shores of the Shemites to the palaces of Dyme-NovellBolonia, I cry: 'Enough of this brute and his iron-thewed sword-thrusts—may he be sent to Valhalla to cut out paper dolls.’ I would like to see the above tirade in print—I feel sure that many of your other readers would support me—at least there is good material there for an argument." [Sharpen your axes, you loyal supporters of the Conan tales, for anon we shall publish a short story by Mr.

Asthma Was

Got Immediate Relief!

Seventeen Years Later—“Still Enjoying Splendid Health”

December 8, 1916.—“I had asthma for 17 years. I coughed mosl of the time and couldn't rest, day or night. I tried everything, but grew so weak I could hardly walk across the room. After taking one bottle of Nacor, I could do most of my housework. That was 8 years ago. I am still feeling fine, with no sign of asthma.’ —Mrs. Mary Bean, R. 3, Nashua, Iowa. July 31, 1933—“I continue in good health and am still praising Nacor. I have no signs of asthma."

, I T M . —Mrs. Mary Bean

FREE —No need to suffer asthma torture when blessed relief can be yours. For years Nacor has helped thousands. Their letters and booklet of vital information sent FREE. Write to Nacor Med'

Co., 818 State Life Bldg., Indianapolis, Ini

DUES

UNTIL. YOL H WONDERFUL

DON’T BE CUT

_YOU TRY THIS

_ WONDERFUL TREATMENT

for pile suffering. If you have piles In any form write for a FREE sample of Page’s Pile Tablets and you will bless the day that you read this. Write today. E. R. Page Co.,2423-A Page Bldg., Marshall, Mich.

CURIOUS BOOKS

Privately Printed the largest publishers in the

UNITED STATES of privately printed, books on Oriental Love, Uncensored Exotics, Amatory Adventures and other Curious Sex Customs. Send for free Catalogs.

PANURGE PRESS, 70 Fifth Ave., New York’ Please send me your illustrated brochures FREE on curious, privately printed books.



Bloch, the author of the above letter. It is entitled The Secret in the Tomb. — The Editor.]

From a Budding Medico Harry S. Weatherby, of Washington, D. C., writes: "Being an interne in a large hosital is not all that it’s cracked up to be, and have to have a magazine or two to occupy my mind when I’m not tending to a patient. Weird Tales amply fills the spot and its stories are not only weird but also very bril¬ liant. I have never seen a more clever group of writers than those that you have. The September edition was packed with action and chilling moments for the reader. The best story, in my opinion, was The Jest of Warburg Tantavul. The plot was closely knit and ran very smoothly. Three cheers for Seabury Quinn—he could write all of the magazine and I would never get tired. His imagination is something to rave about. Second best was Vine Terror by Howard Wandrei. I’m very fond of vampire tales of any description, and this one certainly ap¬ pealed.’’

Another by Cahill

J. Wasso, Jr., of Pen Argyl, Pennsylvania, writes to the Eyrie: "They Called Him Ghost by Laurence J. Cahill, in the June issue, is one of the best stories to appear in Weird Tales in recent years and earns an undisputed place in the immortal company of the seven or eight greatest stories published in Weird Tales since its inception.” [Mr. Cahill’s story has been very popular with the readers of Weird Tales. An even more un¬ usual story by him—a story entitled Charon —is scheduled for our January issue.— The Editor.]

De Grandin’s Triumphal Return Alvin Earl Perry, of Rockdale, Texas, writes: "I was pleasantly surprized on seeing Bram Stoker’s tale as the reprint story this month; please let’s have more by him. Another reprint which I am looking forward to, and which I am sure you will print soon, is Edmond Hamilton’s first story. The Mon¬ ster-God of Mamurth. From what I hear, this must be one fine piece of literature. Little Jules de Grandin certainly made a triumphant return in the September issue. Seabury Quinn wove the threads of plot ex¬ pertly for the dynamic Frenchman in The

Jest of Warburg Tantavul; the yarn is told vividly and in a manner that creates an almost tangible atmosphere of terror. . . . Arlton Eadie’s serial. The Trail of the Cloven Hoof, is coming along remarkably well, although I consider it merely an old plot with a new twist.”

Old Ideas Rehashed

Julius Hopkins, of Washington, D. C., writes: "I have read every story in the Sep¬ tember WT, and without a doubt the best story in this issue is Vine Terror , with part one of The People of the Black Circle in second place. Most all of the tales in this number are old ideas rehashed, but even with that they are so well written that reading them becomes a pleasure instead of proving uninteresting perusals. However, next month’s issue promises to bring forth a hcwc of new ideas, headed by WT’s new sensa¬ tional writer, C. L. Moore. I was glad to see Seabury Quinn return with another ad¬ venture of Jules de Grandin. Now that he has returned, don’t wait too long to publish another story by Edmond Hamilton. And see if you can’t get Frank Owen to pen some more of his tender and colorful orientales for the delight of WT readers. I like the cover on the September WT. It is truly a weird picture, and I notice that a certain magazine dealer in D. C. has his front dis¬ play filled with copies of WT and it makes a truly weird and beautiful exhibit. I am following The Trail of the Cloven Hoof with much interest and regret very much that I have to wait a whole month between in¬ stallments. I wish you would have Mr. Eadie write some more adventures of Count Rou¬ lette, who appeared in The Eye of Truth in your issue of September, 1932. Count Rou¬ lette was a distinctive and most appealing character.”

A Stupendous Issue

Fred Anger, of Berkeley, California, writes: "Titanic! super-colossal! stupendous! (copyright Jack Darrow). These and half a dozen other words followed by exclamation marks describe the September number. Cover A-l! M. Brundage is scrubbing pastels around at a terrific pace. Who in the world could be dissatisfied with a cover like the last one? . . . Naked Lady was kind of (Please turn to page 654)



Suppressed Books of Bible Reveal

Man’s Inner Power

Ancient fragments from lost and sup¬ pressed gospels teach that man has power within himself to bring success and happi¬ ness.

The story of a new and amazing teaching discovered from the known and unknown sayings of Jesus and other teachers, which have been misunder¬ stood and suppressed for 2,000 years, and which reveal a strange inner power so dynamic and forceful that once contacted may bring man fulfillment of his visions of success and happiness, is told in a 5 , 000 -word booklet, “Key to Your Inner Power,” recently compiled by Yogi Alpha,

noted American Philosopher and Metaphysi¬ cian.

He tells of his belief that all the laws of the universe can be controlled because the laws themselves depend upon the great Universal Mind for their existence; that every mind is part of this universal mind, and if you learn to master and to use this universal energy it can almost overnight bring you many of the things you desire most. He further believes and teaches that this power is not limited to a fortunate few, but is. latent in every human being. His revolutionary teaching is attracting thousands of inquiries throughout the world

The author offers for a limited time to send this amazing booklet to readers of Weird Tales free of cost or obligation. It reveals the astounding secret which, mastered, may enable you within the next few months to unlock the reservoir of vast riches within YOU. For your free copy, address Psycho-Logic In¬ stitute, Box 98, Dept. 82-K, San Diego, California.

BACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers oa hand for sale:


Mar.

July

Aug.

6ct7

Nov.

Dec.

1929 1930

1931 1932

Jan. Jan.

Feb.-Mar. Feb.

Apr.-May Apr.

Jun.-JuL Juno

July

Aug. Aug.

_ Sept.

Oct. Oct.

Nov. Nov.

-- Dec.


Jau.

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

Oot.

Nov.

Dec.

193*

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

May

July

Aug.

Sept.

Oot.

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories, ff you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 23c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave.

Chicago, Illinois

B54


(Continued from page 652)

sappy. Nothing to it as far as I could see. The Sinister Painting was in the same boat; both resembled each other closely, and since both were bad, chalk two goose eggs for both authors. (Tut, tut, Greye La Spina, I’m surprized.) The People of the Black Circle is Robert E. Howard's triumph. The first installment takes my vote for first place. Next comes Vine Terror; Howard Wandrei is no slouch when it comes to weird fiction. Long and Derleth turn out a couple of nice shorts.”

Something Seems Missing

Mrs. J. L. Harvey, of Salisbury, North Carolina, writes: "I have read Weird Tales for several years and think it is the best of all magazines. Its stories are unique, mys¬ terious, fantastic, imaginative, not at all like the usual trash. However, there seems to be something missing lately; I don't get the same thrill that I did, for instance, last spring and summer, while Golden Blood was run¬ ning. Can't you do something about this? I think Jack Williamson’s Golden Blood the best serial I’ve ever read anywhere, and A. Merritt’s The Woman of the Wood the best short story you’ve ever printed. Merritt’s little fantasy was perfect, as many others

have said, a 'gem’— and then some. . . . I believe Doctor Keller’s The Solitary Hunters is this year’s best serial. My favorite char¬ acters are Conan, Northwest Smith and Jules de Grandin. All the Conan tales are excel¬ lent, especially Queen of the Black Coast. I also enjoy the little bits of poetry which Howard inserts in his stories. I do not agree with some readers about Brundage’s excel¬ lence. I’ve seen many others much better than she is. I think Rankin is about the best artist I’ve ever seen in Weird Tales. All of his drawings are perfect; I only wish there were more.”

Look Who’s Here!

Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes to the Eyrie: "The September issue was fine. The cover and the stories were all good. The new serial by Robert E. Howard, The Peo¬ ple of the Black Circle, cops first place this time. It starts off fine. I’m glad to see Conan in a long story. It’s about time that Jules de Grandin returned to your pages. Seabury Quinn’s latest fully comes up to his past excellent efforts. Howard Wandrei’s story, Vine Terror, gets third place. . , . How about getting a new interior decorator? I don’t care if Joseph Doolin does live in New York, he was about the best artist you ever had.”

My favorite stories in the November WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

( 1 )---

( 2 )---

(3)- -

I do not like the following stories:

(1)_ Why?-

< 2 )----

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

r—*-

Reader’s name and address:

I

II-

1 ---



The Music of Erich Zann

(Continued from page 648) and the city outspread beneath. It was very dark, but the city’s lights always burned, and I expected to see them there amidst the rain and wind. Yet when I looked from that highest of all gable windows, I saw no city spread below, and no friendly lights gleamed from re¬ membered streets, but only the black¬ ness of space illimitable; unimagined space alive with motion and music, and having no semblance of anything on earth. And as I stood there looking in terror, the wind blew out both the can¬ dles in that ancient peaked garret, leaving me in savage and impenetrable darkness with diaos and pandemonium before me, and the demon madness of that nightbaying viol behind me.

I staggered back in the dark, without the means of striking a light, crashing against the table, overturning a chair, and finally groping my way to the place where the blackness screamed with shock¬ ing music. Once I thought some chill thing brushed me, and I screamed, but my scream could not be heard above that hideous viol. Suddenly out of the black¬ ness the madly sawing bow struck me, and I knew I was close to the player. I felt ahead, touched the back of Zann’s chair, and then found and shook his shoulder in an effort to bring him to his senses.

He did not respond, and still the viol shrieked on without slackening. I moved my hand to his head, whose mechanical nodding I was able to stop, and shouted in his ear that we must both flee from the unknown things of the night. But he neither answered me nor abated the frenzy of his unutterable music, while all through the garret strange currents of wind seemed to dance in the darkness and babel. When my hand touched his ear I shuddered, though I knew not why

No More Whiskey Drinking

Try It FREE

Wives, mothers, sisters, it is you that the man who drinks Whiskey, Wineor Beer to ex¬ cess must depend upon to help save him from arnined life and a drunk¬ ard’s grave. Take heed from the thousands of men going to ruin daily through vile bootlegger’s Whiskey, and the horrible stuff called home brew from private stills. Once he gets it in his system he finds it difficult to quit— but you can help him. What it has done for others is an example of what it should do for you. All you have to do is to send your name and address and we will send absolutely FREE, in plain wiapper, a trial package of GOLDEN TREATMENT. You will be thankful as long as you live that you did it. Address DR. J. W. HAINES CO.

1431 Glenn Buildins Cincinnati, Ohio

The Happy Reunion

BRAIN MAGIC

The only way to make money, to become a mental giant :s to keep miles ahead of the rest of the world. Think 1 possess the brain of a superman I In three years, under our system, yeu will know ten times more than the average I’h. D. We have prepared thousands of charts on moneymaking. Be something! Learn something 1 Follow your smbltions eletr through to sucrose! Write today for Infor¬ mation. FUTURIST SOCIETY, 416 Frankfort Ave.. Cleveland, Ohio.

EGYPTIAN FIGUROLOGY—For success and hap¬ piness. Send birthname and birthdate for analysis, symbology, health, and preferable days. $1.00 with seif-addressed, stamped envelope. Eliz Falconer, 48 So. 5th St., San Jose, Calif.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

Small ads worth watohing.

Personal

EPILEPSY—EPILEPTICS! Detroit lady finds complete relief for husband. Specialists, home—abroad. Tailed. Nothing to sell. All letters answered. Mrs. Ceo. Dempster, Apt. 11, 6900 Lafayette Blvd., West, Detroit. Mich. _

_ Detectives _

BE A DETECTIVE. MAKE SECRET INVESTIGAtlons. Experience unnecessary. Write, United Deteotive System, 1623-T W. Grand, Chicago.

(Coins __

WE PURCHASE ALL INDIAN HEAD PENNIES.

Send 10c for price list. Brownlea, 218 Henry, New York.

Miscellaneous __

FOR 1035 SCIENTIFIC FORECAST SEND 15c AND

birthdate to Mrs. Sanchez, 4122 Fourth, Detroit, Uich. Personal horoscope $1.00.



Next Month

BLACK GOD'S SHADOW BY C. L. MOORE

T his novelette is as weird a tale as has ever been told. It is, in a sense, a sequel to "The Black God’s Kiss,” but it stands on its own feet as an amazing story that will hold you spellbound, and it does not pre-suppose that you have read the former story.

T his story has all the strength and imaginative originality that were so evident in "The Black God’s Kiss.” It describes the further adventures of Jirel of Joiry, the red-headed warrior maid, and tells how she went again into the weird place of darkness to give a clean death to the soul of Guillaume, from the unthinkable evil that encom¬ passed his harsh spirit from the curse of the Black God’s kiss on his insolent lips. You will want to read this eery story of uncanny happenings. It will be printed complete

in the December issue of


on sale December 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WlCmi) TALES 840 N. Michigan Are* Chicago, Ill.

Enclosed find $1.80 for -which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the December issue ($1.76 in Canada). Special offer Told unless remittance Is aocompanied by coupon.

Name. Add ref Olty—.

—knew not why till I felt of the still face; the ice-cold, stiffened, unbreathing face whose glassy eyes bulged uselessly into the void. And then, by some miracle finding the door and the large wooden bolt, I plunged wildly away from that glassy-eyed thing in the dark, and from the ghoulish howling of that accursed viol whose fury increased even as I plunged.

Leaping, floating, flying down those endless stairs through the dark house; rac¬ ing mindlessly out into the narrow, steep, and ancient street of steps and tottering houses; clattering down steps and over cobbles to the lower streets and the putrid canyon-walled river; panting across the great dark bridge to the broader, healthier streets and boulevards we know; all these are terrible impressions that linger with me. And I recall that there was no wind, and that the moon was out, and that all the lights of the city twinkled.

D espite my most careful searches and investigations, I have never since been able to find the Rue d’Auseil. But I am not wholly sorry; either for this or for the loss in undreamable abysses of the closely written sheets which alone could have explained the music of Erich Zann.

PATENTS

lems. Delays of even a few days in protecting your ideas, or the slightest carelessness in handling your patent papers, may easily be very costly, My personal service assures speedy action and strictest confidence. Send immediately for my free 72-page booklet, ’‘How to Get Your Patent."

L. F. RANDOLPH, S54 Victor Bldg. WASHINGTON. 0. G.

Was It Some Strange Phantom Whispering Through the Ether in the Language of Another Planet

?

age and ghostly signals were being picked up out ^of the ether. What were _ ers? What happened when science became fully aware of the mce of some new and sinister—or at least unfathomed—force in the world ?

FREE BOOK

For a limited time, the publishers of Weird Tales are giving this book away with each six months’ subscription to the magazine. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for Weird Tales, and this book is yours without further cost. You receive the magazine for six months and 1 this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply ,

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to, order now. Re¬ member, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept.. S-52, Chicago, Ill.

YEIIU) TALES, Dept. S-52,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid, the book “The M6on Terror,*’ and enter my sub¬ scription to WEIRD TALES for six months to begin with the December issue. It is understood this $1.50 is payment in full.

TTiTWiTiTTH

MIDWEST RADIO CORP.

DEPT. E£i“ CINCINNATI, OHIO. U. S. A.

7 hr/Z/fo UNEQUALLED

High Fidelity ^

ivif/Pf/th

SEND NO MONEY!

[THE END]
