============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: January 1934
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Too Late-Alfred I" by Tooke
  2. "By ROBERT E" by HOWARD
============================================================
============================================================
TOO LATE-ALFRED I
by Tooke
============================================================
will be bordered with flowers. Winter and night are conquered. Spring and dawn are here again, to endure for ever.”

"Dawn and spring,” softly murmured Del-Ara. "For the world. For us. And our children.”

By ALFRED I. TOOKE

What ghosts are these that haunt me? Not the shades Of those who long have passed beyond the veil, And finding in eternity a gap,

Slipped back again to Time’s elusive trail.

They are my own ghosts, ever-present shades Of what I might have been. They lie in wait,

To point, in sorrow, at the bygone years,

And haunt me with their cry: "Too late! Too late!”

"It came screaming down out of the sky.”

A strange tale of an aviator's weird experience in a doomed airplane that fell from the sky

T WAS nine o’clock when the doc¬ tor’s telephone rang.

The doctor uttered a little groan as he put out his hand to the instrument. He was not a young man, and he was very tired. After being out all day with a confinement case in the country, he dreaded a night call. The mountain roads were greasy with cold spring rain.

"You’d better say you can’t come,” his wife said. "You tell them to call Doctor Evarts, John.”

"Hello!” the doctor said.

The voice on the wire leaped and crackled, making a sharp, tinny sound which the doctor’s wife could hear.

"All right,” the doctor said. "Yes. Right away. Of course.”




His wife looked at him with big, re¬ proachful eyes.

"That was Evarts talking,” the doctor told her. "There’s been an accident, a plane crash-up on Turkey Ridge. He doesn’t know how many are hurt or killed. It’s probably a two-man job, though.”

He got up stiffly and heavily, went into the hall, and put on his overcoat. Silently, the woman lifted the percolator from the table and drained its contents into a thermos flask. She threw a shawl over her head and waddled into the yard and watched the doctor back his muddy little coupe from the garage. She handed the thermos flask through the window.

"Now, don’t you drive too fast, John,” she said.

The doctor drove as rapidly as he dared. The air was full of a cold mist against which the windshield wiper tended a little black arc of glass. The doctor saw, through the pale, cloudy diffusion of the headlight fan wavering upon the tarnished clay of the road, the slithering track left by Doctor Evarts’ machine. Once he glimpsed the red dot of a tail-lamp ahead.

The motor coughed and sputtered on the grades, and the tire chains made a paddling sound in the night.

H e stopped the car beside a stakeand-runner pasture fence. He crawled over the wet, slippery rail and set off through the cold steam of mist toward a flare of murky torches in the field. He walked fast, stumbling a little with the weight of his instrument bag, and breathing heavily. The air tasted raw in his nostrils and throat; the rtiist pow¬ dered his shaggy coat with tiny drops. The sod was soaked soft, and made a plopping, squishy sound under his large shoes.

A line of men—lean, gaunt mountain men—held drafty pine torches at a little distance from the wreck and its pungent smell of spilt gasoline. The torches flung a red, resinous light.

The doctor looked at the plane. It re¬ sembled a squashed beetle. The steel body was badly smashed, but he could see that it had been one of the big, cabin flyers.

Doctor Evarts stood there with a flash¬ light in his hand, probing its cold white ray into the ruin of the cabin. He was a keen, brisk young man.

The old doctor glanced at the corpses laid in a careful straight row beside the plane. The bodies looked slack and sack¬ like, with stiff limbs that were somehow shapeless. One of the mountain men was trying to fold the hands upon the chests.

"Let them be, Jed,” Doctor Evarts said. “I’ll have to go through their pockets, you know.”

He was the local coroner.

The old doctor tried not to look at the faces, convulsed with the horror of violence, faces smeared bloodily with contused blood at mouth and nose. They were masks frozen and clotted with the fear of the Angel of Death.

"All?” he asked.

“Oh. Hello, Bryant.” The young coro¬ ner turned around. "Yes, every one of them. I’m sorry I got you out. I didn’t know, of course.”

"I suppose there’s nothing we can do, now.”

"No, there’s nothing anyone can do.” Doctor Evarts looked up into Bryant’s large, tired face, wet with the haze. "You might as well go on home, sir,” he said gently. "The rest is just a routine job for me.”

"If you don’t mind, I will. I’ve had a hard day.”

A PHANTOM IN THE SKY


The old doctor turned away. He had gone a few steps when the man who had been bending over the bodies came up and held a torch past his face.

"It’s horrid,” the man said. "It’s like a judgment by Gawd A’mighty.”

"Yes, it’s a frightful thing.”

"We heard it over beyond the creek,” the man muttered. "It came screaming down like the devil whistling out of the sky, and next it smashed as loud as thunder.”

"Yes,” the old doctor said. "It un¬ doubtedly fell from thousands of feet—to smash like that, steel broken like matchwood.”

"It’s horrid.” The man looked into the night, beyond the little cave of light scooped by the torches. "It makes a man think of things, even if he don’t believe in such as them. I could give you a light to the car, Doc.”

Bryant smiled. "I don’t think I’ll see any ghosts, Jep.”

But he took the torch in his own hand and went on slowly, wearily, watching for puddles on the wet sod. He had got near¬ ly to the fence when a glitter on the ground refracted the dull, piny light. What he saw was the nickeled clasp of a black leather briefcase.

It was a strange enough article to find in that pasture, and the doctor made no doubt it had fallen from the plane. He paused, holding the briefcase in his hand, looking back at the wreck. The wind was coming up, with a sullen swish of rain in it that promised more slippery grease upon the road.

He shook his head. "I could as well give it to Evarts in town,” he decided aloud.

He flung the torch into a roadside pool, where it expired with a hiss, and dropped the briefcase and his own bag into the seat of the coupe. When he had switched

up the dome light the doctor poured a half-pint of steaming coffee from the flask and drank with a slow, grateful sigh. He noticed, then, that the clasp of the case was undone and that a sheaf of papers written upon in a strong, large hand, had spilled onto the seat.

He picked up the sheets and patted them into order with his careful, sur¬ geon’s hands. His eye caught the legend across the upper margin of the first page:

"To Whom it May Concern - ”

These words, in a rapid, angular, and almost illegible scrawl, had been placed in sharp contrast with the lower, neatly formed characters; placed, he concluded, as an after-thought, for a line had been drawn roughly through an earlier head¬ ing, "Dear H. G. -”

To whom it may concern—this was not, therefore, a privileged communica¬ tion.

The doctor glanced down the page; he frowned, and hesitated, and at last pol¬ ished his eye-glasses and looked through them upon what was written:

“(Safely aboard! But what a struggle!

>3 I darned near missed the plane, thanks to a most mysterious young man who is now making me frightfully un¬ comfortable both in body and in mind.

"I was standing under the awning of the Charterse Hotel when I first saw him. The doorman had just called my cab, and I was waiting there with my briefcase in my hand—my luggage had gone on the airport bus an hour before—looking out into the bright glare of the street at a clock on the corner. I had barely forty minutes in which to catch my plane. Then this chap darted past me down the rubber matting to the curb.

"My cab whirled up. And he, as cool as ice, calmly stepped into it, said some62


thing to the driver, and away shot the taxi from under my nose!

"It was pure cheek—in fact, a piece of damned insolence. Of course he knew that was my cab. He couldn’t possibly not have known it. He had followed me through the hotel door, you see. What made it a good deal worse, the taxi hap¬ pened to be the last out of the stand.

"I saw myself flunking that business in Washington tonight. I yelled some¬ thing to the doorman, who ran out from under the awning, tooting his little nickeled whistle in the most emphatic way. Well, but there was no such thing as a cruising cab in sight.

"I was frantic. The third red light had stopped the traffic when I did one of those simple but inspired things a man will think of when he’s absolutely up against it. I ran out into the street and yanked open the door of the first taxi I came to. The gentleman inside it acted very decently; I told him what a devil of a mess I was in, and he surrendered the machine to me. I showed the cabby a five and told him I shouldn’t ask any change out of it if he could turn the trick.

"It was narrow. I dashed up to the plane just as the last pieces of luggage were being stowed in by the guard. The motor was turning over and the pilot sat at the controls. And there, squarely in front of me, looking into the cabin, was this young fellow.

"He barred the door, and I tapped his shoulder—for his back was toward me— and said:

" 'If you will step aside, please!’ Rather a sharp tone—naturally enough.

"He didn’t stir. ’This plane isn’t going to Washington, you know,’ he said quietly.

"Now, how did he know where I was going? I had my ticket ready in my hand.

But he hadn’t turned, or even glanced in my direction.

"I was taken aback. I appealed to the guard, who had just closed the luggage compartment door.

" 'Isn’t this the Washington plane?’ I asked.

" 'Sure,’ the guard said, tearing a snip from my ticket. 'You’d better get into her, too.’

"I spoke to the fellow ahead of me in a pretty keen voice. 'Now, if you’re satisfied-’

"He stepped up into the cabin without a word of apology or explanation for this deucedly queer behavior of his, and I followed.

“>T<hle plane was very full, as it always

X is when Congress has been called into session; the crowd was one of spe¬ cial correspondents and lobbyists, to say nothing of the more ambitious sort of job¬ seekers. They had taken every seat except the double chair at the back wall. And here this fellow had bunched himself down, his elbows and knees angled out in a way that took up a good deal more space than his fare entitled him to use. He had a soft hat pulled down over his face.

"I waited a minute, thinking he’d make a move to accommodate me; but no. So I said, 'I’m afraid I’ll have to share this seat with you, if you don’t mind.’

"He didn’t look up. 'But I do mind,’ he said in a chilly way.

"I looked once more around the cabin. 'I don’t want your company any more than you want mine,’ I snapped, 'but if you’ll take the trouble to look, you’ll see there’s no other place. It just can’t be helped.’

“ 'Why don’t you take the six o’clock machine, then?’ he asked.

"All this was preposterous. And he

A PHANTOM IN THE SKY


brought it off in such a firm, quiet, sure manner! It was impossible to think that he had been drinking. He hadn’t even that excuse, and yet I didn’t feel right¬ eously angry with him, either. It struck me that he was a bit off.

" 'By the way,' I said, 'this is the Washington plane, and if you didn’t know that, quite likely you’re on the wrong machine yourself.'

" 'I don’t expect to go that far,’ he muttered.

"The plane was starting now. I jammed myself down into the seat, or rather into the small fraction of it he wasn’t already occupying, and looked out the window, and then for the first time I saw the fellow’s face. And I knew that face. It was the face of Robin Bates!

"It gave me a nasty start—for, of course, he couldn’t be. ... I had seen him, Robin, killed. It happened in the summer of 1918; we were in a dog-fight over the lines, and his crate took fire and went down in a frightful hell of flame and smoke, to crash behind the German trenches.

"But here was his face. Fifteen years, you will say—I could forget. Yes, but Robin had been my very best friend, and in a way more than a friend, though I had known him only a few weeks when it happened. Men 'got’ to each other in a hurry in 1918. ... I have to tell you a bit more. I don’t want to make myself out any sort of hero, but I had the luck to get onto the tail of a Fokker which was on Bates’ tail, and he thought I’d saved his life. 'I’ll do as much for you some day,’ he vowed. And he would have, too, if he’d had the chance. Meanwhile he made himself practically my slave.

"Oh, I couldn’t have been mistaken! This lad was Robin Bates all over again, in a positively uncanny way. I’ll tell you how strongly it impressed me. You’ve

heard stories about men being shot down over there, and then living through it after all, only without any memory of things? I had a feeling that something of the sort had happened—that he was my friend. I touched his sleeve.

" 'You’re not Robin Bates, are you?’ I blurted.

" No,’ he said. And confound it, the very voice was Robin’s, and I felt no end of a fool for not having recognized it before.

" 'You weren’t in the War, were you?’ I persisted, though I knew it was silly to ask. The lad wasn’t a day over nineteen —he had been in kindergarten when the Armistice was signed.

" 'War!’ he muttered. 'War? No. Nothing like that.’

" 'Anyway,’ I said, 'you must be re¬ lated to someone I used to know. The resemblance is extraordinary. Are you related to a Bates family?’

"He shook his head. 'My name’s Car¬ ter,’ he said briefly.

"He wasn’t to be persuaded to talk, you see. The glummest and least sociable per¬ son alive—to say nothing of his boorish¬ ness about the cab and this seat. He’s the very opposite of Robin in every way, ex¬ cept, as I say, for the physical resemblance. I look at him now, and it is difficult for me to believe that he isn’t Robin. It’s un¬ canny. It’s almost enough to make one believe in reincarnation or some of those things.

most extraordinary thing has hap¬ pened.

"We got out of the plane at Louisville •—there is a twenty-minute stop, connect¬ ing with a mail train—and walked into a lunchroom on the airport grounds. Carter and I sat at the same table. I must say that he was not exactly unfriendly, but not easy to talk to. I tried everything.


WEIRD 1'ALES

and I should say that he has read none of the modern books, knows nothing of politics, and has not picked up a news¬ paper in years.

"Well, near the end of the meal—my meal, for he had eaten nothing, merely toyed with his food—he clumsily upset a catsup bottle over my hand and sleeve. That seemed to wake him up a bit. He was very profuse in apologizing, and in¬ sisted upon dabbing up the worst of the mess with his handkerchief.

" 'There’s a washroom over behind the booths,’ he said. 'You’ll have time to clean up a bit. I’m most awfully sorry.’

"I walked into the washroom and took off my coat. Before I had quite cleansed the shirt cuff, I heard the motor gun up in the yard; I put on the coat again and reached for the door. The infernal thing had come locked on the outside.

''I hadn’t a moment to lose. I threw up the window and leaped through it and ran to the plane. They had already stowed the mail, and everyone else was in place. The guard asked for my ticket—and I couldn’t find my wallet. I thought I’d dropped it in the washroom, and I told the man so.

"He put on an official frown, which became a scowl when we didn’t find any purse in the washroom. Someone had picked my pocket. Well, I had an idea.

" 'There’s a chap inside who’ll tell you I came in on this ship, and that I had a ticket through to Washington,’ I said, and beckoned Carter to the door of the plane.

"What happened then quite floored me. He told the guard, in the most inno¬ cent fashion possible, that he had never laid eyes on me before! I don’t know what I should have done if the manager of the airport hadn’t come up. He knew me—for I’ve traveled the line a good

deal—and was willing to take my check for the rest of the passage.

"I have found a seat, at last, up in the front of the cabin—a passenger got out at Louisville. It seems he had an attack of air nerves; we have been running into an occasional fog bank. (The flying forecast is fair, so it probably won’t last long.)

"I glanced back at Carter a moment ago. He looks very young and lonely, there in that big seat.

"I should despise him, but on the con¬ trary, I feel sorry for the kid. Indeed, I rather like him. I suppose that is because of his resemblance to poor Robin Bates.

"I am going back to talk to Carter. It is queer, but I feel a distinct pull toward the chap, as if he were silently calling me. He has acted like a boor all along, but not in a boorish, mean, nasty way. I almost suspect that he isn’t responsible for the things he does.

"I look into his empty eyes, and have a feeling that he is but the husk and rind of a man. Something is lacking. The mind, perhaps. Or the soul. . . . One gets the idea that he is wrapped up in a kind of dream, that he is quite alone in a world which he can’t at all understand. He seems strangely and hopelessly baffled.

"I am going to ask him some ques¬ tions. You see, I have a theory to ex¬ plain the chap:

"I don’t know anything about Robin Bates’ family. But his father may have been a rounder. He might have had an illegitimate son. That would account for the resemblance.

His is maddening!

"I’ve just talked to Carter. ’We might as well get acquainted,’ I said. 'My name is Pulver. William Pulver.’

"It wasn’t much use. He listened to me, vaguely; he was thinking of someA PHANTOM IN THE SKY

6 5

thing else. I felt rebuffed, and a little hurt, too.

" 'You’ve a down on me,’ I said to him then. 'I’m sorry about that. I am, indeed. But I won’t trouble you any more.’

"He did a strange thing. He leaned toward me and put his two fingers on my knee. Ah! that was Robin’s way, his ges¬ ture when he wanted to be awfully em¬ phatic about something.

" 'Oh, no!’ he said earnestly. 'I’ve taken quite a chunk of liking to you from the start, really!’

"A chunk of liking! Robin used to say that. I never heard anyone else use the phrase. It gave me a quick, qualmy start.

" 'But you didn’t want me to sit with you,’ I said. 'Why?’

** 'I’m blessed if I know,’ he said. 'I just had the feeling.’

"And I asked, 'What sort of feeling?’

"He shivered. ‘I don’t know. A feel¬ ing. I don’t remember any more.’

"Pitiable! So blankly helpless! It made me sad, it was so like talking to a lost child.

"Carter must have seen the softening of my face, for he took that moment to draw my wallet from his pocket.

*' 'I’m sorry about this,’ he said. 'It seemed the thing to do, at the time. You’ll find your money safe in it, and your ticket. I hope they’ll refund your check.’

"I took the wallet, and got up stiffly, and left him.

"You see the game? Of course, his 'feelings’ are the baldest fakery. He locked me in that washroom, and I’d never have seen the wallet again if I hadn’t got on the plane in spite of all! I dare say he leaped into my cab after pick¬ ing a pocket in the hotel: that was why he didn’t want me on this plane in the first place.

W. T.—5

"A thief! Wearing Robin’s face, using his voice, his mannerisms, his personality!

"We are getting into a regular soup of fog.

"It’s horrible! He’s so like Robin!

“T J UST looked back at Carter. He sat A there, all twisted, his face afire in a terrible way, his hand clawing.

"I knew what he was doing. I’ve done it myself. He was fighting the joy-stick of one of those old army crates—fighting it, and trying to kick her nose up! What does that boy know about a 1918 crate?

"I stared out the window. It freezes my blood to write this. We’ve just skimmed the rim of a mountain ledge. I had only a fleeting glimpse, but I couldn’t be mistaken: I’ve had too many tricks at the stick. There was the ledge, and there was the perfectly natural thing which Carter did: trying to boost the ship, just as you will brake down your foot on the floorboard of a car another man is driv¬ ing, if he comes up too fast on a light. . . . But how did Carter know? He couldn’t possibly have seen that ledge. Not in time. But he knew. I saw it in his face.

"I don’t mean that he was afraid. He wasn’t. Quite the contrary. His face glowed with a terrible knowledge, as if Death had brushed his shoulder and the touch of Death somehow brought him all alive.

"He is looking at me.

"I am beginning to have an idea about Carter-

"Fog. There is a blanket of fog, and though we have climbed steadily from that ledge, we do not find a ceiling to it. The higher we go, the colder—and there is plenty of the stuff freezing on the wings. A flyer knows the weight and drag of it on the ship.

"The pilot can’t think of a forced



landing on the mountains in the fog. He has to climb.

have gone back to Carter.

" 'Where did you do your flying?’ I asked him.

"He shakes his head, he says nothing, he watches me write. He can’t read this, it has come on dark, and we are not show¬ ing a light inside to wall in the fog against any beacon the pilot might find. Anyway, it is as if the act of putting words on paper has no meaning to Carter.

" 'You’ve been up before,’ I said. 'You’ve flown quite a bit?’

" 'I don’t know,’ he said. 'I can’t re¬ member.’

" Was it so long ago?’ I asked.

"Carter gave a little sigh and passed his hand over his face.

"His face! How plainly I see it. Some¬ thing there is, not a halo the eye can see, but a dark light under the flesh!

" 'You know,’ he said, 'you remind me of someone I once knew.’

" Who?’ I asked, and my blood came throbbing into my temples.

" 'I can’t think,’ he said.

" Was he a soldier?’ I asked.

"He did not say anything.

"A bad pocket!

"The plane went like a rocket. She went screaming and twisting on her tail, shiver¬ ing and groaning, with a sound as of hammers beating on her as she fell.

"And I was afraid. It was horrible; not only that I didn’t want to die—but to go without a fight, without a chance, in this cabin like a coffin reeling down the sky!

"And Carter. Death was near, and he seemed to feel that. He came all awake, all alive, with the glow leaping up in him like fire behind the dark flesh. I had the notion that the flesh was dissolving in the flame of him.

" 'You don’t have to be afraid,’ he said. 'It is very easy.’

"He put his hand on my arm. The fin¬ gers were immensely strong. They seemed to lift me out of my seat. I had the sensation of floating away from the plane. I could no longer feel the pitch and fall of the ship.

" 'It is not the least bit hard,’ he said, and he smiled very sweetly.

"I believed him. I ceased to be afraid in the moment that I felt his hand upon my sleeve.

‘ ‘ Tt is terribly important that I throw this A out the window at the last. You may say that the plane simply leveled out of the pocket when Carter took my arm. But I did not feel her, and the wrench was like to tear the struts out of her. I know by the way she flies. We are done for. I know—it is not just the fog and the cold and the feel of the ship: it is Carter and the warm shining behind his face.

"I think of Robin. If I had missed the plane, if I had waited for the six o’clock, if that official had refused my check at Louisville-

"Do you see? It would have been a way of the man Carter keeping Robin’s promise.

" 'Robin!’ I said to him.

"He did not say anything.

"What does a name mean? Here-

"I hear a cracked sound shivering.

"Why do they scream?

"His hand, made let go. write this the last.

"Shrill and twist, all

roar

down grind

I

Robin-”

A PHANTOM IN THE SKY


T he old doctor put the last, hugely scrawled sheets upon the first, neat ones. He took off his eye-glasses and placed them with an exact and deliberate care inside his coat. He got out of the car, tucking the briefcase under his arm. He slopped across the dark field.

The man Jed was crossing the hands over the quiet chests.

The old doctor asked, "Did you iden¬ tify them all?”

The coroner straightened his back; he had been stuffing papers into his own kit. "Why—oh, Bryant, you here again? Yes, I’ve got them ticketed,” he said with a trace of professional satisfaction. "They all had purses, billfolds, old envelopes— one thing and another.”

Doctor Bryant gave him the briefcase. "This belongs to one of them. Wil¬ liam Pulver?”

"Come here,” Evarts said. He took the old doctor’s arm. "He looks peaceful, doesn’t he? Curious. There isn’t a bruise on him. I dare say his heart failed on the way down. Maybe before.”

"He seems to mention another chap,” the old doctor said. "A man named Carter?”

"There wasn’t anyone of that name in the plane.”

"Or Bates? Robin Bates?”

"No. We found a man named Baynes,” the coroner said.

The old doctor looked at the plane. In¬ side his big, shaggy coat his body made a little, quick shiver.

"I don’t suppose anyone could have jumped from it?”

"Impossible. Not from a plane of this type, in midair,” said Evarts. "I happen to be posted on that—I’ve a brother in commercial flying.”

"He would have been a young man,” the old doctor suggested. "Bates, I mean. A lad of nineteen, or thereabouts.”

"No,” said the coroner. "There was no such person in the ship.”

"Well. That settles it, I suppose.”

The doctor walked away across the pas¬ ture. He saw the mist go past him in wind-driven tatters and he listened to the

[THE END]

============================================================
BY ROBERT E
by HOWARD
============================================================
suck and squish under his heels in the soft, wet sod. There was no other sight or sound in the night, only a vague feel¬ ing of unseen men passing and repassing in the silence and rain.

ogues in the House

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

A tale to make the blood tingle—the story of a barbarian soldier of fortune and a squatting monstrosity that sat in the chambers of death in the house of the wizard Nabonidus

"One fled, one dead, one sleeping in a golden bed."—Old Rime.

AT A COURT festival, Nabonidus, the Red Priest, who was the real "*■ ruler of the city, touched Murilo, the young aristocrat, courteously on the arm. Murilo turned to meet the priest’s enigmatic gaze, and to wonder at the hid¬ den meaning therein. No words passed between them, but Nabonidus bowed and handed Murilo a small gold cask. The young nobleman, knowing that Naboni¬ dus did nothing without reason, excused himself at the first opportunity and re¬ turned hastily to his chamber. There he opened the cask and found within a hu¬ man ear, which he recognized by a peculiar scar upon it. He broke into a profuse sweat, and was no longer in doubt about the meaning in the Red Priest’s glance.

But Murilo, for all his scented black curls and foppish apparel, was no weak¬ ling to bend his neck to the knife without a struggle. He did not know whether Nabonidus was merely playing with him, or giving him a chance to go into volun¬ tary exile, but the fact that he was still alive and at liberty proved that he was to be given at least a few hours, probably for meditation. But he needed no meditation for decision; what he needed was a tool. And Fate furnished that tool, working among the dives and brothels of the squalid quarters even while the young nobleman shivered and pondered in the part of the city occuoied the purpletowered marble and ivory palaces of the aristocracy.

There was a priest of Anu whose tem¬ ple, rising at the fringe of the slums dis¬ trict, was the scene of more than devo¬ tions. The priest was fat and full-fed, and he was at once a fence for stolen articles and a spy for the police. He worked a thriving trade both ways, because the dis¬ trict on which he bordered was The Maze, a tangle of muddy winding alleys and sordid dens, frequented by the boldest thieves in the kingdom. Daring above all were a Gunderman deserter from the mer¬ cenaries and a barbaric Cimmerian. Be¬ cause of the priest of Anu, the Gunder¬ man was taken and hanged in the marketsquare. But the Cimmerian fled, and learning in devious ways of the priest’s treachery, he entered the temple of Anu by night, and cut off the priest’s head. There followed a great turmoil in the city, but search for the killer proved fruit¬ less until his punk betrayed him to the authorities, and led a captain of the guard and his squad to the hidden chamber where the barbarian lay drunk.

Waking to stupefied but ferocious life when they seized him, he disemboweled the captain, burst through his assailants and would have escaped, but for the liquor that still clouded his senses. Be¬ wildered and half blinded, he missed the open door in his headlong flight, and dashed his head against the stone wall so terrifically that he knocked himself senseROGUES IN THE HOUSE


less. When he came to, he was in the strongest dungeon in the city, shackled to the wall with chains not even his barbaric thews could break.

To this cell came Murilo, masked and wrapped in a wide black cloak. The Cim¬ merian surveyed him with interest, think¬ ing him the executioner sent to dispatch him. Murilo set him at rights, and re¬ garded him with no less interest. Even in the dim light of the dungeon, with his

limbs loaded with chains, the primitive power of the man was evident. His mighty body and thick-muscled limbs combined the strength of a grizzly with the quickness of a panther. Under his tangled black mane his blue eyes blazed with unquenchable savagery.

"Would you like to live?” asked Mu¬ rilo. The barbarian grunted, new interest glinting in his eyes.

"If I arrange for your escape will you



do a favor for me?” the aristocrat asked.

The Cimmerian did not speak, but the intentness of his gaze answered for him.

"I want you to kill a man for me.”

"Whom?”

Murilo’s voice sank to a whisper. "Nabonidus, the king’s priest!”

The Cimmerian showed no sign of sur¬ prize or perturbation. He had none of the fear or reverence for authority that civilization instills in men. King or beg¬ gar, it was all one to him. Nor did he ask why Murilo had come to him, when the quarters were full of cutthroats out¬ side prisons.

"When am I to escape?” he demanded.

"Within the hour. There is but one guard in this part of the dungeon at night. He can be bribed; he has been bribed. See, here are the keys to your chains. I’ll remove them, and after I have been gone an hour, the guard, Athicus, will unlock the door to your cell. You will bind him with strips torn from your tunic; so when he is found, the authorities will think you were rescued from the out¬ side, and will not suspect him. Go at once to the house of the Red Priest, and kill him. Then go to the Rats’ Den, where a man will meet you and give you a pouch of gold and a horse. With those you can escape from the city and flee the country.”

"Take off these cursed chains now,” demanded the Cimmerian. "And have the guard bring me food. By Crom, I have lived on moldy bread and water for a whole day and I am nigh to famishing.”

"It shall be done; but remember—you are not to escape until I have had time to reach my house.”

Freed of his chains, the barbarian stood up and stretched his heavy arms, enor¬ mous in the gloom of the dungeon. Mu¬ rilo again felt that if any man in the world could accomplish the task he had set, this Cimmerian could. With a few

repeated instructions he left the prison, first directing Athicus to take a platter of beef and ale in to the prisoner. He knew he could trust the guard, not only because of the money he had paid, but also be¬ cause of certain information he possessed regarding the man.

W hen he returned to his chamber, Murilo was in full control of his fears. Nabonidus would strike through the king—of that he was certain. And since the royal guardsmen were not knock¬ ing at his door, it was as certain that the priest had said nothing to the king, so far. Tomorrow he would speak, beyond a doubt—if he lived to see tomorrow.

Murilo believed the Cimmerian would keep faith with him. Whether the man would be able to carry out his purpose remained to be seen. Men had attempted to assassinate the Red Priest before, and they had died in hideous and nameless ways. But they had been products of the cities of men, lacking the wolfish instincts of the barbarian. The instant that Mu¬ rilo, turning the gold cask with its severed ear in his hands, had learned through his secret channels that the Cimmerian had been captured, he had seen a solution of his problem.

In his chamber*again, he drank a toast to the man, whose name was Conan, and to his success that night. And while he was drinking, one of his spies brought him the news that Athicus had been ar¬ rested and thrown into prison. The Cim¬ merian had not escaped.

Murilo felt his blood turn to ice again. He could see in this twist of fate only the sinister hand of Nabonidus, and an eery obsession began to grow on him that the Red Priest was more than human—a sor¬ cerer who read the minds of his victims and pulled strings on which they danced like puppets. With despair came desperaROGUES IN THE HOUSE


tion. Girding a sword beneath his black cloak, he left his house by a hidden way, and hurried through the deserted streets. It was just at midnight when he came to the house of Nabonidus, looming blackly among the walled gardens that separated it from the surrounding estates.

The wall was high but not impossible to negotiate. Nabonidus did not put his trust in mere barriers of stone. It was what was inside the wall that was to be feared. What these things were Murilo did not know precisely. He knew there was at least a huge savage dog that roamed the gardens and had on occasion torn an intruder to pieces as a hound rends a rabbit. What else there might be he did not care to conjecture. Men who had been allowed to enter the house on brief, legitimate business, reported that Naboni¬ dus dwelt among rich furnishings, yet simply, attended by a surprizingly small number of servants. Indeed, they men¬ tioned only one as having been visible— a tall silent man called Joka. Some one else, presumably a slave, had been heard moving about in the recesses of the house, but this person no one had ever seen. The greatest mystery of that mysterious house was Nabonidus himself, whose power of intrigue and grasp on interna¬ tional politics had made him the strongest man in the kingdom. People, chancellor and king moved puppet-like on the strings he worked.

Murilo scaled the wall and dropped down into the gardens, which were ex¬ panses of shadow, darkened by clumps of shrubbery and waving foliage. No light shone in the windows of the house which loomed so blackly among the trees. The young nobleman stole stealthily yet swift¬ ly through the shrubs. Momentarily he expected to hear the baying of the great dog, and to see its giant body hurtle through the shadows. He doubted the

effectiveness of his sword against such an attack, but he did not hesitate. As well die beneath the fangs of a beast as the ax of the headsman.

He stumbled over something bulky and yielding. Bending close in the dim star¬ light, he made out a limp shape on the ground. It was the dog that guarded the gardens, and it was dead. Its neck was broken and it bore what seemed to be the marks of great fangs. Murilo felt that no human being had done this. The beast had met a monster more savage than itself. Murilo glared nervously at the cryptic masses of bush and shrub; then with a shrug of his shoulders, he approached the silent house.

The first door he tried proved to be unlocked. He entered warily, sword in hand, and found himself in a long shad¬ owy hallway dimly illumined by a light that gleamed through the hangings at the other end. Complete silence hung over the whole house. Murilo glided along the hall and halted to peer through the hangings. He looked into a lighted room, over the windows of which velvet cur¬ tains were drawn so closely as to allow no beam to shine through. The room was empty, in so far as human life was con¬ cerned, but it had a grisly occupant, nev¬ ertheless. In the midst of a wreckage of furniture and torn hangings that told of a fearful struggle, lay the body of a man. The form lay on its belly, but the head was twisted about so that the chin rested behind a shoulder. The features, con¬ torted into an awful grin, seemed to leer at the horrified nobleman.

For the first time that night, Murilo’s resolution wavered. He cast an uncertain glance back the way he had come. Then the memory of the headsman’s block and ax steeled him, and he crossed the room, swerving to avoid the grinning horror sprawled in its midst. Though he had



never seen the man before, he knew from former descriptions that it was Joka, Na* bonidus’ saturnine servant.

He peered through a curtained door in¬ to a broad circular chamber, banded by a gallery half-way between the polished floor and the lofty ceiling. This chamber was furnished as if for a king. In the midst of it stood an ornate mahogany table, loaded with vessels of wine and rich viands. And Murilo stiffened. In a great chair whose broad back was toward him, he saw a figure whose habiliments were familiar. He glimpsed an arm in a red sleeve resting on the arm of the chair; the head, clad in the familiar scarlet hood of the gown, was bent forward as if in meditation. Just so had Murilo seen Nabonidus sit a hundred times in the royal court.

Cursing the pounding of his own heart, the young nobleman stole across the chamber, sword extended, his whole frame poised for the thrust. His prey did not move, nor seem to hear his cautious ad¬ vance. Was the Red Priest asleep, or was it a corpse which slumped in that great chair? The length of a single stride sepa¬ rated Murilo from his enemy, when sud¬ denly the man in the chair rose and faced him.

The blood went suddenly fromMurilo’s features. His sword fell from his fingers and rang on the polished floor. A terrible cry broke from his livid lips; it was fol¬ lowed by the thud of a falling body. Then once more silence reigned over the house of the Red Priest.


S hortly after Murilo left the dungeon where Conan the Cimmerian was con¬ fined, Athicus brought the prisoner a plat¬ ter of food which included, among other things, a huge joint of beef and a tankard of ale. Conan fell to voraciously, and

Athicus made a final round of the cells, to see that all was in order, and that none should witness the pretended prisonbreak. It was while he was so occupied that a squad of guardsmen marched into the prison and placed him under arrest. Murilo had been mistaken when he as¬ sumed this arrest denoted discovery of Conan’s planned escape. It was another matter; Athicus had become careless in his dealings with the underworld, and one of his past sins had caught up with him.

Another jailer took his place, a stolid, dependable creature whom no amount of bribery could have shaken from his duty. He was unimaginative, but he had an ex¬ alted idea of the importance of his job.

After Athicus had been marched away to be formally arraigned before a mag¬ istrate, this jailer made the rounds of the cells as a matter of routine. As he passed that of Conan, his sense of propriety was shocked and outraged to see the prisoner free of his chains, and in the act of gnaw¬ ing the last shreds of meat from a huge beef-bone. The jailer was so upset that he made the mistake of entering the cell alone, without calling guards from other parts of the prison. It was his first mis¬ take in the line of duty, and his last. Conan brained him with the beef-bone, took his poniard and his keys, and made a leisurely departure. As Murilo had said, only one guard was on duty there at night. The Cimmerian passed himself outside the walls by means of the keys he had taken, and presently emerged into the outer air, as free as if Murilo’s plan had been successful.

In the shadows of the prison walls, Conan paused to decide his next course of action. It occurred to him that since he had escaped through his own actions, he owed nothing to Murilo; yet it had been the young nobleman who had reROGUES IN THE HOUSE


moved his chains and had the food sent to him, without either of which his es¬ cape would have been impossible. Conan decided that he was indebted to Murilo, and, since he v/as a man who discharged his obligations eventually, he determined to carry out his promise to the young aris¬ tocrat. But first he had some business of his own to attend to.

He discarded his ragged tunic and moved off through the night naked but for a loin-cloth. As he went he fingered the poniard he had captured—a murder¬ ous weapon with a broad double-edged blade nineteen inches long. He slunk along alleys and shadowed plazas until he came to the district which was his des¬ tination—The Maze. Along its labyrinthin ways he went with the certainty of familiarity. It was indeed a maze of black alleys and enclosed courts and devious ways; of furtive sounds, and stenches. There was no paving on the streets; mud and filth mingled in an unsavory mess. Sewers were unknown; refuse was dumped into the alleys to form reeking heaps and puddles. Unless a man walked with care he was likely to lose his footing and plunge waist-deep into nauseous pools. Nor was it uncommon to stumble over a corpse lying with its throat cut or its head knocked in, in the mud. Honest folk shunned The Maze with good reason.

C onan reached his destination with¬ out being seen, just as one he wished fervently to meet was leaving it. As the Cimmerian slunk into the courtyard below, the girl who had sold him to the police was taking leave of her new lover in a chamber one flight up. This young thug, her door closed behind him, groped his way down a creaking flight of stairs, intent on his own meditations, which, like those of most of the denizens of The Maze, had to do with the unlawful ac¬

quirement of property. Part-way down the stairs, he halted suddenly, his hair standing up. A vague bulk crouched in the darkness before him, a pair of eyes blazed like the eyes of a hunting beast. A beast-like snarl was the last thing he heard in life, as the monster lurched against him, and a keen blade ripped through his belly. He gave one gasping cry, and slumped down limply on the stairway.

The barbarian loomed above him for an instant, ghoul-like, his eyes burning in the gloom. He knew the sound was heard, but the people in The Maze were careful to attend to their own business. A death-cry on darkened stairs was noth¬ ing unusual. Later, some one would ven¬ ture to investigate, but only after a rea¬ sonable lapse of time.

Conan went up the stairs and halted at a door he knew well of old. It was fas¬ tened within, but his blade passed between the door and the jamb and lifted the bar. He stepped inside, closing the door after him, and faced the girl who had betrayed him to the police.

The wench was sitting cross-legged in her shift on her unkempt bed. She turned white and stared at him as if at a ghost. She had heard the cry from the stairs, and she saw the red stain on the poniard in his hand. But she was too filled with ter¬ ror on her own account to waste any time lamenting the evident fate of her lover. She began to beg for her life, almost in¬ coherent with terror. Conan did not reply; he merely stood and glared at her with his burning eyes, testing the edge of his poniard with a calloused thumb.

At last he crossed the chamber, while she cowered back against the wall, sob¬ bing frantic pleas for mercy. Grasping her yellow locks with no gentle hand, he dragged her off the bed. Thrusting his blade back in its sheath, he tucked his



squirming captive under his left arm, and strode to the window. Like most houses of that type, a ledge encircled each story, caused by the continuance of the windowledges. Conan kicked the window open and stepped out on that narrow band. If any had been near or awake, they would have witnessed the bizarre sight of a man moving carefully along the ledge, carry¬ ing a kicking, half-naked wench under his arm. They would have been no more puz¬ zled than the girl.

Reaching the spot he sought, Conan halted, gripping the wall with his free hand. Inside the building rose a sudden clamor, showing that the body had at last been discovered. His captive whimpered and twisted, renewing her importunities. Conan glanced down into the muck and slime of the alleys below; he listened briefly to the clamor inside and the pleas of the wench; then he dropped her with great accuracy into a cesspool. He enjoyed her kickings and flounderings and the concentrated venom of her profanity for a few seconds, and even allowed himself a low rumble of laughter. Then he lifted his head, listened to the growing tumult within the building, and decided it was time for him to kill Nabonidus.


I T was a reverberating clang of metal that roused Murilo. He groaned and struggled dazedly to a sitting posture. About him all was silence and darkness, and for an instant he was sickened with the fear that he was blind. Then he re¬ membered what had gone before, and his flesh crawled. By the sense of touch he found that he was lying on a floor of evenly joined stone slabs. Further grop¬ ing discovered a wall of the same mate¬ rial. He rose and leaned against it, trying in vain to orient himself. That he was in some sort of a prison seemed certain, but

where and how long he was unable to guess. He remembered dimly a clash¬ ing noise, and wondered if it had been the iron door of his dungeon closing on him, or if it betokened the entrance of an executioner.

At this thought he shuddered pro¬ foundly and began to feel his way along the wall. Momentarily he expected to en¬ counter the limits of his prison, but after awhile he came to the conclusion that he was travelling down a corridor. He kept to the wall, fearful of pits or other traps, and was presently aware of something near him in the blackness. He could see nothing, but either his ears had caught a stealthy sound, or some subconscious sense warned him. He stopped short, his hair standing on end; as surely as he lived, he felt the presence of some living creature crouching in the darkness in front of him.

He thought his heart would stop when a voice hissed in a barbaric accent: "Mu¬ rilo! Is it you?”

"Conan!” Limp from the reaction, the young nobleman groped in the darkness and his hands encountered a pair of great naked shoulders.

"A good thing I recognized you,” grunted the barbarian. "I was about to stick you like a fattened pig.”

"Where are we, in Mitra’s name?”

'In the pits under the Red Priest’s house; but why-”

"What is the time?”

"Not long after midnight.”

Murilo shook his head, trying to as¬ semble his scattered wits.

"What are you doing here?” demanded the Cimmerian.

"I came to kill Nabonidus. I heard they had changed the guard at your prison-”

"They did,” growled Conan. "I broke the new jailer’s head and walked out. I would have been here hours agone, but I

ROGUES IN THE HOUSE


had some personal business to attend to. Well, shall we hunt for Nabonidus?”

Murilo shuddered. "Conan, we are in the house of the archfiend! I came seek¬ ing a human enemy; I found a hairy devil out of hell!”

Conan grunted uncertainly; fearless as a wounded tiger as far as human foes were concerned, he had all the supersti¬ tious dreads of the primitive.

"I gained access to the house,” whis¬ pered Murilo, as if the darkness were full of listening ears. "In the outer gardens I found Nabonidus’ dog mauled to death. Within the house I came upon Joka, the servant. His neck had been broken. Then I saw Nabonidus himself seated in his chair, clad in his accustomed garb. At first I thought he too was dead. I stole up to stab him. He rose and faced me. Gods!” The memory of that horror struck the young nobleman momentarily speech¬ less as he re-lived that awful instant.

"Conan,” he whispered, "it was no man that stood before me! In body and posture it was not unlike a man, but from the scarlet hood of the priest grinned a face of madness and nightmare! It was covered with black hair, from which small pig-like eyes glared redly; its nose was flat, with great flaring nostrils; its loose lips writhed back, disclosing huge yellow fangs, like the teeth of a dog. The hands that hung from the scarlet sleeves were misshapen and likewise covered with black hair. All this I saw in one glance, and then I was overcome with horror; my senses left me and I swooned.”

"What then?” muttered the Cimmerian uneasily.

"I recovered consciousness only a short time ago; the monster must have thrown me into these pits. Conan, I have sus¬ pected that Nabonidus was not wholly human! He is a demon—a were-thing! By day he moves among humanity in the

guise of men, and by night he takes on his true aspect.”

"That’s evident,” answered Conan. "Every one knows there are men who take the form of wolves at will. But why did he kill his servants?”

"Who can delve the mind of a devil?” replied Murilo. "Our present interest is in getting out of this place. Human wea¬ pons can not harm a were-man. How did you get in here?”

"Through the sewer. I reckoned on the gardens being guarded. The sewers connect with a tunnel that lets into these pits. I thought to find some door leading up into the house unbolted.”

"Then let us escape by the way you came!” exclaimed Murilo. "To the devil with it! Once out of this snake-den, we’ll take our chance with the king’s guards¬ men, and risk a flight from the city. Lead on!”

"Useless,” grunted the Cimmerian. "The way to the sewers is barred. As I entered the tunnel an iron grille crashed down from the roof. If I had not moved quicker than a flash of lightning, its spear-heads would have pinned me to the floor like a worm. When I tried to lift it, it wouldn’t move. An elephant couldn’t shake it. Nor could anything bigger than a rabbit squirm between the bars.”

Murilo cursed, an icy hand playing up and down his spine. He might have known Nabonidus would not leave any entrance into his house unguarded. Had Conan not possessed the steel-spring quickness of a wild thing, that falling port¬ cullis would have skewered him. Doubt¬ less his walking through the tunnel had sprung some hidden catch that released it from the roof. As it was, both were trapped living.

"There’s but one thing to do,” said Murilo, sweating profusely. "That’s to search for some other exit; doubtless



they’re all set with traps, but we have no other choice.”

T he barbarian grunted agreement, and the companions began groping their way at random down the corridor. Even at that moment, something oc¬ curred to Murilo.

"How did you recognize me in this blackness?” he demanded.

"I smelled the perfume you put on your hair, when you came to my cell,” answered Conan. "I smelled it again a while ago, when I was crouching in the dark and preparing to rip you open.”

Murilo put a lock of his black hair to his nostrils; even so the scent was barely ap¬ parent to his civilized senses, and he real¬ ized how keen must be the organs of the barbarian.

Instinctively his hand went to his scab¬ bard as they groped onward, and he cursed to find it empty. At that moment a faint glow became apparent ahead of them, and presently they came to a sharp bend in the corridor, about which the light filtered grayly. Together they peered around the corner, and Murilo, leaning against his companion, felt his huge frame stiffen. The young nobleman had also seen it— the body of a man, half naked, lying limply in the corridor beyond the bend, vaguely illumined by a radiance which seemed to emanate from a broad silver disk on the farther wall. A strange fa¬ miliarity about the recumbent figure, which lay face down, stirred Murilo with inexplicable and monstrous conjectures. Motioning the Cimmerian to follow him, he stole forward and bent above the body. Overcoming a certain repugnance, he grasped it and turned it on its back. An incredulous oath escaped him; the Cim¬ merian grunted explosively.

"Nabonidus! The Red Priest!” ejacu¬ lated Murilo, his brain a dizzy vortex of

whirling amazement. "Then who— what-?”

The priest groaned and stirred. With cat-like quickness Conan bent over him, poniard poised above his heart. Murilo caught his wrist.

"Wait! Don’t kill him yet——”

"Why not?” demanded the Cimmerian. "He has cast off his were-guise, and sleeps. Will you awaken him to tear us to pieces?”

"No, wait!” urged Murilo, trying to collect his jumbled wits. "Look! He is not sleeping—see that great blue welt on his shaven temple? He has been knocked senseless. He may have been lying here for hours.”

"I thought you swore you saw him in beastly shape in the house above,” said Conan.

"I did! Or else—he’s coming to! Keep back your blade, Conan; there is a mys¬ tery here even darker than I thought. I must have words with this priest, before we kill him.”

Nabonidus lifted a hand vaguely to his bruised temple, mumbled, and opened his eyes. For an instant they were blank and empty of intelligence; then life came back to them with a jerk, and he sat up, staring at the companions. Whatever ter¬ rific jolt had temporarily addled his razorkeen brain, it was functioning with its accustomed vigor again. His eyes shot swiftly about him, then came back to rest on Murilo’s face.

"You honor my poor house, young sir,” he laughed coolly, glancing at the great figure that loomed behind the young no¬ bleman’s shoulder. "You have brought a bravo, I see. Was your sword not suffi¬ cient to sever the life of my humble self?”

"Enough of this,” impatiently returned Murilo. "How long have you lain here?”

"A peculiar question to put to a man just recovering consciousness,” answered

ROGUES IN THE HOUSE


the priest "I do not know what time it now is. But it lacked an hour or so of midnight when I was set upon.”

"Then who is it that masquerades in your own gown in the house above?” de¬ manded Murilo.

"That will be Thak,” answered Nabonidus, ruefully fingering his bruises. "Yes, that will be Thak. And in my gown? The dog!”

Conan, who comprehended none of this, stirred restlessly, and growled some¬ thing in his own tongue. Nabonidus glanced at him whimsically.

"Your bully’s knife yearns for my heart, Murilo,” he said. "I thought you might be wise enough to take my warn ing and leave the city.”

"How was I to know that was to be granted me?” returned Murilo. "At any rate, my interests are here.”

"You are in good company with that cutthroat,” murmured Nabonidus. "I had suspected you for some time. That was why I caused that pallid court secretary to disappear. Before he died he told me many things, among others the name of the young nobleman who bribed him to filch state secrets, which the nobleman in turn sold to rival powers. Are you not ashamed of yourself, Murilo, you whitehanded thief?”

"I have no more cause for shame than you, you vulture-hearted plunderer,” an¬ swered Murilo promptly. "You exploit a whole kingdom for your personal greed, and under the guise of disinterested statesmanship, you swindle the king, beg¬ gar the rich, oppress the poor, and sacri¬ fice the whole future of the nation for your ruthless ambition. You are no more than a fat hog with his snout in the trough. You are a greater thief than I am. This Cimmerian is the most honest man of the three of us, because he steals and murders openly.”

"Well, then, we are all rogues to¬ gether,” agreed Nabonidus equably. "And what now? My life?”

"When I saw the ear of the secretary that had disappeared, I knew I was doomed,” said Murilo abruptly, "and I believed you would invoke the authority of the king. Was I right?”

"Quite so,” answered the priest. "A court secretary is easy to do away with, but you are a bit too prominent. I had intended telling the king a jest about you in the morning.”

"A jest that would have cost me my head,” muttered Murilo. "Then the king is unaware of my foreign enterprises?”

"As yet,” sighed Nabonidus. "And now, since I see your companion has his knife, I fear that jest will never be told.”

"You should know how to get out of these rat-dens,” said Murilo. "Suppose I agree to spare your life. Will you help us to escape, and swear to keep silent about my thievery?”

"When did a priest keep an oath?” complained Conan, comprehending the trend of the conversation. "Let me cut his throat; I want to see what color his blood is. They say in The Maze that his heart is black, so his blood must be black

"Be quiet,” whispered Murilo. "If he does not show us the way out of these pits, we may rot here. Well, Nabonidus, what do you say?”

"What does a wolf with his leg in the trap say?” laughed the priest. "I am in your power, and if we are to escape, we must aid one another. I swear, if we survive this adventure, to forget all your shifty dealings. I swear by the soul of Mitra!”

"I am satisfied,” muttered Murilo. "Even the Red Priest would not break that oath. Now to get out of here. My friend here entered by way of the tunnel.



but a grille fell behind him and blocked the way. Can you cause it to be lifted?”

"Not from these pits,” answered the priest. "The control lever is in the cham¬ ber above the tunnel. There is only one other way out of these pits, which I will show you. But tell me, how did you come here?”

Murilo told him in a few words, and Nabonidus nodded, rising stiffly. He limped down the corridor, which here widened into a sort of vast chamber, and approached the distant silver disk. As they advanced the light increased, though it never became anything but a dim shadowy radiance. Near the disk they saw a nar¬ row stair leading upward.

"That is the other exit,” said Nabon¬ idus. "And I strongly doubt if the door at the head is bolted. But I have an idea that he who would go through that door had better cut his own throat first. Look into the disk.”

W hat had seemed a silver plate was in reality a great mirror set in the wall. A confusing system of copper-like tubes jutted out from the wall above it, bending down toward it at right angles. Glancing into these tubes, Murilo saw a bewildering array of smaller mirrors. He turned his attention to the larger mirror in the wall, and ejaculated in amazement. Peering over his shoulder, Conan grunted.

They seemed to be looking through a broad window into a well-lighted cham¬ ber. There were broad mirrors on the walls, with velvet hangings between; there were silken couches, chairs of ebony and ivory, and curtained doorways lead¬ ing off from the chamber. And before one doorway which was not curtained, sat a bulky black object that contrasted grotesquely with the richness of the chamber.

Murilo felt his blood freeze again as

he looked at the horror which seemed to be staring directly into his eyes. Involun¬ tarily he recoiled from the mirror, while Conan thrust his head truculently for¬ ward, till his jaws almost touched the surface, growling some threat or defiance in his own barbaric tongue.

"In Mitra’s name, Nabonidus,” gasped Murilo, shaken, "what is it?”

"That is Thak,” answered the priest, caressing his temple. "Some would call him an ape, but he is almost as different from a real ape as he is different from a real man. His people dwell far to the east, in the mountains that fringe the eastern frontiers of Zamora. There are not many of them, but if they are not exterminated, I believe they will become human beings, in perhaps a hundred thousand years. They are in the forma¬ tive stage; they are neither apes, as their remote ancestors were, nor men, as their remote descendants may be. They dwell in the high crags of well-nigh inaccessi¬ ble mountains, knowing nothing of fire or the making of shelter or garments, or the use of weapons. Yet they have a lan¬ guage of a sort, consisting mainly of grunts and clicks.

"I took Thak when he was a cub, and he learned what I taught him much more swiftly and thoroughly than any true ani¬ mal could have done. He was at once bodyguard and servant. But I forgot that being partly a man, he could not be sub¬ merged into a mere shadow of myself, like a true animal. Apparently his semi¬ brain retained impressions of hate, re¬ sentment, and some sort of bestial ambi¬ tion of its own.

"At any rate, he struck when I least exported it. Last night he appeared to go suddenly mad. His actions had all the appearance of bestial insanity, yet I know that they must have been the result of long and careful planning.

ROGUES IN THE HOUSE


"I heard a sound of fighting in the garden, and going to investigate—for I believed it was yourself, being dragged down by my watch-dog—I saw Thak emerge from the shrubbery dripping with blood. Before I was aware of his inten¬ tion, he sprang at me with an awful scream and struck me senseless. I remem¬ ber no more, but can only surmise that, following some whim of his semi-human brain, he stripped me of my gown and cast me still living into the pits—for what reason, only the gods can guess. He must have killed the dog when he came from the garden, and after he struck me down, he evidently killed Joka, as you saw the man lying dead in the house. Joka would have come to my aid, even against Thak, whom he always hated.”

Murilo stared in the mirror at the crea¬ ture which sat with such monstrous pa¬ tience before the closed door. He shud¬ dered at the sight of the great black hands, thickly grown with hair that was almost fur-like. The body was thick, broad and stooped. The unnaturally wide shoulders had burst the scarlet gown, and on these shoulders Murilo noted the same thick growth of black hair. The face peering from the scarlet hood was utterly bestial, and yet Murilo realized that Nabonidus spoke truth when he said that Thak was not wholly a beast. There was something in the red murky eyes, some¬ thing in the creature’s clumsy posture, something in the whole appearance of the thing that set it apart from the truly animal. That monstrous body housed a brain and soul that were just budding awfully into something vaguely human. Murilo stood aghast as he recognized a faint and hideous kinship between his kind and that squatting monstrosity, and he was nauseated by a fleeting realization of the abysses of bellowing bestiality up

through which humanity had painfully toiled.

"Surely he sees us,” muttered Conan. "Why does he not charge us? He could break this window with ease.”

Murilo realized that Conan supposed the mirror to be a window through which they were looking.

"He does not see us,” answered the priest. "We are looking into the chamber above us. That door that Thak is guard¬ ing is the one at the head of these stairs. It is simply an arrangement of mirrors. Do you see those mirrors on the walls? They transmit the reflection of the room into these tubes, down which other mir¬ rors carry it to reflect it at last on an en¬ larged scale in this great mirror.”

Murilo realized that the priest must be centuries ahead of his generation, to per¬ fect such an invention; but Conan put it down to witchcraft, and troubled his head no more about it.

"I constructed these pits for a place of refuge as well as a dungeon,” the priest was saying. "There are times when I have taken refuge here, and through these mirrors, watched doom fall upon those who sought me with ill intent.”

"But why is Thak watching that door?” demanded Murilo.

"He must have heard the falling of the grating in the tunnel. It is connected with bells in the chambers above. He knows some one is in the pits, and he is waiting for him to come up the stairs. Oh, he has learned well the lessons I taught him. He has seen what happened to men who came through that door, when I tugged at the rope that hangs on yonder wall, and he waits to mimic me.”

"And while he waits, what are we to do?” demanded Murilo.

"There is naught we can do, except watch him. As long as he is in that cham¬ ber, we dare not ascend the stairs. He has


the strength of a true gorilla, and could easily tear us all to pieces. But he does not need to exert his muscles; if we open that door he has but to tug that rope, and blast us into eternity.”

"How?”

"I bargained to help you escape,” an¬ swered the priest; "not to betray my sec¬ rets.”

M urilo started to reply, then stiffened suddenly. A stealthy hand had parted the curtains of one of the door¬ ways. Between them appeared a dark face whose glittering eyes fixed menacingly on the squat form in the scarlet robe.

"Petreus!” hissed Nabonidus. "Mitra, what a gathering of vultures this night is!”

The face remained framed between the parted curtains. Over the intruder’s shoulder other faces peered—dark, thin faces, alight with sinister eagerness.

"What do they here?” muttered Mu¬ rilo, unconsciously lowering his voice, although he knew they could not hear him.

"Why, what would Petreus and his ardent young nationalists be doing in the house of the Red Priest?” laughed Na¬ bonidus. "Look how eagerly they glare at the figure they think is their arch-enemy. They have fallen into your error; it should be amusing to watch their expressions when they are disillusioned.”

Murilo did not reply. The whole affair had a distinctly unreal atmosphere. He felt as if he were watching the play of puppets, or as a disembodied ghost him¬ self, impersonally viewing the actions of the living, his presence unseen and un¬ suspected.

He saw Petreus put his finger warningly to his lips, and nod to his fellowconspirators. The young nobleman could not tell if Thak were aware of the in¬

truders. The apeman’s position had not changed, as he sat with his back toward the door through which the men were gliding.

"They had the same idea you had,” Nabonidus was muttering at his ear. "Only their reasons were patriotic rather than selfish. Easy to gain access to my house, now that the dog is dead. Oh, what a chance to rid myself of their menace once and for all! If I were sitting where Thak sits—a leap to the wall—a tug on that rope-”

Petreus had placed one foot lightly over the threshold of the chamber; his fellows were at his heels, their daggers glinting dully. Suddenly Thak rose and wheeled toward him. The unexpected horror of his appearance, where they had thought to behold the hated but familiar countenance of Nabonidus, wrought havoc with their nerves, as the same spec¬ tacle had wrought upon Murilo. With a shriek Petreus recoiled, carrying his com¬ panions backward with him. They stum¬ bled and floundered over each other, and in that instant Thak, covering the dis¬ tance in one prodigious, grotesque leap, caught and jerked powerfully at a thick velvet rope which hung near the doorway.

Instantly the curtains whipped back on either hand, leaving the door clear, and down across it something flashed with a peculiar silvery blur.

"He remembered!” Nabonidus was ex¬ ulting. "The beast is half a man! He had seen the doom performed, and he remem¬ bered! Watch, now! Watch! Watch!”

Murilo saw that it was a panel of heavy glass that had fallen across the doorway. Through it he saw the pallid faces of the conspirators. Petreus, throwing out his hands as if to ward off a charge from Thak, encountered the transparent barrier, and from his gestures, said something to his companions. Now that the curtains W. T.—5

ROGUES IN THE HOUSE


were drawn back, the men in the pits could see all that took place in the cham¬ ber that contained the nationalists. Com¬ pletely unnerved, these ran across the chamber toward the door by which they had apparently entered, only to halt sud¬ denly, as if stopped by an invisible wall,

"The jerk of the rope sealed that cham¬ ber,” laughed Nabonidus. "It is simple; the glass panels work in grooves in the doorways. Jerking the rope trips the spring that holds them. They slide down and lock in place, and can only be worked from outside. The glass is unbreakable; a man with a mallet could not shatter it. Ah!”

The trapped men were in a hysteria of fright; they ran wildly from one door to another, beating vainly at the crystal walls, shaking their fists wildly at the implaca¬ ble black shape which squatted outside. Then one threw back his head, glared up¬ ward, and began to scream, to judge from the working of his lips, while he pointed toward the ceiling.

"The fall of the panels released the clouds of doom,” said the Red Priest with a wild laugh. "The dust of the gray lotus, from the Swamps of the Dead, beyond the land of Khitai.”

I N the middle of the ceiling hung a cluster of gold buds; these had opened like the petals of a great carven rose, and from them billowed a gray mist that swift¬ ly filled the chamber. Instantly the scene changed from one of hysteria to one of madness and horror. The trapped men began to stagger; they ran in drunken circles. Froth dripped from their lips, which twisted as in awful laughter. Rag¬ ing they fell upon one another with dag¬ gers and teeth, slashing, tearing, slaying in a holocaust of madness. Murilo turned sick as he watched, and was glad that he could not hear the screams and howls W. T.—6

with which that doomed chamber must be ringing. Like pictures thrown on a screen, it was silent.

Outside the chamber of horror Thak was leaping up and down in brutish glee, tossing his long hairy arms on high. At Murilo’s shoulder Nabonidus was laugh¬ ing like a fiend.

"Ha, a good stroke, Petreus! That fairly disemboweled him! Now one for you, my patriotic friend! So! They are all down, and the living tear the flesh of the dead with their slavering teeth.”

Murilo shuddered. Behind him the Cimmerian swore softly in his uncouth tongue. Only death was to be seen in the chamber of the gray mist; torn, gashed and mangled, the conspirators lay in a red heap, gaping mouths and blood-dab¬ bled faces staring blankly upward through the slowly swirling eddies of gray.

Thak, stooping like a giant gnome, ap¬ proached the wall where the rope hung, and gave it a peculiar sidewise pull.

"He is opening the farther door,” said Nabonidus. "By Mitra, he is more of a human than even I had guessed! See, the mist swirls out of the chamber, and is dis¬ sipated. He waits, to be safe. Now he raises the other panel. He is cautious— he knows the doom of the gray lotus, which brings madness and death. By Mitra!”

Murilo jerked about at the electric qual¬ ity of the exclamation.

"Our one chance!” exclaimed Nabon¬ idus. "If he leaves the chamber above for a few minutes, we will risk a dash up those stairs.”

Suddenly tense, they watched the mon¬ ster waddle through the doorway and van¬ ish. With the lifting of the glass panel, the curtains had fallen again, hiding the chamber of death.

"We must chance it!” gasped Nabon¬ idus, and Murilo saw perspiration break



out on his face. "Perhaps he will be dis¬ posing of the bodies as he has seen me do. Quick! Follow me up those stairs!”

He ran toward the steps and up them with an agility that amazed Murilo. The young nobleman and the barbarian were close at his heels, and they heard his gusty sigh of relief as he threw open the door at the top of the stairs. They burst into the broad chamber they had seen mirrored beiow. Thak was nowhere to be seen.

"He’s in that chamber with the corps¬ es!” exclaimed Murilo. "Why not trap him there as he trapped them?”

"No, no!” gasped Nabonidus, an un¬ accustomed pallor tingeing his features. "We do not know that he is in there. He might emerge before we could reach the trap-rope, anyway! Follow me into this corridor; I must reach my chamber and obtain weapons which will destroy him. This corridor is the only one opening from this chamber which is not set with a trap of some kind.”

T hey followed him swiftly through a curtained doorway opposite the door of the death-chamber, and came into a corridor, into which various chambers opened. With fumbling haste Nabonidus began to try the doors on each side. They were locked, as was the door at the other end of the corridor.

"My God!” The Red Priest leaned against the wall, his skin ashen. "The doors are locked, and Thak took my keys from me. We are trapped, after all.”

Murilo stared appalled to see the man in such a state of nerves, and Nabonidus pulled himself together with an effort.

"That beast has me in a panic,” he said. "If you had seen him tear men as I have seen—well, Mitra aid us, but we must fight him now with what the gods have given us. Come!”

He led them back to the curtained door¬ way, and peered into the great chamber in time to see Thak emerge from the op¬ posite doorway. It was apparent that the beast-man had suspected something. His small, close-set ears twitched; he glared angrily about him, and approaching the nearest doorway, tore aside the curtains to look behind them.

Nabonidus drew back, shaking like a leaf. He gripped Conan’s shoulder. "Man, do you dare pit your knife against his fangs?”

The Cimmerian’s eyes blazed in answer.

"Quick!” the Red Priest whispered, thrusting him behind the curtains, close against the wall. "As he will find us soon enough, we will draw him to us. As he rushes past you, sink your blade in his back if you can. You, Murilo, show your¬ self to him, and then flee up the corridor. Mitra knows, we have no chance with him in hand-to-hand combat, but we are doomed anyway when he finds us.”

Murilo felt his blood congeal in his veins, but he steeled himself, and stepped outside the doorway. Instantly Thak, on the other side of the chamber, wheeled, glared, and charged with a thunderous roar. His scarlet hood had fallen back, revealing his black misshapen head; his black hands and red robe were splashed with a brighter red. He was like a crim¬ son and black nightmare as he rushed across the chamber, fangs bared, his bowed legs hurtling his enormous body along at a terrifying gait.

Murilo turned and ran back into the corridor, and quick as he was, the shaggy horror was almost at his heels. Then as the monster rushed past the curtains, from among them catapulted a great form that struck full on the apeman’s shoul¬ ders, at the same instant driving the pon¬ iard into the brutish back. Thak screamed horribly as the impact knocked him off

ROGUES IN THE HOUSE


his feet, and the combatants hit the floor together. Instantly there began a whirl and thrash of limbs, the tearing and rend¬ ing of a fiendish battle.

Murilo saw that the barbarian had locked his legs about the apeman’s torso, and was striving to maintain his position on the monster’s back, while he butchered it with his poniard. Thak, on the other hand, was striving to dislodge his cling¬ ing foe, to drag him around within reach of the giant fangs that gaped for his flesh. In a whirlwind of blows and scar¬ let tatters they rolled along the corridor, revolving so swiftly that Murilo dared not use the chair he had caught up, lest he strike the Cimmerian. And he saw that in spite of the handicap of Conan’s first hold, and the voluminous robe that lashed and wrapped about the apeman’s limbs and body, Thak’s giant strength was swiftly prevailing. Inexorably he was dragging the Cimmerian around in front of him. The apeman had taken punish¬ ment enough to have killed-a dozen men. Conan’s poniard had sunk again and again into his torso, shoulders, and bull¬ like neck; he was streaming blood from a score of wounds, but unless the blade quickly reached some absolutely vital spot, Thak’s inhuman vitality would sur¬ vive to finish the Cimmerian, and after him, Conan’s companions.

Conan was fighting like a wild beast himself, in silence except for his gasps of effort. The black talons of the mon¬ ster and the awful grasp of those mis¬ shapen hands ripped and tore at him, the grinning jaws gaped for his throat. Then Murilo, seeing an opening, sprang and swung the chair with all his power, and with force enough to have brained a hu¬ man being. The chair glanced from Thak’s slanted black skull; but the stunned monster momentarily relaxed his rending grasp, and in that instant Conan,

gasping and streaming blood, plunged forward and sank his poniard to the hilt in the apeman's heart.

With a convulsive shudder the beastman started from the floor, then sank limply back. His fierce eyes set and glazed, his thick limbs quivered and be¬ came rigid.

C onan staggered dizzily up, shaking the sweat and blood out of his eyes. Blood dripped from his poniard and fin¬ gers, and trickled in rivulets down his thighs, arms and breast. Murilo caught at him to support him, but the barbarian shook him off impatiently.

"When I can not stand alone, it will be time to die,” he mumbled, through mashed lips. "But I’d like a flagon of wine.”

Nabonidus was staring down at the still figure as if he could not believe his own eyes. Black, hairy, abhorrent, the monster lay, grotesque in the tatters of the scarlet robe; yet more human than bestial, even so, and possessed somehow of a vague and terrible pathos.

Even the Cimmerian sensed this, for he panted: "I have slain a man tonight, not a beast. I will count him among the chiefs whose souls I’ve sent into the dark, and my women will sing of him.”

Nabonidus stooped and picked up a bunch of keys on a golden chain. They had fallen from the apeman’s girdle dur¬ ing the battle. Motioning his companions to follow him, he led them to a chamber, unlocked the door, and led the way inside. It was illumined like the others. The Red Priest took a vessel of wine from a table and filled crystal beakers. As his com¬ panions drank thirstily, he murmured: "What a night! It is nearly dawn, now. What of you, my friends?”

"I’ll dress Conan’s hurts, if you will fetch me bandages and the like,” said



Murilo, and Nabonidus nodded, and moved toward the door that let into the corridor. Something about his bowed head caused Murilo to watch him sharply. At the door the Red Priest wheeled sud¬ denly. His face had undergone a trans¬ formation. His eyes gleamed with his old fire, his lips laughed soundlessly.

"Rogues together!” his voice rang with its accustomed mockery. "But not fools together. You are the fool, Murilo!”

"What do you mean?” The young no¬ bleman started forward.

"Back!” Nabonidus’s voice cracked like a whip. "Another step and I will blast you!”

Murilo’s blood turned cold as he saw that the Red Priest’s hand grasped a thick velvet rope which hung among the cur¬ tains just outside the door.

"What treachery is this?” cried Murilo. "You swore-”

"I swore I would not tell the king a jest concerning you! I did not swear not to take matters into my own hands if I could. Do you think I would pass up such an opportunity? Under ordinary cir¬ cumstances I would not dare to kill you myself, without sanction of the king, but now none will ever know. You will go into the acid-vats along with Thak and the nationalist fools, and none will be the wiser. What a night this has been for me! If I have lost some valuable servants, I have nevertheless rid myself of various dangerous enemies. Stand back! I am over the threshold, and you can not pos¬ sibly reach me before I tug this cord and send you to hell. Not the gray lotus, this time, but something just as effective. Nearly every chamber in my house is a trap. And so, Murilo, fool that you

Too quickly for the sight to follow, Conan caught up a stool and hurled it. Nabonidus instinctively threw up his arm with a cry, but not in time. The missile crunched against his head, and the Red Priest swayed and fell face-down in a slowly widening pool of dark crimson.

"His blood was red, after all,” grunted Conan.

Murilo raked back his sweat-plastered hair with a shaky hand as he leaned against the table, weak from the reaction of re¬ lief.

"It is dawn,” he said. "Let us get out of here, before we fall afoul of some other doom. If we can climb the outer wall without being seen, we won’t be connected with this night’s work. Let the police write their own explanation.”

He glanced at the body of the Red Priest where it lay etched in crimson, and shrugged his shoulders.

"He was the fool, after all; had he not paused to taunt us, he could have trapped us easily.”

"Well,” said the Cimmerian tranquil¬ ly, "he’s travelled the road all rogues must walk at last. I’d like to loot the house, but I suppose we’d best go.”

As they emerged into the dimness of the dawn-whitened garden, Murilo said: "The Red Priest has gone into the dark, so my road is clear in the city, and I have nothing to fear. But what of you? There is still the matter of that priest in The Maze, and-”

"I’m tired of this city anyway,” grinned the Cimmerian. "You mentioned a horse waiting at the Rat’s Den. I’m curious to see how fast that horse can carry me into another kingdom. There’s many a high¬ way I want to travel before I walk the road Nabonidus walked this night.”

eaver in the Vault

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

A story of the weird and ghastly-beautiful horror that came upon the searchers in the eery tombs of Chaon Gacca

T HE instructions of Famorgh, fiftyninth king of Tasuun, were mi¬ nutely circumstantial and explicit, and moreover, were not to be disobeyed without the incurring of penalties that would make mere death a pleasant thing. Yanur, Grotara, and Thirlain Ludoch, three of the king’s hardiest henchmen, riding forth at morn from the palace in Miraab, debated with a thin semblance of jocosity whether, in their case, obedi¬ ence or disobedience would prove the direr evil.

The commission they had just received from Famorgh was no less distasteful than singular. They were to visit Chaon Gacca, the long-forsaken seat of the kings of Tasuun, lying more than ninety miles to the north of Miraab; and, descending into the burial-vaults beneath the ruined palace, were to find and bring back to Miraab whatever remained of the mummy of King Tnepreez, founder of the dynasty to which Famorgh belonged. No one had entered Chaon Gacca for centuries; and the preservation of its dead in the cata85 .



combs was uncertain: but even if only the skull of Tnepreez was left, or the bone of his little finger, or the dust of mummia into which he had crumbled, the men-atarms were to fetch it carefully, guarding it like a holy relic.

" ’Tis an errand for hyenas, rather than warriors,” grumbled Yanur in his black and spade-shaped beard. "By the god Yululun, keeper of the tombs, I deem it an ill thing to disturb the peace¬ ful dead. And truly it is not well for men to enter Chaon Gacca, where Death has made his capital, and has gathered all the ghouls to do him homage.”

"The king should have sent his embalmers,” opined Grotara. He was the youngest and hugest of the three, being taller by a full head than Yanur or Thirlain Ludoch; and like them, he was a veteran of savage wars and desperate perils.

"Yea, I said it was an errand for hyenas,” rejoined Yanur. "But the king knew well that there were no mortal beings in all Miraab, saving ourselves, who would dare to enter the accursed vaults of Chaon Gacca. Two centuries ago, King Mandis, wishing to retrieve the golden mirror of Queen Avaina for his favorite leman, commanded two of his bravos to descend within the vaults, where the mummy of Avaina sits enthroned in her separate tomb, holding the mirror in her withered hand. . . . And the bravos went to Chaon Gacca . . . but they did not return; and King Mandis, being warned by a soothsayer, made no second attempt to procure the mirror, but con¬ tented his leman with another gift.”

"Yanur, thy tales would gladden those who await the scything of the execution¬ er,” said Thirlain Ludoch, the oldest of the trio, whose brown beard was faded to a hempen hue by desert suns. "But I chide thee not. It is common knowledge

that the catacombs are ridden with worse hauntings than those of liches or phan¬ toms. Strange devils came there long ago from the mad, unholy desert of Dloth; and I have heard it told that the kings forsook Chaon Gacca because of certain Shadows, that appeared at full noon in the palace-halls, with no visible form to cast them, and would not depart there¬ after, being changeless amid all the changings of the light, and wholly un¬ dimmed by the exorcisms of priests and sorcerers. Men say that the flesh of any who dared to touch the Shadows, or to tread upon them, became blade and putrid like the flesh of month-old corpses, all in a mere instant. Because of such testing, when one of the Shadows came and sat upon his throne, the right hand of King Agmeni rotted to the wrist, and fell away like the sloughing of a leper. . . . And after that, no man would dwell in Chaon Gacca.”

"Verily, I have heard other stories,” said Yanur. "The town’s abandonment was due mainly to the failure of the wells and cisterns, from which the water van¬ ished following an earthquake that left the land riven with hell-deep chasms. The palace of the kings was sundered to its nethermost vault by one of the chasms; and King Agmeni was seized by a violent madness when he inhaled the infernal vapors issuing from the rent; nor was he ever wholly sane in his latter lifetime, after the quitting of Chaon Gacca and the rearing of Miraab.”

"Now that is a.tale that I can believe,” said Grotara. "And surely I must deem that Famorgh has inherited the madness of his forefather, Agmeni. Methinks that the royal house of Tasuun rots and totters to its fall. Harlots and sorcerers swarm in the palace of Famorgh like charnelworms; and now, in this princess Lunalia of Xylac whom he has taken to wife, he

THE WEAVER IN THE VAULT


has found a harlot and a witch in one. He has sent us on this errand at the prompt¬ ing of Lunalia, who desires the mummy of Tnepreez for her own unhallowed purpose. Tnepreez, I have heard, was a great wizard in his time; and Lunalia would avail herself of the potent virtue of his bones and dust in the brewing of her philtres. Pah! I like not the task of such purveyance. There are mummies enow in Miraab for the making of po¬ rtions to madden the Queen’s lovers. Famorgh is utterly besotted and be¬ fooled.”

’’Beware,” admonished Thirlain Ludoch, ’’for Lunalia is a vampire who lusts ever for the young and strong . . . and thy turn may come next, O Grotara, if fortune brings us back alive from this enterprise. I have seen her watching thee.”

"I would sooner mate with the wild lamia,” protested Grotara in virtuous in¬ dignation.

"Thine aversion would help thee not,” said Thirlain Ludoch . . . "for I know others who have drunk the potions. . . . But we are now nearing the last wineshop in Miraab; and my throat is dusty before¬ hand with the very thought of this jour¬ ney. I shall need a whole stoup of wine from Yoros to wash the dust away.”

"Thou sayest sooth,” agreed Yanur. "Already I have become dry as the mum¬ my of Tnepreez. And thou, Grotara?”

”1 will quaff any drink, if it be not the, philtre-brew of Queen Lunalia.”

M ounted on swift, untiring drome¬ daries, and followed by a fourth camel bearing on its back a light wooden sarcophagus for the accommodation of King Tnepreez, the three henchmen had soon left behind them the bright and noisy streets of Miraab, and the fields of sesame, the crofts of apricot and pome¬

granate, lying for miles about the city. Before noon, they had parted from the route of caravans, and had taken a road that was seldom used by any but lions and jackals. However, the way to Chaon Gacca was plain, for the ruts of olden chariots were still deeply marked in the desert soil, where rain no longer fell at any season.

On the first night, they slept beneath the cold and crowding stars, and kept watch by turn lest a lion should come upon them unaware, or a viper should crawl among them for warmth. Dur¬ ing the second day they passed amid steepening hills and deep ravines that re¬ tarded their progress. Here there was no rustling of serpent or lizard, and naught but their own voices and the shuffling of the camels to break the silence that lay upon all things like a mute malediction. Sometimes, on the desiccating tors above them, against the darkly litten sky, they saw the boughs of century-withered cacti, or the boles of trees that immemorial fires had blasted.

The second sunset found them in sight of Chaon Gacca, rearing its dilapidated walls at a distance of less than five leagues in a broad open valley. Coming then to a wayside shrine of Yuckla, the small and grotesque god of laughter, whose in¬ fluence was believed to be mainly be¬ nignant, they were glad to go no farther on that day, but took shelter in the crum¬ bling shrine for fear of the ghouls and devils, who might dwell in such vicinage to those accursed ruins. They had brought with them from Miraab a wine-skin filled with the fervent ruby wine of Yoros; and though the skin was now three-fourths empty, they poured a libation in the twi¬ light on the broken altar, and prayed to Yuckla for such protection as he might give them against the demons of the night.



They slept on the worn and chilly flags about the altar, watching by turn, as before. Grotara, who kept the third watch, beheld at last the paling of the close-hung stars, and aroused his com¬ panions in a dawn that was like a sifting of ashes through the cinder-black dark¬ ness.

After a scanty meal of figs and dried goat-flesh, they resumed their journey, guiding their camels down the valley, and weaving back and forth on the bouldered slopes when they came to abysmal rents in the earth and rock. Their approach to the ruins was rendered slow and tortuous by such divagations. The way was lined by the stocks of orchard trees that had perished long ago, and by cotes and granges where even the hyena no longer made his lair.

B ecause of their many detours, it was hard upon noon when they rode through the hollow-ringing streets of the city. Like ragged purple cloaks, the shad¬ ows of the ruining houses were drawn close to their walls and portals. Every¬ where the havoc of earthquake was mani¬ fest, and the fissured avenues and mound¬ ed mansions served to verify the tales that Yanur had heard concerning the reason of the city’s abandonment.

The palace of the kings, however, was still pre-eminent above the other build¬ ings. A tumbled pile, it frowned in dark porphyry on a low acropolis amid the northern quarter. For the making of this acropolis, a hill of red syenite had been stripped of its covering soil in elder days, and had been hewn to sheer and round¬ ing walls, circled by a road that wound slowly about it to the summit. Follow¬ ing this road, and nearing the portals of the courtyard, the henchmen of Famorgh came to a fissure that clove their path from wall to precipice, yawning far in

the cliff. The chasm was less than a yard in width; but the dromedaries balked be¬ fore it. The three dismounted; and, leav¬ ing the camels to await their return, they leapt lightly across the fissure. Grotara and Thirlain Ludoch carrying the sar¬ cophagus, and Yanur bearing the wine¬ skin, they passed beneath the shattered barbican.

The great courtyard was heavily strewn with the wreckage of once-lofty towers and balconies, over which the warriors climbed with much wariness, eyeing the shadows closely, and loosening their swords in the sheath, as if they were sur¬ mounting the barricades of a hidden foe. All three were startled by the pale and naked form of a colossean female, which they saw reclining on the blocks and rub¬ ble in a portico beyond the court. But, drawing nearer, they found that the shape was not that of a she-demon, as they had apprehended, but was merely a marble statue that had once stood like a caryatid among the mighty pillars.

Following the directions given them by Famorgh, they entered the main hall. Here, beneath the chasmed and collapsing roof, they moved with the utmost cau¬ tion, fearing that a light jar, a whisper, would bring the suspended ruin upon their heads like an avalanche. Over¬ turned tripods of greening copper, tables and trivets of splintered ebony, and the shards of gayly painted porcelains, were mingled with the huge fragments of pedestals and fusts and entablatures; and upon a shivered dais of green, bloodspotted heliotrope, the tarnished silver throne of the kings careened amid the mutilated sphinxes, carved from jasper, that kept eternal guard beside it.

At the farther end of the hall, they found an alcove, still unblocked by fallen debris, in which were the stairs that led downward to the catacombs. They paused

THE WEAVER IN THE VAULT


briefly ere beginning their descent. Yanur applied himself without ceremony to the skin which he carried, and lightened it considerably before giving it into the hands of Thirlain Ludoch, who had marked his potations with solicitude. Thirlain Ludoch and Grotara drank the remainder of the vintage between them; and the latter did not grumble at the thick lees which fell to his lot. Thus re¬ plenished, they lit three torches of pitchy terebinth, which they had brought along in the sarcophagus. Yanur led the way, daring the tenebrous depths with drawn sword, and a torch flaming smokily in his left hand. His companions followed, bearing the sarcophagus, in which, by raising the hinged lid slightly, they had socketed the other torches. The potent wine of Yoros mounted within them, driving away their shadowy fears and ap¬ prehensions. All three were seasoned drinkers, and they moved with great care and circumspection, and did not stumble on the dim, uncertain steps.

Passing through a series of wine-cel¬ lars, full of cracked and sharded jars, they came at last, after many zigzag plungings of the stairs, to a vast corridor hewn in the nether syenite, below the level of the city streets. It stretched before them through illimitable gloom, its walls unshattered, and its roof admitting no crevice-filtered ray. It seemed that they had entered some impregnable citadel of the dead. On the right hand were the tombs of the elder kings; on the left were the sepulchers of the queens; and lateral passages led to a world of subsidiary vaults, reserved for other members of the royal family. At the farther end of the main hall they would find the burialchamber of Tnepreez.

Yanur, following the right-hand wall, soon came to the first tomb. According to custom, its portals were open, and

were lower than a man’s stature, so that all who entered must bow in humbleness to death. Yanur held his torch to the lintel, and read stumblingly the legend graven in the stone, which told that the vault was that of King Achamil, father of Agmeni.

"Verily,” he said, "we shall find noth¬ ing here, other than the harmless dead.” Then, the wine he had drunk impelling him to a sort of bravado, he stooped before the portals and thrust his flickering flambeau into the tomb of Acharnil.

Surprized, he swore a loud and soldier¬ ly oath, that made the others drop their burden and crowd behind him. Peering into the square, concamerated chamber, which had a kingly spaciousness, they saw that it was unoccupied by any visible tenant. The tall chair of mystically graven gold and ebony, in which the mummy should have sat crowned and robed as in life, was addorsed against the farther wall on a low dais. In it there lay an empty robe of sable and carmine, and a miter-shaped crown of silver set with black sapphires, as if the dead king had doffed them and had gone away!

Startled, with the wine dying swiftly in their brains, the warriors felt the crawling chill of an unknown mystery. Yanur, however, steeled himself to enter the vault. He examined the shadowy cor¬ ners, he lifted and shook the raiment of Acharnil, but found no clue to the riddle of the mummy’s disappearance. The tomb was clean of dust, and there was no sign nor faintest odor of mortal decay.

Y anur rejoined his comrades, and the three eyed one another in eery con¬ sternation. They resumed their exploring of the hall; and Yanur, as he came to the doorway of each tomb, paused before it and thrust his flambeau into the wavering



murk, only to discover an empty throne, and the cast-off regalia of royalty.

There was, it seemed, no reasonable explanation for the vanishing of the mummies, in whose preservation the powerful spices of the Orient had been employed, together with natron, render¬ ing them virtually incorruptible. From the circumstances, it did not appear that they had been removed by human rob¬ bers, who would hardly have left behind the precious jewels, fabrics and metals; and it was even more unlikely that they had been devoured by animals: for in that case the bones would have remained, and the vestments would have been torn and disordered. The mythic terrors of Chaon Gacca began to assume a darker imminence; and the seekers peered and listened fearfully as they went on in the hushed sepulchral hall.

Presently, after they had verified the vacancy of more than a dozen tombs, they saw the glimmering of several steely objects before them on the floor of the corridor. These, on investigation, proved to be two swords, two helmets and cuiras¬ ses of a slightly antiquated type, such as had formerly been worn by the warriors of Tasuun. They might well have be¬ longed to the unreturning bravos sent by King Mandis to retrieve the mirror of Avaina.

Yanur, Grotara and Thirlain Ludoch, viewing these sinister relics, were seized by an almost frantic desire to accomplish their errand and regain the sunlight. They hurried on, no longer pausing to inspect the separate tombs, and debating, as they went, the curious problem that would be presented if the mummy sought by Famorgh and Lunalia should have van¬ ished like the others. The king had commanded them to fetch the remains of Tnepreez; and they knew that no excuse or explanation of their failure to do this

would be accepted. Under such circum¬ stances, their return to Miraab would be inadvisable; and the only safety would lie in flight beyond the northern desert, along the route of caravans to Zul-BhaSair or Xylac.

It seemed that they traversed an enor¬ mous distance, among the more ancient vaults. Here the formation of the stone was softer and more friable, and the earthquake had wrought considerable damage. The floor was littered with detritus, the sides and roof were full of fractures, and some of the chambers had partially fallen in, so that their vacancy was revealed to the casual peering of Yanur and his companions.

Nearing the hall’s end they were con¬ fronted by a chasm, dividing both floor and roof, and slitting the sill and lintel of the last chamber. The gulf was about four feet wide, and the torch of Yanur could not disclose its bottom. He found the name of Tnepreez on the lintel, whose antique inscription, telling the deeds and titles of the king, had been sundered in twain by the cataclysm. Then, walking on a narrow ledge, he entered the vault. Grotara and Thirlain Ludoch crowded behind him, leaving the sarcophagus in the hall.

The sepulchral throne of Tnepreez, overturned and broken, was lying across the fissure that had rifted the whole tomb from side to side. There was no trace of the mummy, which, from the chair’s in¬ verted position, had doubtless fallen into those yawning depths in the hour of its overthrow.

Before the seekers could voice their disappointment and dismay, the silence about them was broken by a dull rumbling as of distant thunder. The stone trembled beneath their feet, the walls shook and wavered, and the rum¬ bling noise, in long, shuddering undulaTHE WEAVER IN THE VAULT


tions, grew louder and more ominous. The solid floor appeared to rise and flow with a continuous, sickening motion; and then, as they turned to flee, it seemed that the universe came down upon them in a roaring deluge of night and ruin.

G rotara, wakening in darkness, was aware of an agonizing burden, as if some monumental shaft were builded on his crushed feet and lower legs. His head throbbed and ached as if from the stroke of a stunning mace. He found that his arms and body were free; but the pain in his extremities became insuffer¬ able, causing him to swoon anew, when he tried to drag them from beneath their incumbrance.

Terror closed upon him like the clutch of ghoulish fingers as he realized his situation. An earthquake, such as had caused the abandonment of Chaon Gacca, had occurred; and he and his fellows were entombed in the catacombs. He called aloud, repeating the names of Yanur and Thirlain Ludoch many times; but there was no groan nor rustle to assure him that they still lived.

Reaching out with his right hand, he encountered numerous pieces of rubble. Slewing himself toward them, he found several boulder-sized fragments of stone, and among them a smooth and roundish thing, with a sharp ridge in the center, which he knew for the crested helmet worn by one of his companions. Even with the most painful striving, he could reach no farther, and was unable to identify the owner. The metal was heav¬ ily dented, and the comb was bent as if by the impact of some ponderous mass.

In spite of his predicament, the fierce nature of Grotara refused to yield itself to despair. He drew himself to a sitting position, and, doubling forward, he con¬ trived to reach the enormous block that

had fallen across his nether limbs. He pushed against it with herculean effort, raging like a trapped lion, but the mass was immovable. For hours, it seemed, he strove as if with some monstrous cacodemon. His frenzy was calmed only by ex¬ haustion. He lay back at length; and the darkness weighed upon him like a live thing, and seemed to gnaw him with fangs of pain and horror.

Delirium hovered near, and he thought that he heard a dim and hideous hum¬ ming, far below in the stony bowels of the earth. The noise grew louder, as if ascending from a riven hell. He became aware of a wan, unreal light that wavered above him, disclosing in doubtful glimpses the shattered roof. The light strengthened; and lifting himself a little, he saw that it poured from the earth¬ quake chasm in the floor.

It was a light such as he had never seen: a livid luster, that was not the re¬ flection of lamp or torch or firebrand. Somehow, as if the senses of hearing and sight were confused, he identified it with the hideous humming.

Like a sourceless dawn, the luminosity crept upon the ruin wrought by the temblor. Grotara saw that the whole entrance of the tomb, and much of its concameration, had caved in. A frag¬ ment, striking him on the head, had knocked him senseless; and a huge sec¬ tion of the roof had fallen across his ex¬ tremities.

The bodies of Thirlain Ludoch and Yanur were lying close to the broadened chasm. Both, he felt sure, were dead. The grizzled beard of Thirlain Ludoch was dark and stiff with blood that had run down from the crushed cranium; and Yanur was half buried in a pile of blocks and detritus, from which his torso and left arm were emergent. His torch had



burned itself out in his stiffly clutching fingers, as if a blackened socket.

All this Grotara noted in a dream-like manner. Then he perceived the real source of the strange illumination. A cold¬ ly shining, hueless globe, round as a puffball and large as a human head, had risen from the fissure and was hovering above it like a mimic moon. The thing oscillated with a slight but ceaseless vibra¬ tory motion. From it, as if caused by this vibration, the heavy humming poured, and the light fell in ever-trembling waves.

A dim awe was upon Grotara; but he felt no terror. It seemed that the light and sound were woven upon his senses like some Lethean spell. Rigid he sat, forgetful of his pain and despair, while the globe hovered for a few instants above the chasm, and then floated slowly and horizontally, till it hung directly over the upturned features of Yanur.

With the same deliberate slowness, the same ceaseless oscillation, it descended upon the face and neck of the dead man, which appeared to melt away like tallow as the globe settled lower and lower. The humming deepened, the globe flamed with an eerier luster, and its death-like pallor was mottled with an impure iris. It swelled and bloated obscenely, while the whole head of the warrior shrank within the helmet, and the plates of his' cuirass fell in as if the very torso were shrivelling beneath them.

Grotara’s eyes beheld the horrific vision clearly, but his brain was numbed as if by a merciful hemlock. It was hard to re¬ member, hard to think . . . but somehow he recalled the empty tombs, the owner¬ less crowns and vestments. The enigma of the missing mummies, over which he and his companions had puzzled vainly, was not resolved. But the thing that bat¬ tened upon Yanur was beyond all mortal knowledge or surmise. It was some

ghoulish denizen of a nether world, set free by the demons of earthquake.

Now, in the catalepsy that thralled him, he saw the gradual settling of the piled debris in which the legs and hips of Yanur were inhumed. The helmet and body-mail were like empty shards, the outflung arm had withered, had shortened, and the very bones were dwindling away, appearing to melt and liquefy. The globe had grown enormous. It was flushed with unclean ruby, like a vampire moon. From it there issued palpable ropes and filaments, pearly, shuddering into strange colors, that ap¬ peared to fasten themselves to the ruined floor and walls and roof, like the weaving of a spider. Thickly and more thickly they multiplied, forming a curtain between Grotara and the chasm, and fall¬ ing upon Thirlain Ludoch and himself, till he saw the sanguine burning of the globe as through arabesques of baleful opal.

Now the web had filled the entire tomb. It ran and glistened with a hun¬ dred changing hues, it dripped with glories drawn from the spectrum of dis¬ solution. It bloomed with ghostly blos¬ soms, and foliages that grew and faded as if by necromancy. The eyes of Grotara were blinded; more and more he was meshed in the weird web. Unearthly, chill as the fingers of death, its gossamers clung and quivered upon his face and hands.

He could not tell the duration of the weaving, the term of his enthrallment. Dimly, at last, he beheld the thinning of the luminous threads, the retraction of the trembling arabesques. The globe, a thing of evil beauty, alive and aware in some holocryptic fashion, had risen now from the empty armor of Yanur. Dimin¬ ishing to its former size, and putting off its colors of blood and opal, it hung for

THE WEAVER IN THE VAULT


a little above the chasm. Grotara felt that it was watching him . . . was watch¬ ing Thirlain Ludoch. Then, like a satel¬ lite of the nether caverns, it fell slowly into the fissure, and the light faded from the tomb and left Grotara in deepening darkness.

A fter that, there were ages of fever, l thirst and madness, of torment and slumber, and recurrent stragglings against the fallen block that held him prisoner. He babbled insanely, he howled like a wolf; or, lying supine and silent, he* heard the multitudinous, muttering voices of ghouls that conspired against him. Gangrening swiftly, his crashed extremi¬ ties seemed to throb like those of a Titan. He drew his sword with the strength of delirium, and endeavored to saw himself free at the shins, only to swoon from loss of blood.

Awakening feebly, and scarce able to lift his head, he saw that the light had returned, and heard once more the in¬ cessant vibrant humming that filled the vault. His mind was clear, and a weak terror stirred within him: for he knew that the Weaver had risen again from the chasm . . . and knew the reason of its coming.

He turned his head laboriously, and watched the glowing ball as it hung and oscillated, and then came down in leisure¬ ly descent on the face of Thirlain Ludoch. Again he saw it bloat obscenely, like a blood-flushed moon, fed with the wasting of the old warrior’s body. Again, with

dazzled eyes, he beheld the weaving of the web of impure iris, patterned with deathly splendor, veiling the ruinous catacomb with its weird illusions. Again, like a dying beetle, he was meshed in its chill, unearthly strands; and its necroman¬ tic flowers, blooming and perishing, latticed the void air above him. But, ere the retracting of the web, his delirium came upon him and brought a demonpeopled darkness; and the Weaver fin¬ ished its toil unseen, and returned un¬ heeded to the chasm.

He tossed in the hells of fever, or lay at the black, undivined nadir of oblivion. But death tarried, still aloof; and he lived on by virtue of his youth and giant strength. Once more, toward the end, his senses cleared, and he saw for the third time the unholy light and heard again the odious humming. The Weaver was poised above him, pale, shining and vibrant . . . and he knew that it was waiting for him to die.

Lifting his sword with weak fingers, he sought to drive it away. But the thing hovered, alert and vigilant, beyond his reach; and he thought that it watched him like a vulture. The sword dropped from his hand. The luminous horror did not depart. It drew nearer, like an eyeless, pertinacious face; and it seemed to fol¬ low him, swooping through the ultimate night as he fell deathward.

With none to behold the glory of its weaving, with darkness before and after, the Weaver spun its final web in the tomb of Tnepreez.

v ampire Master

By HUGH DAVIDSON

"Newton crashed through the win¬ dow and lunged toward them."

A thrilling novel of corpses that would not stay dead, and a gruesome horror in the hills of New York

The Story Thus Far

7" AMPIRISM is going on in my \/ village!” This statement has ” brought Doctor John Dale, spe¬ cialist in evil, and his assistant, Harley Owen, who tells the story, to the village of Maysville in the New York Catskills. There with Doctor Henderson, who sum¬ moned them, they are fighting the visita¬ tion of vampires, dead men and women

94 This story began in Y

reanimated by evil forces and preying on the living at night by sucking their blood.

Two hundred years before, the Mays¬ ville region was terrorized by a vampire, one Gerritt Geisert, who had been forced to flee. Now that Gerritt Geisert, still strong in vampire-life, has returned to prey again on the region. He has vampirized Allene Ralton, wife of James Ralton and mother of Olivia and Virginia

5IRD TALKS for October

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


Ralton, sucking her blood until she died. Dying, she became herself a vampire and now has come back to prey on her eldest daughter, Olivia.

Doctor Dale strives to protect Olivia Ralton from her dead vampire-mother and Gerritt Geisert. He finds that Allene Ralton’s coffin and body are not in the cemetery where they were entombed but were taken by Geisert out to the ancient Geisert manor, one of a number of longabandoned Colonial manors in the hills. There the bodies of Geisert, Allene Ral¬ ton, and Arthur Newton (a young man whom Geisert vampirized also and who also has become vampire), lie during the day, while at night they come to the vil¬ lage and neighboring estates to prey on their victims.

Doctor Dale and Owen and others go out to the old Geisert place, but though they see the three vampires wake there at sunset and go forth, returning before morning, they are unable to break through the stone wall behind which their bodies lie hidden by day. They return to the village to get tools to enable them to do so.

There another vampire victim comes to their notice, a girl, Alice Wilsey, who was formerly fiancee of the dead Arthur Newton. She is being vampirized by her dead lover, willingly giving him her blood. In the end she dies from New¬ ton’s vampirism and Doctor Dale and Owen drive a stake through her body and sever her head to prevent her from becoming a vampire also.

Meanwhile Olivia Ralton also has died, from the vampirism of Allene Ral¬ ton and Gerritt Geisert. Before Dale and Owen can use stake and steel on her body she has become a vampire, escaping by night with her coffin by Gerritt Geisert’s help, so that now, in some new hidingplace in the old manors in the hills, the bodies of Geisert, the vampire master,

and his three vampire followers, Allene Ralton, Olivia Ralton and Arthur New¬ ton, lie during the day and come forth at night.

Doctor Dale warns James Ralton and his remaining daughter, Virginia, that it is possible the vampires will try to vampirize Virginia also, and has them place safeguards against this about the doors and windows of the Ralton mansion. Then Dale and Owen return to Hender¬ son’s house in the village, where they begin that night making cross-shaped bullets which they hope will prove potent against Gerritt Geisert and his vampirefollowers, ordinary bullets being useless. If they can paralyze the vampires with the cross-bullets, they can then end their activities for ever with stake and steel.

13. Called Forth

ale showed me the plan upon which he was proceeding. He was fashion¬ ing a little copper mold. Bullets cast in it would be cylindrical at one end, to fit into an ordinary cartridge, but at the other end would be shaped like a small cross, the cross-end smaller than the cylindrical end so that the bullet could be fired out of an ordinary pistol-barrel.

The fashioning of the little mold was extraordinarily difficult by reason of the shape, and while Doctor Dale worked at it, Henderson and I prepared heater and lead and ladle for casting the bullets when the mold was finished. We worked on at this in Doctor Henderson’s white-lit little laboratory, hour following hour.

It was a little after eleven when the telephone-bell rang. Henderson answered, then handed the instrument to Doctor Dale.

"It’s Ralton!” he said. Dale took it quickly.

We could hear James Ralton’s excited voice from the receiver. "Dale, the serv96


ants all left us hours ago! They sneaked away—Virginia and I just discovered we’re alone in the house. And we just glimpsed shapes of some kind out in the grounds!"

"You have the crosses and garlicbranches at all the doors and windows as I said?” Dale asked sharply.

"Yes, but we may have missed one or two, there are so many. Virginia and I are here in the music-room—we tried to get Hugh Rillard but couldn’t locate him, so we called you. Wait a minute!” There was a moment’s silence and then Ralton’s voice again, more excited. "Virginia says she hears a sound at the back of the house! I hear something there, too!”

"We’ll be out there as fast as we can come!” Doctor Dale cried. "Don’t go out of the house for any reason nor-”

"Dale, there’s something in the house!” Ralton’s frantic voice interrupted. "Some one got in the back and is coming through —coming along the hall-”

From the receiver came faintly a ter¬ rible scream in the voice of Virginia Ralton! Then a cry from James Ralton, not to us, though he must have still held the telephone, since we heard it—"Oh, God-!”

There was a crash and then silence. Doctor Dale jabbed the receiver-hook fiercely but no answer came. He leapt hatless for the door, Henderson and I with him.

"The car!” he cried. "Something ter¬ rible has happened out there-”

In a minute our car was roaring out of Maysville’s dim-lit streets westward into the night. Dale drove with utter reck¬ lessness, the car rocking and swaying as we rounded turns at unchecked speed, Henderson and I crouching in the seat bedside him.

Our speeding machine with its fan of yellow light preceding it split the night

like a meteor. The miles between the village and the Ralton estate unreeled in the darkness behind it with dizzying velocity.

T he gates of the Ralton estate were open and as we dashed through, them we saw that the little lodge beside them was dark and deserted by its keeper. The big Ralton mansion too was mostly dark, but there were some lights on its lower floor.

The car stopped with brakes squealing, and we burst out of it and up to the door, whipping crosses from our pockets.

The door was locked! Dale leapt to one of the windows and shattered the glass with a kick. We plunged through into the drawing-room.

In a moment we were in the hall and raced down it to the music- room opening from its rear end.

The music-room was alight. James Ralton lay sprawled in its corner over the fallen telephone, his face distorted and body unmoving. Virginia Ralton was in a heap at the room’s center, motionless, too.

Doctor Dale bent first over Ralton, but one look at his motionless body and his terribly distorted face and staring eyes was enough. "Dead!” Dale said. "No injuries or marks on his throat. But Virginia-”

We raised Virginia Ralton in our arms. Her face was deathly white but she was breathing, in long sighs. On her white throat stood out two crimson punctures, a tiny trickle of blood still flowing from them.

"She’s lost blood, and we’ll have to give her a Klein-Lorentz injection at once!” Doctor Dale exclaimed. "The case is in the car, Owen.”

I ran out and in a moment was back with the case. Swiftly we made the inW. T.—6

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


jection, Henderson too dazed to help us, and as the stimulating solution shot through her pillaged veins, Virginia Ralton stirred.

In moments her eyes opened, she stared up at us for a second, then screamed. Again and again she screamed.

It took many minutes of hard work on Doctor Dale’s part before her awful ter¬ ror quieted in any degree. Doctor Hen¬ derson had gripped himself enough to examine James Ralton, and came over to us.

“He died of shock, I think,” he said. “There’s no sign of any other cause.”

Virginia Ralton nodded unsteadily. "Yes, I saw it. Father just gave an awful cry and crumpled up — when he saw

“Saw whom?” Dale asked her swiftly. "Who was here, Virginia? Who made these marks on your throat?”

She shuddered violently. “It was Gerritt Geisert and with him were—mother and Olivia! They all—were at my throat-”

In minutes more she was able to speak coherently. "We had found that we two were all alone here, the servants having sneaked away in fear sometime this eve¬ ning, and we thought we saw moving shapes approaching the house through the grounds. We were scared and tried to get Hugh Rillard but couldn’t locate him. So father at once called you.

"While he was talking with you on the telephone we heard some sounds at the back of the house, like those of a window being forced open. We had placed crosses and garlic at the windows and doors as you said—that’s what scared the servants into leaving—but must have missed one of the windows at the back, there being so many.

“There came steps along the hall and in a moment Gerritt Geisert and mother W. T.—7

and Olivia entered the room! Their faces and eyes were—terrible, mother and Olivia as terrible-looking as Geisert. Father, when he saw mother and Olivia together like that, cried 'Oh, God!’ and choked as though trying to say something, then crumpled to the floor.

“Mother and Olivia laughed at that! And so did Geisert! I stood petrified by utter horror, and then Olivia leapt at me, grasped me! I screamed as her sharp teeth penetrated my neck, but as I felt my blood draining into her sucking mouth I was unable to resist. She was torn from me in a moment by mother. But mother then fastened her own mouth on my throat!

"The horror of it was causing my senses to fail when mother in turn was pushed from me by Gerritt Geisert. Holding me, he said to the other two— 'You get no more tonight. A little for myself and then we must be gone, for Newton is waiting outside and I think some one will be here soon. There will be plenty of time in the future to take her blood.’

"Saying that, Geisert plunged his own head down against my throat. And as I felt more of my blood streaming from me, my senses gave way completely and I became unconscious. I knew nothing until I woke just now with you over me.”

"It is what I feared!” Dale groaned. "But I thought they could be held off until we made the cross-bullets and could meet them!”

"Doctor, will I be like Olivia—and mother?” Virginia Ralton asked unstead¬ ily. "Will I die and yet not be dead, be as they are?”

“You’ll not, I swear it!” The exclama¬ tion was wrung from the depths of Dale’s feelings. “Virginia, if Gerritt Geisert and those others are destroyed, this vampire-taint will pass from you; and



they are going to be destroyed, they must be!”

T here sounded quick steps in the hall, and we sprang erect. But it was a young man with wondering ex¬ pression who entered. I recognized him as Hugh Rillard.

"What’s been happening-” he

began, then saw the girl and leapt to her side. "Virginia! What’s the matter?”

She put a hand over her face, but did not answer. Rillard looked bewilderedly at us, then with widening eyes at James Ralton’s body.

Briefly Doctor Dale recounted to him the dark evil that was pursuing the vam¬ pire-haunted Raltons, that had made vampires of Allene and Olivia Ralton, had taken the lives of James Ralton and Edward Harmon, and that had now fastened upon Virginia Ralton.

“But isn’t there something we can do?” burst out Hugh Rillard when Dale had finished. "Some way of fighting this Gerritt Geisert and the rest?”

"There is a way, yes,” Dale said quick¬ ly, "and we were preparing it when Ral¬ ton called us.”

He explained how we were fabricating cross-shaped bullets for use against Gei¬ sert and his vampire-satellites. "And it may be that this vampirizing of Virginia, terrible as it is, will give us a way of striking at the vampires.”

"What do you mean, Dale?” asked Doctor Henderson.

"I mean that it is almost sure that once having taken some of Virginia’s blood, Geisert and the rest will come back to vampirize her again. Very well, we will take up headquarters in this house from now on and each night will lie in wait for the vampires with pistols loaded with cross-shaped bullets. And with those bullets we can destroy them!”

"Count me in with you on this!” said Hugh Rillard determinedly. "I’m not going to leave here while Virginia’s in danger.”

"Good, that will make four of us and we can guard all sides of the house at night,” Dale said. "And we’ll not leave Virginia unguarded until Gerritt Geisert and the rest are destroyed.

"Owen can go back into the village to get the mold and implements we were working on,” he said, "and before to¬ morrow night—tonight I should say, as it’s almost morning—we’ll have some of the cross-bullets ready to use. They may not come so soon again as tonight but if they do we’ll be ready for them.

"And it will be a far better chance of coming to grips with Geisert and the other vampires than if we were to go out into the hills to search for them, as there is no telling where in that valley their bodies lie by day, and we might search for weeks without finding them.”

D octor henderson and I drove back into the village and procured the bullet-making equipment which Doctor Dale wanted, also the sacks of stakes and tools and some other objects he specified. When we returned to the Ral¬ ton estate we brought also a coffin to hold temporarily the body of James Ralton.

It was well into the morning when we returned. Virginia was sleeping, young Rillard guarding her though she was safe enough by day, and Dale and Henderson and I placed James Ralton’s body in the coffin and set it in the library, upon the same stand that so short a time before had held Olivia Ralton’s coffin until Geisert had taken it.

Then we went at the work of making the cross-shaped bullets. Doctor Dale finished his little copper mold, and after some trials and errors we succeeded in

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


casting bullets that were cylindrical at one end like any other bullet but that at the other end, the nose, were shaped like little crosses. We made several dozen of these and fitted them into cartridges from which we removed the ordinary bullets, then tested them from each of the four pistols we had brought.

The cross-bullets seemed fired as effec¬ tively as any other bullet from the pistols. We loaded the guns with them, Hender¬ son and Dale and Rillard and I each tak¬ ing one, and then our preparations were complete. Only actual test could show whether they would be as effective against Gerritt Geisert and his followers as we thought, though it seemed certain that they should be.

Dale and Henderson and I got some sleep then, it being midafternoon, tell¬ ing Rillard to wake us before sunset. The sun was just setting when he did so.

We ate a somewhat sketchy dinner which in the absence of servants we had to prepare ourselves, and then Doctor Dale outlined to us his plan of action.

"I want you, Miss Virginia, to wait inside the house,” he said, "with enough lights going to show that you are here.

"We four will lie hidden in the shrub¬ bery around the house, each of us guard¬ ing a different side of it. If Geisert and the rest come tonight to prey upon you, as I think they will, we’ll be ready for them with our pistols, and our cross-bul¬ lets will end all these vampires.”

Virginia Ralton was very white. "You’re sure—sure—that they won’t be able to get in at me?” she asked.

"I am sure!” Doctor Dale said em¬ phatically. "You will be quite safe, Vir¬ ginia, but will be acting as a bait to lure these vampires to their end.

"It’s dark now,” he added, glancing from the window. "We may as well take

our positions, though I do not expect them to come much before midnight.”

The next minutes were busy ones. Dale snapped on a few lights in the lower floor of the house, just enough to show that the house was still occupied. He then had Virginia take her position in a big chair in the drawing-room, near a floor-lamp that would show her clearly to any one peering from a distance through the window.

That done, we four proceeded to take our own places. Doctor Dale chose to guard the house’s northern side, Hender¬ son taking the south, Rillard the west and I the east. We secreted ourselves in the thick shrubbery at the base of the house, and Dale inspected our locations before taking his own. He told us that any cry or shot from any side should bring us all to that side at once.

Doctor Dale spoke to me last before going to his own place at the house’s northern side.

"Take no chances tonight, Owen,” he warned. "The moment you see them ap¬ proaching, fire. Try above all to get Ger¬ ritt Geisert.”

"I will,” I promised. His face was very grave.

"This is the best chance we may ever have to end the black devil’s work Geisert has been spreading here. We must not fail!”

Dale left me, and then the silence of the night was unbroken around the big house at whose four sides we crouched.

Hidden uncomfortably in the thick shrubbery, I waited with pistol ready in my hand, gazing out into the estate’s grounds. I could not see for any great distance, so dense was the darkness under the great trees of the grounds, the moon having not yet risen.

In the dark bulk of the mansion behind me glowed the few illuminated windows



we had purposely left lit. I wondered how this dreadful, silent wait was affect¬ ing Virginia Ralton inside, who had most to fear of any of us.

And dreadful enough was that watch in silence and darkness for all of us—a watch for a vampire crew and a vampire master whose evil powers we had come to know well. The trembling Virginia in the house, with the taint of the vampire’s victim already on her, the dead James Ralton lying in another room, bore wit¬ ness to their powers.

And so too did Edward Harmon, lying crushed and dead in his own home, and Alice Wilsey, lying in hers with the marks of our dreadful but necessary work upon her body. And even three of those for whom we now waited, Allene and Olivia Ralton and Arthur Newton, bore witness to the hellish power of Gerritt Geisert, who had drawn them into the dark web of evil of which he was the center.

I clutched my pistol tighter, crouching, waiting. Upon these pistols and their cross-shaped bullets depended all tonight. I listened constantly for some sound of alarm from the other sides of the house, for it was wearing on toward midnight; but no sound came and I waited on like the others. Was Geisert not coming this night after all? Now I saw that the moon was rising.

T ime passed slowly in that tense wait, hour following hour. The radium dial of my watch told me it was almost three hours past midnight, and no alarm yet had been sounded, when I heard a low call from the northern side of the house, from Doctor Dale.

At once I hurried to him, and found Doctor Henderson and Rillard hastily answering his summons also.

"You three have seen nothing?” asked

Dale tensely. "They surely would have come by now if they were coming.”

We shook our heads. "Strange!” said Dale. "I was certain they’d come again to prey upon Virginia tonight. I hope this terrible waiting isn’t making her too nervous.”

"Didn’t you see her a few hours ago?” Rillard asked in surprize. "I thought she came back in through the northern door.”

"Came back in?” Doctor Dale gripped Rillard’s shoulder with sudden fierceness. "What do you mean? Did Virginia go out of the house?”

"Why, yes, before midnight!” said Ril¬ lard bewilderedly. "She told me she was going to walk around the house for a breath of air when she went out the west door, and when she didn’t come back in that door I supposed she’d re-entered the house through the north door.”

Without a word Dale dashed into the house. We followed hastily. The draw¬ ing-room was empty of Virginia Ralton and neither did a swift search through the whole house find her.

"She’s gone!” cried Doctor Dale. He turned on Hugh Rillard. "What did she look like when she came out? Was there anything strange in her manner?”

Rillard looked at us with anxious eyes. "Why, she did seem a little strange in manner, she spoke and moved in a way that seemed to me rather stiff and mechanical. But I thought she was just wrought up by the tenseness of the wait¬ ing, as she might well be.”

Dale groaned. "Why didn’t I look for this? Gerritt Geisert has been too much for us again. Instead of coming in with his vampires to prey on Virginia tonight, as we thought he would, he has called her out to them, wherever their new lair is in the hills!”

"Called her out? But how could he--” Rillard attempted.

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


"Easily enough!” Dale exclaimed. "She is a victim of Geisert and the others and as their victim can be controlled by their wills, even from a distance, just as Olivia Ralton when still living was con¬ trolled from outside her room by the wills of her mother and Geisert.

"Quick, to the car! We’ve no time to lose here now—if Virginia Ralton left here before midnight she must have reached that vampire nest out there some time ago! We’ve got to go out there after her!”

14. The Struggle

UR car shot out from the Ralton estate and headed toward the hills. Hugh Rillard drove, and the speed at which we raced through the moonlit coun¬ tryside and his white face were evidence enough of the self-accusing anxiety he felt at having let Virginia Ralton go forth.

Doctor Dale leaned forward. "Heaven knows whether we can find Gerritt Geisert’s new lair at all!” he exclaimed. "Henderson and Owen and I searched the whole lower end of that valley night before last without locating it.”

"We’ve got to find it!” Young Rillard flung the words back jerkily without turn¬ ing. "If they’ve killed Virginia-”

"She had blood enough to stand their vampirism tonight, I think,” Dale said, "though there’s no telling about such matters.”

The dark hills loomed close ahead in the moonlight, and as the road grew nar¬ rower and bumpier and finally impass¬ able, Rillard stopped the car and we hastily emerged and pressed on on foot.

As we stumbled along the unused road into the first hills, faint streaks of dawn were showing in the sky behind us, grad¬ ually creeping across the heavens and pal¬ ing the moonlight.

We had gone about half a mile into the hills by the old road and were about the same distance still from the valley of deserted manors, when we halted at sight of a figure approaching us from ahead. Exclamations burst from us as it came closer. It was Virginia Ralton!

She was walking toward us as stiffly and mechanically as though she were some puppet moved by clockwork. Her face and skin were marble-white, her lips colorless, and her eyes stared straight ahead unseeingly as she came on. Her dress and stockings were torn by brush and briars and her slippers were stained by dirt and dew.

"Virginia!” cried Rillard and sprang toward her, but Doctor Dale grasped him and held him back. The girl took abso¬ lutely no notice of him or any of us.

"Do not wake her now!” Dale warned. "She is still under the vampire’s spell, but when the sun rises she will wake of her¬ self. We will follow her until then.”

We let Virginia pass us, then walked on directly behind her. Her unseeing eyes never wavered in our direction; she walked on stiffly.

"Dale, what does it mean?” Henderson cried. "She’s heading back toward her home!”

Doctor Dale nodded. "Geisert and the rest called her out to them so as to avoid the risk of coming in to visit her. That of itself shows they are not too confident of their invulnerability. They took from her what blood they wanted—you see how white and bloodless she is—then sent her back home so that her visit to them would not be discovered.”

Hugh Rillard turned, his face passion¬ ate. "I’m going out there and search them out now!” he cried, but Dale held him.

"Not now,” Doctor Dale said. "We’ve Virginia here to care for now, and



besides, I have a better plan than that. But look—the sun is rising!”

It was true. Ahead of us the sun’s golden disk was lifting and its rays were bright in our eyes.

As the sun lifted, Virginia Ralton’s mechanical walking forward stopped. She hesitated a moment, then went suddenly limp and would have fallen to the ground but for our catching her.

"Quick, we’ve got to get her to the car and back to her home!” Doctor Dale said. "She’s released now from the vam¬ pires’ will and has lost much blood!”

H ugh rillard and I carried the un¬ conscious girl between us and we all hastened out of the hills and to the car. Then while Rillard held her in his arms, I drove back toward the Ralton estate as hurriedly as we had come.

Virginia had not come to consciousness by the time we reached the estate, and her face was still alarmingly white, her breath¬ ing slow and labored.

We placed her on a sofa in the draw¬ ing-room and Doctor Dale swiftly inject¬ ed into her again the Klein-Lorentz solu¬ tion which, while unable really to replace lost blood, acted as a powerful stimulant as it coursed through the wasted veins.

We all breathed more easily when the girl sighed and weakly opened her eyes. She looked bewilderedly up at us, then must have felt her own weakness, for ter¬ ror suffused her face.

"They were here again?” she cried weakly. "They got in at me, then?”

"No, Virginia,” Dale answered. "They did not come at all, but they called you out there to them.”

Briefly he told her what had happened, and the terror on her face deepened as she heard.

"I remember now!” she exclaimed. "I was sitting here in the drawing-room,

waiting and terribly afraid even though you four were watching outside. Then as I waited a strange force seemed to de¬ scend on me—I felt my limbs moving without command of my will, against command of my will! It was as though another will had stepped into my body and was taking command of it.

"I seemed to lose consciousness but was dimly aware that I was walking out of the door, was making some explanation to Hugh, and then walking rapidly out through the grounds and along the road —walking—walking. . . .

"Then the only thing else I can re¬ member is faces around me, cruel, white faces with gloating red eyes. Mother’s face and Olivia’s swam among them somehow, and clearest of them all was Gerritt Geisert’s. I was dimly aware of a pain in my throat, and then knew nothing more at all, as though my own will had been completely overpowered.”

Doctor Dale rose, his eyes intense. "Virginia, you’ve had a terrible experi¬ ence,” he said, "but I’m afraid that one as terrible lies still ahead of you.”

"What do you mean?” she asked. "Surely you can keep them from calling me out there again, doctor? You must—• you can lock me up or tie me up or something!”

Dale shook his head. "On the con¬ trary,” he asserted, "if Gerritt Geisert and his vampires call you out there again this coming night, we are going to let you go!”

Hugh Rillard got to his feet, his face flaming. "Like hell we are!” he cried. "It’s my fault she went out to that hellnest of vampires once, .but she’s not going again!”

Dale’s eyes were like brown ice. "Ril¬ lard, she must go again! Don’t you see what I’m driving at? If we let her go at their call and follow her, she’ll lead us

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


straight to Gerritt Geisert and the rest, and with our pistols and cross-bullets we can end them once and for all!”

Doctor Henderson nodded eagerly. "He’s right, Hugh! Geisert and the rest will undoubtedly call her out there again, and we might search out there ourselves for weeks without finding them.”

"But what if Geisert were too much for us again?” cried Rillard. "He was tonight and could be again, and we’d have sacrificed Virginia’s life—more than her life—for nothing!”

"Rillard, I don’t say that there’s no risk of that,” Doctor Dale said gravely. "Yet we must take that risk. Think! We may be able by keeping constant watch over Virginia to keep Geisert and his vampires from getting at her again, but what will be the result? Those four fiends will turn to new victims!

"They will vampirize new victims whom we may not even know of, and who can become vampires in turn after their deaths. So this circle of evil will widen still further, and will become so great that it will be beyond our control. For Geisert aims to be vampire master of hundreds, of thousands, and unless we take this chance to destroy him and his satellites, he will be!”

"But I can’t let Virginia go!” groaned Rillard. "I’d go gladly myself, but she-’’

Virginia interrupted him. "I am going to do as Doctor Dale says!” she said, her face pale but determined. "He’s right, Hugh—it’s the only way in which this thing can be stopped, and mother and Olivia made truly dead!”

Dale caught her hand. "You are a brave girl,” he exclaimed. "I know what terror you must feel at the idea of repeat¬ ing last night’s experience, Virginia, but it will not be the same. We four will be close behind you, and Geisert and the

others will not have time to harm you before we attack them.”

"But what will we do?” asked Hugh Rillard, his face working. "Just wait here tonight until Virginia is called out there and follow?”

"Just that,” Dale said. "But we must have everything ready when night comes.

"I think,” he added solemnly, "that tonight will decide this terrible struggle one way or another. Either we will con¬ quer and destroy Gerritt Geisert and his minions once and for all, or he will add another to the list of his vampire-victims and show that he is too strong for us to hope ever to overcome.”

The knowledge of this held us tense through the hours of that day. During the morning hours Virginia lay in ex¬ hausted sleep, Rillard and I taking turns in watching over her while Doctor Dale and Doctor Henderson got some sleep.

In the afternoon we reversed the pro¬ cedure and while Henderson watched the still-sleeping Virginia, and Doctor Dale busied himself in his preparations for the night, Rillard and I snatched some troubled sleep. Even in my sleep the knowledge that we soon must face Ger¬ ritt Geisert and his satellites in decisive combat dominated my mind.

D octor dale woke Rillard and me an hour before sunset. Virginia had wakened, and Rillard prepared a hurried meal for all of us.

I noted that Virginia wore a skirt of white flannel and a white jacket, and Dale saw my eyes upon her garb.

"I told Virginia to wear white cloth¬ ing,” he said, "as it will make her easier to follow tonight.”

The girl whitened but said nothing. "We will act as follows,” continued Doc¬ tor Dale. "Before sunset we will tie



Virginia’s hands and feet. If the vam¬ pires out there order her to come to them before midnight, as they did last night, we’ll not let her go but will wait a few hours before releasing her.

"The reason is that then she, and we who will be following her, will get out there to wherever the vampire nest is in that valley, not much before sunrise. That turns the time-element in our favor, for even should Gerritt Geisert and the other three be too strong for us, they will hard¬ ly have time before sunrise to seek a new hiding-place for their coffins and bodies.

"When we follow Virginia out there we will take with us, besides our pistols with their cross-bullets, the sack contain¬ ing the stakes and tools and also garlicbranches. With all these we should be able to overcome Geisert and the rest, or at least prevent them from escaping. If we can not—but we must not think of failure!”

We rose from the table. "The sun is hanging over the western horizon now,” Dale said, pointing at the window. "It is time we secured Virginia.”

We went into the drawing-room and the girl seated herself in a chair. Then Doctor Dale quickly bound her hands and feet securely with thin rope, not so tight¬ ly as to hurt her but too tightly for her to make any movement out of the chair.

The sun set rapidly after we finished, and as twilight’s dusk invaded the house Dale snapped on the lights, and drew chairs around that of Virginia. The sack containing the tools and stakes and garlic lay close at hand.

"We’ll wait here around you, Virginia,” he told the girl. "There is a possibility that instead of calling you out there, Gerritt Geisert and the rest may come in here again, but I do not look for it. I am confident that all will be as last night.”

"I’m not afraid with you all around

me,” Virginia said, but her face was very pale. Hugh Rillard took her bound hands in his, and she smiled bravely at him.

O F all the terrible vigils that had been ours since Dale and I had come to Maysville to fight the vampire menace, that was most terrible. A watch and wait it was for the dread vampire-summons to come to this girl in our midst, a sum¬ mons from her own dead vampire mother and sister and from that dread vampire master, Gerritt Geisert, whose black nets of two-hundred-year-old evil had made of three innocent people after death hellfiends lusting for the blood of their kin and kind.

And as time dragged slowly on, our watch was made the more terrible by the presence with us in the house of the dead James Ralton, lying still in his coffin in the library. So aware of his presence I was that as I seemed to hear with strained ears slight sounds from the library, I began to wonder whether or not even James Ralton, though not a vampire vic¬ tim, might not arise from his coffin at some outside command, to work against us.

Doctor Dale looked constantly at his watch, and every few minutes walked around the room, peering out its win¬ dows, but never leaving the room. The rest of us sat unmoving in our chairs around Virginia. Doctor Henderson was as white almost as the girl, and I wondered inwardly how much more of this horror the elderly physician could stand. He was an altogether differentlooking person from the Henderson who had visited Doctor Dale and me in our New York office.

It lacked an hour of midnight when our wait was first rewarded with results. Virginia suddenly stiffened in her chair.

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


Her eyes expanded and her whole face was shadowed by a series of swift changes. An unfamiliar listening expres¬ sion dropped on it, and her gray eyes became strange.

She strained at her bonds, sought to rise. Her ankles and wrists were cut by the thin ropes as with all her strength she sought to break them. Her eyes blazed in alien hatred at our own, and her face was utterly unlike the normal Virginia’s; her mouth was a cruel red square.

"They’re calling her!” Doctor Dale ex¬ claimed. "Gerritt Geisert’s will has hold of her now!”

"Let me go!” Virginia was crying, almost screaming. "I want to go!” Her body thrashed wildly in the chair.

"Hold her in the chair!” Dale directed, and Rillard and I held her down as he ordered. Her strange eyes glared into ours, and in her fury she spat at us!

For minutes she struggled wildly, then subsided and lay bound in the. chair with hate blazing from her eyes.

Then again she was struggling furious¬ ly, screeching, screaming, the call from out there in the vampire-haunted hills strong upon her. Her efforts to free herself were so wild that it took three of us to hold her in the chair. Dale watched with stern determination.

These periods of alternate raging strug¬ gle and breathless subsidence went on, past midnight and past one o’clock, while still we held her. Then abruptly she seemed to collapse in her chair, and hung limp in our grasp.

In a moment she stirred weakly, and opened her eyes. The savagery had left her face and it seemed normal. She looked in wondering fashion at us.

"Did something happen?” she asked. "But I’m all right now. Only these ropes hurt my ankles—loosen them, Hugh.”

Rillard with an exclamation of relief

bent to do so, and was knocked aside by a sweep of Doctor Dale’s arm.

"No!” cried Dale. "Don’t you see it’s the vampire will holding her still, sham¬ ming? Look at her!”

The animal-like fury was again on Virginia’s face at seeing her ruse thus balked. She struggled madly again, strik¬ ing us with her bound hands until, pant¬ ing, we again held her tightly.

"In a half-hour more we’ll release her,” Dale said. "She’ll make straight for the hills.”

Virginia had become quiet. She was not looking at us now but was looking past us, head erect, a strange listening ex¬ pression on her face. Her eyes glinted with a hint of triumph.

I could not understand this new change, but Rillard and Henderson and I con¬ tinued to hold her. Doctor Dale glanced again at his watch. It was almost two. We were all utterly tense.

A window crashed behind us and Vir¬ ginia screamed exultantly. We spun around — Arthur Newton had crashed through the window and was lunging toward us. His eyes were hell-crimson, his face a white vampire-mask of evil.

With abnormal strength Newton brushed Doctor Dale from his path and grasped Virginia’s bound form. Hugh Rillard leapt at him with a snarl but was knocked back by one hand as Newton leapt with the girl toward the window.

But as Newton half-turned to knock back Rillard, I fired at his exposed left breast. Newton stopped dead, his face for an instant agonized and ghastly as my cross-shaped bullet tore into his breast. Then, dropping Virginia, he fell in a limp heap to the floor.

Doctor Dale had staggered up with his pistol out. "Dale, it’s Newton!” I cried. "The cross-bullet ended him!”

"He was trying to take Virginia out!”



Dale exclaimed. "You see what it means —Gerritt Geisert, when Virginia did not answer their call, sent Newton in here after her!

"Quick!” he cried. "The sledge and stakes! We’ll make sure that Arthur Newton is truly dead, even though the cross-bullet appears to have made him so.”

Hurriedly we set one of the sharpened stakes against Newton’s breast and drove it down through his heart, Rillard and I wielding the heavy tool, Newton’s body unstirring.

Dale and Henderson then swiftly sev¬ ered Newton’s head. Upon his face, though it showed now the appearance of several-weeks’ death which formerly it had not showed, was a naturalness and peace I had never seen there. We then wrapped Newton’s body in a sheet, and placed it on the sofa. One of Geisert’s vampires, at least, was destroyed!

We turned then to Virginia, but stopped appalled. She was not in the room! She had been lying bound by the broken window where Newton had dropped her, but was not there now!

"She’s gone!” Dale cried. "Newton must have broken or loosened her bonds when he grasped her, and she’s headed out to the hills to answer Gerritt Geisert’s call!”

"After her, then!” yelled Rillard. We leapt to the window, I grasping the sack of tools and stakes, and out into the night.

We reached the road, looking west¬ ward. A white object visible in the light of the rising moon was fleeing toward the dark hills.

"There she goes!” Dale cried. "We must overtake her!”

We ran at top speed along the road, after Virginia’s fleeing white form. The girl seemed to fly through the night, so swift was her progress.

The hills loomed bigger ahead and

still she kept well in front of us. Our pistols were in our hands, gleaming in the moonlight, as we followed. The tools in the sack that I carried clanked with each stride.

W E had drawn a little closer to Vir¬ ginia’s white form but were pant¬ ing hard by the time we ran after her in between the first of the frowning black hills. Henderson was sobbing with each breath as he ran, behind the rest of us, and I knew he must be almost winded.

Through the hills after the running girl we sped, and turned after her down the long narrow valley of deserted manors, whose deep cleft now was illuminated by the silver of the lifting moon. In that illumination I could glimpse on the val¬ ley’s sides the ancient houses Edward Harmon first had pointed out to us—the Van Broot house and Elphin house and Salton house and others.

Virginia was heading toward the an¬ cient Salton house, had left the road and was flitting up through the brush of the valley’s steep side toward the rotting old structure. We glimpsed her white figure momentarily in the brush; then it was hidden from us.

"The Salton place!” panted Rillard. "She’s heading for the old house—Gerritt Geisert and the others must be there!”

"We’ll be up there in a few minutes!” Doctor Dale exclaimed. "Keep your pis¬ tols ready!”

We struggled up the slope through the tangled brush and briars, heedless of their tearing fingers. We emerged breathless and bleeding into the moonlit clearing on the slope that held the rotting highroofed manor-house, just in time to see its door close upon Virginia.

Rillard was throwing himself toward the house, but Dale held him back a moment.

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


''Wait!” he exclaimed fiercely. "We must be sure that Gerritt Geisert does not escape this time!”

He tore the sack from me, drew swift¬ ly from it the garlic we had put in it that day.

"Each of you take some of these, go around the house and place them outside the doors and windows!” he said. "Quick!”

"But Virginia’s in there with those vampire-fiends!” Rillard cried crazily.

"Do as I say!” Doctor Dale said, his eyes blazing. Rillard with a groan grasped some of the withered branches, as the rest of us had done, and we ran silently across the moonlit clearing to the house.

Its decaying doors and window-shut¬ ters were closed, but we heard high and wild voices from inside. Swiftly and with thumping hearts we placed the gar¬ lic outside the sills of doors and windows.

The sky eastward was paling a little. Dawn was close at hand, I saw, as I joined Doctor Dale and Rillard and Hen¬ derson at the front of the house. The voices inside were now passionate, furi¬ ous. We pressed against the loose-hung rotting door and through the crack between it and its frame we could look into the room inside, bright-lit by the moonlight streaming through innumer¬ able crevices in rotting roof and walls.

Gerritt Geisert stood at the room’s cen¬ ter with Virginia Ralton’s white-garbed figure in his arms! She lay with eyes dosed and without power of resistance in his grasp, her jacket-collar open and ex¬ posing the punctures on her throat.

But Geisert was not looking at her. He was confronting, as he held her, the two others in the room, Allene and Olivia Ralton. The two women-vampires, in their white shrouds, were terrible in aspect, their red eyes burning with in¬ fernal fury.

"I say you get none!” Geisert was exdaiming to them in high, rasping voice. "It will be sunrise in minutes, you fools! There is no time for you to take her blood—hardly time enough for me!”

"But why should you be the one?” cried Olivia Ralton with unholy passion. "She is my victim as much as yours, and my sister also! Her blood belongs more to me than to you!”

"And more to me than to either of you!” cried Allene Ralton. "She is my child and her blood should be mine!”

"I say no!” thundered Geisert in hellish rage. "Down to your coffins! Sunrise is almost here!”

"We won’t!” screeched Allene Ralton. "Who are you to take the Jvictims and the blood that belongs to us!”

She and Olivia darted forward like twin attacking furies at Geisert. Without releasing Virginia, Geisert raised his hand, and though he did not touch either of the two women vampires, they recoiled as from a blow, and shrank to the moon¬ lit room’s other side.

"So you find out again I am master!” cried Geisert in diabolical mockery. "And that as master the blood of this girl

''Not yours!” yelled Doctor Dale as we four crashed in through the rotted door. Dale and I fired together at Geisert.

We missed, and Geisert, red fire blaz¬ ing in his eyes, swung Virginia Ralton’s limp white form between himself and us so that we dared not fire. He backed to a door and stairs leading down into the dark cellar, dropped Virginia and sprang into the darkness as Olivia and Allene Ralton, screeching in fury, sprang at us.

D ale and Rillard and I shot at the two women fiends as they leapt but in the wild flurry we missed. Olivia Ralton



bore Rillard down and was seeking his throat with sharp teeth when Dale and I fired together at her. She fell limp as the cross-shaped bullets struck her.

Allene Ralton was upon us as Rillard scrambled up. Before we could turn our pistols upon her Gerritt Geisert burst up again out of the cellar, eyes a red flame, a black coffin of antique design held in his grasp. We had not time to fire before he was across the room, one arm holding the coffin like a feather while with a sweep of the other he knocked Rillard and Henderson and me from his path.

He and Allene Ralton leapt to escape through the open door, but at its thresh¬ old they recoiled from the garlic we had placed outside. Dawn was painting the sky grayly and rosy beams eastward showed sunrise was at hand. With an in¬ human screech Allene Ralton fled down¬ ward into the darkness of the cellar while Gerritt Geisert, his white face awful in its rage, sprang to one of the windows.

But as he tore it open, as he recoiled from the withered branches outside its sill, Dale and Rillard and I shot together. The coffin dropped from Geisert’s grasp as our cross-bullets tore into him. He swayed a moment with the raging red hell-fires in his eyes dulling, then fell and lay motionless.

A bright shaft of golden light struck in through the open door from the rising sun.

We staggered, looking wildly at one another. "It’s over!” Henderson sobbed. "Oh God, it’s over!”

"Dale, what of Allene Ralton?” I cried thickly. "She went down there!”

"She fled down there to her coffin when she saw sunrise coming,” Dale said. "She’s down there in it now, stiff and helpless—but Virginia-”

Hugh Rillard had dropped beside Vir¬

ginia’s limp form. "Virginia, it’s I!” he choked. "It’s Hugh!”

She stirred a little, and opened her eyes dazedly. "But I’m all right—what hap¬ pened-”

"Take her outside, Rillard,” said Doc¬ tor Dale. "Owen, you and Henderson help me take these bodies down to the cellar.”

As Rillard helped the still-dazed girl out we took first Gerritt Geisert’s body and then that of Olivia Ralton down the stairs into the dark cellar. Doctor Dale flashed the beam of his flashlight around and the light fell on three coffins. Two of them were open, one closed.

"The coffins of Allene and Olivia Ral¬ ton and of Arthur Newton,” Dale said.

He opened the lid of the closed coffin. His beam fell on the face of Allene Ral¬ ton, lying stiff and unmoving with closed eyes.

"Bring Geisert’s coffin down, too,” Dale said, "and the sack of tools.”

When we had done so we placed Ger¬ ritt Geisert’s body in his antique coffin. Soon a terrible odor of long-deferred de¬ composition arose from Geisert’s twohundred-year-old body as we staked it.

The body was already disintegrating, in fact, and when we had finished driving a stake down through its heart and sever¬ ing the head, it was not much more than bones and dust. We closed the coffin. Gerritt Geisert, master of the dead-alive, was at long last truly dead.

Olivia Ralton too lay motionless in her coffin as the cruel but merciful stake drove down through her heart and her head was severed, her vampire-life already paralyzed like Geisert’s by our cross-bul¬ lets. But when we used stake and steel upon Allene Ralton’s body her convul¬ sions and writhings were a repetition of those of Alice Wilsey. At the end of

THE VAMPIRE MASTER


those terrible few minutes Henderson’s hands were shaking violently, but as we closed Allene Ralton’s coffin her face held the peace of the truly dead.

We left the coffins and bodies in the cellar, awaiting their return to the ceme¬ tery where they would now sleep undis¬ turbed, and went back up out of the dark cellar, and out of the house into the bright sunlight. The world was brilliant in that early morning light, even the long dark valley suddenly fair and smiling to our eyes.

Virginia Ralton came toward us with Rillard as we emerged. "Doctor Dale!” she cried. "The marks on my throat have

gone completely! See!” And she showed us her unmarred neck.

Dale nodded wearily, a faint smile in his eyes, as Doctor Henderson and I leaned forward to see. "Yes, Virginia,” he said, "they passed with the passing of the black vampire-evil that caused them.

"There is nothing more to fear now, for that evil is gone as utterly as though it had never been, as utterly as all evil must go in time, even though for a while it works untold ill.”

“Then everything is over?” cried Vir¬ ginia.

Dale looked past her at Rillard and shook his head. "No,” he said. "For you, everything is beginning.”

[THE END]

L

the Triangle

By HOWARD WANDREI

A brief strange tale about a weird beast, and an old man in gray

H E LISTENED. In the familiar woods surrounding the house was some exotic beast, making its presence known in the most puzzling manner. Arnold closed the book he had been reading and walked over to the open window. The August afternoon was at its pitch, and the heavy, moist, hazy air had suffocated all other living things into silence. The man looked through the woods in the direction of the sound, and then cocked his head, listening intently, trying to identify the sound. It was a broken succession of growlings, a gob¬ bling curiously interrupted so as to sound

like a mechanical and humorless chuck¬ ling.

He was disturbed. There could be no beast on earth that could make a sound like that. Its utterly mechanical nature seemed all exact repetition. He thought of a phonograph, whose arm soullessly and maddeningly played the same groove of a record over and over and over again. His house was remotely situated, and no one from town would be here on such a stifling afternoon. The empty lightness of children was not in the noise, and it could hardly be made with implements. It was a throaty evidence of life, and now



it cut regularly through the air like a vocal saw.

Arnold knew the woods very well, hav¬ ing lived here many years; the origin of the disturbance would not be difficult to locate. The thing was worth investigat¬ ing. Having listened at the window with increasing wonder for several minutes, he dropped his book on the window-seat and crossed the room to the door. Here he stopped for a moment, but decided not to lock it. The small animals of the woods might take a bright object or two, so he returned to close the window. Then he closed the door, and after looking up at the dead blue sky and around at his greening acres, made off through the trees. No human being was likely to visit, especially on a day like this. Only one white-haired old man had come by in the last two weeks. Curious old fel¬ low. He had eyed Arnold as though he were taking pictures of his ways, his body, and his brain; and he had taken his own time in leaving.

No air stirred. The birds were silent, and the trees stood so still they seemed waiting for life. Arnold now walked rapidly and softly, peering through the trees ahead and to either side. The ground was not entirely free of brush, nor was it level. But the loose collocations of elms, oaks, and cottonwoods, which were com¬ monest in this country, admitted a fairly unobstructed view for some distance ahead. As he walked he looked familiar¬ ly on his property, identifying a stump, touching a tree where he had carved his initials a year or two ago. Now he was ascending a broad, low knoll, the first siffi he had chosen for his house, and de¬ cided against because of the magnificent trees growing here. From the continued noise of the beast he knew that discovery was close at hand. The sound was even more puzzling than before, and it would

be difficult to say whether it was caused by throat or machine. There would be enlightenment on the other side of the knoll.

As he walked, the exotic growling as¬ sumed thq character of a struggle, and now, as he advanced more and more care¬ fully, a thin, plaintive human voice, odd¬ ly familiar, augmented the sound of ec¬ centric, senseless chuckling. So it was a struggle, and one of the contenders was a man calling weakly for help.

Arnold quickly crested the knoll, shout¬ ing, "Hold on! I’m with you in a mo¬ ment!”

The struggle, instead of ceasing at his now noisy approach, increased, and the chuckle became magnified to a broken, staccato barking. Arnold shouted again encouragingly, and, breaking through a clinging screen of creepers and clutching brush, stopped dead as he sighted the struggling figures before him.

In this spot three venerable cotton¬ woods formed an almost perfect triangle, within which the ground was almost free of all growth. In this triangle was lying prone an old man with long white hair. It was the old fellow who had dropped in two weeks ago. He was plainly and neat¬ ly dressed in coarse gray cloth, as before, and he was striving fearfully to protect his throat and abdomen from the teeth and disemboweling claws of a strange beast.

The beast was of human size, and seemed to have something of the char¬ acteristics each of ape, pig, and dog. Its fangs were of extraordinary length, how¬ ever, and it made such a violent carica¬ ture of life that Arnold looked on it with disgust and horror. Coarse black hair covered the body, and a short tail jerked convulsively as the beast made its barking noises and its arching fangs worried the

IN THE TRIANGLE


old man's throat. A hybrid? Odd animals have appeared most unaccountably at the strangest times in the most unexpected places. There was the dog-boar mon¬ strosity that was found in France. This might not be the worst nor the least of nature’s baroque experiments.

C ompletely revolted by the appear¬ ance of the queer animal, Arnold hastily looked around for a convenient weapon, answering the piteous appeal in the old man’s eyes. It he had taken fuller account of the situation he might have hesitated, and thought the struggle even stranger than at first sight.

In the first place, aside from the affair in the triangle, the woods were uncom¬ monly still, so still that the air seemed charged with waiting and expectancy. There was so marked a contrast between the apparent violence in the triangle and the deathly summer stillness of the air and brush and trees that the whole affair was denied both purpose and reality. The background of silence, suggesting a toler¬ ation that approached human understand¬ ing, gave the struggle the character of highest artificiality.

Arnold missed the significance in the attacking fangs of the beast. The teeth were terribly sharp, and, though repeat¬ edly closing on the old man’s throat, never dented the skin. The disemboweling claws, full of raking death, exerted their convulsive weight, and nothing more. The claws themselves scarcely caught in the old man’s neat gray cloth. Arnold had heard the ugly, ghoulish barking aright, but didn’t see its meaning. The barks were unfinished growlings, animal sounds continually started and never completed. The old man exhibited no evidences of physical harm; his plain garments were unsullied, and were disposed in careful folds. The waiting woods and the strug¬

gling forms insidiously represented a composite threat and nothing more.

But Arnold, unable to find either stick or stone in the enclosed triangle, and daring to take no time looking through the brush encroaching on this particular spot, flung himself bodily on the assault¬ ing beast. The impact of his body liber¬ ated the old man, who took to his feet at once, and circled the two on the ground gingerly.

"Kill him! Kill him!” he squeaked querulously.

"Get a stick!” said Arnold, furiously struggling. But the old man stood by, watching the two interestedly.

The beast emitted magnified, fullthroated barkings now, and a long vio¬ lence of growlings. Its rank, intolerable animal odor was suffocating and charnel in the stagnant air, and Arnold fought to finish the thing as soon as possible. Oddly enough, he thought at this moment of his pleasant room and the book he had been reading. The time-spread initials he had carved in the tree seemed stamped on the beast’s rugose, leonine forehead.

The hateful feeling of the moist, swine-like skin was a difficulty in itself, but more important was the fact that the animal’s body afforded no firm grasp. He was holding the creature desperately by its wrists, and his superior position prevented it from using its deadly legs. Neither of them was free to use his hands.

"For God’s sake, hit it! Kick its head!” he said, and looked up at the old man, his eyes full of violent entreaty. But the old man only skipped about tensely, eye¬ ing the beast and looking at Arnold nerv¬ ously. Arnold cursed his luck in hearing the beast from his untroubled house. Bet¬ ter the old man had died. Or would he have died anyhow? The animal might have been the old devil’s pet, to all ap112


pearances. At any rate the old fellow didn't seem to have a scratch on his body from the curious encounter.

As Arnold looked into the beast’s flam¬ ing eyes his brain flushed with despera¬ tion, purpose, and horror. The creature’s wide, fixed stare seemed an attempt to take possession of his will, and he felt himself drowning in the engulfing shad¬ ows of the beast’s mindlessness. He shook his head dizzily, freeing himself from the hypnotizing stare, and, as his one resort, sickly forced his jaws to the beast’s throat.

He found his face wet and warm, and the taste of blood on his lips. The reek of the thing’s skin checked his breath. Convinced now that the situation de¬ manded the beast’s life or his own, he worked with distasteful hurry: there was the sanctuary afterward of his room and his books, nor would he ever bury this vileness on his loved property. The old man would hear a word or two, moreover. He had offered no help in the least, only dancing about like a gray-headed, delight¬ ed monkey.

During this time the creature had made no effort to use its own powerful jaws, only barking and growling savagely. And at Arnold's sudden determination to take its life, it closed its jaws for his conven¬ ience and merely continued the sound through its nose and throat. Its body lurched about with all the appearance of deadly intent, but it made no attempt at

definite harm. Arnold had missed this singularity, and now his revolted jaws clipped the beast’s jugular.

The mingled incidents of the situation resolved themselves into coincidences. Arnold found himself lying prone, in the position the beast had occupied, looking dimly at the sky. Twigs on the ground racked his naked body roughly. His throat and wrists hurt terribly, and he raised his arms to find his neck mangled, the large veins severed, and his life ebbing away in warm spurts. The arm was bare and swarthy, like pigskin, as was his whole unfamiliar body. The coarse fin¬ gers terminated in powerful claws. The leathery, slimy tongue with which he tried to lick his straining lips encountered strange, curving fangs. Above him stood the beast, and his dying brain burned with shame as he recognized his own garments, his own watchful attitude, and himself, looking down eagerly with his own now weirdly glittering eyes.

Now the quiet summer afternoon af¬ forded the scene of a hairy beast lying alone on the ground in the center cf triangulated cottonwoods, clawing horri¬ bly at its breast. A young man and an old man with long white hair were walking off through the woods to Arnold’s house, and, as the strange beast’s head rolled sideways, the eyes filming in death glimpsed finally the brisk figure of the old man looking back gleefully.

W. T.—7

Randles

By DOROTHY QUICK

Bring candles red and candles white To light my lord, the King, tonight:

Candles red for his heart’s true worth Flaming for him, who rules the earth; Candles white for the soul of him,

And never let their light grow dim;

Candles white and candles red To guide him to the bridal bed.

Bring candles blue and candles green To light my lady fair, the Queen:

Candles blue for her trusting eyes And for the faith that in them lies;

Candles green for the land she brings,

That join her sovereign Lord’s, the King’s Candles blue and candles green To light the chamber of the Queen.

Candles red, green, white and blue,

All burning with a steady hue.

White her body, red her mouth,

Green her lands, both north and south;

Red the passion of his kiss,

White her yielding unto this;

Blue the panels of her room,

Blue the overhanging doom.

White the moonlight where she lies,

Blue the terror in her eyes;

Red the blood on the King’s hands—

Fair and broad were her green lands.

Light candles tall and candles white To speed the Queen’s soul on its flight. Bring candles tall and candles black To light the King on his way back.

JheTtT VV oman

of the Wood

By A. MERRITT

M cKAY sat on the balcony of the little inn that squatted like a brown gnome among the pines that clothed the eastern shore of the lake.

It was a small and lonely lake high up on the Vosges; and yet the word "lonely” is not just the one to tag its spirit; rather was it aloof, withdrawn. The mountains came down on every side, making a vast tree-lined bowl that seemed filled, when McKay first saw it, with a still wine of peace.

McKay had worn the wings with honor in the World War. And as a bird loves the trees, so did McKay love them. They were to him not merely trunks and roots, branches and leaves; they were person¬ alities. He was acutely aware of char¬ acter differences even among the same species—that pine was jolly and benev¬ olent; that one austere, monkish; there stood a swaggering bravo and there a sage wrapped in green meditation; that birch

• Prom WEIRD TALES for August. 1926.


was a wanton—the one beside her vir¬ ginal, still adream.

The war had sapped McKay, nerve, brain and soul. Through all the years that had passed the wound had kept open. But now, as he slid his car down the side of the great green bowl, he felt its peace reach out to him, caress and quiet him, promise him healing. He seemed to drift like a falling leaf through the cathedraled woods; to be cradled by the hands of the trees.

McKay had stopped at the little gnome of an inn, and there he had lingered, day after day, week after week.

The trees had nursed him; soft whis¬ perings of the leaves, slow chant of the needled pines, had first deadened, then driven from him the re-echoing clamor of the war and its sorrow. The open wound of his spirit had closed under their healing, had closed and become scars; and then even the scars had been covered and buried, as the scars on Earth’s breast are covered and buried beneath the falling

THE WOMAN OF THE WOOD


leaves of autumn. The trees had laid healing hands upon his eyes. He had sucked strength from the green breasts of the hills.

As that strength flowed back to him, McKay grew aware that the place was— troubled; that there was ferment of fear within it.

It was as though the trees had waited until he himself had become whole before they made their own unrest known to him. But now they were trying to tell him something; there was a shrillness as of apprehension, of anger, in the whis¬ pering of the leaves, the needled chant¬ ing of the pines.

And it was this that had kept McKay at the inn—a definite consciousness of ap¬ peal. He strained his ears to catch words in the rustling branches, words that trem¬ bled on the brink of his human under¬ standing. Never did they cross that brink.

Gradually he had focused himself, so he believed, to the point of the valley’s unease.

On all of the shores of the lake there were but two dwellings. One was the inn, and around the inn the trees clus¬ tered protectively, confidingly, friendly. It was as though they had not only ac¬ cepted it, but had made it part of them¬ selves.

Not so was it of the other habitation. Once it had been the hunting-lodge of long-dead lords; now it was half ruined, forlorn. It lay across the lake almost exactly opposite the inn and back upon the slope a half-mile from the shore. Once there had been fat fields around it and a fair orchard.

The forest had marched down upon fields and lodge. Here and there scat¬ tered pines and poplars stood like soldiers guarding some outpost; scouting parties of saplings lurked among the gaunt, bro¬

ken fruit trees. But the forest had not had its way unchecked; ragged stumps showed where those who dwelt in the old house had cut down the invaders; black¬ ened patches showed where they had fired the woods.

Here was the center of the conflict. Here the green folk of the forest were both menaced and menacing, at war.

The lodge was a fortress beleaguered by the trees, a fortress whose garrison sal¬ lied forth with ax and torch to take their toll of their besiegers.

Yet McKay sensed a slow, inexorable pressing on of the forest; he saw it as an army ever filling the gaps in its enclosing ranks, shooting its seeds into the cleared places, sending its roots out to sap them; and armed always with a crushing pa¬ tience. He had the impression of con¬ stant regard, of watchfulness, as though night and day the forest kept myriads of eyes upon the lodge, inexorably, not to be swerved from its purpose. He had spo¬ ken of this impression to the innkeeper and his wife, and they had looked at him, oddly.

"Old Polleau does not love the trees, no,” the old man had said. "No, nor do his two sons. They do not love the trees —and very certainly the trees do not love them.”

B etween the lodge and the shore, marching down to the verge of the lake was a singularly beautiful little cop¬ pice of silver birches and firs. This coppice stretched for perhaps a quarter of a mile; it was not more than a hundred feet or two in depth, and not alone the beauty of its trees but also their curious grouping vividly aroused McKay’s inter¬ est. At each end were a dozen or more of the glistening, needled firs, not clus¬ tered but spread out as though in open marching order; at widely spaced inter116


vals along its other two sides paced single firs. The birches, slender and delicate, grew within the guard of these sturdier trees, yet not so thickly as to crowd one another.

To McKay the silver birches were for all the world like some gay caravan of lovely demoiselles under the protection of debonair knights. With that odd other sense of his he saw the birches as delec¬ table damsels, merry and laughing—the pines as lovers, troubadours in greenneedled mail. And when the winds blew and the crests of the trees bent under them, it was as though dainty demoiselles picked up fluttering, leafy skirts, bent leafy hoods and danced while the knights of the firs drew closer round them, locked arms and danced with them to the roaring horns of the winds. At such times he almost heard sweet laughter from the birches, shoutings from the firs.

Of all die trees in that place McKay loved best this little wood. He had rowed across and rested in its shade, had dreamed there and, dreaming, had heard mysterious whisperings and the sound of dancing feet light as falling leaves; had taken dream-draft of that gayetv which was the soul of the little wood.

Two days ago he had seen Polleau and his two sons. McKay had lain dreaming in the coppice all that afternoon. As dusk began to fall he had reluctantly arisen and begun to row back to the inn. When he had been a few hundred feet from shore three men had come out from the trees and had stood watching him—three grim powerful men taller than the aver¬ age French peasant.

He had called a friendly greeting to them, but they had not answered it; had stood there, scowling. Then as he bent again to his oars, one of the sons had raised a hatchet and driven it savagely into the trunk of a slim birch. McKay

thought he heard a thin, wailing cry from the stricken tree, a sigh from all the little wood.

He had felt as though the keen edge had bitten into his own flesh.

"Stop that!” he had cried. "Stop it, damn you!”

For answer Polleau’s son had struck again—and never had McKay seen hate etched so deep as on his face as he struck. Cursing, a killing rage in his heart, Mc¬ Kay had swung the boat around, raced bade to shore. He had heard the hatchet strike again and again and, close now to shore, had heard a crackling and over it once more the thin, high wailing. He had turned to look.

The birch was tottering, was falling. Close beside it grew one of the firs, and, as the smaller tree crashed over, it dropped upon this fir like a fainting maid into the arms of her lover. And as it lay and trembled there, one of the branches of the other tree slipped from under it, whipped out and smote the hatchet-wielder a crushing blow upon the head, send¬ ing him to earth.

It had been, of course, only the chance blow of a bough, bent by pressure of the fallen trunk and then released as that had slipped down. Of course—yet there had been such suggestion of conscious action in the branch’s recoil, so much of bitter anger in it, so much, in truth, had it been like a purposeful blow that McKay felt an eery prickling of his scalp; his heart had missed its beat.

For a moment Polleau and the stand¬ ing son had stared at the sturdy fir with the silvery birch lying upon its green breast; folded in and shielded by its needled boughs as though — again the swift impression came to McKay — as though it were a wounded maid stretched on breast, in arms, of knightly lover. For a long moment father and son had stared.

THE WOMAN OF THE WOOD


Then, still wordless but with that same bitter hatred in both their faces, they had stooped arid picked up the other and, with his arms around the neck of each, had borne him limply away.

M ckay, sitting on the balcony of the inn that morning, went over and over that scene, realized more and more clearly the human aspect of fallen birch and clasping fir, and the conscious delib¬ erateness of the latter’s blow. During the two days that had elapsed since then, he had felt the unease of the trees in¬ crease, their whispering appeal become more urgent.

What were they trying to tell him? What did they want him to do?

Troubled, he stared across the lake, try¬ ing to pierce the mists that hung over it and hid the opposite shore. And sud¬ denly it seemed that he heard the coppice calling him, felt it pull the point of his attention toward it irresistibly, as the lodestone swings and holds the compass needle.

The coppice called him; it bade him come.

McKay obeyed the command; he arose and walked down to the boat landing; he stepped into his skiff and began to row across the lake. As his oars touched the water his trouble fell from him. In its place flowed peace and a curious exalta¬ tion.

The mists were thick upon the lake. There was no breath of wind, yet the mists billowed and drifted, shook and curtained under the touch of unfelt airy hands.

They were alive—the mists; they formed themselves into fantastic palaces past whose opalescent facades he flew; they built themselves into hills and val¬ leys and circled plains whose floors were rippling silk. Tiny rainbows gleamed

out among them, and upon the water prismatic patches shone and spread like spilled wine of opals. He had the illu¬ sion of vast distances—the hillocks of mist were real mountains, the valleys be¬ tween them were not illusory. He was a colossus cleaving through some elfin world. A trout broke, and it was like Leviathan leaping from the fathomless deep. Around the arc of the fish’s body rainbows interlaced and then dissolved into rain of softly gleaming gems—di¬ amonds in dance with sapphires, flamehearted rubies, pearls with shimmering souls of rose. The fish vanished, diving cleanly without sound; the jeweled bows vanished with it; a tiny irised whirlpool swirled for an instant where trout and flashing arcs had been.

Nowhere was there sound. He let his oars drop and leaned forward, drifting. In the silence, before him and around him, he felt opening the gateways of an unknown world.

And suddenly he heard the sound of voices, many voices, faint at first and murmurous. Louder they became, swift¬ ly; women’s voices sweet and lilting, and mingled with them the deeper tones of men; voices that lifted and fell in a wild, gay chanting through whose joyesse ran undertones both of sorrow and of anger —as though faery weavers threaded through silk spun of sunbeams, somber strands dipped in the black of graves, and crimson strands stained in the red of wrathful sunsets.

He drifted on, scarce daring to breathe lest even that faint sound break the elfin song. Closer it rang and clearer, and now he became aware that the speed of his boat was increasing, that it was no longer drifting; as though the little waves on each side were pushing him ahead with soft and noiseless palms. His boat grounded, and as its keel rustled along



over the smooth pebbles of the beach the song ceased.

McKay half arose and peered before him. The mists were thicker here, but he could see the outlines of the coppice. It was like looking at it through many curtains of fine gauze, and its trees seemed shifting, ethereal, unreal. And moving among the trees were figures that threaded among the boles and flitted round them in rhythmic measures, like the shadows of leafy boughs swaying to some cadenced wind.

He stepped ashore. The mists dropped behind him, shutting off all sight of the lake; and as they dropped, McKay lost all sense of strangeness, all feeling of having entered some unfamiliar world. Rather was it as though he had returned to one he had once known well and that had been long lost to him.

The rhythmic flitting had ceased; there was now no movement as there was no sound among the trees—yet he felt the little wood full of watchful life. McKay tried to speak; there was a spell of silence on his mouth.

"You called me. I have come to listen to you—to help you if I can.”

The words formed within his mind, but utter them he could not. Over and over he tried, desperately; the words seemed to die on his lips.

A pillar of mist whirled forward and halted, eddying half an arm-length away. Suddenly out of it peered a woman’s face, eyes level with his own. A woman’s face—yes; but McKay, staring into those strange eyes probing his, knew that, woman’s though it seemed, it was that of no woman of human breed. They were without pupils, the irises deer-large and of the soft green of deep forest dells; within them sparkled tiny star-points of light like motes in a moonbeam. The eyes were wide and set far apart beneath

a broad, low brow over which was piled braid upon braid of hair of palest gold, braids that seemed spun of shining ashes of gold. The nose was small and straight, the mouth scarlet and exquisite. The face was oval, tapering to a delicately pointed chin.

Beautiful was that face, but its beauty was an alien one, unearthly. For long moments the strange eyes thrust their gaze deep into his. Then out of the mist were thrust two slender white arms, the hands long, the fingers tapering.

The tapering fingers touched his ears.

"He shall hear,” whispered the red lips.

Immediately from all about him a cry arose; in it were the whispering and rus¬ tling of the leaves beneath the breath of the winds; the shrilling of the harpstrings of the boughs; the laughter of hidden brooks; the shoutings of waters flinging themselves down into deep and rocky pools—the voices of the forest made ar¬ ticulate.

"He shall hear!” they cried.

The long white fingers rested on his lips, and their touch was cool as bark of birch on cheek after some long upward climb through forest; cool and subtly sweet.

"He shall speak,” whispered the scar¬ let lips of the wood woman.

"He shall speak!” answered the wood voices again, as though in litany.

"He shall see,” whispered the woman, and the cold fingers touched his eyes.

"He shall see!” echoed thewood voices.

T he mists that had hidden the coppice from McKay wavered, thinned and were gone. In their place was a limpid, translucent, palely green ather, faintly lu¬ minous—as though he stood within some clear wan emerald. His feet pressed a golden moss spangled with tiny starry

THE WOMAN OF THE WOOD


bluets. Fully revealed before him was the woman of the strange eyes and the face of unearthly beauty. He dwelt for a moment upon the slender shoulders, the firm, small, tip-tilted breasts, the willow litheness of her body. From neck to knees a smock covered her, sheer and silken and delicate as spun cobwebs; through it her body gleamed as though fire of the young spring moon ran in her veins.

He looked beyond her. There upon the golden moss were other women like her, many of them; they stared at him with the same wide-set green eyes in which danced the sparkling moonbeam motes; like her they were crowned with glistening, pallidly golden hair; like hers, too, were their oval faces with the pointed chins and perilous alien beauty. Only where she stared at him gravely, measur¬ ing him, weighing him—there were those of her sisters whose eyes were mocking; and those whose eyes called to him with a weirdly tingling allure, their mouths athirst; those whose eyes looked upon him with curiosity alone; those whose great eyes pleaded with him, prayed to him.

Within that pellucid, greenly luminous tether McKay was abruptly aware that the trees of the coppice still had a place. Only now they were spectral indeed. They were like white shadows cast athwart a glaucous screen; trunk and bough, twig and leaf they arose around him and they were as though etched in air by phantom craftsmen—thin and un¬ substantial; they were ghost trees rooted in another space.

He was aware that there were men among the women; men whose eyes were set wide apart as were theirs, as strange and pupilless as were theirs, but with irises of brown and blue; men with point¬ ed chins and oval faces, broad-shouldered and clad in kirtles of darkest green;

swarthy-skinned men, muscular and strong, with that same lithe grace of the women—and like them of a beauty that was alien and elfin.

McKay heard a little wailing cry. He turned. Close beside him lay a girl clasped in the arms of one of the swarthy, green-clad men. She lay upon his breast. His eyes were filled with a black flame of wrath, and hers were misted, anguished. For an instant McKay had a glimpse of the birch that old Polleau’s son had sent crashing down into the boughs of the fir. He saw birch and fir as immaterial out¬ lines around this man and this girl. For an instant girl and man and birch and fir seemed to be one and the same.

The scarlet-lipped woman touched his shoulder.

"She withers,” sighed the woman, and in her voice McKay heard a faint rustling as of mournful leaves. "Now is it not pitiful that she withers—our sister who was so young, so slender and so lovely?”

McKay looked again at the girl. The white skin seemed shrunken; the moon radiance that gleamed through the bodies of the others was still in hers, but dim and pallid; her slim arms hung listlessly; her body drooped. Her mouth was wan and parched, her long and misted green eyes dull. The palely golden hair was lusterless and dry. He looked on a slow death—a withering death.

"May the arm that struck her down wither!” said the green-clad man who held her, and in his voice McKay heard a savage strumming as of winter winds through bleak boughs: "May his heart wither and the sun blast him! May the rain and the waters deny him and the winds scourge him!”

"I thirst,” whispered the girl.

There was a stirring among the watch¬ ing women. One came forward holding a chalice that was like thin leaves turned



to green crystal. She paused beside the trunk of one of the spectral trees, reached up and drew down to her a branch. A slim girl with half-frightened, half-re¬ sentful eyes glided to her side and threw her arms around the ghostly bole. The woman cut the branch deep with what seemed an arrow-shaped flake of jade and held her chalice under it. From the cut a faintly opalescent liquid dripped into the cup. When it was filled, the woman beside McKay stepped forward and pressed her own long hands around the bleeding branch. She stepped away and McKay saw that the stream had ceased to flow. She touched the trembling girl and unclasped her arms.

"It is healed,” said the woman gently. "And it was your turn, little sister. The wound is healed. Soon you will have forgotten.”

The woman with the chalice knelt and set it to the wan, dry lips of her who was —withering. She drank of it, thirstily, to the last drop. The misty eyes cleared, they sparkled; the lips that had been so parched and pale grew red, the white body gleamed as though the waning light within it had been fed with new.

"Sing, sisters,” the girl cried, shrilly. "Dance for me, sisters!”

Again burst out that chant McKay had heard as he had floated through the mists upon the lake. Now, as then, despite his open ears, he could distinguish no words, but clearly he understood its mingled themes—the joy of spring’s awakening, re¬ birth, with green life streaming singing up through every bough, swelling the buds, burgeoning with tender leaves the branches; the dance of the trees in the scented winds of spring; the drums of the jubilant rain on leafy hoods; passion of summer sun pouring its golden flood down upon the trees; the moon passing with stately steps and slow, and green

hands reaching up to her and drawing from her breast milk of silver fire; riot of wild gay winds with their mad pipings and strummings; soft interlacing of boughs; the kiss of amorous leaves—all these and more, much more that McKay could not understand since they dealt with hidden, secret things for which man has no images, were in that chanting.

And all these and more were in the rhythms of the dancing of those strange, green-eyed women and brown-skinned men; something incredibly ancient, yet young as the speeding moment; some¬ thing of a world before and beyond man.

McKay listened; he watched, lost in wonder, his own world more than half forgotten.

The woman beside him touched his arm. She pointed to the girl.

“Yet she withers,” she said. "And not all our life, if we poured it through her lips, could save her.”

He saw that the red was draining slow¬ ly from the girl’s lips, that the luminous life-tides were waning. The eyes that had been so bright were misting and growing dull once more. Suddenly a great pity and a great rage shook him. He knelt beside her, took her hands in his.

"Take them away! Take away your hands! They burn me!” she moaned.

"He tries to help you,” whispered the green-clad man, gently. But he reached over and drew McKay’s hands away.

"Not so can you help her or us,” said the woman.

"What can I do?” McKay arose, looked helplessly from one to the other. "What can I do to help you?”

The chanting died, the dance stopped. A silence fell, and he felt upon him the eyes of all these strange people. They were tense, waiting. The woman took his hands. Their touch was cool and sent

THE WOMAN OF THE WOOD


a strange sweetness sweeping through his veins.

"There are three men yonder,” she said. "They hate us. Soon we shall all be as she is there—withering! They have sworn it, and as they have sworn so will they do. Unless-”

She paused. The moonbeam dancing motes in her eyes changed to tiny sparklings of red that terrified him.

"Three men?” In his clouded mind was dim memory of Polleau and his two strong sons. "Three men?” he repeated, stupidly. "But what are three men to you who are so many? What could three men do against those stalwart gallants of yours?”

"No,” she shook her head. "No— there is nothing our—men—can do; nothing that we can do. Once, night and day, we were gay. Now we fear— night and day. They mean to destroy us. Our kin have warned us. And our kin can not help us. Those three are mas¬ ters of blade and flame. Against blade and flame we are helpless.”

"Surely will they destroy us,” mur¬ mured the woman. "We shall wither— all of us. Like her there, or burn— unless-”

Suddenly she threw white arms around McKay’s neck. She pressed her body close to him. Her scarlet mouth sought and found his lips and clung to them. Through all McKay’s body ran swift, sweet flames, green fire of desire. His own arms went round her, crushed her to him.

"You shall not die!” he cried. "No— by God, you shall not!”

She drew back her head, looked deep into his eyes.

"They have sworn to destroy us,” she said, "and soon. With blade and flame they will destroy us—those three—un-

"Unless?” he asked, fiercely.

"Unless you — slay them first!” she answered.

A cold shock ran through McKay, chilling the fires of his desire. He dropped his arm from around the woman, thrust her from him. For an instant she trembled before him.

"Slay!” he heard her whisper—and she was gone.

T he spectral trees wavered; their out¬ lines thickened out of immateriality into substance. The green translucence darkened. He had a swift vertiginous moment as though he swung between two worlds. He closed his eyes. The dizzi¬ ness passed and he opened them, looked around him.

He stood on the lakeward skirts of the little coppice. There were no shadows flitting, no sign of white woman nor of swarthy, green-clad men. His feet were on green moss. Gone was the soft gold¬ en carpet with its bluets. Birches and firs clustered solidly before him.

At his left was a sturdy fir in whose needled arms a broken birch tree lay with¬ ering. It was the birch that Polleau’s son had so wantonly slashed down. For an instant he saw within the fir and birch the immaterial outlines of the green-clad man and the slim girl who withered. For that instant birch and fir and girl and man seemed one and the same. He stepped back, and his hands touched the smooth, cool bark of another birch that rose close at his right.

Upon his hands the touch of that bark was like—was like what? Curiously was it like the touch of the long slim hands of the woman of the scarlet lips!

McKay stood there, staring, wondering, like a man who has but half awakened from dream. And suddenly a little wind stirred the leaves of the rounded birch



beside him. The leaves murmured, sighed. The wind grew stronger and the leaves whispered.

"Slay!” he heard them whisper—and again: "Slay! Help us! Slay!”

And the whisper was the voice of the woman of the scarlet lips!

Rage, swift and unreasoning, sprang up in McKay. He began to run up through the coppice, up to where he knew was the old lodge in which dwelt Polleau and his sons. And as he ran the wind blew stronger about him, and loud¬ er and louder grew the whispering of the trees.

"Slay!” they whispered. "Slay them! Save us! Slay!”

"I will slay! I will save you!” McKay, panting, hammer pulse beating in his ears, heard himself answering that ever more insistent command. And in his mind was but one desire—to clutch the throats of Polleau and his sons, to crack their necks; to stand by them then and watch them wither—wither like that slim girl in the arms of the green-clad man.

He came to the edge of the coppice and burst from it out into a flood of sunshine. For a hundred feet he ran, and then he was aware that the whispering command was stilled; that he heard no more that maddening rustling of wrathful leaves. A spell seemed to have been loosed from him; it was as though he had broken through some web of sorcery. McKay stopped, dropped upon the ground, bur¬ ied his face in the grasses.

He lay there marshaling his thoughts into some order of sanity. What had he been about to do? To rush upon those three men who lived in the old lodge and —slay them! And for what? Because that unearthly, scarlet-lipped woman whose kisses he still could feel upon his mouth had bade him! Because the whis¬ pering trees of the little wood had mad¬

dened him with that same command! For this he had been about to kill three men!

What were that woman and her sisters and the green-clad swarthy gallants of theirs? Illusions of some waking dream —phantoms born of the hypnosis of the swirling mists through which he had rowed and floated across the lake? Such things were not uncommon. McKay knew of those who by watching the shift¬ ing clouds could create and dwell for a time with wide-open eyes within some similar land of fantasy; knew others who needed but to stare at smoothly falling water to set themselves within a world of waking dreams; there were those who could summon dreams by gazing into a ball of crystal, others who found dreamlife in saucers of shining ink.

Might not the moving mists have laid those same fingers of hypnosis upon his own mind?—and his love for the trees, the sense of appeal that he had felt so long, his memory of the wanton slaugh¬ ter of the slim birch have all combined to paint upon his drugged consciousness the fantasms he had beheld?

McKay arose to his feet, shakily enough. He looked back at the coppice. There was no wind now; the leaves were silent, motionless. Reason with himself as he might, something deep within him stubbornly asserted the reality of his ex¬ perience. At any rate, he told himself, the little wood was far too beautiful to be despoiled.

T he old lodge was about a quarter of a mile away. A path led up to it through the ragged fields. McKay walked up the path, climbed rickety steps and paused, listening. He heard voices and knocked. The door was flung open and old Polleau stood there, peering at him through half-shut, suspicious eyes. One

THE WOMAN OF THE WOOD


of the sons stood dose behind him. They stared at McKay with grim, hostile faces.

He thought he heard a faint, far-off despairing whisper from the distant wood. And it was as though the pair in the doorway heard it too, for their gaze shifted from him to the coppice, and he saw hatred flicker swiftly across their grim faces. Their gaze swept back to him.

"What do you want?” demanded Polleau, curtly.

"I am a neighbor of yours, stopping at the inn-” began McKay, courteously.

"I know who you are,” Polleau inter¬ rupted, bruskly, "but what is it that you want?”

"I find the air of this place good for me.” McKay stifled a rising anger. "I am thinking of staying for a year or more until my health is fully recovered. I would like to buy some of your land and build me a lodge upon it.”

"Yes, M’sieu?” There was acid polite¬ ness now in the old man’s voice. "But is it permitted to ask why you do not remain at the inn? Its fare is excellent and you are well-liked there.”

"I have desire to be alone,” replied McKay. "I do not like people too close to me, I would have my own land, and sleep under my own roof.”

"But why come to me?” asked Polleau. "There are many places upon the far side of the lake that you could secure. It is happy there, and this side is not happy, M!sieu. But tell me, what part of my land is it that you desire?”

"That little wood yonder,” answered McKay, and pointed to the coppice.

"Ah! I thought so!” whispered Pol¬ leau, and between him and his son passed a look of somber understanding.

"That wood is not for sale, M’sieu he said.

"I can afford to pay well for what I

want,” said McKay. "Name your price.”

"It is not for sale,” repeated Polleau, stolidly, "at any price.”

"Oh, come,” urged McKay, although his heart sank at the finality in that answer. "You have many acres and what is it but a few trees? I can afford to grat¬ ify my fancies. I will give you all the worth of your other land for it.”

"You have asked what that place that you so desire is, and you have answered that it is but a few trees,” said Polleau, slowly, and the tall son behind him laughed, abruptly, maliciously. "But it is more than that, M’sieu —oh, much more than that. And you know it, else why should you pay such a price as you offer? Yes, you know it—since you know also that we are ready to destroy it, and you would save it. And who told you all that, M’sieu?” he snarled.

There was such malignance, such blade hatred in the face thrust suddenly close to McKay’s; eyes blazing, teeth bared by uplifted lip, that involuntarily he recoiled.

"Only a few trees!” snarled old Pol¬ leau. "Then who told him what we mean to do—eh, Pierre?”

Again the son laughed. And at that laughter McKay felt within him resur¬ gence of his own blind hatred as he had fled through the whispering wood. Ho mastered himself, turned away; there was nothing he could do — now. Polleau halted him.

"M’sieu,” he said, "enter. There is something I would tell you; something, too, I would show you.”

He stood aside, bowing with a rough courtesy. McKay walked through the doorway. Polleau with his son followed him. He entered a large, dim room whose ceiling was spanned with smokeblackened beams. From these beams hung onion strings and herbs and smokecured meats. On one side was a wide



fireplace. Huddled beside it sat Polleau’s other son. He glanced up as they en¬ tered, and McKay saw that a bandage covered one side of his head, hiding his left eye. McKay recognized him as the one who had cut down the slim birch. The blow of the fir, he reflected with a certain satisfaction, had been no futile one.

Old Polleau strode over to that son.

"Look, Msieu,” he said, and lifted the bandage.

McKay saw, with a tremor of horror, a gaping blackened socket, red-rimmed and eyeless.

"Good God, Polleau!” he cried. "But this man needs medical attention. I know something of wounds. Let me go across the lake and bring back my kit. I will attend him.”

Old Polleau shook his head, although his grim face for the first time softened. He drew the bandages back in place.

"It heals,” he said. "We have some skill in such things. You saw what did it. You watched from your boat as the cursed tree struck him. The eye was crushed and lay upon his cheek. I cut it away. Now he heals. We do not need your aid, Msieu.”

"Yet he ought not have cut the birch,” muttered McKay, more to himself than to be heard.

"Why not?” asked old Polleau, fierce¬ ly, "since it hated him.”

McKay stared at him. What did this old peasant know? The words strength¬ ened his stubborn conviction that what he had seen and heard in the coppice had been actuality — no dream. And still more did Polleau’s next words strengthen that conviction.

"Msieu” he said, "you come here as ambassador—of a sort. The wood has spoken to you. Well, as ambassador I shall speak to you. Four centuries my

people have lived in this place. A cen¬ tury we have owned this land. Msieu, in all those years there has been no mo¬ ment that the trees have not hated us— nor we the trees.

"For all those hundred years there have been hatred and battle between us and the forest. My father, Msieu, was crushed by a tree, my elder brother crip¬ pled by another. My father’s father, woodsman that he was, was lost in the forest; he came back to us with mind gone, raving of wood-women who had bewitched and mocked him, lured him into swamp and fen and tangled thicket, tormenting him. In every generation the trees have taken their toll of us—women as well as men—maiming or killing us.”

"Accidents,” interrupted McKay. "This is childish, Polleau. You can not blame the trees.”

"In your heart you do not believe so,” said Polleau. "Listen, the feud is an ancient one. Centuries ago it began when we were serfs, slaves of the nobles. To cook, to keep us warm in winter, they let us pick up the fagots, the dead branches and twigs that dropped from the trees. But if we cut down a tree to keep us warm, to keep our women and our chil¬ dren warm, yes, if we but tore down a branch—they hanged us, or threw us into dungeons to rot, or whipped us till our backs were red lattices.

"They had their broad fields, the no¬ bles—but we must raise our food in the patches where the trees disdained to grow. And if they did thrust themselves into our poor patches, then, Msieu, we must let them have their way — or be flogged, or be thrown into the dungeons, or be hanged.

"They pressed us in—the trees,” the old man’s voice grew sharp with fanatic hatred. "They stole our fields and they took the food from the mouths of our

THE WOMAN OF THE WOOD


children; they dropped their fagots to us like dole to beggars; they tempted us to warmth when the cold struck to our bones—and they bore us as fruit aswing at the end of the foresters’ ropes if we yielded to their tempting.

"Yes, M’sieu —we died of cold that they might live! Our children died of hunger that their young might find rootspace! They despised us—the trees! We died that they might live—and we were men!

"Then, M’sieu, came the Revolution and the freedom. Ah, M’sieu, then we took our toll! Great logs roaring in the winter cold—no more huddling over the alms of fagots. Fields where the trees had been—no more starving of our chil¬ dren that theirs might live. Now the trees were the slaves and we the masters.

"And the trees knew, and they hated us!

"But blow for blow, a hundred of their lives for each life of ours—we have re¬ turned their hatred. With ax and torch we have fought them-

"The trees!" shrieked Polleau sudden¬ ly, eyes blazing red rage, face writhing, foam at the corners of his mouth and gray hair clutched in rigid hands. "The cursed trees! Armies of the trees creep¬ ing— creeping — closer, ever closer — crushing us in! Stealing our fields as they did of old! Building their dungeon round us as they built of old the dun¬ geons of stone! Creeping — creeping! Armies of trees! Legions of trees! The trees! The cursed trees!”

McKay listened, appalled. Here was crimson heart of hate. Madness! But what was at the root of it? Some deep inherited instinct, coming down from forefathers who had hated the forest as the symbol of their masters—forefathers whose tides of hatred had overflowed to the green life on which the nobles had

laid their taboo, as one neglected child will hate the favorite on whom love and gifts are lavished? In such warped minds the crushing fall of a tree, the maiming sweep of a branch, might appear as delib¬ erate; the natural growth of the forest seem the implacable advance of an enemy.

And yet—the blow of the fir as the cut birch fell had been deliberate! And there had been those women of the wood-

"Patience," the standing son touched the old man’s shoulder. "Patience! Soon we strike our blow.”

Some of the frenzy died out of Polleau’s face.

"Though we cut down a hundred,” he whispered, "by the hundred they return! But one of us, when they strike—he does not return, no! They have numbers and they have—time. We are now but three, and we have little time. They watch us as we go through the forest, alert to trip, to strike, to crush!

"But, M’sieu,”' he turned bloodshot eyes to McKay, "we strike our blow, even as Pierre has said. We strike at that cop¬ pice that you so desire. We strike there because it is the very heart of the forest. There the secret life of the forest runs at full tide. We know — and you know! Something that, destroyed, will take the heart out of the forest — will make it know us for its masters.”

"The women!” The standing son’s eyes glittered, malignantly. "I have seen the women there! The fair women with the shining skins who invite—and mock and vanish before hands can seize them.”

"The fair women who peer into our windows in the night — and mock us!” muttered the eyeless son.

"They shall mock no more!” shouted old Polleau. "Soon they shall lie, dying! All of them—all of them! They die!”

He caught McKay by the shoulders and shook him like a child.



"Go tell them that!” he shouted. "Say to them that this very day we destroy them. Say to them it is we who will laugh when winter comes and we watch their bodies blaze in this hearth of ours and warm us! Go—tell them that!”

He spun McKay around, pushed him to the door, opened it and flung him stag¬ gering down the steps. He heard the tall son laugh, the door close. Blind with rage he rushed up the steps and hurled himself against the door. Again the tall son laughed. McKay beat at the door with clenched fists, cursing. The three within paid no heed. Despair began to dull his rage. Could the trees help him —counsel him? He turned and walked slowly down the field path to the little wood.

S lowly and ever more slowly he went as he neared it. He had failed. He was a messenger bearing a warrant of death. The birches were motionless, their leaves hung listlessly. It was as though they knew he had failed. He paused at the edge of the coppice. He looked at his watch, noted with faint surprize that already it was high noon. Short shrift enough had the little wood. The work of destruction would not be long delayed.

McKay squared his shoulders and passed in between the trees. It was strangely silent in the coppice. And it was mournful. He had a sense of life brooding around him, withdrawn into it¬ self, sorrowing. He passed through the silent, mournful wood until he reached the spot where the rounded, gleamingbarked tree stood close to the fir that held the withering birch. Still there was no sound, no movement. He laid his hands upon the cool baric of the rounded tree.

"Let me see again!” he whispered. “Let me hear! Speak to me!”

There was no answer. Again and

again he called. The coppice was silent. He wandered through it, whispering, call¬ ing. The slim birches stood, passive, with limbs and leaves adroop like listless arms and hands of captive maids awaiting in dull wo the will of conquerors. The firs seemed to crouch like hopeless men with heads in hands. His heart ached to the wo that filled the little wood, this hopeless submission of the trees.

When, he wondered, would Polleau strike? He looked at his watch again: an hour had gone by. How long would Polleau wait? He dropped to the moss, against a smooth bole.

And suddenly it seemed to McKay that he was a madman—as mad as Polleau and his sons. Calmly, he went over the old peasant’s indictment of the forest, re¬ called the face and eyes filled with fanatic hate. They were all mad. After all, the trees were—only trees. Polleau and his sons—-so he reasoned—-had transferred to them the bitter hatred their forefathers had felt for those old lords who had en¬ slaved them; had laid upon them too all the bitterness of their own struggle to exist in this high forest land. When they struck at the trees, it was the ghosts of those forefathers striking at the nobles who had oppressed them; it was them¬ selves striking against their own destiny. The trees were but symbols. It was the warped minds of Polleau and his sons that clothed them in false semblance of conscious life, blindly striving to wreak vengeance against the ancient masters and the destiny that had made their lives one hard and unceasing battle against nature. The nobles were long dead, for destiny can be brought to grips by no man. But the trees were here and alive. Clothed in mirage, through them the driving lust for vengeance could be sated. So much for Polleau and his sons.

And he, McKay: was it not his own

THE WOMAN OF THE WOOD


deep love and sympathy for the trees that similarly had clothed them in that false semblance of conscious life? Had he not built his own mirage? The trees did not really mourn, could not suffer, could not —know. It was his own sorrow that he had transferred to them; only his sorrow, that he felt echoing back to him from them. The trees were—only trees.

Instantly, upon the heels of that thought, as though it were an answer, he was aware that the trunk against which he leaned was trembling; that the whole coppice was trembling; that all the little leaves were shaking, tremulously.

McKay, bewildered, leaped to his feet. Reason told him that it was the wind— yet there was no wind!

And as he stood there, a sighing arose as though a mournful breeze were blow¬ ing through the trees—and again there was no wind!

Louder grew the sighing and within it now faint wailings.

"They come! They come! Farewell, sisters! Sisters—farewell!”

Clearly he heard the mournful whis¬ pers.

M ckay began to run through the trees to the trail that led out to the fields of the old lodge. And as he ran the wood darkened as though clear shad¬ ows gathered in it, as though vast un¬ seen wings hovered over it. The trem¬ bling of the coppice increased; bough touched bough, clung to each other; and louder became the sorrowful crying: "Farewell, sister! Sister—farewell!”

McKay burst out into the open. Half¬ way between him and the lodge were Pol¬ leau and his sons. They saw him; they pointed and lifted mockingly to him their bright axes. He crouched, waiting for them to come close, all fine-spun theories gone, and rising within him that same

rage which hours before had sent him out to slay.

So crouching, he heard from the for¬ ested hills a roaring clamor. From every quarter it came, wrathful, menacing; like the voices of legions of great trees bel¬ lowing through the horns of tempest. The clamor maddened McKay; fanned the flame of rage to white heat.

If the three men heard it, they gave no sign. They came on steadily, jeering at him, waving their blades. He ran to meet them.

"Go back!” he shouted. "Go back, Polleau! I warn you!”

"He warns us!” jeered Polleau. "He —Pierre, Jean—he warns us!”

The old peasant’s arm shot out and his hand caught McKay’s shoulder with a grip that pinched to the bone. The arm flexed and hurled him against the un¬ maimed son. The son caught him, twist¬ ed him about and whirled him headlong a dozen yards, crashing through the brush at the skirt of the wood.

McKay sprang to his feet howling like a wolf. The clamor of the forest had grown stronger.

"Kill!” it roared. "Kill!”

The unmaimed son had raised his ax. He brought it down upon the trunk of a birch, half splitting it with one blow. McKay heard a wail go up from the little wood. Before the ax could be with¬ drawn he had crashed a fist in the axwielder’s face. The head of Polleau’s son rocked back; he yelped, and before Mc¬ Kay could strike again had wrapped strong arms around him, crushing breath from him. McKay relaxed, went limp, and the son loosened his grip. Instantly McKay slipped out of it and struck again, springing aside to avoid the rib-breaking clasp. Polleau’s son was quicker than he, the long arm caught him. But as the arms tightened there was the sound of



sharp splintering and the birch into which the ax had bitten toppled. It struck the ground directly behind the wrestling men. Its branches seemed to reach out and clutch at the feet of Polleau’s son.

He tripped and fell backward, McKay upon him. The shock of the fall broke his grip and again McKay writhed free. Again he was upon his feet, and again Polleau’s strong son, quick as he, faced him. Twice McKay’s blows found their mark beneath his heart before once more the long arms trapped him. But the grip was weaker; McKay felt that now their strength was equal.

Round and round they rocked, McKay straining to break away. They fell, and over they rolled and over, arms and legs locked, each striving to free a hand to grip the other’s throat. Around them ran Polleau and the one-eyed son, shouting encouragement to Pierre, yet neither dar¬ ing to strike at McKay lest the blow miss and be taken by the other.

And all that time McKay heard the little wood shouting. Gone from it now was all moumfulness, all passive resigna¬ tion. The wood was alive and raging. He saw the trees shake and bend as though torn by a tempest. Dimly he re¬ alized that the others could hear none of this, see none of it; as dimly wondered why this should be.

"Kill!” shouted the coppice—and ever over its tumult he was aware of the roar of the great forest. "Kill! Kill!”

He saw two shadowy shapes—shadowy shapes of swarthy green-clad men, that pressed close to him as he rolled and fought.

"Kill!” they whispered. "Let his blood flow! Kill!”

He tore a wrist free. Instantly he felt within his hand the hilt of a knife.

"Kill!” whispered the shadowy men.

"Kill!” shrieked the coppice.

"Kill!” roared the forest.

McKay’s arm swept up and plunged the knife into the throat of Polleau’s son! He heard a choking sob; heard Polleau shriek; felt the hot blood spurt in face and over hand; smelt its salt and faintly acrid odor. The encircling arms dropped from him; he reeled to his feet.

As though the blood had been a bridge, the shadowy men leaped into materiality. One threw himself upon the man McKay had stabbed; the other hurled upon old Polleau. The maimed son turned and fled, howling with terror. A white woman sprang out from the shadow, threw herself at his feet, clutched them and brought him down. Another woman and another dropped upon him. The note of his shrieking changed from fear to agony, then died abruptly into silence.

And now McKay could see none of the trees, neither old Polleau nor his sons, for green-clad men and white women cov¬ ered them!

He stood stupidly, staring at his red hands. The roar of the forest had changed to a deep triumphal chanting. The coppice was mad with joy. The trees had become thin phantoms etched in emerald translucent air as they had been when first the green sorcery had meshed him. And all around him wove and danced the slim, gleaming women of the wood.

They ringed him, their song bird-sweet and shrill, jubilant. Beyond them he saw gliding toward him the woman of the misty pillar whose kisses had poured the sweet green fire into his veins. Her arms were outstretched to him, her strange wide eyes were rapt on his, her white body gleamed with the moon radiance, her red lips were parted and smiling, a scarlet chalice filled with the promise of undreamed ecstasies. The dancing circle, chanting, broke to let her through.

W. T.—8

THE WOMAN OF THE WOOD


Abruptly, a horror filled McKay—not of this fair woman, not of her jubilant sister, but of himself.

He had killed! And the wound the war had left in his soul, the wound he thought had healed, had opened.

He rushed through the broken circle, thrust the shining woman aside with his blood-stained hands and ran, weeping, toward the lake shore. The singing ceased. He heard little cries, tender, ap¬ pealing little cries of pity, soft voices call¬ ing on him to stop, to return. Behind him was the sound of little racing feet, light as the fall of leaves upon the moss.

McKay ran on. The coppice lightened, the beach was before him. He heard the fair woman call him, felt the touch of her hand upon his shoulder. He did not heed her. He ran across the narrow strip of beach, thrust his boat out into the water and wading through the shallows threw himself into it.

He lay there for a moment, sobbing, then drew himself up and caught at the oars. He looked back at the shore now a score of feet away. At the edge of the coppice stood the woman, staring at him with pitying, wise eyes. Behind her clus¬ tered the white faces of her sisters, the swarthy faces of the green-clad men.

"Come back!” the woman whispered, and held out to him slender arms.

McKay hesitated, his horror lessening in that clear, wise gaze. He half swung the boat around. But his eyes fell again upon his blood-stained hands and again the hysteria gripped him. One thought only was in his mind now—to get far away from where Polleau’s son lay with his throat ripped open, to put the lake between him and that haunted shore. He dipped his oars deep, flung the boat for¬ ward. Once more the woman called to him and once again. He paid no heed. She threw out her arms in a gesture of W. T.—9

passionate farewell. Then a mist dropped like a swift curtain between him and her and all the folk of the little wood.

McKay rowed on, desperately. After a while he shipped oars, and leaning over the boat’s side he washed away the red on his hands and arms. His coat was torn and blood-stained; his shirt too. The latter he took off, wrapped it around the stone that was the boat’s rude anchor and dropped it into the depths. His coat he dipped into the water, rubbing at the ac¬ cusing marks. When he had lightened them all he could, he took up his oars.

His panic had gone from him. Upon its ebb came a rising tide of regret; clear before his eyes arose the vision of the shining woman, beckoning him, calling him ... he swung the boat around to return. And instantly as he did so the mists between him and the farther shore thickened; around him they lightened as though they had withdrawn to make of themselves a barrier to him, and some¬ thing deep within him whispered that it was too late.

He saw that he was close to the land¬ ing of the little inn. There was no one about, and none saw him as he fastened the skiff and slipped to his room. He locked the door, started to undress. Sud¬ den sleep swept over him like a wave, drew him helplessly down into ocean depths of sleep.

A knocking at his door awakened Mc¬ Kay, and the innkeeper’s voice sum¬ moning him to dinner. Sleepily he answered, and as the old man’s footsteps died away he roused himself. His eyes fell upon his coat, dry now, and the illerased blood-stains splotching it. Puz¬ zled, he stared at them for a moment; then full memory clicked back into place.

He walked to the window. It was dusk. A wind was blowing and the trees

no


were singing, all the little leaves dancing; the forest hummed its cheerful vespers. Gone was all the unease, all the inartic¬ ulate trouble and the fear. The woods were tranquil and happy.

He sought the coppice through the gathering twilight. Its demoiselles were dancing lightly in the wind, leafy hoods dipping, leafy skirts ablow. Beside them marched their green troubadours, care¬ free, waving their needled arms. Gay was the little wood, gay as when its beauty had first lured him to it.

McKay hid the stained coat in his trav¬ eling-trunk, bathed and put on a fresh outfit and sauntered down to dinner. He ate excellently. Wonder now and then crossed his mind that he felt no regret, no sorrow even for the man he had killed. He’was half inclined to believe it had all been only a dream—so little of any emo¬ tion did he feel. He had even ceased to think of what discovery might mean.

His mind was quiet; he heard the for¬ est chanting to him that there was nothing he need fear; and when he sat for a time that night upon the balcony a peace that was half an ecstasy stole in upon him from the murmuring woods and enfolded him. Cradled by it he slept dreamlessly.

McKay did not go far from the inn that day. The little wood danced gayly and beckoned him, but he paid no heed. Something whispered to wait, to keep the lake between him and it until word came of what lay or had lain there. And the peace still was on him.

Only the old innkeeper seemed to grow uneasy as the hours went by. He went often to the landing, scanning the farther shore.

"It is strange,” he said at last to Mc¬ Kay as the sun was dipping behind the summits. "Polleau was to see me here today. If he could not come he would have sent one of his sons.”

McKay nodded, carelessly.

"There is another thing I do not under¬ stand,” went on the old man. "I have seen no smoke from the lodge all day. It is as though they were not there.”

"Where could they be?” asked McKay indifferently.

"I do not know,” the voice was more perturbed. “It all troubles me, M’sieu. Polleau is hard, yes; but he is my neigh¬ bor. Perhaps an accident-”

"They would let you know soon enough if there was anything wrong,” McKay said.

"Perhaps, but-” the old man hes¬

itated. "If he does not come tomorrow and again I see no smoke, I will go to him,” he ended.

McKay felt a little shock run through him; tomorrow, then, he would know, definitely, what it was that had happened in the little wood.

"I would if I were you,” he said. "I’d not wait too long, either.”

"Will you go with me, M’sieu?” asked the old man.

"No. 1 ” whispered the warning voice within McKay. "No! Do not go!”

"Sorry,” he said, aloud. "But I’ve some writing to do. If you should need me, send back your man; I’ll come.”

And all that night he slept, again dreamlessly, while the crooning forest cradled him.

T he morning passed without sign from the opposite shore. An hour after noon he watched the old innkeeper and his man row across the lake. And suddenly McKay’s composure was shaken, his serene certainty wavered. He un¬ strapped his field-glasses and kept them on the pair until they had beached the boat and entered the coppice. His heart was beating uncomfortably, his hands felt hot and his lips dry. How long had they

THE WOMAN OF THE WOOD


been in the wood? It must have been an hour! What were they doing there? What had they found? He looked at his watch, incredulously. Less than five min¬ utes had passed.

Slowly the seconds ticked by. And it was all of an hour indeed before he saw them come out upon the shore and drag their boat into the water. McKay, throat curiously dry, deafening pulse within his ears, steadied himself, forced himself to stroll leisurely down to the landing.

"Everything all right?” he called as they were near. They did not answer, but as the skiff warped against the landing they looked up at him, and on their faces were stamped horror and a great wonder.

"They are dead, M’sieu” whispered the innkeeper. "Polleau and his two sons —all dead!”

McKay’s heart gave a great leap, a swift faintness took him.

"Dead!” he cried. "What killed them?”

'What but the trees, M’sieu?” answered the old man, and McKay thought that his gaze dwelt upon him strangely. "The trees killed them. See—we went up the little path through the wood, and close to its end we found it blocked by fallen trees. The flies buzzed round those trees, M’sieu, so we searched there. They were under them, Polleau and his sons. A fir had fallen upon Polleau and had crushed in his chest. Another son we found be¬ neath a fir and upturned birches. They had broken his back, and an eye had been torn out—but that was no new wound, the latter.”

He paused.

"It must have been a sudden wind,” said his man; "yet I never knew of a wind such as that must have been. There were no trees down except those that lay upon them. And of those it was as though they had leaped out of the

ground! Yes, as though they had leaped out of the ground upon them. Or it was as though giants had torn them out for clubs. They were not broken—their roots were bare-”

"But the other son—Polleau had two?” Try as he might, McKay could not keep the tremor out of his voice.

"Pierre,” said the old man, and again McKay felt that strange quality in his gaze. "He lay beneath a fir. His throat was torn out!”

"His throat tom out!” whispered Mc¬ Kay. His knife! His knife! The knife that had been slipped into his hand by the shadowy shapes!

“His throat was torn out,” repeated the innkeeper. "And in it still was the bro¬ ken branch that had done it. A broken branch, M’sieu, pointed like a knife. It must have caught Pierre as the fir fell, and ripping through his throat, been broken off as the tree crashed.”

McKay stood, mind whirling in wild conjecture. "You said—a broken branch?” he asked through lips gone white.

"A broken branch, M’sieu.” The innkeper’s eyes searched him. "It was very plain — what it was that happened. Jacques,” he turned to his man, "go up to the house.”

He watched until the man shuffled out of sight.

"Yet not all is so plain, M’sieu,” he spoke low to McKay, "since in Pierre’s hand I found—this.”

He reached into a pocket and drew out a button from which hung a strip of cloth. They had once been part of that stained coat which McKay had hidden in his trunk. And as McKay strove to speak, the old man raised his hand. But¬ ton and cloth dropped from it, into the water. A wave took it and floated it away; another and another snatched it and (Please turn to page 144)

T HE following paragraph from The New Yorker has been called to our atten¬ tion by a reader. It is from the pen of Alexander Woollcott: "And even though I am not free this fall to acquire merit by bus-riding in the Middle West, my mail affords me many glimpses of folkways in far places. In Rye, New Hampshire, for instance. There I have been interested in the nocturnal custom of a widow who, when the day’s work is done, takes a lantern, goes to the cemetery, sits by her husband’s grave, and reads the newspaper aloud to him. She does not read it all, but picks out just the items that would interest Henry. ‘There must,’ one of her relatives says, 'be something queer about anybody like that.’ ” This paragraph, with its weird and ghostly suggestions, has evidently been read by other readers of Weird Tales; for within the fortnight following the receipt of the clipping from The New Yorker, we received five story manuscripts built on the identical situation!

Shambleau, by C. L. Moore, in our November issue, won the most enthusiastic acclaim that any story in Weird Tales has received since Jack Williamson’s tale, The Wand of Doom, which was published more than a year ago. In this case the editor’s own preference was echoed by you, the readers; for the editor considered it one of the most strikingly different stories he had ever encountered. But the editor’s taste was not echoed in the case of another story printed in this magazine within the last few months. We will not divulge the title of that story, but the editor considered it one of the best weird tales he had ever received; yet it was hardly mentioned at all in the votes and letters to the Eyrie.

H. P. Lovecraft, the dean of weird fiction writers, sums up the opinions of the readers in his own comment on Shambleau, in a letter to the editor. "Shambleau is great stuff,” he writes. "It begins magnificently, on just the right note of terror, and with black intimations of the unknown. The subtle evil of the Entity, as suggested by the unexplained horror of the people, is extremely powerful—and the description of the Thing itself when unmasked is no letdown. It has real atmosphere and tension —rare things amidst the pulp traditions of brisk, cheerful, staccato prose and lifeless stock characters and images. The one major fault is the conventional interplanetary setting.”

"Shambleau is one of the best weird stories that have ever appeared in WT, and it gets first place in the November issue,” writes Julius Hopkins, of Washington, D. C. "The War of the Sexes was below Hamilton’s standard—too much sex and not enough science. The living brain and mention of synthetic babies was the only sci¬ ence, I wish he would write more stories like Crashing Suns —I’ll never forget that. Ml

THE EYRIE


Price’s Lord of the Fourth Axis didn’t go quite far enough. I am sure we readers would like to have had the horrible hordes of the Master do some wholesale slaugh¬ tering, as in Howard’s stories, before being stopped by the hero. The Vampire Mas¬ ter, by Hugh Davidson, is the best vampire story in a long time, and I anxiously await the remaining parts. As to a feature page for biographies of our authors, including photographs, I say let’s have it. Begin with Seabury Quinn, follow with Lovecraft, and continue with Smith, Hamilton, Howard, Cave, etc.”

Writes J. St. J. Pearson-Miller, of Carlisle, Pennsylvania: "It would indeed be chiseling if I did not let you know of the genuine pleasure I derive from Weird Tales. It is the one vehicle which transports me to my particular corner of fairyland with no stopovers to hear how utterly indispensable to the love-life of Whoosis is Whatsis. I like the sexy covers, but I will vote against them because they are mis¬ leading to those who do not know Weird Tales. One must mutilate the magazine before passing it on to his maiden aunt. Please get us another story similar to one which appeared about three years ago in which a fragment of the Blessed Sacrament was taken to a beehive and the bees made a church of wax to enshrine it. And will you tell us who wrote it? Thanks.” [The story referred to is The Tabernacle, by the late Rev. Henry S. Whitehead. It appeared in Weird Tales for January, 1930.— The Editors.]

"Your covers are O. K.,” writes Walter C. Maxwell, of Cuero, Texas. "They are different from other magazine covers. The one on the November issue could not be beaten, and October’s cover catches the eye. But please keep a little clothing on the girls.”

A letter from Stephen R. Tucker, of Meriden, Connecticut, says: "I have not long been a fan of Weird Tales, but believe me I am going to read it every month now. When I was out to the Century of Progress, I looked around for a good magazine to read while riding on the train and found the September issue standing out over all the rest, and I immediately bought it. I have been buying them ever since. I under¬ stand, by reading the Eyrie, that you are having quite a discussion over cover designs. It doesn’t make much difference to me whether or not there are nude women on your covers, although they seem to make the covers more attractive.”

Hugh Hulsey, of Woodberry Forest, Virginia, writes to the Eyrie: "I noted in the November issue of Weird Tales a statement to the effect that 'the discussion as to whether we should use pictures of nude women on the covers of Weird Tales waxes hot and furious.’ My opinion on that subject would be that as long as this type of cover illustration increases circulation, which I am sure it must do, by all means let it remain.”

Guy Detrick, of Big Prairie, Ohio, writes to the Eyrie: "The Vampire Master quite made up for the omission of Seabury Quinn’s stories in the November issue, I think. It was so interesting that I’ve read the second installment three times. The War of the Sexes got off to a very interesting start and ended with a surprize which I didn’t expect. Well, at that, if we are still at war 20,000 years from now, the only difference is the way we fight. I say, continue to use nude pictures for covers, pro¬ vided they illustrate the actual text of the story. Anyway, what’s so shocking about a nude girl, when they’re featured nearly everywhere, movies, advertising, art? I think we’re all pretty well past the stage of being shocked by anything like that. So keep



the nudes, use them occasionally. They dress up the magazine. I wish you would use a good portrait of the handsome Jules de Grandin in a cover scene. I read every story he appears in.”

A letter from Donald Allgeier, of Springfield, Missouri, says: "I believe that you want to attract the better class of readers to your excellent periodical. However, I do not believe that you are taking the right steps in this direction when you publish such covers as have appeared on recent issues. Brundage’s talent could easily be turned into less vulgar channels, as is evidenced in his work on the October number. Make your covers weird; nudity is not weird. Don’t scare away those worthwhile readers; it is all right to do without the patronage of the shallow sex-lover. I hate to tear off the covers of my copies of WT, but I can’t afford to have my family see such works of art and gather the wrong impression of what I read. I am sure that most of your readers will agree with me on this point. Your October issue was not only all right in this respect, but was excellent in story content. The new serial promises to be just what you said it was. Williamson does it again in The Plutonian Terror. One of the best things you ever did was securing him to write for you. De Grandin and Conan are even better than usual this time, but I would like a revival of Solomon Kane. The House of the Worm, by Mearle Prout, is an excellent piece of work, and the shorts are very good.”

"I just finished the November issue and thought all the stories were fine,” writes Leroy Engler, of Uniontown, Alabama. "I missed Jules de Grandin and that friend of his, Doctor Trowbridge. Please give us more of them in the next issue. As for the interplanetary stories, bring’em on. I thought Williamson’s The Horror on the Asteroid in the last issue one of the best yet; also liked Golden Blood very much.”

A reader from Newton Highlands, Massachusetts, who signs himself S. J. S,, says: "I have been reading Weird Tales for five months and have come to the con¬ clusion that it is one of the best fiction magazines ever published and absolutely the best of its type.”

Kathryn Rogers, of Russell, Pennsylvania, writes to the Eyrie: 'Tve read your magazine for just one year and I’ve saved all the copies. My favorite authors are Rob¬ ert E. Howard, Seabury Quinn, Clark Ashton Smith, H. P. Lovecraft, and E. Hoff¬ mann Price, in the order named. Edmond Hamilton is another of my favorites. I’ve noticed the discussions in the Eyrie about scientific stories for ’our’ Weird Tales. I rather like one or two, but not more. After all, Weird Tales is a magazine of vam¬ pires, witchcraft, werewolves, etc. I am crazy about Howard’s Conan tales; I believe the best story I ever read in your magazine was The Scarlet Citadel.”

G. W. Hockley writes from New Brighton, in far-away New Zealand: "I must write just a few lines in appreciation of the July Weird Tales. The good old magazine is consistently excellent, and the July issue certainly rang the bell. It was especially welcome for the reappearance of the one and only H. P. Lovecraft. The Dreams in the Witch-House is in a class by itself, and shows that this peerless weirdstory author is as good as ever he was. It is the best story in your magazine since the same writer’s Dunwich Horror of 1929. Full marks must also be given to Hazel Heald for that eery tale, The Horror in the Museum, which ranks next to Lovecraft’s story as the most engrossing bit of horror-fiction you have published for a long time. And finally, a whole lot of appreciation for dark Ashton Smith’s wonderful short

THE EYRIE


story, Ubbo-Satbla. A masterpiece, this; I enjoyed it immensely. I am inclined to agree with your correspondents who have been criticizing interplanetary stories. I enjoy this type of story, in its place, but to find a place in your magazine they must be truly weird. Reprints have been much more interesting of late, but we can’t have »oo many from earlier issues of WT. Please reprint Bells of Oceana by Arthur J. Burks and The Canal by Everil Worrell."

"I have just finished the November WT,” writes Alonzo Leonard, of Portsmouth, Ohio, "and I must say that it is the best I have read in a long, long time. Each num¬ ber for the past several months has been excellent—of course—but there has been a story or two m each which has been a little weak; but in the November issue every Story from first to last has been, for its type, a top-notcher. Even the interplanetary story, Shambleau, was good. For once an author hasn’t read the War-lord of Mars and then rushed to the typewriter to dash off a yarn about a superman and a princess. The War of the Sexes was much better than I thought possible for a story of this kind to be. Thanks, Edmond. And now I want to say a few words about Sham¬ bleau and The Holiness of Azedarac. Here are two stories which are unusual in the pulp magazines. The usual type always runs to a formula—the hero must never, never lean toward anything which isn’t commonplace and conventional; but here are two heroes who violate that rule. The last paragraph of Shambleau shows the char¬ acter of Northwest Smith, and I can stretch out my hand and pat him on the back for being human. And the same goes for Brother Ambrose in The Holiness of Azedarac. He too shows his manliness by going back from his own time to an earlier one, just for a woman. A true son of Adam!”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Shambleau, that utterly strange story by C. L. Moore, was your favorite in the November issue, as shown by your votes and letters, and your second choice was part two of Hugh Davidson’s serial, The Vampire Master.

My favorite stories in the January WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

( 1 )- -

( 2 )-- -

I do not like the following stories*

( 2 ) —

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ilk

rI Reader’s name and address:

I

II--

tp

C/ossession

By JULIUS LONG

r A short and amazing tale of hypnotism and dual personality

W HEN I beheld Anderson’s face as he emerged from Doctor Silrara’s inner office, I expected the worst. His manner was easy and calm. Years of intimacy had taught me that my nervous and excitable friend was serene and tranquil only when face to face with some inevitable misfortune.

I had never before seen him so cool. Never before had he been confronted with a catastrophe so dire and unavoid¬ able. I knew that he was doomed to die. In his bosom he carried the fatal seed of extinction. It would soon expand within him until it had suffocated the last small remnant of vitality.

"Let us take a bus,” he said.

We climbed to the top of a Fifth Avenue bus and occupied a front seat. Slowly we progressed down 57th Street to the Drive. I could not bring myself to question Anderson concerning the inter¬ view. I anticipated the answer and did not wish to make him repeat his own death sentence; yet I feared he might in¬ terpret my silence as indifference. He must have sensed my dilemma, for he turned and spoke to me. His tone was utterly casual.

"You may not know it, but you are rid¬ ing with what is virtually a corpse. I have but two weeks to live. Doctor Silvara was very precise about it. Two weeks exactly. I must be careful not to live thirteen days, or fifteen. That would seriously undermine the doctor’s reputa¬ tion for infallibility.”

I was appalled by this ghastly raillery.

One expects a certain measure of dignity in a man on the threshold of death. But the speech was characteristic of Anderson. He could take nothing seriously, not even his own demise.

"You must resign at once,” I told him. "You must use these two precious weeks to complete your book.”

Anderson was professor of psychology, and he had intimated To me that his latest work was based upon a discovery that would revolutionize the science of psy¬ chology.

He laughed cynically. “Nothing mat¬ ters to me, except my own life,” he said. "If I am not to live to enjoy my fame, why strive for it?”

I was surprized by this selfish attitude, but said nothing about it.

"I shall have to find someone else to put me to sleep at night,” I observed, more to break the silence than anything else. I had suffered from insomnia for years, and not until Anderson had come to my aid with hypnotic treatment had I enjoyed relief. Every night thereafter, he would come to my apartment, which was in the same building as his own, and repeat his treatment. I became so re¬ sponsive to his efforts that he could send me off to sleep merely by uttering a few soothing words. I was conscious that my suggestibility had reached a stage where my friend might abuse his trust. I knew very well that prolonged hypnotic treat¬ ment subordinates the mind of the sub¬ ject to that of the operator, but Anderson (Please turn to page 138£

Coming Next Month

T HERE was no altar—only the mouth of a great well-like shaft in the stone floor, with strange obscene carvings all about the rim. I tore great pieces of stone from the rotting floor and cast them down the shaft which slanted down into utter darkness. I heard them bound along the side, but I did not hear them strike bottom. I cast down stone after stone, each with a searing curse, and at last I heard a sound that was not the dwindling rumble of the falling stones. Up from the well floated a weird demon¬ piping that was a symphony of madness. Far down in the darkness I glimpsed the faint fearful glimmering of a vast white bulk.

I retreated slowly as the piping grew louder, falling back through the broad door¬ way. I heard a scratching, scrambling noise, and up from the shaft and out of the doorway between the colossal columns came a prancing incredible figure. It went erect like a man, but it was covered with hair like fur, that was shaggiest where its face should have been. If it had ears, nose and a mouth I could not discover them. Only a pair of staring red eyes leered from the furry mask. Its misshapen hands held a strange set of pipes, on which it blew weirdly as it pranced toward me with many a grotesque caper and leap.

Behind it I heard a repulsive obscene noise as of a quaking unstable mass heaving up out of a well. Then I nocked an arrow, drew the cord and sent the shaft singing through the furry breast of the dancing monstrosity. It went down as though struck by a thunderbolt, but to my horror the piping continued, though the pipes had fallen from the malformed hands. Then I turned and ran fleetly to the column, up which I swarmed before I looked back. When I reached the pinnacle I looked, and because of the shock and surprize of what I saw, I almost fell from my dizzy perch.

Out of the temple the monstrous dweller in the darkness had come, and I, who had expected a horror yet cast in some terrestrial mold, looked on the spawn of night¬ mare. . . .

What it was that crawled out of the old temple makes a thrilling, hair-raising epi¬ sode in a fascinating story that is replete with vivid thrills and horror. It will be pub¬ lished complete in next month’s Weird Tales:

THE VALLEY OF THE WORM

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

—ALSO—

THE SAPPHIRE GODDESS THE MAN WHO RETURNED

By NICTZIN DYALHIS By EDMOND HAMILTON

A wholly unusual and thrilling weird story of ter- The story of a man who was thought to be dead rific adventures and another dimension of space— and the reception he got when he returned to his by the author of "When the Green Star Waned.” friends and family.

THE PLACE OF HAIRY DEATH By ANTHONY M. RUD

A tale of a horde of venomous spiders and two men— one brave, the other not so brave—in a hidden treasureroom of the Mayas.

THE VIRUS OF HELL By WILLIAM H. POPE

A grim, prophetic story of fifty years from now, when Organized Crime rules the United States, and a ghastly dew falls from the sky, menacing all human life.

TARBIS OF THE LAKE By E. HOFFMANN PRICE She was a living, breathing woman with a living woman’s passion—but what was the thing that lay in the mummy-case like a corpse within its coffin?

February WEIRD TALES Out February 1




(Continued from page 136) had never caused me to doubt his good will.

"Do not worry about the future until it is the present,” he said lightly.

T hat, night, he came as usual to my rooms and began his operations with great impatience. I accepted this as nat¬ ural, assuming that he wished to be through to rush back to his book.

In the few seconds before I went to sleep, I was struck by the unusual appear¬ ance of his face. The light had been ex¬ tinguished, and only the soft moonlight illuminated the room. His features were shadowed. Even his blond hair appeared black and sharply outlined. His eyes seemed to appear from the impenetrable recesses of bottomless wells. His thin lips spoke with scarcely perceptible move¬ ments. I had never seen a countenance so diabolical, and in the fraction of a sec¬ ond before I lost consciousness, I regret¬ ted that I had let myself become so de¬ pendent upon the man.

Throughout the night, I dreamed strange nightmares, which, upon awak¬ ening, I could not call to mind. I knew only that they had been horrible and gruesome. During the day, I was tired and weary, as if I had not slept the pre¬ vious night. Throughout my English classes, I stammered and stuttered. My students did not conceal their suspicion that I had dissipated, and they exchanged amused glances.

The next day and the days after that, my condition grew worse. Then there occurred an incident which tried my cre¬ dulity.

It happened during my eleven o’clock class. I was lecturing on the idiosyncra¬ sies of Laurence Sterne, when I noticed a stirring and uneasiness in my listeners. I paused an instant and continued. The

students again became attentive. At the end of the hour, I summoned one of them to my desk.

"There seemed to be some irregularity during my lecture,” I said. "Did I com¬ mit some frightful blunder?”

The student stammered hesitatingly. "Out with it!” I commanded impatiently.

"We were wondering,” he confided, "why you broke off your lecture to give us a discourse on the symptoms of agor¬ aphobia. It was all very interesting, but it seemed a bit unusual to hear such in¬ formation in a lecture on Sterne.”

- "I can believe that,” I said. ‘That will do. Thank you very much.”

During lunch, I racked my brain to account for this strange lapse. The cir¬ cumstance that puzzled me most of all was that I knew absolutely nothing of agoraphobia. I doubt that I had ever heard of it before. I decided to consult Anderson. He taught the neuroses. He would know all about the disease. Be¬ sides, he might be able to explain my un¬ usual experience.

That night I told him of it, but he was very vague. “You mustn’t take your ex¬ periences too seriously,” he said.

That night’s sleep was suffused with mad dreams whose hideous content was too elusive for me to recapture upon awakening. That day was more tedious and annoying than those previous. The strange incident of the day before was complicated by an astounding discovery. A student came to me after class and re¬ ported that a similar phenomenon had occurred during Professor Anderson's eleven o’clock lecture on the neuroses. Without warning, he discontinued his lecture on agoraphobia and spoke el¬ oquently of the style of Laurence Sterne. I was assured that he supplied the very information that I omitted from my own lecture.



1 spent the rest of the day trying to account for this strange phenomenon. Had Anderson’s personality been ex¬ changed with my own? What could cause such an unnatural occurrence? I could not believe that there existed between Anderson and me a mutual sympathy of such intensity that it would give rise to a supernatural phenomenon. Indeed, I had begun to feel that he hated me for my healthy body and the years I was to out¬ live him. His manner had become subtly strained, though outwardly he manifested the same friendship.

I confronted him with the fact of his own simultaneous lapse, and he simulated surprize which did not deceive me. Why did he try to pass the whole affair off as a commonplace occurrence? I suspected that even then he was attempting to allay my suspicion.

That night, I was frightened by a nightmare which I could later recall. In¬ deed, I remembered it so vividly that I refused to think it a dream. Here are the details:

I was awakened in the middle of the night by an almost unendurable pain in my lungs. Gasping for breath, I climbed out of bed. My limbs weighed heavily, and my muscles were unresponsive. I was conscious that I was a very sick man.

With difficulty I made my way to the window. Not until I stared down into the street below, did I discover that I was not in my own apartment. My rooms open only on 112th Street. I found myself looking down into Broadway. I reflected a moment. Had I spent the night with someone? I instantly recalled that I had not.

I looked about myself. The clothes that hung carelessly over chairs were not my own, yet they were strangely famil¬ iar. In the moonlight I caught a glimpse of my hands. I started in horror. They

T hrough space to the most distant corners of the universe in the twin \ kling of an eye! When Schehera- , zade told her Sultan the tales that make up The Arabian Nights Entertainments, she told him of a Magic Carpet that flew through the sky and carried its human cargo to distant countries with the speed of thought.

The Magic Carpet Magazine, like the carpet of Scheherazade, carries its readers out of the humdrum life of our modern civilization to lands of romance, adven¬ ture, mystery and glamor. It will transport you quickly through the air to Timbuktu, to Egypt, to the Vale of Kashmere, to Bagdad, to Suva, to Istanbul. It will even fly backward into the departed glories of past ages. And unlike the carpet of Scheherazade, our Magic Carpet will make an occasional trip to distant planets and far suns in the remote corners of the galaxy. Among the authors who contribute to The Magic Carpet Magazine are:

Seabury Quinn Edmond Hamilton Hugh B. Cave H. Bedford-Jones Warren Hastings Miller Otis Adelbert Kline E. Hoffmann Price James W. Bennett Robert E. Howard

Climb aboard and fly with us through space with the speed of thought and enjoy a wide variety of fascinating fiction which expresses to the full the lure and mystery of far places.

See your magazine dealer today!

New Issue Now On Sale



were bony and almost devoid of flesh. I rushed through a door, which I thought would lead to the hallway. I found my¬ self in a bathroom. I searched for a switch and snapped on the light. I saw at once that I was in Anderson’s apart¬ ment. I turned and stared at my reflec¬ tion in the mirror.

The face I beheld was the sickly and sallow visage of Anderson!

Oblivion folded over me.

Such was my dream — or was it a dream? I was racked by the terrible sus¬ picion that the experience was not imag¬ inary, but real. There was about my memory of it a persistent vividness that was very unlike the fading recollection of a dream.

Was my soul temporarily transferred into the dying body of my friend? Had the unaccountable experience in the class¬ room been repeated? The thought near¬ ly drove me mad.

I recalled Anderson’s strange manner, his seeming indifference to death. Could it have been that he expected to live—to live on in my body after his own had suc¬ cumbed to the ravages of his disease? Was he transferring his soul into my flesh? How could this be so?

I remembered his hints of the tremen¬ dous discovery he had made, of its rev¬ olutionary effects on psychological theory. Was this interchange of personalities a demonstration of his power, a ghastly experiment which was to give him new life, perhaps enable him to live on through the centuries? Was I his chosen victim? Was my own soul to be trans¬ ferred into his decadent body, to die with it?

I did not know how to answer these questions, but I resolved to confront An¬ derson with them. That night when he came to repeat his hypnosis,I eyed him sternly.

"Your experiment is over,” I said boldly. "You will never again hypnotize me.”

His eyebrows lifted with more amuse¬ ment than surprize. I shuddered as I looked at his emaciated features. If Doc¬ tor Silvara’s prediction were correct, he had only two more days to live. I mar¬ velled that he managed to drag himself to classes.

"Whether you want me to hypnotize you or not, makes very little difference,” he said evenly. "You are no longer in a position to command. You are so sug¬ gestible to my treatment that it is not in your power to resist it.”

I winced at this, but faced him with all the courage I could muster. ’You flat¬ ter yourself,” I said. “You have dom¬ inated my mind only because I was fool enough to trust you. I know not what knowledge and skill is at your command, but I realize now what you have been at¬ tempting to do. You will fail. In a very few days you will be dead.”

Anderson laughed. "So you have dis¬ covered my little secret? Yes, I have worked every night with you, and last night I almost succeeded. Tonight, I will. It will not be I who will be dead in a few days, but you. That will be the reward of my genius. I am the first to prove that the soul is a separate psychic entity that can be completely divorced from the body! My soul will not live in another world, but on for ever in this one, in the bodies of men whose will is less strong than mine. 'Man doth not yield him to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will.’ ”

I was discountenanced by the convic¬ tion with which he spoke these words. I recognized them as Joseph Glanvill's, which had been quoted by Poe in Ligeia.

(Please turn to page 142)

SAVE *1.50

ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION TO


And Accept This Special Offer

You may have experienced difficulty at times in finding Weird Tales on the newsstands. For this magazine sells Out early and many small newsdealers don’t like to re-order a supply after publication date.

So make sure of getting Weird Tales every month by en¬ tering your subscription now and accepting this special money-saving offer.

The regular price of a two-year subscription is $6.00. But by filling out the coupon below, you can secure Weird Tales for two years for $4.50—a worthwhile saving of $1.50.

Or you may order a year’s subscription for yourself and another for a friend at the special price of $4.50.

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY and SAVE $1.50

WEIRD TALES, Dept. 1,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

For the enclosed remittance of $--enter the following subscriptions at these

rates: (1 year—$3.00) 2 years—$4.50, saving $1.50 (Send either one 2-ye*r subscription or two 1-year subscriptions).

Name_Address _

Name_._Address _




(Continued from page 140)

I felt helpless to cope with the knowledge which was at Anderson’s disposal. Never¬ theless, I put up a brave front and replied boldly, "It is not I who am weak, but you. If you do not leave this instant, I will take you by the collar and throw you out.”

Anderson only laughed and moved carelessly toward me. His face was so withered by disease and his body was so frail that I could not bring myself to touch him. He began slowly to repeat the words he had used for years to induce sleep into my nerves. I struggled not to listen to them, to fight them off. I felt a numbness creep upon me. My God! was I so weak-willed that I was to lose this battle for my life? I could hear nothing but Anderson’s monotonous voice. I knew that I was lost. My mind became befuddled and my vision befogged. Sleep invested my body. Anderson had won.

W hen I regained consciousness, I only slowly recalled the terrible scene. I switched on the light and looked at the clock. It was four in the morning. I noticed at once that I was in my own room. Thank heaven, Anderson, though he had succeeded in hypnotizing me, had failed to effect the transference! But my joy was of short duration. I began sud¬ denly to cough. I reached for a handker¬ chief, and beheld my arms and hands. They were the bony, yellow arms and hands of Anderson! I did not trouble to look into a mirror. I knew that I dwelt in the dying body of my false friend.

I heard a sound and turned about. Anderson stood in the doorway. But it was I who seemed to appear there; it was my body, my face that I saw!

Anderson smiled amusedly. "Well, you see what has happened. There is nothing you can do now to save yourself. You must die with the miserable body that houses your soul.”

A fit of uncontrollable rage shook me. "You devil!” I cried, "I will kill you for this. Both of us shall die!”

I rushed wildly to the bureau and opened a drawer. Anderson suspected that there was a revolver there, and he sprang after me.

"Oh, no, you don’t,” he said, pinion¬ ing my arms.

I struggled with all my pitiable strength. He held me fast. I gave a last, violent lunge. I tore myself from him and faced him. My victory was short¬ lived. While I regarded him furiously, gasping for breath, my very lungs seemed to collapse. Blood filled my mouth and nostrils.

Anderson watched me sardonically.

My knees sagged under me, and I fell to the floor. The pain was insufferable. I was choked, unable to breathe. I knew I was dying. Blackness enveloped me.

A second later, I found myself stand¬ ing, reeling on my feet. On the floor below me lay the body of Anderson. It was bathed in blood. I realized at once that he had suffered a frightful hemor¬ rhage. I stooped to his assistance. I felt his pulse. He was quite dead.

In a flash, the memory of all that had happened came to me. I rose to my feet and looked at the dead man with utter stupefaction. What had happened? What had saved me, restored my soul to its own body?

The only answer I can give is that the spirit is more inextricably rooted to its corporeal form than Anderson had sus¬ pected. Though he had indeed effected a complete metempsychosis, death had un¬ done his work.

I simply told the coroner that he had been taken very ill and rushed frantically into my apartment, where he had suc¬ cumbed from his hemorrhage. It is a pity his'genius has been lost to the world.



LARGEST AND

FINEST ROOMS IN

CLEVELAND

150 ROOMS WITH BATH, $2.50 150 ROOMS WITH BATH, $3.00 150 ROOMS WITH BATH, $3.50

FOR TWO PERSONS $ 4 , $5, $5.50

Finest food from all-eleetrto kitchens. Low rates. Unusual Coffee Shop. Dining

nightly in season

in connection.

Folsom B. Taylor Managing Director

CARTER HOTEL

Play A Tune

In 10 Minutes

FREE

WHICH CONTROLS YOU?

Science Bay* that the chemical elements compos* tug a man’s body may be bought {or sixty cents at e pharmacy shop. But the real part of you is the infinite, creative power within—it makes YOU a living, vital being.

By the proper use of this creative, steeping force, within you, you can DOMINATE YOUR LIFE end MASTER THE CONDITIONS WHICH SURROUND YOU. The Rosiorucians have shown, thousands of thinking men and women how to use this infinite power. Learn Co direct the inner

This Free Book Explains

Th e Rosci crucians will send the SINL__

SEEKER a free copy of the new book, “The Wisdom of the Sages,” which tells how you may become a student of these age-old truths. Address • letter (not a postcard o'

R0SKRUCIAN BROTHERHOOD

SAN JOSE. CALIFORNIA

By Clark Ashton Smith

THE DOUBLE SHADOW & five ether fantasies

For lovers of weird atmosphere and arabesque imagination. Unpublished heretofore. Send 25o (coin) to Clark Ashton Smith, Auburn, Calif., for pestpaid copy.

is on sale the 1st of every month

BACK ISSUES

For complete list and prices write to Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave.. Chicago, Ill.

HAY BRONCHITIS FEVER

ASTHMA

SUFFERING OVERCOME— Quickly, Safely!

Ama-Gon, amazing new California home treatment, quickly stops Asthma,

Bronchitis, Hay Fever suffering. Absolutely SAFB foi young or old. No matter how many remedies you have tried, Ama-Gon quickly overcomes th at a wful wheezing, choking sensation and enables you to breathe FREELY, EASILY again. Promotes sound, restful sleep. We want YOU to prove its value to YOURSELF WITHOUT RISKING ONE CENT C1 c ,.

MATT ACCEPT 8-DAY TRIAL OFFER Sleeps Soundly NOW!

COUPON [TmaTgON"laborATORIES. -1 Asthma”wrote Mrs.*R B chav**!

NrtUl FAD I Dept. 7ft 1500 N. Vermont, Los Angeles, California. j 2*0 S. Palm St., Ventura, Calif., WOW hOK Accept 8-DAY TRIAL OFFER , and FREE Book “Tried everything without relief. ■T^REE j about Asthma, Bronchitis, Hay Fevsr, WITHOUT COST. | After usitij^ 1 Vi bottles of *

' BOOK| N

__jf l Vi_,

Gon I feci like a new peraen. Got * * of my wheezing and now sleeg tnrtiv the whole nifht thru.



NEXT MONTH

The

Sapphire Goddess

By NICTZIN DYALHIS

his is the most amazing story that Mr. Dyalhis has written since he startled the literary world nine years ago with "When the Green Star Waned.” It is a wholly unusual and thrilling weird story of terrific adven¬ tures in another dimension of space.

A DESTITUTE, ordinary man of fortyeight years, contemplating suicide as the best way out of his troubles, is suddenly projected into the Fourth Dimension, and finds himself in a fight to the death for the Chrysolite Throne and power unthinkable. The heroic, astounding and well-nigh incredible tale of how he met the weird experi¬ ences that came to him is something that you can not afford to miss. This glorious thrill-tale will be published complete

in the February issue of


On sale February 1st

To avoid missing your copy, (lip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WE1KD TAI.ES 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, Ul.

Enclosed find tl.00 for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the February issue (J1.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Address_-_—-

City_StateThe Woman of the Wood

(Continued from page 131) passed it on. They watched it, silently, until it had vanished.

"Tell me nothing,” said the keeper of the inn. "Polleau was a hard man, and hard men were his sons. The trees hated them. The trees killed them. The— souvenir—is gone. Only M!sieu would better also—go.”

T hat night McKay parked. When dawn had broken he stood at his window, looking long at the little wood. It too was awakening, stirring sleepily— like drowsy, delicate demoiselles. He thought he could see that one slim birch that was—what? Tree or woman? Or both?

Silently, the old landlord and his wife watched him as he swung out his car—a touch of awe, a half-fear, in their eyes. Without a word they let him go.

And as McKay swept up the road that led over the lip of the green bowl, he seemed to hear from all the forest a deeptoned, mournful chanting. It arose around him as he topped the rise in one vast whispering cloud—of farewell—and died.

Never, he knew, would that green door of enchantment be opened to him again. His fear had closed it—for ever. Some¬ thing had been offered to him beyond mortal experience—something that might have raised him to the level of the gods of Earth’s youth. He had rejected it. And nevermore, he knew, would he cease to regret.

Coming soon— SATAN’S GARDEN By E. Hoffmann Price

Watch for this story in Weird Tales

W. T.—9

Do You Read

The MAGIC CARPET Magazine?

The Shadow of the Vulture

By ROBERT E. HOWARD A stirring tale of Suleyman the Magnificent, Sul¬ tan of Turkey, and the breath-taking events at the siege of Vienna, when Christendom stood at bay and a red-headed girl held the fate of Europe in her hands.

The Spider Woman

By SEABURY QUINN A terrific adventure of Carlos the Tiger in the Netherlands, and a lovely woman spy who told him how to conquer a Span¬ ish stronghold.

The River of Perfumes

By WARREN HASTINGS MILLER She drove men to madness by her sheer beauty, this little maid of Indo-China — a fascinating Oriental tale of love, lust, and sudden death, and a wild adventure.

The Little Affair of the Eiffel Tower

By ARTHUR MORRIS CROSBY

Henri the Fox scorned to use the gross means of hired assassins, but his methods were just as effec¬ tive—a tale of the Paris underworld.

Passport to the Desert

By G. G. PENDARVES Algeria — a story of intrigue and a peril¬ ous adventure involving an American girl and an Arab bandit and slave-dealer.

Alleys of Darkness

By PATRICK ERVIN A story of Singapore and Dennis Dorgan, hardest-fisted slugger in the merchant marine, and the maze of intrigue that en¬ meshed him.

Speed Planes for Moscow

By S. GORDON GURWIT A thrilling tale of the Russian Five Year Plan and a romance that was surrounded with perils and death.

READ

NOW ON SALE

THE PHANTOM OF THE ETHER

T he first warning of the stupen¬ dous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if cdming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the sig¬ nals originated nowhere upon the earth. It teas as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

FREE BOOK

For Lovers of Fantastic Fiction

R EAD the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinatid Gresham, the eminent American . astronomer, in his encounters with Kwo-Suhg-tao, high priest of the Seuen-H’sin (the Sect of Two Moons). This colony of sorcerers is the most murderously diaboli¬ cal breed of human beings ever known. Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham (in disguise) to take part in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God—when he crosses the Mountains of Fear—half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz’chuen—swims the River of Death—sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwiu, where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their campfires on their journey to Nirvana. Here is a story that will thrill you.

This book is beautifully bound in rich cloth, with an attractive colored jacket. It will make an excellent gift to a friend or a valuable addition ,to your own library. For a limited time, the Publishers of WEIRD TALES are giving this book away with each six months’'subscription to the magazine. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ sub¬ scription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book will be sent to you without further cost. Address: WEIRD TALES, Dept. S-42, 840 N. Michigan Aye., Chicago,*Ill.

[THE END]
