============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: April 1934
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Shadows in the Moonlight" by Robert E. Howard
  2. "The Death of Malygris" by Clark Ashton Smith
  3. "Behind the Screen" by Dale Clark
  4. "The Cane" by Carl Jacobi
  5. "Bells of Oceana" by Arthur J. Burks
============================================================
============================================================
SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT
by Robert E. Howard
============================================================
with any one else. But we have fought for our suns, and as long as the Patrol lasts we are going to keep them!”

W. T.—5

hadows in the Moonlight

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

A colossal tale about gigantic iron statues that stood in a ghastly row in the moonlight—a tale of piracy and red-blooded heroism in the mighty days of yore

A SWIFT crashing of horses through the tall reeds; a heavy fall, a ‘ despairing cry. From the dying steed there staggered up its rider, a slen¬ der girl in sandals and girdled tunic. Her dark hair fell over her white shoul¬ ders, her eyes were those of a trapped animal. She did not look at the jungle of reeds that hemmed in the little clear¬ ing, nor at the blue waters that lapped the low shore behind her. Her wide-eyed gaze was fixed in agonized intensity on the horseman who pushed through the reedy screen and dismounted before her.

He was a tall man, slender, but hard as steel. From head to heel he was clad in light silvered mesh-mail that fitted his supple form like a glove. From under the dome-shaped, gold-chased helmet his brown eyes regarded her mockingly.

"Stand back!” her voice shrilled with terror. "Touch me not, Shah Amurath, or I will throw myself into the water and drown!”

He laughed, and his laughter was like the purr of a sword sliding from a silken sheath.

"No, you will not drown, Olivia, daughter of confusion, for the marge is too shallow, and I can catch you before you can reach the deeps. You gave me a merry chase, by the gods, and all my men are far behind us. But there is no horse west of Vilayet that can distance Irem for long.” He nodded at the tall, slen¬ der-legged desert stallion behind him.


"Let me go!” begged the girl, tears of despair staining her face. "Havel not suf¬ fered enough? Is there any humiliation, pain or degradation you have not heaped on me? How long must my torment last?”

"As long as I find pleasure in your whimperings, your pleas, tears and writhings,” he answered with a smile that would have seemed gentle to a stranger. "You are strangely virile, Olivia. I won¬ der if I shall ever weary of you, as I have always wearied of women before. You are ever fresh and unsullied, in spite of me. Each new day with you brings a new delight.

"But come—let us return to Akif, where the people are still feting the con¬ queror of the miserable kozaki; while he, the conqueror, is engaged in recapturing a wretched fugitive, a foolish, lovely, idiotic runaway!”

"No!” She recoiled, turning toward the waters lapping bluely among the reeds.

"Yes!” His flash of open anger was like a spark struck from flint. With a quickness her tender limbs could not ap¬ proximate, he caught her wrist, twisting it in pure wanton cruelty until she screamed and sank to her knees.

"Slut! I should drag you back to Akif at my horse’s tail, but I will be merciful and carry you on my saddle-bow, for which favor you shall humbly thank me, while-”

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


He released her with a startled oath and sprang back, his saber flashing out, as a terrible apparition burst from the reedy jungle sounding an inarticulate cry of hate.

Olivia, staring up from the ground, saw what she took to be either a savage or a madman advancing on Shah Amurath in an attitude of deadly menace. He was powerfully built, naked but for a girdled loin-cloth, which was stained with blood and crusted with dried mire.

His black mane was matted with mud and clotted blood; there were streaks of dried blood on his chest and limbs, dried blood on the long straight sword he gripped in his right hand. From under the tangle of his locks, bloodshot eyes glared like coals of blue fire.

"You Hyrkanian dog!” mouthed this apparition in a barbarous accent. "The devils of vengeance have brought you here!”

"Kozak!” ejaculated Shah Amurath,

46 8


recoiling. "I did not know a dog of you escaped! I thought you all lay stiff on the steppe, by Ilbars River.”

’'All but me, damn you!” cried the other. "Oh, I’ve dreamed of such a meeting as this, while I crawled on my belly through the brambles, or lay under rocks while the ants gnawed my flesh, or crouched in the mire up to my mouth —I dreamed, but never hoped it would come to pass. Oh, gods of Hell, how I have yearned for this!”

The stranger’s bloodthirsty joy was ter¬ rible to behold. His jaws champed spas¬ modically, froth appeared on his black¬ ened lips.

"Keep back!” ordered Shah Amurath, watching him narrowly.

"Ha!” it was like the bark of a timber wolf. "Shah Amurath, the great lord of Akif! Oh, damn you, how I love the sight of you—you, who fed my comrades to the vultures, who tore them between wild horses, blinded and maimed and mutilated them— at, you dog, you filthy dog!” His voice rose to a maddened scream, and he charged.

In spite of the terror of his wild ap¬ pearance, Olivia looked to see him fall at the first crossing of the blades. Mad¬ man or savage, what could he do, naked, against the mailed chief of Akif?

There was an instant when the blades flamed and licked, seeming barely to touch each other and leap apart; then the broadsword flashed past the saber and de¬ scended terrifically on Shah Amurath’s shoulder. Olivia cried out at the fury of that stroke. Above the crunch of the rending mail, she distinctly heard the snap of the shoulder-bone. The Hyrkanian reeled back, suddenly ashen, blood spurting over the links of his hauberk; his saber slipped from his nerveless fin¬ gers.

"Quarter!” he gasped.

"Quarter?” there was a quiver of fren¬ zy in the stranger’s voice. "Quarter such as you gave us, you swine!”

Olivia closed her eyes. This was no longer battle, but butchery, frantic, bloody, impelled by an hysteria of fury and hate, in which culminated the suf¬ ferings of battle, massacre, torture, and fear-ridden, thirst-maddened, hungerhaunted flight. Though Olivia knew that Shah Amurath deserved no mercy or pity from any living creature, yet she closed her eyes and pressed her hands over her ears, to shut out the sight of that drip¬ ping sword that rose and fell with the sound of a butcher’s cleaver, and the gurgling cries that dwindled away and ceased.

S he opened her eyes, to see the stranger turning away from a gory travesty that only vaguely resembled a human being. The man’s breast heaved with exhaustion or passion; his brow was beaded with sweat; his right hand was splashed with blood.

He did not speak to her, or even glance toward her. She saw him stride through the reeds that grew at the water’s edge, stoop, and tug at something. A boat wallowed out of its hiding-place among the stalks. Then she divined his inten¬ tion, and was galvanized into action.

"Oh, wait!” she wailed, staggering up and running toward him. "Do not leave me! Take me with you!”

He wheeled and stared at her. There was a difference in his bearing. His bloodshot eyes were sane. It was as if the blood he had just shed had quenched the fire of his frenzy.

"Who axe you?” he demanded.

"I am called Olivia. I was his captive. I ran away. He followed me. That’s why he came here. Oh, do not leave me here! His warriors are not far behind

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


him. They will find his corpse—they will find me near it—oh!” She moaned in her terror and wrung her white hands.

He stared at her in perplexity.

"Would you be better off with me?” he demanded. "I am a barbarian, and I know from your looks that you fear me.”

"Yes, I fear you,” she replied, too dis¬ tracted to dissemble. "My flesh crawls at the horror of your aspect. But I fear the Hyrkanians more. Oh, let me go with you! They will put me to the tor¬ ture if they find me beside their dead lord.”

"Come, then.” He drew aside, and she stepped quickly into the boat, shrink¬ ing from contact with him. She seated herself in the bows, and he stepped into the boat, pushed off with an oar, and using it as a paddle, worked his way tor¬ tuously among the tall stalks until they glided out into open water. Then he set to work with both oars, rowing with great, smooth, even strokes, the heavy muscles of arms and shoulders and back rippling in rhythm to his exertions.

There was silence for some time, the girl crouching in the bows, the man tug¬ ging at the oars. She watched him with timorous fascination. It was evident that he was not an Hyrkanian, and he did not resemble the Hyborian races. There was a wolfish hardness about him that marked the barbarian. His features, allowing for the strains and stains of battle and his hiding in the marshes, reflected that same untamed wildness, but they were neither evil nor degenerate.

"Who are you?” she asked. "Shah Amurath called you a kozak; were you of that band?”

"I am Conan, of Cimmeria,” he grunt¬ ed. "I was with the kozaki, as the Hyr¬ kanian dogs called us.”

She knew vaguely that the land he named lay far to the northwest, beyond

the farthest boundaries of the different kingdoms of her race.

"I am a daughter of the king of Ophir,” she said. "My father sold me to a Shemite chief, because I would not marry a prince of Koth.”

The Cimmerian grunted in surprize.

Her lips twisted in a bitter smile. "Aye, civilized men sell their children as slaves to savages, sometimes. They call your race barbaric, Conan of Cim¬ meria.”

"We do not sell our children,” he growled, his chin jutting truculently.

"Well—I was sold. But the desert man did not misuse me. He wished to buy the good will of Shah Amurath, and I was among the gifts he brought to Akif

of the purple gardens. Then-” She

shuddered and hid her face in her hands.

"I should be lost to all shame,” she said presently. "Yet each memory stings me like a slaver’s whip. I abode in Shah Amurath’s palace, until some weeks agone he rode out with his hosts to do battle with a band of invaders who were ravaging the borders of Turan. Yester¬ day he returned in triumph, and a great fete was made to honor him. In the drunkenness and rejoicing, I found an opportunity to steal out of the city on a stolen horse. I had thought to escape— but he followed, and about midday came up with me. I outran his vassals, but him I could not escape. Then you came.”

"I was lying hid in the reeds,” grunted the barbarian. "I was one of those dis¬ solute rogues, the Free Companions, who burned and looted along the borders. There were five thousand of us, from a score of races and tribes. We had been serving as mercenaries for a rebel prince in eastern Koth, most of us, and when he made peace with his cursed sovereign, we were out of employment; so we took to plundering the outlying dominions of



Koth, Zamora and Turan impartially. A week ago Shah Amurath trapped us near the banks of Ilbars with fifteen thousand men. Mitral The skies were black with vultures. When the lines broke, after a whole day of fighting, some tried to break through to the north, some to the west. I doubt if any escaped. The steppes were covered with horsemen riding down the fugitives. I broke for the east, and final¬ ly reached the edge of the marshes that border this part of Vilayet.

"I've been hiding in the morasses ever since. Only the day before yesterday the riders ceased beating up the reed-brakes, searching for just such fugitives as I. I’ve squirmed and burrowed and hidden like a snake, feasting on musk-rats I caught and ate raw, for lack of fire to cook them. This dawn I found this boat hidden among the reeds. I hadn’t intended going out on the sea until night, but after I killed Shah Amurath, I knew his mailed dogs would be close at hand.”

"And what now?”

"We shall doubtless be pursued. If they fail to see the marks left by the boat, which I covered as well as I could, they’ll guess anyway that we took to sea, after they fail to find us among the marshes. But we have a start, and I’m going to haul at these oars until we reach a safe place.”

"Where shall we find that?” she asked hopelessly. "Vilayet is an Hyrkanian pond.”

"Some folk don’t think so,” grinned Conan grimly; "notably the slaves that have escaped from galleys and become pirates.”

"But what are your plans?”

"The southwestern shore is held by the Hyrkanians for hundreds of miles. We still have a long way to go before we pass beyond their northern boundaries. I in¬ tend to go northward, until I think we

have passed them. Then we’ll turn west¬ ward, and try to land on the shore bor¬ dered by the uninhabited steppes.”

"Suppose we meet pirates, or a storm?” she asked. "And we shall starve on the steppes.”

"Well,” he reminded her, "I didn’t ask you to come with me.”

"I am sorry.” She bowed her shapelydark head. "Pirates, storms, starvation —they are all kinder than the people of Turan.”

"Aye.” His dark face grew somber. "I haven’t done with them yet. Be at ease, girl. Storms are rare on Vilayet at this time of the year. If we make the steppes, we shall not starve. I was reared in a naked land. It was those cursed marshes, with their stench and stinging flies, that nigh unmanned me. I am at home in the high lands. As for pi¬ rates-” He grinned enigmatically,

and bent to the oars.

T he sun sank like a dull-glowing cop¬ per ball into a lake of fire. The blue of the sea merged with the blue of the sky, and both turned to soft dark velvet, clustered with stars and the mirrors of stars. Olivia reclined in the bows of the gently rocking boat, in a state dreamy and unreal. She experienced an illusion that she was floating in midair, stars beneath her as well as above. Her silent com¬ panion was etched vaguely against the softer darkness. There was no break or falter in the rhythm of his oars; he might have been a fantasmal oarsman, rowing her across the dark lake of Death. But the edge of her fear was dulled, and, lulled by the monotony of motion, she passed into a quiet slumber.

Dawn was in her eyes when she awak¬ ened, aware of a ravenous hunger. It was a change in the motion of the boat that had roused her; Conan was resting on his

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


oars, gazing beyond her. She realized that he had rowed all night without pause, and marvelled at his iron endur¬ ance. She twisted about to follow his stare, and saw a green wall of trees and shrubbery rising from the water’s edge and sweeping away in a wide curve, en¬ closing a small bay whose waters lay still as blue glass.

"This is one of the many islands that dot this inland sea,” said Conan. "They are supposed to be uninhabited. I’ve heard the Hyrkanians seldom visit them. Besides, they generally hug the shores in their galleys, and we have come a long way. Before sunset we were out of sight of the mainland.”

With a few strokes he brought the boat in to shore, and made the painter fast to the arching root of a tree which rose from the water’s edge. Stepping ashore, he reached out a hand to help Olivia. She took it, wincing slightly at the blood¬ stains upon it, feeling a hint of the dynamic strength that lurked in the bar¬ barian’s thews.

A dreamy quiet lay over the woods that bordered the blue bay. Then somewhere, far back among the trees, a bird lifted its morning song. A breeze whispered through the leaves, and set them to mur¬ muring. Olivia found herself listening intently for something, she knew not what. What might be lurking amid those nameless woodlands?

As she peered timidly into the shad¬ ows between the trees, something swept into the sunlight with a swift whirl of wings: a great parrot which dropped on to a leafy branch and swayed there, a gleaming image of jade and crimson. It turned its crested head sidewise and re¬ garded the invaders with glittering eyes of jet.

"Crom!” muttered the Cimmerian. "Here is the grandfather of all parrots.

He must be a thousand years old! Look at the evil wisdom of his eyes. What mysteries do you guard, Wise Devil?”

Abruptly the bird spread its flaming wings and soaring from its perch, cried out harshly: "Yagkoolan yok tha, xuthalla!” and with a wild screech of horribly human laughter, rushed away through the trees to vanish in the opalescent shad¬ ows.

Olivia stared after it, feeling the cold hand of nameless foreboding touch her supple spine.

"What did it say?” she whispered.

"Human words, I’ll swear,” answered Conan; "but in what tongue I can’t say.”

"Nor I,” returned the girl. "Yet it must have learned them from human lips.

Human, or-” she gaaed into the leafy

fastnesses and shuddered slightly, with¬ out knowing why.

"Crom, I’m hungry!” grunted the Gmmerian. "I could eat a whole buffalo. We’ll look for fruit; but first I’m going to cleanse myself of this dried mud and blood. Hiding in marshes is foul busi¬ ness.”

So saying, he laid aside his sword, and wading out shoulder-deep into the blue water, went about his ablutions. When he emerged, his clean-cut bronze limbs shone, his streaming black mane was no longer matted. His blue eyes, though they smoldered with unquenchable fire, were no longer murky or bloodshot. But the tigerish suppleness of limb and the dangerous aspect of feature were not al¬ tered.

Strapping on his sword once more, he motioned the girl to follow him, and they left the shore, passing under the leafy arches of the great branches. Underfoot lay a short green sward which cushioned their tread. Between the trunks of the trees they caught glimpses of faery-like vistas.



Presently Conan grunted in pleasure at the sight of golden and russet globes hanging in clusters among the leaves. In¬ dicating that the girl should seat herself on a fallen tree, he filled her lap with the exotic delicacies, and then himself fell to with unconcealed gusto.

"Ishtar!” said he, between mouthfuls. "Since Ilbars I have lived on rats, and roots I dug out of the stinking mud. This is sweet to the palate, though not very filling. Still, it will serve if we eat enough.”

Olivia was too busy to reply. The sharp edge of the Cimmerian’s hunger blunted, he began to gaze at his fair com¬ panion with more interest than previous¬ ly, noting the lustrous clusters of her dark hair, the peach-bloom tints of her dainty skin, and the rounded contours of her lithe figure which the scanty silk tunic displayed to full advantage.

Finishing her meal, the object of his scrutiny looked up, and meeting his burn¬ ing, slit-eyed gaze, she changed color and the remnants of the fruit slipped from her fingers.

Without comment, he indicated with a gesture that they should continue their explorations, and rising, she followed him out of the trees and into a glade, the farther end of which was bounded by a dense thicket. As they stepped into the open there was a ripping crash in this thicket, and Conan, bounding aside and carrying the girl with him, narrowly saved them from something that rushed through the air and struck a tree-trunk with a thunderous impact.

W hipping out his sword, Conan bounded across the glade and plunged into the thicket. Silence ensued, while Olivia crouched on the sward, ter¬ rified and bewildered. Presently Conan emerged, a puzzled scowl on his face.

"Nothing in that thicket,” he growled. "But there was something-”

He studied the missile that had so nar¬ rowly missed them, and grunted incred¬ ulously, as if unable to credit his own senses. It was a huge block of greenish stone which lay on the sward at the foot of the tree, whose wood its impact had splintered.

"A strange stone to find on an unin¬ habited island,” growled Conan.

Olivia’s lovely eyes dilated in wonder. The stone was a symmetrical block, indis¬ putably cut and shaped by human hands. And it was astonishingly massive. The Cimmerian grasped it with both hands, and with legs braced and the muscles standing out on his arms and back in straining knots, he heaved it above his head and cast it from him, exerting every ounce of nerve and sinew. It fell a few feet in front of him. Conan swore.

"No man living could throw that rock across this glade. It’s a task for siege engines. Yet here there are no man¬ gonels or ballistas.”

"Perhaps it was thrown by some such engine from afar,” she suggested.

He shook his head. "It didn’t fall from above. It came from yonder thick¬ et. See how the twigs are broken? It was thrown as a man might throw a peb¬ ble. But who? what? Come!”

She hesitantly followed him into the thicket. Inside the outer ring of leafy brush, the undergrowth was less dense. Utter silence brooded over all. The springy sward gave no sign of footprint. Yet from this mysterious thicket had hurtled that boulder, swift and deadly. Conan bent closer to the sward, where the grass was crushed down here and there. He shook his head angrily. Even to his keen eyes it gave no clue as to what had stood or trodden there. His gaze roved to the green roof above their heads,

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


a solid ceiling of thick leaves and inter¬ woven arches. And he froze suddenly.

Then rising, sword in hand, he began to back away, thrusting Olivia behind him.

"Out of here, quick!” he urged in a whisper that congealed the girl’s blood.

"What is it? What do you see?”

"Nothing,” he answered guardedly, not halting his wary retreat.

"But what is it, then? What lurks in this thicket?”

"Death!” he answered, his gaze still fixed on the brooding jade arches that shut out the sky.

Once out of the thicket, he took her hand and led her swiftly through the thinning trees, until they mounted a grassy slope, sparsely treed, and emerged upon a low plateau, where the grass grew taller and the trees were few and scat¬ tered. And in the midst of that plateau rose a long broad structure of crumbling greenish stone.

They gazed in wonder. No legends named such a building on any island of Vilayet. They approached it warily, see¬ ing that moss and lichen crawled over the stones, and the broken roof gaped to the sky. On all sides lay bits and shards of masonry, half hidden in the waving grass, giving the impression that once many buildings rose there, perhaps a whole town. But now only the long hall-like structure rose against the sky, and its walls leaned drunkenly among the crawl¬ ing vines.

Whatever doors had once guarded its portals had long rotted away. Conan and his companion stood in the broad en¬ trance and stared inside. Sunlight streamed in through gaps in the walls and roof, making the interior a dim weave of light and shadow. Grasping his sword firmly, Conan entered, with the slouch¬ ing gait of a hunting panther, sunken

head and noiseless feet. Olivia tiptoed after him.

O nce within, Conan grunted in sur¬ prize, and Olivia stifled a scream. "Look! Oh, look!”

"I see,” he answered. "Nothing to fear. They are statues.”

"But how life-like—and how evil!” she whispered, drawing close to him.

They stood in a great hall, whose floor was of polished stone, littered with dust and broken stones, which had fallen from the ceiling. Vines, growing between the stones, masked the apertures. The lofty roof, flat and undomed, was upheld by thick columns, marching in rows down the sides of the walls. And in each space between these columns stood a strange figure.

They were statues, apparently of iron, black and shining as if continually pol¬ ished. They were life-size, depicting tall, lithely powerful men, with cruel hawk¬ like faces. They were naked, and every swell, depression and contour of joint and sinew was represented with incred¬ ible realism. But the most life-like fea¬ ture was their proud, intolerant faces. These features were not cast in the same mold. Each face possessed its own in¬ dividual characteristics, though there was a tribal likeness between them all. There was none of the monotonous uniformity of decorative art, in the faces at least.

"They seem to be listening—and wait¬ ing!” whispered the girl uneasily.

Conan rang his hilt against one of the images.

"Iron,” he pronounced. "But Crom! in what molds were they cast?”

He shook his head and shrugged his massive shoulders in puzzlement.

Olivia glanced timidly about the great silent hall. Only the ivy-grown stones, the tendril-clasped pillars, with the dark



figures brooding between them, met her gaze. She shifted uneasily and wished to be gone, but the images held a strange fascination for her companion. He ex¬ amined them in detail, and barbarian¬ like, tried to break off their limbs. But their material resisted his best efforts. He could neither disfigure nor dislodge from its niche a single image. At last he de¬ sisted, swearing in his wonder.

"What manner of men were these copied from?” he inquired of the world at large. "These figures are black, yet they are not like negroes. I have never seen their like.”

"Let us go into the sunlight,” urged Olivia, and he nodded, with a baffled glance at the brooding shapes along the walls.

So they passed out of the dusky hall into the clear blaze of the summer sun. She was surprized to note its position in the sky; they had spent more time in the ruins than she had guessed.

"Let us take to the boat again,” she suggested. "I am afraid here. It is a strange evil place. We do not know when we may be attacked by whatever cast the rock.”

"I think we’re safe as long as we’re not under the trees,” he answered. "Come.”

The plateau, whose sides fell away toward the wooded shores on the east, west, and south, sloped upward toward the north to abut on a tangle of rocky cliffs, the highest point of the island. Thither Conan took his way, suiting his long stride to his companion’s gait. From time to time his glance rested inscrutably upon her, and she was aware of it.

T hey reached the northern extremity of the plateau, and stood gazing up the steep pitch of the cliffs. Trees grew thickly along the rim of the plateau east

and west of the cliffs, and clung to the precipitous incline. Conan glanced at these trees suspiciously, but he began the ascent, helping his companion on the climb. The slope was not sheer, and was broken by ledges and boulders. The Cimmerian, born in a hill country, could have run up it like a cat, but Olivia found the going difficult. Again and again she felt herself lifted lightly off her feet and over some obstacle that would have taxed her strength to surmount, and her won¬ der grew at the sheer physical power of the man. She no longer found his touch repugnant. There was a promise of pro¬ tection in his iron clasp.

At last they stood on the ultimate pin¬ nacle, their hair stirring in the sea wind. From their feet the cliffs fell away sheerly three or four hundred feet to a narrow tangle of woodlands bordering the beach. Looking southward they saw the whole island lying like a great oval mirror, its bevelled edges sloping down swiftly into a rim of green, except where it broke in the pitch of the cliffs. As far as they could see, on all sides stretched the blue waters, still, placid, fading into dreamy hazes of distance.

“The sea is still,” sighed Olivia. "Why should we not take up our journey again?”

Conan, poised like a bronze statue on the cliffs, pointed northward. Straining her eyes, Olivia saw a white fleck that seemed to hang suspended in the aching haze.

"What is it?”

"A sail.”

"Hyrkanians?”

"Who can tell, at this distance?”

"They will anchor here — search the island for us!” she cried in quick panic.

"I doubt it. They come from the north, so they can not be searching for us. They may stop for some other reaSHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


son, in which case we’ll have to hide as best we can. But I believe it’s either a pirate, or an Hyrkanian galley returning from some northern raid. In the latter case they are not likely to anchor here. But we can’t put to sea until they’ve gone out of sight, for they’re coming from the direction in which we must go. Doubtless they’ll pass the island tonight, and at dawn we can go on our way.”

"Then we must spend the night here?” she shivered.

"It’s safest.”

"Then let us sleep here, on the crags,” she urged.

He shook his head, glancing at the stunted trees, at the marching woods be¬ low, a green mass which seemed to send out tendrils straggling up the sides of the cliffs.

"Here are too many trees. We’ll sleep in the ruins.”

She cried out in protest.

"Nothing will harm you there,” he soothed. "Whatever threw the stone at us did not follow us out of the woods. There was nothing to show that any wild thing lairs in the ruins. Besides, you are soft-skinned, and used to shelter and dainties. I could sleep naked in the snow and feel no discomfort, but the dew would give you cramps, were we to sleep in the open.”

Olivia helplessly acquiesced, and they descended the cliffs, crossed the plateau and once more approached the gloomy, age-haunted ruins. By this time the sun was sinking below the plateau rim. They had found fruit in the trees near the cliffs, and these formed their supper, both food and drink.

The southern night swept down quick¬ ly, littering the dark blue sky with great white stars, and Conan entered the shad¬ owy ruins, drawing the reluctant Olivia after him. She shivered at the sight of

those tense black shadows in their niches along the walls. In the darkness that the starlight only faintly touched, she could not make out their outlines; she could only sense their attitude of waiting— waiting as they had waited for untold centuries.

Conan had brought a great armful of tender branches, well-leafed. These he heaped to make a couch for her, and she lay upon it, with a curious sensation as of one lying down to sleep in a serpent’s lair.

Whatever her forebodings, Conan did not share them. The Cimmerian sat down near her, his back against a pillar, his sword across his knees. His eyes gleamed like a panther’s in the dusk.

"Sleep, girl,” said he. "My slumber is light as a wolf’s. Nothing can enter this hall without awaking me.”

Olivia did not reply. From her bed of leaves she watched the immobile fig¬ ure, indistinct in the soft darkness. How strange, to move in fellowship with a barbarian, to be cared for and protected by one of a race, tales of which had fright¬ ened her as a child! He came of a peo¬ ple bloody, grim and ferocious. His kin¬ ship to the wild was apparent in his every action; it burned in his smoldering eyes. Yet he had not harmed her, and her worst oppressor had been a man the world called civilized. As a delicious languor stole over her relaxing limbs and she sank into foamy billows of slumber, her last waking thought was a drowsy rec¬ ollection of the firm touch of Conan’s fingers on her soft flesh.


O livia dreamed, and through her dreams crawled a suggestion of lurking evil, like a black serpent writhing through flower gardens. Her dreams were fragmentary and colorful, exotic



shards of a broken, unknown pattern, until they crystallized into a scene of hor¬ ror and madness, etched against a back¬ ground of Cyclopean stones and pillars.

She saw a great hall, whose lofty ceil¬ ing was upheld by stone columns march¬ ing in even rows along the massive walls. Among these pillars fluttered great green and scarlet parrots, and the hall was thronged with black-skinned, hawk-faced warriors. They were not negroes. Neither they nor their garments nor weapons re¬ sembled anything of the world the dreamer knew.

They were pressing about one bound to a pillar: a slender white-skinned youth, with a cluster of golden curls about his alabaster brow. His beauty v/as not al¬ together human—like the dream of a god, chiseled out of living marble.

The black warriors laughed at him, jeered and taunted in a strange tongue. The lithe naked form writhed beneath their cruel hands. Blood trickled down the ivory thighs to spatter on the polished floor. The screams of the victim echoed through the hall; then lifting his head toward the ceiling and the skies beyond, he cried out a name in an awful voice. A dagger in an ebon hand cut short his cry, and the golden head rolled on the ivory breast.

As if in answer to that desperate cry, there was a rolling thunder as of celes¬ tial chariot-wheels, and a figure stood be¬ fore the slayers, as if materialized out of empty air. The form was of a man, but no mortal man ever wore such an aspect of inhuman beauty. There was an un¬ mistakable resemblance between him and the youth who drooped lifeless in his chains, but the alloy of humanity that softened the godliness of the youth was lacking in the features of the stranger, awful and immobile in their beauty.

The blacks shrank back before him,

their eyes slits of fire. Lifting a hand, he spoke, and his tones echoed through the silent halls in deep rich waves of sound. Like men in a trance the black warriors fell back until they were ranged along the walls in regular lines. Then from the stranger’s chiseled lips rang a terrible invocation and command: "Yagkoolan yok tha, xuthalla!”

At the blast of that awful cry, the black figures stiffened and froze. Over their limbs crept a curious rigidity, an unnatural petrification. The stranger touched the limp body of the youth, and the chains fell away from it. He lifted the corpse in his arms; then ere he turned away, his tranquil gaze swept again over the silent rows of ebony figures, and he pointed to the moon, which gleamed in through the casements. And they under¬ stood, those tense, waiting statues that had been men. . . .

Olivia awoke, starting up on her couch of branches, a cold sweat beading her skin. Her heart pounded loud in the silence. She glanced wildly about. Conan slept against his pillar, his head fallen upon his massive breast. The sil¬ very radiance of the late moon crept through the gaping roof, throwing long white lines along the dusty floor. She could see the images dimly, black, tense —waiting. Fighting down a rising hys¬ teria, she saw the moonbeams rest lightly on the pillars and the shapes between.

What was that? A tremor among the shadows where the moonlight fell. A paralysis of horror gripped her, for where there should have been the immobility of death, there was movement: a slow twitching, a flexing and writhing of ebon limbs—an awful scream burst from her lips as she broke the bonds that held her mute and motionless. At her shriek Conan shot erect, teeth gleaming, sword lifted.

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


"The statues! The statues /—oh my God, the statues are coming to life!”

And with the cry she sprang through a crevice in the wall, burst madly through the hindering vines, and ran, ran, ran— blind, screaming, witless—until a grasp on her arm brought her up short and she shrieked and fought against the arms that caught her, until a familiar voice pen¬ etrated the mists of her terror, and she saw Conan’s face, a mask of bewilderment in the moonlight.

"What in Crom’s name, girl? Did you have a nightmare?” His voice sound¬ ed strange and far away. With a sob¬ bing gasp she threw her arms about his thick neck and clung to him convulsively, crying in panting catches.

"Where are they? Did they follow us?”

"Nobody followed us,” he answered.

She sat up, still clinging to him, and looked fearfully about. Her blind flight had carried her to the southern edge of the plateau. Just below them was the slope, its foot masked in the thick shad¬ ows of the woods. Behind them she saw the ruins looming in the high-swing¬ ing moon.

"Did you not see them?—the statues, moving, lifting their hands, their eyes glaring in the shadows?”

"I saw nothing,” answered the bar¬ barian uneasily. "I slept more soundly than usual, because it has been so long since I have slumbered the night through; yet I don’t think anything could have entered the hall without waking me.”

"Nothing entered,” a laugh of hysteria escaped her. "It was something there al¬ ready. Ah, Mitra, we lay down to sleep among them, like sheep making their bed in the shambles!”

"What are you talking about?” he de¬ manded. "I woke at your cry, but before

I had time to look about me, I saw you rush out through the crack in the wall. I pursued you, lest you come to harm. I thought you had a nightmare.”

"So I did!” she shivered. "But the reality was more grisly than the dream. Listen!” And she narrated all that she had dreamed and thought to see.

Conan listened attentively. The nat¬ ural skepticism of the sophisticated man was not his. His mythology contained ghouls, goblins, and necromancers. After she had finished, he sat silent, absently toying with his sword.

"The youth they tortured was like the tall man who came?” he asked at last.

"As like as son to father,” she an¬ swered, and hesitantly: "If the mind could conceive of the offspring of a union of divinity with humanity, it would pic¬ ture that youth. The gods of old times mated sometimes with mortal women, our legends tell us.”

"What gods?” he muttered.

"The nameless, forgotten ones. Who knows? They have gone back into the still waters of the lakes, the quiet hearts of the hills, the gulfs beyond the stars. Gods are no more stable than men.”

"But if these shapes were men, blasted into iron images by some god or devil, how can they come to life?”

"There is witchcraft in the moon,” she shuddered. "He pointed at the moon; while the moon shines on them, they live. So I believe.”

"But we were not pursued,” muttered Conan, glancing toward the brooding ruins. "You might have dreamed they moved. I am of a mind to return and see.”

"No, no!” she cried, clutching him des¬ perately. "Perhaps the spell upon them holds them in the hall. Do not go back! They will rend you iimb from iimb! Oh, Conan, let us go into our boat and flee



this awful island! Surely the Hyrkanian ship has passed us now! Let us go!”

S o frantic was her pleading that Conan was impressed. His curiosity in regard to the images was balanced by his superstition. Foes of flesh and blood he did not fear, however great the odds, but any hint of the supernatural roused all the dim monstrous instincts of fear that are the heritage of the barbarian.

He took the girl’s hand and they went down the slope and plunged into the dense woods, where the leaves whispered, and nameless night-birds murmured drowsily. Under the trees the shadows clustered thick, and Conan swerved to avoid the denser patches. His eyes roved continuously from side to side, and often flitted into the branches above them. He went quickly yet warily, his arm girdling the girl’s waist so strongly that she felt as if she were being carried rather than guided. Neither spoke. The only sound was the girl’s quick nervous panting, the rustle of her small feet in the grass. So they came through the trees to the edge of the water, shimmering like molten sil¬ ver in the moonlight.

"We should have brought fruit for food,” muttered Conan; "but doubtless we’ll find other islands. As well leave now as later; it’s but a few hours till dawn- 1 ’

His voice trailed away. The painter was still made fast to the looping root. But at the . other end was only a smashed and shattered ruin, half submerged in the shallow water.

A stifled cry escaped Olivia. Conan wheeled and faced the dense shadows, a crouching image of menace. The noise of the night-birds was suddenly silent. A brooding stillness reigned over the woods. No breeze moved the branches, yet some¬ where the leaves stirred faintly.

Quick as a great cat Conan caught up Olivia and ran. Through the shadows he raced like a phantom, while somewhere above and behind them sounded a curious rushing among the leaves, that impla¬ cably drew closer and closer. Then the moonlight burst full upon their faces, and they were speeding up the slope of the plateau.

At the crest Conan laid Olivia down, and turned to glare back at the gulf of shadows they had just quitted. The leaves shook in a sudden breeze; that was all. He shook his mane with an angry growl. Olivia crept to his feet like a frightened child. Her eyes looked up at him, dark wells of horror.

"What are we to do, Conan?” she whispered.

He looked at the ruins, stared again into the woods below.

"We’ll go to the cliffs,” he decided, lifting her to her feet. "Tomorrow I’ll make a raft, and we’ll trust our luck to the sea again.”

"It was not—not they that destroyed our boat?” It was half question, half assertion.

He shook his head, grimly taciturn.

Every step of the way across that moon-haunted plateau was a sweating terror for Olivia, but no black shapes stole subtly from the looming ruins, and at last they reached the foot of the crags, which rose stark and gloomily majestic above them. There Conan halted in some uncertainty, at last selecting a place shel¬ tered by a broad ledge, nowhere near any trees.

"Lie down and sleep if you can, Oliv¬ ia,” he said. "I’ll keep watch.”

But no sleep came to Olivia, and she lay watching the distant ruins and the wooded rim until the stars paled, the east whitened, and dawn in rose and gold

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


struck fire from the dew on the grassblades.

She rose stiffly, her mind reverting to all the happenings of the night. In the morning light some of its terrors seemed like figments of an overwrought imagina¬ tion. Conan strode over to her, and his words electrified her.

"Just before dawn I heard the creak of timbers and the rasp and clack of cord¬ age and oars. A ship has put in and an¬ chored at the beach not far away—prob¬ ably the ship whose sail we saw yester¬ day. We’ll go up the cliffs and spy on her.”

Up they went, and lying on their bel¬ lies among the boulders, saw a painted mast jutting up beyond the trees to the west.

"An Hyrkanian craft, from the cut of her rigging,” muttered Conan. "I won¬ der if the crew-”

A distant medley of voices reached their ears, and creeping to the southern edge of the cliffs, they saw a motley horde emerge from the fringe of trees along the western rim of the plateau, and stand there a space in debate. There was much flourishing of arms, brandishing of swords, and loud rough argument. Then the whole band started across the plateau toward the ruins, at a slant that would take them close by the foot of the cliffs.

"Pirates!” whispered Conan, a grim smile on his thin lips. "It’s an Hyrkan¬ ian galley they’ve captured. Here— crawl among these rocks.

"Don’t show yourself unless I call to you,” he instructed, having secreted her to his satisfaction among a tangle of boul¬ ders along the crest of the cliffs. "I’m going to meet these dogs. If I succeed in my plan, all will be well, and we’ll sail away with them. If I don’t succeed —well, hide yourself in the rocks until

they’re gone, for no devils on this island are as cruel as these sea-wolves.”

And tearing himself from her reluc¬ tant grasp, he swung quickly down the cliffs.

L ooking fearfully from her eyrie, J Olivia saw the band had neared the foot of the cliffs. Even as she looked, Conan stepped out from among the boul¬ ders and faced them, sword in hand. They gave back with yells of menace and surprize; then halted uncertainly to glare at this figure which had appeared so suddenly from the rocks. There were some seventy of them, a wild horde made up of men from many nations: Kothians, Zamorians, Brythunians, Corinthians, Shemites. Their features reflected the wildness of their natures. Many bore the scars of the lash or the branding-iron. There were cropped ears, slit noses, gap¬ ing eye-sockets, stumps of wrists—marks of the hangman as well as scars of battle. Most of them were half naked, but the garments they wore were fine; goldbraided jackets, satin girdles, silken breeches, tattered, stained with tar and blood, vied with pieces of silver-chased armor. Jewels glittered in nose-rings and ear-rings, and in the hilts of their dag¬ gers.

Over against this bizarre mob stood the tall Cimmerian in strong contrast with his hard bronzed limbs and clean-cut vital features.

"Who are you?” they roared.

"Conan the Cimmerian!” his voice was like the deep challenge of a lion. "One of the Free Companions. I mean to try my luck with the Red Brotherhood. Who’s your chief?”

"I, by Ishtar!” bellowed a bull-like voice, as a huge figure swaggered for¬ ward: a giant, naked to the waist, where his capacious belly was girdled by a wide



sash that upheld voluminous silken pan¬ taloons. His head was shaven except for a scalp-lock, his mustaches dropped over a rat-trap mouth. Green Shemitish slip¬ pers with upturned toes were on his feet, a long straight sword in his hand.

Conan stared and glared.

"Sergius of Khrosha, by Crom!”

"Aye, by Ishtar!” boomed the giant, his small black eyes glittering with hate. "Did you think I had forgot? Ha! Ser¬ gius never forgets an enemy. Now I’ll hang you up by the heels and skin you alive. At him, lads!”

"Aye, send your dogs at me, bigbelly,” sneered Conan with bitter scorn. "You were always a coward, you Kothic cur.”

"Coward! To me?” The broad face turned black with passion. "On guard, you northern dog! I’ll cut out your heart!”

In an instant the pirates had formed a circle about the rivals, their eyes blazing, their breath sucking between their teeth in bloodthirsty enjoyment. High up among the crags Olivia watched, sinking her nails into her palms in her painful excitement.

Without formality the combatants en¬ gaged, Sergius coming in with a rush, quick on his feet as a giant cat, for all his bulk. Curses hissed between his clenched teeth as he lustily stfung and parried. Conan fought in silence, his eyes slits of blue bale-fire.

The Kothian ceased his oaths to save his breath. The only sounds were the quick scuff of feet on the sward, the panting of the pirate, the ring and clash of steel. The swords flashed like white fire in the early sun, wheeling and cir¬ cling. They seemed to recoil from each other’s contact, then leap together again instantly. Sergius was giving back; only his superlative skill had saved him thus

far from the blinding speed of the Cim¬ merian’s onslaught. A louder clash of steel, a sliding rasp, a choking cry—from the pirate horde a fierce yell split the morning as Conan’s sword plunged through their captain’s massive body. The point quivered an instant from between Sergius’ shoulders, a hand’s breadth of white fire in the sunlight; then the Cimmerian wrenched back his steel and the pirate chief fell heavily, face down, and, lay in a widening pool of blood, his broad hands twitching for an instant.

Conan wheeled toward the gaping corsairs.

"Well, you dogs!” he roared, "I’ve sent your chief to hell—what says the law of the Red Brotherhood?”

Before any could answer, a rat-faced Brythunian, standing behind his fellows, whirled a sling swiftly and deadly. Straight as an arrow sped the stone to its mark, and Conan reeled and fell as a tali tree falls to the woodsman’s ax. Up on the cliff Olivia caught at the boulders for support. The scene swam dizzily before her eyes; all she could see was the Cimmerian lying limply on the sw'ard, blood oozing from his head.

The rat-faced one yelped in triumph and ran to stab the prostrate man, but a lean Corinthian thrust him back.

"What, Aratus, would you break the law of the Brotherhood, you dog?”

"No law is broken,” snarled the Bry¬ thunian.

"No law? Why, you dog, this man you have just struck down is by just rights our captain!”

"Nay!” shouted Aratus. "He was not of our band, but an outsider. He had not been admitted to fellowship. Slaying Sergius does not make him captain, as would have been the case had one of us killed him.”

W. T.—5

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


"But he wished to join us,” retorted the Corinthian. "He said so.”

At that a great clamor arose, some sid¬ ing with Aratus, some with the Corinth¬ ian, whom they called Ivanos. Oaths flew thick, challenges were passed, hands fumbled at sword-hilts.

At last a Shemite spoke up above the clamor: "Why do you argue over a dead man?”

"He’s not dead,” answered the Cor¬ inthian, rising from beside the prostrate Cimmerian. "It was a glancing blow; he’s only stunned.”

At that the damor rose anew, Aratus trying to get at the senseless man and Ivanos finally bestriding him, sword in hand, and defying all and sundry. Olivia sensed that it was not so much in defense of Conan that the Corinthian took his stand, but in opposition to Aratus. Ev¬ idently these men had been Sergius’ lieutenants, and there was no love lost between them. After more arguments, it was decided to bind Conan and take him along with them, his fate to be voted on later.

The Cimmerian, who was beginning to regain consciousness, was bound with leather girdles, and then four pirates lifted him, and with many complaints and curses, carried him along with the band, which took up its journey across the pla¬ teau once more. The body of Sergius was left where it had fallen, a sprawling, unlovely shape on the sun-washed sward.

U p among the rocks Olivia lay stunned by the disaster. She was incapable of speech or action, and could only lie there and stare with horrified eyes as the brutal horde dragged her pro¬ tector away.

How fong she lay there, she did not know. Across the plateau she saw the pirates reach the ruins and enter, dragW. T.—6

ging their captive. She saw them swarm¬ ing in and out of the doors and crevices, prodding into the heaps of debris, and clambering about the walls. After awhile a score of them came back across the pla¬ teau and vanished among the trees on the western rim, dragging the body of Ser¬ gius after them, presumably to cast into the sea. About the ruins the others were cutting down trees and securing material for a fire. Olivia heard their shouts, un¬ intelligible in the distance, and she heard the voices of those who had gone into the woods, echoing among the trees. Pres¬ ently they came back into sight, bearing casks of liquor and leathern sacks of food. They headed for the ruins, cursing lustily under their burdens.

Of all this Olivia was but mechanical¬ ly cognizant. Her overwrought brain was almost ready to collapse. Left alone and unprotected, she realized how much the protection of the Cimmerian had meant to her. There intruded vaguely a wonderment at the mad pranks of Fate, that could make the daughter of a king the companion of a red-handed barbarians. With it came a revulsion toward her own kind. Her father, and Shah Amurath, they were civilized men. And from them she had had only suffering. She had never encountered any civilized man who treated her with kindness unless there were an ulterior motive behind his ac¬ tions. Conan had shielded her, protected her, and—so far—demanded nothing in return. Laying her head in her rounded arms she wept, until distant shouts of ribald revelry roused her to her own dan¬ ger.

She glanced from the dark ruins about which the fantastic figures, small in the distance, weaved and staggered, to the dusky depths of the green forest. Even if her terrors in the ruins the night before had been only dreams, the menace that



lurked in those green leafy depths below was no figment of nightmare. Were Conan slain or carried away captive, her only choice would lie between giving her¬ self up to the human wolves of the sea, or remaining alone on that devil-haunted island.

As the full horror of her situation swept over her, she fell forward in a swoon.


T he sun was hanging low when Olivia regained her senses. A faint wind wafted to her ears distant shouts and snatches of ribald song. Rising cau¬ tiously, she looked out across the pla¬ teau. She saw the pirates clustered about a great fire outside the ruins, and her heart leaped as a group emerged from the interior dragging some object she knew was Conan. They propped him against the wall, still evidently bound fast, and there ensued a long discussion, with much brandishing of weapons. At last they dragged him back into the hall, and took up anew the business of ale-guz¬ zling. Olivia sighed; at least she knew that the Cimmerian still lived. Fresh de¬ termination steeled her. As soon as night fell, she would steal to those grim ruins and free him or be taken herself in the attempt. And she knew it was not self¬ ish interest alone which prompted her decision.

With this in mind she ventured to creep from her refuge to pluck and eat nuts which grew sparsely near at hand. She had not eaten since the day before. It was while so occupied that she was troubled by a sensation of being watched. She scanned the rocks nervously, then, with a shuddering suspicion, crept to the north edge of the cliff and gazed down into the waving green mass below; already dusky with the sunset. She saw

nothing; it was impossible that she could be seen, when not on the cliff’s edge, by anything lurking in those woods. Yet she distinctly felt the glare of hidden eyes, and felt that something animate and sentient was aware of her presence and her hiding-place.

Stealing back to her rocky eyrie, she lay watching the distant ruins until the dusk of night masked them, and she marked their position by the flickering flames about which black figures leaped and cavorted groggily.

Then she rose. It was time to make her attempt. But first she stole back to the northern edge of the cliffs, and looked down into the woods that bor¬ dered the beach. And as she strained her eyes in the dim starlight, she stiffened, and an icy hand touched her heart.

Far below her something moved. It was as if a black shadow detached itself from the gulf of shadows below her. It moved slowly up the sheer face of the cliff—a vague bulk, shapeless in the semi¬ darkness. Panic caught Olivia by the throat, and she struggled with the scream that tugged at her lips. Turning, she fled down the southern slope.

That flight down the shadowed cliffs was a nightmare in which she slid and scrambled, catching at jagged rocks with cold fingers. As she tore her tender skin and bruised her soft limbs on the rugged boulders over which Conan had so light¬ ly lifted her, she realized again her de¬ pendence on the iron-thewed barbarian. But this thought was but one in a flutter¬ ing maelstrom of dizzy fright.

The descent seemed endless, but at last her feet struck the grassy levels, and in a very frenzy of eagerness she sped away toward the fire that burned like the red heart of night. Behind her, as she fled, she heard a shower of stones rattle down the steep slope, and the sound lent wings

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


to her heels. What grisly climber dis¬ lodged those stones she dared not try to think.

Strenuous physical action dissipated her blind terror somewhat and before she had reached the ruins, her mind was clear, her reasoning faculties alert, though her limbs trembled from her efforts.

She dropped to the sward and wrig¬ gled along on her belly until, from behind a small tree that had escaped the axes of the pirates, she watched her enemies. They had completed their supper, but were still drinking, dipping pewter mugs or jewelled goblets into the broken heads of the wine-casks. Some were already snoring drunkenly on the grass, while others had staggered into the ruins. Of Conan she saw nothing. She lay there, while the Hew formed on the grass about her and the leaves overhead, and the men about the fire cursed, gambled and ar¬ gued. There were only a few about the fire; most of them had gone into the ruins to sleep.

She lay watching them, her nerves taut with the strain of waiting, the flesh crawl¬ ing between her shoulders at the thought of what might be watching her in turn— of what might be stealing up behind her. Time dragged on leaden feet. One by one the revellers sank down in drunken slumber, until all were stretched sense¬ less beside the dying fire.

Olivia hesitated—then was galvanized by a distant glow rising through the trees. The moon was rising!

With a gasp she rose and hurried toward the ruins. Her flesh crawled as she tiptoed among the drunken shapes that sprawled beside the gaping portal. Inside were many more; they shifted and mumbled in their besotted dreams, but none awakened as she glided among them. A sob of joy rose to her lips as she saw Conan. The Cimmerian was

wide awake, bound upright to a pillar, his eyes gleaming in the faint reflection of the waning fire outside.

P icking her way among the sleepers, she approached him. Lightly as she had come, he had heard her; had seen her when first framed in the portal. A faint grin touched his hard lips.

She reached him and clung to him an instant. He felt the quick beating of her heart against his breast. Through a broad crevice in the wall stole a beam of moon¬ light, and the air was instantly super¬ charged with subtle tension. Conan felt it and stiffened. Olivia felt it and gasped. The sleepers snored on. Bending quick¬ ly, she drew a dagger from its senseless owner’s belt, and set to work on Conan’s bonds. They were sail cords, thick and heavy, and tied with the craft of a sailor. She toiled desperately, while the tide of moonlight crept slowly across the floor toward the feet of the crouching black figures between the pillars.

Her breath came in gasps; Conan’s wrists were free, but his elbows and legs were still bound fast. She glanced fleetingly at the figures along the walls— waiting, waiting. They seemed to watch her with the awful patience of the un¬ dead. The drunkards beneath her feet began to stir and groan in their sleep. The moonlight crept down the hall, touching the black feet. The cords fell from Conan’s arms, and taking the dag¬ ger from her, he ripped the bonds from his legs with a single quick slash. He stepped out from the pillar, flexing his limbs, stoically enduring the agony of re¬ turning circulation. Olivia crouched against him, shaking like a leaf. Was it some trick of the moonlight that touched the eyes of the black figures with fire, so that they glimmered redly in the shad¬ ows?



Conan moved with the abruptness of a jungle cat. Catching up his sword from where it lay in a stack of weapons near by, he lifted Olivia lightly from her feet and glided through an opening that gaped in the ivy-grown wall.

No word passed between them. Lift¬ ing her in his arms he set off swiftly across the moon-bathed sward. Her arms about his iron neck, the Ophirean closed her eyes, cradling her dark curly head against his massive shoulder. A delicious sense of security stole over her.

In spite of his burden, the Cimmerian crossed the plateau swiftly, and Olivia, opening her eyes, saw that they were passing under the shadow of the cliffs.

"Something climbed the cliffs,” she whispered. "I heard it scrambling be¬ hind me as I came down.”

"We’ll have to chance it,” he grunted.

"I am not afraid—now,” she sighed.

"You were not afraid when you came to free me, either,” he answered. "Crom, what a day it has been! Such haggling and wrangling I never heard. I’m nearly deaf. Aratus wished to cut out my heart, and Ivanos refused, to spite Aratus, whom he hates. All day long they snarled and spat at one another, and the crew quickly grew too drunk to vote either way-”

He halted suddenly, an image of bronze in the moonlight. With a quick gesture he tossed the girl lightly to one side and behind him. Rising to her knees on the soft sward, she screamed at what she saw.

Out of the shadows of the cliffs moved a monstrous shambling bulk—an anthro¬ pomorphic horror, a grotesque travesty of creation.

I N GENERAL outline it was not unlike a man. But its face, limned in the bright moonlight, was bestial, with closeset ears, flaring nostrils, and a great flab¬

by-lipped mouth in which gleamed white tusk-like fangs. It was covered with shaggy grayish hair, shot with silver which shone in the moonlight, and its great misshapen paws hung nearly to the earth. Its bulk was tremendous; as it stood on its short bowed legs, its bullethead rose above that of the man who faced it; the sweep of the hairy breast and giant shoulders was breath-taking; the huge arms were like knotted trees.

The moonlight scene swam, to Olivia’s sight. This, then, was the end of the trail—for what human being could with¬ stand the fury of that hairy mountain of thews and ferocity? Yet as she stared in wide-eyed horror at the bronzed fig¬ ure facing the monster, she sensed a kin¬ ship in the antagonists that was almost appalling. This was less a struggle be¬ tween man and beast than a conflict between two creatures of the wild, equal¬ ly merciless and ferocious. With a flash of white tusks, the monster charged.

The mighty arms spread wide as the beast plunged, stupefyingly quick for all his vast bulk and stunted legs.

Conan’s action was a blur of speed Olivia’s eye could not follow. She only saw that he evaded that deadly grasp, and his sword, flashing like a jet of white lightning, sheared through one of those massive arms between shoulder and el¬ bow. A great spout of blood deluged the sward as the severed member fell, twitch¬ ing horribly, but even as the sword bit through, the other malformed hand locked in Conan’s black mane.

Only the iron neck-muscles of the Cim¬ merian saved him from a broken neck at that instant. His left hand darted out to clamp on the beast’s squat throat, his left knee was jammed hard against the brute’s hairy belly. Then began a terrific strug¬ gle, which lasted only seconds, but which seemed like ages to the paralyzed girl.

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


The ape maintained his grasp in Co¬ nan’s hair, dragging him toward the tusks that glistened in the moonlight. The Cimmerian resisted this effort, with his left arm rigid as iron, while the sword in his right hand, wielded like a butcher-knife, sank again and again into the groin, breast and belly of his captor. The beast took its punishment in awful silence, apparently unweakened by the blood that gushed from its ghastly wounds. Swiftly the terrible strength of the anthropoid overcame the leverage of braced arm and knee. Inexorably Co¬ nan’s arm bent under the strain; nearer and nearer he was drawn to the slavering jaws that gaped for his life. Now the blazing eyes of the barbarian glared into the bloodshot eyes of the ape. But as Conan tugged vainly at his sword, wedged deep in the hairy body, the froth¬ ing jaws snapped spasmodically shut, an inch from the Cimmerian’s face, and he was hurled to the sward by the dying convulsions of the monster.

Olivia, half fainting, saw the ape heav¬ ing, thrashing and writfling, gripping, man-like, the hilt that jutted from its body. A sickening instant of this, then the great bulk quivered and lay still.

Conan rose and limped over to the corpse. The Cimmerian breathed heav¬ ily, and walked like a man whose joints and muscles have been wrenched and twisted almost to their limit of endur¬ ance. He felt his bloody scalp and swore at the sight of the long black red-stained strands still grasped in the monster’s shaggy hand.

"Crom!” he panted. "I feel as if I’d been racked! I’d rather fight a dozen men. Another instant and he’d have bitten off my head. Blast him, he’s torn a handful of my hair out by the roots.”

Gripping his hilt with both hands he tugged and worked it free. Olivia stole

close to clasp his arm and stare down wide-eyed at the sprawling monster.

"What—what is it?” she whispered.

"A gray man-ape,” he grunted. "Dumb, and man-eating. They dwell in the hills that border the eastern shore of this sea. How this one got to this island, I can’t say. Maybe he floated here on driftwood, blown out from the mainland in a storm.”

"And it was he that threw the stone?”

"Yes; I suspected what it was when we stood in the thicket and I saw the boughs bending over our heads. These creatures always lurk in the deepest woods they can find, and seldom emerge. What brought him into the open, I can’t say, but it was lucky for us; I’d have had no chance with him among the trees.”

"It followed me,” she shivered. "I saw it climbing the cliffs.”

"And following his instinct, he lurked in the shadow of the cliff, instead of following you out across the plateau. His kind are creatures of darkness and the silent places, haters of the sun and moon.”

"Do you suppose there are others?”

"No, else the pirates had been attacked when they went through the woods. The gray ape is wary, for all his strength, as shown by his hesitancy in falling upon us in the thicket. His lust for you must have been great, to have driven him to attack us finally in the open. What-”

He started and wheeled back toward the way they had come. The night had been split by an awful scream. It came from the ruins.

Instantly there followed a mad medley of yells, shrieks, and cries of blasphem¬ ous agony. Though accompanied by a ringing of steel, the sounds were of mas¬ sacre rather than battle.

Conan stood frozen, the girl clinging to him in a frenzy of terror. The clamor



rose to a crescendo of madness, and then the Cimmerian turned and went swiftly toward the rim of the plateau, with its fringe of moon-limned trees. Olivia’s legs were trembling so that she could not walk; so he carried her, and her heart calmed its frantic pounding as she nes¬ tled into his cradling arms.

They passed under the shadowy forest, but the clusters of blackness held no ter¬ rors, the rifts of silver discovered no grisly shape. Night-birds murmured slumberously. The yells of slaughter dwindled behind them, masked in the distance to a confused jumble of sound. Somewhere a parrot called, like an eery echo: "Yagkoolan yok tha, xuthalla!” So they came to the tree-fringed water’s edge and saw the galley lying at anchor, her sail shining white in the moonlight. Already the stars were paling for dawn.


Tn the ghastly whiteness of dawn a handful of tattered, blood-stained fig¬ ures staggered through the trees and out on to the narrow beach. There were forty-four of them, and they were a cowed and demoralized band. With panting haste they plunged into the water and began to wade toward the galley, when a stern challenge brought them up standing.

Etched against the whitening sky they saw Conan the Cimmerian standing in the bows, sword in hand, his black mane tossing in the dawn wind.

"Stand!” he ordered. "Come no near¬ er. What would you have, dogs?”

"Let us come aboard!” croaked a hairy rogue, fingering a bloody stump of ear. "We'd be gone from this devil’s island.”

"The first man who tries to climb over the side, I’ll split his skull,” promised Conan.

They were forty-four to one, but he

held the whip-hand. The fight had been hammered out of them.

"Let us come aboard, good Conan,” whined a red-sashed Zamorian, glancing fearfully over his shoulder at the silent woods. "We have been so mauled, bit¬ ten, scratched, and rended, and are so weary from fighting and running, that not one of us can lift a sword.”

"Where is that dog Aratus?” demand¬ ed Conan.

"Dead, with the others! It was devils fell upon us! They were rending us to pieces before we could awake—a dozen good rovers died in their sleep. The ruins were full of flame-eyed shadows, with tearing fangs and sharp talons.”

"Aye!” put in another corsair. "They were the demons of the isle, which took the forms of molten images, to befool us. Ishtar! we lay down to sleep among them. We are no cowards. We fought them as long as mortal man may strive against the powers of darkness. Then we broke away and left them tearing at the corpses like jackals. But surely they’ll pursue us.”

"Aye, let us come aboard!” clamored a lean Shemite. "Let us come in peace, or we must come sword in hand, and though we be so weary you will doubtless slay many of us, yet you can not prevail against us many.”

"Then I’ll knock a hole in the planks and sink her,” answered Conan grimly. A frantic chorus of expostulation rose, which Conan silenced with a lion-like roar.

"Dogs! Must I aid my enemies? Shall I let you come aboard and cut out my heart?”

"Nay, nay!” they cried eagerly. "Friends—friends, Conan. We are thy comrades, lad! We be all lusty rogues together. We hate the king of Turan, not each other.”

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT


Their gaze hung on his brown frown¬ ing face.

"Then if I am one of the Brother¬ hood,” he grunted, "the laws of the Trade apply to me; and since I killed your chief in fair fight, then I am your captain!”

There was no dissent. The pirates were too cowed and battered to have any thought except a desire to get away from that island of fear. Conan’s gaze sought out the blood-stained figure of the Cor¬ inthian.

"How, Ivanos!” he challenged. "You took my part, once. Will you uphold my claims again?”

"Aye, by Mitra!” The pirate, sensing the trend of feeling, was eager to ingra¬ tiate himself with the Cimmerian. "He is right, lads; he is our lawful captain!”

A medley of acquiescence rose, lacking enthusiasm perhaps, but with sincerity accentuated by the feel of the silent woods behind them which might mask creeping ebony devils with red eyes and dripping talons.

"Swear by the hilt,” Conan demanded.

Forty-four sword-hilts were lifted toward him, and forty-four voices blend¬ ed in the corsair’s oath of allegiance.

Conan grinned and sheathed his sword. "Come aboard, my bold swashbucklers, and take the oars.”

He turned and lifted Olivia to her feet, from where she had crouched shield¬ ed by the gunwales.

"And what of me, sir?” she asked.

"What would you?” he countered, watching her narrowly.

"To go with you, wherever your path may lie!” she cried, throwing her white arms about his bronzed neck.

The pirates, clambering over the rail, gasped in amazement.

"To sail a road of blood and slaugh¬ ter?” he questioned. "This keel will stain the blue waves crimson wherever it plows.”

"Aye, to sail with you on blue seas or red,” she answered passionately. "You are a barbarian, and I am an outcast, de¬ nied by my people. We are both pariahs, wanderers of the earth. Oh, take me with you!”

With a gusty laugh he lifted her to his

[THE END]

============================================================
THE DEATH OF MALYGRIS
by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
fierce lips.

"I’ll make you Queen of the Blue Sea! Cast off there, dogs! We’ll scorch King Yildiz’s pantaloons yet, by Crom!”

eath of Malygris

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

Even in death, the mighty wizard proved himself greater than his peers—a story of weird sorcery

AT THE hour of interlunar midnight, when lamps burned rarely and far apart in Susran, and slow-moving autumn clouds had muffled the stars, King Gadeiron sent forth into the sleeping city twelve of his trustiest mutes. Like shad¬ ows gliding through oblivion, they van¬ ished upon their various ways; and each of them, returning presently to the dark¬ ened palace, led with him a shrouded fig¬ ure no less discreet and silent than him¬ self.

In this manner, groping along tortuous alleys, through blind cypress-caverns in the royal gardens, and down subterranean halls and steps, twelve of the most power¬ ful sorcerers of Susran were brought together in a vault of oozing, death-gray granite, far beneath the foundations of the palace.

The entrance of the vault was guarded by earth-demons that obeyed the arch¬ sorcerer, Maranapion, who had long been the king’s councillor. These demons would have torn limb from limb any who came unprepared to offer them a libation of fresh blood. The vault was lit dubious¬ ly by a single lamp, hollowed from a monstrous garnet, and fed with vipers’ oil. Here Gadeiron, crownless, and wear¬ ing sackcloth dyed in sober purple, await¬ ed the wizards on a seat of limestone wrought in the form of a sarcophagus. Maranapion stood at his right hand, im¬ mobile, and swathed to the mouth in the garments of the tomb. Before him was a tripod of orichalchum, rearing shoulderhigh; and on the tripod, in a silver socket,

there reposed the enormous blue eye of a slain Cyclops, wherein the archimage was said to behold weird visions. On this eye, gleaming balefully under the garnet lamp, the gaze of Maranapion was fixed with death-like rigidity.

From these circumstances, the twelve sorcerers knew that the king had con¬ vened them only because of a matter supremely grave and secret. The hour and fashion of their summoning, the place of meeting, the terrible elemental guards, the mufti worn by Gadeiron—all were proof of a need for preternatural stealth and privity.

For awhile there was silence in the vault, and the twelve, bowing deferen¬ tially, waited the will of Gadeiron. Then, in a voice that was little more than a harsh whisper, the king spoke:

"What know ye of Malygris?”

Hearing that awful name, the sorcerers paled and trembled visibly; but, one by one, as if speaking by rote, several of the foremost made answer to Gadeiron’s question.

"Malygris dwells in his black tower above Susran,” said the first. "The night of his power is still heavy upon Poseidonis; and we others, moving in that night, are as shadows of a withered moon. He is overlord of all kings and sorcerers. Yea, even the triremes that fare to Tartessos, and the far-flown eagles of the sea, pass not beyond the black falling of his shadow.”

"The demons of the five elements are his familiars,” said the second. "The

THE DEATH OF MALYGRIS


gross eyes of common men have beheld them often, flying like birds about his tower, or crawling lizard-wise on the walls and pavements.”

"Malygris sits in his high hall,” avowed the third. "Unto him, tribute is borne at the full moon from all the cities of Poseidonis. He takes a tithe of the lad¬ ing of every galley. He claims a share of the silver and incense, of the gold and ivory sacred to the temples. His wealth is beyond the opulence of the sunken kings of Atlantis . . . even those kings who were thy forefathers, O Gadeiron.”

"Malygris is old as the moon,” mum¬ bled a fourth. "He will live for ever, armed against death with the dark magic of the moon. Death has become a slave in his citadel, toiling among other slaves, and striking only at the foes of Malygris.”

"Much of this was true formerly,” quoth the king, with a sinister hissing of his breath. "But now a certain doubt has arisen ... for it may be that Malygris is dead.”

A communicated shiver seemed to run about the assembly.

"Nay,” said the sorcerer who had affirmed the immortality of Malygris. "For how can this thing have come to pass? The doors of his tower stood open today at sunset; and the priests of the ocean-god, bearing a gift of pearls and purple dyes, went in before Malygris, and found him sitting in his tall chair of the ivory of mastodons. He received them haughtily, without speaking, as is his wont; and his servants, who are half ape and half man, came in unbidden to carry away the tribute.”



"This very night,” said another, "I saw the stedfast lamps of the sable tower, burning above the city like the eyes of Taaran, god of Evil. The familiars have departed not from the tower as such beings depart at the dying of a wizard: for in that case, men would have heard their howling and lamentation in the dark.”

"Aye,” declared Gadeiron, "men have been befooled ere this. And Malygris was ever the master of illuding shows, of feints and beguilements. But there is one among us who discerns the truth. Maranapion, through the eye of the Cyclops, has looked on remote things and hidden places. Even now, he peers upon his ancient enemy, Malygris.”

M aranapion, shuddering a little beneath his shroud-like garments, seemed to return from his clairvoyant absorption. He raised from the tripod his eyes of luminous amber, whose pupils were black and impenetrable as jet.

"I have seen Malygris,” he said, turn¬ ing to the conclave. "Many times I have watched him thus, thinking to learn some secret of his close-hidden magic. I have spied upon him at noon, at evenfall, and through the drear, lampless vigils of mid¬ night. And I have beheld him in the ashen dawn and the dawn of quickening fire. But always he sits in the great ivory chair, in the high hall of his tower, frowning as if with meditation. And his hands clutch always the basilisk-carven arms of the chair, and his eyes turn ever¬ more, unshutting, unblinking, toward the orient window and the heavens beyond, where only high-risen stars and clouds go by.

"Thus have I beheld him for the space of a whole year and a month. And each day I have seen his monsters bring before him vessels filled with rare meat and

drink; and later they have taken away the vessels untouched. And never have I dis¬ cerned the least movement of his lips, nor any turning or tremor of his body.

"For these reasons, I deem that Maly¬ gris is dead; but by virtue of his suprem¬ acy in evil and in art magical, he sits defy¬ ing the worm, still undecayed and incor¬ rupt. And his monsters and his familiar attend him still, deceived by the lying ap¬ pearance of life; and his power, though now an empty fraud, is still dark and awful upon Poseidonis.”

Again, following the slow-measured words of Maranapion, there was silence in the vault. A dark, furtive triumph smol¬ dered in the face of Gadeiron, on whom the yoke of Malygris had lain heavily, irk¬ ing his pride. Among the twelve sorcer¬ ers, there was none who wished well to Malygris, nor any who did not fear him; and they received the annunciation of his demise with dreadful, half-incredulous joy. Some there were who doubted, hold¬ ing that Maranapion was mistaken; and in the faces of all, as in somber mirrors, their awe of the master was still reflected.

Maranapion, who had hated Malygris above all others, as the one warlock whose art and power excelled his own, stood aloof and inscrutable like a poising vul¬ ture.

It was King Gadeiron who broke the gravid silence.

"Not idly have I called ye to this crypt, O sorcerers of Susran: for a work remains to be done. Verily, shall the corpse of a dead necromancer tyrannize over us all? There is mystery here, and a need to move cautiously, for the duration of his necromancy is yet unverified and untested. But I have called ye together in order that the hardiest among ye may take coun¬ cil with Maranapion, and aid him in de¬ vising such wizardry as will now expose the fraud of Malygris, and evince his morTHE DEATH OF MALYGRIS


tality to all men, as well as to the fiends that follow him still, and the ministering monsters.”

A babble of disputation rose, and they who were most doubtful of this matter, and feared to work against Malygris in any fashion, begged Gadeiron’s leave to withdraw. In the end, there remained seven of the twelve. ...

Swiftly, by dim and covert channels, on the day that followed, the death of Maly¬ gris was bruited throughout the isle Poseidonis. Many disbelieved the story, for the might of the wizard was a thing seared as with hot iron on the souls of them that had witnessed his thaumaturgies. However, it was recalled that during the past year few had beheld him face to face; and always he had seemed to ignore them, speaking not, and staring fixedly through the tower window, as if intent on far things that were veiled to others. Dur¬ ing that time, he had called no man to his presence, and had sent forth no message, no oracle or decree; and they who had gone before him were mainly bearers of tribute and had followed a long-estab¬ lished custom.

When these matters became generally known, there were some who maintained that he sat thus in a long swoon of ecstasy or catalepsy, and would awaken therefrom in time. Others, however, held that he had died, and was able to preserve the deceitful aspect of life through a spell that endured after him. No man dared to enter the tall, sable tower; and still the shadow of the tower fell athwart Susran like the shadow of an evil gnomon moving on some disastrous dial; and still the umbrage of the power of Malygris lay stagnant as the tomb’s night on the minds of men.

N ow, among the five sorcerers who had begged Gadeiron’s leave to de¬ part, fearing to join their fellows in the

making of wizardry against Malygris, there were two that plucked heart a little afterward, when they heard from other sources a confirmation of the vision beheld by Maranapion through the Cyclops’ eye.

These two were brothers, named Nygon and Fustules. Feeling a certain shame for their timidity, and desiring to rehabilitate themselves in the regard of the others, they conceived an audacious plan.

When night had again fallen upon the city, bringing no moon, but only obscure stars and the scud of sea-born clouds, Nygon and Fustules went forth through the darkened ways and came to the steep hill at the heart of Susran, whereon, in half-immemorial years, Malygris had es¬ tablished his grim citadel.

The hill was wooded with close-grown cypresses, whose foliage, even to the full sun, was black and somber as if tarnished by wizard fumes. Crouching on either hand, they leaned like misshapen spirits of the night above the stairs of adamant that gave access to the tower. Nygon and Fustules, mounting the stairs, cowered and trembled when the boughs swung menacingly toward them in violent gusts of wind. They felt the dripping of heavy sea-dews, blown in their faces like a spittle of demons. The wood, it seemed, was full of execrably sighing voices, and weird whimpers and little moanings as of imp-children astray from Satanic dams.

The lights of the tower burned through the waving boughs, and seemed to recede unapproachably as they climbed. More than once, the two regretted their temer¬ ity. But at length, without suffering palp¬ able harm or hindrance, they neared the portals, which stood eternally open, pour¬ ing the effulgence of still, unflaring lamps on the windy darkness.

Though the plan they had conceived was nefarious, they deemed it best to



enter boldly. The purpose of their visit, if any should challenge or interrogate them, was the asking of an oracle from Malygris, who was famed throughout the isle as the most infallible of soothsayers.

Freshening momently from the sea beyond Susran, the wind clamored about the tower like an army of devils in flight from deep to deep, and the long mantles of the sorcerers were blown in their faces. But, entering the wide portals, they heard no longer the crying of the gale, and felt no more its pursuing rudeness. At a single step they passed into mausolean silence. Around them the lamplight fell unshaken on caryatids of black marble, on mosaics of precious gems, on fabulous metals and many-storied tapestries; and a tideless perfume weighed upon the air like a balsam of death.

They felt an involuntary awe, deeming the mortal stillness a thing that was hard¬ ly natural. But, seeing that the tower vestibule was unguarded by any of the creatures of Malygris, they were embold¬ ened to go on and climb the marmorean stairs to the apartments above.

Everywhere, by the light of opulent lamps, they beheld inestimable and mirac¬ ulous treasures. There were tables of ebony wrought with sorcerous runes of pearl and white coral; webs of silver and samite, cunningly pictured; caskets of electrum overflowing with talismanic jewels; tiny gods of jade and agate; and tall chryselephantine demons. Here was the loot of ages, lying heaped and min¬ gled in utter negligence, without lock or ward, as if free for the taking of any casual thief.

Eyeing the riches about them with covetous wonder, the two sorcerers mount¬ ed slowly from room to room, unchal¬ lenged and unmolested, and came ulti¬ mately to that upper hall in which Maly¬ gris was wont to receive his visitors.

Here, as elsewhere, the portals stood open before them, and lamps burned as if in a trance of light. The lust of plunder was hot in their hearts. Made bolder still by the seeming desolation, and thinking now that the tower was uninhabited by any but the dead magician, they went in with little hesitancy.

Like the rooms below, the chamber was full of precious artifacts; and ironbound volumes and brazen books of oc¬ cult, tremendous necromancy, together with golden and earthen censers, and vials of unshatterable crystal, were strewn in weird confusion about the mosaic floor. At the very center there sat the old archimage in his chair of primeval ivory, peering with stark, immovable eyes at the night-black window.

Nygon and Fustules felt their awe re¬ turn upon them, remembering too clearly now the thrice-baleful mastery that this man had wielded, and the demon lore he had known, and the spells he had wrought that were irrefragable by other wizards. The specters of these things rose up before them as if by a final necro¬ mancy. With down-dropped eyes and humble mien, they went forward, bowing reverentially. Then, speaking aloud, in accordance with their predetermined plan, Fustules requested an oracle of their for¬ tunes from Malygris.

T here was no answer, and lifting their eyes, the brothers were greatly reassured by the aspect of the seated ancient. Death alone could have set the grayish pallor on the brow, could have locked the lips in a rigor as of fast-frozen clay. The eyes were like cavern-shadowed ice, holding no other light than a vague reflection of the lamps. Under the beard that was half silver, half sable, the cheeks had already fallen in as with beginning decay, showing the harsh outlines of the

THE DEATH OF MALYGRIS


skull. The gray and hideously shrunken hands, whereon the eyes of enchanted beryls and rubies burned, were clenched inflexibly on the chair-arms, which had the form of arching basilisks.

"Verily,” murmured Nygon, "there is naught here to frighten or dismay us. Behold, it is only the lich of an old man after all, and one that has cheated the worm of his due provender overlong.”

"Aye,” said Fustules. "But this man, in his time, was the greatest of all necro¬ mancers. Even the ring on his little fin¬ ger is a sovereign talisman. The balasruby of the thumb-ring of his right hand will conjure demons from out the deep. In the volumes that lie about the cham¬ ber, there are secrets of perished gods and the mysteries of planets immemorial. In the vials, there are sirups that give strange visions, and philtres that can revive the dead. Among these things, it is ours to choose freely.”

Nygon, eyeing the gems greedily, se¬ lected a ring that encircled the right fore¬ finger with the sixfold coils of a serpent of orichalchum, bearing in its mouth a beryl shaped like a griffin’s egg. Vainly, however, he tried to loosen the finger from its rigid clutch on the chair-arm, to permit the removal of the ring. Mutter¬ ing impatiently, he drew a knife from his girdle and prepared to hew away the fin¬ ger. In the meanwhile, Fustules had drawn his own knife as a preliminary before approaching the other hand.

"Is thy heart firm within thee, brother?” he inquired in a sort of sibilant whisper. "If so, there is even more to be gained than these talismanic rings. It is well known that a wizard who attains to such supremacy as Malygris, undergoes by vir¬ tue thereof a complete bodily transforma¬ tion, turning his flesh into elements more subtle than those of common flesh. And whoso eats of his flesh even so much as a

tiny morsel, will share thereafter in the powers owned by the wizard.”

Nygon nodded as he bent above the chosen finger. "This, too, was in my thought,” he answered.

Before he or Fustules could begin their ghoulish attack, they were startled by a venomous hissing that appeared to em¬ anate from the bosom of Malygris. They drew back in amazement and consterna¬ tion, while a small coral viper slid from behind the necromancer’s beard, and glided swiftly over his knees to the floor like a sinuous rill of scarlet. There, coil¬ ing as if to strike, it regarded the thieves with eyes that were cold and malignant as drops of frozen poison.

"By the black horns of Taaran!” cried Fustules. "It is one of Malygris’ famil¬ iars. I have heard of this viper-”

Turning, the two would have fled from the room. But, even as they turned, the walls and portals seemed to recede before them, fleeing giddily and interminably, as if unknown gulfs had been admitted to the chamber. A vertigo seized them; reeling, they saw the little segments of mosaic under their feet assume the pro¬ portions of mighty flags. Around them the strewn books and censers and vials loomed enormous, rearing above their heads and barring their way as they ran.

Nygon, looking over his shoulder, saw that the viper had turned to a vast py¬ thon, whose crimson coils were undulat¬ ing swiftly along the floor. In a colossal chair, beneath lamps that were large as suns, there sat the colossal form of the dead archimage, in whose presence Ny¬ gon and Fustules were no more than pigmies. The lips of Malygris were still immobile beneath his beard; and his eyes still glared implacably upon the blackness of the far window. But at that instant a voice filled the awful spaces of the

49 4


room, reverberating like thunder in the heavens, hollow and tremendous:

"Fools! ye have dared to ask me for an oracle. And the oracle is—death!”

Nygon and Fustules, knowing their doom, fled on in a madness of terror and desperation. Beyond the towering thu¬ ribles, the tomes that were piled like pyra¬ mids, they saw the threshold in intermit¬ tent glimpses, like a remote horizon. It withdrew before them, dim and unattain¬ able. They panted as runners pant in a dream. Behind them, the vermilion python crawled; and overtaking them as they tried to round the brazen back of a wizard volume, it struck them down like fleeing dormice. . . .

In the end, there was only a small coral viper, that crept back to its hiding-place in the bosom of Malygris. . . .

T oiling by day and night, in the vaults under the palace of Gadeiron, with impious charms and unholy conju¬ rations, and fouler chemistries, Maranapion and his seven coadjutors had nearly completed the making of their sorcery.

They designed an invultuation against Malygris that would break the power of the dead necromancer by rendering evident to all the mere fact of his death. Employing an unlawful Atlantean sci¬ ence, Maranapion had created living plasm with all the attributes of human flesh, and had caused it to grow and flourish, fed with blood. Then he and his assistants, uniting their wills and con¬ voking the forces that were blasphemy to summon, had compelled the shapeless, palpitating mass to put forth the limbs and members of a new-born child; and had formed it ultimately, after all the changes that man would undergo be¬ tween birth and senescence, into an image of Malygris.

Now, carrying the process even fur¬

ther, they had caused the simulacrum to die of extreme age, as Malygris had ap¬ parently died. It sat before them in a chair, facing toward the east, and dupli¬ cating the very posture of the magician on his seat of ivory.

Nothing remained to be done. For¬ spent and weary, but hopeful, the sor¬ cerers waited for the first signs of mortal decay in the image. If the spells they had woven were successful, a simulta¬ neous decay would occur in the body of Malygris, incorruptible heretofore. Inch by inch, member by member, he would rot in the adamantine tower. His famil¬ iars would desert him, no longer de¬ ceived; and all who came to the tower would know his mortality; and the tyr¬ anny of Malygris would lift from Susran, and his necromancy be null and void as a broken pentade in sea-girt Poseidonis.

For the first time since the beginning of their invultuation, the eight magicians were free to intermit their vigilance with¬ out peril of invalidating the charm. They slept soundly, feeling that their repose was well earned. On the morrow they returned, accompanied by King Gadei¬ ron, to the vault in which they had left the plasmic image.

Opening the sealed door, they were met by a charnel odor, and were gratified to perceive in the figure the unmistakable signs of decomposition. A little later, by consulting the Cyclops' eye, Maranapion verified the paralleling of these marks in the features of Malygris.

A great jubilation, not unmingled with relief, was felt by the sorcerers and by King Gadeiron. Heretofore, not know¬ ing the extent and duration of the pow¬ ers wielded by the dead master, they had been doubtful of the efficacy of their own magic. But now, it seemed, there was no longer any reason for doubt.

THE DEATH OF MALYGRIS


On that very day it happened that cer¬ tain seafaring merchants went before Malygris to pay him, according to cus¬ tom, a share of the profits of their latest voyage. Even as they bowed in the pres¬ ence of the master, they became aware, by sundry disagreeable tokens, that they had borne tribute to a corpse. Not dar¬ ing even then to refuse the long-exacted toll, they flung it down and fled from the place in terror.

Soon, in all Susran, there was none who doubted any longer the death of Malygris. And yet, such was the awe he had wrought through many lustrums, that few were venturous enough to in¬ vade the tower; and thieves were wary, and would not try to despoil its fabled treasures.

Day by day, in the blue, monstrous eye of the Cyclops, Maranapion saw the rot¬ ting of his dreaded rival. And upon him presently there came a strong desire to visit the tower and behold face to face that which he had witnessed only in vi¬ sion. Thus alone would his triumph be complete.

So it was that he and the sorcerers who had aided him, together with King Gadeiron, went up to the sable tower by the steps of adamant, and climbed by the marble stairs, even as Nygon and Fustules before them, to the high room in which Malygris was seated. . . . But the doom of Nygon and Fustules, being without other witness than the dead, was wholly unknown to them.

B oldly and with no hesitation they entered the chamber. Slanting through the western window, the sun of late afternoon fell goldenly on the dust that had gathered everywhere. Spiders had woven their webs on the bright-jew¬ elled censers, on the graven lamps, and the metal-covered volumes of sorcery.

The air was stagnant with a stifling foul¬ ness of death.

The intruders went forward, feeling that impulse which leads the victors to exult over a vanquished enemy. Maly¬ gris sat unbowed and upright, his black and tattered fingers clutching the ivory chair-arms as of yore, and his empty orbits glowering still at the eastern win¬ dow. His face was little more than a bearded skull; and his blackening brow was like worm-pierced ebony.

"O Malygris, I give thee greeting,” said Maranapion in a loud voice of mock¬ ery. "Grant, I beseech thee, a sign, if thy wizardry still prevails, and hath not become the appanage of oblivion.”

"Greeting, O Maranapion,” replied a grave and terrible voice that issued from the maggot-eaten lips. “Indeed, I will grant thee a sign. Even as I, in death, have rotted upon my seat from that foul sorcery which was wrought in the vaults of King Gadeiron, so thou and thy fel¬ lows and Gadeiron, living, shall decay and putrefy wholly in an hour, by virtue of the curse that I put upon ye now.”

Then the shrunken corpse of Maly¬ gris, fulminating the runes of an old Atlantean formula, cursed the eight sor¬ cerers and King Gadeiron. The formula, at frequent intervals, was cadenced with fatal names of lethal gods; and in it were told the secret appellations of the black god of time, and the Nothingness that abides beyond time; and use was made of the titles of many tomb-lairing demons. Heavy and hollow-sounding were the runes, and in them one seemed to hear a noise of great blows on sepulchral doors, and a clangor of downfallen slabs. The air darkened as if with the hovering of seasonless night, and thereupon, like a breathing of the night, a chillness entered the chamber; and it seemed that the black wings of ages passed over the tower, beat496


ing prodigiously from void to void, ere the curse was done.

Hearing that maranatha, the sorcerers were dumb with the extremity of their dread; and even Maranapion could recall no counter-spell effectual in any degree against it.

All would have fled from the room ere the curse ended, but a mortal weakness was upon them, and they felt a sickness as of quick-coming death. Shadows were woven athwart their eyes; but through the shadows, each beheld dimly the instant blackening of the faces of his fellows, and saw the cheeks fall ruinous¬ ly, and the lips curl back on the teeth like those of long-dead cadavers.

Trying to run, each was aware of his own limbs that rotted beneath him, pace by pace, and felt the quick sloughing of his flesh in corruption from the bone. Crying out with tongues that shrivelled ere the cry was done, they fell down on the floor of the chamber. Life lingered in them, together with the dire knowl¬ edge of their doom, and they preserved something of hearing and sight. In the

dark agony of their live corruption, they tossed feebly to and fro, and crawled inchmeal on the chill mosaic. And they still moved in this fashion, slowly and more imperceptibly, till their brains were turned to gray mold, and the sinews were parted from their bones, and the marrow was dried up.

Thus, in an hour, the curse was accom¬ plished. The enemies of the necroman¬ cer lay before him, supine and shrunken, in the tomb’s final posture, as if doing obeisance to a seated Death. Except for the garments, none could have told King Gadeiron from Maranapion, nor Marana¬ pion from the lesser wizards.

The day went by, declining seaward; and, burning like a royal pyre beyond Susran, the sunset flung an aureate glare through the window, and then dropped away in red brands and funereal ashes. And in the twilight a coral viper glided

[THE END]

============================================================
BEHIND THE SCREEN
by Dale Clark
============================================================
from the bosom of Malygris, and weav¬ ing among the remnants of them that lay on the floor, and slipping silently down the stairs of marble, it passed for ever from the tower.

the Screen

By DALE CLARK

The doomed man experienced a terrible awakening in that curious shop in Chinatown

S IGHT of the police officer at the cor¬ ner roused Catlin from his deliri¬ ous frenzy like a spray of cold water. He stopped short; he gasped, almost expelling the cigarette from his mouth. The lifting red haze of anger and dismay left him sober and shivering,

and a little stunned. He stared stupidly up the dingy Chinatown street into which the first rays of the morning were steal¬ ing. He had run many blocks, perhaps miles, to reach the heart of this dismal and unsavory quarter. But why? He could not say. Somnambulistic fumes W. T.—6

BEHIND THE SCREEN


clouded his mind; he could remember only plunging on madly and blindly without having noticed either his direc¬ tion or the breaking of day overhead. It was as if some invisible power had guided his flight. Aroused now, Catlin found his situation inexpressibly terrify¬ ing. And after a glance at the slit trouser leg, where the recently shaved flesh showed a bald and chalky white, he shrank into the doorway under the sign of Lung Wei.

To Catlin’s surprize, the latch yielded under his fumbling hand. Inside, he stood stock-still, puffing hard at the cig¬ arette and staring warily about the shop. A melancholy light leaking through the small, dust-coated window quickly melted and died in the pervading murky gloom. But a faint and nebulous glow spread from an Oriental screen stretched across the rear of the long, narrow, low room. The screen was of some translucent and gauzy stuff; it had the color of silver, and shimmered with a rosy iridescence as minute ripples stirred the gossamer sur¬ face.

Behind the screen, a single candle burned with a wan and discouraged flame; its dim glimmer fell in crepuscular half-tones upon a robed figure slumbering in a cane chair. That, too, was behind the gauzy curtain.

Catlin wet his lips nervously. An un¬ easy sensation overpowered him: it was that he had been here before. But that, of course, could not be. His mind was playing tricks again. . . . Then he smiled harshly.

It was the odor he had recognized. There was in the shop a smell of dead incense, dry and musty and blended with the peculiar trail of opium. The musky taste in the air resembled that which he had often detected in his wife’s room— she was a narcotic addict.

W. T.—7

It was only the odor; it could be noth¬ ing more.

On tiptoe, without making a sound, he advanced into the shadows and inspected the squat show-cases and counters ranged along the low walls. He saw tiny figurines of wood and jade, vases and jars of por¬ celain, cabinets, sandals, and embroidered cloths. But there was nothing he could convert into money without much diffi¬ culty.

He glided toward the screen. (He had become marvelously adept in muffling his footfalls, these past few hours.)

Nevertheless, the figure in the chair behind the screen stirred, and looked around, and arose. He was Chinese, and very old. He came close to the diapha¬ nous gauze, smiling a strange and enig¬ matic smile.

"Ah, here you are!” he said. "At last!”

This Lung Wei wore a black skull-cap, and had gathered about his thin shoulders a stiff, richly brocaded crimson robe. Above the robe, his thin, wrinkled, clean¬ shaven face had in its expression the delicacy of ancient and yellowed lace. It was, in fact, an expression too delicate, too indefinable, for analysis; it v/as bland, inscrutable, and mystic as well.

Staring, Catlin forgot that he had been about to hurl himself through the screen. It struck him that there was something dimly familiar in that countenance; he might have glimpsed Lung Wei in a crowd once, or it might have been only in a dream.

"Yes,” he faltered, confused.

"I knew you’d come,” the Oriental said. He spoke without any accent, with the merest sibilant slurring of syllables. "You see, I have waited so patiently!”

Catlin reflected. Concealed as he stood in the shadows—and seen through the screen, too—he decided that the China¬ man had mistaken him for someone else.



"Well, here I am!” he parried gruffly. It could be no harm, this little game.

Lung Wei arched his eyebrows. "You are not afraid, young sir?” he asked softly.

Catlin puffed his cigarette. "No,” he said with a laugh. "Not at all. Of course not.”

"That is well.” The Oriental removed his hands from the sleeves of the robe, extending them in a curious gesture of— was it appeal? Or perhaps invitation. The outspread fingers looked quite as tenu¬ ous and pale as the gossamer screen itself. "You must believe this,” he said, "that I wantonly to help you.”

Catlin did not say anything, but his heart began to beat with a furious, grop¬ ing hope. Decidedly, this became inter¬ esting!

I ung wei regarded him steadily through J the shimmering curtain. "That is why I waited so long. I thought that I might be of some service to you.” The delicate, unknowable smile played upon his worn and yellowed face. "Do you find that hard to understand? You—you are so very young! That was what im¬ pressed me at the first—your so-blind youth. I wonder what you thought of me. Perhaps that I was so very old, eh? Or perhaps you did not think at all?”

The musing voice dripped away into placid silence. Catlin leaned watchfully against a show-case, filling his lungs with the cigarette smoke and letting it drift from his nostrils. He said nothing. There was nothing to say.

"You do not understand, do you?” the Oriental murmured.

Catlin watched the candle brighten, watched a ripple of ruby cross the screen. "No,” he said at last.

"But that is natural.” Lung Wei bobbed his head sagely. "It is confusing. One is not exactly prepared. And then.

you left in such haste. You have had no time to think.”

Cold perspiration cropped forth on Catlin’s face at these soft, sibilant words. Some divining sixth sense warned him of an inexplicable peril.

"No!” he exclaimed roughly. "I—that is, you—both of us—why, it’s all a mis¬ take! I’m not the man, whoever he is, you were waiting for; I came in to”—he hesitated—"to the wrong shop!”

But with his enigmatic and relentless smile, the old Chinaman said: "In that case, you had better go back. If you think I can help you when you have returned to the prison-”

With a strangled cry, Catlin started toward the screen. He raised his clenched fist.

"So you know!” he panted.

Then, and at the moment he was about to dash aside the shimmering veil, a dazzling light burst within his disordered mind; he stopped short, and the fist dropped numbly to his side.

"But then,” he faltered, "if you knew —what you said about helping me-?”

He peered at the face of Lung Wei, serene and bland behind the gauze.

"It’s a trick!” he said hoarsely. "A Chinese trick!”

Lung Wei laughed musically. It was not a laugh of amusement or of scorn; there was perhaps a note of pity in it.

"You do not understand, young sir,” the liquid voice said.

"No,” Catlin muttered.

He felt strangely dizzy. That was the sheen of the candlelight flickering on the glistening gossamer; that, and the smell of the dead incense crawling into his lungs and into his very blood.

He began to walk to and fro in front of the curtain. Presently he said slowly, "There is one solution. This man I killed —you knew him, is that it? He might

BEHIND THE SCREEN


have been your enemy. Let us say, he belonged to a rival Tong. That is why you offer me your help?”

He stared interrogatively at the veil. But the face of the Chinaman remained impassive, like a sheet of parchment wrinkled into indecipherable lines.

Catlin made an apologetic gesture, an opening and falling of his hands. "I do not expect you to commit yourself,” he said hurriedly. "It does not matter. The thing is, I must get away. I need money. Clothes.” He looked despairingly at the slit trouser leg. "I can’t go far, like this.”

"It is not that,” Lung Wei said. "You will have to tell me exactly what hap¬ pened. Otherwise—I am sorry. There would be nothing I could do.”

Catlin took a long pull at the cig¬ arette.

"I know what you mean,” he muttered. "You are afraid. You needn’t be. They can’t trace me here. No one has seen me since I escaped. No one at all.”

"We are talking at cross-purposes,” Lung Wei said. "If you will tell me exactly how it was—then, it may be, I can help.”

"I am at your mercy,” Catlin muttered. "I will try to remember. It is not very clear—there are things I can recall per¬ fectly, and other parts of it that are quite gone.”

Lung Wei made again that gesture of appeal—of sympathy, it might have been —with his hands outspread, the fingers like pale smoke, the palms dark shadows. "It is for your good, young sir.”

Catlin shivered. "The worst was when the priest put the oil, the peculiar oil, over my eyes. And on my fingers. That happened, you understand, in the cell. It was because I could not stand any more! I rolled the cigarette. And when I licked it, at the same time I dropped onto my tongue the wad of cigarette papers.”

He looked through the screen into the Oriental’s face.

"The pellet tasted bitter. In your coun¬ try, you know about that. You may have saturated paper, or a cloth with a drug? That is the way Blossom—my wife—. smuggled this stuff to me.”

He stood silent, thinking, watching the smoke drift upward from his lips into the dry, dead-scented air.

"I did not intend to kill that man,” he said at last. "I am a respectable man, a chemist. And I could not earn money enough for her—for Blossom—to buy that stuff. That was how she met Trent, Billy Trent, met him in one of those dens where they smoke it. They put their heads together and told me how I could get it for them. It was Trent’s gun I used. They waited outside in his automobile and I went in; they sent me in because the dealer would not know me. But I did not intend to kill him.”

H e resumed his pacing in front of the screen.

"The police were continually after me, continually asking me who had been in the car. They even promised to commute the sentence to life imprisonment if I’d tell where I got the gun. That was why Blossom brought me the cigarette papers —so at the last I wouldn’t lose my nerve and confess. Being doped, you see, I could go to the chair without any fear. I swallowed the wad, the whole pellet, all that she had brought me.

"I could feel it burning in my stomach. I wasn’t used to that sort of thing, and for a while I was afraid it wouldn’t take hold soon enough. The warden had come in. I tried to put him off, asking for a match to light the cigarette. He didn't have one. Perhaps he saw through me. I had been sitting on the edge of the bunk; I got up and went over to the



wash-stand to the candles, those candles the priest was burning.

"I remember he said something hor¬ rified. Then it happened. As I straight¬ ened up from the candles, with the first puff I became all at once sick. The dose must have been a big one. I staggered. I could feel and hear the bones in my head grinding and crunching upon them¬ selves. When I opened my eyes, I was lying on the floor. I sat up and looked around. The priest was kneeling there in front of his candles, praying. His robe made it look like he was kneeling in a pool of black water, the robe spilled around his knees. The warden was gone.”

Catlin flung back his head and laughed, filling the shop with the reverberations of his laughter.

"I suppose he had run to get the prison doctor, making sure I shouldn’t cheat the chair, after all!”

He lowered his voice.

"You won’t believe it,” he said, "but he had left the cell door open. I crept there, on my hands and knees, so as not to disturb the priest. And the corridor was empty. I closed my eyes and opened them again to make sure.

“So I went out. I walked down the corridor, and down the stair, and so into the prison yard. You understand, all this was in the dark, before sunrise. I waited there beside the death-house wall. After a while they opened the gate to let in a car—newspaper men coming to cover the execution—and I ran out through the open gate. No one saw me.”

He looked fixedly at the man behind the screen of gauze.

"It was as simple as that,” he said in¬ sistently. "It was as easy as coming in here, coming into your shop.”

"Of course,” said Lung Wei. "Pro¬ ceed.”

"I went straight home,” Catlin mut¬

tered. "I thought that the three of us— Blossom, and Trent, and I—could think of some safe place for me. I remember fancying how, afterward, we’d all laugh about the way that drug fooled the ward¬ en. I was quite happy about it.”

The Chinaman gave him a curious glance. "Did you walk?” he asked.

Catlin became confused. "I don’t know,” he stammered. "I can’t remember —the drug, you see—I suppose I took a street-car. It is quite a long way. I sup¬ pose that is what I did. I am perfectly sure no one noticed me, however it was.”

The Oriental said, "But it is important, young sir. Can’t you think?”

"I got there, anyway,” Catlin told him. "I rang the beil—rang it again and again. And Blossom didn’t answer. I waited there on the porch, smoking, and trying to think what to do next. And then a car—Trent’s car—stopped out in front, and those two came up onto the porch together.”

His voice trembled.

"They were in evening clothes. They had been to some club or other. On the night I was to die, you see, it had been that way with them. They had been danc¬ ing and drinking. I smelled the liquor on them when I went up and spoke to her.”

The eyes of the Oriental burned with a strange eagerness. "So, young sir-?”

"She did not even hear me!” Catlin declared. He avoided the gaze of Lung Wei, and continued wearily:

"They had eyes and ears only for each other. Without noticing me, they fell into each other’s arms.”

He began to laugh shakily. "Perhaps I should have killed them both! On the contrary, I was glad to escape. I was like an animal crawling away to lick its hurt in silence. Besides, would they have helped me? They would only have noti¬ fied the police!” Then he added, almost

BEHIND THE SCREEN


calmly, "But, as they did not see me, there is no danger from that source.”

“>T< hat is true,” said Lung Wei. He

-3- appeared to reflect; his pointed yel¬ low chin rested upon the gathered collar of the brocade robe, and his eyes were lowered.

"Your cigarette,” he said at last.

"What did you say?” Catlin asked.

He stared at the screen, which had grown suddenly brighter, with a myriad of little colored glints flashing upon its shining surface. The candle in the back¬ ground burned no better than before. . . . The gossamer seemed to quiver and glow with a luminous life of its own.

He looked down at the cigarette. The steady white wisp rose in a spiral from its end, from the little molten tip; and he had been smoking it for so long, for hours perhaps.

"Did I roll another?” he asked in be¬ wilderment. "I don’t remember that.”

"If you will observe its odor,” said the liquid Oriental voice of Lung Wei. "That is not a drug, young sir. I, who am used to such tilings, recognize the pres¬ ence of a poison-”

"Poison/” cried Catlin in a dry sob. "Then she—then that is why—but that would mean-”

The words stumbled and blurred into a groan as Catlin reeled back from the thought. He stared blankly into that shimmering veil of gauze. And now it blazed up in pitiless molten brilliance; it extended to titanic proportions; it became a scroll of fire. His confused eyes beheld incandescent suns wheeling in its argent depths. He cowered in a funnel of sear¬ ing light. His flesh seemed to shrivel in that glare, his breath clotted in his throat, and a fierce whining, crackling sound thrashed and gibbered about his ears. The suns rushed past him, the curtain en¬

folded him and drew him into a weird spaceland where the myriad lights receded to pin-points. This sudden darkness was more terrible than the intolerable light had been. With a cry of despair he plunged ahead, striking madly with both fists.

Then he realized that he was fighting the little gauze screen. The gossamer was cool, like a stream of water passing over his hands. It tore with a strange tinkling sound, a patter of distant bells.

It lay in a cloud of crumpled silver at his feet. The little jeweled particles in the fabric winked in the candle-light.

Catlin raised his eyes to the face of Lung Wei.

A chill seized him; the next moment, a fever came stinging through his veins. Without the screen to veil it, the face was-

"I remember you, now,” he said. "You are the man I killed.”

The Oriental smiled his enigmatic, mystic smile.

"That is so,” replied the imperturbable yellow man. "You understand, then. Are you ready?”

"Ready?” Catlin faltered.

"To go,” said Lung Wei.

Catlin nodded. Lung Wei blew out the candle, and walked out of the shop, and the younger man followed.

There was a long moment in which Lung Wei locked the door of his estab¬ lishment, and in which Catlin stood gaz¬ ing into the street. The sun was well up, now, and a thin trickle of traffic stirred upon the pavement. A milk-wagon clat¬ tered over the street-car rails. A fruit peddler went by, his legs scissoring between the shafts of his cart. Away off in the city a factory whistle blew.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE CANE
by Carl Jacobi
============================================================
Catlin touched the brocaded sleeve of Lung Wei.

"Which way?” he asked.

Uhe ft IJyane

By CARL JACOBI

What mad obsession was it that caused the eminently respectable Mr. Grenning suddenly to become a mur¬ derous pend, seeking the lives of a man and a woman he had never known?

"His right hand raised the cane it hung poised over his head"

M R. JAMES GRENNING, retired senior partner in the firm of Bay, Halstead & Grenning, Lin¬ coln’s Inn Fields, was a most punctual person. It was his custom to leave his residence in Bloomsbury each morning save Sunday, walk past High Kolborn, down Kingsway as far as Great Queen Street and return by way of Drury Lane. He left at precisely ten o’clock. At eleven he stopped in a small tobacconist’s shop to purchase a Rosa Trofero cigar. And

his steps were so regulated as to bring him back to his door just as the hands of the hallway clock pointed to the hour of noon.

During these morning promenades, which were undertaken with the advice of a physician, Mr. Grenning always carried a cane. He neither needed the wooden support nor cared for the traditional mod¬ ish effect it added to a masculine costume. He merely liked canes.

The odd part of it was, however, that

THE CANE


each day was carefully observed with a different stick. Monday, he carried a black Malacca. Tuesday, it was a thin shaft of rosewood. Wednesday, a heav¬ ier length of oak. Thursday, ebony. Fri¬ day, a strip of mahogany topped with an ivory handle. And Saturday, a delicately formed piece of walnut, very plain and very simple.

Apart from canes, Mr. Grenning was not in the slightest given to shows of temperament. And absurd though it may sound, his only reason for this one dis¬ crepancy was to remind him in his rather drab existence, of the exact day of the week.

It was on Thursday, a gray morning which had been preceded by a night of chilling rain, that Mr. Grenning left his residence as usual promptly at ten o’clock. At twelve o’clock the tobacconist was quite surprized that his regular customer had not appeared. And at one Mr. Grenning’s housekeeper stood astounded in the hallway when she observed by the vacant hat-tree that her lodger had not yet returned.

Obviously only an incident distinctly apart from the commonplace could have caused Mr. Grenning to interrupt his careful routine in such a manner. For no other reason would he have taken it upon himself to dash wildly down Clarges Street and enter without knocking the luxurious apartment of his old friend, Sir Hugh Stanway.

Sir Hugh sat slumped in a huge, over¬ stuffed chair and gazed with curious eyes at the ashen face of his unexpected vis¬ itor.

"Now, Grenning,” he said firmly but soothingly, "stop all this wild babbling and start from the beginning. I haven’t the slightest idea what you’re talking about.”

With shaking hands Mr. Grenning

helped himself to the decanter on the table, poured out a stiff portion of brandy and drank it at a swallow.

"Do you see anything wrong with this cane?” he asked tremulously, handing the stick across.

Sir Hugh reached for the smooth shaft, turned it over and over in his thin, graceful hands, balanced it on one knee and squinted down its wooden length to see if it were warped. Then he held it out before him, gripped at each end in the manner of a swordsman testing the strength of a blade.

I T was not an unusual cane. Fashioned of a heavy, grainless wood, topped with a small cap of gold, and weathered and battered from long use, it looked the typical walking-stick of an unassuming gentleman of the middle class. Sir Hugh handed it back to its owner and raised his eyes inquiringly.

"It isn’t one of the six you usually carry,” he said. "Other than that, I see nothing wrong with it. Why?”

"Stanway,” said Mr. Grenning, swal¬ lowing hard, "that cane is haunted! Haunted, I say! And if I don’t get rid of it, I’ll go mad. I’d have broken it into kindling hours ago if something, some inner force, hadn’t prevented me.”

"Ghosts?” asked Sir Hugh dryly, a suggestion of a smile at his lips.

"I’ve had it only since yesterday,” con¬ tinued Grenning, unmindful of the inter¬ ruption. "Bought it at an auction for eight shillings to replace the one I broke last week. Today I carried it for the first time on my usual morning walk.

"It happened on Great Queen Street, shortly before eleven o’clock. There are several oldish houses in the block, you may remember. Freemason’s Hall is just beyond. Well, a funeral was leaving from one of the buildings, and I had to



stop a moment before I could go on. Six pall-bearers were carrying the casket out of the doorway to the waiting hearse just as I came up.

"Curious how the sight of a funeral immediately sobers one. I stood there, trying hard not to stare. And yet I re¬ member casually noticing the pall-bearer nearest me, the man who supported the right rear corner of the casket. He was a tall, dark-haired individual of about thirty years of age; his profile stood forth strikingly handsome, but as he turned, I Couldn’t help musing over the expression that twisted the line of his lips. Almost a smirk, it was, as if he were enjoying the whole affair.

"From then on, Stanway, I can’t be sure what happened. It was horrible, re¬ volting, and to my dying day I’ll never forget it. My cane—this cane—was propped at an angle at my side, slightly supporting me as I stood waiting for the procession to pass. Suddenly I felt a dis¬ tinct tremor pass up the wood through the handle. It was a vibration, a shock as if . . . well, as if the metal cap at the bottom had come into contact with an electric current.

"For a moment I thought the aged wood must be breaking. Then that tremor changed to a violent jerk. I felt the cane pull my hand upward, high over my head, poise there for an instant, and then lash back and forth through the air like a whip.

"With that stick raised above me, something seemed to snap in my brain. I felt as if my head were clamped in a vise, as if some power other than my own were controlling my thoughts. I believe I shouted some terrible oath, something at any rate that turned the surrounding crowd around to stare at me. Then I ran forward like a beast, seized that last pall-bearer by the shoulder,

spun him around and—God help me!— brought the cane crashing down full upon his head.

"Oh, I know it sounds common enough in these modern times of ours, simply beating a man on the head. But it was hellish to do, hellish to realize that I couldn’t help myself. It was like some damned Juggernaut striking the first thing in its path. And coupled with the fact that the man was part of a funeral procession, which is macabre even in it¬ self, the effect was hideous.

"I had one look at him as he fell away from the coffin and collapsed on the side¬ walk, blood streaming down his fore¬ head. Then I turned and ran.”

Mr. Grenning slumped back in* his chair and stared helplessly across the table. "Since then I’ve been wandering the streets with the fear and desperation of a hunted animal. I didn’t kill the man, Stanway. I saw him stumble to his feet—thank Heaven!—just as I raced around the comer. But the stark horror lies in the fact that I’m not responsible, that I can’t explain why I did it. My will was controlled by some power from with¬ out, and absurd as it may sound, that power came unmistakably from — this cane!”

The clock on the mantel ticked off a minute before Sir Hugh broke the si¬ lence.

"The man you struck, you’re quite sure he was a stranger?”

Mr. Grenning nodded vehemently. "I never saw him in my life before.”

"And your health during, say the last few weeks, it has been quite all right?”

"Health?” Mr. Grenning bristled. "Damme, Stanway, are you trying to-”

"I’m merely asking questions,” inter¬ posed Sir Hugh. "You can answer them or not as you see fit. You say you bought this cane at an auction?”

THE CANE


"Yes, at Carter’s, yesterday. I paid eight shillings for it.”

"Any idea who was its former owner?”

"No. Hold on. Yes, I believe I do. The last part of the auction dealt entirely with the property of a man by the name of Wells, Stephen Wells. I remember reading of his death in the Times. I don’t know him either.”

Sir Hugh nodded. "One thing more,” he said, choosing his words with care. "Were there any queer circumstances sur¬ rounding the sale?”

Mr. Grenning hesitated a moment in retrospection. When he looked up, there was a frown of puzzlement lined across his brow. "Now that you speak of it,” he replied, "there was. I wasn’t the high¬ est bidder. The bidding started at three shillings. It worked up to six. I offered eight. But the man behind me called out ten almost immediately after I had spok¬ en. I thought it odd that the auctioneer accepted my price instead of the higher amount, which he most certainly had heard; odd, too, that the man behind me made no objection when I moved for¬ ward to complete the sale.

Into Sir Hugh’s eyes there was slowly creeping a gleam of interest. He rose to his feet, strode across to the window and stood staring out into the gray, cheerless street. Absently he drew a pipe from his pocket and rattled the stem against his teeth.

"Grenning,” he said suddenly, return¬ ing to the table, "if anyone but you had told me this story I’d say he was a crazy fool. But I’ve known you for a good many years, and I know you’re telling the truth. Have I your permission to look into this?”

Mr. Grenning looked up dully. "Yes, of course,” he said. "That’s why I came here. But how-”

"There’s something wrong here, be¬

lieve me, something decidedly wrong. I’m going out—going to see if I can un¬ earth a few facts. Wait here for me, Grenning. It would be better you didn’t appear on the streets for a while. Your room is first along the right hall.”

"But haven’t you anything to say at all?” snapped Mr. Grenning. "Haven’t you any ideas?”

"Not now,” replied Sir Hugh, reach¬ ing for his hat and gloves. The gleam in his eyes had increased to an excited glitter. "I want to look around a bit be¬ fore I make any comments. Only this I can tell you quite positively: the funeral you interrupted so rudely was that of Stephen Wells, the former owner of the cane.”

T he afternoon passed for Mr. Gren¬ ning with maddening slowness. Again and again he attempted to thrust himself in the pages of a book and for¬ get his thoughts. But each time the print blurred and a vision of the afternoon’s horrible experience formed like an optic scar before his eyes. Evening came, and still Sir Hugh did not return. Mr. Gren¬ ning barely tasted the food served by Stanway’s man-servant. He continued to pace back and forth the length of the library until a nervous drowsiness slowly settled over him. At length, brain in a whirl, he went to his bed and stared at the designs on the wallpaper until the very concentration threw him into a fitful sleep.

He dreamed wild dreams of running through the streets of London, caning every pedestrian within reach and leaving a trail of horribly mutilated dead behind him. At two o’clock by the radium clock on the bureau he awoke abruptly, sat up in bed, trembling in every nerve and muscle.

The room was hot and suffocating.



The wind had died down, and the whole world seemed steeped in a great ringing silence. For a moment Mr. Grenning was puzzled as to what had happened. After all, he reasoned sleepily, it was foolish to let such a small incident bother him. He hadn’t killed the man, had merely struck him a blow on the head, and by tomor¬ row the few who had chanced to see the action would have forgotten. The daily history of London must be filled with such things.

Yet as he sat there, now fully awake, he realized his brain was slowly giving way to an overpowering sensation. It was an urge, a definite, irresistible urge, that he dress, go out and walk once again those same streets down which he passed every morning.

Mr. Grenning had long been a man of habit, but he gave in to routine only through the process of time. To submit to a mere mental suggestion, especially a wild one like this, seemed the act of a weakling. He called to arm every ounce of will-power he possessed to fight it.

As the clock ticked on and on, how¬ ever, the sensation grew stronger. He felt as if his entire body were encased in a suit of iron, and outside his window some powerful magnet had swept him into its field.

At length he could stand it no longer, and with a little whimper of submission, he leaped from bed, turned on the light, and proceeded to don his clothes. Dressed, he moved to the door, only to hesitate on the sill, staring back over his shoulder.

His cane! It stood there, propped up against the chair where he had left it. Slowly Mr. Grenning paced back the length of the room and halted a few feet away, staring down at the heavy stick. He clenched his fists, tried to turn in his tracks and swayed weakly. When a mo¬

ment later he slipped out the front door and made his way to the street, the cane was clenched hard under one arm.

A late cab cruising along Piccadilly carried him down Coventry, Cranburn, Long Acre and finally to Great Queen Street. He realized now, as he paid the driver, that the unexplainable psychic urge which had forced him on this mad adventure was sweeping him not only into the general district of his afternoon walks, but toward one house in particular, the Wells residence from which he had seen Mr. Wells’ funeral leave.

And presently he stood before it, a once-fashionable residence, made gaunt and somber by the passing years, set flush with the sidewalk. Up to this point, Mr. Grenning had been a man puzzled and bewildered, responding to something he didn’t understand. Now as he glanced down the silent thoroughfare and then at the brooding mass of gables at his side, he suddenly changed.

The look of bewilderment gave way to one of craft. His head shrank lower into the protecting collar of his coat, and he moved cautiously into the shadows as if afraid of being seen. Five minutes he waited while the bobby on the opposite side of the street whistled his way around the corner. Then he stole silently up the steps of the dark house, fumbled at the latch, inserted one of his own keys in the antiquated lock, and after a moment of twisting, slipped inside.

A long hallway, dimly illuminated by a single night-light, confronted him. Without hesitation, Mr. Grenning crept to the first door on his right, opened it, and passed into a room that was a pit of darkness. He was moving forward stead¬ ily now, deliberately, treading unfamiliar ground, yet avoiding table, desk, and chairs with an uncanny sense of direction.

At the farther wall a third door barred

THE CANE


his passage, and he halted momentarily to get a firmer grip on the cane. Then he pushed open this last barrier and stared within. A shaft of yellow light from the street lamp outside filtered through the huge bay window of the room and dis¬ closed directly before him the heavy bulk of an old-fashioned canopied bed.

For a moment Mr. Grenning stood there, head erect, shoulders thrown stiffly back like some strange automaton. Then slowly in measured pace he stepped for¬ ward, advancing on his shadow.

A young woman lay sleeping in the bed, a woman whose tousled black hair and closed eyes did not conceal the fine melding and delicate beauty of her fea¬ tures. She was breathing deeply and regu¬ larly, one arm folded above her head, covers drawn slightly away from her throat.

Not a line of expression found its way into Mr. Grenning’s face. He surveyed the woman coldly as the silence of the old house hung like a pall about him. He continued to stand motionless as hollowly from a distant street came the roar and clatter of a far-away tram-car.

Then with the relentless motion of a machine his right hand raised his cane swiftly until it hung poised high over his head. Deliberately he moved closer, esti¬ mated his aim, and brought the heavy stick crashing down upon the head of his victim.

A single, penetrating scream came from the woman’s lips as she rose up, clawed wildly at the bedclothes and then with a low gurgle slumped back against the pillow.

Mr. Grenning looked down at her. A tremor swept through his frame as he stared at the silent, bloody form. A short dry gasp slid through his clenched teeth. Then with a smothered sob he turned and moved slowly toward the door.

A voice from an upper room called down fearfully: "Mrs. Wells! Are you all right?”

With machine-like pace Mr. Grenning continued his way through an adjoining room. Not until he reached the outer hallway and a rush of feet sounded behind him, did he alter his speed. Then with a hideous cry of defiance, which seemed to come from another throat than his own, he lurched into a run, threw open the door and staggered forth into the dark street.

S IR HUGH STANWAY flung the latest edi¬ tion of the Friday Times on his library table and looked across at the silent figure opposite him. If Grenning had been frightened and bewildered when he ap¬ peared at the door of Sir Hugh’s rooms the night before, he presented a picture of absolute despair now. His gray hair was clawed into wild disarray, his eyes gleamed hard and feverish, and his hands as he gripped the arms of his chair opened and closed convulsively.

"I'm a murderer!” he moaned aloud for the tenth time.

Sir Hugh frowned perplexedly. "How many times must I tell you, Grenning, that you’re nothing of the sort? The paper here gives a full account of last night’s happenings. Mrs. Wells suffered only lacerations of the scalp. The pillow, it seems, partly protected her. It is very strange though that you should choose as your second victim the widow of the man whose funeral you interrupted the day before.”

"Stanway,” said Mr. Grenning, "if you don’t do something to help me, I’ll go mad. Realize—can’t you?—that during the entire event, from the moment I entered the house, I absolutely couldn’t help myself. Another will was controlling me, and yet I was horribly conscious of



everything that was done. Beating that defenseless woman as she lay there—God, it was terrible!”

For a moment Sir Hugh studied his friend in silence. Then he settled back in his chair.

"I went to considerable trouble to un¬ earth facts,” he said. "But the informa¬ tion I have gathered offers nothing in the way of explanation that a sane brain can understand.

"You bought this cane at an auction. It was formerly the property of a Stephen Wells, now deceased. So much, you know already. Wells was a very rich man, Grenning. He was sole owner of the Wells East Indies Products Company, and when he died he left a considerable fortune to his wife. But whereas he had been a success financially, his marriage had been a complete failure. I’ve heard of antipathy between man and wife before, but never anything like this. That woman was so relieved at her husband’s death that she had the unparalleled audacity to dispose of his possessions at public action even before he was decently buried.”

Mr. Grenning looked up slowly. "What has all that to do with my cane?” he queried.

"Very much. Those articles of Wells’ that were offered for sale included some of his most personal possessions, and among them was your cane. Now the cane has quite a story connected with it that is rather generally known among Wells’ friends.

"Wells, it seems, was in the yearly habit of taking business trips through the East Indies to look over some of his company’s property. It was in North Borneo, inland from Sandakan, that he saved a Dyak witch-doctor from death. He shot a king cobra only a few inches from the native’s foot. The witch-doctor

was so filled with gratitude he presented Wells with a strange gift.

"It was a shaft of wood, fashioned from the branch of a death-tree. If you are at all acquainted with the customs of those natives of Borneo, Grenning, you will know that some tribes have a most peculiar practise in the burying of their dead. They choose a large tree, hollow out an aperture in the trunk, insert the corpse in an erect position and then seal the opening. The tree continues to grow, a living tomb, and is from then on an object of religious veneration.

"This particular piece of wood came from the branch of a tree in which had been buried the body of the witch-doctor’s predecessor, a Dyak priest. The wood was therefore supposed to be endowed with the power of protecting one in case of danger and working revenge on one’s enemies.

"Two days later, while Wells was re¬ turning down-river in a native dugout, his party was attacked from ambush. Poison¬ ous darts from sumpitan blow-guns killed three native guides and one other white man. Wells experienced a marvelous escape. The piece of wood given him by the witch-doctor happened to be propped up against his equipment before him. One of the darts, which would have found its mark in his throat, struck the wood and was deflected to the side.

"Arriving at the coast, Wells had the shaft made into a cane and vowed it would never leave his side. He seemed to have kept this promise, for wherever he went, that cane was always with him.”

The narration ceased for a moment, and Mr. Grenning stirred restlessly. "I still don’t see-” he began.

"There are just a few things more,” interrupted Sir Hugh. "The man you struck yesterday while he carried the coffin of Stephen Wells was Philip Garn,

THE CANE


a well-known idler in gambling circles, and he represents the third part of the triangle in Wells’ unhappy marriage. It is open gossip that Mrs. Wells was in love with him, wanted to marry him, and sought by every means to force her hus¬ band to grant a divorce, an action which he refused to take. It seems a cruel ges¬ ture on her part to have chosen Garn as one of the pall-bearers.

"Now then”—Sir Hugh drummed his fingers reflectively on the arm of the chair —”1 offer no conclusions. The whole thing looks impossible from start to fin¬ ish. All I can say is that it would seem by your recounting of the odd way in which you purchased the cane at the auc¬ tion, it was foreordained that you, who are known always to carry a cane and to walk daily past that Wells house on Great Queen Street, should be its new owner.”

C uriously enough, Mr. Grenning had almost the same dreams that night as he had the night before. But there was one vision in addition, a most vivid one that so stayed by him, he couldn’t refrain from telling it in detail to Sir Hugh over the breakfast table.

"It seemed that the ringing of the door¬ bell roused me in the middle of the night,” he began. "I could have sworn that I was awake, that I got out of bed, put on the dressing-gown you loaned me, and hurried down the hall to answer it.

“When I opened the door and stood shivering on the threshold, two men con¬ fronted me. And they were the strangest pair I had ever seen. The one on the right was a tall, spare-looking English¬ man, a common enough fellow, I sup¬ pose, if he had worn regular clothes. But what did he have on but a suit of white duck and a pith helmet! There wasn’t a trace of color in his face. It was white

as lime. And his eyes! God, Stanway, they seemed nothing more than two black holes. I started backward and stared. The other looked even more like a page out of a book. He was a native of some kind, stark naked save for a loin¬ cloth and a cap of queer-looking feathers on his head. Over his left arm he carried the dried and stiffened body of a dead snake.

"They stepped in, and the white man said, as if it were the most ordinary thing in the world: 'We’ve come for the cane!’ ”

Sir Hugh laid down his tea-cup sharply. His gray eyes slowly widened.

"And in this dream,” he asked, "did you see yourself giving the men the cane?”

"Yes, I-”

With a start Sir Hugh kicked back his chair, jumped to his feet and ran to the umbrella cabinet in the outer room. He thrust the little door open and peered in¬ side. The rack, which the night before had held the cane, was now empty!

Whirling, Sir Hugh leaped across the room and made his way quickly to the hallway. Here he bent down on his knees, examined the rug and the un¬ covered floor before the door. And an instant later, a smothered exclamation burst from his lips.

Clearly outlined on the maple parquet was the muddy outline of a naked human foot!

"Quick, Grenning!” Sir Hugh turned on his stupefied guest who stood star¬ ing at the mark on the floor. "There’s not a moment to lose. Come on.”

As their cab sped down Piccadilly, Stanway sat silently, unrelaxed, staring with impatient eyes at the flying streets. Only once did he break his silence, and that was to urge the driver to greater speed.



Along Great Queen Street through a maze of traffic they raced. Then, framed like a photograph in the windshield, their destination loomed up before them. It was the Wells house, and before it was collected a milling crowd.

S ir HUGH looked out before him, took in the scene at a glance and struck his fist sharply on the leather upholstery. "Too late, Grenning,” he said.

They left the cab and began shoulder¬ ing their way through the crowd, Stan¬ way opening up a lane for Grenning to follow. And abruptly a moment later at a point half-way between the curb and the steps they reached the inner edge of the silent crowd and stood staring at the gruesome spectacle before them. Mr. Grenning felt suddenly faint.

Lying on the sidewalk were two bloodspattered figures, a man ahd a woman. The man was Philip Garn, whom Mr. Grenning had struck during the funeral procession. The woman was Mrs. Wells. It did not need a medical examiner to see that both had been instantly killed. Their heads were horribly crushed and battered.

Stanway turned away to a tall, lean man who was standing to one side, a note¬ book in his hand.

"Good morning, Inspector Melton, do you remember me?”

The man looked up and then stared in

recognition. "I should say I do. I-”

"Tell me,” Stanway broke in hurriedly, "how did this dreadful thing happen?”

Inspector Melton frowned. "Double murder,” he said shortly, "and it’s the strangest case I’ve ever come upon, if we can believe everything we’ve heard.” "Murder?”

"Yes. The man is Philip Garn, you know. He was Mrs. Wells’ lover, I guess, now that Mr. Wells is dead. The two of them were just returning to London from a day out in Sussex. Somebody had a score to settle apparently and waited for them. A moment after they stepped out of the cab they were both struck over the head from behind with a cane. We’ve got the cane inside. But the queer part is that the cabby swears he didn’t see a soul on the street. Says he had driven the cab only a few yards after leaving when he heard two screams and turned just in time to see them fall to the sidewalk. Nobody else, he claims, was anywhere in sight. It’s mighty strange.”

Stanway nodded slowly. "Thank you, Inspector,” he said. "Come, Grenning, we may as well go.”

N MONDAY, October the 12th, the evening edition of the London News-Chronicle carried the following small account on the bottom of its third page:

A strange and ironic sidelight was added by officials of Scotland Yard today to the yet unsolved tragedy which occurred on Great Queen Street. The victims, it will be remembered, were Mrs. Stephen Wells and Mr. Philip Garn, both of whom were killed by heavy blows from a cane wielded by an unknown assailant.

Mrs. Wells was the recent widow of the late Stephen W. Wells, owner of the Wells East Indies Products Company, who died early last week. Since his death rumors have been current among Mr. Wells’ friends that there must have been a grave mistake in the report that he died from carditis, as he was known to enjoy perfect health. So far-reaching were these rumors that officials of Scotland Yard had the body of Mr. Wells exhumed and a complete autopsy performed. The result, made public for the first time today, was that Mr.

[THE END]

============================================================
BELLS OF OCEANA
by Arthur J. Burks
============================================================
Wells had died of poison.

After a thorough search it was found that a vial of strychnin had been purchased by Mrs. Wells at a neighboring apothecary shop. Mrs. Wells was to have been called for legal questioning when her sudden death occurred.

By ARTHUR J. BURKS

I T WAS on a heavily laden troopship, westward heading. Hours before, the sun had gone down toward China, trailing ebon night behind her. For a full week, since dropping the Cal¬ ifornia coast behind us, there had been nothing in all the wild waste of waters for us to see except ourselves. No ship’s funnels broke the lowering horizon, no sign of land, for our skipper had chosen a passage lying somewhere in between the usual steamer lanes. The nearest land, save that which stretched in eternal dark¬ ness some three miles below us, was more than a thousand miles beyond the south¬ ern horizon. We were just a single ship, burdened with a precious freight of souls, upon an ocean that seemed endless. The first day out had been squally, and every¬ one had been sick, save those of us who had gone down to the sea in ships before. But with the dawning of the second morning the sea had calmed down, and our vessel rode through the blue, toward the horizon bowl which ever crept before us, in the golden wake of the setting sun. The voyage, if the old salts spoke truly, would be uneventful; but with that

♦From WEIRD TALES for December, 1927.

strange premonitory feeling which comes to all of us at times, I did not believe them.

Something, from the very first, warned me that our voyage was ill-fated. I couldn’t explain my feeling. It wasn’t a feeling of dread, exactly, nor of fear. Just a strange feeling of unease, much like that which comes to people on their voyage, when a ship is rolling slightly under their feet, and everything, until they get their sea-legs, seems strangely out of focus. That doesn’t explain it, I know; but it is as near as I can put my feeling into words.

I knew, when the sun went down ahead of us, with the hundred and eightieth meridian less than twenty-four hours ahead, that we were on the eve of strange, momentous happenings. To add to my feeling of unease, and as though it had been all planned out by some invisible something or somebody, in the vague be¬ ginning, the officer who should have had the watch that night fell suddenly ill, and I was called upon to take his place. I knew, as I donned my belt, holster and pistol, that I but obeyed the will of some



invisible prompter—a prompter without a name.

We had seven sentries out at various important places about the ship, and I made the routine inspections before turn¬ ing in, less than an hour before midnight. When I entered my stateroom and turned on the light, that feeling of unease was more pronounced than it had been at any time previously. I had the feeling, though I had locked my door when I had last quitted my stateroom, that I had en¬ tered again immediately after someone had left it. Yet that was impossible. I had carried the key in my pocket all the time, and my cabin-boy was not provided with one. There was no way that any¬ one, or anything, could have entered my stateroom in my absence, saveStill as though my every move had been ordered by some invisible prompter,

. my eyes darted to the port-hole beside my bed. It was quite too small for the pas¬ sage of a human body, and even to think of such a thing were the utmost folly. If anyone had gone out through the port¬ hole, that one had fallen, or plunged into the sea; for had the port-hole been ever so big, there was absolutely no way one could have left my stateroom by that way and still remained upon the ship—unless that one had gone out and were even now hanging by his hands along the ship’s side. So strongly had the feeling of an alien presence obtruded itself upon me that, in spite of knowing myself an utter fool for entertaining any doubt whatso¬ ever, I strode to the port-hole and looked out. There was nothing, of course, save water, now black and forbidding, stretch¬ ing away to the south, to a horizon that, since night had fallen, seemed to have crept quite close to us to watch our passing.

Still unsatisfied, in spite of arguing with myself, condemning myself for a

fool, I deliberately closed the glass which masked the port, took my seat in a chair beside the bunk, facing the round glass —which resembled, to an imagination suddenly fevered, the eye of a huge oneeyed giant—of the port-hole, and began to undress. Mechanically I lifted first one foot and then the other, removing shoes and stockings.

But I kept my eyes upon the closed port-hole—and that feeling of an unseen presence in the room was stronger as the moments fled. My undressing complet¬ ed, I stood erect to turn out the lights, and paused in the very act, a cry of ter¬ ror smothered in my throat by a sheer act of will.

For the most fleeting of seconds, I had seen a dead-white face outside the glass which covered the port-hole! It was the face of a person who had drowned, I told myself wildly, and the dripping hair wore a coronet of fluttering seaweed. The eyes of this strange outsider stared straight into mine, devoid of expression, totally unwinking, and the lips, which seemed blue as though with icy cold long endured, smiled a thin and ironic smile. It took all the courage I possessed, which is little enough in the face of the un¬ known, to hurl myself across the bed, right hand extended toward the heavy screw which held the circular piece of glass in place. In the instant my hand would have touched the glass, the ship rode into the edge of the storm that was to fill the remainder of the night, and the stem of the steamer rose dizzily on the crest of a mighty wave, dragging all the vessel with it; and the face slid slowly out of sight below the port-hole, the blu¬ ish lips still smiling ironically.

I admit that I was trembling, that my fingers were unsteady as I fumbled with the screw to unloose the glass. When the port-hole was open once more, and the W. T.—7

BELLS OF OCEANA


cold breeze of this latitude came in to fan my fevered face, I thrust my head out of the port and gazed right and left, and up and down, along the curving side of the ship. But there was nothing, except straight ahead, on our port side. And even there, there was nothing but black water, huge mountainous waves, touched with whitecaps at their crests, like flying shrouds, or like lacy streamers created as a fringe for the mantle of night.

I watched several of the waves sweep under the vessel, which rose and fell sluggishly. The waves seemed to be trav¬ eling in no certain direction, but broke into a veritable welter of warring forces, roaring as they came together with the roaring of maddened, deep-throated bulls; valleys with darkness on their floors, mountain-tops touched with snow that shifted eerily in the breeze.

I was about to close the port when, many yards away from the ship, as though born of the womb of old ocean, I heard the bells!

Like the tiny bells which the bell¬ wether wears to signal the ewes and the lambs, was the tinkling of the bells—like those bells, yet not like them, totally out of place in midocean, and I felt a strange prickling of the scalp as I listened. Hur¬ riedly, driven by a fear I could not have explained then, nor can I now explain, I closed the port-hole again—and whirled about with another scream, which this time came forth from my quivering lips in spite of all I could do to prevent.

Just inside my stateroom door stood my sergeant of the guard, and his lips were trembling more wildly than my own, his eyes protruded, his face was chalk-white, and he was striving with all his power to speak. As I watched his manful strug¬ gle, I dreaded for him to speak—for I knew that what he had come to tell me W. T.—8

would be something strange and terrible, something hitherto entirely outside my experience.

"Sir,” he managed at last, when I stiff¬ ly nodded permission for him to speak, "I just made the rounds of the sentries.”

Here the poor fellow stopped, unable to go on, and his knees knocked together audibly.

"Yes, sergeant,” I managed to mutter, "you went the usual rounds of the sen¬ tries, and then?”

"The sentry who should be on duty on the main deck, forward of the bridge, is missing.”

Of course I knew on the instant that there might be many reasons for the fail¬ ure of the sergeant of the guard to find the sentry—many logical reasons. The sentry might have quitted his post (a vi¬ olation of regulations, true) for a quiet cigarette in the lee of a lifeboat; he might have been walking his post in the direc¬ tion taken by the sergeant, so that the latter had not overtaken him, even with a complete circling of the main deck; he might—oh, there were many logical explanations; but I guessed intuitively that none of these reasons fitted the case. For one thing, the sergeant of the guard was an old-timer, had spent many years of his life at sea—yet he was frightened half out of his wits, and I knew he held as many decorations for bravery as any other officer or man in the marine corps. There was something terrible, something —if you will—uncanny, behind this dis¬ appearance of the sentry.

I muttered an oath, more to prod my own flagging courage than for any other reason, and started toward the door, mo¬ tioning the sergeant to precede me. But he shook his head stubbornly and barred my way. I halted, for it was evident that he had not completed his report.

"You’ll maybe think me daft,” he said;



"but I couldn’t let you go out there, sir, without telling you everything. The cor¬ poral on watch at the head of the prom¬ enade gangway told me a strange story just before I made my rounds. He had opened the door leading onto the star¬ board promenade, for a look at the weather outside, and just as he was about to close it again, the ship lifted on the crest of a huge wave—and out beyond the wave, many yards away from the ship, he heard something which he lik¬ ened to the tinkling of little bells!”

"Good God!” I exclaimed.

"And,” the sergeant continued, "all the time I was looking for the missing sentry, I had the idea there was someone behind me, following me every step of the way; yet when I whirled to look, the deck behind me was empty.”

"And you found no sign of the sentty?” I said stupidly.

The sergeant shook his head.

"Nothing,” he said, "except — except —well, sir, you’ll maybe think me daft, as I said before; but on the spot where the sentry had stood to wait for me on my last round, I found wet marks on the deck floor—the marks, as near as I could tell with my flashlight, of bare feet!”

Mechanically, as the sergeant spoke, I had done donning my clothes, leaving my shoes, however, unlaced. I felt an icy chill along my spine as the sergeant con¬ tinued, and I dreaded, as I had never dreaded anything before, to ask him fur¬ ther about those wet footprints on the deck.

"The wet footprints,” he went on, and he was talking wildly now, his words tripping over one another, so rapidly were they uttered, as though he wished to finish his report before I could inter¬ rupt again, "led away where the sentry should have been standing, straight to the starboard rail. Right at the rail I

stooped to examine the prints more close¬ ly. They were the footprints of a human being, I was sure, and the marks of the toes were blurred, and very wide, as though whoever—or to hat ever —had made them, had been carrying a burden in his arms!”

"Good God, sergeant!" I said again; "what are you driving at?”

"Just this, sir. There’s something ter¬ ribly wrong with this ship. Something took that sentry bodily over the side!”

I believe that putting a name, however meaningless, to what was in my own mind, caused a little of my courage to re¬ turn, for I did not find it difficult now to leave the stateroom. The sergeant almost trod on my heels as I hurried to the main deck, starboard side, where the wind wrapped icy fingers around me, chilling me to the bone on the instant.

As I hurried forward I looked over the side, into the welter of waters—and stopped short.

Behind me the sergeant groaned—hol¬ lowly, like a man who has been mortally wounded. For out of the waters, away to starboard, came the sound of tinkling bells! I darted to the rail and leaned far outboard, striving to pierce the gloom. But there was nothing save the watery wastes, mountains and valleys—and two spots of greenish phosphorescence, far out, like serpent’s eyes which watched the passing ship. But when I looked at them closely, straining my eyes, seeking the form below the eyes, the twin balls of eery flame vanished, a wall of water ob¬ truding itself between.

W ell, we found the sentry, sprawled on his face, where the sergeant should have found him on his rounds. I turned the body over. It was dripping wet, entirely nude, and the lips and

BELLS OF OCEANA


cheeks as coldly blue as though the corpse had been dragged for hours on a line in the wake of the ship.

No matter how secluded one’s life may have been, no matter how carefully one may have been guarded during one’s life¬ time, there come into the lives of most of us certain inexplicable happenings which may never be forgotten. This matter of the dead sentry was one of these for me, and I shall go to my grave with the mem¬ ory of his cold cheeks and bluish lips limned upon the retina of my very soul. So many strange circumstances — thank God that, at the moment, I could not look into the two hours or more of terror which even then stretched before me, else I should most surely have gone entirely mad — were there connected with this matter that, taken altogether, it is little wonder that I have been unable to forget, or ever shall forget. The roaring of the wind which was lashing all the ocean into fury, a maelstrom in midocean, ghostly whitecaps stretching away into darkness, into seeming infinity; the frightened ser¬ geant behind me, his teeth chattering with fear; the dead sentry at my feet, his body blue with cold, entirely nude as I have said; the marks on the deck of huge bare feet, wet as though the feet had come up out of the sea; the eery sound of bells between our vessel and the lowering horizon—and that dead-white face which I had seen beyond the port-hole of my own cabin a half-hour before.

What was the explanation of it all? What was the cause of the bells, if bells there were? What had come up out of the sea to stride barefooted across the promenade deck of the slumbering troop¬ ship? Had my sentry seen whatever had come for him before he had been taken?

Add to all these circumstances the fact that all hell was loose in the watery wastes, that it was now after midnight,

and you will understand a little of my feelings. Never before or since have I been so frightened as I was then. I don’t regard myself as a coward, nor am I or¬ dinarily superstitious; but show me the man who is without fear in the presence of the unknown, the utterly uncanny, and I will show you a man who has no soul.

I whirled, bumping into the sergeant, who manfully muffled a scream at my unexpected movement, and started, al¬ most blindly, toward the stern of the troopship. As I strode along, with the sergeant at my heels once more, strange images fled across my mind. I remem¬ bered the tale of the Lorelei, the maiden who lured sailors to their death with her eery singing, and strained my eyes through the gloom, seeking shapes I feared to see. Then my mind went farther back, to the years before I could read, years in which, thirsty for knowl¬ edge, I studied pictures out of old his¬ tories to satisfy my longings for wisdom. One of these pictures came back to my mind as I hurried aft: a picture of a hid¬ eous monster of unbelievable propor¬ tions, who had come up from behind the ocean’s horizon, blotting out the sunlight, long arms extended into the picture's foreground, the right hand holding aloft a mediaeval sailing-vessel which had been lifted bodily from the ocean. A fantastic picture, I knew now, drawn to prove the existence of terrible monsters beyond the horizon to which, as yet, no caravel or galleon had dared travel. I wondered, as I strode aft, why this old picture should return to my mind at this time, and fear was at my throat again as I walked.

"I am coming, oh, my beloved!”

The words, high-pitched with ecstasy, came from straight ahead of me, and out of the heavy shadow cast by a huge fun¬ nel stepped one of my sentries. Just for a second, as he strode toward the star516


board rail, I could see his face—and the face was transfigured, as though the man gazed into the very soul of the Perfect Sweetheart somewhere beyond the rail. Slowly, step by step, as though he would prolong the joy of anticipation, the sen¬ try, who had hurled his rifle aside, ap¬ proached the rail, still with his eyes fixed on the welter of waters overside, while I halted spellbound to watch what he would do. From out of the waters there came once more the tinkling of bells! And with the sound, as though the sound had been a signal, -a huge shadow de¬ tached itself from the shadow whence the sentry had stepped but a moment ago, and loomed high above the luckless youth. At the same time the ship climbed high upon a monster wave, so that her starboard side went down, down, until white water came over the side—and when she straightened again, shuddering through all of her, the sentry had van¬ ished. From well rearward of where the man had disappeared, from out of the smother of waters, there came a single long-drawn cry—and it was not a cry of terror, not a cry of pain, but a scream of ecstasy!

"He’s gone, sergeant,” I said stupidly, "but what took him? Not the wave: he had but to seize the rail to save himself.”

"Did you see the shadow, lieuten¬ ant?” tire sergeant replied.

I did not answer. He knew I had seen it.

We strode on again, heading toward the stem of the ship; and all about us now, over the ship, on either side of her —but never on her—there tinkled the eery, unexplainable bells!

W e stood at last in the very stem of the troopship, gazing into the ghostly wake far below our coign of van¬ tage, and with certain care I followed the

wake rearward with my eyes. But one could not follow it far. That was the cir¬ cumstance which impressed itself upon me almost at once. The wake died away, short off, within less than a dozen yards of the ship’s stern—as though, at the very moment of birth, it had been ignominiously smothered.

In a trice I understood the reason, and thought I understood many things be¬ sides. For, like a monster raft, stretching away rearward as far as I could see, and into the darkness beyond my vision to right and left, there followed us, close to, an undulating mass of odorless seaweed. Acres and acres of it there were, rising and falling sluggishly, but keeping pace with the troopship through the night and the storm! Again there came that sound of bells, and my hair stiffened at the base of my skull when I saw, watching the seaweed, the result of the tinkling of the bells. The seaweed, when the bells sounded, seemed imbued suddenly with life that was utterly and completely ram¬ pant. Long tendrils of the stuff drew away to right and left below us, as though endowed with will of their own, and these tendrils, countless thousands of them, collided with other tendrils in the mass, and slithered over them so that all the mass of the seaweed writhed as though in torment, resembling countless hordes of serpents gathered together from all the evil places of the earth—and where the tendrils had drawn aside I could see black water in the rift as though the tendrils had drawn aside so that I might see. Some terrible fascination held me, my eyes fixed on that space of black water, for several moments after the ten¬ drils of seaweed had drawn away to right and left—and up from the depths, into the opening, came two who filled all my being with abject terror—and something else.

BELLS OF OCEANA


One of the two was dead, I knew on the instant, for I could see his face, all white and drawn, yet with the blue lips smiling, of the ill-fated sentry who had gone over the side before my very eyes. And he had been brought up from the depths in the arms of—I hesitate to give the creature a name. A woman? I scarcely know; yet this I do know: in the instant I looked into her eyes, raised to mine for a full minute, I understood the ecstasy which I had read in the face of the sen¬ try whom she now held in her arms. Her breasts, nude and unashamed, were the breasts of a buxom woman, her lips as red as full-blown roses, her hair as black as the wings of a crow, a mantle of love¬ liness all about her wondrous body, whip¬ ping this way and that in the storm.

Her eyes swerved away from mine, and one arm, shapely and snowy, raised aloft from the water—and to my ears came again the sound of tinkling bells. Once more the seaweed writhed and twisted, pressed forward about the ship; but a single mass of it detached itself from the larger mass, pressed close to the—should I call her "woman”?—and swerved away again; and the arms of the beautiful crea¬ ture were empty. Instinctively I whirled about, knowing somehow that I must move my head before I met this creature’s eyes again, and stared forward to the shadowy portion of the promenade whence the sentry had emerged before his plunge over the side. Up the star¬ board side of the ship crept a veritable wall of seaweed; up to the rail, pausing there for a moment, then to the deck, where it writhed for a moment or two, taking a weird distorted shape that made me think of a man, yet which I knew was not a man, before it strode into the cen¬ ter of the promenade. From out of the heart of this monstrosity there dropped soggily a white, cold figure. The second

sentry had returned, as the first had done!

Why? Why? Why? What did all this unbelievable terror mean?

I knew, as I searched through all my experience, seeking the key to this uncan¬ ny enigma, that we were heading west¬ ward outside the usually traveled sealanes; that ships seldom, if ever, came this way; that in seven days we had seen not one vessel, nor even the smoke of one upon the horizon. Why did not vessels come this way?

But I could not answer my many ques¬ tions. I could only ask them, and hope within me that they be not answered, ever. Nauseated by the return of the dead sentry, nude as the first had been, I closed my eyes for a moment, and when I opened them again, there was no sea¬ weed, no monstrous shape, upon the promenade; but even from where I stood I could see the wet footprints—and won¬ dered whom next the creature of the deep would claim from aboard our ill-fated vessel.

R esolutely I drew my pistol and re¬ turned once more toward the stem of the vessel. This creature of the depths, whatever it was, had taken life— twice. Whatever it was, it was mortal, and whatever is mortal a bullet will slay. But, in the very act of whirling, I stopped short—for between me and the stern of the vessel, smiling dreamily, water rip¬ pling over her nude and glorious body to splash upon the deck, stood the creature who had come from the depths in the wake of the ship, bearing the dead man in her arms. My arm fell to my side, my weapon clattered to the deck, and as I moved forward once more, slowly, a step at a time as the sentry had done, the won¬ drous creature held out her dripping arms, and my eyes drank in all the glor¬ ious wonder of her, from head to —but she had no feet!



Where the feet should have been, and the legs, there were neither legs nor feet, but a scaly column, wet and dripping, like a serpent with a woman’s body. I screamed in terror and unbelief, but it was too late, and her arms were about me, preventing all escape. But, with the touch of those arms, I did not wish to struggle. I knew what had happened to the two sentries, knew the same was in prospect for me; yet at the moment there seemed nothing in all the world more worth-while than to slip over the side, into the depths, with the arms of this wondrous creature about me.

"Lieutenant! Lieutenant! For the love of God, what is happening to you?”

It was the voice of the sergeant of the guard, freighted with abysmal terror; but I did not care. The shapely, strangely warm arms of the sea-creature were about me, and the sound of the bells, unbeliev¬ ably sweet now, was in my ears. For me the world had ceased to exist, save for knowledge that these two things were true. I was carried to the rail, and sent over slowly, without commotion, as com¬ fortable as though I had been riding on a couch of eiderdown—and came to myself to know myself lost indeed.

I was deep down, whirling over and over behind the whirling screws of the ship, holding my breath until my lungs were nigh to bursting, swimming with all my might, striving to reach the surface, and life-giving air, when I hadn’t the slightest idea which way was upward. With all my power I fought toward the surface, but my progress was slow and dragging, for there was a weight about my knees, as though arms were clasped about them, striving to hold me down. A wordless voice was in my ears, beg¬ ging, beseeching, and there was some¬ thing in the voice which made my strug¬ gles seem foolish and unnecessary, so that

I desired never to reach the air I needed. I closed my eyes, which I had opened in¬ stinctively upon striking the water, and two lips pressed firmly against my own— and those lips saved my life, and my reason; for they were the cold lips of a corpse, with neither love nor challenge in them. I flailed out once more, and my hand caught in the line which the steam¬ er dragged over her stern to measure the knots she traveled. All about me as I was hurled forward, now under water, now with nostrils out for a brief breath¬ ing-space, the mass of seaweed rose and fell on the heavy seas.

G od knows how I ever got back aboard the troopship; but I awoke at mess-call in the morning, and sent im¬ mediately for the sergeant of the guard.

"What happened after I came back aboard last night, sergeant?” I asked abruptly.

The sergeant of the guard stared at me as though he thought me insane.

"I don’t understand you,” he managed finally.

"Have we finally passed through the area of seaweed?”

"Seaweed? Is the lieutenant making sport of me? We’re two thousand miles from any land, except the ocean bottom, and there ain’t any seaweed anywhere! I don’t understand you!”

"Let it pass,” I said. "When did you last visit the sentries last night?”

"Just before midnight, sir.”

"And were all of them at their post of duty?”

"Yes, sir.”

"And what about the bells?”

Again the sergeant’s puzzlement was so genuine that I knew he did not under¬ stand my meaning. How much of my experience had been real, how much fan¬ tasy? I tried another tack.

BELLS OF OCEANA


"Did you make a round of the sen¬ tries after midnight?”

The sergeant shook his head sheepish¬ ly—it is one of the rules of guard duty that one visit to all sentries must take place between midnight and morning.

"Then the guard hasn’t been mustered this morning? Is everyone present? You don’t know? Then go at once and find out.”

Ten minutes later the sergeant re¬ turned, chalk-white of face, to report that two of the guard were missing, and could not be found anywhere aboard. He told me their names, and instantly my mind went back to the night of uncanny hap¬ penings just past, and the two nude bodies brought back from the deep in the arms of—whom? Or what?

I never knew, and to this day the ques¬ tions I have propounded have never been answered.

But this I know: there are strange

things, and sounds, in the sea near the hundred and eightieth meridian, a thou¬ sand miles north of Honolulu—and this is the strangest incident in my night of terror: the clothing which I donned next morning was entirely dry; but my hair was stiff with salt water, and there was the tang of seaweed in my room when I awoke.

I looked, too, at the glass which cov¬ ered the port-hole beside my bed: out¬ side that glass were the smudged prints of thin lips, the blur above them which told of a face pressed against the glass from outside—as though somebody, or something, had tried to peer in, between nightfall and morning!

And the bells? I still can hear them, in memory, when sometimes I waken at sea after midnight, and the rolling and the plunging of the ship tell me that a storm is making.

Mayan Splendor

By FRANK BELKNAP LONG, JR.

In dim dreams and shadowed memories Of fabled cities I have dwelt apace;

And from strange springs and guardian trees Have slaked my thirst, and scornful of the face Of harsh reality have stooped to trace Dark figures on the sands of alien keys:

In Mayan splendor I have spanned the seas And clothed myself in legendary grace.

In Copan I have dwelt where serpent stones And skies of dusky violet merge to form A glimmering gate of wonder whereto bones Of warrior dead are gathered in a storm Of whirling clouds and crimson flames that roar Beneath the sky-vault'where great condors soar.

T ELL, you’ve rung the bell once W«/ again with your February issue,” v V writes C. H. Cameron, of Toronto, Canada, in a letter to the Eyrie. "It’s very ev¬ ident that you intend to make 1934 a banner year for Weird Tales, to judge by the care with which you have selected your stories recently. I have often wondered why your taste doesn’t become jaded after these many years considering mss. of more or less one type. For myself, I’ve become so inured to horror tales that it takes an exceptional tale such as Shambleau to get a rise out of me. By the way, why not print a few stories with an ancient Egyptian setting? Houdini once wrote one for WT that was good, but you haven’t published such a yarn in ages. Why not a torture tale of Tiberius—-locale, his palace at Capri, where the most gracious death he would mete was the leap from a 2,000-foot precipice to the ocean below. According to history, many were glad to jump to get away from him. . . . The Feb¬ ruary WT contains several outstanding sto¬ ries. The Sapphire Goddess by Nictzin Dyalhis had a novel twist to an old plot. Very good. I give it equal place with Tarbis of the Lake by E. Hoffmann Price. Price is hitting a good stride recently. Such sto¬ ries are truly weird. Rud’s tale of Maya had a certain ring to it that made it especially interesting. Realism is hard to attain and he seems to have a gift. Both Howard’s and Smith’s stories were good—they are al¬ ways good reading and dependable. Keller’s continued story is fine; I can hardly wait for its conclusion. I think it equal in interest to Jack Williamson’s recent serial, Golden Blood. I see that the controversy over your covers still rages. Jack Darrow hits the nail on the head in his letter to the Eyrie. Don’t forget your motto—'bizarre and unusual.’ It should apply to covers as well as to stories.”


Loretta Burrough writes from New York City: "As an old reader of Weird Tales— I started reading it nine years ago—I want to cast my vote against the undressed ladies on the covers. My taste runs to a sad-iooking spook sitting on the edge of an empty grave, as more suitable for WT. Or some¬ thing of the sort.”

Robert Bloch, of Milwaukee, writes to the Eyrie: "WT is pretty good this month. At last the readers are in arms against the cov¬ ers, which are rapidly getting worse. In my opinion, Hugh Rankin is once, again your foremost illustrator, to judge from his work on Robert E. Howard’s story this month. Howard, by the way, is wonderful in this issue; if he sticks to atavism, the ancient Britons and Solomon Kane, and drops Conan the Cimmerian Chipmunk, he will maintain his present supremacy in your pages. . . . How about giving us at least one good atro¬ cious monstrosity on the cover, just to prove it can be done? And getting out 25-cent paper-covered reprint volumes in regulation format of the best stories from WT by Smith, Lovecraft, Quinn, Long, etc. ? It would sell plenty, particularly if composed of the old, out-of-print tales.” [For some time we have been toying with the notion of publishing such a volume. We expect to put out several such volumes in the future. As to monstrosities on the cover, we have used them before and will use them again.— The Editor.}

Writes Konrad Leister, of Boston: "I have read Weird Tales rather regularly since 1928, but I am now determined to buy it every month, as long as the present excel¬ lence of the contents continues. It is the only periodical of that group dealing with outre and fantastic themes that I read: all * (Please turn to page 522)

Coming Next Month

S OMETHING moved in the blackness under the trees. Etched abruptly in the rising moon, Conan saw a darkly blocked-out head and shoulders, brutish in outline. And now from the shadows dark shapes came silently, swiftly, run¬ ning low—twenty great spotted hyenas. Their slavering fangs flashed in the moon¬ light, their eyes ever blazed.

Twenty: then the spears of the pirates had taken toll of the pack, after all. Even as he thought this, Conan drew nock to ear, and at the twang of the string a flame¬ eyed shadow bounded high and fell writhing. The rest did not falter; on they came, and like a rain of death among them fell the arrows of the Cimmerian, driven with all the force and accuracy of steely thews backed by a hate hot as the slag-heaps of hell.

In his berserk fury he did not miss; the air was filled with feathered destruction. The havoc wrought among the onrushing pack was breath-taking. Less than half of them reached the foot of the pyramid. Others dropped upon the broad steps. Glaring down into the blazing eyes, Conan knew these creatures were not beasts; it was not merely in their unnatural size that he sensed a blasphemous difference. They exuded an aura tangible as the black mist rising from a corpse-littered swamp. By what god¬ less alchemy these beings had been brought into existence, he could not guess; but he knew he faced diabolism blacker than the Well of Skelos.

Springing to his feet, he bent his bow powerfully and drove his last shaft pointblank at a great hairy shape that soared up at his throat. The arrow was a flying beam of moonlight that flashed onward with but a blur in its course, but the were-beast plunged convulsively in midair and crashed headlong, shot through and through. Then the rest were on him, in a nightmare rush of blazing eyes and dripping fangs. . . .

This weird story of a ghastly horror in the jungle, and a savage white woman who captained a pirate ship, will be printed complete in the May Weird Tales. Order your copy now.

QUEEN OF THE BLACK COAST

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

—ALSO—

SCARLET DREAM BELLOWING BAMBOO

By C. L. Moore

An utterly strange and weird story about North¬ west Smith—a startling tale of eery adventures in another dimension of space.

VAMPIRES OF THE MOON By A. W. Bernal

A sensational story of the Masters of the Moon, and their terrific threat against the inhabitants of Earth—a stupendous weird-scientific tale.

By Anthony Rud

The story of a weird revenge, and the unhuman bellow that came across the lake from an eery bamboo forest in the South American jungle.

THE SATANIC PIANO By Carl Jacobi

A gripping tale of occult evil and a marvelous musical invention—by the author of "Revelations in Black.”

May WEIRD TALES Out May 1




(Continued from page 320) the others I have found cheap and tawdry, but Weird Tales maintains a literary excel¬ lence at times surprizing. My favorite author is Robert E. Howard, whose powerful and virile tales of dim and legendary epochs have more than once quickened my pulse. . . . Like many of your readers, I should like to see a page devoted to your authors, especial¬ ly Howard, Derleth (whose offerings are gems), and Smith. As to the cover illustra¬ tions, they are exquisite works, with beauti¬ ful coloring, and, though not always weird, most pleasing to the senses. ... If it were in accordance with your policy to reprint serials, I should like to see Drome, which I did not read, but which I heard was very good; also, The Monster-God of Mamurth, by Hamilton, if this has not been already done.” {We intend to reprint The Monster-God of Mamurth sometime soon, as that was a very popular short story, but not Drome, as that is a serial story, and you (the readers) have told us in no uncertain terms your opposition to reprint serials in WT.— The Editor.]

A letter from Robert L. Bryant, of South Bend, Indiana, says in part: "Some ten years ago, my father, who happened to be a trav¬ eling salesman, brought home my first copy of Weird Tales. I’ve been addicted to reading it ever since. I made up my mind long ago never to bother you with my opin¬ ions, but after reading the February issue, I find my high resolve weakening. So here goes my three cents’ worth. First, tell me why it is that some of your readers, who can face without turning a hair the gruesome monstrosities of H. P. Lovecraft, will blench at the sight of a naked but otherwise person¬ able young woman on the cover. I think your covers are getting to be extremely good. Especially good was the one which illustrat¬ ed Black Colossus. By all means, continue to print interplanetary stories. Shambleau was one of the best tales of the past year. It would have been a shame to bar it merely because the scene was laid on Mars instead of in Brooklyn or some other better known place. . . . How about another fantasy by A. Merritt? Golden Blood by Jack William¬ son was a real treat, and The Solitary Hunt¬ ers by Doctor Keller promises to be a pippin. I can hardly wait for the next installment. If Dyalhis doesn’t write two or three sequels to The Sapphire Goddess, he’s overlooking

a darned good bet and incurring the undying wrath of at least one reader.”

"I can’t refrain from a word of praise for Shambleau, by C. L. Moore,” writes R. F. Searight, of Detroit. "You recognized an especially fine contribution to current weird literature when you accepted it. The utterly unique theme and the masterful handling throughout entitle it to unstinted praise.”

From Maud, Oklahoma, comes a letter from Mrs. A. G. Edwards. "I read Weird Tales avidly whenever I get the chance,” she writes. "Your Eyrie department seems to welcome reproach as well as praise, so I won’t hesitate to express my viewpoint upon the subject. I like all of the stories with Jules de Grandin, and also the strong giant Conan; but stories ending like The Weaver in the Vault and In the Triangle give me such a feeling of revulsion that I get 'plumb’ sick. But the reprint, The Woman of the Wood by A. Merritt, leaves me just a little sad, for it seems such a shame to have such a swell story end up that way. But I liked it. Truly I did. And the discussion about the cover. What’s wrong with the nude pic¬ tures of lovely girls? I like them, and my only regret is that I don’t get to buy WT often enough to have all the covers saved up. ... I think that M. Brundage has a wonderful technique in painting girls with¬ out making them appear vulgar.”

Malcom Bethune, of Berkeley, California, writes to the Eyrie: "This is the first letter I have ever written to a magazine reader’s column. I have been a constant reader of your magazine for over five years and I should like to express myself in regard to several controversial issues and several which are not controversial. It is my opinion that Weird Tales is undoubtedly the finest of its type in existence. The majority of its authors are unsurpassed; therefore why are you so anxious to make your readers believe that, if alive, Edgar Allan Poe would un¬ doubtedly contribute to your publication? He would undoubtedly contribute, but he would be surpassed by some of your authors. Your best writers, in my opinion, are Seabury Quinn, Clark Ashton Smith, E. Hoff¬ mann Price, Robert E. Howard, H. P. Lovecraft, G. G. Pendarves, and Wallace West. Seabury Quinn is wonderful; whatever be¬ came of the idea to collect and publish his (Please turn to page 324)

Back Copies

® ©

Because of the many requests for back numbers of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established in early 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:








Jan.

Jan.

_

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.-Mar.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

_

_

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.-May

Apr.

Apr.

_

_

May

—

—

May

—

June

June

_

Jun.-Jul.

June

June

_

July

July

July

July

July

_

Aug.

—

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

_

Sept.

—

—

—

Sept.

Sept.

_

Oct.

_

_

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

_

Nov.

_

_

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

_

Dec.

_

Dec.

_

Dec.

Dec.

_

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back numbers on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back copies is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois




(Continued from page 522 ), stories in book form? I should certainly like to procure such a collection. Clark Ashton Smith’s stories embody rare beauty and del¬ icacy. Robert E. Howard is certainly one of the best; however, I have one criticism to make here. Why does he use the name Conan so often? There is nothing wrong with the name, but it is confusing; obviously his heroes are not the same person; almost any good Gmmerian name would do. I en¬ joy reading Howard’s stories as much as those of any other author on your staff. E. Hoffmann Price deserves unlimited applause for the manner in which he handled Lord of the Fourth Axis. The lavish description of the ceremony and its results was su¬ perb. . . . But it is this lowly person’s opinion that space should have been devoted to an explanation of what constituted the weirdness of King Cobra in the December issue and of On Top in the November issue. These stories would have gone over big in The Saturday Evening Post, but they should not have been included in your magazine. I should like to cast my vote against interplan¬ etary stories. The little article by Alonzo Leonard is too painful and accurate an exam¬ ple of interplanetary stories to be even amusing. There are exceptions to this, such as Shambleau in the November issue; this story, while it might be called interplanetary, had none of the asinine qualities of most in¬ terplanetary stories. I am delighted to see Hugh Rankin’s name under a story illustra¬ tion again; his drawings convey the impres¬ sion of fascinating mystery.” [A book of stories by Seabury Quinn, about which you inquire, is under consideration. As to Conan: that barbarian adventurer is certainly the same person throughout all of Mr. How¬ ard’s stories dealing with him. The geog¬ raphy of the stories about Conan is Mr. Howard’s own; the countries and the times are as definite (and indefinite) as the coun¬ tries and times in Lord Dunsany’s plays and stories. A discerning reader, however, may identify some of the places; Shumir, for in¬ stance, is undoubtedly the ancient country of Sumer in the valley of the Euphrates and Tigris rivers.— The Editor.]

Writes R. Lerner, of New Haven, Connec¬ ticut: "Dear Eyrie: The Solitary Hunters certainly is a fine story. I am so interested in it that I can hardly wait for the next issue.

All the stories in this January Weird Tales were fine; the best in a long time. I hope all the coming Weird Tales magazines are just as good.”

Jack L. Grillo, of San Francisco, writes to the Eyrie: "I would like to send you a whole carload of Winchell’s orchids for your su¬ perb January issue. Thanks to you and your wonderful authors and artists. January brought my birthday and the fifth year of my allegiance to Weird Tales. I sincerely believe it (the January issue) to be the best you have published in the last five years. The Vampire Master by Hugh Davidson came to a smashing conclusion, and your new serial, The Solitary Hunters, by David H. Keller, bids fair to equal if not surpass it in vivid action and swift terror. The re¬ maining stories were all excellent, partic¬ ularly The Red Knife of Hassan and the re¬ print, The Woman of the Wood. Brundage is an artist of extraordinary merit. I believe that nudes can be used very effectively in the cover designs, but keep the pictures weird; also try to have the covers illustrate the feature story.”

Writes David K. Collison, of Yakima, Washington: "I have been reading Weird Tales now for several years and it is by far my favorite magazine. I like Robert E. Howard better than any of the other authors, although they are all excellent. Conan I like particularly well, because he is the only hero I ever read about that was so tough he was not chivalrous to the, more or less, fair sex. He slaps them on die back when he’s pleased with them and drops them into cess¬ pools when he’s sore at them. What a man!”

Writes Donald A. Wollheim, of New York City: "The Solitary Hunters by David H. Keller is the best serial you’ve had in a long time. Doctor Keller knows his stuff. He is perhaps the most true to life author in the field. The Man Who Returned was probably Edmond Hamilton’s worst. Tell him to get busy and write us seme more In¬ terstellar Patrol stories. They were perhaps the best space-travel stories that were ever written. Get Robert E. Howard to write a few more about Kull of Valusia. That was his best character, and besides, those stories were his weirdest. But this Conan is the most cold-blooded cutthroat ever in print. . . . Glad to see Nictzin Dyalhis and Frank Owen (Please turn to page 526) t

A NEW LIFETIME BUSINESS

4 *' ' ’

r 2 -

m

■ V .

NO HIGH PRESSURE SELLING NO HOUSE- TO-HOUSE CANVASSING INCOME EQUAL TO REQUIREMENTS OF THE HIGH-GRADE BUSINESS MAN

FOUR 115 SALES DAILY PAY*280 WEEKLY

INSTALLING NEW BUSINESS SPECIALTY ON FREE TRIAL¬ MAKING TREMENDOUS CASH SAVINGS IN OPERATING COSTS FOR THOUSANDS OF CONCERNS THROUGHOUT THE U. S. AND CANADA



(Continued from page 524) back, especially the latter. Owen is a mas¬ ter of the Chinese fantasy, I think die only one I have heard of. Keep the old maga¬ zine going and watch out for the vampires and werewolves. And if you should wake up some night and see two goblins standing by the bed, reject them.”

Joseph Hatch, of Leavenworth, Kansas, writes to the Eyrie: "I have been reading Weird Taj.es now for close to a decade, and have read every story in every issue I could get my hands on during that time. I have yet to find a story in your pages that did not please me, though I am rarely pleased by any number of other magazines. The great¬ est thing you’ve done for some time is that of turning the cover illustrations over to M. Brundage. When I read a letter in the Ey¬ rie that offensively criticizes Brundage’s work, I feel like going out and looking up those prudes and challenging them to a duel with anything from boxing gloves to swords. It makes me so mad that any would-be re¬ former of the highest thing in art would try to compare Weird Tales to the 'red-hot, rare and racy’ (also sexy) magazines that clutter our news stands of today, that I see red every time I read one of their letters. By all means keep Brundage’s illustra¬ tions. . . . Now, to get along to your sto¬ ries, I think The Eighth Green Man, by G.

G. Pendarves, that was published back in 1928, was the best short story you have pub¬ lished since I read my first copy of Weird Tales. The Call of Cthulhu by H. P. Lovecraft I place second, and The Woman of the Wood by A. Merritt third. ... I was very glad to see another story by Nictzin Dyalhis in your pages. His When the Green Star Waned, that was published back in 1925, was also excellent. I have read several tales by Nictzin Dyalhis in other magazines, but his other stories are not up to the par he has set for WT. Now for the sheer, goosepimply, hair-raising stories, I unhesitatingly choose Whispers by Robert S. Carr and Dead Man’s Beit by Hugh B. Cave. About Seabury Quinn: I am always looking forward to his stories; the little Frenchman, de Grandin, with his triumphant exploits of the shadow world, is extremely great. I was disappointed when I saw no announcement of a forthcoming story about him in the next issue. But the disappointment was assuaged by the fact that Paul Ernst, Edmond Hamil¬ ton, Hugh B. Cave and Clark Ashton Smith will fill up the next month’s issue. And there is a writer for you: Clark Ashton Smith. The way that fellow can paint imaginary scenes and make the reader see what he is talking about, is marvelous. Comes to my mind a story by him in WT some time ago, namely, The Vaults of Yoh

My favorite stories in the April WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

(1) - -

( 2 ) - -

( 3 )--- -

I do not like the following stories:

(1) _ Why?-

( 2 ) -

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.



Vombis, an interplanetary yarn, and creepy; oh, oh! Well now, Mr. Wright, as this is my first letter, I hope you’ve read this far, and if you reprint The Eighth Green Man soon you’ll hear from me again.”

"I can’t wait until The Solitary Hunters ends, to tell you what I think of it,” writes Donald Allgeier, of Springfield, Missouri. "I’ve always liked Doctor Keller, and he is at his magnificent best in this story. I’m sorry that there are only three installments. Second place (and darn near a tie for first place) goes to The Sapphire Goddess by Nictzin Dyalhis, with Hamilton and How¬ ard as runners up. I am also glad to see a story by Pope again. ... A. Merritt’s re¬ print in the January issue was excellent. I hope you can see your way clear to reprint The Monster-God of Mamurth by Hamilton. Remember, you have new readers as well as old to please, and many of them are unac¬ quainted with the famous old stories of the magazine’s youth.”

R. H. Gayleard, of Washington, D. C., writes to the Eyrie: "I have been a regular reader of Weird Tales since the first issue, and can truthfully say I found something to enjoy in each and every issue. Lately there seems to be a bit of objection to some of the covers, in which I am interested as I have collected a number of them and would not like to see you print strictly conventional covers. However, if some of your readers object to nude covers, why not print plain covers and have an art insert of one or more illustrations ? In that way everyone could be satisfied. Personally, I think Weird Tales could be improved by more illustrations, and I agree with Mr. J. D. Arden that the illus¬ trations should suit every type of reader.”

"I like your covers just as they are, and don’t see how they could be improved on,” writes Diamond Bencke, of Garden City, Kansas. "But I would buy Weird Tales even if you published it without a cover.”

E. Irvine Haines, of Queens Village, Long Island, writes to the editor: "As an author and historian who digs into dry, uninterest¬ ing, musty records and letters, I read Weird Tales as a relaxation and for variety. I wonder why writers are persistent in trying to write about what is going to happen in the year 3000 or 10,000 instead of looking into the records of the past. The literature and records of New England, for example.

ARE YOU AN - ■ ENSLAVED GOD?

Are You Blinded to the Truth?

Are all the world’s benefits just beyond your reach? Are you held fast to one posi¬ tion in life, one line of work, one narrow margin of income? Is the great cry of the “SELF WITHIN” for freedom and personal power, choked into stillness by your limita10 3 A NEW FREE BOOK

Come, lay your biases, doubt, and hesi¬ tancy -aside! Learn the truth of YOUR POSSIBILITIES as soon as you free the inner self from its prison. Out of the grateful hearts of thousands in many lands have been set aside funds to pay for the printing and mailing of a strange message of Hope and Help. The Rosicrucians, a practical brotherhood of learning and in¬ struction, will see that this book is sent you. It is called “The Wisdom of the Sages," and it tells how the secrets of Nature and of man’s mind have been preserved since the days of Egypt’s great power—and HOW YOU, in the privacy of your home, may study these simple laws to OVERTHROW OBSTACLES IN LIFE, widen your circle of personal power and COMMAND A REALI¬ ZATION OF YOUR DESIRES. Address the Friar below and get a copy of this book at once if you are really sincere in your request.

FRIAR R. S. B.

ROSKRIKIAN BROTHERHOOD

SAN JOSE. ^CALIFORNIA

(Remember the Rosicrucians are NOT a Re¬ ligious Organization.)



NEXT MONTH

Vampires of the Moon

By A* W. BERNAL

H ere is a sensational weird-scien¬ tific novel of the Masters of the Moon and their mindless slaves—the story of a terrible threat against the in¬ habitants of Earth—a story of a bril¬ liant exploit of the Trans-spatial Serv¬ ice Legion.

T his is a pseudo-scientific story that is at the same time a weird tale of gripping horror and power—a tale of a ghastly menace, told in a fascinating style—a story that will carry you for¬ ward with the sweep of its vivid narra¬ tive—a tale of stirring events and heroic exploits against superhuman ob¬ stacles. This unusual novel will begin

in the May issue of


On sale May 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WEIRD TARES 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, Ill.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next five Issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the May Issue ($1.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

KameAddress-:---. ■ — .—

(Sty_Stateare rich with material as to witches, famil¬ iars, and evil spirits, ghouls, etc., such as would make fine subject matter for stories in Weird Tales. The same is true of Canada as to the loup-garou, and the hectic days of the old French regime full of torture and horror. No one takes the trouble to write about the Spanish inquisition, or about Mex¬ ico under the Spanish and Montezuma. Too many interplanetary stories and tales of im¬ possible conditions in centuries hence are appearing in Weird Tales. They occur with too much repetition and frequency. . . . Tar bis of the Lake by E. Hoffmann Price was the best story in the February issue, for it showed some research and considerable orig¬ inality and was well written. The others were poor in comparison. ... I would like to see some good ghost stories once in a while. There has been none of the hairraising kind in many moons. As to the cov¬ ers, I agree with many of your readers that it is all right to have undraped ladies on them, but for goodness’ sake have them in connec¬ tion with some story.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? The most popular tale in the Febru¬ ary issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was the second installment of Doctor Kel¬ ler’s thriller, The Solitary Hunters, which was closely pressed for first place by Nictzin Dyalhis’ tale, The Sapphire Goddess, and E. Hoffmann Price’s dreamy story, Tarbis of the Lake.

Coming soon —

The Trail of the Cloven Hoof By Arlton Eadie

A powerful weird novel

W. T.—8

Try Wilson’s Honey Horehound Menthol Cough Drops, 5c Everywhere

ALL

G I V E N

BOYS-GIRLS, Look Here Quick GI VEN — SEND NO MONEY

GIVEN

COMPLETE

ELECTRIC

RADIO or

BIG CASH

flno tone, compact. Five tubes, high quality Dynamic speaker included. Shielded chassis and 25 ft. antenna. It's unusual. SIMPLY GIVE AWAY FREE beautifully colored art picture, suitably tor bum" chaps* 1 ^our^ famou^WH 1 TE CLOVERINE SALVE tor cuts, remit,’ as per newbie premium pbm book. Wearorell,abUvLour 311th N0W ’

T-76, Tyrone, Pa,

BOYS! REPEATING RIFLE GIVEN

or Choice of CASH Commission

SEND NO MONEY Send Name and Address

BOYS - GIRLS

1934 Model LINDY FLYER | or Choice of CASH Commission Send Ho Honey

[THE END]
