============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: April 1939
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Special News Bulletin . « ," by Vincent Gaddis
============================================================
============================================================
SPECIAL NEWS BULLETIN . « ,
by Vincent Gaddis
============================================================
and with rimless, steel-bowed glasses glistening beneath a sallow, olive forehead of abnormal height.

It was the silent first-comer who had burned his books.

For all the rest of my life, in outward form, I was to be that man !

By VINCENT GADDIS A short weird tale of radio and a passenger air-liner

f^VOCTOR EDWARD CRAN1 DON stepped from the taxi. JL^ Lightning flashed. A gust of rain swept through the night.

"To Chicago, sir?"

"Yes." The doctor surrendered his suitcase to the airport attendant. The huge ship loomed into view. Its motors were roaring. The hangar lights were dim eyes in the mist, but the cabin windows gleamed cheerfully.

"Bad night, sir."

"It certainly is!"

The attendant handed the suitcase to the smiling hostess. Doctor Crandon stepped aboard and followed the hostess to his seat. A bad night. His first trip in the air. But the convention was only a few hours away, and his nervousness would vanish.

He settled back against the cushions and glanced at the other passengers: a middle-aged man reading a newspaper — a laughing couple, talking softly — a lady, rather old, wiping her eyes — a young man writing on the back of an envelope — a girl using her compact.

The lights Hashed out. The ship moved. Drops of water struck the window-pane, forming miniature rivers. Doctor Crandon pulled the blind down. They were in the air.

The plane lurched wildly. A sinking sensation, an instant of animal fear and panic, and then the plane was again roaring steadily through the night. The lights flashed on. Doctor Crandon smiled. Air-pocket.


The hostess appeared, smiling at the passengers. She calmed the old lady, adjusted a pillow, brought a glass of water to the middle-aged man. Doctor Crandon glanced at his watch. Eightthirty. Time for the news broadcast. As if reading his thoughts, the hostess stopped at his seat.

"Would you care to listen to the radio, sir? There's a small set at each seat with earphones attached instead of a loudspeaker."

"Thank you. I believe I will." Doctor Crandon slipped the phones over his head, and the hostess passed on. He spun the dial. A voice.

"At this time we bring you the news dispatches received over our special leased wires."

"Right on time," the doctor murmured.

The voice continued: "The Hindenburg, famous German dirigible, crashed in flames at Lakehurst, New Jersey, late today. The great ship, while attempting to land, and only several hundred feet in the air "

Doctor Crandon sat upright, his face frowning. Strange! The Hindenburg had crashed months ago. He remembered listening to these very words the night of the tragedy. Perhaps the news report was being repeated for some reason. He moved the dial. Lightning flashed. Thunder echoed through the cabin. Static — the soft, haunting murmur of an orchestra — another voice.

"We interrupt this program to bring

SPECIAL NEWS BULLETIN


you a special news bulletin. The Japanese forces have seized control of Shanghai. All foreigners have been warned " The voice faded. Shanghai had been taken the night Kellar, his heart-disease patient, died. Weeks ago.

Suddenly Doctor Crandon recalled reading a scientific theory. Every sound that has ever been made is still vibrating in the ether. Every radio program is still in existence in space. The noises of long-dead history might some day be captured. Could it be possible that, due to electrical and magnetic conditions caused by the storm, the radio was picking up broadcasts made weeks before?

rpHE doctor's attention returned to

the radio as a strange hum struck his ears. The hum faded into music — weird music, unlike anything he had ever heard. The music stopped. Clear, penetrating, came an announcement:

"Special news flash. The United States of Europe has declared war on the Federation of South American States. President Mary Dixon, in an official statement, has announced that refusal to grant trade "

Static. Again the sky flamed with brilliant light. A woman's voice.

"Increased meteoric interference may cause officials to stop all space traffic between Mars and Venus. The solar system will move out of the danger zone within two weeks. The Scenic Spaceways Company tonight canceled all week-end trips to planets beyond Mars and "

The future? Doctor Crandon was listening to broadcasts that were yet to be made! Time — the fourth dimension. Time — extending into space like length and breadth. The events of the future really existed somewhere, and

due to some freakish law of nature, some unknown condition of cosmic forces in the air, it was possible for him to tune in on tomorrow. His discovery would rock the scientific world.

He glanced at the passengers. Were any of them using their radios? The old lady was staring into space — the couple were still talking — the middleaged man was sleeping — the young man was reading a magazine — the girl was working on her fingernails. The secret was his — alone.

A cold paralysis gripped him. He was on the edge of the great unknown. He must listen. Stock market reports. Race results. The tide of wars. New discoveries. He could make millions, be a prophet, a great inventor. He slowly turned the dial, listened.

Suddenly the roaring motors died. A series of jolts. The plane was landing. So soon? Doctor Crandon looked at his watch. Eight-thirty. The hostess appeared, smiling. The passengers arose and prepared to leave.

It was dark outside. Doctor Crandon reached for the blind, but the hostess caught his arm.

"Wait,'; she said.

Still smiling, she opened the top of the radio, turned something inside, jerked a wire. A voice boomed into the earphones. Doctor Crandon stiffened as he listened to the words:

"Special news bulletin. The 8.15 New York-Chicago airliner crashed tonight shortly after leaving the airport. Seven passengers, two pilots, and a hostess were on board. All were killed instantly. Among the passengers was Doctor Edward Crandon, famous specialist. He was on his way to attend the Chicago Medical Convention "

Doctor Crandon jerked the phone3 from his head and followed the other passengers to the door.

urse of Yii

By Z. B. BISHOP

TTN 1925 I went into Oklahoma I looking for snake lore, and I came A out with a fear of snakes that will last me the rest of my life. I admit it is foolish, since there are natural explanations for everything I saw and heard, but it masters me none the less. If the old story had been all there was to it, I would not have been so badly shaken. My work as an American Indian ethnologist has hardened, me to all kinds of extravagant legendry, and I know that simple white people can beat the redskins at their own game when it comes to fanciful inventions. But I can't forget what I saw with my own eyes at the insane asylum in Guthrie.

I called at that asylum because a few of the oldest settlers told me I would find something important there. Neither Indians nor white men would discuss the snake-god legends I had come to trace. The oil-boom newcomers, of course, knew nothing of such matters, and the red men and old pioneers were plainly frightened when I spoke of

* From WEIRD TALES for November, 1929.

them. Not more than six or seven people mentioned the asylum, and those who did were careful to talk in whispers. But the whisperers said that Dr. McNeill could show me a very terrible relic and tell me all I wanted to know. He could explain why Yig, the halfhuman father of serpents, is a shunned and feared object in central Oklahoma, and why old settlers shiver at the secret Indian orgies which make the autumn days and nights hideous with the ceaseless beating of tom-toms in lonely places.

It was with the scent of a hound on the trail that I went to Guthrie, for I had spent many years collecting data on the evolution of serpent-worship among the Indians. I had always felt, from well-defined undertones of legend and archeology, that great Quetzalcoatl — benign snake-god of the Mexicans — had had an older and darker prototype; and during recent months I had well-nigh proved it in a series of researches stretching from Guatemala to the Oklahoma plains. But everything

THE CURSE OF Y1G


was tantalizing and incomplete, for above the border the cult of the snake was hedged about by fear and furtiveness.

Now it appeared that a new and copious source of data was about to dawn, and I sought the head of the asylum with an eagerness I did not try to cloak. Doctor McNeill was a small clean-shaven man of somewhat advanced years, and I saw at once from his speech and manner that he was a scholar of no mean attainments in many branches outside his profession. Grave and doubtful when I first made known my errand, his face grew thoughtful as he carefully scanned my credentials and the letter of introduction which a kindly old ex-Indian agent had given me.

"So you've been studying the Yiglegend, eh?" he reflected sententiously. "I know that many of our Oklahoma ethnologists have tried to connect it with Quctzalcoatl, but I don't think any of them have traced the intermediate steps so well. You've done remarkable work for a man as young as you seem to be, and you certainly deserve all the data we can give.

"I don't suppose old Major Moore or any of the others told you what it is I have here. They don't like to talk about it, and neither do I. It is very tragic and very horrible, but that is all. I refuse to consider it anything supernatural. There's a story about it that I'll tell you after you see it — a devilish sad story, but one that I won't call magic. It merely shows the potency diat belief has over some people. I'll admit there are times when I feel a shiver that's more than physical, but in daylight I set all that down to nerves. I'm not a young fellow any more, alas !

"To come to the point, the thing I have is what you might call a victim of Yig's curse — a physically living victim. We don't let the bulk of the nurses see it, although most of them know it's here. There are just two steady old chaps whom I let feed it and clean out its quarters — used to be three, but good old Stevens passed on a few years ago. I suppose I'll have to break in a new group pretty soon; for the thing does not seem to age or change much, and we old boys can't last for ever. Maybe the ediics of the near future will let us give it a merciless release, but it's hard to tell.

"Did you see that single groundglass basement window over in the east wing when you came up the drive? That's where it is. I'll take you there myself now. You needn't make any comment. Just look through the movable panel in the door and thank God the light isn't any stronger. Then I'll tell you the story — or as much as I've been able to piece together."

WE walked downstairs very quiedy, and did not talk as we threaded the corridors of the seemingly deserted basement. Doctor McNeill unlocked a gray-painted steel door, but it was only a bulkhead leading to a further stretch of hallway. At length he paused before a door marked B 116, opened a small observation panel which he could use only by standing on tiptoe, and pounded several times upon the painted metal, as if to arouse the occupant, whatever it might be.

A faint stench came from the aperture as the doctor unclosed it, and I fancied his pounding elicited a kind of low, hissing response. Finally he motioned me to replace him at the peephole, and I did so with a causeless and increasing tremor. The barred, groundglass window, close to the earth outside, admitted only a feeble and uncertain pallor j and I had to look into the maloWEIRD TALES


dorous den for several seconds before I could see what was crawling and wriggling about on the straw-covered floor, emitting every now and then a weak and vacuous hiss. Then the shadowed outlines began to take shape, and I perceived that the squirming entity bore some remote resemblance to a human form laid flat on its belly. I clutched at the door-handle for support as I tried to. keep from fainting.

The moving object was almost of human size, and entirely devoid of clothing. It was absolutely hairless, and its tawny-looking back seemed subtly squamous in the dim, ghoulish light.

Around the shoulders it was rather speckled and brownish, and the head was very curiously flat. As it looked up to hiss at me I saw that the beady little black eyes were damnably anthropoid, but I could not bear to study them long. They fastened themselves on me with a horrible persistence, so that I closed the panel gaspingly and left the creature to wriggle about unseen in its matted straw and spectral twilight. I must have reeled a bit, for I saw that the doctor was gently holding my arm as he guided me away. I was stuttering over and over again: "B-but for God's sake, what is it?"

Doctor McNeill told me the story in his private office as I sprawled opposite him in an easy-chair. The gold and crimson of late afternoon changed to the violet of early dusk, but still I sat awed and motionless. I resented every ring of the telephone and every whir of the buzzer, and I could have cursed the nurses and internes whose knocks now and then summoned the doctor briefly to the outer office. Night came, and I was glad my host switched on all the lights. Scientist though I was, my zeal for research was half forgotten

amid such breathless ecstasies of fright as a small boy might feel when whispered witch-tales go the rounds of the chimney-corner.

It seems that Yig, the snake-god of the central plains tribes — presumably the primal source of the more southerly Quetzalcoatl or Kukulcan — was an odd, half-anthropomorphic devil of highly arbitrary and capricious nature. He was not wholly evil, and was usually quite well disposed toward those who gave proper respect to him and his children, the serpents; but in the autumn he became abnormally ravenous and had to be driven away by means of suitable rites. That was why the tom-toms in the Pawnee, Wichita, and Caddo country pounded ceaselessly week in and week out in August, September, and October; and why the medicine-men made strange noises with rattles and whistles curiously like those of the Aztecs and Mayas.

Yig's chief trait was a relentless devotion to his children — a devotion so great that the redskins almost feared to protect themselves from the venomous rattlesnakes which thronged the region. Frightful clandestine tales hinted of his vengeance upon mortals who flouted him or wreaked harm upon his wriggling progeny; his chosen method being to turn his victim, after suitable tortures, to a spotted snake.

Tn the old days of the Indian Ter- - ritory, the doctor went on, there was not quite so much secrecy about Yig. The plains tribes, less cautious than the desert nomads and Pueblos, talked quite freeiy of their legends and autumn ceremonies with the first Indian agents, and let considerable of the lore spread out through the neighboring regions of white settlement. The great fear came in the land-rush days

THE CURSE OF YIG


of 'eighty-nine, when some extraordinary incidents had been rumored, and the rumors sustained, by what seemed to be hideously tangible proofs. Indians said that the new white men did not know how to get on with Yig, and afterward the settlers came to take that theory at face value. Now no oldtimer in middle Oklahoma, white or red, could be induced to breathe a word about the snake-god except in vague hints. Yet after all, the doctor added with almost needless emphasis, the only truly authenticated horror had been a thing of pitiful tragedy rather than of bewitchment. It was all very material and cruel — even that last phase which had caused so much dispute.

Doctor McNeill paused and cleared his throat before getting down to his special story, and I felt a tingling sensation as when a theatre curtain rises. The thing had begun when Walker Davis and his wife Audrey left Arkansas to settle in the newly opened public lands in the spring of 1889, and the end had come in the country of the Wichitas — north of the Wichita River, in what is at present Caddo County. There is a small village called Binger there now, and the railway goes through; but otherwise the place is less changed than other parts of Oklahoma. It is still a section of farms and ranches — quite productive in these days — since the great oil-fields do not come very close.

Walker and Audrey ha'd come from Franklin County in the Ozarks with a canvas-topped wagon, two mules, an ancient and useless dog called Wolf, and all their household goods. They were typical hill-folk, youngish and perhaps a little more ambitious than most, and looked forward to a life of better returns for their hard work than

they had had in Arkansas. Both were lean, raw-boned specimens; the man tall, sandy, and gray-eyed, and the woman short and rather dark, with a black straightness of hair suggesting a slight Indian admixture.

In general, there was very little of distinction about them, and but for one thing their annals might not have differed from those of thousands of other pioneers who flocked into the new country at that time. That thing was Walker's almost epileptic fear of snakes, which some laid to prenatal causes, and some said came from a dark prophecy about his end with which an old Indian squaw had tried to scare him when he was small. Whatever the cause, the effect was marked indeed; for despite his strong general courage the very mention of a snake would cause him to grow faint and pale, while the sight of even a tiny specimen would produce a shock sometimes bordering on a convulsion seizure.

The Davises started out early in the year, in the hope of being on their new land for the spring plowing. Travel was slow; for the roads were bad in Arkansas, while in the Territory there were great stretches of rolling hills and red, sandy barrens without any roads whatever. As the terrain grew flatter, the change from their native mountains depressed them more, perhaps, than they realized, but they found the people at the Indian agencies very affable, while most of the settled Indians seemed friendly and civil. Now and then they encountered a fellow-pioneer, with whom crude pleasantries and expressions of amiable rivalry were generally exchanged.

Owing to the season, there were not many snakes in evidence, so Walker did not suffer from his special temperamental weakness. In the earlier stages



of the journey, too, there were no Indian snake legends to trouble him; for the transplanted tribes from the southeast do not share the wilder beliefs of their western neighbors. As fate would have it, it was a white man at Okmulgee in the Creek country who gave the Davises the first hint of the Yig beliefs ; a hint which had a curiously fascinating effect on Walker, and caused him to ask "questions very freely after that.

Before long Walker's fascination had developed into a bad case of fright. He took the most extraordinary precautions at each of the nightly camps, always clearing away whatever vegetation he found, and avoiding stony places whenever he could. Every clump of stunted bushes and every cleft in the great, slab-like rocks seemed to him now to hide malevolent serpents, while every human figure not obviously part of a settlement or emigrant train seemed to him a potential snake-god till nearness had proved the contrary. Fortunately no troublesome encounters came at this stage to shake his nerves still further.

As they approached the Kickapoo country they found it harder and harder to avoid camping near rocks. Finally it was no longer possible, and poor Walker was reduced to the puerile expedient of droning some of the rustic anti-snake charms he had learned in his boyhood. Two or three times a snake was really glimpsed, and these sights did not help the sufferer in his efforts to preserve composure.

On the twenty-second evening of die journey a savage wind made it imperative, for the sake of the mules, to camp in as sheltered a spot as possible; and Audrey persuaded her husband to take advantage of a cliff which rose uncommonly high above the dried bed of a former tributary of the Canadian

River. He did not like the rocky cast of the place, but allowed himself to be overruled this once; leading the animals sullenly toward the protecting slope, which the nature of the ground would not allow the wagon to approach.

Audrey, examining the rocks near the wagon, meanwhile noticed a singular sniffing on the part of the feeble old dog. Seizing a rifle, she followed his lead, and presently thanked her stars that she had forestalled Walker in her discovery. For there, snugly nested in the gap between two boulders, was a sight it would have done him no good to see. Visible only as one convoluted expanse, but perhaps comprising as many as three or four separate units, was a mass of lazy wriggling which could not be other than a brood of newborn rattlesnakes.

Anxious to save Walker from a trying shock, Audrey did not hesitate to act, but took the gun firmly by the barrel and brought the butt down again and again upon the writhing objects. Her own sense of loathing was great, but it did not amount to a real fear. Finally she saw that her task was done, and turned to cleanse the improvised bludgeon in the red sand and dry, dead grass near by. She must, she reflected, cover the nest up before Walker got back from tethering the mules. Old Wolf, tottering relic of mixed shepherd and coyote ancestry that he was, had vanished, and she feared he had gone to fetch his master.

TpooTSTEPS at that instant proved * her fear well founded, A second more, and Walker had seen everything. Audrey made a move to catch him if he should faint, but he did no more than sway. Then the look of pure fright on his bloodless face turned slowly to

THE CURSE OF YIG

14?

something like mingled awe and anger, and he began to upbraid his wife in trembling tones.

"Gawd's sake, Aud, but why'd ye go for to do that? Hain't ye heerd all the things they've ben tellin' about this snake-devil Yig? Ye'd ought to a told me, and we'd a moved on. Don't ye know they's a devil-god what gets even if ye hurts his children? What for d'ye think the Injuns all dances and beats their drums in the fall about? This land's under a curse, I can tell ye — nigh every soul we've a-talked to sence we come in's said the same. Yig rules here, an' he comes out every fall for to git his victims and turn 'em into snakes. Why, Aud, they won't none of them Injuns acrost the Canayjin kill a snake for love nor money !

"Gawd knows what ye done to yourself, gal, a-stompin' out a hull brood o' Yig's chillen. He'll git ye, sure, sooner or later, unlessen I kin buy a charm offen some o' the Injun medicine-men. He'll git ye, Aud, as sure's they's a Gawd in heaven — he'll come oua the night and turn ye into a crawlin' spotted snake !"

All the rest of the journey Walker kept up the frightened reproofs and prophecies. They crossed the Canadian near Newcastle, and soon afterward met with the first of the real plains Indians they had seen — a party of blanketed Wichitas, whose leader talked freely under the spell of the whisky offered him, and taught poor Walker a long-winded protective charm against Yig in. exchange for a quart bottle of the same inspiring fluid. By the end of the week the chosen site in the Wichita country was reached, and the Davises made haste to trace their boundaries and perform the spring plowing before even beginning the construction of a cabin.

The region was flat, drearily windy, and sparse of natural vegetation, but promised great fertility under cultivation. Occasional outcroppings of granite diversified a soil of decomposed red sandstone, and here and there a great flat rock would stretch along the surface of the ground like a man-made floor. There seemed to be very few snakes, or possible dens for them; so Audrey at last persuaded Walker to build the one-room cabin over a vast, smooth slab of exposed stone. With such a flooring and with a good-sized fireplace the wettest weather might be defied — though it soon became evident that dampness was no salient quality of the district. Logs were hauled in the wagon from the nearest belt of woods, many miles toward the Wichita Mountains.

Walker built his wide-chimneyed cabin and crude barn with the aid of the other settlers, though the nearest one was over a mile away. In turn, he helped his helpers at similar houseraisings, so that many ties of friendship sprang up between the new neighbors. There was no town worthy the name nearer than El Reno, on the railway thirty miles or more to the northeast; and before many weeks had passed, the people of the section had become very cohesive despite the wideness of their scattering. The Indians, a few of whom had begun to settle down on ranches, were for the most part harmless, though somewhat quarrelsome when fired by the liquid stimulation which found its way to them despite all Government bans.

Of all the neighbors the Davises found Joe and Sally Compton, who likewise hailed from Arkansas, the most helpful and congenial. Sally is still alive, known now as Grandma Compton; and her son Clyde, then an infant



in arms, has become one of the leading men of the State. Sally and Audrey used to visit each other often, for their cabins were only two miles apart; and in the long spring and summer afternoons they exchanged many a tale of old Arkansas and many a rumor about the new country.

Sally was very sympathetic about Walker's weakness regarding snakes, but perhaps did more to aggravate than cure the parallel nervousness which Audrey was acquiring through his incessant praying and prophesying about the curse of Yig. She was uncommonly full of gruesome snake stories, and produced a direfully strong impression with her acknowledged masterpiece — the tale of a man in Scott County who had been bitten by a whole horde of rattlers at once, and had swelled so monstrously from poison that his body had finally burst with a pop. Needless to say, Audrey did not repeat this anecdote to her husband, and she implored the Comptons to beware of starting it on the rounds of the countryside. It is to Joe's and Sally's credit that they heeded this plea with the utmost fidelity.

Walker did his corn-planting early, and in midsummer improved his time by harvesting a fair crop of the native grass of the region. With the help of Joe Compton he dug a well which gave a moderate supply of very good water, though he planned to sink an artesian later on. He did not run into many serious snake scares, and made his land as inhospitable as possible for wriggling visitors. Every now and then he rode over to the cluster of thatched, conical huts which formed the main village of the Wichitas, and talked long with the old men and shamans about the snake-god and how to nullify his wrath. Charms were always ready in

exchange for whisky, but much of the information he got was far from reassuring.

Yig was a great god. He was bad medicine. He did not forget things. In the autumn his children were hungry and wild, and Yig was hungry and wild, too. All the tribes made medicine against Yig when the corn harvest came. They gave him some corn, and danced in proper regalia to the sound of whistle, rattle, and drum. They kept the drums pounding to drive Yig away, and called down the aid of Tirawa, whose children men are, even as the snakes are Yig's children. It was bad that the squaw of Davis killed the children of Yig. Let Davis say the charms many times when the corn harvest comes. Yig is Yig. Yig is a great god.

By the time the corn harvest did come, Walker had succeeded in getting his wife into a deplorably jumpy state. His prayers and borrowed incantations came to be a nuisance; and when the autumn rites of the Indians began, there was always a distant wind-borne pounding of tom-toms to lend an added background of the sinister. It was maddening to have the muffled clatter always stealing over the wide, red plains. Why would it never stop? Day and night, week on week, it was always going in exhaustless relays, as persistently as the red dusty winds that carried it. Audrey loathed it more than her husband did, for he saw in it a compensating element of protection. It was with this sense of a mighty, intangible bulwark against evil that he got in his corn crop and prepared cabin and stable for the coming winter.

The autumn was abnormally warm, and except for their primitive cookery the Davises found scant use for the stone fireplace Walker had built with such care. Something in the unnaturalTHE CURSE OF YIG


ness of the hot dust-clouds preyed on the nerves of all the settlers, but most of all on Audrey's and Walker's. The notions of a hovering snake-curse and the weird, endless rhythm of the distant Indian drums formed a bad combination which any added element of the bizarre went far to render utterly unendurable.

Notwithstanding this strain, several festive gatherings were held at one or another of the cabins after the crops were reaped: keeping naively alive in modernity those curious rites of the harvest-home which are as old as human agriculture itself. Lafayette Smith, who came from southern Missouri and had a cabin about three miles east of Walker's, was a very passable fiddler; and his tunes did much to make the celebrants forget the monotonous beating of the distant tom-toms. Then Hallowe'en drew near, and the setders planned another frolic — this time, had they but known it, of a lineage older than even agriculture : the dread WitchSabbath of the primal pre-Aryans, kept alive through ages in the midnight blackness of secret woods, and still hinting at vague terrors under its latterday mask of comedy and lightness. Hallowe'en was to fall on a Thursday, and the neighbors agreed to gather for their first revel at the Davis cabin.

Tt was on that thirty-first of Oetober that the warm spell broke. The morning was gray and leaden, and by noon the incessant winds had changed from searingness to rawness. People shivered all the more because they were not prepared for the chill, and Walker Davis's old dog, Wolf, dragged himself wearily indoors to a place beside the hearth. But the distant drums still thumped on, nor were the white citizenry less inclined to pursue their

chosen rites. As early as four in the afternoon the wagons began to arrive at Walker's cabin; and in the evening, after a memorable barbecue, Lafayette Smith's fiddle inspired a very fair-sized company to great feats of saltatory grotesqueness in the one good-sized but crowded room. The younger folk indulged in the amiable inanities proper to the season, and now and then old Wolf would howl with doleful and spine-tickling ominousness at some especially spectral strain from Lafayette's squeaky violin — a device he had never heard before. Mostly, though, this battered veteran slept through die merriment, for he was past the age of active interests and lived largely in his dreams. Tom and Jennie Rigby had brought their collie Zeke along, but the canines did not fraternize. Zeke seemed strangely uneasy over something, and nosed around curiously all the evening.

Audrey and Walker made a fine couple on the floor, and Grandma Compton still likes to recall her impression of their dancing that night. Their worries seemed forgotten for the nonce, and Walker was shaved and trimmed into a surprising degree of spruceness. By ten o'clock all hands were healthily tired, and the guests began to depart family by family with many handshakings and bluff assurances of what a fine time everybody had had. Tom and Jennie thought Zeke's eery howls as he followed them to their wagon were marks of regret at having to go home; though Audrey said it must be the far-away tom-toms which annoyed him, for the distant thumping was surely ghastly enough after the merriment within.

The night was bitterly cold, and for the first time Walker put a great log in the fireplace and banked it with ashes to keep it smoldering till morning. Old



Wolf dragged himself within the ruddy glow and lapsed into his customary coma. Audrey and Walker, too tired to think of charms or curses, tumbled into the rough pine bed and were asleep before the cheap alarm-clock on the mantel had ticked out three minutes. And from far away, the rhythmic pounding of those hellish tom-toms still pulsed on the chill night wind.

Doctor McNeill paused here and removed his glasses, as if a blurring of the objective world might make the reminiscent vision clearer.

"You'll soon appreciate," he said, "that I had a great deal of difficulty in piecing out all that happened after the guests left. There were times, though — at first — when I was able to make a try at it." After a moment of silence he went on with the tale.

Audrey had terrible dreams of Yig, who appeared to her in the guise of Satan as depicted in cheap engravings she had seen. It was, indeed, from an absolute ecstasy of nightmare that she started suddenly awake to find Walker already conscious and sitting up in bed. He seemed to be listening intently to something, and silenced her with a whisper when she began to ask what had aroused him.

"Hark, Aud!" he breathed. "Don't ye hear somethin' a-singin' and buzzin' and rustlin' ? D'ye reckon it's the fall crickets?"

Certainly, there .w^as distincdy audible within the cabin such a sound as he had described. Audrey tried to analyze it, and was impressed with some element at once horrible and familiar, which hovered just outside the rim of her memory. And beyond it all, waking a hideous thought, the monotonous beating of the distant tom-toms came incessantly across the black plains on which a cloudy half-moon had set.

"Walker — s'pose it's — the — the — curse o' Yig?"

She could feel him tremble.

"No, gal, I don't reckon he comes that way. He's shapen like a man, except ye look at him clost. That's what Chief Gray Eagle says. This here's some varmints come in outen the cold — not crickets, I calc'late, but summat like 'em. I orter git up and stomp 'em out afore they make much headway or git at the cupboard."

He rose, felt for the lantern that hung within easy reach, and rattled the tin match-box nailed to the wall beside it. Audrey sat up in bed and watched the. flare of the match grow into the steady glow of the lantern. Then, as their eyes began to take in the whole of the room, the crude rafters shook with the frenzy of their simultaneous shriek. For the flat, rocky floor, revealed in the new-born illumination, was one seething, brown-speckled mass of wriggling rattlesnakes, slithering toward the fire, and even now turning their loa^some heads to menace the fright-blasted lantern-bearer.

It was only for an instant that Audrey saw the things. The reptiles were of every size, of uncountable numbers, and apparently of several varieties; and even as she looked, two or three of them reared their heads as if to strike at Walker. She did not faint — it was Walker's crash to the floor that extinguished the lantern and plunged her into blackness. He had not screamed a second time — fright had paralyzed him, and he fell as if shot by a silent arrow from no mortal's bow. To Audrey the entire world seemed to whirl about fantastically, mingling with the nightmare from which she had started.

Voluntary motion of any sort was impossible, for will and the sense of

THE CURSE OF YIG


reality had left her. She fell back inertly on her pillow, hoping that she would wake soon. No actual sense of what had happened penetrated her mind for some time. Then, little by little, the suspicion that she was really awake began to dawn on her; and she was convulsed with a mounting blend of panic and grief which made her long to shriek out despite the inhibiting spell which kept her mute.

Walker was gone, and she had not been able to help him. He had died of snakes, just as the old witch-woman had predicted when he was a little boy. Poor Wolf had not been able to help, either — probably he had not even awakened from his senile stupor. And now the crawling things must be coming for her, w T rithing closer and closer every moment in the dark, perhaps even now twining slipperily about the bedposts and oozing up over the coarse woollen blankets. Unconsciously she crept under the clothes and trembled.

It must be the curse of Yig. He had sent his monstrous children on All-Hallows 1 Night, and they had taken Walker first. Why was that — wasn't he innocent enough? Why not come straight for her — hadn't she killed those little rattlers alone? Then she thought of the curse's form as told by the Indians. She wouldn't be killed — just turned to a spotted snake. Ugh ! So she would be like those things she had glimpsed on the floor — those things which Yig had sent to get her and enroll her among. their number ! She tried to mumble a charm that Walker had taught her, but found she could not utter a single sound,

THE noisy ticking of the alarm-clock sounded above the maddening beat of the distant tom-toms. The snakes were taking a long time — did they

mean to delay on purpose to play on her nerves? Every now and then she thought she felt a steady, insidious pressure on the bedclothes, but each time it turned out to be only the automatic twitchings of her over-wrought nerves. The clock ticked on in the dark, and a change came slowly over her thoughts.

Those snakes couldn't have taken so long! They couldn't be Yig's messengers after all, but just natural rattlers that were nested below the rock and had been drawn there by the fire. They weren't coming for her, perhaps — perhaps they had sated themselves on poor W alker. Where were they now ? Gone ? Coiled by the fire? Still crawling over the prone corpse of their victim? The clock ticked, and the distant drums throbbed on.

At the thought of her husband's body lying there in the pitch blackness a thrill of purely physical horror passed over Audrey. That story of Sally Compton's about the. man back in Scott County ! He, too, had been bitten by a whole bunch of rattlesnakes, and what had happened to him ? The poison had rotted the flesh and swelled the whole corpse, and in the end the bloated thing had burst horribly — burst horribly with a detestable popping noise. Was that what was happening to Walker down, there on the rock floor? Instinctively she felt that she had begun to listen for something too terrible even to name to herself.

The clock ticked on, keeping a kind of mocking, sardonic time with the faroff drumming that the night wind brought. She wished it were a striking clock, so that she could know how long this eldritch vigil must last. She cursed the toughness of fiber that kept her from fainting, and wondered what sort of relief the dawn could bring, after all. Probably neighbors would pass — no

1*0


doubt somebody would call — would they find her still sane? Was she still sane now?

Morbidly listening, Audrey all at once became aware of something which she had to verify with every effort of her will before she could believe it; and which, once verified, she did not know whether to welcome or dread. The distant beating of the Indian tom-toms had ceased.

She did not relish this new and sudden silence, after all ! There was something sinister about it. The loud-ticking clock seemed abnormal in its new loneliness. Capable at last of conscious motion, she shook the covers from her face and looked into the darkness toward the window. It must have cleared after the moon set, for she saw the square aperture distincdy against the background of stars.

Then without warning came that shocking, unutterable sound — ugh ! — that dull pop of cleft skin and escaping poison in the dark. God ! — The bonds of muteness snapped, and the black night waxed reverberant with Audrey's screams of stark, unbridled frenzy.

Consciousness did not pass away with the shock. How merciful if only it had ! Amidst the echoes of her shrieking Audrey still saw the star-sprinkled square of window ahead, and heard the doom-boding ticking of that frightful clock. Did she hear another sound? Was that square window still a perfect square? She was in no condition to weigh the evidence of her senses or distinguish between fact and hallucination.

No — that window was not a perfect square. Something had encroached on the lower edge. Nor was the ticking of the clock the only sound in the room. There was, beyond dispute, a heavy breathing neither her own nor poor Wolf's. Wolf slept very silently, and

his wakeful wheezing was unmistakable. Then Audrey saw against the stars the black, demoniac silhouette of something anthropoid — the undulant bulk of a gigantic head and shoulders fumbling slowly toward her.

"Y'aaaah ! Y'aaaah ! Go away! Go away! Go away, snake devil! Go 'way, Yig! I didn't mean to kill 'em — I was feared he'd be scairt of 'em. Don't, Yig, don't ! I didn't go for to hurt yore chillen — don't come nigh me — don't change me into no spotted snake !"

But the half-formless head and shoulders only lurched onward toward the bed, very silently.

Everything snapped at once inside Audrey's head, and in a second she had turned from a cowering child to a raging madwoman. She knew where the ax was — hung against the wall on those pegs near the lantern. It was within easy reach, and she could find it in the dark. Before she was conscious of anything further it was in her hands, and she was creeping toward the foot of the bed — toward the monstrous head and shoulders that every moment groped their way nearer. Had there been any light, the look on her face would not have been pleasant to see.

"Take that, you! And that, and that, and that!"

She was laughing shrilly now, and her cackles mounted higher as she saw that the starlight beyond the window was yielding to the dim prophetic pallor of coming dawn.

T^OCTOR MCNEILL wiped the persiration from his forehead and put on his glasses again. I waited for him to resume, and as he kept silent, I spoke softly.

"She lived? She was found? Was it ever explained?"

The doctor cleared his throat.

• THE CURSE OF YIG


"Yes — she lived, in a way. And it was explained. I told you there was no bewitchment — only cruel, pitiful, material horror."

It was Sally Compton who had made the discovery. She had ridden over to the Davis cabin the next afternoon to talk over the party with Audrey, and had seen no smoke from the chimney. That was queer. It had turned very warm again, yet Audrey was usually cooking something at that hour. The mules were making hungry-sounding noises in the barn, and there was no sign of old Wolf sunning himself in the accustomed spot by the door.

Altogether, Sally did not like the look of the place, so was very timid and hesitant as she dismounted and knocked. She got no answer, but waited some time before trying the crude door of split logs. The lock, it appeared, was unfastened; and she slowly pushed her way in. Then, perceiving what was there, she reeled back, gasped, and clung to the jamb to preserve her balance.

A terrible odor had welled out as she opened the door, but that was not what had stunned her. It was what she had seen. For within that shadowy cabin monstrous things had happened and three shocking objects remained on the floor to awe and baffle the beholder.

"\TEAR the burned-out fireplace was ' the great dog — purple decay on the skin left bare by mange and old age, and the whole carcass burst by the puffing effect of ratdesnake poison. It must have been bitten by a veritable legion of the reptiles.

To the right of die door was the axhacked remnant of what had been a man — clad in a nightshirt, and with the shattered bulk of a lantern clenched in one hand. He was totally free from

any sign of snake-bite. Near him lay the ensanguined ax, carelessly discarded.

And wriggling flat on the floor was a loathsome, vacant-eyed thing that had been a woman, but was now only a mute mad caricature. All that this thing could do was to hiss, and hiss, and hiss.

Both the doctor and I were brushing cold drops from our foreheads by this time. He poured something from a flask on his desk, took a nip, and handed another glass to me. I could only suggest tremulously and stupidly:

"So Walker had only fainted that first time — the screams roused him, and the ax did the rest?"

"Yes." Doctor McNeill's voice was low. "But he met his death from snakes just the same. It was his fear working in two ways — it made him faint, and it made him fill his wife with the wild stories that caused her to strike out when she thought she saw the snake devil."

I thought for a moment.

"And Audrey — wasn't it queer how the curse of Yig seemed to work itself out on her? I suppose the impresion of hissing snakes had been fairly ground into her."

"Yes. There were lucid spells at first, but they got to be fewer and fewer. Her hair came white at the roots as it grew, and later began to fall out. The skin grew blotchy, and when she died "

I interrupted with a start.

"Died? Then what was that — that thing downstairs?"

Doctor McNeill spoke gravely.

"That is what was born to her threequarters of a year afterwards. There were three more of them — two were even worse — but this is the only one that lived."

COMING NEXT MONTH

Robert E. Howard, at the time of his tragic death, was working on a new novel for WEIRD TALES. He had completed a rough first draft, k and nearly completed a revision which was to be his final version. The bullet which crashed into his brain prevented the author from finishing this, his last story. It is a thriDing tale of popping action, depicted as only Howard could depict action, with a bone-crushing wildcat of a hero, in the weirdest possible adventures.

So engrossing is this story, Almuric, that Weird Tales would not be playing fair with you, the readers, if we did not let you see it. Therefore we have pieced together the nearly completed final draft that Howard wrote, with the final pages of Howard's rough first draft, which contains a smashing denouement.

Beginning in the United States in our day, the scene quickly shifts to another planet, called by the author Almuric. From his arrival in Almuric, the hero tells the story of his weird adventures in his own words. And what adventures they are ! The creator of those indomitable characters that have delighted thousands of readers of this magazine — King Kull and his Shadow Kingdom, Solomon Kane the dour Puritan righter of wrongs, Conan the barbarian adventurer — 'has here created the doughtiest hero of them all : Esau Cairn, also known as Esau Ironhand.

This fascinating story will begin publication in next month's WEIRD Tales.

ALMURIC

By Robert E. Howard

als

THE DARK ISLE

By Robert Bloch

THE THINKING MACHINE

By J. J. CONNINGTON

A tale of the Romans and the Druids, and the horrendous doom revealed by the flaring torchlight in a frightful underground cavern in England.

A strange and curious story about a fantastic machine that possessed a brute desire to slay— a startling thrill-tale of an eery invention.

THE HOLLOW MOON

By Everil Worrell

WASHINGTON NOCTURNE

By Seabury Quinn

A fascinatingly different story about a weird adventure that befell a yachting party shipwrecked in the South Seas — the strangest of all vampire tales.

Who was the stranger that walked before the Tomb and vanished, yet by his mere coming radically changed the lives of three persons? — a tale of the Unknown Soldier.

/" ■ HE increased, number of pages has been enthusiastically received by J„ you, the readers, judging by the letters that you have sent to the Eyrie. The only doubt in any of your letters has been a slight fear that we will not be able to keep up the quality that you have come to expect in Weird 'Tales. We can only pledge again that there will be no falling off in the quality of our stories. Of this you may be sure.

A Jumbo Edition Sam Moskowitz writes from Newark, New Jersey: "Need I mention the great gratification with which I read the jumbo (comparatively speaking) issue of Weird Tales which hit the newsstand bur a few days past? The increased content, it gives me pleasure to state, has not in the least affected the fine quality of your material. All the little nicknacks which give the magazine atmosphere are back again, along with the masterful Finlay and the incomparable Lovecraft, Howard and Smith. May you find the success your magazine justly deserves."

32 Pages Thicker Harry Warner, Jr., writes from Hagerstown, Maryland: "What a shock to see Weird Tales 32 pages thicker! Of course, I had known it was coming, for I had seen the announcements, and was expecting it. But even at that, it still seems too good to be true. Now if you can only continue to fill i60 pages with the kind of literature you are accustomed to printing everything will be all right I Found Cleopatra ended wonderfully, one of the best Egyptian tales I've ever read,

and with a truly logical ending. The only fault I can find is that there was a little too much cowboy and Indian' stuff in parts of it; outside of that it was perfect. Clark Ashton Smith's ability as an author is confirmed even more by The Double Shadow, and in The Transgressor by Henry Kuttner you have one of the few really good time-travel tales ever written. This is a pet subject of mine, bat most of the yarns along this line are positively silly. Bur in a thousand words or so Kuttner writes one of the best of them all — perhaps only second to the grand-daddy of them all, Weils* The Time Machine. The Drifting Snow came a little soon ..after The Snow-Man, but despite this was truly readable. The Last Horror didn't click with me, for some reason; marvelous as a psychological study, but not so fitting for Weird. I've not read the rest of the issue yet — no time, except for Death Is an Elephant which was okay. Unusual subject, and well done."

A Promise Fulfilled Paul N. Nicholaioff writes: "After finish* ing reading the February issue of Weird Tales I couldn't resist the urge to write you and let you know how much I enjoyed it! 160 pages! I almost collapsed after thumbing it down through the last page to make sure it was true. Many times in the past whenever I finished reading Weird Tales I often asked myself grudgingly: 'Couldn't they spare a few more pages?'— but was glad to get the next month's issue and fork over that two-bits across the counter, willingly, too. So you can imagine my feelings when I espied

J53


SPECIAL OFFER

By A. G. BIRCH

THE MOON TERROR

by A. G. Birch

Is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.

Also — Other Stories

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weird-scientific fiction:

OOZE by Anthony M. Rud

Tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE by Vincent Starrett

Is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE

FOURTH DIMENSION

by Farnsworth Wright

Is an uproarious skit on the fourdimensional theories of the mathematicians, and inter-planetary stories in general.

Limited Supply

Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

NOTE: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

WEIRD TAIiES, Book Dept.,

9 Rockefeller Plaza. New York, N. T., U. S. A.

Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

Address. ~

City. - -..State « —

that announcement in the January number — and the tumult of emotion that overwhelmed me when I held the promised issue and found that it was so. Seabury Quinn's yarn gets my vote for being the best, though Hindin's is not far behind. And I mustn't forget The Transgressor by Henry Kuttner, so very short but baffling to the imagination. The reprint was excellent. Don't think I care much for your new serial, though. The Double Shadow was just a lot of high words to me. Smith can turn out stuff much better than that. This is the first disappointment. I will say this: I enjoyed his reprint in the last month's issue. And the verses make the magazine complete. Five in all this month! — well, well. The King and the Oak by Robert E. Howard gets first prize."

An Astounding Feat

Charles Hidley writes: "I am sure that all the truly loyal readers of Weird Tales have offered a fervent prayer of thanks on the restoration of The Unique Magazine to its former excellence. You have, since the new ownership, given us something new and thrilling, besides the stories each month. The return of JPD [Doolin] who can really draw well when he tries. (The best illustration for the Novemb' 3 ! issue was The Nameless City. ) Then Virgil Finlay came home in the December number with More Lives Than One (best drawing in issue), that most delightful tale by Seabury Quinn. January — the cover by Findlay and better illustrations (The Fifth Candle took the prize). February, the most amazing issue of all — 160 pages — an astounding feat of good sense, and long sought after by us alL Who could ask for more? But you give us more. First, you bring back H. S. DeLay after a long absence. His filmy, mysterious works of art are just the thing for the weird type of magazine. You present a serial by Manly Wade Wellman which has caught my interest more firmly than any other serial ever has. You print stories by Clark Ashton Smith and Donald Wandrei, both away from the fold too long a time. You give us two sonnets by H. P. Lovecraft. I could go on and on with all the man-els you have accomplished. Speaking of the latter two authors, couldn't some of your poets present a series


'WEIRD TALES


of sonnets similar to those presented about ten years ago, namely, Fungi from Yuggoth by H. P. L. and Sonnets of the Midnight Hours by Wandrei ? These were a great success, and I'm sure others comparable to them would be welcomed by the majority of your readers. The February issue was the best one in some time. The first installment of Fearful Rock, as I mentioned before, was superb. The Drifting Snow by August W. Derleth was a charming and different kind of vampire tale, off the trail. The horribly suggestive Giant-Plasm, never revealing but still not concealing something of the terror of that strange life. This was a fine comeback for Mr. I Wandrei. The Double Shadow — stories like this one that relate a calm, creeping awfulness, coming slowly to claim its victims, give me chills for hours after. It was a very good story. Reprint, The Last Horror, was a magnificent characterization. What a wonderful movie that would make ! Shapes of Men That Were is the best pictorial Finlay has done since his return. Finally, the five poems and the conclusion of / Found Cleopatra completed a perfect issue. Kelley's second story was better than his former try, but is this weird? I doubt it very much. Very good action and adventure, though. Death Is an Elephant — fair ; The Transgressor — confusing. Lastly, Qaioa's tale of the little evil elemental, which was so logical it was unbelievable, could not be catalogued. It was good except for too much explanation and too little story, or something. It just didn't set right with me. Best illustration (not including poem) was The Double Shadow. Cover — very poor; Eyrie — too small."

Oogier and Oogier

Caroline Ferber writes from Chicago: "Wow! wotta colorful cover on the February issue! And the 160 pages is a dandy treat — so much more to read. Finiay's illustration for Quinn's Poltergeist of Swan Upping is exceptionally good. He has the stunningest backgrounds in his black and white work. . . . Death Is an Elephant conveyed a hypnotic influence all rite. And wotta 'Geist' was Quinn's Poltergeist — mean HI divil, warn't he? Dear fran' Jules put him to rest, tho I confess I would feel rather uncomfy in that

LANTERN

WK& Every 2 Tires ordered

Complete with bstterioa and nevre&t tyc* reflertor bulb. Ready for instant vee . Strong, atcedy lipht. UboioI ovc-ryv? hcra. Order now.

World's Lowest TIRE PRICES

Tire users by the thousands all ewer the U.S.A. vouch for the Long Hard Service of oar Standard B; and tires reconditioned -with high grade .materials and latest , methods by oar tire experts. Our 24 years experience • makes it possible to » , ,.

'offer tires at !owest prices, with legal -f agreement to replace at ^ price any tire that fails to give 12 Mos. Service. EVERY TIRE G UAR&NTEED I BALLOON TIRES REGULAR CORD TIRES

ISiza Tires Tube a 331-4 «$3.45 $L« Zi:iH 3.4S 1.45 20:5 3.65 1.03 >Ss5 3.75 1.75 .*a 35i5 3.95 1.75

StaiSKso list 1.28 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK TIRES

6.25-17 2.99 1.36 [Hlsrh Pressors). _ _

28x5.25-18 2.90 l.s? Size Tire- TubesJSixe Tires Tubes

30x5.25-10 2.SS LSI 30x6 $4.23 S1.9. r .fcnj7 SX0.95 $4.65

80X&2S-20 2.95 LSI J3l§ 3.95 l-'tbsr? in oe -LBS

31*5.35-21 3.2S 1.3? 14x5 4.25 2,25g2" ir'?? Xnt

5.50-17 3.3S 1.40(12x8 7.95 2.95*56x8 Xl.f* 495

2-'x5.50-18 3.35 1.40 33x9 9.95 4.45110x8 13. 495

!B *5-n£}| 3i£ Mr truck balloon tires

6.00-17 3.40 L4l SIzo jjres TuocsfSize Tiros. Tubes

L-tAlERS WANTED

33x6.50-20 3.75 1.75 ALL OTHER 6.0O-1S 3.7S L4C SIZES

MEND ONLY Sl.OO BEPOSiT on each tire ordered. (J3.00 on each Track Tire.) Wa ship balance C. O. D. Dedact S per cent if cash is sent infoll with order. To fill order promptly we may substitute brands if necessary. ALL TUBES BRAND NEW— GUARANTEED—

PERRY-FIELD TIRE &IIUBBER CO. <; 23tS-3Q S. Michigan Av„ Dept. 5643 Chicago. Eli.

Be a RadioJxpert

Learn at Home— Make Good Money

Many men I trained now make S30, $50, $75 a week la Radio. Many started making $5, ?10. $15 a week extra in spars tim« Boon after enrolling, llhistratod 64-page boob points out Eadio a many opportunities, aUo how I train you at home to be a Sadw Expert tbxo'igh my practical 50-50 method. Television training _» included. Money Back Agreement given. Mail coupon today. Get book FREE.

«_.,.,....-..--«*--»« -|

■ J. E. SMITH, President. Wept. S>DM,

I National Radio Institute, Washington, Tr. C.

Send me. without obligation, your 64-pa?e book. "Rich Rewards in Radio" FREE. (Please write plainly.)

I I

| NAME

I ADDRESS.

AGE »

CITY STATE.

START $1260 to $2100 YEAR

Many 1939 Appointments Expected, Mail coupon today sure.

Jf FRANKLIN INSTITUTE, Dept. H240, Rochester, N.Y.

O Sirs: Rush withouicharge (1) 32-oa™e book with list of £ U. S. Gov't. Jobs. (2) Tell me how to qualify for one.

O Name ,

V Address .

H6


LOWEST PRBCES

90 DAYS' TRIAL

eautifu

WORLD'S FAMOUS

No. 1, TJ&U-F2T Dental Plates

WEAR THEM, TEST THEM. EXAMINE THEM for BEAUTY, FIT AND COMPORT. You MUST BE 100% SATISFIED or I will refund every cent you have paid me. Tou are the SOLE JUDGE. 1 am a dentist or 30 YEAR'S EXPERIENCE. I supervise the malting of your plates from start to finish.

SEND NO MONEY Write TODAY lor FREE Booklet and Material.

DR. CLEVELAND DENTAL LABORATORY

Dept. 50. D9, 503-05 Missouri Avenue, East St Louis, III.

NEED RELIEF From AGONY of

Caused by Gastric Hyperacidity

If you are one of those men or women who have "tried everything" and given up hope of relief we urge you to try this effective, yet simple inexpensive way at home. Pain and distress relieved from the start. Numbers report they were saved from expensive operations. If after meals and at night you have pain and distress from Gas, Acid, ■rff V£ ^■ i n ?i ach ' or Ulcers due to gastric hyperacidity ff»K?E»H? write for valuable booklet with iuformaa H'&.aoaij&i tion as to guaranteed trial offer. TWIN CITY VON COMPANY, Dept. 203, St. Paul, Minn.

| DON'T SUFFER

% NEEDLESSLY. Try this w Wonderful Treatment

pile suffering FREE! If yon are troubled | with itching, bleeding or protruding piles, write for a FREE sample of Page's Combination Pile Treatment and you may bless the day you read this. Write today to the E. R. PAGE COMPANY, RepL 18S-B3, Marshall, Michigan.

72 -PACE ILLUSTRATED CATALOG

BOUGHT"

Write today for big FREE illustrated catalog explaining this amazing service. Used correspondence courses and educational books on every subject. 100% satisfaction guaranteed. We buy for cash — we offer unbelievable bargains. Send your name on penny postcard at once! No obligation. NELSON CO., 826 MANHATTAN BUILDING. CHICAGO. ILL.

i 7#

HANDLE ONE OF OUR BIG PAY ROUTES Sell To Stores on New Plan

Carry a complete "Wholesale Supply House" in J||l your hand. Let us start you making Big Money g§|i§ in permanent business of your own. Show Storekeepers in every business how to DOUBLE profits on Nationally Advertised Goods. Over 200 Products. No experience needed. We supply everything. Free Book gives amazing facts.

WORLD'S PRODUCTS CO.. DepL SS.D. SPENCER. INDIANA

ANTED

NAL POEMS, SONGS and RADIO

— and for submission to motion picture, record and transcription markets.

VFestmore Music Corp., Dept. 28-F, Portland, Ore.

steel cage whereby the naughty entity was trapped. A darn good mess o' reading, sho'nuff — Quinn is still tops with me. Smith can give the creepiest yarns from times beyond recorded history! This Double Shadow had me looking over my shoulder expecting a horrible reptilian monster gazing upon me with baleful glare. Still, the thot of an alligator walking upright makes one wonder if pink elephants aren't next in line. Manly Weird Wellman promises a good 'un. Fearful Rock is plenty fearful already — these queer people — Persil Mandifer and his grotesque son are very oogy. Hurry with the next issue. Glad to see August Derleth again on our pages. Although most of his stories run on the ghost type, The Drifting Snow proved good entertainment — and I like Wisconsin. Donald Wandrei's Giant-Plasm was ok — but I don't care for amebas or stories of them. Goody — the wily Cleo done herself in finally and so the lovely lass and sturdy hero were happy. Kelley's entire / Found Cleopatra was much to my liking. Uh — HK has me wondering about his Transgressor — does this go on and on and on? It's rather an amusing tale. Omi mi — the reprint The Last Horror was a horror. Can't say it was 'zackly weird, but such an adventure ! Horrors! Now for a bit of comment on the poemry — Howard's The King and the Oak — excellent! Kramer's Crazy Nell — pathetic. Lovecraft's Zaman's Hill has almost a Pied Piper theme — on the gruesome side. Scanning the Eyrie, it seems Kelley and his Egyptian tales are plenty popular — into which I cast my vote also. My favorite of this issue is The Poltergeist of Swan Upping. Bye bye — shall reappear next month."

Two Great Authors

Alexis PapofT writes from Cleveland: "I have been reading your magazine for five years and think it's great. That's an awfully commonplace way of describing WT, but the fact is I don't quite know how else to describe it. It has me quite hypnotized. Seabury Quinn's story Lynne Foster Is Dead was one of the most absorbing stories I have ever read. It is as lovely, and fantastic and well written, though of course in a different way, as his Globe of Memories, which I consider one of


'157

the greatest of all weird tales. Seabury Quinn is one of your best and most versatile authors. His stories are always excellent, lovely and imaginative and fantastic. I don't think he gets enough credit. He is one of my main reasons for buying this magazine. In this month's issue I enjoyed most of all A Rendezvous in Averoigne by Clark Ash ton Smith. Why don't we hear more often from him? He is another great author."

A Crackerjack

Richard Kraft writes from Allenhurst, New Jersey: "The Last Horror by Eli Colter is superb ; it is one of the greatest stories I have ever read in WT. In fact it is one of the greatest stories I have ever read anywhere. Keep up the good work in your reprint department. All in all your February issue is a crackerjack. Who is this Nathan Hindin? His first tale is a pip; exciting, different and refreshingly unhackneyed. It cops first place among your new stories. The inimitable Doctor de Grandin is much better than usual in a thoroughly satisfying yarn and noses out The Drifting Snow for second place. The latter, by the way, is another darn good story. Your cover is much better than last month's and is a fitting herald for the new 1 60-page Weird."

Recent Stories

D. de Woronin writes from Trelawney, Southern Rhodesia: "A few words about the stories in your magazine for the last year or so: But for one story, I would hesitate in choosing the best, for you had such a crop of excellent yarns. But this story stands right

A FANTASTIC, ROMANTIC ADVENTURE NOVEL

DOROTHY QUICK

AT ALL BOOKSTORES . . < .

HOUSE OF FIELD INC.

I changed myself from a 97-Ib. weakling to winner of title, "World's Most Perfectly Developed Man." Let Die prove— in 7 days — that my secret of Dynamic Tension will make a NEW HAN of YOU — give you glowing health, smashing strength— banish constipation, bad breath, pimples. ^d&S* Thousands praise my natural method. Write for FKEB BOOK of| actual photos. CHARLES ATLAS, Dept. 3-D, 113 E. 23rd St., New York City.

is dying fast. Six gvma and horse thieves are gone. Get acquainted with the real oldtime _ West •while some ox it still remains. Get a real Western souvenir directfrom the Range Country. Guaranteed Genuine. Send today.

g THE

io« E W

ONLY

for liberal size piece Floating Rock, Prairie Cactus or Sagebrush, Your choice. Thrilling story, "Real Life on a Western Ranch" included Free J Send today. Western Goods at Western Prices!

RANCH SERVICE COMPANY

6 Fallon Eoad, Mackenzie, Montana

EXPOSE OF GAMBLERS SECRETS

New ways they read cards. Stop losing. Know dice exposes, missers and passers, also slot machine and punch board. New book "BEAT THE CHEAT," $1.00 copy. Add 25c for new 1939 catalog. Send $1.25 to SPECXAXTT EXPOSES, Box 2488, Kansas City, Ma.

WANTED ORIGINAL

Mother. Home, Love, Patriotic, Sacred, Comic or any subieot. Don't delay— send your poem today for immediate ocnslderation. RICHARD BROS., 27 Woods Bidg., Chicago, 111.

TIME COUNTS — don'tHskdelaylnjiatentrcsryonr | Invention. Write, for new FREE Books "Patent Gnids 'or the Inventor" and "Record of Invention" form. No charge for preliminary Information.

I

CLARENCE A. O'BRIEN & HYMAH 8ERMAN „, Registered Patent Attorneys . „ 9 «878 Adams Bids.. Washington, D. 0.

DC A RAILWAY f

L#L- TRAFFIC INSPECTOR/ 11

Your BIQ OPPORTUNITY— Send for the Facts h, few weeks' spare time study will train you in Bait* woo and Bus Pastenaer Trafflo Impectlon and upon completion of supple, home-study course we place at up to $133 per month, plus expenses to - start, or rtaum tuition. Ambitious men— 19 to ^™ 50 — advance rapidly with experience. Our t^j^ graduates to demand. Free Booklet. n, l4r „. u v

Standard Business Training Institute. Div. 1304. Buffalo. N. V.



LIGHTS ITSELF

SELLS ITSELF

Oulck Action (1939) Perfected SeJf Starting Lighter Lights cigar, cigarette or pipe — instantly. Never fails. New principle in ignition. No flint. No friction. Send 25c for sample and larse can of fluid. Start now. You can mate up to S3 a day. NEW METHOD MFG. CO. Sole Makers of Catalytic Autoihatlo

No Flint Gas Lighters Box NS-76. Bradford. Pa.. U. 8. A.

Earn Extra Money at&me

You Can Increase Your Incomo

quickly and easily at home. Wentworth supplies you with work and furnishes all materials. Write today for FREE BOOKLET.

Wontworth Pictorial Co. Ltd. DEPT. 620, Hamilton, Ont.

MA kt MOKE MOW

Fam more every day In the year representing old established firm with a complete line of fast selling; necessities: Shirts, Ties, Underwear, Hosiery, Dresses. Raincoats, Sweaters, Pants, Belts, Rreeehe3, Shoes, Coveralls, Shop Coats, Uniforms, Summer Suits, etc. Every Item guaranteed. K>roerlence unnecessary.

Write quick for FREE SALES EQUIPMENT

NIIVIROD COMPANY. 4922-U Lincoln Ave.. Chicago, III.

BRINGS SOOTHING WARMTH TO

VITAL GLAND

IN MEN PAST AO

.Vitalizing, health-giving, gentle warmth ! Scientific Thermalaid Method has brought comfort td thousands of prostate gland Sufferers. Am&ring, simple, easy and inexpensive. New book ,"Why Many Men Are Old at 40" sent free to men past 4Q. Write for it today. Address Thermalaid Method. 54S26 Franklin Avenuj, Steubenville, Ohio,

FOREST JOBS

available at §125-$T75 per mdntlL, steady. Cabin- Hnnt. trap, patroL Qualify at once. Get details immediately. ■ £ RAYS ON SERVICE BUREAU, B-S2, Denver, Colo.

SONG POEMS WANTED

TO BE SET TO MUSIC

(Ftee Examination. Send Your Poems to

J. CHAS. McNEIL

BACHELOR OF HUSIC 4IS3-KF, Sooth Van Ness Los Angeles, Calif.

Coming soon in WEIRD TALESA MILLION YEARS FROM NOW By Thomas P. Kelley

A prophetic glimpse into the future

out and above the rest, to wit, Nictzin Dyalhis's The Sea-Witch. Why doesn't this man write more? Every time he plies his pen he produces a gem — take for instance his Sapphire Goddess — but he plies his pen so very seldom. And what of C. L. Moore? Has she given up writing? I miss Northwest Smith and Jirel. Kuttner's Elak reminds me of Conan, and, as Conan was my very favorite character, I am glad that someone is taking his place. The same applies to Clifford Ball's heroes — what about some more, Clifford.'' Quinn surpassed himself in Fortune's Fools and Goetterdaemmerung, and I think these two efforts were better than his Roads, which, all the same, was a magnificent yarn. Now that Hamilton has given up moving the cosmos in an off-handed manner, he has turned out some first-rate literature, The Isle of the Sleeper being possibly the best; though it is hard to choose, so good was his stuff lately. Bloch seems to have found himself to his own advantage — but I am merely repeating other people's opinion."

Hope for an Impossibility Donald V. Allgeier writes from Licking. Missouri: "Congratulations on the larger size. The February copy of WT was great. After a few bad issues you've re-attained your former heights in everything except quality of paper. I give first place in the February issue to the reprint, The Last Horror by Eli Colter. I've been wanting to read it for years and I certainly was not disappointed. It was great and entirely different from what I had expected. That brilliant speech which brought about the black's suicide was marvelously gripping. Death Is an Elephant takes second place, I think. It's an unusual tale and very well done. Virgil drew an unweird but artistic cover for it. Donald Wandrei surprised me pleasantly with Giant-Plasm. I expected another of those interminable yarns of invaders from space that spread over the earth till our hero finds that common table salt or something is fatal to them. This story is different and is very entertaining. Clark Ashton Smith is up to par in The Double Shadow. So far Fearful Rock doesn't seem very weird but perhaps it will become so. / Found CleoWEIRD TALES


patra let down a lot in the last two installments, though it's still a fine yarn. . . . Kuttner's ultra-short was fine and I'm glad to see Derleth back. All in all, a fine issue. For sheer goose-pimply horror, however, give me Medusa's Coil in the January WT. It's the weirdest and scariest thing in ages. Too bad the picture was so poor. The Silver Coffin was a nifty, too, and Waxworks appealed to me. Virgil's cover drawing for The Fifth Candle was great and the interior illustration for Bride of the Lightning was even better. I hope for an impossibility — that WT will continue to improve."

Congrats

C. Wilkos writes from Chicago: "Please forward my Congrats to T. Kelley for his conclusive ending to / Found Cleopatra, which takes first honors this month. The reprint department is second with The Last Horror by Eli Colter, and N. Hindin third with Death Is an Elephant. Mr. Quinn's Globe of Memories, Roads, and Goetlerdaemmerung ought to be enough encouragement for him to forget M. de Grandin."

Conan Is Her Favorite Miss E. B. Hardy writes from Lewiston, Maine: "My vote for favorite story in February^ Weikd Tales goes to the reprint, Eli Colter's The Last Horror. Closely following this fine story comes Fearful Rock (Part I) by Manly Wade Wellman. If the succeeding installments prove as interesting as the opening one, we have a good deal of pleasure awaiting us. (Don't disappoint us, Mr. Wellman.) I am glad to learn you are planning to reprint Robert E. Howard's King Kull stories, as I missed out on those, though I read his Conan stories. Conan was, and still is, my favorite Weird Tales hero, and I miss him very much."

Concise Comments Catherine Allen writes from Latonia, Kentucky: "Please will you reprint The Last Poet and the Robot by A. Merritt, as it is about the only story by him I haven't read? Also please give us some more stories by Clifford Ball about Raid, Thief of Forthe."-

That the Sun moves north as men travel south, until finally it shines continuous!)' in the north. For 1,500 years men laughed at the "gullibility" of the ancients, until, by sailing past the Equator, Europeans of the Middle Ages DISCOVERED what the Egyptians KNEW thousands of years before.

Suppressed Knowledge of Ancient Sages

—lost to the world for 3,000 years, but preserved by the FEW who could appreciate and use it — is available to you, through association with the Rosicrucians. Their unique and successful methods of mastering life's problems and developing Personal Power are even more effective today. Try their formulas on your own personal and practical problems.

Successful ? — Happy?

Have you realized the highest possibilities of which you are capable? Arc you going through life with your greatest assets —social, business, intellectual— locked in a chest, without looking for the key?

Send for a Free Copy of "The Secret Heritage." It may open up a new world of personal satisfaction and practical achievement; it might have a startling effect upon your ovn future. It is sent free to the serious. Address Scribe w.c.u

ROSICRUCIANS

AMORC

San Jose California (Not a rcUglous organization)

Books by lovecraft, Merritt, Quinn, etc.. rented by tnalL 3c a day plus rostaga. Write for free list. WEREWOLF LENDING LIBRARY, 227-G Sc. Atlantic Avenue, Pirtsbuiuh, Pa.

Coming soon in WEIRD TALES — THE WILLOW LANDSCAPE By Clark Ashton Smith An exquisite Chinese fantasy



NEXT MONTH

By EveriS Worrell

HP His is one of those utterly dif- *■ ferent stories that captivate the imagination by their very difference. In addition to its strangeness, "The Hollow Moon" is told so effectively that a breathless thrill is experienced by the reader. This uncanny tale of a lunar vampire is indisputably the strangest of all vampire stories, with an utterly startling denouement.

Those of you who read Everil Worrell's unforgettable stories in Weird Tales several years ago —"The Bird of Space," "Cattle of Furos," "Leonora," and others — will welcome this author's return to our pages, for they will be sure of a literary treat in store for them. This unusual novelette will be published complete

in the May issue of

on sale April 1

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupton today for

t SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION \ OFFER. (YOU SAVE 50c.)


9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.

Enclosed find $2.50 for which send me the next twelve issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the May issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name «

Address h

City..: _ State m „

Gans T. Field writes from New York City: "My vote goes to The Poltergeist of Swan Upping — the more so because Mr. Quinn's de Grandin speaks flatteringly of my character, Judge Pursuivant. The judge and I are glad to have found so distinguished a friend and well-wisher, and more than glad to have suggested a way out of another of Doctor de Grandin's intriguing psychic difficulties."

B. Reagan writes from Pittsburgh: "The snow vampire is original — Derleth should get credit for this innovation. Fearful Rock could become the best story of 1939- The start is fine."

Seymour Kapetansky writes from Detroit: "I'm fearful of what a 1 60-page size will do to the quality. But you've never let your readers down, so I have a lot of faith in you."

R. Kelly writes from New York City: "Congratulations on keeping the magazine weird. It is just as good today as it was seven or eight years ago when I first started reading it. I like the idea of printing only reprints from WT."

i

Most Popular Story

What are your favorite stories in this issue? We want to know which ones you like best, and if there are any that you do not like we want to know about them too. Address your letter to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York. Your favorite story in the February issue was Seabury Quinn's The Poltergeist of Swan Up ping, which was closely pressed for first place by Clark Ashton Smith's weird fantasy, The Double Shadow.

A New Book of Poems by

DOROTHY QUICK

Some poems with laughter, others poignant with gay beauty and love, and every poem satisfying in its message — Spears Into Life reaches and captures the heart and imagination.

At All Bookstores $2.00

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

QUICK, EASIER WAY

ELECTRICITY

12 Weeks

Practical WORK

IN MY

CHICAGO SHOPS

FIRST-- You ore told and shown bow to d

THEN— You do the job yourself.

WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?

Have you ever dreamed of holding down a steady, good pay job? Have you ever dreamed of doing the work you really like in a job that holds promise of a real future in the years ahead?

Well, we all know that you can't get the good things in life by just dreaming about them. Hundreds of fellows are today holding down mighty fine jobs with prospects of a bright future. They are filling these jobs because they had the foresight to equip themselves with the right kind of training. Most of these men were only average fellows a short time ago. but the proper training helped to lift them out of the low pay ranks of unskilled workers. The same opportunity is now offered to you.

The great fascinating field of ELECTRICITY offers a real future to many men and young men who are willing to prepare for a place in this giant industry.

Here at my school in Chicago, the world's Electrical Center, you can

fet 12 weeks' Shop Training in LECTRICITY, that can help give you your start towards a better job.

You will be trained on actual equipment and machinery and because of our method of training, you don't need previous experience or a lot of education. Many of my successful graduates never even completed Grammar School.

Here in my school you work on generators, motors, dynamos, you do house wiring, wind armatures and do actual work in many other brandies of electricity and right now I'm including valuable instruction in Diesel, Electric Refrigeration and Air Conditioning at no extra cost. Our practical shop methods make it easier to learn — First the instructors tell you how a tiling should be done— then they show you how it should be done — then you do the actual work yourself.

I'LL FINANCE YOUR TRAINING

You can get this training first — then pay for it later in easy monthly payments, starting 60 days after your 1 2 weeks' training period is over — then you have 12 months to complete your payments.

If you need part time work to help out with expenses while training in my shops, my employment department will help you get it. Then after graduation this department will give you valuable lifetime employment service.

Send the coupon today for all details. When I get it I'll send you my big free book containing dozens of pictures of students at work in

H. C. LEWIS. President

rnviur electrical

K*\J I PI b SCHOOL

500 S. Paulina St, Dept. 49-66. Chicago

my shops. I '11 also tell you about my' 'Pay After Graduation' ' plan, how many earn while learning and how we help our students after graduation. Fill in, clip coupon, mail today for your start toward a brighter future.

H. C. LEWIS, President, COYNE ELECTRICAL SCHOOL 500 S. Paulina Street, Dept. 49-66. Chicago, 111. Dear Sir: Please send me free your big catalog and full particulars of your present offer, also your "Pay-Tuition-After-Graduation" Plan.

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY STATE

ACCIDENT^SICKNESS

This Can Happen to You!

TnE SECURITY POLICY

Thousands of people aro disabled every hour of the day. Don't let sickness or accident find yon unprepared. Get a "Security"' policy. The cost is so low that you cannot afford to be without this protection.

PAYS YOUR EXPENSES

**3,750°2

ACCUMULATED BENEFITS FOR ACCIDENTAL DEATH, .Loss of Hands, Eyes or Feet

The "Security" Accident and Sickness Policy will protect you, and give your family Quick cash money to pay the bills when your income i3 stopped. Think of it — cash money when you need it most! This remarkable policy pays CASH protection of $25.00 a week up to one full year for accident — $25.00 each week up to ten weeks for sickness — and cash protection up to

$3,750.00 for accidental death, loss of hands, eyes or feet. Also other liberal features. All this for only SI. 00 a month I You cannot afford to pass up the opportunity to examine this new Security Policy on our 10-day Free Inspection Offer 1

AGES 16 to 75-NO PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

If you are between the apes of 16 and 75, man or woman, send coupon below at once. No medical or physical examination. No agent will call. The Arcadia Mutual Casualty Company is a reliable, safe, dependable company — not an association or assessment company. It has the approval of the Illinois State

n

Si

SEND NO MONEY

Insurance Department and offers you this unusual policy through the Central Insurance Agency. Because of the liberal benefit features only one "Security Policy" will be issued to each person, but any person may apply. Don't delay ! Send coupon today for complete information how to get the Security Accident & Sickness Policy for your free inspection.

Send no money with this coupon. At no cost to you, we will send you complete information nnd tell you how to not the Security Accident & Sickness Policy for Your Own Free Inspection — In the privacy of your own home!

MAIL COUPON TODAY

No agent will call. You alonei judge and decide. Don't wait! until it's too late. You never know when an accident or sickness may come — bn prepared. Act now. Send the coupon today without obligation.

THE ARCADIA MUTUAL CASUALTY COMPANY,

Central Insurance Agency, Inc., DesK 22

75 East Wacker Drive, Chicago, III.

Please send me complete information at once and tell me how I may get the "Security" Policy for 10 Day Free Inspection without obligation. No agent will call. I am to be the sole judge.

Name

Street or R.F.D.

■ City State

[THE END]
