============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 20, Number 6
Date: December 1932
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "of  unsolicited  manuscripts,  although  every  care  will  be  taken  of  such  material  while  in  their  possession" by The  contents of  this  magazine  are  fully  protected  by  copyright  and  must  not  be  reproduced  eithw  wholly  or  in  part
  2. "gentlemen" by Like  the  ass  of  Monsieur
  3. "himself  a home  near  Keyport" by He  moved
  4. "Mrs" by Derringer  was  taken  severely  ill
  5. "Except  that  Mrs" by Derringer  had  bled
  6. "delight  in,  Monsieur  le  Capitaine" by If  you
  7. "the  grand  manner" by Built  upon  a rise  of
  8. "hills,  it  was  a long,  low  red-bride  mansion flanked  by  towering  oaks  and  chestnut-trees" by Leveled  off  before  the  house
  9. "several  swans  swam  lazily" by Across  a
  10. "it  instantly" by There  is  no  boy  brought  up
  11. "motor-lorry’s  wheel" by Involuntarily  I
  12. "force" by Jules  de  Grandin  showed  no  more
  13. "What  the  devil?”  Mr" by Goodlowe
============================================================
============================================================
OF  UNSOLICITED  MANUSCRIPTS,  ALTHOUGH  EVERY  CARE  WILL  BE  TAKEN  OF  SUCH  MATERIAL  WHILE  IN  THEIR  POSSESSION
by The  contents of  this  magazine  are  fully  protected  by  copyright  and  must  not  be  reproduced  eithw  wholly  or  in  part
============================================================
WEIRD  TALES

=’'5^c

Through  space  to  the  most  distant  corners  of  the  universe  in  the twinkling  of  an  eye ! When  Scheherazade  told  her  Sultan  the  tales that  make  up  The  Arabian  Nights  Entertainments,  she  told  him  of a Magic  Carpet  that  flew  through  the  sky  and  carried  its  human  cargo  to distant  countries  with  the  speed  of  thought.

The  Magic  Carpet  Magazine,  like  the  carpet  of  Scheherazade,  carries its  readers  out  of  the  humdrum  life  of  our  modern  civilization  to  lands of  romance,  adventure,  mystery  and  glamor.  You  can  hear  the  shouts  of the  sorely  beleaguered  defenders  of  Vienna  when  the  Turkish  host  of Suleiman  the  Magnificent  was  thrown  back ; you  can  see  the  beauty  of  the wicked  Queen  Semiramis  of  Babylon;  you  can  thrust  aside  the  hangings of  Oriental  harems  and  enter  the  forbidden  rooms  of  the  women’s  baths; you  can  exult  with  Kurdish  tribesmen  as  they  ride  down  their  enemies  in bloody  battle;  you  can  experience  the  mystery  of  India,  stalk  through tiger-infested  jungles;  or  fly  to  distant  planets  and  perilous  adventures among  the  strange  beings  that  inhabit  them.

The  Magic  Carpet  goes  places  and  those  who  ride  upon  it  see  things hidden  to  most  eyes,  and  feel  to  the  full  the  glamor  of  far  places.  This is  the  magazine  you  have  been  waiting  for  all  your  life — the  supreme  magazine, in  which  you  can  experience  as  nowhere  else  the  thrill  and  witchery of  adventure  and  romance  in  distant  lands.  A panorama  of  exotic  fiction with  the  whole  universe  as  its  setting  will  unroll  before  your  gaze  as  you speed  onward  upon  the  Magic  Carpet.

Now  On  !^ale  ^ ^ 15c

Cover  Design J,  Allen  St.  John

Ulnstrating  -a  scene  in  Buccaneers  of  Venus”

The  Door  to  Yesterday Seabury  Quinn  722

Weird  deaths  and  strange  racial  memories — a tale  of  Jules  de  Grandin

The  Man  Who  Conquered  Age Edmond  Hamilton  749

A weirdrscientific  tale  of  a scientist  who  ran  amuck  in  New  York’s  streets

Thrice  Haunted Alfred  L Tooke  768

Verse

The  Phoenix  on  the  Sword __Rohert  E.  Howard  769

A tale  of  the  incredible  thing  that  happened  in  King  Conan’s  bedchamber

The  Quick  and  the  Dead Vincent  Starrett  785

An  intensely  human  story  about  a poet’s  grief,  and  a body  that  moved  in  its  coffin

Buccaneers  of  Venus  (part  2) Otis  Adelbert  Kline  793

Breathtaking  adventures  amid  the  perils  of  another  planet

The  Lives  of  Alfred  Kramer Donald  Wandrei  817

An  astonishing  story  of  atavism,  by  the  author  of  "The  Red  Brain”

Weird  Story  Reprint;

Frankenstein  (conclusion) Mary  Wollstonecraft  Shelley  830

A famous  classic  of  weird  fiction

The  Eyrie , 843

A chat  with  ihe  readers

monthly  by  the  Popular  Fiction  Publishing  Company,  2457  E.  Washington  Street,  Indianapolis,  Ind.  Entered as  second-class  matter  March  20,  1923,  at  the  post  office  at  Indianapolis,  Ind.,  under  the  act  of  Iffarch  3,  1879. Single  copies,  25  cents.  Subscription,  $2.50  a year  in  the  United  States,  $4.00  a year  in  Canada,  English  office: Charles  Lavell,  13,  Serjeant’s  Inn,  Fleet  Street,  E.  C.  4,  London.  The  publishers  are  not  responsible  for  the  loss of  unsolicited  manuscripts,  although  every  care  will  be  taken  of  such  material  while  in  their  possession.  The  contents of  this  magazine  are  fully  protected  by  copyright  and  must  not  be  reproduced  eithw  wholly  or  in  part without  permission  from  the  publishers.

NOTE — All  manuscripts  and  communications  should  be  addressed  to  the  publish ertf  Chicago  office  at  840 ^orth  Mlohlgan  Avenue,  Chicago,  111.  FARNSWORTH  WRIOHT,  EdHor.

Copyright  1932,  by  the  Popular  Fiction  Publishing  Company,

COPYRIGHTED  IN  GREAT  BRITAIK

W.I.— 1

72t

/4  gripping  tale  of  a great  white  snake,  weird  deaths,  and  strange  racial memories — an  exploit  of  Jules  de  Grandin

Dinner  would  be  ready  in  fifteen minutes,  and  we  were  to  have lobster  Cardinal,  a thing  Jules  de Grandin  loved  with  a passion  second  only to  his  fervor  for  La  Marseillaise.  Now he  was  engaged  in  the  rite  of  cocktailmixing, intent  upon  his  work  as  any  alchemist brewing  an  esoteric  philtre.  "Now for  the  vermouth,”  he  announced,  decanting a potion  of  amber  liquid  into  the tall  silver  shaker  half  filled  with  gin  and

fine-shaved  ice  with  all  the  care  of  a pharmacist  compounding  a prescription. "One  drop  too  little  and  the  cocktail  she is  spoiled;  one  little  so  small  drop  too much,  and  she  is  wholly  ruined.  Ah — so; she  is  now  precisely  perfect,  and  ready for  the  shaking!”  Slowly,  rhythmically, he  began  to  churn  the  shaker  up  and down,  gradually  increasing  the  speed  in time  with  the  bit  of  bawdy  ballad  whidi he  hummed:

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY

72»

M*  pout  p(nft«ttCtr Ron,  ron,  ton,  petit  patapon, l&t  pour  pinitence,

Notts  nous  embrasserons

"Captain  Cheneverti  Misther  Gordont GoodloweJ”  announced  Nofa  McGinnis, my  household,  factotum,  from  the  study doorway,  annoyance  at  having  strangers call  when  dinner  was  about  to  be  served showing  on  her  broad  Irish  face.

On  the  heels  of  her  announcement came  the  callers:  Captain  Chenevat,  a big,  deep-chested  young  man  attired  in that  startling  condDinatioa  of  light  and dark  blues  in  which  the  State  of  New Jersey  garbs  its  gendarmerie;  Mr.  Goodlowe,  a dapper,  slender  little  man  with neatly  cropped  white  hair  and  shortclipped  white  mustache,  immaculate  in black  mohair  jacket  and  trousersv  his small  paunch  trimly  buttoned  underneath a waistcoat  of  spotless  linen.

"Sorry  to  interrupt  you,  gentlemen,” Captain  Chenevert  apologized,  "but  there have  been  some  things  happening  at  Mr. Goodlowc’s  place  which  no  one  can  explain, and  one  of  my  men  got  talking with  a member  of  your  local  force — Detective Sergeant  Costello — -who  said  that Doctor  de  Grandin  could  get  to  the  bottom of  the  tromble  if  anybody  could.”

"Eh,  you  the  good  Costello  sent you?”  de  Grandin  asked,  giving  the cocktail  mixer  a final  vigorous  shake. "He  should  know  better.  Me,  I am graduated  from  the  Surete;  I no  longer take  an  interest  in  criminal  investigation.”

■'We  understood  as  mucb,”  the  captain jmswered.  "That's  why  we’re  here. If  it  had  been  a matter  of  ordinary  crimedetection,  or  an  extraordinary  one,  I think  that  we  could  handle  it;  but  it’s something  more  than  that,  sir.”  He paused  and  grinned  rather  sheepishly; then:  "This  may  sound  mitty  to  you,  but I’m  more  than  half  amvinced  there’s

something  supernatural  about  the  case.”

"Ah?”  De  Grandin  put  the  cocktail shaker  by.  "U’ro?”  He  flimg  a leg  across the  table-comer  and,  half  sitting,  half standing,  regarded  the  visitors  in  turn with  a fixed,  unwinking  stare.  ”AJb-ha? This  is  of  interest,”  he  admitted,  breaking open  a blue  packet  of  "Maryland”  cigarettes and  setting  one  of  the  malodorous things  aglow,  "Proceed,  if  you  please, gentlemen.  Like  the  ass  of  Monsieur Balaam,  I am  all  ears.”

Mr.  Goodlowe  answered:  "Last  year my  brother,  Colonel  Qarke  Clay  Goodlowe,  sold  his  seat  on  the  stock  exchange and  retired  from  active  business,”  he  began. "For  some  years  he  had  contemplated returning  to  Kentucky,  but  when he  finally  gave  up  active  trading  in  the market  he  found  that  he’d  become  acclimated to  the  North — reckon  the  poor fellow  just  couldn’t  bear  to  get  more than  an  hour  or  two  away  from  Wall Street,  as  a matter  of  fact — so  he  built himself  a home  near  Keyport.  He  moved there  with  his  daughter  Nancy,  my  niece, last  April,  and  died  before  he’d  been there  quite  a month.”

De  Grandin’s  slender,  jet-black  eyebrows rose  a fraction  of  an  inch  nearer the  line  of  his  honey-colored  hair.  "Very good,  Messieurs-,"  he  answered  quemlously.  "Men  have  died  before — men have  been  dying  regularly  since  Mother Eve  and  Father  Adam  partook  of  the forbidden  fmit.  What  is  there  scr  extraordinary in  this  especial  death?”'

"I  didn’t  see  my  brother’s  body

Mr.  Goodlowe  began.

"But  I did!”  Captain  Chenevert  broke in.  "Every  bone  from  skull  to  metatarsus was  broken,  and  the  whole  form  was  so hammered  out  of  shape  that  identification was  almost  impossible.”

"Ah?”  de  Grandin’s  small  blue  eyes


5I^IRD  TALES

flickered  with  renewing  interest.  "And then ”

Mr.  Goodlowe  took  up  the  narrative: "My  niece  was  almost  prostrated  by  the tragedy,  and  as  I was  in  England  at  the time  it  was  impossible  for  me  to  join  her right  away.  Accordingly,  Major  Derringer, a rather  distant  kinsman,  and  his wife  came  up  from  Lexington  to  attend the  funeral  and  make  such  preliminary arrangements  as  were  necessary  until  I could  come  home.

"The  day  following  the  funeral,  Major Derringer  was  found  on  the  identical spot  where  my  brother’s  body  was  discovered— dead.”

"Crushed  and  mauled  almost  out  of resemblarce  to  anything  human,”  Captain Cherievert  supplied.

"Mrs.  Derringer  was  taken  severely  ill as  a result  of  her  husband’s  dreadful death,”  Mr.  Goodlowe  added.  "She  was put  to  bed  with  special  nurses  in  attendance day  and  night,  and  while  the  night nurse  was  out  of  the  room  for  a moment she  rose  and  slipped  through  the  window, wandered  across  the  lawn  in  her nightclothes,  and ”

'The  thing  was  like  an  antiphon.  De Grandin  looked  inquiringly  at  Captain Chenevert  as  Mr.  Goodlowe  paused,  and the  trooper  nodded  grimly.

"The  same,”  he  snapped.  "Same place,  same  dreadful  mutilation — everything the  same,  except ”

"Yes,  parbleu,  except ” deGrandin

prompted  sharply  as  the  young  policeman paused.

"Except  that  Mrs.  Derringer  had  bled profusely  where  compound  fractures  of her  ribs  had  forced  the  bones  through her  sides,  and  on  the  tiled  floor  of  the loggia  near  the  spot  where  she  was  found w'as  the  trail  of  a great  snake  marked  in blood.”

"Good  heavens!”  I exclaimed.

"By  damn-it,”  murmured  Jules  de Grandin,  "this  is  truly  such  a case  as  I delight  in,  Monsieur  le  Capitaine.  If  you gentlemen  will  be  good  enough  to  join us  at  dinner,  I shall  do  myself  the  honor of  accompanying  you  to  this  so  strange house  where  guests  are  found  all  crushed to  death  and  serpents  write  their  autographs in  blood.  Yes,  certainly;  of course.”

Prospect  hill,  the  late  Colonel Goodlowe’s  house,  was  a reproduction of  an  English  country  seat  done  in the  grand  manner.  Built  upon  a rise  of ground,  heading  a little  valley  in  the hills,  it  was  a long,  low  red-bride  mansion flanked  by  towering  oaks  and  chestnut-trees. Leveled  off  before  the  house was  a wide  terrace  paved  with  tesselated tiles  and  bordered  by  a stone  balustrade punctuated  at  regular  intervals  by  widemouthed urns  of  stone  in  which  petimias blossomed  riotously.  A flight  of  broad, low  steps  ran  down  through  succeeding terraced  levels  of  smooth-shaved  lawns to  a lake  where  water-lilies  bloomed  and several  swans  swam  lazily.  Across  a stretch  of  greensward  to  the  left  was  a formal  garden  where  statued  nymphs stooped  to  beds  of  dustering  roses  which drenched  the  air  with  almost  drugging sweetness.  Low,  colonnaded  loggias,  like cloisters,  branched  off  from  the  house  at either  side,  the  left  connecting  with  the rose-garden,  the  right  leading  to  a level square  of  grass  in  which  was  set  a little summer-house  of  red  brick  and  wrought iron.

"One  moment,  if  you  please,”  de Grandin  ordered  as  we  clambered  from the  car  before  the  house.  "Show  me,  if you  will  be  so  good.  Monsieur  le  Capitaine, exactly  where  it  was  they  found Madame  Derringer  and  the  others.  We

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY


might  as  well  prepare  ourselves  by  making a survey  of  the  terrain.”

We  walked  across  the  lawn  toward  the little  summer-house,  and  Captain  Chenevert  halted  some  six  feet  from  the  loggia. "I’d  say  we  found  ’em  here,”  he  answered. "U’m,  yes;  just  about  here, judging  by  the ” He  paused  a moment, as  though  to  orient  himself,  then stepped  forward  to  the  green-tile  paving of  the  loggia,  drawing  an  electric  flashlight from  his  blouse  pocket  as  he  did  so.

The  long  summer  twilight  had  almost faded  into  night,  but  by  such  daylight  as remained,  aided  by  the  beam  of  Captain Chenevert’s  torch,  we  could  descry,  very faintly,  a sinuating,  weaving  trail  against the  gray-green  of  the  tiles.  I recognized it  instantly.  There  is  no  boy  brought  up in  the  covmtry  districts  before  the  coming of  the  motor-car  had  caused  earth  roads to  give  way  to  hard-surfaced  highways who  can  not  tell  a snake-track  when  he sees  it  in  the  dust!

But  never  had  I seen  a track  like  this. In  form  it  was  a duplicate  of  trails  which I had  seen  a thousand  times,  but  in  size — it  might  have  been  the  mark  left  by  a motor-lorry’s  wheel.  Involuntarily  I shuddered  as  I beheld  the  grisly  thing, and  Captain  Chenevert’s  hand  stole  instinctively to  the  walnut  stock  of  the  revolver which  dangled  in  its  holster  from his  belt.  Gordon  Goodlowe,  scion  of  a dozen  generations  of  a family  who  chose death  in  preference  to  dishonor,  held himself  in  check  by  almost  superhuman force.  Jules  de  Grandin  showed  no  more emotion  than  if  he  were  in  a museum viewing  some  not-especially  interesting relic  of  the  past.

"U’m?”  he  murmured  softly  to  himself, studying  the  dull,  reddish-brown tracing  with  pursed  lips  and  narrowed eyes.  "He  must  have  been  the  bisdieul  of

the  serpents,  this  one.”  He  raised  his narrow  shoulders  in  a shrug,  and:

"Come,  let  us  go  in,”  he  suggested. "Perhaps  there  is  more  to  see  inside.”

Mr.  Goodlowe  cleared  his  throat  angrily, but  Captain  Chenevert  laid  a quick hand  on  his  elbow.  "S-s-sh!”  he  cautioned softly.  "Let  him  handle  this  his own  way.  He  knows  what  he’s  about.”

An  aged,  but  by  no  means  decrepit colored  butler  met  us  at  the  door. In  one  hand  he  held  an  old  fashioned candle-lamp,  in  the  other  a saucer  containing grains  of  wheat.

"What  the  devil?”  Mr.  Goodlowe snapped.  "Has  the  electric  power  gone off  again,  Julius?”

"Yes,  sir,”  said  the  colored  man,  his words,  despite  the  native  softness  of  his voice,  having  a peculiar  intonation  revealing that  his  mother  tongue  was  not the  English  of  the  South.  "The  current has  been  gone  since  six  o’clock  this  afternoon, and  the  telephone  has  been  out  of order  for  some  time,  as  well.”

"Dam’  poor  service!”  muttered  Goodlowe, but:

"How  long’s  it  been  since  your  light and  telephone  died  before?”  sharply queried  Captain  Chenevert.

I saw  the  Negro  shiver,  as  though  he felt  a sudden  draft  of  gelid  air.  "Not

since  Madame  Derringer ” he  began,

but  the  captain  shut  him  off.

"That’s  what  I thought,”  he  answered; then,  to  de  Grandin,  in  a whisper:

"Something  dam’  funny  about  this, sir.  Their  electric  light  all  died  the night  Mrs.  Derringer  was — er — died,  and the  telephone  went  dead  at  the  same time.  Same  thing  happened  on  both  previous occasions,  too.  D’ye  mind  if  I pop over  to  the  barracks  and  put  in  a trouble call?  I’ve  got  my  motorcycle  parked  out in  the  yard.”

,726

WEIRD  TALES

De  Gratidin  had  been  studying  the butler  with  that  intent,  unwinking  stare o£  his,  but  now  turned  to  the  trooper  with a nod,  "By  all  means,"  he  replied.  "Go there,  and  go  quickly,  my  friend.  Also return  as  quickly  as  may  be  with  one  of your  patrol  cars,  if  you  please.  Park  it at  the  entrance  of  the  grounds,  and  approach on  foot.  It  may  be  we  shall  be in  need  of  help,  and  I would  have  it  that our  reinforcements  come  unannounced, if  possible.”

"O.  K.,”  the  other  answered,  and turned  upon  his  heel.

"How’s  Miss  Nancy,  Julius?”  Mr, Goodlowe  asked.  "Feeling  any  better?"

"No,  sir.  I’m  afraid  she’s  not,”  the butler  replied,  and  again  it  seemed  to  me that  he  shivered  like  a man  uncomfortable with  cold,  or  in  mortal  terror.

Jules  de  Grandin’s  gaze  had  scarcely left  the  Negro  since  he  saw  him  first. Now,  abruptly,  he  addressed  him  in  a sudden  flow  of  queer,  outlandish  words, vaguely  reminiscent  of  French,  but  differing from  it  in  tone  and  inflection,  no less  than  in  pronunciation,  as  the  argot of  the  slums  differs  from  the  language of  polite  society.

The  Negro  started  violently  as  de Grandin  spoke  to  him,  glanced  shamefacedly at  the  plate  of  wheat  he  held, then,  keeping  bis  eyes  averted,  answered in  the  same  outlandish  tongue.  Throughout the  dialogue  was  constantly  repeated a queer,  harsh-sounding  word:  "loogaroo,”  though  what  it  meant  I had  no faintest  notion.  At  length:

"Bon,”  de  Grandin  told  the  butler; then,  to  Mr.  Goodlowe  and  me:  "He says  that  Mademoiselle  your  niece  is  feeling most  unwell.  Monsieur,  and  that  he thinks  it  would  be  well  if  we  prescribed for  her.  He  and  his  wife  have  attempted to  assist  her,  but  she  has  fallen  into  a profound  stupor  from  which  they  can

not  rouse  her,  and  it  was  while  attempting to  summcm  a physician  from  Keyport that  he  discovered  the  telephone  had  gone out  of  order.  Have  we  your  permission to  attend  Mademoiselle?”

"Yes,  of  course,”  Mr.  Goodlowe  answered, and,  as  we  followed  the  butler up  the  wide,  balustraded  stairway:

"Dam’  West  Indian  niggers — I can’t think  why  Qarke  had  ’em  around.  I’ll be  gettin’  rid  of  ’em  in  short  order,  as soon  as  I can  get  some  of  our  servants up  here  from  the  South.  Why  the  devil couldn’t  he  have  told  me  about  Nancy?”

"Perhaps  because  he  had  no  opportunity,” de  Grandin  answered  with  a mildness wholly  strange  to  him.  "I  surmised that  he  came  from  Haiti  or  Martinique  by his  accent  and  by — no  matter.  Accordingly, I addressed  him  in  his  native patois,  and  he  responded.  I must  apologize for  breaking  in  upon  your  conversation, but  there  were  certain  things  I wished  to  know,  and  deemed  it  best  to ask  him  quickly,  before  he  fully  understood the  nature  of  my  mission  here.”

'Tfumph,”  responded  Mr.  Goodlowe. "Did  you  find  out  what  yon  wanted?”

'Perfectly,  Monsieur.  Forgive  me  if  I do  not  tell  you  what  it  is.  At  present  I have  no  more  than  the  vaguest  of  vague suspicions,  and  I should  not  care  to  make myself  a laughing-stock  by  parading crazy  theories  unbacked  by  any  facts.”

Plainly,  Mr.  Goodlowe  was  unimpressed with  Jules  de  Grandin  as  an  investigator, and  it  was  equally  plain  that he  had  in  mind  setting  forth  his  dissatisfaction in  no  uncertain  terms,  but  our advent  at  his  niece’s  bedroom  door  cut  off all  further  conversation.

iss  NANCY — oh.  Miss  Nancy!”

XVA  the  butler  called  in  a soft,  affectionate tone,  striking  lightly  cm  the  panels with  his  knuckles.

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY


No  answer  was  forthcoming,  and, waiting  a moment,  the  old  Negro  opened the  door  and  held  his  candle  high,  standing aside  to  permit  us  to  pass.

In  the  faint,  yellow  light  of  half  a dozen  candles  flickering  in  wall-sconces we  descried  a girl  lying  still  as  death  upon the  tufted  mattress  of  a high,  four-poster bed.  Her  eyes  were  closed,  her  hands were  folded  lightly  on  her  breast,  and  on her  skin  was  the  ghastly,  whitish-yellow pallor  of  the  moribund  or  newly  dead. Small  gouts  of  perspiration  lay  like  tiny beads  of  limpid  oil  upon  her  forehead; a little  ridge  of  glistening  globules  of moisture  had  formed  upon  her  upper  lip.

"My  God,  she’s  dead!”  cried  Mr. Goodlowe,  but:

"Not  dead,  but  sleeping — though  not naturally,”  de  Grandin  answered.  "See, her  breast  is  moving,  though  her  respirations are  most  faint,  Attend  her.  Friend Trowbridge.”

Placing  his  finger-tip  against  her  left radial  artery,  he  consulted  the  dial  of  the diminutive  gold  watch  strapped  against the  under  side  of  his  left  wrist,  motioning me  to  take  her  right-hand  pulse.

"Great  heavens!”  I exclaimed  as  I felt the  feeble  throbbing  in  her  wrist.  "Why, her  heart’s  beating  a hundred  and  twenty, and ”

"I  make  it  a hundred  and  twenty-six,” he  interrupted.  "What  diagnosis  would you  make  from  the  other  signs,  my friend.^”

"Well,”  I considered,  lifting  the  girl’s eyelids  and  holding  a candle  to  her  face, "we  have  pallor  of  the  body  surface,  subnormal temperature,  rapid  pulse  and weak  respiration,  together  with  dilated pupils — acute  coma  induced  by  anemia  of the  brain,  I’d  say.”

"Consequent  on  cardiac  insufiiciency?” he  added.

"That’s  my  guess.”

"Perfectly.  Mine  also,”  he  agreed.

"A  little  brandy  ought  to  help,”  I hazarded,  but:

"Undoubtlessly,”  he  acquiesced,  "but we  shall  not  administer  it.

"Monsieur,"  he  turned  to  Mr.  Goodlowe, "will  you  be  good  enough  to  leave us.^  We  must  take  measures  for  Made- 'moiselle’s  recovery,  and” — ^he  raised  his brows  and  shoulders  in  a shrug — "it would  be  better  if  you  left  us  with  the patient.”

Obediently,  our  host  turned  from  the room,  and  as  the  door  swung  to  upon him:

"Depechez,  mon  vieux!"  de  Grandin told  the  butler,  who,  at  his  signaled  order, had  remained  in  the  room.  "Cords,  if you  please;  make  haste!”

Lengths  of  linen  were  snatched  down from  the  windows,  quickly  twisted  into bandages,  then  bound  about  the  girl’s wrists  and  ankles,  finally  knotted  to  the uprights  of  the  bed.  Last  of  all,  several bands  were  passed  completely  around  her body  and  the  bed,  binding  her  as  fast upon  the  mattress  as  ever  criminal  was lashed  upon  the  rack.

"Whatever  are  you  doing?”  I asked him  angrily  as  he  knotted  a final  cincture. "This  is  positively  inhuman,  man.”

"I  fear  it  is,”  he  admitted;  then,  turning to  the  butler:

"Summon  your  wife  to  stand  guard, mon  brave,  and  bid  her  call  us  instantly if  Mademoiselle  awakes  and  struggles  to be  free.  You  understand?”

"Parfaitement,  M’sieu,”  returned  the other.

"What  the  deuce  does  it  mean?”  I demanded as  we  descended  the  stairs. "First  you  interrogate  that  servant  in some  outlandish  gibberish;  then  you  lash that  poor,  sick  girl  to  her  bed,  as  though she  were  a violent  maniac — that’s  the


WEIRD  TALES

damnedest  treatment  for  anemic  coma  I ever  saw!  Now ”

"Cordieu,  my  friend,  unless  I am  much more  mistaken  than  I think,  that  is  the damnedest  anemic  coma  that  I ever  saw, as  well!”  he  broke  in.  "Anon  I shall  explain, but — ah,  here  is  the  good  Monsieur Goodlowe;  there  are  things  which he  can  tell  us,  too.”  We  entered  the  library where  Mr.  Goodlowe  paced  furiously before  the  fireless  fireplace,  a long cigar,  unlighted,  in  his  mouth.

"There  you  are!”  he  barked  as  we  entered the  room.  "How’s  Nancy?”

De  Grandin  shook  his  head  despondently. "She  is  not  so  good.  Monsieur,”  he answered  sadly.  “We  have  done  what  we could  for  her  at  present,  and  the  butler’s wife  sits  watching  by  her  bed;  meanwhile, we  should  like  to  ask  you  several things,  if  you  will  kindly  answer.”

"Well?”  Goodlowe  challenged.

"How  comes  it  that  Monsieur  your brother  had  servants  from  the  French West  Indies  in  his  service,  rather  than Negroes  from  his  native  state?”

"I  don’t  see  that  has  any  bearing  on the  case,”  our  host  objected,  "but  if you’re  bound  to  have  the  family  pedigree  ”

"Oh,  yes,  that  would  be  most  helpful,” de  Grandin  assured  him  with  a smile.

r

The  other  eyed  him  narrowly,  seeking to  determine  whether  he  spoke  ironically, and  at  length:

"Like  most  Kentuckians,  our  family came  from  Virginia,”  he  returned. "Greene  Clarke,  our  maternal  greatgrandfather, was  a ship-owner  in  Norfolk, trading  principally  with  the  West Indies — it  was  easier  to  import  sugar from  Saint  Domingue,  as  they  called  it then,  than  to  bring  it  through  the  Gulf from  Louisiana;  so  he  did  a thriving trade  with  the  islands.  Eventually,  he  acquired considerable  land  holdings  in Haiti,  and  put  a younger  brother  in charge  as  overseer.  The  place  was  overrun and  burned  when  the  Blacks  revolted, but  our  great-granduncle  escaped  and later,  when  Christophe  set  up  stable  government, the  family  re-acquired  the  lands and  farmed  them  until  Ae  Civil  War, 'The  Virginia  branch  of  the  family  always kept  up  interest  in  the  West  Indian trade,  and  Clarke,  in  his  younger  days, spent  considerable  time  in  both  Haiti  and Martinique.  It  was  on  one  of  his  sojourns in  Port  au  Prince  that  he  acquired Julius  and  Marie  as  household  servants. 'They  came  with  him  to  the  States  and were  in  his  service  more  than  forty  years. They’ll  not  be  here  much  longer,  though. I don’t  like  West  Indian  niggers’  impudent ways,  and  I’m  going  to  give  ’em  the boot  as  soon  as  I can  get  a couple  of  our servants  up  here.”

De  Grandin  nodded  thoughtfully; then:

"You  have  no  record  of  your  ancestor’s activities  in  Haiti  before  the  Blacks’  re^ volt?”  he  asked.

"No,”  Mr.  Goodlowe  answered  shortly.

"Ah?  A pity.  Monsieur.  Perhaps  we might  find  in  that  some  explanation  of the  so  strange  deaths  which  seem  to  curse this  house.  However — but  let  it  pass  for the  present;  we  must  seek  our  explanation elsewhere,  it  would  seem.”

He  busied  himself  lighting  a cigarette, then  turned  once  more  to  Mr.  Goodlowe. "Captain  Chenevert  should  be  here  shortly,” he  announced.  "It  might  be  well  if you  accompany  him  when  he  leaves. Monsieur.  Unless  I misread  the  signs, the  malign  genius  which  presides  over this  most  imfortunate  house  is  ready  for another  manifestation,  and  you  are  in  all probability  the  intended  victim.  We  may foil  it  and  learn  something  which  will enable  us  to  thwart  it  permanently  in

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY


your  absence;  if  you  remain — eh  hien, who  can  say  what  may  occur?”

Mr.  Goodloweqf’ed him  coldly.  "You’re suggesting  that  I run  away?”  he  asked.

"Ah,  no;  by  no  means,  Monsieur, merely  that  you  make  a temporary  retreat' while  Friend  Trowbridge  and  I fight  a rear-guard  engagement.  You  can  not  help us  by  your  presence.  Indeed,  your  being here  may  prove  a great  embarrassment.”

"I’m  sorry,  sir,”  our  host  returned, "but  I can’t  agree  to  any  such  arrangement. I’ve  called  you  in  to  solve  this case  at  Captain  Chenevert’s  suggestion, and  against  my  own  best  judgment.  If I’m  to  pay  you,  I must  at  least  demand that  you  put  me  in  possession  of  all  facts you  know — or  think  you  know.  Thus  far your  methods  have  been  more  those  of the  fortune-telling  charlatan  than  the  detective, and  I must  say  I’m  not  impressed with  them.  Either  you  will  handle  the case  under  my  direction,  or  I will  write you  a check  for  services  to  date  and  call another  into  consultation.”

De  Grandin’s  little,  round  blue  eyes flashed  ominously,  with  a light  like  winter ice  reflecting  January  moonlight.  His thin  lips  drew  away  from  his  small, white  teeth  in  a smile  which  held  no mirth,  but  he  controlled  his  fiery  temper by  an  almost  superhuman  effort.  "This case  intrigues  caie.  Monsieur  Goodlowe,” he  answered  stiffly.  "It  is  not  on  your account  that  I hesitate  to  leave  it;  but rather  out  of  love  for  mastering  a mystery. Be  so  good  as  to  listen  attentively, if  you  please:

'*To  begin,  when  first  I saw  your  butler I thought  I recognized  in  him  the earmarks  of  the  Haitien.  Also,  I noted that  he  bore  a saucer  filled  with  wheat when  he  responded  to  our  knock.  Now, in  Haiti,  as  I know  from  personal  experience, the  natives  have  a superstition

that  when  an  unclean  spirit  comes  to haunt  a place,  protection  can  be  had  if they  will  scatter  grains  of  rice  or  wheat before  the  door.  Ihe  visitant  must  pause to  coimt  the  scattered  grain,  they  &ink, and  accordingly  daylight  will  surprize him  before  the  tale  is  told.  The  Quashee, or  Haitien  blacks,  refer  indifferently  to various  unpleasant  members  of  the  spirit world,  as  'loogaroo,'  which  is,  of  course, a corruption  of  loup-garou,  or  werewolf.

"Very  well.  I drew  my  bow  at  random and  addressed  your  man  in  Haitien patois,  and  instantly  he  answered  me. He  told  me  much,  for  one  who  hears himself  addressed  in  the  language  of  his childhood  in  a strange  land  will  throw away  reserve  and  give  full  vent  to  his emotions.  He  told  me,  by  example,  that he  was  in  the  act  of  scattering  grain about  the  house,  and  especially  upon  the stairs  and  in  the  passage  leading  to Mademoiselle  Nancy’s  room,  because  he was  convinced  that  the  loogaroo  which had  already  made  ’way  with  three  members of  your  family  was  planning  a fresh outrage.  For  why?  Because,  by  blue,  on each  occasion  previously  the  electric  li^rt inside  the  house  had  died  for  no  apparent reason,  and  all  outside  connections  by telephone  had  similarly  died.  Captain Chenevert,  who  had  made  investigation of  the  deaths,  noted  this  coincidence,  also, and  remarked  upon  it.  He  is  now  ^ne  to report  the  failure  of  your  light  and  telephone to  the  proper  parties.

"But  something  else,  of  even  greater interest,  your  butler  disclosed.  The  day before  her  father’s  death,  the  day  Mon.- sieur  Derringer  died  so  strangely,  and  immediately preceding  Madame  Derringer’s so  tragic  death,  Mademoiselle  Nancy  exhibited just  such  signs  of  illness  as she  showed  today — -dullness,  listlessness, headache;  finally  a heavy  stupor  almost simulating  death,  from  which  no  one


WEIRD  TALES

could  rouse  her.  Never  before- — and  he has  known  her  all  her  life — ^had  she shown  signs  of  such  an  illness.  Indeed, she  was  always  a most  healthy  young lady,  not  subject  to  the  customary  feminine ills  of  headache,  biliousness  or stomach-sickness.  Alors,  he  was  of  opinion that  these  sinking-fits  of  hers  were connected  in  some  manner  with  the  advent of  the  loogaroo,

"I  must  admit  I think  he  reasoned wisely.  When  Doctor  Trowbridge  and  I examined  her,  your  niece  showed  every sign  of  anemic  coma;  this  in  a lady  who has  always  been  most  healthy,  is  deserving of  remark;  especially  since  she  shows no  evidence  of  cardiac  deficiency  intervening these  strange  seizures.  You  comprehend.^”

"I  comprehend  you’ve  let  yourself  be fooled  by  the  bestial  superstitions  of  an ignorant  savage!”  Mr.  Goodlowe  burst out  disgustedly.  "If  this  is  a sample  of the  way  you  solve  your  cases,  sir,  I think we’d  better  call  it  quits  and ”

^'M’steu,  M’sieu  I’  Medecin,  depechezvous — Ma’mselle  est ” the  urgent

whisper  cut  him  short  as  an  elderly  Negress, deeply  wrinkled  but  still  possessing the  fine  figure  and  graceful  carriage of  the  West  Indian  black,  appeared  at  the library  door.

"We  come — at  once,  immediately, right  away!’  de  Grandin  answered,  turning unceremoniously  from  Mr.  Goodlowe and  hastening  up  the  stairs.

"Detain  him  without,  my  friend,”  he whispered  with  a nod  toward  Goodlowe as  we  reached  the  sickroom  door.  "Should he  find  her  bound,  he  may  ask  questions, even  become  violent,  and  I shall  be  too busy  to  stop  my  work  and  slay  him.”

Accordingly,  I blocked  the  bedroom door  as  best  I could  while  the  little Frenchman  and  the  Negress  hastened  to the  bed.

Nancy  goodlowe  was  stirring,  but not  conscious.  Rather,  her  movements were  the  writhings  of  delirium, and,  like  a patient  in  delirium,  she seemed  endowed  with  supernatural strength;  for  the  strong  bandages  which bound  her  wrists  had  been  thrown  off, and  the  surcingle  of  cotton  which  held her  to  the  bed  was  burst  asunder.

"Morbleu,  what  in  Satan’s  name  is this ” began  de  Grandin,  then,  abruptly:

"But;  glotre  de  Dieu,  what  is  that?” He  brushed  past  the  bed,  leant  out  the window  and  pointed  toward  the  patch  of smooth-shaven  lawn  before  the  loggia red-brick-and-iron  summer-house.  What seemed  to  be  a jet  of  vapor  rising  from a broken  steam-pipe  was  whirling  like  a dust-swirl  above  the  grass  plot,  rotating still  more  swiftly;  at  length  concrescing and  solidifying.  An  optical  illusion  it doubtless  was,  but  I could  have  sworn the  gyrating  haze  took  form  and  substance as  I gazed  and  became,  beneath  my very  eyes,  the  image  of  a great  white snake.

"Here,  damn  you,  what  d’ye  mean  by this?”  Mr.  Goodlowe  burst  past  me  into the  girl’s  bedroom  and  snatched  furiously at  the  cotton  bindings  which  half restrained  his  niece  upon  the  bed.  "By gad,  sir.  I’ll  teach  you  to  treat  gentlewomen this  way!”  he  stormed;  then,  surprizingly:

"Ah?”

Raising  furious  eyes  to  de  Grandin  as the  little  Frenchman  peered  out  the  window, he  had  caught  sight  of  the  ghastly, whirling  wreath  of  vapor  on  the  lawn.

The  thing  by  now  had  definitely  assumed a serpent’s  form.  And  it  was  a moving  serpent;  a serpent  which  circumvoluted  in  a giant  ring,  rearing  and swaying  its  ugly,  wedge-shaped  head from  side  to  side;  a serpent  which  made

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY


kx>ps  and  figure-eights  upon  the  moonlit lawn,  and  described  great,  flowing  triangles which  melted  into  squares  and hexagons  and  undulating,  coiling  mounds, an  ever-changing,  never-hastening,  neverresting  figure  of  activity.

"Ah?”  Mr.  Goodlowe  repeated,  horror and  blank  incredulity  in  the  querying monosyllable.

We  saw  his  face.  The  eyes  were  staring, glassy,  void  of  all  expression  as  the eyes  of  one  new-dead;  his  jaw  hung down  and  his  mouth  was  open,  round and  expressionless  as  the  entrance  to  a small,  empty  cave.  His  breath  sounded stertorously,  like  a snore.  For  a moment he  stood  thus;  then,  hands  held  before him  like  a sleep-walker,  or  a person  playing blind  man’s  buff,  he  turned,  shambled down  the  hall  and  began  a slow  and halting  descent  of  the  stairs.

"Loogaroo — loogaroo — Ayida  Oueddo!”  gibbered  the  Negro  servant,  her horror-glazed  eyes  rolling  in  a very  oestrus of  fear  as  she  gazed  alternately  at  the whirling  thing  upon  the  lawn,  the  struggling girl  upon  the  bed,  and  Jules  de Grandin.

"Silence!”  cried  the  Frenchman;  then, clearing  the  space  between  the  window and  the  bed  at  a single  leap:  "Mademoiselle Nancy,  awake!”  he  ordered, seizing  the  girl’s  shoulders  and  shaking her  furiously  from  side  to  side  as  a terrier might  shake  a rat.

For  a moment  they  struggled  thus, seemingly  engaged  in  a wrestling  bout, but  finally  the  girl’s  dark  eyes  opened  and she  looked  him  in  the  face.

De  Grandin’s  little,  round  blue  eyes seemed  starting  from  his  head,  the  veins along  his  temple  swelled  and  throbbed  as he  leant  abruptly  forward  till  his  nose  and that  of  Nancy  Goodlowe  nearly  touched. ''Attend  me — carefully!”  he  commanded in  a voice  which  sounded  like  a hiss.

"You  will  go  back  to  sleep,  a simple,  restful, natural  sleep,  and  both  your  waking and  subconscious  minds  shall  be  at  rest You  will  awake  when  daylight  comes, and  not  before.  I,  Jules  de  Grandin, order  it.  You  comprehend.^  Sleep — sleep — sleep!”  he  finished  in  a low  and crooning  voice,  swaying  the  girl's  shoulders to  and  fro,  as  one  might  rock  a restless child.

Slowly  she  sank  back  on  her  pillow, composed  herself  as  quietly  as  a tired little  girl  might  do,  and  m a moment seemed  to  fall  asleep,  all  traces  of  the delirium  which  had  held  her  rn  its  grip a moment  since  departed.

"Oh!”  Involuntarily  the  exclamation broke  from  me.  The  writhing,  twisting serpent  on  the  lawn  had  vanished,  and  I could  not  rightly  say  whether  what  remained was  a wraith  of  whirling  vapor or  a spot  of  bright  moonlight  which seemed  to  move  as  the  shadow  of  some wind-blown  bough  swept  over  it.

"Come,  my  friend,”  de  Grandin  ordered sharply,  snatching  at  my  elbow  as he  dashed  from  the  room.  "Wemust  find him.”

Mr.  Goodlowe  had  left  the  house  and crossed  the  intervening  lawn  by  the  time we  reached  the  door.  As  we  came  up with  him  he  stood  a few  feet  from  the place  where  we  had  seen  the  great  white snake,  staring  about  him  with  puzzled, wide,  lack-luster  eyes.

"Wha — what  am  I doing  here?”  he faltered  as  the  Frenchman  caught  him.  by the  shoulder  and  administered  a gentle shake.

"Do  not  you  remember.  Monsieur?” de  Grandin  asked.  "Do  you  not  recall  the thing  you  saw  out  here— the  thing  whidk beckoned  you  to  come,  and  whose  summons you  obeyed?”

Goodlowe  looked  vaguely  from  one  of us  to  the  other,  "I— I seem  to  have  some

i732

WEIRD  TALES

recollection  of  some  one — something — which  called  me  out,”  he  answered  in  a sleepy,  faltering  voice,  ''but  who  it  was or  what  it  was  I can’t  remember.”

"No?”  de  Grandin  returned  curiously. "Eh  bien,  perhaps  it  is  as  well,  or  better. You  are  tired.  Monsieur,  I think  you would  do  better  if  you  slept,  as  we should,  also.  Tomorrow  we  shall  talk about  this  case  at  length.”

Docile  as  a sleepy  child,  our  fierytempered  host  permitted  us  to  lead  him to  the  house  and  assist  him  into  bed.

De  Grandin  made  a final  tour  of  inspection, noted  the  light,  natural  sleep  in which  Nanqr  Goodlowe  lay,  then  followed Julius  to  the  room  assigned  us. Clad  in  lavender  pajamas,  mauve  dressing-gown and  purple  kid  slippers,  he  sat beside  the  window,  gazing  moodily  out upon  the  moonlit  lawn,  lighting  one  vilesmelling French  cigarette  from  the  glowing stump  of  another,  muttering  unintelligibly to  himself  from  time  to  time,  like one  who  makes  a mental  calculation  of  a puzzling  problem  in  arithmetic.

"For  goodness’  sake,  aren’t  you  ever coming  to  bed?”  I asked  crossly.  "I’m sleepy,  and ”

"'Then  go  to  sleep,  by  all  means,”  he shot  back  sharply.  "Sleep,  animal;  rest yourself  in  swinish  ease.  Me,  I am  a sentient human  being;  I have  thoughts  to think  and  plans  to  make.  When  I have done,  then  I shall  rest.  Until  that  time you  will  oblige  me  by  not  obtruding  yourself upon  my  meditations.”

"Oh,  all  right,”  I answered,  turning on  my  side  and  taking  him  at  his  word.

Gordon  goodlowe  was  in  a chastened mood  next  morning.  While he  had  no  clear  recollections  of  the  previous evening’s  events,  there  was  a haunting fear  at  the  back  of  his  mind,  a sort of  nameless  terror  which  dogged  his  footsteps, yet  evaded  his  memory  as  fancied images  half  seen  from  the  tail  of  the  eye dissolve  into  nothingness  when  we  turn about  and  seek  to  see  them  by  direct glance.

Miss  Goodlowe  remained  in  bed,  apparently suflfering  from  no  specific  illness, but  in  a greatly  weakened  state.  "I  think she’ll  be  all  right,  with  rest  and  a restricted diet,”  I ventured  as  de  Grandin and  I left  her  room,  but:

"Non,  my  friend,  you  have  wrong,” the  little  Frenchman  told  me  with  a vigorous  shake  of  his  head.  "Tonight, unless  I much  mistake  my  diagnosis,  she will  have  another  seizure,  and ”

"You’ll  hypnotize  her  again?”  I interjected.

"By  blue,  not  by  any  means!”  he  broke in.  "Me,  this  evening  I shall  be  a spectator at  the  show,  though  not,  perhaps, an  idle  one.  No,  on  second  thought  I am decided  I shall  be  quite  active.  Yes,  certainly.”

When  Captain  Chenevert  arrived  with assurances  that  "trouble-shooters”  of  the electric  and  telephone  companies  could find  no  mechanical  reason  for  the  failure of  service  in  the  Goodlowe  house,  and when,  by  trial,  we  found  both  electric light  and  telephone  in  perfect  working order,  de  Grandin  showed  no  surprize. Rather,  he  seemed  to  take  the  mystery  of alternating  failure  and  function  in  the service  as  confirmation  of  some  theory  he had  formed.

Shortly  after  noon,  accompanied  by Julius,  the  butler,  he  made  a hurried  trip in  Captain  Chenevert’s  police  car,  returning before  dinner  time  with  a covered  tin pail  filled  with  something  which  splashed as  he  bore  it  to  the  kitchen  and  put  it  near the  stove,  where  it  would  remain  warm, but  not  become  really  hot.

I passed  a rather  dismal  day.  Mr. Goodlowe  was  in  such  a state  of  nervous

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY

,733

fear  that  he  seemed  incapable  of  carrying on  a conversation;  Miss  Goodlowe  lay quietly  in  bed,  refusing  food,  and  answering questions  with  a gentle  patience which  reminded  me  of  a convalescent child;  de  Grandin  bustled  about  importantly, now  in  conference  with  Captain Chenevert,  now  with  Julius,  now  delving into  some  old  family  records  which  he found  in  the  library.  By  dinner  time  I was  in  a state  where  I would  have  welcomed a game  of  cribbage  as  a pastime.

Our  host  excused  himself  shortly  after dinner,  and  the  young  police  captain,  de Grandin  and  I were  left  alone  with  cigars and  liqueurs  on  the  terrace.  "You’re  sure you've  got  some  dope  on  it?”  Chenevert asked  suddenly,  flinging  his  cigar  away with  nervous  petulance,  then  selecting another  from  the  humidor  and  lighting it  with  quick,  spasmodic  puffs.

"None  but  the  feeble-minded  are  sure, of  that  I am  indubitably  sure,  ”de  Grandin answered,  "but  I think  I have  at  least sufficient  evidence  to  support  an  hypothesis.

"This  house,  I found  by  inquiries which  I made  in  the  city,  was  largely built  of  second-hand  materials;  the  owner wished  that  weathered  bricks  be  used, and  considerable  search  was  necessary  to procure  materials  of  a proper  age  and quality.  The  brick  and  iron  work  of which  that  little  summer-house  is  built, by  example,  came  from  a demolished structure  on  the  outskirts  of  Newark,  a house  once  used  to  restrain  the  criminally insane.  You  apprehend  the  significance of  that?”

The  young  trooper  regarded  him quizically  a moment,  as  though  seeking to  determine  whether  he  were  serious. At  length:  "No,  I can’t  say  I do,”  he confessed.

De  Grandin  turned  interrogativel}r  to

me.  "Do  you,  by  any  happy  chance,  see a connection  in  it?”  he  demanded.

"No,”  I answered.  "I  can’t  see  it makes  any  difference  whether  the  brick and  iron  came  from  an  insane  asylum  or a chicken-coop.”

He  nodded,  a trifle  sadly.  "One  should have  anticipated  some  suA  answer  from you,”  he  replied.  Then:  "Attend  me, carefully,  both  of  you,”  he  ordered.  "We must  begin  with  the  premise  that,  though it  is  incapable  of  being  seen  or  weigjied or  measured,  a thought  is  a thing,  no  less than  is  a pound  of  butter,  a flitch  of bacon  or  a dozen  sacerdotal  candles.  You follow  me?  Bien.  Bien,  whether  you  do or  not.

"A  madhouse  is  far  from  being  a pleasant  place.  There  human  wreckage — the  mentally  dead  whose  bodies  unfortunately survive  them — is  brought  to  be disposed  of,  imprisoned,  cabined,  cribbed, confined.  Often,  those  we  call  'criminally insane’  are  very  criminal,  indeed, though  not  medically  insane.  Their  madness consists  in  their  having  given  themselves, body,  soul  and  spirit,  to  abysmal and  unutterable  evilness.  Very  well. From  such  there  emanates — we  do  not know  quite  how,  though  psychical  experiment has  proved  it  to  be  a fact — an  active, potent  force  of  evil,  and  inanimate things,  like  stone  and  wood,  brick  and iron,  are  capable  of  absorbing  it.  Oh, yes.

"I  have  seen  spirit-manifestations evoked  from  a chip  taken  from  a rafter in  a house  where  great  wickedness  had been  indulged  in;  I have  seen  dreams  of old,  dead,  evil  days  evoked  in  sensitive subjects  doing  no  more  than  sleep  in  the room  where  some  bit  of  torture-paraphernalia from  the  prisons  of  the  Spanish  Inquisition in  Toledo  had  been  placed  all unbeknown  to  them.  Yes.  There,  then, is  our  starting-point.


WEIRD  TALES

"What  then?  Last  night  three  people saw  a most  remarkable  manifestation  on that  lawn  yonder.  I saw  it;  the  Negro butler’s  wife  beheld  it;  even  Doctor Trowbridge,  who  most  certainly  can  not be  called  a psychic,  saw  it.  Voila;  that thing  was  no  figment  of  the  fancy,  it  was there.  Of  course.  Whether  Monsieur Goodlowe  saw  it,  in  the  same  sense  that we  beheld  it,  we  can  not  say.  He  has  no recollection  of  it.  But  certainly  he  saw something — something  which  caused  him to  leave  his  house  and  walk  across  the grass  plot  exactly  as  did  his  brother,  his kinsman  and  his  female  relative,  presumably. Had  I not  been  quick,  I think  we should  have  seen  another  tragedy,  there, before  our  very  eyes.”

"I  say,”  I interrupted,  "just  what  was it  you  did  last  night,  de  Grandin?  I have to  admit,  however  much  my  better  judgment tells  me  it  was  an  optical  Illusion, that  I saw — or  thought  I saw — a great snake  materialize  on  the  lawn;  then, when  you  hypnotized  Miss  Goodlowe,  the thing  seemed  to  fade  away.  Did  she  have any  connection  with ”

"Ah  bah,”  he  broke  in  with  a nod. "Has  the  lens  any  connection  with  tlie burning  of  the  concentrated  sunlight? By  damn-it,  I think  yes!”

"How — “”  I began,  but:

"You  have  seen  the  working  of  the verre  ardent — -the  how  do  you  call  him? — burning-glass?  Yes?”

"Of  course,”  Qienevert  and  I replied in  chorus.

"Very  good.”  He  nodded  solemnly. "Very,  exceedingly  good.  All  about  us, invisible,  impalpable,  but  all  about  us, none  the  less,  are  spiritual  forces,  some good,  some  evil,  all  emanations  of  generations of  men  who  have  lived  and struggled,  loved,  hated  and  died  long years  agone.  But  this  great  force  is,  in the  main,  so  widespread,  so  lacking  in

cohesion,  that  it  can  not  manifest  itself physically,  except  upon  the  rarest  of  occasions. At  times  it  can  make  itself  faintly felt,  as  sunshine  can  impart  a coat  of tan  to  the  skin,  but  to  inflict  a quick  and powerful  burn  the  sunlight  must  be bound  together  in  a single  intense  beam by  the  aid  of  the  burning-lens.  Just  so with  these  spiritual  forces,  whether  they be  good  or  naughty.  They  are  here  already, as  sunlight  is  abundant  on  a sunny day,  but  it  needs  the  services  of  a medium to  bring  these  forces  into  focus  so  they can  become  physically  apparent.  Yes;  assuredly.

"Now,  not  all  mediums  reside  in  the stuffy  back  rooms  of  darkened  houses, dcing  out  precarious  livelihoods  by  the contributions  of  the  credulous  who  desire to  consult  the  spirits  of  departed relatives.  Helas,  no.  There  are  many  unconscious mediums  who  all  innocently give  force  and  potency  to  some  evil  spiritentity  which  but  for  them  would  be  unable to  manifest  itself  at  all.  Such  mediums are  most  often  neurotic  young women.  They  seem  ideally  fitted  to  supply the  psychoplasm  needed  by  the  spirit for  materialization,  whether  that  manifestation be  for  the  harmless  purpose  of ringing  a tambourine,  tooting  a toy  trumpet or — committing  bloody  murder.

"This,  of  course,  I knew  already.  Also, I knew  that  on  previous  occasions  when members  of  the  Goodlowe  family  had been  so  tragically  killed.  Mademoiselle Nancy  had  suffered  from  strange  seizures such  as  that  she  had  last  night.  'It  are  a wicked  thing — a spirit  or  an  elamental — draining  the  physical  energy  from  her  in the  form  of  psychoplasm  with  which  to make  itself  material,’  I tell  me.  Accordingly, when  I see  that  serpent  forming  out of  nothingness,  I turn  at  once  to  Mademoiselle Nancy  as  its  source  of  power.

"She  is  unconscious,  but  her  subconTHE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY


sdpus  miod  is  active;  she  seeks  to  burst the  bonds  I put  upon  her,  to  what  end? One  wonders.  But  one  thing  I can  do  if only  I can  succeed  in  making  her  conscious for  one  little  so  small  minute.  I can  hypnotize  her — put  her  in  a natural sleep  in  which  the  unconscious  giving  off of  physio-psychical  power  will  be  halted. And  so  I wake  her,  though  I have  great trouble  doing  it.  I wake  her  and  then  I bid  her  sleep  once  more.  She  sleeps,  and the  building  up  of  that  so  evil  white snake-thing  comes  abruptly  to  a halt. Voilk.  Tres  bienr

"What’s  next?”  Chenevert  demanded.

"First,  a further  test  of  that  which summoned  Monsieur  Goodlowe  from  the house  last  night,”  the  little  Frenchman answered.  "I  have  taken  means  which will,  I think,  insure  its  harmlessness;  but I am  curious  to  see  how  it  goes  about  its work.  That  done,  we  shall  destroy  the summer-house  from  which  the  evil  emanation seems  to  come,  and  that  accomplished, we  shall  seek  for  causes  of  these so  strange  deaths  and  for  the  source  of the  curse  which  seems  to  overhang  this family.  Logicians  reason  a posteriori;  we shall  seek  to  visualize  in  the  same  manner, from  ultimate  effect  to  primal  cause. You  understand?”

Captain  Chenevert  shook  his  head,  but held  his  peace.

’Tm  hanged  if  I do,”  I declared.

"Very  well,  you  shall,  in  time,”  he promised  with  a smile,  "but  you  shall  not be  hanged.  You  are  too  good  a friend to  lose  by  hanging,  dear  old  silly  Trowbridge of  my  heart.”

IT  MUST  have  been  near  midnight  when the  Negro  butler  ran  out  on  the  terrace to  summon  us.  ''Ma’mselle  is  restless, M’sieu  I’  Medecin,"  he  announced.

"My  wife  is  with  her,  but ”

"Very  good,”  de  Grandin  cried.  “Is all  in  readiness?”

Msieu."

"Bon.  Let  us  go.”  He  hastened  toward the  house,  and:

"Look  upon  the  lawn,  my  friends,”  he bade  Chenevert  and  me.  "What  is  it  that you  see,  if  anything?”

We  turned  toward  the  plot  of  grass before  the  summer-house,  and  I felt  a prickling  of  my  scalp  and,  despite  midsummer heat,  a sudden  chill  ran  down my  neck  and  back.  A jet  of  whitish  vapor was  rising  from  the  grass,  and  as  we looked,  it  began  to  weave  and  wind  and twist,  simulating  the  contortions  of  a rearing serpent.

“Good  God!”  cried  Captain  Chenevert, reaching  for  his  pistol,  but:

"Desist!”  de  Grandin  warned.  "I  have that  ready  which  will  prove  more  efficacious than  your  shot,  mon  capitaine,  and I do  not  wish  that  you  should  make  unnecessary noise.  It  is  better  that  we  do our  work  in  silence.  Await  me  here,  but on  no  account  go  near  it!”

In  a moment  he  and  Julius  returned, each  armed  with  what  looked  like  those large  tin  atomizers  used  to  spray  insecticide on  rose  bushes.

They  charged  across  the  strip  of  lawn, their  tin  weapons  held  before  them  as soldiers  might  hold  automatic  rifles,  deployed while  still  some  distance  from  the whirling  mist,  then  turned  and  faced  each other,  de  Grandin  running  in  a circle from  left  to  right,  the  Negro  circling toward  him  from  right  to  left.  Each aimed  his  atomizer  at  the  earth  and  we heard  the  swish-swish  of  the  things  as they  worked  the  plungers  furiously.  Although I could  not  tell  what  the  "guns” held,  it  seemed  to  me  they  sprayed  some dark-hued  liquid  on  the  grass.

"Bini?’  the  little  Frenchman  cried  as he  and  Julius  completed  their  circuit. "Now — ha?  Ah- ha- ha?’’  He  seemed  to


WEIRD  TALES

freeze  and  stiffen  in  his  trades  as  he looked  toward  the  house.  *

Chenevert  and  I turned,  too,  and  I heard  the  captain  give  a muffled  exdamation,  even  as  I caught  my  breath  in  surprize. Walking  with  an  undulating, swaying  motion  which  was  almost  like that  of  a dance,  came  N^icy  Goodlowe. Her  flimsy  nightdress  fluttered  lightly  in the  faint  night  breeze.  In  the  moonlight, falling  fine  as  dusted  silver  powder through  the  windbreak  of  Lombardy poplars,  she  was  so  wraith-like  and ephemeral  as  to  seem  a phantom  of  the imagination.  Her  arms  were  raised  before her,  and  bent  sharply  at  the  elbows, and  again  at  the  wrists,  so  that  her  hands thrust  forward,  for  all  the  world  like  twin snake-heads,  poised  to  strike.  Abruptly she  came  to  a halt,  half  turned  toward the  house  from  which  she  had  come,  as though  awaiting  the  advent  of  a delayed companion,  then,  apparently  reassured, began  describing  a wide  circle  on  the lawn  in  a gliding,  side-stepping  dance. I saw  her  face  distinctly  as  a moonbeam flawed  upon  it,  a tense  drawn  face,  devoid of  all  expression  as  a countenance carved  of  wood,  eyes  wide,  staring  and exfMressionless,  mouth  retracted  so  that  a hard,  white  line  of  teeth  showed  behind the  soft  red  line  of  lips.

And  now  the  drawn,  sardonically smiling  lips  were  moving,  and  a soft  contralto chant  rose  upon  the  midnight  stillness. The  words  I could  not  understand. Vaguely,  they  reminded  me  of  French; yet  they  were  not  truly  French,  resembling tliat  language  only  as  the  jargon  of a Yorkshireman  or  the  patois  of  our  canebrake  Negroes  simulated  the  English  of an  educated  Londoner.  One  word,  or phrase,  alone  I understood:  "Ayida Oueddo — Ayida  Oueddo!”  intermixed with  connectives  of  unintelligible  gibberish which  meant  nothing  to  me.

"Quick,  my  friends,  seize  him,  lay hands  on  him,  hold  him  where  he  is!" de  Gr^idin’s  whispered  order  cut  hrough Nancy  Goodlowe’s  chanting  invocation, as  he  motioned  us  to  turn  around.

As  we  swung  round  we  beheld  Gordon Goodlowe.  Like  a wanderer  in  a dream  he  came,  the  night  air  stirring through  his  tousled  hair,  his  eyes  fast-set and  staring  with  a look  of  blank,  halfconscious horror.  His  mouth  was  partly opened,  and  from  the  comers  there drooled  two  little  streams  of  spittle.  He was  like  a paralytic  moving  numbly  in  a state  of  quarter-consciousness,  a condemned man  marching  to  die  gallows  in an  anesthesia  of  dread,  volition  gone from  out  liis  limbs  and  muscles  working only  through  some  reflex  process  entirety divorced  from  conscious  guidance.

"Do  not  address  him,  only  hold  him fast!”  de  Grandin  ordered  sharply.  "On no  account  permit  him  to  overstep  the line  we  drew;  the  other  may  not  come  to him;  see  you  that  he  goes  not  to  it!”

Obediently,  Chenevert  and  I seized Goodlowe  by  the  elbows  and  stopped  him in  his  stride.  He  did  not  struggle  with us,  nor,  indeed,  did  he  seem  aware  we held  him,  but  we  could  feel  the  deadwei^t  of  his  body  as  he  leaned  toward the  twisting,  writhing  thing  inside  the circle  which  de  Grandin  and  Black  Julius had  marked  upon  the  lawn.

The  mist  had  now  solidified.  It  had become  a great,  white  snake  which  turned and  slid  its  folds  like  melting  quicksilver, one  upon  another,  rearing  up  its dreadful  head,  opening  its  fang-barbed mouth  and  hissing  with  a low,  contiraious  sibilation  like  the  sound  of  ^eam escaping  from  a brok«i  pipe.

I SHRANK  away  as  the  awful  thing  drew itself  into  a knot  and  drove  its  scalearmored  head  forward  in  a sudden  lunge

W.  T.— 1

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY


toward  us,  but  terror  gave  way  to  astonishment as  I saw  the  driving  batteringram  of  scale  and  muscle  stopped  in  midair, as  though  it  had  collided  with  an  in- ▼isible,  but  impenetrable,  barrier.  Time and  again  the  monster  struck  at  us,  hissing with  a sort  of  venomous  fury  as  each drive  fell  futilely  against  the  unseen  wall which  seemed  to  stand  between  ourselves and  it.  Then

From  the  little  red-brick  summerhouse there  came  a sudden  spurt  of  flame. Unseen  by  us,  de  Grandin  and  the  butler had  drenched  the  place  with  gasoline until  the  very  bricks  reeked  with  it  Now, as  they  poured  a fresh  supply  of  petrol out,  they  set  a match  to  it,  and  the  orange flames  leaped  upward  hungrily.

A startling  change  came  over  the  imprisoned reptile.  No  longer  did  it  seek to  strike  at  Chenevert  and  Goodlowe  and me;  rather,  its  efforts  seemed  directed  to regaining  the  protection  of  the  blazing summer-house.  But  the  invisible  barrier which  had  held  it  back  from  us  restrained its  efforts  to  retreat.  It  struck  and  struck again,  helplessly,  at  the  empty  air,  then began  to  twist  and  writhe  in  a new fashion,  contorting  on  itself,  swaying  its head,  shuddering  its  coils,  as  though  in unsupportable  agony.  And  as  the  lapping tongues  of  flame  leaped  higher,  the  thing began  to  shrink  and  shrivel,  as  though the  fire  which  burnt  the  roof  and  cracked the  bricks  and  bent  the  iron  grilles  of  the little  house  with  its  fierce  heat,  were  consuming it.

It  was  a feareome  sigbf-  To  see  a twenty-foot  snake  burned  alive — consumed to  crisping  ashes — ^would  have been  enough  to  horrify  us  almost  past endurance,  but  to  see  that  mighty,  writhing mass  of  bone  and  scale  and  ironhard  muscle  cremated  by  a fire  which blazed  a half  a hundred  feet  away — so far  away  that  we  could  scarcely  feel  the W.  T.— 2

least  faint  breath  of  beat — (hat  was  adding stark  impossibility  to  nauseating  horror,

"Pint  — ■ trhmphe — achevS  ■ — parfait!" de  Grandin  cried  triumphantly  as  he  and Julius  capered  round  the  blazing  summerhouse like  savages  dancing  round  some sacrificial  bonfire,  "You  were  strong  and cunning.  Monsieur  le  Revenant,  but  Jules de  Grandin,  he  was  stronger  and  more cunning.  Ha,  but  he  tricked  you  cleverly, that  one;  he  made  a mock  of  all  your wicked,  vengeful  plans;  he  caught  you  in a trap  where  you  thought  no  trap  was; he  snared  you  in  a snare  from  which there  was  no  exit;  he  burned  you  in  the fire  and  made  you  into  nothing —he  has consumed  you  utterly  and  finally!”  Abruptly he  ceased  his  frenzied  dance  and insane  chant  of  triiunph,  and:

"See  to  Mademoiselle,  mon  brave,”  he ordered  Julius.  "I  think  that  she  will rest  the  clock  around  when  your  wife  has put  her  in  her  bed.  Tomorrow  we  shall see  the  last  act  of  this  tragedy  and  then — eh  bien,  the  curtain  always  falls  upon  the finished  play,  n’est-ce-pas?"

CANDLES  burned  with  a soft,  faintly shifting  light  in  the  tall  sevencupped  candelabrum  which  graced  the center  of  the  polished  mahogany  table  in the  Goodlowe  drawing-room.  Full  to  repletion at  the  end  of  an  exceptionally good  dinner,  Jules  de  Grandin  was  at once  affable  and  talkative.  "What  was  it you  and  Julius  sprayed  on  the  lawn  last night?”  I had  asked  as  Gordon  Goodlowe, his  niece.  Captain  Chenevert  and  I found  seats  in  the  parlor  and  Julius, quiet-fcKDted  as  a cat,  brought  in  coffee and  liqueurs  before  setting  the  candles alight  and  drawing  the  gold-mesh  curtains at  the  tall  French  windows.

The  little  Frenchman’s  small  blue  eyes twinkled  roguishly  as  he  turned  his  gaze


WEIRD  TALES

on  me  and  brushed  a wholly  imaginary fleck  of  dust  from  the  sleeve  of his  immaculate  white-linen  mess-jacket. "Chicken  blood,’’  he  answered  with  an elfin  grin.

"What?”  Chenevert  and  I demanded in  incredulous  chorus.

"PrScisement,  your  hearing  is  quite  altogether perfect,  my  friends!”  he  answered. "Chicken  blood — sang  des  poulets,  you  comprehend.?”

"But ” I began,  when  he  checked

me  with  an  upraised  hand.

"Did  you  ever  stop  to  think  why  there are  statues  of  the  blessed  saints  upon  the altars  of  the  Catholic  church?”  he  asked.

"Why  there  are — what  the  deuce  are you  driving  at?”  I demanded.

He  drained  his  cup  of  brandied  coffee almost  at  a gulp,  and  patted  the  needlesharp  ends  of  his  diminutive  wheatblond  mustache  with  affectionate  concern. "The  old  schoolmen  knew  nothing  of what  we  call  'the  new  psychology’  today,” he  answered  with  a chuckle,  "but  they had  as  good  a working  knowledge  of  it as  any  of  our  present-day  professors. Consider:  In  the  laboratory  we  employ rotating  mirrors  to  induce  a state  of  quick hypnosis  when  we  would  make  experiments; before  that  we  were  wont  to  use gazing-crystals,  for  very  long  ago  it  was found  that  the  person  concentrating  his attention  on  a small,  bright  object  was  an excellent  candidate  for  hypnotism.  Very good,  but  that  is  not  all.  If  one  stares fixedly  at  anything,  whatever  be  its  size, he  soon  detects  a feeling  of  detachment stealing  over  him — I have  seen  soldiers standing  at  attention  become  unconscious and  fall  fainting  to  the  ground  because they  focused  their  gaze  upon  some  object before  them,  and  held  it  there  too long.

"Very  well,  then.  The  olden  fathers of  the  Church  discovered,  not  by  psychological formulae,  but  empirically,  that  an image  placed  upon  a shrine  gave  the kneeling  worshipper  something  on  which to  concentrate  his  gaze  and  induced  a state  of  mild  semi-hypnosis  which  made it  possible  to  exclude  extrinsic  thoughts. It  enabled  the  worshipper,  in  fine,  to  coordinate his  thought  with  the  wording  of his  prayer — made  the  act  of  praying  less like  indulging  in  a conversation  with himself.  You  apprehend?  Good.  The underlying  psychology  of  the  thing  the fathers  did  not  know,  but  they  proved  by successful  experiment  that  the  images  fulfilled this  important  office.

"Similarly:  In  darkest  Africa,  where the  Voodoo  rites  of  the  West  Indies  had their  birth,  worshippers  of  the  unclean gods  typified  by  the  snake  discovered  that the  blood  of  fowls,  especially  chickens, was  a potent  talisman  against  their  deities, which  might  otherwise  burst  the  boundaries of  control.  Every  Voodoo  rite, whatever  its  nature,  is  accompanied  by the  sacrifice  of  a fowl,  preferably  a rooster,  and  this  blood  is  scattered  in  a circle  between  the  worshippers  and  the altar  of  their  gods.  Why  this  is  we  do not  know;  we  only  know  it  is.  But  upon some  ancient  day,  so  long  ago  that  no  one knows  its  date,  it  was  undoubtlessly  discovered that  the  serpent-god  of  tlie  Voodoo men  could  be  controlled  by  spreading warm  chicken  blood  across  his  path. This  was  a secret  which  the  Haitien Blacks  brought  with  them  out  of  Africa.

"Very  good.  When  Mademoiselle Nancy  struggled  on  her  bed  the  night  we came,  and  we  beheld  something  taking shape  upon  the  lawn,  something  with  a serpent’s  form,  which  drew  Monsieur Goodlowe  from  the  house  by  some  subtle fascination,  what  was  it  that  Julius’  wife cried  out?  'Ayida  Oueddo!’

"Now  that,  my  friends,  is  the  designation of  the  wife  and  consort  of  DamTHE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY

[739

bdlah  Oueddo,  the  great  serpent-god  of the  Voodoo  men.  She  is  a sort  of  Jimo  in tlieir  pantheon,  second  in  power  only  to her  dreadful  husband,  who  in  turn,  of course,  is  their  Jove.

"Alors,  her  involuntary  cry  gave  me  to think.  I felt  my  way,  step  by  careful step,  like  a blind  man  tap-tapping  with his  stick  down  some  unfamiliar  street.  If that  which  we  saw  materialize  on  the lawn  were  indeed  the  form  of  Ayida Oueddo,  then  the  charms  used  by  the Haitien  Voodoo  men  should  prove  eflFective  here.  It  is  the  logic,  n*est-ce-pas?

"Accordingly,  I procured  a plentiful supply  of  chickens’  blood  from  one  who deals  in  poultry,  and  had  it  ready  for emergency  last  night.  The  'reason  why’ I can  not  tell  you;  I only  know  that  I applied  such  knowledge  as  I had  to  conditions as  I found  them.  I took  the chance;  I gambled  and  I woo.  Vo'tU tout.”

"But  why’d  you  burn  the  summerhouse.?’’ Chenevert  demanded.

”Pardieu,  we  "sterilized’  it,’’  de Grandin  answered.  "When  we  had burned  it  we  put  an  end  to  those  so  evil hauntings  which  had  caused  three  deaths and  nearly  caused  a fourth.  Fire  kills  all things,  my  friends:  microbes,  animals, even  widked  spirit  manifestations.  Tear down  a haunted  house,  and  the  earth,  all soaked  in  evil  emanations  of  the  longdead  wicked,  will  still  give  forth  its  exhalations in  the  form  of  what  we  call 'ghosts’  because  we  lack  a better  name for  them.  More:  incorporate  one  little portion  of  that  haunted  place  in  some new  building,  and  the  new  structure  may prove  similarly  haunted.  But  if  you  btim the  place — pouf!  The  hauntings  and  the haunters  cease,  and  cease  for  ever.  The wood  or  bride  or  iron  of  which  the haunted  house  was  made  acts  as  a base  of ic^jaratioiis  for  the  spirit  manifestation,

but  when  it  is  destroyed  by  fire,  or  even superheated,  it  becomes  'cleansed’  in  the sense  the  exorcists  use  the  term,  and  no longer  can  it  harbor  old,  ttndean  and  sinful things.”

Gordon  Goodlowe,  no  longer  skeptical, but  frankly  interested,  put  in:  "Qm you  account  for  the  apparition  which  urjdoubtedly  caused  these  deaths  and  almost killed  me.  Doctor?”

De  Grandin  pursed  his  lips  as  he  regarded the  glowing  end  of  his  cigar  intently. "Not  altogether,”  he  replied. "Vaguely,  as  the  wearer  of  a too-tight shoe  feels  the  approach  of  a storm  ©f rain,  I have  a feeling  that  your  family’s connection  with  the  former  French  possession of  Haiti  is  involved,  but  why  it should  be  I do  not  know.

"However” — he  bowed  ceremoniously to  Nancy  Goodlowe — "Mademoiselle your  niece  has  it  in  her  power,  I believe, to  enlighten  us.”

"I?”  the  girl  adeed  incredulously.

"Precisement,  Mademoiselle.  Remember how  in  each  former  case  you  were stricken  with  a so  strange  illness,  then the  serpent-thing  appeared.  I do  not know,  of  course,  but  I much  suspect  that the  illnesses  were  caused  by  the  slow withdrawal  of  the  psycho-physical  force which  we  call  psychoplasm  in  order  that it  might  be  absorbed  by  the  evil  entity which  could  not  otherwise  attain  physical force  and  kill  your  father  and  your  kinsmen. Therefore,  it  would  seem,  you  have some — all  innocent,  I assure  you — connection with  this  so  queer  business.  If that  be  so,  you  may  remember  something which  will  help  us.”

"Remember?”  the  girl  burst  out. "Why,  Fve  absolutely  no  recollection  of anything.  I only  know  that  I’ve  been  ill, then  lapsed  into  unconsciousness,  and when  I woke ”

"Memory  is  of  many  kinds.  Made-

[740

WEIRD  TALES

moiselle"  de  Grandin  broke  in  gently. ''There  are  certain  ancestral  experiences which,  though  we  may  have  no  conscious knowledge  of  them,  are  graven  deeply  on the  records  of  our  subconscious  memory. Consider:  Have  you  never,  in  your travels,  come  upon  some  old,  historic place,  and  had  a sudden  feeling  of  'Why, I’ve  been  here  before’?  Consciously,  and in  this  life,  you  have  not,  of  course;  yet you  are  greatly  puzzled  by  the  so  strange familiarity  of  a scene  which  you  are  sure you  have  never  seen  before.  Yes,  of course.  The  explanation  is  presumed that  some  ancestor  of  yours  imderwent  a deep  emotional  experience  at  that  place. Incidents  historically  ancestral  have  made a deep  impression  on  the  family  memory, and  when  proper  stimuli  are  applied,  this group  memory  will  work  its  way  up  to the  surface,  as  objects  long  immersed  in water  and  forgotten  will  rise  to  the  top if  the  pond  is  sufl&ciently  agitated.  You comprehend?”

"I — I don’t  think  I do,”  she  answered with  a puzzled  smile.  "Do  you  mean  that something  which  made  a marked  impression on  my  great-great-grandmother,  for instance,  and  of  which  I’d  never  heard, might  be  ’remembered’  by  me  if  I were taken  to  the  place  where  it  occurred.

"Precisely,  exactly;  quite  so!”  he  cut in  enthusiastically.  "You  have  it.  Mademoiselle. In  each  of  us  there  is  some vestige  of  the  past;  we  are  the  sum  of generations  long  since  dead,  even  as  we are  the  remote  ancestors  of  generations yet  unborn.  I do  not  say  that  we  can  do it,  but  with  your  consent  and  assistance, I think  it  possible  that  we  may  probe  the past  tonight,  and  learn  whence  came  this curse  which  has  so  sorely  tried  your  family. Are  you  willing?”

"Why,  yes,  of  course,  if  Uncle  Gordon says  so.”

"You  won’t  hurt  her  in  any  way?” asked  Mr.  Goodlowe.

"Not  in  the  slightest.  Monsieur;  upon my  honor.  Be  very  sure  of  that.”

"All  right,  then.  I’ll  agree,”  our  host returned.

Nancy  goodlowe  seated  herself  in a big  wing  chair,  hands  folded  demurely in  her  lap,  head  lolling  back against  the  tapestry  upholstery.  Theretofore I had  regarded  her  as  a patient more  than  a woman — two  very  different things! — and  the  realization  of  her  really splendid  beauty,  her  smoldering  dark eyes,  her  strong,  white  teeth,  her  alluring bosom  and  captivating  turn  of  long,  lithe limb,  struck  me  suddenly  as  she  lay  back in  her  chair  with  just  enough  voluptuousness of  attitude  to  make  us  realize  that she  knew  she  was  a woman  in  a group of  men,  and  as  such  the  center  of  attraction which  was  not  entirely  scientific.

De  Grandin  took  his  stand  before  her, thrust  his  hand  into  the  left-hand  pocket of  his  cummerbund  and  drew  forth  the little  gold  note-pencil  which  hung  upon the  chain  to  the  other  end  of  which  was fixed  his  clinical  thermometer.  "Mademoiselle,” he  ordered  softly,  "you  will  be good  enough  to  look  at  this — at  its  very tip,  if  you  please.  So?  Good.  Observe  it closely.”

Deliberately,  as  one  who  beats  time  to a slow  andante  tune,  he  wove  the  little, gleaming  pencil  back  and  forth,  describing arabesques  and  intricate,  interlacing figures  in  the  air.  Nancy  Goodlowe watched  him  languidly  from  under  long, black  eyelashes.  Gradually,  her  attention fixed.  We  saw  her  eyes  follow  every motion  of  the  pencil,  finally  converge toward  each  other  until  it  seemed  she made  some  sort  of  grotesque  grimace; then  the  lids  were  lowered  on  her  purple eyes,  and  her  head,  propped  against  the

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY


chair-back,  moved  slightly  sidewise  as the  neck  muscles  relaxed.  Her  folded hands  fell  loosely  open  on  her  silk-clad knees,  and  she  was,  to  all  appearances, sleeping  peacefully.  Presently  the  regular, light  heaving  of  her  bosom  and  the softly  sibilated,  even  breathing,  told  us she  had,  indeed,  fallen  asleep.

The  little  Frenchman  put  his  pencil  in his  pocket,  crossed  the  room  on  tiptoe and  stroked  her  forehead  and  temples with  a quick,  light  touch.  "Mademoiselle,” he  whispered,  "can  you  hear  me?”

"I  can  hear  you,”  answered  Nancy Goodlowe  in  a soft  and  drowsy  voice.

"Bien,  ma  belle;  you  will  please  project your  mental  eye  upon  the  screen  of memory.  Go  back,  Mademoiselle,  until you  reach  the  time  when  first  your  family crossed  the  trail  of  Ayida  Oueddo,  and tell  us  what  it  is  you  see.  You  hear?”

"I  hear.”

"You  will  obey?”

"I  will  try.”

For  something  like  five  minutes  we  sat there,  our  eyes  intent  upon  the  sleeping girl.  She  rested  easily  in  the  big  chair, her  lips  a little  parted,  her  light,  even breathing  so  faint  that  we  could  scarcely hear  it,  but  no  sign  or  token  did  she  give that  she  had  seen  a thing  of  which  she might  tell.

"Ask  her  if ” Gordon  Goodlowe

began,  but:

"S-s-s-stl”  de  Grandin  cut  him  short. "Be  quiet,  stupid  one,  she  is — grand Dieu,  observe!”

As  though  the  room  had  suddenly  become chilled,  Nancy  Goodlowe’ s breath was  visible.  Like  the  steaming  vapor seen  upon  a freezing  winter  day,  a light, halitous  cloud,  faintly  white,  tangible  as exhaled  smoke  from  a cigarette,  was  issuing from  between  the  young  girl’s parted  lips.

I felt  a sudden  shiver  coursing  down

my  spine,  one  of  those  causeless  fits  of nervous  cold  which,  occurring  independently of  outside  stimuli,  make  ns  say "some  one  is  walking  over  my  grave.” Then,  definitely,  the  room  grew  colder. The  humid,  midsummer  heat  gave  way  to a chilliness  which  seemed  to  affect  the soul  as  well  as  the  body;  a dull,  biting hardness  of  cold  suggestive  of  the  limitless freezing  eternities  of  interstellar space.  I heard  de  Grandin’s  small,  strong teeth  click  together  like  a pair  of  castanets, but  his  gaze  remained  intently  on the  sleeping  girl  and  the  gray-white  mist which  floated  from  her  mouth.  "Psychoplasm!” I heard  him  mutter,  half  believingly.

The  smoke-like  cloud  hung  suspended in  the  dead-still  atmosphere  of  the  room a moment;  then  gently,  as  though  wafted by  a breeze,  it  eddied  slowly  toward  the farther  wall,  hung  motionless  again,  and gradually  spread  out,  like  the  smokescreen laid  by  a military  airplane,  a drifting, gently  billowing,  but  thoroughly opaque  curtain,  obscuring  the  wall  from ceiling  to  baseboard.

It  is  difiicult  to  describe  what  happened next.  Slowly,  in  the  gray-white wreaths  of  vapor  there  seemed  to  generate little  points  of  bluish  light,  mere  tiny specks  of  phosphorescence  scintillant  in the  still  smoke-screen.  Gradually,  but with  ever-quickening  tempo,  they  thickened and  multiplied  till  they  floated  like a maze  of  dancing  midges,  spinning  their luminant  dance  until  they  seemed  to  coalesce into  little  nebulas  of  light  as  large as  glowing  cigarette-ends,  but  burning all  the  while  with  an  intense,  blue,  eery light.  It  was  as  if,  in  place  of  the  smokevapor,  the  room  was  cut  in  twain  by  a curtain  of  solid,  opaque  moonlight.

Gradually  the  glowing  nebulas  changed from  their  spinning  movement  to  a slow, weaving  motion.  The  luminous  curtain


WEIRD  TALES

was  breaking  up,  forming  a definite  pattern of  hl^i^ts  and  shadows;  a picture, as  when  the  add  etches  deeply  in the  copper  of  a half-tone  plate,  was  taking form  before  our  eyes-^we  were  looking, as  through  the  proscenium  of  a theater, into  another  room.

It  was  a beautiful  apartment,  regal  in its  lavishness  as  though  it  formed  some portion  of  a royal  palace.  Walls  were spread  with  Flemish  tapestries,  dbairs and  couches  were  of  carven  walnut  and dull-red  mahogany,  rare  specimens  of faience  stood  on  gilt-legged,  marbletopped  tables.  A massive  dock,  with  dial of  beaten  silver  and  hands  of  hammered gold,  swung  its  jeweled  pendulum  in  a case  of  polished  ebony.

Against  a chaste  white-marble  mantelpiece there  leaned  a woman  in  a golden gown,  ^e  was  a charming  creature, scarce  larger  than  a child,  with  small, delicate  features  of  cameo  clarity,  soft, wavy  hair  cut  rather  short  and  clustering round  her  neck  and  ears  in  a multitude  of tiny  ringlets.  Her  eyes  were  large  and dark,  her  lips  full  and  red;  her  teeth,  as she  smiled  sadly,  were  small  and  white as  bits  of  shell-pearl.  There  was,  too,  a peculiar  quality  to  her  skin,  not  dark with  sunburn,  nor  yet  with  the  olivedarkness of  the  Spaniard  or  Italian,  but rather  golden-pink,  in  perfect  complement to  the  golden  tissue  of  her  highwaisted,  sleeveless  gown.  I looked  at  her in  wonder  for  a moment;  then

“A  quadroon!”  I classified  her,  the product  of  a mixture  of  two  races,  a lovely mixed-caste  offspring  of  miscegenation, more  beautiful  than  ninety  of  each  hundred whites,  inheriting  only  the  perfection of  form  and  carriage  of  black  ancestors from  the  Congo.

A door  at  tiie  farther  end  of  the  apartment opened  quickly,  but  soundlessly, and  a young  man  hastened  forward.  He

was  in  military  dress,  the  uniform  of  a French  officer  of  a hundred  and  fifty years  ago,  but  the  shoulders  of  his  scarletfaced white  coat  were  decorated  with knots  of  yam  instead  of  the  more  customary epaulets.  He  paused  before  the girl,  booted  heels  together,  and  bOwed stiffly  from  the  wairt  above  the  pale-gold hand  she  gave  him  with  the  diarming, precise  grace  I had  so  often  seen  in  Jules de  Grandin.  As  he  raised  her  fingers  to his  lips  I saw  that  like  hers,  his  skin  was pale  mat  gold,  and  in  his  dark-brown, wavy  hair  there  was  the  evidence  of African  descent.

His  lips  moved  swiftly,  but  no  sound came  from  them,  nor  did  we  hear  what she  replied.  With  a start  I realized  we were  witnessing  a pantomime,  a picture charged  with  action  and  swift  motion,  but silent  as  the  cinematograph  before  the "movies”  became  vocal.

What  they  said  we  could  not  tell,  but that  the  young  man  bore  some  tidings  of importance  was  evident;  that  he  urged the  girl  to  some  course  was  equally  apparent, and  that  she  refused,  althou^ with  great  reluctance  and  distress,  was obvious.

The  entrance  of  the  room  was  darkened momentarily  as  a third  actor  strode upon  the  scene.  Clothed  in  white  linen, booted  and  spurred,  a heavy  riding-whip in  his  hand,  he  fairly  swaggered  throu^ the  choicely  furnished  room.  No  quadroon this,  no  slightest  hint  of  Africa  was in  his  straight,  dark  hair  or  sunburned features;  this  was  a member  of  the  dominant, inevitably  conquering  white  race, and,  by  his  features,  an  American  or Englishman.  As  he  drew  near  the  girl and  the  young  officer  I realized  with  a start  of  quick  surprize  that  the  latest comer  might  have  been  Gordon  Goodlowe  at  thirty,  or  perhaps  at  thirty-five.

He  looked  with  mingled  anger  and

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY


contempt  upon  the  other  two  a moment, then  shot  a quick,  imperious  question  at the  woman.  The  girl  made  answer, wringing  her  slim  hands  in  a very  ecstasy of  pleading,  but  the  man  turned  from her  and  again  addressed  the  youthful  soldier. What  answer  he  received  I could not  tell,  but  that  it  angered  him  was  certain, for  without  a second’s  warning  he raised  his  riding-whip  and  cut  the  youth across  the  face  with  its  plaited  thong. Blow  after  blow  he  rained  upon  the  unresisting boy,  and  finally,  flinging  away the  scourge,  he  resorted  to  his  fists,  felled the  trembling  lad  to  the  floor  and  kicked him  as  he  might  have  kicked  a dog.

I stared  in  horror  at  the  exhibition  of brutality,  but  even  as  I looked  the  picture was  obscured,  the  moving  figures  faded in  a blur  of  smolcy  haze,  and  once  again we  found  ourselves  staring  at  a wall  of idly  drifting  vapor.

Again  the  little  sparkling  lights  began to  dance  within  the  smoke,  and now  they  spun  and  wove  until  another scene  took  form  before  us.  It  was  a bedroom into  which  we  looked.  A tall,  fourposter  bedstead  stood  in  the  foreground, while  bureaus  and  dressing-tables  of carved  apple-wood  were  in  the  corners. Light  curtains  of  some  cotton  stuff swayed  gently  at  the  windows,  and  across the  darkened  chamber  a shaft  of  moonlight cut  a swath  as  clear  and  bright  as  a spotlight  on  a darkened  stage.

Beside  a toilet  table  stood  the  girl  we’d seen  before,  more  beautiful  and  winsome in  her  nightdress  of  sheer  cambric  than she  had  been  when  clothed  in  cloth-ofgold.  Sadly  she  regarded  her  reflection  in the  oval,  gold-framed  mirror  as  she  drew a comb  of  tortoise-shell  through  her  curling, jet-black  ringlets;  then,  as  she  saw another  image  in  the  glass,  she  straightened in  an  attitude  of  panic  fear.

Across  her  creamy  shoulders  leered  the face  of  the  white  man  who  had  thrashed the  soldier  in  the  scene  we  had  seen before,  and  now  the  shadow  gave  way  to the  substance  as  the  man  himself  half walked,  half  staggered  into  the  room. That  he  was  drunk  was  evident;  that  he had  drunk  until  the  latent  beast  was raised  in  him  was  also  patent  as  he lurched  across  the  room  unsteadily, grasped  the  trembling  girl  in  his  arms  and crushed  her  to  him,  bruising  her  protesting lips  with  kisses  which  betrayed  no trace  of  love,  but  were  afire  with  blazing passion.

The  girl’s  slim  form  bent  like  a taut bow  in  his  grasp,  as  she  struggled  futilely to  break  away;  then,  as  her  groping  hands fluttered  across  the  dressing-table’s  marble top,  we  saw  her  slender  fingers  close upon  a slim,  thin-bladed  dagger.  The fine  steel,  no  thicker  than  a knittingneedle,  gleamed  in  the  ray  of  moonlight as  it  flashed  in  an  arc,  then  fleshed  itself in  the  man’s  back  an  inch  or  so  beneath the  shoulder-blade.

He  let  her  go  and  fell  back  with  a grimace of  mingled  rage  and  pain,  a seriocomic expression  of  surprize  spreading  on his  liquor-flushed  and  sunburned  features. Then,  like  a pouncing  beast  of  prey,  he leaped  on  her.

As  a terrier  might  shake  a rat  or  a savage tom-cat  maul  a luckless  mouse,  he shook  her,  swaying  her  slim  shoulders  till her  head  bobbed  giddily  and  her  short  hair waved  flag-like  back  and  forth.  Protesting helplessly,  she  opened  her  mouth,  and the  force  with  which  he  shook  her  drove her  teeth  together  on  her  tongue  so  that blood  gushed  from  her  mouth  in  a bright spate.  Now,  not  content  with  shaking, he  beat  her  with  his  doubled  fists,  striking her  to  the  floor  in  a little,  huddled  heap, then  raising  her  again  so  that  he  might once  more  knock  her  down.


WEIRD  TALES

The  brutal  beating  lasted  till  I would have  put  my  hand  before  my  eyes  to  shut the  cruel  sight  out,  but  quickly  as  it  started it  was  done.  A soundless  cry  came from  the  girl’s  tormenter,  and  he  raised his  hand  across  his  shoulder,  attempting to  assuage  the  flow  of  blood;  then,  half turning  as  he  grasped  at  empty  air,  he  fell face-forward  to  the  floor.  We  saw  a wide,  red  stain  upon  the  linen  of  his  shirt as  he  lay  there  twitching  with  convulsive spasms.

The  white-gauze  curtain  at  the  chamber window  fluttered  with  a sudden  movement not  caused  by  the  midnight  breeze, and  a slim,  brown  hand  was  thrust  aaoss the  sill.  Between  the  parted  folds  of  curtain we  caught  a glimpse  of  a scarred countenance,  the  lash-marked  face  of  the young  soldier  whom  we  had  seen  the white  man  beat.  For  a moment  the  face was  silhouetted  against  the  background  of the  night;  then  the  slim  hand  opened, letting  fall  some  object  at  the  trembling girl’s  bare  feet.  It  was  the  dried  wing  of a tropic  vampire-bat.

ONCE  more  the  scene  dissolved  in  haze, and  once  again  it  formed,  and  now we  looked  upon  a tableau  of  midnight jungle.  Resinous  torches,  some  thrust into  the  earth,  some  fastened  to  the  trunks of  palm-trees,  cast  a glow  of  ruddy  light upon  the  scene.  A cloud  of  heavy  smoke ascended  from  the  torches,  forming  an inky  canopy  which  blotted  out  the  stars. Seated  on  the  ground  in  a great  circle  was a vast  concourse  of  Blacks,  men  and women  in  macabre  silhouette  against  the flickering  torchlight,  some  beating  wildly on  small,  double-headed  drums,  others circling  in  and  out  in  the  mazes  of  a shuffling,  grotesque  dance.  Lewd,  lecherous, lascivious,  the  postures  of  the  dancers melted  quickly  from  one  to  another,  each more  instinct  with  lechery  than  the  one

preceding.  Some  semi-naked,  some  nude as  at  the  instant  of  their  birth,  they danced,  and  we  knew  that  something devilish  was  toward,  for  though  we  could not  catch  the  tempo  of  the  drums,  we  felt the  tension  of  the  atmosphere.

Now  the  drummers  ceased  to  hammer on  their  tom-toms;  now  the  dancers ceased  to  pose  and  shuffle  in  the  bloodred  glare  of  torchlight;  now  the  crowd gave  back,  and  through  the  aisle  of  panting, crowding  bronze-black  bodies  strode a figure.  Her  head  was  bound  about  with scarlet  cloth,  and  a wisp  of  silk  of  the  same color  was  wrapped  about  her  loins,  leaving the  remainder  of  her  body  starkly naked,  save  for  a heavy  coating  of  white pigment.  Straight  from  her  shoulders,  to right  and  left,  she  held  her  arms,  and  in each  hand  was  clutched  by  the  feet  a cock, one  white,  the  other  black.  With  slow, gliding  steps  she  paced  on  white-smeared, slim  bare  feet  between  the  lines  of  crouching figures  who  watched  her  avidly  in hot-eyed,  slabbering  passion.

Before  a low  and  box-shaped  altar  she came  to  pause,  her  arms  straight  out  before her.  Her  head  bent  low  as  an  aged, wrinkle-bitten  Negress  leaped  from  the shadows  and  waved  a gleaming  butcherknife  twice  in  the  lambent  torchlight,  decapitating a cockerel  at  each  sweep  of  the steel.  The  fowls’  heads  dropped  to  earth and  the  painted  priestess  lifted  high  the sacrifices,  their  wings  fluttering,  their  cut necks  spurting  blood.  Slowly  she  began  to wheel  and  turn  beneath  the  gory  shower, then  faster,  faster,  faster,  until  it  seemed that  she  was  spinning  like  a top.  We  saw her  face  a moment  as,  all  dewed  with blood,  she  turned  it  toward  the  altar.  It was  the  girl  whom  we’d  seen  twice  before.

And  now  the  wrinkled  crone  who  had slain  the  cocks  leaped  monkey-nimble  to the  box-like  altar,  snatched  frenziedly  at the  strong  lock  and  hasp  which  held  the

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY


cover  down,  and  flung  the  lid  back  from the  chest.  All  eyes,  save  those  of  the  girl who  still  spun  whirlingly  before  the  sanctuary, were  intent  upon  the  box.  I watched  it,  too,  wondering  what  fresh  obscenity could  be  disclosed.  Then,  with  a gasping  intake  of  my  breath,  I saw.

Slowly,  very  slowly,  there  reared  from the  box  the  head,  the  nedc,  an  eight-foot length  of  body  of  a great  white  snake! Ayida  Oueddo,  the  White  Serpent  Goddess, the  deity  of  Voodoo  rites!  Ayida Oueddo,  the  Goddess  of  Slaughter — this girl  was  a vowed  priestess  of  her  bloody cult!

The  scene  obscured  once  more,  then slowly  took  new  form.  We  stood within  a crowded  courtroom.  ITiree judges,  two  in  black,  one  in  red,  were seated  on  the  dais;  flanked  by  two  gendarmes with  muskets  and  fixed  bayonets, the  golden  girl,  now  clothed  in  simple white,  with  a wide  straw  hat  tied  underneath her  chin  with  satin  ribbons,  stood before  the  court,  while  the  white  man  she had  stabbed  stood  forward  to  accuse  her.

We  saw  him  hurl  his  accusation  at her,  we  saw  the  spectators  turn  whispering to  each  other  as  the  evidence  was given;  we  saw  her  plead  in  her  defense. At  last  we  saw  the  center  judge,  the  judge all  gowned  in  red,  address  the  girl,  and saw  her  curtsey  deeply  as  she  made  reply.

We  saw  the  judges’  heads,  two  capped with  black,  one  crowned  with  red,  bow together  as  they  took  counsel  of  each other;  then,  though  we  heard  no  words, we  saw  the  sentence  of  the  court  as  the red-robed  center  figure  delivered  judgment in  two  syllables;

"A  mart.”

Sentence  of  death  was  passed,  and  she took  it  smilingly,  curtseying  low  as  though to  thank  the  judges  for  a coiutesy  bestowed.

WE  LOOKED  upon  a public  square,  so hot  beneath  the  tropic  noonday  sun that  a constant  flickering  of  heat-rays arose  from  off  the  kidney  stones  whidi formed  the  pavement.  The  square  was lined  with  crowding  men  and  woma>, rich  townspeople,  wealthy  planters  and their  womenfolk,  colored  men  of  every shade  from  ebony  to  well-creamed  coffee; a battalion  of  white  infanterie  de  ligne  in spotless  uniforms,  a company  of  mulatto chasseurs  in  their  distinctive  regalia.  In the  center,  where  the  sun  beat  mercilessly, stood  a scaffold  with  an  X-shaped  frame upon  it.

'The  executioner,  a burly,  greatpaunched  brute  whose  sleeveless  shirt disclosed  gorilla  muscles,  was  attended  by two  giant  Negroes  who  looked  as  thougji they  should  have  been  head-butdbers  in an  abattoir.

A rolling,  long  tattoo  of  drums  was sounded  by  the  troops’  field  music  as  toey led  her  from  a house  whidi  faced  ffie square,  a nun  upon  her  left,  a blackfrocked  priest  in  shovel  hat  upon  her right,  head  bowed,  lips  moving  in  a cea^- less,  mumbled  prayer.  A youthful  souslieutenant,  his  boyish  mouth  hard-set  with loathing  at  the  job  he  had  to  do,  marched before;  a squad  of  sweating  gendarmes closed  the  file.

She  was  dressed  in  spotless  linen,  a straight  and  simple  frock  of  the  fashion which  one  sees  in  portraits  of  Empress Josephine,  a wide  straw  hat  bedecked  with pink-silk  roses  and  tied  coquettishiy  with wide  pink  ribbons  knotted  underneath her  chin.  Satin  shoes  laced  with  narrow ribbons  of  black  velvet  round  the  ankles were  upon  her  little  feet,  and  she  held  a satin  sunshade  in  her  hand.

There  was  something  of  opera  houffe about  it  all,  this  gay  parade  of  wealth  and fashion  and  flashing  military  uniforms

i746

WEIRD  TALES

called  out  to  witness  one  slim  girl  walk unconcernedly  across  the  public  square.

But  the  thread  of  comedy  snapped quickly  as  she  reached  the  scaffold’s  foot. Closing  her  frivolous  parasol,  she  gave  it to  the  nun,  then  turned  her  back  upon  the executioner  while  her  golden  - flecked brown  eyes  searched  the  crowd  whicli waited  breathless  at  the  margin  of  the square.  At  last  she  found  the  object which  she  sought,  a tall,  broad-shouldered white  man  in  the  costume  of  a planter,  who  lolled  at  ease  beneath  a palm-tree’s  shade  and  watched  the  spectacle through  half -closed  eyes.  Her  hand went  out,  aiming  like  a pointed  weapon, as  she  hurled  a curse  at  him.  We  could not  hear  the  words  she  spoke,  but  the slow  articulation  of  the  syllables  enabled us  to  read  her  lips:

"As  I am  crushed  this  day,  so  shall  you and  yours  be  crushed  by  my  ouanga.”

Then  they  stripped  the  linen  garment off  her,  tore  off  her  hat  and  little  satin shoes,  her  silken  stockings  and  daintily embroidered  lingerie.  Stark,  utterly  birthnaked,  they  bound  her  to  the  planks which  formed  a six-foot  X and  broke  her fragile  bones  with  a great  bar  of  iron. We  could  not  hear  the  piteous  cries  of agony  which  came  each  time  the  executioner beat  on  her  arms  and  legs  with  his heavy  Iron  cudgel,  we  only  saw  the  velvet, gold-hued  flesh  give  way  beneath  the blows,  the  slim  and  sweetly  molded  limbs go  limp  and  formless  as  the  bones  within them  broke  beneath  the  flailings  of  the bar.  At  last  we  saw  the  writhing,  childish mouth  contort  to  a scream  of  final agonized  petition:  "Jesus!”  Then  the lovely  head  fell  forward  between  her  outstretched arms,  and  we  knew  that  it  was over.  Her  sufferings  were  done,  and  the justice  which  demanded  that  the  black  or mixed-blood  who  raised  hand  against  a white  must  die  by  torment  was  appeased.

The  scene  once  more  dissolved  in  swirling, hazy  clouds  of  mist.

The  last  scene  was  the  shortest.  A maddened  mob  of  shouting,  blooddrunk  blacks  swarmed  over  the  great  house where  first  we  saw  the  girl;  they  smashed the  priceless  furniture,  hacked  and chopped  the  walls  and  woodworic  in  wild, insensate  rage,  finally  set  the  place  afire. And  from  every  hilltop,  every  smiling  valley, every  fruitful  farm  and  bountiful plantation,  rose  the  flames  of  devastation and  the  cries  of  slaughtered  women,  men and  children.  The  blacks  were  in  rebellion. Oppression  brought  its  own  reward, and  those  who  killed  and  maimed  and  tortured and  arrogantly  wrought  the  blood and  sweat  of  others  into  gold  were  killed and  maimed  and  tortured,  hounded,  harassed, hunted  in  their  turn.  The  reign  of France  upon  Saint  Domingue  was  ended, and  that  century-long  saturnalia  of  savagery, that  amazing  mixture  of  Congo jungle  and  Paris  salon  called  the  Republic of  Haiti  had  begun.

The  candlelight  burned  softly  in  Pierre’s select  speakeasy.  The  omelette souffle  (made  with  Peychaud  bitters) had  been  washed  down  with  a bottle  of tart  vin  blanc;  now,  cigars  aglow  and liqueurs  poured,  we  waited  for  de  Grandin  to  begin.

"Tiens,  but  it  is  simplicity’s  own  self,” he  informed  us.  "Does  not  the  whole  thing leap  all  quickly  to  the  eye?  But  certainly. Your  remote  kinsman.  Monsieur  Goodlowe,  the  one  you  told  us  first  established family  holdings  in  the  Island  of  Saint Domingue,  which  now  we  know  as  Haiti, undoubtlessly  found  life  wearisome  in  the tropics.  Women  of  his  race  were  rare — • they  were  mostly  married  or  ugly,  or both,  and,  besides,  white  women  pine away  and  fail  beneath  the  tropic  sun.  Not

THE  DOOR  TO  YESTERDAY


so  with  the  mixed-breeds,  however.  They, with  tropic  sunshine  in  their  veins,  flourish like  the  native  vegetation  in  equatorial lands.  Accordingly,  Monsieur  I’Ancetre did  as  many  others  did,  and  took  a quarter-blooded beauty  for  his  wife — without benefit  of  clergy  or  of  wedding  ring. Yes,  it  has  been  done  before  and  since, my  friends.

"Now,  consider  the  condition  on  that island  at  that  time:  There  were  40,000 whites,  of  all  classes,  24,000  mulattoes and  lesser  mixed-bloods,  whom  the  law declared  to  be  free  citiaens,  and  over  half a million  barbarous  bladk  slaves.  A very devil  of  a place.  The  free  mulattoes  were the  greatest  problem.  Technically  free as  any  Frenchman,  they  yet  were  scorned and  hated  by  their  white  co-citizens,  many of  whom  shared  paternal  ancestors  with them.  The  uffranchis — free  mulattoes — were  imposed  upon  in  every  way.  They sat  apart  in  church  and  at  the  theater; they  were  forbidden  to  wear  certain cloths  and  colors  decreed  by  fashion;  their very  regiments  of  soldiers  wore  a distinctive uniform.  Moreover,  they  were made  the  butt  of  hatred  in  the  courts.  A white  man  killing  a mulatto  might  be  sentenced to  the  galleys,  or  be  made  to  pay  a fine.  In  a very  flagrant  case,  he  mi^t even  suffer  the  inconvenience  of  being put  to  death,  but  even  then  his  comfort was  infringed  upon  as  little  as  was  possible. He  was  hanged  or  shot.  At  any rate,  he  died  with  expedition,  and  without unnecessary  delay.  The  mulatto  who so  far  forgot  himself  as  to  kill  or  even  to attempt  the  life  of  a white,  was  prejudged before  he  entered  court,  and  inevitably perished  miserably  upon  the  torture frame,  his  bones  smashed  to  splinters  by the  executioner’s  iron  bar.  But  no;  it was  not  very  pleasant  to  be  a mulatto  in Saint  Domingue  those  days.

"Very  well,  let  us  start  from  there.

When  I beheld  those  West  Indian  Negroes in  your  service,  and  heard  their  tatt of  loogaroos,  and  when  I learned  an  ancestor of  yours  had  settled  in  Haiti  in  the olden  days,  I determined  that  the  whole thing  smelled  of  Voodoo.  You  know  how Julius  and  I outwitted  that  white  ghostsnake  which  had  killed  your  relatives; 5«ju  know  my  theory  of  its  appearance  ®n your  lawn.  Very  good;  we  Imew  how  it came  there;  the  why  was  something  else. But  certainly.

"Mademoiselle  Nancy  was  inextricably mixed  up  in  the  case.  The  evil  genius resident  in  the  fiber  of  the  haunted  summer-house drew  strength  and  power  to work  material  evil  to  your  family  from her.  Therefore,  having  rendered  the haunting  demon  powerless,  I decided  to have  Mademoiselle  Nancy  act  as  our  spiritguide  and  open  for  us  the  door  to  yesterday.

"Bien.  Accordingly,  I asked  her  to  ’remember.’ There  are  many  kinds  of memory,  nay  friends.  Oh,  yes.  We  remember, by  example,  what  happened yesterday,  or  last  year,  or  when  we  were very  young.  Ah-ha,  but  we  renaember other  things,  as  well,  although  we  do  not know  it.  Take,  for  example,  the  common dream  of  falling  through  the  air. That  is  a 'memory,’  though  the  dreamer may  never  have  fallen  from  a height.  Ha, but  his  remote  ancestors  who  dwelt  in trees,  they  fell,  or  were  in  peril  of  falling, daily.  To  fall  in  those  days  meant injury,  and  injury  meant  inability  to  fight with  or  escape  from  an  enemy.  Therefore, not  to  fall  was  the  greatest  cam  the race  had  on  its  mind.  Generations  of fearing  falls,  taking  care  not  to  fall,  produced a mass  memory  of  the  unpleasant results  of  falling.  Bat  naturally.  Accordingly, (Mie  of  today  remembers  in  his dreams  the  horror  of  falling  from  the tr«-tc^.


WEIRD  TALES

"Gjnsider  further:  Though  every  one has  dreamed  he  fell — and  often  wakened from  such  dreams  with  the  sweat  of  terror on  his  brow — we  never  have  this  memory of  falling  while  we  are  awake.  Why so.?  Because  our  waking,  conscious,  modern personality  knows  no  such  danger. For  that  matter,  we  never  have  the  sense of  fleeing  from  a savage  animal  while  we wake,  but  when  we  sleep — grand  Diahle, how  often,  in  a nightmare,  do  we  seek  to flee  some  monstrous  beast,  and  suffer  horrors at  our  inability  to  nm.  Another  racial memory — that  of  our  remote  cavedwelling ancestors  caught  fast  in  a morass while  some  saber-toothed  tiger  or  cavebear  hunted  them  for  dinner!  The  answer, then,  is  that  when  we  resign  our waking,  workaday  consciousness  to  sleep we  open  the  sealed  doors  to  yesterday  and all  the  different  personalities  the  sum  of which  we  are  rise  up  to  plague  us.  We suffer  hunger,  thirst  or  shipwreck  which our  ancestors  survived,  though  we,  as  individuals never  knew  these  things  at  all.

"Bten  tout.  These  naughty  dreams come  to  us  unannounced.  We  can  not call  them  up,  we  can  not  bid  them  stay away.  But  what  if  we  are  put  to  sleep hypnotically,  then  bidden  to  remember some  specific  incident  in  our  long  chain of  anc^tral  m^ory?  May  not  the  subconscious mind  walk  straight  to  the  cabinet in  which  that  memory  is  filed  and bring  it  to  the  light?

"That  is  the  question  which  I asked myself  when  I considered  sending  Mademoiselle Nancy  back  along  the  trail  of memory.  It  was  only  an  experiment;  but it  was  successful,  as  you  saw.

"Mademoiselle  Nancy  is  a psychic. Like  the  best  of  the  professional  mediums, she  possesses  that  rare  substance called  psychoplasm  in  great  abundance. Once  she  was  en  rapport  with  the  olden

days  she  did  more  than  tell  us  of  them, she  showed  them  to  us.

"Very  well.  This  young  lady  of  mixed blood  whom  your  ancestor  had  taken  for his  light  o’  love.  Monsieur  Goodlowe, was  also  a member  of  the  inner  circle  of  the Voodooists.  She  was  a mamaloi,  or  priestess of  the  serpent-goddess  Ayida  Oueddo, the  consort  of  the  great  sn^e-god  Damballah.

"Voodoo  was  a species  of  Freemasonry from  which  the  whites  were  barred; many  mulattoes  and  even  people  with smaller  degrees  of  African  blood  were active  in  it.  When  first  we  saw  her,  she was  talking  with  a young  mulatto  soldier. He  had  evidently  come  to  summon  her  to attend  a meeting  of  the  Voodooists,  and she  was  unwilling.  Perhaps  she  felt  such savage  orgies  were  beneath  her;  possibly she  had  put  them  behind  her  as  a sincere Christian.  In  any  event,  she  was  unwilling to  obey  the  summons  and  fulfil  her duty  as  a priestess.  Then  came  her  master, who  was  also  your  ancestor.

"You  saw  how  he  abused  the  messenger of  Voodoo.  Like  all  the  whites,  he hated  the  dark  mysteries  of  the  Voodooists— probably  his  hatred  was  akin  to  that which  normal  men  feel  for  the  snake; one  part  hate,  three  parts  fear.  Most white  men  thus  regarded  the  secret  cult which  was,  at  the  end,  to  knit  the  slaves and  free  mulattoes  into  a single  force and  sweep  the  white  men  from  the  island.

"Perhaps  all  would  have  been  well, had  not  your  ancestor  become  intoxicated that  night.  But  drunk  he  got,  and  in  his drunken  fury  he  abused  her.

"She  stabbed  him  in  the  back,  and  perhaps, as  much  to  spite  him  as  for  any other  reason,  determined  to  act  as  priestess at  the  altar  of  Ayida  Oueddo.  But whatever  her  decision  was,  the  matter was  taken  from  her  hands  when  the  mes- ( Please  turn  to  page  816)

A gripping  weird-scientific  tale — a great  scientist,  drunk  with  power, runs  amuck  in  the  streets  of  New  York

Doctor  john  halleck

walked  a little  tiredly  up  the  steps of  the  narrow  stone  house  and touched  the  bell-push.  As  he  waited  in the  bright  early-morning  sunlight  for  answer, he  found  himself  wishing  that  Professor Wilse  Drummond  lived  nearer than  this  northwestern  comer  of  New York  City’s  island.  Doctor  Halleck  was sixty,  his  scholarly  face  lined  and  his  hair

gray,  and  the  early  ride  up  here  to  Meckman  Street  had  tired  him.

He  rang  again,  impatiently.  Why  had old  Drummond  been  so  insistent  that  he come  up  at  once,  if  he  were  not  here  to  receive him.?  But  as  Doctor  Halleck  asked himself  that,  the  door  opened.

A young  man  of  twenty  or  twenty-one, with  black  hair  and  eyes  and  keen,  somewhat ruthless  features,  stood  in  the  door749


WEIRD  TALES

way.  Doctor  Halleck  could  not  remember having  seen  him  before,  yet  there  was something  ba£Qlingly  familiar  about  him.

"Professor  Drummond’s  here?”  Halleck asked,  and  the  other  nodded.

"Please  come  back  into  the  laboratory,” he  said.

Doctor  Halleck  followed  him  throu^ the  house  into  the  neat  laboratory  with its  tiled  walls  and  tangle  of  metal  and glass  bio-physical  apparatus.  “Will  you tell  Professor  Drummond  that  Halleck’s here?”  he  said  to  Ae  yoimg  stranger.

The  young  man  made  an  astonishing statement  "I  am  Professor  Drummond,” he  said.

Doctor  Halleck  stared  at  him.  "I  mean Professor  Wilse  Drummon4  the  biophyacist.”

"And  that  is  just  who  I am,”  the  other calmly  assured  him.

"You’re  crazy!”  Halleck  exclaimed.  "I know  Drummond  well — ^why,  he’s  older than  I am,  seventy-cme  or  seventy-two years  of  age.”

The  young  man  laughed  in  sheer amusement  "Nevertheless  I am  he,”  he said.  “And  I called  you.  Doctor  Halleck, less  than  an  hour  ago  asking  you  to  come op  here.”

Doctor  Halleck  faced  the  other  with dignity.  "Whoever  you  are,”  he  said,  "I demand  to  see  Professor  Drummond  at once.  If  this  is  some  kind  of  practical joke  on  his  part ”

The  young  man  came  closer,  brought his  face  near.  "Look,  doctor,”  he  said. "Do  I look  like  Professor  Drummond?”

Doctor  Halleck  stared  into  the  youthful face.  The  keen  features,  the  black eyes — nov/  that  baffling  familiarity  explained itself.  'You  do  look  like  Drummond!” he  said.  "You're  one  of  his grand-nephews?’  ’

The  young  man  shook  his  head.  'No, Tin  Drummond  himself,  the  Professor

Drummond  you’ve  known  twenty  years, who  was  on  the  faculty  of  Manhattan University  with  you  until  a few  years ago.”

Doctor  Halleck  was  rapidly  coming  t© feel  as  though  some  quality  of  insanity had  injected  itself  into  the  situation.

"If  you  are  Drummond,”  he  said  caustically, "how  comes  it  that  you  look  fifty years  younger  than  when  I last  saw  you?”

"It  comes  because  I am  fifty  years younger,”  calmly  replied  the  young  man who  called  himself  Professor  Drummond. "Because,  but  a few  hours  ago,  I made myself  that  much  younger!”

'You  made  yourself  that  much  younger?” echoed  Doctor  Halleck  astoimdedly. "Why,  you  must  be  mad!”

The  other  grasped  his  wrist,  his  black eyes  snapping.  "What  is  mad  about  it? As  a scientist,  as  a biologist,  do  you  find it  so  incredible  that  the  age-pr(xesses  of the  human  body  can  be  controlled?”

"As  a scientist?”  Doctor  Halleck clutched  at  the  shred  of  explanation.  "D« you  mean  to  say  that  you’ve  found  some scientific  way  to ”

"Tve  found  what  men  have  dreamed of  finding  for  centuries,  yes!”  said  the young  man  exultantly.  "The  secret  of controlling  the  age-process!  I used  it  on my  own  senile  body,  and  though  I’m  still Wilse  Drummond,  with  his  mind  and mental  power  still,  I’ve  got  the  body  I had  when  I was  twenty!  I’ve  conquered age!”

"Good  heavens,  you  do  look  as  Wilae Dnunmond  must  have  looked  at  tv/aity.^” exclaimed  the  startled  Doctor  Halleck. "But  the  thing’s  impossible ”

"There’s  nothing  impossible  about  it?” lashed  the  self-styled  Wilse  Drummond. "As  a biologist  you  should  be  better  able to  appreciate  its  possibility  than  most men.

"Why  shouldn’t  the  processes  of  age

THE  MAN  WHO  CONQUERED  AGE


be  controlled?  What  ages  a human  or animal  body,  anyway?  The  slowing  down of  its  rate  of  metabolism,  the  rate  of  its capacity  to  absorb  new  energy  from  nutritive elements.  As  this  rate  of  metabolism slows  down,  the  body  loses  energy, weakens,  ages.

"Suppose  we  can  stimulate  metabolism by  outside  forces?  Then  just  as  much  as it  is  stimulated,  so  much  more  new  energy can  the  body  acquire,  so  much  younger will  it  become.  The  disintegration  of cell-structures  due  to  lack  of  energy  will be  rebuilt  and  reversed,  the  body’s  cellular structures  will  be  rebuilt  to  their youthful  condition.

"Or,  similarly,  if  we  use  forces  that depress  the  rate  of  metabolism  further instead  of  stimulating  it,  the  body  will grow  older  rapidly  instead  of  younger. All  we  need,  therefore,  to  make  the  body older  or  younger  at  will  is  to  find  the forces  that  can  be  turned  upon  it  and cause  that  change  in  its  metabolic  rate.”

Doctor  Halleck,  listening  with  an  intentness against  which  he  struggled,  saw the  eyes  of  this  young  man  who  called himself  Wilse  Drummond  become  set and  hard.

*‘T  DETERMINED  five  years  ago  to  find A those  forces,  that  secret,”  he  told Halleck.  "Five  years  ago,  when  they kicked  me  out  on  a pension  down  there at  Manhattan  University  because  I was too  old.

"Too  old!  Damn  them,  my  mind  was better  than  any  of  theirs,  but  because  my body  had  become  aged  and  feeble  I was no  good!  I determined  to  show  them,  to show  the  world,  that  my  mind  was  powerful enough  to  make  my  body  young again.  I would  conquer  this  force  of  age that  they  thought  had  put  me  on  the scrap-heap!

"And  I did  conquer  it!  I found,  after

more  than  four  years  of  unceasing  experimentation, a combination  of  highfrequency  electrical  radiations  which stimulated  the  metabolism  rate  of  animal bodies  to  an  unheard-of  degree.  I turned those  radiations  on  a rabbit  dying  of senility  and  almost  instantly  their  effects brought  that  rabbit  back  into  vigorous youth.

"I  found,  too,  that  a diflFerent  combination of  radiations  had  an  opposite  effect, slowed  the  metabolic  rate  almost  to nothing.  Those  rays,  turned  on  a young, healthy  rabbit,  so  aged  it  before  my  eyes that  this  animal  died  of  sheer  senility  at once.  I needed  only  to  construct  compact and  efficient  projectors  of  these  two forces,  therefore,  and  I would  have  the power  to  make  older  or  younger  any  living thing.”

"And  you  mean  to  say  that  you  did that?”  Doctor  Halleck  said  incredulously.

For  answer  the^  self-styled  Drummond took  from  one  of  the  laboratory’s  cabinets a black  box-like  object.  It  was  an  oblong black  metal  case  like  a large  box-camera, Halleck  saw,  in  one  end  a dull  quartz lens  several  inches  across  with  a regulating screw,  and  in  the  other  end  a threeway  switch.

'"This  projector,”  the  other  told  Halleck, "can  send  forth  either  force,  the one  that  rejuvenates  or  the  one  that  ages. It  contains  its  own  compact  batteries, tubes  and  step-up  coils,  and  the  forces can  be  used  close  at  hand  or  projected  to some  distance  by  altering  the  focus  of  the quartz  lens.

"But  a few  hours  ago  I used  the  rejuvenating force  upon  myself,  turning  it off  in  a few  moments  when  it  had brought  my  body  back  to  the  physical youth  it  had  when  I was  twenty,  when  it had  taken  me  back  to  that  age.”

Doctor  Halleck  had  listened  with  eyes


WEIRD  TALES

wide.  "It  sounds  logical  eiough,”  he  admitted. "But  it’s  so  unthinkable ’’

"Unthinkable?”  the  other  said.  "Halledt,  I’ll  dissipate  your  doubts  once  and for  all."

He  placed  the  blade  box-like  projector on  the  table,  its  quartz  lens  directed  into the  room,  then  turned  the  switch  on  its back  to  the  left.

A low  buzzing  sound,  almost  a hum, came  from  inside  the  projector,  but  there was  no  other  manifestation.  But  the young  self-styled  Drummond  now  took his  place  a few  yards  in  front  of  the  projector’s lens.

"Watdi,  Halleck,”  he  said,  "if  you don’t  believe  that  projector  can  make  a human  body  younger.”

Doctor  Halleck  watched  and  in  a moment a choking  sound  came  from  him. TTie  young  man  standing  under  the  projector’s invisible  forces  was  swiftly  growing even  younger.  His  body  was  becoming slimmer  inside  his  clothing,  his  face rounder  and  rosier.  The  shoulders  narrowed, the  features  lost  their  maturity- — almost  before  Halleck  could  believe  his eyes  the  stalwart  young  man  of  twenty had  become  a smooth-faced  stripling  of sixteen!

This  boy  who  moments  before  had been  a m^  stepped  to  the  projector  and turned  it  off.  He  turned  to  face  the stunned  Halleck.

'"That  was  the  rejuvenation  force, Halleck,”  he  said  in  a boyish  treble  voice matching  his  changed  appearance.  "I don’t  dare  let  it  make  me  much  younger than  this,  as  the  changes  in  interior  structure would  be  too  great  for  my  adult-size body  to  stand.

"Now  I’ll  show  you  the  opposite  force, the  one  that  ages,”  he  said,  turning  the projector’s  switch  to  the  right  and  stepping back  again  into  the  range  of  the  invisible radiations  from  its  lens.

Doctor  Haliedk,  incapable  of  ^>6e(ji, saw  the  stripling  of  sixteen  chaogmg again,  growing  older  now  xmder  the  mvisible  aging  rays,  developing  rapidly again  into  the  stalwart  youth  of  twenty. And  he  was  changing  still  more  under the  rays,  growing  still  older!

His  figure  thickened  into  the  solid  one of  a man  of  thirty-five,  his  face  more  lax and  his  hair  sparser.  Swiftly  he  continued to  age  and  now  was  a man  of  fifty  with graying  hair  and  lined  face.

Now  he  was  sixty-five  and  now  seventy, a thin,  stooped  figure  with  white hair  and  wrinkled  face — the  Professmr Wilse  Drummond  whom  Halleck  knew! Drummond,  yes,  beyond  doubt!

But  Drummond  was  growing  still older,  his  figure  even  more  bent,  hair thinner,  eyes  deep-sunken.  A moment more  and  he  tottered  feebly  to  the  table, snapped  off  the  projector’s  buzzing  force.

Halleck  stared  dumbly  at  this  snowhaired senile  figure  who  moments  before had  been  a boy  of  sixteen.

"You  see  me  now  at  an  age  over  ninety,” came  Drummond’s  cracked  voice.  "If  I went  further  in  age  I’d  die  right  here  of senility!”

His  shrill  laugh  cackled.  "But  I’m  not going  further.  I’m  going  back  to  youth.”

Drummond  turned  the  projector-switch again  to  the  left,  turning  on  the  rejuvenating radiations,  and  as  he  stood  in  their force  he  went  swiftly  back  in  reverse order  through  his  changes  of  the  last  moments.

Rapidly  he  grew  younger  into  the elderly  man  of  fifty,  the  muscular  man of  thirty,  and  at  last  again  the  vigorous young  man  of  twenty.  Then  Drummond turned  the  projector’s  force  off  and turned  to  Halleck.

Tell?”  he  said.  "Does  it  seem  so

TV  unthinkable  now,  Halleck?”

“It’s  terrible!”  Halleck  exclaimed.

W.  T.— 2

THE  MAN  WHO  CONQUERED  AGE


"Good  God,  Dtummond,  why  did  you ever  do  k?  You  can’t  stay  young  like that!”

"Stay  young?”  Drummond  echoed. "Of  course  I can!  I can  use  the  rejuvenation force  to  keep  me  at  this  agetwenty — indefinitely!”

"But  you  can’t!”  Doctor  Halleck  cried. "Why,  it’s  unholy — the  first  law  of  life, as  you  should  know  from  biology,  is  that all  living  things  must  age  and  in  time die.  Upset  that  law  and  you  upset  the world!”

"What  if  I do  upset  the  world?” Drummond  snapped.  "Don’t  you  see  the power  that  this  thing  gives?”

"Power.^”  Halledc  repeated.  "It’s  a hellish  power,  Drummond!  It  will  mean chaos  for  humanity  to  acquire  this  power. It  will  mean  the  end  of  natural  death,  all earth’s  peoples  staying  young  indefinitely! Without  natural  death  the  world  will soon  be  overcrowded  with  billions  on  increasing billions  of  people.  Wars  of aowding  populations,  famines,  riots — that’s  what  the  power  of  staying  young indefinitely  will  mean  to  humanity!”

Wilse  Drummond  shook  his  head. "You’re  wrong,  Halleck,  In  the  first place,  I did  not  say  I was  going  to  give this  power  to  humanity,”

"You  mean  that  you’re  going  to  give it  up — destroy  this  thing?”  asked  Doctor Halleck  with  a ray  of  hope.

"Of  course  not,”  Drummond  said. "But  I’m  going  to  sell  it  to  those  who can  afford  to  buy.  I’m  going  to  sell  indefinite youth  to  those  who  can  pay  for it,  and  they’re  going  to  pay  high!”

Halleck  stared  at  him  in  utter  amazement, horror,  "Sell  youth?  Why,  Drummond, that  would  be  worse  than  the  other way!  A v/orld  in  which  some  men stayed  young  while  others  grew  old  and died  would  be  worse  than  a crowded world  where  all  stayed  young!  Think  of W,  T,— 3

the  horror  of  it,  of  a world  in  which  tiie rich  few  who  were  able  to  pay  for  youth lived  on  and  on,  while  generation  after generation  of  the  many  poor  grew  old and  feeble  and  died!”

"What  if  they  do  age  and  die?”  Drummond snapped.  'They  didn’t  care  when I aged,  did  they?  They  kicked  me  out down  at  the  university  when  I reached their  age  limit,  didn’t  they?  Precious  little the  world  cared  about  me  and  precious little  I care  about  the  world!  Whoever in  the  world  wants  to  stay  young  or  be made  young  again  will  have  to  pay  my price.  There  won’t  be  any  bargaining, cither,  for  they  can’t  go  to  any  one  else. I’ve  got  a corner  on  rejuvenation  and  I’m going  to  squeeze  humanity!”

Doctor  Halleck  clutched  the  other’s arm  desperately.  "Drummond,  you  can’t do  it!  Before  I let  you  do  it  I’ll  smash your  plans  myself,  let  the  world  know what  a horror  you’re  planning!”

"You’ll  not!”  Drummond  exclaimed. "Halleck,  don’t  be  a fool!  I called  you up  here  because  I’ll  need  your  help  in this.  I’m  going  to  make  you  young  like myself,  and  my  associate  in  this  thing. Why,  think  of  the  power  it’ll  give  us!”

"I  don’t  want  that  kind  of  power  and I don’t  want  that  kind  of  youth!”  Halleck told  him.  "Drummond,  will  you give  this  thing  up  here  and  now?”

“No!”  said  Drummond  fiercely.  "I’m going  on  as  I said,  and  if  you’re  not  with me  it  will  be  the  worse  for  you!”

"Then  I’m  going  to  ad!”  Halleck said.  He  seized  the  black  prcjedor  from the  table  and  turned  to  the  laboratorydoor.

Drummond  leapt  to  him  and  grasped his  arm.  "You  fool!”  he  snarled.  “What are  you  trying  to  do?”

"I’m  going  to  smash  your  plans  and smash  this  projector!”  exclaimed  Halleck, flinging  open  the  laboratory  door.

i754

WEIRD  TALES

"You’re  not!”  Drummond  cried,  and spun  Doctor  Halleck  around,  grasping at  the  projector.

Halleck  tried  to  tear  loose  the  other’s hold  but  found  quickly  that  he  was  no match  in  strength  with  the  youthful Wilse  Drummond.  They  struggled  for a moment  by  the  door  and  then  with  a desperate  effort  Halleck  thrust  Drummond back  from  him.

Drummond,  his  face  crimson  with fury,  came  at  Halleck  again  before  be could  get  through  the  door.  Halleck swung  his  arm — the  arm  that  held  the projector — instinctively,  to  ward  off  the other’s  rush.  The  projector’s  metal  case struck  the  onrushing  Drummond’s  head and  knocked  him  back,  momentarily stunned.

Doctor  .Halleck  ran  through  the  door, out  of  the  house  and  into  the  sunlit street,  panting  and  clutching  the  projector still.

He  started  up  the  street  westward at  a run.  Suddenly  a tingling  force seemed  to  sweep  through  him  and  at  the same  time  he  was  aware  of  an  increasing tiredness,  growing  weariness  and  weakness.

With  a sudden  startled  thought  he turned  around.  On  the  doorstep  of  the house  that  he  had  just  left  stood  Wilse Drummond’s  youthful  figure.  Drummond, his  face  deadly,  held  a black projector  like  that  in  Halleck’s  hand  and had  it  trained  upon  Doctor  Halleck!

For  a moment  Halleck  was  rooted  to the  sidewalk  in  astonishment;  then  as  his feeling  of  weakness  grew  swiftly,  he  understood and  emitted  a shrill  cry.  Drummond had  another  projector  and  was  trying to  kill  him  by  turning  the  aging  force upon  him!

Doctor  Halleck  stumbled  hastily  toward and  around  a street-corner  a few

yards  ahead.  Out  of  sight  of  Drummond and  out  of  the  ray’s  range  the  tingling force  no  longer  flooded  him,  but  he  still felt  very  weak  and  weary.  Drummond was  not  now  in  sight  behind  him,  though, and  he  hastened  westward  toward  the busier  thoroughfare  of  Riverside  Drive, holding  the  projector  tightly  to  him.

When  he  reached  the  drive  it  was  apparent to  Doctor  Halleck  that  Drummond was  not  following  him.  Halleck stood,  panting  for  breath.  He  caught sight  of  himself  in  a shop-window  mirror and  gazed  in  amazement  at  his  reflection.

It  was  not  his  own  elderly  but  straight and  scholarly  figure  that  looked  back from  the  mirror  at  Halleck  but  a man twenty  or  twenty-five  years  older,  a thin, bent,  aged  figure  with  snow-white  hair and  deep-wrinkled  face  and  blinking eyes.  Drummond’s  ray  had  aged  him  that much  before  he  had  escaped  it!

Passers-by  looked  curiously  at  the  hatless, senile  figure  with  the  camera-like box,  staring  at  his  own  reflection.  Halleck turned  from  the  mirror  with  mind  awhirl. What  was  he  to  do.?  Act  to  halt  Wilse Drummond’s  dread  plans,  yes.  But  how?

He  saw  a policeman,  started  toward him  and  then  stopped.  The  officer  would only  stare  at  his  story,  Halleck  knew.  It was  not  a story  for  him  but  for  police headquarters,  if  he  could  get  any  one there  to  believe  it.

Captain  Crater!  Halleck  remembered now  the  detective-captain  who  twice  had called  him  in  for  scientific  aid  and  information, Captain  Daniel  Crater.  He was  the  man  to  see — and  at  once!

Halleck  hailed  a taxi  and  in  moments was  speeding  downtown along  the  drive.  He  tried  to  collect  his chaotic  thoughts.

What  would  Wilse  Drummond  do?

THE  MAN  WHO  CONQUERED  AGE


He  still  had  another  projector — ^he  must have  made  two,  Halledc  now  knew.  He could  still  carry  out  that  unholy  scheme of  his  of  selling  youth  if  he  was  not stopped.

Again  Doctor  Halleck  was  swept  by that  dread  vision  of  what  the  world would  be  if  Drummond  carried  out  his plan.  Frantic  struggles  for  the  money that  could  buy  rejuvenation,  a youthful aristocracy  ruling  an  aging  world

The  taxi  drew  up  with  a jerk  before the  gray  pile  of  police  headquarters.  Halleck paid  the  driver,  hastened  inside.  He knew  the  way  to  Captain  Crater’s  office and  at  once  had  his  name  sent  in  to that  officer.

Captain  Crater,  a keen-faced,  gray-eyed Bsan  of  middle  age,  looked  up  as  Halleck came  in  with  a smile  of  welcome  that changed  suddenly  into  a frown.

*'1  thought  you  told  the  girl  it  was Doctor  John  Halleck  calling,”  he  said.

Halleck  stared,  then  as  he  glimpsed himself  in  a mirror,  remembered.  His changed  appearance!  The  work  of  the aging  ray!  "It  h- — am  Halleck,  Captain!” he  said.

Crater’s  eyes  narrowed.  "What  kind of  a game  is  this?  Do  you  think  I don’t know  Doctor  Halleck?”

Halleck  made  a frantic  gesture.  "Crater, for  God’s  sake  listen  to  me!  I’m Doctor  John  Halleck  who  helped  you  on the  Person  and  Willetti  cases.  I know  I look  twenty-five  years  older  than  he,  but I’m  he  nevertheless  and  I can  prove  it!”

"I  don’t  know  what  you’re  trying  to do,  but  I do  know  that  you’re  not  Halledc,”  Crater  said  decisively.  "Spill  your stuff  before  I have  you  locked  up  as  an impostor.”

Doctor  Halleck  with  trembling,  shrivelled hands  set  the  projector  on  Crater’s desk,  then  turned  its  switch  to  the  left  and ^ the  projector  buzzed  stepped  back  into

range  of  the  invisible  radiations  from  its lens.

He  watched  his  reflection  in  the  mirror, and  as  he  felt  the  unseen  vibrations  of  the rejuvenating  forces  tingling  through  his body,  he  could  see  age  dropping  from him.  He  changed,  his  figure  becoming less  bent,  his  face  less  lined,  his  eyes clearer,  and  strength  coming  back  to  him. Then  when  he  was  again  at  his  normal age  of  sixty,  the  scholarly,  gray-haired Doctor  Halleck  he  had  been,  he  turned the  projector  off  and  faced  Captain  Crater.

Crater’s  face  was  deathly  white,  his  eyes protruding.  "Halleck!”  he  gasped.  "And you  grew  younger  there  before  my — good God,  what  kind  of  witchcraft  is  this.^”

"Witchcraft  of  science,”  Doctor  Halleck told  him,  shaken  himself  by  the thing.  "You  saw  what  this  projector  can do.  Well,  there’s  another  one  like  ft  and the  man  who  has  it  is  going  to  smash  the world  with  it  if  he’s  not  stopped.”

Halleck  talked  rapidly,  almost  incoherently, for  minutes.  As  he  spoke,  leaning tensely  across  the  desk,  he  saw  the stunned  amazement  in  Captain  Crater’s eyes  replaced  by  dawning  comprehension.

Halledc  told  of  his  experience  with Wilse  Drummond,  of  Drummond’s demonstration  of  his  power  and  of  Drummond’s plan.  He  saw  belief  and  then  determination in  Crater’s  eyes.

"Halleck,  I believe  you!”  the  detectivecaptain  said  swiftly.  "God  knows,  ffie whole  thing  is  fantastic,  but  I’ve  got  t® believe  after  what  I just  saw  with  my  own eyes!”

"You’ll  act,  then?”  Halleck  asked quickly.  "Crater,  if  you  don’t  act  it  will as  I say — ^Wilse  Drummond  setting up  a monopoly  on  rejuvenation,  a world gone  crazy!”

"We’ll  act,  and  now!”  Crater  said tersely.  "There  may  be  no  law  to  get Drummond  under,  but  this  is  no  time


WEIRD  TALES

for  legalities.  We’ve  got  to  get  Drummond and  get  him  quick!”

He  snapped  an  order  into  a deskphone.  "Manly?  Two  men  and  a squadcar  at  once— we’re  going  out!”

Three  minutes  later  Doctor  Halleck  sat beside  Captain  Crater  and  Manly  in  the front  seat  of  a touring-car  that  tore  north through  the  morning  traffic  with  screaming siren,  yoimg  Manly  driving.  In  the rear  seat  two  policemen  hunched  forward against  the  rush  of  wind.

Halleck  held  clutched  against  him the  square  case  of  the  projector. They  shot  at  increasing  speed  along  the upper  drive,  then  made  a perilously  swift turn  eastward.  As  they  turned  into  Meckman  Street  a few  moments  later  Doctor Halleck  pointed  down  it  toward  Wilse Drummond’s  house.

The  car  drew  up  before  it  with  siren dying,  its  occupants  spilling  forth  with Captain  Crater  at  their  head.

"Stay  with  the  car.  Manly,”  Crater  directed. "Dorsey,  get  round  to  the  back of  the  house!  McNamara,  come  with  Halleck and  me!”

Crater  and  the  policeman  McNamara ran  up  the  steps  with  Halleck  close  behind them,  into  the  house.  The  two  ofl5cers  had  their  pistols  in  their  hands.

They  followed  Halleck’s  pointing  finger through  the  house  into  the  laboratory at  the  rear.  It  was  empty  of  Wilse  Drummond and  the  other  projector.  Papers had  been  flung  about  as  though  in  hasty search  for  notes.

Captain  Crater  and  McNamara  quickly rummaged  the  house  with  Doctor  Halleck, Dorsey  coming  in  from  the  tear. They  found  neither  Drummond  nor  the projector.

"He’s  gone!”  Halleck  cried.  "Crater, Drummond’s  got  away  with  the  projector!”

"Gone,  eh?”  Captain  Crater’s  face  was grim.  "Then  we’ll  get  a net  out  for  him at  once — he’s  got  to  be  found.”

"Drummond  free  to  use  that  hellish power!”  Dread  clutched  at  Halleck’s heart  as  tliey  went  out.  "Drummond free ”

'They  started  down  the  steps.  Crater and  McNamara  beside  Halleck.  Autos and  pedestrians  were  stopping  curiously in  the  street  at  sight  of  the  police-car.

Suddenly  McNamara  emitted  an  exclamation, a curiously  high-pitched  one. They  turned  toward  him  and  for  the  moment Crater  and  Halleck  were  frozen with  horror.

Policeman  McNamara,  a husky  middleaged  man  of  solid  build  when  they  had come  out  of  the  house,  was  suddenly, swiftly  changing.  His  brown  hair  was graying,  whitening,  his  body  rapidly shrinking  and  shrivelling.  A shrill  cry he  uttered,  his  age-wrinkled  face  distorted, then  clutched  at  the  air  and  fell.

"What’s  happened?”  Crater  cried.  "He grew  old  before  our  eyes  here ”

"Wilse  Drummond!”  yelled  Doctor Halleck.  "Drummond  and  the  aging  ray — look  there!”

He  pointed  over  McNamara’s  prone form  to  a taxi  parked  a little  way  upstreet,  its  motor  running.  Its  back  window was  partly  open  and  from  the  opening peered  the  dull  quartz  lens  of  a blade projector  like  that  Halleck  held.  Behind it  Halleck  glimpsed  Wilse  Dmmmood’s youthful,  hate-filled  face.

Drummond  saw  they  had  seen  him  and snapped  a word  to  his  driver.  The  taxi leapt  up  the  street.  Captain  Crater  uttered a cry  and  he  and  Halleck  leapt  into  the police-car  as  Manly,  at  its  wheel,  released its  clutch.  They  shot  up-street  after  the fleeing  cab!

They  gained  rapidly  upon  the  taxi, whose  driver  was  apparently  imawarc  of

THE  MAN  WHO  CONQUERED  AGE


the  pursuit.  Drurtimond’s  face  appeared at  its  rear  window  again  and  Crater leaned  out  from  the  speeding  police-car with  pistol  in  hand.  They  were  within fifty  feet  of  the  taxi — then  Doctor  Halleck  glimpsed  Drummond  turning  the black  projector’s  lens  back  upon  them.

Tingling  force  flooded  through  Halleck,  he  felt  again  that  sudden  onset  of weakness  and  weariness,  and  saw  that Manly  and  Crater  and  he  were  swiftly aging!

Crater’s  hair  already  was  gray,  his  face wrinkled!  Halleck  cried  out  and  Manly, glancing  at  him  and  Crater,  saw  and understood,  whirled  the  car  sidewise  to avoid  Drummond’s  aging  ray.

Manly,  himself  grown  from  youth  to middle  age  by  then,  turned  the  car  too sharply  and  it  struck  the  curb,  caromed off  a lamp-post,  and  crashed  to  a halt.

They  stumbled  out  of  the  wrecked car  as  Wilse  Drummond’s  cab  disappeared around  the  next  corner.  They looked  dazedly  at  each  other.  All  three had  aged  ten  years.  Doctor  Halleck  from his  normal  sixty  to  a thinner,  weaker  seventy, Captain  Crater  from  alert  middle age  to  definite  elderliness,  and  Manly from  clean-cut  youth  to  early  middle  age.

"Drummond’s  projector — the  ageforce!’’  Halleck  exclaimed.  "He  turned it  back  on  us!’’

"And  a few  more  minutes  of  it  and  all three  of  us  would  have  been  dead  of  old age,’’  Crater  said  grimly.  "You  were right,  Halleck — if  Drummond  stays  loose with  that  thing  he’ll  wreck  the  world!’’

"But  how — what ’’  Manly  was  attempting to  ask.

"If  I’d  thought  to  turn  this  projector ahead  on  Drummond!’’  Halleck  exclaimed suddenly,  conscious  for  the  first time  that  he  still  clutched  the  projector.

"You  couldn’t  have- — but  here  comes Dorsey,’’  Crater  said.

Through  the  little  crowd  of  excited persons  gathering  around  the  wrecked police-car  Policeman  Dorsey  hastened from  the  Drummond  house  farther  down the  street.

"Chief,  what’s  happened?’’  he  cried  to

Crater.  "McNamara  back  there ’’

Then  Dorsey  took  in  the  changed  appearance of  the  three.

"But  what  happened  to  you?’’  he  exclaimed. "You  all  look  a dozen  years older!’’

"Never  mind  about  us!”  Crater’s  voice was  steely.  "What  about  McNamara?”

"He’s  dead!  And  he  looks — you  won’t believe  it — but  he  looks  as  though  he  died of  old  age!”

Captain  Crater  nodded  grimly.  "All right,  Dorsey.  Find  the  nearest  phone and  order  another  squad-car  sent  up  here. Also  tell  them  to  send  out  a general alarm  for  a black-haired,  black-eyed  man of  twenty  or  twenty-one  carrying  a thing like  a camera.”

And  as  Dorsey  sped  away  on  the  errand and  Crater  and  Manly  and  Doctor Halleck  started  back  down  the  street  toward the  Drummond  house.  Crater  said, "There’s  a chance  Drummond  can  be picked  up  before  he  can  use  that  damned thing  further.”

"And  if  he  isn’t?”  Halleck  questioned. "If  Drummond  escapes  by  means  of  his power  as  he  did  from  us?”

Crater  answered  between  set  teeth.  "In that  case,  hell  is  going  to  break  loose!”

CAPTAIN  CRATER  repeated  his  words  a few  hours  later  down  in  the  big building  of  police  headquarters.  He  and Manly  and  Doctor  Halleck  sat  in  the  office of  the  police  commissioner,  with  the heavy,  serious-faced  commissioner  Peter


WEIRD  TALES

Winston  and  the  hard-visaged  chief  of detectives  Mart  Tuttle.

Winston  and  Tuttle  listened  intently to  Crater’s  rapid  account.  Already,  Halleck  knew,  the  far-flung  web  of  the metropolitan  police  system  was  vibrating with  descriptions  of  Wilse  Drummond and  orders  to  hold  him  if  found.

"It  means  hell  itself  if  Drummond kn’t  taken!’’  Captain  Crater  was  saying. "With  tliat  thing  he  can  reduce  human organizations  to  chaos!”

Commissioner  Winston  shook  his  head slowly,  his  face  uneasy.  "Crater,  this  is almost  beyond  belief.  If  I hadn’t  seen McNamara’s  body  and  the  change  in  you and  Manly,  I’d  think  it  was  incredible.”

"You’ll  find  nothing  incredible  about it  if  Drummond  starts  to  use  it,”  Crater predicted.  "For  him  to  start  selling  youth to  those  who  could  pay  high  enough — it would  turn  the  world  upside  down!”

"It  would  that!”  said  Chief  Detective Tuttle  in  crisp  agreement.  '"The  man  and his  machine  have  got  to  be  picked  up  before the  thing  goes  further.”

"It  won’t  be  easy,”  Winston  said thoughtfully.  "If  the  thing  will  actually make  your  Drummond  able  to  age  or  rejuvenate at  will,  as  you  say,  it  will  enable him  to  elude  us  better  than  any  disguise. Also  he  can  use  the  aging  force  as  a weapon,  as  he  did  against  you.”

"Yet  we’ve  got  a weapon  against  him too  if  we  had  a chance  to  use  it,”  Crater reminded.  "This  other  projector  that  Halleck  took — it  ought  to  be  a check  on Drummond’s  plans.”

They  looked  curiously  at  the  oblong black  case  that  Doctor  Halleck  still  held. "And  that  thing  can  age  or  rejuvenate  any living  body?”  said  Commissioner  Winston half  unbelievingly.

"Why  don’t  you  use  it  then  to  bring yourselves  back  to  your  normal  age?” Tuttle  asked,  and  Captain  Crater  nodded.

"We  will — we’ve  not  had  time  until now.  We  may  as  well  now,  though,  Halleck— ten  years  of  added  age  has  made me  pretty  weary  in  the  last  half-hour.”

Doctor  Halleck  stood  up,  the  projector in  his  grasp.  Captain  Crater  stepped  over and  stood  in  front  of  its  lens.  Halleck was  about  to  switch  on  the  thing  when Tuttle  interposed.

"Wait!”  said  the  chief  detective. 'Y’ou’ll  be  meeting  this  Drummond again,  if  you  can  find  him.  In  that  case you  ought  to  be  as  young  as  possible.”

'They  stared.  "Don’t  you  see?”  Tuttle asked.  "The  younger  you  are,  the  longer you  can  stand  Drummond’s  aging-ray when  you  do  meet  him,  and  the  better chance  you’ll  have  against  him!”

"That’s  right,”  Commissioner  Winston said.  "You  ought  to  be  as  young  as  the thing  can  make  you.”

"They’re  right,  Halleck,”  said  Captain Crater.  "Send  me  back  to  about  twenty, then,  if  you  can.”

Doctor  Halleck,  with  unsteady  fingers, snapped  the  projector’s  switch  to  the  left. 'The  buzzing  of  its  action  sounded  from within.

Halleck  held  the  lens  steady  upon  Crater, the  invisible  rejuvenating  radiations flooding  the  oflScer’s  elderly  figure.  The others  watched  intently.

Crater  grew  swiftly  younger!  'The  agelines in  his  face  vanished  rapidly  as though  smoothed  by  an  unseen  hand.  His hair  changed  from  gray  to  dark,  his  eyes became  clearer,  his  posture  straighter  and shoulders  broader.

Winston  and  Tuttle  were  white-faced as  they  saw  Crater  going  back  through that  quick  process  of  rejuvenation — back through  middle  age,  through  late  youth, until  Crater  was  a robust,  healthy  young man  of  twenty.  Halleck  snapped  off  the projector.

"Well?”  said  Crater,  his  dear  youthful

THE  MAN  WHO  CONQUERED  AGE


voice  a little  unsteady.  "Do  I look  too young  for  a detective-captain?”

"By  God,  the  thing's  weird!”  Winston exclaimed.  "But  go  on — ^you  too, Manly.”

Manly  took  Crater’s  place  in  front  of the  projector  and  rapidly  went  back  from middle  age  through  the  late  twenties  that were  his  normal  age  to  a youthfulness matching  Crater’s.

"Now,  you,  Halleck,”  said  Crater,  taking the  projector.

"Not  bade  to  a youth  like  that!”  Doctor Halleck  exclaimed.  "I  just  want  to  get back  to  my  own  age  and  stay  there!”

"You  must  do  it,  Halleck,”  Captain Crater  said.  "Don’t  you  see? — you  know more  about  Wilse  Drummond  and  his work  and  the  projectors  than  any  one  else. We’ve  got  to  have  your  help  and  you’ve got  to  be  as  young  as  possible  if  we  meet Drummond  again.”

Halleck  hesitated,  fighting  his  instinctive repulsion.  "All  right,”  he  said. "Hold  the  projector’s  lens  toward  me  and turn  the  switch  to  the  left ”

Moments  passed  as  he  stood  in  the tingling  invisible  radiations,  and  when Crater  turned  them  off  Halleck  too  stood a youth  of  twenty.  He  stumbled  into  a chair,  for  despite  his  abrupt  consciousness of  unwonted  youth  and  vigor,  he  felt  momentarily nerveless.

"You  too?”  said  Crater  to  Winston  and Tuttle,  nodding  toward  the  projector. They  shook  their  heads.

"Not  for  a million,”  Tuttle  declared. "It’s  too  damned  uncanny.”

“It’s  that,  all  right,  and  nothing  would give  me  greater  pleasure  than  to  smash the  thing,”  Crater  said,  "but  before  we  do that  we’ve  got  to  get  Drummond  and  the other  projector.

"To  get  Drummond,”  he  added, "we’ve  got  to  keep  a net  out  for  him  no matter  what  age  he  may  be,  from  sixteen

to  ninety-six.  For  if  we  look  only  for  a young  man,  Drummond  will  make  himself old  and  so  elude  us,  or  if  we  look for  an  old  one  he’ll ”

The  door  burst  open  and  an  orderly entered.  "Riot  up  at  Sixth  and  Thirtieth, sir!”  he  reported  to  Commissioner Winston.

"Sixth  and— what  started  a riot  there?” Winston  shot  at  him.

"I  don’t  know,  sir,  but  the  patrolman who  rang  in  a minute  ago  yelled  something to  me  about  people  suddenly  getting older  and  younger ”

"Drummond!”  Crater  exclaimed. "Drummond’s  using  his  power  already!”

In  brief  minutes  they  were  in  a police car  speeding  northwestward  across  lower New  York.  Doctor  Halleck,  numbed  by the  swiftness  and  incredibility  of  events, sat  between  Winston  and  Tuttle  in  the rear  seat,  holding  the  projector.  Crater and  Manly  were  beside  the  driver,  and two  cars  crowded  with  policemen  followed theirs.

As  they  shot  west  on  Thirtieth  Street from  Broadway  they  found  the  Sixth  Avenue intersection  ahead  blocked  to  trafl&c by  a crowd  of  excited  people  that  had overflowed  from  the  sidewalks  into  the streets  and  had  stopped  vehicles  from proceeding  further.  From  this  mob  came an  uproar  of  voices,  the  early-afternoon crowds  gathering  quickly.

As  the  occupants  of  the  police-cars emerged.  Doctor  Halleck  saw  that  the  center of  excitement  was  some  scores  of  men and  women,  some  extremely  aged  and others  very  youthful,  who  appeared  mad with  terror.

Many  of  them  were  mouthing  meaningless cries  while  others  were  staring  at their  reflections  in  shop  windows  or  at their  companions.  With  sinking  heart Doctor  Halleck  saw  that  many  of  the


WEIRD  TALES

white-haired  old  people  were  dressed  in youthfully  cut  clothes  that  hung  oddly loose  upon  them,  a snow-headed  old  mjui in  a snappy  golf-suit,  two  senile,  bent  old women  in  the  latest  short  skirts  and jaunty  hats,  another  ancient,  wrinkledfaced man  in  a messenger  boy’s  uniform.

Similarly  some  of  the  most  youthfullooking  of  the  crowd  were  attired  in oddly  unyouthful  fashion.  A stiff  silk  hat, frock  coat  and  starched  wing-collar  were worn  by  a stripling  of  sixteen  who  appeared dazed.  A fresh  young  girl  wore  a black  silk  dress  and  bonnet  of  oldfashioned  style.  A street-cleaner’s  uniform was  worn  by  another  boy  of  sixteen or  seventeen.

"Dnimnmnd!”  Doctor  Halleck’s  voice was  shaking.  "Drummond’s  turned  the age  and  rejuvenation  rays  loose  indiscriminately here ’’

"Scatter  around  the  whole  interseclion!"  Captain  Crater’s  clear  voice  ordered die  policemen  who  had  emerged fr<xn  the  other  cars.  "Cton’t  let  any  one here  get  away  and  if  you  see  any  one using  a thing  like  a camera  with  a big lens,  get  him  if  you  have  to  ^oot!’’

A thin,  white-headed  oldster  with  a patrolman’s  miiform  hanging  loose  on him  tt^ered  up  to  than.  "Patrolman Casey,  sir!”  he  told  Commissioner  Winston in  a cracked  voice.  'There’s  hell going  on  here!”

"What  happened?”  Winston  asked. "When  did  this  start?”

"Ten  or  twelve  minutes  ago!”  the  other said  shrilly.  "I  was  standing  on  the  corner when  I heard  some  people  screaming. I looked  and  saw  people  changing,  an  old woman  suddenly  seeming  to  get  young, two  men  aging.  Then  I felt  a tingling through  me  and  was  old  and  weak  like this  myself.  Old — and  I’m  only  thirtyfour!”

"Did  you  see  a man  with  a black  case

like  a camera?”  Crater  asked  him  tensely. "Or  a package  about  the  size  of  a camera — just  when  this  happened?”

Patrolman  Casey  shook  his  white  head. "No — but  yes,  I di^  see  an  old  fellow with  a little  square  bundle  going  along the  sidewalk  just  then!”

"Drummond!”  Crater  exclaimed. "Drummcmd  made  himself  old  and  disguised his  projector  as  a package  of  some sort — turned  the  two  forces  loose  at  random as  he  went  along!  He’s  showing  the world  his  power  by  this  means,  establishing it  beyond  doubt.  What  an  unholy way  to  do  it,  thou^i — ^making  people young  or  old  at  random!”

"Crater,  what  are  we  going  to  do  with these  people?”  asked  Commissioner  Winston desperately.

The  scene  in  the  street  was  now  one  of indescribable  confusion.  Crater’s  men had  established  a line  around  the  intersection and  were  keeping  any  from  entering or  leaving,  but  inside  it  those  suddenly made  young  or  old  were  now screaming  in  panic.

Doctor  Halicck  grasped  Crater’s  arm. "'This  projector!”  he  cried.  "We  can bring  them  back  to  normal  with  it — make  them  younger  or  older!”  He  indicated the  projector  he  still  held.

Crater  nodded  instantly.  "By  heaven, we  can!  It’s  all  that  will  keep  these  people from  going  mad,  too!”

"We’ll  round  them  up  in  one  of  Aese stores,”  he  told  Winston  and  Tuttle,  "and Haileck  can  bring  them  back  to  normal with  our  projector!”

"All  right,  but  for  God’s  sake  work fast!”  Commissioner  Winston  told  him. 'This  will  have  all  New  York  in  a panic if  it  goes  on!”

Crater,  Manly  and  Tuttle  wiA  a halfdozen  policemen  plunged  into  Ae  crowd. Haileck  saw  Aera  fighting  to  quiet  Ae panic-stricken  victims  and  to  herd  them

THE  MAN  WHO  CCS^JQUERED  AGE


into  one  of  the  near-by  stores.  Some  of those  suddenly  made  old  or  young  were still  rational  enough  to  follow  the  ccanmands  of  the  policemen,  but  others, shrieking  in  tiheir  terror,  had  to  be dragged  into  the  store-room  commandeered by  Crater.

As  this  rounding-up  of  the  victims  of Drummond’s  ray  proceeded,  Halleck’s eyes  roved  everywhere  in  search  of  the man  who  had  let  loose  this  storm  of panic,  Wilse  Drummond  himself.  He could  see  him  nowhere,  nor,  he  told  himself, was  there  any  chance  that  Drummond would  have  lingered  here.  He  had simply  passed  along  dealing  age  and youth  at  random  from  his  concealed  projector and  letting  the  resulting  turmoil develop  of  itself  behind  him.

T he  turmoil  was  quieting  a little  now as  Captain  Crater  and  Manly  and Tuttle  with  their  men  gradually  herded the  victims  into  the  store-room  chosen. Halleck  gave  up  his  looking  for  Drummond and  went  with  Winston  into  that store-room,  the  projector  in  his  hand.

There  were  about  seventy  men  and women  in  the  store-room,  including  the seven  or  eight  prone  forms  the  policemen had  carried  in.  Doctor  Halleck  bent  with Oater  and  the  others  over  these  first, heedless  for  the  moment  of  the  hysterical uproar  of  the  others.

"Dead,”  said  Halleck  in  a moment. "All  dead  of  old  age.  These  are  old  people Drummond  happened  to  catch  with the  aging-ray.”

"Some  of  these  others  are  going  to  be dead  of  terror  in  a few  minutes  if  we don't  do  something,”  Captain  Crater said  grimly.

He  raised  his  voice  above  the  uproar. "You  people  who  were  made  younger  or older — ^we  can  make  you  as  you  were  before, do  you  hear.?  Doctor  Halleck  can

change  you  bads  to  the  age  y<Hi  were before!”

The  terror-crazed  victims  surged  toward the  officers.  A girl  of  sevaiteen  or ei^teen  in  clothing  that  seemed  too  old for  her  had  by  the  arm  a feeble  whitehaired  old  man.  "My  husband  and  I!” she  screamed.  "We  were  both  forty-two, and  out  there  in  the  street  we  (hanged — he  grew  older  and  I younger!”

"We’ll  diMige  you  back,”  Crater  reassured. To  Doctor  Halleck  he  said, "We’ll  start  on  these  people,  Halleck! We  can  take  them  one  at  a time.”

While  policemen  kept  curious  crowds and  reporters  outside  from  entering  the store-room,  the  work  in  it  proceeded.  A tall  mirror  was  found  and  set  up,  and beside  this  Doctor  Halleck  stcwd  with  his projector  while  the  hysterical  victims were  allowed  to  c»me  forward  <Hie  at  a time.

The  first  was  the  patrolman,  Casey. Placing  him  before  the  mirror  Halleck turned  the  rejuvenation  ray  cjo  him.  As Casey  saw  himself  growing  rapidly younger,  in  the  mirror,  he  seemed  dazed but  was  able  to  signal  to  Halleck  whai he  had  reached  his  normal  middle-aged appearance.  Halleck  turned  the  ray  off and  the  messenger-boy  who  had  be«i aged  into  an  old  man  took  Casey’s  phice.

Quickly  the  work  went  on,  those  in the  store-room  watching  incredulously and  scarce  able  to  believe  their  eyes  even when  they  themselves  were  restored  to normal  age  by  the  projector.  Halleck  had half  expected  some  of  those  made  young would  decline  to  enter  the  ray  and  be made  old  again,  but  this  was  not  the case.  This  strange  youth  that  had  come upon  them  so  suddenly  was  terrifying  to them,  throwing  time  back  and  lifting them  out  of  their  normal  place  in  the world,  and  they  desired  nothing  but  to get  back  to  their  familiar  older  age.


WEIRD  TALES

In  three-quarters  of  an  hour  all  of  the victims  save  those  killed  by  senility  had been  restored  to  their  usual  age,  and somewhat  stunned  but  otherwise  all  right, had  stumbled  out.  Doctor  Halleck,  weary despite  his  new  youthful  vigor,  remained with  Commissioner  Winston  and  Crater and  Manly,  Tuttle  having  gone  to  help  in the  search  for  Wilse  Drummond.

Commissioner  Winston  wiped  his brow.  “This  thing  will  soon  have  New York  crazy,”  he  said.  "The  reporters  out there  are  foaming  at  the  mouth  to  find out  what  changed  the  age  of  those  people and  how  we  restored  them  to  normal.”

"Let  them  foam,”  said  Crater  curtly. "If  they  hear  about  Wilse  Drummond and  realize  a man  is  running  wild  with that  power,  there’ll  be  a still  worse panic.”

"They’ll  learn  about  Drummond sooner  or  later,”  Winston  said,  "and when ”

An  excited  policeman  pushed  to  the side  of  the  commissioner.  "Chief Detective  Tuttle  wants  you  up  at  the Maxson  Theater  at  once,  sir!”  he  reported.

Instant  apprehension  crossed  Winston’s face.  "What’s  happened  there? Is  it  another ”

"He  said  to  bring  Doctor  Halleck  and his  projector  with  you!”  the  other  said.

Captain  Crater  laughed  grimly.  "Drummond is  not  wasting  time,  it  seems. Come  on,  Halleck!”

Ten  minutes  later  the  police-cars  drew up  on  West  Forty-eighth  Street  before the  square  cream-colored  bulk  of  the  new Maxson  Theater.

Here  also  there  was  a tangle  of  trafiic and  a horde  of  excited  people  on  the  sidewalk. They  pushed  through  them  into the  theater,  Halleck  between  Crater  and Manly.

The  theater  was  full  of  people  in  a state  of  panic,  the  matinee  crowd  that  a little  before  had  been  witnessing  a performance of  that  world-famed  revue, Maxson’s  Follies.  Policemen  posted  at the  doors  kept  them  from  leaving,  and one  of  these  led  Winston,  Crater  and Halleck  around  into  the  wings  of  the  big stage.

There  was  excitement  there  too,  performers in  brilliant  costumes  or  in  dressing-gowns exhibiting  the  same  panic  as the  audience.  Tuttle  came  to  meet  Winston and  Crater  and  Halleck.

"Your  Drummond  at  work  again!”  he exclaimed.  "He  must  have  come  straight up  here  after  what  he  did  down  there  at Sixth  and  'Thirtieth!”

"What  did  he  do?”  Crater  asked quickly.

Tuttle  pointed  to  where  many  of  the performers  had  gathered  around  a dozen hysterical  women.  The  dozen  women were  old,  their  faces  wrinkled  and  figures shrunken,  hair  white.  Yet  they  were dressed  in  the  abbreviated  costumes  of modern  revue  dancers.

"That’s  what  he  did,”  said  Tuttle grimly.

Tuttle  told  briefly  what  had  happened. The  matinee  performance  of  Maxson’s Follies  had  just  begun,  and  the  twelve featured  dancers  were  engaged  under  a golden  glow  of  light  in  their  intricate evolutions,  patterns  of  brilliant  costumes and  youthful  beauty  following  the  lilt  of the  music.

Then  the  patterns  had  become  suddenly confused,  the  dancers  stumbling against  each  other,  some  falling,  and  at the  same  time  women  in  the  audience had  screamed.  The  dancers  were  one  by one,  so  swiftly  that  the  eye  could  hardly follow  it,  growing  old,  aging  from  fresh youth  to  senility,  their  hair  whitening and  their  bodies  withering!

THE  MAN  WHO  CONQUERED  AGE


The  policeman  on  duly  in  the  wings had  instantly  called  headquarters  but when  Tuttle  had  arrived  he  had  found that  though  most  of  the  audience  was still  there,  some  of  them  had  escaped  in panic.

"There’s  not  a doubt  but  that  Wilse Drummond  was  in  the  audience  and turned  the  aging  ray  upon  the  dancers, then  got  away  before  we  came,”  Tuttle said.

"My  God,  what  a thing  to  do!”  Halleck  exclaimed.  "But  it’s  like  Drummond’s sardonic  mind  to  do  it!”

"Dnunmond  is  taking  the  best  way  to let  the  world  learn  his  power,  surely,” Captain  Crater  said.  "Well,  we  can  undo his  work.”

Quickly  with  the  projector’s  rejuvenating forces  Halleck  restored  the  twelve dancers  to  their  normal  youth.  But  hardly had  he  done  so  when  there  came  more evidence  that  Wilse  Drummond  was ranging  the  city  unsparingly  with  his dread  power.

This  was  a call  from  an  afternoon  political meeting  in  a hall  in  lower  New York.  Two  well-known  candidates  for United  States  senator  had  been  holding (here  a public  debate  on  the  issues  involved.

WHEN  Halleck  arrived  with  Crater and  the  other  officers  at  the  panicfilled  hall,  it  took  some  time  to  learn what  had  happened.  The  two  candidates, I)Oth  serious  and  dignified  elderly  men, had  been  on  the  platform  of  the  hall,  one speaking  forcefully  and  the  other  awaiting his  turn  to  speak.

Then  the  incredible  had  happened. The  dignified  speaker  had  suddenly, swiftly,  grown  younger!  His  gray  hair had  darkened,  his  figure  had  changed, he  had  gone  back  through  middle  age  and tiirough  youth  and  stood  before  the

astonished  audience  as  a rosy-cheeked boy  of  sixteen  in  an  elderly  man’s  clothing! And  before  the  stunned  audience could  credit  their  eyes  the  other  candidate had  grown  similarly  younger,  so  that  two striplings  held  the  platform.

Wilse  Drummond  had  undoubtedly entered  the  hall  and  with  the  same  sardonic humor  had  transformed  the  two eminent  statesmen  into  boys.  And  even before  Halleck  had  restored  to  the  two stunned  men  their  normal  age,  further alarms  of  Drummond’s  activities  were coming.

Halleck  felt  panic  seizing  upon  him  as it  was  seizing  upon  New  Yorir,  as  he  and Crater  and  Manly  sped  from  one  to  another of  the  scenes  of  Drummond’s  continuing deeds.

For  Drummond  seemed  deliberately working  to  throw  New  York  into  panic. No  other  hypothesis  could  explain  his  actions.

Youths  and  girls  pouring  out  of  a high-school  found  suddenly  that  a dozen or  more  among  them  had  abruptly  grown to  middle  age.  Conversely,  a half-dozen inmates  of  a home  for  the  aged,  senile men  and  women,  were  suddenly  restored to  youth.

At  a boxing-bout  being  witnessed  by a large  crowd,  Drummond  must  have been  present;  for  one  of  the  two  figjiters suddenly  became  a tottering,  aged  man and  in  the  next  moment  the  other  was an  opposite  change  a youthful  stripling. They  faced  each  other  as  thunder-struck as  the  crowd.

Drummond  was  using  his  power  in  the streets,  too,  with  the  most  deadly  effects. In  place  after  place,  as  the  afternoon  progressed, there  were  riots  where  Drummond had  passed  along  the  streets  and turned  his  concealed  projector  right  and left  into  the  crowds.  A son  would  find himself  suddenly  older  than  his  parents —


WEIRD  TALES

a grandfather  as  young  as  his  grandson.

And  as  hour  followed  hour  and  Doctor Halleck  sped  witli  Captain  Crater  and Manly  and  Tuttle  from  place  to  place, following  Drummond’s  trail  and  undoing Drummond’s  terrible  wOrk  with  the  projector Halleck  held,  terror  was  spreading through  New  York  and  penetrating  every crack  and  corner  of  the  vast  city.

It  was  a terror  of  the  unknown.  None but  the  police  knew  Wilse  Drummond to  be  responsible  for  the  stunning  phenomena of  the  day,  aiid  so  these  strange visitations  of  age  and  youth  on  people  at random  stirred  deepest  dread.  Then  it became  known  that  the  police  were  somehow, incredibly,  able  to  make  normal again  those  made  younger  or  older.

But  it  was  none  the  less  panic-striking. As  the  screaming  newspapers  spread  the incredible  news,  the  crowds  in  the  streets became  thinner.  None  knew  but  that  the invisible  power  would  reach  to  touch them  next,  hurling  them  out  of  their normal  age  into  strange  senility  or  youth, perhaps  into  death.  The  city  was  afraid.

And  Halleck  was  afraid.  For  as  he and  Crater  worked  with  the  projector  to restore  the  hysterical  victims  of  Drummond, Drummond’s  terrible  power  was more  and  more  clear  to  his  eyes.

"Crater,  if  Drummond  isn’t  taken  soon he’ll  have  New  York  wrecked!’’  Halleck said  as  in  a police  car  he  and  Crater  and Manly  sped  back  through  the  bright-lit streets  toward  police  headquarters  from the  scene  of  the  latest  panic.

Newsboys  were  shouting  extras  on every  corner  but  the  usual  nighttime crowds  were  not  on  the  streets. They  looked  oddly  deserted.

"Halleck’s  right,’’  Manly  said.  "Look at  these  streets — people  afraid  to  go  out already,  and  Drummond’s  been  out  with this  thing  for  only  one  day!’’

"We’ll  get  Drammond!’’  Captain Crater  told  them  with  iron-like  determination. "He’s  not  superhuman,  even with  the  powers  he  has,  and  he  can’t  get away  from  the  whole  police  system  indefinitely.’’

But  when  they  reached  police  headquarters and  entered  the  office  of  Commissioner Winston,  they  found  a new situation.  The  faces  of  Winston  and Tuttle  were  grim  when  the  three  entered the  bright-lit  office,  and  without  explanation Winston  cut  off  Crater’s  words  and handed  him  a black-headlined  newspaper.

"Read  that,’’  he  said.  "It  came  out  a quarter-hour  ago.’’

Halleck  read  over  Crater’s  shoulder. The  newspaper’s  whole  front  page  was occupied  by  a huge-typed  letter  that  had been  received  by  all  of  New  York’s newspapers  less  than  an  hour  before.

"To  the  People  of  New  York,’’  it  read. "The  strange  changes  in  age  of  people throughout  the  city  today,  the  rejuvenation of  some  persons  and  the  aging  of others,  are  not  supernatural  in  cause.  I, Professor  Wilse  Drummond  of  Manhattan University,  retired,  caused  them  by the  power  of  controlling  human  age  that I have  developed.  The  police  who  have been  hunting  me  today  can  verify  this statement.

"As  long  as  the  police  continue  to search  for  me  I will  continue  to  use  my powers  at  random  as  I have  done  today. I will  not  stop  until  the  civil  and  police officials  of  New  York  make  public  annoimcement  that  the  search  for  me  has stopped,  and  guarantee  me  immunity from  arrest  or  molestation.  When  such announcement  is  made  I will  halt  my present  activities  and  use  my  age-control process  in  a legitimate  manner.  Wilse Drummond.’’

There  was  a moment’s  silence  in  the

THE  MAN  WHO  CONQUERED  AGE


office.  "Blackmail!”  Crater  finally  said. "Drummond’s  trying  to  blackmail  the city  into  giving  him  immimity!”

"He’s  not  only  trying,”  Commissioner Winston  said  heavily.  "He’s  succeeding.”

"What  do  you  mean.^”  Crater  asked quickly.

"Crater,  the  mayor  has  just  been  here and  the  governor  was  on  the  phone. They  order  me  to  make  the  announcement guaranteeing  Drummond  immunity.”

"But  you  can’t!”  Doctor  Halleck  cried. "Do  you  realize  what  it  means.?  Wilse Drummond  free  to  sell  youth  to  the  highest bidder — the  whole  world  in  av/e  of him,  fawning  on  him ”

"Give  us  more  time,  Winston!”  pleaded Crater.  "We  can  get  Drummond  if we  have  time  enough,  and  smash  this whole  hellish  business!”

Winston  shook  his  head.  "If  it  was mine  to  say,  I would.  But  I’ve  got  my orders  and  I’ve  got  to  do  it — ^have  to  send the  announcement  out  now.  God  knows I hate  to  do  it.”

He  turned  to  the  door,  but  before  he could  open  it,  it  swrmg  wide  and  disclosed an  excited  orderly,  with  behind  him  a dazed-looking  stripling  of  sixteen  or seventeen  who  wore  thick  glasses  and clothes  that  seemed  too  old  for  him.

"This  fellow  says  some  one  changed his  age  and  other  people’s  over  on  Broadway just  now!”  cried  the  orderly.  "He says  he  saw  a man  there  using  a projector openly!  His  name’s  Harbison.”

"You  saw  Drummond?”  Captain Crater  cried.  "Just  now?”

"I  saw  a man  there,”  Harbison  answered dazedly.  "He  had  a thing  like  a camera  and  was  turning  it  on  people — he turned  it  toward  me  and  I changed  like this!  I’m  forty  years  old,  a lawyer,  but grew  younger  in  a moment  until  I was like  this!  I ran  over  here ”

"By  heaven,  Drummond  using  his  projector openly!”  Crater  cried.  "Winston, it  may  be  a chance  to  get  him — let  us  try it  before  you  send  that  announcement!”

Winston  hesitated.  "Do,  it’s  a last chance  at  Drummond  before  we  give  up!” Tuttle  cried.

"All  right,  we’ll  take  it!”  Winston said  briefly.  "Come  on!”

They  ran  for  the  door,  Halleck  with them  with  his  projector.  Harbison, the  stripling  who  had  brought  them  the word,  ran  after,  clutched  at  Crater’s  arm.

"What  about  me?  I’ve  got  to  get back  to  my  own  age  again — I’ve  got

to ” His  voice  rose  to  a ragged,

nerve-torn  scream.

"Halleck,  bring  this  fellow  back  to  his own  age!”  Crater  flung  to  the  biologist. "Then  come  over  after  us — there’ll  be more  there  for  you  to  work  on!”

Then  Crater  and  Winston  and  Tuttle and  Manly  were  gone,  the  excited  orderly with  them.  From  outside  came  the  roar of  the  police  cars  speeding  away.

Halleck  turned  back  to  Harbison,  alone now  in  Winston’s  office  with  him.  Harbison was  closing  the  office  door.

"All  right!”  Halleck  snapped.  "There’s no  time  to  lose!  Stand  over  here  and  I’ll bring  you  back  to  your  own  age  with  this projector.  You  can  tell  me  from  the  mirror there  when  you’re  normal.”

"Wait  a minute!”  pleaded  the  other.

"I  can’t  do  it  for  a minute ” He  sank

into  a chair,  his  face  in  his  hands.

Halleck,  with  an  exclamation  of  tense impatience,  waited.  Despite  his  own  rejuvenation, the  youth  the  projector  had given  to  him  as  to  Crater  and  Manly, Halleck  felt  a deadly  weariness.

If  Crater  and  the  others  could  take Drummond,  even  this  late!  But  Halleck’s  numbed  mind  knew  the  slenderness of  this  last  chance — it  would  fail  and the  announcement  of  immunity  would  be


WEIRD  TALES

made  and  Wilse  Drummond  would  be free  to  work  horror  in  the  world  by  setting up  his  sale  of  youth.  Tingling  horror again  swept  Halleck  at  that  thought.

Tingling — but  no,  it  was  not  horror but  force  that  was  tingling  through  his body!  Tingling  force  like  that  of  the  projector of  the  aging  and  rejuvenation rays!  And  as  Doctor  Halleck  came  to  that startling  realization  he  heard  the  buzz  of the  projector’s  operation!

He  looked  down,  but  the  projector  in his  hands  was  not  turned  on!  Nor  did the  buzz  come  from  it!  Halleck  was aware  of  sudden  increased  weariness, weakness,  oldness!  Then  his  dazed  eyes saw  that  across  the  room  the  stripling Harbison  was  not  now  sitting  in  his  chair by  the  door,  but  standing,  that  from under  his  coat  he  bad  taken  the  oblong black  case  of  a projector  whose  quartz lens  was  full  upon  Halleck,  and  that  Harbison’s  youthful  features,  his  black  q?es behind  the  thick  glasses,  were

“Wilse  Drummond!”  Halleck  yelled, and  was  aware  from  the  deep  pitch  of  his voice  that  Drummond’s  ray  had  already aged  him  from  youth  to  middle  age!

“Yes,  Drummond!”  cried  the  other. "You  didn’t  think  I’d  let  you  keep  the projector  you  stole  from  me,  Halleck? I’m  going  to  use  my  power  as  I planned and  I’m  going  to  use  it  alone,  not  with .you  undoing  what  I do  as  you  have  done all  this  day ”

He  stopped  as  Halleck,  with  desperate swiftness,  clicked  the  switch  of  the projector  in  his  own  hands  to  the  right, turned  its  aging-ray  upon  Drummond!

For  a moment  they  stood  with  rays turned  upon  each  other,  both  Drummond and  Halleck  growing  older  with each  moment,  though  Halleck  was  the elder.  Then  with  an  exclamation  Wilse Drummond  reached  to  the  wall-switch behind  him  and  snapped  off  the  lights. The  office  was  plunged  in  darkness.

' They  stood  in  that  darkness,  projectors buzzing,  and  then  Halleck  moved  quickly to  one  side.  He  felt  no  more  the  tingling and  knew  he  was  out  of  range  of  Drummond’s ray.  Halleck  turned  his  own  projector off,  heard  and  placed  the  buzz  of Drummond’s  in  the  darkness.  He  turned his  own  ray  in  that  direction.

He  heard  Drummond  move  hastily  in the  darkness  in  a moment  and  knew  he had  reached  him  with  his  force.  Dnanmond’s  projector  stopped  buzzing  and instantly  Halleck  shut  off  his  lest  Drummond place  him  in  the  dark.

'There  was  no  sound.  Hallcck’s  heart was  beating  rapidly.  This  was  the  weirdest of  duels,  surely,  between  Drummond and  him,  two  men  fighting  in  darkness with  age  as  the  weapon,  the  loser  to  die by  senility.

Halleck  thought  of  shouting  for  help — but  that  too  would  give  away  his  position in  the  darkness  to  Drummond.  To open  the  door  would  be  as  fatal,  for  it would  disclose  him  against  the  lighted hall  outside.  But  if  Crater  and  the  rest would  return!

Drummond  had  sent  Crater  and  the others  on  a false  errand  in  order  to  get this  diance  at  Halleck  and  his  projector. Once  he  had  both  projectors,  and  with immunity  against  further  search  by  the police,  Drummond  would  indeed  be  winner. Halleck  set  his  teeth.

Drummond’s  projector  buzzed  in  the darkness  like  an  alarmed  snake  and its  tingling  force  shot  through  Halleck. At  once  Halleck  leapt  to  escape  it,  but Drummond  followed  him  by  tlie  sound. Halleck  stopped,  turned  his  own  age-ray desperately  through  the  darkness.

He  heard  Drummond  in  turn  move, bump  against  a chair  or  the  desk  in  ffie room’s  corner.  He  kept  his  ray  turned on  that  comer  a moment,  then  turned  it off.  Halleck  was  feeling  very  tired  and

THE  MAN  WHO  CONQUERED  AGE


weak,  knew  that  in  the  times  it  had stnick  him  Drummond’s  ray  had  made him  decades  older.

But  Drummond  too  had  been  hit  by his  ray — must  be  middle-aged,  at  least. In  the  next  moment  Halleck  again  heard Drummond  move  and  shot  his  invisible aging-ray  through  the  darkness.  Again Drummond  moved  hastily  out  of  it.  He was  at  least  evening  their  ages,  Halleck knew.

They  fought  on  through  the  darkness in  the  strange  combat.  Deadly,  silent,  it went  on — Halleck  and  Drummond  moving with  infinite  care  around  opposite sides  of  the  dark  office,  loosing  their aging-forces  at  each  suspicion  of  a sound from  each  other.

Halleck  felt  himself  very  old,  with  a , weakness  of  age  upon  him  that  made  it hard  for  him  to  move  silently.  He  knew that  Drummond  too  must  by  then  be  old, though  whether  older  or  younger  than himself  he  could  not  guess.  The  time they  had  carried  on  the  unearthly  duel seemed  infinite  to  him,  though  he  knew it  could  have  been  but  minutes.

Moving  with  ever  greater  weakness, his  projector  and  Drummond’s  buzzing  in the  darkness  at  each  sound,  Halleck  knew he  could  not  long  continue  the  fight.

He  was  beside  the  desk,  now,  and  a desperate  resolve  took  him — a resolve  to end  the  thing  one  way  or  another.

He  set  his  projector  on  the  desk’s  corner, lens  facing  into  the  room.  Then  he snapped  on  the  age-ray  and  leapt  silently away  from  the  desk.

As  the  projector  buzzed,  Drummond’s buzzed  in  swift  answer  across  the  room. Halleck  crept  quickly  around  the  room’s edge  through  the  darkness  toward  the sound  of  Drummond’s  projector.  He heard  Drummond  turn  it  off,  then  leapt through  the  darkness  toward  him.

He  struck  Drummond,  clutched  him.

and  they  struggled — Drummond’s  projector knocked  from  his  hands  by  the shock.  They  fought  together  in  the  darkness. Halleck’s  blows  were  feeble,  his grip  weak,  but  Drummond’s  were  as weak  or  weaker.  Two  old  men  who  moments before  had  been  yoimg,  struggling in  the  dark  room!  The  projector  on  the desk  still  buzzed.

Halleck  reeled  with  Drummond  toward the  desk,  felt  the  tingling  force  of the  aging-ray  sweeping  through  them. Drummond  felt  it  and  sought  to  break loose  but  Halleck  held  him  fiercely.  His strength  was  fast  waning  as  the  ray  made both  of  them  swiftly  older.  The  one  of them  who  was  oldest  would  first  die  of old  age,  Halleck  knew!

Staggering  himself,  Halleck  clawed  to hold  Drummond  with  him  in  the  ray — to end  it  one  way  or  another!  Halleck  felt the  tingling  force  making  him  older  and older  still,  as  desperately  he  held  Drummond, older — ^weaker — he  felt  himself swaying,  consciousness  going

Then  Drummond  slipped  limply  from his  grasp,  struck  the  floor  with  a thump! Halleck,  with  a tremendous  last  effort  of his  waning  faculties,  reached  a hand through  the  darkness  to  the  buzzing  projector and  snapped  it  off.  Then,  clutching the  desk  for  support,  he  sank  nervelessly beside  Drummond.

IIGHT  suddenly  flooded  the  room,  almost  blinding  Halleck’s  dim  eyes. He  heard  voices  crying  out  excitedly,  feet running  and  hands  supporting  him,  but for  the  moment  could  see  nothing  clearly but  the  motionless  form  on  the  floor  beside him.

Wilse  Drummond  lay  there,  his  body shrivelled,  face  withered  and  hair  snowwhite — old — old — dead  of  senility.

Halleck,  looking  dazedly  into  the  mirror opposite,  saw  himself  as  a whitehaired,  twisted  ancient  as  old  almost  as


WEIRD  TALES

DnimtiKMKi.  Crater  and  Winston  and  the rest  gathered  excitedly  about  him.

"You  got  him  with  the  age-ray,  Halleck!”  Crater  was  crying.  "You  got Drummond!”

"Crater — the  other  ray ” uttered

Halledc  in  a cracked  voice.

Captain  Crater  was  already  taking  the projector  from  the  desk,  turning  the  rejuvenation force  upon  Halleck.  In  the mirror  Halleck  saw  age  fall  from  him,  as he  grew  younger  into  a man  of  seventyfive,  CMie  of  sixty-five,  one  of  sixty — his normal  age.

"That’s  enough!”  he  said.

Crater  turned  the  ray  off  and  Halleck stood  the  scholarly,  gray-haired  Doctor Halleck  he  had  been  until  that  day.

"Crater,  you  and  Manly.?”  he  said.

"Yes,”  Crater  answered  "For  God’s sake  let’s  get  back  to  normal.”

In  moments  the  aging-ray  had  made them  their  usual  ages.  Crater  the  middleaged  detective-captain.  Manly  his  younger aide.

"And  now ” said  Crater.

He  swung  up  his  pistol  by  the  barrel, its  butt  a hammer  hanging  over  the  tw© black  projectors.

"Go  on!”  Halleck  said.  "Smash  them before  some  one  else  tries  to  use  them!”

"Go  ahead!”  Winston  nodded.  "If you  don’t  now  we’ll  lose  our  nerve  and keep  the  damn  things!”

Crash!  Crash!  Crater’s  pistol-butt smashed  into  shattered  glass  and  wire  and metal  the  potential  rejuvenation  of  humanity.

He  stood  up  and  they  looked  at  the dead  Drummond  and  his  smashed  projectors, then  at  one  another.  Then  they turned  to  the  door,  Tuttle’s  voice  excited as  they  went  out,  Winston  and  Halleck looking  back,  Crater  turning  the  light  off as  he  closed  the  office  door.  Silent  beside the  shattered  metal  and  glass  fragments, looking  up  into  the  darkness  with  frozen, age-distorted  face,  lay  the  man  who  had conquered  age.

hrice  Haunted

By  ALFRED  I.  TOOKE

I am  thrice  haunted!  Every  night  I see 'Three  haunting  faces  peering  in  at  me.

A beggar’s  face.  He  asked  for  alms.  I said:

"Out  of  my  way!”  They  found  him  later — dead!

A brother’s  face.  He  asked  forgiveness.  I Sent  him  away  to  prison,  there  to  die.

A mother’s  face.  She  asked  a promise  true,

I breke  my  word.  Her  heart  was  broken,  too.

Pull  down  the  blind,  you  say,  and  shut  them  out? I’hey  haunt  me  from  within — ^not  from  without.

W.  T.— S

"He  reeled  away  from the  wall  and  met  the leaping  horror  with  a cast  of  his  ax,"

hoenix on  the  Sword

By  ROBERT  E.  HOWARD

’A  soul-searing  story  of  a fearsome  monster  spawned  in  darkness  before the  first  man  crawled  out  of  the  slimy  sea

"Know,  oh  prince,  that  between  the  years  when the  oceans  drank  Atlantis  and  the  gleaming  cities, and  the  years  of  the  rise  of  the  Sons  of  Aryas, there  was  an  Age  undreamed  of,  when  shining kingdoms  lay  spread  across  the  world  like  blue mantles  beneath  the  stars — Nemedia,  Ophir, Brythunia,  Hyperborea,  Zamora  with  its  darkhaired women  and  towers  of  spider-haunted  mystery, Zingara  with  its  chivalry,  Koth  that  bordered on  the  pastoral  lands  of  Shem,  Stygia  with  its shadow-guarded  tombs,  Hyrkania  whose  riders wore  steel  and  silk  and  gold.  But  the  proudest kingdom  of  the  world  was  Aquilonia,  reigning supreme  in  the  dreaming  west.  Hither  came

W.  T.— 4

Conan,  the  Cimmerian,  black-haired,  sullen-eyed, sword  in  hand,  a thief,  a reaver,  a slayer,  with gigantic  melancholies  and  gigantic  mirth,  to  tread the  jeweled  thrones  of  the  Earth  under  his  sandalled feet.”  — The  Hemedian  Chronicles.

OVER  shadowy  spires  and  gleaming towers  lay  tlie  ghostly  darkness and  silence  that  runs  before dawn.  Into  a dim  alley,  one  of  a veritable labyrinth  of  mysterious  winding  ways,

769.


WEIRD  TALES

four  masked  figures  came  hurriedly  from a door  which  a dusky  hand  furtively opened.  They  spoke  not  but  went  swiftly into  the  gloom,  cloaks  wrapped  closely about  them;  as  silently  as  the  ghosts  of murdered  men  they  disappeared  in  the darkness.  Behind  them  a sardonic  countenance was  framed  in  the  partly  opened door;  a pair  of  evil  eyes  glittered  malevolently in  the  gloom.

"Go  into  the  night,  creatures  of  the night,”  a voice  mocked.  "Oh,  fools,  your doom  hounds  your  heels  like  a blind  dog, and  you  know  it  not.”

The  speaker  closed  the  door  and  bolted it,  then  turned  and  went  up  the  corridor, candle  in  hand.  He  was  a somber  giant, whose  dusky  skin  revealed  his  Stygian blood.  He  came  into  an  inner  chamber, where  a tall,  lean  man  in  worn  velvet lounged  like  a great  lazy  cat  on  a silken couch,  sipping  wine  from  a huge  golden goblet.

''Well,  Ascalante,”  said  the  Stygian, setting  down  the  candle,  "your  dupes have  slunk  into  the  streets  like  rats  from their  burrows.  You  work  with  strange tools.”

"Tools?”  replied  Ascalante.  "Why, they  consider  me  that.  For  months  now, ever  since  the  Rebel  Four  summoned  me from  the  southern  desert,  I have  been  living in  the  very  heart  of  my  enemies,  hiding by  day  in  this  obscure  house,  skulking through  dark  alleys  and  darker  corridors at  night.  And  I have  accomplished  what those  rebellious  nobles  could  not.  Working through  them,  and  through  other agents,  many  of  whom  have  never  seen my  face,  I have  honeycombed  the  empire with  sedition  and  unrest.  In  short  I, working  in  the  shadows,  have  paved  the downfall  of  the  king  who  sits  throned  in the  sim.  By  Mitra,  I was  a statesman  before I was  an  outlaw.”

"And  these  dupes  who  deem  themselves your  masters?”

"They  will  continue  to  think  that  I serve  them,  until  our  present  task  is  completed. Who  are  they  to  match  wits  with Ascalante?  Volmana,  the  dwarfish  count of  Karaban;  Gromel,  the  giant  commander of  the  Black  Legion;  Dion,  the fat  baron  of  Attalus;  Rinaldo,  the  harebrained minstrel.  I am  the  force  which has  welded  together  the  steel  in  each,  and by  the  clay  in  each,  I will  crush  them when  the  time  comes.  But  that  lies  in  the future;  tonight  the  king  dies.”

"Days  ago  I saw  the  imperial  squadrons ride  from  the  city,”  said  the  Stygian.

"They  rode  to  the  frontier  which  the heathen  Piets  assail — thanks  to  the  strong liquor  which  I’ve  smuggled  over  the  borders to  madden  them.  Dion's  great wealth  made  that  possible.  And  Volmana made  it  possible  to  dispose  of  the rest  of  the  imperial  troops  which  remained in  the  city.  Through  his  princely kin  in  Nemedia,  it  was  easy  to  persuade King  Numa  to  request  the  presence  of Count  Trocero  of  Poitain,  seneschal  of Aquilonia;  and  of  course,  to  do  him honor,  he’ll  be  accompanied  by  an  imperial escort,  as  well  as  his  own  troops,  and Prospero,  King  Conan’s  right-hand  man. That  leaves  only  the  king’s  personal  bodyguard in  the  city — besides  the  Black  Legion. Through  Gromel  I’ve  corrupted  a spendthrift  officer  of  that  guard,  and bribed  him  to  lead  his  men  away  from the  king’s  door  at  midnight.

"Then,  with  sixteen  desperate  rogues of  mine,  w'e  enter  the  palace  by  a secret tunnel.  After  the  deed  is  done,  even  if the  people  do  not  rise  to  welcome  us, Gromel’ s Black  Legion  will  be  sufficient to  hold  the  city  and  the  crown.”

"And  Dion  thinks  that  crown  will  be given  to  him?”

"Yes.  The  fat  fool  claims  it  by  reason of  a trace  of  royal  blood.  Conan  makes a bad  mistake  in  letting  men  live  who still  boast  descent  from  the  old  dynasty.

THE  PHOENIX  ON  THE  SWORD


from  which  he  tore  the  crown  of  Aquiioaia.

"Volmana  wishes  to  be  reinstated  in royal  favor  as  he  was  under  the  old regime,  so  that  he  may  lift  his  povertyridden  estates  to  their  former  grandeur. Gromel  hates  Pallantides,  commander  of the  Black  Dragons,  and  desires  the  command of  the  whole  army,  with  all  the stubbornness  of  the  Bossonian.  Alone  of us  all,  Rinaldo  has  no  personal  ambition. He  sees  in  Conan  a red-handed,  roughfooted  barbarian  who  came  out  of  the north  to  plunder  a civilized  land.  He idealizes  the  king  whom  Conan  killed  to get  the  crown,  remembering  only  that  he occasionally  patronized  the  arts,  and  forgetting the  evils  of  his  reign,  and  he  is making  the  people  forget.  Already  they openly  sing  The  Lament  for  the  King  in which  Rinaldo  lauds  the  sainted  villain and  denounces  Conan  as  'that  blackhearted savage  from  the  abyss.’  Conan laughs,  but  the  people  snarl.”

"Why  does  he  hate  Conan?”

"Poets  always  hate  those  in  power.  To them  perfection  is  always  just  behind  the last  corner,  or  beyond  the  next.  They escape  the  present  in  dreams  of  the  past and  future.  Rinaldo  is  a flaming  torch  of idealism,  rising,  as  he  thinks,  to  overthrow a tyrant  and  liberate  the  people.  As  for me — well,  a few  months  ago  I had  lost all  ambition  but  to  raid  the  caravans  for tile  rest  of  my  life;  now  old  dreams  stir. Cc^an  will  die;  Dion  will  mount  tihe throne.  Then  he,  too,  will  die.  One  by one,  all  who  oppose  me  will  die — ^by  fire, or  steel,  or  those  deadly  wines  you  know so  well  how  to  brew.  Ascalante,  king  of Aquilonia!  How  like  you  the  sound of  it?”

The  Stygian  shrugged  his  broad  Moulders.

"There  was  a time,”  he  said  with  unconcealed bitterness,  "when  I,  too,  had

my  ambitions,  beside  whidi  yours  seem tawdry  and  childish.  To  what  a state  I have  fallen!  My  old-time  peers  and  rivals would  stare  indeed  could  th^  see  ThothAmon  of  the  Ring  serving  as  the  slave  of an  outlander,  and  an  outlaw  at  that;  and aiding  in  the  petty  ambitions  of  barons and  kings!”

"You  laid  your  trust  in  magic  and mummery,”  answered  Ascalante  carelessly. "I  trust  my  wits  and  my  sword.”

"Wits  and  swords  are  as  straws  against the  wisdom  of  the  Darkness,”  growled the  Stygian,  his  dark  eyes  flickering  with menacing  lights  and  shadows.  "Had  I not  lost  the  Ring,  our  positions  might  be reversed.”

"Nevertheless,”  answered  the  outlaw impatiently,  "you  wear  the  stripes  of  my whip  on  your  back,  and  are  likely  to  continue to  wear  them.”

"Be  not  so  sure!”  the  fiendish  hatred of  the  Stygian  glittered  for  an  instant redly  in  his  eyes.  "Some  day,  somehow, I will  find  the  Ring  again,  and  when  I do, by  the  serpent-fangs  of  Set,  you  shall pay ”

The  hot-tempered  Aquilonian  started up  and  struck  him  heavily  across  the mouth.  Thoth  reeled  back,  blood  starting from  his  lips.

"You  grow  over-bold,  dog,”  growled the  outlaw.  "Have  a care;  I am  still  your master  who  knows  your  dark  secret.  Go upon  the  housetops  and  shout  that  Ascalante is  in  the  city  plotting  against  the king— if  you  dare."

"I  dare  not,”  muttered  the  Stygian, wiping  the  blood  from  his  lips.

"No,  you  do  not  dare,"  Ascalante grinned  bleakly,  "For  if  I die  by  your stealth  or  treachery,  a hermit  priest  in  the southern  desert  will  know  of  it,  and  will break  the  seal  of  a manuscript  I left  in his  hmds.  And  having  read,  a word  will


WEIRD  TALES

be  whispered  in  Stygia,  and  a wind  will creep  up  from  the  south  by  midnight. And  where  will  you  hide  your  head, Thoth-Amon.^”

The  slave  shuddered  and  his  dusky face  went  ashen.

"Enough!”  Ascalante  changed  his  tone peremptorily.  "I  have  work  for  you.  I do  not  trust  Dion.  I bade  him  ride  to  his country  estate  and  remain  there  until  the work  tonight  is  done.  The  fat  fool  could never  conceal  his  nervousness  before  the king  today.  Ride  after  him,  and  if  you  do not  overtake  him  on  the  road,  proceed  to his  estate  and  remain  with  him  until  we send  for  him.  Don’t  let  him  out  of  your sight.  He  is  mazed  with  fear,  and  might bolt — ^might  even  rush  to  Conan  in  a panic,  and  reveal  the  whole  plot,  hoping thus  to  save  his  own  hide.  Go!”

The  slave  bowed,  hiding  the  hate  in his  eyes,  and  did  as  he  was  bidden.  Ascalante turned  again  to  his  wine.  Over  the jeweled  spires  was  rising  a dawn  crimson as  blood.


When  I was  a fighting-man,  the  kettle-dnims they  beat.

The  people  scattered  gold-dust  before  my  horse’s feet;

But  now  I am  a great  king,  the  people  hound my  track

With  poison  in  my  wine-cup,  and  daggers  at my  back.

— The  Road  of  Kings.

The  room  was  large  and  ornate,  with rich  tapestries  on  the  polished-panelled walls,  deep  rugs  on  the  ivory  floor, and  with  the  lofty  ceiling  adorned  with intricate  carvings  and  silver  scrollwork. Behind  an  ivory,  gold-inlaid  writing-table sat  a man  whose  broad  shoulders  and  sunbrowned  skin  seemed  out  of  place  among those  luxuriant  surroundings.  He  seemed more  a part  of  the  sun  and  winds  and high  places  of  the  outlands.  His  slightest movement  spoke  of  steel-spring muscles  knit  to  a keen  brain  with  the  coordination of  a born  fighting-man.  There was  nothing  deliberate  or  measured  about his  actions.  Either  he  was  perfectly  at rest — still  as  a bronze  statue — or  else  he was  in  motion^not  with  the  jerky  quickness of  over-tense  nerves,  but  Witfi  a catlike speed  that  blurred  the  sight  which tried  to  follow  him.

His  garments  were  of  rich  fabric,  but simply  made.  He  wore  no  ring  or  ornaments, and  his  square-ait  black  mane  was confined  merely  by  a cioth-of-silver  band about  his  head.

Now  he  laid  down  the  golden  stylus with  which  he  had  been  laboriously scrawling  on  waxed  papyrus,  rested  his chin  on  his  fist,  and  fixed  his  smoldering blue  eyes  enviously  on  the  man  who  stood before  him.  This  person  was  occupied  in his  own  affairs  at  the  moment,  for  he  was taking  up  the  laces  of  his  gold-chased armor,  and  abstractedly  whistling — a rather  unconventional  performance,  considering that  he  was  in  the  presence  of  a king.

"Prospero,”  said  the  man  at  the  table, "these  matters  of  statecraft  weary  me  as all  the  fighting  I have  done  never  did.”

"All  part  of  the  game,  Conan,”  answered the  dark-eyed  Poitainian.  "You are  king — ^you  must  play  the  part.”

"I  wish  I might  ride  with  you  to Nemedia,”  said  Conan  enviously.  "It seems  ages  since  I had  a horse  between my  knees — but  Publius  says  that  affairs in  the  city  require  my  presence.  Curse him!

"When  I overthrew  the  old  dynasty,” he  continued,  speaking  with  the  easy  familiarity which  existed  only  between  the Poitainian  and  himself,  "it  was  easy enough,  though  it  seemed  bitter  hard  at the  time.  Looking  back  now  over  the wild  path  I followed,  all  those  days  of toil,  intrigue,  slaughter  and  tribulation .. seem  like  a dream.

THE  PHOENIX  ON  THE  SWORD


"I  did  not  dream  far  enough,  Prospero. When  King  Numedides  lay  dead  at  my feet  and  I tore  the  crown  from  his  gory head  and  set  it  on  my  own,  I had  reached the  ultimate  border  of  my  dreams.  I had prepared  myself  to  take  the  crown,  not  to hold  it.  In  the  old  free  days  all  I wanted was  a sharp  sword  and  a straight  path  to my  enemies.  Now  no  paths  are  straight and  my  sword  is  useless.

"When  I overthrew  Numedides,  then I was  the  Liberator — now  they  spit  at  my shadow.  They  have  put  a statue  of  that swine  in  the  temple  of  Mitra,  and  people go  and  wail  before  it,  hailing  it  as  the holy  efBgy  of  a saintly  monarch  who  was done  to  death  by  a red-handed  barbarian. When  I led  her  armies  to  victory  as  a mercenary,  Aquilonia  overlooked  the  fact that  I was  a foreigner,  but  now  she  can not  forgive  me.

"Now  in  Mitra’s  temple  there  come  to burn  incense  to  Numedides’  memory, men  whom  his  hangmen  maimed  and blinded,  men  whose  sons  died  in  his dungeons,  whose  wives  and  daughters were  dragged  into  his  seraglio.  The  fickle fools!”

"Rinaldo  is  largely  responsible,”  answered Prospero,  drawing  up  his  swordbelt  another  notch.  "He  sings  songs  that make  men  mad.  Hang  him  in  his  jester’s garb  to  the  highest  tower  in  the  city.  Let him  make  rimes  for  the  vultures.”

Conan  shook  his  lion  head.  "No, Prospero,  he’s  beyond  my  reach.  A great poet  is  greater  than  any  king.  His  songs are  mightier  than  my  scepter;  for  he  has near  ripped  the  heart  from  my  breast when  he  chose  to  sing  for  me.  I shall  die and  be  forgotten,  but  Rinaldo’s  songs  will live  for  ever.

"No,  Prospero,”  the  king  continued,  a somber  look  of  doubt  shadowing  his  eyes, "there  is  something  hidden,  some  undercurrent of  which  we  are  not  aware.  I sense  it  as  in  my  youth  I sensed  the  tiger hidden  in  the  tall  grass.  There  is  a nameless unrest  throughout  the  kingdom.  I am  like  a hunter  who  crouches  by  his small  fire  amid  the  forest,  and  hears stealthy  feet  padding  in  the  darkness,  and almost  sees  the  glimmer  of  burning  eyes. If  I could  but  come  to  grips  with  something tangible,  that  I could  cleave  with my  sword!  I tell  you,  it’s  not  by  chance that  the  Piets  have  of  late  so  fiercely  assailed the  frontiers,  so  that  the  Bossonians have  called  for  aid  to  beat  them  back.  I should  have  ridden  with  the  troops.”

"Publius  feared  a plot  to  trap  and  slay you  beyond  the  frontier,”  replied  Prospero, smoothing  his  silken  surcoat  over his  shining  mail,  and  admiring  his  tall lithe  figure  in  a silver  mirror.  "'That’s why  he  urged  you  to  remain  in  the  city. These  doubts  are  born  of  your  barbarian instincts.  Let  the  people  snarl!  'The  mercenaries are  ours,  and  the  Black  Dragons, and  every  rogue  in  Poitain  swears  by  you. Your  only  danger  is  assassination,  and that’s  impossible,  with  men  of  the  imperial troops  guarding  you  day  and  night. What  are  you  working  at  there?”

"A  map,”  Conan  answered  with  pride, '"rhe  maps  of  the  court  show  well  the countries  of  south,  east  and  west,  but  in the  north  they  are  vague  and  faulty.  I am  adding  the  northern  lands  myself. Here  is  Cimmeria,  where  I was  born. And- ”

"Asgard  and  Vanaheim,”  Prospero scanned  the  map.  "By  Mitra,  I had  almost believed  those  countries  to  have  been fabulous.”

Conan  grinned  savagely,  involuntarily touching  the  scars  on  his  dark  face.  "You had  known  otherwise,  had  you  spent  your youth  on  the  northern  frontiers  of  Cimmeria! Asgard  lies  to  the  north,  and Vanaheim  to  the  northwest  of  Cimmeria,

i774

, WEIRD  TALES

arid  there  is  continual  war  along  the  bord»s.”

“What  manner  of  men  are  tfiese northern  folk?’’  asked  Prosper©.

“Tall  and  fair  and  blue-eyed.  Their god  is  Ymir,  the  frost-giant,  and  each tribe  has  its  own  king.  They  are  wayward and  fierce.  They  fight  all  day  and drink  ale  and  roar  their  wild  songs  all night.”

“Then  I think  you  are  like  them,” laughed  Prospero.  “You  laugh  greatly, drink  deep  and  bellow  good  songs; though  I never  saw  another  Cimmerian who  drank  aught  but  water,  or  who  ever laughed,  or  ever  sang  save  to  chant  dismal dirges.”

"Perhaps  it’s  the  land  they  live  in,” answered  the  king.  “A  gloomier  land never  was — all  of  hills,  darkly  wooded, under  skies  nearly  always  gray,  with wmds  moaning  drearily  down  the  valleys.”

“Little  wonder  men  grow  moody there,”  quoth  Prospero  with  a shrug  of his  shoulders,  thinking  of  the  smiling sufl-washcd  plains  and  blue  lazy  rivers  of Poitaia,  Aquilonia’s  southernmost  province.

"They  have  no  hope  here  or  hereafter,” answered  Conan.  “Their  gods  are  Crom and  his  dark  race,  who  rule  over  a sunless place  of  everlasting  mist,  which  is  the world  of  the  dead.  Mitra!  The  ways  of the  yEsir  were  more  to  my  liking.”

“Well,”  grinned  Prospero,  "the  dark hills  of  Cimmeria  are  far  behind  you. And  now  I go.  I’ll  quaff  a goblet  of white  Nemedian  wine  for  you  at  Numa’s court.”

“Good,”  grunted  the  king,  “but  kiss Numa’s  dancing-girls  for  yourself  only, lest  you  involve  the  states!”

His  gusty  laughter  followed  Prospero out.  of  the  chamber.


trader  the  cavsrned  pyramids  great  Set  coils asleep ;

Among  the  shadows  of  the  tombs  his  dusky people  creep.

I speak  the  Word  from  the  hidden  gulfs  that never  knew  the  sun- —

Send  me  a servant  for  my  hate,  eh  scaled  and shining  0ns!

The  sun  was  setting,  etching  the  green aiid  hazy  blue  of  the  forest  in  brief gold.  The  waning  beams  glinted  on  the thick  golden  chain  which  Dion  of  Attains twisted  continually  in  his  pudgy  hand  as he  sat  in  the  flaming  riot  of  blossoms  and flower-trees  which  was  his  garden.  He shifted  his  fat  body  on  his  marble  seat and  glanced  furtively  about,  as  if  in  quest of  a lurking  enemy.  He  sat  within  a circular grove  of  slender  trees,  whose  interlapping branches  cast  a thick  shade  over him.  Near  at  hand  a fountain  tinkled silverly,  and  other  xmseen  fountains  in various  parts  of  the  great  gardes  whispered an  everlasting  symphony.

Dion  was  alone  except  for  the  great dusky  figure  which  lounged  on  a marble bench  close  at  hand,  watching  the  baron with  deep  somber  eyes.  Dion  gave  little thought  to  Thoth-Amon.  He  vaguely knew  that  he  was  a slave  in  whom  Ascalante  reposed  much  trust,  but  like  so  many rich  men,  Dion  paid  scant  heed  to  men below  his  own  station  in  life.

“You  need  not  be  so  nervous,”  said Thoth.  "The  plot  can  not  fail.”

"Ascalante  can  make  mistakes  as  well as  another,”  snapped  Dion,  sweating  at the  mere  thought  of  failure.

“Not  he,”  grinned  the  Stygian  savagely, “else  I had  not  been  his  slave,  but  his master.”

“What  talk  is  this?”  peevishly  returned Dion,  with  only  half  a mind  on the  conversation.

Thoth-Amon’s  eyes  narrowed.  For  all his  iron-self-control,  he  was  near  bursting with  long  pent-up  shame,  hate  and

THE  PHOENIX  ON  THE  SWORD


rage,  ready  to  take  any  sort  of  a desperate chance.  What  he  did  not  reckon  on  was the  fact  that  Dion  saw  him,  not  as  a human  being  with  a brain  and  a wit,  but simply  a slave,  and  as  such,  a creature beneath  notice.

"Listen  to  me,”  said  Thoth.  "You  will be  king.  But  you  little  know  the  mind  of Ascalante.  You  can  not  trust  him,  once Oman  is  slain.  I can  help  you.  If  you will  protect  me  when  you  come  to  power, I will  aid  you.

"Listen,  my  lord.  I was  a great  sorcerer in  the  south.  Men  spoke  of  Thoth- Amon as  they  spoke  of  Rammon.  King  Ctesphon  of  Stygia  gave  me  great  honor,  casting down  the  magicians  from  the  high places  to  exalt  me  above  them.  They hated  me,  but  they  feared  me,  for  I controlled beings  from  outside  which  came at  my  call  and  did  my  bidding.  By  Set, mine  enemy  knew  not  the  hour  when  he might  awake  at  midnight  to  feel  the  taloned  fingers  of  a nameless  horror  at  his throat!  I did  dark  and  terrible  magic with  the  Serpent  Ring  of  Set,  which  I found  in  a nighted  tomb  a league  beneath the  earth,  forgotten  before  the  first  man crawled  out  of  the  slimy  sea.

"But  a thief  stole  the  Ring  and  my power  was  broken.  The  magicians  rose up  to  slay  me,  and  I fled.  Disguised  as a camel-driver,  I was  travelling  in  a caravan in  the  land  of  Koth,  when  Ascalante’s reavers  fell  upon  us.  All  in  the  caravan were  slain  except  myself;  I saved  my  life by  revealing  my  identity  to  Ascalante  and swearing  to  serve  him.  Bitter  has  been that  bondage!

"To  hold  me  fast,  he  wrote  of  me  in a manuscript,  and  sealed  it  and  gave  it into  the  hands  of  a hermit  who  dwells on  the  southern  borders  of  Koth.  I dare not  strike  a dagger  into  him  while  he sleeps,  or  betray  him  to  his  enemies,  for then  the  hermit  would  open  the  manuscript and  read — ^thus  Ascalante  instructed him.  And  he  would  speak  a word  in Stygia ”

Again  Thoth  shuddered  and  an  ashen hue  tinged  his  dusky  skin.

"Men  knew  me  not  in  Aquilonia,”  he said.  "But  should  my  enemies  in  Stygia learn  my  whereabouts,  not  the  width  of half  a world  between  us  would  suffice  to save  me  from  such  a doom  as  would  blast the  soul  of  a bronze  statue.  Only  a king with  castles  and  hosts  of  swordsmen could  protect  me.  So  I have  told  you  my secret,  and  urge  that  you  make  a pact with  me.  I can  aid  you  with  my  wisdom, and  you  can  protect  me.  And  some  day I will  find  the  Ring ”

"Ring.^  Ring?”  Thoth  had  imderestimated  the  man’s  utter  egoism. , Dion  had not  even  been  listening  to  the  slave’s words,  so  completely  engrossed  was  he  in his  own  thoughts,  but  the  final  word stirred  a ripple  in  his  self-centeredness.

"Ring?”  he  repeated.  "That  makes  me remember — my  ring  of  good  fortune.  I had  it  from  a Shemitish  thief  who  swore he  stole  it  from  a wizard  far  to  the  south, and  that  it  would  bring  me  luck.  I paid him  enough,  Mitra  knows.  By  the  gods, I need  all  the  luck  I can  have,  what  with Volmana  and  Ascalante  dragging  me  into their  bloody  plots — I’ll  see  to  the  ring.”

Thoth  sprang  up,  blood  mounting darkly  to  his  face,  while  his  ^es  flamed with  the  stunned  fury  of  a man  who  suddenly realizes  the  full  depths  of  a fool’s swinish  stupidity.  Dion  never  heeded him.  Lifting  a secret  lid  in  the  marble seat,  he  fumbled  for  a moment  among  a heap  of  gewgaws  of  various  kinds — barbaric charms,  bits  of  bones,  pieces  of tawdry  jewelry — luck-pieces  and  conjures which  the  man’s  superstitious  nature  had prompted  him  to  collect.

"AJi,  here  it  is!”  He  triumphantly lifted  a ring  of  ciurious  make.  It  was  of

i776

WEIRD  TALES

a metal  like  c»pper,  and  was  made  in  the form  of  a scaled  serpent,  coiled  in  three loops,  with  its  tail  in  its  mouth.  Its  eyes were  yellow  gems  which  glittered  balefully.  Thoth-Amon  cried  out  as  if  he  had been  struck,  and  Dion  wheeled  and  gaped, his  face  suddenly  bloodless.  The  slave’s eyes  were  blazing,  his  mouth  wide,  his huge  dusky  hands  outstretched  like  talons, "’Ilie  Ring!  By  Set!  The  Ring!”  he shridced.  “My  Ring  — stolen  from

Steel  glittered  in  the  Stygian’s  hand and  with  a heave  of  his  great  dusky  shoub der*  he  drove  the  dagger  into  the  baron’s fat  body,  Dion’s  high  thin  squeal  broke in  a strangled  gurgle  and  his  whole  flabby frame  collapsed  like  melted  butter.  A fool  to  the  end,  he  died  in  mad  terror, not  knowing  why.  Flinging  aside  the crumpled  corpse,  already  forgetful  of  it, Th<^  grasped  the  ring  in  both  hands,  his dark  eyes  blazing  witiht  a fearful  avidness.

"My  Ring!”  he  whispered  in  terrible exultation.  "My  power!”

How  long  he  crouched  over  the  baleful thing,  motionless  as  a statue, drinking  the  evil  aura  of  it  into  his  dark soul,  not  even  the  Stygian  knew.  When he  shook  himself  from  his  revery  and drew  hack  his  mind  from  the  nighted abysses  where  it  had  been  questing,  the motm  was  rising,  casting  long  shadows across  the  smooth  marble  back  of  the garden-seat,  at  the  foot  of  which  sprawled the  darker  shadow  which  had  been  the lord  of  Attains.

"No  more,  Ascalante,  no  more!”  whispered the  Stygian,  and  his  eyes  burned red  as  a vampire’s  in  the  gloom.  Stooping, he  cupped  a handful  of  congealing blood  from  the  sluggish  pool  in  which his  victim  sprawled,  and  rubbed  it  in  the copper  serpent’s  eyes  until  the  yellow sparks  were  covered  by  a crimscai  mask.

"Blind  your  eyes,  mystic  serpent,”  He chanted  in  a blocd-freezing  whisper, "Blind  your  eyes  to  die  moonlight  and open  them  on  darker  gulfs!  What  do  yoa see,  oh  serpent  of  Set.^  Whom  do  you call  from  the  gulfs  of  the  Night?  Whose shadow  falls  on  the  waning  Light?  Cali him  to  me,  oh  serpent  of  Set!”

Stroking  the  scales  with  a peculiar  circular motion  of  his  fingers,  a motion which  always  carried  the  fingers  back  to their  starting  place,  his  voice  sank  still lower  as  he  whispered  dark  names  and grisly  incantations  forgotten  the  world over  save  in  the  grim  hinterlands  of  dark Stygia,  where  monstrous  shapes  move  in the  dusk  of  the  tombs.

There  was  a movement  in  die  air  atoist him,  such  a swjrl  as  is  made  in  w^iw when  some  creature  rises  to  the  surface. A nameless,  freezing  wind  blew  on  him briefly,  as  if  from  an  opened  Door.  Thoth felt  a presence  at  bis  back,  but  he  did  nnt look  about.  He  kept  his  eyes  fixed  on  the moonlit  space  of  marble,  on  whidi  0 tenuous  shadow  hovered.  As  he  continued his  whispered  incantatkms,  this shadow  grew  in  size  and  darity,  until  it stood  out  distinct  and  horrific.  Its  outline was  not  unlike  that  of  a gigantic  baboon, but  no  such  baboon  ever  walked  the  earth, nc*  even  in  Stygia,  Still  Thoth  did  not look,  but  drawing  from  his  girdle  a sandal of  his  master— always  carried  in  the dim  hope  that  he  might  be  able  fis  put  it to  such  use— he  cast  it  behind  him.

"Know  it  well,  slave  of  the  Ringf' he  exclaimed.  "Find  him  who  wore  it and  destroy  him!  Look  into  his  eyes  and blast  his  soul,  before  you  tear  out  his throat!  Kill  him!  Aye,”  in  a blind  burst of  {>assion,  "and  all  with  him!”

Etched  on  the  moonlit  wall  'Hioth  saw the  horror  lower  its  misshapen  head  and take  the  scent  like  some  hideous  hound. Then  the  grisly  head  was  thrown  bads

THE  PHOENIX  ON  THE  SWORD


and  the  thing  wheeled  and  was  gone  like a wind  through  the  trees.  The  Stygian flung  up  his  arms  in  maddened  exultation, and  his  teeth  and  eyes  gleamed  in the  moonlight.

A soldier  on  guard  without  the  walls yelled  in  startled  horror  as  a great  loping black  shadow  with  flaming  eyes  cleared the  wall  and  swept  by  him  with  a swirling rush  of  wind.  But  it  was  gone  so swiftly  that  the  bewildered  warrior  was Mt  wondering  whether  it  had  been  a dream  or  a hallucination.


V^ien  th»  world  was  young  and  men  were  weak, and  the  fiends  of  the  night  walked  free,

I strove  with  Set  by  fire  and  steel  and  the juice  of  the  upas-tree;

Now  that  I sleep  in  the  mount’s  black  heart, and  the  ages  take  their  toll.

Forget  ye  him  who  fought  with  the  ISnake  to save  the  human  soul?

Alone  in  the  great  sleeping-diamber ^ with  its  high  golden  dome  King G)nan  slumbered  and  dreamed.  Through swirling  gray  mists  he  heard  a curious call,  faint  and  far,  and  liiough  he  did  not understand  it,  it  seemed  not  within  his power  to  ignore  it.  Sword  in  hand  he went  through  the  gray  mist,  as  a man might  walk  through  clouds,  and  the  voice grew  more  distinct  as  he  proceeded  until he  understood  the  word  it  spoke— it  was his  own  name  that  was  being  called  across the  gulfs  of  Space  or  Time.

Now  the  mists  grew  lighter  and  he saw  that  he  was  in  a great  daric  corridor that  seemed  to  be  cut  in  solid  black  stone. It  was  unlighted,  but  by  some  magic  he could  see  plainly.  The  floor,  ceiling  and walls  were  highly  polished  and  gleamed dully,  and  they  were  carved  with  the  figures of  ancient  heroes  and  half-forgotten gods.  He  shuddered  to  see  the  vast shadowy  outlines  of  the  Nameless  Old Ones,  and  he  knew  somehow  that  mortal

feet  had  not  traversed  the  corridor  for centuries.

He  came  upon  a wide  star  carved  in  the solid  rock,  and  the  sides  of  the  shaft  were adorned  with  esoteric  symbols  so  ancient and  horrific  that  King  Conan’s  skin crawled.  The  steps  were  carven  each  with the  abhorrent  figure  of  the  Old  Serpent, Set,  so  that  at  each  step  he  planted  his heel  on  the  head  of  the  Snake,  as  it  was intended  from  old  times.  But  he  was none  the  less  at  ease  for  all  that.

But  the  voice  called  him  on,  and  at last,  in  darkness  that  would  have  been impenetrable  to  his  material  eyes,  he  came into  a strange  crypt,  and  saw  a vague white-bearded  figure  sitting  on  a tomb. Conan’s  hair  rose  up  and  he  grasped  his sword,  but  the  figure  spoke  in  sepuhhtal tones.

"Oh  man,  do  yem  krmw  me?"

"Not  I,  by  Cromf”  swore  the  king.

"Man,”  said  the  ancient,  "I  am  Epemitreus.’’

"But  Epemitreus  the  Sage  has  been dead  for  fifteen  hundred  years!"  stammered Conan.

"Harken!’'  spoke  the  otfier  commandingly.  "As  a pebble  cast  into  a dark  lake sends  ripples  to  the  further  shores,  happenings in  the  Unseen  World  have broken  like  waves  on  my  slumber.  I have marked  you  well,  Conan  of  Cimmeria, and  the  stamp  of  mighty  happenings  and great  deeds  is  upon  you.  But  dooms  are loose  in  the  land,  against  which  your sword  can  not  aid  you."

"You  speak  in  riddles,”  said  Conan uneasily.  "Let  me  see  my  foe  and  I’ll cleave  his  skull  to  the  teeth.”

"Loose  your  barbarian  fnty  against your  foes  pf  flesh  and  blood,”  answered the  ancient.  "It  is  not  against  men  I must shield  you.  There  are  dark  worlds  bamly guessed  by  man,  wherein  formless  monsters stalk — fiends  which  may  he  drawn


WEIRD  TALES

from  the  Outer  Voids  to  take  material shape  and  rend  and  devour  at  the  bidding of  evil  magicians.  There  is  a serpent  in your  house,  oh  king — an  adder  in  your kingdom,  come  up  from  Stygia,  with  the dark  wisdom  of  the  shadows  in  his murky  soul.  As  a sleeping  man  dreams of  the  serpent  which  crawls  near  him,  I have  felt  the  foul  presence  of  Set’s  neophyte. He  is  drunk  with  terrible  power, and  the  blows  he  strikes  at  his  enemy  may well  bring  down  the  kingdom.  I have called  you  to  me,  to  give  you  a weapon against  him  and  his  hell-hound  pack.”

"But  why?”  bewilderedly  asked  Conan. "Men  say  you  sleep  in  the  black  heart  of Golamira,  whence  you  send  forth  your ghost  on  unseen  wings  to  aid  Aquilonia in  times  of  need,  but  I — I am  an  outlander  and  a barbarian.”

"Peace!”  the  ghostly  tones  reverberated through  the  great  shadowy  cavern. "Your  destiny  is  one  with  Aquilonia. Gigantic  happenings  are  forming  in  the web  and  the  womb  of  Fate,  and  a bloodmad  sorcerer  shall  not  stand  in  the  path of  imperial  destiny.  Ages  ago  Set  coiled about  the  world  like  a python  about  its prey.  All  my  life,  which  was  as  the  lives of  three  common  men,  I fought  him.  I drove  him  into  the  shadows  of  the  mysterious south,  but  in  dark  Stygia  men  still worship  him  who  to  us  is  the  arch-demon. As  I fought  Set,  I fight  his  worshippers and  his  votaries  and  his  acolytes.  Hold out  your  sword.”

Wondering,  Conan  did  so,  and  on  the great  blade,  close  to  the  heavy  silver guard,  the  ancient  traced  with  a bony  finger a strange  symbol  that  glowed  like white  fire  in  the  shadows.  And  on  the instant  crypt,  tomb  and  ancient  vanished, and  Conan,  bewildered,  sprang  from  his couch  in  the  great  golden-domed  chamber. And  as  he  stood,  bewildered  at  the strangeness  of  his  dream,  he  realized  that

he  was  gripping  his  sword  in  his  hand. And  his  hair  prickled  at  the  nape  of  his neck,  for  on  the  broad  blade  was  carven a symbol — the  outline  of  a phoenix.  And he  remembered  that  on  the  tomb  in  the crypt  he  had  seen  what  he  had  thought to  be  a similar  figure,  carven  of  stone. Now  he  wondered  if  it  had  been  but  a stone  figure,  and  his  skin  crawled  at  the strangeness  of  it  all.

Then  as  he  stood,  a stealthy  sound  in the  corridor  outside  brought  him  to  life, and  without  stopping  to  investigate,  he began  to  don  his  armor;  again  he  was  the barbarian,  suspicious  and  alert  as  a gray wolf  at  bay.


What  do  I know  of  cultured  ways,  the  gilt,  the craft  and  the  lie?

I,  who  was  born  in  a naked  land  and  bred  in the  open  sky.

The  subtle  tongue,  the  sophist  guile,  they  fail when  the  broadswords  sing;

Kush  in  and  die,  dogs — I was  a man  before  I was  a king.

— The  Road  of  Kings.

Through  the  silence  which  shrouded the  corridor  of  the  royal  palace  stole twenty  furtive  figures.  Their  stealthy feet,  bare  or  cased  in  soft  leather,  made no  sound  either  on  thick  carpet  or  bare marble  tile.  The  torches  which  stood  in niches  along  the  halls  gleamed  red  on dagger,  sword  and  keen-edged  ax.

"Easy  all!”  hissed  Ascalante.  "Stop that  cursed  loud  breathing,  whoever  it  is! The  officer  of  the  night-guard  has  removed most  of  the  sentries  from  these halls  and  made  the  rest  drunk,  but  we must  be  careful,  just  the  same.  Back! Here  come  the  guard!”

'They  crowded  back  behind  a cluster  of carven  pillars,  and  almost  immediately ten  giants  in  black  armor  swung  by  at  a measured  pace.  Their  faces  showed  doubt as  they  glanced  at  the  officer  who  was leading  them  away  from  their  post  of

THE  PHOENIX  ON  THE  SWORD


duty.  This  officer  was  rather  pale;  as  the guard  passed  the  hiding-places  of  the conspirators,  he  was  seen  to  wipe  the sweat  from  his  brow  with  a shaky  hand. He  was  young,  and  this  betrayal  of  a king did  not  come  easy  to  him.  He  mentally cursed  the  vain-glorious  extravagance which  had  put  him  in  debt  to  the  moneylenders and  made  him  a pawn  of  scheming politicians.

The  guardsmen  clanked  by  and  disappeared up  the  corridor.

"Good!”  grinned  Ascalante.  "Conan sleeps  unguarded.  Haste!  If  they  catch us  killing  him,  we’re  undone — but  few men  will  espouse  the  cause  of  a dead king.’

"Aye,  haste!”  cried  Rinaldo,  his  blue eyes  matching  the  gleam  of  the  sword  he swung  above  his  head.  "My  blade  is thirsty!  I hear  the  gathering  of  the  vultures! On!”

They  hurried  down  the  corridor  with reckless  speed  and  stopped  before  a gilded door  which  bore  the  royal  dragon  symbol of  Aquilonia.

"Gromel!”  snapped  Ascalante.  "Break me  this  door  open!”

The  giant  drew  a deep  breath  and launched  his  mighty  frame  against  the panels,  which  groaned  and  bent  at  the impact.  Again  he  crouched  and  plunged. With  a snapping  of  bolts  and  a rending crash  of  wood,  the  door  splintered  and burst  inward.

"In!”  roared  Ascalante,  on  fire  with the  spirit  of  the  deed.

"In!”  yelled  Rinaldo.  "Death  to  the tyrant!”

They  stopped  short.  Ccwian  faced them,  not  a naked  man  roused  mazed  and unarmed  out  of  deep  sleep  to  be  butchered like  a sheep,  but  a barbarian  wideawake and  at  bay,  partly  armored,  and with  his  long  sword  in  his  hand.

For  an  instant  the  tableau  held — the four  rebel  noblemen  in  the  broken door,  and  the  horde  of  wild  hairy  faces crowding  behind  them — all  held  momentarily frozen  by  the  sight  of  the  blazingeyed giant  standing  sword  in  hand  in  the middle  of  the  candle-lighted  chamber.  In that  instant  Ascalante  beheld,  on  a small table  near  the  royal  couch,  the  silver  scepter and  the  slender  gold  circlet  which  was the  crown  of  Aquilonia,  and  the  sight maddened  him  with  desire.

"In,  rogues!”  yelled  the  outlaw.  "He is  one  to  twenty  and  he  has  no  helmet!”

True;  there  had  been  lack  of  time  to don  the  heavy  plumed  casque,  or  to  lace in  place  the  side-plates  of  the  cuirass,  nor was  there  now  time  to  snatch  the  great shield  from  the  wall.  Still,  Conan  was better  protected  than  any  of  his  foes  except Volmana  and  Gromel,  who  were  in full  armor.

The  king  glared,  puzzled  as  to  their identity.  Ascalante  he  did  not  know;  he could  not  see  through  the  closed  vizors  of the  armored  conspirators,  and  Rinaldo had  pulled  his  slouch  cap  down  above  his eyes.  But  there  was  no  time  for  surmise. With  a yell  that  rang  to  the  roof,  the killers  flooded  into  the  room,  Gromel first.  He  came  like  a diarging  bull,  head down,  sword  low  for  (he  disembowelling thrust.  Conan  sprang  to  meet  him,  and all  his  tigerish  strength  went  into  the  arm that  swung  the  sword.  In  a whistling  arc the  great  blade  flashed  through  the  air and  crashed  on  the  Bossonian’s  helmet. Blade  and  casque  shivered  together  and Gromel  rolled  lifeless  on  the  floor.  Conan bounded  back,  still  gripping  the  broken hilt.

"Gromel!”  he  spat,  his  eyes  blazing  in amazement,  as  the  shattered  helmet  disclosed the  shattered  head;  then  the  rest  of the  pack  were  upon  him.  A dagger  point raked  along  his  ribs  between  breastplate

78Q

WEIRD  TALES

and  backplate,  a sword-edge  flashed  before his  eyes.  He  flung  aside  the  daggerwielder  with  his  left  arm,  and  smashed his  broken  hilt  like  a cestus  into  the swordsman’s  temple.  The  man’s  brains spattered  in  his  face.

"Watch  the  door,  five  of  you!’’ screamed  Ascalante,  dancing  about  the edge  of  the  singing  steel  whirlpool,  for he  feared  that  Conan  might  smash through  their  midst  and  escape.  The rogues  drew  back  momentarily,  as  their leader  seized  several  and  thrust  them  toward the  single  door,  and  in  that  brief respite  Conan  leaped  to  the  wall  and  tore therefrom  an  ancient  battle-ax  which,  untouched by  time,  had  hung  there  for  half a century.

With  his  back  to  the  wall  he  faced  the closing  ring  for  a flashing  instant,  then leaped  into  the  thick  of  them.  He  was  no defensive  fighter;  even  in  the  teeth  of overwhelming  odds  he  always  carried  the war  to  the  enemy.  Any  other  man  would have  already  died  there,  and  Conan  himself did  not  hope  to  survive,  but  he  did ferociously  wish  to  inflict  as  much  damage as  he  could  before  he  fell.  His  barbaric soul  was  ablaze,  and  the  chants  of  old heroes  were  singing  in  his  ears.

As  he  sprang  from  the  wall  his  ax dropped  an  outlaw  with  a severed  shoulder, and  the  terrible  back-hand  return crushed  the  skull  of  another.  Swords whined  venomously  about  him,  but  death passed  him  by  breathless  margins.  The Cimmerian  moved  in  a blur  of  blinding speed.  He  was  like  a tiger  among baboons  as  he  leaped,  side-stepped  and spun,  offering  an  ever-moving  target, while  his  ax  wove  a shining  wheel  of death  about  him.

For  a brief  space  the  assassins  crowded him  fiercely,  raining  blows  blindly  and hampered  by  their  own  numbers;  then they  gave  back  suddenly — two  corpses

on  the  floor  gave  mute  evidence  of  the king’s  fury,  though  Conan  himself  was bleeding  from  wounds  on  arm,  neck  and legs.

"Knaves!”  screamed  Rinaldo,  dashing off  his  feathered  cap,  his  wild  eyes  glaring. "Do  ye  shrink  from  the  combat? Shall  the  despot  live?  Out  on  it!”

He  rushed  in,  hacking  madly,  but Conan,  recognizing  him,  shattered  his sword  with  a short  terrific  chop  and  with a powerful  push  of  his  open  hand  sent him  reeling  to  the  floor.  The  king  took Ascalante’s  point  in  his  left  arm,  and  the outlaw  barely  saved  his  life  hy  ducking and  springing  backward  from  the  swinging ax.  Again  the  wolves  swirled  in  and Conan’s  ax  sang  and  crushed.  A hairy rascal  stooped  beneath  its  stroke  and dived  at  the  king’s  legs,  but  after  wrestling for  a brief  instant  at  what  seemed a solid  iron  tower,  glanced  up  in  time  to see  the  ax  falling,  but  not  in  time  to avoid  it.  In  the  interim  one  of  his  comrades lifted  a broadsword  with  both  hands and  hewed  through  the  king’s  left  shoulder-plate, wounding  the  shoulder  beneath. In  an  instant  Conan’s  cuirass  was full  of  blood.

Volmana,  flinging  the  attackers  right and  left  in  his  savage  impatience,  came plowing  through  and  hacked  murderously at  Conan’s  unprotected  head.  The  king ducked  deeply  and  the  sword  shaved  off a lock  of  his  black  hair  as  it  whistled  above him.  Conan  pivoted  on  his  heel  and struck  in  from  the  side.  The  ax  crunched through  the  steel  cuirass  and  Volmana crumpled  with  his  whole  left  side  caved in.

"Volmana!”  gasped  Conan  breathlessly. "I’ll  know  that  dwarf  in  Hell ”

He  straightened  to  meet  the  maddened rush  of  Rinaldo,  who  charged  in  wild and  wide  open,  armed  only  with  a dagger. Conan  leaped  back,  lifting  his  ax.

THE  PHOENIX  ON  THE  SWORD

781!

"Rinaldo!”  his  voice  was  strident  with desperate  urgency.  "Back!  I would  not slay  you ”

"Die,  tyrant!”  screamed  the  mad  minstrel, hurling  himself  headlong  on  the king.  Conan  delayed  the  blow  he  was loth  to  deliver,  until  it  was  too  late. Only  when  he  felt  the  bite  of  the  steel  in his  unprotected  side  did  he  strike,  in  a frenzy  of  blind  desperation.

Rinaldo  dropped  with  his  skull  shattered, and  Conan  reeled  back  against  tlie wall,  blood  spurting  from  between  the fingers  which  gripped  his  woimd.

"In,  now,  and  slay  him!”  yelled  Ascalante.

Conan  put  his  back  against  the  wall and  lifted  his  ax.  He  stood  like  an  image of  the  unconquerable  primordial — legs braced  far  apart,  head  thrust  forward,  one hand  clutching  the  wall  for  support,  the other  gripping  the  ax  on  high,  with  the great  corded  muscles  standing  out  in  iron ridges,  and  his  features  frozen  in  a death snarl  of  fury — his  eyes  blazing  terribly through  the  mist  of  blood  which  veiled them.  The  men  faltered — wild,  criminal and  dissolute  though  they  were,  yet  they came  of  a breed  men  called  civilized, with  a civilized  background;  here  was  the barbarian  — the  natural  killer.  They shrank  back — the  dying  tiger  could  still deal  death.

Conan  sensed  their  uncertainty  and grinned  mirthlessly  and  ferociously.

"Who  dies  first?”  he  mumbled  through smashed  and  bloody  lips.

Ascalante  leaped  like  a wolf,  halted almost  in  midair  with  incredible  quickness and  fell  prostrate  to  avoid  the  death which  was  hissing  toward  him.  He  frantically whirled  his  feet  out  of  the  way and  rolled  clear  as  Conan  recovered  from his  missed  blow  and  struck  again.  This time  the  ax  sank  inches  deep  into  the  polished floor  close  to  Ascalante’s  revolving legs.

Another  misguided  desperado  chose this  instant  to  charge,  followed  halfheartedly by  his  fellows.  He  intended killing  Conan  before  the  Cimmerian could  wrench  his  ax  from  the  floor,  but his  judgment  was  faulty.  The  red  ax lurched  up  and  crashed  down  and  a crimson caricature  of  a man  catapulted  back against  the  legs  of  the  attackers.

At  that  instant  a fearful  scream  burst - from  the  rogues  at  the  door  as  a black  misshapen  shadow  fell  across  the wall.  All  but  Ascalante  wheeled  at  that cry,  and  then,  howling  like  dogs,  they burst  blindly  through  the  door  in  a raving, blaspheming  mob,  and  scattered through  the  corridors  in  screaming  flight.

Ascalante  did  not  look  toward  the door;  he  had  eyes  only  for  the  wounded king.  He  supposed  that  the  noise  of  the fray  had  at  last  roused  the  palace,  and that  the  loyal  guards  were  upon  him, though  even  in  that  moment  it  seemed strange  that  his  hardened  rogues  should scream  so  terribly  in  their  flight.  Conan did  not  look  toward  the  door  because  he was  watching  the  outlaw  with  the  burning eyes  of  a dying  wolf.  In  this  extremity Ascalante’s  cynical  philosophy  did  not desert  him.

"All  seems  to  be  lost,  particularly honor,”  he  murmured.  "However,  the

king  is  dying  on  his  feet — and ”

Whatever  other  cogitation  might  have passed  through  his  mind  is  not  to  be known;  for,  leaving  the  sentence  uncompleted, he  ran  lightly  at  Conan  just  as  the Cimmerian  was  perforce  employing  his ax-arm  to  wipe  the  blood  from  his  blinded eyes.

But  even  as  he  began  his  charge,  there was  a strange  rushing  in  the  air  and  a heavy  weight  struck  terrifically  between


WEIRD  TALES

ks  shouldefs.  He  was  dashed  headktQg and  great  talons  sank  agonizingly  in  his flesh.  Writhing  desperately  beneath  his attacker,  he  twisted  his  head  about  and stared  into  the  face  cf  Nightmare  and kmacy.  Upon  him  crouched  a great  black thing  which  he  knew  was  born  in  no  sane ei  human  world.  Its  slavering  black fangs  were  near  his  throat  and  the  glare of  its  yellow  eyes  shrivelled  his  limbs  as a killing  wind  shrivels  young  com.

The  hideousness  of  its  face  transcended mere  bestiality.  It  might  have  been  the face  of  an  ancient,  evil  mummy,  quickened with  demoniac  life.  In  those  abhori::^t  features  the  outlaw’s  dilated  eyes seemed  to  see,  like  a shadow  in  the  madth^  enveloped  him,  a faint  and  terresemblance  to  the  slave  ThothAaaon.  Then  Ascalarite’s  cynical  and  allsu&cient  philosophy  deserted  him,  and with  a ghastly  cry  he  gave  up  the  ghost before  those  slavering  fangs  touched  him.

Conan,  shaking  the  blood-drops  from his  eyes,  stared  frozen.  At  first  he  thought it  was  a great  black  hound  which  stood above  Ascalante’s  distorted  body;  then  as bis  sight  cleared  he  saw  that  it  was  neither a hound  nor  a baboon.

With  a cry  that  was  like  an  echo  of Ascalante’s  death-shriek,  he  reeled  away from  the  wall  and  met  the  leaping  horror with  a cast  of  his  ax  that  had  behind  it all  tire  desperate  power  of  his  electrified serves.  'The  flying  weapon  glanced  singing from  the  slanting  skull  it  should  have crushed,  and  the  king  was  hurled  halfway across  the  chamber  by  the  impact  of the  giant  body.

Tbe  slavering  jaws  closed  on  the  arm Conan  flung  up  to  guard  his  throat,  but the  monster  made  no  effort  to  secure  a death-grip.  Over  his  mangled  arm  it glared  fiendishly  into  the  king’s  eyes,  in whkh  there  began  to  be  mirrored  a likeness the  horror  which  stared  from  the

dead  eyes  of  Ascaiante.  Conan  felt  his soul  shrivel  and  begin  to  be  drawn  out  of his  body,  to  drown  in  the  yellow  wells  of cosmic  horror  which  glimmered  spectrally in  the  formless  chaos  that  was  growing about  him  and  engulfing  all  life  and  sanity. Those  eyes  grew  and  became  gigantic, and  in  them  the  Cimmerian  glimpsed the  reality  of  all  the  abysmal  and  blasphemous horrors  that  lurk  in  the  outer darkness  of  formle.ss  voids  and  nighted gulfs.  He  opened  his  bloody  lips  to shriek  his  hate  and  loathing,  but  only  a dry  rattle  burst  from  his  throat.

But  the  horror  that  paralyzed  and  destroyed Ascaiante  roused  in  the  Cimmerian a frenzied  fury  akin  to  madness. With  a volcanic  wrench  of  his  whole body  he  plunged  backward,  heedless  of the  agony  of  his  tom  arm,  dragging  the monster  bodily  with  him.  And  his  outflung  hand  stmek  somethii|g  his  dazed fighting-brain  recognized  as  the  hilt his  broken  sword.  Instinctively  he gripped  it  and  stmek  with  all  the  power of  nerve  and  thew,  as  a man  stabs  with a dagger.  The  broken  blade  sank  deqj and  Conan’s  arm  was  released  as  the  a!> horrent  mouth  gaped  as  in  agony.  'ITie king  was  hurled  violently  aside,  and  lifting himself  on  one  hand  he  saw,  as  one mazed,  the  terrible  convulsions  of  the monster  from  which  thick  blood  was gushing  through  the  great  wound  his broken  blade  had  torn.  And  as  he watched,  its  stmggles  ceased  and  it  lay jerking  spasmodically,  staring  upward with  its  grisly  dead  eyes.  Conan  blinked and  shook  the  blood  from  his  own  eyes; it  seemed  to  him  that  the  thing  was  melting and  disintegrating  into  a slimy  unstable mass.

Then  a medley  -of  voices  reached  his ears,  and  the  room  was  thronged  with  the finally  roused  people  of  the  court — knights,  peers,  ladies,  men-jdi-anns,  oounTHE  PHOENIX  ON  THE  SWORD


cillors — all  babbling  and  shouting  and getting  in  one  another’s  way.  'The  Black Dragons  were  on  hand,  wild  with  rage, swearing  and  ruffling,  with  their  hands on  their  hilts  and  foreign  oaths  in  their teeth.  Of  the  young  officer  of  the  doorguard  nothing  was  seen,  nor  was  he found  then  or  later,  though  earnestly sought  after.

**^^romel!  Volmana!  Rinaldo!”  exvJ  claimed  Publius,  the  high  councillor, wringing  his  fat  hands  among  the corpses.  "Black  treachery!  Some  one shall  dance  for  this!  Call  the  guard.”

"The  guard  is  here,  you  old  fool!” cavalierly  snapped  Pallantides,  commander of  the  Black  Dragons,  forgetting Publius’  rank  in  the  stress  of  the  moment. "Best  stop  your  caterwauling  and  aid  us to  bind  the  king’s  wounds.  He’s  like  to bleed  to  death.”

"Yes,  yes!”  cried  Publius,  who  was  a man  of  plans  rather  than  action.  "We must  bind  his  wounds.  Send  for  every leech  of  the  court!  Oh,  my  lord,  what  a black  shame  on  the  city!  Are  you  entirely slain?”

"Wine!”  gasped  the  king  from  the couch  where  they  had  laid  him.  They  put a goblet  to  his  bloody  lips  and  he  drank like  a man  half  dead  of  thirst.

"Good!”  he  grunted,  falling  back. "Slaying  is  cursed  dry  work.”

They  had  stanched  the  flow  of  blood, and  the  innate  vitality  of  the  barbarian was  asserting  itself.

"See  first  to  the  dagger-wound  in  my side,”  he  bade  the  court  physicians.  "Rinaldo wrote  me  a deathly  song  there,  and keen  was  the  stylus.”

"We  should  have  hanged  him  long ago,”  gibbered  Publius.  "No  good  can come  of  poets — who  is  this?”

He  nervously  touched  Ascalante’s  body with  his  sandalled  toe.

"By  Mitra!”  ejaculated  the  commander. "It  is  Ascalante,  once  count  of  Thime! What  devil’s  work  brought  him  up  from his  desert  haunts?”

"But  why  does  he  stare  so?”  whispered Publius,  drawing  away,  his  own eyes  wide  and  a peculiar  prickling  among the  short  hairs  at  the  back  of  his  fat  neck. The  others  fell  silent  as  they  gazed  at  the dead  outlaw.

"Had  you  seen  what  he  and  I saw,” growled  the  king,  sitting  up  despite  the protests  of  the  leeches,  "you  had  not  wondered. Blast  your  own  gaze  by  looking

at ” He  stopped  short,  his  mouth

gaping,  his  finger  pointing  fruitlessly. Where  the  monster  had  died,  only  the bare  floor  met  his  eyes.

"Crom!”  he  swore.  '"The  thing’s melted  back  into  the  foulness  which  bore it!”

"The  king  is  delirious,”  whispered  a noble.  Conan  heard  and  swore  with  barbaric oaths.

"By  Badb,  Morrigan,  Macha  and  Nemain!”  he  concluded  wrathfully.  "I  am sane!  It  was  like  a cross  between  a Stygian mummy  and  a baboon.  It  came through  the  door,  and  Ascalante’s  rogues fled  before  it.  It  slew  Ascalante,  who was  about  to  run  me  through.  'Then  it came  upon  me  and  I slew  it — how  I know not,  for  my  ax  glanced  from  it  as  from a rock.  But  I think  that  the  Sage  Epemitreus  had  a hand  in  it ”

"Hark  how  he  names  Epemitreus,  dead for  fifteen  hundred  years!”  they  whispered to  each  other.

"By  Ymir!”  thundered  the  king.  "This night  I talked  with  Epemitreus!  He called  to  me  in  my  dreams,  and  I walked down  a black  stone  corridor  carved  with old  gods,  to  a stone  stair  on  the  steps  of which  were  the  outlines  of  Set,  until  I came  to  a crypt,  and  a tomb  with  a phoenix  carved  on  it ”

i784

WEIRD  TALES

"In  Mitra’s  name,  lord  king,  be  silent!’’ It  was  the  high-priest  of  Mitra  who  cried ont,  and  his  countenance  was  ashen.

Conan  threw  up  his  head  like  a lion tossing  back  its  mane,  and  his  voice  was thidc  with  the  growl  of  the  angry  lion.

"Am  I a slave,  to  shut  my  mouth  at your  command?’’

"Nay,  nay,  my  lord!”  The  high-priest was  trembling,  but  not  through  fear  of the  royal  wrath.  "I  meant  no  offense.” He  bent  his  head  close  to  the  king  and spoke  in  a whisper  that  carried  only  to Conan’s  ears.

"My  lord,  this  is  a matter  beyond human  understanding.  Only  the  inner cirde  of  the  priestcraft  know  of  the  black stone  corridor  carved  in  the  black  heart of  Mount  Golamira,  by  unknown  hands, ©f  of  the  phoenix-guarded  tomb  where Epemitreus  was  laid  to  rest  fifteen  hundred years  ago.  And  since  that  time  no living  man  has  entered  it,  for  his  chosen priests,  after  placing  the  Sage  in  the crjpt,  blocked  up  the  outer  entrance  of the  corridor  so  that  no  man  could  find  it, and  today  not  even  the  high-priests  know vrhere  it  is.  Only  by  word  of  mouth, handed  down  by  the  high-priests  to  the chosen  few,  and  jealously  guarded,  does the  inner  drcle  of  Mitra’s  acolytes  know of  tie  resting-place  of  Epemitreus  in  the black  heart  of  Golamira.  It  is  one  of  the Hysterics,  on  which  Mitra’s  cult  stands.”

"I  can  not  say  by  what  magic  Epemitreus brought  me  to  him,"  answered QooSm.  "But  I talked  with  him,  and  he naede  a mark  on  my  sword.  Why  that

mark  made  it  deadly  to  demons,  or  Tsdiat magic  lay  behind  the  mark,  I know  not; but  though  the  blade  broke  on  Gromel’s helmet,  yet  the  fragment  was  long  enough to  kill  the  horror.”

"Let  me  see  your  sword,”  whispered the  high-priest  from  a throat  gone  suddenly dry.

Conan  held  out  the  broken  weapon and  the  high-priest  cried  out  and  fell  to his  knees.

"Mitra  guard  us  against  the  powers  of darkness!”  he  gasped.  "The  king  has  indeed talked  with  Epemitreus  this  night! There  on  the  sword — it  is  the  secret  sign none  might  make  but  him — the  emblem of  the  immortal  phoenix  which  broods  for ever  over  his  tomb!  A candle,  quick] Look  again  at  the  spot  where  the  king said  the  goblin  died!”

It  lay  in  the  shade  of  a broken  screen. They  threw  the  screen  aside  and  bathed the  floor  in  a flood  of  candle-li^t.  And a shuddering  silence  fell  over  the  people as  they  looked.  Then  some  fell  on  their knees  calling  on  Mitra,  and  some  fled screaming  from  the  chamber.

There  on  the  floor  where  the  monster had  died,  there  lay,  like  a tangible shadow,  a broad  dark  stain  that  could  not be  washed  out;  the  thing  had  left  its  outline clearly  etched  in  its  blood,  and  that outline  was  of  no  being  of  a sane  and normal  world.  Grim  and  horrific  it brooded  there,  like  the  shadow  cast  by one  of  the  apish  gods  that  squat  on  the shadowy  altars  of  dim  temples  ia  die  dark land  of  Stygia.

W.T.-

and  the  Dead

By  VINCENT  STARRETT

An  ironic  yet  intensely  human  story  of  a grief-stricken  poet,  and  a body  that  moved  in  its  cofin

100KING  with  melancholy  satisfaction upon  his  reflected  image  in ^ the  glass,  Louis  Lacenaire  completely realized  that  seldom  had  he  appeared to  greater  advantage.  As  for  the last  time  he  imperceptibly  adjusted  the knot  of  his  gray  silk  cravat,  with  its  single line  of  horizontal  black,  he  thought  with a pang  how  happy  his  dear  Louise  would have  been  to  sec  him  as  he  looked  upon this  morning  of  her  funeral.  Then  with W.  T.— 5

a little  sigh  he  turned  to  the  door  and  ran lightly  down  the  stairs.

At  the  cemetery,  as  the  clods  of  earth thudded  with  solemn  import  upon  die coffin,  he  grasped  the  arm  of  his  companion and  whispered,  "I  can  not  bear it!”

"I  know,  I know,”  murmured  Hypolite  Allard,  and  together  they  left  the burying-ground.

'ITie  sun  shone  brilliantly  above  the



WEIRD  TALES

roofs  of  Paris  in  the  distance;  in  the suburbs  the  dust  of  puffballs  filled  the air.  But  sadly  the  two  friends  trod  the pavements,  thinking  of  her  whom  they had  left  behind.  Incomparable  Louise!

"My  dear  friend,  how  you  must  suffer!” said  Hypolite  Allard.  "My  heart bleeds  with  your  own.  She  was  so  exquisite and  dear.”

"There  was  none  like  her  in  the world,”  cried  Lacenaire,  despairingly.  "I could  not  stay  until  the  end,  Hypolite. You  do  not  blame  me.?”

"Blame  you,  my  dear  Louis?  I marvel at  the  restraint  that  held  you  until  it  did.”

The  bereaved  lover  pressed  his  companion’s arm.  "For  a time  I was  dazed,” he  explained.  "I  experienced  that  dim sensation  of  looking  on,  disembodied — you  understand? — at  what  had  gone  beyond my  power  to  suffer.  Then,  suddenly, something  snapped  within  me;  it seemed  that  a veil  was  snatched  from  my eyes,  so  that  I saw  clearly  the  desecration that  was  going  forward.  That  lovely body  that  was  being  laid  away  in  the earth!  Those  dreadful  clods!  You  understand?”

"Perfectly,  my  friend.  It  was  indeed terrible.  Those  clods  fell  also  upon  my own  heart.  They  were  like  the  beats  of  a dreadful  drum.  But  you  must  not  distress yourself  too  greatly  or  too  long.  It  is  not fair  to  yourself,  Louis.  I grieve  to  see  you so  broken  by  this  sorrow.  And  there  is still  your  work!”

"My  work!”  gestured  the  poet.  "It will  never  be  the  same,”  he  added  with determined  pessimism.  "It  was  for  her  I wrote  my  finest  sonnets.  Her  inspiration was  in  my  greatest  lines.  'The  monster Death  that  cuckolds  lovers  all!'  You  remember, Hypolite,  how  happy  I was  the day  I wrote  that  final  line?  How  could  I know  that  it  was  prophetic!  Yesterday, Hypolite,  I went  to  her  rooms.  The  dear

little  Claire  was  still  there,  in  charge;  yet everything  was  different.  The  furniture seemed  to  have  been  moved  about;  I felt that  I was  in  a different  place.  It  was  like an  apartment  arranged  for  guests.  You know?  The  little  Claire  was  kind  and sympathetic,  but  my  dear  Louise  was gone.  I knew  that  she  would  never  be there  again.”

His  companion  nodded.  "I  know  the emotion,”  he  said.  "I  felt  it  once  in  my own  place.  It  had  been  changed  about for  an  amateur  rehearsal.  Dubronet  was there.  You  remember  him?  He  had  been cast  as  a musketeer.  He  looked  like  a wax-works  D’Artagnan.  Marie  was  mad about  him.  But  the  little  Claire  is  always kind  and  sympathetic.  How  she,  too, must  miss  our  dear  Louise!”

"She  was  so  exquisitely  simple  in  her white  frock,”  said  Lacenaire.  "She  had refused  to  go  into  mourning.  Louise would  not  have  liked  it,  she  said;  and  it was  true.  There  were  tears  in  her  eyes as  she  embraced  me.  Her  sympathy  was very  comforting.”

"She  is  very  sweet  and  good,”  agreed Hypolite  Allard,  understandingly.  "May it  not  be,  Louis,  that  through  her  association with  your  Louise,  she  is  the  one  to ease  the  wound  that  you  have  suffered?”

But  Louis  Lacenaire  smiled  wanly  and shook  his  head.

"It  can  never  be  assuaged,”  he  answered bravely.  "It  was  an  affectionate thought,  Hypolite,  my  friend,  but  do  not think  of  it  again,  I beg  of  you.  There can  never  be  another  to  take  the  place  that Louise  has  left  vacant.”

"I  understand,”  said  Hypolite  Allard, as  again  he  pressed  his  friend’s  arms.  "It shall  be  as  you  say.  Yet  I should  be happy  to  say  something  to  cheer  you, were  it  possible.  But  look,  Louis,  to  the left — between  the  treetops — where  the little  window  looks  out  beneath  the  gaTHE  QUICK  AND  THE  DEAD


bfes,  framed  in  Tines,  It  is  a picture  for an  artist.  There  is  the  very  essence  of romance  in  such  vignettes.  Do  you  not feel  it.^  What  may  not  those  bordering vines  conceal  from  us.^  A face  piquant and  charming  perhaps,  smiling  an  invitatioa.  One  looks  to  see  a white  arm  extended, and  slender  fingers  that  gently sway  a kerchief  or  a scarf.”

For  an  instant  the  poet  turned  and gazed,  then  shrugged  without  emotion.

"A  pretty  fancy,  Hypolite,”  he  conceded, "but  you  are  wrong.  Were  we  to approach  more  closely,  doubtless  we should  s^  the  charming  creature  who dwells  behind  your  vines.  I can  describe her  for  you  without  a glance.  She  is  fat and  horrible,  with  hair  like  the  bristles  of a pig.  Her  teeth  protrude,  and  her  ankles ate  so  thick  that  they  might  be  mistaken for  the  arms  of  trees.  Do  not  waste  your talents  upon  the  country,  my  friend.  The 3Bhijtc  arms  and  slender  fingers  have  long ago  fled  to  the  apartments  of  the  city.,” He  sighed  deeply  and,  swinging  his cane,  resizmed  his  sober  stride.

A brkjht-eyed  dog,  diminutive  and shaggy,  ran  out  of  a gateway  jb  they paused,  and  ai^roadied  squirming  happily in  obedience  to  the  poet’s  finger-snap. ‘'Good  fellow,”  said  Lacenaire,  with  redcless  disregard  of  the  animal’s  sex.  He stooped  to  fondle  its  head,  while  fihe ecstatic  puppy  wagged  joyously  ev^- thing  behind  its  ears.  "What  sorrows would  you  have  to  tell  us,  little  dog,  if you  could  talk?  See,  Hypolite,  how  happy a little  kindness  makes  him.  It  is  so  with us,  too.  Ah,  how  mudi  trouble  is  caused by  hardening  of  the  heart!  ”

"And  by  softening  of  the  brain,” added  Allard,  pulling  the  puppy’s  ears. "Have  you  heard,  Louis,  of  Chinette’s latest  madness?  She  has  had  her  dog’s ears  pierced  for  ear-rings.  There,  there, whJBt  a nice  puppy  it  is!”

"Atrodottsl”  said  the  poet,  rising  to his  feet  to  dust  his  knees,  "Louise  was kindness  itself  to  animals.  I do  not  yet fully  appreciate  what  I have  lost.  There can  never  be  another  like  her.”

"Never!”  agreed  Hypolite  Allard.  "For you,  Louis,  she  was  the  perfect  woman. She  was  unique.  Had  it  not  been  for your  wife ”

"I  should  have  manned  her!”  declared Lacenaire  with  conviction.  "We  were intended  for  each  other.  Yes,  even  marriage with  her  would  have  been  sweet and  tender.  Of  how  many  women  can that  be  said,  Hypolite?”

"Few  indeed,”  sighed  Hypolite  Allard. "It  is  as  you  say,  Louis.  She  was  a paragon of  women.  But  see,  we  approach  the city,  I trust  that  we  are  to.  lunch  together?”

The  poet  paused  aud  laid  bis  bands upon  the  shtmlders  of  bis  friend,  so  that they  looked  deeply  into  each  other’s  eyes. "No,  my  friend,”  he  said.  "I  thank  you, but  for  a time  I feel  that  I must  be  alone. You  will  not  misunderstand?  I have much  to  think  about.  Indeed,  I do  not feel  that  I could  eat.  There  is  something abhorrent  to  me  in  the  thought  of  food. Leave  me,  dear  friend,  now  diat  we  have readied  the  Boulevard.  Enjoy  your  own luncheon  greatly,  without  me.  I shall  see you  again.  I am  just  going  to  walk  and walk  and  walk,  thinking  always  of  my dear  Louise.”

"I  understand,”  said  Hypolite  Allard, answering  his  friend’s  affectionate  pressure. Smiling,  he  added:  "Be  careful, Louis,  that  your  walk  does  not  take  you toward  home!  The  little  ones  might  recognize you.”

"Villain!”  smiled  Louis  Lacenaire. "To  remind  me  of  that!  But  do  not  fear. I have  not  been  home  since  Louise  was taken  from  me.  I am  thought  to  be  walking, near  Tours,”


WEIRD  TALES

"Farewell,  then,  old  fellow,  and  take care  of  yourself.  I shall  worry  until  I see you  again.”

"Farewell,  Hypolite,”  said  the  poet sadly.  "Do  not  worry.  If  I am  for  ever bereaved,  I am  at  least  no  coward.  I shall do  nothing  terrible  and  final.  We  shall meet  again.  God  bless  you,  my  friend!”

They  embraced  and  parted.  Somewhere a clock  struck  twelve.  The  heat  of the  sun  had  become  oppressive.  A taxicab rattled  by,  bound  for  the  city.  Both turned  and  looked  after  it  wistfully. Then  both  waved  determined  farewells.

As  his  stride  lengthened,  Allard  drew a long  breath.  "Poor  Louis!”  he  muttered. "I  am  afraid  this  has  hit  him  pretty hard.  It  is  a loss,  of  course.  Such  a mistress as  Louise  is  not  to  be  found  in  every street.  But  he  is  too  overwhelmed.  It  is not  good  to  become  so  attached  to  a woman.  Ah,  these  faithful  lovers!  I should  have  thought  that  little  Claire ”

He  sighed  profoundly  and  decided  that the  wine  was  better  at  Pepin’s.

But  to  Lacenaire  it  seemed  that  the dark  ages  had  returned,  and  that  he  was groping  through  them  with  a tallow  candle. Nothing  now  could  avail  to  comfort him.  Well,  there  was,  of  course,  his work,  as  Allard  had  pointed  out.  That, at  least,  was  a debt  he  owed  to  the  world, and  it  would  be  paid.  But  it  could  not minimize  nor  dull  his  anguish.  Louise, Louise!  Critics  now  would  note  the change  that  had  occurred  in  his  verse. He  would  sing  his  sorrow  like  another Dante  to  another  Beatrice,  like  another Petrarch  to  another  Laura.  No  lady  had been  lovelier  than  his.  He  would  sit down  in  the  waters  of  calamity  and  smile bravely  at  fate.  In  all  the  world  there was  no  woman  left  for  him;  but  never Would  the  world  forget  the  woman  he had  loved  and  who  had  died.

He  strolled  aimlessly  onward  toward

the  bustle  of  the  city.  And  suddenly  he realized  that  he  was  himgry.  It  was  a shocking  situation.  It  was  alinost  a betrayal of  Louise.  He  supposed,  however, that  even  bereaved  lovers  could  not  deny the  functions  of  nature.  The  single  taxicab that  had  passed  him  seemed  to  have been  the  last  of  its  race.  A pretty  milliner's apprentice,  noting  the  restless  eyes and  pale  face,  presented  her  admirable teeth  for  his  inspection.  He  smiled  sorrowfully, pityingly,  and  passed  on.  Other persons  began  to  pass  him,  singly  and  in pairs.  Then  there  were  knots,  and  at length  the  throngs  of  the  city  engulfed him.  Attracted  by  his  immaculate  image in  the  shop  windows  that  he  passed,  he stopped  at  length  and  examined  his  features in  the  dim  mirror  that  offered.  Yes, he  was  suffering;  there  was  no  doubt about  it.  He  was  suffering  the  torments of  the  unshriven.  His  appearance  was more  than  haggard;  it  was  tragic.  Louise, Louise!

UNDER  the  trees  of  Montmartre  he  encountered a small  and  attractive  restaurant, with  the  tables  set  outdoors.  He captured  an  advantageous  chair  and  called for  the  bill  of  fare  and  pen  and  ink. While  he  waited,  he  looked  upward  at the  sky.  It  was  very  blue,  blue  as  a blue butterfly.  Like  a butterfly,  it  swam  in  and out  among  the  roofs  and  chimneys.  The streets  swam  in  the  sun.  And  yet  Louise was  dead.  His  little  sweetheart  was  dead. What  suffering!  And  yet — ^had  not  her death  enriched  him?  Arnl,  if  this  were true,  what  matter  how  he  suffered?

The  bill  of  fare,  when  it  arrived,  had been  reduced  by  expunging  pencil  marks to  a few  dishes,  rendered  doubly  uninviting by  this  distinction  of  survival,  but  he ordered  recklessly  and  managed  to  consume what  was  set  before  him  without discomfort.  An  idea  for  a sonnet  was

THE  QUICK  AND  THE  DEAD


growing  in  his  mind.  . . . When  we  are told  that  we  are  loved  for  our  bodies,  and not  for  our  minds,  he  thought,  we  need no  consolation,  for  we  are  delighted.  We feel  that  we  are  loved  for  ourselves.  But when  we  are  told  that  we  are  loved  for our  minds,  we  are  hurt,  for  we  understand that  we  are  loved  for  something that  is  extrinsic  and,  in  the  last  analysis, of  trivial  merit.

As  he  placed  the  point  of  his  pen against  the  paper,  a girl  passed  the  cafe who  looked  so  much  like  the  little  Claire that  he  was  startled.  But  Claire  was  miles away.  She  had  distinctly  told  him  that she  would  not  attend  the  funeral.  She did  not  like  funerals,  and  she  preferred to  remember  his  dear  Louise  as  she  had known  her  in  life.  What  happy  chance was  this  that  had  brought  the  little  Claire to  him  when  he  was  most  in  need  of  comfort?

Hastily  paying  his  bill,  he  stuffed  the imwritten  sonnet  into  his  pocket  and sallied  forth.  A rapid  walk  of  half  a block,  however,  convinced  him  of  his mistake.  The  little  blond  creature  was not  Claire  at  all,  but  merely  a charming child  who  resembled  Claire.  A delightful, fairy-like  little  trick,  as  sweet  and pure  as  his  own  Louise.  She  carried  a package  under  her  arm,  and  no  doubt had  been  out  upon  an  errand.  Probably she  lived  in  the  neighborhood,  not  far away.  Her  voice,  he  imagined,  was  like the  chime  of  a silver  bell:  Louise’s  very voice.  Dear  child,  she  was  herself  a poem, stirring  more  hearts  by  her  beauty  than ever  faltered  at  a sonnet.

But  what  was  this?  A tall  rufiSan  was sauntering  close  behind  her.  Perhaps  she was  in  danger  of  insult.  He  was  an  evillooking scoundrel  with  his  lopsided  smile. Disguised  as  a porter,  he  was  undoubtedly a villain  of  the  deepest  dye.

"I  shall  follow  her  a little  way,”  murmured Lacenaire,  sympathetically.  "She may  never  know  that  she  has  been  protected; but  if  she  should  have  need  of help,  it  will  be  well  that  I should  be  on hand.”

He  timed  his  own  saunter  to  the  stride of  the  desperado  who  looked  like  a porter, and  with  relief  saw  him  turn  off  at the  next  thoroughfare.  The  little  maid continued  straight  ahead,  without  a glance.  It  was  Lacenaire’s  own  way,  as  it happened.  Straight  ahead  is  ever  the brave  way  when  one  is  in  doubt.  He strolled  quietly  along  some  yards  behind, pleased  by  the  extraordinary  chance  that had  thrown  so  perfect  a poem  into  his path  upon  a day  so  fraught  with  gloom. The  turn  of  her  ankle  was  exquisite  and the  carriage  of  her  dainty  head  was  pert and  charming.  Her  scrubby  little  jacket and  unevenly  hung  skirt  might  have clothed  a princess;  her  hat  was  such  a hat as  a happy  woman  might  wear.

Once  as  she  paused  and  for  some  purpose removed  one  of  her  gloves,  the  poet noted,  as  often  he  had  noted  before,  the ravishing  effect  of  white  hands  coming swiftly  out  of  black  swathings.  Not  wishing to  frighten  her  by  his  proximity,  he paused  also  at  the  moment,  and  gravely adjusted  his  cuffs  before  a tobacconist’s doorstep.

Apparently  she  lived  in  the  Rue  Robert, which  would  be  astounding.  Dubronet,  himself,  none  other,  lived  in  the  Rue Robert.  Allard  had  even  mentioned  the man  upon  the  walk  from  the  cemetery. An  amazing  coincidence.  It  might  even be  that  she  .lived  in  Dubronet’s  own building.  How  laughable  if  she  should prove  to  be  his  sister!  Yes,  she  was  indeed turning  into  the  Rue  Robert.

TO  LACENAIRE  it  Seemed  that  all  the taxicabs  of  Paris  contrived  to  be present  at  that  moment,  and  to  rush  at him  from  every  direction  as  he  attempted


V5TIBD  TAJ^S

to  cross  tile. street.  A short  time  ago  there had  beeo  aone;  he  had  looJsed  for  one  ia vain.  Now  thg^  came  in  famUies!  One ted  one  he  sidestepped  by  ,aa  inch.  The little  maid  was  safely  across.  She  was vanishing.

"You  ifijCMiainable  insect!”  said  Lacenaire,  furiously.  "You  insufferable  tboad!”

Oaimiag  to  have  information  about the  poet's  mother,  -the  driver  cast  it  impartially abroad.  His  words  wcae  aumerous  and  bitter.

"You  mdcscribahle  blue  noun!” screamed  Laccnaire  from  the  -cudb.  "If only  I had  time  to  destroy  you!”

But  already  too  much  time  had  been wasted.  For  just  an  instant  the  little  maid had  been  .clearly  in  his  vision,  and  in  the nest  she  had  vanished.  Just  a flirt  of  the adorable  ankle  as  she  had  entered  a doorway; then  nothing.

"And  yet,”  fumed  lacenairc,  countermatcbii^  in  the  street,  "it  must  have  been one  of  two.  Jt  is  csertainly  either  No.  18 or  No,  20.  . - ..  Dubronet  is  at  22. Could  it  have  been  No,.  22?”

Well,  wellj  the  little  maid  was  now safely  within  daors,  and  aftar  all  what difference  did  it  make?  She  was  at  home, now,  and  happy,  as  was  right  and  proper. Now  that  Louise  was  gone,  v/hat  dwelling could  be  home  to  the  poet  Lacenaire? This  child  and  Dubronet  were  mere neighbors,  of  course.  Perhaps  they  had never  seen  each  other.  That  was  often the  way  of  things  in  the  city.

"At  any  rate,”  said  the  poet  Lacenaire, aloud,  "now  that  I am  here  I shall  lodk in  on  Dubronet.  It  is  tc»o  bad  that  we have  -never  exchanged  visits.  He  Is  an  excellent fellow.  Allard  is  prejudiced  because of  Marie.”

Dubronet,  he  reflected,  had  been  married three  times,  and  in  other  r^^xects had  firoved  himself  no  mere  .^eeJator  of

life.  He  would  be  able  to  sympathize with  his  friend’s  loss.  It  might  perhaps be  unwise  to  mention  the  little  maid  in the  neighboring  building;  there  was  no necessity  for  placing  her  in  peril  of  Dubronet’s  gallantries,  which  were  well known.  It  was  possible,  of«ccsirse,  that Dubxooct  would  himself  speak  of  her

"I  have  a strange  premonition  of  happiness,” murmured  Lacenaice,  "of  happiness touched  with  sorrow,  it  is  rarely that  one  sees  a child  so  innocent  and happy,  and  yet  so  attractive.  She  interest* me  de^ly.  It  is  hecause  she  reminds  rrw so  muda  ©f  ,my  dear  Louise.  How  odd that  I should  have  mistaken  her  for  little Qaire!  She  is  a great  deal  more  Wte Louise.  And  yet,  as  I think  eff  there was  much  in  Claire  and  ia  Louise was  alike."

He  entered  the  doorway  of  No,  22 and  viewed  witb  distaste  the  long dark  stairway  that  stretched  hefore  him. Dubron^  was  up  four  floors,  at  least; perhaps  five.  A ridiculous  precaiffien! With  a sigh  he  began  slowly  to  mount the  stairs,  but  at  the  first  landing  he stopped  to  listen.  There  was  some  one coming  down.  Perhaps  was  Dubronet himself,  Bert  no,  there  were  several  persons descending.  They  came  slowly,  and witli  a vast  puffing  and  -brushing  of  thek bodies  against  the  walls.  Lacenaire strained  his  eyes  upward  in  the  gloom  of the  staircase,  hut  the  l:«nd  of  the  flight above  intervened  to  ob^ruct  bis  view. Annoyed,  he  waited  on  his  landing  until they  were  close  at  hand.  Then,  startled, he  shrank  back  and  stared.

Three  men,  bulking  hugely  in  the  dim light,  were  rounding  the  turn,  carrying something  heaxy  between  them.  It  was a pine  coffin.  No  need  of  its  sinister  size and  shape  to  tell  him  that.  He  had sensed  it  at  ones.  The  foremost  pair  was

THE  QUICK  AND  THE  DEAD


descending  backward  with  heavy  breathing.

What  an  encounter!  Coming  directly from  the  cemetery,  where  he  had  buried his  beloved,  to  seek  sympathy  at  the  hands of  a friend,  now  to  be  so  rudely  reminded of  his  loss  on  this  dim  stairway!  Anger filled  him,  and  a sense  of  injury.  No other  time  could  have  been  cliosen  for this  removal;  they  must  wait  until  he  had entered  the  house  unwitting.  Some  stupid laborer  had  died,  and  now  he  was  to  be buried.

"Steady  there!”  called  the  foremost carriers  in  unison,  to  the  single  toiler  in the  rear.  "There  is  some  one  coming  up. Get  back  or  go  past  us,  can’t  you?”  added one  of  the  men,  peering  sharply  at  the poet  in  the  corner.

The  cortege  had  stopped.  The  first  pair had  brushed  by  and  the  other  man  had yet  to  pass.  The  coffin  lay  immediately beneath  the  eyes  of  the  bereaved  lover.

"Go  on,  you  idiots,”  he  said  indignantly. "Do  you  suppose  I want  to  sit down  on  it?”

Then  suddenly  something  stirred  in the  silence  that  caused  his  heart  for  a moment to  become  ice;  a sound  from  within the  coffin.

"My  God!”  said  Lacenaire,  in  a hollow voice.  "What  have  you  there?  It  is  moving!”

He  sprang  back  as  he  spoke,  his  eyes fixed  upon  the  box,  ready  for  flight.

"It  is  a young  girl,”  answered  the spokesman,  respectfully,  not  knowing with  whom  he  had  to  deal.  "She  is  dead of  heart-failure.  We  are  taking  her  to  the undertaker’s.”

"A  young  girl!”  cried  Lacenaire,  appalled. "But  she  is  not  dead!  I heard her  move — just  now — inside  the  box!”

'The  man  shrugged  and  took  a firmer hold  upon  his  burden.  "Be  sure  that  she is  quite  dead,”  he  answered,  good-humor*

edly.  "Otherwise,  we  should  not  be  taking her  away.  If  you  are  her  lover ”

"A  yoimg  girl!”  shrieked  Lacenaire. "You  dolts,  I tell  you  I heard  her  move inside  the  coffin.  I am  not  her  lover,  you fools!  I do  not  know  her.  You  are  burying her  alive!”  Angrily  he  concluded: "Do  you  think  I am  crazy?  I tell  you  she is  not  dead.  I order  you  to  take  her  back. Do  you  want  me  to  call  the  police?”

Grumbling,  the  men  began  a retreat before  this  determination.  "As  you  say, master,”  said  the  spokesman,  "but  it  is funny  that  we  heard  nothing.  She  has been  dead  for  hours.  Since  you  insist, you  shall  see  for  yourself.”

The  procession,  having  reversed  itself, moved  slowly  upward,  with  Lacenaire  a few  steps  behind.  Amazement  and  curiosity now  had  taken  the  place  of  indignation in  his  mind.

"Hurry,  you  snails,”  he  ordered  feverishly; and  instantly  asked,  "What  is  her name?  Where  does  she  live?  Where  are her  people?”

"Her  name  is  Chardon,”  answered  the man  who  had  spoken.  "She  lives  up  another floor,  where  v/e  found  her.  Her people,  we  were  told,  are  dead.  She  died suddenly,  this  morning.  A neighbor  told us  to  come  and  take  her  away.”

"Good  God!”  cried  the  poet,  reverently. "That  such  things  can  happen!  Was there  no  doctor  called?”

"I  am  sorry,  master,  but  I do  not know,”  answered  the  carrier.  "We  were told  that  her  furniture  would  pay  for  her burial.”

"Her  furniture!”  sobbed  Lacenaire. He  bounded  past  them  at  the  indicated number  and  flung  open  the  door.  It  was a front  room,  and  the  gay  siuilight  of early  afternoon  fell  outward  across  the sill  to  illumine  the  spectacle.

When  the  pine  boards  had  been wrenched  away,  they  looked  down  upon


WEIRD  TALES

the  body  of  the  girl  who  lay  within  the coffin.  She  was  young  and  slender,  and she  was  garbed  as  she  had  fallen,  in  a neat  house-dress  of  black  and  yellow. Her  face  was  thin  and  pale,  and  the  eyes were  dosed.  With  a cry  of  grief,  Lacenaire  snatched  a small  mirror  from  the wall  and  bent  down  to  hold  it  to  her mouth.

"Why,  she  is  beautiful!”  he  said,  passing the  glass  across  the  too-red  lips.  "It is  an  old  trick,  and  perhaps  it  will  not work;  but  it  is  all  I can  think  of.”

But  the  mirror  was  unnecessary,  for the  girl  was  definitely  stirring  in  her  coffin, waking  as  if  from  a long  sleep.

"You  must  get  a doctor  at  once,”  ordered the  poet,  happily.  "Run  quickly, one  of  you,  and  bring  back  the  nearest you  can  find.  This  girl  is  going  to  live!”

Stooping  to  the  coffin,  as  the  man  hurried off,  he  lifted  the  slender  body  in  his arms  and  carried  it  to  a sofa.  Then  very goitly  he  began  to  chafe  the  hands  and feet,  looking  eagerly  all  the  time  upon  the closed  eyelids,  awaiting  the  moment  when they  would  open  again.  . . , Would they  be  brown  or  blue,  he  wondered;  and what  could  be  her  name?  She  was  adorable!

The  doctor,  when  with  astonishing rapidity  he  had  been  located  and convoyed  to  the  scene,  was  more  successful in  his  ministrations,  and  so  it  happened that  when  die  eyes  first  opened  it was  upon  his  bearded  lips  that  they  gazed.

The  physician  was  enthusiastic.  "Fine! Fine!”  he  exclaimed,  jubilantly,  rubbing his  hands  together  in  an  ecstasy.  "One  of the  finest  cases  of  arrested  life  that  I have ever  seen.  My  dear  sir,  I can  not  thank you  heartily  enough  for  this  opportunity. This  case  will  make  my  reputation.”

"I  am  very  glad  to  hear  it,”  said  Lacenaire,  with  a little  bow  and  smile.  "I  am mjrself  happy  to  have  been  an  in^rument

in  so  agreeable  and  mccessfnl  a resurrection.”

"She  should  be  grateful  to  us  both,” chuckled  the  physician,  as  he  busied  himself about  the  stove.  "A  few  more  minutes and  she  would  have  failed  to  return. She  has  no  idea  yet  what  has  happened, but  we  shall  give  her  some  food,  and then  perhaps  she  will  sleep  for  a time.  I think  the  poor  child  must  have  been starving.  When  she  wakes  she  must  have more  food,  and  something  to  drink.  We must  get  somebody  to  stay  with  her — a nurse  perhaps,  since  there  is  no  family.”

"Pardon,"  smiled  Lacenaire,  with  a charming  gesture,  "but  it  is  my  intention to  stay  with  her,  myself.  Should  I need assistance,  I have  friends  in  the  building who  will  be  happy  to  render  it;  but  I am very  intelligent,  and  if  you  will  tell  me what  is  necessary,  it  will  be  sufficient.”

"Her  name,”  said  the  physician,  "appears to  be  Helene.  It  is  here  upon  this sofa  cover."

"A  sweet  name,”  said  the  poet.  "It was  my  sister’s  name.  She  died  of  a very rare  disease.  It  would  have  interested  you. This  child  is  very  like  her.  How  old would  you  guess  her  to  be?"

"Not  a day  above  nineteen.”

"It  was  my  sister’s  very  age!”

"You  must  be  kind  to  her,  of  course,” said  the  physician.  "With  your  permission, I shall  look  in  again  this  evening.”

"I  shall  be  more  than  kind,”  promised Lacenaire,  grasping  the  other’s  hand.

"Helene,”  he  murmured,  standing  beside the  sofa  when  the  doctor  had  gone away.  "There  is  something  in  you,  also, of  Claire  and  of  Louise.  It  is  that  which attracts  me  to  you.  You  are  adorable!”

“OHE  is  adorable,  Hypolite,”  he  told his  friend  Allard,  when  again  they met  "You  must  wait  untU  you  see  her, my  friend.  There  is  no  one  like  her  ia the  world!”

By  OTIS  ADELBERT  KLINE

'A  powerful  weird-scientific  story  by  a master  of  science-fiction — a swiftmoving  tale  of  piracy,  and  weird  monsters  on  another  planet

The  Story  Thus  Far

Robert  GRANDON,  young  Chicago clubman,  who  had  fought  his “■way  to  the  throne  of  Reabon, mightiest  empire  of  the  planet  Venus,  was about  to  leave  on  his  honeymoon  widi his  beautiful  young  bride,  Vemia,  Princess of  Reabon,  when  three  other  rulers. Ad  of  Tyrhana,  Aardvan  of  Adonijar, and  Zinlo  of  Olba,  arrived  in  one  of  the latter’s  swift  airships.

His  visitors  told  him  that  Ad’s  daughter, Narine,  had  been  captured  by  the Huitsenni,  a marauding,  buccaneering face  of  h^rless  yellow  beings  who  constantly harassed  the  shipping  and  coastal

cities  of  Venus,  and  whose  hidd«i  port, Huitsen,  had  never  been  discovered.

The  four  rulers  then  entered  into  a secret  alliance  against  Huitsen,  and  Grandon  and  Vernia  went  on  their  interrupted honeymoon  to  the  sea-coast.

Early  the  next  morning,  while  Grandon  was  fishing,  Vemia  was  carried  off  by the  Huitsenni,  and  her  guards  were  massacred. Grandon  pursued  the  pirate  fleet in  a small  sailing-vessel,  accompanied  by only  one  man,  Kantar  the  Gunner,  who was  an  expert  with  forks  and  mattorks, light  and  heavy  Venusian  machine-guns.

Under  cover  of  darkness,  Grandon  and Kantar  managed  to  board  the  enemy  flag793

This  story  begau  in  WEIRD  TALES  lor  November

i794

WEIRD  TALES

ship,  on  which  Vemia  had  been  carried off.  They  were  captured  and  imprisoned, and  in  the  meantime  Vernia  was  abducted by  San  Thoy,  a yellow  pirate  who  had conceived  a violent  passion  for  her.

Grandon  and  Kantar  managed  to  escape and  follow  them,  using  one  of  the  buccaneers, whom  they  had  taken  prisoner,  as a guide  to  the  Island  of  the  Valkars,  or Toad  People,  where  they  were  believed  to have  gone.  As  they  neared  the  island, they  crashed  on  a treacherous  shoal,  and went  down  into  the  swirling  waters.

In  the  meantime  Vernia  had  been landed  on  the  island  by  San  Thoy,  and taken  to  a small  cabin.  The  pirate  protested that  he  only  wished  to  save  her from  slavery,  but  became  drunk  on  kova, a narcotic  beverage,  and  revealed  his  true purpose — to  claim  her  as  his  own.

Vernia  ran  from  the  cabin,  with  San Thoy  in  pursuit,  and  both  were  captured by  the  Valkars.  The  toad-men  leaped and  splashed  through  the  marshy  lowlands with  their  captives,  and  carried them  to  the  toad  village  near  the  center of  the  island,  where  they  were  haled  before Grunk,  King  of  the  Valkars.

Grunk  had  enslaved  many  of  the  Huitsenni  buccaneers  who  had  been  captured by  his  warriors,  but  never  before  had  they brought  in  a woman.  He  ordered  that she  be  retained  for  the  purpose  of  breeding a race  of  slaves,  and  gave  her  to  Hui Sen,  one  of  his  favorites.

CHAPTER  6 A DECEPTIVE  LIGHT

As  GRANDON  Struggled  in  the  seething water,  he  strove  to  look  about  him for  some  sign  of  Kantar  the  Gunner.  But save  for  the  phosphorescent  luminescence ahead,  which  had  lured  them  onto  the rocks,  all  was  blackness.

"Kantar!”  he  shouted.  "Kantar!  Where are  you.^”

A big  roller  caught  him  unawares. Part  of  it  he  inhaled.  Strangling  and choking,  he  endeavored  to  rid  his  tortured lungs  of  the  smarting  brine.  All the  time  he  was  being  carried  swiftly toward  that  deceptive  phosphorescence. The  roar  of  the  breakers  grew  deafening. He  realized,  then,  that  if  Kantar  had  been within  fifty  feet  of  him  when  he  shouted, he  probably  would  not  have  heard  his  cry.

Presently  his  hands  struck  a sloping ledge  of  sharp  coral.  He  drew  himself up  onto  it,  and  stood  erect.  But  a giant comber  instantly  knocked  him  flat,  cutting his  hands,  face  and  body  on  tlie  jagged coral.  After  that,  he  crawled  forward painfully  until  the  coral  was  replaced  by rugged  bits  of  stone,  and  finally  by  a sharply  slanting  beach  where  jointed, saw-edged  reeds  grew  among  outcroppings of  volcanic  rock.  For  some  time  he rested  on  a slab  of  water- worn  lava,  panting heavily  from  his  exertions.  His  cuts and  scratches  were  rendered  doubly  painful by  the  salt  water.

Presently  he  stood  up.  The  phosphorescent light  was  not  more  than  five  hundred feet  away,  and  it  seemed  to  be  slowly moving  toward  him  in  a rather  erratic fashion.  It  lit  up  the  waving  reeds  and brackish  pools  with  a pale  greenish  white luminescence.  As  he  watched,  it  stopped behind  a clump  of  tall  reeds.

Suddenly,  between  himself  and  that light  he  saw  a human  form  sloshing through  the  pools.  There  was  something familiar  about  the  bedraggled  figure.  He recognized  the  giuiner.

"Kantar!”  he  shouted,  running  forward.

The  figure  splashed  onward,  unable  to hear  him  because  of  the  roar  of  the  breakers. At  a distance  of  a few  feet  he  again shouted:  "Kantar!”  at  the  top  of  his voice.

BUCCANEERS  OE  VENUS


The  gunner  turncdj

"Majesty!”  he  exclaimed,  "I  had thought  70U  drowned  with  that  yellow chispa.*  Praise  Thorth,  you  are  alive!”

"We  must  find  that  hut  of  the  Huifcsenni,  quickly,”  said  Grandoo  as  he  came  up, "Have  you  any  idea  where  to  look  for it?”

"Our  guide  said  there  would  be  a light,”  replied  Kantar.  "I  was  about  to investigate  this  one.”

"I  saw  it  moving,  a moment  ago,”  said Grandon.  "I  doubt  that  the  cabin  would be  built  in  a salt  marsh,  or  that  a light  in it  would  move  about  as  this  OOe  has. Perhaps  h is  a light  carried  by  one  of  the creatures  the  pirates  called  'Valkars.’  But it  will  do  no  harm  to  investigate.”

Cautiously  they  crept  forward  through the  marsh,  bending  down  below  the  levH of  the  waving  reeds  so  that  they  would not  be  seen.  Presently  Kantar  laid  a hand  on  Grandon’s  arm,  and  exclaimed: "I  sec  it,  Majesty!  Why,  it’s  an  enorm worm!”

Looking  through  the  place  where  the gunner  had  parted  the  reeds,  the  Earthman  saw  a fat,  grub-like  aeature  about five  feet  in  length.  Its  entire  body  glowed with  a greenish  white  light,  X^eisutely  it meved  among  the  reeds,  browsing  on  the water  plants  that  grew  in  the  bottoms  of the  brackish  pools.

Disturbed  at  its  feeding  by  the  sound, the  creature  reared  its  luminous  head  and spied  them.  Arching  its  neck,  it  gnashed its  mandibles  threateningly.

"I  wonder  if  that  tiling  would  shine  as brightly  dead  as  alive,”  said  Grandon. "If  so,  it  would  be  useful  to  us.”

For  answer,  Kantar  elevated  the  muzzle of  his  tork,  and  pressing  the  firingbutton,  deftly  sprayed  a line  of  the  needlelike  projectiles  across  the  luminous  throat.

* A largre  hairless  rodent  o£  Veaus«  Equivalecat  to saying:  *'Tbat  yellow  rat/'

Cut  off  as  cleanly  as  if  by  a sword-blade in  the  hands  of  an  expert,  the  head  fell from  the  body,  which  immediately  began writhing  and  thrashing  about  in  the  rushes and  shallow  water.

"Neatly  done.  Gunner,”  commented Grandon.  "Why,  the  thing  appears  to be  shining  more  than  ever!  Now  for  a couple  of  torches."

So  saying,  he  whipped  out  bis  scad>o, and  advancing  to  where  the  headless  thing squirmed  and  floundered  in  the  reeds, cut  off  two  sections,  each  about  a foot  in length.  Then,  with  two  sharpened  reeds which  he  diryst  into  the  sections  for  handles, he  made  a pair  of  torches,  each  of which  was  capable  of  lighting  up  the  tefrain  for  at  l^t  fifty  feet  in  every  direction.

Grandon  passed  one  torch  to  Kantar, and  holding  the  other  above  his  head,  set off  along  the  shore  line  in  the  hope  of coming  upon  the  cabin  which  their  yellow prisoner  had  described,  and  whem  he believed  thqr  would  find  Vernia  in  the power  of  the  unscrupulous  San  Thoy.  But though  they  traveled  as  swiftly  as  the rugged  character  of  the  shore  line  would permit  for  the  rest  of  the  night,  morning dawned  wiffiout  their  having  reached their  objective.

With  his  scarbo,  Grandon  speared  a large,  spiny  fish,  left  by  the  ebbing  tide in  a small  pool.  They  cooked  a portion of  it  over  a fire  of  dty  reeds  ignited Grandon’s  flame-maker.  It  was  tough, bony,  and  rather  tasteless,  but  a welcome meal,  nevertheless,  to  the  two  hungry men.

As  SOON  as  they  had  breakfasted,  thqjr set  off  once  more  along  the  shore line.  Shortly  thereafter,  the  character  of the  terrain  underwent  a decided  diange. The  ground  sloped  upward,  and  instead of  a marsh  behind  them,  ffjere  was  now  a


WEIRD  TALES

belt  of  fern-forest;  while  the  flat  beach gave  way  to  rugged  rock  ledges,  then  towering cliffs,  clothed  to  their  very  edges with  tree-ferns,  bush-ferns,  and  many creeping  and  climbing  varieties,  as  well  as a few  species  of  cycads  and  other  primitive types.  Here  there  grew  in  abundance the  large  Zorovian  water-ferns,  the ribs  of  which  contain  water,  clear,  cold and  sweet  as  any  that  may  be  found  on Venus.  They  paused,  and  broke  off enough  fronds  to  assuage  their  thirst  and fill  their  canteens.  Then  they  pressed  onward.

Soon  they  came,  quite  unexpectedly, upon  a small  natural  harbor.  The  entrance was  a narrow  channel  which  zigzagged between  tall  cliffs,  and  the  little inland  bay,  protected  from  wind  and waves  by  this  natural  barrier,  was  as smooth  as  glass.

"This  must  be  the  cove  described  by our  prisoner,”  said  Grandon,  excitedly. "The  cabin  should  not  be  far  off.”

"I  see  it.  Majesty,”  cried  the  sharpeyed  gunner,  "over  near  the  center  of  the bay.  It’s  partly  hidden  by  the  t«ee-ferns.”

"Sure  enough!  Come  on.”

Grandon  led  the  way  at  so  swift  a pace now,  that  the  tired  gunner  was  sorely  put to  it  to  keep  up  with  him.  As  thej'  neared the  cabin,  the  sight  of  the  small  boat which  had  been  left  there  by  San  Thoy caused  Grandon  to  hurry  faster  than  ever, for  he  now  felt  positive  that  he  should find  Vernia  and  her  captor  in  the  cabin. But  within  less  than  a hundred  feet  of  the cabin,  he  stopped  suddenly.

"We  must  approach  with  caution.  Gunner,” he  said.  "The  yellow  hahoe*  is probably  armed  with  a tork,  and  it wouldn’t  be  healthy  for  us  if  he  saw  or heard  us  coming.  Better  go  in  from  two different  directions,  too,  so  if  he  gets  one of  us  the  other  will  have  a chance  at  him.”

♦ A scaly,  three-horned,  hyena-like  creature  of  Venus. Used  here  as  a term  of  contempt.

They  separated  accordingly,  and  circling the  cabin,  crept  cautiously  up  to  it from  opposite  directions.  The  first  to reach  the  front  of  the  little  building, Grandon  saw  the  door  standing  wide open.  With  drawn  scarbo,  he  leaped through,  then  stopped  in  amazement,  for a single  glance  around  the  room  told  him that  it  v/as  deserted.

The  gunner  was  only  a few  steps  behind Grandon.

"Gone.?”  he  asked.

"So  it  seems.  But  where?”

Hanging  on  a peg  at  one  side  of  the room  was  a belt  containing  a scarbo,  tork and  knife.  Grandon’s  shoulder  struck  the hanging  scarbo  and  it  clanked  against  the tork.  ^

'What’s  this?”  he  exclaimed,  lifting the  belt  from  the  peg.  "Why,  these  are the  weapons  of  San  Thoy!  His  name  is engraved  on  the  belt  buckle  in  patoan characters.”

"I  judge  that  he  would  not  willingly have  left  without  them.”

"No,  not  willingly.”

"Then  who  could  have  carried  them off,  and  what  has  become  of  Her  Majesty, your  wife?”

"Who  but  the  Valkars,  those  toad-like monsters  described  by  our  prisoner?  We must  find  the  trail.  I’ll  t^e  San  Tlioy’s weapons  and  give  the  other  scarbo  to  you. Then  we’ll  both  be  fully  armed.”

Soon  Grandon,  who  had  learned  his woodcraft  from  the  Fighting  Traveks,  his fierce  mountaineer  subjects  of  Uxpo,  and learned  it  well,  discovered  blood  spots about  a hundred  feet  from  the  door  of  the hut.  And  in  the  soft  leaf  mold  were  the small  footprints  of  a woman,  the  larger prints  of  a man,  and  the  still  larger  tracks of  webbed  and  clawed  feet.  Kantar,  who was  born  and  bred  in  the  mountain  fastnesses of  Uxpo,  read  the  signs  as  quickly as  did  the  Earth-man.

BUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS


"She  ran  out  here  to  escape  the  yellow pirate,”  he  said.

"And  both  were  carried  off  by  the  Valkars,”  finished  Grandon.  "Blood  was spilled.  I trust  that  it  was  not  hers.”

"It  starts  at  the  point  where  San  Thoy was  lifted  off  his  feet.”

"True  enough.  Let  us  hope  for  the best.  And  now  to  the  trail.”

It  was  not  difficult  for  the  two  trained woodmen  to  follow  the  well-marked  trail of  the  toad  people.  It  led  them  through the  belt  of  thick  fern-forest  that  fringed the  shore,  and  across  a range  of  rugged and  sparsely  wooded  hills,  into  a gloomy and  treacherous  swamp.  Here  Grandon, at  almost  the  first  step,  sank  into  a quagmire up  to  his  chin.  It  would  speedily have  closed  over  his  head,  had  not  Kantar  been  there  to  extend  a helping  hand. Even  then,  it  was  with  the  greatest  difficulty that  the  gunner  succeeded  in  drawing him  out  of  the  clinging,  sticky  mess.

After  this  misadventure,  Grandon  took more  care  where  he  stepped,  quickly learning  that  a piece  of  ground  which  was safe  for  a web-footed  Valkar  might  be  extremely perilous  for  a man.  He  chafed at  the  delay  occasioned  by  the  necessity  of testing  each  bit  of  soil  before  stepping  on it,  but  was  constrained  by  the  obvious  verity that  if  he  did  not  travel  with  caution his  travels  would  soon  be  terminated.

Nor  was  the  treacherous  footing  the sole  menace  the  swamp  held  for  the  two. They  were  constantly  compelled  to  be  on the  lookout  for  venomous  snakes  which crawled  across  their  pathway  and  tremendous whistling  serpents  that  dangled from  tree  limbs,  waiting  for  unsuspecting victims  on  which  to  drop,  then  crush  the life  out  of  them  with  their  immense  muscular coils.  In  addition,  they  were  compelled to  avoid  the  huge  saurians  which made  the  morass  their  habitation.  Some of  these  were  herbivores,  and  harmless

unless  disturbed,  but  others,  the  mighty carnivores  which  fed  on  these  and  any other  smaller  bits  of  flesh  which  came their  way,  would  make  short  work  of them  if  they  suspected  this  pair  of  tender, two-legged  animals  was  crossing  their feeding-ground.  Annoying,  too,  were  the constant  attacks  of  biting  and  stinging  insect pests  which  buzzed  in  thick  clouds about  them.

Both  men  heaved  a sigh  of  relief  when they  presently  readied  higher  and drier  ground,  for  though  the  tall  grass through  which  the  path  wound  might  harbor even  more  dangerous  enemies  than they  had  seen  in  the  swamp,  they  were at  least  sure  of  their  footing  and  soon  left the  bulk  of  their  insect  tormenters  behind.

They  had  traveled  about  a mile  into this  grassy  savanna,  when  Grandon  suddenly caught  his  companion  by  the  arm.

"Quiet!”  he  said.  "I  hear  something coming!”

Unmistakably  there  came  to  the  ears  of both  the  sound  of  someone  or  something speeding  through  the  tall  grass,  then  a shriek  of  pain  or  terror  and  a hoarse, booming  croak.

"Gime  on,”  cried  Grandon.  "It’s  a fellow  human  attacked  by  some  fierce beast.”

They  had  only  taken  a few  steps  in  the direction  of  the  sounds  when  there  hove into  view,  running  for  his  life,  a short, bandy-legged  yellow  man.  Although neither  Grandon  nor  Kantar  had  ever seen  a Valkar,  both  instantly  identified the  hideous,  warty  creature  which  followed in  swift  pursuit,  from  the  description their,  former  prisoner  had  given  thenti It  was  rapidly  shortening  the  distance  between itself  and  its  shrieking  quarry,  and the  long  pole  it  carried,  tipped  with  a barbed  hook,  was  extended  to  transfix  its victim.


WEIRD  TALES

Kantaf  elevated  the  muzzle  of  his  tork.

"Don’t  shoot,"  warned  Grandon.  "The sound  may  betray  us,  and  bring  a horde of  these  creatures.  You  grab  the  yellow man  and  I’ll  take  the  Valkar.”

Whipping  out  his  scarbo,  the  Earthman  accordingly  crouched  in  the  grass  at one  side  of  the  path,  while  Kantar,  similarly armed,  concealed  himself  on  the other  side.

Just  as  he  came  opposite  them,  the  fugitive was  caught  by  the  barbed  hook. He  uttered  an  agonized  shriek  as  it pierced  his  arm.  But  before  his  pursuer could  jerk  him  backward,  Kantar ’s  scarbo had  cut  through  the  shaft.  And  Grandon, blade  in  hand,  had  leaped  at  the Valkar.

Although  he  was  taken  by  surprize,  tlie toad-man  was  remarkably  quick.  Dropping his  useless  shaft,  he  snatched  his long  knife  from  his  belt  and  raised  it  to parry  the  cut  which  Grandon  aimed  at his  head.  It  turned  the  blade  of  the scarbo  so  that,  in  descending,  it  only  cut a small  slice  from  the  scaly  shoulder.  At the  same  instant,  with  lightning  quideness, he  struck  at  the  Earth-man  with  the  mace in  his  left  hand.

The  blow  took  Grandon  by  surprize, and  the  hooked  bill  bit  into  his  right shoulder,  which  he  had  instinctively  raised to  protect  his  face,  inflicting  a painful wound.  With  a croak  of  triumph,  the monster  jerked  the  Earth-man  toward him,  intent  on  finishing  him  with  the knife.  But  at  that  instant  Grandon  drew back  his  lowered  scarbo,  then  thrust  upward with  all  his  might.  The  blade, driven  with  terrific  force,  entered  the  silyer-gray  throat,  and  passing  upward through  the  head,  came  out  between  the bulging  eyes.  With  a hoarse  death-croak, the  Valkar  sank  to  the  ground,  kicking convulsively.

Kantar  came  running  up,  dragging  his

yellow  prisoner,  from  whose  arm  he  had extracted  the  barbed  hook.

"Why,  you  arc  bleeding.  Majesty!”  he exclaimed.

"Only  a flesh  wound,"  replied  Graodon.  "I’ll  be  all  right.”

The  gunner  twisted  the  small  cup  from the  top  of  his  kova  flask,  and  held  it  to the  bleeding  throat  of  the  dying  Valkar. In  an  instant  it  was  filled  witii  blood.  He stood  up  and  proflfered  the  cup  to  Grandon.

"You  must  drink  this  quiddy.  Majesty,” he  said,  "or  your  wound  may  prove fatal."

"What’s  the  mattear  with  joa?”  demanded the  Earth-man.  "Have  you  gone crazy.?"

"Drink  quickly,  I beg  of  yon.  It  is  the only  antidote  for  the  venom  with  whidi these  monsters  smear  their  weapons.”

"Right.  I had  forgotten  what  our prisoner  told  us.”  He  took  the  proffered cup,  and  with  a wry  face,  drained  it.  The wounded  yellow  man,  whose  wrist  Kantar was  holding,  had  meanwhile  aoudicd down  and  was  lapping  at  the  bleeding throat  of  the  Vdkar.

"Let  me  bind  your  wound.  Majesty,” said  the  gunner.

"No.  It  is  not  large,  and  will  close  of itself.  Meanwhile,  let  us  examine  this prisoner.”  He  glared  at  the  diminutive yellow  man,  who  now  stood  with  bowed head,  his  wrist  still  clutched  by  Kantar. "Are  you  San  Thoy?”  he  asked.

"No,  Majesty,”  replied  the  prisoner, who,  noting  the  scarlet  of  Grandon’s  attire was  aware  that  he  stood  before  royalty. "San  Thoy  is  a great  mojak  while I,  as  Your  Majesty  may  see  by  the  remains of  my  raiment,  am  only  a common  sailor,”

"Your  name,  sailor.”

"So  Lan,  Majesty,  late  of  die  ship  Somgama,  of  the  Imperial  Navy  of  Huitsea. I was  captured  by  the  Valkars  three  enchrs

BUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS


ago  with  a dozen  of  my  mates  when  we were  sent  ashore  for  fresh  water.  Today I escaped  from  the  prison  compound,  but this  Valkar  hunter  saw  me,  and  would have  slain  me  or  taken  me  back  a prisoner had  you  not  come  up.”

"Saw  you  ought  of  San  Thoy?”

"He,  and  a beautiful  white  princess, who  some  say  was  Vernia  of  Reabon,  were brought  in  prisoners  this  morning.”

"Where  are  they  now?”

"The  white  princess  was  brought  to  the slave  compound  shortly  before  I made  my escape.  It  was  the  attention  she  attracted, both  from  the  slaves  and  the  Valkars, which  made  it  possible  for  me  to  get  away undetected.”

"And  what  do  these  Valkars  intend  to do  with  her?  Hold  her  for  ransom?”

"No,  Majesty.  They  care  nothing  for money,  or  any  other  things  of  great  worth. But  I heard  that  Grunk,  their  Rogo,  who has  never  before  captured  a human  female, planned  to  keep  her  for  the  purpose of  breeding  a race  of  slaves.”

"Enough!  Lead  us  at  once  to  this  compound. Perform  your  task  faithfully, take  me  to  a spot  where  I can  set  eyes  on my  wife,  and  you  will  be  permitted  to escape  again.  But  remember,  one  sign  of treachery,  and  you  die.”

"Your  wife!  Then  you  are  the  famed Grandon  of  Terra,  the  hero  from  the planet  Mignor,*  who  won  the  most  beautiful woman  on  Zorovia!”  He  dropped to  his  knees,  and  with  both  hands  extended, palms  downward,  pressed  his  forehead to  the  ground.  "I  do  homage  to  so mighty  a swordsman  and  so  famed  a ruler,”  he  muttered.

"Up,  and  cease  this  mummery,  or  by the  bones  of  Thorth,  I’ll  split  your  head and  go  on  without  a guide.  Vernia  of Reabon  will  take  her  own  life  rather  than

submit  to  the  dictates  of  this  reptiliair rogo.  As  it  is,  we  may  be  too  late.”

The  pirate  scrambled  hastily  to  his  feet. "I’ll  guide  you.  Majesty,  and  quickly,” he  promised,  "but  we  must  circle  the  Valkar village  to  reach  the  compound. Otherwise  we  should  not  be  permitted  to go  far.”

He  set  off  at  once  through  the  tall, rustling  grass,  with  Grandon,  scarbo in  hand,  just  behind  him,  and  Kantar bringing  up  the  rear.  After  a short  walk Grandon  heard,  only  a little  way  ahead  of them,  the  chatter  of  human  conversation and  the  croaking  of  Valkars  punctuated by  the  sharp  clanking  of  metal.

So  Lan  turned.  '"The  compound  is  just ahead,”  he  whispered.  "Those  are  the sounds  made  by  the  metal-workers  and their  overseers.”

The  three  crept  cautiously  forward now,  and  So  Lan,  parting  the  grass,  pointed to  an  enclosure  by  a paling  of  metal bars,  in  the  center  of  which  was  a large, moss-covered  mound.

Grandon’ s heart  gave  a great  bound  as he  saw  Vernia  standing  beside  a pile  of knives.  Then  he  cried  out  in  anguish,  and would  have  leaped  forward  had  not  Kantar detained  him,  as  he  saw  her  snatch  a knife  and  attempt  to  plunge  it  into  her bosom.  But  it  was  instantly  shaken  from her  grasp  by  one  of  the  yellow  slaves  who had  snatched  her  wrist.  Fortunately, Grandon’s  involuntary  cry  had  not  been heard  in  that  bedlam  of  sound,  and  so  the three  men  still  crouched  there,  undetected, "What  are  we  to  do  now.  Majesty?’” asked  Kantar.

"I  don’t  know.  Gunner.  Let  me  think — let  me  plan.  A sudden  rush  and  a shower  of  tork  bullets  might  be  best.  And yet  it  might  mean  the  death  of  Vernia, We  must  try  to  think  of  a better  scheme.”' He  turned  to  the  yellow  man  who  still

* Zorovian  name  for  the  Earth.


WEIRD  TALES

crouched  in  Rie  grass  beside  him.  "You may  go  now,  So  Lan.  You  have  earned your  freedom."

"Your  Majesty  has  saved  the  life  of  So Lan,”  replied  the  pirate,  "and  he  is  not ungrateful.  Permit  him  to  remain  near you,  that  he  may  be  of  assistance  in  the rescue  of  Her  Majesty,  your  wife.”

"How?  You  are  unarmed.  But  wait. Perhaps  we  can  use  you,  for  you  could pass  unnoticed  among  the  slaves  where one  of  us  would  be  instantly  detected.”

"I  but  await  Your  Majesty’s  commands,” replied  So  Lan,  bowing  low.

CHAPTER  7

HUMAN  SACRIFICE

VERNIA  strove  to  wrench  her  arm  free, but  she  was  helpless  in  the  grip  of the  filthy  and  ragged  Hui  Sen.  He grinned  the  hideous,  toothless  grin  of  the Huitsenni,  and  pushed  a fresh  quid  of kerra  spores  into  his  chedc  as  he  dragged her  toward  the  gate.

"Where  are  you  t^lng  me?"  she  demanded.

"First  to  the  burrow  of  His  Majesfy, Grunk,  Rogo  of  the  Valkars,  that  he  may give  you  his  commands  in  person.  Then, if  he  does  not  change  his  mind,  which  he sometimes  does,  but  which  I hope  will  not be  the  case  in  this  instance,  I will  take  you to  my  own  burrow.”

“Suppose  that  I should  offer  you  the wealth  and  position  of  a prince— make you  rich  and  powerful  beyond  your  fondest dreams.  Would  you  help  me  to escape?"

"That  would  be  impossible.  Majesty. I am  not  so  strong  a swimmer  that  I could reach  your  country  from  here,  and  the Valkars  would  not  give  us  time  to  build  a boat.”

"But  ffiere  is  a small  sailboat,  provisioned and  ready,  in  the  harbor  where

your  fleets  stop  for  fresh  w*ter.  If could  reach  it  and  get  away  by  night, surely  you  are  enough  of  a navigator  to sail  it  to  Reabon.  And  what  I prmnise,  J will  perform.”

"We  will  speak  of  this  later.  Majesty,” replied  Hui  Sen.  "Just  now  I must  take you  before  the  Rogo.”  He  entered  into a short,  croaking  conversation  with  the Valkar  guard  at  the  gate,  who  than  swung it  open,  permitting  them  to  pass,

As  they  threaded  their  way  between  the moss-covered  mounds  toward  the  burrow of  Grunk,  Hui  Sea  looked  cautiously aboiff  him  as  if  fearful  of  being  overheard, then  said:  "I  can  not  deny.  Majesty, that  the  station  and  weallh  of  a prince  would  be  a great  temptation  to  me, for  I have  lived  in  squalor  these  many years.  And  while  living  thus,  my  only solace  has  been  in  dreams  of  splendor  and power.  But  the  risk  would  be  tmmeadpus.  To  pass  the  Valkar  guards  would not  be  easy.  To  cross  the  swamp  without a Valkar  guide  would  be  next  to  impossible. Were  it  not  for  that  swamp,  nay people  would  long  ago  have  determinated the  Valkars.  There  is  also  the  possibility that  the  boat  might  not  be  there,  in which  event  the  Valkars  would  be  sure  to find  us,  and  I,  at  least,  would  be  horribly punished.  Added  to  these,  and  by  far  not the  least  of  the  considerations,  would  be the  fact  diat  I should  lose  you  as  my mate.”

"On  that  score,  at  least,  you  may  set yourself  at  rest,”  said  Vernia.  "Does  die hahoe  take  the  mate  of  the  marmelot,  or the  awoo  the  mate  of  the  ramph?  Grandon  of  Terra  is  my  mate,  and  sooner  or later  he  will  find  this  island,  wipe  the Valkars  from  the  face  of  the  planet,  and all  with  them  who  have  offered  me  indignity.”

“Grandon  of  Terra  will  not  find  this place,”  said  Hui  Sen,  confidently.  "You

W.  T.— 5

BUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS


can  not  frigjiten  me  with  his  name, mighty  as  I know  it  to  be.”

"You  v/ill  remember,  also,”  continued Vernia,  "that  the  mate  of  the  marmelot is  not  without  claws.  I promise  you  that, if  you  offer  me  any  indignity,  I will  slay you  at  the  first  opportunity,  and  myself, also.  Sleeping  or  waking,  your  life  will never  be  safe  if  you  drag  me  off  to  your stinking  burrow.”

"That  I know  you  would  do,”  replied Hui  Sen,  seemingly  impressed,  "for  the women  of  Reabon  were  ever  jealous  of their  honor.  Night  and  day,  I would  always be  on  my  guard,  unless,  perchance, you  should  learn  to  love  me.”

"Love  you?  Why,  you  greasy  yellow beast!  You  unspeakable  filth!  Sooner would  I love  a warty  Valkar.”  This  was said  with  flashing  eyes,  and  an  imperious mien  that  humbled  the  yellow  man.

"I  mean  no  offense,  Majesty,”  he whined.  "Even  a worm  may  look  at  a star  with  the  hope  that,  inaccessible  as  it seems,  it  shines  favorably  upon  him.  But here  we  are  at  the  burrow  of  the  Rogo.”

They  were  about  to  enter  when  Hui Sen  halted  and  cocked  his  head  to  one  side at  the  sound  of  a distant  ululation,  long drawn  out  and  exceedingly  mournful.

"What  was  that?”  asked  Vernia.

"The  cry  of  the  guards,”  replied  Hui Sen,  "Sistabez,  the  great  serpent,  has come  out  of  his  cave.

The  howling  grew  in  volume  as  thousands of  Valkar  throats  all  over  the  village took  it  up.  At  this  instant,  Grunk,  Rogo of  the  Valkars,  emerged  from  his  burrow, accompanied  by  Lui  Sen  and  his  two  immense Valkar  guards,  both  of  which,  with their  noses  elevated  and  their  mouths  open from  ear  to  ear,  v/ere  howling  lustily. The  din  had  now  grown  so  loud  that speech  was  impossible,  but  Grunk,  after staring  fixedly  at  Vernia  and  Hui  Sen  for a moment  with  his  great,  gold-rimmed W.  T.— 6

eyes,  made  a sign  that  they  should  follow him,  and  strode  off  between  the  mosscovered  mounds  toward  the  place  from which  the  howling  had  first  come.  Judging from  the  mob  of  Valkars,  male  and female,  old  and  young,  which  was  heading in  the  same  direction,  it  was  evident that  the  entire  village  had  turned  out.

The  hurrying,  jostling  crowd  respectfully made  way  for  the  Rogo  and  his party,  and  they  soon  reached  the  edge  of the  village.  Here  a narrow  path  led  up a rugged  hillside,  strewn  with  boulders and  sparsely  dotted  with  low-growing shrubs.  At  intervals  of  about  a hundred feet  along  this  path,  heavy  iron  stakes  had been  driven  into  the  ground.

To  the  farthest  of  these  stakes,  a luckless yellow  slave  had  already  been  fastened. Another  was  being  secured  to  the next  stake,  and  two  guards  were  marching a third  up  to  the  next.

SUDDENLY  every  voice  was  hushed,  and Vernia  saw  an  enormous  and  hideous head  round  a curve  in  the  rugged  hillside. It  was  about  ten  feet  in  length,  and  six in  width  at  its  broadest  point,  tapering down  to  a square  muzzle  about  two  feet across.  This  massive  head  was  reared  on a thick  neck  fully  four  feet  in  diameter, to  a height  of  about  twenty  feet  above  the ground.  Behind  it  trailed  a tremendous length  of  sinuous  body.  In  color  it  was muddy  green  above,  and  the  under  scales were  a greenish  lemon-yellow.

Languidly,  unhurriedly,  the  monster glided  down  the  path,  surveying  the  immense crowd  of  Valkars  and  yellow slaves  before  it  with  apparent  indifference. Presently,  as  it  came  to  the  first  slave that  had  been  bound  in  its  path,  it paused,  and  leisurely  arched  its  neck.  The other  two  slaves  had,  meanwhile,  been tethered  and  left  to  their  fate.  All  three


WEIRD  TALES

unfortunates  struggled  desperately,  and cried  out  for  mercy,  but  as  the  serpent poised  over  the  first  wretch,  he  ceased  his struggles  and  importunities.

There  was  a quick,  downward  dart  of the  massive  head,  so  swift  that  the  eye could  scarcely  follow,  and  a single  shriek from  the  victim  as  the  immense  jaws closed  upon  him,  breaking  his  bonds  like cobwebs.  Then  a significant  lump  slid down  the  serpent’s  throat  to  disappear  in its  tremendous  coils.

Leisurely  the  snake  crawled  forward once  more,  seized  and  swallowed  its  next shrieking  victim.  It  paused  for  a moment, but  as  it  moved  on  toward  the  third,  a fourth  victim  was  quickly  chained  in  its path.

"Sistabez  is  hungry  today,”  Hui  Sen said  to  Vefnia.

The  snake  swallowed  the  third  victim, and  continued  on  toward  the  fourth.

"He  is  very  hungry,”  said  Hui  Sen.

As  it  moved  forward  this  time,  the  serpent’s red  forked  tongue  darted  from  its mouth,  appearing  and  disappearing  with the  rapidity  of  lightning.

“He  grows  angry,”  cried  Hui  Sen,  in alarm.

At  this  instant,  Grunk  turned  and croaked  something  to  two  guards,  who came  toward  Vernia.

"What  did  he  say?”  she  asked  Hui  Sen.

"He  said,”  replied  that  worthy,  "that Sistabez  was  angry  because  he  had  v/ithheld  the  fair  white  prisoner  from  him.  He ordered  the  guards  to  tie  you  to  the  fifth stake.”

With  a sudden  wrench,  Vernia  freed her  wrist  from  the  grasp  of  the  yellow man,  then  turned  to  flee.  But  before  she had  taken  ten  steps  the  Valkar  guards  had her.  The  fourth  victim  shrieked  his  last  as she  was  dragged  to  the  stake  and  securely bound.  The  two  guards  retreated  precipitately as  the  serpent  advanced,  this  time

traveling  more  swiftly  than  before,  its tongue  flashing  like  red  forked  lightning.

CHAPTER  8

THE  WRATH  OF  THE  SERPENT

Crouching  in  the  grass  near  the  slave compound  with  Kantar  and  So  Lan, Grandon  saw  the  yellow  slave  who  had prevented  Vernia  from  taking  her  own life,  lead  her  through  the  gate.

"Where  is  he  taking  her?”  he  asked  So Lan.

"They  walk  toward  the  burrow  of Grunk,”  replied  So  Lan.  "I  think  she will  be  taken  before  the  Rogo  of  the Valkars.”

"And  then?”

Grunk  will  probably  decide  which  of the  slaves  is  to  take  her  to  his  burrow.’'

"Do  you  think  you  can  go  down  into the  village  without  being  apprehended?”

"I  believe  so.  Majesty.  No  alarm  has been  sounded,  so  I take  it  that  I have  not yet  been  missed.  The  Valkar  that  was pursuing  me  was  a hunter  I had  encountered at  some  distance  from  the  village.”

"Very  well.  Suppose  you — but  wait! What  is  that  howling  sound?”

"The  guards  are  warning  the  Valkars that  Sistabez,  the  great  serpent,  has awakened,  and  is  emerging  from  his  den. No  need  to  go  into  the  village  now,  for every  one  will  attend  the  sacrifice.” "Sistabez?”

"A  huge  snake  worshipped  by  the Valkars  as  a god.  When  he  comes  forth they  chain  slaves  in  his  pathway,  in  order that  he  may  not  raid  the  village.  Naturally they  value  their  own  lives  above  those of  their  prisoners.”

"And  Vernia  is  a prisoner!  Can  you ' get  us  quickly  to  this  place  of  sacrifice?” "We  will  have  to  circle  the  village, Majesty.  It  will  take  quite  a while.” "Then  hurry.”

BUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS

S03

"This  way.”  So  Lan  dashed  off  through the  tall  grass  with  Grandon  and  Kantar at  his  heels.

Before  they  had  gone  far,  it  was  obvious to  Grandon  that  the  Valkars  would reach  the  place  of  sacrifice  long  before they  would.  Fuming  at  the  delay,  he  kept urging  the  little  yellow  man  to  his  best paces,  but  though  he  was  willing  enough, his  short  legs  would  not  carry  him  nearly '•so  fast  as  the  two  impatient  white  men could  travel.

The  howling  from  the  village  was deafening  for  some  time,  but  to  Grandon’s  surprize,  it  suddenly  ceased  altogether.

"Sistabez  has  reached  the  place  of  sacrifice,” panted  So  Lan.  "The  Valkars  always quit  their  howling  when  he  is  ready to  take  his  first  victim.”

Grandon,  who  could  restrain  his  impatience no  longer,  now  thrust  his  puffing and  nearly  exhausted  guide  out  of the  way,  and  dashed  forward  at  top  speed. He  needed  no  guide  a moment  later,  for the  shridc  of  the  snake’s  first  victim  rang in  his  ears.  Closely  followed  by  Kantar, he  bounded  straight  toward  that  soxuid. A short  time  after  he  heard,  much  closer, the  cry  of  the  second  victim,  then,  still doser,  the  third,  and  finally  the  fourth.

A moment  later,  he  bounded  out  into the  open  space  at  the  base  of  the  hill,  in front  of  which  the  Valkars  had  assembled. Vernia  had  just  been  boxmd  to  the stake,  and  the  two  Valkars  who  had  tied her  were  fleeing  for  their  lives  as  the great  serpent  advanced  toward  her.

‘Try  to  keep  the  crowd  back,  Gunner,” he  shouted  to  Kantar  as  he  whipped  out his  scarbo  and  sprinted  for  the  stake. The  two  Valkars  who  had  bound  Vernia tried  to  stop  him,  but  he  elevated  the nrarzle  of  his  tork  and  sprayed  them  with neddle-like  bullets.  One  of  them  fell, gasping  and  kicking  his  last,  for  Grandon

had  loaded  the  weapon  with  a clip  of projectiles  he  had  found  in  the  belt-pouch of  San  Thoy,  which  contained  aiough poison  to  kill  a dozen  men.  He  dispatclied the  other  toad-man  with  his  scadx).

A few  swift  strides  carried  him  to Vernia’s  side,  and  two  strokes  of  his scarbo  freed  her.  She  was  so  overcome by  the  ordeal  through  which  she  had  just passed  that  she  swooned,  and  would  have fallen,  had  not  Grandon  sheathed  his scarbo  and  caught  her  up  in  his  arms.

All  this  took  place  in  less  than  a minute, and  during  this  time  the  tork  of  the gunner  had  been  popping  to  good  purpose, as  attested  by  the  ring  of  fallen Valkars  which  had  been  bold  enough  to rush  him.  Now,  as  Grandon  dashed  back into  the  tall  grass  with  Vernia  in  his arms,  Kantar  tan  in  behind  him  to  cover his  retreat.

The  serpent,  meanwhile,  had  not shown  any  interest  in  these  proceedings, but  had  crawled  on  past  the  stake  to  seize and  swallow  the  two  Valkars  that  still lay  kicking  on  the  ground.

"What  kind  of  bullets  are  you  using?” Grandon  asked  the  gunner,  as  Ihey plunged  into  the  grass.

"Deadly,”  he  replied.

"Put  in  a clip  of  solid  bullets  for  a moment,”  directed  Grandon,  "and  give that  big  snake  a half-dozen  or  so  in  the neck.”

Kantar  chuckled  as  he  swiftly  carried out  the  Earth-man’s  instructions.  "A great  idea,  Majesty,”  he  said.  "It  will give  the  ugly  toads  something  to  do  besides chasing  us.”

Kantar  was  the  best  maksmao  in  the Reabonian  army,  either  with  a toric or  mattork,  and  it  was  child’s  play  for him  to  quickly  place  the  bullets  as  he  had been  directed.  The  effect  on  the  huge serpent  was  inslantaneous.  With  its


WEIRD  TALES

forked  tongue  playing  so  rapidly  that  the eye  could  scarcely  follow,  and  an  angry hissing  sound  that  was  almost  like  the roar  of  steam  escaping  from  a locomotive, it  coiled  and  struck  again  and  again  into the  closely  packed  crowd  of  Valkars,  a tremendous  living  engine  of  destruction. Before,  it  had  only  been  satisfying  its hunger.  Now  it  was  taking  swift  and terrible  toll  of  those  creatures  which  it believed  responsible  for  its  hurts.

With  his  own  tork,  Grandon  meanwhile shot  down  a score  of  Valkars  that had  followed  them,  giving  the  gunner time  to  reload  with  the  deadly  projectiles. As  they  hurried  forward  once  more,  they were  joined  by  So  Lan,  who  had  armed himself  with  a hook,  mace  and  knife taken  from  one  of  the  fallen  Valkars.

"Take  care  not  to  scratch  yourself  or any  one  else  with  those  weapons,”  warned Kantar  as  they  trotted  through  the  grass. "We  have  no  Valkar  blood  for  an  antidote, now.”

"I  have  seen  to  that,”  replied  So  Lan. He  raised  the  flap  of  his  belt  pouch,  and disclosed  a slice  of  still  quivering  flesh. "This  will  serve  all  of  us  if  need  arise.”

It  was  evident  that  the  Valkars  were well  occupied  with  their  own  troubles,  as none  appeared  to  molest  them  for  some time.  They  soon  found  the  path  which led  from  the  village  to  the  swamp,  and had  followed  this  for  about  a mile,  when Vernia,  still  in  her  husband’s  arms,  recovered consciousness  and  demanded  to be  set  on  her  feet.

"I  can  carry  you  all  the  way  to  the boat,  if  need  be,”  Grandon  protested.

"No,  Bob.  You  must  save  your strength,  for  we  will  have  need  of  it.  I can  walk  as  well  as  any  of  you,  now. Besides,  your  hands  must  be  free  to  gra.sp your  weapons.  The  Valkars  may  catch  up . with  us  at  any  time.”

"I  rather  Aink  they’re  pretty  well  occupied with  their  own  troubles,  tight now.  But  try  it  for  a while  if  you  must. I can  carry  you  again  if  you  tire.”

They  set  off  at  a fast  walk,  but  had  not gone  far  when  Kantar,  who  was  at  the rear,  softly  called:  "Majesty.”

Grandon  turned.  "What  is  it?”

"Something  following  us.  I see  the grass  waving.”

"We’ll  make  a stand,”  Grandon  decided, "and  give  them  a warm  reception if  they’re  Valkars.”

A moment  later,  a short  yellow  man appeared  in  the  pathway.  He  was  followed by  five  more.  Grandon  recognized the  leader  as  San  Thoy,  and  whipping out  his  scarbo,  advanced  toward  him,  ignoring the  others.

"So,”  he  thundered,  "you  are  the  yellow filth  who  abducted  my  wife!”

San  Thoy  cringed,  then  dropped  to  his knees  with  right  hand  extended  palm downward,  as  Grandon  towered  above him  with  upraised  scarbo.

"No,  no.  Majesty!  Spare  me!  There  is a misunderstanding!  I tried  to  rescue  Her Majesty.  We  stopped  at  the  cabin  to  wait for  daylight,  that  I might  take  her  to  the Reabonian  coast.”

"Ah!  Then  you  did  not,  with  your unwelcome  advances,  drive  her  forth  into the  night  to  be  captured  by  Valkars?”  He turned  to  Kantar.  "Lend  this  rakehelly of  Huitsen  your  blade,  Gunner,  that  I may  settle  accounts  with  him.”

San  Thoy  quaked  with  fear.

"But  I am  no  swordsman.  Majesty,” he  whined,  "to  oppose  the  mightiest blade  on  Zorovia.  It  would  be  murder. Besides,  as  Thorth  is  my  witness,  I do  not recall  offering  any  affront  to  Her  Gracious Majesty.  My  head  became  so  addled  with kova  that  I did  not  know  I had  been wounded  and  captured  by  the  Valkars until  this  morning.”

"I  perceive,”  said  Grandon,  contempBUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS


tuoiisly,  "that  you  are  a liar  and  a coward as  well  as  a rogue.  What  shall  I do  with the  vermin,  Gunner?"

"Strike  off  his  head,  sire,  and  leave  his foul  remains  to  the  jungle  scavengers.”

"Right.  It  is  the  least  that  he  deserves.”

San  Thoy  cringed,  expecting  the  death blow  as  Grandon  raised  his  blade.  But  it did  not  fall,  for  at  this  moment  Vernia caught  his  arm.

"Please,  Bob,  I can’t  let  you  do  it,” she  said.  "Spare  him  for  my  sake.”

"It  is  for  your  sake  that  I would  put an  end  to  him,”  replied  Grandon.  "To permit  him  to  live  after ”

"Please.  Remember  Tholto,  the  marshman.  You  would  have  slain  him  for  a similar  offense,  but  spared  him  because  I requested  it.  And  he  afterward  saved  my honor  when  I was  in  the  power  of  Zanaloth  of  Mernerum.  Later,  he  saved  both our  lives.”

"True,”  replied  Grandon,  "but  this vile  creature  is  no  more  like  Tholto  than a Valkar  is  like  me.  Yet,  because  it  is your  request,  I can  not  do  otherwise  than spare  him.”  He  spurned  the  groveling San  Thoy  with  his  foot.  "Get  up,”  he commanded,  "and  remember  that  you  are indebted  to  the  Torroga  of  Reabon  for your  worthless  life.”

"Then  may  we  accompany  Your  Majesties through  the  swamp  to  the  coast?” asked  one  of  the  escaped  slaves  who  had come  up  with  San  Thoy.  "We  could  not find  the  way,  unaided,  and  we  are  not armed  against  the  monsters  we  should  be sure  to  encoxmter.”

"We  are  not  anxious  for  such  company,” replied  Grandon,  "but  you  may follow  behind  us.”

They  set  off  once  more,  Grandon  leading, closely  followed  by  Vernia,  So  Lan, and  Kantar.  At  a respectful  distance  behind the  gunner  walked  San  Thoy  and  his band.

A SHORT  march  took  them  to  the  treacherous swamp,  v/here  Grandon  was able  to  make  much  better  time  than  on his  previous  trip  through  it,  by  backtracking in  his  own  footsteps.  But  their progress  was  slow  at  best,  and  it  was  not long  before  there  came  an  imploring  cry from  San  Thoy.

'"rhe  Valkars  are  coming!  Save  us! Save  us!”

"They  don’t  deserve  it,”  said  Grandon, "but  after  all,  they’re  fellow  human  beings, unarmed  and  in  danger.  Bring  your comrades  forward,  San  Thoy,”  he  called, "and  you,  Gunner,  guard  the  rear.  If  you can’t  handle  things,  let  me  know,  and  I’ll come  back  with  you.”

Kantar  stood  aside  until  San  Thoy  and his  comrades  had  time  to  close  in  behind So  Lan.  Then  he  fell  in  behind  the  last man,  and  as  they  marched  forward, glanced  back  from  time  to  time  to  note the  proximity  of  the  enemy.  He  soon  saw that  the  Valkars  were  gaining  rapidly  on them,  and  also  that  they  were  not  keeping to  the  trail,  but  were  spreading  out  in a crescent-shaped  line,  evidently  with  the intention  of  surrounding  them.  After communicating  this  intelligence  to  Grandon, he  began  picking  off  with  his  tork such  Valkars  as  came  dangerously  close.

Presently,  when  the  dull-witted  Valkars began  to  realize  that  to  expose  themselves to  the  gunner’s  deadly  aim  meant sure  death,  they  took  advantage  of  cover. This  slowed  them  a bit,  but  still  their pace  was  swifter  than  that  of  Grandon’s party,  as  their  webbed  feet  gave  them considerable  advantage  in  traveling  over the  swampy  ground.  Soon  the  two  horns of  their  crescent  caught  up  with  Grandon, who  began  using  his  tork  as  frequently, as  Kantar,  though  with  not  quite  such


WEIRD  TALES

deadly  predsion.  With  sword  or  scarbo he  had  not  met  his  equal  on  all  Zorovia, but  there  was  only  one  Kantar  the  Gunner, and  Grandon,  though  an  excellent shot,  bowed  to  his  uncanny  skill  with  the weapon.

Between  the  two  of  them,  Grandon and  Kantar  managed  to  keep  their  enemies at  bay  until  they  reached  the  more solid  footing  of  the  sparsely  wooded  hills. But  in  the  meantime,  the  horns  of  the crescent  had  closed  in  front  of  them.  On the  firmer  ground,  however,  their  speed exceeded  that  of  the  Valkars,  and  since they  no  longer  feared  those  behind  them, but  only  those  in  front  and  at  the  sides, he  changed  his  formation,  massing  the non-combatants  in  the  center,  while  he and  the  gunner  ranged  on  each  side.

Only  a few  of  the  Valkars  had  succeeded in  getting  ahead  of  them,  and these  quickly  succumbed  to  the  marksmanship of  the  two  men.  Then  Grandon ordered  a swift  charge  across  the  hill  that confronted  them,  and  beyond  which  was the  thick  fern  forest  that  fringed  the  bay. When  he  reached  the  brow  of  the  hill he  glanced  back  and  saw  that  several  hundred Valkars  had  already  emerged  from the  swamp,  while  at  least  a thousand swarmed  through  the  muck  and  water  behind them.  But  the  sight  of  this  vast force  did  not  dismay  him,  for  he  knew that  his  party  could  easily  outrun  them on  the  firm  ground  that  lay  ahead,  and that  they  would  have  ample  time  to launch  the  little  boat  which  San  Thoy  had moored  near  the  cabin.

They  dashed  down  the  rugged  hillside, and  plunged  into  the  fern  forest  just  as the  front  lines  of  their  pursuers  swept over  the  brow  of  the  hill.  But  Grandon had  scarcely  taken  fifty  steps  into  the forest  shadows,  when  a heavy  body  fell on  his  back  from  the  branches  above, knocking  him  to  the  ground.  It  was

quickly  followed  by  a half-dozen  more, and  though  the  Earth-man  managed  to struggle  to  his  feet,  his  arms  were  pinioned behind  him  and  his  weapons  taken away.  He  had  led  his  party  directly  into an  ambush  of  yellow  pirates.  Kantar,  he observed,  had  been  served  in  like  manner.

Suddenly  then,  as  if  by  magic,  a whole army  of  Huitsenni  appeared,  stepping from  behind  tree-trunks,  bushes  and rocks,  and  dropping  from  the  dense  tangle of  branches  overhead.  The  little  party was  completely  surrounded  and  hopelessly outnumbered.

Waddling  toward  them  through  the ranks  of  the  pirates,  who  respectfully made  way  for  him,  Grandon  now  recognized Thid  Yet,  Romojak  of  the  Navies of  Huitsen,

Thid  Yet  expectorated  a red  stream  of kerra  juice  and  grinned  toothlessly,  as  he bowed  before  Grandon  and  Vernia.

“I  am  gratified  that  we  arrived  in  time to  save  Your  Majesties  from  the  Valkars,” he  said.  "Guest  chambers  have been  prepared  for  you  and  your  warrior aboard  my  flagship.”  His  eyes  next  fell on  the  cowering  San  Thoy.  "So,  traitor, we  meet  again.  I doubt  not  that  His Majesty  of  Huitsen  will  contrive  exquisite tortures  for  you  when  he  has  heard  the story  of  your  perfidy.  Seize  him,  men.” His  glance  next  fell  on  So  Lan  and  the other  unarmed  yellow  men  who  formed the  balance  of  the  party.  "Who  are  you?” he  asked.

"We  are  from  various  crews.  Excellency, sent  ashore  for  water  and  captured in  engagements  with  the  Valkars,  who held  us  as  slaves,”  replied  So  Lan.

"So?  Then  report  to  my  mojo,  who v/ill  assign  you  new  berths.”

At  this  moment,  one  of  Thid  Yet’s aides  ran  up  to  announce  that  the  Valkars were  attacking  in  force.

BUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS


"Tell  the  mattork  crews  to  make  a stand  at  the  edge  of  the  woods  and  mow them  down  without  mercy,”  commanded Thid  Yet.  "These  warty  monsters  need a lesson,  and  now  is  the  time  to  read  them one  they  will  not  soon  forget.”

As  they  marched  toward  the  harbor, Grandon  heard  the  rattle  of  mattork  fire, which  continued  for  several  minutes. Then  it  suddenly  stopped,  and  he  concluded that  the  Valkars,  seeing  that  they had  run  into  an  ambush,  had  retreated. This  he  afterward  learned  was  really  the case.

They  found  the  beach  lined  with  the small  boats  of  the  Huitsenni,  while  the pirate  fleet  rode  at  anchor  less  than  a quarter  of  a mile  from  the  entrance  to the  cove.  Grandon,  Vernia,  Kantar  and San  Thoy  were  rowed  to  the  flagship  in the  boat  of  Thid  Yet.  Back  on  the  deck of  the  vessel  once  more,  the  Romojak gave  swift  orders.

"Return  Her  Majesty  of  Reabon  to  her former  quarters,  and  keep  her  door  constantly guarded,”  he  told  his  mojo.  "His Majesty,  here,  together  with  his  warrior and  our  treacherous  mojak,  will  have  to be  put  in  irons  and  confined  below  decks. And  keep  two  armed  guards  constantly before  their  door.  They  escaped  too  easily the  last  time.”

Vernia  was  led  away  to  her  cabin,  and the  three  men  were  fitted  with  thick  metal collars,  to  which  heavy  chains  were  attached, linking  them  together.  Then  they were  lowered  down  a hatchway  and marched  along  a corridor,  to  be  thrust into  a small  and  exceedingly  filthy  room. The  door  of  heavy  serali  planks  was barred,  and  Grandon  heard  two  guards take  their  places  before  it.

Soon  the  anchors  were  hoisted  and  the sails  unfurled.  With  the  flagship  in  the lead,  the  fleet  once  more  sailed  southward.

CHAPTER  9 THE  SECRET  GATE

The  room  in  which  Grandon,  Kantar and  San  Thoy  had  been  confined  on the  pirate  ship  was  immediately  below the  deck,  hence  free  from  the  bilge-water which  swished  in  the  hold  below,  though not  from  the  offensive  odor  which  arose from  it.  Light  filtered  down  to  them through  the  loosely  fitted  deck  planking and  also  shone  through  several  small holes,  each  about  two  inches  in  diameter, which  were  bored  high  up  in  the  ship’s side,  evidently  to  serve  as  loopholes through  which  torks  might  be  fired.  But they  also  acted,  to  some  extent,  as  ventilators, making  it  possible  for  the  prisoners to  breathe  the  fresh  sea  air  by  pressing their  noses  to  them,  as  well  as  admitting enough  light  to  partly  dispel  the  cheerless gloom  of  the  humid  and  stuffy  interior.

The  chains  with  which  the  three  men were  fastened  together  by  their  metal collars,  were  about  five  feet  in  length,  the gunner  being  in  the  middle  and  Grandon and  San  Thoy  at  either  end.  After  they had  sniffed  the  fresh  air  for  some  time, the  three  sat  down,  as  if  by  mutual  consent, resting  their  backs  against  the  rough wall.

"Well,  Gunner,  it  looks  as  if  Thid  Yet has  us  in  a tight  place  this  time,”  said Grandon.

"We  have  been  in  tighter.  Majesty,” replied  Kantar.

"True.  But  this  arrangement  presents a rather  knotty  problem.  In  the  first  place, there  are  two  guards  outside  the  door now  instead  of  one.  In  the  second  place, the  wily  Romojak  has  chained  us  to  that carrion,”  indicating  San  Thoy,  "who  will surely  make  an  outcry  if  we  attempt  an escape.  Of  course  we  can  throttle  him, or  dash  his  brains  out  against  the  wall, but  it  would  be  difficult  to  slay  him  so


WEIRD  TALES

quietly  that  the  guards  outside  the  door would  not  hear,  and  at  least  suspect  something amiss.”

San  Thoy  shifted  his  quid  of  kerra spores  and  spat  through  a crack.

"May  I remind  Your  Majesty,”  he said,  "that  I am  as  anxious  to  escape  from Thid  Yet  as  you.^  I am  to  be  slain  by  slow torture  upon  my  arrival  in  Huitsen.”

"True,”  replied  Grandon.  "Perhaps you  will  be  worthy  of  our  confidence  on that  score,  if  on  no  other.”

At  this  moment  one  of  the  guards opened  the  door  to  admit  a menial  from the  galley.  This  greasy  and  profusely perspiring  individual  carried  a tray  on which  were  three  large  eating-bowls  and three  smaller  drinking-bowls.  These  he set  before  the  prisoners,  and  hastily  withdrew as  if  fearful  that  they  might  attack him.

When  the  door  had  closed  behind  him, San  Thoy  quickly  rolled  up  his  red  quid and  stuck  it  to  the  back  of  his  left  hand. Then  with  his  right  he  dipped  into  his eating-bowl,  feeding  greedily  and  from time  to  time  taking  copious  drafts  from his  drinking-bowl  to  wash  down  the  food which  he  could  only  mumble.

Grandon  examined  the  mixture  in  the bowl  before  him.  It  smelled  savory enough,  and  upon  tasting  it,  he  found that  it  was  a mixture  of  flaked  fish  and chopped  mushrooms,  stewed  together  in a sauce  that  was  highly  spiced  and  quite peppery.  His  drinking-bowl  contained freshly  brewed  kova,  slightly  weak,  but palatable.

"Not  bad  for  prison  fare,”  he  commented to  the  gunner,  who  he  noticed had  begun  to  make  good  progress  with his  meal.

"It’s  the  one  good  thing  about  these yellow  vermin  which  I am  willing  to  concede. They  can  certainly  cook,”  replied Kantar.

"We  are  fortunate  in  being  imprisoned with  royalty,”  said  San  Thoy,  smacking his  lips.  "We  should  not  otherwise  be  so well  fed.”  His  meal  over,  he  deftly flipped  the  red  quid  from  the  back  of  his left  hand  into  his  toothless  mouth,  and resumed  his  mumbling.

For  many  days  the  three  men  were kept  in  their  stuffy  prison.  They  were fed  three  times  a day,  but  otherwise  saw nothing  of  their  captors.  By  peering through  the  loopholes  they  could  amuse themselves  in  the  daytime  by  watching such  birds,  fish  and  reptiles  as  came  within their  line  of  vision.

During  this  period,  however,  they  had not  been  idle  in  attempting  to  find  some way  of  escape.  It  was  the  gunner  whose ingenuity  devised  the  means  for  the  first step  in  this  direction.  Although  he  had been  disarmed  he  had  not  been  deprived of  the  small  packet  of  tools  commonly carried  by  every  man  of  his  profession, which  were  for  the  purpose  of  taking apart  and  assembling  mattorks  that  sometimes jammed  or  failed  in  other  v^ays  to work  properly  and  smoothly.  These  tools, like  those  used  by  terrestrial  watch-makers, were  small  and  fine,  as  the  mechanisms on  which  they  were  used  were  extremely delicate.

He  began  on  the  lock  which  held Grandon’s  metal  collar  around  his  neck. The  task  seemed  hopeless  at  first,  for  the Huitsenni  were  skilled  in  the  fabrication of  such  things  as  fetters,  weapons  and  instruments of  torture.  But  after  many days  of  patient  work  he  eventually  had the  satisfaction  of  springing  the  clasp, making  it  possible  for  the  Earth-man  to remove  his  collar  by  simply  bending  it back  on  the  hinge.  Grandon  then  worked on  the  gunner’s  collar  under  his  direction, and  not  being  mechanically  inclined,  took considerable  time  in  achieving  the  same favor  for  his  henchman.

BUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS


This  done,  Grandon  suggested  that  the gunner  open  the  lock  on  San  Thoy’s  collar. The  task  did  not  please  him,  but  he was  too  well  trained  a soldier  to  quarrel with  the  orders  of  his  sovereign,  and  so carried  out  his  distasteful  duty  without  a murmur.

They  had  got  this  far  with  their  plans for  escape,  and  were  considering  what their  next  move  should  be,  when  Kantar, who  had  been  standing  with  his  eye  to  a loophole,  suddenly  infonmed  the  Earthman  that  he  saw  land.

Geandon  leaped  to  a hole  beside  him and  peered  out.  He  saw  that  the  ship was  entering  what  appeared  to  be  the  narrow cluuinel  of  a fiord.  The  rugged  cliffs, sparsely  clad  in  places  with  stunted conifers,  towered  to  a tremendous  height above  the  placid  waters,  which  calmly  reflected their  beetling  frowns.  Sharp  commands and  the  creaking  of  pulleys  were heard  above  them  as  the  sails  were  lowered. Then  oars  rattled,  and  splashed  into the  water,  thrust  through  the  rowingholes  beneath  them.

San  Thc^  had  told  Grandon  and  Kantar thi^  Huitsen,  the  capital  city  of  the Huitsenni,  could  be  reached  from  the  sea only  by  way  of  a hidden  passage  through towering  cliffs.  If  he  had  spoken  truth, then  this  was  the  beginning  of  that  passageway, and  the  time  left  to  them  for freeing  themselves  and  Vernia,  and  attempting to  escape,  was  short  indeed. The  pirate  himself  confirmed  this  a moment later,  as  he  too  sprang  up  to  peer through  a loophole.

"This  is  the  way  to  the  secret  gate,”  he said.  "Watch,  and  you  will  see  how  it  is opened.”

Grandon’s  first  ffiought  was  that  they must  immediately  attempt  esciqie,  for once  in  the  notorious  port  of  peril,  this would  undoubtedly  prove  impossible.

Yet  a rash  attempt  now  seemed  equally hopeless.  He  had  counted  on  darkness  as an  ally,  but  it  was  yet  midafternoon,  and the  probability  was  that  the  fleet  would dock  ere  the  black,  moonless  night  of Venus  should  descend.  He  had  expected to  strike  that  very  evening,  whai  the cook’s  helper  would  bring  them  their  repast. Leaving  San  Thoy  tp  deal  with  the helper,  he  and  the  gunner  had  planned to  spring  upon  the  two  guards  who  stood outside  the  door.  Could  the  deed  have been  accomplished  without  great  noise, the  rest  would  not  have  been  impracticable; for  under  cover  of  darkness  it would  have  been  possible  for  the  three men  to  rescue  Vernia  from  her  cabin, steal  a boat,  and  be  off.

But  now.  It  seemed,  th^  must  make new  plans.

"How  soon  will  we  dock,  San  Thoy?” he  askecL

"In  a very  diort  time  now.  Majesty,” was  the  reply.

"Before  riark?”

"Oh,  long  before.”

Grandon  pondered  for  a momott. Then  he  spoke  to  Kantar.  "We’il  have to  think  up  a new  scheme.  Gunner.  And vffien  the  time  comes,  we’ll  have  to  thkflc fast.”

"I  will  look  for  a sign  from  you  when the  time  does  come,’”  rqjlied  Kantar.

"And  I,  also.  Majesty,”  echoed  San Thoy.  Then  he  exclaimed;  "Seel  They are  opening  the  secret  entrance!”

The  channel  had  narrowed  ncrw,  so much  that  it  seemed  the  ship’s  oars  would be  shattered  against  the  jagged  cli&. And  straight  ahead  was  what  appeared  to be  a solid  wall  of  rcKk,  barring  their  further progress.  Astounded,  Grandon  saw that  a crooked  crack  extending  medially from  top  to  bottom  was  slowly  widening as  the  two  halves  of  the  wall  ahead,  each of  which  must  have  weighed  thousands


WEIRD  TALES

of  tons,  moved  apart  and  slid  into  the cliffs  on  each  side.

The  ship  nosed  through  the  opening and  into  a dark  cavern.  The  lights  flashed on,  and  revealed  a stalactite-festooned ceiling  overhead,  while  the  peaks  of white  stalagmites,  projecting  above  the surface  of  the  water,  made  it  obvious that  the  floor  of  the  cave  had  not  always been  flooded.  Save  for  the  gong  which timed  the  strokes  of  the  rowers,  and  the splashing  of  the  oars,  the  place  was  as quiet  as  a tomb,  its  placid  waters  gleaming mirror-like  ahead  of  the  ship  and rippling  in  the  spreading  wake  like molten  jet  shot  with  silver  reflections.

Presently  daylight  appeared  ahead,  and the  ship’s  lights  were  turned  off.  A moment later  they  emerged  through  a high, arched  opening  into  a canal.  The  straight banks  were  lined  with  masonry,  evidently to  prevent  the  salt  water  from  seeping through  and  spoiling  the  crops  of  edible mushrooms,  food  ferns  and  kerra  ferns which  were  cultivated  in  orderly  fields on  either  side.  'Those  v/ho  worked  in these  fields,  San  Thoy  said,  were  slaves who  represented  most  of  the  races  and nationalities  of  Zorovia,  some  captured in  coastal  raids,  but  most  taken  from ships  that  had  fallen  prey  to  the  yellow pirates.

Swiftly  propelled  by  the  lusty  strokes of  the  rowers,  and  again  aided  by  the  batwing sails,  which  had  been  unfolded  as soon  as  the  cave  mouth  was  left  behind, the  ship  glided  into  a circular  land-locked harbor,  lined  with  docks  built  of  serali wood  and  set  on  pilings  of  the  same tough  material.  Behind  the  docks  were warehouses  of  white  stone,  and  beyond these,  at  the  far  side,  Grandon  could  see the  conical  roofs  and  upper  structures  of what  appeared  to  be  a large  and  populous city,  principally  composed  of  odd,  hiveshaped buildings  unlike  anything  he  had

ever  seen  or  heard  of,  either  on  Earth  or Venus.

Thousands  of  queer,  bat-winged  craft of  the  pirates  were  moored  at  the  docks, and  many  more  rode  at  anchor  in  the harbor.  There  were  also  a large  number of  the  merchant  and  fishing  ships  captured by  the  Huitsenni  and  brought  in  as prizes.  Some  of  these  were  undergoing alterations,  being  fitted  with  the  bat-wing sails,  and  otherwise  converted  for  the  use of  the  yellow  men.

STILL  peering  through  his  loophole, Grandon  saw  that  the  flagship  was nearing  the  dock.  Soon  the  long  oars  beneath him  were  drawn  in,  and  ropes  were cast  to  waiting  Huitsenni,  who  made them  fast.

From  almost  directly  above  Grandon’s head,  a gangplank  was  lowered,  striking the  dock  with  a heavy  thud.  Down  this plank  walked  Thid  Yet,  Romojak  of  the Navies  of  Huitsen,  escorting  Vernia.  The Princess  looked  deathly  pale,  but  showed no  other  sign  of  fear.  With  her  head held  proudly  erect,  and  graceful  carriage, she  showed  only  disdain  for  her  squat, greasy  captor,  slouching  along  beside  her. Behind  them  strode  a guard  of  six  pirates, drawn  scarbos  in  their  hands.

A great  lumbering  one-wheeled  vehicle, its  cab  supported  on  an  inner idling-wheel  at  its  center,  rumbled  up  to the  dock.  These  vehicles  were  common everywhere  on  Zorovia,  but  not  the  beasts that  drew  this  one.  Hitched,  one  before and  one  behind  the  great  wheel,  they were  larger  than  Norman  horses,  covered with  long  white  curly  hair  of  a silky^exture,  and  each  armed  with  three  twisted horns,  one  curving  forward  from  the  tip of  the  nose  and  the  other  two  arching above  the  eyes.  Their  ankles,  also,  were armed  with  sharp  bony  spurs,  projecting toward  the  front  on  the  forelegs,  and

BUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS


toward  the  back  on  the  hind  legs.  Their hoofs  were  split  into  three  sections,  each of  which  was  armed  with  a claw.

Thid  Yet  assisted  Vernia  to  enter  the vehicle,  then  clambered  up  after  her.  The drivers  shouted  to  their  beasts,  and  the huge  wheel  lumbered  away.

"Where  are  they  taking  her?”  Grandon asked  San  Thoy.

"To  the  palace,  no  doubt,”  the  yellow man  replied,  "where  we,  too,  will  be taken  shortly.”

"If  my  plan  works.  I’ll  go  to  the  palace, but  not  as  a prisoner,”  Grandon  told his  two  companions.  "We  will  attain  at least  temporary  liberty  if  you  throw  off your  collars  when  I raise  my  right  hand, then  follow  me.”

Grandon  saw  the  loot  from  his  camp, and  the  weapons  and  accouterments  of his  Fighting  Traveks,  carried  ashore. Then  the  door  of  their  prison  was  flung open  and  a self-important  mojo,  accompanied by  four  guards,  all  carrying  their scarbos  in  their  hands,  ordered  them  out.

They  were  ushered  up  a companionway,  and  on  reaching  the  deck,  were forced  into  a line  of  yellow  men  who, laden  with  their  loot,  were  hurrying ashore.

They  had  reached  the  center  of  the swaying  gangplank  when  Grandon  suddenly raised  his  right  hand.  Simultaneously the  three  prisoners  threw  off  the collars  which  their  captors  had,  up  until then,  believed  to  be  locked.  Before  they could  act,  the  Earth-man  had  turned  and dived  into  the  water  beneath,  swiftly  followed by  his  two  companions.

CHAPTER  10 THE  PORT  OF  PERIL

CONFINED  in  the  identical  cabin  from which  she  had  shortly  before  been stolen  by  San  Thoy,  Vernia  hoped  against

hope  that  Grandon  would  find  some  way to  rescue  her.  But  as  the  pirates  sailed southward,  day  after  day,  and  no  word of  any  kind  came  from  him,  hope  began to  fade.

Day  and  night,  two  armed  guards  were kept  constantly  before  her  door,  the  only exit  from  her  cabin.  At  first  she  attempted to  question  them,  but  they  would not  answer.  Then  she  tried  quizzing  the slave  who  brought  her  meals.  He  was ready  enough  to  converse  about  her  desires in  the  way  of  food,  but  when  she tried  interrogating  him  about  Grandon  or about  their  destination,  he  always  professed ignorance.

Thus  was  her  mind  burdened  with double  anxiety — the  fear  that  Grandon might  be  tortured  or  slain,  and  the  certainty that  each  day  was  bringing  her nearer  to  the  lascivious  monster  who  had bribed  the  Huitsenni  to  capture  her.  Although no  mention  of  his  name  had passed  the  lips  of  any  of  the  pirates  in her  presence,  she  was  positive  that  the instigator  of  the  plot  was  none  other  than the  pleasure-bloated  tyrant,  Zanaloth, Torrogo  of  Merneram — Zanaloth,  at  the mere  mention  of  whose  name  comely maidens  would  shudder,  whose  scarlet suite  was  notorious  throughout  all  Zorovia,  and  whose  subjects  with  sweethearts, sisters,  daughters  or  wives  of  more than  ordinary  beauty  lived  in  constant dread  that  their  loved  ones  might  be  summoned to  the  seraglio  of  the  tyrant.

Her  days  she  spent  in  gazing  out through  the  small  window  of  her  cabin, her  nights  in  restless  turning  and  tossing upon  her  sleeping-shelf.  But  a day  came when  the  shutter  of  her  window  was closed  so  that  she  could  not  see  out.  Her cabin  door,  also,  was  locked.  Evidently, she  thought,  something  was  about  to  take place  on  or  near  the  ship  which  the Huitsenni  did  not  wish  her  to  see.  A


WEIRD  TALES

short  time  later  she  heard  the  noises  of the  bat-wing  sails  being  lowered  and  the oars  shipped.

For  some  time  she  heard  only  the sound  of  commands  and  the  splashing  of oars.  Presently  the  oars  were  unshipped and  there  was  the  grating  shock  of  the vessel  grinding  its  side  against  some  solid object.  Then  came  the  tramp  of  many feet  on  the  deck.

Shortly  thereafter,  her  door  was  unlocked and  flung  open.  Thid  Yet  stood before  her.  "Come,”  he  said.  "We  have arrived  in  Huitsen.”

In  Huitsen!  Then  the  reason  for  the closed  shutter  and  locked  door  was  apparent. They  had  not  let  her  see  the  concealed entrance  to  this  hidden  lair  of  the yellow  pirates  because  she  would  not  be expected  to  remain  here  permanently — because  she  was  to  be  sold  into  slavery outside  the  domains  of  the  Huitsenni.

She  stepped  out  of  the  cabin.  There was  nothing  else  for  her  to  do.  Thid  Yet led  her  toward  the  gangplank  and  a guard  of  six  pirates  fell  in  behind  them. She  glanced  around,  hoping  to  catch  sight of  Grandon  or  Kantar.  Concealing,  as best  she  could,  her  disappointment  at  not seeing  them,  she  walked  across  the  plank with  her  captor.

The  one-wheeled  cart  was  no  novelty to  Vernia.  She  had  seen  many  like  it  in her  own  country.  But  the  fearsome, three-horned  white  beasts  that  were hitched  to  it  were  creatures  she  had  never seen  or  heard  of  before.

"Zandars,”  said  Thid  Yet,  noting  her look  of  surprize.  "They  make  strong beasts  of  burden  and  admirable  chargers for  our  warriors  to  ride.  We  get  them from  the  White  Ibbits,  who  inhabit  the Mountains  of  Eternal  Snow,  far  to  the south.  Let  me  help  you.”

He  assisted  her  to  enter  the  high  cab.

The  Romojak  climbed  in  with  her  and the  heavy  vehicle  trundled  away.  The  six guards  trotted  beside  it,  three  on  a side.

Traversing  a narrow  passageway  between two  stone  warehouses,  they emerged  on  a broad  thoroughfare  of heavy  serali  planking  like  that  of  which the  dock  was  constructed.  The  hoofs  of the  zandars  echoed  hollowly  as  from  a bridge  and  the  large  single  wheel  of  the cart  made  a sound  much  like  the  continuous rolling  of  thunder.  This  thoroughfare, like  those  which  crossed  it  at  various intervals,  was  lined  with  tall,  hiveshaped buildings  with  oval  windows  and doorways.  Like  the  warehouses,  these buildings  were  of  stone.

Yellow  children,  all  of  them  naked and  bald-headed,  scampered  from  in front  of  the  vehicle  and  then  paused  t® stare  at  them  with  their  queer,  cat-like eyes.  Bald  housewives,  xmclad  save  ^r short  leathern  aprons  which  depended from  their  ample  waists,  paused  in  their work  to  gaze  at  them  through  oval  windows or  from  the  doorsteps  of  their  conical houses.  Beside  each  doorstep,  Vernia noticed  that  a hole  had  been  cut  in  the planking,  and  many  of  the  women  held lines  which  hung  down  into  these  holes. She  could  not  imagine  what  they  were doing  until  one  female  suddenly  jerked up  a flopping,  silvery-scaled  fish.  She judged  from  this  and  the  hollow  sound of  the  planking  that  this  section  of  the city  was  built  over  the  inland  sea.

There  were  few  men  about  at  this  time of  day,  but  those  lolled  against  the  houses or  squatted  on  the  doorsteps,  squinting apathetically  up  at  the  passing  vehicle. The  entire  hairless,  toothless  population, male  and  female,  from  the  tiniest  child playing  naked  in  the  street  to  the  oldest crone  fishing  beside  her  doorstep,  mum* bled  kerra  spores  and  expectorated  enormous quantities  of  the  red  juice.

BUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS


The  vehicle  rapidly  drew  near  to  a towering  structure  which  would  have made  a hxmdred  of  any  of  the  lesser buildings  around  it.  Like  them,  however, it  was  hive-shaped,  and  built  of  stone.

They  rumbled  through  an  immense oval  doorway  and  halted.  Thid  Yet clambered  down,  and  assisted  Vernia  to alight.  They  were  in  an  enclosed  court onto  which  several  oval  doors  opened. Each  doorway  was  guarded  by  two  soldiers.

"This  is  the  palace  of  Yin  Yin,  Rogo of  Huitsen,”  said  Thid  Yet.  "He  has commanded  that  you  be  brought  into  his presence  before  we  take  you  to  our  rendezvous with  Zan ” He  checked  himself abruptly,  and  a look  of  vexation crossed  his  greasy  features,  as  if  he  had unthinkingly  mentioned  some  forbidden thing.

"Whether  you  finish  the  name  or  leave it  unspoken  does  not  matter,”  said  Vernia. "I  have  known  all  along  that  the man  who  offered  your  Rogo  such  a fabulous sum  for  me  that  he  dared  the  wrath of  the  mighty  fighter  who  is  my  husband, and  the  power  of  unbeaten  Reabon,  to abduct  me,  could  be  none  other  than Zanaloth  of  Mernerum.”

“After  all,  what  does  it  matter,  Zanaloth or  another?  You  will  know  soon enough,  in  any  event.  But  come.  His Majesty  is  expecting  you,  and  may  grow impatient.”

Thid  Yet  conducted  her  through  the nearest  doorway,  the  six  pirates  falling  in behind  them,  and  the  two  guards  saluting the  Romojak  as  they  entered.  It  led  onto a gently  sloping  ramp  which  spiraled  upward. The  ramp  was  paved  with  black stone  dotted  with  golden  studs,  which prevented  the  sandals  of  climbers  from slipping  as  they  ascended.  At  intervals  of

about  fifty  feet  on  either  side  were  set ornate  golden  vessels  half  filled  with sand.  Even  had  Thid  Yet  not  utilized these  freely  on  their  way  up,  Vernia would  have  recognized  their  purpose  by the  fact  that  the  sand  was  stained  with spots  of  kerra  juice.

After  a considerable  climb  they  came to  a level  passageway  which  led  tihem  to a large  oval  doorway  hung  with  scarlet curtains  and  guarded  by  two  yellow  warriors. The  guards  saluted  smartly  at  sight of  the  Romojak  with  his  prisoner,  and drew  back  the  scarlet  hangings.

Vernia  was  ushered  into  a circular room  about  two  hundred  feet  in  diameter, and  so  tremendously  high  that  it  had  the appearance  of  a shaft,  rather  than  a room. Its  walls  were  of  iridescent  crystal  blocks which  reflected  in  many  lovely  hues  the light  that  entered  through  four  immense oval  windows  set  in  the  top  of  the  conical dome.  At  intervals  of  about  fifteen  feet it  was  circled  by  narrow  balconies,  the grille-work  of  which  was  plated  with gold  and  powdered  with  sparkling jewels.  Behind  the  balconies  many  oval doorways  led  to  apartments  on  the  various levels.  On  these  balconies  were  seated several  hundred  women  and  children, evidently  members  of  the  royal  household. The  floor  was  a single  immense mirror  which  reflected  every  detail  so clearly  and  faithfully  that  when  Vernia looked  down,  it  seemed  that  she  was standing  over  a shaft  of  a depth  equal  to the  height  of  the  one  which  towered above  her.

Vernia  was  led  to  the  center  of  this magnificent  hall  where  a circular  divan, cut  from  a single  block  of  clear  crystal, supported  a scarlet  cushion  at  a height  of about  four  feet  above  the  floor.  Squatting, cross-legged,  in  the  middle  of  this cushion  was  an  extremely  corpulent  yellow man,  who,  except  for  the  scarlet  cine814

WEIRD  TALES

tiire  about  his  loins,  was  clad  entirely  in jewelry.  Jewels  blazed  from  the  rings which  all  but  concealed  his  pudgy  fingers and  toes,  and  flashed  from  his  golden anklets,  bracelets,  armlets,  and  necklaces. Two  immense  diamonds  stretched  the lobes  of  his  ears  almost  to  his  shoulders and  a large  ruby  sparkled  on  each  of  his broad  nostrils.  His  bald  head  was  the only  unadorned  part  of  his  anatomy,  but shone  as  brightly  as  if  it,  too,  had  been burnished  by  die  royal  lapidary.

Behind  the  throne  stood  two  muscular guards,  each  leaning  on  a huge,  twohanded  scarbo  that  reached  from  the  floor to  his  chin.  And  back  of  these  in  a semicircle were  ranged  purple-clad  nobles  and courtiers,  beside  each  of  which  stood  a jar  of  sand.  At  each  side  of  the  throne stood  six  slave-girls.  Two  held  golden, jewel-encrusted  cuspidors  which  the  one at  the  right  or  the  left  extended,  depending on  which  way  the  monarch  turned his  head  when  he  wished  to  expectorate. Other  girls  bore  trays  of  newly  opened kerra  pods,  ready  for  chewing,  and  still others,  jeweled  cups  and  pots  of  kova which  were  kept  hot  by  small  aromatic oil  lamps  burning  beneath  them.  And  a young  girl,  scarcely  more  than  half grown,  held  a bundle  of  scarlet  napkins, with  one  of  which  she  v%'iped  the  royal chins  from  time  to  time — there  were  four of  them — then  passed  the  soiled  cloths  to an  attendant.

As  Thid  Yet  came  before  the  throne with  his  beautiful  prisoner,  he  bowed  low with  right  hand  extended  palm  downward, the  universal  Zorovian  salute  to royalty.  Then  he  humbly  waited  for  the ruler  to  speak.

Vernia,  however,  remained  proudly erect,  returning  the  appraising  look  of the  creature  on  the  throne  with  one  of withering  disdain.

Yin  yin,  Rogo  of  Huitsen,  spat  into the  jeweled  cuspidor  tendered  by  the girl  at  his  right,  submitted  to  having  his multiple  chins  wiped,  and  then  turned his  cat-like  eyes  on  his  Romojak.

"Are  you  positive  that  this  slender beauty,  just  budded  into  womanhood,  is the  Torroga  of  Reabon?”  he  asked.

"I  am  positive,  Majesty,”  the  Romojak replied.  "She  answers  every  description, and  wears  die  scarlet  and  insignia  of  her imperial  house."

Yin  Yin  turned  to  a purple-clad  noble who  stood  near  at  hand.

"Fetch  the  painting,”  he  commanded. The  man  sped  away  and  vanished through  one  of  the  numerous  doorways, to  return  a moment  later  followed  by  two slaves  who  bore  a life-size  portrait  of Vernia.  She  instantly  recognized  it  as having  been  taken  from  one  of  her  war vessels,  all  of  which  carried  such  paintings before  which  every  sailor  and  ofiicer bowed  each  morning  in  token  of  his  loyalty and  submission  to  his  imperial  ruler.

Yin  Yin  ordered  the  painting  set  up  a little  to  one  side,  then  gazed  alternately at  the  portrait  and  the  living  original  who stood  before  him,  for  some  time.

Presently  he  said:  "It  is  indeed  Vernia of  Reabon,  for  she  is,  if  anything,  more beautiful  than  her  picture.  You  have done  well,  Thid  Yet.  For  this  we  reward you  with  a thousand  kantols  of  land  and a thousand  keds  of  gold.  We  are  just.”

"Yin  Yin,  Rogo  of  Huitsen,  is  the fountainhead  of  justice,”  intoned  the courtiers.

"May  it  please  Your  Majesty,  I also captured  her  husband,  the  mighty  fighter known  as  'Grandon  of  Terra’,”  said  Thid Yet,  proudly.

"So  I have  heard,”  replied  the  monarch. "For  this  deed  we  reward  you  with a himdred  strong  slaves  to  work  your land.  We  are  just.”

BUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS


"Yin  Yin,  Rogo  of  Huitsen,  is  the  living source  of  justice,”  chorused  the  courtiers.

"I  have  heard,  also,”  continued  Yin Yin,  "that  Grandon  of  Terra  has  escaped.”

Thid  Yet  looked  dumfounded,  but  at this  news  Vernia’s  heart  gave  a great  leap of  joy.

"He  escaped,”  the  Rogo  went  on,  "before he  reached  the  dock.  Hence  you, and  you  alone,  are  responsible.  For  this carelessness  we  commend  you  to  the  expert olhces  of  our  headsman.”  One  of the  guards  behind  the  throne  here  shouldered his  great,  two-handed  scarbo  and stepped  forward,  but  the  Rogo  held  up his  hand.  "Wait,  Ez  Bin,”  he  commanded. "Be  not  so  impetuous.”  He turned  again  to  Thid  Yet.  "If  you  bring me  not  Grandon  of  Terra  before  ten  days have  passed,  then  submit  your  neck  to Ez  Bin.  We  are  just,  but  we  are  merciful.”

"Both  just  and  merciful  is  Yin  Yin, Rogo  of  Huitsen,”  dried  the  courtiers.

The  monarch  moved  a finger.  Ez  Bin returned  to  his  post.  He  moved  another finger.  Two  of  the  six  guards  who  had followed  Thid  Yet  and  Vernia  stepped up  beside  the  Romojak.  Then  the  three bowed  low  before  the  throne  with  right hands  extended  palms  downward,  and wheeling,  left  the  room.

Yin  Yin,  meanwhile,  refreshed  himself with  a cup  of  steaming  kova  and stuffed  his  mouth  with  fresh  kerra  spores. He  mumbled  them  for  some  time  in  silence, ogling  Vernia  the  while,  then  spat and  said:  "We  do  not  wonder  that  a certain torrogo,  who  shall  be  nameless,  offered us  the  price  of  an  empire  for  you. You  are  more  than  worth  it.”

"I  care  not  for  your  compliments,  you yellow  filth,”  retorted  Vernia,  spiritedly.

"Nor  we  for  your  insults,  my  little

beauty,”  replied  Yin  Yin.  "You  «e  now but  a chattel,  a rather  spirited  chattel  to be  sure,  a regular  she-marmelot  of  a chattel, but  we  like  you  that  way.  We  have subdued  many  such.”

"To  your  everlasting  dishonor  and their  endless  shame.”

Yin  Yin  grinned.  "That  is  a point  on which  you  will  find  many  who  will  disagree with  you.  We  will  not  argue  it. We  never  argue,  for  argument  with  us  is always  futile.  It  would  be  unfair  for  us to  argue.”  He  turned  to  the  noble  who had  brought  him  the  picture.  "Let  us see  our  contract  with — with  this  nameless torrogo,”  he  commanded.

"Name  Zanaloth  of  Memenun,  or keep  him  nameless.  It  is  all  one  to  me,” said  Vernia.

"Who  told  you  that.^”  he  asked, sharply.

"You  could  never  guess,  and  I shall never  tell  you,”  ■ replied  Vernia,  defiantly.

"Ah  well.  It  doesn’t  matter.  You  will know  soon  enough.”  He  took  a scroll which  the  noble  extended  to  him  and perused  it  for  some  time.  "Hum.  It  is as  I thought.  This  contract  says  we  shall meet  before  the  harbor  of  the  Island  of the  Valkars,  one  ship  of  his  and  one  of ours,  on  the  morning  of  the  fourteenth day  of  the  ninth  endir  in  the  four  thousand and  tenth  year  of  Thorth.  He  will have,  on  the  day  previous,  landed  the slaves  and  treasure  on  the  island,  where the  fear  of  the  Valkars  will  prevent  the former  attempting  to  escape  bej'ond  the lines  of  the  few  guards  who  will  be  left to  defend  them.

"When  our  commander  has  satisfied himself  that  the  slaves  and  treasure agreed  upon  have  been  left  on  the  island, he  will  deliver  to  the  Torrogo  of  Mernerum,  or  his  agent,  the  person  of  Her  Imperial Majesty,  Vernia  of  Reabon.


WEIRD  TALES

"It  does  not  say  ’unharmed’,  nor  is there  anything  in  this  contract  to  prevent our  taking  this  Vernia  of  Reabon  to  be our  handmaiden  until  such  time  as  it  may be  necessary  for  her  to  sail  for  the  rendezvous with  Zanaloth.”

He  moved  a finger,  and  two  of  the four  guards  who  stood  behind  Vernia stepped  up  beside  her.

"Take  her  to  the  seraglio,”  he  commanded, "and  tell  Ufa  to  prepare  her this  night  for  the  royal  visit;  for  it  may be  that  we  will  honor  her  with  the  light of  our  presence.  We  are  generous.”

"His  Majesty,  Yin  Yin,  Rogo  of  Huitsen,  is  most  generous,”  chorused  the courtiers,  as  Vernia,  her  heart  sinking within  her,  was  led  away.

Swimming  among  the  pilings  that  support  the  wooden  streets  ofHuitsen, Grandon  and  his  companions  meet  with  strange  adventures  as  the Earthrman  tries  to  reach  his  stolen  bride.  But  T in  T in  is  all-powerful here,  and  is  determined  that  the  beautiful  Vernia  shall  be  his,  before he  sells  her  to  Zanaloth  of  Mernerum  for  the  price  of  an  empire.  A terrific  conflict  ensues.  Don’t  fail  to  read  it  in  the  January  issue  of MVEIRD  TALES,  on  sale  December  1st

The  Door  to  Yesterday

{ Continued  from  page  748 )

senger  reappeared  outside  her  bedroom window  and  dropped  the  bat  wing  at  her feet.

"'That  bat  wing,  he  was  to  the  Voodooist  what  the  signal  of  distress  is  to  the Master  Mason  or  the  fiery  cross  is  to  a member  of  a Scottish  clan.  It  is  a summons which  could  not  be  denied.  By  no means;  no,  indeed.

"We  saw  her  serve  Ayida  Oueddo’s altar,  we  saw  her  when  she  had  been  apprehended, we  saw  her  led  to  execution. Ha,  and  did  we  not  also  see  her  single out  your  ancestor  and  hurl  her  dying curse  at  him?  Did  not  she  say;  'As  I am crushed  this  day,  so  shall  you  and  yours be  crushed  by  my  cuangd?  But  certainly.

"Ouanga  in  their  patois  is  a most elastic  term.  There  is  no  literal  translation for  it;  vaguely,  it  means  the  same  as 'medicine’  when  used  by  the  Red  Indian, or  'magic’  when  spoken  of  by  the  Black

African,  or  'devil-devil’  when  used  by natives  of  the  South  Sea  islands.  Define it  accurately  we  can  not;  understand  it we  can.  It  is  the  working,  as  of  a charm, through  some  unknown  superphysical agency.

"Eh  bien,  did  it  not  work?  I shall  say as  much.  Three  of  your  family  died  most horribly,  with  their  bones  crushed,  even as  were  that  poor  young  girl’s  on  that dreadful  day  of  execution  so  long  ago. Only  by  the  mercy  of  heaven  and  the cleverness  of  Jules  de  Grandin  are  you alive  tonight,  and  not  all  crushed  to death.  Monsieur.”

"But ” I began.

" 'But’  be  grilled  upon  hell’s  hottest griddle,”  cut  in  Jules  de  Grandin.  "I thirst.  Cordieu,  Sahara  at  its  dryest  is  as the  rolling  billows  of  the  great  Atlantic compared  to  my  poor  throat,  my  friend.

"Garmon,  quatre  cognacs — tout  vite; s’il  vous  plait!”

W.  T.— 6

^ives  of Alfred  Kramer

By  DONALD  WANDREI

"More  than  once  I fought  like  the savage  I was,  to  get  or  keep  the jemde  of  my  choice."

An  astonishing  story  of  atavism,  of  a throwback  to ancestral  lives

Though  my  train  did  not  pull out  till  eleven  p.  m.,  I had boarded  it  at  ten.  While  the berths  were  being  made  up  I strolled around  There  were  few  passengers  this early  in  the  week.  Indeed,  when  I walked  back  and  took  a seat  in  the smoking-car,  I noticed  but  one  other  occupant. To  my  casual  glance,  he  appeared singularly  repulsive.  His  grayish  face,  an immobile  setness  of  expression,  burning black  eyes  in  which  no  pupil  was  visible, W.  T.— 7

his  gloved  hands  folded  stiffly  in  his  lap, all  combined  to  give  me  an  immediate dislike.

I paid  no  further  attention  to  him  during the  quarter  of  an  hour  or  so  that  I sat  smoking.  Several  times,  however,  I had  an  impression  that  he  was  intently watching  me.

When  I arose  and  began  to  walk  toward my  berth,  I had  an  equally  vivid impression  that  he  addressed  some  remark to  me  in  a low  and  extraordinarily



WEIRD  TALES

husky  voice  just  as  I was  passing  him. So  inaudible  was  his  voice  and  so  marked my  aversion  that  I pretended  I had  not heard  and  continued  on  my  way.

Dismissing  the  incident  from  mind,  I prepared  for  slumber.  A variety  of  noises kept  me  awake.  I heard  brakemen  call, the  train  pull  out,  its  wheels  clack rhythmically.

An  hour  later  I was  still  tossing  restlessly.

At  about  twelve-thirty  I gave  up  my futile  effort  to  sleep,  climbed  from  my berth,  and  slipped  on  a dressing-gown. Cigar  in  hand,  I again  made  my  way back  to  the  smoking-car.  Its  lone  occupant had  evidently  not  moved,  for  he was  still  sitting  where  I last  saw  him.  I did  not  notice  his  lips  move,  but  plainly this  time  I heard  his  abominable  husky voice.

"Won’t  you  join  me  for  a few  miles?” it  said.  "I  am  an  invalid,  you  see.”

Perhaps  his  appeal  for  sympathy touched  me,  or  perhaps  his  obvious  loneliness. At  any  rate,  I suppressed  my  unpleasant reaction  to  his  physical  appearance and  dropped  into  the  chair  opposite him.

I made  some  reference  to  my  unconventional garb,  and  idly  remarked,  "I thought  I’d  have  another  smoke.  Sleep was  impossible.”

"Yes,”  he  responded,  "there  are  times when  one  would  like  to  sleep  but  can  not. It  is  worse,”  he  added  cryptically,  "when one  would  prefer  to  remain  awake,  but can  not.”

A bit  pu22led,  I waited  for  him  to continue.

"I  have  not  slept  for  three  nights,”  he volunteered.

"Indeed?  I am  sorry  if  your  illness prevents  you  from  sleeping,”  I said  politely. J

"No,  it  is  not  that.  My  indisposition

is  of  such  a nature  that  slumber  is  dangerous. I have  kept  myself  awake  by stimulants.  And  the  long  night  hours are  monotonous  when  one  is  alone.”

Casual  though  our  conversation  was thus  far,  and  despite  my  friendly  resolve, I had  been  becoming  more  uneasy. There  was  a kind  of  psychic  chill  in  the air  which  early  autumn  could  not  entirely account  for.  My  companion’s  repellent aspect  was  hardly  moified  by  the  soft lights  around  us.  For  all  the  expression on  his  grayish  face,  an  automaton  or  ventriloquist might  have  been  speaking.  No muscular  change  had  yet  livened  his countenance,  his  lips  had  made  no  perceptible movement.  His  unrelaxing gloved  hands,  the  unnatural  shine  of  his black  eyes,  and  his  rigid  carriage  were  as disquieting  at  close  range  as  they  had been  at  a distance.  Nor  could  I accustom myself  to  the  throaty  degeneracy  of  his speech.  About  his  person  there  was  in addition  an  odor  that  bothered  me.  It was  quite  indefinable,  but  had  an  element of  the  beast  in  it,  and  of  corruption, and  stagnant  sea-water,  and  mildew.

I now  noticed  what  had  hitherto  escaped me,  that  a pile  of  books  lay  beside him.  The  topmost  was  Strindmann’s monograph.  Racial  Memory  in  Dreams. Other  books  underneath  it  dealt  with  abnormal psychology.

"Are  you  a student  of  psychology?”  I asked.

"To  some  extent,  yes,  but  I am  more interested  in  dreams.  You  see,  I have been  troubled  by  nightmares  for  some time.  I am  on  my  way  to  Vienna  to  place myself  under  Strindmann’s  care.

"Allow  me  to  introduce  myself:  I am Alfred  Kramer.”

"And  I am  Wallace  Forbes.  Your dreams  must  be  rather  upsetting  to  necessitate a trip  half-way  aroimd  the  world.”

I,  who  never  dream,  had  always  been

THE  LIVES  OF  ALFRED  KRAMER


fascinated  that  ph«iomenon  in  other people.  Kramer  himself  must  have  desired sjrmpathetic  ears  to  receive  his  story, because,  hesitantly  at  first,  then  more  directly and  swiftly,  he  began  to  tell  his narrative.

"From  early  childhood,”  he  commenced, "I  was  inquisitive  into  the  world around  me.  I seem  to  have  been  bom with  a scientific  and  inventive  bent.  At the  same  time  I was  a dreamy  child.  My nights  were  vivid  with  a constant  stream of  images.  Sometimes  these  were  pleasant, often  they  were  terrifying.  I saw scenes  and  had  strange  experiences  that I could  not  explain  on  the  basis  of  anything I had  read,  or  witnessed,  or  heard.

"Because  of  these  visions  I acquired  a profound  interest  in  brain  processes  as  I grew  older.  My  studies  dealt  with  dream psycholo^,  racial  memory,  and  mental inheritances.

CERTAIN  dream  kept  recurring  over a period  of  years:  I stood  in  the midst  of  a somber  glade.  All  around rose  the  vast  and  evil  boles  of  monstrous trees.  Long  shadows  lay  athwart  the  sere grass  of  autumn  at  my  feet.  There  were indistinct  figures  at  a little  distance  which harmonixed  curiously  with  the  colossal trees.  They  were  watching  me  intently. In  my  hand  I held  a wicked  sacrificial knife.  Before  me  was  a great  stone  altar, stained  with  the  blood  of  countless  victims. It  stood  by  the  hugest  of  the  trees, and  it  had  a slanting  trough  so  that  the spilled  blood  would  water  those  gnarled roots.  A naked  young  girl  of  goddesslike beauty  lay  upon  this  altar.  Her  gray eyes  regarded  me  with  a baffling  mixture of  religious  ecstasy,  terror,  and  love,  as I slowly  raised  the  knife  to  plunge  it  into her  breast.

"Time  after  time  that  vision  came  to me  as  clearly  as  an  episode  from  life.  But

I never  dreamed  of  what  preceded  the scene,  nor  did  I know  what  followed.

"Out  of  my  wish  to  know  the  full  episode, and  from  my  belief  that  many dreams  were  memories  of  past  events,  I conceived  a hypothesis.  The  unbroken stream  of  life  had  descended  from  parents to  children  throughout  the  ages. Why  might  not  major  experiences  have been  so  deeply  impressed  upon  the  brain that  they  too  were  inherited.?  Perhaps they  were  latent,  awaiting  only  a magic touch  to  awaken  them  into  reconstructed pictures.  If  this  were  true,  possibly  it would  account  for  hitherto  unexplained dreams.  My  own  persistent  nightmare was  like  an  inherited  image,  surviving  in me,  of  some  impressive  qjisode  in  the life  of  a long-dead  ancestor.

"Under  proper  conditions,  why shouldn't  it  be  possible  to  release  these ancestral  adventures.?

"Fascinated  by  the  thought,  I plunged into  years  of  labor.  Mental  therapy, psychiatry,  brain  surgery  became  my  special studies.  I exhausted  all  sources  of information  on  every  phase  of  the  brain, in  health  and  disease,  infancy  and  maturity, life  and  death.  I made  elaborate investigations  into  physiology,  the  nervous system,  motor  stimuli,  'why  the wheels  go  round,’  in  other  words.  I began  a thorough  and  detailed  researdi into  the  structure,  nature,  function,  purpose, and  action  of  brain  cells.

"Behind  my  wild  idea  and  its  resulting intense  activity  was  a coldly  logical  plan. If  past  events  could  be  retained  in  memory by  descendants,  they  would  be  recorded somewhere  in  the  brain  itself. And  among  its  component  parts  the source  most  likely  to  offer  fruitful  results was  the  cells.  Of  these  there  are several  millions,  a vast  majority  of  which seem  never  to  be  used.  In  fact,  the  average human  being  requires  the  services  of


WEIRD  TALES

only  a few  thousand  cells  during  his  lifetime. The  remaining  cells  apparently  are capable  of  storing  up  facts  but  simply  are not  called  on  except  by  individuals  who pursue  knowledge  inexhaustibly.  It  was my  belief  that  this  enormous  number  of unused  cells  retained,  but  ever  so  slightly, impressions  of  the  dominant  incidents which  had  affected  the  lives  of  all  one’s forebears.

"I  next  supposed  that  when  a cell  was required  to  store  away  a fact  or  event  in one’s  life,  its  latent  memory  of  ancestral experience  was  obliterated.  But  if  it  were not  used,  the  latent  memory  continued  to exist,  sometimes  never  to  be  realized, sometimes,  however,  to  flash  forth  vividly in  sleep  or  subconscious  dreams.

"For  a long  time  I pursued  a wrong path.  I thought  that  the  memory-impressions made  a physical  change  in  the  cells, just  as  a particle  of  metal  changes  in shape  when  you  strike  it  violently:  and that  all  I needed  to  do  was  to  invent some  sort  of  sensitive  electric  device which  would  tap  these  cells  by  means  of their  specific  differences.

"Vain  delusion!  I wasted  two  precious years  pursuing  a ghost,  as  it  were.

"And  like  many  another  person  who deals  with  complexities,  I found  simplicity the  keynote  to  my  riddle.  It  was in  1931,  not  long  after  the  cosmic  ray was  discovered  and  the  electrogenetic theory  of  life  propounded,  that  a brilliant idea  occurred  to  me.  You  are  acquainted with  this  theory?  Its  assertion  that  the human  system  is  somewhat  like  a battery, and  that  what  we  call  life  lasts  while  a positive-negative  interaction  of  electricity continues,  while  death  is  the  complete cessation  of  that  activity?  Well,  the thought  came  to  me  that  by  increasing this  electrical  energy  of  the  body,  and more  particularly  by  heightening  this  activity in  the  brain,  each  cell  might  release its  individual  retained  fact  or  ancestral memory.  Recent  impressions, being  nearer  and  therefore  stronger, would  be  imloosed  first;  but  by  gradually building  up  activity,  older  and  yet  older events  ought  to  permit  of  resurrection.

"I  worked  with  new  energy.  Light, wave-lengths,  rays  occupied  my  attention. Weird  and  intricate  machinery  accumulated in  my  laboratory.

"And  now  at  last  I began  to  feel  success approaching  with  my  isolation  of  the Kappa-ray.  I found  it  in  minute  quantities in  the  bright  sunshine  that  poured down,  found  too  that  it  directly  supplied human  beings  with  much  of  that  electrical energy  which  gave  them  life.

"I  toiled  feverishly  until  I succeeded  in crossing  my  last  barrier.  I constructed  a sort  of  Kappa-battery  that  would  isolate from  sunshine  and  store  up  in  concentrated form  the  Kappa-ray!  Day  after day,  as  my  black  metal  box  stood  in  the open  glare  of  the  sun,  charging  itself with  precious  invisible  stuff,  I watched  it, fondly,  jealously.  I would  have  killed any  one  who  chancecj  to  come  upon  it.

"'Then  came  that  evening  when  its  capacity was  reached.  Carefully  I closed  it and  carried  it  to  my  quarters  as  gently  as if  it  were  nitroglycerin.  Worn  out  and prematurely  aged  from  my  years  of  intense labor,  tired  in  body  yet  wonderfully excited  in  spirit,  I lay  down  on  my  bed with  the  black  box  beside  me.

"With  a strangely  steady  hand  I reached  out  and  opened  its  shutter  and pressed  a switch.

"An  invisible  warm  radiance  flowed and  flooded  and  poured  into  me.  My head  swam  with  an  indescribable  nausea, a kind  of  opiate  thickness  combined  with an  increasingly  rapid  surge  of  extraordinarily lucid  thoughts.  My  mind  seemed to  be  working  faster  and  clearer  than  it

THE  LIVES  OF  ALFRED  KRAMER


ever  had  before.  But  at  the  same  time, that  soothing  warmth  stole  pleasantly over  me.  Lest  there  be  danger,  I extended my  arm  and  dosed  the  box.

"Almost  instantaneously  I slept.

"A  panic-stricken  mob,  fleeing  in  terror, bore  me  along  in  its  mad  flight.  I fought  and  struggled  to  prevent  myself from  being  crushed  to  death.  A confused roar  deafened  my  ears.  Cries  of  racing figures,  groans  of  injured  and  dying  men, crackle  of  flame  and  howl  of  wind blended  into  a hideous  noise.  Buildings appeared  to  speed  by  me  as  I forged ahead.  I knew  I must  be  in  some  large dty.

“1%  BURSTING  lungs  gasped  for  clean i-T  A air  but  only  drew  in  acrid  smoke. The  sky  glowed  redly,  flame-shot  darkness swirled  around  me,  from  behind came  the  glare  of  a vast  conflagration.  I saw  swaths  of  fire  leap  from  building to  building  on  the  wings  of  a stiff  wind. Clouds  of  smoke  billowed  up,  drifted upon  us,  choked  the  lungs  of  refugees. Ever  and  again,  some  poor  devil  fell,  and the  sheeted  flame  raced  inexorably  over him.

"A  lumbering  brute  crashed  into  me. I cursed  savagely  and  plunged  after  him. He  tripped.  I saw  him  no  more.  A frail woman  with  two  children,  crying  as  the mob  jostled  past  her,  leaned  helplessly against  a door-stoop.  I caught  her  in  one arm  and  swung  her  along  with  me,  the children  folded  to  her.  And  all  these people  were  dressed  in  the  fashion  of  a full  half-century  ago!

"We  struggled  onward  in  the  midst  of this  livid  nightmare.  The  city’s  heart was  an  inferno,  a raging  furnace.

"But  now  we  were  approaching  outskirts and  less  thickly  populated  districts. Gradually  we  forged  ahead.  Smoke  and

blistering  heat  still  smote  us,  but  the  danger region  lay  farther  behind.

"Then,  abruptly,  the  scene  changed.

"I  was  at  a ship’s  wheel.  Under  full sail  we  scudded  along  at  a fast  clip. Stretching  to  every  horizon,  with  no  land visible  anywhere,  a white-capped  sea surged  under  a strong  trade-wind.  'The sun  poured  warmly  from  a sky  in  which only  a few  clouds  floated  high.

"With  terrifying  suddenness  came  a cry  from  the  lookout.

" 'Derelict  dead  ahead!’

"I  swung  the  wheel  mightily.  The ship  skewed.  Crash!  She  quivered  a moment, began  to  sink.  I saw  a waterlogged hulk,  black,  submerged,  hover  by our  ripped  bow.  There  was  a pandemonium of  leaping  men,  despairing  shouts where  boats  fouled  in  their  davits  or  capsized when  badly  launched,  a bitter  fight for  positions  in  those  that  remained.  One went  down,  overloaded.  Another  was drawn  by  suction  and  followed  our  ship as  she  sank.

"At  the  first  shock  I tore  my  clothing off  and  dived  far  overboard,  swimming rapidly  to  escape  the  deadly  suction.  I was  hauled  aboard  one  of  two  boats  that survived.  In  all  there  were  eleven  men left  out  of  thirty-two.

"Then  came  tragedy  in  the  days  that ensued  as  thirst,  starvation,  and  a blazing sun  took  their  toll.  We  knew  of  no  land closer  than  five  hundred  miles.  Some time  during  our  second  night  adrift,  the two  boats  became  separated.

"Six  survivors  had  manned  our  boat  to begin  with.  At  the  end  of  a week  we were  four.  'This  number  was  reduced  to three  on  our  tenth  day  afloat  when  Olaf went  mad  from  drinking  salt  water  and leaped  overboard.  That  left  Petri,  Andrews, and  myself.  I think  Petri  recklessly committed  suicide  rather  than  suffer a lingering  death  of  torment,  but  I


WEIRD  TALES

can  not  be  snrev  for  I became  delirious  on the  twelfth  day,

"I  returned  to  my  senses  strangely  refreshed. A rain  squall  had  evidently struck  and  passed.  I greedily  lapped  up warm,  fresh  water  from  the  boat’s  bottom and  revived  still  more.  I noticed djat  only  one  of  my  companions  was  now left — and  he  had  been  dead  for  I know not  how  long.  I heaved  bis  body  overboard.

"Two  days  later  a little  palm-fringed island  came  in  sight.  With  what  desp^ate  anxiety  I watched  it  grow  larger, and  how  eagerly  I stumbled  ashore  to drag  myself  feebly  up  its  beach!  I was saved!  Saved!  And  without  warning  the scene  vanished.

"'Then  followed  a couple  of  less  interesting dreams  with  whose  details  I will  n«rt  bother  to  tell.

"When  I at  length  awakened  at  dawn, I could  scarcely  keep  calm  because  of  the excitement  that  possessed  me.  Columbus could  not  have  been  more  thrilled  when he  discovered  a new  continent.  I had made  a discovery  that  might  open  up  unguessable  stores  of  knowledge  to  mankind, or  that  might  clarify  many  obscure and  forgotten  pages  of  history.  Yet  I had no  intention  of  announcing  it  publicly until  I had  first  explored  for  myself  in foil  its  potentialities.  I hoped  that  I would  sooner  or  later  have  a complete re-presentation  of  that  persistent  but fragmentary  vmon  which  I alluded  to earlier.  I speculated  on  what  fascinating episodes  from  ancestral  life  might  presait  themselves  as  I continued  using  the Kappa-ray.  For  insofar  as  I could  tell,  it left  no  ill  effects.  Indeed,  I felt  unusually energetic,  my  thoughts  came  witli  exceptional clarity.

"Tliat  day  I spent  much  of  my  time obtaining  books  from  libraries  and  dealets.  These  were  mainly  works  on  genealogy, history,  costunw,  antiquities,  biography, and  sciences.

"I  pored  over  these  till  late  at  night.. Two  items  rewarded  a tedious  searrJi. One  brief  record  told  how  my  father  had escaped  in  his  youth  from  the  great fire  of  Chicago.  The  second  excerpt, which  I ran  across  in  Cooper’s  Marittma Disasters,  narrated  that  a whaler,  the Nancy  E.,  disappeared  in  the  South  Seas, 1809  A.  D.;  and  that  her  fate  was  not learned  until  two  years  later  when  the clipper  Seagull,  anchoring  for  repairs  at an  atoll  southwest  of  Keaua,  found  the sole  survivor  of  that  tragedy,  my  grandfather, who  had  been  living  there  ever since.

"I  was  happy  as  a child  over  tiiis  verification of  ray  theory,  even  though  I had strained  my  eyes  by  such  intensive  researdi.  More  than  satisfied  with  my achievement,  I again  opened  the  Kapparay  battery  and  felt  its  radiant-soporific energy  pour  through  my  head  just  before sleep  came  to  me.

"1658.  They  were  ready  to  burn  a condemned  witch  in  England.  A wizened, half-demented  old  woman,  she  was  already tied  to  the  stake.  A crowd  of  stupid faces  and  stern  persecutors  ringed  her  in. I had  somehow  been  drawn  there  but now  looked  at  her  with  compassion  in  my eyes  and  would  have  turned  away,  sick  to my  heart,  if  I could.  Any  movement was  difficult,  wedged  in  ti^tly  as  I was.

"A  vicious  mob  shout  arose  as  the executioner  advanced,  torch  in  hand. Above  that  babel  the  old  woman's  voice suddenly  ascended.

" 'Innocent!  I am  innocent!’  she croaked.  'Burn  me,  will  you.?  May  your heart  turn  to  the  stone  that  it  is!’

"A  startled  expression  came  into  the executioner’s  eyes.  He  paused  in  his stride,  clutched  his  breast,  plunged  to earth  dead  before  he  strude.

THE  LIVES  OF  ALFRED  KRAMER


''Supernatural  fear  laid  an  absolute quiet  on  the  crowd.  One  of  the  witch’s relentless  tormenters,  bolder  than  his  associates, walked  forward  and  picked  up the  fallen  torch.

" 'Sorceress!’  he  cried.  'Prepare  to meet  thy  God  and  be  sentenced  to  eternal damnation!’  And  he  flung  the  torch among  the  faggots  heaped  around  her. It  caught,  a thin  flame  sprang  up  and raced  from  stick  to  stick.

" 'Fools!  Fools!’  the  old  crone  cursed. 'May  the  vengeance  of  God  and  Satan, for  this  day’s  work,  pursue  every  one — except  you!’  And  she  raised  a withered hand  toward  me.  'Only  you  have  pity — may  you  and  your  descendants  be  blessed, even  unto  the  tenth  generation.  But after  the  tenth  generation,  beware!  We shed!  meet  again,  yea,  three  hundred years  hence,  and  you  will  tell  me  you  remember!’

"Without  willing  it,  I cried,  'I  will remember!’ — and  awoke  to  hear  my  own voice,  'remember — remember,’  echo  hollowly in  my  room  and  die  away.  I tossed fitfully,  dropped  into  a sound  sleep.”

But  this  account  is  growing  longer than  I intended.  I must  omit  many  details, fascinating  though  they  would  be. Flying  miles  accompanied  flying  minutes while  I listened  spellbound  to  Kramer’s husky  voice,  and  looked  into  his  feverbright  eyes,  and  wondered  how  he  managed to  speak  with  any  distinctness  when his  lips  had  not  yet  visibly  moved.  His story  flowed  on — or  shall  I say  continued backward? — through  Henry  the  Eighth’s court,  the  Spanish  Inquisition,  Constantinople at  its  fall,  Paris  of  Villon’s  day,  the Norman  conquest,  weaving  its  way through  earlier  and  yet  earlier  centuries.

“Oo  I finally  came  to  my  puzzling

>3  dream,”  Kramer  went  on.  "I  do  not know  exactly  what  year  it  was,  but  from

its  place  in  my  sleep-atavism,  I would guess  the  Fifth  or  Sixth  Century.

"Autumn  had  come.  Dead  leaves  and withered  grass  marked  the  dying  year.  I was  a high  priest  among  the  Druids. Each  year,  upon  the  last  evening  of  fall, we  sacrificed  our  loveliest  virgin  to  the forest  god  so  that  her  blood  would  appease him  and  cause  him  to  let  our  sacred trees  grow  green  again  when  spring  returned. I,  as  high  priest,  must  offer  the sacrifice — and  she  whom  they  had  chosen was  Neridh,  beloved  of  my  heart.

"I  had  done  everything  in  my  power to  save  Neridh,  imtil  they  had  grown suspicious.  One  desperate  hope  of  success remained,  but  the  ritual  had  been chanted,  Neridh  lay  .upon  the  altar,  and a semicircle  of  dark  faces  watched  me from  all  around  this  woodland  glade.  I dragged  out  my  invocation  and  supplication. 'The  sun  sank  lower,  and  shadows crept  longer  on  blown  leaves  and  brown grass.

"’There  could  be  no  further  delay. Sacrifices  must  be  made  before  sunset.  I raised  my  arm  slowly  and  held  the  knife high,  poised  for  its  downward  plunge into  my  beloved’s  heart.  Anguish,  terror, love,  resignation  struggled  for  expression on  her  face.  Already  the  sun’s  rim  was dropping,  and

"Somewhere  afar  a tree  gave  forth  a sharp  crack.  Fear  leaped  into  those  eyes that  watched  me.  I heard  a heavy  groan, a series  of  sounds  from  rending  boughs, then  a booming  crash  as  a giant  tree toppled.

" 'The  wood-spirit  is  angry!’  I shouted. 'Our  sacrifice  displeases  him!  To  the Great  Hill,  fly!  and  witness  the  evidence of  his  wrath!’

"Terror  gripped  the  Druids,  they melted  away  like  ghosts.  I knew  what they  would  find — a forest  monarch  half chopped  in  two,  and  a slow  fire  that  had


WEIRD  TALES

eaten  its  way  in.  My  woric,  my  secret efforts  to  rescue  Neridh  were  triumphant.

"I  bent  over  and  slashed  her  bonds. Swiftly  but  gently  I set  her  on  her  feet

" 'Follow  me,  there  is  not  a moment to  lose!’  I whispered.  'Make  haste  before they  return!’

"Hand  in  hand  down  the  endless  forest aisles  we  raced.  Neridh  ran  like  a nymph,  her  graceful  body  flashing  white among  the  shadows.  Night  drew  on,  and I saw  her  shiver  with  the  chill  of  early evening.  So  intent  had  I been  on  saving her  that  I had  forgotten  her  lack  of  raiment. I unloosed  my  outer  robe,  and scarcely  pausing  in  my  stride  threw  it around  her  as  we  sped  onward.  She  gave me  a quick  glance  of  pleasure  and clutched  the  warm  ceremonial  garment close  to  her.

"And  so,  deeper  and  deeper  into  the vast  forest,  through  thickening  darkness, by  trails  that  only  I knew,  we  ran  toward safety,  weaving  our.way  past  immemorial oaks  and  gigantic  boles  that  had  stood even  before  the  coming  of  our  people.

"There  nay  dream  ended.  I can  merely surmise  that  we  escaped  into  the  fastnesses of  that  forest.  There  too,  since  I had  discovered  what  I sought,  I could hare  ended  my  experiment  and  ceased energizing  myself  with  Kappa-rays.  Such self-denial  was  beyond  either  my  will  or my  desire.  I was  caught  in  a maelstrom, farther  goals  lured  me  on,  I succumbed  to a magnetic  spell  which  my  own  imagination had  woven.  How  much  more  could I learn  of  what  my  forebears  had  lived? I wanted  to  carry  my  experiment  to  its limit.  Night  after  night  I therefore utilized  the  Kappa-ray  in  pursuit  of  those adventures  which  a part  of  me  had  long ago  experienced.

“A  YEAR  that  I do  not  dare  to  guess. 'aA  I tttust  have  been  a merchant,  and I had  gone  on  some  annual  trip  to  a town

far  from  my  native  land.  It  was  a rambling  town,  a town  of  crowded,  connected little  clay  and  stone  houses.  It  lay beneath  the  glare  of  a scorching  sun,  and farther  out  the  shifting  desert  dunes melted  into_  bleak,  red  wastelands.  Its men  were  swarthy,  bearded.  They  wore long  and  flowing  robes  and  spoke  a language that  I could  understand  but  little.

"As  I walked  down  the  narrow  streets, I heard  a sudden  hubbub  above  the  usual street  cries.  When  I came  to  a sharp curve  that  had  interrupted  my  view  I halted  abruptly.  There  was  a crowd  of the  curious,  the  holy,  rich  and  poor  alike, following  a stranger  who  paced  along the  sunbaked  street.  He  was  simply  clad. On  his  face  was  an  expression  of  such glory,  and  in  his  eyes  a light  of  so  divine a purity,  that  my  first  instinct  was  to  recoil in  humility.  He  was  radiant,  and  the very  air  about  his  head  seemed  luminous witri  a light  I have  never  seen  elsewhere. Then  I felt  a great  serenity  come  upon me,  and  my  spirit  was  lifted  out  of  me, cleansed  as  if  I had  bathed  in  some  mystical, immortal  essence.

"There  came  a woman  vdio  flimg  herself at  the  feet  of  the  stranger.  Her  left hand  was  hooked  like  a daw,  and splotdied  with  ominous  patches  of  white. "The  fingers  of  her  right  hand  were  withered away,  and  her  face  was  disfigured. The  crowd  shrank  back,  muttering  Unclean! Undean!’  But  the  woman  heeded them  not  and  pleaded  to  the  stranger with  sorrowing  eyes.

"He  paused.  I saw  an  expression  of infinite  pity  and  compassion  shine  through his  eyes.  I was  reverent  in  the  presence of  ineffable  beauty  and  transcendent  wonder.

"The  stranger  stretched  out  his  arm, and  blessed  the  woman  in  a voice  melodious as  distant  bells.  I saw  the  dawshaped hand  become  firm  and  rosy,  the

THE  LIVES  OF  ALFRED  KRAMER

82$

wkhemi  afm  fill  oat  to  its  former  symmetry, the  mutilated  face  glow  with  the happiness  of  restored  health.

"The  stranger  continued  on  his  way. Ihe  woman  transfigured  knelt  in  the dust.  . . .

"Day  after  day  I kept  drawing  aside the  veil  of  oblivion.  Night  upon  night I lived  again  in  my  dreams  my  previous lives  and  ventured  still  farther  bade forough  vanished  years.  I saw  Phryne pose  for  Praxiteles  at  Athens  in  338 B.  C whea  the  Aphrodite  of  Cnidos  was taking  immortal  form  imder  his  hands. In  Egypt  I witnessed  the  wakening  of  a mummy  from  its  tomb  of  ten  centuries, and  saw  the  doubtful  E^ptian  gods  arise from  crypts  older  than  civifoation.  I dwelt  at  a lamasery  near  Tibet  when  all my  future  was  foretold  to  me  by  priests of  a forgotten  cult  And  ever  I pursued my  ancestral  life  backward  through mounting  ages.  There  came  a night whose  dream  no  hMory  records,  the memory  of  an  event  that  must  have  occin:red  more  than  ten  thousand  years B.  C

*'My  lives  had  turned  away  from  Asia and  gone  westward,  beyond  Egypt,  beyond Greece,  beyond  all  Europe,  to  a vast island  ©r  little  continent  far  out  in  the wastes  of  the  Atlantic.  It  was  a fertile country,  a land  of  mists  and  sunshine, whose  people  were  happy  in  the  unbroken advance  of  their  civilization.  In  bays  by the  murmuring  sea,  and  on  slopes  of  the central  hills,  golden  spires  rose  high above  cities  of  white  and  black  marble. This  continent  was  a world  by  itself. Tliere  were  legends  of  lands  that  lay  far east  from  which  the  ancestors  of  these inhabitants  had  crome,  and  there  were  occasional voyages  to  nearer  countries  westward. But  they  were  an  indolent  race, safe  from  attack,  undisturbed  by  strife

living  in  plenty,  and  rarefy  venturing afar  since  there  was  no  need  to.

“ Oo  THE  fruitful  years  marched  by,  and fc3now  there  came  to  this  island  kingdom the  rumor  of  approaching  disaster. In  Ixenor,  capital  of  Atlantis,  Lekti,  high priest  of  the  sun-worshippers,  made  a prophecy  of  doom.

*'  'Our  god  is  angry.  The  sun  shall fail  above  Atlantis.’

"What  did  this  strange  forecast  mean? The  Atlanteans  looked  at  their  sun-god smiling  high  in  the  heavens  and  could not  understand.  They  asked  of  Lekti  that he  interpret  the  warning,  or  tell  them how  to  appease  Elik-Ra,  god  of  the  sun. But  Lekti  had  spoken,  and  answered  that he  could  only  receive  the  message  of Elik-Ra  and  foat  it  was  not  for  him  to explain.

'*  'The  sun  ^all  fail  above  Atlantis.’ A hundred  virgins  were  sacrificed  with prayers  and  supplications  for  mercy  to Elik-Ra.  The  foundations  of  a great  new temple  facing  east  were  laid.  Days passed  and  there  was  no  sign  that  the prophecy  would  come  true.  Gradually the  Atlanteans  regained  their  faith,  and went  about  their  usual  tasks  again,  and believed  that  their  sacrifice  of  a hundred virgins  had  satisfied  Elik-Ra.  Even  the prophecy  began  to  fade  from  their  minds, and  no  one  quite  remembered  why  another temple  was  being  erected.

"But  superstitious  fear  had  taken  root in  my  heart.  I felt  that  words  of  warning, however  obscure,  should  be  heeded. There  was  a legend  that  fertile  hot  countries lay  far  east  of  Atlantis,  beyond where  any  of  us  living  had  gone,  whence our  ancient  fathers  were  supposed  to have  come  and  where  the  home  of  the sun-god  himself  was  said  to  be.  I reasoned that  some  terrible  menace  might be  threatening  Atlarri:is  the  golden,  while


WEIRD  TALES

the  gods  bided  their  time.  And  if  ElikRa  was  really  angry,  I could  either  save myself  by  fleeing  westward,  or  take  an offering  with  me  and  strike  out  east  to seek  the  god’s  home  across  the  great  sea.

"I  set  to  work  and  had  a large  new galley  built  for  me.  When  the  inhabitants of  Atlantis  heard  of  my  undertaking, a few  thought  my  mission  could  be successful,  some  said  I was  foolhardy,  but the  majority  mocked,  saying  that  I was mad  or  presumptuous  since  Elik-Ra  had been  appeased  by  the  sacrifice  of  the  hundred virgins.  Their  scorn  raised  momentary doubts  in  my  mind,  but  I went  ahead with  my  plans.

"Thus  there  came  a day  when  sixteen slaves  took  their  places  at  the  sweep-oars and  we  set  off  across  dark  waters  to  seek legendary  lands  of  the  rising  sun.  My galley  had  one  mast  whose  sail  could  be used  in  emergency  or  when  the  crew  was exhausted.  'There  was  a great  store  of provisions  aboard,  and  as  much  wealth  as I owned.  Beside  me  in  silver  chains  lay the  sacrifice  I intended  to  offer  Elik-Ra when  the  time  came:  a young  girl,  lovely as  the  fading  spires  of  Ixenor,  and  with red-gold  hair  that  flamed  like  the  setting sun.

"We  had  left  Atlantis  at  dawn.  Hardly a breeze  stirred.  The  ocean  heaved undulantly  in  slow,  sinister  swells.  By noon  we  were  entering  that  trackless  wilderness of  waters  where  no  living  man had  penetrated.  Far  behind,  my  island kingdom,  the  only  land  I knew,  dwindled toward  the  horizon,  becoming  dream-like and  misty  and  imreal.

"And  now  as  the  oars  pulled  rhythmically a strange  thing  happened.  The watars  around  us  changed  from  heavy green  to  a complete  and  frightful  black. Thousands  upon  thousands  of  dead  fish floated  to  their  surface,  whales,  tarpon, swordfish,  octopi,  sailfish,  and  a dozen

other  varieties  of  monsters  of  the  deep such  as  had  never  been  seen,  all  dead. Bubbles  oozed  out,  vapor  and  wisps  of steam  drifted  up.  The  sea  boiled  with  a vast  and  nauseating  motion.  All  in  one instant  A^tlantis  vanished  from  the  horizon as  the  ocean  reclaimed  its  own.

" 'The  sun  shall  fail  above  Atlantis.’

"To  me  alone  was  given  understanding of  the  prophecy,  unless  my  slaves  remembered. Blind  terror  had  come  upon  tliem, and  they  shouted  wildly.  I followed  the direction  of  their  eyes.  From  sunken  Atlantis a colossal,  a mountainous  plateau of  water  extending  across  the  whole  horizon hurtled  toward  us.  We  saw  it  coming and  we  were  helpless.  We  saw  it tower  overhead  and  engulf  our  galley  as if  it  were  a fleck  of  sand.  Something bumped  me  and  I grabbed  it  unthinkingly. An  infinite  roaring  deafened  my ears,  I was  sucked  under  and  flung  violently ahead,  furious  forces  raged  everywhere. I crashed  into  something  else, hung  on,  half-drowned  pulled  myself  and my  burden  up.  A freak  of  the  great wave  had  righted  my  galley.  With  two feet  of  water  in  its  bottom  it  raced  along with  the  sea-wall.  Not  one  of  the  sixteen slaves  had  been  saved,  only  myself  and Teoctel,  the  flame-haired,  who  had  beep thrown  against  me  when  we  capsized, were  left  of  all  the  millions  that  had dwelt  in  Atlantis.  . . .

“T  DREAMED  again,  in  search  of  my  anA cestral  lives,  and  for  many  nights  my visions  became  increasingly  barbaric.  I wandered  through  hills  in  what  is  now Spain,  where  swart  people  dwelt  in  caves. I fought  a woolly  rhinoceros  in  the  Balkans, ruled  a tribe  of  blond  giants  in  the Rhine  valley.  Time  and  again  I brought down  my  prey  with  primitive  weapons, or  even  made  my  kill  with  only  my  bare hands  and  sharp  teeth.  More  than  once

THE  LIVES  OF  ALFRED  KRAMER


I fought,  Eke  the  savage  I was,  to  get  or to  keep  the  female  of  my  choice.

"When  the  fire  people  discovered  again the  lost  art  of  building  a fire,  it  was  I who  found  that  meat  improved  by  being burnt.  Then  the  great  cold  and  the  field of  ice  crept  down  from  the  north,  and  my lives  were  passed  in  a strange  warm country  far  to  the  south  where  my  tribe had  fled.  And  always  the  faces  around me  became  more  bestial,  the  marks  of civilization  fewer,  until  finally  the  only law  was  the  law  of  one’s  strength.

"There,  more  than  fifty  thousand  years ago,  I halted  my  dreams.  Did  I say h^ted  them?  No,  that  is  not  quite  true.

"For  a week  I had  been  feverishly writing  my  observations  during  the  daytime, and  poring  over  piles  of  books  in order  to  localize  in  time  and  place  the substance  of  my  released  memories.  I begrudged the  moments  necessary  for  eating; it  was  many  days  since  I had  shaven  or paid  any  attention  to  myself.

"But,  as  I said,  my  visions  were  becoming more  savage,  primitive,  less  varied the  farther  back  I went.  My  initial excitement  had  begun  to  wear  off,  and  on this  morning,  despite  a certain  heaviness that  appeared  to  possess  me,  I felt  the need  of  attending  to  my  long-neglected personal  appearance.

"When  I bent  over  to  draw  the  water for  my  tub,  some  unexpressed  thought vaguely  puzzled  me.  That  thought  continued to  bother  me  while  I slipped  from my  clothing,  niere  is,  in  my  bathroom, a full-length  mirror;  and  not  till  I was passing  it  did  my  feeling  of  unease  receive expression.

"For  I glanced  at  my  naked  body  in the  mirror,  and  such  a shock  of  utter horror  froze  me  as  I can  never  again  experience on  earth.

"What  I saw  in  the  mirror  was  a masshe,  shaggy,  beast-like  man  of  fifty  thousand years  ago!

"I  can  not  relate  the  rest  of  that  fateful day.  I tried  to  convince  myself  that I was  the  victim  of  an  optical  illusion. Perhaps  my  dreams  had  become  so  vivid that  they  persisted  even  in  my  waking hours.  My  mind  may  have  temporarily given  way,  I thought,  and  made  me  a victim  of  hallucination.

"But  it  was  all  in  vain.  The  mirror did  not  lie.  Each  time  that  I returned  to it,  drawn  by  a morbid  curiosity,  the  same appalling  figure  leered  back  at  me,  apelike, brutish.  Slowly  the  bitter  truth forced  its  way  in,  though  I tried  to  evade it.  Some  powerful  element  in  the  Kapparay,  or  some  unknown  organic  drange that  it  had  influenced  in  my  physical  system, was  causing  my  body  to  revert,  to follow  my  brain  as  it  went  bade  through the  ages  in  the  trail  of  my  ancestral  lives. I had  played  with  mysterious  forces  and I was  paying  the  penalty.  A physiological atavism  or  throwback  kept  pace  with  the transformation  of  my  mind,

"Shuddering,  sickened,  I gave  way  to a frenzy.  I raged  and  stormed  aroimd like  a trapped  animal.  My  hate  concentrated on  die  Kappa-ray.  That  was  the source  of  all  my  misfortune.  But  at  least I could  prevent  this  abominable  devolution from  going  any  farther.  Perhaps  I might  even  be  able  to  regain  my  old  self when  the  source  of  that  malignant  energy was  destroyed.  And  so,  hardly  realizing what  damage  I did  and  caring  less,  I kicked  the  Kappa-ray  box  across  the room,  smashed  it,  trampled  it  under  my feet  and  ground  it  into  wreckage.  Even though  I could  never  again  become  as  I was,  yet  I would  check  this  degradation before  it  went  farther  and  before  it  was too  late.

"I  do  not  know  how  long  the  madness ruled  me.  It  must  have  been  far  into  the


WEIRD  TALES

night  that  I finally  managed  to  drop  into the  deep  slumber  of  exhaustion.

"And  that  night  I dreamed  again!  I re-lived  a fierce,  nomadic  life  in  southern Italy,  followed  the  first  glacier  as  it retreated  north,  hunted  the  mammoth, and  then  roamed  anew  through  the  valleys of  central  Europe  in  the  warm  days before  the  glaciers  came.

"When  I wakened  at  dawn,  I was  beyond any  paroxysms  of  despair.  An apathy  came  upon  me.  I walked  with dull  and  heavy  tread,  listlessly  pondered over  my  fate.  I realized  now  that  the Kappa-ray  had  done  its  fatal  work,  and that  I had  saturated  myself  in  an  energy which  I no  longer  had  power  to  control. Whatever  changes  the  ray  had  begun  to malre  in  my  brain  and  my  body  were  proceeding as  freely  as  if  they  were  a natural part  of  me.

"I  could  only  hope  that  the  effect  of the  ray  would  wear  off  in  time.  Sedatives, drugs,  opiates,  alexipharmics — I tried them  all  and  without  success.  Nightly  I lived  backward  through  obscure  dawn ages.  Daily  I wakened  to  find  hideous and  subtle  changes  metamorphosing  me into  a prehistoric  creature.  And  what faint  hope  I had  held  died  in  my  heart when  I discovered  that  the  rate  of  my nocturnal  return  to  former  life  was  accelerating with  ever-increasing  rapidity. At  first  I had  spanned  a few  decades  in a night,  then  it  became  a few  centuries, now  I bridged  thousands  and  tens  of thousands  of  years  each  time  that  I slept.

"I  followed  primitive  man  when  he crept  out  of  Asia  half  a million  years ago.  I lived  in  a luxuriant  land  that  is now  the  desert  of  Gobi.  Earth  itself underwent  great  transformations.  A continent sank  under  the  waves,  another  one rose  from  the  Pacific  deep.  Beasts  that  no living  man  has  seen  appeared  in  growing numbers,  the  curious  vegetation  of  vanished eras  became  my  habitat.  There  were vast  saurians  on  land,  ferocious  nightmares of  air,  gigantic  marine  reptiles  and monsters  that  battled  in  the  warm  seas.

"And  always,  too,  there  came  a hotter, damper  climate  upon  earth.  Swamps  and marshes  became  more  numerous.  Tropical jungles  flourished  everywhere,  with weird,  conical  trees  and  hundred-foot ferns  and  evil  flowers  growing  to  incredible heights.

THE  years  mounted  by  millions and  the  geologic  ages  were  born again  in  my  dreams  and  drifted  on  like a camera  film  run  backward.  The  Carboniferous Age  became  an  era  of  the  future, the  giant  beasts  of  land  decreased in  number,  steaming  jungles  and  poisonous marshes  covered  what  ground  lay above  water.  The  seas  grew  almost  boiling. Terrific  storms  and  deluges  of  hissing rain  swept  the  globe.  Not  a single vertebrate  now  roamed  upon  land,  only a few  ephemeral  moths  winged  their  brief way  through  air,  moths  far  larger  than any  we  know,  soft,  immense,  and  spotted with  gold,  scarlet,  indigo.  But  even  these passed  away;  and  life  swarmed  only  in the  almost  universal  sea.

"How  long  I have  retrogressed  in years  I do  not  know,  but  it  must  be  millions upon  millions,  beyond  any  computation. And  it  has  been  not  only  a dream that  came  to  me,  but  a reality  overshadowed by  abysmal  terror.  My  brain has  tottered  on  the  brink  of  madness  and I am  so  far  degenerated  physically  that for  three  nights  I have  been  taking  powerful injections  to  keep  me  awake.  I fear another  vision  more  than  I fear  death.”

The  husky  choking  voice  trailed  away in  a low  gurgle.  Over  me  as  the  hours waned  there  had  been  creeping  a nausea, a kind  of  revulsion  against  my  loathsome acquaintance  and  his  mad  story.  A perspiration had  broken  out  all  over  me,  and

THE  LIVES  OF  ALFRED  KRAMER

829,

I was  about  to  make  a hasty  departure when  that  disgusting  voice  continued  but in  a more  uncertain  and  throatily  tired T/ay.

"That  last  dream — ^Ugh!  I shall  never forget  it.  It  haunts  all  my  thoughts  and hovers  deep  within  me  like  an  evil  incubus ready  to  descend  whenever  I weaken.

‘Dim  sunlight  filtered  down  through water  that  was  thick  with  sediment  and vile  with  elementary  life.  In  masses  of subaqueous  growths  lurked  nasty  pulpy things.  The  black  ooze  beneath  heaved with  soft,  wriggling  forms — gastropods, univalves,  protozoa,  cephalopoda,  infusoria , animalcules,  and  gelatinous  forms of  a myriad  other  kinds.  A shadow  enveloped me — I stared  up.  Not  far  above, a giant  cephalopod  settled  toward  me,  its beak  open,  innumerable  suckers  quivering on  tentacles  that  were  mushy  as  worms. I moved  slowly  aside — and  found  myself enveloped  in  the  ichorous  filaments  of  a gigantic  and  viscous  jelly-fish.  I do  not know  what  happened — I do  not  wish  to know.  Ugh!  I can  not  convey  the  vertigo caused  by  that  sticky  stuff — and  the clammy  life-forms  that  originally  rose  in the  ancient  seas  that  once  covered  earth.”

The  voice  trailed  away  and  died,  and silence  descended  stealthily.  It  seemed  to me  that  the  invalid’s  figure  had  relaxed, and  I thought  his  head  fell  back.  I did not  wait  to  make  sure  as  I stiffly  stood  up, for  I felt  uneasy,  yes,  and  slightly  afraid. I do  not  know  why  it  was,  but  even  as  I recoiled  physically  from  the  stranger,  so my  spirit  shrank  as  from  a thing  unclean or  accursed.  Trembling  a little,  I steadied myself  and  paced  down  the  aisle  after  the briefest  of  muttered  phrases,  to  which  I heard  no  answer,  if  indeed  my  acquaintance made  one.

I had  about  reached  the  vestibule  when a peculiar  sound  impinged  on  my  consciousness. I paid  no  attention  to  it,  and

tried  to  quicken  my  step.  My  hand  was outstretched  toward  the  door,  I believe, when  that  primeval  cry  froze  me  in  my place  and  brought  me  facing  about.  It was  a whispered  scream  that  died  away hideously;  a sub-human,  sub-animal  wordless gurgle,  like  the  death  rattle  in  the throat  of  a drowning  person.

Alfred  Kramer  may  have  dreamed  his last  dream.  Psychologists  tell  us  that  the subconscious  mind  may  work  at  abnormal speed  when  the  conscious  mind  is  at  rest; and  it  is  at  least  possible  that  a lifetime’s visions  paraded  through  the  fitful  slumber of  Alfred  Kramer  during  those  long seconds  that  I required  in  approaching the  door,  I do  not  know.  And  it  may be  true  also  that  I was  temporarily  insane. Again,  I do  not  know.  But  the  sight  that met  my  eyes  when  I whirled  about  could have  been  merciful  only  to  madness.  One may  preserve  an  equilibrium  in  a completely normal  world;  and  a madman would  find,  I suppose,  a certain  unity  in his  completely  abnormal  world;  but  to face  the  abnormal  in  the  midst  of  everyday life,  to  find  the  incredible  exchanging place  with  the  usual,  that  is  to  unite  insanity with  sanity  and  make  one  doubt whether  normality  exists  at  all.

For  when  I spun  around,  I saw  that Alfred  Kramer  had  somehow  risen  to  his feet.  And  as  I stared  in  his  direction,  a frightful  change  took  place.

His  hands  dropped  from  his  wrists  and thudded  to  the  floor.  His  face  suddenly went  awry,  slipped,  melted  away.  The clothing  squirmed,  bulged,  ripped  of.

And  now  I knew  the  meaning  of  those motionless  lips  and  that  pasty  face.  It was  a mask  that  I had  been  watching.

Swaying  horribly  for  an  ageless  second, what  was  left  of  Alfred  Kramer  shook convulsively  and  collapsed

On  the  floor  lay  a writhing  mass  of protoplasmic  slime.

By  MARY  WOLLSTONECRAFT  SHELLEY

The  Story  Thus  Far

Robert  WALTON,  captain  of  a ship  seeking  a passage  tlirough “■  the  Arctic  Ocean,  saw  a low  carriage, fixed  on  a sledge  and  drawn  b7 dogs,  pass  over  the  ice-field  to  the  north. In  it  sat  a being  whidi  had  the  shape  of a man,  but  apparently  of  gigantic  stature. Hie  noct  morning,  after  the  ice  had broken,  he  rescued  from  an  ice-field  another man,  greatly  emaciated.  Only  one of  his  dogs  remained  alive,  for  he  had been  marooned  for  some  time.  The  man was  Victor  Frankenstein,  a young  scientist, who  related  to  Captain  Walton  the incredible  story  of  his  life  and  how  he came  to  be  on  the  ice-floe.

Frankaistein  had  lived  in  Geneva  with his  father  and  his  adopted  sister,  Elizabeth, to  whom  he  was  betrothed.  His fether  scat  him  to  school  at  Ingolstadt with  his  chum,  Henry  Clerval.  There  he progressed  in  his  studies  of  natural  science to  such  a point  that  he  learned  to  create life.

Without  taking  Clerval  into  his  secret, Frankenstein  created  a monster,  eight  feet tall  and  human  in  appearance,  taking  his

materials  from  graveyards,  slaughterhouses and  dissecting-rooms.  The  monster was  so  terrible  to  look  upon  that Frankenstein  fled  from  it,  and  the  monster escaped.

Abandoned  by  its  creator,  the  monster made  its  way  to  the  vicinity  of  Frankenstein’s home,  where  he  murdered  Frankenstein’s younger  brother,  William.

Frankenstein  met  the  monster  in  a hut in  the  Alps,  and  there  the  monster  told him  how  he  had  learned  to  talk  by  observing a peasant  family  for  many  months, and  how  he  had  changed  from  a being with  good  impulses  to  a malevolent  demon because  when  he  revealed  himself to  the  eyes  of  the  peasants  by  entering their  cottage,  they  had  been  so  horrified by  his  frightful  appearance  that  they  beat him  with  sticks  and  drove  him  away;  and ail  men’s  hands  were  raised  against  the hideous  monster.

The  monster  offered  to  go  to  the  wilds of  South  America,  away  from  humankind, if  Frankenstein  would  create  a female  companion  for  him,  and  threatened that  if  Frankenstein  refused,  he would  destroy  not  only  Frankenstein,  but also  his  family.  Horrified,  the  young

Tills  slorjr  begran  in  WBERD  TALE2S  for  May.

FRANKENSTEIN


scientist  escaped  to  England,  with  his  companion, Henry  Clerval.  The  monster  followed, and,  infuriated  by  Frankenstein’s refusal  to  create  a female  companion  for him,  murdered  Clerval.  -

Frankenstein,  after  months  of  brooding, decided  to  marry  his  childhood  companion, Elizabeth,  but  on  their  wedding night  the  monster  murdered  Elizabeth. Frankenstein’s  father  died  from  the  shock of  Elizabeth’s  death,  and  Frankenstein himself  was  confined  for  many  months  in a madman’s  dungeon.  On  his  release,  he determined  to  devote  the  rest  of  his  life to  seeking  out  and  destroying  the  monster he  had  created.

CHAPTER  24

My  present  situation  was  one  in which  all  voluntary  thought  was swallowed  up  and  lost.  I was  hurried away  by  fury;  revenge  alone  endowed  me with  strength  and  composure;  it  molded my  feelings,  and  allowed  me  to  be  calculating and  calm,  at  periods  when  otherwise delirium  or  death  would  have  been my  portion.

My  first  resolution  was  to  quit  Geneva for  ever;  my  country,  which,  when  I was happy  and  beloved,  was  dear  to  me,  now, in  my  adversity,  became  hateful.  I provided myself  with  a sum  of  money,  together with  a few  jewels  which  had  belonged to  my  mother,  and  departed.

And  now  my  wanderings  began,  which are  to  cease  but  with  life.  I have  traversed a vast  portion  of  the  earth,  and  have  endured all  the  hardships  which  travellers in  deserts  and  barbarous  countries  are wont  to  meet.  How  I have  lived  I hardly know;  many  times  have  I stretched  my failing  limbs  upon  the  sandy  plain  and prayed  for  deadi.  But  revenge  kept  me alive;  I dared  not  die  and  leave  my  adversary in  being.

When  I quitted  Geneva  my  first  labor

was  to  gain  some  clue  by  which  I might trace  the  steps  of  my  fiendish  enemy.  But my  plan  was  unsettled;  and  I wandered many  hours  round  the  confines  of  the town,  uncertain  what  path  I should  pursue. As  night  approached,  I found  myself at  the  entrance  of  the  cemetery  where William,  Elizabeth,  and  my  father  reposed. I entered  it  and  approached  the tomb  which  marked  their  graves.  Everything was  silent,  except  the  leaves  of  the trees,  which  were  gently  agitated  by  the wind;  the  night  was  nearly  dark;  and  the scene  would  have  been  solemn  and  affecting even  to  an  iminterested  observer.

'The  deep  grief  which  this  scene  had  at first  excited  quickly  gave  way  to  rage  and despair.  ’They  were  dead,  and  I lived; their  murderer  also  lived,  and  to  destroy him  I must  drag  out  my  weary  existence. I knelt  on  the  grass  and  kissed  the  earth, and  with  quivering  lips  exclaimed,  "By the  sacred  earth  on  which  I kneel,  by  the shades  that  wander  near  me,  by  tlie  deep and  eternal  grief  that  I feel,  I swear;  and by  thee,  O Night,  and  the  spirits  that  preside over  thee,  to  pursue  the  demon  who caused  this  misery  until  he  or  I shall  perish in  mortal  conflict.  For  this  purpose I will  preserve  my  life:  to  execute  this dear  revenge  will  ■ I again  behold  the  sun and  tread  the  green  herbage  of  earth, which  otherwise  should  vanish  from  my eyes  for  ever.  And  I call  on  you,  spirits of  the  dead;  and  on  you,  wandering  ministers of  vengeance,  to  aid  and  conduct  me in  my  work.  Let  the  cursed  and  hellish monster  drink  deep  of  agony;  let  him  feel the  despair  that  now  torments  me.”

I was  answered  through  the  stillness  of night  by  a loud  and  fiendish  laugh.  It rung  on  my  ears  long  and  heavily;  the mountains  re-echoed  it,  and  I felt  as  if all  hell  surrounded  me  with  mockery  and laughter.  'The  laughter  died  away;  when a well-known  and  abhorred  voice,  apparS52

WEIRD  TALES

eatljr  close  to  tiqr  ear,  addressed  me  in  aa audibie  whisper — "I  am  satisfied;  miserable wretch]  you  have  determined  to  live, and  I am  satkfied.”

I darted  towards  the  spot  from  which the  sound  proceeded;  but  the  devil  eluded my  grasp.  Suddenly  the  broad  disk  of  the moon  arose  and  shone  full  upon  his ghastly  and  distorted  shape  as  he  fled with  more  than  mortal  speed.

I pursued  him;  and  for  many  months this  has  been  my  task.  Guided  by  a slight clue  I followed  the  windings  of  the Rhone,  but  vainly.  The  blue  Mediterranean appeared;  and,  by  a strange  chance, I saw  the  fiend  enter  by  night  and  hide himself  in  a vessel  bound  for  the  Black Sea.  I took  my  passage  in  the  same  ship; bid  he  escaped,  I know  not  hov/.

Amidst  the  wilds  of  Tartary  and  Russia, although  he  still  evaded  me,  I have ever  followed  in  his  track.  Sometimes  the peasants,  scared  by  this  horrid  apparition, informed  me  of  his  path;  sometimes  he himself,  who  feared  that  if  I lost  all  trace of  him  I should  despair  and  die,  left  some mark  to  guide  me.  The  snows  descended oa  my  head,  and  I saw  the  print  of  his huge  step  on  the  white  plain.  Cold, want,  and  fatigue  were  the  least  pains which  I was  destined  to  endure;  I was cursed  by  some  devil,  and  carried  about with  me  ray  eternal  hell;  yet  still  a spirit of  good  followed  and  directed  my  steps; and,  when  I most  murmured,  would  suddenly extricate  me  from  seemingly  insurmoiantablc  difficulties.  Sometimes,  when nature,  overcome  by  hunger,  sunk  under the  exhaustion,  a repast  was  prepared  for me  in  the  desert  that  restored  and  inspirited me.  The  fare  was,  indeed,  coarse, such  as  the  peasants  of  the  country  ate; but  I will  not  doubt  that  it  was  set  there by  the  spirits  that  I had  invoked  to  aid  me. Often,  when  all  was  dry,  the  heavens doucUess,  and  I was  parched  by  thirst,  a

slight  cloud  would  bedim  ihe  sky,  shed the  few  drops  dmt  revived  me,  and  vanishI FOLLOWED,  when  I could,  the  courses of  the  rivers;  but  the  demon  genei'ally avoided  these,  as  it  was  here  that  the  population of  the  country  chiefly  collected. In  other  places  human  beings  were  seldom seen;  and  I generally  subsisted  on  the wild  animals  that  crossed  my  path.  I had money  with  me,  and  gained  the  friendship of  the  villagers  by  distributing  it;  or I brought  with  me  some  food  that  I had killed,  which,  after  tdcing  a small  part,  I always  presented  to  those  who  had  provided me  with  fire  and  utensils  for  cooking.

My  life,  as  it  passed  thus,  was  indeed hateful  to  me,  and  it  was  during  sle^ alone  that  I could  taste  joy.  O blessed sleep!  often,  when  most  miserable,  I sank to  repose,  and  my  dreams  lulled  me  even to  rapture.  The  spirits  that  guarded  me had  provided  these  irjomcnts,  or  rather hours,  of  happiness,  that  I might  retain strength  to  fulfil  my  pilgrimage.  Deprived of  this  respite,  I should  have  sunk under  my  hardships.  During  the  day  I was  sustained  and  inspirited  by  the  hope of  night:  for  in  sleep  I saw  my  friends, my  wife,  and  my  beloved  country;  again I saw  the  baievolent  countenance  of  my father,  heard  the  silver  tones  of  my  Elizabeth’s voice,  and  beheld  Clerval  enjoying health  and  youth.  Often,  when  wearied by  a toilsome  march,  I persuaded myself  that  I was  dreaming  until  niglit should  come,  and  that  I should  then  enjoy reality  in  the  arms  of  my  dearest  friendsWhat  agonizing  fondness  did  I feel  for them]  how  did  I cling  to  their  dear  forms, as  sometimes  they  haunted  even  my  waking hours,  and  persuaded  myself  that  they still  lived!  At  such  moments  vengeance, that  burned  within  me,  died  in  my  heart, and  I pursued  my  path  towards  the  deW.  T.— 7

FRANKENSTEIN


sti?uctioa  of  the  demon  more  as  a task enjoined  by  heaven,  as  the  mechanical impulse  of  some  power  of  which  I was unconscious,  than  as  the  ardent  desire  of my  soul.

What  his  feeling  were  whom  I pursued I can  not  know.  Sometimes,  indeed, he  left  marks  in  writing  on  the  barks  of the  trees,  ©r  cut  in  stone,  that  guided  me and  instigated  my  fury.  “My  reign  is  not yet  over”  (these  words  were  legible  in one  of  these  inscriptions) ; “you  live,  and my  power  is  complete.  Follow  me;  I seek the  everlasting  ices  of  the  north,  where you  will  feel  the  misery  of  cold  and  frost to  which  I am  impassive.  You  will  find near  this,  place,  if  you  follow  not  too  tardily, a dead  hare;  eat  and  be  refreshed. Come  on,  my  enemy;  we  haye  yet  to wrestle  for  our  lives;  but  many  hard  and miserable  hours  must  you  endure  until that  period  shall  arrive,”

As  I still  pursued  my  journey  to  the northward,  the  snows  thickened  and  the cold  increased  in  a degree  almost  too  severe to  support.  The  peasants  were  shut up  in  their  hovels,  and  only  a few  of  the most  hardy  ventured  forth  to  seiae  the animals  whom  starvation  had  forced  from their  hiding-places  to  seek  for  prey.  The rivers  were  covered  with  ice  and  no  fish could  be  procured;  and  thus  I was  cut  off from  my  chief  article  of  maintenance.

The  triumph  of  my  enemy  increased with  the  difficulty  of  my  labors.  One  inscription that  he  left  was  in  these  words: — ^“Prepare!  your  toils  only  begin:  wrap yourself  in  furs  and  provide  food;  for  we shall  soon  eater  upon  a journey  where your  sufferings  will  satisfy  my  everlasting hatred.”

My  courage  and  perseverance  were  invigorate^d  by  these  scoffing  words;  I resolved aot  to  fail  in  my  purpose;  and,  calling pa  Heaven  to  support  me,  I continued with  uaabated  fervor  to  traverse  immense W.  T.— 8

deserts  until  the  ocean  appeared  at  a distance and  formed  the  utmost  boundary  of the  horizon.  Oh!  how  unlike  it  vifas  to the  blue  seas  of  the  south!  Covered  with ice,  it  was  only  to  be  distinguished  from land  by  its  superior  wildness  and  ruggedness. The  Greeks  wept  for  joy  when  they beheld  the  Mediterranean  from  the  hills of  Asia,  and  hailed  with  rapture  the  boundary of  their  toils.  I did  not  weep;  but I knelt  down  and,  with  a full  heart, thanked  my  guiding  spirit  for  conducting me  in  safety  to  the  place  where  I hoped, notwithstanding  my  adversary’s  gibe,  to meet  and  grapple  with  him.

SOME  weeks  before  this  period  I had procured  a sledge  and  dogs,  and  thus traversed  the  snows  with  inconceivable speed.  I know  not  whether  the  fiend  possessed the  same  advantages;  but  I foimd that,  as  before  T had  daily  lost  ground  in the  pursuit,  I now  gained  on  him:  so much  so  that,  when  I first  saw  the  ocean, he  was  but  one  day’s  journey  in  advance, and  I hoped  to  intercept  him  before  he should  reach  the  beach.  With  new  courage, therefore,  I pressed  on,  and  in  two days  arrived  at  a wretched  hamlet  on  the seashore.

I inquired  of  the  inhabitants  concerning the  fiend,  and  gained  accurate  information. A gigantic  monster,  they said,  had  arrived  the  night  before,  armed with  a gun  and  many  pistols,  putting  to flight  the  inhabitants  of  a solitary  cottage through  fear  of  his  terrific  appearance. He  had  carried  off  their  store  of  winter food,  and  placing  it  in  a sledge,  to  draw which  he  had  seized  on  a numerous  drove of  trained  dogs,  he  had  harnessed  them, and  the  same  night,  to  the  joy  of  the  horror-struck villagers,  had  pursued  hi?  journey across  the  sea  in  a direction  that  led  to no  land;  and  they  conjectured  that  be must  speedily  be  destroyed  by  the  b^ak834

WEIRD  TALES

ing  of  the  ice  or  frozen  by  the  eternal frosts.

On  hearing  this  information,  I suffered a temporary  access  of  despair.  He  had escape  me;  and  I must  commence  a destructive  and  almost  endless  journey across  the  mountainous  ices  of  the  ocean — amidst  cold  that  few  of  the  inhabitants could  long  endure,  and  which  I,  the  native of  a genial  and  sunny  climate,  could not  hope  to  survive.  Yet  at  the  idea  that the  fiend  should  live  and  be  triumphant, my  rage  and  vengeance  returned,  and,  like a mighty  tide,  overwhelmed  every  other feeling.  After  a slight  repose,  during which  the  spirits  of  the  dead  hovered round  and  instigated  me  to  toil  and  revenge, I prepared  for  my  journey.

I exchanged  my  land-sledge  for  one fashioned  for  the  inequalities  of  the Frozen  Ocean;  and  purchasing  a plentiful stock  of  provisions,  I departed  from  land.

I can  not  guess  how  many  days  have passed  since  then;  but  I have  endured misery  which  nothing  but  the  eternal  sentiment of  a just  retribution  burning  within my  heart  could  have  enabled  me  to  support. Immense  and  rugged  mountains  of ice  often  barred  up  my  passage,  and  I often  heard  the  thunder  of  the  ground sea  which  threatened  my  destruction.  But again  the  frost  came  and  made  the  paths of  the  sea  secure.

By  the  quantity  of  provision  which  I had  consumed,  I should  guess  that  I had passed  three  weeks  in  this  journey;  and the  continual  protraction  of  hope,  returning back  upon  the  heart,  often  wrung bitter  drops  of  despondency  and  grief from  my  eyes.  Despair  had  indeed  almost secured  her  prey,  and  I should  soon have  sunk  beneath  this  misery.  Once, after  the  poor  animals  that  conveyed  me had  with  incredible  toil  gained  the  summit of  a sloping  ice-mountain,  and  one, sinking  under  his  fatigue,  di/;d,  I viewed

the  expanse  before  me  with  anguish,  when suddenly  my  eye  caught  a dark  speck  upon the  dusky  plain.  I strained  my  sight  to discover  what  it  could  be,  and  uttered  a wild  cry  of  ecstasy  when  I distinguished  a sledge  and  the  distorted  proportions  of  a well-known  form  within.  Oh!  with  what a burning  gush  did  hope  revisit  my  heart! warm  tears  filled  my  eyes,  which  I hastily wiped  away  that  they  might  not  intercept the  view  I had  of  the  demon;  but  still  my sight  was  dimmed  by  the  burning  drops until,  giving  way  to  the  emotions  that  oppressed me,  I wept  aloud.

But  this  was  not  the  time  for  delay:  I disencumbered  the  dogs  of  their  dead companion,  gave  them  a plentiful  portion of  food;  and,  after  an  hoiur’s  rest,  which was  absolutely  necessary,  and  yet  which was  bitterly  irksome  to  me,  I continued my  route.  The  sledge  was  still  visible; nor  did  I again  lose  sight  of  it  except  at the  moments  when  for  a short  time  some ice-rock  concealed  it  with  its  intervening crags.  I indeed  perceptibly  gained  on  it; and  when,  after  nearly  two  days’  journey, I beheld  my  enemy  at  no  more  than  a mile distant,  my  heart  bounded  within  me.

But  now,  when  I appeared  almost  within grasp  of  my  foe,  my  hopes  were  suddenly extinguished,  and  I lost  all  traces  of him  more  utterly  than  I had  ever  done before.  A ground  sea  was  heard;  the thunder  of  its  progress,  as  the  waters rolled  and  swelled  beneath  me,  became every  moment  more  ominous  and  terrific. I pressed  on,  but  in  vain.  The  wind arose;  the  sea  roared;  and,  as  with  the mighty  shock  of  an  earthquake,  it  split and  cracked  with  a tremendous  and  overwhelming sound.  The  work  was  soon  finished: in  a few  minutes  a tumultuous  sea rolled  between  me  and  my  enemy,  and  I was  left  drifting  on  a scattered  piece  of ice,  that  was  continually  lessening,  and thus  preparing  for  me  a hideous  death.

FRANKENSTEIN


In  this  manner  many  appalling  hours passed;  several  of  my  dogs  died;  and  I myself  was  about  to  sink  under  the  accumulation of  distress  when  I saw  your vessel  riding  at  anchor,  and  holding  forth to  me  hopes  of  succor  and  life.  I had  no conception  that  vessels  ever  came  so  far north,  and  was  astounded  at  the  sight.

I quickly  destroyed  part  of  my  sledge to  construct  oars;  and  by  tliese  means  was enabled,  with  infinite  fatigue,  to  move  my ice-raft  in  the  direction  of  your  ship.  I had  determined,  if  you  were  going  soutliward,  still  to  trust  myself  to  the  mercy  of the  seas  rather  than  abandon  my  purpose. I hoped  to  induce  you  to  grant  me  a boat with  which  I could  pursue  my  enemy. But  your  direction  was  northward.  You took  me  on  board  when  my  vigor  was  exhausted, and  I should  soon  have  sunk under  my  multiplied  hardships  into  a death  which  I still  dread — for  my  task  is unfulfilled.

Oh!  when  will  my  guiding  spirit,  in conducting  me  to  the  demon,  allow  me the  rest  I so  much  desire;  or  must  I die and  he  yet  live?  If  I do,  swear  to  me, Walton,  that  he  shall  not  escape;  that  you will  seek  him  and  satisfy  my  vengeance  in his  death.  And  do  I dare  to  ask  of  you to  undertake  my  pilgrimage,  to  endure  the hardships  that  I have  undergone?  No;  I am  not  so  selfish.  Yet,  when  I am  dead, if  he  should  appear;  if  the  ministers  of vengeance  should  conduct  him  to  you, swear  that  he  shall  not  live — swear  that he  shall  not  triumph  over  my  accumulated woes,  and  survive  to  add  to  the  list  of  his dark  crimes.  He  is  eloquent  and  persuasive; and  once  his  words  had  even  power over  my  heart:  but  trust  him  not.  His soul  is  as  hellish  as  his  form,  full  of tfleadiery  and  fiend-like  malice.  Hear  him not;  call  on  the  names  of  William,  Justine, Clerval,  Elizabeth,  my  father,  and  of the  wretched  Victor,  and  thrust  ydur

sword  into  his  heart.  I will  hover  near and  direct  the  steel  aright.

Walton,  in  continuation

August  26ii>,  17 — .

You  have  read  tliis  strange  and  terrific story,  Margaret;  and  do  you  not  feel your  blood  congeal  with  horror  like  that which  even  now  curdles  mine?  Sometimes, seized  with  sudden  agony,  he  could not  continue  his  tale;  at  others,  his  voice broken,  yet  piercing,  uttered  with  difiiculty  the  words  so  replete  with  anguish. His  fine  and  lovely  eyes  were  now  lighted up  with  indignation,  now  subdued  to downcast  sorrow,  and  quenched  in  infinite wretchedness.  Sometimes  he  commanded his  countenance  and  tones,  and related  the  most  horrible  incidents  with  a tranquil  voice,  suppressing  every  mark  of agitation;  then,  like  a volcano  bursting forth,  his  face  would  suddenly  change  to an  expression  of  the  wildest  rage,  as  he .shrieked  out  imprecations  on  his  persecutor.

His  tale  is  connected,  and  told  with  an appearance  of  the  simplest  truth;  yet  I own  to  you  that  the  letters  of  Felix  and Safie,  which  he  showed  me,  and  the  apparition of  the  monster  seen  from  our  ship, brought  to  me  a greater  conviction  of  the truth  of  his  narrative  than  his  asseverations, however  earnest  and  connected. Such  a monster  has  then  really  existence! I can  not  doubt  it;  yet  I am  lost  in  surprize and  admiration.  Sometimes  I endeavored to  gain  from  Frankenstein  the particulars  of  his  creature’s  formation;  but on  this  point  he  was  impenetrable.  .

"Are  you  mad,  my  friend?”  said  he; "or  whither  does  your  senseless  curiosity lead  you?  Would  you  also  create  for yourself  and  the  world  a demoniacal  enemy? Peace,  peace!  learn  my  miseries,  and do  not  seek  to  increase  your  own.”


WEIRD  TALES

Frankenstein  discovered  that  I made notes  concerning  his  history:  he  asked  to see  them,  and  then  himself  corrected  and augmented  them  in  many  places;  but principally  in  giving  the  life  and  spirit  to the  conversations  he  held  with  his  enemy. "Since  you  have  preserved  my  narration,” said  he,  "I  would  not  that  a mutilated  one should  go  down  to  posterity.”

Thus  has  a week  passed  away,  while  I have  listened  to  the  strangest  tale  that ever  imagination  formed.  My  thoughts, and  every  feeling  of  my  soul,  have  been drunk  up  by  the  interest  for  my  guest, which  this  tale,  and  his  own  elevated  and gentle  manners,  have  created.  I wish  to soothe  him;  yet  can  I counsel  one  so  infinitely miserable,  so  destitute  of  every hope  of  consolation,  to  live?  Oh,  no!  the only  joy  that  he  can  now  know  will  be when  he  composes  his  shattered  spirit  to peace  and  death.  Yet  he  enjoys  one  comfort, the  offspring  of  solitude  and  delirium: he  believes  that,  when  in  dreams  he holds  converse  with  his  friends  and  derives from  that  commimion  consolation for  his  miseries  or  excitements  to  his vengeance,  they  are  not  the  aeations  of his  fancy,  but  the  beings  themselves  who visit  him  from  the  regions  of  a remote world.  This  faith  gives  a solemnity  to his  reveries  that  render  them  to  me  almost as  imposing  and  interesting  as  truth.

Our  conversations  are  not  always  confined to  his  own  history  and  misfortunes. On  every  point  of  general  literature  he displays  unbounded  knowledge  and  a quick  and  piercing  apprehension.  His  eloquence is  forcible  and  touching;  nor  can I hear  him,  when  he  relates  a pathetic incident,  or  endeavors  to  move  the  passions of  pity  or  love,  without  tears.  What a glorious  creature  must  he  have  been  in the  days  of  his  prosperity  when  he  is  thus noble  and  god-like  ki  ruin!  He  feels  his worth  and  the  greatness  of  his  fall.

"When  younger,”  said  he,  "I  believed myself  destined  for  some  great  enterprise. My  feelings  are  profound;  but  I possessed a coolness  of  judgment  that  fitted  me  for illustrious  achievements.  This  sentiment of  the  worth  of  my  nature  supported  me when  others  would  have  been  oppressed; for  I deemed  it  criminal  to  throw  away in  useless  grief  those  talents  that  might  be useful  to  my  fellow-creatures.  When  I reflected  on  the  work  I had  completed,  no less  a one  than  the  creation  of  a sensitive and  rational  animal,  I could  not  rank  myself with  the  herd  of  common  projectors. But  this  thought,  which  supported  me  in the  commencement  of  my  career,  now serves  only  to  plunge  me  lower  in  the  dust. Ail  my  speculations  and  hopes  are  as nothing;  and,  like  the  archangel  who  aspired to  omnipotence,  I am  chained  in  an eternal  hell.  My  imagination  was  vivid, yet  my  powers  of  analysis  and  application were  intense;  by  the  union  of  these  qualities I conceived  the  idea  and  executed  the creation  of  a man.  Even  now  I can  not recollect  without  passion  n^  reveries while  the  work  was  incomplete.  I trod heaven  in  my  thoughts,  now  exulting  in my  powers,  now  burning  with  the  idea of  their  effects.  From  my  infancy  I was imbued  with  high  hopes  and  a lofty  ambition; but  how  am  I sunk!  Oh!  my friend,  if  you  had  known  me  as  I once was  you  would  not  recognize  me  in  this state  of  degradation.  Despondency  rarely visited  my  heart;  a high  destiny  seemed  to bear  me  on  until  I fell,  never,  never  again to  rise.”

Must  I then  lose  this  admirable  being? I have  longed  for  a friend;  I have  sought one  who  would  sympathize  with  and  love me.  Behold,  on  these  desert  sfcas  I have found  such  a one;  but  I fear  I have  gaiped him  only  to  know  his  value  and  lose  him. I would  reconcile  him  to  life,  but  he  repulses  the  idea.

FRANKENSTEIN

837i

"I  thank  you,  Walton,”  he  said,  "for your  kind  intentions  towards  so  miserable a wretch;  but  when  you  speak  of  new ties  and  fresh  affections,  think  you  that any  can  replace  those  who  are  gone?  Can any  man  be  to  me  as  Clerval  was;  or  any woman  another  Elizabeth?  Even  where the  affections  are  not  strongly  moved  by any  superior  excellence,  the  companions of  our  childhood  always  possess  a certain power  over  our  minds  which  hardly  any later  friend  can  obtain.  They  know  our infantine  dispositions,  which,  however they  may  be  afterwards  modified,  are never  eradicated;  and  they  can  judge  of our  actions  with  more  certain  conclusions as  to  the  integrity  of  our  motives.  A sister or  a brother  can  never,  unless  indeed such  symptoms  have  been  shown  early, suspect  the  other  of  fraud  or  false  dealing, when  another  friend,  however  strongly he  may  be  attached,  may,  in  spite  of himself,  be  contemplated  with  suspicion. But  I enjoyed  friends,  dear  not  only through  habit  and  association,  but  from their  own  merits;  and  wherever  I am  the soothing  voice  of  my  Elizabeth  and  the conversation  of  Clerval  will  be  ever  whispered in  my  ear.  They  are  dead,  and  but one  feeling  in  such  a solitude  can  persuade me  to  preserve  my  life.  If  I were engaged  in  any  high  undertaking  or  design, fraught  with  extensive  utility  to  my fellow-creatures,  then  could  I live  to  fulfil it.  But  such  is  not  my  destiny;  I must pursue  and  destroy  the  being  to  whom  I gave  existence;  then  my  lot  on  earth  will be  fulfilled,  and  I may  die.”

September  2nd.

My  BELOVED  SISTER, — I write  to  you encompassed  by  peril  and  ignorant whether  I am  ever  doomed  to  see  again dear  England,  and  tlie  dearer  friends  that inhabit  it  I am  surrounded  by  mountains of  ice  which  admit  of  no  escape  and

threaten  every  moment  to  crush  my  vesseL The  brave  fellows  whom  I have  persuaded to  be  my  companions  look  towards  me for  aid;  but  I have  none  to  bestow.  There is  something  terribly  appalling  in  our situation,  yet  my  courage  and  hopes  do not  desert  me.  Yet  it  is  terrible  to  reflect that  the  lives  of  all  these  men  are  endangered through  me.  If  we  are  lost,  my mad  schemes  are  the  cause.

And  what,  Margaret,  will  be  the  state of  your  mind?  You  will  not  hear  of  my destruction,  and  you  will  anxiously  await my  return.  Years  will  pass,  and  you  will have  visitings  of  despair,  and  yet  be  tortured by  hope.  Oh!  my  beloved  sister, the  sickening  failing  of  your  heartfelt  expectations is,  in  prospect,  more  terrible  to me  than  my  own  death.  But  you  have  a husband  and  lovely  children;  you  may  be happy;  Heaven  bless  you  and  make  you so!

My  unfortunate  guest  regards  me  with the  tenderest  compassion.  He  endeavors to  fill  me  with  hope;  and  talks  as  if  life were  a possession  which  he  valued.  He reminds  me  how  often  the  same  accidents have  happened  to  other  navigators  who have  attempted  this  sea,  and,  in  spite  of myself,  he  fills  me  with  cheerful  auguries. Even  the  sailors  feel  the  power  of  his  eloquence: when  he  speaks  they  no  longer despair;  he  rouses  their  energies  and, while  they  hear  his  voice,  they  believe these  vast  mountains  of  ice  are  mole-hills which  will  vanish  before  the  resolutions of  man.  Tliese  feelings  are  transitory; each  day  of  expectation  delayed  fills  them with  fear,  and  I almost  dread  a mutiny caused  by  this  despair.

September  5th.

A SCENE  has  just  passed  of  such  uncommon interest  that  although  it  is highly  probable  that  these  papers  may

^8

WEIRD  TALES

n&¥er  reach  you,  yet  I can  not  forbear  recording ii.

We  are  still  snfrounded  by  mountains of  ice,  still  in  imminent  danger  of  being crushed  in  their  conflict.  The  cold  is  exeeistye,  and  many  of  my  unfortunate  comrades have  already  found  a grave  amidst this  scene  of  desolation.  Frankenstein  has daily  declined  in  health:  a feverish  fire still  glimmers  in  his  eyes;  but  he  is  exhausted, and  when  suddenly  roused  to  any eacertion  he  speedily  sinks  again  into  apparent lifelessness.

I mentioned  in  my  last  letter  the  fears I entertained  of  a mutiny.  This  morning, as  I sat  watching  the  wan  countenance  of my  friend — ^his  eyes  half  closed,  and  his limbs  hanging  listlessly — I was  roused  by half  a dozen  of  the  sailors  who  demanded admission  into  the  cabin.  They  entered, and  their  leader  addressed  me.  He  told me  that  he  and  his  companions  had  been chosen  by  the  other  sailors  to  come  in  deputation to  me,  to  make  me  a requisition which,  in  justice,  I could  not  refuse.  We were  immured  in  ice  and  should  probably never  escape;  but  they  feared  that  if,  as was  possible,  the  ice  should  dissipate,  and a free  passage  be  opened,  I should  he  rash enough  to  continue  my  voyage  ar  d lead them  into  fresh  dangers  after  they  might happily  have  surmounted  this.  They  insisted, therefore,  that  I should  engage with  a solemn  promise  that  if  the  vessel should  be  freed  I would  instantly  direct my  course  southward.

This  speech  troubled  me.  I had  not despaired;  nor  had  I yet  conceived  the  idea of  returning  if  set  free.  Yet  could  I,  in justice,  or  even  in  possibility,  refuse  this demand?  I hesitated  before  I answered; when  Frankenstein,  who  had  at  first  been silent,  and,  indeed,  appeared  hardly  to have  f®rcc  enough  to  attend,  noiw  roused httateLf;  his  eyes  sparkled,  and  his  cheeks

flashed  with  momentary  vigor.  Turning towards  the  men  he  said- —

“What  do  you  mean?  What  do  you demand  of  your  captain?  Are  you  then so  easily  turned  from  your  design?  Did you  not  call  this  a glorious  expedition? And  wherefore  was  it  glorious?  Not  because the  way  was  smooth  and  placid  as a southern  sea,  but  because  it  was  full  of dangers  and  terror;  because  at  evftry  new incident  your  fortitude  was  to  be  called forth  and  your  courage  exhibited;  because danger  and  death  surrounded  it,  and  these you  were  to  brave  and  overcome.  For  this was  it  a glorious,  for  this  was  it  an  honorable undertaking.  You  were  hereafter to  be  hailed  as  the  benefactors  of  your species;  your  names  adored  as  belonging to  brave  men  who  encountered  death  for honor  and  the  benefit  of  mankind.  And now,  behold,  with  the  first  imagination  of danger,  or,  if  you  will,  the  first  mighty and  terrific  trial  of  your  courage,  you shrink  away,  and  ate  content  to  be  handed down  as  men  who  had  not  strength enough  to  endure  cold  and  peril;  and  so, poor  souls,  they  were  chilly  and  returned to  their  warm  firesides.  Why,  that  requires not  this  preparation;  ye  need  not have  come  thus  far,  and  dragged  your captain  to  the  shame  of  a defeat,  merely to  prove  yourselves  cowards.  Oh!  be men,  or  be  more  than  men.  Be  steady  to your  purposes  and  firm  as  a rock.  This ice  is  not  made  of  such  stuff  as  your  hearts may  be;  it  is  mutable  and  can  not  withstand you  if  you  say  that  it  shall  not.  Do not  return  to  your  families  with  the  stigma of  disgrace  marked  on  your  brows. Return  as  heroes  who  have  fought  and conquered,  and  who  know  not  what  it  is to  turn  their  backs  on  the  foe.”

He  spoke  this  with  a voice  so  modulated to  the  different  feelings  expre^d in  his  speech,  with  an  eye  so  full  of  Iqfty design  and  heroism,  that  can  you  wnil4ei

FRANKENSTEIN


that  these  men  were  moved?  They  looked at  one  another  and  were  xinable  to  reply. I spoke;  I told  them  to  retire  and  consider of  what  had  been  said:  that  I would  not lead  them  farther  north  if  they  strenuously desired  the  contrary;  but  that  I hoped that,  with  reflection,  their  courage  would return.

They  retired,  and  I turned  towards  my friend;  but  he  was  sunk  in  languor  and almost  deprived  of  life.

How  all  this  will  terminate  I know  not; but  I bad  rather  die  than  return  shamefully — my  purpose  unfulfilled.  Yet  I fear  such  will  be  my  fate;  the  men,  xmsupported  by  ideas  of  glory  and  hwior, can  never  willingly  continue  to  endure their  present  hardships.

September  1th.

The  die  is  cast;  I have  consented  to return  if  we  are  not  destroyed.  Thus are  my  hopes  blasted  by  cowardice  and  indecision; I come  bade  ignorant  and  disappointed. It  requires  more  philosophy than  I possess  to  bear  this  injustice  with patience.

September  llth.

IT  IS  past;  I am  returning  to  England.  I have  lost  my  hopes  of  utility  and  glory; — have  lost  my  friend.  But  I will  endeavor to  detail  these  bitter  drcumstances to  you,  my  dear  sister;  and  while  I am wafted  towards  England,  and  towards you,  I will  not  despond.

September  9th,  the  ice  began  to  move, and  roarings  like  thunder  were  heard  at  a (fistance  as  the  islands  split  and  cracked  in every  direction.  We  were  in  the  most imminent  peril;  but,  as  we  could  only  remain passive,  my  chief  attention  was occupied  by  my  unfortunate  guest,  whose illness  increased  in  such  a degree  that  he was  entirely  confined  to  his  bed.  The  ice

cracked  behind  us,  and  was  driven  with force  towards  the  north;  a breeze  sprung from  the  west,  and  on  the  llth  the  passage towards  the  south  became  perfectly free.  When  the  sailors  saw  this,  and  that their  return  to  their  native  country  was  apparently assured,  a shout  of  tumultuous joy  broke  from  them,  loud  and  long-continued.

Frankenstein,  who  was  dozing,  awoke and  asked  the  cause  of  the  tumult.  "They shout,”  I said,  "because  they  will  soon  return to  England.”

"Do  you  then  really  return?”

"Alas!  yes;  I can  not  withstand  their  demands. I can  not  lead  tliem  unwillingly to  danger,  and  I must  return.”

"Do  so,  if  you  will;  but  I will  not.  You may  give  up  your  purpose,  but  mine  is assigned  to  me  by  Heaven,  and  I dare not,  I am  weak;  but  surely  the  spirits who  assist  my  veilgeance  will  endow  me with  sufficient  strength.”  Saying  this,  he endeavored  to  spring  from  the  bed,  but the  exertion  was  too  great  for  him;  he  fell back  and  fainted.

It  was  long  before  he  was  restored; and  I often  thought  that  life  was  entirely extinct.  At  lengfli  he  opened  his  eyes;  he breathed  with  difficulty,  and  was  unable to  speak.  The  surgeon  gave  him  a composing draft  and  ordered  us  to  leave  him undisturbed.  In  the  meantime  he  told me  that  my  friend  had  certainly  not  many hours  to  live.

His  sentence  was  pronounced,  and  I could  only  grieve  and  be  patient.  I sat by  his  bed  watching  him;  his  eyes  were closed,  and  I thought  he  slept;  but  presently he  called  to  me  in  a feeble  voice, and,  bidding  me  come  near,  said — "Alas! the  strength  I relied  on  is  gone;  I feel  that I shall  soon  die,  and  he,  my  enemy  and persecutor,  may  still  be  in  being.  Think not,  Walton,  ffiat  in  the  last  moments  of my  existence  I feel  that  burning  hatred

.WEIRD  TALES

and  ardent  desire  of  revenge  I once  expressed; but  I feel  myself  justified  in  desiring the  death  of  my  adversary.  During riieae  last  days  I have  been  occupied  in  examining my  past  conduct;  nor  do  I find  it blamable.

' In  a fit  of  enthusiastic  madness  I created a rational  creature,  and  was  bound towards  him,  to  assure,  as  far  as  was  in my  power,  his  happiness  and  well-being. This  was  my  duty;  but  there  was  another still  paramount  to  that.  My  duties towards  the  beings  of  my  own  species  had greater  claims  to  my  attention,  because they  included  a greater  proportion  of  happiness or  misery.  Urged  by  this  view,  I refused,  and  I did  right  in  refusing,  to create  a companion  for  the  first  creature. He  showed  unparalleled  malignity  and selfishness,  in  evil:  he  destroyed  my friends;  be  devoted  to  destruction  beings who  possessed  exquisite  sensations,  happiness, and  wisdom;  nor  do  I know  where this  thirst  for  vengeance  may  end.  Miserable himself,  that  he  may  render  no other  wretched  he  ought  to  die.  The  task of  his  destruction  was  mine,  but  I have failed.  When  actuated  by  selfish  and vicious  motives  I asked  you  to  undertake my  xmfinished  work;  and  I renew  this  request now  when  I am  only  induced  by reason  and  virtue.

"Yet  I can  not  ask  you  to  renounce  your country  and  friends  to  fulfil  this  task;  and now  tliat  you  are  returning  to  England you  will  have  little  chance  of  meeting with  him.  But  the  consideration  of  tliese points,  and  the  well  balancing  of  what  you may  esteem  your  duties,  I leave  to  you; my  judgment  and  ideas  are  already  disturbed by  the  near  approach  of  death.  I dare  not  ask  you  to  do  w'hat  I think  right, for  I may  still  be  misled  by  passion.

’’That  he  should  live  to  be  an  instnimant of  mischief  disturbs  me;  in  other  respects, thifi  hour,  when  I momentarily  expect  my

release,  is  the  only  happy  one  which  I have  enjoyed  for  several  years.  The forms  of  the  beloved  dead  flit  before  me and  I hasten  to  their  arms.  Farewell, Walton!  Seek  happiness  in  tranquillity and  avoid  ambition,,  eva®  if  it  be  only the  apparently  innocent  one  of  distinguishing yourself  in  science  and  discoveries. Yet  why  do  I say  this?  I have  myself been  blasted  in  these  hopes,  yet  another may  succeed.”

His  voice  became  fainter  as  he  spoke; and  at  length,  exhausted  by  his  effort,  he sunk  into  silence.  About  half  an  hour afterwards  he  attempted  again  to  speak, but  was  unable;  he  pressed  my  hand feebly,  and  his  eyes  closed  for  ever,  while the  irradiation  of  a gentle  smile  passed av/ay  from  his  lips.

Margaret,  what  comment  can  I make on  the  untimely  extinction  of  this  glorious spirit?  What  can  I say  that  will  enable you  to  understand  the  depth  of  my  sorrow? All  that  I should  express  would be  inadequate  and  feeble.  My  tears flow;  my  mind  is  overshadowed  by  a cloud of  disappointment.  But  I journey  towards England,  and  I may  there  find  consolation.

I am  interrupted.  What  do  these sounds  portend?  It  is  midnight;  the breeze  blows  fairly,  and  the  watch  on deck  scarcely  stir.  Again;  there  is  a sound  as  of  a human  voice,  but  coarser; it  comes  from  the  cabin  where  the  remains of  Frankenstein  still  lie.  I must  arise  and examine.  Good-night,  my  sister.

Gjieat  God!  what  a scene  has  just taken  place!  I am  yet  dizzy  with  the remembrance  of  it.  I hardly  know whether  I shall  have  the  power  to  detail it;  yet  the  tale  which  I have  recorded would  be  incomplete  without  this  final and  wonderful  catastrophe.

I entered  the  cabin  where  lay  the  reFRANKENSTEIN


makis  of  my  ill-fated  friend.  Over  him hung  a form  which  I can  not  find  words to  describe;  gigantic  in  stature,  yet  imcouth  and  distorted  in  its  proportions. As  he  bung  over  the  coffin  his  face  was concealed  by  long  locks  of  ragged  hair; but  one  vast  hand  was  extended,  in  color and  a|^arent  texture  like  that  of  a mummy.  When  he  heard  the  sound  of my  approach  he  ceased  to  utter  exclamations of  grief  and  horror  and  sprung towards  the  window.  Never  did  I behold a vision  so  horrible  as  his  face,  of  such loathsome  yet  appalling  hideousness.  I shut  my  eyes  involuntarily  and  endeavored to  recollect  what  were  my  duties  with  regard to  this  destroyer.  I called  on  him  to stay.

He  paused,  looking  on  me  with  wonder; and,  again  turning  towards  the  lifeless form  of  his  creator,  he  seemed  to forget  my  presence,  and  every  feature and  ^sture  seemed  instigated  by  the  wildest rage  of  some  uncontrollable  passion.

"That  is  also  my  victim!"  he  exclaimed: "ia  his  murder  my  crimes  are  consumnaated;  the  miserable  series  of  my  being  is wound  to  its  close!  Oh,  Frankenstein! generous  and  self-devoted  being!  what does  it  avail  that  I now  ask  thee  to  pardon me?  I,  who  irretrievably  destroyed  thee by  destroying  all  thou  lovedst.  Alas!  he is  cold,  he  can  not  answer  me.”

His  voice  seemed  suffocated;  and  my first  impulses,  which  had  suggested  to  me the  duty  of  obeying  the  dying  request  of my  friend,  in  destroying  his  enemy,  were now  suspended  by  a mixture  of  curiosity and  compassion.  I approached  this  tremendous being;  I dared  not  again  raise my  eyes  to  his  face,  there  was  something so  scaring  and  unearthly  in  his  ugliness. I attempted  to  speak,  but  the  words  died away  oa  my  lips.  The  monster  continued to  utter  wild  and  incoherent  self-reproaches. At  length  I gathered  resolution

to  address  him  in  a pause  of  the  tempest of  his  passion:  "Your  repentance,"  I said,  "is  now  superfluous.  If  you  had  listened to  the  voice  of  conscience,  and  heeded the  stings  of  remorse,  before  you  had urged  your  diabolical  vengeance  to  this extremity,  Frankenstein  would  yet  have lived.”

"And  do  you  dream?”  said  the  demon; "do  you  think  that  I was  then  dead  to agony  and  remorse? — He,”  he  continued, pointing  to  the  corpse,  "he  suffered  not in  the  consummation  of  the  deed — oh! not  the  ten-thousandth  portion  of  the  anguish that  was  mine  during  the  lingering detail  of  its  execution.  A frightful  selfishness hurried  me  on,  while  my  heart  was poisoned  with  remorse.  Think  you  that the  groans  of  Clerval  were  music  to  my ears?  My  heart  was  fashioned  to  be susceptible  of  love  and  sympathy;  and when  wrenched  by  misery  to  vice  and hatred  it  did  not  endure  the  violence  of the  change  without  torture  such  as  you can  not  even  imagine.

"After  the  murder  of  Clerval  I returned to  Switxerland  heart-broken  and  overcome. I pitied  Frankenstein;  my  pity amounted  to  horror:  I abhorred  myself. But  when  I discovered  that  he,  the  author at  once  of  my  existence  and  of  its  unspeakable torments,  dared  to  hope  for  happiness; that  while  he  accumulated  wretchedness and  despair  upon  me  he  sought  his own  enjoyment  in  feelings  and  passions from  the  indulgence  of  which  I was  for ever  barred,  then  impotent  envy  and  bitter indignation  filled  me  with  an  insatiable thirst  for  vengeance.  I recollected  my threat  and  resolved  that  it  should  be  accomplished. I knew  that  I was  preparing for  myself  a deadly  torture;  but  I was  the slave,  not  the  master,  of  an  impulse  which I detested,  yet  could  not  disobey.  Yet when  she  died! — ^nay,  then  I was  not miserable.  I had  cast  off  all  feeling,  sub842

WEIRD  TALES

dued  all  anguish,  to  riot  in  the  excess  of my  despair.  Evil  tlienceforth  became  my good.  Urged  thus  far,  I had  no  choice but  to  adapt  my  nature  to  an  element which  I had  willingly  chosen.  The  completion of  my  demoniacal  design  became an  insatiable  passion.  And  now  it  is ended;  there  is  my  last  victim!”

I was  at  first  touched  by  the  expressions of  his  misery;  yet  when  I called  to  mind what  Frankenstein  had  said  of  his  powers of  eloquence  and  persuasion,  and  when  I again  cast  my  eyes  on  the  lifeless  form  of my  friend,  indignation  was  rekindled within  me.

"Wretch!”  I said,  "it  is  well  that  you come  here  to  whine  over  the  desolation that  you  have  made.  You  throw  a torch into  a pile  of  buildings;  and  when  they are  consumed  you  sit  among  the  ruins  and lament  the  fall.  Hypocritical  fiend!  if  he whom  you  mourn  still  lived,  still  would he  be  the  object,  again  would  he  become the  prey,  of  your  accursed  vengeance.  It is  not  pity  that  you  feel;  you  lament  only because  the  victim  of  your  malignity  is withdrawn  from  your  power.”

"Oh,  it  is  not  thus — not  thus,”  interrupted the  being;  "yet  such  must  be  tlie  impression conveyed  to  you  by  what  appears to  be  the  purport  of  my  actions.  Yet  I seek  not  a fellow-feeling  in  my  misery. No  sympathy  may  I ever  find.  When  I first  sought  it,  it  was  the  love  of  virtue, the  feelings  of  happiness  and  affection with  which  my  whole  being  overflowed, that  I wished  to  be  participated.  But  now that  virtue  has  become  to  me  a shadow and  that  happiness  and  affection  are turned  into  bitter  and  loathing  despair,  in what  should  I seek  for  sympathy?  I am content  to  suffer  alone  while  my  sufferings shall  endure:  when  I die,  I am  well satisfied  that  abhorrence  and  opprobrium should  load  my  memory.

"Once  my  fancy  was  soothed  with

dreams  of  virtue,  of  fame,  and  of  enjoyment. Once  I falsely  hoped  to  meet  with beings  who,  pardoning  my  outward  form, would  love  me  for  tlie  excellent  qualities which  I was  capable  of  unfolding.  I was nourished  with  high  thoughts  of  honor and  devotion.  But  now  crime  has  degraded me  beneath  the  meanest  animal. No  guilt,  no  mischief,  no  malignity,  no misery,  can  be  found  comparable  to  mine. When  I run  over  the  frightful  catalogue of  my  sins,  I can  not  believe  that  I am  the same  creature  whose  thoughts  were  once filled  with  sublime  and  transcendent  visions of  the  beauty  and  the  majesty  of goodness.  But  it  is  even  so;  the  fallen angel  becomes  a malignant  devil.  Yet even  that  enemy  of  God  and  man  had friends  and  associates  in  his  desolation;  I am  alone.

"You,  who  call  Frankenstein  your friend,  seem  to  have  a knowledge  of  my crimes  and  his  misfortunes.  But  in  the detail  which  he  gave  you  of  them  he  could not  sum  up  the  hours  and  months  of  misery which  I endured,  wasting  in  impotent passions.  For  while  I destroyed  his  hopes, I did  not  satisfy  my  own  desires.  They were  for  ever  ardent  and  craving;  still  I desired  love  and  fellowship,  and  I was still  spumed.  Was  there  no  injustice  in this?  Am  I to  be  thought  the  only  criminal when  all  human  kind  sirmed  against me?  Why  do  you  not  hate  Felix  who drove  his  friend  from  his  door  with  contumely? Why  do  you  not  execrate  the rustic  who  sought  to  destroy  the  savior  of his  child?  Nay,  these  are  virtuous  and immaculate  beings!  I,  the  miserable  and the  abandoned,  am  an  abortion,  to  be spurned  at,  and  kicked,  and  trampled  on. Even  now  my  blood  boils  at  the  recollection of  this  injustice.

"But  it  is  true  that  I am  a wretch.  I have  murdered  the  lovely  and  the  help- ( Please  turn  to  page  846)

M i HERE  is  no  doabt  at  all  as  to  which  story  you,  the  readers,  liked  best  in  our H Oaober  issue,  for  you  plumped  solidly  for  The  Wand  of  Doom,  by  Jack  Williamson. This  being  the  case,  you  will  b?  glad  to  learn  that  Mr.  Williamson  has v/ritten  a serial  story  for  you,  Golden  Blood,  which  reads  like  a new  Rider  Haggard masterpiece.  This  marvelous  story  will  follow  immediately  after  the  current  serial. Buccaneers  of  Venus,  by  Otis  Adelbert  Kline.

George  N.  Heflick,  of  Mantua,  Ohio,  writes  to  the  Eyrie:  "Jack  Williamson’s The  W Of  id  of  Doom  is  a great  piece  of  science  fiction.  There  are  basic  laws  underlying that  story  which  will  cause  it  to  be  dragged  forth  from  musty  attics  one  day and  hailed  as  a prophecy.  I consider  Arlton  Eadie’s  Count  Roulette  a real  character creation  of  occult  fiction,  and  if  the  author  can  write  another  story  around  him  as  fine as  The  Eye  of  Truth,  I should  be  very  glad  to  see  it  in  an  early  issue  of  Weird Tales.”

Writes  Mrs.  E.  W.  Murphy,  from  Cherry  dale,  Virginia:  "In  the  last  Weird Tales  was  a story  I can’t  think  of  good  enough  adjectives  to  describe — one  of  the ones  that  really  mean  something.  I don’t  have  my  copy  of  W.  T.  with  me,  and  can only  identity  it  right  now  by  saying  it  was  the  one  about  the  man  who  assembled  the castle  and  his  lady  love  by  the  power  of  his  thought,  only  to  have  her  turn  into  a spider.  It  was  a beautiful  story,  artistic  as  Poe,  and  scientific  as  Wells."  ['This  is, of  course.  The  Wand  of  Doom,  by  Jack  Williamson. — ^The  Editors.]

A letter  from  W.  K.  Mashburn,  of  Houston,  Texas,  says:  "The  October  issue  of W.  T.  is,  in  my  opinion,  one  of  the  best  that’s  come  out — cover  as  well  as  contents. I think  that  there  are  three  'best’  stories:  Williamson’s  e/ Doow,  Hamilton’s The  Dogs  of  Doctor  Dwann,  and  Quinn’s  The  Heart  of  Siva.  And  then,  that cover!”

"I  have  been  a reader  of  your  magazine  for  many  years,”  writes  Clarence  W. Smith,  of  Martinsburg,  West  Virginia;  "so  long,  in  fact,  that  I can  not  remember when  I read  the  first  one.  Weird  Tales  has  given  me  more  real  pleasure  than  any othe.r  magazine.  Its  stories  are  so  removed  from  everyday  life  that  they  make  one forget  aU  about  earthly  cares  and  worries.  Of  all  your  authors  I most  enjoy  Mr. Seabury  Quinn.  I look  forward  to  his  stories  every  month  and  have  often  regretted that  I have  no  place  to  store  back  copies  of  the  magazine  so  that  I could  read  Mr. Quinn’s  thrilling  tales  of  Jules  de  Grandin  again.  If  you  wish  to  keep  me  as  a reader you  must  continue  to  print  them.”

Reginald  A.  Pryke,  who  describes  himself  as  "a  voice  from  Albioa,”  writes  from

84}


WEIRD  TALES

Chatham,  England:  "Weird  Tales  is,  was,  and  will  be  the  champion  of  its  class. From  the  leading  story  down  to  the  smallest  cameo  it  is  far  nearer  perfection  than any  magazine  I know  of.  Consider  its  authors — Quinn,  Lovecraft,  Benson,  Pendarves.  Long,  Clark  Ashton  Smith,  Burks,  Price,  Kline — but  why  continue?  All your  brilliant  crowd  of  typewriter  wallopers  deserve  a mention — and  I forgot  Doctor Keller,  with  his  calm,  lovable  style,  his  living  characters  and  masterly  diction. His  tales  of  the  King  of  Cornwall  were  delicious.  Then  there  is  Arlton  Eadie  (English?), Kirk  Mashburn,  a brilliant  writer,  this.  Reprints?  Yes  and  no.  I mean,  no to  such  tales  as  Dracula,  Frankenstein  and  The  Wolf-Leader.  Yes  to  stories  from old  Weird  Tales.  I have  heard  of  The  Night  Wire — by  Arnold,  wasn’t  if?  Reprint that  and  earn  a blessing.’’

James  G.  Merriman,  of  Dyersburg,  Tennessee,  writes  to  the  Eyrie:  "I  tripped, stumbled,  and  fell  over  Weird  Tales  last  spring,  during  a siege  of  toothache.  I forgot my  pain,  went  into  a fit  of  the  D.  T.’s  over  my  discovery,  and  made  no  effort  to  rise; nor  do  I ever  intend  doing  so.  I bought  three  issues  at  the  news  stand,  and  then  enrolled for  a year.  I have  an  idea  that  it  will  prove  a life  sentence.  I have  been  following the  debates  in  your  Devil’s  Forum  anent  the  reprints.  Up  to  this  issue  I have  been  able  to  agree  with  practically  nothing  that  has  been  said.  I don’t  want  the reprint  department  discontinued,  and  I don’t  want  Dracula,  as  I have  read  it.  This month,  however,  I can  vote  with  the  gang  on  all  points.  Let’s  keep  reprints  and use  stories  from  old  Weird  Tales.  And  by  all  means,  give  us  more  scientific  and interplanetary  stuff.  I am  looking  forward  with  great  pleasure  to  Kline’s  Buccaneers of  Venus.  I can’t  understand  any  one’s  not  liking  that  sort  of  thing.’’

Readers,  what  is  your  favorite  story  in  this  issue?  As  stated  above.  Jack  Williamson’s fantastic  story.  The  Wand  of  Doom,  was  your  favorite  in  the  October  issue. Clark  Ashton  Smith’s  bizarre  tale,  The  Testament  of  Athammaus,  was  your  second choice.

My  favorite  stories  in  the  December  WEIRD  TALES  are:

Story  Remarks

(1)

(2)

(3)

I do  not  like  the  following  stories:

(1) _„ Why?

(2)

It  will  help  us  to  know  what  kind  of stories  you  want  in  Weird  Tales  if  you will  fill  out  this  coupon  and  mail  it  to The  Eyrie,  Weird  Tales,  840  N.  Michigan Ave.,  Chicago,  111.

r

I Reader's  name  and  address:

I

,

I

I

Coming  Next  Month

DE  GRANDIN  lost  no  time  in  coming  to  the  point.  "Once,  yeajs  ago,  my friend,”  he  said,  "on  the  anciait  Djebel  Druse — ^the  stronghold  of  that strange  and  mystic  people  who  acknowledge  neither  Turk  nor  Frenchman  as their  overlord — I saw  you  work  a miracle.  Do  you  recall.^  A prisoner  had  been  taken, and ”

"I  recall  perfectly,”  the  Arab  cut  in,  his  deep  voice  fairly  booming  through the  room.  "Yes,  I well  remember  it.  But  it  is  not  well  to  do  such  things  promiscuously, my  little  one.  The  Ineffable  One  has  His  own  plans  for  our  goings  and comings;  to  gamble  in  men’s  souls  is  not  a game  which  men  should  play  at.”

^'Misere  de  Dieu!”  de  Grandin  cried,  "this  is  no  petty  game  I ask  that  you should  play.  Madame  Gardener?  Her  plight  is  pitiful,  I grant;  but  women’s  hearts have  broken  in  the  past,  and  they  will  break  tUl  time  shall  be  no  more.  No,  it  is not  for  her  I ask  this  thing,  but  for  the  sake  of  justice.  Shall  ninety-miilion-timesdamned  perfidy  vaunt  itself  in  pride  at  the  expense  of  innocence?  'Vengeance  is mine,  I will  repay,  saith  the  Lord,’  truly;  but  consider:  Does  He  not  ever  act through  human  agencies  when  He  performs  His  miracles?  Damn  yes.  If  there were  any  way  this  poor  one’s  innocence  could  be  established,  even  after  death,  I should  not  be  here;  but  as  it  is  he  is  enmeshed  in  webs  of  treachery.  This  monstrousgreat  injustice  must  not  and  can  not  be  allowed,  my  friend.”

The  Arab  stroked  his  black  beard  thoughtfully.  "I  hesitate  to  do  it,”  he  replied,  "but for  you,  my  htrle  birdliag,  and  for  justice,  I shall  try.”

"We  win!”  de  Grandin  cried,  rising  from  his  chair  and  boundiag  across  the  room  to seize  the  Arab  in  his  arms  and  kiss  him  on  both  cheeks.  "Ha,  Satan,  thou  art  stalemated;  tomorrew  we  shall  mak«  a monkey  of  your  plans  and  of  the  plans  of  that  so  evil  man  who  did your  work,  by  damn!”  . , .

The  amazing  thing  diat  the  Arab  physician  did,  and  the  frightful  web  of  treachery  and injustice  in  which  young  Gardener  was  tangled,  make  a startling  story  that  will  hold  your  interest frtun  start  to  finish.  You  can  not  affotd  to  miss  this  powerful  novelette,  which  will be  published  complete  in  the  January  WEIRD  TALES:

A Gamble  in  Souls

By  SEABURY  QUINN

CHINESE  PROCESSIONAL By  Arthur  J.  Burks

A strange,  eery  story  of  the  lightning  wrath  of  the Dowager  Empress  of  China,  and  a weird  beheading.

THE  SCARLET  CITADEL By  Robert  E.  Howaru

A shuddery  tale  of  weird  monstrosities  in  the  tiaderground  crypts  of  Tsotha-lanti  the  sorcerer — a story  of  eery  powers  and  red  battle.

THE  RUBY By  Brandon  Fleming

The  story  of  a strange  curse  that  pursued  the  possessors of  the  Gaston  jewel.

THE  MONSTERS By  Murray  Lesistbr

A plague  of  gigantic  insects,  as  tall  as  skyscraper^ descends  upon  New  York,  ravaging,  destroying,  do* vouring.

SNAKE-MAN By  Hugh  Davidson

The  stmy  of  a fearful  mystery,  of  a gigantic  snaksi that  crawled  out  of  the  swamp  at  night,  and  aU intrepid  snake<ollector  who  went  in  after  it.

Also,  another  thrilling  installment  of BUCCANEERS  OF  VENUS By  Otis  Adelbhit  Kline

January  WEIRD  TALES  Out  December  1



WEIRD  TAEES

Frankenstein

'(Cenimufd  from  p4ge  842)

less;  I have  strangled  the  innocent  as  theyslept,  and  grasped  to  death  his  throat  who never  injared  me  or  any  other  living thing.  I have  devoted  my  creator,  the select  specimen  of  all  that  is  worthy  of love  and  admiration  among  men,  to  misery; I have  pursued  him  even  to  that  irremediable ruin.  There  he  lies,  white  and cold  in  death.  You  hate  me;  but  your  abhorrence can  not  equal  that  with  which  I regard  myself.  I look  on  the  hands  which executed  the  deed;  I think  on  the  heart  in which  the  imagination  of  it  was  conceived, and  long  for  the  moment  when these  hands  will  meet  my  eyes,  when  that imagination  will  haunt  my  thoughts  no more.

"Fear  not  that  I shall  be  the  instrument •f  future  mischief.  My  work  is  nearly complete.  Neither  yours  nor  any  man’s death  is  needed  to  consummate  the  series of  my  being,  and  accomplish  that  which must  be  done;  but  it  requires  my  own. Do  not  think  that  I shall  be  slow  to  perform this  sacrifice.  I shall  quit  your  vessel on  the  ice-raft  which  brought  me tliither,  and  shall  seek  the  most  northern extremity  of  the  globe;  I shall  collect  my funeral  pile  and  consume  to  ashes  this  miserable frame,  that  ks  remains  may  afford no  light  to  any  curious  and  unhallowed wretch  who  would  create  such  another  as I have  been.  I shall  die.  I shall  no  longer feel  the  agonies  which  now  consume me,  or  be  the  prey  of  feelings  unsatisfied, yet  uaquenched.  He  is  dead  who  called me  into  being;  and  when  I shall  be  no more,  the  very  remembrance  of  us  both will  speedily  vanish.  I shall  no  longer see  the  sua  or  stars,  or  feel  the  winds  play 0n  my  cheeks,  la^t,  feeling,  and  sense

'(Please  turn  to  page  848 )

STATBMXa™  OF  THE  OWNIStSHIP,  MANAUE.\IENT,  CHICUUATMN,  BTC,.  RBQCmED  BV  THE  ACT  OF  CONGBBBS OF  AUGUST  24,  1902,

Of  Weird  Tales,  published  monthl;^  at  ladiahapolis* Indiana,  for  October  1,  i&32.

State  of  Illinois  V County  of  Cook  f

Before  me,  a notai-y  public  in  and  for  the  State and  county  aforesaid,  personally  appeared  Wni.  R. Sprenger,  who,  having;  been  duly  swQrn  according to  law,  deposes  and  says  that  he  is  the  Business Manager  of  the  Wei^d  Tales  and  that  the,  following is,  to  the  best  of  his  knowledge  and  belief, a -true  statement  of  the  ownership,  management (and  if  a daily  p.aper,  the  circulation),  etc.,  of  the aforesaid  publication,  for  the  date  shown  in  the above  caption  required  by  the  Act  of  August  24, 1912,  embodied  in  section  411,  Postal  Laws  and Regulations,  printed  on  the  reverse  of  this  form, to  wit:

1.  That  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  publisher, editor,  managing  editor,  and  business  manager are:

Publisher — Popular  Pietion  Publishing  Company, 2457  B.  Washington  St..  Indianapolis,  Ind.

Editor — Farnsworth  Wright,  840  N.  Michigan Ave.,  Chicago,  111.

Managing  Editor — None.

Business  Manager — William  R.  S-prenger,  840  N, Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  III.

2.  That  the  owner  isi  (If  owned  by  a corporation, its  name  and  address  must  be  stated  and  also immediately  -thereunder  the  names  and  addresses of  stockholders  owning  or  holding  one  per  cent  or more  of  total  amount  of  stock.  If  not  owned  by  a corporation,  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  individual owners  must  be  given.  If  owned  by  a firm, company,  or  other  unincorporated  concern,  its  name and  address,  as  well  as  those  of  each  individual member  must  be  given.)

Popular  Fiction  Publishing  Company,  2457  E. Washington  St.,  Indianapolis,  Ind.

Wm.  R.  Sprenger,  840  Miohigan  Ave..  Chicago, III.

Farnsworth  Wright,  840  N.  Mlohlgan  Ave.,  Chicago, 111.

George  M.  Cornelius,  2457  E.  Washington  St.,  Indianapolis, Indiana.

George  H.  Cornelius,  2467  E.  Washington  St., Indianapolis,  - Indiana.

P.  W.  Cornelius,  2457  E.  Washington  St.,  Indianapolis, Indiana.

3.  That  the  known  bondholders,  mortgagees,  and other  security  holders  owning  or  holding  1 per  cent or  more  of  total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgages,  or other  securities  are:  <K  there  are  none,  so  state). None.

4.  That  the  two  paragraphs  next  above,  giving the  names  of  the  owners,  stockholders,  and  security holders,  if  any,  contain  not  only  the  list  of stockholders  and  security  holders  as  they  appear upon  the  books  of  the  company,  but  also,  in  cases where  the  stockholder  or  security  holder  appears upon  the  books  of  the  company  as  trustee  or  in  any other  fiduciary  relation,  the  name  of  the  person  or corporation  for  whom  such,  trustee  is  acting,  is given;  also  that  the  said  two  paragraphs  contain statements  embracing  affiant’s  full  knowledge  and belief  as  to  the  circumstanoes  and  conditions  under which  stockholders  and  security  holders  who  do  not appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  as  trustees, hold  stock  and  seourities  in  a capacity  other  than that  of  a bona  fide  owner;  and  tljis  affiant  has  no reason  to  believe  that  any  other  person,  association, or  “iorporation  has  any  interest,  direct  or  indirect, in  the  said  stock,  bonds,  or  other  securities  than as  so  stated  by  him.

5.  That  the  average  number  of  copies  of  each issue  of  this  publication  sold  or  distributed,  through the  mails  or  otherwise,  to  paid 'subscribers  during the  six  months  preceding  the  date  shown  above

Is (This  information  is  required  from

daily  publications  only.)

WM.  It.  SPRENGBR,

Business  Manager,

Sworn  to  and  subferibed  before  me  day

of  September,  im,  RICHARD  S.

[SEAL]  Notary  Public.

My  commission  expires  Hay  3,  1934.

WEIRD  TALES


GUESTS  FROM  A FAR

Particular  people  from  all  over  the  world make  Detroit-Leland  their  home  in  Detroit.

The  luxury  and  magnificence  of  this  famous hotel  are  yours  at  ordinary  hotel  cost.

Now  Baker  Operated.  The  hospitality that  has  made  the  Baker  name  famous everywhere  is  yours  at  the  Detroit-Leland

HOTEL

DETROIT-LELBnD

800  ROOMS  800  BATHS

«nole..$'250  and  up  oouble..$  ^50and  up

CASS  AND  BAGLEY

DETROIT  S

QUIT

TOBACCO

Ko  man  cr  woman  can  escape  the harmful  effects  of  tobacco.  Don’t  try to  baaish  unaided  the  hold  tobacco has  upon  you.  Join  the  thousands  of

Inyeterate  tebaoco  users  that  bava^  i

found  it  easy  to  quit  with  the  aid  of  the  Keeley

Treatment  For Tobacco  Habit

Successful  For Over  50  Years

Quiohly  banishes  all  cravii^  for  tobaoeo.  Write  today  for  EYee Book  telling  bow  to  quickly  Free  yourseU  from  the  tobacco liid)lt  and  our  Money  Back  Guarantee.

Beae  ef  the  faiaoas  Keeler  TreetmeBt  for  liqaor  end  Drqoa. Booklet  Sent  on  Request.  CorrespoBdenee  Sixletir  CenfideDtul.

TWK  KCELCV  INSTiTUTB  Popt.  M-aig  Dwight,  niinoia

SECRET  SERVICE

^e  Tfaat  Men  and  IFomen  of  Average  School  Ed' Bcation,  gifted  with  common  sense,  to  study  Secret Service  and  Scientific  Crime  Detection.  If  in  this class  and  interested,  write  Joseph  A.  Kavanagh, former  Agent,  U.  8.  Secret  Service,  Director,  International Secret  Service  Institute,  Dept.  W T-122.  68 Hudson  Bt.,  Hoboken,  N.  J.

Have  you  read  the  companion  magazine  to

Weird  Tales?

We  know  you  will  he  enthusiastic  over THE

MAGIC  CARPET

Magazine

BUY  A COPY  TODAY!

84g

WEIRD  TALES

NEXT  MONTH

The  Monsters

By  MURRAY  LEINSTER

PICTURE  a horde  of  gigantic  insects, as  tall  as  skyscrapers,  let  loose  in the  streets  of  New  York.  Think  what would  happen  if  a titanic  spider  squatted atop  the  Wool  worth  Building,  or  a huge  centipede,  hiuidreds  of  feet  in length,  slithered  down  the  side  of  A1 Smith’s  Empire  State  Building  to  seek its  victims  in  the  street  below!  Imagine a pfaying-mantis,  most  cruel  and ruthless  of  all  insects,  rearing  its  colossal bulk  in  Times  Square,  and  gorging itself  on  human  blood!  Picture  the shambles  of  death  and  destruction  that would  result!

Murray  leinster  has  written  an astounding  narrative  of  this plague  of  titanic  insects,  which  can  not be  harmed  by  bombs  ox  machine-guns, because  they  are  projected  by  television! Don’t  miss  this  amazing  novelette, which  will  be  printed  complete  in the

January  issue  of

WEIRD  TALES

On  sale  December  1st

To  (Utoid  musing  your  copy,  clip  and  mail  this coupom  today  jo*  SPECIAL  SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

At*.,

U'OB  ^ 'vrb!;:h  send  me  the  next aw  Wninp  TAUnS  to  begin  with  the

MW"®  itl-76  in  Oana,da).  Special  offer •Wie  Wi»«a  remlttanca  la  accomjBsiAtea  hr »0B.

Haiaa — „ — . —

Cttir

( Cominmd  from  page  $46 ) will  pass  away;  and  in  this  condition  must I find  my  happiness.  Some  years  ago, when  the  images  which  this  world  affords first  opened  upon  me,  when  I felt  the cheering  warmth  of  summer,  and  heard the  rustling  ot  the  leaves  and  the  warbling of  the  birds,  and  these  were  all  to  me,  I should  have  wept  to  die;  now  it  is  my only  consolation.  Polluted  by  crimes,  and torn  by  the  bitterest  remorse,  where  ?an I find  rest  but  in  death.^

■'Farewell!  I leave  you,  and  in  you  the last  of  human  kind  whom  these  eyes  will ever  behold.  Farewell,  Frankenstein!  If thou  wert  yet  alive,  and  yet  cherished  a desire  of  revenge  against  me,  it  would  be better  satiated  in  my  life  than  in  my  destruction. But  it  was  not  so;  thou  didst seek  my  extinction  that  I might  not  cause greater  wretchedness;  and  if  yet,  in  some mode  unknown  to  me,  thou  hast  not ceased  to  think  and  feel,  thou  wouldst  nqt desire  against  me  a vengeance  greater  than that  which  I feel.  Blasted  as  thou  wert, my  agony  was  still  superior  to  thine;  for the  bitter  sting  of  remorse  will  not  cease to  rankle  in  my  woimds  until  death  shall close  them  for  ever.

"But  soon,’’  he  cried,  with  sad  and solemn  enthusiasm,  “I  shall  die,  and  what I now  feel  be  no  longer  felt.  Soon  these burning  miseries  will  be  extinct.  I shall ascend  my  funeral  pile  triumphantly,  and exult  in  the  agony  of  the  torturing  flames. The  light  of  that  conflagration  will  fade away;  my  ashes  will  be  swept  into  the,  sea by  the  winds.  My  spirit  will  sleep  in peace;  or  if  it  thinks,  it  will  not  surely think  thus.  Farewell.’’

He  spnuig  from  the  cabin-window,  as he  said  this,  upon  the  ice-raft  which  lay close  to  the  vessel.  He  was  soon  borne away  by  the  waves  and  lost  in  darkness and  distance.

[ THE  END  }

W.  T.— 8

wnnm  taxiKs.

MD  N.

111.

iStateu

ON  A sleeping-mat,  native  style,  lay  General  Jui-yin,  at  the  far  side  of  the  room.

O’Neill  closed  the  door  silently,  and  crossed  the  floor.  Except  for  the  cloisonne dragon,  the  room  was  quite  bare,  without  luxury.  He  dropped  the  rattan  on  a table, and  plucked  out  his  pistol.

At  this  instant,  the  sleeping  man  opened  his  eyes.

"Lung!  How  date  you ’’

O’Neill  jerked  with  the  pistol.  An  expression  of  the  utmost  astonishment  leaped  into the  massive,  powerful  features  of  Jui-yin  as  he  saw  that  this  man  was  not  Lung  after  all.

"Quiet,”  said  O’Neill.  "No,  I am  not  Lung.  Lung  is  dead,  and  you  will  follow  him if  you  don’t  lie  still.  Put  your  hands  outside  the  covers — quick!  That’s  right.”

Reaching  up  with  his  free  hand,  he  worked  loose  the  false  mustache,  and  threw  off  the cap  with  its  dragon  insignia.  Recognition  dawned  in  the  eyes  of  Jui-yin ; recognition,  and a flame  of  gathering  fury.

"You!”

"Exactly,”  said  O’Neill.  "And  now  I have  you  just  where  I want  you,  my  dear  general.” The  brutal  features  before  him  became  suffused  with  blood,  then  paled  again.

"How  did  you  get  here?”  snapped  the  general.

"By  virtue  of  my  dragon  blood.  You  did  not  know  that  I was  a descendant  of  dragons?” O’Neill  lifted  one  eyebrow,  regarded  him  whimsically.  "But  you  saw  me  arrive in  a green  dragon.  You  should  have  taken  warning.  And  that  airplane  is  not  a present  for you  at  all.  It  is  very  far  from  being  yours,  just  as  you  are  very  far  from  marrying  the  daughter of  Doctor  Saason.”

He  beamed  cheerfully  on  the  yellow  man,  who  was  now  thoroughly  roused.

The  face  of  Jui-yin  was  a study  in  fleeting  expressions.  Fury,  chagrin,  astonishmenr, succeeded  one  another ; his  lurid  eyes  narrowed,  watching  O’Neill  like  the  eyes  of  an  intent tiger.  His  lip  curled  in  a sneer.  . . .

This  smashing  Chinese  mystery  story  will  hold  you  spellbound  by  its  quick  changes and  the  blood-freexing  adventures  of  an  American  soldier  of  fortune  and  a lovely  French gfrl  in  the  power  of  the  Chinese  bandit  general,  Jui-yin.

The  Master  of  Dragons

By  H.  BEDFORD -JONES

— ALSO—

THE  DRAGOMAN’S  PILGRIMAGE

a tale  of  the  slave  mart  of  Mecca By  Otis  Adelbert  Kline

KONG  BENG

romance  and  adventure  in  Borneo By  Warren  Hastings  Miller

STEP  SOFTLY,  SAHIB! A Far  East  detective  story By  Hugh  B.  Cave

ISMEDDIN  AND  THE  HOLY  CARPET

an  adventure  story  of  Kurdistan By  E.  Hoffmann  Price

FACE  PIDGIN the  story  of  a Chinese  swindle By  James  W.  Bennett

THE  MAID  OF  MIR  AMMON

a tangle  of  love  and  destiny  in  India By  Grace  Keon

WHAT  BECAME  OF  ALADDIN’S  LAMP

a new  Arabian  Nights  story By  Allan  Govan

Climb  aboard  and  fly  with  us  through  space  to  the  most  distant  corners  of  the  earth  in  the  twinkling

Xow  On

Sale

15e

A Phantom  from  the  Ether

THE  PHANTOM

The  inside  story  of  a tremendous  threat engineered  by  a phantom  from  the ether — a threat  to  gain  control  of  the  world — is  thrillingly  told  in  "The  Moon  Terror,” the  most  enthralling  fantastic  mystery  of the  age.  The  gigantic  powers  and  clever plans  behind  this  super-dream  will  hold  you spellbound.

Here  Is  How  You  Can  Get This  Amazing  'Book  FREE

For  a limited  time  only,  we  offer  this  book to  you  without  cost,  with  each  subscription to  WEIRD  TALES  for  six  months.  Simply send  $1.50,  the  regular  six  months’ subscription  price  for  WEIRD  TALES, and  this  book  is  yours  without  further

Threatens  the  Lives of  all  Mankind

The  first  warning  of  the  stupendous cataclysm  that  befell  the earth  in  the  fourth  decade  of  the Twentieth  Century  was  recorded simultaneously  in  several  parts  of America.  At  twelve  minutes  past  3 o’clock  a.  m.,  during  a lull  in  the night’s  aerial  business,  several  of the  larger  stations  of  the  Western hemisphere  began  picking  up strange  signals  out  of  the  ether. They  were  faint  and  ghostly,  as  if coming  from  a vast  distance.  As far  as  anyone  could  learn,  the  signals originated  nowhere  upon  the earth.  It  ivas  as  if  some  phantom were  whispering  through  the  ether in  the  language  of  another  planet.

OF  THE  ETHER

cost.  You  receive  the  magazine  for  six months  and  this  book  is  sent  to  you  free of  charge.

Limited  Supply

This  offer  may  be  withdrawn  at  any  time, so  we  advise  you  to  order  now.  Remember, the  supply  of  books  is  limited.  Send  today!

WEIRD  TALES

840  N.  INIieliisaH  Are.,  Dept.  S-35,  Chicago,  III.

[ WKIKD  TAlaKS,  Dept.  S-25,

I 840  >r.  31ichigaii  Ave.,  Chicago,  111.

I I enclose  $1.50.  Send  at  once,  postage  prepaid, * the  book  “The  Moon  Terror,”  and  enter  my’subI scription  to  WEIRD  TALES  for  six  months  to begin  with  the  January  ivssue.  It  is  understood I this  $1.50  is  payment  in  full.

[ Name

I Address

I City State

[THE END]

============================================================
GENTLEMEN
by Like  the  ass  of  Monsieur
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
HIMSELF  A HOME  NEAR  KEYPORT
by He  moved
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MRS
by Derringer  was  taken  severely  ill
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
EXCEPT  THAT  MRS
by Derringer  had  bled
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
DELIGHT  IN,  MONSIEUR  LE  CAPITAINE
by If  you
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THE  GRAND  MANNER
by Built  upon  a rise  of
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
HILLS,  IT  WAS  A LONG,  LOW  RED-BRIDE  MANSION FLANKED  BY  TOWERING  OAKS  AND  CHESTNUT-TREES
by Leveled  off  before  the  house
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
SEVERAL  SWANS  SWAM  LAZILY
by Across  a
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
IT  INSTANTLY
by There  is  no  boy  brought  up
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MOTOR-LORRY’S  WHEEL
by Involuntarily  I
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
FORCE
by Jules  de  Grandin  showed  no  more
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
WHAT  THE  DEVIL?”  MR
by Goodlowe
============================================================

[THE END]
