============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: July 1926
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "to  the  contents  of  the  pot" by On  the
  2. "with  the  hidden  world" by For  that  I
  3. "must  have  your  hair" by This  I  take
  4. "done" by She  snipped  the  chain  from
  5. "gan  to  sprinkle  the  room" by Raising
  6. "other  would  enter  the  silence" by Give
  7. "vapors,  enveloping  me" by There  eame  a
  8. "made  roads" by My  feet  barely  touched
  9. "ditches  did  not  hinder  me  now" by Power
  10. "gift  of  double  sight" by Looking  about
  11. "no  hesitation  now" by And  night  was
  12. "mountain" by My  task  was  near  fulfilTTVakk  and  silent  lay  the  castle.  But
  13. "-Le  not  for  long" by The  great  portal
  14. "through  the  courtyard" by The  death  of
  15. "struction" by She  still  works  her  spells.
  16. "against  his  hand" by But  he  shrank
  17. "more,  I  a  waited  him" by When  he  came
  18. "as  his  weak  state  allowed" by Many  were
  19. "in  the  courtyard" by Suddenly  a  lady
  20. "saw  nothing  amiss" by She  looked  as
  21. "lying  at  my  feet" by Looking  at  the  girl
  22. "nothingness" by Too  late  I  realized  my
  23. "more" by The  shade  entered  and  would
  24. "the  castle  was  friendly" by Once  it
============================================================
============================================================
TO  THE  CONTENTS  OF  THE  POT
by On  the
============================================================
Disappearing  Bullets

By  GEORGE  J.  BRENN

ftkMAGAZIHE  of  the %flf?  '

'WEIRD  TALES

Special  Offer!

Are  You  Willing  to  Pay  a Penny  for  a  Good  Story  ?

TTMAGINE  paying  just  a  penny 1  for  the  kind  of  story  that  yon enjoy!  That’s  just  what  ws are  offering  to  you.  Our  May, June  and  July  numbers  of  1924 were  combined  into  one  big  issue and  there  are  fifty  distinct  fea¬ tures — Novels,  Short  Stories  and Novelettes — all  for  50e.

A  few  of  the  st

ishing  stories

THE  SUNKEII  LAND,  by  George  57. Bayly

YOU  WILL  ENJOY  OUR

ANNIVERSARY  NUMBER

If  toub  mental  appetite  craves stories  of  the  supernatural with  well-balanced  thrills — hairexereising  tales  that  stir  the sterner  emotions — you  will  be well  fed  by  reading  this  issue. This  monster  edition  oilers  a pleasurable  excursion  from  the land  of  realism.

DON’T  PASS  THIS  UP!

El  THE  WEI2D  LIGHT,  by  Edward Everett  Wright  and  Kaipls  Howard Wright

are  filling  a  great  number '  '  of  orders  for  this  gigantic sired  wonder  book  every  day  and it  won’t  be  long  before  we  shall be  out  of  copies.  Mail  you?  order in  to  us  to  day  before  it  is late.  Price  50c.

Yotjb  life  is  not  complete  until you  have  read  this  mammoth Anniversary  Number.  The  stories in  this  over-sized  edition  are  full of  breath-taking  adventures,  and eery  crime — woven  in  a  masterly fashion  by  the  authors.  They  are extraordinary,  unusual,  imagina¬ tive  tales  of  stark  terror  and .shuddering  horror.

THE  silence  of  tropical  mid¬ night  had  descended  upon Ten  jo,  the  rugged  little  peak which  crowns  the  island  of  Guam. Par  below  its  steep  slopes  flickered the  crude  torches  of  a  few  Chamorran fishermen,  where  the  lazy  Pacific merged  obscurely  under  the  moonless sky  with  the  jutting  coral  reefs.  Near the  tip  of  the  peak  stood  the  tent  of an  outpost  commander,  where  two men  sat  conversing  in  low  tones.

“Kent,  I’ll  swear  it’s  not  my  imag¬ ination!”  muttered  the  smaller  of  the two,  a  thin-faced,  nervous  man  wear¬ ing  the  bars  of  a  lieutenant.  “I  know —you  think  I’ve  gone  mad,  as  Tyn¬

dall  and  Haines  did  up  here.  But you’re  wrong;  it  isn’t  Tenjo,  this  time at  least.  The  sound  I’ve  heard  is real.  My  blood  runs  cold  every  time I  hear  it — it’s  not  human!”

Captain  Richard  Kent,  the  young commanding  officer  of  the  Marine  Air Station,  laid  his  hand  soothingly  on the  lieutenant’s  shoulder.

“I  don’t  doubt  your  sanity,  Alcott,”  he  replied  in  a  calm,  self-pos¬ sessed  manner  which  was  in  strong contrast  to  the  other’s  apprehension. “I  believe  you  have  heard  something strange,  but  I  don’t  understand  its coming  from  the  sky.  You  say  it  has

WEIRD  TALES

happened  at  the  same  hoar  every night?”

“Yes,  just  about  at  this  time,”  re¬ turned  Alcott  with  a  shudder.  “I heard  it  the  first  night  I  pitched  my tent  hero.  That  was  two  weeks  ago. I  haven't  asked  the  sentries  if  they’ve heard  anything,  for  I  don’t,  want them  to  think  I’m  crazy  already.  Be¬ sides,  I  don’t  believe  it  can  be  heard down  there,  for  the  only  night  I’ve missed  it  was  last  Saturday  when  I was  inspecting  the  returning  liberty party.  But  the  thing  has  got  on  my nerves  so  much  that  I  had  to  tell

Kent  lit  a  cigarette,  the  flare  of  the match  throwing  his  clear-cut  features into  relief  against  the  darkness  of  the night.

“I’m  glad  you  picked  me,”  he  ob¬ served.  “There’s  seldom  any  excite¬ ment  here,  and  if  a  mystery  comes  up I  want  to — what’s  the  matter?”

Alcott  had  leaped  to  his  feet.

“Listen !  ”  he  whispered  in  an  awed voice,  staring  up  into  the  starlit,  trop¬ ical  sky.  “There  it  is  now.  Don’t you  hear  it,  Kent?  That  awful,  wail¬ ing  sound?”

The  cigarette  dropped  from  Kent’s fingers  as  there  came  to  his  ears  a faint  shriek,  indescribably  weird  and mournful,  from  some  point  above him  in  the  heavens.  In  the  instant it  changed  to  a  horrible,  discordant frenzy  that  sent  a  nameless  dread surging  throngh  him,  though  in  vol¬ ume  the  sound  had  not  increased. Then  the  cry  was  gone,  to  be  succeed¬ ed  by  an  odd,  rushing  noise.  In  a moment  this  also  died  ont  and  the night  was  as  silent  as  before.

Kent  stood  paralyzed  for  a  second, the  memory  of  that  sinister  cry  still numbing  his  faculties.  Then  he  shook himself  impatiently  and  began  a  swift search  of  the  purple  dome  above.  But in  vain,  for  there  was  not  an  object in  sight  large  enough  to  blot  out  even the  tiniest  star.  He  turned  in  silent

wonder  to  his  companion,  whoso  eyes seemed  about  to  bulge  from  his  head.

“You  heard  it?”  demanded  Alcott hoarsely.  “Then  I’m  not  going  mad. Thank  God  for  that!”

“You’re  sans  enough,”  said  Kent. “But  what  could  it  have  been?  Al¬ cott,  you’re  right.  There  was  noth¬ ing  human  in  that  sound.”

“It’s  uncanny,”  agreed  Alcott  in  a fearful  tone.  “I  thought  at  first  it might  he  some  super-airship  which  we hadn’t  heard  about  over  here,  but  it’s not  likely  to  be  passing  every  night at  the  same  time.”

“No  airship  ever  sounded  like that,”  stated  Kent  positively.  “Be¬ sides,  we  could  have  seen  it  easily. No,  whatever  made  that  shriek  was not  connected  with  man.”

“"What  do  you  mean?”  asked  the other  tensely.  “You  don ’t  mean  any¬ thing  supernatural?”

The  flyer  stared  out  into  the  dark¬ ness  a  full  minute  before  replying, his  eyes  roaming  across  the  hollow which  separated  them  from  the  cliff.

“Not  supernatural,”  he  responded at  last,  “but  unnatural.  The  super¬ stitious  Chamorros  would  chalk  it  up to  Tatamona,  their  ‘devil  of  the night’.  But  we  must  look  for  a  log¬ ical  explanation,  even  though  one seems  utterly  impossible.  Something happened  up  there  tonight,  that’s  cer¬ tain;  and  I'm  going  to  find  out  what it  was !  ”

Alcott  opened  his  lips  to  speak  and then  broke  off  abruptly,  jabbing  his finger  over  Kent’s  shoulder.

“What’s  that?”  he  exclaimed breathlessly.  “Behind  you  . . .  look!”

Considerably  startled,  Kent  whirled about.  A  shapeless  white  object  float¬ ed  slowly  to  earth  a  few  feet  away. He  took  a  hurried  step  forward  and bent  over,  flooding  the  ground  with light  from  an  electric  flash.  Then  he laughed  in  sadden  relief.

“It’s  just  part  of  an  old  newspa¬ per,  probably  carried  up  from  your

THROUGH  THE  VORTEX

camp  by  a  gust  of  wind.  I  thought

- Good  Lord!  Come  here,  Aleott!

Quick!”

The  lieutenant  knelt  hastily.  As his  eyes  rested  on  the  point  indicated by  Kent’s  outstretched  finger  he gasped  and  a  look  of  absolute  amaze¬ ment  spread  over  his  pinched  faee.

"Yew  York  Times,  March  5, 1925,” he  whispered  to  himself.  “But  it can’t  be  .  .  .  it’s  impossible,  Kent! That’s  today  and  New  York  is  eight thousand  miles  from  here!”

“There’s  a  difference  of  a  day  in longitude,”  Kent  reminded  him,  “but even  at  that,  this  paper  was  printed less  than  forty-eight  hours  ago.  Read this.”

He  spread  the  battered  sheet  upon the  ground.

“  ‘Inaugural  ceremonies  broadcast over  entire  continent,’  ”  he  quoted rapidly.  “The  inaugural  was  held two  days  ago,  so  this  paper  was  print¬ ed  within  that  time.”

‘•But  how  could  it  get  here?”  cried Aleott  in  bewilderment.  “How  could such  a  thing  happen?  That  sound tonight — do  you  think  it  could  be  con¬ nected  in  some  way?”

Kent  seemed  not  to  have  heard  him. His  face  was  turned  upward  with  a curious  expression,  as  though  he sought  to  wrest  the  secret  from  the far-off  stars.  When  he  glanced  baek there  was  a  peculiar  gleam  in  his  eyes.

“Don’t  mention  thi3  to  anyone,” he  directed  in  a  firm  voice.  "I  want to  compare  this  paper  with  the  cable and  radio  news.  I’ll  call  you  the  day after  tomorrow  unless  something  oc-

“What  do  you  think  might  hap¬ pen?”  queried  Aleott  eagerly,  as Kent  started  down  the  rocky  incline.

The  flyer  paused.

“Perhaps  anything  —  probably nothing,”  he  replied  enigmatically, and  then  went  on  down  the  trail  to his  motorcycle,  leaving  Aleott  staring after  him

CiAD  in  an  electrically  heated  flying suit,  Kent  climbed  into  the  spe¬ cial  high-altitude  VR  which  had  been hauled  cut  under  the  floodlights  of the  seaplane  hangar.  After  a  careful inspection  of  the  supercharger,  his oxygen  tank  and  mask,  and  the  con¬ nections  to  his  suit,  he  nodded  to  the waiting  mechanics.  The  propeller jerked  through  a  quarter-turn,  caught the  spark  and  then  spun  dizzily  as the  powerful  motor  roared  into  life.

Beyond  the  ring  of  bustling  me¬ chanics  stood  four  officers,  their  faces extremely  grave.  A  minute  after Kent  had  opened  the  throttle  for warming  up,  the  youngest  officer  ran to  the  side  of  the  plane.

“Captain,”  he  pleaded  earnestly, “give  up  this  dangerous  flight,  or  else wait  until  daylight  so  that  we  can look  out  for  yon.  The  westerly  winds higher  np  are  almost  certain  to  earry yon  away  from  the  island.”

Kent  smiled,  but  shook  his  head  in quiet  determination.

“I  appreciate  your  interest,  Hen¬ derson,”  he  said  kindly,  “but  I  have a  particular  reason  for  this  ‘hop’,  and daylight  will  not  do.  So  stand  clear, old  man,  for  it’s  10:30  and  I’ll  have to  be  getting  under  way.”

Henderson  stepped  back  reluctant¬ ly.  The  VS  slid  into  the  channel with  a  splash,  rode  free  of  its  truck, and  after  reaching  open  water hurtled  into  the  night  under  Kent’s skilful  hands.  Once  dear  of  the  sur¬ face,  Kent  jerked  the  releasing  handle he  had  ordered  rigged  for  the  pon¬ toons.  The  plane  lunged  upward  as the  two  heavy  floats  dropped  into  the bay.  The  flyer  settled  back  with  a grim  smile.  The  VR  would  go  higher than  ever  before  without  that  weight. As  to  the  hazard  of  alighting  without that  gear— well,  time  enough  to  wor¬ ry  when  that  moment  came.

The  plane  climbed  with  incredible speed.  In  eight  minutes  the  altimeter showed  ten  thousand  feet.  Tha  night was  cloudless,  so  that  flying  was  comTALES

paratively  easy.  Kent  glanced  at  the dash  clock.  It  was  ten  minutes  to  11. Guam  was  still  in  sight,  though  the searchlights  of  the  Air  Station  were now  only  points  of  light.  He  was  cir¬ cling  in  wide  upward  spirals,  holding the  nose  of  the  plane  to  its  maximum climb.  At  this  rate  he  would  be higher  than  forty  thousand  feet  by 12  o’clock.  Loss  in  weight  from  used gasoline  would  compensate  for  the Sower  rise  in  thin  air.

At  the  thought  of  attaining  such  a height  a  thrill  shot  over  him.  Even now  he  hardly  knew  what  he  expected to  find  in  the  blackness  above.  How¬ ever,  in  another  hour  he  would  be close  enough  to  learn  the  explanation of  the  amazing  events  on  Ten.jo.

The  island  was  now  invisible  and he  was  forced  to  depend  on  skilful piloting  to  remain  within  gliding  dis¬ tance  of  that  tiny  dot  in  the  Pacific. As  the  rare  air  began  to  afreet  him he  adjusted  the  oxygen  mask  and turned  on  the  tank.  Though  the  al¬ titude  brought  a  bitter  cold,  he  was not  uncomfortable,  for  the  heated suit  was  quite  efficient.

Half  an  hour  dragged  by,  bringing a  slight  nausea  from  the  artificial  air and  the  growing  strain.  Kent’s  eyes began  to  ache  dully  from  the  constant inspection  of  temperature  and  pres¬ sure  gages.  The  VE  performed  faith¬ fully,  its  variable  pitch  propeller  bit¬ ing  steadily  into  the  thinning  air.

At  thirty-five  thousand  feet  Kent felt  a  sudden  desolation  sweep  over him,  a  belief  that  he  had  overestimat¬ ed  his  ability  to  find  the  island  he  had left.  At  thi3  altitude  he  was  in  the high  wind  belt;  even  now  treacherous currents  might  be  carrying  him  si¬ lently,  relentlessly  over  the  open  sea. He  headed  the  plane  east  to  counter¬ act  such  a  drift,  the  VE  moving  slug¬ gishly  under  his  cramped  fingers.

Twelve  o’clock.  Half  dazed,  Kent stared  from  the  clock  to  the  altimeter. Forty-three  thousand  feet!  No  man had  ever  before  reached  that  height.

But  his  triumph  was  short-lived,  for an  odd  sensation  quickly  claimed  his attention.  The  VE  was  rising  swiftly on  a  vertical  air  current.  He  shook his  head  dazedly.  At  this  altitude there  should  be  no  such  currents. Then  a  numbing  dread  seized  him  as his  eyes  fell  again  on  the  altimeter. The  hand  of  the  dial  now  stood  at forty-four  thousand — and  it  was  mov¬ ing  rapidly:  As  he  stared,  horrorstruck,  it  reached  forty-five  . . .  fortySomething  was  drawing  him  up¬ ward  into  space!

With  shaking  hands  he  attempted  a steep  dive,  but  though  he  tilted  the plane  with  motor  full  on  it  still  rose. Gravity  had  ceased  to  attract  him! Lost  to  all  human  control,  the  VE continued  to  hurtle  upward  at  a  speed beyond  his  power  to  estimate. Through  the  heated  suit  swept  a grim,  pitiless  cold,  penetrating  to  tho very  marrow  of  his  bones.  Though he  opened  the  oxygen  valve  wide, breathing  became  an  agony.  As  a  last resort  he  switched  off  the  motor,  but it  was  useless.  Spinning  dizzily,  the plane  continued  upward,  while  he clung  futilely  to  the  control  3tick.

Suddenly  on  his  tortured  ears struck  a  new  sound,  drowning  the shriek  of  the  wires  in  a  flash — a  fren¬ zied,  awful  moan  which  grew  with startling  rapidity  into  a  fiendish  din, utterly  unlike  anything  he  had  ever heard  ...  but  was  it ?  The  night before  on  Tenjo — that  sound!

To  his  fast-failing  consciousness came  one  thought.  The  foree  which drew  the  VE  upward  was  a  tremen¬ dous  suction,  the  suction  of  some  co¬ lossal  maelstrom,  in  the  center  of which  the  tiny  plane  whirled  help¬ lessly,  like  a  storm-tossed  leaf.

The  blanket  of  darkness  lifted  ab¬ ruptly  and  a  lurid,  ugly  glow  ap¬ peared  directly  above.  Terrified, Kent  beheld  a  vast,  ring-shaped  open¬ ing  in  some  strange  formless  land  apTHROUGH  THE  VORTEX

parently  suspended  in  the  air — an opening  fringed  completely  with smoldering,  sullen  fires.  As  he  gazed in  stupefaction  the  whole  ring  flared angrily  to  white  heat,  a  million tongues  of  flame  leaping  toward  the middle  of  that  great  red  circle.  Then, as  quickly,  the  fires  died  to  their ominous,  somber  glow.

The  air,  which  had  been  incredibly cold,  grew  warm  and  thick.  The  dis¬ cordant  din  became  even  louder,  send¬ ing  stabs  of  pain  through  Kent’s  ear¬ drums.  He  wondered  dully  why  he had  no  power  to  move,  to  escape  the stupor  which  enveloped  him.  Was this  some  mad  dream’’  But  in  the instant  his  wonder  was  forgotten; there  came  a  blistering,  hellish  heat, heat  that  crumpled  him  to  the  floor of  the  cockpit,  searing  his  lungs, starting  his  eyes  from  their  sockets  in. mortal  agony.  The  VR  had  plunged headlong  into  the  center  of  the  fiery abyss !

A  single  muffled  cry  burst  from Kent’s  scorched  throat,  past  his cracking  lips,  as  a  new  idea  forced  it¬ self  upon  him.  That  upward  flight had  been  but  madness — in  truth  he must  have  fallen  back  upon  the  earth, and  was  now  being  hurled  to  an  awful death  in  the  crater  of  some  unknown volcano !

He  caught  the  smell  of  heated metal,  as  the  blistered  paint  exposed the  duralumin  wings  of  the  plane  to the  inferno.  His  flesh  seemed  about to  shrivel  on  his  bones.  There  came an  instant  of  stark,  raving  fear  .  .  . of  pain  beyond  human  endurance,  and then  the  torturing  heat  was  gone  as swiftly  as  it  had  come.

Half  fainting,  Kent  hauled  himself to  the  level  of  the  fuselage  and  thrust his  face  over  the  side.  What  new madness  was  thist  The  smoldering fires  lay  far  below,  and  on  all  sides were  steep  cliffs  that  completely  en¬ closed  the  space  through  which  the VR  still  rose.  Prom  the  walls  yawned great  eaves,  their  dark  recesses  hid¬

den  from  the  ring  of  fires  by  wide ledges  which  protruded  outward  a hundred  feet.  A  shadowy  something moving  on  the  nearest  ledge  took Kent’s  eye.  Then  an  incoherent  cry left  his  lips  as  he  saw  that  every  ledge was  alive  with  hideous  monsters,  crea¬ tures  of  a  forgotten  age,  from  whose mighty  throats  came  the  horrible sounds  he  had  heard.  Misshapen heads  reared  upward  from  loathsome bodies  as  the  plane  passed  and  the maddening,  tremendous  chorus  les¬ sened  in  volume  for  the  moment.

Soul-sick,  Kent  shudderingly  broke the  spell  of  gruesome  fascination  that held  him  and  raised  his  eyes  to  the region  above  the  caves.  The  VR, whieh  had  slowed  perceptibly,  was nearing  the  rim  of  this  gigantic,  bot¬ tomless  pit.  As  he  drew  level,  Kent saw  that  outside  the  rim  lay  inky blackness.  Yet  there  was  land  be¬ low,  he  knew,  for  the  pit  must  have a  base  of  some  kind,  and  in  addition he  remembered  having  seen  something extending  away  from  the  vortex  into whieh  he  had  been  sucked.

The  VR,  apparently  free  from  the strange  force  whieh  had  caused  its  as¬ cent,  ceased  to  rise  at  three  hundred yards  above  the  rim.  Seeing  that  the plane  was  about  to  fall  back  into  the pit,  Kent  drove  his  exhausted  body into  action.  Shoving  the  stick  for¬ ward,  he  kicked  the  rudder  to  the right,  hoping  to  gain  speed  either  by a  dive  or  by  falling  off  to  the  side. For  several  seconds  there  was  no  re¬ sult,  then  there  came  a  welcome  rush of  air  on  the  controls.  With  a  sigh  of relief,  he  neutralized  the  rudder  and sent  the  VR  into  a  glide  over  the  rim into  the  darkness.  As  he  descended he  became  aware  of  an  odd,  clammy mist,  which  obscured  his  goggles  and made  his  nostrils  smart.  He  had pulled  the  oxygen  tube  from  his  mask on  realizing  that  good  air  lay  at  the top  of  the  rim.  Now  he  replaced  it hurriedly.  Through  the  thickening haze  he  saw  a  few  pinpoints  of  light


WEIRD  TALES

beneath.  Releasing  his  safety  belt,  he stood  erect,  hoping  to  sight  a  cleared spot  near  the  fights.  Failing  this,  he reached  for  his  rocket  pistol,  in  which were  two  white  star  rockets.  With  a pall  at  one  trigger  he  sent  the  first rocket  hissing  out  from  the  plane.  It burst  with  a  lingering  flare,  illumi¬ nating  an  irregular  surface  covered with  shrubbery.

Kent  saw  that  a  hard  landing  was inevitable  and  pulled  the  YR  up  into a  stalling  glide,  the  plane  settling slowly.  Then  he  started  in  alarm,  as he  recalled  the  dropped  pontoons. Even  they  would  have  been  better than  the  wings  for  that  first  contact with  the  ground.

Off  to  one  side  he  saw  a  peculiar structure,  raised  above  the  ground  by some  kind  of  framework,  but  before ho  could  look  farther  there  came  a sharp  crack  as  the  starboard  wing struck  some  obstacle.  The  YR  swung about  violently.  Forgetting  the  open safety  belt,  Kent  hauled  back  on  the stick  with  one  hand  and  then  placed the  other  before  his  eyes.  There  was a  splintering  crash  as  the  propeller dug  into  the  ground,  a  jolting  bump, and  then  the  plane  pitched  over  on its  back,  catapulting  Kent  into  the air.  He  had  a  confused  sense  of  fall¬ ing  ...  a  stunning  blow  .  .  .  and then  a  merciful,  soothing  oblivion.

“epwo  o’cloek!”  exclaimed  HenderI  son  anxiously.  “Something’s happened,  that ’3  certain.  He’d  be back  now  if  he  were  all  right,  for  he must  be  out  of  gas.  I’m  going  to  get out  all  the  boats.”

But  though  every  officer  and  man joined  in  the  frantie  search  fer  the missing  plane,  there  was  no  trace found  of  Captain  Richard  Kent. Headquarters  officially  listed  him  as lost  at  sea.  As  the  days  passed  there was  no  one  who  did  not  admit  his death,  except  perhaps  a  lonely  man  on Tenjo,  who  sat  silently  at  his  tent .  . . wondering  .  . .


As  consciousness  returned,  Kent struggled  to  a  sitting  position. His  body  was  bruised  painfully  and his  head  throbbed  from  the  blow  it had  received,  though  it  did  not  seem to  be  cut.  The  mist  which  he  had  no¬ ticed  in  descending  was  even  thicker, and  an  experimental  sniff  caused him  to  replace  his  mask  and  goggles. The  noise  of  the  pit  was  now  barely audible,  and  the  walls  of  that  singu¬ lar  place  were  hidden  by  the  gloom. He  was  about  to  strip  off  his  clumsy flying  suit  when  a  strange,  husky voice  sounded  a  few'  yards  away. Turning  cautiously,  he  peered through  the  hedgelike  shrubbery  over which  he  had  been  tossed.  Then  ho sat  paralyzed  with  astonishment.

Around  the  wrecked  YR  crept  a score  of  squat,  powerful  figures,  their long  arms  holding  torches  of  some luminous  substance  which  gave  off  no flame.  Kent  saw  that  the  continual mist  was  green,  and  that  the  apelike features  of  these  queer  beings  were crusted  with  a  greenish  crystal  layer. Heavy,  matted  beards  accentuated their  weird  appearance.  They  were chattering  to  themselves  in  some  fan¬ tastic  tongue  unknown  to  Kent,  but  ke guessed  that  they  were  intensely  ex¬ cited  over  their  mysterious  find,  and were  equally  fearful  of  getting  too close  to  it.  At  last  one  who  towered a  foot  above  his  fellows  motioned  the others  to  follow,  adding  a  wrathful imprecation  as  they  hesitated,  and  ad¬ vanced  with  upraised  club  as  though fearful  that  the  VU  might  spring  to life.

Kent  considered  hastily.  The  plane was  not  entirely  beyond  repair,  and if  it  were  to  serve  him  further  it  must not  be  damaged  by  these  ape-men. Yet  he  feared  to  face  them  without  a weapon,  for  there  was  a  fierceness about  them  which  was  far  from  reas¬ suring.  Seeing  that  a  slight  depres¬ sion  hidden  by  the  shrubs  offered  con¬ cealment,  he  crawled  as  close  to  the

THROUGH  THE  VORTEX


VR  as  possible  without  being  seen. There  was  an  automatic  pistol  in  the cockpit  which  would  make  him  mas¬ ter  of  the  situation  if  he  could  reach it.  As  he  lay  watching  the  ape-men through  a  gap  in  the  tangled  growth he  saw  a  flash  of  light  on  some  shiny object  a  yard  away.  Then  he  recog¬ nized  the  rocket  pistol  and  almost shouted  in  exultation.  The  ape-men were  grouped  about  the  plane,  their backs  toward  him,  so  that  he  was  able to  secure  the  pistol  without  being seen.  Snapping  back  the  trigger  on the  single  remaining  charge,  he leaped  to  his  feet  just  as  the  leader of  the  group  thrust  his  club  cautious¬ ly  into  the  side  of  the  plane.

“Stop!”  he  shouted,  more  for  the effect  he  knew  it  would  produce  than with  any  intention,  of  being  under¬ stood.  "With  hoarse  cries  of  astonish¬ ment,  the  ape-men  whirled  about,  and with  the  exception  of  the  leader  fled into  the  undergrowth.  Their  swift retreat  puzzled  Kent  for  a  moment. Then  it  dawned  upon  him  that  the grotesque  mask  with  its  huge  goggles probably  gave  him  an  extremely startling  appearance.  Pressing  this advantage,  he  strode  majestically  to¬ ward  the  powerful  brute  glaring  at him  from  the  side  of  the  VR.  The ape-man  swung  back  his  club  with  a ferocious  cry,  and  stepped  into  a clearer  space  as  though  ready  to  give battle.  A  stream  of  unintelligible sounds  flowed  from  his  snarling  lips, and  Kent  caught  a  swift  side  glance. He  guessed  that  the  leader  was  order¬ ing  his  frightened  comrades  to  close in.  If  he  were  to  succeed  he  must work  rapidly.  Raising  the  rocket  pis¬ tol  menacingly,  he  dashed  toward  the ape-man,  who  gave  back  a  few  feet as  he  had  expected.  Then  he  whirled about  and  flung  himself  under  the overturned  plane,  searching  hurried¬ ly  for  the  holster  holding  the  auto¬ matic.  For  an  instant  the  creature opposite  him  stood  bewildered,  then with  a  bellow  of  rage  he  ran  forward,

followed  by  several  of  his  band  who had  regained  their  courage.  Without hesitation  Kent  leveled  the  rocket  pis¬ tol  straight  at  the  ape-man’s  face  and squeezed  the  trigger.  With  a  loud report  the  rocket  struck  full  in  the mouth  of  the  infuriated  hrute,  and before  he  could  claw  the  hissing  thing from  his  throat  it  exploded  its  second charge,  sending  a  sheet  of  yellow flame  belching  from  between  his  tor¬ tured  jaws.  Falling  to  the  ground, the  stricken  creature  writhed  for  a moment  in  liis  death-throes  and  then was  still.

Kent  had  by  this  time  secured  the .45  automatic,  but  it  was  not  needed, for  at  the  spectacular  destruction  of their  leader  the  rest  of  the  ape-men hastily  disappeared.  The  crackling  of shrubbery  testified  to  their  complete rout.  Working  quickly,  the  flyer  now secured  the  remaining  rockets  and cartridges,  stuffing  them  into  his  fly¬ ing  suit.  By  the  light  of  a  torch  the ape-men  had  dropped,  he  removed  the tool  kit,  the  radio  set  and  batteries, hiding  them  carefully  under  a  par¬ ticularly  dense  bit  of  undergrowth.

This  done,  he  set  off  toward  the structure  he  had  seen  in  landing. Though  he  kept  a  close  watch  for lurking  ape-men,  he  was  unmolested and  in  a  few  minutes  he  came  out upon  a  clearing  bordered  by  an  irreg¬ ular  fissure  in  the  earth.  In  the  center of  this  clearing  stood  the  most  un¬ usual  building  he  had  ever  seen.  Sixty feet  above  the  ground,  and  supported by  the  cross  girders  of  what  appeared to  be  the  skeleton  of  a  great  dirigible, was  a  house  shaped  somewhat  like  a boat,  with  portholes  for  windows,  and a  wide  platform  or  balcony  running completely  about  it.  The  framework had  been  cut  in  two  parts  so  that  a gap  existed  between  the  portion  sup¬ porting  the  house  and  the  portion which  trailed  off  into  the  shadows. Soft  light  streamed  through  the green-crusted  ports,  and  once  a  figure passed  before  one  of  these  openings.


WEIRD  TALES

Though  Kent  looked  closely  there  was no  apparent  method  of  reaching  this astonishing  building.  Even  had  he not  been  weakened  by  the  ordeal  he had  been  through,  he  could  not  have climbed  the  girders,  for  the  interme¬ diate  sections  had  been  removed,  and those  remaining  had  been  filed  to  a razorlike  sharpness.

While  he  stood  there  he  heard  a tumult  in  the  darkness  behind  him. Recognizing  the  voices  of  the  apemen,  ho  abandoned  caution  and shouted  toward  the  platform  above him.  Almost  at  once  a  door  was  flung open  and  three  figures  rushed  out.  He saw  an  elderly  man,  whose  hair  shone white  under  his  torchlight,  a  second man  of  his  own  age,  and  a  young  girl whose  beauty  in  those  bizarre  sur¬ roundings  was  startling.

“In  God’s  name!”  gasped  the elder  man  in  good  English.  leaning down  to  stare  at  the  flyer.  “Who are  you — and  how  did  you  got  here?”

A  great  wave  of  thankfulness  swept over  Kent.  At  least  he  was  not  iso¬ lated  from  his  own  kind.

“Let  me  come  up  there  away  from these  green  devils,”  he  replied,  pull¬ ing  aside  the  breathing  mask,  “and I’ll  tell  you  anything.  But  if  I  don’t make  it  in  a  minute  I’ll  collapse.”

These  was  a  hurried  exchange  of words  above  and  then  the  younger man  appeared  with  a  long  rope  lad¬ der,  which  he  hastily  lowered.  Kent made  the  ascent  with  difficulty,  for  he was  almost  at  the  breaking  point.  He was  quickly  escorted  into  the  main room  of  the  building,  which,  he  saw, had  once  been  an  airship  cabin.  It was  comfortably  furnished,  to  his  sur¬ prize,  though  part  of  the  material  was evidently  the  result  of  days  of  labor. Other  doors  led  to  smaller  cabins, joined  together  by  roughly  built  pas¬ sages.  The  girl,  under  direction  of the  white-haired  man,  set  about  re¬ lieving  Kent’s  fatigue  and  sponging off  the  greenish  deposit  which  had

seeped  in  about  his  face.  Refreshed by  a  drink  of  cool,  clear  water,  and  a dish  of  strange  but  delicious  food which  his  host  called  Jcornu,  the  flyer then  briefly  explained  the  events which  had  ended  in  such  a  disastrous manner.  The  girl  showed  an  unre¬ strained  interest  in  Kent’s  story,  but the  younger  of  the  two  men  displayed a  sullen  indifference  which  Kent  was unable  to  fathom.  The  elder  man  lis¬ tened  thoughtfully,  with  a  start  of excitement  at  his  mention  of  the newspaper  which  had  been  found  on Tenjo.

“And  now,”  said  Kent,  when  he had  concluded  his  story,  “tell  me where  T  am,  for  I’ll  admit  I  am  lost for  an  explanation.”

The  old  man  raised  his  head  and looked  with  compassion  on  him.

‘  ‘  If_  it  would  serve  any  good  pur¬ pose  I  would  spare  you  that  know¬ ledge,  '  ’  he  answered  sorrowfully.  ‘  ‘  lly son,  there  is  not  the  slightest  chance that  you  will  ever  return  to  that place  which  wo  call  the  earth!”

Stunned  by  these  amazing  words, Kent  sank  back  in  his  chair,  gazing at  the  speaker  in  consternation.

“So  that  you  will  not  doubt  what I  say,”  went  on  the  other,  “I  shah explain  who  we  are.  As  you  are  an aviator  you  will  probably  remember the  airship  Fidelis.”

“Not  the  dirigible  that  was  lost  in 1919?”  stammered  Kent.  “You  mean

“Is  that  ill-fated  craft,”  finished the  old  man  calmly.  “Or  rather, what  is  left  of  it.  You  perhaps  recall that  there  were  several  American passengers  on  board  when  it  left  Eng¬ land  for  Berlin?  Well,  we  are  the survivors — we  three  Americans.  I am  Alexander  Paire  and  this  is  my daughter,  Madeline.  And  t.hiq  is Hugh  Fletcher;  Hugh  was  traveling with  us  as  my  secretary  when  we made  that  unfortunate  voyage.”

“But  the  Fidelis  crashed  at  sea,” protested  Kent  “The  wreckage  of


the  control  car  was  found  off  the  coast of  Spain.  You  are  all  supposed  to be  dead.”

“The  control  car  was  wrenched  off in  the  hurricane,”  admitted  Faire. “That  is  how  the  officers  and  crew lost  their  lives.  Then  some  of  the passengers  jumped  in  parachutes. From  what  you  say  none  of  them  escapad  death.  X  suppose  they  were drowned.  At  any  rate,  the  airship rose  to  a  great  height  because  of  its decreased  weight.  Had  it  not  been for  the  first  officer  of  the  Fidelia,  whp was  in  the  passenger  cabin  when  the storm  struck  us,  we  sheuid  have  per¬ ished.  Ee  made  the  cabin  airtight and  released  oxygen  from  the  emer¬ gency  kit  so  that  we  were  able  to breathe.  Even  then  the  cold  almost finished  us.  At  last  we  were  caught in  just  such  an  eddy  as  drew  you here,  and  were  wrecked  upon  thi3 spot.  We  did  not  pass  through  the pit,  however;  I  think  some  counter¬ current  carried  us  here.  There  were five  of  us  alive  when  we  landed,  but since  then  one  has  died  from  illness and,  another  at  the  hands  of  the  Tor-

“Tortas?”  repeated  Kent.

“You  called  them  ape-men,”  ex¬ plained  Faire.  “There  are  several hundred  of  them  hero.  They  have  the instincts  of  animals  hut  human  in¬ telligence  of  a  low  order.  Probably they  would  be  pounced  on  as  the ‘missing  links’  were  they  back  on  the earth.”

“You  have  not  told  me  where  X am,”  Kent  reminded  him.  “What  is this  terrible  place?”

“It  is  the  Sargasso  of  the  air.” stated  Faire  solemnly.  “You  have been  dropped  upon  a  small  aerial  is¬ land,  which  we  call  Suferno,  an  island formed  in  countless  centuries  by  bits of  matter  carried  into  this  meetingplace  of  the  winds.  Forced  into  a compact  mass  by  the  perpetual  pres¬ sure  of  the  whirlpool,  and  buoyed  up by  terrific  forces  of  the  winds,  it  actu¬

ally  withstands  the  earth’s  power  of gravity.  Oh,  I  know  it  is  incredible ! But  it  is  true.  As  you  know,  the  east¬ erly  movement  of  the  earth  results  in a  constant  westerly  wind,  the  speed  of that  wind  increasing  with  the  dis¬ tance  above  the  earth.  At  some  point the  rotation  of  the  globe  ceases  to drag  the  surrounding  air  after  it,  and the  winds  may  be  said  to  stand  still. Yet  in  relation  to  the  earth  that  point is  speeding  by  at  about  nine  hundred miles  an  hour.  We  are  at  that  point, in  the  center  of  that  mighty  vortex, where  the  winds  of  the  world  spend their  force.”

“I  can  not  believe  it!”  cried  Kent, when  Faire  had  concluded.  “No power  of  winds  could  uphold  such  a great  mass  as  this.  And  even  so  we should  die  from  cold  and  rarefied  air. Surely  yon  are  mistaken — we  must be  in  some  forsaken  spot  on  the

Faire  smiled  pityingly.

“You  are  wasting  your  time  in fighting  the  truth,  Captain  Kent.  Do not  think  this  is  a  haphazard  opinion. While  on  the  earth  I  spent  years  in the  pursuit  of  scientific  knowledge, and  I  am  the  last  one  to  accept  a theory  which  is  not  clearly  proved. I  can  answer  any  objection  you  make — though  God  knows  I  would  be  glad to  believe  I  am  in  error.  The  force you  deprecate  is  an  almost  vertical one,  as  you  know  by  the  rapid  rise of  your  plane.  Bemember,  it  is  the reaction  of  currents  moving  at  nine hundred  miles  an  hour  and  meeting counter  currents  with  such  speed  as to  create  an  everlasting  eddy.  The compression  of  air  by  those  winds makes  it  denser  than  on  earth,  and  the heat  is  supplied  by  the  friction  of

this  strange  place.  That  heat  is  suffi¬ cient  to  keep  the  base  of  the  pit  in  a state  resembling  that  of  molten  metal. I  wonder  that  you  escaped  with  your life.”

“But  why  has  this  formation  never


WEIRD  TALES

been  seen  on  earth  ?  ’  ’  questioned Kent.  “At  most  it  can  not  be  more than  twenty-five  miles  above  the  high¬ er  observatories.”

“Yocjiave  answered  yourself,” replied  Faire.  “Its  very  closeness causes  it  to  pass  with  such  speed  that it  is  but  a  fleeting  shadow  across  the lens  of  any  telescope.  It  is  like  an airplane  speeding  at  three  hundred miles  an  hour  a  few  yards  above  your head.  Your  eye  could  not  eatcli  its passage.  No,  there  is  no  mistake,  nor do  I  believe  that  we  shall  ever  regain our  lost  world.  Your  coming  has created  a  tiny  hope,  however.  Until this  time  I  have  thought  that  nothing ever  escaped  the  suction  of  Sufemo. The  finding  of  that  newspaper  would seem  to  indicate  otherwise.  Though we  can  not  be  certain,  there  was  prob¬ ably  a  cyclone,  or  similar  disturbance, near  New  York  cr  at  a  spot  where that  paper  had  been  discarded.  It was  evidently  drawn  up  into  this place,  or  else  on  the  edge  of  the  whirl¬ pool,  and  then  dropped  by  some  op¬ posing  current.”

“But  how  is  it  that  no  one  else  has ever  heard  the  sounds  from  the  pit?” asked  the  flyer.

“You  mentioned  a  circular  depres¬ sion  near  the  place  where  you  stood,” said  Faire.  “It  is  well  known  that sound  waves  can  be  caught  and  re¬ flected,  even  though  from  great  dis¬ tances,  by  just  such  hollows.  You might  have  been  at  the  focal  point  of the  depression.  Perhaps  there  is  no other  spot  on  earth  fitted  for  such reception,  at  least  along  the  track which  we  may  be  said  to  follow.”

Kent  fell  silent..  Was  this  amazing explanation  possible?  But  if  not,  what could  explain  the  circumstances?

“I  don’t  understand  how  you  con¬ trived  to  build  this  place  by  your¬ selves,”  he  said  at  last.  “And  how do  you  get  food  and  water  without exposing  yourselves  to  the  Tortas?”

“They  thought  we  were  gods  when we  first  came,”  answered  the  scien¬

tist.  “They  gave  over  one  of  their  vil¬ lages  to  us,  but  it  was  a  bunch  of filthy,  underground  affairs,  so  we  de¬ cided  to  build  a  regular  home.  Luck¬ ily  one  of  the  motor  nacelles  con¬ tained  a  full  set  of  tools.  We  man¬ aged  to  unbolt  or  eut  away  that  part of  the  framework  we  did  not  need,  so that  it  could  not  be  a  convenient  path for  reaching  us.  We  saw  that  there would  be  trouble  later,  so  we  made the  Refuge,  as  Madeline  named  it,  as safe  as  possible.  The  girders  are  filed so  that  even  the  Tortas  can  not  climb up.  They  do  not  understand  making such  things  as  ladders,  and  so  we  are fairly  secure.

“When  Collins,  the  first  officer, died  from  fever,  the  Tortas  saw  that we  were  mortal,  and  immediately  at¬ tacked  us.  However,  we  had  an  old revolver  with  a  few  cartridges,  so  that we  were  able  to  drive  them  off.  But they  are  our  enemies  and  we  have  to watch  them  constantly.  As  for  our food,  we  go  out  occasionally  for  raw supplies  from  which  we  make  up  vari¬ ous  concoctions.  Some  are  quite palatable.  But  it  is  dangerous  and lately  we  have  started  bartering  with the  Tortas  for  these  things.  They are  extremely  interested  in  getting bits  of  silk,  which  we  have  stripped from  the  Fidelis,  and  a  few  trinkets which  Madeline  makes  for  that  pur¬ pose.”

The  girl  interrupted  for  the  first

“I  am  so  tired  of  seeing  that  old silk,”  she  exclaimed.  “Our  clothes did  not  last  long,  and  we  have  been making  things  out  of  this  colorless silk  ever  since.  I  suppose  we  look like  convicts  to  you.”

She  laughed  at  her  last  words.  Kent looked  at  her  in  frank  admiration.

“Hardly,”  he  said,  smiling,  “un¬ less  I  change  my  present  impressions of  convicts.”

Then  he  turned  back  to  the  scien¬ tist,  and  in  so  doing  missed  the  pecuTHROUGH  THE  VORTEX


liar  expression  which  flitted  across Fletcher’s  stolid  face.

“Is  there  water  on  Suferno?”  he inquired.  “Surely  there  are  no springs?”

“We  catch  the  rain,  or  mist,  which you  have  noticed,”  said  Faire.  “At first  we  had  to  drink  it  with  only  a slight  filtering,  and  it  was  nauseating. The  green  crystal  it  deposits  is  some¬ what  like  sulfur  in  taste,  though  not in  chemical  action.  However,  I  have a  combination  filter  and  still  rigged up  which  turns  it  into  good  water. You  must  see  my  laboratory  later  on. Hugh  and  I  have  just  completed  the manufacture  of  a  high-power  ex¬ plosive.  We  call  it  teolin.  With  sev¬ eral  small  bombs  of  that  we  shall  not fear  all  the  Tortas  on  Suferno.”

“If  this  place  was  formed  as  you believe,”  remarked  Kent,  “how  did it  come  to  be  inhabited  by  these strange  creatures  and  by  those  terri¬ ble  monsters  in  the  pit?”

Faire  hesitated  for  a  moment.

“I  can  explain  it  only  by  evolu¬ tion,”  he  said  at  last.  “You  may not  believe  in  that  theory.  Under  our feet  are  tons  of  matter  lifted  from the  earth  by  an  everlasting  process. It  is  my  belief  that  this  life  orig¬ inated  from  protoplasms  carried  here in  that  matter.  At  any  rate,  life  cer¬ tainly  exists.  The  Tortas  fear  the things  in  the  pit  as  much  as  we,  how¬ ever,  so  we  are  doubly  protected. They  call  them  the  Vangse,  according to  Hugh  here,  who  has  mastered  their weird  lingo.  As  long  as  these  strange animals  do  not  find  any  way  into  the fiat  land  outside  the  pit  we  are  safe. I  believe,  though,  that  their  eaves  and tunnels  run  far  back,  perhaps  under the  spot  on  which  we  live.”

As  he  fell  silent  Madeline  spoke eagerly  to  the  flyer.

“Won’t  you  tell  us  what  has  hap¬ pened  in  the  world  since  we  left?” she  pleaded.  “It  seems  almost  a dream  that  we  ever  lived  there,  for these  six  years  have  been  ages.”

Though  he  was  tired,  Kent  com¬ plied  willingly.  Faire  soon  cut  in  on the  recital.

“You  forget,  Madeline,”  he  told the  girl,  “that  Captain  Kent  has  had a  trying  experience.  You  can  talk  of these  things  later,  when  he  has  had  a good  rest.”

“It  must  be  near  morning,”  said Kent,  as  he  rose  to  follow  his  host into  another  cabin.  “Everything  will doubtless  seem  more  cheerful  in  sun¬ light.”

Faire  shook  his  head  morosely.

“There  is  no  day  or  night  here,” he  observed.  “Except  for  our  forlite torches,  made  from  a  luminous  weed, no  light  rays  penetrate  this  everlast¬ ing  green  mist.  I  think  it  must  ab¬ sorb  all  light  rays  from  outside,  for the  darkness  is  never  lifted.  As  for the  time,  we  have  a  ship ’s  dock  which was  not  damaged,  but  it  is  of  little

He  conducted  Kent  to  an  inner room  and  bade  him  good  night.  With¬ in  a  minute  the  flyer  was  fast  asleep.

'C'obty-eight  hours  had  passed  since A  Kent  had  crashed  on  the  aerial isle  of  Suferno.  He  had  recovered from  his  strange  experience,  most  of which  now  seemed  a  dream,  though he  had  but  to  look  through  the screened  ports  of  the  Refuge  into  the perpetual  night  to  assure  himself  that it  was  no  fancy.  Faire  had  proved an  interesting  host,  an  earnest  scien¬ tist  whose  intellect  had  stood  up  well under  his  isolation.  Madeline  was  a charming  companion,  doubly  so  be¬ cause  of  her  eager  interest  in  Kent’s descriptions  of  conditions  in  the world  hidden  below  them.  Fletcher maintained  a  cold  reserve  which  the flyer  at  last  decided  was  due  to  the loneliness  of  months  on  Suferno.

The  Refuge  was  an  interesting  hab¬ itation.  The  little  cabins  made  novel quarters  and  the  furnishings  from  the salvage  of  the  Fidelia  afforded  quiet


WEIRD  TALES

comfort.  Numerous  forlite  torches illuminated  the  structure  with  a  soft, pleasant  glow.  The  central  cabin even  boasted  a  small  library,  which had  been  carried  in  the  passenger compartment  of  the  airship.  At  the rear  of  the  Refuge  was  a  combination storeroom  and  laboratory,  where Faire  spent  a  great  deal  of  time  in various  experiments.  As  Kent  was being  conducted  through  this  room  he noticed  several  coils  of  wire  and stopped  abruptly.

“What  is  it?”  asked  Faire  in  sur-

“I  had  forgotten  my  radio  set,”  ex¬ plained  the  flyer.  “This  wire  brought it  to  my  mind.  I  ought  to  get  it  in here  at.  cnee,  before  the  Tortas  stum¬ ble  on  the  place  where  it  is  hidden.”

“Why  do  you  want  it?”  asked -Madeline.  “You  don’t  mean  that yon  can  send  a  message  to  the earth?”

Kc  shook  his  head.

“No,  it  is  not  a  transmitting  set. But  unless  it  is  badly  damaged,  and its  cushion  supports  should  prevent that,  we  can  listen  in  and  tell  just about  where  we  are  in  relation  to  the

A  scornful  laugh  from  the  doorway interrupted  him.  Fletcher  had  en¬ tered  and  stood  there  regarding  them

“How  can  you  do  that?”  he  asked insolently.  “A  wireless  message might  come  from  any  place.  Even  if yon  heard  it  you  couldn’t  tell  where it  came  from.”

Kent  chose  to  ignore  the  other’s tone.  He  smiled  easily.

“What  you  call  ‘wireless’  has  un¬ dergone  some  changes  since  yen  left the  world,”  he  said.  “It  is  called ‘radio’  now,  and  there  are  thousands of  stations  all  over  the  globe,  broad¬ casting  musieal  concerts,  plays, speeches,  political  conventions,  and  a hundred  other  things.  At  any  hour of  the  day  or  night  you  can  tune  in  on something  interesting.  And  by  use

of  what  we  call  directional  antenna it  is  easy  to  get  the  line  of  transmisEven  Faire  was  amazed  at  Kent’s explanation,  while  Fletcher  lapsed into  an  ugly  silence.

“And  to  think,”  cried  Madeline breathlessly,  “that  in  a  few  hours  we may  hear  voices  from  our  long-lost world.  Oh,  I  hope  the  set  will  not  be broken!”

“We’ll  soon  know,”  said  Kent. “I’m  going  out  right  now  to  get  it.”

He  headed  for  his  cabin  to  prepare for  the  trip.

“Wait  a  little  bit.”  Fletcher  called after  him.  “I’ve  just  put  up  a  sig¬ nal  for  the  Tortas,  showing  that  we have  some  things  to  trade.  'When they  come  Ill  find  out  how  they  feel. They  may  be  worked  up  over  your killing  Kam,  their  chief.  If  every¬ thing  is  all  right  I’ll  go  out  with

Half  an  hour  later,  in  response  to  a string  of  forlite  torches  displayed from  the  Refuge,  a  dozen  Tortas  ap¬ peared.  Donning  a  crude  helmet  and mask  to  keep  out  the  green  mist, Fletcher  strode  out  on  to  the  plat¬ form.  His  appearance  was  the  signal for  a  chorus  of  hoarse  gutturals  from the  ficree-looking  creatures  below. Then  began  a  rapid  conversation,  ac¬ companied  by  a  series  of  gestures  by Fletcher.  The  negotiations  conclud¬ ed,  there  came  an  exchange  of  silk and  trinkets  for  several  baskets  of supplies  the  Tortas  had  brought,  the baskets  being  drawn  up  by  hooked lines.  The  other  three  castaways  re¬ mained  inside,  peering  through  the ports,  Faire  explaining  that  Fletcher was  the  only  one  who  seemed  to  effect an  understanding  with  the  ape-men.

“I  think  it  is  safe  to  go  out,”  ob¬ served  Fletcher  as  be  entered.  “Kam was  a  bullying  sort,  and  they  seem glad  to  be  rid  of  him.  You  had  bet¬ ter  pnt  on  your  mask  and  goggles.”

“I’ll  take  my  gat,  too,”  remarked

THROUGH  THE  VORTEX


Kent.  "It’s  an  effective  argument against  any  number  of  clubs.”

Fletcher  turned  to  the  scientist.

“I’d  better  take  our  pistol,  too. You  can’t  tell  about  those  devils.”

Thus  equipped,  the  two  men  de¬ scended  the  rope  ladder  and  made  off into  the  shadows.  Their  torches showed  the  way  plainly,  and  the  VR was  soon  located.  It  seemed  not  to have  been  touched,  though  Kent  was not  sure.  Kneeling  beside  the  shrub¬ bery  where  he  had  concealed  the  tool Mt  and  radio,  he  found  that  they  also were  intact.  He  drew  the  set  out quickly  and  bent  over  to  examine  it when  he  felt  a  swift  jerk  at  his  holster and  looked  up  to  find  himself  covered by  his  own  and  Fletcher’s  pistol.

Seeing  the  mad,  malignant  grin which  spread  over  the  other  man’s face,  the  flyer  made  no  effort  to  move, knowing  that  it  would  but  result  in his  death.  Fletcher  laughed  sneeringly.

“So  you  are  going  to  take  my Madeline  back  to  earth  with  you,  Cap¬ tain  Kent?  I  think  not — in  fact,  I am  quite  sure  of  it”

Then,  without  moving  his  eyes  from the  flyer,  he  lifted  his  head  and  ut¬ tered  a  peculiar  call.  Almost  at  once they  were  surrounded  by  a  group  of leering  Tortas  who  seized  Kent  and bound  him  with  a  long,  ropelike  vine. Though  he  struggled,  he  was  like  a child  in  their  powerful  hands.

“And  now,”  said  Fletcher  with  a mocking  smile,  “in  order  to  lend color  to  my  little  story  of  your  tragic death,  I  shall  have  to  use  some  of your  ammunition.  But  then  you won’t  need  it,  anyway.”

Raising  the  pistol,  he  fired  several shots  into  the  air.  The  Tortas dropped  to  the  ground  in  terror,  but at  a  command  from  Fletcher  crept  to their  feet.  Fletcher’s  voice  took  on  a note  of  bitter  hatred.

"You  fool!”  he  snarled.  “Do  you think  I  can’t  see  that  she  is  falling in  love  with  you?  Do  you  suppose  I

have  waited  all  these  years  for  noth¬ ing?  What  do  I  care  about  going back  to  the  earth?  When  old  Faire kicks  off  I  can  be  king  here,  for  these damned  brutes  are  afraid  of  me  be¬ cause  I  know  their  language  and  can frame  up  things  on  them.  And  I’ll have  her!  What  more  do  I  need  to be  happy?  Yes — when  old  Faire  is gone — and  that  may  not  be  so  long distant,  either!”

He  snapped  a  curt  order,  and  Kent was  roughly  dragged  to  his  feet. Then,  with  his  lower  bonds  loosened, he  was  forced  to  march  along  an  up¬ ward  winding  trial.  Steeper  and steeper  became  the  path,  while  Kent cursed  himself  bitterly  for  not  at¬ tempting  an  attack  before  the  Tortas bound  him.  As  a  dull  glow  appeared above  he  had  a  sickening  foreboding. They  were  going  to  throw  him  into the  pit!

With  the  strength  of  desperation he  broke  for  an  instant  from  his  captors,  but  before  he  could  hurl  himself down  the  precipitous  slope  the  Tortas in  the  rear  threw  themselves  upon him  with  angry  cries.  But  for  Fletch¬ er’s  interference,  he  would  have  been torn  to  pieces.  A  minute  later  he looked  for  the  second  time  on  the weird,  firelit  walls  of  the  space through  which  he  had  come  to  Su-

“You  are  going  to  have  a  new  ex¬ perience,  Captain  Kent,”  gloated Fletcher.  “An  experience  no  man has  ever  had — though  our  dear  friend Faire  may  soon  taste  of  its  joys.  Do you  see  that  ledge  below  us?”

Kent  looked  and  his  heart  went sick  within  him.  A  great,  sinis¬ ter  form  was  plainly  visible,  though its  features  were  obscured  in  shadows. One  of  the  Tortas  produced  a  long coil  of  the  tenuous  vine  such  as  that which  bound  Kent.  This  was  slipped under  the  prisoner’s  arms  and  firmly secured.  Then  he  was  carefully  low¬ ered  over  the  rim,  Fletcher’s  exultant


WEIRD  TALES

laugh  following  him  in  Ms  slow  de¬ scent  He  closed  Ms  eyes  in  despair for  a  moment.  Then,  forcing  them open,  he  looked  down  upon  the  ledge Fletcher  had  indicated.  His  body, which  had  been  dangling  limply,  be¬ gan  to  sway  slowly  from  side  :o  side, making  of  him  a  human  pendulum. He  saw  the  reason  instantly.  The ledge  did  not  extend  out  far  enough to  intercept  him,  and  the  Tortas  were endeavoring  to  swing  him  over  it  so they  could  drop  him  upon  it.  At  the same  time  a  new  sensation  came  to him.  The  vine-rope  was  scraping against  something.  An  upward glance  showed  where  it  was  chafing against  the  side  of  the  cliff.  A  jerk told  Mm  of  a  parted  strand.  He  was still  fifty  feet  above  the  main  ledge, but  there  was  a  tiny  projection  less than  four  yards  beneath.  If  by  a

miracle - .  His  breath  caught  in  his

tM-oat  as  he  felt  another  strand break.  Then  a  sudden  rending  and he  was  dropping,  feet  first.  An  agon¬ ized  second  and  he  landed  with  a  jolt that  almost  drove  M3  legs  from  their sockets.  Ms  head  hanging  over  the rocky  shelf.

By  twisting  about  he  was  able  to look  up  toward  the  rim.  The  spot from  wMch  he  had  come  was  hidden. Fletcher  could  not  know  the  outcome of  his  inhuman  scheme.  Undoubted¬ ly  he  would  believe  he  had  succeeded. Probably  he  had,  for  Faire  had  said there  was  no  passage  from  the  pit  to the  open  land  of  Sufemo.  Neverthe¬ less,  Kent  felt  renewed  hope  as  he began  to  work  his  bonds  loose.

When  he  had  freed  himself  he  sat up  and  inspected  Ms  surroundings. At  the  back  of  the  ledge  was  a  small opening,  barely  large  enough  to  per¬ mit  his  passage.  He  crawled  into  it for  a  few  yards  and  stopped.  It  had turned  abruptly,  leaving  him  in abysmal  darkness.  Then  he  forced himself  to  go  on,  for  it  was  Ms  only chance,  even  though  he  might  fall any  moment  into  some  deep  cavern.

There  was  a  dank,  musty  odor  in  the air  wMch  increased  as  he  went  along. He  proceeded  cautiously,  feeling  his way  in  the  blackness.  The  passage grew  larger  and  in  a  minute  he  came to  a  fork.  He  chose  the  right  branch and  soon  saw  a  glimmer  of  light.  For¬ getting  caution,  he  ran  toward  it  and in  a  few  seconds  found  himself  at  the rear  of  the  very  ledge  on  wMch Fletcher  had  intended  him  to  fall.

Stretched  frill  length  lay  a  gigantic creature,  resembling  a  lizard  in  form but  with  a  huge,  bulging  head  unlike anything  he  had  ever  seen.  Its  legs were  twelve  feet  in  length,  and  its scaly,  mottled  body  was  at  least  fifty feet  long.  Kent  recalled  with  a  gasp the  skeleton  of  a  prehistoric  dinosaur he  had  seen  in  a  museum.  But  for its  head  this  monster  would  be  one  of that  species.  Beyond  the  passage  he had  followed,  a  second  one  opened, wide  enough  to  admit  the  gruesome occupant  of  the  ledge.  Scattered about  the  floor  of  the  cave  thus formed  were  mangled  bones  of  great size.  Evidently  in  the  caverns  under Sufemo  were  other  strange  animals, prey  for  tMs  creature  and  its  kind, the  Vangse.

Though  the  eyes  of  the  creature were  open,  it  did  not  seem  to  see Kent.  A  transparent  film  covered the  Mdeous  yellow  slits,  whose  fierce¬ ness  was  emphasized  by  white  rings encircling  them,  like  Hie  eyes  of  a horse  violently  distended.  He  found himself  moving  forward  as  one  hypno¬ tized  and  stopped  with  a  jerk.  As  a stone  rattled  under  Ms  feet  the  film lifted  swiftly  from  the  serpentlike eyes  and  with  a  mighty,  bubbling scream  the  Vanga  lunged  to  its  feet, darting  its  head  downward  with  in¬ credible  speed.  Kent  whirled  in  blind terror  as  he  saw  the  cavernous  maw open  and  two  great  fangs  shoot  out toward  him.  The  hot  breath  of  the monster  sped  itself  after  him  as  he flung  himself  to  safety  at  the  turn of  the  passage.

THROUGH  THE  VORTEX


Hurrying  back  to  the  fork,  he  en¬ tered  the  left  side.  To  his  delight  it soon  turned  upward.  Perhaps  there existed  some  tunnel  which  would  take him  into  the  open.  There  followed an  hour  of  disappointments.  The tunnel  led  to  others,  confusing  him so  that  he  became  completely  lost Once  he  heard  a  muffled  roaring,  and guessed  that  he  was  near  some  great eavem  where  the  Vang®  congregated, or  perhaps  prowled  in  search  of  food.

Retreating,  he  was  about  to  give  up in  the  exhaustion  of  all  hope,  when a  draft  ox  cool  air  struck  upon  his face.  Tracing  its  source,  he  came  on a  slanting  wall  at  the  top  of  which  a faint  gleam  of  light  straggled  through. Rude  steps  had  been  cut  in  the  slope, so  that  he  was  able  to  reach  the  top. Pushing  his  way  through  a  thick  mass of  undergrowth  which  closed  the  en¬ trance,  he  found  himself  not  a  hun¬ dred  feet  from  a  Torta  Tillage !

Evidently  this  passage  was  not known  even  to  the  ape-men,  for  it showed  no  sign  of  use  in  recent  times. Kent  felt  a  great  relief.  He  could  lie here  until  rested,  and  then  search  for the  Refuge.  Crawling  a  little  closer to  the  village,  he  saw  that  the  huts were  in  reality  caves  with  raised, thatched  tops.  The  inhabitants  en¬ tered  on  hands  and  knees.  It  was fairly  well  lit,  for  an  especially  largo growth  of  forlite  bushes  existed  at this  point.  He  saw  that  a  conference of  some  kind  was  in  progress  between the  males,  the  females  being  kept  be¬ low,  as  far  as  be  could  observe.

The  conference  ended  suddenly, and  three  of  the  Tortas  picked  up their  dubs  and  torches,  starting  off into  the  mist.  A  thought  struck  Kent mid  he  quiekly  circled  the  village, following  as  dose  as  he  dared.  Luck was  with  him,  for  the  three  ape-men went  straight  to  the  Refuge,  where they  bellowed  a  loud  call.  After  a wait,  Fletcher  appeared.  Kent  felt  his as  he  saw  Madeline  and

He  stole  closer,  keeping  in  the  shad¬ ows.  The  Tortas  seemed  to  be  de¬ manding  something.  He  heard  Fletch¬ er  ask  some  question  of  Faire,  butcould  not  catch  the  words.

“No!”  exclaimed  the  sdentist, firmly.  “What  can  you  be  thinking of,  to  make  peace  with  them  after  the murder  of  Captain  Kent?  After  this I  shall  treat  them  as  the  they

pubes  h Fairs  pt

_ _ _ again  to  the  Tortas,

who  replied  with  a  fierce  hubbub.  The three  Americans  on  the  platform  dis¬ appeared  and  the  Tortas  slunk  away with  angry  mutterings.  Kent  shrewd¬ ly  conjectured  that  Fletcher  had promised  the  ape-men  a  reward  for helping  him  carry  the  flyer  to  the  pit, and  that  his  mention  of  a  peace-of¬ fering  wa3  a  subterfuge  to  deceive Faire.  An  anger  mounting  almost  to murderous  hatred  took  hold  of  him. Then  he  calmed  himself  and  tried  to think  of  some  way  to  reach  the Refuge.

At  last  a  plan  occurred  to  him.  If only  Fletcher  had  not  found  the  tool kit!  He  had  forgotten  to  mention  it in  connection  with  the  radio.  Hastily he  searched  out  the  trail  to  the  VR. To  his  joy  the  tool  kit  still  reposed in  its  hiding  place,  though  the  radio set  wa3  gone.  Taking  out  two  Stillson  wrenches,  he  went  back  to  the Refuge.

When  he  felt  sure  no  one  was  stir¬ ring  above,  he  stripped  off  his  uni¬ form  blouse  and  tore  it  into  large pieces,  one  of  which  he  tied  about each  hand.  Adjusting  the  wrenches to  a  small  grip,  he  forced  cme  on  to the  nearest  upright  girder.  By  step¬ ping  on  the  handle  he  caused  it  to lock  without  slipping.  He  nodded  in satisfaction,  and  placed  the  second wrench  two  feet  above.  The  strips of  cloth  kept  the  sharpened  edges from  cutting  his  hands,  thou#  they bit  through  the  outer  layers.  Slowly he  worked  his  way  up  on  this  impro¬ vised  ladder,  changing  each  wreneh

WEIRD  TALES

with  the  utmost  care,  lest  some  sound warn  Fletcher  or  a  loose  grip  send him  hurtling  to  the  ground.  At.  last he  hung  beneath  the  platform,  where he  was  forced  to  trust  himself  to  the strength  of  his  tired  arms.  After  a great  effort  he  swung  his  bcdy  over the  edge  and  lay  panting  on  the  floor.

■When  he  had  regained  his  breath he  tiptoed  to  the  nearest  port  and looked  in.  The  central  cabin  was  de¬ serted.  He  pondered  a  moment.  The door  was  barred  but  if  he  waited  for someone  to  open  it  he  might  encoun¬ ter  Fletcher  fully  armed.  The  sight of  Fletcher’s  club  in  the  corner  of the  cabin  decided  him.  Stepping  to the  edge  of  the  platform  ho  hurled himself  against  the  door,  which  burst open  with  a  loud  crash.  Then,  seiz¬ ing  the  elnb,  he  dashed  for  Fletcher’s room.  As  he  approached,  the  door opened  hastily  and  Fletcher  ap¬ peared,  a  pistol  in  his  hand.  At  sight of  Kent  a  gray  pallor  overspread  his face  and  he  raised  the  gun  in  his  trem¬ bling  hand,  but  before  he  could  pull the  trigger  Kent  brought  down  the club  on  his  outstretched  arm,  sending the  weapon  clattering  to  lie  floor. Dashing  the  club  aside,  Kent  swung to  the  other’s  jaw  with  a  blow  into which  went  all  the  pent-up  rage  of the  past  hours.  Fletcher  collapsed with  a  gurgling  moan  just  as  Faire and  Madeline  rushed  out.

As  the  girl’s  eyes  rested  on  Kent she  gave  a  little  cry  and  would  have fallen  had  he  not  caught  her.  Lift¬ ing  her  tenderly,  he  carried  her  to the  couch  in  the  central  cabin,  Faire looking  on  speechless.

“I  thought  you  were  dead,”  whis¬ pered  Madeline  dazedly,  her  eyes hungrily  searching  Kent's  face. “Hugh  said  the  Tortas - ”

•‘I  know,”  cut  in  Kent  grimly. "But  it  was  a  frameup.  And  he  is going  to  pay  for  it.”

At  his  explanation  Faire ’s  brows grew  black  with  anger,  while  the  girl listened  wide-eyed.

“So  he  must  be  put  out  of  here,” concluded  Kent.  “Not  for  what  he did  to  me  particularly,  but  because neither  you  nor  Madeline  will  be  safe if  he  is  allowed  to  stay.  He  planned to  kill  you,  Faire — of  that  I  am  sure. You  can  gues3  the  rest.”

“I  trusted  him,”  said  the  scientist slowly.  “I  never  suspected  him  for an  instant.  But  yoa  are  right — he must  go  out  with  the  Tortas,  since they  are  his  friends.  It  will  mean redoubled  watching  on  our  part,  for he  will  organize  them  against  us,  but it  is  the  only  way.”

“We  need  not  fear  him,”  said  the flyer.  “He  will  have  no  tools  to work  with,  and  I  shall  warn  him  I intend  to  shoot  on  sight  if  he  comes near  the  Refuge.  I  shall  carry  him out  at  once,  for  we  are  not  safe  with him  here.

And  Fletcher,  still  unconscious,  was carried  by  Kent  down  the  rope  lad¬ der.  There  were  no  Tortas  in  sight, so  Kent  gave  a  piercing  whistle  to call  them.  Leaving  Fletcher  on  the ground,  he  returned  to  the  Refuge and  drew  the  ladder  up  after  him.

uck  is  with  U3  once  more,”  an¬ nounced  Kent,  straightening  up from  his  inspection  of  the  radio  set, which  Fletcher  had  carried  back  to the  Refuge.  “Two  tubes  are  in  work¬ ing  order,  and  as  this  is  a  reflex  cir¬ cuit  we’ll  have  the  strength  of  three tubes  when  I  change  the  connections a  bit.”

Two  honr3  later  he  closed  the  bat¬ tery  switch  and  eagerly  rotated  the dials,  while  Faire  stood  by  the  huge loop  they  had  constructed.  Madeline watched  with  rapt  interest.  After several  minutes  Kent’s  eyes  dilated with  excitement.

“Hold  it  there!”  he  cried  to  the scientist.  “We've  caught  something. It’s  an  orchestra  ...  ah!  he’s  going to  announce.”

THROUGH  THE  VORTEX


There  was  a  moment  of  strained  si¬ lence.

“■WRC— Washington!”  he  ex¬ claimed  at  last.  “Write  down  these settings,  Madeline.  And  get  the  an¬ gles  on  the  loop,  too,  both  the  vertical and  horizontal,  for  we’ll  need  them.”

The  loop  had  been  made  so  that  it could  be  rotated  in  two  planes,  giving its  defection  toward  the  earth  when lying  on  its  side.

“But  thi3  may  be  coming  from  a long  distance,”  said  Fairs,  anxiously. “We  may  be  miles  away,  perhaps  no¬ where  near  the  Atlantic  coast.”

“We’re  within  fifty  miles  of  Wash¬ ington,”  replied  Kent  decisively.  “I knew  this  set,  and  it  wouldn’t  come in  this  lond  any  farther  away.  Here, listen  for  yourself.”

Removing  the  headphones,  he handed  them  to  Fairs.  Seeing  the wistful  look  in  the  girl’s  eyes,  he  drew one  phono  from  the  clips  and  for  sev¬ eral  minutes  the  scientist  and  his daughter  listened  to  the  music  which was  being  broadcast  from  the  capital. There  were  tears  in  the  eyes  of  both when  they  turned  to  Kent.

“It  is  wonderful,”  breathed  Made¬ line.  “A  great  invention — but  more wonderful  because  it  gives  us  back our  world.  I  shall  never  be  lonely

“It  may  give  us  back  the  world  in a  very  literal  sense,”  remarked  Kent. “I  have  a  plan  which  may  be  worked out,  but  first  we  must  determine  ex¬ actly  how  we  move  above  the  earth.”

Taking  the  phones,  he  began  the hunt  for  a  second  station.

“Charlotte,  North  Carolina,”  he stated  in  a  few  minutes.  “We  must be  somewhere  between  there  and Washington,  for  the  vertical  angles are  almost  in  line  and  the  horizontal angles  are  in  opposite  directions.”

For  three  hours  this  process  was repeated,  during  which  time  more than  a  hundred  stations  were  picked up  and  carefully  recorded,  with  the time  of  reception.  Then  Kent  shut

down  the  set  and  bent  over  a  world map  which  had  been  tom  from  an atlas  in  the  library.

“We  are  over  the  Pacific,”  he  ex¬ plained  to  the  others.  “There  won’t be  anything  bnt  a  ship  or  two  for  a long  time,  and  we  couldn’t  know  their locations  so  we  might  as  well  trace our  passage  across  the  United  States. By  plotting  the  angles  on  stations which  we  caught  at  about  the  same time  we  can  get  a  fixed  position  for that  instant.”

He  began  work  with  pencil  and rule,  while  Faire  read  the  angles.

“There  are  four  stations  on  which the  loop  pointed  straight  down,”  he continued.  “That  is,  the  vertical  an¬ gle  was  ninety  degrees,  indicating that  we  were  directly  over  the  sta¬ tions.  These  four  were  WBBL,  Rich¬ mond;  WEAC,  Columbus;  WOC, Davenport,  and  KEPT  at  Salt  Lake City.  The  curve  drawn  through  these places  shows  that  we  touched  first  at Cape  Hatteras  and  then  moved  in  an upward  arc  across  the  country,  our highest  •  point  being  just  south  of Sioux  City,  Iowa.  From  Salt  Lake City  we  curved  back  southward  un¬ til  we  reached  the  Pacific,  just  below Monterey  Bay,  California.  And, judging  from  the  intersections  of  the inclination  angles,  we  are  about  nine¬ ty  thousand  feet  above  the  earth.”

Faire  scrutinized  the  map  closely.

“This  are  must  pass  through Guam,  ’  ’  he  remarked,  ‘  ‘  since  you  were caught  up  at  that  point.  A  continua¬ tion  of  the  curve  will  cut  through Singapore  and  then  dip  down  below the  equator.  From  that  it  would  ap¬ pear  there  is  a  second  arc  which  cov¬ ers  the  Indian  Ocean,  crosses  Africa just  above  Cape  Town  and  then swings  np  between  Africa  and  South America  until  it  begins  at  Hatteras again.”

Kent  nodded.

“I  think  you  are  right.  I  can’t  un¬ derstand  why  we  don’t  travel  in  a straight  line  around  the  earth,  or

WEIRD  TALES

rather,  why  it  doesn’t  move  in  that way  below  ns,  but  undoubtedly  there are  many  conditions  affecting  the winds  up  here  which  we  can  not comprehend,”

“You  spoke  of  a  plan."  suggested Faire.  “I  confess  to  being  a  skeptic, but  I  would  like  to  hear  it,  anyway.”

Kent’s  face  was  grave.  He  hesi¬ tated,  looking  at  Madeline  in  some

“I  don’t  wish  to  frighten  you,” he  said  finally,  “but  I  believe  that  we shall  have  to  prepare  for  an  emer¬ gency.  Of  course  you  have  noticed the  crack  in  the  ground  which  lies just  beyond  the  framework  of  the Fidelia  ?  Well,  when  I  climbed  across it.  the  last  time  it  seemed  to  have widened  and  become  deeper.  I  have an  idea  that  we  are  on  the  outer  edge of  Sufemo,  and  that  the  tip  of ground  supporting  us  is  being  slowly broken  off  by  the  vibration  from  the center.”

Faire ’s  face  was  pale.  He  glanced quickly  at  the  girl.

“I  have  suspected  something  of  the kind,”  he  admitted.  “There  seemed to  be  no  remedy,  so  I  never  told  Mad¬ eline.  Hugh  learned  from  the  Tortas that  large  portions  of  Sufemo  have vanished  in  just  that  way.  What happens  to  them  after  they  break  off I  do  not  know.”

“I  believe  they  fall  toward  the earth,”  said  Kent.  “Perhaps  the mass  disintegrates,  or  it  may  be  taken for  part  of  a  meteor  if  it  strikes  in¬ habited  land.  This  particular  strip may  not  break  off  for  a  long  time,  but we  ought  not  to  take  a  chance.  How much  silk  have  you  left  in  the  atore-

“Sevcral  rolls,  though  I  don’t know  exactly  how  much,”  answered the  scientist.  “What  good  will  it  do yout”

“We’ll  build  an  air-tight  box,”  explained  Kent  quickly,  warming  to  Ids subject  as  he  went  on.  “We  can  make it  from  six-ply  veneer,  which  is  light

but  strong.  The  base  will  be  rein¬ forced  to  hold  the  three  of  us.  We can,  leave  space  between  the  inner  and outer  walls,  and  pack  it  with  nottoh pulp,  which  I  remember  you  said  was a  poor  conductor  of  heat.  Now  for the  silk.  If  it  is  not  rotted  we  can make  five  parachutes,  one  for  the  cen¬ ter  of  the  box,  and  one  to  be  held  by an  outrigger  arm  on  each  corner  so that  the  ’chutes  won’t,  tangle  when they  open.  The  four  will  have  to  be small  and  the  central  one  will  be  very large.  I'll  sneak  out  to  the  VS  and bring  in  the  oxygen  tank.  There  is a  little  left  in  it,  and  we  can  make more  in  your  laboratory.”

Faire  and  the  girl  were  staring  at him  dazedly.

“I  don’t  believe  it  will  work,”  ob¬ jected  the  scientist,  after  a  silence. “If  this  bit  cf  ground  tears  loose  we shall  be  milled  around  and  or.r  box would  be  smashed  to  pieces.  Besides it  would  have  to  ba  kept  in  an  open spot  far  enough  from  the  Fidclis  to fall  free,  and  the  Torta3  would  wreck it  for  us.”

“It  is  the  only  possible,  way  of  es¬ cape,”  said  Kent,  somewhat  impa¬ tiently.  “I  can  manage  to  keep  it  a secret  from  the  Tortas  and  Fletcher, and  as  for  our  milling  around,  it would  be  only  iu  the  air  and  the  box would  stand  the  strain.”

“Ob,  if  we  only  could  get  away!” exclaimed  Madeline.  “Father,  let  us take  the  chaaee  of  being  killed — even that  would  be  better  than  staying here  the  rest  of  our  lives.  Somehow I  believe  that  it  would  succeed.”

Faire  at  last  agreed,  though  he  was far  from  convinced.

“Even  if  we  fall  free,  and  escape the  vortex,”  he  protested,  “wo  may drop  into  some  ocean  or  the  middle of  a  wilderness.  Except  for  the  time when  we  are  over  the  United  States our  track  lies  almost  entirely  above

“I  know,”  said  Kent  in  a  troubled

THROUGH  THE  VORTEX


voice.  ‘  ‘  That  is  the  only  thing  I  fear. Yet  I  see  no  way  around  it.”

“If  there  were  only  some  way  we could  make  the  ground  break  loose,” said  Madeline  thoughtfully,  “we could  start  at  a  definite  time,  for  now we  know  just  when  we  are  over  the States.”  .

Kent  sat  up  excitedly.

‘  ‘  That ’s  a  great  idea !  Why  didn ’t we  think  of  that,  Faire?  By  heaven, we  can  do  it!”

“How?”  demanded  the  scientist.

“Teolin!”  replied  Kent  enthusias¬ tically.  “We’ll  plant  several  charges of  it  far  enough  away  to  keep  from blowing  ourselves  up,  but  close enough  to  break  off  this  tongue  of land.  We  have  some  spark  plugs from  one  motor  of  the  Fidelis,  and even  if  they  aren’t  any  good  we  can fall  back  on  those  in  the  VB.  We have  plenty  of  wire  and  I  can  rig  up a  booster  strong  enough  to  fire through  three  or  four  plugs.  We’ll wait  until  we  are  just  off  the  Atlantic coast  and  then  throw  the  switch.  It will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  quar¬ ter  to  drop,  if  our  parachutes  open at  once.  We’ll  be  sure  to  strike  land then.  We’ll  check  up  by  radio  to  get the  exact  time  on  our  clock.”

Faire  seemed  to  catch  some  of  his enthusiasm.

“Wild  as  it  sounds,  I  believe  it  is possible,”  he  said.  “Let’s  get  to  work right  away.”

“npHEKE  is  only  half  an  hour  left,”

-J-  said  the  scientist,  unconsciously lowering  his  voice  from  suppressed excitement.  “Now  that  the  time  has come  I  am  tortured  with  a  thousand new  doubts.”

“Don’t  worry  about  it,”  coun¬ seled  Kent,  striving  for  a  cheerful tone,  though  he  too  felt  the  gravity of  the  moment.  “We  had  our  close call  yesterday  when  the  teolin  ex¬ ploded.”

“Thank  God  it  was  only  a  small

charge,”  exclaimed  Faire  in  a  fervent voice.  “I  stiU  fail  to  understand how  forlite  can  ignite  it.  I  have  al¬ ways  thought  of  it  as  being  without heat  or  fire,  and  the  possibility  never occurred  to  me.  It  is  a  wonder  we have  not  had  an  accident  in  the  lab¬ oratory.”

Three  weeks  had  passed  since Fletcher  had  been  exiled  from  the Refuge.  At  first  tho  three  castaways proceeded  cautiously,  keeping  close watch  for  the  outcast  or  lurking  Tortas,  but  when  nothing  unusual  hap¬ pened  they  decided  Fletcher  was  kept busy  at  the  Torta  villages  organizing his  new  subjects.  By  this  time  the parachute  box  had  been  completed, and  had  been  carefully  lowered  to  the ground.  The  two  men  then  moved it  on  crude  rollers  to  an  open  spot three  hundred  yards  away,  where heaped  brush  and  the  intense  dark¬ ness  concealed  it  from  wandering  apemen.  Every  ounce  of  teolin  Faire had  manufactured  had  been  placed  in sloping  pits  dug  for  this  purpose.  The wires  from  the  spark  plugs  were  led into  the  parachute  box  and  connected to  an  induction  coil  which  Kent  had wound  for  use  with  the  radio  battery.

“It  is  strange  that  we  have  not been  hindered  by  Fletcher,”  observed Faire  thoughtfully,  as  he  put  on  one of  the  rough  coats  of  silk  lined  with nottok,  which  they  had  made  for  re¬ sisting  the  cold.  “It  is  not  like  him to  forget  what  we  did  to  him.  I  am afraid  of  the  man,  for  he  is  extremely cunning.”

“I  think  he  is  simply  saving  his skin  by  staying  at  a  safe  distance,” replied  Kent.  “We  have  the  pistols and  he  knows  we  will  not  be  slow  in using  them.  Well,  we  had  better  be going  or  we  shall  have  to  wait  another twenty-four  hours.”

With  a  last  farewell  to  the  Refuge, which  had  so  faithfully  lived  up  to  its name,  they  descended  the  rope  ladder. After  a  keen  scrutiny  of  the  sur¬ rounding  area  for  skulking  ape-men.


WEIBD  TALES

they  set  off  toward  the  odd  craft  to which  they  would  soon  entrust  their lives.  Bemoviug  the  brush  around  it, Sent  opened  the  little  door  and  made a  last  inspection  of  tn9  oxygen  sys¬ tem  and  the  reinforced  glas3  port. Madeline  entered  first,  making  a brave  effort  to  hide  her  natural  agita¬ tion.  The  two  men  followed  and  se¬ cured  the  door  with  stout  tumbuckles installed  on  all  four  edges.

“It  is  only  a  few  minutes  from  the time  we  figured,”  announced  Sent rather  nervously.  “That  amount won’t  make  much  difference — let’s throw  the  switch  now  and  have  it

Before  the  others  could  reply  there came  a  thud  against  the  door,  as though  some  solid  object  had  been placed  against  it.  Then  a  raueous, triumphant  laugh.  Fletcher’s  voice! Consternation  swept  over  the  three  in the  box.

“Greetings  to  you,  my  dear friends,”  they  heard  in  mocking tones.  “Surely  you  didn’t  think  to leave  me  without  even  saying  goodKent  quickly  regained  his  poise. After  all,  he  held  the  whip  hand.

“You  are  playing  with  death,”  he shouted  back.  “In  fifteen  seconds  I’m going  to  blow  this  box  and  everything near  it  into  space.  You  have  just that  time  to  get  clear!”

“How  very  interesting,”  retorted Fletcher  tauntingly.  “But  I  am afraid  I  must  disappoint  you,  my dear  Captain.  I  would  suggest  that you  try  yonr  little  plan — while  I stand  here  and  wait  to  be  blown  into smithereens!”

A  chill  premonition  swept  the  flyer. He  seized  the  switch  and  closed  the blades.  Nothing  happened.  Con¬ sumed  with  sudden  anger,  Kent snatched  np  his  automatic,  and  as Fletcher’s  sneering  laugh  came  again aimed  directly  at  the  location  of  the sound.  The  roar  of  the  shot  filled

the  tiny  box.  Then  rose  a  scream  of pain  from  the  outride.

“Damn  you,  Kent!”  shrieked Fletcher.  “You  got  my  arm— I’ll have  you  beaten  to  death  for  that .  .  . Cheurge  gaar  khrotee!”

The.  language  of  che  Tortas !  In  an instant  the  air  was  filled  with  the hoarse  cries  of  the  ape-men.  After an  interval  Fletcher’s  voice  was  heard again,  this  time  from  a  greater  dis¬ tance,  and  muffled  in  some  way  to  pre¬ vent  detection  of  its  source.

“One  more  shot  like  that,  Kent, and  both  you  and  Faire  will  feed  the Vangs.  And  this  time  there’ll  be  no slip.  If  you  give  in  you’ll  have  a chance  to  live — under  my  command. I  want  Madeline — and  I’m  going  to have  her.  Even  if  you  break  out  of that  box  you  can’t  save  yourselves, for  I’ve  got  a  hundred  Tortas  here, and  after  your  ammunition  is  gone they’ll  finish  you  with  clubs.  The Befuge  is  in  my  hands — thanks  to  the ladder  you  left  so  conveniently  at hand.  You  are  fools — all  of  you — to think  I’d  let  you  escape  like  that.  My men  have  been  watching  you  every hour  since  you  put  me  out — damn yon !  Yonr  teolin  is  on  its  way  to  my headquarters  and  the  spark  plugs  are in  my  pocket.”

Kent  remained  grimly  silent,  wait¬ ing  for  Fletcher  to  approach  closer so  that  he  could  try  another  shot. Without  their  leader  the  Tortas would  be  easier  to  handle.  Faire  had not  spoken  a  word,  but  was  trying  to quiet  the  girl,  who  was  sobbing  in terror  at  Fletcher’s  mention  of  her.

“Pass  your  guns  out  through  that port!”  snarled  the  man  outride,  after a  short  wait.  “Break  the  glass  and then  throw  them  clear.  If  you  don’t I’ll - ”

What  he  intended  was  never known,  for  just  then  the_  ground shook  under  a  mighty  explosion  some distance  away.  Kent’s  hopes  leaped, but  sank  again  as  the  box  remained immovable.  The  commotion  outside

THROUGH  THE  VORTEX


the  box  proved  that  Fletcher  and  the Tortas  were  as  startled  as  the  three prisoners.

‘ '  Probably  the  Tortas  carrying  the ieolin  got  too  close  to  some  forliie,” ventured  Faire.  “It  won’t  help  us, though.  "We  should  have  stayed  in the  Refuge,  for  now  we  are  lost.”

“Not  yet,”  answered  Kent  firmly. “You  have  five  cartridges  and  I  have two  magazines  left.  "We ’ll  get  through somehow.”

At  a  touch  on  his  shoulder  he leaned  down  toward  Madeline.  Her voice  came  in  a  whisper,  close  to  his

“Kent,  dear,”  she  faltered,  adding the  endearment  for  the  first  time,  “I am  afraid  there  is  no  hope  for  us. Promise  me  one  thing — that  you  will not  let  him  take  me  .  .  .  alive,”

Something  caught  in  Kent’s  throat and  unchecked  tears  sprang  to  his eyes.  Far  a  moment  he  held  her  close, while  love  struggled  with  a  great  bit¬ terness  against  the  fate  which  was about  to  snatch  this  girl  from  him  at the  instant  of  victory.  Then  he dropped  his  head  sadly.

“I  promise,”  he  told  her  in  a  low

But  now  a  new  and  ominous  sound was  added  to  the  husky  shouts  of  the Tortas  and  the  angry  commands  of their  white  leader.  Kent’s  emotion was  forgotten  as  he  recognized  the never-to-be-forgotten  moans  of  the dread  Vangse!  In  a  flash  he  under¬ stood,  and  for  the  first  time  absolute despair  overwhelmed  him.  The  ex¬ plosion  they  had  heard  must  have  tom away  part  of  the  pit  walls,  or  had created  an  opening  into  the  subter¬ ranean  lairs  in  the  bowels  of  Sufemo, letting  the  Vang®  forth  to  wreck  and destroy  all  in  their  path.  Nothing could  save  them  now!

Closer  and  closer  came  the  hideous screaming,  the  blood-curdling  cries  of the  monsters.  A  torch  dropped  near the  port  by  a  fleeing  ape-man  gave  a view  of  the  region  outside.  Fletcher,

after  a  frenzied  attempt  to  rally  his strange  cohorts,  swung  about  and dashed  toward  the  box.  The  inmates could  hear  Mm  tugging  at  the  ob¬ stacle  against  the  door.

“Madeline — Madeline!”  he  shout¬ ed  in  the  shrill  voice  of  a  man  gone mad.  “Come  out — I  can  save  you — the  Refuge - ”

Then  a  groan  of  horror,  as  though he  had  realized  his  doom.  Kent stared  through  the  port  to  where  a colossal  body  loomed  from  the  shad¬ ows,  followed  by  other  sinister  forms, each  one  advancing  with  great,  awk¬ ward  leaps  which  set  the  ground  to shaking  as  from  a  heavy  earthquake. Down  from  the  huge  body  of  the  fore¬ most  creature  swept  an  awful,  loath¬ some  head,  from  which,  two  horrible yellow  slits  blazed  forth  into  the gloom.  All  but  paralyzed,  Kent  cov¬ ered  his  eyes  as  Fletcher’s  screams split  the  air.  And  when  he  took  his hands  away,  his  heart  leapt  into  his throat,  for  Madeline  had  unfastened the  door,  and  was  out  in  the  open  try¬ ing  to  call  Fletcher  into  the  box,  for in  spite  of  all  he  had  done,  she  could not  stand  idly  by  and  see  him  de¬ voured  by  the  Vang®.  But  Fletcher was  fleeing  from  the  doom  that  men¬ aced  him,  and  did  not  hear  her  calls.

Stung  into  instant  action,  Kent sprang  from  the  box  to  her  assistance as  he  saw  the  wretched  Fletcher struck  by  two  mighty  fangs  and drawn,  into  that  fearsome  maw.  His last  hope  died  as  a  second  Vang® launched  itself  directly  toward  them. It  struck  a  few  yards  away  in  its  final leap  at  Madeline,  as  Kent  emptied  his pistol  at  the  monster,  and  the  ponder¬ ous  head  drew  back  for  its  attack.  In that  brief  second,  a  tremendous  crack¬ ling  rent  the  air,  a  thunderous  roar followed  by  a  jolting,  dizzy  swaying of  the  ground  beneath  the  box. Madeline  had  reached  the  box,  and she  seized  Kent’s  arm  and  helped  him in  as  with  one  sickening  lurch  the parachute  craft  plunged  downward.


WEIRD  TALES

Kent  quickly  closed  the  door,,  and bolted  it ;  then,  after  a  dazed  interval that  seemed  a  year,  he  reached  for the  release  cords  of  the  parachutes. With  a  jerk  he  let  up  two  of  the corner  parachutes,  the  silken  packs opening  with  a  loud  crack  in  the  dark¬ ness  above.  As  the  box  tilted  awk¬ wardly  he  knew  that  they  had  held. The  other  comer  supports  opened quickly,  and  finally  the  main  para¬ chute,  the  latter  with  a  jolt  which threatened  to  tear  the  box  to  pieces. The  swift  sinking  sensation  died  out, replaced  by  a  smooth,  pendulumlike motion.  Kent  hastily  spun  the oxygen  valve  to  its  extreme  opening, then  closed  it  part  way  as  the  atmo¬ sphere  cleared.

“We  are  in  the  hands  of  God,” said  Faire,  solemnly.  “If  only  He will  save  my  little  girl,  and  you,  Kent, I  shall  be  satisfied.  I  wonder  where we  shall  fall.”

“We’ll  all  be  saved,”  Kent  told him,  with  renewed  assurance.  “After what  we  just  went  through  we’re  go¬ ing  to  make  it,  I  know.”

A  little  later  he  began  to  wonder if  he  had  not  spoken  too  soon.  De¬ spite  the  released  oxygen  the  air  be¬ came  difficult  to  breathe,  and  he found  his  head  throbbing  with  a  dull pain.  The  cold  seeped  into  the  box as  though  it  had  been  of  paper,  and at  the  thought  of  the  long  minutes  be¬ fore  they  would  reach  the  earth  his fear  of  their  being  frozen  increased. The  three  huddled  together,  trying  to conserve  the  warmth  that  waned  from their  bodies.

“Can’t  we  punch  out  this  port?” gasped  Faire.  “I’m  suffocating.

“It  would  kill  us  to  open  it  now,” returned  the  flyer  thickly.  “There is  nothing  to  breathe  at  this  height, and  the  outside  is  much  colder.”

“It  can’t  be  much  colder,”  said Madeline,  weakly.  “How  long  will it  be  now,  do  you  think  t”

“Less  than  an  hour,”  Kent  told

her.  “We’re  dropping  pretty  fast. When  we  get  closer  everything  will be  all  right.”

An  eternity  seemed  to  pass  while they  descended  on  down  through  the pitchy  void.  Suddenly  Madeline slumped  down  into  Kent’s  arms.  Ho called  her  name  hurriedly,  but  there was  no  answer.  His  lungs  began  to ache  and  a  great  weight  seemed  to press  upon  his  heart.  In  a  minute Faire  leaned  toward  him.

“I’m  slipping,  Kent,”  he  whis¬ pered  feebly.  “I  can’t  hold  out  any

The  words  died  into  an  unintelligi¬ ble  mutter.  The  flyer  felt  his  senses reel.  His  tongue  hung  from  his  mouth as  he  lahored  to  draw  in  the  lifesustaining  oxygen.  With  a  final  con¬ scious  effort  he  raised  his  eoldnumbed  hands  and  drove  the  glass port  from  its  frame.  There  was  an inrush  of  air,  bitter  cold,  which seared  its  way  into  hi3  throat  and nostrils  .  .  .

Peering  ahead  into  the  night,  the engineer  of  the  westbound  Broad¬ way  Limited  swore  with  amazement and,  closing  the  throttle,  hastily  ap¬ plied  the  airbrakes.  As  the  speeding train  squealed  to  a  stop  he  leaped from  the  cab  and  raced  back  along the  right-of-way.  The  wondering  fire¬ man  followed  close  at  his  heels.

“What  is  it,  Jerry?”  demanded the  latter,  as  the  engineer  halted  near an  odd-looking  box,  half  covered  by a  spread  of  green-spotted  silk.

“Hanged  if  I  know!”  cried  the other,  lifting  the  «ilk  to  gaze  under¬ neath.  “The  blamed  thing  came  out of  the  sky,  and  the  headlight  caught it  for  a  second.  Damned  if  it  didn’t come  near  falling  on  the  track.”

They  had  been  joined  by  the  rest of  the  train  crew  and  several  passen¬ gers  by  this  time.  As  a  groan  sound¬ ed  within  the  box  the  silken  para¬ chutes  were  quickly  torn  aside  and  the (Continued  on  page  143)

CHAPTER  1.

BASKED  "WINDOWS

TT  HAD  been  a  glorious  day,  and 1  a  glorious  trip.  Bessie  Gillespie, ---  dipping  paddle  into  her  side  of the  well-loaded  canoe,  sighed  such  a sigh  of  repletion  and  contentment  that her  twin  brother  chuckled  softly  be¬ hind  her.

“Think  you’re  going  to  like  it, Bess?”  he  inquired,  his  gray  eyes darting  this  way  and  that,  as  the canoe  made  upstream  slowly.

“Oh,  Ewan,  it’s  wonderful!”  she breathed,  tossing  back  her  bobbed brown  head  to  inhale  the  sweet  fra¬ grance  of  the  summer  woods.

“You’re  dead  right,  it’s  wonder¬ ful,”  the  young  man  agreed.  “I ought  to  make  some  ripsnorting  can¬ vases  in  this  kind  of  primeval  atmos¬

phere.  Jove,  Bessie,  but  the  virgin forest  is  magnificent!”

The  girl  drew  in  her  breath  con¬ tentedly,  but  her  paddle  hesitated  a moment  over  the  sluggishly  moving stream  that  flowed  darkly  past  the sides  of  the  canoe  in  the  shadow  of the  trees,  letting  sparkling  drops flash  in  the  occasional  beams  of  light from  the  setting  sun,  as  it  shone  here and  there  through  thickly  interlaced branches.

“The  woods  are  getting  thicker, aren’t  they?  Do  you  think  we’ll  be able  to  find  the  cabin  before  dark?” die  asked,  a  bit  nervously,  as  her  hazel eyes  turned  from  one  darkling  shore to  the  other.  “It  would  be  rather — oh,  do  you  know,  I’d  somehow  hate to  he  out  hero  in  the  cper  after dark,”  she  admitted,  laughing  just  a bit  shamefacedly.

WEIRD  TALES

Ewan’s  indulgent  smile  patronized ail  weak  women,  as  he  pushed  his  pad¬ dle  briskly  into  the  black  waters  and sent  the  eanoe  spinning  ahead  under fresh  impetus.

“Right  you  are,  Bessie.  I  can’t say  I’d  enjoy  it  myself,  exactly.  It would  be  different  if  we  had  come prepared  for  out-of-door  camping. But  they  told  us  at  Amity  Dam  that we  would  reach  the  cabin  before nightfall.”

“Ewan!  Look!”

Bessie  had  turned  her  brown  head sharply  to  the  left,  and  now  raised her  paddle,  pointing  it  at  a  dark building  that  stood  half-hidden among  the  thick  trees,  although  at nearer  approach  a  wide  clearing  was visible  between  it  and  the  stream.

“By  Jove,  Bessie,  that  must  be  Dr. Armitage’s  place,  that  the  natives  told us  about!”  Ewan  held  his  paddle  in the  water  until  the  cance  swerved shoreward,  then  with  a  dexterous movement  sent  it  swiftly  to  the  bank. “No  matter  how  exclusive  the  man feels,  he  can’t  refuse  to  set  us  on  our way.  I’d  like  to  know,  at  least,  how much  farther  we’ve  got  to  travel  to¬ night  before  we  reach  our  own place.”

“It  ought  to  be  very  near  here,” Bessie  contributed,  holding  the  canoe steady  with  her  paddle  against  the gravelly  bottom  of  the  stream.

“■Well  ask.  Surely  this  strange recluse  can  not  refuse  to  give  a  civil answer  to  a  civil  question.”

Ewan  sprang  out  and  helped  his sister  to  the  shore,  drawing  the  canoe safely  up  on  the  strand.  Together brother  and  sister  walked  toward  the building  that  loomed  gloomily  out  of the  fast-thickening  dusk.

It  was  a  sizable  affair,  built  of  rus¬ tic  hewn  logs,  yet  with  a  certain  pre¬ tension  that  marked  it  as  the  prop¬ erty  of  a  more  or  less  well-to-do  man. There  was  a  garage,  also  of  rustic logs,  behind  the  house,  although  the roadway  must  have  been  so  primitive

as  to  be  hard  on  tires  and  body  paint. "What  particularly  interested  the  Gil¬ lespies,  as  they  approached  closely enough  to  see  die  building  more  dis¬ tinctly,  was  the  fact  that  every  win¬ dow,  upstairs  and  down,  was  pro¬ tected  with  iron  grating,  like  a  prison or  madhouse.  The  effect  on  the  spirits was  somehow  not  an  agreeable  one; the  inference  ha  drew  from  those iron  bars  made  even  Ewan  shudder, and  Bessie’s  smooth  brow  contracted

“Ewan!  I’m  afraid!”  All  at once  she  caught  at  her  brother’s  khaki sleeve,  her  hazel  eyes  wide  as  she stared  ahead.  “I — I’m  sure  I  saw somebody  peering  from  behind  that white  curtain  upstairs  in  the  room  to the  right.”

“Jove,  Bess,  don’t  be  a  goose! What  if  someone  is  looking  at  us? That  doesn't  mean  anything,  si3. They  would,  naturally,  you  know.”

“Oh,  it  isn’t  just  that.  It’s— it’s

something - .  Ewan,  let’s  go  back

to  the  canoe.  We— we  can  find  our own  ^ray,  dear,  without  asking  here. You  know — down  in  the  hamlet  they said  Dr.  Armitage  was — queer — and his  wife— maybe  not  quite— right.”

“Bessie,  get  hold  of  yourself.  The dusk  and  the  loneliness  are  taking  toll of  your  nerves,”  said  her  brother bruskly.  “I’m  going  to  have  a  look at  these  odd  Armitages.  From  what the  villagers  told  ns,  they  will  be  fair¬ ly  near  neighbors,  and  it’s  just  as well  to  get  on  good  terms  with  them in  the  beginning.  Corns  along,  little silly.”

Ewan  strode  up  the  steps  into  the wide  rustic  veranda  that  seemed to  run  entirely  around  the  lodge,  ap¬ proached  the  great  oaken  door,  and with  the  huge  knocker  of  weathered brass  he  Tapped  imperatively.

Silence.  Bessie,  close  behind  him, timid  hand  in  his  coat  pocket,  whis¬ pered  timorously.  “Ewan,  I  can  feel eyes  on  us.”

FETTERED


The  artist  tossed  his  rumpled brown  head  impatiently.

“Jove,  Bessie,  you’re  enough  to give  nerves  to  a  phiegmatie  cow!  Out. in  this  wilderness  people  don’t  open their  doors  readily  to  complete strangers.  Why - ”

He  stopped  abruptly,  for  at  that moment  footsteps  sounded  within  the lodge,  the  scraping  sound  came  as  of heavy  bars  being  moved  inside  the door,  and  a  moment  later  the  door itself  swung  slowly  open.

Bessie  shrank  behind  her  brother, wide  hazel  eyes  on  that  gradually widening  aperture,  and  a  terrified  ex¬ pectancy  of  3he  knew  not  what  to emerge  from  the  darkness.  Into  the doorway  stepped  a  man ;  erect,  robust, dark-haired  and  dark-eyed;  clothed io  more  or  less  sophisticated  tweeds that  proclaimed  their  made-to-order origin.  Right  hand  cupping  a  wellshaped  Vandyke  beard,  this  man glowered  with  heavy  gaze  upon brother  and  sister,  without  speaking.

Ewan  felt  suddenly  foolish  and small-boyish.  He  was  furiously  angry at  himself  for  this  susceptibility,  as well  as  at  this  strange  man  who  had power  to  impress  him  so  deeply.  He tried  to  he  easy  and  confident  in  hi3 speech,  but  spoke  stumblingly.

“We  are — ah — strangers — about here,”  he  began.

The  dark  eyes  burned  upon  him and  then  turned  with  no  movement  of the  man’s  head  to  rest  steadily  on Bessie’s  palpably  frightened  face.  A slight  softening  came  into  that  dark, heavy  scrutiny.

“It  is  plain  that  you  are  strangers, or  you  would  not  be  intruding  here,” said  the  man  clearly  and  distinctly. “Tell  me  your  needs  and  he  on  your way,”  ungraciously.  “This  section  is not  safe  after  sundown,”  he  added, in  the  manner  of  one  who  unwilling¬ ly  gives  an  explanation.

Bessie  shrank  behind  her  brother and  twitched  at  his  coat.  Ewan jerked  away  from  her  in  irritation.

“There’s  no  sense  in  being  rude. Dr.  Armitage,”  said  he,  then,  getting hold  of  himself  in  his  resentment  at ;he  other  man’s  inhospitable  attitude : “My  sister  and  I  are  looking  for  a small  log  cabin  which  must  he  some¬ where  near  by.  I  thought  you  could direct  us.  It  is  getting  night.

There  was  a  soft  movement  behind the  man  in  the  doorway,  and  the susuitus  of  a  woman’s  garments caught  Bessie’s  ear.  Staring  beyond him,  she  glimpsed  the  dimly  outlined form  of  another  human  being  in  the dim  interior  of  the  room.  A  woman  !

But - A  sudden  shiver  went  over

her  as  she  strained  to  see  more  clear¬ ly.  It  seemed  as  if  the  face  of  that woman  were  shimmering  with  phos¬ phorescence  in  the  darkness ;  and the  eyes  were  glowing  redly  as  if lighted  from  within  by  some  fearful evil  force.  Was  it  the  last  light  of the  sinking  sun,  reflected  from  the glowing  sky,  that  caused  this — illusion  ?

“Ewan!  We  don’t  want  to  trou¬ ble  Dr.  Armitag9,”  gasped  the  girl, all  at  once  trembling  sickly  with  a fear  of  she  knew  not  what.  “Let  us go  on.  A  night  in  the  open - ”

The  doctor’s  rich  voice  interrupted her.  His  burning  dark  eyes  were  on her  pale,  frightened  face  with  a  kind of  lofty  pity.

“You  will  not  have  to  spend  anight in  the  open,”  said  he,  rather  more gently.  “The  cabin  you  are  looking for  is  about  a  quarter  of  a  mile farther  upstream.  On  the  other  side of  the  brook,  thank  God!”  he  added strangely.

Ewan  turned  on  his  heel  without further  ado,  drawing  his  sister  after

“We  could  have  found  it  without troubling  our  agreeable  neighbor,”  he jerked  out,  angrily.  “I’m  sorry  we landed,  to  meet  snch  boorishness.”

“How  long  do  you  intend  to  stay out  here?”  suddenly  demanded  the


WEIRD  TALES

doctor,  advancing  beyond  his  thresh¬ old  as  he  spoke.

Behind  him  came  again  that  sug¬ gestive  rustling,  as  of  autumn  dry leaves,  stirred  by  some  creeping

“As  long  as  I  find  good  subjects for  my  brush,”  snapped  Ewan.

The  doctor  had  followed  brother and  sister  as  they  went  down  the rough  log  steps.  His  left  hand  went to  his  heart  rigidly,  and  with  clenched right  fist  he  smote  the  wooden  railing snch  a  blow  that  the  impact  must  have bruised  hid  hand,  which  he  now turned,  opened,  bent  his  gaze  upon  as if  half  dazed  by  the  pain.

“Ewan,  let  us  hurry!”  begged Bessie  in  a  tremulous,  low  whisper. “I  am  terribly  frightened.  He— he must  be  out  of  his  mind.”

“Right  you  are,  Bess,”  her  brother agreed.  “Evidently  the  Amity  Dam people  got  the  thing  mixed  up;  it isn’t  the  wife  who’s  insane,  hut  the husband.  Fine  neighbors  they’ll be,”  he  added  truculently,  as  he reached  the  canoe  and  held  it  for  Bes¬ sie  to  enter.

There  was  the  sound  of  voices ;  low, restrained,  but  coming  clearly  to  the ears  of  the  two  voyagers  as  they pushed  off  from  the  shore.  One  was a  woman’s  voice;  light,  lilting,  but pulsing  with  an  undertone  of  signifi¬ cance  that  came  ominously  to  Bessie, who  could  not  help  listening.

“Let  me  go.  Dale!  I— I  mean  to speak  to  our  new  neighbors,”  pleaded the  feminine  voice  wheedlingly.  “It is  not  nice  that  you  should  give  them such  a  poor  opinion  of  you.  After all,  we’ll  be  neighbors.”

The  doctor’s  voice,  heavy  also  with dark  meaning,  pounded  against  the

girl’s  ear-drums,  setting  her  to  shud¬ dering  involuntarily,  so  terribly  did the  hidden  import  of  his  words  affect

“Go  inside,  Gretel.  At  once!  You know  why  you  must.  .  .  Night  has

fallen ;  the  sun  set  but  just  now.  In¬ side,  I  toll  you!”

The  woman’s  voice,  raised,  resent¬ ful,  yet  shriily  sweet:  “Yes — it  is sunset — and  they  have  gone — and  I so  wanted - ”

“Yes,  I  think  I  understand,  but  I am  here  to  take  care  of  ju3t  that. Their  cabin,  Gretel,  is  on  the  other side  of  the  stream,”  said  the  man ’3 baritone  heavily,  “for  which  I  ren¬ der  thanks  to  your  Maker.”

“The  water — keeps  running — so fast !  It  draws  a  line  between  ns  and them,”  wailed  the  woman’s  voice, plaintively.

‘  ‘  Thank  God  for  that,  Gretel,  if  you eaa.  If  not  tonight,  yon  may,  to¬ morrow,”  stud  the  doctor’s  voice  fer¬ vently.  “And  now,  como  in,  I  tell yon,”  sternly-  “Come,  Gretel;  I insist.”

A  woman  ’s  sobs  eat  sharply  on  the still  night  air.  There  was  a  scuffing sound  as  of  a  struggle.  There  was an  outcry,  smothered  suddenly :  “No ! No,  Dale,  no  1  ”  Then  ths  heavy  thud of  the  great  oaken  door.  Silence. Silence  that  palpitated  with  the  men¬ ace  of  the  unknown.

“Ewan,  there’s  something  terribly strange  about  those  two!”  cried  Bes¬ sie,  pushing  her  paddle  agitatedly  into the  water.  “I  think  they’re  loth

“Nonsense,  sis!  It’s  the  man  who’s touched.  As  for  the  woman” — he hesitated— “she  has  my  deepest  sym¬ pathy.  Poor  thing,  all  alone  up  here in  these  woods,  cut  off  from  normal social  intercourse  with  other  human beings  1  Whatever  she  is,  I’m  sorry for  her.”

The  canoe  glided  along  in  the  dusk between  shadowy  shores  that  crowded dark  and  ominous  on  either  hand.

“I  don’t  know  whether  I  a g  to  like  this  or  n


ride  to  the  otter.  “I  feel  as  if  any minute  something  would  jump  out upon  us,  Ewan.  Oh,  what’s  that,  lyFETTERED


ing  across  the  water?”  and  she screamed  and  flung  herself  down  in the  canoe.

“Low  bridge!”  called  Ewan.

He  had  seen  it  more  clearly,  that great  log  that  ray  across  this  nar¬ rower  part  of  the  stream  from  shore to  snore,  forming  a  crude  bridge.  The canoe  shot  under  it  and  Ewan  slowed its  progress  to  look  about  him.

“Hand  me  that  electric  torch,  sis. Look!  There  is  our  cabin.  We’re nicely  in  time.  In  a  few  minutes we’ll  be  cozily  inside.  Bess,  so  cheer up,  girl.”

A  bit  back  from  the  shore,  with  a cleared  space  about  it,  stood  a  small log  cabin  that  to  Bessie  Gillespie’s eyes  looked  very  inviting  in  the  last palely  lingering  daylight.  With thankful  heart,  as  if  she  had  reached a  safe  refuge  from  some  vaguely threatening  evil,  she  helped  her brother  carry  their  belongings  from

But  even  after  he  had  long  been asleep,  comforted  by  the  hot  meal  she had  prepared,  Bessie  lay  sleepless, thinking  against  her  will  of  the  burn¬ ing  eyes  of  that  strange  physician; his  inhospitable  attitude;  his  unseen wife  who  had  so  longed,  in  vain,  to meet  her  new  neighbors.

As  for  Ewan,  his  smoldering  re¬ sentment  against  the  doctor  followed him  into  his  dreams,  for  he  tossed  and moaned  as  he  slept.  Once  he  cried aloud:  “Poor  little  thing— I  ’ll  help you!”  at  which  hi3  sister  shuddered in  the  night,  burdened  by  premoni¬ tions  that  weighed  heavily  upon  her usually  blithe  spirit.

CHAPTER  2

THE  NEWSPAPER  CLIPPING

It  was  well  after  10  o’clock  one morning  about  two  weeks  later when  Ewan  departed  to  complete  a painting  begun  several  days  before. Bessie  was  occupying  herself  as  usual, putting  the  cabin,  in  order  for  the

day.  The  impression  of  that  first evening  had  faded  somewhat  from  her mind ;  if  she  thought  of  it  mo¬ mentarily  now,  it  was  only  to  dismiss her  unreasoning  terror  of  that  night as  a  thing  bora  of  darkness  and  the chill  loneliness  of  unknown,  appar¬ ently  threatening  surroundings.

When  she  heard  a  masculine  step outside  the  window  to  which  she  was busily  tacking  mosquito  netting,  she did  not  lift  her  eyes,  and  was  corre¬ spondingly  startled  when  a  voice  not her  brother’s  addressed  her.

“Bitte,  Fraulein,”  murmured  a coolly  ironical  baritone.  “Ein Wort  alien.”

“Oh!”  cried  out  the  girl,  shrink¬ ing  back  from  the  window,  her thoughts  flashing  involuntarily  to  the fact  that  she  was  entirely  alone  in  the cabin  and  Ewan  beyond  hearing.

“Please!”  said  Dr.  Armitage,  ur¬ gently.  “Don’t  be  startled.  I  know you  are  thinking  that  your  brother couldn’t  hear  you  if  you  were  to  call him — but  you  won’t  have  to  call,  I assure  yon.”

Bessie  looked  at  him,  this  mindreader,  out  of  plucky  hazel  eyes,  but could  not  answer.  The  doctor  smiled. At  that  frank,  amused  smile  all  fright left  the  girl  at  once,  for  his  face  im¬ mediately  lost  its  forbidding  severity and  became  so  gentle,  so  appealing, so  boyish,  that  courage  flowed  warm¬ ly  back  to  her  heart  aud  brought  an answering  smile  to  her  own  lips.

“It’s  very  unfortunate,”  argued the  doctor  as  if  to  himself;  and  he stood  a  little  distance  from  the  win¬ dow  as  if  to  reassure  her;  “it’s  very unfortunate  that  the  other  night  you took ;  my  solicitude  for  sheer  rude-

“  Solicitude  t”  murmured  Bessie, with  ironical  emphasis.

Resentful  color  flowed  into  her brown  cheeks  so  that  they  glowed hotly.

"That  is  what  I  said.  Miss - i”

WEIRD  TALES

“Bessie  Gillespie,”  she  murmured unwillingly.

“From  some  remarks  dropped  the evening  you  called,  I  inferred  that the  amiable  inhabitants  of  Amity Dam  had  tcld  you  my  name  and  dis¬ graceful  reputation,”  drawled  the doctor,  his  heavy  dark  eyebrows slightly  lifted  as  if  in  lofty  amuse-

“If  you  treated  them  the  way  you did  my  brother  and  myself,  I  don’t wonder  that  their  opinion  of  you  isn’t very  good,”  Bessie  said.

“I  am  quite  aware,  Miss  Gillespie, that  I  did  not  appear  to  much  ad¬ vantage  that  night.  Take  into  con¬ sideration,  please,  that  I  came  out here  with  my — with  Mrs.  Armitage — in  order  to  keep  severely  away  from all  other  human  beings.”  His  voice was  stem,  his  face  grave.  “And then  all  at  once  you  two  appeared,  to tell  me  you  would  be  close  neigh¬ bors,  and  the — and  it  was  sunset,”  he added  abruptly.

Bessie’s  full  lips  compressed.  She did  not  speak.

“I  can  see  you  are  still  angry  with me,  Miss  Gillespie.  I’m  sorry.  But that  is  as  it  may  be.”  He  moved  one foot  uneasily,  tracing  aimless  figures on  the  sandy  path.  “I  would  be  glad, nevertheless,”  said  he  steadily,  with¬ out  looking  at  her  but  watching  the movements  of  his  foot,  “if  you  could think  more  kindly  of  your  neighbor, Miss  Gillespie.  Believe  me,  my  visit this  morning  is  a  reluctant  one,  but prompted  by  a  motive  entirely altruistic.”

“All  of  which  is  undoubtedly  very interesting,  Dr.  Armitage,”  the  girl retorted  coldly,  “but  I  have  much  to do  this  morning,  and  my  brother  will

be  returning  for  his  dinner,  and - ”

“And  you  have  no  time  to  waste  on a  rude,  uncouth  boor  like  Dale  Armi¬ tage!”  He  laughed  hardly.  “My misfortune!  From  your  standpoint you  are  entirely  blameless,  Miss  Gil¬

lespie.  Still — at  the  risk  of  seeming yet  more  rude  and  brutal,  I  must prosecute  my  errand  here,  for  it  is  a high  duty  laid  upon  me  not  by  my own  conscience  but  by  the  dictates  of a  yet  loftier  duty  toward  not  only  you and  your  brother,  but  all  mankind.”

Bessie  shrank  within  her  window, and  cast  a  fleeting  glance  toward  the cabin  door.  Thank  goodness,  Ewan had  closed  it  when  he  went  out.  If this  strangely  talking  man  made  a single  suspicious  move,  she  would  pull down  the  window,  and  run  to  throw the  fastening  bar  against  the  cabin door.  And  then  she  would  hunt  for Ewan’s  police  whistle.  Her  heart beat  quickly  with  agitation,  and  yet she  could  not  exactly  persuade  her¬ self  that  the  doctor  was  not  kindly in  his  intentions,  for  his  piercing dark  eyes  were  bent  upon  her  under their  heavy  brows  with  an  expression that  was  quite  gentle.  Indeed,  she thought  it  almost  pitying,  which  was surely  odder  yet.

“I  came  here  this  morning  to  talk with  you,  because  you  are  a  woman. A  woman’s  intuitions  are  finer  than  a man’s.  You  ought  to  feel  that  I  am in  earnest  when  I  tell  you  what  I have  come  to  say.  For  it  is  within your  power  to  persuade  your  brother to  leave  this  accursed  spot  at  once, never  to  return,”  he  finished solemnly.

Bessie’s  breath  came  faster.  She kept  her  eyes  upon  the  doctor’s  face, and  again  its  expression  struck  her  as being  pitying  to  a  degree  that weighed  her  down  strangely,  yet  made her  sense  his  sincerity  with  acute perception.

“I  want  to  warn  you  that  if  you and  your  brother  remain  here,  yon  are doing  so  at  the  risk  of  a  peril  to yourselves  of  so  frightful  a  nature that  it  would  be  impossible  for  me to  lay  sufficient  stress  upon  its  horror. Miss  Gillespie,  this  locality  is  not healthful  for  a  handsome  young  man.


Nor  for  a  charming  young  woman,” he  bowed  gravely.

Again  Bessie  sensed  intuitively  his honesty  of  intention,  and  could  not take  offense  at  the  implied  compli-

“So  far  I  have  seen  nothing  to  en¬ danger  either  :ny  brother’:’,  health  or my  own,”  she  argued.

“It  is  not  to  he  expected  that  you could,  so  soon, : '  replied  he.  “If  you knew  what  threatened  you,  it  would already  he  Loo  late,”  sadly.  “Oh, my  dear  young  lady,  believe  me  that I  am  very  much  in  earnest  when  I beg,  implore  you,  to  leave  this  place; if  possible,  today.  You  do  not  know, you  could  not  even  dream  in  your wildest  flights  of  imagination,  what danger  lies  in  wait  for  you  if  you remain.  Urge  your  brother  to  leave here  this  very  afternoon.  The  trip downstream  to  Amity  Dam  would  not take  you  as  long  as  coming  upstream ; you  would  get  there  before  dusk,  and be  among  human  beings - ”

“Dr.  Armitage,”  interrupted  the girl.  “Tell  me  something.  Is  Mrs. Armitage — insane?  I — I  thought  she was,  that  night.  She — looked  so

“So  you  saw  her?”  said  he,  slowly, appearing  strangely  moved  at  this  di¬ rect  inquiry.  He  flung  back  his  head, beating  the  palms  of  his  hands  to¬ gether  in  a  hasty,  unstudied  gesture of  desperation.  Then  he  turned  burn¬ ing  eyes  upon  the  girl.

“Would  —  her  insanity  —  distress yon  to  the  point  of  leaving  here?”  he evaded  cautiously.

She  shook  her  head  slowly.

“No.  But  I’d  like  to  know.”

“My  child,  she  is  not  insane.  I wish  to  God  it  were  that!”

Bessie’s  startled,  incredulous  ex¬ pression  made  him  add,  hastily:

“If  that  were  all,  it  would  be  noth¬ ing.  Comparatively  nothing.  And preferable,  God  knows,  to  what  she

“Then  she  isn’t  insane?”  persisted the  girl.

"Par,  far  worse,”  replied  the  doc¬ tor  cryptically,  sadly.

“But  if  she  isn’t  insane,  why  must you  shield  all  your  windows  with  iron bars?”  she  demanded.

“Ah,  the  reason  for  that  you  would not  believe,  even  if  I  were  to  tell yon,”  sighed  he,  heavily.  “Miss  Gil¬ lespie,  Mrs.  Armitage  herself  agreed to  those  bars  at  the  windows.”

“Then  it  is  something  from  with¬ out  that  you  fear!”  cried  the  girl  tri¬ umphantly.  “Well,  I  am  not  afraid of  anything  while  my  brother  is  here to  protect  me.  I  know  there  are  bears and  sometimes  wildcats  in  these woods.  I  don 't  go  far  from  the  cabin, and  Ewan  is  usually  within  call,  ”  she lied  steadily.  “And  I  don’t  intend to  take  him  away  from  his  painting. He  shall  not  be  cheated  out  of  this summer’s  work,”  defiantly.

“  Then  you  will  not  heed  my  warn¬ ing,  you  foolish  girl?”  exclaimed  the doctor,  with  angry  impatience  kin¬ dling  in  his  eyes.

“It  is  unnecessary  to  address  me in  that  impertinent  way,  Dr.  Armitage,”  the  girl  reminded  him  with proud  resentment.  ‘  ‘  I  am  not  a  baby. I  am  twenty-four  years  old.  I  see no  reason  why  you  should  not  treat me  with  respect.”

Her  caller  sighed  heavily,  impa¬ tiently.  He  took  the  Vandyke  beard in  his  right  hand  with  characteristic gesture  and  stood  gazing  upon  her — sorrowfully,  sho  told  herself  in  aston¬ ishment.

‘  ‘  Very  well,  young  lady.  Since  you refuse  to  save  yourself  by  discreet flight,  perhaps  you  will  listen  to  an¬ other  warning  of  a  yet  more  personal and  pointed  nature,  Miss  Gillespie,” with  emphasis  upon  her  name,  mock¬ ingly.

“I  would  prefer  you  to  leave  me alone!”  snapped  the  girl,  losing  pa¬ tience.  “I  have  no  time  to  dilly-dal¬ ly,  Dr.  Armitage.”


WEIKD  TALES

“Listen!”  eame  the  doctor’s  rich voice.  He  strode  to  the  window where  she  stood,  too  startled  to  re¬ treat  into  the  room.  “Under  no  cir¬ cumstances  invite  my — Mrs.  Armitage — across  your  threshold!  Do  you understand?  You  are  not  to  ask  her into  your  home.  Is  that  sufficiently clear?”  He  thrust  his  gloomy  face  at her,  his  black  eyes  snapping  danger-

“It  is  clear  that  you  are  not  only a  brute,  but  idiotically  jealous  into the  bargain,”  Bessie  declared,  strug¬ gling  to  maintain  an  outward  com¬ posure  she  was  far  from  feeling.

“Good  God!”  ejaculated  the  doc¬ tor  tensely,  raising  his  face  to  the noon-day  sky  as  if  in  desperation. “No  wonder  hell’s  inferno  can  be  es¬ tablished  easily  on  earth,  when  hu¬ man  beings  are  so  suspicious,  so  harsh in  their  judgments,  so  mistaken  in their  hasty  opinions!”

He  turned  again  to  the  girl.

“Very  well,  then,  stay !”  he  grated. “But  you  remain  in  these  woods  at your  peril.  Not  only  of  body,  little fool,  but  of  soul,”  he  finished  sternly.

His  sincerity  was  obvious.  Bessie began  trembling.  She  took  hold  of the  window  ledge  to  steady  herself. He  must  be  sincere,  to  dare  speak  to her  in  such  a  way.  (“Little  fool!” he  had  said.)

‘  ‘  I  believe  you  are  trying  to  tell  me something,  but  I  can’t  quite  under¬ stand,”  she  murmured,  moistening suddenly  dry  lips.  “I  wish — I  wish you  could  trust  me  enough  to  be frank,  Dr.  Armitage.”

Such  a  melting  look  altered  the  se¬ vere,  almost  grim  visage  of  the  doctor, that  Bessie  Gillespie  felt  the  choking of  powerful  emotion  in  her  throat  as if  in  answer  to  the  feeling  she  knew must  be  moving  her  visitor’s  heart.

“Child,”  said  the  doctor  very  soft¬ ly,  “if  I  could  tell  you,  I  would.  But this  is  a  thing  that  no  average  human being  can  credit  and  remain  sane. Unless— unless  there  is  a  more  than

human  courage  in  that  soul,  a  more than  ordinary  poise,  a  serenity, strong  faith  in  a  higher  power.  If  I could  only  believe  that  you  might trust  me,”  he  said  gently,  appealing¬ ly,  “it  would  be  a  most  beautiful thought  to  take  into  my  heart,  to  com¬ fort  me  in  my  black  hours.  If  you could  only  believe  me  sane,  poised, braced  to  do  a  duty  toward  mankind that  will  take  the  utmost  courage,  the utmost  strength,  of  which  I  am  capa¬ ble — God,  how  it  would  help  me !  ”

His  dark  eyes  held  hers.  She  could see  his  mouth  working  as  he  strove  to control  himself.  Sympathy,  pity  for something  she  sensed  in  him  but  could not  put  into  coherent  thought,  swept over  her.  She  slipped  one  brown hand  under  the  unfastened  mosquito netting  to  meet  his.  The  man  with¬ out  leaned  over  in  courtly  fashion.  At the  touch  of  his  reverent  lips  Bessie Gillespie  thrilled;  her  eyelids drooped;  her  breath  eame  quicker.

“I  thank  you  from  the  bottom  of my  heart.  Miss  Gillespie,  for  your  ex¬ pression  of  confidence.  If  it  is  God’s will,  the  truth  will  in  time  be  made clear  to  you,  but  believe  me  when  I say  that  I  hope  you  will  never  have to  hear  it!  That  is  the  kindest  thing I  can  wish  you.  God  keep  you  safe, nut-brown  maid!”

He  ttjened  away  and  walked  with great  strides  that  carried  him rapidly  to  the  roughly  hewn  log  that formed  communication  with  his  side of  the  stream.  Just  there  he  stopped, leaned  down,  and  picked  up  a  news¬ paper  which  must  have  been  dropped by  Ewan  the  preceding  evening,  when he  returned  from  a  trip  downstream to  Amity  Dam.  This  he  opened  with a  quick,  nervous  movement  and  began scanning  it  avidly.  All  at  once  he crumpled  it,  flinging  it  from  him  with a  gesture  of  horror.  He  stood  as  if frozen  to  the  spot,  staring  at  it  for several  terrible  seconds.  Then  he went  reluctantly  over,  picked  it  up

FETTERED

once  more,  smoothed  it  out,  and  be¬ gan  to  read  again.

Bessie  Gillespie  was  not  by  nature any  more  curious  than  others  of  her sex,  but  these  incomprehensible  ac¬ tions  almost  made  her  doubt  the  wis¬ dom  of  her  expression  of  confidence in  that  strange  and  mysterious  man. She  drew  away  from  the  window,  but not  so  far  back  that  she  could  not watch  his  further  actions.

Dr.  Armitage  tore  out  a  comer  of the  paper,  thrust  it  into  the  pocket of  his  tweed  jacket,  and  went  across the  log  bridge  with  steady  stride.  The girl’s  eyes  followed  him  curiously.  All at  once  she  saw  his  clenched  right hand  strike  the  left  paim;  his  dark head  go  back  with  a  startled  air.  Her eyes  went  beyond  him.

Ewan  was  walking  slowly  from  the woods  on  the  opposite  shore,  and  be¬ side  him,  her  lithe  figure  swaying  with alluring  grace,  moved  the  slight  form of  a  woman  dressed  in  a  pale  green sports  suit  banded  in  white.  The color  set  off  her  marvelous  blond beauty  delightfully.  Such  flaxen  hair as  shewed  in  escaping  tendrils  Bessie had  not  often  seen,  and  she  felt, rather  than  saw,  that  the  eyes  under the  brim  of  the  soft  felt  hat  that  this woman  wore  pulled  down  over  her forehead  would,  be  the  clear  blue  of an  April  sky.

It  was  this  unexpected  sight  that had  caused  Dr.  Armitage ’s  furious gesture,  and  he  now  quickened  his step  to  approach  the  strollers  the sooner.  Ewan’s  attention  was  di¬ verted  from  his  engrossing  and  fair companion  by  the  hurrying  footsteps, and  he  turned  his  head  to  see  the  doc¬ tor  advancing  rapidly  in  his  direc¬ tion.  Mrs.  Armitage  lifted  her  face, smiling,  to  Ewan,  and  then  turned  to her  husband  with  a  bored,  indifferent air,  as  he  went  directly  up  to  her, pulled  the  newspaper  clipping  from his  pocket,  and  thrust  it  under  her very  eyes  with  the  air  of  a  man  who has  reached  the  final  limit  of  patience.

His  furious  air  must  have  inflamed Ewan,  who  struck  at  that  hand,  so that  the  clipping  fluttered  to  the ground.  Bessie  could  hear  the  voices plainly  as  she  listened,  hidden  in  her window.

“A  gentleman  treats  even  his  wife with  soma  respect  in  the  presence  of strangers,”  Ewan  was  saying  icily,  in a  tone  that  his  sister  recognized  with apprehension  as  one  presaging  an  im¬ pending  outburst  of  passion  on  his

The  doctor  paid  no  attention  to  the young  artist,  but  addressed  himself entirely  to  Mrs.  Armitage,  with  the air  of  one  who  could  afford  to  slight lesser  matters  in  the  presence  of  those of  more  importance.

“Do  you  realize  what  you  have done,  you  fiend?”  he  demanded,  in  a voice  that  was  almost  a  shout.  “  Afterall  your  promises?  Do  you  know what  this  entails  upon  me  now?”

Mrs.  Armitage  shrugged  delicate shoulders  with  an  assumption  of  longsuffering  patience.  Her  eyes  were not  on  her  husband  when  she  finally deigned  to  address  him,  hut  ou  the

“My  dear  Dale,”  she  said  clearly, “you  are  beside  yourself.  Please  con¬ trol  your  temper.  There  is  a  third person  present.”

The  doctor  almost  choked.  He swallowed  convulsively,  hot  color  dye¬ ing  his  cheeks  darker  than  ever.  His burning  eyes  flashed  hotly.

“How  dared  you  disobey  me?”  he said  at  last,  finding  his  voice  thickly. “I  told  you  not  to  leave  the  lodge.

I  forbade  you  to  make  the  acquaint¬ ance  of  theee  innocent  people!”

“Don’t  shout  like  that!”  snapped the  artist,  thrusting  himself  between the  doctor  and  Mrs.  Armitage. “That’s  no  way  to  address  a  woman. Control  yourself!”

For  a  moment  it  seemed  as  if  the doctor  would  strike  him,  for  he  lifted one  clenched  fist  and  it  remained  for a  flashing  instant  level  with  his


WEIRD  TALES

shoulder;  then  went  down,  open.  The hand  seized  upon  the  wrist  of  Mrs. Armitage,  whom  her  husband  jerked with  almost  brutal  abruptness  toward the  lodge  road.

Ewan  ground  out  something  be¬ tween  his  teeth.  He  started  after

Mrs.  Armitage  turned  her  oval, charming  face  around  cautiously.  She looked  into  Ewan’s  enraged  eyes  for a  moment,  then  shook  her  head  with a  quick  little  movement  of  negation. But  her  blue  eyes  were  quite  pitiful.

“Are  you  coming,  Gretel!” growled  the  doctor,  pulling  her  to¬ ward  him.  “Don’t  presume  too  much on  my  indulgence!”

She  cast  a  languishing  and  mar¬ tyred  smile  toward  Ewan.

“Yes — I  am  coming.  Dale — you

hurt  me,”  she  complained.

“Not  as  much  as  you  have  hurt others,”  replied  the  doctor  sharply.

Ewan  remained  as  if  rooted  to  the spot,  his  eyes  fixed  on  the  retreating forms  until  they  disappeared  down the  bank  among  the  trees.  Then  he went  back  across  the  stream,  and flung  himself  into  a  chair  in  the  cabin, face  moody,  month  grim.

“You  must  be  careful.  Ewan,”  his sister  warned.  “Don’t  forget  that Mrs.  Armitage  is — is  queer,”  she  hesi¬ tated.  “She  may  even  be  dangerous at  times.”

"Dangerous!”  snorted  Ewan scornfully.  “That  little  delicate thing!  Don’t  be  a  goose,  Bessie.  She eonldn’t  hurt  a  fly,  poor  child.  And she’s  all  alone,  in  the  power  of  that jealous  brute!  It’s  abominable!”

“Well,  what  can  we  do  about  it, Ewan!  He’s  her  husband.”

“Poor  little  thing,  she  apologized to  me  so  prettily  for  the  beastly  way her  great  brute  of  a  husband  acted the  other  night.  She  felt  so  keenly his  total  lack  of  common  decency  to¬ ward  us.  She  told  me  he  is  fright¬ fully  jealous  of  her.  He  brought  her out  here  so  that  he  could  have  her

entirely  to  himself.  He  was  just furious,  that  first  night,  at  the  idea of  anyone  living  in  this  cabin,  so  near her;  man  or  woman,”  disgustedly.

Bessie  got  out  a  chopping  bowl  and knife  absently,  her  mind  busy  with the  conflicting  ideas  she  and  Ewan now  entertained  for  their  two  mys¬ terious  neighbors.  Ewan  rambled  on; occupied  with  his  sympathy  for Gretel  Armitage  and  his  resentment at  the  doctor’s  obviously  brutal  atti¬ tude  toward  such  a  frail  young creature.

Of  one  thing  Bessie  was  convinced : the  doctor  was  a  sincere  man  carry¬ ing  some  secret  burden  that  at  times almost  overwhelmed  him.  That  it had  to  do  wixh  his  wife,  she  under¬ stood.  He  had  called  Gretel  a  fiend. He  would  not  so  far  have  forgotten himself,  had  not  the  provocation  been

All  at  once:  “Ewan,”  said  Bessie shpply,  “go  across  the  bridge  and bring  me  that  scrap  of  paper  Dr. Armitage  tore  from  yesterday’s  news¬ paper,  will  you!”

CHAPTER  3

THE  KEY  TO  THE  LODGE

Ewan  brought  Bessie  the  clipping dropped  by  the  doctor,  but neither  brother  nor  sister  could  make anything  of  it  It  was  a  short  no¬ tice  of  a  funeral,  to  take  place  that afternoon,  of  a  child  of  seven  which had  died  of  pernicious  anemia.  What connection  could  there  be  between this  child  of  another  name,  and  the Armitages!  Yet  the  doctor  had

blamed  his  wife  for  something  con¬ nected  with  that  news  item,  had spoken  of  a  duty  imposed  upon  him because  of  it

In  a  vain  endeavor  to  account  for his  words,  his  anger,  his  seeming  bru¬ tality,  Bessie  had  turned  that  clipping upside  down,  around  and  around,  but all  her  euriosily  brought  her  was  part of  an  advertisement  for  facial  cream

FETTERED


on  the  reverse  of  the  notice,  and  a  bit of  political  speech  carried  over  from another  page  of  the  newspaper.  It was  a  hopeless  puzzle.  She  could  not reconcile  it  with  Dr.  Armitage’s pleading  that  she  believe  him  a  sane man  burdened  with  something  that would  test  tho  sanity  of  a  less  wellpoised  mentality.  Yet  in  spite  of herself,  whenever  she  thought  of  his smile  and  the  quivering  of  his  mobile lips  as  he  tried  to  thank  her  for  her intuitive  expression  of  trust,  she  could not  but  feel  him  well  worthy  her confidence.

Ewan,  with  sketching  block  and colors,  left  the  cabin  about  1  o’clock. He  wanted  to  catch  the  glinting  after¬ noon  sun  on  some  birches  ho  had found  in  a  lovely  group  on  the  bank of  the  stream  a  little  farther  up.

“If  that  crazy  fool  comes  blunder¬ ing  around  again,  Bessie,  have  the goodness  to  close  the  door  against him.  I  left  my  police  whistle  on  my dresser;  blow  it,  and  I’ll  be  here  on the.  double-quick.  He’s  a  big  chap, but  he’d  better  not  bother  my  twin sister,”  threatened  Ewan,  grimly

“I  don’t  think  he  will  come  again, Ewan,  ’  ’  the  girl  opined,  but  she  knew in  her  heart  that  her  words  were  inAs  promptly  as  if  he  had  been  on the  watch  for  her  brother’s  departure, the  robust  form  of  Dr.  Armitage  came over  the  log  bridge  a  few  minutes later.  The  sight  of  him  set  Bessie  to trembling,  for  in  spite  of  an  innate confidence  in  bis  sincerity,  her  re¬ membrance  of  his  almost  brutal  treat¬ ment  of  Lis  wife  troubled  her  and made  her  nervous.  She  wished  he  had not  come  back.  And  why  should  he come,  she  asked  herself?

He  walked  briskly  across  the  clear¬ ing,  directly  to  the  window  where  he had  talked  with,  her  before.

“Miss  Gillespie  t”  came  his  low, guarded  voice.  “Will  you  do  me  a great  favor,  please?  I  want  to  leave

a  key  with  yon,  in  case  of  any  emer¬ gency  down  at  the  lodge.”

Bessie  crossed  the  room  and  went to  the  door,  opening  it  wide  as  if  to reassure  herself  of  her  confidence  in her  intuitions.  At  this  action,  the doctor  turned  from  the  window.  He did  not  approach  her,  yet  Ms  smile, bent  on  her  with  warm  significance, bathed  the  girl  in  a  glow  of  approba¬ tion  that  somehow  made  her  feel strangely  happy.

“You  are  not  entirely  disgusted with  the  brute  that  I  seem  to  ap¬ pear?”  asked  Dr.  Armitage,  almost

“I  don’t  understand  how  you  can act  that  way  to  Mrs.  Armitage,”  the girl  said  abruptly.  “What  can  she have  done?”

“That  is  just  what  I  can  not  tell you,  you  see,”  responded  the  doctor, Ms  face  grave.  “It  was  something for  which  she  was  not,  in  a  finer  sense, responsible,  and  on  the  other  hand, she  was  entirely  at  fault.  It  was  a terrible  thing,  Miss  Gillespie;  so  ter¬ rible  that  for  the  moment,  when  I realized  the  extent  of  the  horror,  I was  too  overcome  by  my  emotion  to treat  her  as  a  roan  should  always treat  any  woman,”  he  deprecated.

Bessie  cogitated  for  a  moment.

1  ‘My  brother  brought  me  the  news¬ paper  clipping  that  you  tore  out  of that  journal,”  she  said  slowly.

“You  read  it,  then?  Ah,  but  you do  not  know  what  it  meant  to  me !  It meant  that  I  can  no  longer  trust  my — Mrs.  Armitage’s — word.  I — I  was foolish,  unwise  enough,  to  trust  her.

The  result  is -  God,  out  of  Your

infinite  mercy,  help  me  to  undo  what she  has  done!”  he  cried  out  passion¬ ately,  clenched  fists  raised  shaking  to the  sky.

“Still  I  do  not  understand,”  per¬ sisted  the  girL

Her  hazel  eyes  were  on  the  doetor’s  convulsed  face,  pity  in  their  ten¬ der  depths.  He  drew  a  long,  deep breath,  let  Ms  hands  drop  at  Ms  sides,


WEIRD  TALES

and  looked  almost  hungrily  into  that gentle,  compassionate  countenance.

“I  wonder  if  in  your  heart  you have  the  slightest  idea  of  what  your sympathy  means  to  me  in  the  fight  I am  waging  1  ”  he  asked  simply.  ‘  ‘  Un¬ til  now,  there  has  not  been  a  human being  in  whom  I  could  even  confide sufficiently  to  ask  them  to  trust  me,” complained  he,  with  a  contraction  of his  heavy  brows  as  if  in  mental  pain.

He  had  come  by  slow  steps  to  stand before  her  as  she  hesitated  in  the doorway.  Now  she  put  out  her  hands all  at  once,  pity  in  her  eyes,  that rested  on  his  face  with  gentle  femi¬ nine  solicitude.

“You  asked  if  I  would  do  you  a favor,”  she  reminded  him,  not  at  once withdrawing  her  hands,  which  he  had taken  in  his  with  the  incredulous  air of  a  man  who  beholds  the  unfolding of  a  miracle.

He  let  her  fingers  slip  from  his  re¬ luctantly,  dived  into  his  pocket,  and brought  out  a  key  which  he  extended with  hesitation.

“It  is  the  key  to  the  only  usable door  at  the  lodge,”  he  explained. “The  other  is  screwed  into  its  place.”

“Then  your  wife  has  gone?”  asked

“Mrs.  Armitage  is  at  the  lodge,” replied  he  unwillingly.

Bessie  looked  at  the  key,  then  np  at him;  puzzled.

“Why  do  you  bring  me  the  key, when  Mrs.  Armitage  is  there?”  she asked,  slightly  troubled.

“Because,”  replied  he  steadily, “Mrs.  Armitage  is  locked  into  the lodge,  and  the  windows  have  been purposely  barred  to  prevent  her  from emerging.”

At  the  girl’s  persistent  gaze,  ask¬ ing  questions  that  she  could  not  well put  into  words,  he  went  on:  “Mrs. Armitage  herself  has  agreed  to  being locked  in.  But  she  is  afraid  that  a fire  or  a  severe  storm  might  create  a situation,  where  she - ”

“Oh,  I  see,”  hurriedly  interpo¬

lated  the  girL  “You  will  be  away over  night,  and  she  wishes  someone to  have  the  key,  so  that  she  can  be — can  be  let  out — in  case  of  an  emer¬ gency?”

“I  shall  be  away  until  tomorrow night,”  the  doctor  told  her.  “I  have a  sad  and  terrible  errand  to  do;  a fearful  hut  imperative  duty  to  per¬ form,  God  helping  me.  I  hope  to return  for  the  key  tomorrow  evening, Miss  Gillespie,  and  I  shall  be  grateful if  you  will  keep  an  eye  on  the  lodge when  you  can.”

“Of  course,”  agreed  the  girl  im¬ pulsively.  “Ought  I” — she  hesitated — -“ought  I  to  run  over  and  call  on Mrs.  Armitage,  so  that  she  won’t  be lonesome  while  you’re  away?”

He  turned  his  dark  eyes  on  her, something  like  horror  gathering  in them  until  they  shone  darkly  like mysterious  forest  pools.  His  face froze  into  a  tragic  mask  of  terrible significance.

“Under  no  circumstances  must  you cross  that  threshold,  or  ask  her  to cross  yours,”  he  said  strainedly,  his

Bessie’s  astonished  face,  turned  to his  in  incredulous  amazement  at  such a  warning  to  one  of  his  wife’s  sex, prompted  him  to  more  explicit  speech. His  expression  grew  lighter  as  his somber  eyes  rested  on  the  girl’s  gen-

“You  are  ignorant  of  what  she  is. If  ever  she  accepted  your  hospitality, you  would  rue  it  to  your  dying  day. And  after,”  he  added,  darkly;  “and

Bessie  smiled.  (When  she  thought — afterward — that  she  had  smiled, sick  shudders  raced  each  other  up  and down  her  spinal  column.)

The  doctor  laid  the  key  in  her hand.

“One  more  thing,  Miss  Gillespie. Please  do  not,  unless  there  should happen  to  he  a  fire  at  the  lodge,  give this  key  to  your  brother.”

She  looked  at  him  thoughtfully,

FETTERED

consideringly.  A  smile,  half  wistful, came  over  has  face.

“I  hope  you  are  not  thinking  me jealous, ”  ho  said.  “I’m  not.  No  mat¬ ter  what  you  may  think,  I’m  not  jeal¬ ous  of — Gretel  Annitage.  If — if  she were  hot  what  she  is — I  would  let  her divorce  me  and  seek  her  happiness elsewhere,  but — as  matters  stand — it is  better  for  her  and  for  the  world,” he  breathed  mysteriously,  “that  she remain  Mrs.  Annitage.”  with  an  in¬ tonation  of  irony.  “You  will  keep this  key  yourself?  You  promise?"

Bessie  nodded  affirmatively.

“I  thank  you.  You  can  not  know bow  much  your  kindness  moans  to  me. In  ease  of  an  emergency — give  your brother  the  key,”  said  the  doctor,  all at  once  becoming  hard  of  voice  and manner.

‘  ‘  Why  should  not  I - '?”  began

the  girl,  when  ho  stopped  her.

“Because  I  do  not  wish  to  have  you exposed  to  an  infection  that  is  so  ut¬ terly  horrible  that  you  could  not  un¬ derstand  it — or  believe — even  if  I were  to  tell  you  of  its  danger,"  said he,  sternly.

“Yet  you  would  expose  my  broth¬ er!”  charged  the  girl,  hotly.

“Because  he  is  a  man,  and  because a  man  must  always  ri3k  something where  a  woman  is  concerned.  Also— but  I  can  not  tell  you  now.  How chained  I  am!  How  hopelessly  fet¬ tered!  Later,  when  I  return,  I  may tell  you  something  of  this  plague  that heaven  has  seen  fit  to  release  upon  the world,  and  that  I — I,  only  I — am  in a  position  to  cheek.  Bound  by  duty!”

He  turned  abruptly  and  went  over the  clearing  again,  across  the  log bridge,  bis  bearing  royal.  Bessie Gillespie  put  one  hand  over  her  heart to  check  its  beating.  She  found  her¬ self  pressing  to  her  warm  brown cheek  the  key  with  which  this  strange man  had  entrusted  her,  and  began  to sob  softly  in  terror  at  her  own  emo¬ tions  and  the  consequences  they  might bring  in  their  train.

There  was  something  strangely sweet  in  his  confidence,  yet  the  surety weighed  down  Bessie’s  spirits  that somehow  she  and  this  man  were  not to  remain  strangers:  that  their  lives were  subtly  interlaced  by  the  in¬ scrutable  decrees  of  fate.

CHAPTER  4

THE  COMING  OF  GRETEL

Ewan  brought  in  a  half-dozen  extra armfuls  of  wood  for  the  cookstove,  while  Bessie  was  getting  supper that  night.

“It’s  going  to  storm  hard,”  he  told her,  dumping  an  armful  of  split  wood on  the  floor  by  the  stove.  “The  wind i3  rising  every  minute,  and  the  sky gets  blacker  and  blacker.  There ought  to  be  a  full  moon  tonight,  but there’s  no  hope  of  it  with  these  clouds. Nice  to  be  cozy  in  here!”

Bessie,  feeling  under  more  than ordinary  tension,  walked  to  the  door and  looked  out,  for  the  dozenth  time. The  burden  of  the  charge  laid  upon her  by  the  absent  doctor  wore  heavily on  her  mind.  She  feared  a  storm. What  if  lightning  struek  the  lodge? She  would  have  to  give  Ewan  the  key, and  he  would  release  tlie  blond  Gretel and  bring  her  to  the  cabin.  The  doc¬ tor  had  expressly  forbidden  this,  for some  inscrutable  reason  of  his  own. which  she  felt,  nevertheless,  must  be  a good  one,  such  was  the  confidence  that mysterious  man  had  aroused  in  her.

“You  won’t  go  out  and  leave  me alone,  Ewan?”  she  begged  her  broth¬ er  nervously.

The  artist  looked  at  her  curiously, as  he  straightened  up  from  deposit¬ ing  another  armful  of  wood  on  the floor.

“Not  getting  nerves,  Bessie,  are you?  I  never  knew  you  to  be  as  fussy as  you’ve  beeu  since  we  got  here.  If you  keep  it  up,  I  can’t  stand  it;  we’ll have  to  go  back,  ”  he  growled,  half  in earnest,  half  in  jest.

Bessie  stood  against  the  door-frame,

WEIRD  TALES

staring  out  at  the  darkening  sky. There  had  been  a  gorgeous  sunset, presaging  fair  weather,  yet  fast  upon it  had  been  the  rising  pile,  the  fastscudding  black  clouds,  and  now  the ever-increasing  murmur  of  the  onrushing  storm  that  swung  and swayed  the  branches  of  the  near-by trees  until  it  seemed  in  the  dusk  that they  were  stretching  out  giant  hands to  seize  any  blundering  intruders  and wreak  vengeance  upon  them.  The girl  shrank  back  inside  the  doorway as  an  especially  severe  gust  of  wind caught  at  her  apron,  whisking  it  away from  khaki  outing  knickers  with  un¬ respectful  fingers.  It  eaught,  too,  at the  door,  slamming  it  back  against  the cabin  wall.

“Jove,  Bess!  Dead  right,  it’s  go¬ ing  to  be  a  heavy  storm.  No,  sis,  I shan’t  leave  you.  Nobody  could  tease me  out  into  such  a  tempest.”

Ewan  flung  down  another  armful of  wood.

“We’d  better  close  up  windows  and bar  the  door.  Ewan,  if — if  lightning struck  the  lodge — would  you — would you  feel  you  had  to  help — them 1”

Ewan  secured  the  shaking  door with  the  wooden  bar  against  the  in¬ creasing  tempest.

“Why  should  I,  when  her  hus¬ band’s  there?”  he  growled.  “We’ve no  call  to  butt  in.  Unless,”  and  his sturdy  young  body  stiffened  involun¬ tarily,  “unless  that  poor  girl  were alone,  and  we  knew  it.”

“You’d  go,  then?”

“Naturally,  Bess.”

“Suppose  —  suppose  she  is  — alone?”  faltered  Bess,  her  fingers  go¬ ing  into  her  apron  pocket,  where  it seemed  to  her  that  the  lodge  key  was actually  burning.

“If  I  thought  Gretel  Armitage were  alone,”  responded  Ewan  sharp¬ ly,  “I  wouldn’t  wait  for  the  lodge  to be  struck  by  lightning,  sis.  Fancy that  poor  girl,  in  that  jail  of  a  place, with  this  thunder  crashing  and  the

lightning  flashing,  and  all  hell  break¬ ing  loose!  Like - ”

Bessie  screamed ;  loudly,  shrilly.  A crash  of  thunder  shook  the  little  cabin with  its  detonations,  coming  simul¬ taneously  with  a  long,  vivid  flash  of yellow  lightning  that  paled  into  noth¬ ingness  the  dim  light  of  the  oil-lamp on  the  table.  It  was  as  if  Ewan  had conjured  up  that  terrible  response  to his  imaginings.

Before  she  could  recover  from  the shock,  Bessie  found  herself  looking into  her  brother’s  almost  frantic  eyes, his  hands  imprisoning  her  wrists tightly.  His  voice  was- shouting  furi¬ ously  into  her  terrified  ears,  above  the roaring  and  crashing  of  the  storm. Never  before  had  she  seen  him  in  such a  condition  of  passion  as  he  exhibited at  that  moment.  To  complete  her  dis¬ comfiture,  the  skies  seemed  to  open, and  the  pouring  torrents  that  de¬ scended  in  white  sheets  beat  upon  the roof  and  battered  at  the  walls  of  the little  cabin,  until  it  seemed  that  only such  shouts  could  have  been  heard; as  if  a  shout  could  be  the  only  normal mode  of  communication  in  that  bed¬ lam  of  maddened  nature.

“Bessie,  that  madman’s  been  here again!  Don’t  deny  it!  You’ve  been talking  with  him!  Is  she — i3  Mrs. Armitage — alone  down  there?  Has he  gone  away  and  left  her  all  alone, in  that  hideous  loneliness?  Answer

‘  ‘  Ewan !  You  ’re  hurting  me !  ”  she cried  back,  trying  to  twist  her  aching wrists  from  his  frenzied  grasp.  “Let go  my  hands!  If  I  talked  with  him, it  was  my  own  affair.  Let  me  go!”

She  writhed  away  from  him,  crying out  again  in  affright  as  another  ter¬ rific  crash  of  thunder  with  its  accom¬ panying  burst  of  blinding  brilliancy thundered  down  the  forest  ways, shaking  the  eabin  until  it  seemed  that it  would  be  moved  from  its  founda-

“He  told  you  he’d  be  away?  Is she  alone  there?  Oh,  Bessie,  don’t  be

FETTERED


so  stupid,  for  God’s  sake!  Think  of that  poor  thing,  all  alone  in  this frightful  storm !  It ’s  inhuman !  ’  ’

Bessie  jerked  her  hands  from Ewan’s  grasp  at  last.  She  twitched away  from  him.  As  she  moved,  he caught  at  her  apron,  and  the  thin strings  loosened  at  his  pull.  The apron  siipped  away.  From  the  pocket slid  the  key,  falling  upon  the  floor with  a  metallic  jingle  that  Bessie’s oversensitive  ears  heard  even  above the  roaring  of  the  tempest.

Ewan  saw  it  fall.  He  sprang  for¬ ward:  had  it  in  his  fingers  in  a  mo¬ ment  ;  turned  it  over  and  over.  Then his  eyes  sought  his  sister’s,  accusing, scornful.

“This  key  doesn’t  belong  here,  Bes¬ sie.  It’s  the  key  to  the  lodge,  isn’t it?  So  this  is  the  reason  why  you

storm  and  leave  you!  A  woman’s heart!  Can  a  man  ever  understand why  a  sister  should  be  jealous  of  an¬ other  woman  1  ’  ’  Then  he  stopped  and for  a  moment  stood  alert.  “Listen  to that  wind!’’

To  Bessie  it  seemed  a  mad  howl  of malignant  triumph  that  came  down the  forest  ways  as  Ewan  seized  upon the  lodge  key.  She  sprang  to  his

“Ewan!  He  left  it  with  me  in case  of  an  emergency,”  she  began.

“We!!,  what  d’yon  call  this?”  in¬ quired  Ewan  as  he  tore  down  his  oil¬ cloth  slicker  and  buckled  a  rain-hat over  his  dark  hair.  “Tea  party?” sarcastically.

“You’re  not  going  out  in  this frightful  storm?”

“Jove,  Bessie,  what’s  gotten  into yon?  If  you  were  normal  you’d realize  there’s  nothing  else  for  me  to do.  Be  human,  my  dear  girl.  There’s another  girl,  all  alone  if  I’m  to  be¬ lieve  what  you’ve  let  me  infer,  in  a gTeat  jail  of  a  house,  probably  fright¬ ened  into  spasms  by  this  storm,” sternly,  “and  you  try  to  persuade  me to  leave  her  there  alone.”

“Don’t  go,  Ewan!”

Almost  beside  herself,  Bessie  stood in  her  brother’s  path  and  laid  ap¬ pealing  hands  on  his  shoulders.

“I’m  afraid,  Ewan!  Why  should you  leave  me  here  alone,  when  I ’m  so frightened,  and  go  off  to  comfort  a stranger?  Ewan!”

Ewan  shook  off  her  hands  disgust¬ edly.

“ Buck  up,  Bessie.  If  I’d  dreamed that  you’d  he  acting  like  this,  I’d have  come  out  here  alone,”  he  told her  scornfully.  ‘  ‘  Better  put  cn  some coffee  and  get  out  some  of  your  extra clothes,  for  we  may  he  drenched  when we  get  back,”  he  finished  prosaically.

The  sister  stood  straight,  regard¬ ing  him  from  wide  hazel  eyes.  She was  remembering  with  painful  dis¬ tinctness  Dr.  Armitage’s  strange warning :  “Do  not  let  her  cross  y  our threshold !  ’  ’

“You  don’t  intend  to  bring  her here?”  she  protested,  weakly.

“How  can  I  stay  there,  when  her husband’s  away,  Bessie,  and  he  such a  confounded  jealous  brute  ?  Use your  head,  my  dear.  Here  she’ll  he with  another  woman.”

Ewan  unbarred  the  door.  When he  lifted  the  latch,  the  storm  twitched it  out  of  his  hand  and  the  door  swung back  as  if  opened  by  unseen  spirits of  the  night,  abroad  in  terrible  po¬ tency,  and  expecting  him.

“Bar  it  behind  me,  Bessie.  And don’t  open  until  I  get  back.”

Ewan  was  almost  blown  across  the clearing.  A  vivid  flash  of  light¬ ning  showed  him  on  the  log  bridge, the  electric  torch  in  his  hand  dulled into  insignificance  under  that  brilliant blaze  from  the  open  heavens.  Bessie pushed  the  door  to  with  main strength,  barred  it,  and  then  sank breathless  into  a  chair,  far  more alarmed  than  she  dared  admit  to herself.

Ewan  had  gone  to  bring  Mrs.  Armitage  to  the  little  cabin,  and  it  was

42  WEIRD

this  very  thing  the  doctor  had  warned her  against.  “Do  not  ask  her  into the  cabin.  Do  not  invite  her  across your  threshold,”  he  had  said.  In  her heart  Bessie  was  sure  that  Dale  Armitage  had  some  sound  reason  for  this warning  command ;  that  much  her  in¬ tuition  told  her.  And  now  Ewan  had taken  the  key,  and  had  gone  to  bring Gretel  Armitage  into  this  place  where her  husband  had  distinctly  said  she must  under  no  circumstances  be brought.

Trembling  now  and  then,  as  an especially  fierce  gust  of  wind  swept the  clearing,  making  the  little  cabin shake  ominously  as  if  about  to  take leave  of  its  foundations,  the  girl finally  got  up  and  put  on  coffee.  Then she  looked  over  her  scanty  collection of  sports  clothes,  selecting  a  pair  of tweed  knickers  and  a  flannel  shirt. Then  she  sat  down  again  near  the fire,  actually  appreciating  it,  even  on that  summer  night,  for  the  chill  in  the air  was  as  sharp  as  it  was  untimely.

Such  turmoil  and  unrest  was  with¬ in  her  as  she  had  never  experienced before.  It  was  an  expectancy  of  some¬ thing  strange,  something  unwelcome, that  she  felt  coming  to  a  head.  She could  not  help  connecting  it  with  that glimpse  she  had  h3d  of  Gretel  Armi¬ tage  on  that  night  of  arrival  in  the woods,  from  the  depths  of  the  dark room  behind  the  doctor,  when  the  set¬ ting  sun  had  shone  redly  in  Gretel ’s eyes,  and  her  white  face  had  glim¬ mered  with  unhealthy  pallor  through the  darkness.  That  it  was  the  reflec¬ tion  of  the  sun  Bessie  had  long  since persuaded  herself ;  any  other  thought would  have  been  nnwelcome,  impossi¬ ble.  Yet  the  hare  idea  that  Gretel Armitage  was  coming  into  the  snug little  cabin,  Gretel  with  he*-  gleaming eyes,  her  vivid  red  Kps,  troubled  the girl  excessively.  She  told  ,*erself  in vain  that  it  was  the  impression  she had  received  from  the  doctor’s  warn¬ ing;  Gretel ’s  strange,  enigmatical smile  recurred  to  her  again  and  again;

TALES

she  told  herself  uneasily  that  she  had no  real  reason  to  distrust  Mrs.  Armi¬ tage— unless  it  were  the  doctor’s warning,  and  it  would  be  unfair  to  be prejudiced  to  that  extent.

The  coffee  sent  up  foaming  bubbles of  fragrance.  Bessie  rose  and  pushed it  back  on  the  stove.

Outride,  the  tempest  still  roared, but  the  thunder  seemed  to  have  spent its  force;  there  were  only  distant rumbles  now  and  then,  and  only  occa¬ sional  flashes  of  lightning.  When  the girl  felt  it  must  be  about  time  for  her brother  to  return,  she  pushed  aside the  rough  burlap  curtain  that shielded  the  window  giving  on  the clearing  and  the  log  bridge,  and  drew up  a  chair,  to  watch  for  the  dancing light  of  his  electric  torch.

There  came  a  terrific  rumble,  like the  threatening  mutter  of  a  subdued but  angry  giant,  and  in  tho  blazing light  of  the  simultaneous  flash  Bessie saw  a  clumsy  and  misshapen  creature staggering  across  the  log  bridge,  lean¬ ing  against  the  wind  as  it  picked  its way  slowly.  The  girl  was  on  her  feet, one  hand  against  her  thumping  heart, the  other  to  the  lips  that  writhed  in vain  endeavor  to  stifle  the  outcry  that forced  its  way  between  them;  Her face  went  closer  to  the  pane  as  she

Another  flash  of  lightning  and  a low  rumble.

Oh,  it  was  Ewan !  And  in  his  arms

he  was  carrying - !  It  must  he  the

doctor’s  wife  whom  he  held  so  ten¬ derly.  Hot  indignation  flamed  up  in Bessie’s  simple  heart.  That  woman

In  another  moment  Ewan  was pounding  on  the  door.

“Bessie!  Open!  We’re  drenched! Open,  Bessie!”

Bessie  flew  to  the  door  and  raised the  bar-  From  without,  Ewan impatiently  pushed  up  the  latch,  and the  door,  urged  by  the  wind,  swung back,  framing  hrm  with  his  shrink43

ing  companion  in  the  doorway-  against the  night’s  pitchy  darkness.  In  that passing  moment  Bessie’s  soul  appre¬ hended  such  a  crowding  evil  as  sent her  forward,  palms  outstretched,  a cry  choking  into  silence  on  her  Ups.

Gretel  Armitage,  seeing  no  ready welcome  from  that  unwilling  hostess, took  one  faltering  step,  and  then  sank slowly  downward  as  if  fainting.

Ewan,  flashing  a  furious  glance  at his  sister,  sprang  to  Gretel ’s  assist¬ ance.  He  caught  the  limp  form  in his  arms,  and  with  the  doctor’s  wife against  his  breast  he  crossed  the cabin  threshold  and  bore  his  drooping, lovely  burden  to  a  chair,  where  he  let her  down  carefully.

Bessie  pushed  the  door  to,  but  it seemed  to  her  that  all  the  hideous medley  of  that  night  's  terrific  tumult had  in  some  subtle  wise  entered  the cabin  with  Gretel  Armitage,  for  the wind  died  down ;  the  clouds  scudding across  the  sky  began  to  show  glimpses of  light  from  the  hitherto  hidden  full moon;  and  the  final  clap  of  thunder that  had  announced,  as  it  were,  the arrival  of  the  unbidden  guest,  seemed to  have  been  the  final  effort  of  the storm  as  it  retreated  behind  the mountain  peaks  above  the  valley.

“Got  some  dry  clothes  for  her,  Bes¬ sie?”  the  artist  asked.  Ho  was  lean¬ ing  over  Gretel,  chafing  her  hands  so¬ licitously,  his  manner  anxious  and disturbed.  “She’U  need  them,  I’m

“You  are  drenched,  Ewan.  She isn’t,”  retorted  his  sister,  whose  keen eyes  had  noted  that  Ewan’s  oilskin had  been  wrapped  about  Gretel,  leav¬ ing  him  unprotected  against  the storm’s  onslaughts.

“Oh,  I  can  change  later,”  Ewan said  indifferently.  “  Coffee  smells fine.  We  can  all  do  with  some  coffee, I  guess.  She’s  a  trump,  but  she  was about  half  dead  with  terror,  all  alone in  that  weird  old  place,  and  this frightful  storm  shouting  ewtl  beating at  her  windows,”  he  added,  yearn¬

ingly,  as  he  watched  the  trembling  of her  eyelids.  “Poor  girl!  Be  gentle with  her,  Bessie.”

Bessie’s  mouth  drew  into  a straighter  line  than  ever  it  had  before in  her  life.  Privately,  she  thought that,  the  doctor’s  wife  was  in  no  need of  her  gentle  ministrations.

“If  you'll  get  into  your  own  room, I’ll  see  to  her,”  she  snapped,  putting out  cups  and  saucers.

Ewan  rambled  on.

“Poor  little  thing!  Until  we  got to  the  stream,  she  managed  to  strug¬ gle  along  with  my  help,  hut  at  the bridge  she  simply  collapsed.  She couldn ’t  have  made  it  across  that  nar¬ row  log,  so  I  pieked  her  np  and  car¬ ried  her.  And  at  that,  she  was  so weak  she  fainted,  as  you  saw.”

The  doctor’s  wife  moaned.

“How  the  water  runs!  So  black — so  swift !  It  blocks  my  way !  ’  ’

Sbe  lifted  her  flaxen  head  heavily. Her  blue  eyes  opened  with  sluggish languor.

“Oh,  my  kind  knight  and  resEwan,  self-conscious  color  flinging signals  of  betrayal  in  his  cheeks,  let her  hands  drop.

“Peeling  all  right?”  he  asked  ten¬ derly.  "I’ll  clear  out,  so  my  sister can  get  you  into  some  dry  togs.”

He  slipped  out  of  sight  into  the small  room  adjoining.

Gretel  watched  his  going  from  un¬ der  half-lowered  lids,  white,  blueveined,  languid.  Then  she  lifted  them alertly,  almost  hardly,  to  meet  Bes¬ sie’s  suspicious  and  resentful  hazel eyes.  An  amnsed,  superior  smile wreathed  her  vivid  scarlet  lips.  She lowered  the  white  lids  then  over  her eyes,  as  if  to  conceal  discreet  amuse¬ ment  at  her  situation.

“If  you  want  to  take  off  your dress,  Mrs.  Armitage,  and  put  on these  knickers  and  this  shirt,”  Bessie began,  with  that  chill  cordiality women  know  so  well  how  to  use  in dissembling  inward  dislike,  think


WEIRD  TALES

you  ’ll  lie  more  comfortable.  The  cof¬ fee  is  ready  for  you.”

Gretel  did  not  trouble  to  reply.  She stood  up  and  loosened  the  oilskin coat,  throwing  it  to  one  side.  Under¬ neath,  Bessie  saw  plainly,  the  other woman  was  perfectly  dry.  Gretel ’s clinging  silken  sheath  of  shimmering green  certainly  became  her  dazzling fairness,  and  die  looked  with  a  mock¬ ing  little  smile  at  the  plain  and  sim¬ ple  garments  her  hostess  had  brought her.

"Thanks,”  said  she  briefly.  “I really  don ’t  need  a  change.  I ’m  per¬ fectly  dry,  thanks  to  your  brother’s care  of  me.  And  your  things  would hardly  be  my  style.  Hiss  Gillespie,” she  murmured  sweetly.

Without  a  word,  Bessie  picked  up the  rejected  garments  and  put  them back  on  their  hooks  behind  a  cretonne curtain  at  the  back  of  the  room.

Mrs.  Armitage,  indifferent  to  her hostess’  presence,  turned  to  the  door of  Ewan’s  room,  something  subtly triumphant  emanating  from  her  as she  stood  there,  beautiful,  alluring.

"You  may  come  out  now,  Ewan!” she  called.

The  artist  opened  the  door  and emerged  from  his  retirement.

“But  you  haven’t  changed!”  he cried  out,  as  she  moved  sinuously  to¬ ward  him,  her  green  silks  shimmering about  her  lithe  form.

"My  dress  wasn’t  at  all  wet,  thank you.  And  it  suits  me  better  than Miss  Gillespie’s  things,”  said  the  doc¬ tor’s  wife.

There  was  that  sharp  interchange of  glances  between  the  two  women that  betrayed  to  both  simultaneously their  harbored,  mutual  dislike.

Bessie  poured  off  the  coffee  in

"Oh,  Ewan,  I  am  so  glad  you brought  me  here !  I  should  have  died of  fright  in  that  great,  dark,  creepy house  t  How  the  thunder  crashed ! And  that  fearful  lightning!  It  was terrible!”

Bessie  received  the  impression  that Gretel  was  quietly  laughing  within herself,  and  that  the  doctor’s  wife was  not  at  all  afraid  of  the  storm.

"My  husband  will  be  very  angry with  me,”  Gretel  murmured,  then, appealing  with  her  soft  blue  eyes  to Ewan.  “Dare  I  tell  him  how  you carried  me  across  the  stream?”  she half  whispered.

“I  had  to  carry  her,  she  was  so terrified  and  so  weak,”  Ewan  said  to his  sister,  still  proud  of  his  exploit.

“Over  that  dark,  swift-running water,”  murmured  Gretel  dreamily. “And  then” — closing  her  eyes  in voluptuous  pleasure,  her  white  palms upturned  on  her  knees, — “and  then

“And  then,”  Ewan  took  up  her words  in  vaunting  manner,  “I brought  you  to  my  door  in  my  arms. And  you  fainted  on  the  doorstep, and  I  brought  you  inside.”

“Across  the  stream!  And  over your  threshold!  Ewan!”  Gretel drawled,  languidly.  And  then  she laughed  a  high,  shrill  laugh,  that  she checked  suddenly.

A  violent  spasm  of  shuddering seized  upon  Bessie.

“That  was  just  what  the  doctor said  must  not  occur,”  she  said  clear¬ ly.  “You  should  not  have  come  out tonight,  Mrs.  Armitage.  I  am  sure he  will  be  displeased.  You  were  per¬ fectly  safe  at  home,”  added  the  girl resentfully.

Gretel  turned  her  inscrutable  face upon  the  girl.

“Some  day,”  promised  she,  slow¬ ly,  “you’ll  be  glad  that  I  came.  Some day  you’ll  let  me  kiss  you,”  she  said, with  some  terrible,  dark  menace  in  her light  words.  "Oh,  you  shan’t  push me  off  as  you  have  done  tonight,  Miss Gillespie!”

“Bessie!”  rebuked  the  artist,  in  a swift  undertone.  “I  asked  you  to  be kind  to  her!”

Mrs.  Armitage  spoke  up  quickly.

“My  husband  has  prejudiced  your

FETTERED


sister  against  me,  Ewan,  bnt  that won’t  be  for  long.  She  will  be among  my  closest  friends,  before much  time  passes,”  she  prophesied, her  blue  eyes  full  upon  Bessie  with strangely  vindictive  light  blazing  in them,  unseen  by  the  artist.

The  promise,  that  sounded  kindly, fell  upon  Bessie’s  ears  like  the  knell Of  hope.  She  shuddered.

‘‘So  my  husband  said  unkind things  to  you  behind  my  back,  Miss Gillespie  1  ’  ’

Gretel’s  shoulders  twitched  with inward  mirth.  “How  stupid  men — some  men.  Ewan — can  be !  ”  she  flung at  the  artist,  with  a  bewitching  smile.

.  “Well,  tonight  we  are  free  of Dale’s  lowering  presence,”  she  cried lightly.  “Let  ns  enjoy  these  precious moments  of  freedom!  Let  us  forget that  he  always  comes — when  I  do  not want  him,”  she  finished,  sullenly.

Ewan  'vent,  to  her  side  aa  if  drawn irresistibly.

CHAPTER  5

“YOU  SHALL  ALL  BE  MINE  I”

“TNox’t  sit  np,  dear  Miss  Gilles-

•»—'  pie.  I  can  see  you’re  sleepy,” murmured  the  smiling  Gretel  point¬ edly,  noting  that  Bessie  had  stifled an  involuntary  yawn  more  than  onee. “I  shall  do  very  nicely  with  your brother  for  company,  and  you  can shut  yourself  into  his  room  where  our talking  won’t  bother  you.”

“Most  sensible  thing  yon  can  do, Bess,”  drawled  the  artist.

“That  coffee  was  too  strong,”  com¬ plained  the  doctor’s  wife,  with  a charming  little  pout.  “I  know  I shan’t  sleep  all  night.  No,  Ewan,  you must  not  drink  more  or  you  will  stay awake,  too,  and  yon  must  have  sleep, after  carrying  me  so  far,  poor  tired

Bessie  rose  reluctantly,  at  her brother’s  impatient  signal,  for  all  that she  was  heavy-eyed  with  sleep.  As she  turned  in  the  doorway,  she  heard

Gretel’s  dulcet  tones,  and  saw  Gretel’s hand  on  Ewan’s.

“No,  Ewan,  you  are  all  tired  out, battling  the  storm  and  bringing  me in  your  strong  arms.  You  shall  deep, tired  boy,  with  your  head  in  Gretel’s lap,  and  Gretel  shall  watch  over  you, so  proudly.  And  perhaps  you  will dream,  ”  went  on  the  insinuating  voice in  a  penetrating  whisper.  ‘  ‘  Dream — Ewan — beautiful,  strange  dreams!”

“IT1  sit  at  your  feet,  lovely  lady.” came  Ewan’s  slow,  drowsy  voice. “Bessie,  throw  me  one  of  those  extra blankets,  like  a  good  girl.  And — Gretel — if  you  should  touch  my  hair with  your  satin  fingers  now  and  then — ah,  how  I  should  sleep!”

Bessio  complied  uneasily  with  her brother’s  request,  but  she  did  not  lie down  on  the  cot  in  the  inner  room. She  drew  the  door  to,  then  sat  on  the edge  of  the  cot  and  let  her  disturbed thoughts  ramble  unchecked.  So  Ewan and  the  doctor’s  wife  were  already friendly  enough  to  call  each  other  by first  names.  .  .  What  would  the  doc¬ tor  say,  when  he  came  and  learned what  had  happened?  Bessie  felt,  in  a sense,  responsible,  yet  knew  that  Dale Armitage  would  not,  could  not,  blame her  when  he  learned  everything.

“Sleep,  tired  boy,  sleep!”  came  the crooning  voice  from  the  next  room, with  smooth,  hypnotic  suggestion. ‘  ‘  Sleep — sleep — sleep !  Dear  boy — tired  boy — sleep — sleep!”

Bessie’s  straining  ears  could  dis¬ tinguish  the  heavy,  unnatural  breath¬ ing  of  the  young  artist  as  he  sank  into obedience  to  those  whispered  words.

A  long  silence,  broken  only  by  those repeated  words,  “Sleep — sleep,”  and then  Mrs.  Armitage ’s  voice,  raised  a little,  called  in  an  undertone:  “Miss Gillespie  I  Are  yon  awake?”

Bessie  held  her  breath  while  flash¬ ing  surmises  and  suspicions  raced across  her  mental  vision.  Some  pow¬ erful  inhibition,  as  of  a  warning,  fell upon  her  and  she  held  her  peace,  feel¬ ing  that  her  guest  in  the  next  room


WEIRD

was  listening  with  bated  breath  for the  calm,  even  breathing  that  would indicate  that  she  slept.  Again  came the  call.

“Ewan  is  sleeping,  with  his  head on  my  knees.  I  am  simply  perishing for  a  drink  of  water,  but  I  dislike  to rouse  him.  Will  you  bring  me  a  glass, please?”

“She  does  not  want  water,” thought  Bessie  to  herself.  “She  only wishes  to  discover  if  I  am  sleeping  or awake.  I  shall  not  speak.  Let  her believe  me  asleep.  Then  I  shall  find out  why  she  wishes  to  be  alone,  com¬ pletely  alone,  with  Ewan.”

A  deep,  patient  sigh  from  without apprized  Bessie  that  Gretel  was  uti¬ lizing  her  final  weapon;  attempting to  rouse  her  to  a  feeling  of  pity.  She maintained  her  stoical  silence.  And then,  such  a  quiet  fell  upon  the  little cabin  as  she  had  never  before  experi¬ enced.  It  was  a  stillness  full  of  men¬ ace;  a  silence  alive  with  intuitive warnings  of  such  a  nature  that  she could  not  puzzle  out  their  hidden meanings,  but  sat  on  the  edge  of Ewan’s  cot,  shaking  with  nervous chills  and  struggling  almost  in  vain to  control  herself  against  the  threat of  that  dread  quiet,  that  to  her  soul

The  night  had  grown  still,  also.  The storm  had  long  since  died  away;  not even  a  distant  rumbling  disturbed  the serenity  of  the  summer  silence.  To Bessie,  sitting  with  straining  ears  and alert  consciousness,  it  seemed  that  if only  a  cricket  could  have  chirped  or a  bird  called,  that  silence  would  have been  less  ominous.  For  the  darkness was  full  of — things.  They  seemed actual  entities,  those  hovering,  grop¬ ing,  crawling  things  that  were  the vilely  evil  thoughts  of  someone.  They crowded  all  about  her.  She  huddled back  against  the  wall,  cheeks blanched,  hazel  eyes  staring  open  in the  opaque  darkness,  her  breath  con¬ trolled  softly  so  as  not  to  attract  their attention  unduly.  God,  how  terrible

TALES

must  be  someone’s  thoughts,  to  clog the  very  atmosphere  with  that  potent, evil  influence!

At  last  she  could  bear  it  no  longer. Something  drove  her  to  her  feet,  with infinite  precautions  against  disturbing the  sleeper — or  sleepers — in  the  ad¬ joining  room.  She  tiptoed  across  the rough  board  floor  and  drew  the  door toward  her  until  the  opening  widened and  she  could  look  out  into  the  other room.  At  what  she  saw,  the  outraged blood  leaped  into  her  brown  cheeks. Her  eyes  flashed  with  mingled  scorn and  indignation.

Gretel  abmitage  had  loosened  her abundance  of  flaxen  hair  so  that it  hung  like  a  misty  cloud  about  the young  artist,  whose  head  lay  on  her knees.  She  was  bending  over  him closely,  her  face  against  his — Bessie was  sure — behind  that  voluptuous veil  of  pale,  rippling  fairness.

“Mrs.  Armitage!”  cried  out  the girl  sharply.

Gretel  lifted  her  head  with  a  jerk, somehow  awful  in  its  automaton-like stiffness,  until  the  long,  pale  locks whipped  across  Ewan’s  calm  face  like writhing  serpents.  She  swept  one hand  upward  and  drew  the  back  of  it across  her  lips,  that  looked  more  bril¬ liantly  red  than  ever  in  the  shaded light  of  the  kerosene  lamp.  The  ges¬ ture  was  for  all  the  world  like  that of  the  thwarted  small  boy  caught  at his  mother’s  jam-jars,  as  he  wipes  off on  his  sleeve  the  evidence  of  his  guilt. But  her  eyes,  as  she  raised  them  flash¬ ing  upon  the  startled  and  shrinking girl  in  the  doorway,  were  not  the sheepish,  ingenuous  eyes  of  a  small boy;  they  were  the  bitterly  hard, shrewd  eyes  of  one  very  old  in  the  evil experiences  of  life.  Moreover,  they held  within  thoir  flaming  depths — re¬ flected  perhaps  from  the  kerosene lamp  upon  the  table — the  same  angry red  which  Bessie  had  seen  that  first night  in  the  living  room  at  the  doc¬ tor’s  lodge,  a  warning  and  a  menace.

FETTERED


Gretel’s  parted  lips  curled  back against  her  flashing  white  teeth,  that clamped  together  with  a  clicking sound  as  of  anger,  but  did  not  speak. To  Bessie  there  was  something  worse than  speech  in  the  other  woman’s contemptuous  silence.  There  was something  about  the  writhing  crimson lips,  the  wrinkling  aquiline  nose,  the redly  flaring  eyes,  that  was  infinitely harder  to  bear  unmoved  than  would have  been  any  sarcastio  or  harsh words  spoken  in  that  moment  of  de¬ tection.

The  tension  of  that  silence  was broken  by  the  young  man,  who  gave a  long,  quivering  sigh  in  his  sleep. The  effect  upon  the  two  women  was entirely  different.  Mrs.  Armitage drooped  over  the  sleeper  with  a  deep sound  in  her  throat,  almost  like  a snarl,  and  cast  her  arms  about  and over  the  young  man’s  unconscious head  like  a  dog  that  covers  a  choice bone  to  keep  it  from  some  other canine  rival.  Bessie  Gillespie  threw her  brown  bobbed  head  back  and  drew in  a  long  breath  as  if  to  reanimate the  shattered  remnants  of  her  linger¬ ing  courage.  She  walked  across  the floor  to  the  huddled  pair  and  took  her brother  by  the  shoulder,  loosening and^pushing  back  Gretel’s  reluctant

At  the  rough  but  effective  shaking she  administered,  Ewan  sat  up dreamily,  eyes  still  befogged  with sleep,  and  put  one  hand  to  his  throat, which  he  began  to  stroke,  a  puzzled expression  on  his  face.  Then  realiza¬ tion  came  to  him,  and  the  blood  dark¬ ened  his  face  and  neck  warmly. Shamefaced,  he  sprang  to  his  feet.

“Jove!  I’d  no  intention  to  be  so rude!  I  must  have  fallen  asleep.  Mrs. Armitage,  I  beg  ten  thousand  par¬ dons,”  he  exclaimed,  “for  it  was  in¬ sufferable  of  me.  Bessie,  how  could you  let  me  do  such  a  thing?”

“It  was  not  her  fault — Mr.  Gilles¬ pie,”  said  the  doctor’s  wife  pointed¬ ly,  her  hands  writhing  in  her  lap  like

uneasy  serpents  disappointed  of  their prey.  “You  were  tired,  and  I — I really  ^wanted  you  to  sleep,  poor

She  spoke  now  like  a  hurt,  rebuked child,  half  drowsily,  but  her  flushed face  and  lively  eyes  belied  her  words. A  new  force  seemed  to  emanate  from her.  It  was  as  if  she  had  drawn,  in the  silent  watches  of  the  night,  upon some  secret  source  of  nourishment.

“I  think  I’d  better  go  back  to  the lodge,”  she  continued,  after  a  mo¬ ment,  with  a  covert  glanee  at  Bessie’s still,  white  face.  “You — you  will  es¬ cort  me,  won’t  you,  Ewan?  I’m afraid  to  try  crossing  the  bridge ;  that log  is  so  narrow - ”

Bessie  spoke  up  plainly,  her  femi¬ nine  feelings  stirred  by  Mrs.  Armi¬ tage ’s  assumption  of  ownership  in

“I  won’t  stay  here  alone.  Ewan,” said  she  firmly;  “If  you  must  walk back  with  Mrs.  Armitage  before  day¬ light,  I’ll  go  along,  too.”

Ewan  glanced  at  the  window.  The morning  gray  was  beginning  to  turn the  darkness  into  shapeless  shadows.

“It’s  morning  already,”  said  he. “You  shouldn’t  be  afraid  in  daylight, Bessie.  Lovely  lady,  will  you  have some  coffee  before  we  go?”

Mrs.  Armitage  shook  her  head slowly,  her  flaxen  hair  undulating  like pale  serpents  agleam  in  the  lamp¬ light.

“Thank  you,  no,  Ewan.  I’ve  had - ”  She  broke  off  as  if  in  confu¬ sion,  her  eyes  turning  under  their  pale lids  from  Ewan  to  Bessie.

Something  tugged  at  Bessie’s  intui¬ tion  sharply.  It  was  as  if  she  were trying  to  bring  back  an  old  memory that  kept  elusively  just  around  the comer  from  her.  She  maintained  her steady  gaze,  and  had  satisfaction  in seeing  the  pale  blue  eyes  with  thenruby  glints  lower  under  her  fixed,  ac¬ cusing  eyes.

Gretel  was  replacing  her  hair  in its  usual  coils.


WEIRD  TALES

“The  pins  hurt  my  head,  and  it’s  so heavy,  I  let  it  down,”  she  deprecated, feeling  Bessie’s  eyes  upon  her.

Bessie  did  not  answer,  hut  she brought  a  Navaho  blanket  for  her guest  to  wrap  about  herself  on  the walk  back  to  the  lodge.

“You  insist  upon  going?”  asked Ewan  in  a  displeased  tone,  as  he  saw his  sister  taking  her  heavy  coat  from its  hook.  “It  isn’t  at  all  necessary, Bess,”  he  added  with  emphasis.

“I  told  you  I  wouldn’t  stay  here alone,”  retorted  the  girl,  decidedly.

Mrs.  Armitage  flung  her  hostess  a keen  look  from  under  those  modestly lowered  lashes,  then,  thrusting  one hand  through  Ewan’s  crooked  elbow, set  off  ahead  with  her  escort,  leaving Bessie  to  stumble  along  as  best  she might,  behind  them.

Arrived  at  the  lodge,  Gretel  un¬ locked  the  door  and  turned  to the  approaching  girl.

‘  ‘  It  appeal's  that  my  husband  oddly enough  left  the  key  with  you,  a  com¬ plete  stranger.  Miss  Gillespie.  But he’s  always  doing  queer  things.  Do you  wish  to  lock  me  in  now?  So that  you  can  go  away  with  the  key  to my  freedom  in  your  apron  pocket?” She  laughed  low,  bitterly.

“I  don’t  want  the  key,  Mrs.  Armi¬ tage.  I  would  not  have  taken  it  at all  had  not  your  husband  represented that  you  chose  to  be  locked  in,  and wished  someone  to  have  it  in  case  of an  emergency.  You  are  looking  at the  whole  situation  in  the  wrong  light. When  he  returns,  I  shall  explain  how it  happened  that  you  came  across  the stream,  into  our  cabin,”  she  finished, “for  that  was  what  he  told  me  must not  happen.”

“Shall  you  tell  my  husband,”  she cried  tauntingly,  "how  your  dear brother  carried  me  in  his  arms, against  his  heart?  Over  the  stream? Into  his  home  ?  How  he  slept  all

night  with  his  head  on  my  lap?  I think  not,  Miss  Gillespie.”

The  doctor’s  wife  langhed  with mocking  intonation.

“Shall  I  make  Ewan  stay  here  with me?  Or  do  you  want  him  to  go  home with  you?  Which  will  look  better  in my  husband’s  eyes?”  she  said.  “Ewan will  stay  with  me,  if  I  ask  him. Ewan?”  caressingly.

Like  a  man  half  dazed,  uncertain of  himself,  the  young  artist  took  a hesitating  step  in  Gretel’s  direction. Bessie  uttered  a  little  choking  cry. She  wound  her  fingers  into  his  cuff and  held  tightly.

“That  wouldn’t  help  yon,  my  dear girl,”  Mrs.  Armitage  observed  indul¬ gently,  her  amused  glance  taking  in the  girl’s  action.  “He  would  always come  to  me  when  I  called  him.  Al¬ ways.  Nobody  can  stop  him — now — for  he  is  mine,”  she  asserted,  mali¬ cious  laughter  in  her  voice.

“Dr.  Armitage  could  keep  him from  following  you,”  asserted  Bes¬ sie,  courageously.  “He  can  hold  you in  check,  Mrs.  Armitage.”

Her  rosy  cheeks  suddenly  mist-pale, Mrs.  Armitage  darted  from  the  door¬ way.  She  thrust  her  face  close  to  the other  girl’s,  her  pale  eyes  glinting redly.

“What  has  he  told  you?”  she  whis¬ pered  with  fierce  eagerness.  “Oh,  I shall  punish  him  for  betraying  me  to you,  you  brown  thing!  He  makes everybody  fear  me,  with  his  lies!”

She  eaught  herself,  walked  back  to the  door,  took  out  the  key  and  in¬ serted  it  on  the  inside.

“WeD,  it  appears  that  you  and Dale  have  found  something  to  dislike in  eommon,”  she  slurred  bitterly. “And  that  something  is  Dale’s  wife. Well,  my  dear,  tell  him  what  you please.  I  don’t  know,  and  I  don’t care,  how  you  will  account  for  the key’s  being  in  my  hands.  But  don’t talk  too  much,  Kttfe  fool,  or  I  shall (Continued  on  page  144)

AS  THE  little  trading  schooner A\  drew  nearer  the  shadowy fringes  of  the  island,  the  talk on  deck  fell  to  silence.  The  tropic beauty  of  Papua  was  strangely  re¬ pellent.  Willoughby,  who  had  im¬ pulsively  answered  the  offer  of  Pro¬ fessor  Denham  to  spend  a  year  or so  helping  the  scientist  in  his  investi¬ gation  in  deep  sea  lore  off  these  shores at  a  salary  of  three  thousand  dollars a  year,  rather  regretted  his  acceptle  felt  as  if  m

of  miasmic  jungle  swamps  breathed poison  in  the  perfume-laden  off-shore wind.  It  was  like  the  breath  of  a black  panther.  He  took  Professor Denham’s  letter  from  his  pocket  and read  it  again.

Five  years  before,  Willoughby  had been  a  student  under  Professor  Den¬ ham  in  the  University  of  California, and  had  gained  a  name  for  himself  as

a  football  star.  He  had  regretted  the circumstances  which  prompted  Pro¬ fessor  Denham  to  resign  the  chair  of science  under  the  storm  of  ridicule and  protest  resulting  when  a  news¬ paper  featured  the  scientist’s  asser¬ tion  that  sea-serpents  really  existed. The  article  was  illustrated  by  a  car¬ toon  of  Professor  Denham  and  Chueng flhing,  a  Chinese  student  who  was his  especial  protege  and  devoted  to Denham,  in  the  coils  of  a  serpent labeled  “Public  Opinion,”  depicting the  agony  of  the  Laocoon.  There  was the  account  of  class  experiments  in transplanting  the  brain  of  one  rat  to the  head  of  another,  and  of  the  prac¬ tical  joke  perpetrated  by  a  student assistant  in  substituting  the  brain  of a  female  rat  for  that  of  a  male,  which led  to  riotous  speculation  on  the  cam¬ pus  as  to  the  outcome  of  the  experi49


WEIBD  TALES

Willoughby  had  been  sorry  for  Pro¬ fessor  Denham.  It  was,  however,  the three  thousand  dollars  salary  that  de¬ cided  him  to  accept  Denham’s  offer and  take  the  next  steamer  from  San Francisco  east,  re-embarking  on  a trading  schooner  for  Papua,  and  Den¬ ham  was  to  send  a  boat  to  take  him to  his  own  habitation.

The  letter,  which  he  re-read  within sight  of  landing,  had  emphasized  the necessity  of  “a  strong  fearless  man, without  nerves.”  Willoughby  inter¬ preted  the  phrase  with  a  new  mean¬ ing,  now  that  he  recognized  the  re¬ pellent  fascination  of  Papua.

He  had  no  sooner  stepped  ashore than  a  Chinese  in  oil-stained  dun¬ garees  approached  him  and  spoke:

“You  allee  samee  Mista  Will 'bee, you  come  ’long  my  boat.”

He  had  scant  time  to  bid  farewell to  his  acquaintances  of  the  trading vessel  when  he  was  led  to  a  launch lying  on  water  so  clear  that  she seemed  to  be  floating  on  air.  Her propeller  churned  foam  and  she  ca¬ reened  a  little  as  they  rounded  the point;  then  for  hours  the  launch raced  along  the  coast,  where  jungles brooded  and  river  mouths  showed  no banks,  but  only  trees  rooted  in swamp.  Fighting  a  loneliness  he could  not  analyze.  Willoughby watched  sea  gardens  beneath  and tried  to  reason  away  a  lowering  de¬ pression.  The  Chinese  ignored  his tentative  approaches  to  conversation by  unbroken  and  stoical  silence.

In  the  late  afternoon,  with  her  en¬ gines  slowed  to  half-speed,  the  launch entered  a  lagoon,  where  echoes  of  her pulsations  disturbed  boobies  on  the wreck  of  an  old  ship  pronged  on  coral spurs.  The  lagoon  water  held  gaudy little  fish  scattering  like  sparks  be¬ tween  skeleton-white  roots  of  drowned trees.  Sea  life  had  made  the  wreck its  prey.  White  decay  crept  up  her sides  and  she  was  rooted  to  abysmal depths  by  weed.  A  small  wharf sagged  under  forest  creepers  with

tendrils  trailing  in  the  sea.  The planks  creaked  alarmingly  as  Wil¬ loughby  trod  them  following  the  boat¬ man,  and  met  the  shrill  hum  of  in¬ sects.  The  heat  was  like  a  furnace blast.  He  was  aware  of  a  throb  like tic-douloureux  pulsing  incessantly,  as if  on  distant  hills  the  heat  had  a

What  had  once  been  a  path  lead¬ ing  from  the  wharf  was  now  over¬ grown.  The  Chinese,  lathered  with sweat,  slashed  with  a  knife  at  trailing vines.  Orchids  quivered  like  flames. The  incessant  hum  of  insects  rose  in loud  crescendo,  hut  as  they  prog¬ ressed  the  trail  became  less  confused with  looped  lianas.  Sunlight  filtered through  branches  overhead.  And  ever nearer  came  that  slow  beat  of  sound, touching  nerve  centers  as  insistently as  the  insect  humming  irritated  the ear-drums.

Then  the  jungle  was  ended  and Willoughby  saw  a  bamboo  palisade enclosing  ground  that  had  once  been cleared  and  under  cultivation ;  yet  the jungle,  beaten  back,  had  swarmed again,  choking  the  garden,  creeping over  the  palisade  and  the  crushed coral  walk  which  led  to  a  substantial dwelling  with  nipa-thatched  roof  and a  vine-covered  pergola  leading  to shore  rocks  which  rose  abruptly  at one  side.  It  was  then  that  Willough¬ by  understood  that  diapason  of sound,  the  shock  of  outer  seas  break¬ ing  in  subterranean  caverns.

The  Chinese  who  had  guided  him did  not  enter  the  gate,  but  darted beside  the  palisade.  Willoughby heard  no  sign  of  human  presence save  the  “shir-rr”  of  his  boot-soles  on the  coral.  Then  a  Chinese  wearing the  white  ducks  of  a  house-boy  ap¬ peared  in  a  doorway  cut  through  lux¬ uriant  bougainvillea  vines  purple with  bloom.  He  stood  staring  at  Wil¬ loughby,  with  his  hands  twisting  to¬ gether.  For  a  moment  Willoughby felt  again  that  sense  of  helplessness

LAOCOON


bred  by  the  jungle,  the  fear  of  en¬ croaching  death.

“Tell  your  boss-man  that  Wil¬ loughby  is  here,”  he  said.

He  followed  the  Chinese  into  the house.  The  large  living  room  was shaded  and  cool.  Chinese  matting covered  the  floor.  Sea-grass  chairs offered  ease.  There  were  wall  cases filled  with  labeled  specimens  of  sea denizens,  a  table  holding  a  typewriter and  note-book  and  some  loose  pages of  script.  The  house  was  clean  and orderly,  yet  he  still  felt  as  if  the  jun¬ gle  lay  too  close  for  safety.

“Boss-man,  he  come  bimeby,”  ven¬ tured  the  Chinese  plaintively.

“Where’s  Chueng  Ching?”  Wil¬ loughby  knew  the  Chinese  student had  accompanied  Denham  to  his  re¬ treat  and,  it  was  rumored,  provided funds  for  the  scientist.

“Him  gone  long  time.  I  not  know much.”  The  reply  brought  a  grimace from  the  house-boy,  as  of  apprehen-

“You  got  one  piecee  ship,  I  go  out longside,”  he  added  plaintively,  then darted  back  at  the  sound  of  steps,  as Professor  Denham  entered.

Willoughby  wa3  shocked  at  the change  in  him.  Denham’s  skin  seemed stretched  over  his  bones,  his  eyes shone  like  those  of  a  madman,  the hand  extended  to  Willoughby  felt cold  and  lifeless  as  that  of  a  corpse in  spite  of  tropic  heat.

“Glad  you  arrived,  Willoughby,” he  said.  “You’ve  come  too  late  to see  Chueng  Ching  today,  but  he’ll  be here  tomorrow.  We  11  eat,  then  you can  rest.  You’ll  excuse  me  if  I  write a  few  notes  right  away.  I’ve  just come  from  Chueng  Ching  and  I  must get  them  down  at  once.”

Willoughby  was  a  little  surprized, but  he  followed  the  house-boy  to  a room  with  a  bed  screened  by  netting, took  off  his  shoes,  collar  and  coat  and dropped  on  the  cotton  covering  and dozed.  He  was  wakened  by  the  clink of  dishes.  In  the  living  room  a  table

was  set  for  two,  but  Denham  did  not

The  house-boy  hovered  near,  serv¬ ing  Willoughby  eagerly,  and  when the  coffee  was  brought  voiced  again his  wistful  plea,  “You  got  one  piecee ship,  I  go  out  ’longside.”

He  seemed  to  hang  on  Willoughby’s answer.  Plainly  the  Chinese  was  in the  grip  of  fear,  and  the  white  man remembered  again  the  encroaching jungle  and  the  derelict  rooted  to  sea gardens.  He  wished  Denham  would return,  and  went  on  the  porch  to  look for  his  host.  He  did  not  mind  the lack  of  courtesy,  but  the  silence  and oppression  were  affecting  his  nerves. Tropic  night  had  fallen,  the  mos¬ quitoes  were  vicious.  Beyond  the murmur  of  sea  caverns  he  heard  noth¬ ing,  and  returned  to  the  house,  to  look at  the  specimens  in  wall  cases,  then to  reach  the  typewriter  stand  where he  glanced  at  a  sheet  still  in  the  car¬ rier.  Without  consciousness  of  read¬ ing  something  not  intended  for  him, Willoughby  glanced  at  the  typing  in view:

“There  is  now  no  doubt  but  the physical  coarseness  of  the  beast  has absorbed  the  fine  mentality  of  Chueng Ching.  I  fed  him  double  the  usual amount  of  chicken  yesterday,  and  he was  in  a  fine  rage  for  more.  His roarings  are  bestial.  The  pool  was lashed  to  foam  by  his  fury.  And  I am  assured  that  his  rage  was  direct¬ ed  toward  me,  his  friend  and  com¬ panion.  It  is  scarcely  a  year  since he  was  sorrowful  at  the  thought  that I  should  die  before  he  died  and  leave him  alone.  Now  he  is  all  brute  and I  am  punished.  He  no  longer  heeds

As  if  the  writer  had  been  inter¬ rupted  at  his  task,  the  sentence  was left  unfinished.  Willoughby  read with  mingled  rage  and  horror.  Evidenlty  Chueng  Ching  had  gone  in¬ sane  and  he  had  been  hired  to  care for  a  madman.  He  resented  it.  Yet he  was  virtually  a  prisoner  on  the


WEIRD  TALES

island  nnles3  he  could  find  the  boat¬ man  who  brought  him.  He  stood  a moment,  wondering  what,  to  do.  The little  house-boy  lingered  near  him constantly  without  giving  the  im¬ pression  of  watching,  but  shook  his head  when  Willoughby  demanded  to ■see  Denham.

“No  can  do,’’  he  said  plaintively.

Willoughby  went  through  the  cur¬ tained  doorway  into  a  room  evidently belonging,  to  Chueng  Ching,  to  judge by  the  embroidered  tapestries  mov¬ ing  in  the  draft.  Chests  of  carved teak  stood  between  wall  cases.  A table  held  metal  tubes,  with  sealed ends  and  addressed  to  the  Royal College  at  Pekin.  Willoughby  heard the  squawking  of  hens  and  ran  out¬ side  into  the  pergola  of  vines.  A lantern  stood  beside  a  bamboo  coop and  Professor  Denham  was  wringing the  neek  of.a  hen  and  tossing  it  on  the ground  while  he  reached  for  others. He  looked  at  Willoughby,  and  it seemed  to  him  that  Denham’s  eyes held  mingled  fear  and  madness.

Then  he  heard  the  sound  of  water threshed  as  if  by  storm,  although there  was  no  wind  and  not  a  leaf  of the  vines  stirred.

“Chueng  Ching,”  said  Denham. “Hungry  again.  Such  gluttony-  I wish  you’d  arrived  earlier,  but  it’s difficult  to  see  him  at  night.  60  into the  house.  Willoughby,  and  read those  notes  you’ll  find.  I’ll  return presently  and  tell  you  all  about

Denham,  gathered  the  slaughtered hens  mid  darted  down,  the  vine-cov¬ ered  passageway  of  the  pergola. There  was  the  sound  of  an  iron  door banged  shut,  the  repeated  noise  of water  threshed  violently,  and  Wil¬ loughby  returned  ta  the  house,  where he  took  up  the  typed  script,  arranged the  pages  aeoording  to  numbers  and glanced  over  them..  Fear;  horror; fascination  held  him.  Hb  forgot where  ho  was.  He  was  unaware  of the  house-boy  standing?  mule  near  his

chair,  seeking  companionship  in  a fear  that  was  sapping  his  life.  Wil¬ loughby  sat  on  the  edge  of  his  chair. Hair  slowly  rising,  scalp  prickly,  his palms  moist  with  cold  sweat.

“  T  have  now  the  evidence  that  ocean

A  depths  are  a  desert  of  ice-cold water-  with  no  living  organism; soundless,  still,  dark  nothingness.  A ship  sinking  to  those  depths  would cease  to  be,  ground  into  molecules  on the  ocean  bed.  The  silence  must  be feaTful.  But  greatest  satisfaction  of all,  is  the  proving  of  my  theory  that sea-serpents,  as  they  are  popularly called,  do  exist,  and  that  their  armor of  scales  and. longevity  has  preserved some  of  them  to  this  day.  The  cavern pool  is  an  ideal  spot  for  such  a  sea denizen  to  lurk.  Chueng  Ching  told me  that  he  had  heard  rumors  of  this haunted  cavern,  when  we  were  both in  California,  and  he  is  as  delighted as  I,  that  we  have  foiuid  the  thing, and  my  years  of  research  are  re¬ warded.  .  .

“Tt  is  three  months  since  I  added to  this  diary.  Chueng  Ching  is  de¬ spondent.  The  white  spot  vriiich  he tells  me  lias  been  spreading  for  a  year is  only  toe.  plainly  evidence  of  lep¬ rosy.  Chueng  Ching  is  accursed, doomed  to  a  lingering  death,  a  trag¬ edy  for  both  of  us.  He  feels  it  keen¬ ly  because  we  have  found  what  we sought,  and  for.  him  there  will  not be  time  to  puz-sue  the  study  of  the sea-serpent.  We  spoke,  last  night,  of the  restrictions  of  man’s  limited  span of  life,  the  pity  that  we  are  not  given enough  years,  even  centuries,  for  re¬ search.  One  envies  the  sea-serpent, which  is  undoubtedly  older  than whales,  olden  than  the  sequoias  of California,  much  older,  than  the Christian  era.  To  judge  by  his length  and  the  size  of  his  armor plates,  onr  dragpn  is  centuries  old.  I said  to  Chueng  Ching  that  I  wished I  could,  inhabit  his  body,  and  not  only Gre  indefinitely  bat  also  explore  the

LAOCOON

ocean  depths,  learn  his  manner  of living  and  perhaps  find  his  relatives. Chueng  Ching  seemed  startled  rather than  amused  .  .  .

“Two  months  later.  This  morning Chueng  Ching  asked  a  terrific  thing of  me.  He  pleaded  the  growing  de¬ cay  of  his  flesh.  His  fingers  are  al¬ ready  numb.  He  believes  that  I  could give  him  the  magnificent  body  and strength  of  our  sea-serpent,  a  thought suggested  no  doubt  by  those  experi¬ mental  tamperings  of  mine  in  college surgery,  substituting  the  brains  of one  rodent  for  those  of  another.  But I  could  not  do  such  a  thing.  Chueng Ching  is  a  man,  a  brother  to  me,  a fine  mentality,  a  higher  organism.”

■Willoughby  ripped  open  his  shirt, longing  f^r  a  cooling  breath  on  his skin.  The  shadow  of  the  house-boy fell  across  his  feet;  the  brown  hands were  twisting  mutely.  The  page  he had  just  read  fell  to  the  floor,  and  he seized  the  next.

“Chueng  Ching  has  worked  out  an arrangement  by  which  he  is  confident we  can  manage  the  operation.  The steel  net  will  confine  the  sea-serpent, a  collar  of  steel  will  hold  his  head while  I  shoot  ether  from  a  spray  gun. The  bench,  the  instruments,  the cauterants,  are  ready.  Only,  I  am afraid.  If  it  were  not  that  Chueng Ching ’s  fingers  and  toes  are  already sloughing  away,  I  could  not  do  this thing.  He  pleads  all  day,  and  moans all  night.  Tomorrow  I  shall  be  alone save  for  the  house-boy  Wi  Wo  and  the boatman  who  is  hired  to  call  here  at Tegular  intervals.”

There  was  the  rustling  of  the  page which  Willoughby  crushed  in  tense fingers  as  he  took  it  up,  and  the  sound of  his  heavy  breathing.

“Chueng  Ching  wakened  with  a great  fear,  although  he  assures  me that  he  went  under  the  anesthetic  not only  reconciled  but  even  rejoicing  in a  resurrection  of  which  he  felt  surer than  I  did.  He  felt  no  pain,  only fear  and  the  sense  of  a  great  weight

dragging  him  down.  No  doubt  the serpent  body  is  not  yet  under  control of  nerve  telegraphy  of  the  mind.  I attribute  his  fear  to  the  same  cause. Time  will  cure  both  troubles.  Today, I  made  out  the  first  of  his  attempts to  communicate  with  me.  There  is  no doubt  he  speaks,  but  I  scarce  under¬ stand  his  words,  roared  in  that  tre¬ mendous  voice.  I  spent  hours  with him,  and  had  Wi  Wo  fetch  my  meals. I  asked  questions  to  which  he  could reply  by  a  nod  or  shake  of  his  great crested  head.  What  a  pity  those  fools who  ridiculed  my  assertions  that  seadragons  do  exist,  can  not  see  this  tri-

“The  vitality  of  Chueng  Ching’s body  is  prodigious.  He  revived  quick¬ ly  torn  the  ether.  The  leprous  shell of  my  poor  friend  is  in  the  ocean depths,  sewn  in  canvas,  weighted  with iron.  The  sea  will  sing  a  requiem. But  Chueng  Ching  is  now  invulner¬ able  and  magnificent.  Nothing  could harm  that  marvelously  constructed coat  of  mail  unless  it  is  some  device of  min,  the  destroyer.”

Willoughby  lifted  his  head  and brushed  his  hand  across  his  eyes.  He was  entering  into  horror  that  chilled his  flesh,  a  nightmare  he  could  not and  would  not  believe.  He  abomi¬ nated  the  crime  of  Denham,  yet  was fascinated.

“He  will  not  take  meat,  yet  we  fed the  sea-serpent  he  now  inhabits,  at regular  intervals,  on  raw  flesh.  But since  the  change  Chueng  Ching  will not  touch  it.  No  doubt  the  higher mentality  of  an  esthete  has  subju¬ gated  the  beast  body.  Today  I  pre¬ pared  another  roll  of  notes  for  the Royal  College  of  Pekin,  a  rare  collec¬ tion  of  data  which  will  receive  con¬ sideration  from  Chinese  savants  that I  could  not  wrest  from  my  own  peo¬ ple.  Chueng  Ching  and  I  have proved  the  existence  of  sea-dragons and  the  ability  of  science  through martyrdom  to  penetrate  to  the  mys¬ teries  beneath  the  waters.”


WEIRD  TALES

Willoughby  mopped  his  face.  Wi Wo  held  a  tray  toward  him  and he  took  a  bottle  it  held  and  ponred himself  a  peg  of  brandy,  then  seised the  next  page.

“Chueng  Ching  is  timid  of  the dark.  His  fear  throttles  our  investi¬ gations.  And  much  that  he  would impart  is  lost  through  my  faulty  un¬ derstanding  of  his  articulation.  The curse  of  Babel  rings  down  the  ages. He  breaks  into  Cantonese  in  his  en¬ deavor  to  enlighten  me.  The  finer details  would  be  invaluable  but  I hoped  too  greatly.  I  can  not  under¬ stand  his  fear,  and  his  rather  pathetic regret  at  the  loneliness  he  null  find when  I  am  dead.  But  one  thing  com¬ forts  me,  he  is  taking  food  and  pre¬ fers  rather  undercooked  chicken  and pork.  I  must  keep  a  stock  on  hand, as  his  appetite  is  prodigious.  .  .

“Six  months  since  I  last  wrote these  notes.  Chueng  Ching  has  fur¬ nished  me  with  priceless  specimens and  data  of  the  ocean  depths,  the notes  of  which  I  seal  daily  in  metal tubes  to  be  sent  to  Pekin.  But  I  no¬ tice  a  change  in  him.  While  at  first he  was  afraid  of  the  depths,  he  now goes  fearlessly  and  remains  for  a longer  period  each  time.  The  silence down  there  must  be  fearful,  but  he seems  to  like  exploring,  and  has  even identified  geographic  indentations  of continent  shores,  and  recognizes  the chill  of  polar  seas. . .

“Three  months  from  my  last  en¬ try.  Another  period  of  change  has come  over  Chueng  Ching.  The  little fish  spewed  from  his  jaws  are  spoiled by  carelessness.  Things  are  not  go¬ ing  so  well.  There  is  a  change  of  tem¬ perament  and  his  articulation  is thick.  For  a  time  he  spoke  clearly although  in  a  voice  like  a  church  or¬ gan.  Now  he  roars  in  sullen  rage when  I  refuse  to  feed  him  before  I obtain  am  account  of  his  wanderings. I  believe  it  was  a  mistake  to  feed  him flesh.  Better  to  have  left  him  to  find sea-food  only.  I  wonder  if  the  brute

body  is  in  ascendance,  or  if  meeting other  monsters  of  his  own  kind  has upset  him.  He  would  know  no  means of  communication  with  them,  and  no methods  of  defense,  but  what  a  spec¬ tacle  it  would  be  to  view  a  battle  of sea-dragons!.  I  wish  it  had  been  my lot  to  change  from  a  human  to  this saurian.  I  am  past  middle  age  and the  passions  which  plague  a  younger man.  Chueng  Ching,  who  in  his  hu¬ man  shape  was  vowed  to  celibacy  and had  devoted  his  life  to  science,  is  seek¬ ing  a  mate.  He  was  never  more  lucid than  when  he  roared  to  me  that  he had  found  a  ‘sweetie',  the  college slang  of  old  days  for  a  sweetheart, and  demanded  more  food  for  strength he  would  need  to  fight  off  other  males of  his  kind.  With  great  sorrow,  I must  admit  the  end  is  in  sight.  He is  indifferent  to  our  researches  and  I gained  nothing  today  but  the  account of  this  female  sea-dragon,'  which seems  coy  and  exhibits  greater  speed and  endurance  thau  Chueng  Ching. as  they  tear  through  the  depths,  cir¬ cling  islands,  lashing  a  riot  of  phos¬ phorescence  in  the  night.  Oh,  to  see them!  To  find  another  and  change from  this  body  hampering  me  to  a saurian  like  Chueng  Ching!”

Cold  sweat  broke  out  on  "Willough¬ by’s  forehead  as  he  took  the  last  sheet from  the  typewriter,  and  re-read  the hit  which  had  fascinated  him  a  little while  before.

He  understood  perfectly  what  Den¬ ham  had  written,  of  the  change  over this  thing.  The  brute  body  had  con¬ quered  the  mind  of  Chueng  Ching. The  ferocity  of  the  sea-dragon  was in  ascendance.  He  had  turned  on Denham,  no  longer  obeying  the  voice of  the  scientist.  The  remainder  of the  page  held  no  less  of  horror,  a  pro¬ phetic  intimation  of  Denham’s  fear.

“Chueng  Ching  is  a  fiend.  He struck  at  me  today  with  open  jaws.  I have  sealed  the  complete  notes  to date,  and  addressed  the  results  of  my researches  to  the  Royal  College  at

LAOCOON

Pekin,  -where  they  will  act  on  the  in¬ structions  to  use  the  balance  of Chueng  Ching’s  wealth  to  pursue  this investigation  in  ease  anything  should happen  to  me.  But  Willoughby  has arrived,  and  I  am  confident  that  the skill  he  displayed  in  the  science  class can  be  enhanced  by  practise  so  that he  can  perform  the  operation  I  de¬ sire.  Chueng  Ching  laughed  when  I told  him  my  plan,  but  promised  to entiee  another  male  of  his  kind  to  the pool  where  Willoughby  and  I  shall trap  him  by  means  of  the  iron-barred gateway  dropped  behind  this  seadragon  we  used  as  a  body  for  the brain  of  Chueng  Ching.  X  have  not talked  to  Willoughby  about  it,  but  I noticed  he  seemed  as  well  set  up  and fit  as  in  college  days.  His  reward shall  be  a  share  of  Chueng  Ching’s wealth,  and  the  fame  ox  .  .  .”

Willoughby  crushed  the  sheet  in his  hand,  every  nerve  in  his  body  on edge,  his  breathing  sounding  load  in the  silence.  The  ehair  crashed  over as  he  rose  and  stared  past  Wi  Wo  at the  curtained  doorway.  The  embroid¬ ered  dragons  seemed  to  move  with malignant  life.  And  a  move  terrible dragon  inhabited  this  place,  the  Mad¬ ness  which  had  caught  Denham  and made  of  him  a  priest  of  more  dread¬ ful  rites  than  voodoo  of  the  jungles.

Willoughby  realized  now  for  what he  had  been  summoned  by  the  sci¬ entist.  He  must  escape  or  be  caught in  a  trap  from  which  there  was  no escape.  He  would  find  Denham,  and tell  him  that  he  was  going ;  Denham was  at  that  moment  near  the  pool. Willoughby  remembered  the  chickens he  had  been  killing,  and  his  words: “Chueng  Ching,  hungry  again.  Such gluttony!”  He  remembered  the sound  as  of  water  threshed  by  storm. Denham  feared  the  thing,  yet  he  had gone  to  it  again.  He  might  he  in danger  of  his  life.  Common  decency demanded  that  Willoughby  try  to save  the  man.  As  for  remaining  un¬ der  the  conditions  to  be  imposed,  bis

body  shivered  as  if  with  nausea  at the  thought.

Under  the  vine-covei-ed  pergola,  he was  startled  by  the  sight  of  Wi  Wo in  his  white  ducks.  The  hand  of  the Chinese  fell  on  his  arm,  the  man's teeth  chattered  like  castanets.  And above  that  chattering  and  Willough¬ by’s  breathing,  came  the  sound  of water  crashing  on  rocks,  threshed  un¬ der  flails  of  no  wind  that  ever  was.

\T7iLL0trGBBV  stalked  down  the

'  '  pergola,  gripping  his  courage in  his  hand,  assuring  himself  the typing  was  the  fantasy  of  a  madman, and  that  the  worst  he  would  find would  he  Denham  in  the  violence  of insanity  brought  on  by  loneliness  and the  eery  mystery  of  the  island.  The heelless  slippers  of  Wi  Wo  shuffled reluctantly  as  they  came  near  an  iron door,  with  light  from  beyond  shining through  the  space  between  heavybars.  Willoughby  saw  the  lantern  on the  stone  floor.  Steps  led  down. There  was  the  crash  of  waves  subsid¬ ing  gradually,  and  a  low  moaning audible.

Willoughby  opened  the  iron  door, snatched  up  the  lantern  and  began to  descend  the  steps.  A  cool  wind swept  upward,  a  smell  of  sea-wraek and  cavern  chill.  He  saw  the  oily luminance  of  water  where  the  sea filled  a  natural  cove.  It  was  stirred as  by  violent  upheaval  from  beneath. The  rock  ledge  below  glistened  with minute  sea  life.  He  saw  something resembling  a  huge  horsecollar  slung to  iron  rings  in  the  cavern  roof,  and a  steel  net  dependent  from  ropes,  the apparatus  of  that  operation  per¬ formed  on  the  sea-dragon.  Along  one side  was  a  litter  of  things  scarcely discernible  by  the  faint  lantern  light.

With  his  scalp  prickling,  Willough¬ by  held  the  lantern  at  arm’s  length, to  learn  what  manner  of  gigantic  bird it  -was  that  ran  to  and  fro  on  the ledge,  uttering  sc  luawks  of  fear  which the  cavern  echoed.  He  saw  a  heap  of

WEIRD  TALES

dead  chickens  on  the  ledge,  then  a movement  of  Wi  Wo  caught  his  eye. The  Chinese  was  retreating  up  the steps,  backward,  his  eyes  staring  at the  pool,  his  hands  groping  along  the rock  wall.  Willoughby  looked  again at  the  pool,  straining  his  vision  to see  what  had  thralled  Wi  Wo  and turned  his  yellow  skin  green  with

It  came  like  gushing  light  in  the depths,  stirring  the  black  water,  a radiance  of  glittering  unrest,  undu¬ lating  flitter  and  shadow,  faintly phosphorescent;  then  coils  broke  a moving  swirl  in  the  gloom.

Willoughby  turned  to  run  tip  the steps.  The  breath  of  Wi  Wro  hissed between  his  teeth.  There  was  the silken  slur  of  water  washing  the  rock, and  in  another  moment  Willoughby was  crowding  the  Chinese  on  the steps,  for  the  water  parted  and  a crested  head  was  upreared,  water dripping  from  fanged  jaws,  red tongue  quivering,  large  glassy  eyes regarding  the  two  men  on  the  steps with  malevolent  glaring.  Coils  of  a serpent  body  upreared.  Willoughby saw  the  great  scales  like  iridescent metal  plates.  There  was  that  thresh¬ ing  hiss  of  water,  tremendous  in  the cavern  walls.  Willoughby’s  heart was  pounding  in  his  throat  and  wrist. Fear  paralyzed  him.

Then  he  screamed.  From  that  great throat  came  a  roar  that  swelled  and boomed,  and  in  that  sound  Willoughbv  heard  unmistakably  the  name  of “Denham”  howled  in  wrath.

His  own  scream  seemed  to  be echoed  by  the  flapping  white  thing on  the  ledge.  For  the  first  time  he realized  that  he  had  lost  the  chance for  what  he  came  to  do :  to  save  Den¬ ham.  That  was  Denham — that  mad disheveled  thing  clad  in  white  ducks

which  was  bent  nearly  double,  wav¬ ing  its  coat-tail  over  its  head.  It stood  erect,  laughing  horribly.

“Chueng  Ching,”  it  called,  “did you  bring  your  sea-dragon?  See, Willoughby  is  here,  Willoughby  who will  mire  me  invulnerable  so  we  can rove  the  deeps  together  ...”

The  rest  was  drowned  in  that  howl of  the  sea-dragon,  a  burst  of  laughter boomed  through  a  gigantic  throat, and  the  crested  head  swooped  at Denham.  The  sea  leaped,  a  wave  shot by  those  armored  coils  crashed  up  the steps  and  over  Willoughby.  The  lan¬ tern  fell  from  his  numbed  fingers,  the sea  was  in  his  mouth.

Then  he  felt  the  hands  of  Wi  Wo clutching  him.  They  were  crouched in  a  heap  on  the  steps.  The  pool  was dark  and  the  seas  fell  quiet.  Wil¬ loughby  felt  his  way  a  few  steps  lower and  saw  the  outer  archway  of  the cove.  Dawn  had  bloomed,  early  tropic dawn  shone  silver.  The  ledge  was empty.  Denham  had  disappeared.

Willoughby  turned  and  pushing the  terrified  Chinese  before  him  went up  the  steps,  clanging  and  bolting  the

He  strode  through  the  house, looked  at  the  sealed  tube  of  notes  ad¬ dressed  ready  to  send,  and  at .  the typed  account  of  Denham’s  crime. Then  he  went  to  the  porch.

A  voice  at  his  shoulder  startled him:  “You  got  one  piecee  ship,  I  go out  long  you.”  The  plaintive  wail was  chattered  through  quivering  lips.

“Come  on,”  snapped  Willoughby and  ran  down  the  path.

Along  the  palisade  sauntered  the Chinese  boatman.  Willoughby  took money  from  his  pocket  and  offered  it.

“Take  us  back  to  the  port,”  he commanded.  “Quick!”

DENNIS  sat  on  the  veranda  of his  bungalow,  and  gazed  medi¬ tatively  around  him.  He could  not  look  at  the  view  be¬ cause  there  was  none  to  speak  of, since  the  house  was  built  on  an  island in  the  middle  of  the  Luago  River.  On all  sides  of  the  island  grew  the  tall rank  elephant  grass  and  nipa-palm. Here  and  there  a  stunted,  beetle-rid¬ den  coconut  tree  just  topped  the dense  vegetation,  a  relie  of  some clearing  and  plantation  commenced by  some  native,  then  left  to  desola¬ tion  and  the  ever-encroaching  jungle.

Dennis  was  bored.  He  was  two years  overdue  for  leave ;  also  the  day was  unusually  hot.  The  hour  was about  4,  but  though  the  sun  was  be¬ ginning  to  slant  there  was  no  abate¬ ment  in  the  fierceness  of  its  rays. After  lunch  he  had  followed  the  im¬

memorial  custom  and  undressed  for  a short  siesta,  but  sleep  was  denied him.  The  mechanical  action  of  un¬ dressing  had  quickened  his  brain.  The room  seemed  stifling;  the  bed  felt warm.  He  bathed,  dressed  and  be¬ took  himself  to  the  veranda.  Here  he smoked  and  thought.

And  his  thoughts  were  none  too pleasant,  for  there  was  much  that was  troubling  him.  Throughout  the morning  he  had  been  listening  to  the endless  intricacies  of  a  native  land case — a  dispute  over  boundaries  and ownership.  He  had  reserved  his judgment  till  the  morrow,  for  the  evi¬ dence  had  been  involved  and  contra¬ dictory.  He  had  meant  to  go  over the  salient  points  during  the  after¬ noon,  and  instead,  here  he  was  seated on  his  veranda,  smoking  and  thinking of  an  entirely  different  matter.  Try


WEIRD  TALES

as  he  would,  his  mind  would  not  keep on  the  subject  of  the  land,  but  roamed ever  and  ever  over  the  mystery  that was  fast  setting  its  seal  of  terror  and fear  on  the  district.

From  a  village  in  the  uht  (source) of  the  river  strange  rumors  had  come floating  downstream.  At  first  they were  as  light  and  airy  as  thistledown — just  a  passing  whisper — a  fairy story  over  which  to  smile ; — then  they passed,  but  came  again,  more  substan¬ tial  and  insistent,  stronger  and sterner  and  not  to  he  denied.  Their very  number  compelled  a  hearing; their  very  sameness  breathed  a  truth. Inhabitants  from  the  village  had  gone forth  and  never  returned;  never  a trace  of  them  had  been  found.  First a  young  girl,  then  her  father.  She had  been  absent  six  days  and  he  had gone  to  look  for  her.  But  he  looked in  vain  and  in  his  turn  disappeared. Then  a  young  boy,  and  next  an  aged woman.  Then,  after  a  longer  period, a  tame  ape  and  finally  the  headman’s favorite  wife.

Fear  settled  on  the  village;  its  in¬ habitants  scarce  dared  leave  their houses,  save  in  batches  to  collect water  and  food.  But  Fear  travels fast  and  the  rumors  reached  Klagan  and  came  to  Dennis’  ears.  In the  end  the  mystery  caught  him  in  its toils,  weaved  itself  into  his  every waking  moment  and  excited  his  in¬ terest  beyond  control.

An  idle  native  story:  the  tale  of  a neighboring  village  with  an  ax  of  its own  to  grind.  He  was  a  fool  to  wor¬ ry  over  it.  Such  mare’s  nests  were of  almost  daily  occurrence,  thus  Den¬ nis  argued;  and  then  from  two  other villages  came  similar  tales.  Two  lit¬ tle  girls  had  gone  to  bathe  in  the height  of  the  noonday  sun.  At  moonrise  they  had  not  returned.  Nor  in the  days  that  passed  were  they  ever seen  again.  _  Two  lovers  met  one moonlight  night  and  waded  to  a boulder  in  midstream  of  the  river. Here  they  sat  oblivious  of  the  world

around  them.  They  were  seen  by  a couple  of  natives  passing  down¬ stream  in  their  boat  and  then — never

Down  the  river  crept  the  cold,  in¬ sidious  Fear  like  a  plague,  taking  toll of  every  village  in  its  path.  In  their houses  huddled  the  natives,  while crops  were  unsown  and  pigs  uprooted the  plantations;  while  crocodiles  de¬ voured  untended  buffaloes,  and  squir¬ rels  and  monkeys  rifled  the  fruit  trees. From  source  to  mouth  the  Fear  crept down  and  in  the  end  forced  Dennis’ hand,  compelling  him  to  action.

Thus  as  he  sat  on  his  veranda  and cursed  the  heat  of  the  sun  and  the humidity  of  the  tropics,  unbidden  and unsought  the  mystery  filled  his thoughts ;  and  he  began  to  wonder  as to  if  and  when  his  native  sergeant, and  three  police  would  return.  For he  had  sent  them  to  the  uht  to  probe and  solve  the  meaning  of  the  rumors. They  had  been  gone  three  weeks,  and throughout  this  time  no  word  had been  heard  of  or  come  from  them.

In  the  office  a  clock  struck  5.  Its notes  came  booming  across  to  Dennis. Then  silence — not  complete  and  utter stillness :  such  is  never  possible  in  the tropics,  but  the  silence  of  that  hour when  the  toilers — man  and  animal — by  day  realize  that  night  is  approach¬ ing;  when  the  toilers  by  night  have not  yet  awakened.

Lower  and  lower  sank  the  sun.  In the  sky  a  moon  was  faintly  visible. Dennis  Tose,  about  to  call  for  tea, then  checked  the  desire.  From  afar upstream  came  the  chug,  chug,  chug of  a  motorboat.  Its  beat  just  reached his  ears.  He  looked  at  his  wrist watch.  In  ten  minntes  he  would  go down  to  the  floating  wharf.  That would  give  him  plenty  of  time  to watch  the  boat  round  the  last  bend  of the  river.  In  the  meanwhile -

But  he  went  at  once  to  the  wharf after  all,  for  the  mystery  gripped him,  causing  him  feverishly  to  pace up  and  down  the  tiny  floating  square.

SI  TJBAG  OP  THE  TAIL

Chug,  chug,  chug,  louder  and  louder came  the  noise;  then  fainter  and fainter  and  then  was  lost  altogether as  the  dense  jungle  cut  off  the  sound as  the  boat  traversed  another  bend  of the  river.  Chug,  chug,  chug,  faintly, then  louder  and  stronger.  A  longdrawn  note  from  the  horn  of  a  buf¬ falo  smote  the  air  and  the  boat  swung round  the  final  bend.  Only  a  quarter of  a  mile  separated  it  now  from

As  the  boat  drew  nearer  he  saw that  she  was  empty  save  for  the serang  (helmsman)  and  boatmen. Then  the  Fear  gripped  him,  too,  and he  quickly  returned  to  the  house.  With shaking  hand  he  poured  out  a  whisky and  soda,  flung  himself  into  a  chair and  shouted  for  his  “boy.”

“TuanI”  The  word,  though  quiet¬ ly  spoken,  made  him  flinch,  for  the “boy”  had  approached  him  silently, as  all  well-trained  servants  do.  Quick¬ ly,  too,  he  had  obeyed  the  summons, but  in  that  brief  space  of  time  Den¬ nis’  mind  had  escaped  his  body  and immediate  wants  to  roam  the  vast  un¬ trodden  fields  of  speculation  and  fear.

With  an  effort  he  pulled  himself together.

“The  motorboat  is  returning.  Tell the  serang  to  come  to  me  as  soon  as  he has  tied  her  up.  See  that  no  one  is within  earshot.”

"Tuan.”  And  the  boy  departed.

Scarcely  had  the  hoy  left  than  the serang  stood  in  front  of  Dennis. His  story  was  brief,  though  harrow¬ ing,  but  it  threw  no  light  upon  the mystery.  For  two  days,  till  they reached  the  rapids,  they  had  used  the motorboat.  Then  they  trans-shipped into  a  native  dugout,  leaving  the  mo¬ tor  in  charge  of  a  village  headman. For  three  days  they  had  paddled  and poled  upstream  till  they  came  to  the mouth  of  the  Buis  River.  Here  the sergeant  and  police  left  them,  telling them  to  wait  for  their  return,  and struck  inland  along  a  native  track.

For  sixteen  days  they  waited,  though their  food  had  given  out  and  they  had taken  turns  to  search  the  jungle  for edible  roots.  Then  on  the  sixteenth day  it  happened — the  horrible  com¬ ing  of  Nuin.

The  boatmen  had  gone  to  look  for roots.  The  serang  was  dozing  in  a dugout.  Suddenly  it  shook  and rocked.  Something  clutched  the serang ’s  arm.  It  was  Nuin’s  hands. Startled  into  wakefulness,  the  serang sat  np ;  then  he  screamed  and  cov¬ ered  his  eyes  with  his  hands.  When he  dared  look  again  Nuin  was  lying on  the  river  bank.  His  clothes  were in  rags.  Round  his  chest  and  back  ran a  livid  weal  four  inches  wide.  His left  leg  hung  broken  and  twisted.  His right  arm  was  entirely  missing.  His face  was  caked  in  congealed  blood.

As  the  serang  looked,  Nuin  opened his  lips  to  speak,  but  bis  voice  was only  a  whisper.  Tremblingly,  halt¬ ingly,  the  serang  went  to  him,  and  put his  ear  to  his  mouth.  “Sergeant — others  —  dead  —  three  day’s  —  west — man — with — big — big — others.”  The whisper  faded  away;  Nuin  gave  a shudder  and  was  dead.

They  buried  him  near  the  river and  then  left,  paddling  night  and  day till  they  reached  the  rapids.  A  night they  spent  in  the  village,  for  they were  racked  with  sleeplessness,  and they  left  the  next  morning,  reaching Klagan  the  same  day.

Such  was  the  serang ’s  report.

The  Fear  spread  farther  down  the river  till  it  reached  the  sea  and  spread along  the  coast.

In  the  barracks  that  night  were two  women  who  would  never  see  their men  again;  was  born  a  baby,  who would  never  know  his  father;  wept  a maiden  for  the  lover  whose  lips  she would  never  kiss  again.

As  the  earliest  streaks  of  dawn came  stealing  across  the  sky,  the chugging  of  a  motorboat  broke  the stillness  of  the  night.  Dennis  him60

WEIRD  TALES

self  was  at  the  wheel,  for  the  serang was  suffering  with  fever.  With  him were  nine  police  and  a  corporal.  They carried  stores  for  twenty  days.

The  journey  was  a  replica  of  the serang ’s,  save  that  at  the  village  by the  rapids  no  friendly  headman  or villagers  took  charge  of  the  motorboat.  The  village  had  fled  before  the Fear.  On  the  fifth  day  Buis  was reached  as  the  setting  sun  shot  the sky  with  blood-red  streamers.

On  the  banks  of  the  river  the  earth was  uprooted;  among  the  loosened earth  were  human  bones  and  the marks  of  pigs’  feet.  Among  the bones  was  a  broken  tusk,  sure  sign  of some  fierce  conflict  that  had  raged over  Nuin’s  remains,

Dennis  shuddered  as  he  saw  the scone:  his  Murut  police,  pagans  from the  interior  of  North  Borneo,  fin¬ gered  their  charms  of  monkeys’  teeth and  dried  snake-skins  that  hung around  their  necks  or  were  attached to  the  rotan  belts  around  their  waists, that  carried  their  heavy  parangs (swords) .

Occasionally  throughout  the  night the  droning  noise  of  myriad  insects was  broken  by  the  shrill  bark  of  deer or  kijang.  Sometimes  the  sentry, gazing  into  the  vast  blackness  of  the jungle,  saw  the  beady  eyes  of  a  pig, lit  up  for  a  moment  by  the  flames  of the  campfire.  Sometimes  a  snake,  at¬ tracted  by  the  glare,  glided  through the  undergrowth,  then  passed  on. Once  or  twice  a  nightjar  cried  and  an owl  hooted — eery  sounds  in  the  pitchblack  night.  Otherwise  a  heavy brooding  stillness,  like  an  autumn mist,  crept  over  the  jungle  and  en¬ veloped  die  camp.  Hardly  a  police¬ man  slept;  but  dozed  and  waked  and dozed  and  waked  again,  only  to  wake once  more  and  feel  die  Fear  grow  ever stronger.  Dennis,  on  his  camp-bed under  a  kajang  awning,  tossed  and tossed  the  long  night  through.

Dawn  broke  to  a  clap  of  thunder. Bain  heralded  in  the  new  day.

‘  ’  Three  days— west.”  This  was  all Dennis  knew ;  all  he  had  to  guide  him. For  this  and  the  nest  two  days  the party  followed  a  track  that  led  stead¬ ily  in  a  westerly  direction.  On  the evening  of  the  third  day  it  came  out into  a  glade.  Here  Dennis  pitched his  camp.  The  tiny  space  of  open  sky and  glittering  stars  breathed  a  cooler air  and  purer  fragrance  than  the camps  roofed  in  by  the  canopy  of mighty  trees.  Thus  the  tired  and haunted  police  slept  and  Dennis ceased  his  tossing.  Only  the  sentry was  awake — or  should  have  been. Perhaps  he,  too.  dozed  or  fell  fast, asleep,  for  a  few  unconscious  mo¬ ments.  If  so  lie  paid  a  heavy  pen¬ alty.

Dennis  awoke  the  next  morning  at a  quarter  to  6  to  see  only  the smoldering  remains  of  the  campfire.

“Sentry!’'  he  called.  But  no  an¬ swer  was  vouchsafed.  “Sentry!”  he cried  again,  but  no  one  came.  Aroused by  his  voice  the  sleeping  camp  stirred to  wide  and  startled  awakeness.

The  corporal  came  across  to  Den¬ nis,  saluted,  then  stood  at  attention waiting,

“The  fire’s  nearly  out;  where’s  the sentry?”  Dennis  queried.

The  corporal  looked  around  him, gazed  at  the  smoldering  fire,  counted his  men,  then  looked  at  Dennis  with fear-stricken  eyes.

"Tuan!”  he  gasped;  “he  is  not — there  are  only  eight  men!”

“Is  not?  What  d’you  mean? Where’s  he  gone?”  As  Dennis snapped  his  question  cold  fear gripped  his  heart.  He  knew;  some inner  sense  told  him  that  the  man  had disappeared  in  the  same  mysterious fashion  as  those  early  victims-  Here, in  the  midst  of  his  camp,  the  terrible, unseen  thing  had  power!

"Where’s  he  gone?”  Dennis  re¬ peated  his  question  fiercely  to  quench his  rising  fear.  “What  d’you  mean?”

SI  URAG  OP  THE  TAIL


Por  answer  the  corporal  only  stood and  trembled.  His  open  twitching mouth  produced  no  sound.

With  an  oath  Dennis  dung  himself from  his  bed.  "Search  the  glade, you  fool,”  he  cried,  / ‘ and  find  his tracks!  He  can’t  be  far  away.  No, stay,”  he  added  as  the  corporal  was departing.  '  ‘  Who  is  it  1  ”

“Bensaian,  Tuan,”  gasped  the  ter¬ rified  man.

Dennis’  eyes  narrowed  and  a  frown spread  over  his  face.

“Bensaian!”  he  repeated.  “He was  Number  3.  His  watch  was  from 12  till  2.”

“Then  he’s  never  been  relieved. From  2  o’clock  at  least,  he’s  been missing !  ’  ’

“Tuan!  I  must  have  slept.  I  saw Auraner  relieve  Si  Tush,  but-  I  was tired  and - ”

“Search  for  his  tracks,”  Dennis cried,  breaking  in  on  his  protestations, “but  see  no  man  enters  the  jungle.”

In  that  tiny  glade  the  search  was no  prolonged  affair,  but  no  traces  of the  missing  man  were  found — save one.  A  brass  button,  tom  from  his tunic,  lay  at  the  foot  of  a  mighty billian  tree.  But  where  and  how  he had  gone  remained  a  mystery.  Only the  regular  footprints  as  he  had walked  to  and  fro  on  his  beat  were just  discernible  and  these  crossed and  recrossed  each  other  in  hopeless confusion.

Over  the  tops  of  the  trees  the  sun came  stealing,  bathing  the  glade  in its  warming  light,  but  Dennis  heeded it  not.

“Three  days — west.”  The  words kept  hammering  in  his  brain,  as  he sat  on  the  edge  of  his  bed  and  smoked cigarette  after  cigarette.  Up  and down  the  glade  a  sentry  walked. Round  the  fire  the  police  were crouched  cooking  their  rice;  over  an¬ other  Dennis’  boy  prepared  his tuan’s  breakfast.

At  length,  when  ready,  he  brought it  over  to  him,  poured  out  his  coffee and  departed  to  join  the  whispering police.  But  though  the  coffee  grew cold  and  flies  settled  on  the  food, Dennis  sat  on,  unmoved,  deep  in  his distraction.

This  was  the  fourth  day!  For three  days  they  had  journeyed  west, following  Nuin’s  almost  last  conscious words.  The  glade  was  hemmed  in  by the  impenetrable  jungle ;  no  path  led out  of  it  save  that  along  which  they had  come.  It  formed  a  cul-de-sac indeed!  And  Bensaian  was  missing!

As  Dennis  sat  and  pondered,  this one  great  fact  became  predominant. Bensaian  was  missing.  Then  what  did it  mean  ?  Only  that  here  the  thing had  happened,  lived  or  breathed  or moved  about.  Here,  then,  would  be found  the  answer  to  the  riddle!  In this  little  glade  of  sunlight  must  they watch  and  wait.  Into  the  trackless jungle  he  dared  not  enter,  even  if  his men  could  hack  a  path.  To  return the  way  they  had  come  would  make his  errand  worse  than  fruitless. "Watching  and  waiting  only  remained.

So  they  waited.  Day  turned  to evening  and  evening  into  night;  the dawn  of  another  day  displaced  the night:  the  sun  again  rode  over  the tops  of  the  jungle.  But  nothing  hap¬ pened.  Only  the  policemen  grew more  frightened;  only  Dennis’  nerves grew  more  frayed.  Then  once  again the  night  descended,  but  no  one  in the  camp  dared  really  sleep.

Up  anti  down  walked  the  sentry, resting  every  now  and  then,  as he  turned,  against  the  billian  tree.  A gentle  breeze  stirred  the  branches  of the  encircling  trees,  hearing  on  the air  a  faint  aromatic  smell,  that soothed  the  nervous  senses  of  the resting  camp,  as  a  narcotic  dispels pain.  One  by  one  the  police  ceased whispering  and  gently  dozed,  calmed by  the  sweet  fragrance.  Dennis ceased  his  endless  smoking;  stretched

WEIRD  TALES

himself  at  ease  upon  his  bed.  The sense  of  mystery  seemed  forgotten  by all;  a  sense  of  peace  seemed  brooding

Midnight  came  and  the  wakeful sentry  was  relieved.  His  relief,  but half  awake,  railed  at  his  fate — the half-unconscious  dozing  was  so  pleas¬ ant,  and  this  marching  up  and  down the  glade,  while  others  rested,  so  ut¬ terly  to  his  distaste.

As  for  the  fortieth  time  he  turned about  at  the  base  of  the  great  billian tree,  he  lowered  his  rifle,  rested  for a  few  seconds  with  his  hands  upon its  barrel,  then  leaned  against  the dark  ridged  stem ;  just  for  a  moment he  would  rest,  his  rifle  in  his  hands — just  for  a  moment  only,  then  once again  take  up  his  beat.

The  wind  in  the  trees  was  gradual¬ ly  increasing;  the  fragrance  on  the air  became  more  pronounced.  The camp  was  almost  wrapt  in  slumber. On  his  bed  Dennis  sleepily  wondered whence  came  the  pleasing,  soothing odor,  that  seemed  to  breathe  so wondrous  a  peace.  Against  the  bil¬ lian  tree  the  sentry  still  was  leaning ; his  rifle  slipped  from  the  faint  grasp of  his  hands,  but  he  heeded  not  the rattle  as  it  struck  the  ground.

Peace  in  the  glade  from  whence came  so  much  mystery !  Peace  while the  dread,  though  unknown,  agent drew  near  apace !

Down  from  the  top  of  the  billian tree  It  slowly  descended,  branch  by branch ;  slowly,  carefully,  silently, till  it  rested  on  the  lowest  branch still  thirty  feet  above  the  sentry.

The  bark  of  a  deer  broke  the  still¬ ness  of  the  night.  From  afar  came  an answering  note.  Somehow  the  sound awakened  the  sentry.  He  looked around  him,  saw  the  fire  was  burning bright,  picked  up  his  fallen  rifle  and commenced  to  walk  about.

Down  the  far  side  of  the  tree  a bark  rope  descended  till  its  weighted end  just  rested  on  the  ground.  Down the  rope,  a  man,  naked  save  for  a

bark-made  loin-cloth,  descended  till he,  too,  reached  the  earth.  Then, pressed  flatly  to  the  great  tree’s trunk,  he  waited.

Across  the  glade  the  sentry  turned about.  With  listless,  heavy  steps  he was  returning.  Nearer  and  nearer he  approached.  At  the  foot  of  the billian  tree  he  halted,  turned  and leaned  against  its  trunk.  The  tension of  his  limbs  relaxed.  The  rifle  slipped from  his  grasp,  but  hung  suspended by  the  strap  that  had  become  en¬ tangled  over  his  arm.  A  light  un¬ consciousness,  hardly  to  be  designated sleep,  stole  over  him.  From  the  camp there  was  no  sign  of  wakefulness.

Slowly  a  figure  crept  noiselessly round  the  tree  and  stood  gazing  at the  policeman.  Naked  indeed  he  was. save  for  the  chaivat  (loin-cloth)  of bark;  his  thick  black  hair  hung  over his  neck  and  reached  beyond  his shoulders,  framing  a  face  out  of  which gleamed  two  fanatical  shining  eyes. His  body  to  the  waist  was  covered with  tattoo.  From  each  of  his  breasts the  designs  started,  spreading  to waist-line  and  round  to  the  back.  The nipple  of  each  breast  gleamed  a  fiery burnished  gold,  while  from  their fringe  spread  outward,  like  a  full¬ blown  flower,  five  oval  petals  of wondrous  purple  hue.  From  the golden  center  of  each  flower  ten  long pistils  spread,  curving  downward  and round  his  body.  At  their  source  they too  were  of  a  purple  hue,  but  as  they reached  the  petals  their  color  turned to  gleaming  gold  which  slowly changed  to  glistening  silver  as  their ridged  ends  were  reached.  These ridged  ends  were  circular  and  their silver  rims  framed  brilliant  scarlet months,  shaped  like  the  sucking  ori¬ fice  with  which  the  huge  and  slimy horse-leech  gluts  its  loathsome  thirst for  blood.

The  man’s  arms  were  unusually long;  his  finger-nails  had  never  been clipped ;  the  splay  of  his  toes,  especialSI  DRAG  OP  THE  TAIL

ly  between  the  big  and  the  next  one, uncommonly  wide.

One  hand  still  clutched  the  bark rope;  the  other  hung  loosely  at  his side.  Though  he  was  tall,  standing five  feet  ten  inches,  and  heavily  built, he  moved  as  lightly  as  a  cat.

Lightly  he  let  go  the  rope  and  ex¬ tended  his  two  long  arms  toward  his unconscious  prey.  The  cry  of  a  night¬ jar  sounded  close  at  hand.  The somnolent  sentry  stirred  as  the  sound just  reached  his  brain.  With  a  spring the  man  was  upon  him.  One  hand upon  his  mouth ;  one  arm  around  his chest  pinioning  his  arms  to  his  side. With  a  swiftness  incredible  he  reached the  far  side  of  the  tree,  let  go  his grasp  upon  the  sentry’s  mouth,  and using  the  rope  as  a  rail  commenced to  climb  step  over  step  with  an  amaz¬ ing  agility.

“  T  along  V  (help).  The  cry  laden with  overwhelming  fear  rent  the  still¬ ness  of  the  night,  “Tol - ”

All  further  sound  ended  in  a  gur¬ gle  as  the  relentless  pressure  round the  sentry’s  chest  squeezed  out  all breath  from  his  body.  The  camp  at that  sudden  cry  of  Iranian  agony  and fear  awoke  to  life.  Instinctively  the police  seized  their  rifles:  the  corporal blew  fiercely  on  his  whistle;  Dennis hurriedly  pulled  on  his  mosquito boots  and  picked  up  his  revolver from  under  his  pillow.

“Corporal!”

“Siapa  itu?”  (who’s  that?)

The  cries  rent  the  air  simultane¬ ously.  Then  came  silence  for  the fraction  of  a  second,  as  everyone stared  hopelessly  at  one  another  as they  realized  the  glade  was  empty  of the  sentry.

“Si  Tuah!  Tuah!”  Dennis’  voice rose  in  a  long  cry,  breaking  the  sud¬ den  silence  that  followed  the  camp’s awakening.  “Tu-ah,”  he  called

Somewhere  from  among  the  trees came  a  sound — a  kind  of  muffled  sob

— a  choking,  gurgling  cry  of  fear.  To the  edge  of  the  jungle  close  to  the billian  tree  Dennis  and  the  corporal darted.

“Look,  Tuan!  a  rope!”  the  latter gasped.

“3Iy  God!”  Dennis  whispered. “What  does  it  mean?”

“It’s  made  of  bark  and - ”  be¬

gan  the  corporal,  but  the  rest  of  his words  were  drowned  by  a  loud  re-

“Jaga!  Tuan,  Jaga!”  (look  out!) he  cried  as  a  jumbled  shape  came hurtling  down  from  the  branches  of the  tree  and  the  frayed  ends  of  the rope  came  writhing  about  them.  The snapping  of  a  twig  overhead,  and  a smoking  rifle  fell  at  their  feet.

As  the  shape  reached  the  ground with  a  sickening  bump,  two  figures fell  apart  and  then  lay  still.

“Seize  that  man  and  bind  him!” Dennis  cried,  pointing  to  the  naked form  as  he  bent  over  the  prostrate figure  of  Si  Tuah.  “Gently,  men, gently,”  he  added  as  four  police picked  him  up  and  carried  him  over to  their  kajang  shelter.

His  left  arm  hung  loosely  by  his side,  two  ribs  were  also  broken,  but his  heart  still  faintly  beat.  Dennis poured  a  little  brandy  down  his throat.  Slowly  Si  Tuah  came  to.  He tried  to  rise  to  sitting  posture,  but fell  back  with  a  groan  of  pain.

“He  came  upon  me  from  behind the  tree — I  must  have  dozed,”  he  mut¬ tered.  “He  picked  me  up — the  pres¬ sure  of  his  grasp  was  awful — and then  commenced  to  climb  the  tree, holding  the  rope  as  a  rail  and  walk¬ ing  up  step  by  step.  I  struggled— just  as  we  neared  the  branches  his grip  slackened — I  could  not  cry — I had  no  breath — I  only  groaned,  I struggled  once  again — my  foot  kicked the  butt  of  my  rifle — my  toe  found the  trigger  and  I  pressed  and  pressed — there  came  a  report — we  fell — and - ”


WEIRD  TALES

Si  Tuah  had  fainted  again.  Den¬ nis’  eyes  met  those  of  the  corporal. “The  shot  must  have  severed  the rope,’’  he  whispered.

“Tuan,  his  nasib  (fate)  was  good,” the  corporal  answered,  and  they crossed  to  where  the  human  vulture lay,  one  leg  twisted  under  him.  his chaicat  all  awry.  As  the  policemen rolled  him  over  on  his  face  to  knot the  ropes — they  showed  but  little pity  for  his  unconscious  state — the chnu-ai  cams  undone  and  slipped from  his  waist.

“Look.  Tuan,  look!”  the  corporal gasped,  and  pointed  with  shaking finger.  “Look,  he  has  a  tail — it’s not  a  man — it  has  a  tail!”  And feverishly  he  fingered  the  charms  that hung  around  his  neck.

Dennis  looked,  following  the  point¬ ing  finger,  then  bending  down,  looked long  and  closely.  It  was  as  the  cor¬ poral  said.  The  man  possessed  a  tail — a  long  hard  protuberance  that  pro¬ jected  from  his  spine  for  about  four

“Bring  him  to  the  camp,”  he ordered.  “Place  two  sentries:  one over  him,  one  on  the  camp.  He  is only  stunned;  there  are  no  bones broken.  In  the  morning  when  Tuah’s better  well  learn  some  more.”

Dennis  walked  across  to  his  bed.

The  Fear  was  gone,  but  the  mys¬ tery  was  still  unexplained.  The  camp¬ fire  burnt  brightly,  giving  out  a  smell of  pungent  wood  smoke.  The  soothing aromatic  scent  of  an  hour  ago  was  no more.  From  the  police  came  inter¬ mittent  whisperings;  from  the  man with  the  tail  nought  but  heavy  breath¬ ing.  On  his  bed  Dennis  tossed  and wondered.

As  the  early  dawn  first  faintly flooded  the  sky,  shriek  upon  shriek rent  the  air.  Si  Tuah  had  become delirious.  The  man  with  the  tail awoke  and  listened.  From  a  group of  police  squatting  over  a  fire  their voices  reached  him.  His  eyes  blinked

in  perplexity.  Quietly  as  he  lay,  he dug  with  his  nails  a  small  round  hole in  the  earth  about  five  inches  deep. Then  gingerly  he  moved  and  in  spite of  his  bonds  sat  up.  From  his  bed Dennis  watched  him.  Into  the  hole he  fitted  his  tail,  then  looked  at  his bonds  and  the  group  of  police.  He opened  his  mouth,  but  no  sound  came forth.  His  tied  hands  he  stretched out  to  them.  His  face  expressed  a yearning.  It  was  as  if  their  voices brought  a  comfort  or  recalled  a  past. Then  tear  after  tear  rolled  down  his

Calling  the  corporal,  Dennis  crossed to  the  weeping  man.  At  Dennis’  ap¬ proach  he  looked  up.  then  with  a  cry buried  his  face  in  his  bound  hands and  rocked  his  body  to  and  fro.  He was  afraid — afraid  of  a  white  man. the  like  oi  which  he  had  never  seen

“Peace,  foci!”  the  corporal  said roughly,  speaking  unconsciously  in Murut,  “stop  your  wailing,  the  tuan is  no  ghost  but  a  man.  albeit  all-pow¬ erful.”

Slowly  the  tailed  being  ceased  his weeping  and  looked  up.  “A  man!” he  muttered.  “A  man  and  the  color of  the  gods!”  He  spoke  a  bastard Murut  and  Malay  that  caused  Dennis to  start  and  the  corporal  to  frown  in perplexity,  for  his  meaning  was  clear, though  many  of  the  words,  though akin  to  either  language,  were  yet  un¬ like  either.  But  they  understood  him.

“And  your  name?”  Dennis  asked, in  Malay,  but  the  being  only  shook his  head  in  fear,  extending  his  hands in  supplication.

“Loosen  his  bonds,”  Dennis  com¬ manded.  “Ask  him  his  name  and tribe  and  village.”

The  corporal  obeyed,  and  then translated.

The  man’s  name  was  Si  Urag.  He came  of  a  Murut  race  that  years  ago had  captured  some  Malay  traders. All  had  been  killed  except  the  women. These  had  been  made  to  marry  the

SI  UBAG  OP  THE  TAIL


headmen.  Then  came  a  plague  and nearly  all  died.  The  remnants,  ac¬ cording  to  custom,  moved  their  vil¬ lage.  For  days  and  days  they  walked in  the  traekless  jungle.  Then  from the  trees  they  were  attacked  by  a  race of  dwarfs  who  lived  in  houses  in  the branches.  All  save  him  were  killed. He  lay  stunned:  when  he  recovered consciousness  he  saw  that  the  dwarfs had  tails  and  that  they  were  disem¬ boweling  the  dead  and  dying  and hanging  their  entrails  round  their necks.  Fear  seized  him.  He  tried  to rise  and  run  away.  He  staggered  to his  feet,  tottered  a  yard  or  two  and then  collapsed.  Terrified,  face  down¬ ward,  he  waited  for  his  foes.  With a  rush  of  feet  they  came.  He  waited for  the  blow.  It  never  fell.  Suddenly he  felt  a  gentle  pull  upon  his  tail — the  tail  over  which  all  his  life  he  had been  ridiculed:  then  came  a  mutter¬ ing  of  voices.  From  the  face  of  the moon  a  cloud  passed  by.  He  was  in a  glade  and  lying  near  a  pool.  Over the  air  a  heavy  scent  was  hanging. Suddenly  the  waters  stirred.  Out of  their  depths  a  flaming  gold  and purple  flower  arose.  Ten  tentacles spread  out  with  gaping,  wide-open, blood-red  mouths.  Shriek  upon  shriek of  utter  agony  rent  the  air.  Into  the flaming  golden  center  each  tentacle, curving  inward,  dropped  a  dwarf. Into  the  depths  of  the  pool  the  flower sank  down.  All  was  still.  Si  Urag was  alone.

That  night  he  slept  in  a  house among  the  branches  of  a  tree.  The surviving  dwarfs  had  fled.

In  the  morning  he  collected  the corpses  of  his  friends  and  placed  them near  the  lake.  That  night  from  his tree-house  he  watched.  The  moon  was one  day  off  the  full.  When  at  its highest  point  in  the  sky,  the  waters of  the  pool  became  disturbed.  Again the  golden-purple  flower  arose  from its  depths  and  the  soothing  scent spread  over  the  jungle.  Again  the red-mouthed  tentacles  spread  over

the  shore  and  sucked  up  the  corpses, curved  themselves  in  toward  the golden  center,  dropped  in  its  bell¬ shaped  mouth  the  stiffened  bodies. Once  again  the  human-feeding  flower sank  beneath  the  waters.  Once  again all  was  still.  Gradually  the  narcotic smell  grew  less ;  slowly  the  moon  sank in  the  west.  All  was  dark  and  silent.

On  the  next  and  two  following nights  the  flower  appeared.  Each night  the  hungry  tentacles  sought  for food — human  or  animal.  Then  with the  waning  of  the  moon  the  flower rose  up  no  more.  Still  in  his  treehouse  Si  Urag  watched  and  lived. Where  else  was  he  to  go?  His  tribe was  killed;  the  dwarfs  had  fled  and of  them  he  was  afraid.  On  account  ox his  tail  he  was  shy  to  intermingle  with other  humans,  even  if  he  knew  where to  find  them.  Here  was  his  house, safe  from  wild  beasts  that  roamed  at night;  in  the  pool  were  many  fish,  in the  jungle  many  roots  and  fruit.  Here was  the  wondrous  flower  that  fed  on men,  that  spread  its  wondrous  scent, to  whom  he  felt  he  owed  his  life. Here,  then,  he  would  live  and  conse¬ crate  his  life  in  a  kind  of  priesthood to  the  flaming  gold  and  purple  orchid.

The  corporal  ceased  and  his  eyes met  those  of  Dennis.  There  was  no need  to  answer  the  unspoken  question in  them.  The  mystery  of  those  dis¬ appearances  was  explained.

“And  that?”  Dennis  pointed  to  the tattooing  on  the  prisoner’s  body.

Si  Urag  understood  the  gesture,  if not  the  words.

“Is  the  picture  of  the  Flower  I serve,”  he  answered,  looking  at  the corporal.  “Two  nights  ago  I  fed  it with  a  man  clothed  like  that” — and he  pointed  to  the  police.  “A  night ago  I  caught  a  pig  and  deer;  last night  I  caught  a  man” — he  pointed to  where  Si  Tuah  lay  in  his  delirium — “but  a  magic  spoke  from  out  a tube  that  flashed  fire  and  the  rope  was

severed  and - ”  He  shrugged  his

shoulders  with  a  world  of  meaning,


WEIRD  TALES

then,  “I  am  hungry;  give  me  some rice,”  he  begged.

For  a  while  he  ate  his  fill.  Then when  the  sun  rose  high  over  the  little glade  Dennis  questioned  him  further, and  from  his  answers  formed  a  great

The  glade  of  the  golden-purple flower  was  but  a  few  miles  away.  A little  cutting  of  the  jungle,  and  a hidden  path — Si  Urag’s  path — would  be  found.  That  night  the moon  would  be  but  two  days  past its  zenith,  the  wondrous  flower  would rise  for  the  last  time  for  a  month — or  rise  never  to  rise  again,  hoped

Si  Urag  was  complacent.  Was  it fear  or  canning?  Who  could  tell? His  face  was  like  a  mask  as  he  agreed to  lead  the  little  party  to  the  pool where  dwelt  the  sacred  flower.

The  hour  was  after  midnight.  In the  camp  three  police  watched  the delirious  Si  Tuah.  Along  a  narrow track  that  led  from  the  jungle  to  a pool,  silently  stole  eight  men.  In  the west  a  clipped  moon  was  slowly  sink¬ ing.  Out  of  the  jungle  crept  the  men. into  a  glade  silvered  by  the  light  of the  moon.

‘‘To  the  right  ten  paces  ex - ”

Dennis’  whispered  orders  faded  away, giving  place  to  a  breathless  gasp  of surprize.  There  in  the  middle  of  the pool  was  the  great  golden-purple flower,  its  center  flaming  gold,  its petals  deepest  purple,  its  ten  pistils curling  and  waving  about — curling and  waving  toward  the  little  group of  men  as  they  emerged  from  the track;  the  blood-red,  silver-rimmed mouths  opening  and  shutting  in hungry  expectation.  Over  the  glade lay  the  heavy  aromatic  scent.

Speechless,  spellbound,  the  little party  looked  at  the  wondrous,  beauti¬ ful  sight-  The  deadening  spell  of  that narcotic  scent  was  spreading  through their  veins.  Lower  and  lower  slowly

namV  thft  m(MM)

Si  Urag  fell  upon  his  knees,  covered his  face  with  his  hands  and  com¬ menced  to  mumble  a  prayer.  His  ac¬ tion  jerked  the  rope  with  which  he was  attached  to  Dennis  and  the  corp¬ oral.  "With  a  start  the  former  awoke as  from  a  trance.  All  the  waving pistils  were  pointing  and  stretching toward  the  huddled  group.  The  moon was  nearly  touching  the  farther  edge of  the  sky.  Soon — soon -

“To  the  right  ten  paces  extend!” Like  pistol  shots  Dennis’  words  broke in  upon  the  night.  Unconsciously, automatically,  the  police  obeyed.  Si Urag  remained  in  prayer.  “Load!” The  one  word  cut  the  stillness  like  a knife.  The  waving  pistils  changed their  curves — followed  the  extending men,  stretched  and  strained  their blood-red  mouths.

“At  point-blank  —  fire!”  Six tongues  of  flame ;  one  loud  and slightly  jagged  report.  Four  pistils writhed  and  twisted  in  an  agony  of death.  In  the  flaming  golden  center, a  jagged  hole.  The  heavy  aromatic scent  came  stealing  stronger  and stronger  from  the  maimed  and  riddled center.  The  moon  just  touched  the far  horizon.  Slowly  the  wondrous flower  began  to  sink,  the  waters  be¬ came  disturbed,  the  pistils  seemed  to

Si  Urag  rose  from  his  knees  and prayers;  uncovered  his  ears,  over which  he  had  placed  his  hand  at  the sound  of  the  report.  From  Dennis to  the  corporal  he  looked  in  mute  and utter  supplication.  From  head  to  foot he  trembled.

Slowly  the  moon  and  flower  were sinking.  One  pistil,  bigger,  stronger, fuller-mouthed  than  the  rest,  seemed reluctant  to  retreat,  but  pointed  and waved  at  the  silent  three.

Into  his  (Jiawat  Si  Urag  dived  his hand.  Quick  as  lightning  he  with¬ drew  it  A  slash  to  the  right,  another to  the  left,  and  he  was  free.  A  mighty spring,  a  piercing  cry  and  he  hurled himself,  as  a  devotee,  into  the  great

SI  URAG  OF  THE  TAIL


ravenous  blood-red  month.  Slowly the  pistil  curved  inward.  Over  the golden  bell-shaped  center  it  poised. Then  it  bent  its  head;  its  silver  rim distended  and  then  closed.  Si  Urag

The  moon  sank  down  out  of  sight; the  wondrous  flower  with  its  mad¬ dened,  fanatical  victim  slipped  be¬ neath  the  waters  of  the  pool.  The stillness  of  the  jungle  remained;  the scent  of  dew-laden  earth  arose.  Dark¬ ness— and  a  memory — surrounded  the group  of  seven.

Tn 3  tropic  sleepiness  of  3  p.  m.

hung  over  IGagan.  Suddenly  the chugging  of  a  motorboat  was  heard coming  from  afar  upstream.  Down to  the  tiny  floating  wharf  the  popu¬ lace  descended,  headed  by  the  serang. Hound  the  last  bend  swung  the  motorboa:,  drew  alongside  the  wharf  and

came  to  rest.  Out  of  it  silently stepped  Dennis  and  the  weary  police. One  of  them  carried  two  rifles,  which told  the  wondering  people  of  a  death. Two  of  them  supported  Si  Tuah, which  told  them  a  struggle  had  taken place.  Over  his  features  spread  a smile  as  his  hands  met  those  of  his wife.  “  'Twas  a  near  thing,  Jliang,” he  murmured,  “and  it  happened  at the  dead  ox  night.  A  man  with  a tail  and  a  golden-purple  orchid  which he  worshiped.”

From  the  people  rose  a  gasp  of wonder  and  cries  of  disbelief.  Then Dennis  raised  his  hand.

“Si  Tuah  sneaks  the  truth.”  he said,  “but  Si  ‘Crag  of  the  Tail  no longer  lives,  and  the  fewer  v.o  more can  blossom.  The  Fear  is  dead.”

Then  unsteadily  he  walked  to  his

WITH  the  COMING  of DAWN

By  LESLIE  N.  JOHNSON

ALL  was  quiet  in  the  death A*  chamber;  the  guard  trod  the -A  JL  narrow  strip  of  carpet  that ran  around  the  death  cell  carefully, lest  he  awaken  from  his  fitful  slum¬ bers  the  figure  sprawled  in  the  roll  of blankets  on  the  small  cot  within.  From somewhere  in  the  building  came  the muffled  booming  of  a  clock.  It  was

Dr.  Blaas,  convicted  murderer, stirred ;  quickly  he  jumped  to  his  feet and  rushed  to  the  steel  bars  that separated  him  from  the  guard.

“■What  time  is  it,  guard?”  be asked,  excitedly.

“Just  midnight,”  the  guard  an¬ swered,  noting  the  bloodless  fingers that  encircled  the  bars  in  a  viselike

grip.

A  relieved  expression  fell  upon  the pallid  face  at  the  words ;  the  nervous play  of  facial  museles  was  momen¬ tarily  halted,  and  the  man  sank  into the  scarred  chair  beside  the  little  ta¬ ble.

“Sis  hours!”  he  muttered.  “Sis hours!”

The  words  died  away  in  a  harsh whisper  as  his  head  dropped  between bis  outspread  arms.  Limply  he  sat there,  until  the  twitching  body  and


WEIHD  TALES

labored  breathing  told  of  the  tempest of  his  emotions.  With  a  sudden  wild eiy,  he  leapt  to  his  feet,  his  eyes  wide with  a  maniacal  fury.

“They  shall  not — they  shall  not hang  me!”  he  shouted  at  the  top  of his  voice.  He  threw  himself  against the  wooden  bars ;  beat  upon  them  with clenched  fists;  cried  out  hoarsely  at the  futility  of  it  all.  Spent,  he  fell sobbing  to  the  floor,  and  grew  quiet  in the  arms  of  blessed  unconsciousness.

The  changing  of  the  guard  aroused the  condemned  man.

“What  time  is  it,  guard?”  he asked,  anxiously.  He  was  quiet  now. but  his  face  was  set  with  the  rigidity of  marble  and  his  eyes  gleamed  with a  new  light — a  light  of  triumph  and fixed  purpose.

“Five  o’clock.”

“It’s  nearly  time,”  muttered  the prisoner.  ‘  ‘  Guard,  may  I  have  a  pen¬ cil  and  paper?”

“Ton  may  have  anything  you  want, within  reason — that’s  the  law,”  the guard  answered  as  he  turned  into  the little  anteroom.

Hastily  Dr.  Blaas  wrote— wrote  un¬ til  his  eyes  went  to  the  window  of  the chamber  and  he  beheld  the  first streaks  of  the  coming  dawn.  His nerveless  fingers  relaxed  their  hold and  the  pencil  clattered  on  the  uncov¬ ered  table-top  as  the  doctor  stared  at the  breaking  day.

“  It ’s  daylight !  ’  ’  gasped  the  prison¬ er,  incredulously,  and  his  eyes  fell  to the  single  sentence  he  had  written :

“Bather  would  I  die  by  my  own hand,  proclaiming  my  innocence,  than die  on  the  scaffold,  and  be  regarded as  guilty.”

With  a  sudden  gesture  of  decision, he  turned  to  the  sentry.

“May  I  have  a  glass  of  water?”

As  the  guard  disappeared  into  the anteroom,  Dr.  Blaas  took  hold  of  the large  stone  in  his  ring — the  ring  the warden,  as  a  last  concession,  had  al¬ lowed  him  to  wear  into  the  death  cell — unscrewed  the  top,  and,  from  the cavity  under  the  stone,  removed  a small  white  pellet.  With  the  water, he  swallowed  it.

“I  thank  you  for  this  last  courtesy, guard.  I’m  going  to  lie  down  now. Good-bye.”

Silently  the  guard  grasped  the  slim, cold  fingers  extended  between  the  bars and  turned  away  with  a  strange  tight¬ ening  of  his  throat  muscles  as  the  con¬ demned  man  rolled  into  his  blankets.

The  ringing  of  the  telephone  broke the  silence  of  the  death  chamber — the  telephone  that  was  connected with  the  warden’s  office.  Into  the anteroom  dashed  the  guard,  to  emerge with  a  happy  shout.

“Dr.  Blaas,  they  have  granted  yon a  reprieve — you  are  to  have  a  new trial!  Dr.  Blaas,  wake  up!”  cried the  guard.

The  figure  on  the  cot  remained quiet  and  still,  and  the  guard,  on  en¬ tering,  found  Dr.  Blaas  beyond  the reach  of  human  voice,  a  ghastly,  tri¬ umphant  smile  frozen  on  his  dead

A  CUSH  of  horrified  amazement fell  upon  the  village  of  Saviennes  in  Lorraine,  when  it was  learned  that  the  demonhaunted  Castle  Romnare  was  to  have human  inmates:  Countess  Adrienne  of Paris  had  announced  that  she  would give  a  ball  there.

She  had  been  told  of  the  sinister history  of  the  feudal  stronghold  and the  legends,  but  laughed  at  every¬ thing  as  idle  superstition,  and  de¬ clared  in  a  spirit  of  sheer  bravado that  she  and  her  guests  would  banish the  demons.

We  shuddered  at  her  daring,  and crossed  ourselves;  for  none  had  yet entered  Romnare  and  come  away  un¬ scathed.

“None  but  Romnare  blood  shall  be tolerated  within  these  walls!”  the last  lord  of  the  domain  had  sworn —

at  least,  so  ran  the  legend.  Near  his end  and  sorely  beset  by  his  mortal enemy,  he  had  himself  carried  to  the battlements,  to  have  a  last  glance  at his  domain;  but  here  also  he  had  be¬ held  his  foe’s  overwhelming  numbers, clamoring  at  the  very  gates  with shouts  of  seeming  victory.

At  this  sight,  and  realizing  the plight  he  was  in,  his  brow  grew  dark with  wrath — this  fierce  lord  who  dealt with  devils  through  his  knowledge  of black  magic;  and  the  stubborn  pride of  Romnare  asserted  itself.  Romnare, which  had  never  asked  quarter  and never  known  defeat — Romnare  was about  to  fall.  Then  had  the  dying man  rallied  his  ebbing  life-forces  and sworn  a  great  oath;  and  by  means known  only  to  himself,  summoned Lucifer  to  his  aid.  Committing  his soul  to  him,  he  was  enabled  to  evoke

WEIRD  TALES

from  the  earth  beneath,  the  former lords  of  Bomnare,  to  rise  and  defend their  ancient  stronghold.  They,  for¬ getting  that  they  had  lain  moldering for  centuries,  rose  in  a  vast  throng, and  were  so  fierce  in  their  desire  for revenge  against  stranger  trespass  that their  earthly  passions  were  reawak¬ ened,  and  after  routing  the  enemy, they  nevermore  returned  to  lasting rest.  Nightly  they  rise,  to  enact scenes  and  deeds — part  of  their  earthlife— and  their  vigil  is  everlasting.

So  ran  the  legend,  and  we  were shocked  at  the  countess’  daring:  and when  my  own  brother  announced  that he  had  accepted  her  invitation  to  as¬ sist  in  the  orchestra  at  the  ball,  we were  stunned  with  terror.

My  mother  fell  weakly  to  her  knees in  her  fright;  and  with  ashen  face, her  voice  full  of  anguish,  implored him  to  cancel  his  rash  promise. “Eugene,”  she  cried.  ‘‘I  pray — re¬ consider!  Give  up  this  mad  venture —you  can  not  defy  those  that  reign up  there.  Remember  the  drummer  of Sarregemuines  —  his  punishment! Think,  my  boy — they  found  him wedged  in  the  great  pOrte — neck broken,  his  eyes  showing  yet  in  death the  fright  of  what  he  had  seen.  And the  other,  who  came  back  after  two hours  up  there  babbling  of  things  too eery  to  believe^— headless  shapes  danc¬ ing  about  him!  Stay  away  from  that

haunt  of  demons - ”

“Demons  —  pah!”  he  chided. “Who  believes  in  them,  but  old  ladies and  silly  girls?  There  are  no  such things — they  never  existed.  They  are products  of  disordered  minds.  Those that  went  to  the  castle  had  their  heads filled  with  tales — and  wine  spirits. They  fell  asleep,  had  dreams,  and then  came  to  harm,  prompted  by  their fears.  Would  yon  keep  me  from  ad¬ vancement?  The  countess  will  help

me  to  further  engagements - ”

“Advancement?  Will  you  ever come  away? — will  you  live  to  be  ad¬

vanced?”  my  mother  pleaded  tear¬ fully.

I  added  my  own  prayers  to  hers — for  I  was  his  only  sister  and  I  loved him  deeply;  but  my  prayers  had  no more  effect  than  my  mother’s.  He was  more  determined  to  go  than  be¬ fore,  and  remained  by  his  resolve.

Papa  Gaudier  of  the  tavern  came expressly  on  the  morning  of  the  ball, to  want  him.  “Come  'away  before the  mists  begin  to  rise,”  he  said.  “Be advised  by  one  who  has - ”

‘  ‘  Ah,  Papa  Gaudier !  Vin  l  ’Moselle is  heavy — it  is  that  which  makes ghosts  rise.  Papa  Gaudier  must change  to  the .  watery  .  juice  of  the Rhine.”

“Ha!  does  Mother  Tousante  drink heavy  1 ’Moselle  too — eh,  my  fledgling” For  she  says  with  Gustave  Gaudier: remain  not  when  the  night -mists  rise. Best  stay  home,  little  minstrel!" spoke  a  voice  from  the  doorway.

We  turned  to  behold  one  whom  I well  have  cause  to  remember.

“Bon jour,  Madame.’’  This  to  my mother,  who  had  invited  her  to  enter. “Oui,  it  is  as  Gaudier  says.  But  I, Mother  Tousante,  have  come  to  say  it is  not  well  that  your  son  enter  the castle.  Beware!  Those  up  there”— she  pointed  a  gnarled  hand  to  where the  castle  rose  on  sheer  cliffs — “leave them  alone.  They  will  not  brook trespass.”  She  stopped  abruptly  and

Eugene  had  given  her  a  smile  of tolerant  pity;  but  I,  his  sister — I shuddered  at  her  words.  For  it  was whispered  that  Mother  Tousante  had strange  gifts.  She  healed  old  wounds by  a  few  words,  murmured  low.  She told  sm-ely  if  a  sufferer  would  re¬ cover,  or  when  the  death-bell  would toll.  Against  these  remonstrances  and onr  own  final  warnings,  Eugene  set off  mi  his  errand — untroubled.

We  consoled  ourselves  as  best  we canid  with  the  thought  that  there  was a  large  body  of  people  gathered  at  the castle,  and  vainly  awaited  his  return.

THE  DEMONS  OP  CASTLE  ROMNABB


Evetoto  merged  into  night,  night into  day  again,  but  he  came  not. And  all  that  day  we  waited  and looked  from  our  gable  windows,  fac¬ ing  the  west,  from  where  he  must come.  But  the  road  stretched  toward the  hills,  empty.

Another  evening — night — bringing nothing  but  despair.

I  kept  my  fears  hidden  as  well  as I  could  from  my  mother’s  searching eye.  But  her  restlessness  increased every  moment.  She  rushed  to  the door  at  the  slightest  noise,  thinking it  might  be  Eugene,  that  he  had  re¬ turned  and  was  coming  in  on  tiptoe to  surprize  us,  but  always  she  came back  and  began  her  torturous  watch again.

Friends  had  come  to  sit  with  us, and  they  said  all  they  could  to  up¬ hold  hope.  He  might  have  gone  to the  inn — he  might  even  now  be  near

Suddenly,  a  quick  footfall  was heard  in  the  stillness,  coming  toward the  house.  I  saw  my  mother  tense visibly  as  it  approached — it  was  Eu¬ gene’s!  Quick,  eager  it  came,  stop¬ ping  at  our  house  door.

My  mother  ran  out,  glad  greetings on  her  lips.  The  next  moment  she tottered  toward  me  with  a  terrible cry,  for  no  living  soul  was  there.

“Oh,  God!  It  is  a  warning!”  she cried  wildly.  “My  son  is  lost — among  the  demons !  Eugene !  Come back,  come - ”

Her  voice  went  out.  She  had  mer¬ cifully  fallen  into  a  deep  faint.  Kind hands  took  her  from  my  trembling arms,  to  minister  to  her  comfort.

I  stood  stunned,  unable  to  move; an  eery  sensation  creeping  over  me. In  a  moment  I  felt  withdrawn  from my  surroundings  —  projected  into space,  and  saw  Eugene  playing  his violin  madly — heard  the  wail  of  the last  string — saw  it  snap.  I  heard  his ay  of  despair  as  he  flung_  himself against  the  door  of  his  prison — the castle  tower!  I  heard  bis  call  for

help,  flung  into  space:  “Mignon! Come,  help  me !  Mignon — come — come !  ’  ’  Then  silence.

With  a  shock  I  came  to.  Sum¬ moned  in  this  manner,  I  must  go  to my  brother.  He  was  at  least  alive — waiting  to  be  released.  It  was  for me  to  find  a  way.

A  way !  I  thought  of  Mother  Tousante !  She,  with  her  strange  gifts — she  would  find  a  way.  If  I  could  only persuade  her!

Berthe,  our  old  servant,  came  to tell  me  that  my  mother  was  better — and  weeping  quietly.

“Berthe,”  I  spoke  as  calmly  as  I could,  “now  that  she  is  herself,  take care  of  her.  I  feel  as  if  Eugene  was coming,  so  I  will  go  along  the  road  to meet  him.  Tell  Mother  so.”

I  went  out,  so  that  they  might  not delay  me  by  asking  questions.  Tak¬ ing  a  back  road,  little  used,  I  reached the  outskirts  of  the  village  unseen, as  was  my  desire.  I  had  no  time  to listen  to  questions  and  shocked  out¬ cries.  Instead  of  taking  the  chaussee, leading  through  the  valley  toward Bomnare  in  a  roundabout  manner,  I ascended  to  the  hills  by  a  primitive footpath,  that  rises  through  a  narrow gorge  to  the  upper  heights.

Boulders  and  wiry  creepers  tripped me — hawthorns  tore  at  me  with prickly  fingers.  I  stumbled  and  fell many  times,  because  of  these  ob¬ stacles  and  the  darkness  of  the  gorge; but  pressed  on  again,  and  at  last emerged  atop  the  hills.

Stopping  a  moment  to  take  breath, I  saw  Saviennes  lying  far  below, sleepily  silent,  as  lay  the  farther heights  of  Bomnare.  I,  with  my  task, too  vast  to  share  with  another,  seemed the  only  agitated  being  in  the  whole peaceful  night.  I  felt  isolated,  alien, as  I  stood  there;  alien  I  was  to  be, indeed,  before  another  day  broke.  . .  .

I  flew  on  again,  now  on  level ground,  through  a  stretch  of  waving rye  fields  and  open  meadows  toward Mount  Bomnare,  which  loomed  forWEIRD  TALES

biddingly  in  the  distance.  My  feet faltered  as  I  glanced  upward,  where the  blackened  battlements  were  sharp¬ ly  etched  against  a  dusky  summer night. ;  for  they  seemed  to  have  a  pe¬ culiarly  menacing  aspect  this  night.

Impatiently  I  recalled  myself.  Was I  to  turn  coward  and  leave  my  Eu¬ gene  to  his  fate?  Never!  I  would get  to  him  despite  all  the  demons  of Castle  Romnare.  His  life  hung  in the  balance — his  sanity.  The  thought tired  me  on.  I  sped  over  the  remain¬ ing  ground  with  renewed  vigor,  to the  tiny  hamlet  at  the  foot  of  the cliffs.  They  would  naturally  suppose that  we  of  Saviennes  craved  news.

At  the  inn  I  asked  about  the  gay castle  .  affair.  Luckily,  they  knew nothing  of  my  brother’s  attendance, and  the  good  mistress  was  ready  to impart  ail  she  knew.  Excitedly  she

“Ah,  there  is  no  ball  at  Romnare this  night!  You  saw  the  castle  dark ? No  music — no  laughter — no  lights, eh?  No  indeed!  They  are  all  back here — they  came  screaming  last  night, begging  for  shelter.  No  talk  of  vil¬ lage  louts  now — no  laughing  at  super¬ stition.  Every  cottage  has  a  guest tonight.”

I  spoke  of  the  countess,  hoping  to get  a  clue  to  the  riddle  of  my  broth¬ er’s  trouble.

“Treste!  How  does  Madame  la Comtesse  bear  her  disappointment?”

“Borrews!  You  should  see  her!” Her  tone  was  contemptuous  now.  “La beUe  Adrienne — Comtesse  piquante, eh?  Faugh — a  wretched  child,  with nerves  shattered — she,  that  laughed! She  suffered  a  shock  and  the  doctor ordered  rest  for  her.  La,  these Parisians — bah!”

Running  on  excitedly,  she  related what  the  guests  had  told:

There  was  a  pause  in  the  dancing, while  they  took  refreshments  and  the servants  were  lighting  the  many  hun¬ dreds  of  candles  that  were  to  illumi¬ nate  the  grand  salons  and  ballroom

for  the  evening.  Some  stood  in groups  chatting;  when  without  warn¬ ing  the  candles  were  extinguished  by unseen  hands.  Great  shouts  were heard  to  come  from  the  vaults  beneath their  feet.  These  became  unsteady, from  a  movement  of  the  parquette, which  seemed  to  heave  and  buckle  up¬ ward,  as  if  driven  by  a  terrific  sub¬ terranean  force.  Stumbling  about  in the  darkness,  unable  to  escape,  all  felt a  strong  wind  enter,  though  the  heavy doors  remained  closed;  yet  different from  wind  such  as  we  know,  in  that it  was  much  colder,  and  clammy.  And it  shrieked  as  with  a  thousand. throats. Suddenly,  some  were  propelled  from the  room,  with  the  .speed  of  lightning, not  knowing  how.  Others  told  of  be¬ ing  gripped  by  the  throat  with  icy claws  that  went  deep  into  their  flesh — then  felt  themselves  hurtling through  the  air,  landing  upon  the flagstones  of  the  courtyard.  All  re¬ ceived  heavy  blows  over  head  and shoulders,  were  slashed  about  the face,  and  still  showed  these  marks  of bodily  chastisement.  A  woman  had gone  insane  from  her  fright.  She screamed  that  the  evil  one  himself had  carried  her  through  the  air — alie had  seen  his  claws  and  wicked  fiery eyes;  and  he  dropped  her  only  when she  cried  a  prayer.  Some  of  the guests  had  already  left  for  Paris.

All  this  was  told  in  a  few  minutes. I  felt  sure  now  that  my  brother  was the  only  human  being  up  there.  I bade  the  good  woman  a  pleasant  night and  made  as  if  to  go  back  to  Savi¬ ennes,  for  she  stood  looking  after  me. But  out  of  her  vision,  I  turned  and ran  along  the  thick  shadows  of  the wild  rose  hedges,  toward  a  tiny  cot¬ tage  in  the  fields.

Once  more  fear  assailed  me,  bring¬ ing  cold  moisture  to  my  brow,  as  I contemplated  the  step  I  meant  to  take and  its  consequences.  But  fiercely  I told  my  coward  heart  that  there  was no  other  way — and  Eugene  alone  up

THE  DEMONS  OP  CASTLE  ROMNARE


T)  anting  and  gasping  for  breath  X a  reached  the  little  dwelling,  crying as  I  entered,  “Mother  Tousante! Help  me — Eugene — he  is  among  the demons — tell  me — what  must  I  do  to help - ’’

I  could  go  no  farther.  Weakly  I fell  to  a  seat.

She  sat  by  the  hearth,  looking  into the  flames  and  crooning  to  herself. Now  she  turned  quickly  and  asked. “Ha,  child,  do  you  think  he  lives? Have  you  seen  him — heard V

“It  is  so!  I  was  made  to  see.  He is  in  the  castle  tower.  I  saw  him  fall against  the  door  of  his  chamber. Help  me  pray!  How  shall  I  save him.’"

“Ah.1’  she  muttered,  as  if  to  her¬ self;  “he,  too,  is  a  Somnarc.  Eu¬ gene  Romnare— how  comes  he  by  that

ancestor - ?  But  uo  one  tolls  ox

that  now — he  is  not  of  the  direct strain.  Proof  enough  that  he  bears the  Romnare  name.”

Then,  as  if  the  firelight  had  been absorbed  into  her  dark  eyes,  a  red¬ dish  gleam  came  from  them  as  she said  slowly,  looking  into  mine ; “Child,  wiit  make  a  promise?  Wilt do  as  I  require '?  And — wilt  keep  si¬ lence?  It  is  little  that  I  ask.  You have  two  pets — a  white  pigeon,  a black  cat.  I  want  them.  My  raven — my  good  Jacques — is  gone.  Dead of  old  age.  I  am  alone — but  for - ’  ’

Ooohooo!  came  a  scream  from  the darkness  at  the  window.  My  heart contracted.  Mother  Tousante  raised her  hand  and  made  a  sign  against  the blackness.  The  scream  was  not  re¬ peated.  Then  she  turned  to  me  and said,  “How,  little  one?  Vour promise.”

“I  promise,”  I  said.  I  loved  my little  friends  and  inwardly  mourned their  loss,  but  for  the  help  she  alone could  give  me  with  her  arts,  I  must sacrifice  whatever  she  asked.

“The  pretty  trinket,  yon  broehe —

wilt  part  with  that  ?  I  am  but  a  poor woman — eh?”

The  greed  in  her  eyes  must  he  ap¬ peased.  I  gave  her  the  broehe.

“A  last  plea,  cherie.  I  know  many things.  All  that  I  know  will  you loam  this  night.  But.  to  gain  knowl¬ edge,  we  must  serve.  So  you  must come  when  I  call  of  nights — to  serve. You  shall  be  like  me — have  power — see  hidden  things — mingle  at  Rom¬ nare  without  harm.  You  shall  free your  brother,  and  those  up  there  may not  hinder  you.  You  will  come — heed  the  call,  Inin?  To  serve?”  She knew  full  well  that  I  must — after  this night.

“I  will  do  as  you  ask.  Mother Tousante.  ’  ’

“And  you  will  not  tell — never speak  of  what  you  will  see  this  night.

shapen  ones,  that  wander  in  the  dark? That  is  the  punishment.  Silence  is golden — wilt  keep  it?”

“I  will  never  speak.”

She  nodded  approval.  Going  to  the cupboard,  she  brought  a  three-legged pot,  containing  a  dark  liquid,  which she  set  into  the  fire.  From  the  low, beamed  ceiling  she  took  sprigs  of myrrh,  box,  and  yarrow,  adding  them to  the  contents  of  the  pot.  On  the fire  itself  she  sprinkled  frankincense.

Turning  to  me  again  she  said,  “I will  now  make  the  chain,  to  link  you with  the  hidden  world.  For  that  I must  have  your  hair.  This  I  take from  the  center  of  yonr  head ;  and  as I  weave  you  must  repeat  the  words  I speak.  Bow!”  She  bent  my  head forward  and  unloosed  my  hair.

In  a  few  minutes  this  task  was done.  She  snipped  the  chain  from my  head,  to  tie  it  about  her  left  wrist, while  she  continued  to  chant  strange words.  A  white  steam  rose  from  the pot  and  began  to  swirl  toward  me.  At thi3,  Mother  Tonsante  dipped  a  fresh sprig  of  box  into  the  liquid  and  be¬ gan  to  sprinkle  the  room.  Raising


TALES

her  voice,  she  called  a  name  and  in¬ vocation.

* '  Come — thon  art  near !  Give  sight to  this  blind  one — true  sight.  An¬ other  would  enter  the  silence.  Give

More  quickly  swirled  the  white vapors,  enveloping  me.  There  eame  a muffled  roar,  and  the  door  flew  open. I  heard  a  swish,  but  saw  no  one ;  yet  I sensed  a  Presence  close  to  me.  I  sat as  in  a  trance.

Suddenly  I  felt  the  Presence  bend over  me  and  a  voice  spoke.  “By  thy will  thou  enterest  the  hidden  world. One  of  the  silent  clan  art  thou  hence¬ forth.  I  give  thee  power  to  summon help  from  the  infinite.  For  that,  I claim  thee  as  my  own.  I  am  the  Mas¬ ter — thou  art  mine!”

Away  fell  the  scales  from  my  blind eyes.  I  beheld  him,  that  had  given aid  to  the  last  Romnare.  .  .  I  sank  to my  knees — hut  not  with  fear.  .  .  He was  kind!  He  raised  me!

“Speed  on  thy  way.  By  yon  cross¬ roads,  gifts  await  thee.  Will!  Thy desire  shall  be  fulfilled.”

Swiftly  I  sped  on— not  on  man¬ made  roads.  My  feet  barely  touched the  ground;  hedges,  creepers  in  the ditches  did  not  hinder  me  now.  Power —I  had  it,  felt'  it.  As  by  a  very  whirl¬ wind  I  was  carried  toward  the mountain.

Suddenly  the  crossroads — marked by  a  large  stone  cross,  were  before  me. I  stopped,  for  here  I  must  prepare for  my  entrance  into  the  castle, among  its  inmates.

Summoning  all  my  will-power,  I spoke  a  wish.  It  was  granted — the gift  of  double  sight.  Looking  about me  I  saw  green  flames  shoot  up  by the  roadside.  Picking  the  herbs,  so marked  for  me,  I  stood  in  the  middle of  the  crossroads  and  ate  them.  Fac¬ ing  the  mountain,  I  made  my  final plea.  Oh,  my  brother!  .  .

I  bent  to  the  ground  as  I  felt  com¬ pelled,  and  the  transformation  took place.

Fierce  exultation  filled  me,  and  a raucous  cry  of  triumph  broke  from my  throat.  I  had  become,  for  the time  being,  the  thing  feared  and shunned  by  men,  which  may  walk  in both  worlds — the  seen  and  unseen — yet  be  of  neither.

Eager  to  set  my  brother  free,  I  sped on.  Again,  not  on  man-made  ways, I  ascended  the  mountain  through brush,  over  boulders  and  narrow ledges;  where  human  foot  could  not find  a  hold.  Up — straight  up — to where  my  Eugene  waited.  No  fear, no  hesitation  now.  And  night  was not  a  time  to  be  afraid  in,  nor  lonely. For  it  is  peopled  far  more  densely than  day.

At  last  I  reached  the  plateau  of  the mountain.  My  task  was  near  fulfilTTVakk  and  silent  lay  the  castle.  But -Le  not  for  long.  The  great  portal was  flung  wide  as  I  approached,  and from  the  interior  streamed  the  light of  many  torches.

Boisterous  shouts,  ribald  laughter, sounded  from  there.  Gross  shapes, yet  human  in  form,  lounged  about  the heavy  board.  Heads  and  tongues  loll¬ ing,  they  clamored  for  more  wine,  lift¬ ing  their  empty  tankards  with  curses to  the  scurrying  retainers.  Women, dressed  in  costly  splendor,  swayed laughingly  to  arms  drunkenly  held out  for  them,  or  skipped  away  coquettishly,  in  mock  prudery.  Debauchery, wantonness,  shameless  display.

Of  the  preparations  that  human hands  had  made  to  make  Komnare  a dwelling  place  for  light  hearts,  not  a trace  remained,  except  a  few  shreds from  flags  and  garlands,  fluttering forlornly  on  the  ground.

Truth  spoke  the  ancient  legends  of Romnare.  Scenes  of  crimes  and  exe¬ cutions,  forgotten  tortures,  were  en¬ acted  before  my  gaze  as  I  passed

THE  DEMONS  OP  CASTLE  ROMNARE


through  the  courtyard.  The  death  of the  minstrel ;  his  murderer,  the  Black Knight,  listening  to  the  black  curse spoken  by  paling  lips,  and  the  fulfil¬ ment  of  that  curse;  the  monster,  im¬ muring  Leonie;  again,  the  rope  dang¬ ling  from  his  neck,  fleeing  in  mad terror  from  pursuing  specters,  red flames  of  hate  breaking  from  cavern¬ ous  eyesockets.  The  block,  the  ax flashing  down  on  the  victim’s  neck; blood,  dried  centuries  before,  spurt¬ ing  again  from  headless  trunks;  heads rolling  away  in  the  dust,  yet  uttering vile  imprecations  against  the  strong¬ hold  and  the  lords  of  Romnare.

How  truly  have  they  been  fulfilled ! Forgotten  is  the  glorious  past  of proud.  Romnare — gone  the  days  of conquest  and  victorious  tourney.  .  .

I  was  led  to  my  brother  by  a  tall, beautiful  girl.  She,  condemned  to  the tower  by  her  husband  whom  she  had betrayed,  had  starved  to  death  there. In  life  she  had  been  far-famed  for her  grace,  and  for  luring  men  to  de¬ struction.  She  still  works  her  spells.

As  she  opened  the  door  to  slip  in  to him,  I  braced  myself  against  it  and so  forestalled  her  attempt  to  close  it. Her  eyes  glowed  redly  with  baffled rage  when  she  divined  my  errand,  but she  had  no  power  to  oppose  me.  Nor could  she  hold  my  brother  against  the wish  of  him  that  had  sent  me.  Eu¬ gene,  seeing  in  the  eery  light  shed  by the  shade  that  the  door  was  held  open, stumbled  out.  I  saw  him  glance  fear¬ fully  at  me  and  his  surroundings,  and tremblingly  murmur  a  prayer  of deliverance.

My  heart  ached  at  his  terror;  so, to  reassure  him,  I  brushed  lightly against  his  hand.  But  he  shrank away  in  such  dread,  that  I  kept  from him  then.  I  led  him  through  the courtyard  and  the  throng  surroundMany  hands,  taperisg  to  sharp points,  were  stretched  forth  to  erush the  life-spark  from  his  body,  to  be withdrawn  because  of  the  shape  be¬

side  him.  So  we  walked  away,  united — yet  how  far  apart!  .  .

At  a  safe  distance  from  the  ca3tle, where  the  road  begins  to  slope  down¬ ward,  I  left  my  brother,  as  in  his nervous  dread  he  would  be  better  if  I

Standing  alone,  looking  at  the peaceful  valley  below,  I  heard  Eu¬ gene  cry  a  loud  prayer  of  thanks  at his  deliverance ;  and  a  charm — against

I  went  down  speedily  where  I  had come  up.

By  the  crossroads,  myself  once more,  I  a  waited  him.  When  he  came around  the  bend  and  saw  a  form  move toward  him  from  the  shadow  of  the cross,  he  stopped.

I  called  as  I  ran  to  him,  “Eugene, beloved!  It  is  I,  Mignon,  who  have waited  here  for  you - ”

He  came,  throwing  his  arms  about me,  with  a  glad  cry."

We  made  our  way  home  as  quickly as  his  weak  state  allowed.  Many  were the  calls  of  welcome  that  greeted  us. My  mother  cried,  with  joy — Eugene back — sane,  unharmed !

But  at  the  wondering  questions  as to  his  rescue,  he  shook  Ins  head  silent¬ ly.  He  ate  and  retired  to  much needed  rest.

Many  days  elapsed  before  he  would speak  of  his  adventure.  At  last, after  much  coaxing,  he  told  as  fol-

“  A  pause  was  called  in  playing  and dancing  while  refreshments  were  of¬ fered  and  the  candles  lit.  I  went,  my violin  under  my  arm,  to  take  a  stroll in  the  courtyard.  Suddenly  a  lady came  before  me  and  beckoned,  as  if she  wanted  me  to  accompany  her.  She led  the  way  to  the  tower.  I  followed, thinking  her  one  of  the  guests,  who wished  to  go  to  the  roof  to  enjoy  the view— but  timid  of  the  strange  sur¬ roundings.  Her  dress  was  of  a  by¬ gone  fashion;  but  as  the  ladies  had donned  like  costumes  for  the  hall,  I


WEIRD  TALES

saw  nothing  amiss.  She  looked  as much  a  living  being  as  I.  We ascended  the  stairway  of  the  tower, and  she,  going  before  me,  opened  the door  and  motioned  to  me  to  enter  with her.  I  did  so  and  the  heavy  door clanged  shut.  I  looked  for  the  farther stairway  to  the  roof,  but  saw  to  my surprize  that  we  had  entered  a  small chamber  with  no  means  of  egress  ex¬ cept  the  door  by  which  we  had  en¬ tered.  In  glancing  about,  my  eyes fell  to  a  pile  of  white,  bleached  bones, lying  at  my  feet.  Looking  at  the  girl for  explanation  (we  had  not  spoken yet)  I  beheld  her  fading  away  to nothingness.  Too  late  I  realized  my mistake.  I  called  loudly  for  atten¬ tion,  but  no  one  came  near  me.  To keep  my  reason  and  hope,  I  played my  violin.  I  played  ail  night,  all  day, night  again,  till  the  last  string  broke. I  should  have  gone  mad  but  for  that. Many  times  I  called  to  you,  Mother, and  Mignon.

“When  I  had  resigned  myself  to  a living  grave,  the  door  opened  once more.  The  shade  entered  and  would have  closed  it  again,  but  for  another shape — a  terrible  thing  to  see! — that stood  holding  it  open  for  me  to  es¬ cape.  I  ran  out  quickly.  I  felt  sure that  the  thing  that  led  me  away  from the  castle  was  friendly.  Once  it brushed  against  me,  much  as  if  to give  me  comfort;  but  I  could  not bring  myself  to  touch  it  or  speak  to it  in  my  aversion.  I  was  glad  when it  left  me  by  the  roadside,  to  disap¬ pear  into  the  night.

“Gladder  yet  was  I  when  I  found Mignon  waiting  for  me  by  the  cross. But  I  wish  to  forget - ”

Forget  he  could  not.  Not  ill  in body  was  Eugene.  But  I  saw  what none  did,  not  even  he;  his  heart  with¬

ered  away.  I,  too,  had  seen  the  beau¬ tiful,  evil  shade.

Fallen  under  the  spell  of  the  phan¬ tom  woman,  my  brother  sought  and welcomed  death.  My  mother,  heart¬ broken,  followed  soon.  .  .

Many  times  have  I  gone,  once  I knew  my  power  and  impunity,  to linger  with  those  that  rise  with  the night  mists.  Much  have  I  learned. All  the  secrets  of  feudal  Romnare  are known  to  me — all  its  crimes.  I  have tarried  with  the  ladies  dwelling  there in  the  days  when  Romnare  blood flowed  hot  and  flared  quickly;  the days  when  the  throw  of  jeweled  dice was  life  or  death.  I  have  heard  their life-stories,  told  in  faint,  tinkling voiees,  wafted  to  me  across  the  span cf  many  centuries.  Fierce  loves, abysmal  hates  have  they  shown  me; and  why  they  can  not  rest.  Beauti¬ ful  goblets  of  carved  gold  are  borne about  by  slender  hands  up  there. Thirsty  homeeomers,  taking  deep drafts  of  the  sparkling  contents,  “To Life  and  Love,”  would  sink  to  eter¬ nal  sleep;  so  making  room  for  be¬ loved  rivals.  Finely  wrought  dag¬ gers  have  I  seen,  carried  in  the  wide sleeves  of  brocaded  gowns,  against moments  of  opportunity.  Hidden doors  that  keep  ghastly  secrets

I  have  gone  far  to  overcome  the lure  of  Romnare;  of  nights,  when  my unrest  was  too  great  I  have  written this — for  relief.

In  Lorraine  they  speak  of  the  cas¬ tle  as  formerly,  with  this  added :  how the  gay  Countess  Adrienne  became  a silent  inmate  of  the  Carmelite  con¬ vent  near  Saviennes;  and  how  Eugene Romnare  was  rescued  from  the  de mons  of  Castle  Romnare  by  a  large black  werewolf.

“  7S  /fORBLEV,  Friend  TrowIvM  bridge,  have  a  care,”  Jules -L  rJL  de  Grandin  warned  as  my lurching  motor  ear  almost  ran  into the  brimming  ditch  beside  the  rainsoaked  road.

I  wrenched  the  steering  wheel  vi¬ ciously  and  swore  softly  under  my breath  as  I  leaned  forward,  striving vainly  to  pierce  the  curtains  of  rain which  shut  us  in.

“No  use,  old  fellow,”  X  confessed, turning  to  my  companion,  “we’re lost;  that’s  all  there  is  to  it.”

“Ha,”  he  laughed  shortly,  “do  you just  begin  to  discover  that  fact,  my friend  f  Parbleu,  I  have  known  it this  last  half-hour.”

Throttling  my  engine  down,  I  crept along  the  concrete  roadway,  peering through  my  streaming  windshield  and storm  curtains  for  some  familiar  land¬ mark,  but  nothing  but  blackness,  wet and  impenetrable,  met  my  eyes.

Two  hours  before,  answering  an  in¬ sistent  ’phone  call,  de  Grandin  and  I had  left  the  security  of  my  warm  of¬ fice  to  administer  a  dose  of  toxin  anti¬ toxin  to  an  Italian  laborer’s  child  who lay,  choking  with  diphtheria,  in  a  hut at  the  workmen’s  settlement  where the  new  branch  of  the  railroad  was being  put  through.  The  cold,  driv¬ ing  rain  and  the  Stygian  darkness  of the  night  had  misled  me  when  I  made the  detour  around  the  railway  cut, and  for  the  past  hour  and  a  half  I had  been  feeling  my  way  over  unfa¬ miliar  roads  as  futilely  as  a  lost  child wandering  in  the  woods.

“Grace  a  Vieu,”  de  Grandin  ex¬ claimed,  seizing  my  arm  with  both his  small,  strong  hands,  “a  light !  See, there  it  shines  in  the  night.  Come, let  us  go  to  it.  Even  the  meanest hovel  is  preferable  to  this  so  villain¬ ous  rain.”

I  peeped  through  a  joint  in  the  cur¬ tains  and  saw  a  faint,  intermittent

WEIBD  TALES

light  flickering  through  the  driving rain  some  two  hundred  yards  away.

“All  right,”  I  acquiesced,  climb¬ ing  from  the  car,  “we’ve  lost  so  much time  already  we  probably  couldn’t  do anything  for  the  Vivianti  child,  and maybe  these  people  can  put  us  on  the right  road,  anyway.”

Plunging  through  puddles  like miniature  lakes,  soaked  by  the  winddriven  rain,  barking  our  6hins  again and  again  on  invisible  obstacles,  we made  for  the  light,  finally  drawing up  to  a  large,  square  house  of  red brick  fronted  by  an  imposing  whitepillared  porch.  Light  streamed  out through  the  fanlight  over  the  white door  and  from  the  two  tall  windows flanking  the  portal.

" Parole u.  a  house  of  circumstance, this,  ”  de  Grandih  commented,  mount¬ ing  the  porch  and  banging  lustily  at the  polished  brass  knocker.

I  wrinkled  my  forehead  in  thought while  he  rattled  the  knocker  a  second time.  “Strange,  I  can’t  remember this  place,”  I  muttered.  “I  thought I  knew  every  building  within  thirty

miles,  but  this  is  a  new  one - ”

“Ah  bah!”  de  Grandin  interrupt¬ ed.  “Always  yon  must  be  casting  a wet  blanket  on  the  parade,  Friend Trowbridge.  First  you  insist  on  los¬ ing  us  in  the  midst  of  a  sacre  rain¬ storm,  then  when  I,  Jules  de  Grandin, find  its  a  shelter  from  the  weather, you  must  needs  waste  time  in  wonder¬ ing  why  it  is  you  know  not  the  place. ilorbleu,  you  will  refuse  shelter  be¬ cause  you  have  never  been  presented to  the  master  of  the  house,  if  I  do not  watch  you,  I  fear.”

“But  I  ought  to  know  the  place,  de Grandin,”  I  protested.  “It’s  cer¬ tainly  imposing  enough  to - ”

My  defense  was  cut  short  by  the sharp  click  of  a  lock,  and  the  wide, white  door  swung  inward  before  us.

"We  Strode  over  the  threshold,  re¬ moving  our  dripping  hats  as  we  did so,  and  turned  to  address  the  person who  had  opened  the  door.

“Why - ”  I  began,  and  stared

about  me  in  open-mouthed  surprize.

“Name  of  a  little  blue  man!”  said Jules  de  Grandin,  and  added  his  in¬ credulous  stare  to  mine.

As  far  ae  we  could  see,  we  were alone  in  the  mansion’s  imposing  hall. Straight  before  us,  perhaps  for  forty feet,  ran  a  corridor  of  parquetry flooring,  covered  here  and  there  by rieh-hued  Oriental  rugs.  White-pan¬ eled  walls,  adorned  with  oil  paintings of  imposing-looking  individuals,  rose for  eighteen  feet  or  so  to  a  beautifully frescoed  ceiling,  and  a  graceful,  curv¬ ing  staircase  swept  upward  from  the farther  end  of  the  room.  Candles  in cut  glass  sconces  lighted  the  highceiled  apartment,  the  hospitable  glow from  a  log  fire  burning  under  the  high white  marble  mantel  lent  an  air  of homely  coziness  to  the  place,  but  of anything  living,  human  or  animal, there  was  no  faintest  trace  or  sign.

Click!  Behind  us,  the  heavy  outer door  swung  to  silently  on  well-oiled hinges  and  the  automatic  lock  latched firmly.

“Death  of  my  life!”  de  Grandin murmured,  reaching  for  the  door’s silver-plated  knob  and  giving  it  a vigorous  twist.  “Par  7a  moustache du  didble,  Friend  Trowbridge,  it  is locked!  truly,  perhaps  it  had  been better  if  we  had  remained  outside  in the  rain!”

“Not  at  all,  I  assure  you,  my  dear sir,”  a  rich,  mellow  voice  answered him  from  the  curve  of  the  stairs. “Tour  arrival  was  nothing  less  than providential,  gentlemen.”

Coming  toward  us,  walking  heavily with  the  aid  of  a  stout  cane,  was  an unnsually  handsome  man  attired  in pajamas  and  dressing  gown,  a  sort  of nightcap  of  flowered  silk  on  his  white head,  slippers  of  softest  Morocco  on

“You  are  a  physician,  sir?”  he asked,  glancing  inquiringly  at  the medicine  case  in  my  hand.


“Yes,”  I  answered.  “I  am  Dr. Samuel  Trowbridge,  from  Harrisonville,  and  this  is  Dr.  Jules  de  Grandin, of  Paris,  who  is  my  guest.”

“Ah,”  replied  our  host,  “I  am very,  very  glad  to  welcome  you  to Marston  Hall,  gentlemen.  It  so  hap¬ pens  that  one — er — my  daughter,  is quite  ill,  and  I  have  been  unable  to obtain  medical  aid  for  her  on  account of  my  infirmities  ancl  the  lack  of  a telephone.  If  I  may  trespass  on  your charity  to  attend  my  poor  child,  I shall  be  delighted  to  have  you  as  my guests  for  the  night.  If  you  will  lay aside  your  coats” — he  paused  ex¬ pectantly.  “Ah,  thank  you” — as  we hung  our  dripping  garments  over  a chair — “you  will  come  this  way,

We  followed  him  up  the  broad stairs  and  down  an  upper  cox-ridor  to a  tastefully  furnished  chamber  where a  young  girl — fifteen  years  of  age, perhaps — lay  propped  up  with  a  pile of  diminutive  pillows.

“Anabel,  Amabel,  my  love,  here  are two  doctors  to  see  you,”  the  old  gen¬ tleman  called  softly.

The  girl  moved  her  fair  head  with a  weary,  peevish  motion  and  whim¬ pered  softly  in  her  sleep,  but  gave  no further  recognition  of  our  presence.

“And  what  have  been  her  symp¬ toms,  if  you  please,  Monsieur?"  de Grandin  asked  as  he  rolled  back  the cuffs  of  his  jacket  and  prepared  to make  an  examination.

“Sleep,”  replied  our  host,  “just sleep.  Some  time  ago  she  suffered from  influenza,  lately  she  has  been pven  to  fits  of  protracted  dumber from  which  I  can  not  waken  her.  I fear  she  may  have  contracted  sleep¬ ing  sickness,  sir.  I  am  told  it  some¬ times  follows  influenza.”

“H’m.”  De  Grandin  passed  his small,  pliable  hands  rapidly  over  the girl’s  cheeks  in  the  region  of  the  ears, felt  rapidly  along  her  neck  over  the

jugular  vein,  then  raised  a  puzzled glance  to  me.  *  ‘  Have  you  some  lauda¬ num  and  aconite  in  your  bag,  Friend Trowbridge?”  he  asked.

“There’s  some  morphine,”  I  an¬ swered,  “and  aconite;  but  no  lauda-

“No  matter,”  he  waved  his  hand impatiently,  bustling  over  to  the  med¬ icine  case  and  extracting  two  smai! phials  from  it.  “Iso  matter,  this  will do  as  well.  Some  water,  if  you  please. Monsieur,”  he  turned  to  the  father, a  medicine  bottle  in  each  hand.

“But,  de  Grandin” — I  began,  when a  sudden  lack  from  one  of  his  slender, heavily-shod  feet  nearly  broke  my shin — “de  Grandin,  do  you  think that’s  the  proper  medication  ?  ”  I  fin¬ ished  lamely.

“Oh,  metis  oni,  undoubtedly.”  he replied.  “Nothing  else  would  do  in this  case.  Water,  if  you  please,  Mon  ■ sieur,”  he  repeated,  again  addressing the  father.

I  stared  at  him  in  ill-disguised amazement  as  he  extracted  a  pellet from  each  of  the  bottles  and  quickly ground  them  to  powder  while  the  old gentleman  filled  a  tumbler  with  water from  the  porcelain  pitcher  which  stood on  the  chintz-draped  wash-stand  in the  comer  of  the  chamber.  He  was  as familiar  with  the  arrangement  of  my medicine  case  as  I  was,  I  knew,  and knew  that  my  phials  were  arranged by  numbers  instead  of  being  labeled. Deliberately,  I  saw,  he  had  passed over  the  morphine  and  aconite,  and had  chosen  two  bottles  of  plain,  un¬ medicated  sugar  of  milk  pills.  What his  object  was  I  had  no  idea,  but  I watched  him  measure  out  four  tea¬ spoonfuls  of  water,  dissolve  the  pow¬ der  in  it,  and  pour  the  sham  medica¬ tion  down  the  unconscious  girl’s throat

“Good,”  he  proclaimed  as  he washed  the  glass  with  meticulous  care. “She  will  rest  easily  until  the  momWEIBD  TALES

mg,  Monsieur.  When  daylight  comes we  shall  decide  on  further  treatment. Will  yon  now  permit  that  we  retire!” He  bowed  politely  to  the  master  of the  house,  who  returned  his  courtesy and  led  us  to  a  comfortably  furnished room  farther  down  the  corridor.

“Cee  here,  de  Grandin,”  I  demand-

'J  ed  when  our  host  had  wished  us a  pleasant  good-night  and  closed  the door  upon  us,  “what  was  your  idea in  giving  that  child  an  impotent  dose like  that - !”

“S-s-sh!”  he  cut  me  short  with  a fierce  whisper.  “That  young  girl, mon  ami,  is  no  more  suffering  from encephalitis  than  you  or  I.  There  is no  characteristic  swelling  of  the  face or  neck,  no  diagnostic  hardening  of the  jugular  vein.  Her  temperature was  a  bit  subnormal,  it  is  true — but upon  her  breath  I  detected  the  odor  of chloral  hydrate.  For  some  reason, good  X  hope,  but  bad  I  fear,  she  is drugged,  and  I  thought  it  best  to  play the  fool  and  pretend  I  believed  the man’s  statements.  Pardieu.,  the  fool who  knows  himself  no  fool  has  an  im¬ mense  advantage  over  the  fool  who believes  him  one,  my  friend.”

“But - ”

“But  me  no  buts.  Friend  Trow¬ bridge;  remember  how  the  door  of this  house  opened  with  none  to  touch it,  recall  how  it  closed  behind  us  in the  same  way,  and  observe  this,  if  you will.  ”  Stepping  softly,  he  crossed  the room,  pulled  aside  the  chintz  curtains at  the  window  and  tapped  lightly  on the  frame  which  held  the  thick  plate glass  panes.  “Regardez  vows,”  he ordered,  tapping  the  frame  a  second

Like  every  other  window  I  had  seen in  the  house,  this  one  was  of  the  case¬ ment  type,  small  panes  of  heavy  glass being  sunk  into  latticelike  frames. Under  de  Grandin ’s  directions  I tapped  the  latter,  and  found  them not  painted  wood,  as  I  had  supposed, but  stoutly  welded  and  bolted  metal.

Also,  to  my  surprize,  I  found  the tumbuckles  for  opening  the  casement were  only  dummies,  the  metal  frames being  actually  securely  bolted  to  the stone  sills.  To  all  intents,  we  were  as firmly  incarcerated  as  though  serv¬ ing  a  sentence  in  the  state  peniten¬ tiary.

“The  door - ”  I  began,  but  he

shook  his  head.

Obeying  his  gesture,  I  crossed  the room  and  turned  the  handle  lightly. It  twisted  tinder  the  pressure  of  my fingers,  but,  though  we  had  heard  no warning  click  of  lock  or  bolt,  the door  itself  was  as  firmly  fastened  as though  nailed  shut.

“Wh — why,”  I  asked  stupidly, “what’s  it  all  mean,  de  Grandin!”

“Je  ne  sais  quoi,”  he  answered with  a  shrug,  “but  one  thing  I  know: I  like  not  this  house,  Friend  Trow¬ bridge.  I ’  ’

Above  the  hissing  of  the  rain against  the  windows  and  the  howl  of the  sea-wind  about,  the  gables,  there suddenly  rose  a  scream,  wire-edged with  inarticulate  terror,  freighted with  utter,  transcendental  anguish  of body  and  soul.

“ Cordieu !”  He  threw  up  his  head like  a  hound  hearing  the  call  of  the pack  from  far  away.  “Did  you  hear it,  too,  Friend  Trowbridge!”

“Of  course,”  I  answered,  every nerve  in  my  body  trembling  in  horri¬ pilation  with  the  echo  of  the  hopeless

“Pardieu,”  he  repeated,  “I  like this  house  less  than  ever,  now !  Come, let  us  move  this  dresser  before  our door.  It  is  safer  that  we  sleep  behind barricades  this  night,  I  think.”

We  blocked  the  door,  and  I  was soon  sound  asleep.

“'T'rowbridge,  Trowbridge,  my

A  friend” — de  Grandin  drove  a sharp  elbow  into  my  ribs — “wake  up, I  beseech  you.  Name  of  a  green  goat, you  lie  like  one  dead,  save  for  your so  abominable  snoring!”

THE  HOUSE  OF  HORROR


“Eh?”  I  answered  sleepily,  thrust¬ ing  myself  deeper  beneath  the  vol¬ uminous  bedclothes.  Despite  the  un¬ usual  occurrences  of  the  night  I  was tired  to  the  point  of  exhaustion,  and fairly  drunk  with  sleep.

“Up;  arise,  my  friend,”  he  or¬ dered,  shaking  me  excitedly.  “The coast  is  clear,  I  think,  and  it  is  high time  we  did  some  exploring.”

“Rats!”  I  scoffed,  disinclined  to leave  my  comfortable  couch.  “What’s the  use  of  wandering  about  a  strange house  to  gratify  a  few  unfounded suspicions?  The  girl  might  have  been given  a  dose  of  chloral  hydrate,  but the  chances  are  her  father  thought  he was  helping  her  when  he  gave  it.  As for  these  trick  devices  for  opening and  locking  doors,  the  old  man  ap¬ parently  lives  here  alone  and  has  in¬ stalled  these  mechanical  aids  to  les¬ sen  his  work.  He  has  to  hobble around  with  a  cane,  you  know.”

“Ah!”  my  companion  assented  sar¬ castically.  “And  that  scream  we heard,  did  he  install  that  as  an  aid  to his  infirmities,  also?”

“Perhaps  the  girl  woke  up  with  a nightmare,  ’  ’  I  hazarded,  but  he  made an  impatient  gesture.

“Perhaps  the  moon  is  composed  of green  cheese,  also, ”  he  replied.  “Up, up  and  dress;  my  friend.  This  house should  be  investigated  while  yet  there is  time.  Attend  me:  But  five  min¬ utes  ago,  through  this  very  window, I  did  observe  Monsieur  our  host,  at¬ tired  in  a  raincoat,  depart  from  his own  front  door,  and  without  his  cane. Purlieu,  he  did  skip  as  agilely  as  any boy,  I  assure  you.  Even  now  he  is almost  at  the  spot  where  we  aban¬ doned  your  automobile.  What  he  in¬ tends  doing  there  I  know  not.  What I  intend  doing  I  know  full  well.  Do you  accompany  me  or  not?”

“Oh,  I  suppose  so,”  I  agreed, crawling  from  the  bed  and  slipping into  my  clothes.  “How  are  you  go¬ ing  to  get  past  that  locked  door?”

He  flashed  me  one  of  his  sudden smiles,  shooting  the  points  of  his  little blond  mustache  upward  like  the horns  of  an  inverted  crescent.  “Ob¬ serve,”  he  ordered,  displaying  a  short length  of  thin  wire.  “In  the  days when  woman's  hair  was  still  her crowning  glory:,  what  mighty  deeds  a lady  could  encompass  with  a  hairpin ! Pardieu-,  there  was  one  little  grisette in  Paris  who  showed  me  some  tricks in  the  days  before  the  war !  Regard me,  if  you  please.  ’  ’

Deftly  he  thrust  the  pliable  loop  of wire  into  the  keyhole,  twisting  it  ten¬ tatively  back  and  forth,  at  length pulling  it  out  and  regarding  it  care¬ fully.  “Trcs  lien.”  he  muttered  as he  reached  into  an  inside  pocket, bringing  out  a  heavier  bit  of  wire.

“See,”  he  displayed  the  finer  wire, “with  this  I  take  an  impression  of that  lock’s  tumblers,  now” — quickly he  bent  the  heavier  wire  to  conform to  the  waved  outline  of  the  lighter loop — “voila,  I  have  a  key!”

And  he  had.  The  lock  gave  readily to  the  pressure  of  his  improvised  key, and  we  stood  in  the  long,  dark  hall, staring  about  us  half  curiously,  half fearfully.

“This  way,  if  you  please,”  de Grandin  ordered;  “first  we  will  lookin  upon  la  jeunesse,  to  see  how  it  goes

AVe  walked  on  tiptoe  down  the  cor¬ ridor,  entered  the  chamber  where  the girl  lay-,  and  approached  the  bed.

She  was  lying  with  her  hands folded  upon  her  breast  in  the  manner of  those  composed  for  their  final rest,  her  wide,  periwinkle-blue  eyes staring  sightlessly  before  her,  the short,  tightly  curled  ringlets  of  her blond,  bobbed  hair  surrounding  her drawn,  pallid  face  like  a  golden  nim¬ bus  encircling  the  ivory  features  of  a saint  in  some  carved  ikon.

My  companion  approached  the  bed softly,  placing  one  hand  on  the  girl’s wrist  with  professional  precision. “Temperature  low,  pulse  weak,”  he

WEIRD  TALES

murmured,  cheeking  off  her  symp¬ toms.  ‘  ‘  Complexion  pale  to  the  point of  lividity, — ha,  now  for  the  eyes; sleeping,  her  pupils  should  have  been contracted,  while  they  should  now  be dilate — Die u  de  Dieu!  Trowbridge, my  friend,  come  here.

“Look,”  he  commanded,  pointing to  the  apathetic  girl’s  face.  “Those eyes — grand  Dieu,,  those  eyes!  It  is sacrilege,  nothing  less.”

I  looked  into  the  girl's  face,  then started  back  with  a  half-suppressed cry  of  horror.  Asleep,  as  she  had been  when  we  first  saw  her,  the  child had  been  pretty  to  the  point  of  love¬ liness.  Her  features  were  small  and regular,  clean-cut  as  those  of  a  face in  a  cameo,  the  tendrils  of  her  lightvellow  hair  had  lent  her  a  dainty, ethereal  charm  comparable  to  that  of a  Dresden  china  shepherdess.  It  had needed  but  the  raising  of  her  deli¬ cate,  long-lashed  eyelids  to  give  her face  the  animation  of  some  laughing sprite  playing  truant  from  fairyland.

Her  lids  were  raised  now,  but  the eyes  they  unveiled  were  no  clear,  joy¬ ous  windows  of  a  tranquil  soul. Rather,  they  were  the  peepholes  of  a spirit  in  torment.  The  irides  were  a lovely  shade  of  blue,  it  is  true,  but the  optics  themselves  were  things  of horror.  Rolling  grotesquely  to  right and  left,  they  peered  futilely  in  op¬ posite  directions,  lending  to  her sweet,  pale  face  the  half-ludicrous, wholly  hideous  expression  of  a  bloat¬ ing  frog.

“Good  heavens!”  I  exclaimed, turning  from  the  deformed  girl  with a  feeling  of  disgust  akin  to  nausea; “What  a  terrible  affliction ! ’ ’

De  Grandin  made  no  reply,  but bent  over  the  girl’s  still  form,  gazing intently  at  her  malformed  eyes.  “It is  not  natural,”  he  announced.  “The muscles  have  been  tampered  with,  and tampered  with  by  someone  who  is  a master  hand  at  surgery.  Will  you get  me  your  syringe  and  some  strych¬

nin,  Friend  Trowbridge?  This  poor, one  is  still  unconscious.”

I  hastened  to  our  bedroom  and  re¬ turned  with  the  hypodermic  and stimulant,  then  stood  beside  him, watching  eagerly,  as  he  administered a  strong  injection.

The  girl’s  narrow  chest  fluttered  as the  powerful  drug  took  effect,  and  the pale  lids  dropped  for  a  second  over her  repulsive  eyes.  Then,  with  a  sob which  was  half  moan,  she  attempted to  raise  herself  on  her  elbow,  fell  back again,  and,  with  apparent  effort, gasped,  "The  mirror,  let  me  have  the mirror!  Oh,  tell  me  it  isn’t  true; tell  me  it  was  a  trick  of  some  sort. Oh,  the  horrible  thing  I  saw  in  the glass  couldn’t  have  been  I.  Was  it  3”

“Item,  ma  petite,”  de  Grandin  re¬ plied,  "but  you  speak  in  riddles. What  is  it  you  would  know!”

"  He — he” — the  girl  faltered  weak¬ ly,  forcing  her  trembling  lips  to  frame the  words — “that  horrible  old  man showed  me  a  mirror  a  little  while  ago and  said  the  face  in  it  was  mine.  Oh, it  was  horrible,  horrible!”

“Eh?  What  is  this?”  de  Grandin demanded  on  a  rising  note.  “  ‘He’? ‘Horrible  old  man’?  Are  you  not his  daughter?  Is  he  not  your  father!”

“No,”  the  girl  gasped,  so  low  her denial  was  scarcely  audible.  “I  was driving  home  from  llackettsdale  last — oh,  I  forget  when  it  was,  but  it  was at  night — and  my  tires  punctured.  I — I  think  there  must  have  been  glass on  the  road,  for  the  shoes  were  cut  to ribbons.  I  saw  the  light  in  this  house and  came  to  ask  for  help.  An  old man — oh,  I  thought  he  was  so  nice  and kind! — let  me  in  and  said  he  was  all alone  here  and  about  to  eat  dinner, and  asked  me  to  join  him.  I  ate  some — some — oh,  I  don’t  remember  what it  was — and  the  next  thing  I  knew  he was  standing  by  my  bed,  holding  a mirror  up  to  me  and  telling  me  it  was my  face  I  saw  in  the  glass.  Oh,  please, please,  tell  me  it  was  some  terrible

THE  HOUSE  OP  HORROR

trick  lie  played  on.  me.  I’m  not  truly hideous,  am  II”

“Morbleu!”  de  Grandin  muttered softly,  tugging  at  the  ends  of  his mustache.  “'What  is  all  this?”

To  the  girl  he  said :  “But  of  course not.  You  are  like  a  flower,  Mademois¬ elle.  A  little  flower  that  dances  in the  wind.  You - ”

“And  my  eyes,  they  aren’t — they aren’t” — she  interrupted  with  pit¬ eous  eagerness — “please  tell  me  they

‘‘Mais  non,  ma  c/iere,”  he  assured her.  “Your  eyes  are  like  the  pervenehe  that  mirrors  the  sky  in  spring¬ time.  They  are - ”

“Let — let  me  see  the  mirror, please,”  she  interrupted  in  an  anxious whisper.  “I’d  like  to  see  for  myself, if  you — oh,  I  feel  all  weak  inside

- ”  She  lapsed  back  against  the

pillow,  her  lids  mercifully  veiling  the hideously  distorted  eyes  and  restoring her  face  to  tranquil  beauty.

“Cordieu!”  de  Grandin  breathed. “The  chloral  re-asserted  itself  none too  soon  for  Jules  de  Grandin ’s  com¬ fort,  Friend  Trowbridge.  Sooner would  I  have  gone  to  the  rack  than have  shown  that  pitiful  child  her  face

“But  what’s  it  all  mean?”  I  asked. “She  says  she  came  here,  and - ”

“And  the  rest  remains  for  us  to find  out,  I  think,”  he  replied  evenly. “Come,  we  lose  time,  and  to  lose  time is  to  be  caught,  my  friend.”

De  grandin  led  the  way  down  the hall,  peering  eagerly  into  each door  we  passed  in  search  of  the  own¬ er’s  chamber,  but  before  his  quest  was satisfied  he  stopped  abruptly  at  the head  of  the  stairs.  “Observe,  Friend Trowbridge,”  he  ordered,  pointing  a carefully  manicured  forefinger  to  a pair  of  buttons,  one  white,  one  black, set  in  the  wall.  “Unless  I  am  more mistaken  than  I  think  I  am,  we  have here  the  key  to  the  situation — or  at least  to  the  front  door.”

He  pushed  vigorously  at  the  white button,  then  ran  to  the  curve  of  the stairs  to  note  the  result.

Sure  enough,  the  heavy  door  swung open  on  its  hinges  of  cast  bronze,  let¬ ting  gusts  of  rain  drive  into  the  lower hall.

“Pardieu,”  he  ejaculated,  “we have  here  the  open  sesame ;  let  us  see if  we  possess  the  closing  secret  as well!  Press  the  black  button,  Trow¬ bridge,  my  friend,  while  I  watch.”

I  did  his  bidding,  and  a  delighted exclamation  told  me  the  door  had closed.

“Now  what?”  I  asked,  joining  him on  the  stairway.

“U’m,”  he  pulled  first  one,  then the  other  end  of  his  diminutive  mus¬ tache  meditatively;  “the  house  pos¬ sesses  its  attractions.  Friend  Trow¬ bridge,  but  I  believe  it  would  be  well if  we  went  out  to  observe  what  our friend,  le  vieillard  horrible,  does.  I like  not  to  have  one  who  shows  young girls  their  disfigured  faces  in  mirrors near  our  conveyance.”

Slipping  into  our  raincoats  we opened  the  door,  taking  care  to  place a  wad  of  paper  on  the  sill  to  prevent its  closing  tightly  enough  to  latch, and  scurried  out  into  the  storm.

As  we  left  the  shelter  of  the  porch a  shaft  of  indistinct  light  shone through  the  rain,  as  my  car  was swung  from  the  highway  and  headed toward  a  depression  to  the  left  of  the

‘‘Parbleu,  he  is  a  thief,  this  one!” de  Grandin  exclaimed  excitedly. “Hola,  Monsieur!”  He  ran  forward, swinging  his  arms  like  a  pair  of  sema¬ phores.  “What  sort  of  business  is  it you  make  with  our  moteurf”

The  wailing  of  the  storm  tore  the words  from  his  lips  and  hurled  them away,  but  the  little  Frenchman  was not  to  be  thwarted.  “Pardieu,”  he gasped,  bending  his  head  against  the wind-driven  rain,  “I  will  stop  the


WEIBD  TALES

scoundrel  if — non i  d’un  coq,  he  has

Even  as  he  spoke  the  old  man  flung open  the  ear’s  forward  door  and leaped,  allowing  the  machine  to  go crashing  down  a  low,  steep  embank ment  into  a  lake  of  slimy  swamp-mud.

For  a  moment  the  vandal  stood  con¬ templating  his  work,  then  hurst  into a  peal  of  wild  laughter  more  malig¬ nant  than  any  profanity.

“ParbUu,  robber,  Apache!  you shall  laugh  from  the  other  side  of your  mouth!”  de  Grandin  promised, as  he  made  for  the  old  man.

But  the  other  seemed  oblivious  of our  presence.  Still  chuckling  at  his work,  he  turned  toward  the  house, stopped  short  as  a  sudden  heavy  gust of  wind  shook  the  trees  along  the roadway,  then  started  forward  with a  yei!  of  terror  as  a  great  branch,  tom bodily  from  a  towering  oak  tree  came crashing  toward  the  earth

He  might  as  well  have  attempted  to dodge  a  meteorite.  Like  an  arrow from  the  bow  of  divine  justice,  the great  timber  hurtled  down,  pinning his  frail  body  to  the  ground  like  a worm  beneath  a  laborer’s  brogan.

‘ '  Trowbridge,  my  friend,”  de Grandin  announced  matter-of-factly, ■'observe  the  evil  effects  of  stealing

We  lifted  the  heavy  bough  from the  prostrate  man  and  turned  him over  on  his  back.  De  Grandin  on  one side,  I  on  the  other,  we  made  a  hasty examination,  arriving  at  the  same finding  simultaneously.  His  spinal column  was  snapped  like  a  pipestem.

“You  have  some  last  statement  to make,  Monsieur?”  de  Grandin  asked curtly.  “  If  so,  you  had  best  he  about it,  your  time  is  short.”

‘  ‘  Y — yes,  ’  ’  the  stricken  man  replied •weakly.  “I — I  meant  to  kill  you,  for you  might  have  hit  upon  my  secret.  As it  is,  you  may  publish  it  to  the  world, that  all  may  know  what  it  meant to  offend  a  Harston.  In  my  room  you will  find  the  documents.  My — my  pets

— are — in — the— cellar.  She — was — to — have — been — one— of — them.”  The pauses  between  his  words  became longer  and  longer,  his  voice  grew weaker  with  each  labored  syllable.  As he  whispered  the  last  sentence  pain¬ fully  there  was  a  gurgling  sound,  and a  tiny  stream  of  blood  welled  up  at the  comer  of  his  mouth.  His  narrow chest  rose  and  fell  onee  with  a  con¬ vulsive  movement,  then  his  jaw dropped  limply.  He  was  dead.

“Oh  ho,”  de  Grandin  remark":’ “it  is  a  hemorrhage  which  finished him.  A  broken  rib  piercing  his  lung. U’m?  I  should  have  guessed  it. Come,  my  friend,  let  ns  carry  him to  the  house,  then  see  what  it  was  he meant  by  that  talk  of  documents  and pets.  A  pest  upon  the  fellow  for  dy¬ ing  with  his  riddle  half  explained! Did  he  not  know  that  Jules  de  Grandin  can  not  resist  the  challenge  of  a riddle?  Parb'eu,  we  will  solve  this mystery,  Monsieur  le  Mori,  if  we  have to  hold  an  autopsy  to  do  so !  ”

“Oh,  for  heaven’s  sake,  hush,  de Graudin,”  I  besought,  shocked  at  his heartlessness.  ‘ 1  The  man.  is  dead.  ’  ’ “Ah  bah!”  he  returned  scornfully. “Dead  or  not,  did  he  not  steal  your motor  car?”

WE  laid  our  gruesome  burden  on the  hall  couch  and  mounted  the stairs  to  the  second  floor.  With  de Grandin  in  the  lead  we  found  the dead  man’s  room  and  began  a  sys¬ tematic  search  for  the  papers  he  had mentioned,  almost  with  his  last breath.  After  some  time  my  com¬ panion  unearthed  a  thick,  leatherhound  portfolio  from  the  lower drawer  of  a  beautiful  old  mahogany highboy,  and  spread  its  wide  leaves open  on  the  white-connterpaned  bed.

“Ah,”  he  drew  forth  several  pa¬ pers  and  held  them  to  the  light,  “we begin  to  make  the  progress.  Friend Trowbridge.  What  is  this?”

He  held  out  a  newspaper  clipping

THE  HOUSE  OP  HORROR

Actress  Jilts  Surgeon’s  Crippled  Son  on Eve  of  Wedding

Declaring  she  could  not  stand  the  sight of  his  deformity,  and  that  she  had  engaged herself  to  him  only  in  a  moment  of  thought¬ less  pity,  Dora  Lee,  well-known  variety  acmarry  John^iersfield  Marston,  *Vr..  hope¬ lessly  crippled  son  of  Dr.  John  Biersfield Marston,  the  well-known  surgeon  and  exx  osteologist.  -  ~l

_ r  his  father

■s  from  the  Plane \

)uldbbe^en

‘‘Very  good.'*  de  Grandin  nodded, ‘‘we  need  go  no  fanner  with  that  ac¬ count.  A  young  woman,  it  would seem,  once  broke  her  promise  to  mar¬ ly  a  cripple,  and,  judging  from  this paper’s  date,  that  was  in  1896.  Here is  another,  what  do  you  make  of  it?”

The  clipping  he  handed  me  read  as follows :

Surgeon’s  Son  a  Suicide

Still  sitting  in  the  wheel-chair  from which  he  has  not  moved  durinsr  his  waking hours  since  he  was  hopelessly  crippled  while playing  polo  in  England  ten  years  ago, John  Biersfield  Marston,  son  of  the  famous surgeon  of  the  same  name,  was  found  in his  bedroom  this  morning  by  his  valet.  A rubber  hose  was  connected  with  a  gas  jet, the  other  end  being  held  in  the  young  man’s mouth.

Young  Marston  was  jilted  b;  ”  —  ’

— —  — Kle\-'”  -

s  reported  to  have  been extremely  low-spirited  since  his  desertion by  his  fiancee.

Dr.  Marston,  the  bereaved  father,  when seen  by  reporters  from  the  Planet  this morning,  declared  the  actress  was  responsi¬ ble  for  his  son’s  death  and  announced  his intention  of  holding  her  accountable.  When asked  if  legal  proceedings  were  contem¬ plated,  he  declined  farther  information.

“Sot”  de  Grandin.  nodded  shortly. “Now  this  one,  if  you  please.”

The  third  clipping  was  brief  to  the point  of  curtness:

Dr.  John  BiersfleM  Marston,  widely

try  as  an  expert  in  operations  concerning the  bones,  has  announced  his  intention  of retiring  from  practise.  His  house  has  been sold,  and  he  Trill  move  from  the  city.

“The  record  is  clear  so  far,”  de Grandin  asserted,  studying  the  first clipping  with  raised  eyebrows,  “but — morbleu,  my  friend,  look,  look  at this  picture.  This  Dora  Lee,  of  whom does  she  remind  you?  Eh?”

I  took  the  clipping  again  and looked  intently  at  the  illustration  of the  article  announcing  young  mars¬ ton ’s  broken  engagement.  The  woman in  the  picture  was  young  and  in¬ clined  to  be  overdressed  in  the  vol¬ uminous,  fluffy  mode  of  the  days  be¬ fore  the  Spanish-American  War.

“U’m.  no  one  whom  I  know - ”

I  began,  but  halted  abruptly  as  a  sud¬ den  likeness  struck  me.  Despite  the towering  pompadour  arrangement  of her  blond  hair  and  the  unbecoming straw  sailor  hat  above  the  coiffure,  the woman  in  the  picture  bore  a  certain resemblance  to  the  disfigured  girl  we had  seen  a  half-hour  before.

The  Frenchman  saw  recognition dawn  in  my  face,  and  nodded  agree¬ ment.  “But  of  course,”  he  said. “Now,  the  question  is,  is  this  young girl  whose  eyes  are  so  out  of  alinement  a  relative  of  this  Dora  Lee,  or is  the  resemblance  a  coincidence,  and if  so,  what  lies  behind  it  ?  Hein?”

“I  don’t  know,”  I  admitted,  “but there  must  be  some  connection - ”

“Connection?  Of  course  there  is a  connection,”  de  Grandin  affirmed, rummaging  deeper  in  the  portfolio. “A-a-ah!  What  is  this?  Nom  d’un nom,  Friend  Trowbridge,  I  think  I smell  the  daylight!  Look!”

He  held  a  full-page  story  from  one of  the  sensational  New  York  dailies before  him,  his  eyes  glued  to  the  flow¬ ing  typo  and  crude,  coarse-sereened half-tones  of  half  a  dozen  yonng women  which  composed  the  article.

“WHAT  HAS  BECOME  OF  THE MISSING  GIRLS?”  I  read  in  bold¬ faced  type  across  the  top  of  the  page.

TALES

“Are  sinister,  unseen  hands  reach¬ ing  out  from  the  darkness  to  seize  our girls  from  palace  and  hovel,  shop, stage  and  office?”  the  article  asked rhetorically.  “"Where  are  Ellen Munro  and  Dorothy  Sawyer  and Phyllis  Bouchet  and  three  other  love¬ ly,  light-haired  girls  who  have  walked into  oblivion  during  the  past  year?”

I  read  to  the  end  the  sensational account  of  the  girls’  disappearances. The  cases  seemed  fairly  similar;  each of  the  vanished  young  women  had failed  to  return  to  her  home  and  had never  been  accounted  for  in  any  man¬ ner,  and  in  no  instance,  according  to the  newspaper,  had  there  been  any assignable  reason  for  voluntary  de-

“Parbleu,  but  he  was  stupid,  even for  a  journalist!”  de  Grandin  as¬ serted  as  I  completed  my  inspection of  the  story.  “Why,  I  wager  even my  good  Friend  Trowbridge  has  al¬ ready  noticed  one  important  fact which  this  writer  has  treated  as though  it  were  as  commonplace  as  the

‘  ‘  Sorry  to  disappoint  you,  old chap,”  I  answered,  “but  it  looks  to me  as  though  the  reporter  had  cov¬ ered  the  case  from  every  possible angle.”

“Ah?  So?”  he  replied  sarcas¬ tically.  “Morbleu,  we  shall  have  to consult  the  oculist  in  your  behalf when  we  return  home,  my  friend. Look,  look,  I  beseech  you,  upon  the pictures  of  these  so  totally  absent  and imaecounted  for  young  women,  cTier ami,  and  tell  me  if  you  do  not  observe a  certain  likeness  among  them,  not only  a  resemblance  to  each  other,  but to  that  Mademoiselle  Lee  who  jilted the  son  of  Dr.  Marston?  Can  you see  it,  now  I  have  pointed  it  out?”

“No  —  wh  —  why,  yes,  —  yes,  of course !”  I  responded,  rmTning  my  eye over  the  pictures  accompanying  the story.  “By  the  Lord  Hairy,  de Grandin,  you ’re  right;  you  might  al¬ most  say  there  is  a  family  resem¬

blance  between  these  girls!  You’ve put  your  finger  on  it,  I  do  believe.”

“Helas,  no!”  he  answered  with  a shrug.  “I  have  put  my  finger  on nothing  as  yet,  my  friend.  I  reach, I  grope,  I  feel  about  me  like  a  blind man  tormented  by  a  crowd  of  naughty little  boys,  but  nothing  do  the  poor fingers  of  my  mind  encounter.  Pah! Jules  de  Grandin,  you  are  one  great fool!  Think,  think,  stupid  one!”

He  seated  himself  on  the  edge  of the  bed,  cupping  his  face  in  his  hands and  leaning  forward  till  his  elbows rested  on  his  knees.

Suddenly  he  sprang  erect,  one  of his  elfish  smiles  passing  across  his small,  regular  features.  “Norn  d’um chat  rouge,  my  friend,  I  have  it — I have  it!”  he  announced.  “The  pets — the  pets  that  old  stealer  of  motor ears  spoke  of !  They  are  in  the  base¬ ment  !  Pardieu,  we  will  see  those pets,  cher  Trowbridge ;  with  our  four collective  eyes  we  will  see  them.  Did not  that  so  execrable  stealer  declare she  was  to  have  been  one  of  them? Now,  in  the  name  of  Satan  and  brim¬ stone,  whom  could  he  have  meant  by ‘she’  if  not  that  unfortunate  child with  eyes  like  la  grenouiXlet  Eh?”

“"Why - ”  I  began,  but  he  waved

me  forward.

'  ‘  Come,  come ;  let  us  go,  ’  ’  he  urged. “I  am  impatient,  I  am  restless,  I  am not  to  be  restrained.  "We  shall  inves¬ tigate  and  see  for  ourselves  what  sort of  pets  are  kept  by  one  who  shows young  girls  their  deformed  faces  in mirrors  and — parbleu! — steals  motor cars  from  my  friends.”

Hurrying  down  the  main  stairway, we  hunted  about  for  the  cellar  en¬ trance,  finally  located  the  door  and, holding  above  our  heads  a  pair  of candles  from  the  hall,  began  descend¬ ing  a  flight  of  rickety  steps  into  a pitch-black  basement,  rock-walled and,  judging  by  its  damp,  moldy odor,  unfloored  save  by  the  bare,  moist earth  beneath  the  house.

THE  H0U3E  OP  HORROR


“ParbleUy  the  dungeons  of  the chateau  at  Carcassonne  are  more cheerful  than  this,”  de  Grandin  com¬ mented  as  he  paused  at-  the  stairs’ foot,  holding  his  candle  aloft  to  make a  better  inspection  of  the  dismal

I  suppressed  a  shudder  of  mingled chill  and  apprehension  as  I  stared  at the  blank  stone  walls,  unpierced  by windows  or  other  openings  of  any sort,  and  made  ready  to  retrace  my steps.  “Nothing here.”  I  announced. “You  eaa  see  that  with  half  an  eye. The  place  is  as  empty  as - ”

“Perhaps.  Friend  Trowbridge,”  he agreed,  “but  Jules  de  Grandin  does not  look  with  half  an  eye.  He  uses both  eyes,  and  uses  them  more  than once  if  his  first  glance  does  not  prove sufficient.  Behold  that  bit  of  wood  on the  earth  yonder.  "What  do  you  make

“U’m — ?.  piece  of  flooring,  may¬ be,”  I  hazarded.

“Maybe  yes,  maybe  no,”  he  an¬ swered.  “Let  us  see.”

Crossing  the  cellar,  he  bent  above the  planks,  then  turned  to  me  with  a satisfied  smile.  “Flooring  does  not ordinarily  have  ring-bolts  in  it,  my friend,”  he  remarked,  bending  to seize  the  iron  ring  which  was  made fast  to  the  boards  by  a  stout  staple.

“  Ha !  ”  As  he  heaved  upward  the planks  came  away  from  the  black earth,  disclosing  a  board-lined  well about  three  feet  square  and  of  un¬ certain  depth.  An  almost  vertical  lad¬ der  of  two-by-four  timbers  led  down¬ ward  from  the  trap-door  to  the  well's impenetrable  blackness.

“Allons,  we  descend,”  he  com¬ mented,  turning  about  and  setting  his foot  on  the  topmost  rung  of  the  lad¬ der.

“Den’t  be  a  fool,”  I  advised.  “You don’t  know  what’s  down  there.”

“True” — his  head  was  level  with the  floor  as  he  answered — “but  I

know,  with  luck,  in  a  few  moments. Do  you  come?”

I  sighed  with  vexation  as  I  pre¬ pared  to  follow  him.

At  the  ladder’s  foot  he  paused, raising  his  candle  and  looking about  inquiringly.  Directly  before  us was  a  passageway  through  the  earth, ceiled  with  heavy  planks  and  shored up  with  timbers  like  the  lateral  work¬ ings  of  a  primitive  mine.

“Ah,  the  plot  shows  complica¬ tions,  ”  he  murmured,  stepping  brisk¬ ly  into  the  dark  tunnel.  “Do  you come.  Friend  Trowbridge?”

I  followed,  wondering  what  man¬ ner  of  thing  might  he  at  the  end  of the  black,  musty  passage,  but  noth¬ ing  but  fungus-grown  timbers  and walls  of  moist,  black  earth  met  my questing  gaze.

De  Grandin  preceded  me  by  some paces,  and,  X  suppose,  we  had  gone fifteen  feet  through  the  passage  when a  gasp  of  mingled  surprize  and  hor¬ ror  from  my  companion  brought  me beside  liim  in  two  long  strides.  Fas¬ tened  with  nails  to  the  timbers  at  each side  of  the  tunnel  were  a  number  of white,  glistening  objects,  objects which,  because  of  their  very  familiar¬ ity,  denied  their  identity  to  my  won¬ dering  eyes.  There  was  no  mistak¬ ing  the  things:  even  a  layman  could not  have  failed  to  recognize  them  for what  they  were.  I,  as  a  physician, knew  them  even,  better.  To  the  right of  the  passage  hung  fourteen  perfect¬ ly  articulated  skeletons  of  human legs,  complete  from  foot  to  ilium, gleaming  white  and  ghostly  in  the flickering  light  of  the  candles.

“Good  heavens!”  I  exclaimed'. “Sang  du  diable!’’  Jules  de  Gran¬ din  commented.  “Behold  what  is there,  my  friend,”  he  pointed  to  the opposite  walL  Fourteen  bony  arms, complete  from  hand  to  shoulderjoint,  hung  pendulously  from  the tunnel’s  upright  timbers.

“Pardieu,’’  de  Grandin  muttered.


WEIRD  TALES

“I  have  known  men  who  collected stuffed  birds  and  dried  insects ;  I  have known  those  who  stored  away  Egyp¬ tian  mummies — even  the  skulls  of  men long  dead — but  never  before  have  I seen  a  collection  of  arms  and  legs! Parbleu,  he  was  caduc — mad  as  a  hat¬ ter,  this  one,  or  I  am  much  mis¬ taken!”

‘‘So  these  were  his  pets?”  I  an¬ swered.  “Yes,  the  man  was  undoubt¬ edly  mad  to  keep  such  a  collection, and  in  a  place  like  this.  Poor  fel-

“Nom  d’un  carton.'”  de  Grandin broke  in;  “what,  was  that?”

Prom  the  darkness  before  us  there came  a  queer,  inarticulate  sound,  such as  a  man  might  make  attempting  to speak  with  a  mouth  half-filled  with food,  and,  as  though  the  noise  had wakened  an  echo  slumbering  in  the cavern,  the  sound  was  repeated,  mul¬ tiplied  again  and  again  dll  it  resem¬ bled  the  babbling  of  half  a  dozen  over¬ grown  infants — or  an  equal  number of  full-grown  imbeciles.

“Onward!”  Responding  to  the challenge  of  the  unknown  like  a  war¬ rior  obeying  the  trumpet’s  call  to charge,  de  Grandin  dashed  toward the  strange  noise,  swung  about,  flash¬ ing  his  candle  this  side  and  that, then:

" Norn  de  Dieu  de  nom  de  Dieu!” he  almost  shrieked.  “Look,  Friend Trowbridge,  look  and  say  that  you see  what  I  see,  or  have  I,  too,  gone mad?”

Lined  up  against  the  wall  was  a series  of  seven  small  wooden  boxes, each  with  a  door  composed  of  upright slats  before  it,  similar  m  construction to  the  coops  in  which  country  folk pen  brooding  hens — and  no  larger.  In each  of  the  hutches  huddled  an  ob¬ ject  the  like  of  which  I  bud  never  be¬ fore  seen,  even  in  the  terrors  of nightmare.

The  things  had  the  torsos  of  hu¬ man  beings,  though  hideously shrunken  from  starvation  and  incrusted  with  scales  of  filth,  but  there all  resemblance  to  mankind  ceased. From  shoulders  and  waist  there twisted  flaccid  tentacles  of  unsupport¬ ed  flesh,  the  upper  ones  terminating in  flat,  paddlelike  flippers  which  had some  remote  resemblance  to  hands, the  lower  ones  ending  in  almost shapeless  stubs  which  resembled  feet only  in  that  each  had  a  fringe  of  five shriveled,  unsupported  protuberances of  withered  flesh.

On  scrawny  necks  were  balanced caricatures  of  faces,  flat,  noseless, chinless  countenances  with  horrible crossed  or  divergent  eyes,  mouths widened  almost  beyond  resemblance to  buccal  orifices,  and — horror  of  hor¬ rors! — elongated,  split  tongues  pro¬ truding  several  inches  from  the  lips and  wagging  impotently  in  vain  ef¬ forts  to  form  words.

“Satan,  thou  art  outdone!”  de Grandin  cried  as  he  held  his  candle before  a  scrap  of  paper  decorating one  of  the  cages  after  the  manner  of a  sign  before  an  animal’s  den  at  the zoo.  “Observe!”  he  ordered,  point¬ ing  a  stinking  finger  at  the  notice.

I  looked,  then  recoiled,  sick  with horror.  The  paper  bore  the  picture and  name  of  Ellen  Munro,  one  of  the girls  mentioned  as  missing  in  the newspaper  article  we  had  found  in the  dead  man’s  bedroom.

Beneath  the  photograph  was  scrib¬ bled  in  an  irregular  hand:  “Paid 1-25-97.”

Sick  at  heart  we  walked  down  the line  of  pens.  Each  was  labeled  with the  picture  of  a  young  and  pretty girl  with  the  notation,  “Paid,”  fol¬ lowed  by  a  date.  Every  girl  named as  missing  in  the  newspaper  was  rep¬ resented  in  the  cages.

Last  of  all,  in  a  coop  somewhat smaller  than  the  rest,  we  found  a body  more  terribly  mutilated  than any.  This  was  marked  with  the  pho¬ tograph  and  name  of  Dora  Lee.  Be¬ neath  her  name  was  the  date  of  her

THE  HOUSE  OP  HORROR

“payment,”  written  in  bold  red

“Parblen,  what  are  we  to  do,  my friend?”  de  Grandin  asked  in  an hysterical  whisper.  "We  can  not  re¬ turn  these  poor  ones  to  the  world, that  would  be  the  worst  form  of cruelty;  yet — yet  I  shrink  from  the act  of  mercy  I  know  they  would  ask me  to  perform  if  they  could  speak.”

"Let’s  go  up,”  I  begged.  “We must  think  this  thing  over,  de  Gran¬ din,  and  if  X  stay  here  any  longer  I shall  faint.”

“Bien,”  he  agreed,  and  turned  to follow  me  from  the  cavern  of  horrors.

“Tt  is  to  consider,”  he  began  as  we reached  the  upper  hall  once more.  “If  we  give  those  so  pitiful ones  the  stroke  of  mercy  we  are  mur¬ derers  before  the  law,  yet  what  serv¬ ice  could  we  render  them  by  bring¬ ing  them  once  more  into  the  world? Our  choice  is  a  hard  one,  my  friend.  ’  ’

I'  nodded.

“Morbleu,  but  he  was  clever,  that one,”  the  Frenchman  continued,  half to  me,  half  to  himself .  “What  a  sur¬ geon  !  Fourteen  instances  of  W yeth ’s amputation  of  the  hip  and  as  many more  of  the  shoulder — and  every  pa¬ tient  lived,  lived  to  suffer  the  tor¬ tures  of  that  hell-hole  down  there! But  it  is  marvelous!  None  but  a madman  could  have  done  it.

“Bethink  you,  Friend  Trowbridge. Think  how  the  mighty  man  of  medi¬ cine  brooded  over  the  suicide  of  his crippled  son,  meditating  hatred  and vengeance  for  the  heartless  woman who  had  jilted  him.  Then — snap! went  his  great  mentality,  and  from hating  one  woman  he  fell  to  hating all,  to  plotting  vengeance  against  the many  for  the  sin  of  the  one.  And, cordieu,  what  a  vengeance!  How  he must  have  laid  his  plans  to  secure  his victims;  how  he  mnst  have  worked  to prepare  that  hell-under-the-earth  to

house  those  poor,  broken  bodies  which were  his  handiwork,  and  how  he  must have  drawn  upon  the  great  surgical skill  which  was  his,  even  in  his  mad¬ ness,  to  transform  those  once  lovely ones  into  the  visions  of  horror  we have  just  beheld !  Horror  of  horrors ! To  remove  the  bones  and  let  the  girls still  live!”

He  rose,  pacing  impatiently  across the  hall.  “What  to  do?  What  to do?”  he  demanded,  striking  his  open hands  against  his  forehead.

I  followed  his  nervous  steps  with my  eyes,  but  my  brain  was  too numbed  by  the  hideous  things  I  had just  seen  to  be  able  to  respond  to  his question.

I  looked  hopelessly  past  him  at  the angle  of  the  wall  by  the  great  fire¬ place,  rubbed  my  eyes  and  looked again.  Slowly,  but  surely,  the  wall was  declining  from  the  perpendicular.

“De  Grandin,”  I  shouted,  glad  of some  new  phenomenon  to  command my  thoughts,  “the  wall — the  wall’s leaning!”

“Eh,  the  wall?”  he  queried.  “Pardim,  yes!  It  is  the  rain;  the  foun¬ dations  are  undermined.  Quick,  quick, my  friend!  To  the  cellars,  or  those unfortunate  ones  are  undone!”

We  scrambled  down  the  stairs leading  to  the  basement,  but  already the  earth  floor  was  sopping  with water.  The  well  leading  to  the  mad¬ man’s  subcellar  was  more  than  half full  of  bubbling,  earthy  ooze.

“Mary,  have  pity!”  de  Grandin exclaimed.  “Like  rats  in  a  trap, they  did  die.  God  rest  their  tired souls” — he  shrugged  his  shoulders  as he  turned  to  retrace  his  steps— “it is  better  so.  Now,  Friend  Trow¬ bridge,  do  you  hasten  aloft  and  bring down  that  young  girl  from  the  room above.  We  must  run  for  it  if  we  do not  wish  to  be  crushed  under  the  fall¬ ing  timbers  of  this  house  of  abomina¬ tions!”


WEIBD  TALES

The  storm  had  spent  itself  and  a red,  springtime  sun  was  peeping over  the  horizon  as  de  Grandin  and  I trudged  up  my  front  steps  with  the mutilated  girl  stumbling  wearily  be-

“Put  her  to  bed,  my  excellent  one,” de  Grandin  ordered  Nora,  my  house¬ keeper,  who  came  to  meet  us  en¬ veloped  in  righteous  indignation  and an  outing  flannel  nightgown.  “Parbleu,  she  has  had  many  troubles!”

In  the  study,  a  glass  of  steaming whisky  and  hot  water  in  one  hand,  a vile-smelling  French  cigarette  in  the other,  he  faced  me  across  the  desk. ‘‘How  was  it  you  knew  not  that  house, my  friend?”  he  demanded.

I  grinned  sheepishly.  ”1  took  the wrong  turning  at  the  detour,”  I  ex¬ plained,  “and  got  on  the  Yerbysville Road.  It’s  just  recently  been  hard¬ surfaced,  and  I  haven’t  used  it  for years  because  it  was  always  impass¬

able.  Thinking  we  were  on  the Andover  Pike  all  the  while,  I  never connected  the  place  with  the  old  Olm¬ sted  Mansion  I’d  seen  hundreds  of times  from  the  road.”

“Ah,  yes,”  he  agreed,  nodding thoughtfully,  “a  little  turn  from  the right  way,  and — pouf! — what  a  dis¬ tance  we  have  to  retrace.”

“Now,  about  the  girl  upstairs,”  I began,  but  he  waved  the  question

“The  mad  one  had  but  begun  his devil’s  work  on  her,”  he  replied.  “I, Jules  de  Grandin,  will  operate  on  her eyes  and  make  them  as  straight  as  be¬ fore,  nor  will  I  accept  one  penny  for my  work.  3Ieantime,  we  must  find her  kindred  and  notify  them  she  is safe  and  in  good  hands.

“And  now” — he  handed  me  his empty  tumbler  —  “a  little  more whisky,  if  you  please,  Friend  TrowWatch  for  the  next  adventure  of  Jules  de  Grandin — “ Ancient  Fires by  Seabury  Quinn.  This  is  a  fascinating  tale  of  wandering gipsies,  haunted  houses,  ghostly  apparitions ,  Hindoo charms  and  eery  thrills.  It  ,will  be  pub¬ lished  soon  in  WEIRD  TALES

ISMAIL  the  chief  wazir  sat  at  the foot  of  his  master’s  dais,  read¬ ing  from  the  chronicles  of  that great  prince,  the  adornment  of  Islam, who  had  reigned  magnificently  in far-off  Balkh  nine  hundred  years  ago.

“A  horse  and  a  robe  of  honor  for Giaffar  al  Barmaki,  the  Grand  'Wazir, the  friend  of  the  Calif,  40,000  dinars of  gold.”

And  then  a  few  lines  farther  down was  another  entry,  dated  several  days later:  “Reeds  and  naphtha  for  burn¬ ing  the  body  of  the  traitor  Giaffar, four  dirhems  of  silver.”

And  Ismail  smiled;  for  as  it  was then,  so  could  it  be  today:  nine  hun¬ dred  years  were  but  as  a  mist  that obscured,  rather  than  a  hand  that changed.  Ismail  smiled,  and  again read  to  himself  of  the  swift  fate  that befell  the  friend  of  that  just  prince, nine  hundred  years  ago  in  Balkh  . . .

a  horse  and  a  robe  of  honor  .  .  . naphtha  and  reeds.  .  .  Yes,  and  Haaj Isfendiyar,  was  he  not  the  friend  of the  sultan,  and  the  enemy  of  Ismail?

Giaffar  al  Barmaki,  friend  of  the just  calif,  had  had  an  enemy.  .  .

After  ten  years  of  high  adventure, ten  years  of  intrigue  and  device, Haaj  Isfendiyar  was  able  to  pause for  a  moment’s  respite,  look  back  over the  turbulent  days  of  his  ascent  from obscurity,  and  contemplate  the  world from  the  shadow  of  the  sultan’s  favor. And  as  he  sat  there  in  the  guardroom of  the  palace  of  Angor-lana,  a  little apart  from  his  subordinates,  as  be¬ came  the  friend  of  the  sultan  and captain  of  a  thousand  horse,  he  re¬ laxed  long  enough  to  stroke  his  curled black  beard  and  feast  himself  on reminiscence.

Ten  years  —  ten  years  ago  it  was that  a  lean,  hard-eyed  young  fellow

WEIHD

with  a  nose  like  the  beak  of  a  bird  of prey  had  sought  audience  of  the  sul¬ tan;  sought,  and  gained  audience, ragged  and  grimy  as  he  was.

“And  where  did  you  get  that sword?”  queried  the  sultan,  eyeing the  glittering  scabbard  and  belt  and embroidered  pouch  that  were  so  out of  keeping  with  the  ragged  garments and  the  unwashed  wanderer  whose erect  form  they  inclosed.

“I  inherited  them  from  an  emir  in Kurdistan,”  replied  the  youth,  re¬ turning  the  sultan’s  stare,  “along with  his  horse  and  other  belongings.”

“So!  You  lie  as  readily  as  you plundered  .  .  .  though  perhaps  you did  inherit  as  a  self-appointed  heir .  .  .  well,  not  bad  at  all;  you  should attain  a  high  post  at  court.  By  the way,  do  you  speak  Persian?”

“No,  my  lord.  But  there  are  Per¬ sian  verses  on  the  blade  of  my  simiAnd  to  prove  it,  he  unsheathed  the weapon:  a  serious  breach  of  eti¬ quette,  this  drawing  of  arms  in  the sultan’s  presence,  and  at  times  a  fatal error.  The  fan-bearers  behind  the throne  ceased  fanning  long  enough  to watch  the  bungler’s  head  roll  across the  tiled  floor.  But  the  sultan  smiled, and  the  youth’s  head  remained  on  his shoulders.

“Very  good.”  Then,  to  the  cap¬ tain  of  the  guard,  “Nourredin,  here is  a  recruit  for  you.  Instruct  him, and  at  sunset  post  him  at  El  Azir. And  learn  to  speak  Persian,  young fellow!”

Again  the  son  of  the  old  tiger  of Angor-lana  smiled.  And  so  likewise did  the  captain,  and  also  the  fanbearers.  This,  then,  was  the  sultan’s gentle,  jesting  way  of  disposing  of one  so  ignorant  of  court  etiquette  as to  draw  a  weapon  in  the  Presence!

At  noon  the  next  day,  when  the captain  and  his  men  rode  to  inspect the  outposts,  they  saw  vultures  hover¬ ing  high  over  El  Azir.  But  upon

drawing  nearer,  they  saw  that  the wanderer  still  rode  his  beat;  still  on post,  but  mounted  on  a  different horse,  a  silver-white  stallion  of  the princely  desert  breed.

Between  the  vultures  and  the  jack¬ als,  the  bones  of  the  recruit’s  assail¬ ants  had  become  hopelessly  inter¬ mingled.

And  from  that  day  on,  the  wan¬ derer’s  rise  was  rapid.

Thinking  of  all  this,  Haaj  Isfendiyar  smiled,  and  stroked  his  curled beard,  and  contemplated  the  world from  the  shadow  of  the  sultan’s  favor. And  then  he  nodded  gravely  to  the wazir  Ismail,  his  enemy,  whose  ap¬ proach  interrupted  his  play  of  rem¬ iniscence.

“Es  salaam,  aleVca!”  he  greeted.

“And  with  you,  exceeding  peace, Haaji,”  returned  the  wazir.  “My horse  is  in  your  stables,  and  the  arms we  wagered  on  the  race  have  been left  at  your  house.  And  here  is  the purse  we  agreed  upon,”  concluded Ismail,  offering  a  heavy  pouch,  com¬ pleting  the  payment  of  a  ruinons

“Which  leaves  you  even  as  I  was ten  years  ago,  save  that  I  had  arms and  a  horse,  inherited  from  an  emir. The  gold  I  will  keep ;  but  go  back  and take  your  goods,  and  your  horse

“You  are  generous  as  Hatim  Tai,” acknowledged  Ismail.

“It  is  nothing,”  countered  Isfendiy  For,  serene  in  the  shadow  of  the sultan’s  friendship,  he  forgot  for  an instant  that  magnanimity  adds  to  in¬ stead  of  detracting  from  enmity,  for¬ got  that  the  poet  had  counseled, “Yield  naught  to  your  foe,  were  he Eustum,  the  son  of  Zal.  .

“You  have  a  trick,  Haaji,  of  in¬ heriting  arms  and  horses.  May  I  ex¬ amine  that  poniard!”  requested  lamail.

“And  why  not?”

THE  DBHAMHR  OH  ATLANAAT


“A  remarkable  weapon,  Haaji. Doubtless  it  has  not  mate,  hut  ia  truly matchless?”

“It  had  a  mate.  But  I  lost  it  sev¬ eral  years  ago.  And-  then  I  had  my name  inlaid  on  the  blade  of.  the  re¬ maining  one."

“Wondrous  workmanship,”  commented  Ismail,  returning  the  weapon.

Isfendiyar  had.  poured  himself  a glass  of  Shirazi,  twisted  his  mustache, and  thought  fondly  of  the  emir  whose heir  he  was.  And  thus  it  was  that he  did  not  note  that  the  poniard which  he  received  from  Ismail  was not  the  one  bearing  his  own  name, Isfendiyar,  but  rather  its  long-lost mate,  identical  to  the  line,  save  only that  its  blade  was  not  engraved.

T  ate  that  evening,  the  wazir  Ismail

*  sought  the  sultan,  who  had  just completed  his  plans  for  the  nest  day’s administration.

“My  lord,  do  not  walk  in  the  gar¬ dens  tonight,  as  is  your  custom.”

“And  why  not?”

“There  is  one  who  will  seek  you with  a  knife.”

The  wazir  handed  the  sultan  a  sheet of  paper.

“I  found  this  note  of  warning among  the  petitions  given  me  to  sub¬ mit  to  you  at  today’s  audience.  As you  will  note,  it  is  anonymous;  hut there  may  be  truth  in  it.  I  withheld it,  for  I  did  not  wish  to  distract  you before  the  day’s  work  was  done.”

“And  so  you  would  have  me  hide because  someone  threatens?”

“I  was  about  to  suggest  that  my lend  permit  me  to  act  as  a  decay,  for we  are  of  the  same  stature.  And some  members  of  the  guard  could, await  in  concealment,  so  that  wa could  trap  the  assassin.”

“And  have  it  blown  that  I  hide  in. my  house  and.  fear  to  walk  in  my corn  gardens!”  flared  the  sultan, “Nonsense!  I  will  go  at  the  usual

“But-

“Bnough !  You  may  leave.  ”

And  Ismail  departed,  knowing  well that  further  argument  with  the  hot¬ headed  prince  would  be  wasted.

“Beeds  and  naphtha,  four  dirhems of  silver,  ’  ’  he  murmured  to  himself, as  he  left  the  Presence.

The  sultan  divested  himself  of  hi3 outer  garment,  donned  a  shirt  of  finelinked  mail,  proof  alike  against  pistol or  knife,  and  then,  onee  more  dressed, he  scrutinized  the  fine  Persian  seript of  the  warning  note.

“If  this  is  indeed  in  good  faith,  I shall  meet  and  settle  once  for  all  with whoever  seeks  me  tonight;  and  if  it is  a  lioas,”  reasoned  the  sultan, “then  at  least  the  writer  shall  not hare  the  satisfaction  of  saying  that  a son  of  the  old  tiger  kept  to  his  house like  a  frightened  child.”

He  smiled  sourly,  unfolded  and  re¬ read  the  letter.  From  the  city  wall came  the  challenge  of  a  sentry  as  lie halted  the  new  relief.  It  was  time  for the  sultan’s  promenade,  time  to  meet the  assassin.

Once  out  in  the  garden,  the  hunted prince  strolled  as  was  his  cus¬ tom,  with  the  nonchalance,  the  care, less,  bearing  of  a  monarch  wha  seeks a.  moment’s  respite  from  the  cares  of state.  Careless  indeed  he  seemed  as he  flicked  his  cigarette  into  the  pool of  a  fountain  that  sprayed  mistily  in the  moonlight,  paused  to  examine  a small  plane-tree,  planted  with  his  own hands:  hut  beneath  this  pose  of  re¬ laxation  were  the  tense  nerves  of  him who  stalks  the  tiger.

“A  hoax,  no  doubt  .  .  .  and  if  I ever  find  the  perpetrator,  Saoud  will spend  the  rest  of  the  day  wiping  up

spilled  blood.  Still - -”

There  was  a  snap  of  steel  tested beyond  its  endurance.  The  sultan pitched  forward  a  step,  recovered, whirifd,  drew  his  pistol,  and  fired  at the  nude,  oiled  fnrm  of  hi*  assailant, who  was  just  ojegring  the  gai'ileo wall.  But  moonlight  and  the  swiftly


WEIRD  TALES

moving  target  proved  too  much  for the  sultan’s  marksmanship.  The would-be  assassin  made  good  his  esThe  sultan  shrugged  his  bruised shoulder.

“Well,  but  that  was  real  enough.”

And  then  at  his  feet  he  saw  the poniard  which,  meeting  the  tough shirt  of  mail,  had  snapped  at  the  hilt, Picking  up  the  pieces,  the  sultan sought  the  private  apartments  of  his palace.  From  a  great  distance  came the  thump-thump  of  atabals,  the pulsing  of  drums  that  spoke  of  revolt in  the  hills.

“Treason  within  and  revolt  with¬ out!  Bah!”  He  spat  disgustedly. “And  to  think  that  I  left  the  joys  of Feringhistan  to  inherit  this  house  of madness!  Fool  that  I  was  to  decline the  offer  of  that  infidel  who  would have  bought  my  entire  kingdom  .  .  . an  expensive  coffin.”

And  thus  and  thus  soliloquized  the sultan  as  he  picked  his  way  through the  dark  corridors  of  his  palace,  and up  the  winding  stairs  to  the  roof. There,  in  the  full  light  of  the  moon he  scrutinized  the  shattered  weapon the  assassin  had  dropped  in  his  flight.

“Marvelous  good  taste,”  he  reflect¬ ed,  noting  the  adamantine  splendor  of the  diamond-encrusted  pommel,  and the  cool,  unblinking  blue  of  Burmese sapphires  on  the  hilt.  “A  pity  it had  to  break. ..  Allah!  Am  I  utterly mad!”  he  gasped.

“Isfendiyar,  the  son  of  Mamoun,” he  read  in  letters  of  gold  inlay  on  the blade.

The  sultan’s  features  became drawn  and  haggard.  His  shoulders drooped.  With  head  bowed,  he  paced back  and  forth,  seeking  to  collect  his scattered  wits.

‘‘Ton,  Isfendiyar,  my  good  friend .  .  .  accursed  be  friendship  and  all friends! .  .  you,  Isfendiyar,  the  son  of Mamoun,  you  seek  my  life  because

that  fierce  old  man  my  father  saw  fit to  jest,  and  doomed  your  father  to death!”

And  below,  in  the  courtyard  of  the palace,  from  time  to  time  the  watch was  changed;  and  now  and  then  from the  hills  came  the  sinister  drumming that  spoke  of  revolt.  But  of  all  this the  sultan  was  unaware;  unaware  of all  save  that  Isfendiyar,  his  good friend,  was  indeed  the  son  of  that Mamoun  of  the  great  house  of  Idris, whom  the  old  sultan  had  sent  to  his doom;  and  that  for  all  these  years Isfendiyar  had  plotted  vengeance, failing  only  on  account  of  an  anony¬ mous  warning.

On  all  this  the  sultan  pondered,  ad¬ mitting  the  justice  of  Isfendiyar ’s claim.  Why  should  not  one  of  the noble  race  of  Idris  seek  just  reprisal  ? And  then  came  the  memory  of  their friendship,  and  the  bread  they  had broken,  and  the  salt  with  which  it had  been  seasoned.

The  false  dawn  glowed  on  the  hor¬ izon.  And  still  the  sultan  paced  to and  fro,  tom  by  conflicting  thoughts of  vengeance,  pardon,  wrath,  and  re¬ gret.  An  hour  passed,  and  the  true dawn  flared  forth.  Still  the  sultan was  entangled  in  his  indecision.

The  muezzin  in  the  high  minaret of  the  mosque  intoned  his  call  to prayer;  and  to  its  cadence  the  sultan chanted  his  oath  of  vengeance.

“You,  Isfendiyar,  my  friend  who sought  me  with  a  dagger,  holding  me accountable  for  the  evil  deed  of  my father.  .

And  then  it  dawned  upon  him  that it  was  too  late  for  reprisal ;  for  surely the  would-be  assassin  had  ridden  that very  night  back  into  the  desert whence  he  came  ten  years  ago.  In¬ consistently  enough,  the  sultan  re¬ joiced  that  the  shock  of  the  night’s encounter  and  subsequent  discovery had  so  benumbed  his  usually  active brain  that  he  had  let  Isfendiyar  make good  his  escape.

THE  DREAMER  OF  ATLANAAT


“ Bismillahi  rrahhmoni  rrahheem

- ”  he  began,  as  he  faced  the  east.

“Praise  be  to  God,  lord  of  the worlds.  .  .”

That  morning  in  the  hall  of  audi¬ ence  the  wazir  Ismail  noted  the sultan’s  hard  features  and  knew  with¬ out  asking  that  there  had  been  a meeting  in  the  garden.

“My  lord,”  he  announced,  “Haaj Isfendiyar  seeks  audience  with  you.”

“Impossible!”  And  then,  to  him¬ self,  “Fool!  Why  didn’t  he  ride  last

night?  .  .  and  now - ”

“Then  my  lord  will  not  see  him?” Ismail  wilfully  misinterpreted. “Bring  him  in.”

And  the  sultan  tapped  a  small  gong with  the  mallet  hanging  on  its  pedes¬ tal.  Four  black  mamelukes,  fully armed,  entered  and  took  their  posts at  each  side  of  the  throne.  Follow¬ ing  them  came  Saoud  the  executioner with  his  great  simitar.

“And  to  you,  a  thousand  years, Haaj  Isfendiyar,”  returned  the  sul¬ tan  to  his  friend’s  greeting.  “They tell  me,”  continued  the  prince,  smilingly,  “that  you  inherited  much  of your  property  from  an  emir.”

“Even  so,  my  lord.”  replied  Isfen¬ diyar,  wondering  that  at  such  an early  hour  there  wotild  be  jests  con¬ cerning  inheritances,

“And  among  those  articles  was  a poniard  which  you  had  inscribed with  your  name?”

“This,  for  example,  which  you dropped  in  the  gardens  last  night, after  failing  to  leave  it  between  my ribs.  .  .  .  Seeking  to  inherit  a  throne this  time,  Haajit”

The  sultan  in  his  extended  hand displayed  the  fragments  of  the

But  Isfendiyar  knew  that  doom lurfced  behind  the  fast-fading  smile

and  in  the  smoldering  eyes  of  the  sul-

“Jest?  I  wish  I  did.  Saoud! Isa!  Ibrahim!  Hussein!  Said!”

The  sultan  struck  his  hands  sharply together  as  he  snapped  out  the  names of  his  mamelukes.

The  blacks  advanced,  seizing  the  as¬ tonished  Isfendiyar.

“This  is  what  remains  of  your poniard,  which  broke  against  my  shirt of  mail.  You  did  not  foresee  that, did  you,  friend  Isfendiyar?”

“Here  in  my  belt  is  my  poniard. Draw  it  and  see,”  Isfendiyar  com¬ manded  the  mamelukes.

“Here  is  your  poniard,”  countered the  sultan,  again  displaying  the pieces,  “and  it  bears  your  inscription. This  blade  which  you  now  offer  me  is blank.  You  have  overstepped  your¬ self  once  too  often  in  your  trick  of inheriting  things:  and  you  armed yourself  with  the  wrong  blade.  Isfen¬ diyar,  I  admire  the  nerve  which  made you  stay  here  to  try  again,  instead of  riding  back  into  the  desert.  For who  would  have  suspected  ?  .  .  .  But your  judgment  was  faulty,  and  your head  will  pay.”

“Allah  akbar!”  murmured  Isfen¬ diyar,  seeing  the  hopeless  odds,  see¬ ing  that  even  his  voluntary  presence at  court  that  morning  had  been construed  against  him,  seeing  that neither  wit  nor  reason  could  extricate him  from  the  trap.  The  evidence  was damning;  Ismail  had  won.

Saoud  sought  the  sultan’s  eye.  His fingers  closed  on  the  hilt  of  his  blade.

“Isfendiyar,  you  were  once  my friend.  Therefore  shall  I  give  you your  choice  of  death  in  whatever form  your  fancy  demands."

“Then  let  me  die  in  single  combat with  Ismail,  on  horse  or  on  foot,  as he  may  elect.”

"Crafty  and  plotting  to  the  last! 'With  your  last  move  you  would  dis¬ pose  of  an  enemy.  But  you  know full  well  that  you  could  not  die  in any  combat  with  him.  Therefore


'WEIRD  TALES

choose  .  .  .  Isfendiyar,  why  did  yon make  that  mad  attempt  3  Why  seek me  -with  a  knife — me,  your  friend* Was  it  my  fault  that  my  fierce  old father  sent  your  father  to  his  death  ? Why,  I  did  not  even  know  that Mamoun  had  a  son. .  .  No,  IsfendiyaT, I  shall  spare  your  life;  but  I  shall banish  you,  and  give  your  house  to be  plundered.”

And  at  the  sultan’s  gesture  of  dis¬ missal,  the  mamelukes  escorted  Isfendiyar  to  the  eastern  gate,  stripped  of his  rank,  once  again  a  wanderer.  His house  was  even  then  being  pillaged by  the  rabble;  and  his  horses  were being  led  to  the  sultan’s  stables.  Of all  his  fortune  there  remained  but  a purse  of  dinars,  and  that  rare  simitar which  men  called  the  Ladder  to Heaven,  on  account  of  the  transverse markings  an  ancient  smith  had  forged into  damascened  steel.

“The  Ladder  to  Heaven  and  a  bit of  gold.  And  I  have  had  less  even than  that  as  a  start,”  reflected Isfendiyar,  thinking  of  a  meeting with  a  Kurdish  emir  ten  years  ago.

■\T7ixL  without  the  city  walls, VV  Isfendiyar  sat  down  m  the shade  of  a  tree  at  the  cross-roads, pondering  on  his  next  move.  Into the  hills  to  lead  the  revolt  against  the sultan?  And  why  not?  Why  not lift  the  Ladder  to  Heaven  against that  prince  who  had  exiled  him  on suspicion,  that  prince  whose  father had  sent  the  father  of  Isfendiyar  to his  doom  for  the  sake  of  a  Kashmiri bayadere  ?

“But  he  spared  my  life,  when  he could  have  taken  it  .  .  .  spared,  In order  to  pillage,  and  send  into  exile  a faithful  friend  and  servant.”  And thus,  each  thought  contradicting  its predecessor,  Isfendiyar  sought  to  re¬ solve  the  rift dtp  of  the  nitnatinn

Weary  at  last,  and  drowsy  from the  heat,  Isfendiyar  fell  half  asleep, and  restlessly  dreamed  of  seeking new  fortunes,  reprisal  against  fhe

tyrant  who  had  had  so  little  faith  in him,  and  vengeance  for  the  sake  of iXIamoun,  his  father  whom  the  sul¬ tan’s  father  had  sent  to  bis  death.

Isfendiyar  awoke  with  a  start.  It was  late  in  the  afternoon.

“Alms,  in  the  name  of  Allah, alms !”  whined  a  voice  at  his  side.

“Beggars  begging  from  a  beggar!”

Isfendiyar  tossed  the  ragged  old mendicant,  a  coin,  recklessly  flung him  a  dinar  of  gold.

“3Iy  lord  is  generous,  and  I  am gratef  ul.  I  will  repair  my  lord’s  for-

“And  wliat  do  you  know  of  my  for-

“Who  does  not  know  what  befell Haaj  Isfendiyar?  But  I  am  old  and wise,  and  yon  can  profit  by  my  wis¬ dom.  ’  ’

“And  regain  my  position  by  fol¬ lowing  the  counsel  of  a  beggar?”

“Beggar?  Look!”

The  old  man  flipped  the  alms  of Isfendiyar  into  the  dusty  highway.

The  whine  had  vanished  from  bis voice;  his  keen,  hard  eyes  regarded Haaj  Isfendiyar  intently,  commandingly.  Though  ragged,  disreputable, with  grimy  talons  and  matted  beard, this  old  man  who  tossed  a  gold  piece aside  as  so  much  dirt  was  surely  no beggar.

“What  then,  old  man?”  queried Isfendiyar,  amazed  at  such  a  reckless gesture.  ‘  ‘  And  who  are  you  to  know so  much  about  sultans  and  those  who seek  them  with  daggers?  Perhaps you  could  even  tell  me  who  found my  poniard  ami  used  it  so  clumsily. Bat  who  are  you?”

“I  am  Ismeddin  the  darvish,  whom Allah  has  favored  with  wisdom  be¬ yond  that  of  other  men  ;  and  1  know strange  devices  wherewith  to  recoup one ’s  fortune.  Ana  I  "know  fhat  yonr thoughts  are  of  vengeance ;  that  you regret  you  did  not  make,  the  attempt whereof  you  are  accused,  knowing fail  well  that  yon  would  not  have bungled.”

THE  DREAMEE  OP  ATLaNAAT

“Well  then,  Ismeddin,  since  gold does  not  interest  yon,  I  shall  save  it for  one  who  will  need  it.  But  what do  yon  want?”  he  continued,  as  he retrieved  the  coin  and  thrust  St  into iris  purse.  “My  influence  at  court? Pw  men  do  not  offer  favors  without seeking  something  in  return.  ”

"What  have  I  to  do  with  courts? Or  with  gold  ?  I  am  a  simple  darvish who  for  the  sake  of  doing  a  good  deed would  help  you  gain  revenge  and  repail-  your  fortunes.”

“By  finding  the  lost  gardens  of Irem,  or  going  to  E!  Moghreb  to  raise a  force  to  reconquer  Spain?”  scoffed Isfendiyar,  half  out  of  patience,  yet interested  in  the  old  man’s  fancies.

“No,  Haaji,  Follow  me,”  com¬ manded  the  darvish.

And  Isfendiyar,  once  eaptain  of  a thousand  horse,  followed,  and  won¬ dered  that  he  did  so.  True,  he  had  no place  to  go,  no  plans  in  mind  save  to go  to  El  Moghreb,  or  perhaps  to  seek a  friend  in  Azerbaijan;  and  one  is never  in  a  hurry  about  beginning such  long  trips.  But  to  follow  this ragged  old  man  .  .  .  unheard  of  1  Yet he  followed.

Comewhat  over  an  hour’s  walk Drought  them  to  the  edge  of  a sparse  jungle,  lost  in  whose  depths were  the  ruins  of  an  aneient  city.  A most  unsavory  locality,  one  whereof strange  tales  had  been  told.  Against men  he  could  use  the  Ladder  to Heaven;  but  against  afreet  and djinni  .  .  .  well,  that  was  another matter  entirely.  And  that  old  man’s eyes  glittered  strangely.  Isfendiyar

“Haaji,  do  yon  know  who  I  am?” questioned  the  darvish,  likewise  halt¬ ing.

“Ismeddin  the  darvish,  if  yon spoke  the  truth.”

“Who  is  the  Lord  of  the  World?” queried  the  darvish  quite  irrelevantly.

“There  is  no  god  but  Allah,  and Mahmet  is  his  prophet,”  intoned Isfendiyar,  as  he  placed  his  finger¬ tips  first  on  his  temples,  then  on  his lips,  then,  crossing  his  arms  on  his breast,  made  his  salaam.

“Wrong,  Haaji!  Were  that  the truth,  would  you,  an  innocent  man, be  accused  of  attempting  to  assas¬ sinate  your  master,  and  be  punished for  the  crime  of  another?”

“Iblis  Hy  away  with  him!”

“A  detail  to  be  arranged  in  due course.  But  as  I  have  said,  ycu  have been  wronged,  and  you  shall  have  am¬ ple  recompense  and  great  vengeance. This  very  evening  you  shall  stand  be¬ fore  the  Lord  of  the  World.”

“The  Lord  of  the  World?  If  net Allah,  then - ”  Isfendiyar  shud¬

dered,  retreated  a  pace,  and  whixpered,  “Malik  Tabs?”

“No.  Not  the  Lord  Peacock,  but rather  him  whose  idle  fancy  created not  only  Allah,  but  all  the  gods  before whom  men  have  bowed.  And  ycu shall  not  leave  me  until  you  have heard  me  to  a  finish,”  commanded the  darvish.

Isfendiyar  approached  a  step, drawn  by  a  compulsion  that  over¬ came  his  fear.  Sweat  glistened  on his  forehead.  His  fingers  trembled as  they  curled  around  the  hilt  of  the Ladder  to  Heaven.

“There  is  no  god  but - ”

“Enough!  And  you  need  not  fin¬ ger  your  sword.  I  am  your  friend, the  darvish  Ismeddin;  more  your friend  than  you  can  possibly  know. You  will  see  strange  things  tonight, Haaji  And  yon  shall  have  all  the vengeance  that  you  desire.  If  you  are a  man  of  courage,  follow  me.”

The  sun  had  set.  Into  the  jungle the  darvish  led  Haaj  Isfendiyar, somewhat  reassured,  yet  withal  un¬ easy  and  consumed  with  apprehen¬ sion.  That  glittering  uncanny  eye, that  compelling  voice,  those  sinister


WEIRD  TALES

The  jungle  became  denser;  prog¬ ress  slower.  Darkness,  swift  on  the trail  of  sunset,  fell  and  enveloped them.  Ismeddin  picked  his  way,  fol¬ lowing  a  path  he  must  have  known by  instinct,  so  sure  was  his  advance. Isfendiyar  was  guided  but  by  the dirty  white  blotch  of  the  old  man’s djellab.  At  last  they  halted  at  a breach  in  a  wall  that  towered  high above  them.

“The  ancient  citadel  of  Atlahaat,” announced  the  darvish  with  the  lord¬ ly  gesture  of  one  who  puts  on  exhibi¬ tion  some  prized  bit  of  personal  propIsfendiyar  trembled  violently,  de¬ spite  his  efforts  to  compose  himself. That  fiend-haunted  ruin  could  bring him  no  good.  He  recollected  tales  of those  who  had  sought  the  treasure said  to  be  buried  in  its  depths.  Some few  had  returned;  but  those  few  had been  stark  mad  and  raving,  and  bab¬ bled  of  monstrous  things  they  had heard  and  seen.  And  this  old  man spoke  with  such  a  proprietary  air concerning  the  place!

The  moon  had  risen,  revealing  a vast  extent  of  shattered  columns, broad  avenues,  and  ruined  buildings of  colossal  proportions.  Grotesque figures  leered  at  him  from  the strangely  carven  capitals  of  gi¬ gantic  pillars  r  unhallowed  sculptures writhed  and  twisted  on  the  walls.

The  darvish  busied  himself  with gathering  dead  wood  from  just  out¬ side  the  walls,  leaving  Isfendiyar  to make  what  he  could  out  of  the  sinis¬ ter  surroundings.  Then  with  a  flint and  steel  he  struck  light,  kindling  a small  fire  at  the  entrance  of  the shrine  before  which  they  had  halted.

“The  hour  is  not  at  hand.  Let  us rest.”

Prom  his  pouch  he  drew  dates  and cakes  of  millet  which  he  offered Isfendiyar.

“Eat.”

“I  am  not  hungry,”  protested

Isfendiyar,  recollecting  the  strange sayings  of  the  darvish.

“Nonsense!”  snorted  the  darvish. “You  have  not  eaten  since  this  morn¬ ing.  Eat,  and  fear  nothing.  I  am your  friend.”

■When  Isfendiyar  had  disposed  of the  last  of  the  food,  the  darvish  drew from  his  voluminous  pouch  several dried  plums,  dark,  shriveled,  and scarcely  larger  than  olives.

“These,  Haaji,  were  plucked  from a  tree  that  grows  on  the  slopes  of Mount  Kaf.  Eat  three  of  them,  for they  will  give  you  the  courage  you will  need  to  face  that  which  is  before

Isfendiyar  eyed  the  plums,  but made  no  move  to  accept.

“See,  I  myself  will  eat  one,  which¬ ever  one  you  leave.”

But  Isfendiyar  did  not  note  that the  darvish  palmed  the  remaining plum  instead  of  eating  it.

Strangely  flavored  were  those small  plums:  bitter-sweet,  and  pun¬ gent,  and  aromatic  of  spices,  a  melee of  conflicting  flavors  curiously  blend¬ ed.  Isfendiyar  could  not  say  just what  they  did  resemble;  certainly nothing  the  like  of  which  he  had  ever before  tasted.  He  nibbled  a  second plum.  "Why  notf  What  if  they  were poison f  What  odds?  The  ten  best years  of  his  life  had  been  swept  away by  the  unjust  suspicions  of  a  capri¬ cious  prince.  And  all  the  while  the old  man  regarded  him  with  that  fixed, intent,  glittering  eye.

“While  we  wait,  Haaji,  we  shall have  music.”

So  saying,  the  darvish  drew  from that  same  pouch  a  tiny  darabuJceh,  a small  drum  whose  body  of  dark  wood was  laid  off  in  seventeen  oddly  carved sectors.  Its  head  was  made  of  skin the  like  of  which  Isfendiyar  had  never

“It  is  the  tanned  hide  of  an  unjust prince,”  replied  the  old  man  to

THE  DREAMER  OP  ATLANAAT


Isfendiyar’s  question.  "Flayed  by his  outraged  subjects,  ages  ago. Abaddon  has  played  on  this  drum  in the  depths  of  his  black  pit.  And  now listen  to  the  tunes  that  I  shall  sound

Squatting  directly  in  front  of Isfendiyar,  the  darvish  began  to  play, tapping  with  his  fingers  on  that  tiny drum;  with  fingertips  and  knuckles and  with  the  heel  of  his  hand  coaxing from  it  a  reverbration  of  amazing volume.  And  as  he  played,  in  shift¬ ing,  varying  Thythms,  he  chanted  in a  language  that  Isfendiyar  had  not heard  for  ten  years.

The  old  man  paused  in  his  playing for  an  instant  and  tossed  into  the embers  of  the  fire  a  handful  of  pow¬ der  which  fumed  heavily,  so  that through  its  mist  Isfendiyar  could  see but  the  glittering,  intent  eye  of  the darvish.  He  ate  the  third  plum,  suck¬ ing  from  its  seed  the  very  last  bit  of spicy  flavor.  He  nodded  drowsily  to the  marching  pulse  of  that  tiny darabukeh,  and  to  the  strange  words of  the  darvish,  words  that  sang  of vengeance,  and  flickering  blades,  and swiftly  looping  silken  bowstrings,  and of  the  Lord  of  the  World  who dreamed,  and  whose  every  dream  was tangible  fact.  The  dense,  acrid,  pun¬ gent-sweetness  of  the  incense  half strangled  Isfendiyar;  and  the  flavor of  the  last  plum  tingled  on  his  tongue.

“The  hour  is  almost  at  hand, Haaji,”  crooned  the  old  man,  “the hour  of  reprisal  draws  near  .  .  .  and you  shall  stand  before  the  Lord  of the  World  who  dreams  that  which  we see  as  things  as  they  are  .  .  .  and  he shall  rebuild  your  fate  as  it  should be  .  .  .  and  you  shall  see  those  things whereof  I  have  told  you.  Arise, Haaji,  for  the  hour  is  here,  and  we have  had  enough  music  .  .  .  and  have hut  one  more  plum,  Haaji.  .  .”

Isfendiyar  aroee  as  might  some colossns  arise  from  the  dais  of  stone which  it  had  occupied  for  a  thousand

years.  His  pulse  throbbed  in  cadence to  the  subtly  shifting  pulse  of  the darabukeh;  and  his  mouth  still  tin¬ gled  with  the  aromatic  bitter-sweet¬ ness  of  those  dried  plums.  He  fol¬ lowed  the  darvish  into  the  ruined shrine,  and  down  a  stairway  into  a subterranean  vault  where  screened torches  cast  a  flickering,  indirect  il¬ lumination  upon  its  curved  walls  and cinnabar-sprinkled  floor.

In  the  center  of  the  vault  was  a dais  whereon  sat  an  old  man, asleep,  or  in  deep  meditation.  His head  was  bowed;  Ms  eyes  were  half closed;  Ins  white  beard  trailed  to  his waist;  and  between  his  hands  he  held a  great  globe  of  crystal  in  whose depths  played  and  shifted  the  flicker¬ ing  torchlight.

“Haaj  Isfendiyar,”  purred  the darvish,  “you  are  now  before  the Dreamer  of  Atlanaat,  the  Lord  of  the World,  he  who  built  this  mighty  cita¬ del  the  day  that  he  completed  the  cre¬ ation  of  the  world.  Ha  sleeps,  and sleeping,'  dreams,  and  all  things  that seem  to  be  are  but  figments  of  his dream;  and  those  things  whereof  he ceases  to  dream,  at  that  instant  cease to  he.”

And  to  all  this  Isfendiyar  agreed; and  of  all  things  in  the  world  this seemed  the  most  logical,  that  the visions  of  that  Dreamer  should  at  the instant  of  dreaming  become  fact made  absolute.

As  he  spoke,  the  darvish  extended Ms  arms  and  with  passes  of  his  longnailed  talons  he  stroked  the  forehead of  Isfendiyar;  then  stepping  to  his left  side,  with  Ms  knuckles  he  rapped sharply  here  and  there  along  his spine,  and  with  rapid  movements passed  over  his  body,  pausing  to knead  this  muscle  and  that.  And  all the  while  he  crooned  in  Ms  purring monotone;  and  all  the  wMle  Isfen¬ diyar  acquiesced  to  the  strange  things whereof  the  darvidi  sang,  and  with


WE  HU}  TALKS

each  stroke  and  pass  seemed  to  be drawn  from,  his  body,  so  that  he  could stand  beside  it  and  watch  it,  oven unto  the  stare  of  his  own  fixed  eyes.

“All  this  is  but  a  dream,  and  we are  but  one  of  the  Dreamer’s  fancies. And  were  he  but  to  awake,  we  and all  things  else  would  vanish  and  be¬ come  as  nothing,  and  less  than  noth¬ ing.  So  that  he  must  not  awake, ever  .  .  .  but  I  shall  whisper  in  his ear  that  which  I  wish  him  to  dream, that  which  when  made  manifest  will give  you  ample  vengeance  and  high fortune.  .  .  Now  gaze  into  that  crystal into  which  he  gazes,  and  think  on your  vengeance,  aud  I  shall  play  my dnirn,  so  that  he  will  dream  that which,  as  it  is  dreamed,  becomes truth,  and  fact  accomplished.  .  .”

The  tiny  darabuhek,  spurred  to  life by  the  fluttering  fingertips  and thumping  knuckles  of  the  darvish, rolled,  and  purred,  and  reverberated in  its  maddening  rhythm.  The  flavor of  those  dried  plums  still  lingered  in the  month  of  Isfendiyar.  His  senses reeled,  and  swam,  so  that  it  seemed that  he  floated  in  a  perfumed  sea; erect,  and  on  his  feet,  but  floating, with  waves  of  poison-sweetness  warm¬ ly  lapping  his  cheeks.  The  crystal became  clouded,  then  opalescent,  then clouded  again.  A  murmuring  idled his  ears,  the  murmuring  of  many voices  chanting  from  afar,  and  the thump-thump  of  drums  that  spoke  of blood,  and  flickering  blades,  and  the slowly  flapping  pinions  of  vultures.

The  clouds  parted;  and  there,  be¬ fore  him,  Isfendiyar  saw  the  sultan walking  in  the  gardens  by  moonlight, strolling  as  was  his  custom  by  foun¬ tains  and  among  rose  trees.  .And  then from  the  shadows  emerged  a  figure moving  stealthily,  and  bearing  a drawn  poniard  which  shimmered

Isfendiyar  exulted  at  the  venseance  to  come ;  identified  himself vrith  the  form  of  thp.  avenger.

Surely  it  was  himself  that  he  saw, dagger  in  hand.  And  all  f  which the  Dreamer  dreamed  was  at  that  in¬ stant  to  be  made  truth,  and  a  fact accomplished.  The  dark  figure  ap¬ proached  the  sultan ;  the  blade  rose.  .  .

"With  a  hoarse,  strangled  yell, Isfendiyar  leaped  forward,  wrench¬ ing  himself  from  his  vision.  The  Lad¬ der  to  Heaven  flamed  wide  and swiftly.  The  head  of  the  Dreamer rolled  at  his  feet  on  the  cinnabarpowdered  floor.

Isfendiyar  fled  from  that  fiendhaunted  vault,  taking  the  steps  four at  a  leap.  Once  above  ground,  he  ram down  the  wide  avenue,  simitar  still clutched  in  his  hand,  frenzy  staring from  his  eyes.

The  fragment  of  a  shattered  col¬ umn  interrupted  his  flight.  Ho sprawled  flat  in  the  street,  his  blade ringing  as  it  struck  the  paving.

“Why  this  haste,  Isfendiyar?” queried  a  calm  voice  at  his  side. “Were  the  sights  not  to  your  taste?”

Staggering  to  his  feet,  Isfendiyar saw  the  sultan  himself  confronting him.  He  picked  up  the  Ladder  to Heaven,  stared  the  prince  full  in  the eye,  then  flung  his  simitar  to  the  pav¬ ing.

“Now  mock  me  for  saving  you from  the  Dreamer  and  his  dream!”

He  reeled  and  would  have  fallen but  for  the  sultan’s  supporting  arm.

“I  know  well  what  you  saw  in  the crystal,  Haaji,  for  I  heard  the  words of  the  old  darvish  who  had  drugged you  with  plums  laden  with  hasheesh, and  chanted  your  senses  away  with his  mumming  words  and  his  thump¬ ing  drum.  Vengeance  you  sought; yet  when  yon  saw  me  about  to  be duin,  ,you  ended  the  Dreamer’s

Then,  to  the  darvish,  who  had emerged  from  the  vault,  “Well, Ismeddin,  are  you  through  with  your jugglery?  Name  your  reward,  for

THE  DREAMER  OP  ATLANAAT


you  have  served  me  well  in  vindicat¬ ing  my  faithful  Isfendiyar.”

The  darvish  laughed.

“Well,  and  I  have  served  myself also.  And  this  I  demand:  that  you restore  Isfendiyar  my  grandson  to

“Your  grandson?”

“Yes.  Por  while  as  Ismeddin the  darvish  I  have  often  come  from the  desert  to  advise  and  help  you,  I am  also  Ismeddin  el  Idrisi,  and  the father  of  that  Mamoun  whom  your father  sent  to  his  death  for  the  sake of  a  dancing  girl.  And  now  I  return to  the  desert  to  meditate  on  the  folly of  serving  princes.  But  I  bear  you no  ill  will  for  the  sake  of  that  fierce old  man  your  father.  If  you  need me  again,  seek  me  as  before.  A  thouAnd  the  old  man  vanished  in  the darkness  of  the  ruins.

Tee  drugged,  addled  brain  of Isfendiyar  had  cleared  itself  of the  hypnotic  thump  of  drums,  the juggling  words  of  the  darvish,  and the  poison-sweetness  of  those  strange plums.

“My  lord,  who  was  that  Dreamer whose  head  I  sheared  off?  Or  was there  really  a  Dreamer?”

“Oh,  that  was  your  friend  Ismail. Circumstances  were  against  you, damningly  so;  for  even  your  presence at  court  was  in  keeping  with  your

shrewdness  and  audacity.  But  after having  passed  sentence,  it  occurred to  me  that  the  attempt  on  my  life had  been  made  for  some  purpose other  than  that  of  slaying  me :  for  a true  assassin  would  instinctively  have kept  his  weapon,  or  even  the  remain¬ der  of  it,  in  his  grasp.  Its  being dropped  was  the  first  false  note.  And in  the  light  of  reflection,  that  warn¬ ing  note  was  the  second  error:  I  know you  well  enough  to  know  that  had you  really  designed  my  death,  no  one would  have  been  able  to  warn  me,  for you  always  play  a  lone  hand.  Last of  all,  Ismail  seemed  too  elated  when he  announced  your  presence  this morning,  and  too  disappointed  when he  heard  the  sentence.  So  I  sum¬ moned  Ismeddin,  and  later,  invited Ismail  to  drink  with  me.  Then, drugged,  and  adorned  with  a  patri¬ archal  beard,  I  sent  him  to  this  place to  pose  as  Dreamer.  Thus  in  the  end he  was  killed  by  that  very  fidelity  he had  impeached.”

“But  suppose  the  strange  trioks  of Ismeddin  had  failed,  and  I  had  not struck?”

“I  knew  that  when  your  grand¬ father  proposed  that  test  he  was  sure of  himself  and  his  strange  powers. Well,  and  now  to  horse!”  exclaimed the  sultan  as  a  groom  approaehed.

And  the  wazir  Isfendiyar  rode  back to  Angor-lana  at  the  right  of  his friend  the  sultan.

FEAR

By  CRISTEL  HASTINGS

Fear  stalks  by  stealth  at  night  when  all  is  still, When  shadows  creep  and  crawl  and  grow  until The  darkness  grips  my  heart  with  ghostly  ease And  makes  the  very  wind  that  sighs  in  trees The  icy  breath  of  monsters  poised  to  leap And  tear  my  trembling  heart  out  while  I  sleep.

WEIRD  STORY  REPRINTS

No.  13 .  The  Birthmark

By  NATHANIEL  HAWTHORNE

rr  THE  latter  part  of  the  last  cen¬ tury  there  lived  a  man  of  science, an  eminent  proficient  in  every branch  of  natural  philosophy,  who not  long  before  our  story  opens  had made  experience  of  a  spiritual  affin¬ ity  more  attractive  than  any  chemical one.  He  had  left  his  laboratory  to the  care  of  an  assistant,  cleared  his fine  countenance  from  ilie  furnace smoke,  washed  the  stain  of  acids  from his  fingers,  and  persuaded  a  beauti¬ ful  woman  to  become  his  wife.  In those  days,  when  the  comparatively recent  discovery  of  electricity  and other  kindred  mysteries  of  Nature seemed  to  open  paths  into  the  region of  miracle,  it.  was  not  unusual  for  the love  of  science  to  rival  the  love  of woman  in  its  depth  and  absorbing  en¬ ergy.  The  higher  intellect,  the  imag¬ ination,  the  spirit,  and  even  the  heart might  all  find  their  congenial  aliment in  pursuits  which,  as  some  of  their ardent  votaries  believed,  would  as¬ cend  from  one  step  of  powerful  in¬ telligence  to  another,  nntil  the  phi¬ losopher  should  lay  his  hand  on  the secret  of  creative  force  and  perhaps make  new  worlds  for  himself.  We know  not  whether  Aylmer  possessed this  degree  of  faith  in  man’s  ultimate control  over  Nature.  He  had  devoted himself,  however,  too  unreservedly  to scientific  studies  ever  to  be  weaned from  them  by  any  second  passion.  His love  for  his  young  wife  might  prove the  stronger  of  the  two;  but  it  could only  be  by  intertwining  itself  with  his love  of  science  and  uniting  the “ - ’h  of  the  latter  to  his  own.

strength  0:

Such  a  union  accordingly  took place,  and  was  attended  with  truly remarkable  consequences  and  a  deep¬ ly  impressive  moral.  One  day,  very soon  after  their  marriage,  Aylmer  sat gazing  at  his  wife  with  a  trouble  in his  countenance  that  grew  stronger nntil  he  spoke.

“ Georgians, ”  said  he,  “has  it never  occurred  to  you  that  the  mark upon  your  cheek  might  be  removed?”

“No,  indeed,”  said  she,  smiling; but,  perceiving  the  seriousness  of  his manner,  she  blushed  deeply.  “To tell  you  the  truth,  it  has  been  so  often called  a  charm  that  I  was  simple enough  to  imagine  it  might  be  so.”

“Ah,  upon  another  face  perhaps  it might,”  replied  her. husband;  “but never  on  yours.  No,  dearest  Georgi¬ ans,  yon  came  so  nearly  perfect  from the  hand  of  Nature  that  this  slightest possible  defect,  which  we  hesitata whether  to  term  a  defect  or  a  beauty, shocks  me,  as  being  the  visible  mark of  earthly  imperfection.”

“Shocks  you,  my  husband!”  cried Georgians,  deeply  hurt;  at  first  red¬ dening  with  momentary  anger,  but then  bursting  into  tears.  “Then  why did  you  take  me  from  my  mother’s side?  You  can  not  love  what  shocks you!”

To  explain  this  conversation,  it must  be  mentioned  that  in  the  center of  Georgians  *8  left  cheek  there  was  a angular  mark,  deeply  interwoven,  as it  were,  with  the  texture  and  sub¬ stance  of  her  face.  In  the  usual  state of  her  complexion — a  healthy  though delicate  bloom — the  mark  wore  a  tint

THE  BIRTHMARK

of  deeper  crimson,  which  imperfectly defined  its  shape  amid  the  surround¬ ing  rosiness.  'When  she  blushed  it gradually  became  more  indistinct, and  finally  vanished  amid  the  tri¬ umphant  rush  of  blood  that  bathed the  whole  cheek  with  its  brilliant glow.  But  if  any  shifting  motion caused  her  to  turn  pale  there  was  the mark  again,  a  crimson  stain  upon  the snow,  in  what  Aylmer  sometimes deemed  an  almost  fearful  distinct¬ ness.  Its  shape  bore  not  a  little  simi¬ larity  to  the  human  hand,  though  of the  smallest  pigmy  size.  Georgiana’s lovers  were  wont  to  say  that  some fairy  at  her  birth  hour  had  laid  her tiny  hand  upon  the  infant’s  cheek, and  left  this  impress  there  in  token of  the  magic  endowments  that  were to  give  her  such  sway  over  all  hearts. Many  a  desperate  swain  would  have risked  life  for  the  privilege  of  press¬ ing  his  lips  to  the  mysterious  hand. It  must  not  be  concealed,  however, that  the  impression  wrought  by  this fairy  sign  manual  varied  exceedingly according  to  the  difference  of  temper¬ ament  in  the  beholders.  Some  fastidi¬ ous  persons — but  they  were  exclu¬ sively  of  her  own  sex — affirmed  that the  bloody  hand,  as  they  chose  to  call it,  quite  destroyed  toe  effect  of Georgians,  ’s  beauty  and  rendered  her countenance  even  hideous.  But  it would  be  a3  reasonable  to  say  that one  of  those  small  blue  stains  which sometimes  occur  in  toe  purest  statu¬ ary  marble  would  convert  the  Eve  of Powers  to  a  monster.  Masculine  ob¬ servers,  if  toe  birthmark  did  not heighten  their  admiration,  contented themselves  with  wishing  it  away,  that toe  world  might  possess  one  living specimen  of  ideal  loveliness  without the  semblance  of  a  flaw.  After  his marriage,— for  he  thought  little  or nothing  of  toe  matter  before, — Ayl¬ mer  discovered  that  this  was  toe  case with  himself.

Had  she  been  less  beautiful, — if Envy’s  self  could  have  found  aught

else  to  sneer  at, — he  might  have  felt his  affection  heightened  by  toe  pret¬ tiness  of  this  mimic  band,  now  vague¬ ly  portrayed,  now  lost,  now  steal¬ ing  forth  again  and  glimmering  to and  fro  with  every  pulse  of  emotion that,  throbbed  within  her  heart;  but, seeing  her  otherwise  so  perfect,  he found  this  one  defect  grow  more  and more  intolerahle  with  every  moment of  their  united  lives.  It  was  the  fatal Saw  of  humanity  which  Nature,  in one  shape  or  another,  stamps  meffaceably  on  all  her  productions,  either  to imply  that  they  are  temporary  and finite,  or  that  their  perfection  must be  wrought  by  toil  and  pain.  The crimson  hand  expressed  toe  inelndibie gripe  in  which  mortality  clutches  the highest  and  purest  of  earthly  mold, degrading  them  into  kindred  with  the lowest,  and  even  with  toe  very  brutes, like  whom  their  visible  frames  return to  dust.  In  this  manner,  selecting  it as  toe  symbol  of  his  wife’s  liability  to sin,  sorrow,  decay,  and  death,  Ayl¬ mer’s  somber  imagination  was  not long  in  rendering  toe  birthmark  a frightful  object,  causing  him  more trouble  and  horror  than  ever  Georgi¬ ana’s  beauty,  whether  of  soul  or sense,  had  given  him  delight.

At  all  the  seasons  which  should have  been  their  happiest  he  invaria¬ bly,  and  without  intending  it,  nay, in  spite  of  a  purpose  to  the  contrary, reverted  to  this  one  disastrous  topic. Trifling  as  it  at  first  appeared,  it  so connected  itself  with  innumerable trains  of  thought  and  modes  of  feel¬ ing  that  it  became  toe  eentral  point of  all.  With  toe  morning  twilight Aylmer  opened  his  eyes  upon  his wife’s  face  and  recognized  toe  sym¬ bol  of  imperfection;  and  when  they sat  together  at  toe  evening  hearth  his eyes  wandered  stealthily  to  her  cheek, and  beheld,  flickering  with  toe  blaze of  toe  wood  fire,  toe  speetral  hand that  wrote  mortality  where  he  would fain  have  worshiped.  Georgians  soon learned  to  shudder  at  his  gaze.  It


'WEIRD  TALES

needed  but  a  glance  with  the  peculiar expression  that  his  faee  often  wore  to change  the  roses  of  her  cheek  into  a deathlike  paleness,  amid  which  the crimson  hand  was  brought  strongly out,  like  a  bas-relief  of  ruby  on  the whitest  marble.

Late  one  night,  when  the  lights were  growing  dim  so  as  hardly to  betray  the  stain  on  the  poor  wife’s cheek,  she  herself,  for  the  first  time, voluntarily  took  up  the  subject.

“Do  you  remember,  my  dear  Ayl¬ mer,”  said  she,  with  a  feeble  attempt at  a  smile,  “have  you  any  recollec¬ tion,  of  a  dream  last  night  about  this odious  hand?”

“None!  none  whatever!”  replied Aylmer,  starting;  but  then  he  added, in  a  dry,  cold  tone,  affected  for  the sake  of  concealing  the  real  depth  of his  emotion,  “I  might  well  dream  of it;  for,  before  I  fell  asleep,  it  had taken  a  pretty  firm  hold  of  my

“And  you  did  dream  of  it?”  con¬ tinued  Georgiana,  hastily;  for  she dreaded  lest  a  gush  of  tears  should  in¬ terrupt  what  she  had  to  say.  “A  ter¬ rible  dream !  I  wonder  that  you  can forget  it.  Is  it  possible  to  forget  this one  expression? — ‘It  is  in  her  heart now;  we  must  have  it  out!’  Reflect, my  husband;  for  by  all  means  I would  have  you  recall  that  dream.”

The  mind  is  in  a  sad  state  when Sleep,  the  all-involving,  can  not  con¬ fine  her  specters  within  the  dim  re¬ gion  of  her  sway,  but  suffers  them  to break  forth,  affrighting  this  actual life  with  secrets  that  perchance  be¬ long  to  a  deeper  one.  Aylmer  now remembered  his  dream.  He  had  fan¬ cied  himself  with  his  servant  Aminadab,  attempting  an  operation  for  the removal  of  the  birthmark;  but  the deeper  went  the  knife,  the  deeper sank  the  hand,  until  at  length  its  tiny grasp  appeared  to  have  caught  hold of  Georgiana ’s  heart;  whence,  how¬

ever,  her  husband  was  inexorably  re¬ solved  to  cut  or  wrench  it  away.

When  the  dream  had  shaped  itself perfectly  in  his  memory  Aylmer  sat in  his  wife’s  presence  with  a  guilty feeling.  Truth  often  finds  its  way  to the  mind  close  muffled  in  robes  of sleep,  and  then  speaks  with  tineompromising  directness  of  matters  in  re¬ gard  to  which  we  practise  an  uncon¬ scious  self-deception  during  our  wak¬ ing  moments.  Until  now  he  had  not been  aware  of  the  tyrannizing  influ¬ ence  acquired  by  one  idea  over  his mind,  and  of  the  lengths  which  he might  find  it  in  his  heart  to  go  for  the sake  of  giving  himself  peace.

“Aylmer,”  resumed  Georgiana,  sol¬ emnly,  “I  know  not  what  may  be  the cost  to  both  of  ns  to  rid  me  of  this fatal  birthmark.  Perhaps  its  removal may  cause  cureless  deformity;  or  it may  be  the  stain  goes  as  deep  as  life itself.  Again:  do  we  know  that  there is  a  possibility,  on  any  terms,  of  un¬ clasping  the  firm  gripe  of  this  little hand  which  was  laid  upon  me  before I  came  into  the  world?”

“Dearest  Georgiana,  I  have  spent much  thought  upon  tho  subject,” hastily  interrupted  Aylmer.  “I  am convinced  of  the  perfect  practicabil¬ ity  of  its  removal.”

“If  there  be  the  remotest  possibil¬ ity  of  it,”  continued  Georgians,  “let the  attempt  be  made,  at  whatever risk.  Danger  is  nothing  to  me;  for life,  while  this  hateful  mark  makes me  tho  object  of  your  horror  and  dis¬ gust, — life  is  a  burden  which  I  would fling  down  with  joy.  Either  remove this  dreadful  hand,  or  take  my wretched  life!  Ton  have  deep  science. All  the  world  hears  witness  of  it.  Yon have  achieved  great  wonders.  Can  yon not  remove  this  little,  little  mark, which  I  cover  with  the  tips  of  two small  fingers?  Is  this  beyond  your power,  for  the  sake  of  your  own peace,  and  to  save  your  poor  wife from  madness?”

“Noblest,  dearest,  tenderest  wife,’’

THE  BIRTHMARK


cried  Aylmer,  rapturously,  “doubt not  my  power.  I  have  already  given this  matter  the  deepest  thought — thought  which  might  almost  have  en¬ lightened  me  to  create  a  being  less perfect  than  yourself.  Georgians, you  have  led  me  deeper  than  ever into  the  heart  of  science.  I  feel  my¬ self  fully  competent  to  render  this dear  eheek  as  faultless  as  its  fellow; and  then,  most  beloved,  what  will  be my  triumph  when  I  shall  have  cor¬ rected  what  Nature  left  imperfect  in her  fairest  work !  Even  Pygmalion, when  his  sculptured  woman  assumed life,  felt  not  greater  ecstasy  than mine  will  be.”

“It  is  resolved,  then,”  said  Georgi¬ ans,  faintly  smiling.  “And,  Aylmer, spare  me  not,  though  you  should  find the  birthmark  take  refuge  in  my  heart at  last.”

Her  husband  tenderly  kissed  her cheek — her  right  cheek — not  that which  bore  the  impress  of  the  erimThe  next  day  Aylmer  apprized  his wife  of  a  plan  that  he  had  formed whereby  he  might  have  opportunity for  the  intense  thought  and  constant watchfulness  which  the  proposed operation  would  require;  while Georgiana,  likewise,  would  enjoy  the perfect  repose  essential  to  its  success. They  were  to  seclude  themselves  in the  extensive  apartments  occupied  by Aylmer  as  a  laboratory,  and  where, during  his  toilsome  youth,  he  had made  discoveries  in  the  elemental powers  of  Nature  that  had  roused  the admiration  of  all  the  learned  socie¬ ties  in  Europe.  Seated  calmly  in  this laboratory,  the  pale  philosopher  had investigated  the  secrets  of  the  high¬ est  cloud  region  and  of  the  profoundest  mines;  he  had  satisfied  himself  of the  causes  that  kindled  and  kept alive  the  fires  of  the  volcano;  and  had explained  the  mystery  of  fountains, and  how  it  is  that  they  gush  forth, some  so  bright  and  pure,  and  others

with  such  rich  medicinal  virtues,  from the  dark  bosom  of  the  earth.  Here, too,  at  an  earlier  period,  he  had studied  the  wonders  of  the  human frame,  and  attempted  to  fathom  the very  process  by  which  Nature  assimi¬ lates  all  her  precious  influences  from earth  and  air,  and  from  the  spiritual world,  to  create  and  foster  man,  her masterpiece.  The  latter  pursuit,  how¬ ever,  Aylmer  had  long  laid  aside  in unwilling  recognition  of  the  truth — against  which  all  seekers  sooner  or later  stumble — that  our  great  creative Mother,  while  she  amuses  us  with  ap¬ parently  working  in  the  broadest  sun¬ shine,  is  yet  severely  careful  to  keep her  own  secrets,  and,  in  spite  of  her pretended  openness,  shows  us  nothing but  results.  She  permits  us,  indeed, to  mar,  but  seldom  to  mend,  and.  like a  jealous  patentee,  on  no  account  to make.  Now,  however,  Aylmer  re¬ sumed  these  half-forgotten  investiga¬ tions;  not,  of  course,  with  such  hopes or  wishes  as  first  suggested  them ;  but because  they  involved  much  physio¬ logical  truth  and  lay  in  the  path  of his  proposed  scheme  for  the  treat¬ ment  of  Georgiana.

As  he  led  her  over  the  threshold  of the  laboratory  Georgiana  was  eold and  tremulous.  Aylmer  looked  cheer¬ fully  into  her  face,  with  intent  to  re¬ assure  her,  but  was  so  startled  with the  intense  glow  of  the  birthmark upon  the  whiteness  of  her  cheek  that he  could  not  restrain  a  strong  convul¬ sive  shudder.  His  wife  fainted.

“Aminadab!  Aminadab!”  shouted Aylmer,  stamping  violently  on  the floor.

Forthwith  there  issued  from  an  in¬ ner  apartment  a  man  of  low  stature, but  bulky  frame,  with  shaggy  hair hanging  about  his  visage,  which  was grimed  with  the  vapors  of  the  fur¬ nace.  This  personage  had  been  Ayl¬ mer’s  nnderworker  during  his  whole scientific  career,  and  was  admirably fitted  for  that  office  by  his  great  me¬ chanical  readiness,  and  the  skill  with


WEIRD  TALES

which,  while  incapable  of  compre¬ hending  a  single  principle,  he  exe¬ cuted  all  the  details  of  his  master's experiments.  With  his  vast  strength, his  shaggy  hair,  his  smoky  aspect,  and the  indescribable  earthiness  that  incrusted  him,  he  seemed  to  represent man’s  physical  nature;  while  Ayl¬ mer ’3  slender  figure,  and  pale,  intel¬ lectual  face,  were  no  less  apt  a  type of  the  spiritual  element.

“Throw  open  the  door  of  the  bou¬ doir,  Aminadab,”  said  Aylmer,  “and burn  a  pastil.”

“Yes,  master,”  answered  Amina¬ dab,  looking  intently  at  the  lifeless form  of  Georgians ;  and  then  he  mut¬ tered  to  himself,  “If  she  were  my wife.  I’d  never  part  with  that  birthWhen  Georgians  recovered  con¬ sciousness  she  found  herself  breathing an  atmosphere  of  penetrating  fra¬ grance,  the  gentle  potency  of  which had  recalled  her  from  her  deathlike faintness.  The  scene  around  her looked  like  enchantment.  Aylmer had  converted  those  smoky,  dingy, somber  rooms,  where  he  had  spent  his brightest  years  in  recondite  pursuits, into  a  series  ox  beautiful  apartments not  unfit  to  be  the  secluded  abode  of a  lovely  woman.  The  walls  were  hung with  gorgeous  curtains,  which  im¬ parted  the  combination  of  grandeur and  grace  that  no  other  species  of adornment  can  achieve;  and,  as  they fell  from  the  ceiling  to  the  floor,  their rich  and  ponderous  folds,  concealing all  angles  and  straight  lines,  appeared to  shut  in  the  scene  from  infinite space.  For  aught  Georgians  knew, it  might  be  a  pavilion  among  the clouds.  And  Aylmer,  excluding  the sunshine,  which  would  have  inter¬ fered  with  his  chemical  processes,  had supplied  its  place  with  perfumed lamps,  emitting  flames  of  various  hue, but  all  uniting  in  a  soft,  impurpled radiance.  He  now  knelt  by  bis  wife ’s side,  watching  her  earnestly,  but without  alarm;  for  he  was  confident

in  his  seienee,  and  felt  that  he  oould draw  a  magic  circle  round  her  within, which  no  evil  might  intrude.

“Where  am  I?  Ah,  I  remember,” said  Georgiana,  faintly ;  and  she placed  her  hand  over  her  cheek  to hide  the  terrible  mark  from  her  hus¬ band’s  eyes.

“Fear  not,  dearest!”  exclaimed  be. “Do  not  shrink  from  me!  Believe me,  Georgiana,  I  even  rejoice  in  this single  imperfection,  since  it  will  be such  a  rapture  to  remove  it.”

“O,  spare  me!”  sadly  replied  his wife.  “Pray  do  not  look  at  it  again. I  never  can  forget  that  convulsive shudder.”

In  order  to  soothe  Georgiana,  and, as  it  were,  to  release  her  mind  from the  burden  of  actual  things,  Aylmer now  put  in  practise  some  of  the  light and  playful  secrets  which  science  had taught  him  among  its  profounder lore.  Airy  figures,  absolutely  bodi¬ less  ideas,  and  forms  of  unsubstantial beauty  came  and  daneed  before  her, imprinting  their  momentary  footsteps on  beams  of  light.  Though  she  had some  indistinct  idea  of  the  method  of these  optical  phenomena,  still  the  il¬ lusion  was  almost  perfect  enough  to warrant  the  belief  that  her  husband possessed  sway  over  the  spiritual world.  Then  again,  when  she  felt  a wish  to  look  forth  from  her  seclusion, immediately,  as  if  her  thoughts  were answered,  the  procession  of  external existence  flitted  across  a  screen.  The scenery  and  the  figures  of  actual  life were  perfectly  represented,  but  with that  bewitching  yet  indescribable  dif¬ ference  which  always  makes  a  pic¬ ture,  an  image,  or  a  shadow  so  much more  attractive  than  the  original. When  wearied  of  this,  Aylmer  bade her  cast  her  eyes  upon  a  vessel  con¬ taining  a  quantity  of  earth.  She  did so,  with  little  interest  at  first;  but was  soon  startled  to  perceive  die germ  of  a  plant  shooting  upward from  the  soil.  Then  came  the  slender stalk;  the  leaves  gradually  unfolded

THE  BIRTHMARK


themselves;  and  amid  them  was  a perfect  and  lovely  flower.

“It  is  magical!”  cried  Georgians. “I  dare  not  touch  it.”

“Nay,  pluck  it,”  answered  Ayl¬ mer, — “pluck  it,  and  inhale  its  brief perfume  while  you  may.  The  flower will  wither  in  a  few  moments  and leave  nothing  save  its  brown  seed vessels;  but  thence  may  be  perpetu¬ ated  a  race  as  ephemeral  as  itself.”

But  Georgians  had  no  sooner touched  the  flower  than  the  whole plant  suffered  a  blight,  its  leaves turning  coal-black  as  if  by  the  agency of  firs.

“There  was  too  powerful  a  stimu¬ lus,”  said  Aylmer,  thoughtfully.

To  make  up  for  this  abortive  ex¬ periment.  he  proposed  to  take  her portrait  by  a  scientific  process  of  his own  invention.  It  was  to  be  effected by  rays  of  light  striking  upon  a  pol¬ ished  plate  of  metal.  Georgians  as¬ sented;  but,  on  looking  at  the  result, was  affrighted  to  find  the  features  of the  portrait  blurred  and  indefinable; while  the  minute  figure  of  a  hand  ap¬ peared  where  the  cheek  should  have been.  Aylmer  snatched  the  metallic plate  and  threw  it  into  a  jar  of  cor¬ rosive  acid.

Soon,  however,  he  forgot  these  mor¬ tifying  failures.  In  the  intervals  of study  and  chemical  experiment  he came  to  her  flushed  and  exhausted, but  seemed  invigorated  by  her  pres¬ ence,  and  spoke  ia  glowing  language of  the  resources  of  his  art.  He  gave a  history  of  the  long  dynasty  of  the alehemists,  who  spent  so  many  ages in  quest  of  the  Universal  solvent  by which  the  golden  principle  might  be elicited  from  all  things  vile  and  base. Aylmer  appeared  to  believe  that,  by the  plainest  scientific  logic,  it  was  al¬ together  within  the  limits  of  possi¬ bility  to  discover  this  long-sought  me¬ dium;  “but,”  he  added,  “a  philoso¬ pher  who  should  go  deep  enough  to acquire  the  power  would  attain  too lofty  a  wisdom  to  stoop  to  the  exer¬

cise  of  it.”  Not  less  singular  were his  opinions  in  regard  to  the  elixir vita;.  He  more  than  intimated  that it  was  at  his  option  to  concoct  a  liquid that  should  prolong  life  for  years, perhaps  interminably;  but  that  it would  produce  a  discord  in  Nature which  all  the  world,  and  chiefly  the quaffer  of  the  immortal  nostrum, would  find  cause  to  curse.

“Aylmer,  are  you  in  earnest?” asked  Georgians,  looking  at  him  with amazement  and  fear.  “It  is  terrible to  possess  such  power,  or  even  to dream  of  possessing  it.”

“0,  do  not  tremble,  my  love.”  said her  husband.  “I  would  not  wrong either  you  or  myself  by  working  such inharmonious  effects  upon  our  lives; hut  I  would  have  you  consider  how trifling,  in  comparison,  is  the  skill requisite  to  remove  this  little  hand.”

At  the  mention  of  the  birthmark Georgians,  as  usual,  shrank  as  if  a redhot  iron  had  touched  her  cheek.

Again  Aylmer  applied  himself  to his  labors.  She  could  hear  his voice  in  the  distant  furnace  room  giv¬ ing  directions  to  Aminadab,  whose harsh,  uncouth,  misshapen  tones  were audible  in  response,  more  like  the grunt  or  growl  of  a  brute  than  hu¬ man  speech.  After  hours  of  absence, Aylmer  reappeared  and  proposed  that she  should  now  examine  his  cabinet of  chemical  products  and  natural treasures  of  the  earth.  Among  the former  he  showed  her  a  small  vial,  in which,  he  remarked,  was  contained  a gentle  yet  most  powerful  fragrance, capable  of  impregnating  all  the breezes  that  blow  across  a  kingdom. They  were  of  inestimable  value,  the contents  of  that  little  vial ;  and,  as  he said  so,  he  threw  some  of  the  perfume into  the  air  and  filled  the  room  with piercing  and  invigorating  delight.

“And  what  is  this?”  asked  Georgi¬ ans,  pointing  to  a  small  crystal  globe containing  a  gold-colored  liquid.  “It


WEIRD  TALES

is  so  beautiful  to  the  eye  that  I  could imagine  it  the  elixir  of  life.”

“In  one  sense  it  is,”  replied  Ayl¬ mer;  “or  rather,  the  elixir  of  im¬ mortality.  It  is  the  most  precious poison  that  ever  was  concocted  in  this world.  By  its  aid  I  could  apportion the  lifetime  of  any  mortal  at  whom you  might  point  your  finger.  The strength  of  the  dose  would  determine whether  he  were  to  linger  out  years, or  drop  dead  in  the  midst  of  a  breath. No  king  on  his  guarded  throne  could keep  his  life  if  I,  in  my  private  sta¬ tion,  should  deem  that  the  welfare  of millions  justified  me  in  depriving  him of  it.”

“Why  do  you  keep  such  a  terrific drug?”  inquired  Georgiana  in  horror.

“Do  not  mistrust  me,  dearest,” said  her  husband,  smiling;  “its  virtu¬ ous  potency  is  yet  greater  than  its harmful  one.  But  see !  here  is  a  pow¬ erful  cosmetic.  With  a  few  drops  of this  in  a  vase  of  water,  freckles  may be  washed  away  as  easily  as  the  hands are  cleansed.  A  stronger  infusion would  take  the  blood  out  cf  the  cheek, and  leave  the  rosiest  beauty  a  pale

“Is  it  with  this  lotion  that  you  in¬ tend  to  bathe  my  cheek?”  asked Georgiana,  anxiously.

“0,  no,”  hastily  replied  her  hus¬ band;  “this  is  merely  superficial. Your  case  demands  a  remedy  that shall  go  deeper.”

In  his  interviews  with  Georgiana, Aylmer  generally  made  minute  in¬ quiries  as  to  her  sensations,  and whether  the  confinement  of  the  rooms and  the  temperature  of  the  atmos¬ phere  agreed  with  her.  These  ques¬ tions  had  sneh  a  particular  drift  that Georgiana  began  to  conjecture  that she  was  already  subjected  to  certain physical  influences,  either  breathed in  with  the  fragrant  air  or  taken with  her  food.  She  fancied  likewise, but  it  might  be  altogether  fancy,  that there  was  a  stirring  up  of  her  sys¬ tem— a  strange,  indefinite  sensation

creeping  through  her  veins,  and  ting¬ ling,  half  painfully,  half  pleasurably, at  her  heart.  Still,  whenever  she dared  to  look  into  the  mirror,  there she  beheld  herself  pale  as  a  white rose  and  with  the  crimson  birthmark stamped  upon  her  cheek.  Not  even Aylmer  now  hated  it  so  much,  as  she.

To  dispel  the  tedium  of  the  hours which  her  husband  found  it  necessary to  devote  to  the  processes  of  combina¬ tion  and  analysis,  Georgiana  turned over  the  volumes  of  his  scientific  li¬ brary.  In  many  dark  old  tomes  she met  with  chapters  full  of  romance and  poetry.  They  were  the  works  of the  philosophers  of  the  middle  ages, such  as  Albertus  Magnus,  Cornelius Agrippa,  Paracelsus,  and  the  famous friar  who  created  the  prophetic  Bra¬ zen  Head.  All  these  antique  natural¬ ists  stood  in  advance  of  their  cen¬ turies,  yet  were  imbued  with  some  of their  credulity,  and  therefore  were believed,  and  perhaps  imagined  them¬ selves  to  have  acquired  from  the  in¬ vestigation  of  Nature  a  power  above Nature,  and  from  physics  a  sway  over the  spiritual  world.  Hardly  less  curi¬ ous  and  imaginative  were  the  early volumes  of  the  Transactions  of  fke Royal  Society,  in  which  the  members, knowing  little  of  the  limits  of  natural possibility,  were  continually  recording wonders  or  proposing  methods  where¬ by  wonders  might  be  wrought.

But,  to  Georgiana,  the  most  en¬ grossing  volume  was  a  large  folio from  her  husband’s  own  hand,  in which  he  had  recorded  every  experi¬ ment  of  his  scientific  career,  its  orig¬ inal  aim,  the  methods  adopted  for  its development,  and  its  final  success  or failure,  with  the  circumstances  to which  either  event  was  attributable. The  book,  in  truth,  was  both  the  his¬ tory  and  emblem  of  his  ardent,  ambi¬ tious,  imaginative,  yet  practical  and laborious  life.  He  handled  physical details  as  if  there  were  nothing  be¬ yond  them ;  yet  spiritualized  them  all, and  redeemed  himself  from  materialTHE  BIRTHMARK


ism  by  his  strong  and  eager  aspira¬ tion  towards  the  infinite.  In  his  grasp the  veriest  clod  of  earth  assumed  a soul.  Georgians,  as  she  read,  rever¬ enced  Aylmer  and  loved  him  more profoundly  than  ever,  but  with  a  less entire  dependence  on  his  judgment than  heretofore.  Much  as  he  had  ac¬ complished,  she  eould  not  but  observe that  his  most  splendid  successes  were almost  invariably  failures,  if  com¬ pared  with  the  ideal  at  which  he aimed.  His  brightest  diamonds  were the  merest  pebbles,  and  felt  to  be  so by  himself,  in  comparison  with  the inestimable  gems  which  lay  hidden beyond  his  reach.  The  volume,  rich with  achievements  that  had  won  re¬ nown  for  its  author,  was  yet  as  mel¬ ancholy  a  record  as  ever  mortal  hand had  penned.  It  was  the  sad  confes¬ sion  and  continual  exemplification  of the  shortcomings  of  the  composite man,  the  spirit  burdened  with  clay and  working  in  matter,  and  of  the despair  that  assails  the  higher  nature at  finding  itself  so  miserably  thwarted by  the  earthly  part.  Perhaps  every man  of  genius,  in  whatever  sphere, might  recognize  the  image  of  his  own experience  in  Aylmer’s  journal.

So  deeply  did  these  reflections  af¬ fect  Georgiana  that  she  laid  her  face upon  the  open  volume  and  hurst  into tears.  In  this  situation  she  was  found by  her  husband.

“It  is  dangerous  to  read  in  a  sor¬ cerer’s  books,”  said  he  with  a  smile, though  his  countenance  was  uneasy and  displeased.  “Georgiana,  there are  pages  in  that  volume  which  I  can scarcely  glance  over  and  keep  my senses.  Take  heed  lest  it  prove  as detrimental  to  you.”

“It  has  made  me  worship  you  more than  ever,”  said  she.

“Ah,  wait  for  this  one  success,”  re¬ joined  he,  “then  worship  me  if  you will.  I  shall  deem  myself  hardly  un¬ worthy  of  it.  But  come,  I  have  sought you  for  the  luxury  of  your  voice. Sing  to  me,  dearest.”

So  die  poured  out  the  liquid  music of  her  voice  to  quench  the  thirst  of his  spirit  He  then  took  his  leave with  a  boyish  exuberance  of  gayetv, assuring  her  that  her  seclusion  would endure  but  a  little  longer,  and  that, the  result  was  already  certain.  Scarce¬ ly  had  he  departed  when  Georgiana felt  irresistibly  impelled  to  follow him.  She  had  forgotten  to  inform Aylmer  of  a  symptom  which  fcr two  or  three  hours  past  had  begun  to excite  her  attention.  It  was  a  sensa¬ tion  in  the  fatal  birthmark,  not  pain¬ ful,  but  which  induced  a  restlessness throughout  her  system.  Hastening after  her  husband,  she  intruded  for the  first  time  into  the  laboratory.

Thb  first  thing  that  struck  her  eys was  the  furnace,  that  hot  and feverish  worker,  with  the  intense  glow of  its  fire,  which  by  the  quantiiies  of soot  clustered  above  it  seemed  to  have been  burning  for  ages.  There  was  a distilling  apparatus  in  full  operation. Around  the  room  were  retorts,  tubes, cylinders,  crucibles,  and  other  appa¬ ratus  of  chemical  research.  An  elec¬ trical  machine  stood  ready  for  imme¬ diate  use.  The  atmosphere  felt  op¬ pressively  close,  and  was  tainted  with gaseous  odors  which  had  been  tor¬ mented  forth  by  the  processes  of  sci¬ ence.  The  severe  and  homely  sim¬ plicity  of  the  apartment,  with  its naked  walls  and  brick  pavement, looked  strange,  accustomed  as  Georgi¬ ana  had  become  to  the  fantastic  ele¬ gance  of  her  boudoir.  But  what chiefly,  indeed  almost  solely,  drew  her attention,  was  the  aspect  of  Aylmer himself.

He  was  pale  as  death,  anxious  and absorbed,  and  hung  over  the  furnace as  if  it  depended  upon  his  utmost watchfulness  whether  the  liquid  which it  was  distilling  should  be  the  draft of  immortal  happiness  or  misery.  How different  from  the  sanguine  and  joy¬ ous  mien  that  he  had  assumed  for Georgiana ’s  encouragement!


WEIBD  TALES

“Carefully  now,  Aminadab;  care¬ fully,  thou  human  machine ;  carefully, thou  man  of  clay,”  muttered  Aylmer, more  to  himself  than  his  assistant. “Now,  if  there  be  a  thought  too  much or  too  little,  it  is  all  over.”

“Ho!  ho!”  mumbled  Aminadab. “Look,  master!  look!”

Aylmer  raised  his  eyes  hastily,  and at  first  reddened,  then  grew  paler than  ever,  on  beholding  Georgians. He  rushed  towards  her  and  seized  her arm  with  a  gripe  that  left  the  print of  his  fingers  upon  it.

“Why  do  you  come  hither?  Have you  no  trust  in  your  husband?”  eried he,  impetuously.  “Would  you  throw the  blight  of  that  fatal  birthmark  over my  labors?  It  is  not  well  done.  Go, prying  woman!  go!”

“Nay,  Aylmer,”  said  Georgians with  the  firmness  of  which  she  pos¬ sessed  no  stinted  endowment,  “it  is not  you  that  have  a  right  to  complain. Cou  mistrust  your  wife;  you  have concealed  the  anxiety  with  which  you watch  the  development  of  this  experi¬ ment.  Think  not  so  unworthily  of  me, my  husband.  Tell  me  all  the  risk  we run,  and  fear  not  that  I  shall  shrink ; for  my  share  in  it  is  far  less  than

“No,  no,  Georgians !”  said  Aylmer, impatiently;  “it  must  not  be.”

“I  submit,”  replied  she,  calmly. “And,  Aylmer,  I  shall  quaff  what¬ ever  draft  you  bring  me ;  but  it  will be  on  the  same  principle  that  would induce  me  to  take  a  dose  of  poison  if offered  by  your  hand.”

“My  noble  wife,”  said  Aylmer, deeply  moved,  “I  knew  not  the  height and  depth  of  your  nature  until  now. Nothing  shall  be  concealed.  Know, them  that  this  crimson  hand,  super¬ ficial  as  it  seems,  has  clutched  its grasp  into  your  being  with  a  strength of  which  I  had  no  previous  concep¬ tion.  I  have  already  administered agents  powerful  enough  to  do  aught except  to  change  your  entire  physical system.  Only  one  thing  remains  to

be  tried.  If  that  fail  us  we  are ruined.”

“Why  did  you  hesitate  to  tell  me this?”  asked  she.

“Because,  Georgians, ”  said  Ayl¬ mer,  in  a  low  voice,  “there  is  dan¬ ger.”

“Danger?  There  is  but  one  dan¬ ger — that  this  horrible  stigma  shall be  left  upon  my  cheek!”  cried  Geor¬ gians.  ‘  ‘  Remove  it,  remove  it,  what¬ ever  be  the  cost,  or  we  shall  both  go

“Heaven  knows  your  words  are  too true,”  said  Aylmer,  sadly.  “And now,  dearest,  return  to  your  boudoir. In  a  little  while  all  will  be  tested.”

He  conducted  her  back  and  took leave  of  her  with  a  solemn  tenderness which  spoke  far  more  than  his  words how  much  was  now  at  stake.  After his  departure  Georgians  became  rapt in  musings.  She  considered  the  char¬ acter  of  Aylmer  and  did  it  completer justice  than  at  any  previous  moment. Her  heart  exulted,  while  it  trembled at  his  honorable  love — so  pure  and lofty  that  it  would  accept  nothing less  than  perfection  nor  miserably make  itself  contented  with  an  earthlier  nature  than  he  had  dreamed  of. She  felt  how  much  more  precious  was such  a  sentiment  than  that  meaner kind  which  would  have  borne  with  the imperfection  for  her  sake,  and  have been  guilty  of  treason  to  holy  love  by degrading  its  perfect  idea  to  the  level of  the  actual;  and  with  her  whole spirit  she  prayed  that,  for  a  single moment,  she  might  satisfy  his  highest and  deepest  conception.  Longer  than one  moment  she  well  knew  it  could not  be ;  for  his  spirit  was  ever  on  the march,  ever  ascending,  and  each  in¬ stant  required  something  that  was beyond  the  scope  of  the  instant before.

The  sound  of  her  husband’s  foot¬ steps  aroused  her.  He  bore  a crystal  goblet  containing  a  liquor  col¬ orless  as  water,  but  bright  enough  to

THE  BIRTHMARK


be  the  draft  of  immortality.  Aylmer was  pale;  but  it  seemed  rather  the consequence  of  a  highly-wrought  state of  mind  and  tension  of  spirit  than  of fear  or  doubt.

“The  concoction  of  the  draft  has been  perfect,”  said  he,  in  answer  to Georgiana ’s  look.  *  ‘  Unless  all  my  sci¬ ence  have  deceived  me,  it  can  not fail.”

“Save  on  your  account,  my  dearest Aylmer,”  observed  his  wife,  “I  might wish  to  put  off  this  birthmark  of  mor¬ tality  by  relinquishing  mortality  itself in  preference  to  any  other  mode.  Life is  but  a  sad  possession  to  those  who have  attained  precisely  the  degree  of moral  advancement  at  which  I  stand. "Were  I  weaker  and  blinder,  it  might be  happiness.  Were  I  stronger,  it might  be  endured  hopefully.  But,  be¬ ing  what  I  find  myself,  methinks  I  am of  all  mortals  the  most  fit  to  die.”

“You  are  fit  for  heaven  without tasting  death!”  replied  her  husband. “But  why  do  we  speak  of  dying? The  draft  can  not  fail.  Behold  its effect  upon  this  plant”

On  the  window  seat  there  stood  a geranium  diseased  with  yellow blotches  which  had  overspread  all  its leaves.  Aylmer  poured  a  small quantity  of  the  liquid  upon  the  soil in  which  it  grew.  In  a  little  time, when  the  roots  of  the  plant  had  taken up  the  moisture,  the  unsightly blotches  began  to  be  extinguished  in a  living  verdure.

“There  needed  no  proof,”  said Georgians,  quietly.  “Give  me  the goblet.  I  joyfully  stake  all  upon your  word.”

“Drink,  then,  thou  lofty  crea¬ ture!”  exclaimed  Aylmer,  with  fer¬ vid  admiration.  “There  is  no  taint of  imperfection  on  thy  spirit.  Thy sensible  frame,  too,  shall  soon  be  all

She  quaffed  the  liquid  and  returned the  goblet  to  his  hand.

"It  is  grateful,”  said  she,  with  a placid  smile.  “Methinks  it  is  like

water  from  a  heavenly  fountain;  for it  contains  I  know  not  what  of  unob¬ trusive  fragrance  and  deliciousness. It  allays  a  feverish  thirst  that  had parched  me  for  many  days.  Now, dearest,  let  me  sleep.  My  earthly senses  are  closing  over  my  spirit  like the  leaves  around  the  heart  of  a  rose at  sunset.”

She  spoke  the  last  words  with  a gentle  reluctance,  as  if  it  required almost  more  energy  than  she  could command  to  pronounce  the  faint  and lingering  syllables.  Scarcely  had  they loitered  through  her  lips  ere  she  was lost  in  slumber.  Aylmer  sat  by  her side,  watching  her  aspeet  with  the emotions  proper  to  a  man  the  whole value  of  whose  existence  was  involved in  the  process  now  to  be  tested.  Min¬ gled  with  this  mood,  however,  was  the philosophic  investigation  characteris¬ tic  of  the  man  of  science.  Not  the minutest  symptom  escaped  him.  A heightened  flush  of  the  cheek,  a  slight irregularity  of  breath,  a  quiver  of  the eyelid,  a  hardly  perceptible  tremor through  the  frame, — such  were  the details  which,  as  the  moments  passed, he  wrote  down  in  his  folio  volume.  In¬ tense  thought  had  set  its  stamp  upon every  previous  page  of  that  volume; but  the  thoughts  of  years  were  all concentrated  upon  the  last.

■While  thus  employed,  he  failed  not to  gaze  often  at  the  fatal  hand,  and not  without  a  shudder.  Yet  once,  by a  strange  and  unaccountable  impulse, he  pressed  it  with  his  lips.  His  spirit recoiled,  however,  in  the  very  act ;  and Georgiana,  out  of  the  midst  of  her deep  sleep,  moved  uneasily  and  mur¬ mured  as  if  in  remonstrance.  Again Aylmer  resumed  his  watch.  Nor  was it  without  avail.  The  crimson  hand, which  at  first  had  been  strongly  visi¬ ble  upon  the  marble  paleness  of  Geor¬ giana 's  cheek,  now  grew  more  faintly outlined.  She  remained  not  less  pale than  ever;  but  the  birthmark,  with every  breath  that  came  and  went,  lost somewhat  of  its  former  distinctness.


WEIRD  TALES

Its  presence  had  been  awful;  its  de¬ parture  was  more  awful  still.  Watch the  stain  of  the  rainbow  fading  out of  the  sky,  and  you  will  know  how that  mysterious  symbol  passed  away.

“By  Heaven!  it  is  well  nigh  gone!” said  Aylmer  to  himself,  in  almost  ir¬ repressible  ecstasy.  “I  can  scarcely trace  it  now.  Success!  success!  And now  it  is  like  the  faintest  rose  color. The  lightest  flush  of  blood  across  her cheek  would  overcome  it.  But  she  is

He  drew  aside  the  window  curtain and  suffered  the  light  of  natural  day

her  cheek.  At  the  same  time  he heard  a.  gross,  hoarse  chuckle,  which he  had  long  known  as  his  servant Aminadab’s  expression  of  delight.

“Ah,  clod!  ah,  earthly  mass!” cried  Aylmer,  laughing  in  a  sort  of frenzy;  “you  have  served  me  well! Matter  and  spirit — earth  and  heaven — have  both  done  their  part  in  this! Laugh,  thing  of  the  senses !  You  have earned  the  right  to  laugh.”

These  exclamations  broke  Gsorgiana’s  sleep.  She  slowly  unclosed  her eyes  and  gazed  into  the  mirror  which her  husband  had  arranged  fer  that purpose.  A  faint  smile  flitted  ever her  lips  when  she  recognized  how barely  perceptible  was  now  that  crim¬ son  hand  which  had  once  blazed  forth with  such  disastrous  brilliancy  as  to scare  away  all  their  happiness.  But then  her  eyes  sought  Aylmer’s  face with  a  trouble  and  anxiety  that  he could  by  no  means  account  for.

“My  poor  Aylmer!”  murmured

“Poor!  Nay,  richest,  happiest, most  favored!”  exclaimed  he.  “My peerless  bride,  it  is  successful!  You are  perfect!”

“My  poor  Aylmer,”  she  repeated, with  a  more  than  human  tenderness, “you  have  aimed  loftily;  you  have done  nobly.  Do  not  repent  that,  with so  high  and  pure  a  feeling,  you  have rejected  the  best  the  earth  could  of¬ fer.  Aylmer,  dearest  Aylmer,  I  am dying!”

Alas!  it  was  too  true!  The  fatal hand  had  grappled  with  the  mys¬ tery  of  life,  and  was  the  bond  by which  an  angelic  spirit  kept  itself  in union  with  a  mortal  frame.  As  the last  crimson  tint  of  the  birthmark — that  sols  token  of  human  imperfec¬ tion — faded  from  her  cheek,  the  part¬ ing  breath  of  the  now  perfect  woman passed  into  the  atmosphere,  and  her soul,  lingering  a  moment  near  her husband,  took  its  heavenward  flight. Then  a  hoarse,  chuckling  laugh  was heard  again!  Thus  ever  does  the gross  fatality  of  earth  exult  in  its  in¬ variable  triumph  over  the  immortal essence  which,  in  this  dim  sphere  of half  development,  demands  the  com¬ pleteness  of  a  higher  state.  Yet,  had Aylmer  reached  a  profounder  wis¬ dom,  he  need  not  thus  have  flung away  the  happiness  which  would  have woven  his  mortal  life  of  the  selfsame texture  with  the  celestial.  The  mo¬ mentary  circumstance  was  too  strong for  him ;  he  failed  to  look  beyond  the shadowy  scope  of  time,  and.  living once  for  all  in  etemitv,  to  find  the perfect  future  in  the  present.

Next  Month's  Reprint  Story  Will  Be  “ The  Horla," by  Guy  ie  Maupassant

^jp/zv/n^v

Zstk

THE  laboratory  of  Henry  Shipley  was  a  conglomeration  of test-tubes,  bottles,  mysterious physical  and  chemical  appliances  and papers  covered  with  indecipherable script.  The  man  himself  was  in  no angelic  mood  as  he  sat  at  his  desk  and surveyed  the  hopeless  litter  about him.  His  years  may  have  numbered five  and  thirty,  but  young  though  he -  —  - 1  excelled  him  in  his

“Curse  that  maid!”  he  muttered in  exasperation.  “If  she  possessed even  an  ordinary  amount  of  intelli¬ gence  she  could  tidy  up  this  place and  still  leave  my  notes  and  para¬ phernalia  intact.  As  it  is  I  can’t  find the  account  of  that  important  nitroAt  this  moment  a  loud  knock  at the  door  put  an  abrupt  end  to  fur¬ ther  soliloquy.  In  response  to  Ship¬

ley’s  curt  “come  in,”  the  door  opened and  a  stranger,  possibly  ten  years older  than  Shipley,  entered.  The newcomer  surveyed  the  young  scien¬ tist  through  piercing  eyes  of  nonde¬ script  hue.  The  outline  of  mouth  and chin  was  only  faintly  suggested through  a  Vandyke  beard.

Something  in  the  new  arrival’s gaze  did  not  encourage  speech,  so Shipley  mutely  pointed  to  a  chair, and  upon  perceiving  that  the  seat was  covered  with  papers,  hastened to  clear  them  away.

“Have  I  the  honor  of  addressing Henry  Shipley,  authority  on  atomic energy  ?  ’  ’  asked  the  man,  seating  him¬ self,  apparently  unmindful  of  the younger  man’s  confusion.

“I  am  Henry  Shipley,  but  as  to  be¬ ing  an  authority - ”

The  stranger  raised  a  deprecating hand,  “Never  mind.  We  can  dispense


WEIRD  TALES

with  the  modesty,  Mr.  Shipley.  I have  come  upon  a  matter  of  world¬ wide  importance.  Possibly  you  have heard  of  me.  La  Rue  is  my  name; Leon  La  Rue.”

Henry  Shipley’s  eyes  grew  wide with  astonishment.

“Indeed  I  am  honored  by  the  visit of  so  renowned  a  scientist,”  he  cried with  genuine  enthusiasm.

“It  is  nothing, ’ ’  said  La  Rue.  ‘ 1 1 love  my  work.”

“You  and  John  Olmstead,”  said Shipley,  “have  given  humanity  a clearer  conception  of  the  universe about  us  in  the  past  hundred  years, than  any  others  have  done.  Here  it is  now  the  year  2026  A.  D.  and  we have  established  by  radio  regular communication  with  Mars,  Venus,  two of  the  moons  of  Jupiter,  and  recently it  has  been  broadcast  that  messages are  being  received  from  outside  our solar  system,  communications  from interstellar  space !  Is  that  true  ?  ’  ’

“It  is,”  replied  La  Rue.  “Daring the  past  six  months  my  worthy  col¬ league  Jules  Niehol  and  I  have  re¬ ceived  messages  (some  of  them  not very  intelligible)  from  two  planets that  revolve  around  one  of  the  nearer suns.  These  messages  have  required years  to  reach  us,  although  they  trav¬ eled  at  an  inconceivable  rate  of

“How  do  you  manage  to  carry  on intelligent  communication?  Surely the  languages  must  be  very  strange,” said  the  thoroughly  interested  Shipley.

•“We  begin  all  intercourse  through the  principles  of  mathematics,”  re¬ plied  the  Frenchman  with  a  smile, "for  by  those  exact  principles  God’s universe  is  coo  trolled-  Those  rules never  fail.  You  know  the  principles of  mathematics  were  discovered  by man,  not  invented  by  him.  This, then,  is  the  basis  of  our  code,  always, and  it  never  fails  to  bring  intelligeat responses  from  other  planets  whose

derstanding  equal  to  or  surpassing that  of  ourselves.  It  is  not  a  stretch of  imagination  to  believe  that  we  may some  day  receive  a  message  from somewhere  in  space,  that  was  sent  out millions  of  years  ago,  and  likewise  we can  comprehend  the  possibility  of messages  which  we  are  now  sending into  the  all-pervading  ether,  reach¬ ing  some  remote  world  eons  in  the

“It  is  indeed  a  fascinating  sub¬ ject,”  mused  Henry  Shipley,  “but mine  has  an  equal  attraction.  While you  reach  out  among  the  stars,  I delve  down  amid  the  protons  and  elec¬ trons.  And  who,  my  dear  fellow,  in this  day  of  scientific  advancement, can  say  that  they  are  not  identical except  for  size?  Planets  revolve about  their  suns,  electrons  around their  protons;  the  infinite,  the  in¬ finitesimal  !  What  distinguishes

The  older  man  leaned  forward,  a white  hand  eiutching  the  cluttered

“  What  distinguishes  them,  you ask?”  he  muttered  hoarsely.  “This and  this  alone;  time,  the  fourth  di¬ mension!”

The  two  men  gazed  at  one  another in  profound  silence,  then  La  Rue  con¬ tinued,  his  voice  onee  more  back  to normal:  “You  said  a  moment  ago that  my  planetary  systems  and  your atoms  were  identical  except  for  one thing — the  fourth  dimension.  In  my suprarworid  of  infinite  bigness  our sun,  one  million  times  as  big  as  this Earth,  gigantic  Jupiter,  and  all  the other  planets  in.  our  little  system, would  seem  as  small  as  an  atom,  a

erfnl  microscope.  Your  infra-world would  be  like  a  single  atom  with  elec¬ trons  revolving  around  it,  compared to  our  solar  system,  sun  and  planets. I  believe  the  invisible  atom  is  another universe  with  its  central  sun  and  re¬ volving  planets,  and  thaw  ai»  exists

inhabitants  have  arrived  at

A  RUNAWAY  WORLD


the  Earth  and  all  the  planets  are  only as  atom.  But  the  fourth  dimension!”

La  Rue  picked  up  a  minute  speck  of dust  from  the  table  and  regarded  it  a moment  in  silence,  then,  he  went  on: “Who  knows  but  that  this  tiny  par¬ ticle  of  matter  which  I  hold  may  con¬ tain  a  universe  in  that  infra- world, and  that  during  our  conversation eons  may  have  passed  to  the  possible inhabitants  of  the  planets  therein : So  we  come  to  the  fact  that  time  is the  fourth  dimension.  Let  me  read yoa  what  a  scientist  of  an  earlier day  has  written,  a  man  who  was  so for  ahead  of  his  time  that  he  was wholly  unappreciated:

“  ‘If  you  lived  on  a  planet  in¬ finitesimally  small,  or  infinitely  big, yon  would  not  know  the  difference. Time  and  space  are,  after  all,  pure¬ ly  relative.  If  at  midnight  tonight, all  things,  including  ourselves  and  our measuring  instruments,  were  reduced in  size  one  thousand  times,  we  should be  left  quite  unaware  of  any  such change.’

“But  I  wish  to  read  you  a  message which  I  received  at  my  radio  station on  the  Eiffel  Tower  at  Paris.”

La  Rue  produced  a  paper  from  a pocket  and  read  the  following  radio¬ gram  from  Mars:

"  ‘A  most  horrible  catastrophe  is befalling  us.  We  are  leaving  the solar  system!  The  sun  grows  daily smaller.  Soon  we  shall  be  plunged in  eternal  gloom.  The  cold  is  becoming  unbearable* !”

When  the  Frenchman  had  finished reading  he  continued  addressing  the physicist:  “A  few  astronomers  are aware  of  the  departure  of  Mars  from the  system,  but  are  keeping  it  from the  public  temporarily.  What  do  you think  of  this  whole  business.  ShipleyT”

“The  phenomenon  is  quite  clear,” the  latter  replied.  “Some  intelligent beings  in  this  vaster  cosmos  or  snprauniverse,  in  which  we  are  but  a  malecnle,  have  began  an  experiment  which

periment  in  which  one  or  two  elec¬ trons  in  each  atom  are  tom  away,  re¬ sulting,  as  you  already  know,  in  the formation  of  a  new  element.  Their experiment  will  cause  a  rearrange¬ ment  in  onr  universe.”

“Yes,”  smiled  La  Rue  significant¬ ly,  “every  time  we  perform  a  similar experiment,  millions  of  planets  leave their  suns  in  that  next  smaller  cosmos or  infra-world.  But  why  isn ’t  it  com¬ moner  even  around  us?”

“There  is  where  the  time  element comes  in,”  answered  his  friend. “Think  of  the  rarity  of  such  an  ex¬ periment  upon  a  particular  molecule or  group  ox  molecules,  and  yon  will plainly  see  why  it  has  never  happened in  all  the  eons  of  time  that  our  uni¬ verse  has  passed  through.”

There  was  a  moment’s  silence  ns both  men  realized  their  human  inabil¬ ity  to  grasp  even  a  vague  conception of  the  idea  of  relativity.  This  silence was  broken  by  the  foreigner,  who spoke  in  eager  accents:  “Will  you not,  my  friend,  return  with  me  to Paris?  And  together  at  my  radio station,  we  will  listen  to  the  messages from  the  truant  Mars.”


The  radio  station  of  La  Rue  was the  most  interesting  place  Shipley  had  ever  visited.  Here  were  per¬ fected  instruments  of  television.  An observer  from  this  tower  could  both see  and  hear  any  place  on  the  globe. As  yet,  seeing  beyond  our  Earth  had not  been  scientifically  perfected.

La  Rue  had  been  eager  to  hear from  his  assistant  any  further  mes¬ sages  from  Mars.  These  could  have been  forwarded  to  him  when  he  was in  the  States,  bnt  he  preferred  to  wait until  his  return  to  his  beloved  sta¬ tion.  There  was  nothing  startlingly new  in  any  of  the  communications. All  showed  despair  regarding  the Martians’  ability  to  survive,  with


WEIRD  TALES

their  rare  atmosphere,  the  cold  of outer  space.  As  the  planet  retreated and  was  lost  to  view  eren  by  the most  powerful  telescopes,  the  mes¬ sages  grew  fainter,  and  finally  ceased altogether.

By  this  time  alarm  had  spread  be¬ yond  scientific  circles.  Every  seri¬ ous-minded  being  upon  the  globe sought  for  a  plausible  explanation  of the  phenomenon.

“Now  is  the  time  for  your  revela¬ tion,”  urged  La  Rue.  “Tell  the world  what  you  told  me.”

But  the  world  at  large  did  not  ap¬ prove  of  Henry  Shipley’s  theory. People  did  not  arrive  at  any  unani¬ mous  decision.  The  opinion  was  pre¬ valent  that  Mars  had  become  so wicked  and  had  come  so  near  to  fath¬ oming  the  Creator’s  secrets,  that  it was  banished  into  outer  darkness  as a  punishment.

“Its  fate  should,”  they  said, “prove  a  warning  to  Earth.”

The  scientists  smiled  at  this  inter¬ pretation.  As  a  body  of  enlightened and  religious  men  they  knew  that God  does  not  object  to  His  Truth  be¬ ing  known,  that  only  by  a  knowledge of  the  Truth  can  we  become  fully  con¬ scious  of  His  will  concerning  us.

The  frivolous,  pleasure-seeking, self-centered  world  soon  forgot  the fate  of  the  ruddy  planet,  and  then — but  that  is  my  story!

S

It  was  five  months  to  the  day  after the  radios  had  first  broadcast  the startling  news  that  Mars  was  no longer  revolving  around  the  sun,  that I,  James  Griffin,  sat  at  breakfast  with my  wife  and  two  children,  Eleanor and  Jimmy,  Jr.  I  am  not  and  never have  been  an  astronomical  man. Mundane  affairs  have  always  kept  me too  busy  for  star-gazing,  so  it  is  not to  be  wondered  at  that  the  news  of Mars’  departure  did  not  deeply  con¬

cern  me.  But  the  whole  affair  was, much  to  my  chagrin,  indirectly  the cause  of  a  dreadful  blunder  at  the office.

“Mars  was  closer  to  the  sun  than we  are,”  I  had  remarked  one  day  to Zutell,  my  assistant  at  the  office,  “but I’ll  bet  the  old  war-planet  is  getting pretty  well  cooled  off  by  now.”

Zutell  looked  at  me  with  a  peculiar expression  which  I  haven’t  forgotten to  this  day.

more  remote  from  the  sun  than Earth?”  he  ejaculated.  “'Why,  man alive,  didn’t  you  know  Mars’  orbit  is more  remote  from  the  sun  than

His  manner  was  extraordinarily convincing,  and  inwardly  I  was  mor¬ tified  at  my  ignorance.

“It  is  not!”  I  declared  stubbornly, then  added  weakly,  “Anyhow,  what difference  does  it  make?”

His  glance  of  amused  condescen¬ sion  stung  my  pride,  and  from  that time  on  has  already  too  sufficient  selfconfidence  increased.  In  his  presence I  seemed  to  be  suffering  from  an  in¬ feriority  complex.  I  laid  the  entire blame  for  my  loss  of  self-confidence upon  the  truant  Mars,  and  secretly wished  the  ruddy  planet  all  kinds  of bad  luck.

But  to  return  to  the  breakfast  ta¬ ble.  My  wife,  Vera,  poured  me  a second  cup  of  coffee  and  remarked sweetly,  “The  Zutells  are  coming  over this  morning,  since  it  is  a  holiday, dear,  to  listen  to  the  radio  and  see  in the  new  televisio.  You  know  Presi¬ dent  Bedford  is  to  address  the  nation from  the  newly  completed  capitol building,  which  will  be  seen  for  the first  time  in  the  televisio.  If  you like.  I’ll  ask  the  Mardens,  too.  You Beem  to  like  them  so  much.”

“'Hang  it  all,”  I  said  irritably, "can’t  you  leave  the  Zutells  out  of it?  Ed’s  forever  rubbing  in  some¬ thing  about  Jupiter  or  Venus,  now

A  BUNAWAY  WORLD


that  Mars  is  gone.  He’s  an  insuf¬ ferable  bore!”

“Why,  Jim,”  cried  Vera,  half laughing,  “as  sure  as  fate  I  do  believe you’re  jealous,  just  because - ”

“Jealous!”  I  burst  out.  “Jealous of  him?  Why,  I  can  show  him  cards and  spades - ”

“I  know  you  can.  That’s  just  it,” laughed  Vera:  “that’s  just  why  it’s so  funny  to  have  you  care  because you  didn’t  know  about  Mars.  It’s much  more  important  that  you  know more  about  cost-accounting  than  Ed

Vera  was  right,  as  usual,  and  I  re¬ warded  her  with  a  kiss  just  as  Junior screamed  that  Archie  Zutell  was  com¬ ing  across  the  lawn  to  play  with  him and  Eleanor.

“Weil,  you  kids  clear  out  of  here,” I  said,  ‘  ‘  and  play  outside  if  we  grown¬ ups  are  expected  to  see  anything  of the  president  and  hear  his  address, and  Jimmy,  don’t  let  Archie  put  any¬ thing  over  on  you.  Stick  up  for  your

I  imagined  Vera  smiled  a  little  in¬ dulgently  and  I  didn’t  like  it.

“Well,  at  any  rate,”  I  said,  “I  do like  young  Marden  and  his  bride. There’s  a  fellow  that  really  is  an astronomer,  but  he  never  shoots  off his  mouth  about  it  in  inappropriate

Truth  was,  Marden  held  a  high  col¬ lege  degree  in  astronomy  and  taught the  subject  in  our  local  college.  Just across  the  street  from  our  residence, which  faced  the  beautiful  campus, stood  the  observatory  on  a  picturesque elevation.  Many  summer  evenings sinee  my  deplorable  error  in  regard to  Mars  I  had  visited  the  observatory with  Oscar  Marden  and  learned  much that  was  interesting  about  the  starry host.

The  breakfast  dishes  cleared  away, Vera  and  I  seated  ourselves  at our  new  televisio  that  worked  in  com¬ bination  with  the  radio.  It  was  the

envy  of  the  neighborhood,  there  be¬ ing  but  three  others  in  the  entire town  that  could  compare  with  it. There  was  yet  half  an  hour  before the  president’s  address  was  scheduled to  commence.  We  turned  on  the  elec¬ tricity.  Vice-president  Ellsworth  was speaking.  We  gazed  into  the  great oval  mirror  and  saw  that  he  was  in the  private  office  of  his  own  residence. A  door  opened  behind  him  and  a  tall man  entered  the  room,  lifted  his  hand in  dignified  salutation,  and  smiled  at his  unseen  spectators.  Then  in  clear resonant  tones  he  began  addressing his  invisible  audience  in  a  preliminary talk  preceding  the  one  to  be  delivered from  the  new  capitol  steps.

At  this  point  the  Hardens  and  Zutells  arrived,  and  after  the  exchange of  a  few  pleasantries,  were  comfort¬ ably  seated  pending  the  main  address Of  the  morning.

“Citizens  of  the  Republic  of  the United  Americas,”  began  President Bedford.

I  reached  for  the  dials,  and  with a  slight  manipulation  the  man’s  voice was  as  clear  as  if  he  talked  with  us in  the  room.  I  turned  another  dial, and  the  hazy  outlines  were  cleared, bringing  the  tall,  manly  form  into correct  perspective.  Behind  him  rose the  massive  columns  of  the  new  eapitol  building  in  Central  America.

The  address,  an  exceptionally  in¬ spiring  one,  continued  while  the  six  of us  in  our  Midwestern  town  were  see¬ ing  and  hearing  with  millions  of  oth¬ ers  throughout  the  country,  a  man thousands  of  miles  away.  The  day had  commenced  cloudy,  but  ere  long the  sun  was  shining  with  dazzling splendor.  Meanwhile  the  president continued  to  speak  in  simple  but  elo¬ quent  style  of  the  future  of  our  great republic.  So  engrossed  were  we  six, and  undoubtedly  millions  of  others upon  two  continents,  to  say  nothing of  the  scattered  radio  audience throughout  the  world,  that  for  some time  we  had  failed  to  notice  the  de318

WEIRD  TALES

creasing  light.  Mrs.  Zutell  had  been the  first  to  make  the  casual  remark that  it  was  clouding  up  again,  but  a rather  curt  acknowledgment  of  her comment  on  the  part  of  the  rest  of  us had  discouraged  farther  attempts  at conversation.

Not  long  afterward  the  front  door burst  open  and  the  three  children rushed  in,  making  all  attempts  of  the elders  to  listen  to  the  address  futile.

“Mamma,  it  is  getting  darker  and colder,”  exclaimed  Eleanor.  “We want  our  wraps  on.”

“Put  on  the  lights!”  cried  Jimmy, suiting  the  action  to  the  word.

With  the  flood  of  light  any  grow¬ ing  apprehension  that  we  may  have felt  diminished,  but  as  we  looked through  the  windows  we  noticed  that outside  it  was  dusk  though  the  time was  but  10  a.  m.

Our  faces  looked  strangely  drawn and  haggard,  but  it  was  the  expres¬ sion  on  young  Harden ’s  face  that caught  and  held  my  attention.  I  be¬ lieve  as  I  review  those  dreadful  times in  my  mind,  that  Oscar  Mardcn  knew then  what  ailed  this  old  world  of  ours, but  he  said  not  a  word  at  that  time.

We  turned  our  faces  to  the  televisio  again  and  were  amazed  at  the scene  which  was  there  presented. President  Bedford  had  ceased  speak¬ ing  and  was  engaged  in  earnest  con¬ versation  with  other  men  who  had joined  him.  The  growing  darkness outside  the  capitol  made  it  difficult  to distinguish  our  leader’s  figure  among the  others,  who  in  ever-growing  num¬ bers  thronged  the  steps  of  the  great edifice.  Presently  the  president  again turned  to  the  invisible  millions  seated behind  their  radios  and  television  and spoke.  His  voice  was  calm,  as  be¬ fitted  the  leader  of  so  great  a  nation, but  it  was  fraught  with  an  emotion that  did^not^escape  observing  watch-

“Tune  in  your  instruments  to Paris,”  said  the  great  man.  “Tbs

noted  astronomer,  La  Rue,  has  some¬ thing  of  importance  to  tell  us.  Do this  at  once,”  he  added,  and  his  voice took  on  a  somewhat  sterner  quality.

I  arose  somewhat  shakily,  and  fum¬ bled  futilely  with  the  dials.

‘  ‘  Put  on  more  speed  there,  Griffin,  ’  ’ said  Harden.

It  was  the  first  time  I  had  ever heard  him  speak  in  any  other  than  a courteous  manner,  and  I  realized  he was  greatly  perturbed.  I  fumbled awhile  longer  until  Ed  Zutell  spoke up.

“Cam  I  help,  Jim?”  he  asked.

“Only  by  shutting  up  and  staying that  way,”  I  growled,  at  the  same time  giving  a  vicious  twist  to  the stubborn  long  distance  diai.

In  a  little  while  I  had  it:  Paris, Prance,  observatory  of  Leon  La  Rue. We  all  instantly  recognized  the bearded  Frenchman  of  astronomical fame ;  ho  who  with  Henry  Shipley  had informed  the  world  of  the  fate  of Mars.  He  was  speaking  in  his  quick decisive  way  with  many  gesticulations.

“I  repeat  for  the  benefit  of  any tardy  listeners  that  Earth  is  about  to suffer  the  fats  of  Mars.  I  will  take no  time  for  any  scientific  explana¬ tions.  You  have  had  those  in  the past  and  many  of  you  have  scoffed  at them.  It  is  enough  to  tell  you  posi¬ tively  that  we  are  leaving  the  sun  at a  terrific  rate  of  speed  and  are  plung¬ ing  into  the  void  of  the  great  Un¬ known.  What  will  he  the  end  no  man knows.  Our  fate  rests  in  the  hands of  God.

“Now  hear,  my  friends,  and  I  hope the  whole  world  is  listening  to  what  I say :  Choose  wisely  for  quarters where  you  will  have  a  large  supply of  food,  water  and  fuel  (whether  you use  atomic  energy,  electricity,  oil,  or even  the  old-fashioned  coal).  I  ad¬ vise  all  electrical  power  stations  to  be used  as  stations  of  supply,  and  the men  working  there  will  be  the  real heroes  who  will  Bave  the  members  of their  respective  communities.  Those

A  RUNAWAY  WORLD


who  possess  atomic  heat  machines  are indeed  fortunate.  There  is  no  time for  detailed  directions.  Go— and  may your  conduct  be  such  that  it  will  be for  the  future  salvation  of  the  human race  in  this  crisis.”

The  picture  faded,  leaving  us  star¬ ing  with  white  faces  at  each  other.

“I’ll  get  the  children,”  screamed Vera,  but  I  caught  her  arm.

“You’ll  do  nothing  of  the  kind.  We must  not  any  of  us  be  separated.  The children  will  return  when  they  are thoroughly  cold.”

My  prediction  was  correct.  The words  had  scarcely  left  my  lips  when the  three  ran  into  the  hall  crying.  It was  growing  insufferably  cold.  We all  realized  that.  We  rushed  about  in addle-pated  fashion,  all  talking  at once,  grabbing  up  this  and  that  until we  were  acting  like  so  many  demented creatures.

Suddenly  a  voice,  loud  and  stem, brought  us  to  our  senses.  It  was  young Marden  who  was  speaking.

“We  are  all  acting  like  fools,”  he cried.  “With  your  permission  I  will tell  you  what  to  do  if  you  want  to live  awhile  longer.”

His  self-control  had  a  quieting  ef¬ fect  upon  the  rest  of  us.  He  contin¬ ued  in  lower  tones,  but  with  an  un¬ deniable  air  of  mastery,  “My  observ¬ atory  across  the  street  is  the  place for  our  hibernation.  It  is  heated  by atomic  energy,  so  there  will  be  no danger  of  a  fuel  shortage.  Ed,  will you  and  Mrs.  Zutell  bring  from  your home  in  your  car  all  the  provisions you  have  available  at  once?  Jim”  (I rather  winced  at  being  addressed  in so  familiar  a  manner  by  a  man  young¬ er  in  years  than  myself,  but  upon this  occasion  my  superior),  “you  and Mrs.  Griffin  load  your  car  with  Ml your  available  food.  I  was  going  to add  that  you  buy  more,  but  an  in¬ evitable  stampede  at  the  groceries might  make  that  inadvisable  at  pres¬ ent.  My  wife  and  I  will  bring  all the  concentrated  food  we  have  on

hand — enough  for  two  or  three  years, I  think,  if  carefully  used.  Kiddies,” he  said  to  the  three  who  stood  looking from  one  to  the  other  of  us  in  uncom¬ prehending  terror,  “gather  together all  the  coats  and  wraps  you  find  here in  the  Griffin  house!”

A  new  respect  for  this  man  pos¬ sessed  me  as  we  all  set  about  carrying out  his  orders.

“You  watch  the  children  and gather  together  provisions,”  I  oalled to  Vera.  “I  am  going  to  see  if  I can’t  get  more  from  the  store.  We must  have  more  concentrated  and  con¬ densed  foods  than  we  are  in  the habit  of  keeping  on  hand  for  daily use.  Such  foods  will  furnish  a  maxi¬ mum  amount  of  nourishment  with  a minimum  bulk.”


I  opened  the  door  but  returned  im¬ mediately  for  my  overcoat.  The breath  of  winter  was  out  of  doors, though  it  was  the  month  of  June.  The streets  were  lighted,  and  in  the  im¬ perfect  glow  I  could  see  panicky  fig¬ ures  flitting  to  and  fro.  I  hurried toward  the  square,  which  was  exactly what  everyone  else  seemed  to  be  do¬ ing.  A  man  bumped  my  elbow.  Each of  us  turned  and  regarded  the  other with  wide  eyes.  I  recognized  old  Sam McSween.

“My  God,  Griffin,”  he  cried,  “what does  it  all  mean?  Ella’s  been  laid  up for  a  week — no  food,  and  I  thought I’d - ”

I  left  him  to  relate  his  woes  to  the next  passer-by.  My  goal  was  Barnes’ Cash  Grocery.  There  was  a  mob  in¬ side  the  store,  but  old  man  Barnes, his  son  and  daughter  and  two  extra clerks  were  serving  the  crowd  as quickly  as  possible.  Guy  Barnes’ nasal  tones  reached  my  ears  as  I  stood shivering  in  the  doorway.

“No — terms  are  strictly  cash, friends.”

WEIRD  TALES

“Cash!”  bawled  a  voice  near  lin¬ ear.  “What  good  will  cash  do  you, paid,  in  the  place  we’re  all  headed fort”

"I  have  cash,  Guy.  Gimme  ten dollars  worth  o’  canned  goods  and make  it  snappy,”  yelled  another.

Petty  thievery  was  rife,  but  no  one was  vested  with  authority  to  attempt to  stop  it.  One  thought  actuated  all : to  get  food,  either  by  fair  means  or foul.

At  length  I  found  myself  near  the counter  frantically  waving  in  the  air a  ten-dollar  bill  and  two  ones.

“You’ve  always  let  me  have  credit for  a  month  or  two  at  a  time,  Guy.” I  said  coaxingly.

The  old  grocer  shook  his  head  in  a determined  manner.  “Cash  is  the surest  way  to  distribute  this  stuff fairly.  The  bank’s  open,  Jim,  but  the mob's  worse  there  than  hare,  they tell  me.”

I  shrugged  my  shoulders  in  resig¬ nation.  “Give  me  ten  dollars  worth of  condensed  milk,  meat  tablets,  some fruits  and  vegetables.”

He  handed  me  my  great  basket  of groceries  and  I  forced  a  passage through  the  crowd  and  gained  the street.  There  were  fewer  people  on the  square  than  there  had  been  an hour  earlier.  On  their  faces  had  set¬ tled  a  grim  resignation  that  was  more tragic  than  the  first  fright  had  been.

On  the  comer  of  Franklin  and Main  Streets  I  met  little  Dora  Scho¬ field,  a  playmate  of  Eleanor’s.  She was  crying  pitifully,  and  the  hands that  held  her  market  basket  were  pur¬ ple  with  the  cold  that  grew  more  in¬ tense  every  moment.

“Where  are  yon  going,  Dora?”  I

“Mother’s  ill  and  I  am  going  to Barnes’  groeery  for  her,”  replied  the little  girl.

“You  can  never  get  in  there,”  I said.  My  heart  was  wrung  at  the sight  of  the  pathetie  little  figure. “Put  your  basket  down  and  I’ll  fill

it  for  you.  Then  you  can  hurry  right back  to  mother.”

She  ceased  her  crying  and  did  as I  bade  her.  I  filled  her  smaller  basket from  my  own.

“Now  hurry  home,”  I  cried,  “and tell  your  mother  not  to  let  you  out again.”

I  had  a  walk  of  five  blocks  before me.  I  hurried  on  with  other  scurry¬ ing  figures  through  the  deepening gloom.  I  lifted  my  eyes  to  the  sky and  surveyed  the  black  vault  above. It  was  noon,  and  yet  it  had  every appearance  of  night.  Suddenly  I stopped  and  gazed  fixedly  at  a  heavenlv  body,  the  strangest  I  had  ever seen.  It  did  not  seem  to  be  a  star, nor  was  it  the  moon,  for  it  was  scarce¬ ly  a  quarter  the  size  of  the  full  moon. ‘  “Can  it  be  a  comet?”  I  asked,  half aloud.

Then  with  a  shock  I  realized  it  was our  sun,  which  we  were  leaving  at an  inconceivably  rapid  rate.  The thought  appalled  me,  and  I  stood  for some  seconds  overwhelmed  by  the realization  of  what  had  occurred.

“I  suppose  Venus  will  give  us  a passing  thought,  as  we  did  Mars,  if she  even - ”

My  train  of  thoughts  came  to  an abrupt  conclusion  as  I  became  aware of  a  menacing  figure  approaching  me from  Brigham  Street.  I  tried  to  pro¬ ceed,  assuming  a  jaunty  air,  though my  emotions  certainly  belied  my  mien. I  bad  recognized  Carl  Hovarder,  a typical  town  bully  with  whom  I  had had  a  previous  unfortunate  encounter when  serving  on  a  civic  improvement eommittee.

“Drop  them  groceries  and  don’t take  all  day  to  do  it  neither,”  de¬ manded  Hovarder,  coming  to  a  full stop  and  eyeing  me  pugnaciously.

“This  is  night,  not  day,  Carl,”  I replied  quietly.

“Don’t  you  ‘Carl’  me!”  roared  the bully.  “Hand  over  that  grub,  and  I don’t  mean  maybe!”

I  stooped  to  place  the  basket  of  proA  RUNAWAY  WORLD


visions  upon  the  walk  between  us.  but at  the  same  time  I  seized  a  can.  As Carl  bent  to  pick  up  the  basket  X threw  the  can  with  all  the  strength  I possessed  full  at  Lis  head.  He  crum¬ pled  up  with  a  groan  and  I  snatched the  precious  burden  and  fled.  When X  was  a  block  away  I  looked  back  and saw  him  rise  and  stoop  uncertainly. He  was  picking  up  the  can  with which  I  had  hit  him.  I  did  not  be¬ grudge  him  the  food  contained  there¬ in.  That  can  had  done  me  more  good than  it  could  ever  possibly  do  Carl Hovarder.

The  last  lap  of  my  journey  proved the  most  tedious,  for  I  was  suffering with  cold,  and  depressed  at  the  fate of  humanity,  but  at  last  I  spied  the observatory.

'  |  'hu  grassy  knoll  upon  which  this edifice  stood  had  an  elevation  of about  twenty  feet  and  the  building itself  was  not  less  than  forty  feet high,  so  that  an  observer  at  the  tele¬ scope  had  an  unobstructed  view  of the  heavens.  The  lower  floor  was equipped  as  a  chemical  laboratory, and  in  its  two  large  rooms  college classes  had  met  during  the  school  term in  chemistry  and  astronomy.  The second  story,  I  thought,  could  be  used as  sleeping  quarters  for  the  nine  souls who  felt  certain  the  observatory would  eventually  be  their  mausoleum.

“All  in?”  I  shouted  as  I  ran  into the  building  and  slammed  the  door behind  me.  How  welcome  was  the warmth  that  enveloped  me!

“Yes,  we’re  all  in,  and  I  suspect you  are,  too,  judging  from  appear¬ ances,”  laughed  Vera.

I  looked  from  one  to  another  of  the little  group  and  somehow  I  felt  that though  each  tried  to  smile  bravely, grim  tragedy  was  stalking  in  our midst.

Late  in  the  afternoon  I  thought  of

our  radio  and  televisio,  and  decided to  ran  over  to  the  house  and  get  them. The  streets  were  deserted  and  covered with  several  inches  ox  snow,  and  the cold  was  intenser  than  I  had  ever  ex¬ perienced.  A  few  yards  from  the  ob¬ servatory  lay  a  dark  object.  I  inves¬ tigated  and  found  it  to  he  a  dog frozen  as  stiff  as  though  carved  from wood,  and  that  in  a  few  hours!  My lungs  were  aching  now  as  I  looked across  the  street  at  our  home,  and though  I  wanted  the  instruments  bad¬ ly  I  valued  life  more  highly.  I  turned and  retraced  my  steps  to  the  ob¬ servatory.

The  men  were  disappointed  that  we were  to  be  so  cut  off  from  commu¬ nication  with  the  outside  world,  but the  essentials  of  life  were  of  primary importance.  "We  swallowed  our  dis¬ appointment  then  and  many  times  in the  future  when  from  time  to  time  we missed  the  luxuries  of  modem  life  to which  we  had  been  accustomed.

Later,  while  the  children  were  be¬ ing  put  to  bed,  we  men  ascended  the steps  to  the  telescope  room  where  we gazed  ruefully  at  the  diminishing disk  of  the  luminary  that  had  given life  to  this  old  Earth  of  ours  for  mil¬ lions  of  years.

“I  suppose  that's  the  way  old  Sol looked  to  the  Martians  before  the  days of  onr  system’s  disruption,”  com¬ mented  Ed  with  a  side  glance  in  my direction.

“The  inhabitants  of  Mars  saw  a larger  orb  in  their  heavens  than that,”  replied  Oscar,  adjusting  the instrument.  “  We  are  well  beyond  the confines  of  our  solar  system.  What do  you  see  there,  boys?”

We  looked  alternately  through  the eyepiece  and  beheld  a  bright  star slightly  smaller  than  our  once  glori¬ ous  sun  now  appeared  to  be.

“That  is  Neptune,”  explained Harden,  “the  outermost  planet  of  the

“So  we  are  entering  tho  unknown! Whither  are  we  bound.  Harden?”  I

“WEIRD  TALES

cried,  suddenly  overwhelmed  with  the awfulness  of  it  alt The  young  astronomer  shrugged  his shoulders.  “I  do  not  know.  But  we shall  not  be  the  only  dead  world hurtling  through  space !  The  void  is full  of  them.  I  think  it  was  Tenny¬ son  who  wrote - ”

“Never  mind  Tennyson!”  I  fairlyshrieked.  “Tell  me,  do  you  think  this is  the — the  end?”

He  nodded  thoughtfully  and  then repeated:  “Lord  Tennyson  wrote, ‘Many  a  planet  by  many  a  sun  may roll  with  the  dust  of  a  vanished

“Say,  this  is  as  cheerful  as  a  fu¬ neral  service,”  said  Zutell.  “I’m  go¬ ing  down  with  the  women.  I  can  hear them  laughing  together.  They’ve  got more  grit  and  pluck  than  we  have. You  two  old  pessimists  can  go  on  with your  calamity-howling.  I’m  going  to get  a  few  smiles  yet  before  I  look like  a  piece  of  refrigerator  meat.”

“Ed’s  right  for  once,”  I  laughed. “We  can’t  help  matters  this  way.”


I  should  gain  nothing  by  a  detailed account  of  the  flight  of  Earth through  interplanetary  space.  Sec¬ onds,  minutes,  hours,  days,  weeks and  months  lost  their  significance  to the  isolated  inhabitants  of  a  world that  had  gone  astray.  Since  time  had always  been  reckoned  by  the  move¬ ments  of  the  Earth  in  relation  to  the sun  there  was  no  way  to  ascertain  the correct  passage  of  time.  True,  a  few watches  among  the  members  of  our group  aided  in  determining  approx¬ imately  the  passage  of  time  in  ac¬ cordance  with  the  old  standards  to which  we  had  been  accustomed.  How we  missed  the  light  of  day,  no  being can  imagine  who  has  never  experi¬ enced  what  we  lived  through.

“Is  the  moon  still  with  us?”  I asked  one  time  of  Marden.

“I  can  not  ascertain  definitely,”

he  replied.  “With  no  sunlight  to  re¬ flect  to  Earth  from  its  surface,  it  has eluded  my  observation  so  far,  but  I have  imagined  a  number  of  times that  a  dark  object  passes  periodically between  us  and  the  stars.  I  shall soon  have  my  observations  checked up,  however.  How  I  do  miss  radio communication,  for  doubtless  such questions  are  being  dismissed  over  the air  pro  and  con!  We  are  still  turn¬ ing  on  our  axis,  but  once  in  every twenty-seven  hours  instead  of  twen¬ ty-four.  I  don’t  understand  it!”

Oscar  spent  virtually  all  his  time in  the  observatory.  He  did  not  al¬ ways  reward  the  rest  of  us  with  his discoveries  there,  as  he  was  naturally taciturn.  When  he  spoke  it  was  usu¬ ally  because  he  had  something  really worth  while  to  tell  us.

“You  remember  I  told  yon  that  the Earth  continued  to  rotate,  though slowly,  on  its  axis  even  though  it  no longer  revolved  around  the  sun,”  he said  on  the  day  we  completed  ap¬ proximately  five  months  of  our  inter¬ stellar  wandering.  “I  also  told  you that  should  such  a  calamity  befall  the Earth  as  its  failing  to  rotate,  the waters  would  pile  up  and  cover  the continents.  I  have  not  told  you  be¬ fore,  but  I  have  calculated  that  the Earth  is  gradually  ceasing  to  rotate. However,  we  need  not  fear  the  oceans, for  they  are  solid  ice.  I  may  also  add that  with  this  decrease  in  our  rate  of rotation  there  is  a  great  acceleration in  our  onward  flight.  In  less  than  a month  we  shall  be  plunging  straight forward  at  many  times  our  present rate  of  speed.”

It  was  as  Oscar  Marden  had  pre¬ dicted,  and  in  a  few  weeks  the  posi¬ tions  of  the  heavenly  bodies  showed that  Earth  was  hurtling  straight  on¬ ward  at  the  speed  of  light.  At  the end  of  two  years  our  provisions  were running  very  low  in  spite  of  the scanty  rations  which  we  had  allowed. The  telescope  had  become  our  only solace  fer  lonely  hours,  and  through

A  RUNAWAY  WORLD

its  gigantic  lens  we  became  aware  of what  the  future  held  for  us.  I  flatter myself  that  I  was  the  first  to  whom Oscar  revealed  his  fearful  discovery.

“Tell  me  what  you  see,”  he  said, resigning  his  seat  at  the  eyepiece to  me.

“X  seei  a  very  large  star,”  I  re¬ plied,  “considerably  larger  than  any near  it.”

He  nodded.  “I  will  tell  you  some¬ thing  that  need  not  he  mentioned  to the  seven  below,  Jim,  because  I  can trust  you  to  keep  your  head.  For some  weeks  past  I  have  known  that we  are  headed  for  that  star  as  straight a3  a  diei”

l  roust  have  paied.  for  he  glanced at  me  apprehensively  and  added, “Don’t  allow  yourself  to  worry.  Re¬ member  complete  resignation  to  what¬ ever  fate  is  ia  store  for  us  is  the  only way  to  meet  natural  catastrophes.”

“Yes,”  I  agreed.  “Man  may  he the  master  of  his  own  fate  as  regards his  relation  to  his  feilowmen.  but  he has  no  hand  in  an  affair  like  this!”

“None  whatever,”  smiled  Marden, and  I  thought  it  seemed  the  very nicest  smile  in  the  world,  except  pos¬ sibly  Vera’s.

“If  we  are  destined  to  plunge  head¬ long  into  this  sun  that  lies  directly  in our  path,  and  is  undoubtedly  what  is drawing  us  onward,  you  may  rest  as¬ sured  that  human  suffering  will  be less  prolonged  than  if  we  pass  this sun  and  continue  to  fathom  the  abyss of  the  eternal  ether.  If  we  were  to plunge  into  it,  the  Earth  would  be¬ come  a  gaseous  mass.”

“Tell  me,”  I  pleaded,  “is  it  be¬ cause  we  are  not  rotating  that  we  are threatened  with  this  awful  disaster?”

“Yes,  I  believe  so,”  he  answered slowly.  “If  we  had  continued  to  ro¬ tate  we  might  have  escaped  the  pow¬ erful  drawing  force  of  this  sun.”


Since  young  Marden  had  taken  me into  his  confidence  I  spent  many hours  of  each  waking  period,  for  one could  not  call  them  days,  at  his  side studying  the  star  which  grew  steadily brighter.  I  believe  as  I  look  back through  the  years  of  my  life  that  the increasing  magnitude  of  that  star  was the  most  appalling  and  ominous  sight I  had  ever  beheld.  Many  were  the times  that  in  dreams  I  saw  the  Earth rushing  into  the  blazing  hell.  I  in¬ variably  awoke  with  a  scream,  and covered  with  perspiration.  I  sat,  it seems,  for  days  at  a  time  watching it,  fascinated  as  if  under  the  hypnotic influence  of  an  evil  eye.  Finally  its presence  could  no  longer  be  kept  a secret  from  the  others  who  saw  out¬ side  the  windows  the  brightness  that increased  as  time  went  on.

Printed  indelibly  on  my  memory was  our  first  excursion  out  of  doors after  three  years  of  confinement. Walking  warily  along  the  deserted streets,  we  were  reminded  of  the ancient  cities  of  Herculaneum  and Pompeii.  It  was  not  ashes  and  lava that  had  worked  the  doom  of  hun¬ dreds  of  human  beings;  the  destroyer in  this  ease  was  intangible,  but  never¬ theless  potent.  Many  silent  huddled forms  were  seen  here  and  there,  bring¬ ing  tears  to  our  eyes  as  we  recog¬ nized  this  friend  and  that:  but  the greatest  tragedies  were  in  the  homes where  many  whole  families  were  dis¬ covered  grouped  together  around whatever  source  of  heat  they  had  tem¬ porarily  relied  upon  for  warmth.  We learned  that  none  who  had  depended upon  coal  had  survived  the  frigidity, and  in  some  instances  starvation  had wiped  out  entire  households.

The  scene  which  was  the  greatest shock  to  the  reconnoitering  party  was that  staged  in  Guy  Barnes’  store.  The old  grocer  had  been  game  to  the  end, and  his  body  was  found  behind  the counter,  where  he  had  apparently


WEIRD  TALES

been  overcome  by  the  intensity  of  the cold,  during  his  labors  for  his  fellowmen.  The  last  overwhelming  cold  had descended  so  swiftly  that  many  had been  unable  to  reach  shelter  in  time.

Next  came  the  sad  task  of  burying our  dead.  Prompt  action  was  neces¬ sary,  for  the  ever  growing  disk  of  the great  sun  hastened  the  process  of  de¬ cay.  The  simplest  of  ceremonies  were all  that  could  be  employed  by  men and  women  struggling  to  return  the living  world  to  pre-catastrophic normality.

The  sun  grew  terrible  to  behold,  as large  in  diameter  as  our  old  sun. Still  it  seemed  good  to  be  once  more in  the  open !  The  children  scampered about  and  Ed  and  I  had  a  race  to the  square  and  back.  Scorch  to  death we  might  in  a  very  short  time,  but  it was  certainly  a  pleasant  thing  to spend  a  few  days  in  this  solar  glow which  we  had  been  denied  so  long.

Came  a  time  when  we  could  no longer  be  ignorant  of  the  fact  that  it was  growing  uncomfortably  warm. Finally  we  decided  to  do  as  everyone else  was  doing;  pack  up  our  earthly possessions  and  move  to  a  part  of  the Earth’s  surface  where  the  heat  was not  so  direct.

Ed  came  over,  mopping  his  fore¬ head  with  his  handkerchief.

“You  folks  about  ready?”  he queried.  “We’re  all  packed  up.  The Hardens  are  going  in  our  car.”

I  walked  to  the  door  and  gazed across  the  seared  landscape  toward the  mammoth  fiery  orb.  Suddenly  I gave  a  startled  ery.  The  new  sun  was not  in  its  accustomed  place  in  the heavens.  It  was  several  degrees lower  down,  and  to  the  east!

“Look!”  I  cried,  pointing  with trembling  finger.  “My  God — do  you see?”

I  think  Ed  concluded  I  had  gone insane,  but  he  followed  the  direction of  my  gaze.

“Jim,  old  fellow,  you’re  right,”  he

ejaculated,  “as  sure  as  Mars  was farther  from  the  sun  than  we  were,

that  sun  is  setting,  which  means - ”

“That  we  are  rotating  on  our  axis and  probably  revolving  around  tho new  sun,”  I  finished  triumphantly. “But  we  are  turning  from  east  to west  instead  of  from  west  to  east  as formerly.  If  the  whole  world  wasn’t temperate  nowadays  I  should  think  I had  been  imbibing  some  of  the  poi¬ sonous  drink  of  our  ancestors!”


That  evening  the  townspeople  who had  not  already  migrated  to cooler  regions,  held  a  jubilee  in  Cen¬ tral  Park  Square.  The  principal speaker  of  the  evening  was  Oscar Harden,  who  explained  to  the  people what  capers  our  planet  had  been  cut¬ ting  during  the  past  three  years. After  his  address  I  noticed  that  he kept  gazing  skyward  as  if  unable  to bring  his  attention  to  Earth.

“Say,  will  you  come  to  the  observ¬ atory  with  me  now?”  he  asked  as  I was  talking  to  a  group  of  friends shortly  afterward.

“I’ll  be  right  along,”  I  replied. Scarcely  half  a  block  away  we  saw Ed  Zutell  going  in  the  general  di¬ rection  of  home.

“Do  we  want  him?”  I  asked,  not a  little  annoyed.  “Can’t  we  beat  it up  an  alley?  I’d  like  this  confer¬ ence  alone,  for  I  know  by  your  man¬ ner  you  have  something  important  to

“In  the  last  part  of  what  you  say you  are  right,  ’  ’  responded  Harden, “but  in  the  first  part,  wrong.  I  do want  Ed,  for  I  have  something  to show  him,  teo.”

When  the  three  of  ns  were  again in  the  familiar  setting  of  the  past three  years,  Harden  gazed  for  quite some  time  at  the  heavens  through  the great  instrument.  Finally  he  turned ( Continued  on  page  141)

SALEM

(Reprint)

By  EDMUND  CLARENCE  STEDMAN

Soe,  Mistress  Anne,  faire  neighbour  myne,

How  rides  a  witche  when  nighte-winds  blowe  ? Folk  say  that  you  are  none  too  goode To  joyue  the  crews  in  Salem  woode.

When  one  you  wot  of  gives  the  signe ;

Eighte  well,  methinks,  the  pathe  you  knowe.

In  Meetinge-time  I  watched  you  well,

Whiles  godly  Master  Parris  prayed;

Your  folded  hands  laye  on  your  booke ;

But  Kichard  answered  to  a  looke That  fain  would  tempt  him  unto  hell,

Where,  Mistress  Anne,  your  place  is  made.

You  looke  into  my  Eichard’s  eyes With  evil  glances  shamelesse  growne;

I  found  about  his  wriste  a  hair,

And  guessed  what  fingers  tyed  it  there ;

He  shall  not  lightly  be  your  prize,

Your  Master  firste  shall  take  his  owne.

’Tis  not  in  nature  he  should  be (Who  loved  me  soe  when  Springe  was  greene) A  childe,  to  hange  upon  your  gowne!

He  loved  me  well  in  Salem  Towne Until  this  wanton  witcherie

His  harte  and  myne  crept  dart;  betweene.

Last  Sabbath  night,  the  gossips  saye,

Your  goodman  missed  you  from  his  side.

He  had  no  strength  to  move,  until Agen,  as  if  in  slumber  still,

Beside  him  at  the  dawne  you  laye :

Tell  nowe,  what  meanwhile  did  betide.

Dame  Anne,  mye  hate  goe  with  you  fleete As  driftes  the  Bay  fogg  overhead Or  over  yonder  hill-topp  where There  is  a  tree  ripe  fruite  shall  bear When,  neighbour  myne,  your  wicked  feet The  stones  of  Gallowes  Hill  shall  tread.


A  Five-Minute  Story

The  Elixir  of  Life

By  MARC  R.  SCHORER  and  AUGUST  W.  DERLETH

THE  swinging  lantern  at  the farther  end  of  the  narrowstreet  approached  closer  and closer  the  house  of  Messer  Girolani, the  magician.  The  lackey  who  carried the  bobbing  light  walked  swiftly, spurred  on  by  the  mutterings  of  the hooded  figure  behind  him.  The  night was  lighted  by  the  silver  moon  hang¬ ing  in  the  sky,  yet  but  a  single  moon¬ beam  penetrated  the  darkness  of  the strait  alley.

Messer  Girolani  sat  alone  in  the heavily  curtained  room  which  he chose  to  call  his  labcratorium.  The multi-colored  liquids  in  the  numerous phials  about  the  room  were  in  odd contrast  to  the  blaok  curtains  on  all sides.  On  the  oaken  table  well  to¬ ward  the  center  of  the  room  stood three  large  retorts,  two  or  them  part¬ ly  filled  with  a  colorless  fluid.  The only  light  in  the  room  was  that thrown  by  the  fitful  fire  from  which the  hungry  flames  leaped  upward  and licked  the  pot  suspended  from  a  tri¬ pod  above  them.  The  weird  shadows danced  grotesquely  on  the  black draperies.  Messer  Girolani ’s  shadow, too,  was  grotesque,  for  his  long  nose and  straggly  beard  made  it  look  for  all the  world  like  that  of  Mephistopheles. Messer  Girolani ’s  gaze  was  fixed  upon the  hour-glass  on  the  shelf  above  the fireplace.  He  watched  the  grains  of sand  trickle  slowly  downward,  half eagerly,  half  apprehensively,  with  the air  of  one  who  expected  some  event  of import  to  occur.  The  flickering  lan¬ tern  in  the  street  caught  his  eye  and he  rose  hurriedly  and  walked  directly

to  the  fireplace,  where  he  stirred  the boiling  fluid  in  the  vessel.

The  dull  rap  on  the  heavy  doer  was answered  by  the  soft  padding  of  feet in  the  passageway.  Messer  Girolani ’s Nubian  servitor  admitted  the  hooded figure  and  his  lackey.  There  was  a swish  of  curtains  brushed  aside  aud the  man  stood  in  the  room,  his  hood

“Indeed,  it  is  I,  Messer  Girolani.”

“You  are  on  time,  my  lord.”

“It  is  my  business  to  make  that  a point,  Messer.”

“But,  of  course,  my  lord.”

“I  have  no  doubt  that  my  order  is filled?”

His  Magnificence,  the  Duke  di Sforza,  reached  far  the  embroidered purse  dangling  from  the  belt  about his  doublet.

“I  greatly  fear,  your  ExcelThe  duke  waved  a  jeweled  hand and  silenced  the  wizard.

“Come,  come,  Messer  Girolani,  you, a  magician — what  is  there  for  you  to fear  ?  Are  you  not  allied  with  Satan, the  root  of  evil?”

“But,  my  lord,  I  have  not  the elixir  completed.”

“■What,  knave,  not  completed?  I am  of  half  a  mind  to  place  your  head on  a  pike  pole.  What  is  the  reason for  this?”

“It  is  because  I  lack  an  ingredient, Excellency.”

“An  ingredient?  Blood  of  Satan! Have  I  not  given  yon  orders  to  spare

THE  ELIXIR  OP  LIFE


no  sum  in  this  matter?  What  ingre¬ dient  is  it  yon  iaek?”

"It  is — one  that  gold  can  not  pro-

“Name  it!  Play  not  with  idle

“The  life-blood  of  a  child,  Magoifi-

“The  life-blood  of  a  child?”

“Indeed,  my  lord."

The  Duke  di  Sforza  pondered  a space.  At  length  he  glanced  up.

“Summon  the  lackey  who  admitted

“Ac  you  say,  Excellency.”

Messer  Girolani  vanished  between the  curtains,  but  returned  almost  at once,  followed  by  the  silent  Nubian.

“Order  him  to  bring  here  for  your use  the  first  child  he  encounters  on the  streets  of  the  city.”

“You  heard,  Kara?”

The  Nubian  nodded  and  trod  softly from  the  room.  Once  more  Messer Girolani  stirred  the  boiling  liquid over  the  fire.  He  turned  the  hour¬ glass  about  and  faced  the  scowling

“How  long,  Messer  Girolani,  before the  elixir  of  life  will  be  completed?”

“Until  the  hour-glass  drains  thrice. Magnificence.  The  elixir  is  finished but  for  the  blood  of  the  child.”

His  Excellency  rose  and  lowered the  black  hood.  He  wrapped  his cloak  about  him  and  stepped  into  the passageway.

“When  the  hour-glass  drains thrice,  Messer  Girolani,  I  shall  reHe  was  gone  and  Messer  Girolani was  alone  again,  watching  the  endless stream  of  sand  in  the  hour-glass.

Incessantly  triekled  the  sand  in  the glass.  Twice  the  wizard  turned  it. Somewhere  in  the  gloomy  abode  a door  closed  softly.  Impatient  and apprehensive,  Messer  Girolani  trod the  oaken  floor  with  a  step  that  rever¬ berated  through  the  corridors  with¬ out.  The  dancing  flames  of  the  fire

increased  the  gloom  by  the  fantastic shadows  they  threw  about  the  cham¬ ber.  There  was  no  sound  save  the tread  of  the  magician  and  the  crack¬ ling  fire.  At  length  the  draperies parted  and  the  swarthy  Nubian  en¬ tered,  a  naked  child  stretched  limply upon  his  great  arms.

Silently  he  laid  his  burden  upon the  table.  Messer  Girolani  pointed  to a  ease  at  the  farther  end  of  the  room, and  murmured  a  command.  The black  turned  and  was  lost  in  the  dusk at  the  end  of  the  room  where  the flickering  light  could  not  penetrate. He  reappeared  out  of  the  shadow:; and  the  fitful  flames  flashed  om¬ inously  on  the  sharp-edged  blade  he carried.  He  handed  it  to  his  master, and  at  the  wizard’s  order,  he  grasped the  unconscious  boy  and  moved  to¬ ward  the  fireplace.  The  servant  held the  body  firmly,  and  with  an  evil caimness  the  magieian  slashed  the throat  of  the  still  form.  The  body quivered  spasmodically  as  the  red blood  spurted  from  the  gash  into  the seething  liquid  in  the  pot.

Messer  oirolani  reseated  himself and  stared  meditatively  into  the flames.  For  a  long  time  he  sat  thus, pondering.  The  body  of  the  unfor¬ tunate  child  lay  at  full  length  on  the table,  covered  with  a  heavy  cloth.  At length  the  alchemist  started  up  and replenished  the  fire,  and  turned  the hour-glass.  As  he  turned  from  the fireplace  he  faced  the  Duke  di  Sforza, who  had  entered  silently.  The  fire¬ light  flickered  horribly  on  his  drawn features.

“Quick,  Messer  Girolani,  the elixir!”

“A  space,  Messer  Dnca,  a  space.” The  wizard  grasped  a  goblet  and walked  quickly  to  the  fireplace.  He bent  over  the  pot  and  dipped  out  a bit  of  the  life-giving  fluid.  There was  a  rattle  of  coins  as  his  Magnifi¬ cence  east  his  pouchful  of  ducats  upon the  table.  Messer  Girolani  took  it

128  WEIRD

eagerly  and  surrendered  the  elixir. The  duke  waited  a  time  for  the  elixir to  cool,  then  raised  the  gohlet  to  his lips  and  drained  it.

“Faugh!  It  has  a  filthy  taste, Messer,  but  if  it  accomplishes  half  of what  is  said  about  it,  its  taste  is  par¬ donable.”

“And  that  it  will,  my  lord.” “Another  goblet,  Messer  Girolani. I  must  make  haste,  for  this  night  has my  youngest  son  escaped  his  nurse and  is  now  at  large  in  the  byways  of Milan.”

“At  once,  Excellence.”

“What  is  it  you  have  beneath  the cloth  upon  this  table,  Messer?”

“It  is  the  dead  child,  Magnificence. Your  love  of  life  has  deprived  him of  it.”

The  duke  drained  the  goblet.  He rose,  pulled  his  cloak  about  him,  and

TALES

started  for  the  door,  only  to  halt  be¬ fore  the  curtain.  He  walked  slowly back  and  stood  before  the  silent  form beneath  the  cloth.  Tentatively  he stretched  forth  a  hand,  but  with¬ drew  it.

“For  three  hours  have  we  searched for  my  son,  Messer  Girolani.”

Again  he  stretched  forth  a  hand, and  again  he  hesitated.  Messer  Giro¬ lani  said  nothing,  but  his  face  betrayed  his  thoughts.  Suddenly,  spas¬ modically,  the  duke  snatched  away the  coverlet,  but  his  nerveless  fingers dropped  the  cloth  as  if  it  were  fire. He  shouted  hoarsely  and  recoiled from  the  accusing  body.  His  face blanched.  He  gave  a  low  moan  and stared  about  for  the  magieiau.  But Messer  Girolani  had  gone,  and  he  was alone  with  the  mutilated  body  of  his own  son,  whose  blood  was  the  elixir of  life.

GHOSTS

By  LOUISE  GARWOOD

Who  tapped  upon  my  window  pane And  sighed  and  laughed  and  sighed  again,

Till  I  called  aloud  so  the  stillness  heard A  sweet,  a  long-unspoken  word?

Was  it  only  wind  and  rain?

Yesterday,  with  whisper  slight,

Footfalls  followed  me,  quick  and  light, Fluttering,  restless  close  behind:

Who  went  where  my  garden  pathways  wind? Dry  leaves  of  orimson  bright?

Who  wails  my  name  with  sobbing  cry So  that  I  wake  and  weeping  lie?

A  string  of  the  violoncello  broke,

In  its  dusty  case — but  yet — who  spoke?

Who  sighs?  Who  passes  by*

Here  Are  the  Thrilling  Last  Chapters  of

THE  DEVIL-RAY

By  JOEL  MARTIN  NICHOLS,  Jr.

The  Story  So  Far

CS AFTER  6

THE  MAN  IN  THE  TOWER

IINDLEY  awoke  with  his  head  in the  girl’s  arms.  She  had  pro- •*  cored  a  strip  of  linen  from somewhere  and  had  hound  op  the  cut in  his  side.

“Yon  are  weak,”  said  said;  ‘‘you

The  sweet  perfume  from  her  clothing  soothed  him.  He  would  have sunk  back  again  in  welcome  oblivion but  there  came  to  him,  more  sharply

now,  the  memory  of  the  gray-haired man  in  the  turret  of  Blennerholf.

“My  father,”  he  said,  pulling away  from  the  girl  and  dragging  him¬ self  to  his  feet.  *  ‘  I  can  not  wait  here. The  castle — where  is  it?”

She  led  him  to  the  window.  The storm  had  subsided.  Only  a  few  scud¬ ding  clouds  effaced  the  moon.  She pointed  dorm  the  lake  to  where,  more eery  now  than  before  under  the  wan light,  Blennerhof  thrust  its  five gloomy  turrets  into  the  sky.

“If  you  trust  me,  now,”  she  said, “I  will  go  with  you.”

He  looked  at  her,  noted  the  light  in her  eyes.  “I  never  really  doubted you,”  he  said,  “but  I  was  nervous and  I  could  not  afford  to  lose.  It  is not  for  myself.  Come,  we  will  go.  ”

She  was  but  a  moment  in  donning some  extra  clothing,  and  together they  hurried  from  the  villa  into  the roadway.  He  had  paused  only  long enough  to  pick  up  the  German’s  pis¬ tol  under  the  window,  and  then  they crept  out  and  down  the  road,  trem¬ bling  lest  at  this  last  moment  they  be discovered  by  the  servants  in the  quarters  at  the  rear.

In  twenty  minutes,  though  it seemed  as  many  hours  to  him,  they were  at  the  castle.

“The  drawbridge  is  all  the  way down,”  she  whispered.  “I  have never  seen  it  thus  before.  But  then — they  never  would  let  me  go  near  the place.  They  said  it  was  old  and  the walls  might  fall.”

They  hurried  over  the  bridge  and into  the  somber  courtyard.



WEIRD  TALES

Two  doors  yawned  emptily  before them.  The  great  steel  car  was  gone ! Von  Schaang  had  not  boasted  without truth.

Lindley  paused  in  the  center  of  the courtyard,  buried  in  thought.  “Yes,” he  said  finally,  “I  am  sure  that  I  have been  here  before.  I  remember  there was  a  great  armored  car  in  there  and then  we  found  a  stairway  somewhere and  went  up  into  one  of  the  turrets. It  seems  to  me  now  that  it  was  on the  left.”

They  hurried  over  to  the  nearest turret  and  found  a  low  oaken  door heavily  studded  with  iron.  It  was partly  open  and  creaked  ominously as  ho  swung  it  farther  back.  He snapped  off  his  flashlight  and  they waited  there  in  the  darkness,  their hearts  pounding  with  fear.  Had  they been  heard?  Prom  above  there  came no  sound  save  the  moan  of  the  wind among  the  battlements,  weird  music intermingling  uncannily  with  the murmur  of  the  waters  in  the  moat below.  The  place  seemed  as  empty

He  paused  with  one  foot  on  the stairs.  “I  can  not  let  you  go  up here,”  he  said.  “There  is  sure  to  be someone  there,  and  I  shall  have  to fight.  I — I’m  sorry  that  I  brought you  thus  far.  Will  you  go  back  and wait  for  me  on  the  shore?  If  I  do not  come  back  within  a  few  minutes you  will  know  that  I - ”

She  laid  her  hand  on  his  arm.  “I am  going  with  you,”  she  answered with  quiet  finality.  Had  it  not  been for  the  pitchy  blackness  perhaps  he would  have  noticed  that  she  swayed  a little  toward  him.  And  so  they  crept up  the  stairs  together.

At  the  parapet  above,  Lindley leaned  cautiously  over.  He  waited  for the  moon,  effaced  for  the  moment  by a  fleeting  cloud,  to  throw  its  light  into the  castle.  The  greenish  light  came — vanished.  Yet  in  that  quick  inter¬ val  he  saw  the  pile  of  coal,  still  wet and  glistening  from  the  rain.  He

saw  beside  it  the  two  small  barrows. But  the  waving  plume  of  steam  from the  exhaust  in  the  far  comer  was gone.  There  came  now  no  drone  of dynamos  from  the  tiny  powerhouse

They  had  gone,  indeed  t  Their  work here  was  finished.

And  yet  the  silent  emptiness  of  it gave  him  some  grain  of  comfort.  He had  found  the  stairs,  the  turret,  the coal — everything  as  it  had  been  in  his dream.  Then  it  had  not  been  a  dream after  all.  If  he  could  find  the  barred window  wherein  he  had  seen  the  dials and  the  two  workmen  he  would  then believe  that  he  had  in  reality  seen  his father.

They  found  the  embrasure  at  last — just  where  he  had  placed  it  in  his mind.  Peering  through  he  saw  in  the loom  those  same  shining  knobs  and iais,  that  same  huge  hourglass  ap¬ paratus.  But  there  was  in  it  now  no forking  ray  of  p.urple  light.

Gone !  Gone !  In  bitterness  he realized  that  although  it  had  been  no dream,  he  had  come  too  late.  Too late!  And  then  he  felt  the  girl’s  fin¬ gers  on  his  arm.

“Look  up  at  the  keep,”  she  whis¬ pered.  “There  is  a  light  above  us  in the  keep.”  His  eyes  followed  her pointing  finger  in  the  gloom,  and  then he  saw  far  above  them  a  tiny embrasure  throwing  a  feeble  yellow ray  into  the  night.

Without  a  word  he  led  her  back down  into  the  courtyard,  where  they finally  discovered  the  door  to  tho keep.  Through  a  elutter  of  strange machinery  they  found  steps  leading upward.

They  climbed  an  interminable length  of  time,  it  seemed  to  him,  and yet  it  was  only  a  minute  or  so.  At every  turn  in  the  tortuous  stairway they  paused,  waiting  there  in  the darkness  with  thumping  hearts,  ex¬ pecting  momentarily  to  hear  some challenge  from  above,  perhaps  the crash  of  a  pistol.  On  the  seventh

THE  DEVIL-RAY


landing  he  made  out  ahead  of  them a  closed  door.  Leaving  her  one  land¬ ing  below  he  crept  up  to  the  door  and applied  his  ear  to  a  narrow  crack. From  within  there  came  no  sound,  no stfr  that  he  could  hear.  His  heart, he  thought,  thumped  too  loudly  to permit  of  hearing  anything  else.  By a  supreme  effort  he  sought  to  quiet  it. And  then,  as  he  listened,  not  daring to  breathe,  he  caught  a  faint  murmur from  behind  the  door!  It  was  light breathing.  The  regularity  of  it  told that  there  were  two  of  them  and  that both  were  sleeping.

He  pushed  his  shoulder  against  the door.  It  gave  easily.  There  before him,  lit  by  a  small  swinging  lamp overhead,  he  saw  two  men.  One  was an  old  man  stretched  out  on  a  pallet of  straw  in  the  comer,  the  other  a heavy-built  person  with  pistol  at  belt, slumped  into  a  ehair  near  the  bed  on which  the  old  man  lay.  Even  as  he watched  there  in  the  doorway  cold horror  struck  home  to  his  heart,  for he  realized  that  the  slight  form  on the  straw  bed  was  his  father,  and that  his  father  was  chained!  Thank heaven,  then,  the  old  man  had  not submitted  willingly!

But  his  father  chained!

The  blood  seemed  to  well  up  into his  eyes.  He  bounded  into  the  room, all  caution  gone  now.  The  clatter awoke  the  sleeper  in  the  chair,  and in  an  instant  the  man  was  facing  him, his  hand  going  swiftly  to  the  pistol at  his  belt.  In  that  instant  Lindley ’s arms  locked  about  the  man’s  waist, holding  his  arms  there  impotently. He  dared  not  trust  to  his  own  pistol lest  the  report  bring  the  whole  castle against  them.

He  did  not  know  that  the  girl  hur¬ ried  np  the  stairs  behind  him  nor  did he  hear  her  low  cry  as  she  ran  to  the old  man  on  the  straw  pallet.  He  did hear  his  father’s  cry  of  “Lindley! Lindley  l”  All  that  mind  could  encom¬ pass  now  was  an  insane  hatred  for this  burly  beast  locked  in  his  arms.

He  wondered  why  the  man  did  not cry  out  and  give  the  alarm.  Perhaps they  were  alone  in  the  castle.  Per¬ haps — but  he  was  not  sure  enough  of it  to  use  his  pistol.

In  a  few  seconds  he  knew  that  he was  likely  to  have  the  best  of  it.  The man  in  his  arms  seemed  curiously inept  at  this  struggle — seemed  to  be attempting  to  wrench  away  rather than  reach  for  his  assailant’s  throat as  Lindley  anticipated.

Suddenly  he  realized  that  the guard  had  a  definite  purpose  in  the struggle.  He  seemed  to  be  worldng the  two  of  them  across  the  room. Lindley  found  himself  trying  to  spec¬ ulate  on  this  movement — it  was  not  in the  direction  of  the  door  and  the  em¬ brasure  was  too  small  to  allow  the passage  of  his  body.  Even  if  it  had been  wider  there  remained  outside only  a  death  on  the  rocks  below. Then,  through  many  intervening miles,  he  heard  his  father  calling  to him.  'What  was  that?

“Do  not  let  him  pull  that  switch!” The  old  man’s  voice  came  to  him  now, full  and  clear.

What  did  his  father  mean?  Was there  some  sort  of  a  signal.  At  that instant  the  man  in  his  grip  tore  one arm  free  and  reached  out  to  the  wall. For  the  first  time  Lindley  saw  there a  small  electric  switch,  but  on  that instant  the  guard’s  big  hand  closed over  it  and  a  tiny  bluish  spark  told him  it  had  gone  home.  With  that, Lindley  struck,  pistol  in  hand,  and the  body  went  limp  in  his  arms.

“Quick!  Quick!”  the  scientist shouted.  “That  switch  releases  a mechanism  which  in  eighteen  minutes will  set  off  bombs  in  the  moat!  They intended  blowing  themselves  up  if ever  they  were  caught!  There  is  an¬ other  switch  concealed  somewhere  be¬ low  to  cut  it  off,  but  we  could  never find  it  in  eighteen  minutes!”

Lindl8y’s  feverish  fingers  found keys  on  the  guard’s  body.  It  seemed hours  before  they  were  able  to  unWEIRD  TALES

lock  the  steel  fetters  on  Fenshaw’s wrists.  It  seemed  a  thousand  steps to  the  courtyard  below.  The  scientist glanced  at  his  watch.  “Fourteen minutes  left,”  he  said.  “Time  enough to  get  well  out  of  here  and  far  enough away  if  we  hurry.”

They  were  half-way  across  the drawbridge  when  Lindley  sud¬ denly  paused.  The  airplane!  Was it  still  down  there  in  the  moat?  He rushed  to  the  wall,  and  peering  over into  the  gloom,  saw  it  snugly  en¬ sconced  there  in  the  black  waters,  in¬ tact  and  waiting.

Father  and  son  looked  at  each  other in  silence.  Each  knew  what  the  other was  thinking.  “They’ve  been  gone now  about  an  hour  and  a  half,”  said the  scientist.  “They  can  not  be  far. In  forty-five  minutes  we  should  over¬ take  them,  if  you  can  fly  a  Fokker.”

He  paused,  and  Lindley  knew  what he  was  thinking.  If  they  went  after the  speeding  car  they  themselves stood  one  chance  in  a  thousand  of ever  coming  back  alive.  That  car must  be  destroyed.  It  would  mean death — ox  course.  Their  only  hope would  be  to  drive  the  plane  into  the face  of  the  speeding  motor,  wreck  it beyond  recovery  and  all  those  within it.  Probably  death  for  the  men  in  the car,  but  most  certain  death  for  those in  the  plane.

“We  must  do  it!”

The  scientist  nodded  and  stepped toward  the  edge  of  the  bridge.  Lind¬ ley  turned  to  the  girl.  “You  have time  enough  to  get  out  of  the  castle, but  you  must  hurry,”  he  said.  “My father  and  I  are  going  with  the  plane. We — the  baron — it  will  be  the  end for  him  and  for  us.  I’m  sorry,  I — well,  you  see  we  must  do  it.  It  is  for our  country — we  have  no  choice. Come — you  must  hurry.”  His  voice choked.

He  attempted  to  push  her  toward the  end  of  die  bridge  but  die  pulled away  from  him.  “But  I,  too,  am  an

American,”  she  said-  “My  father loved  America  and  my  mother  died for  it.  I  can  not— will  not  let  you  go alone.  I  have  come  thus  far.  I  will see  you  through — to  whatever  comes. Is  it  not  enough  that — I — I — ”  She did  not  finish.

He  wanted  to  say  something,  but the  words  choked  him.  And  then  he saw  that  she  swayed  toward  him.

The  scientist,  looking  back,  saw only  one  figure  where  there  had  been two  in  the  gloom  near  the  end  of  the bridge.  The  moon,  whipped  from  be¬ hind  a  cloud  for  the  moment,  smiled down  upon  them.  Youth — youth! The  scientist  saw  her  coming  toward him  with  his  son  behind  her.

“I’m  going.”  It  was  all  she  said. Being  an  old  man  and  understanding, he  did  not  reply.

They  found  the  dock  under  the draw  and  tumbled  hastily  down  upon it.  Lindley,  peering  in  at  the  gages, found  the  tanks  partly  full.

“Eight  minutes  more,”  came  the scientist’s  voice  from  the  gloom.

Lindley  had  started  over  the  decks toward  the  engines  when  his  eyes caught  the  white  bellies  of  steel  cyl¬ inders  hanging  there  quietly  in  the water  under  the  bridge.  And  then he  remembered.

Bombs!  Bombs!  Enough  to  blow the  castle  into  the  heavens.  Three  of them  taken  into  the  plane  and dropped  from  aloft  would  be  enough to  do  the  trick — enough  to  destroy that  speeding  monster.  Feverishly he  sought  among  the  tools  for  pliers and  wrench.

“Seven  minutes!”

A  cold  chill  struck  through  the younger  man’s  spine.  He  knew  they would  need  at  least  four  minutes  to get  away.  God  knew  how  far  they would  have  to  be  in  order  to  escape the  impending  cataclysm.  “The bombs  in  the  moat!”  he  shouted. “We  need  only  three  of  them!  Help me!”

They  pulled  the  ship  closer  to  the

THE  DEVIL-BAY

drawbridge,  and  Lindley,  reaching down  into  the  water,  found  three  of those  cylinders  of  death,  clipped  their wiring  and  handed  them  gingerly  up to  his  father,  who  crouched  in  the  for¬ ward  cockpit.  The  question  now  was — would  they  explode  if  dropped from  a  sufficient  height?

“Three  minutes  left,”  said  the  pro¬ fessor.  “We  can’t  wait  any  longer.” Lindley  dragged  himself  back  to  the deck,  dipped  into  the  pilot's  seat  and adjusted  the  controls.  The  scientist pulled  himself  out  of  the  cockpit  and climbed  over  to  the  propellers.  At Lindley ’s  direction  he  seized  one  of the  blades  and  twisted  it  sharply.

Would  she  start?

The  port  engine  opened  up  with  a deafening  roar.  The  professor scrambled  to  the  other  side  and  re¬ peated  the  operation  on  the  other  pro¬ peller.  A  sputtering  report  reassured them.  But  another  minute  gone! Could  they  make  it?  If  they  got caught  now  between  the  bridge  and the  wall  of  the  moat  they  would  be done  for.  The  plane  lashed  out drunkenly  under  the  pull  of  her  pro¬ pellers.  Lindley  released  her  and sprang  back  to  his  controls.  Could he  make  the  passage?

She  slid  out,  scraping  only  her  star¬ board  wing.  Ho  unleashed  her  and swung  her  into  the  wind,  raising  her wing  control  for  the  long  lift  upward. There  could  be  but  a  minute  left! He  wondered  if  there  could  be  even that  much,  expecting  with  each  fleet¬ ing  second  to  hear  that  splitting  roar behind  him.  This  waiting  for  the ship  to  take  the  air  was  worse  than death  itself.  He  glanced  to  the  seat at  his  left  and  saw  the  white  face  of the  girl,  saw  her  glanee  back  to  the castle.  Ahead  of  him  his  father  was gazing  back  at  the  slowly  increasing distance  between  them  and  the  death that  lay  behind.  Would  the  plane never  rise?  How  the  water  seemed to  ding  to  her  pontoons,  how  it  hated to  release  her!  Ah,  she  was  free  now!

The  lake  below  seemed  to  fall  away! They  were  up  at  last!

He  saw  his  father  peering  at  his watch,  fancied  that  he  himself  could see  the  hands  set  at  the  hour  of  death. The  professor  raised  his  hand.  .  .

Lindley  felt  the  murderous  red glare  of  it  on  his  back  before  the splitting  crash  smote  across  his  ear¬ drums.  The  plane  rocked  drunkenly, dipped  her  nose  and  plunged  down¬ ward.  They  were  not  far  enough  up, they  could  not  afford  a  nose  dive now!  The  water  below — it  was  still too  near!  Two  years  over  the  lines in  Flanders  had  served  him  well.  Au¬ tomatically  he  pulled  at  the  controls. She  rocked;  the  struts  sang  out  even above  the  roar  of  the  propellers. Would  something  give  way  now  ?  One little  snap — and  oblivion!

There  was  a  second  roaring  crash behind  them,  this  time  not  so  loud. The  red  glare  lit  up  the  heavens. Would  some  of  this  hurtling  debris reach  the  ship,  strike  her  down? Something  sang  past  his  head.  A  bit of  mortar  in  one  of  those  engines —

a  smashed  propeller -

Bits  of  brick,  stone  and  mortar flung  past  them,  thumped  against  the ship’s  body,  pattered  on  her  wings — and  dropped  into  the  void  beneath them.  Back  of  them  the  red  glare was  subsiding  to  a  sulky,  sanguine glow.  It  was  the  end  of  Blennerhof.

Ldjdlet  veered  to  the  right  and they  picked  np  the  lake  road. They  followed  it,  a  narrow  ribbon  of gray  picked  out  by  the  moonlight. The  lake  was  left  behind.  If  any¬ thing  went  wrong  now  they  were  too low  to  volpane  to  the  surface  of  the water.  It  would  be  the  end,  a  crash against  tree  or  rock.

The  scudding  elouds  whieh  had  al¬ most  continuously  effaced  the  moon were  fewer  new  and  Lindley  had  lit¬ tle  difficulty  in  following  the  road. He  soared  as  high  as  possible,  watch¬ ing  his  father,  who  peered  from  the


WEIBD  TALES

forward  cockpit  into  the  night.  Once the  port  engine  began  to  skip,  but  it settled  back  once  more.  That  steady, reassuring  drone  was  comforting. Lindley  saw  the  still  white  face  beside  him,  wondered  if  she  realized how  close  they  were  to  their  jour¬ ney’s  end.

Twenty  minutes;  a  half-hour ;  forty minutes  passed.  The  scientist  had risen  now  and  was  peering  ahead  into the  moonlit  countryside.  Had  they missed  the  car — had  there  been  some side  road  into  which  it  had  turned? Had  it  drawn  up  for  the  moment  be¬ side  the  wayside  while  the  ship roared  on  overhead,  oblivious  of  its quarry?

Fifty  minutes.  Lindley  saw  his father  raise  his  hand,  saw  him  point, far  away  into  the  night.  Leaning forward  he  followed  with  his  eye  the pointing  finger.  There  was  nothing — no,  no,  there  it  was  ten  miles  ahead, a  huge,  silver-skinned  beetle  on  a  rib¬ bon  of  ashen  gray!  Even  at  that  dis¬ tance  he  caught  the  gleam  of  the moon  shining  on  that  peculiar  glass dome  in  her  steel  cupola.

He  saw  his  father  reach  down  at his  feet  and  laboriously  hoist  one  of the  heavy  cylinders  to  the  lip  of  the cockpit.  Fumbling  nervously  with the  controls  he  dipped  the  ship  down¬ ward  as  far  as  he  dared.  It  was  nec¬ essary  to  be  close.  It  would  not  be  an easy  shot.  The  bombs  were  clumsy cylinders,  unwinged,  and  not  intend¬ ed  for  such  work.  He  wondered  if the  force  of  contact  would  be  suffi¬ cient  to  explode  them.  And  the  crash — if  there  was  one — they  must  not  be too  low  lest  they  be  themselves  blown into  tbe  skies!

Five  miles  now!  Three!  Two! Had  they  been  noticed?  They  had one  advantage — that  of  surprize. They  would  not  be  expected.  Per¬ haps  they  could  creep  up  near  enough before  their  purpose  was  established. But  now  the  car  had  evidently  shot forward  with  increased  speed.  One

mile  flicked  out  behind  them.  Ap¬ parently  they  had  been  seen.

They  were  now  over  the  speeding car!  The  time  had  come !

Lindley  saw  his  father  looking  back for  the  signal.  He  raised  his  hand. The  plane  jerked  upward,  slightly.

No  sound  save  the  roar  of  their  own engines!  Had  the  thing  refused  to explode?  But  no — there  was  a  muf¬ fled  crash  from  below.  It  had  ex¬ ploded!  But  had  it  found  its  mark? He  glanced  over  the  side.

There  beneath  them  was  the  speed¬ ing  car  —  unscathed !  They  had missed  it!  He  saw  his  father  poise the  second  bomb  on  the  edge  of  the cockpit  and  look  back  for  the  signal. Glancing  down  he  saw  they  were  still over  the  car.  It  was  the  moment.  He raised  his  hand,  saw  the  black  speck hurtling  earthward.

No  sound  this  time.  It  had  failed to  explode  I  Lindley  groaned  inward¬ ly.  There  was  but  one  left.  Failing this  there  remained  only  that  last  re¬ sort-driving  the  ship  into  the  face of  the  speeding  motor.  Death  for  all in  the  car,  probably.  Death  for  ail in  the  plane,  certainly!

But  what  was  that?  A  flash  of  pur¬ ple  !  He  saw  his  father  recoil  in  the cockpit,  felt  his  own  fingers  freeze  on the  controls!

It  was  the  purple  ray,  searching  for them  there  in  the  sky !

He  shot  the  plane  upward  and banked  sharply.  One  whisk  of  that sinister  ray  across  the  ship,  one  touch on  the  body  of  any  of  them  and  they would  be  gone!  That  swift  turn  of his  had  saved  them  for  the  moment. There  had  been  just  a  flash  of  purple across  her  wings.  He  thought  of  his engines,  knew  from  what  he  had  read, that  they  might  be  stalled  by  the  ray.

They  in  the  car,  having  missed once,  would  try  again.  Turning backward  he  saw  that  purple  finger in  the  sky  behind  them — searching — searching.  They  had  evaded  it  for

THE  DEVIL-RAY


the  moment  but  it  would  find  them sooner  or  later.  .  .  .

Well,  if  it  was  to  be  the  end,  he would  make  a  desperate  finish  of  it! He  saw  his  father  motion  him  to  bear the  ship  downward.  To  get  the  proper angle  he  swooped  her  first  upward and  then  looped  again,  barely  missing that  sinister  line  of  purple!  Into  the face  of  it  then!  Again  he  banked  her sharply,  saw  that  narrow  ribbon  of purple  sweep  across  the  wings,  closer to  the  fuselage  this  time !  Three  feet nearer  and  it  would  have  passed  over his  body !

He  found  himself  wondering  if they  were  merely  playing  with  them there  in  the  air,  and  ground  his  teeth savagely.  Toward  them  swung  that purple  bar  once  more,  and  again  he hanked  the  plane  until  the  struts  sang out  their  warning.  This  time  that ribbon  of  purple  had  barely  missed the  girl.  In  a  short  pause  of  the  en¬ gines  he  heard  her  ery  out,  saw  her looking  backward.  Turning  his  own eyes  he  saw  the  purple  of  it  shining through  the  thin  body  of  the  ship  as if  it  had  been  tissue  paper!

Another  swoop,  a  sharp  bank  and they  were  over  the  car  once  more.  He raised  his  hand  to  his  father,  saw  the old  man  poise  their  last  missile  on the  edge  of  the  cockpit.  Into  the  very teeth  of  death  now!  The  purple  was just  ahead  of  them,  barring  the  way. Gritting  his  teeth  he  sped  the  ship directly  in  the  path  of  it,  slanting her  downward!  He  would  finish  it that  way  if  the  last  bomb  failed!

The  purple  seemed  to  sear  his  eyes. He  fought  down  an  overpowering  im¬ pulse  to  close  them.  God,  he  was tired!  Let  it  come  now.  He  found himself  wondering  if  it  would  be swift.  He  saw  the  thin  figure  of  his father  in  the  cockpit  before  him, limned  for  a  second  against  the  glar¬ ing  purple,  saw  him  hesitate  but  a moment,  saw  the  heavy  cylinder  hur¬ tle  over  the  side.  That  purple  lane

came  nearer,  seemed  to  engulf  them. He  closed  his  eyes — let  it  come !

A  reverberating  roar  from  below! Their  last  bomb  had  not  failed  them ! He  opened  his  eyes.  The  pnrple  was gone!  Glancing  down  with  the  roar of  the  bomb  he  saw  the  great  gray beetle  lift  itself  off  the  road,  saw  it shatter  in  a  thousand  pieces  against the  rocks  that  lined  the  hillside !

He  found  himself  muttering,  “The end — the  end.”  He  shot  the  ship  up¬ ward  into  the  heavens  and  circled there  in  the  moonlight.  Bit  by  bit they  made  it  out  below  them — tom and  twisted  machinery;  tons  and tons,  it  seemed,  of  shattered  glass;  a hundred  intricate  wheels — two  limp figures  which  lay  together  by  the roadside  but  did  not  move — would move  no  more.  Tbe  secret  of  the  ray gone  with  its  inventor!

The  plane  climbed  in  slow  spirals. Her  gas  would  be  well  expended, Lindley  thought,  and  they  must  find  a lake  somewhere.  The  moon  was  fast fading.  A  few  minutes  more  and the  blackness  which  presaged  the dawn  would  be  under  and  around them,  shutting  out  the  world.  He turned  to  the  girl  beside  him  and  saw her  pointing  northward  toward  a slim  patch  of  silver.  Water  and  a place  to  land !  Mechanically,  he turned  the  ship’s  nose  toward  it, fighting  a  great  weariness  from  mind and  body.

They  dipped  down  out  of  the  heav¬ ens  just  as  the  dawn  was  breaking.

CHAPTER  7

THE  PROFESSOR’S  STORY

They  left  the  girl  at  a  peasant’s hut  on  the  shore  of  the  lake  and hurried  back  over  the  fields.  There must  be  no  mistake.  This  terrible machine  must  be  destroyed  forever. ■When  they  arrived  at  the  spot  in  the roadside  they  found  what  they  had hoped  for.  Leipischa  was  there,  dead

WEIRD  TALES

with  his  secret.  Near  him  lay  the body  of  Baron  Blennerhof.

The  professor  found  Leipische’s hat  and  placed  it  over  the  dead  man’s eyes.  “Poor  Leipische,”  he  said quietly.  “If  you  had  turned  your genius  to  construction  instead  of  de¬ struction  it  would  not  have  been  thus. But  how  did  you  find  me?”  he  asked, turning  to  Lindley  eagerly.

"It  was  chance,  or  fate,  or  God,” said  Lindley.  “When  they  gave  up hope  of  ever  finding  you  I  went  out alone.  As  I  remember  it,  I  went  to Chicago  and  took  the  name  of  Ferris in  order  to  conceal  my  identity.  I remembered  some  of  your  experi¬ menting  during  the  first  part  of  the war  and  it  occurred  to  me  this  wa3 no  ordinary  crime.  In  Chicago  I  had a  little  bad  luck — or  maybe  it  was good  luck.  I  was  going  under  the name  of  Ferris,  hoping  thereby to  get  some  clue,  when  one  night  in  a hotel  there  a  pickpocket  got  my  wal¬ let.  I  chased  the  wretch  through an  open  door  and  he  swung  it  back down  on  me  and  I  got  a  cracked  skull. He  had  my  wallet  with  my  real  pa¬ pers  so  when  I  awoke  in  the  hospital with  memory  gone  they’d  put  me down  as  Ferris — found  a  cardease  in my  pocket  with  some  cards  I’d  had printed.  I  hate  to  be  thinking  what I’ve  fallen  into  between  then  and  now — a  regular  Jekyll  and  Hyde  exist¬ ence,  I  guess.  In  the  hospital  they told  me  I’d  get  my  memory  back some  day  but  that  it  would  require some  sort  of  a  shock.  I  was  deathly afraid  of  mirrors,  couldn’t  bear  the sight  of  one.  They  said  it  was  a pathological  fear  brought  on  by  the crash.  Two  or  three  times  I  must have  been  on  the  verge  of  coming back— or  at  any  rate  I  felt  that  way — but  always  something  intervened. Once  I  wanted  to  commit  murder — that  was  Von  Schaang  when  I  saw the  girl  fighting  him  on  the  road  by the  castle.  I  guess  I  was  pretty  near getting  back  then  but  the  shock  of  it

wasn’t  enough.  It  required  some¬ thing  else  and  I  got  it  with  those mirrors  at  the  villa.”

He  related  the  events  in  detail.

“But  you,”  he  continued.  “You must  have  been  through  hell.”.

“I  think  I  have,”  said  the  scientist, slowly.  “It’s  worse  when  you  find you’ve  made  a  mistake  like  that,  even when  you’ve  been  tricked  into  it.  It was  Leipische  —  poor  devil.  I  bear him  no  ill  will  now,  though  I  could have  killed  him  before,  had  he  given me  the  chance.  I  suppose  he ’s  always been  a  little  insane.  Most  geniuses are.  I  knew  him  first  when  we  stud¬ ied  together  at  Bonn  during  our younger  days.  He  was  brilliant,  far beyond  any  of  the  rest  of  us,  but  un¬ doubtedly  a  little  mad.  He  was  deep¬ ly  interested  in  electro-therapeutics, but  he  did  not  lose  faith  in  the  curing of  ills  by  electricity  as  most  of  us came  to  do  in  latter  days.  I  believe he  carried  on  his  long  and  exhaustive researches  along  these  lines  up  until the  time  of  the  war.

“When  he  hit  upon  the  idea  of  the purple  ray,  I  do  not  know,  but  pre¬ sumably  it  was  during  the  war.  But they  never  had  time  to  develop  it. They  lacked  one  thing  and  that,  as  ill luck  would  have  it,  was  the  thing  I had.  As  you  know,  at  the  university I  had  been  experimenting  with  an apparatus  that  would  permit  the everyday  use  of  X-rays  of  tremen¬ dous  power.  This  has  ever  been  our problem.  We  knew  we  could  develop an  I-ray  of  tremendous  potentiality but  we  had  trouble  in  controlling  it. It  proved  as  dangerous  to  the  opera¬ tor  and  patient  as  it  was  efficacious in  the  cure  of  cancerous  growths. Eventually  I  hit  upon  and  developed an  apparatus  which  seemed  to  offer the  adequate  protection.  We  were keeping  the  thing  a  secret  for  the time  being.

“Well,  what  I  had  found  was  just what  Leipische  needed.  He  had  pro¬ duced  his  own  devil-ray  but  the  thing

THE  DEVIL-RAY


had  killed  several  of  his  colleagues and  nearly  was  his  own  undoing.  It seemed  to  be  as  dangerous  to  the  oper¬ ator  as  to  the  enemy.  Its  effect  on all  forms  of  life,  both  animal  and vegetable,  is  instantaneous.  In  the animal  it  inflicts  a  terrific  shock,  ut¬ terly  destroying  the  nervous  system and  rupturing,  probably,  every  blood vessel  in  the  brain.  The  effect  i3  some¬ what  similar  to  death  by  electrio shock  except  there  is  no  mark  left  on the  body.  An  autopsy  would  be  nec¬ essary  to  reveal  what  had  really  hap¬ pened.  The  ray  has  a  singular  ef¬ fect,  too,  on  certain  mechanical  de¬ vices.  For  instance  I  have  seen  Leipische  stop  a  motor  with  it  at  the  dis¬ tance  of  several  feet,  back  there  in Blennerhof.  He  said  it  choked  the thing  by  developing  an  excess  of  car¬ bon  dioxide  or  nitrogen  in  the  cylin¬ ders.  Luckily  they  didn’t  have  time to  get  at  our  airplane  engines.  They undoubtedly  could  have  put  us  out of  business  while  we  were  still  on  the horizon  had  they  suspected  in  any way  who  we  were.

“But  to  go  on.  Leipisehe  got  wind of  my  invention  and  he  determined that  what  I  had  discovered  in  the way  of  protection  he  must  have. They  lay  near  me  one  night  when  I was  working  at  the  laboratory  alone, and  made  me  open  the  safe  where  I kept  my  blueprints  and  formulas.  To cover  the  thing  up  thoroughly,  they left  some  old  prints  and  papers  about — things  that  were  quite  useless.  Nat¬ urally  they  had  either  to  kidnap  or kill  me  and  they  chose  the  former, [THE

thinking  perhaps  they  might  need  me later.

“"When  they  brought  me  here  it was  some  time  before  I  knew  what they  were  working  on,  but  when  I  did I  went  nearly  mad.  I  could  see  what wa3  bound  to  happen,  and  I  felt  that I  had,  by  my  carelessness,  been  con¬ tributory  to  it.  I  tried  to  disarm their  suspicions  of  me  by  pretending an  interest  but  they  were  too  bright for  me.  They  let  me  have  the  run  of the  castle,  but  always  Leipisehe  or one  of  the  guards  was  at  my  heels. Once  I  tried  to  blow  them  up — pulled one  of  those  switches,  but  they  were ready  for  that  and  merely  cut  it  off somewhere  from  below.  You  see, they  were  in  mortal  fear  of  discovery so  they  had  taken  precautions  to  blow everything  up  if  ever  they  were  dis¬ covered.

“And  then  that  night  when  I  saw your  face  at  the  window.  That  gave me  hope  because  I  supposed  you  had gotten  track  cf  me  and  were  merely awaiting  an  opportunity  to  strike.  I knew  that  they  were  getting  ready for  a  coup  d’  etat,  and  when  I  did  not see  any  more  of  you  for  days  I  was in  despair.  And  then  the  final  night and  you  came.  And  now  this” — he  in¬ dicated  with  a  wave  of  his  hand  the shattered  debris  of  the  wrecked  car.

They  sat  for  a  long  time  looking at  the  ruin  before  them.  Finally Bindley  got  up.  “"We’d  better  be getting  back  to  the  cottage,”  he  said. “She’ll  be  waiting  for  us.”

They  went  back  together  toward the  lake.

END]

THEBE  has  been  a  veritable  flood  of  requests  that  Weird  Tales  be published  twice  a  month  instead  of  once  a  month  as  at  present.  There is  only  one  way  that  you  can  bring  this  about,  and  that  is  to  help  boost the  circulation  of  Weird  Tales  to  a  point  where  publication  twice  a  month  is feasible.  Tell  your  friends  about  the  magazine,  and  get  them  in  the  habit  of reading  it;  for,  although  the  circulation  of  Weird  Tales  is  growing  very rapidly,  it  has  not  yet  reached  a  point  where  the  publishers  feel  that  it  would be  feasible  to  publish  it  twice  as  often  as  at  present.

Writes  G.  C.  Seott,  of  Terre  Haute,  Indiana:  “Why  not  have  ballots printed  in  hack  of  the  next  issue  and  leave  it  to  the  readers  to  vote  on  making this  a  ‘twiee-monthly’  magazine?”  The  ballots  are  not  necessary,  for  so many  letters  come  to  us  every  day  asking  us  to  publish  Weird  Tales  twice  a month  that  there  seems  no  doubt  that  our  readers  wish  the  magazine  to  be issued  twice  as  often  as  it  is.

E.  It  Middleton,  of  Los  Angeles,  writes  to  The  Eyrie :  “I  think  most  of the  readers  of  Weird  Tales  who  have  been  with  yon  since  the  beginning (March,  1923)  will  agree  that  the  latest  issue  (May,  1926)  will  rank  as  the best,  or  nearly  the  best  issue  ever  published.  The  stories  are  magnificent, particularly  The  Ghosts  of  Steamboat  Coulee,  which  ideally  filled  my  old desire  for  a  ghost  story  where  the  ghosts  act  and  talk  like  real  people,  and  yet are  ghosts.  Personally,  I  think  that  Whispering  Tunnels,  of  about  thirteen months  ago,  is  the  greatest  single  story  ever  published  in  Weird  Tales,  but The  Ghosts  of  Steamboat  Coulee  ranks  closely  with  it.  However,  other  readers will  favor  other  stories,  and  really  it  is  hard  to  make  a  choice.  Keep  on  with your  present  policy  of  arrangement  and  variety  in  the  magazine.  The greatest  series  of  stories  published  in  Weird  Tales,  I  think,  are  the  Jules  de Grandin  ones,  particularly  that  wonderful  Tenants  of  Broussac.”

Writes  Earl  Leaston  Bell,  of  Augusta,  Georgia:  “The  Ghosts  of  Steam¬ boat  Coulee,  in  the  May  number,  was  one  of  the  best  yams  W.  T'.  has  ever wrapped  itself  about.  Burks  is  a  genius.  Give  us  more  of  his  work.  In  my opinion  the  greatest  story  that  has  ever  appeared  in  the  magazine  is  The Phantom.  Farmhouse,  by  Seabury  Quinn.  It  should  have  a  prominent  place among  the  best  short  stories  ever  produced  in  America.  But  why  was  Lovecraft  missing  in  the  May  issue?  He  is  the  noblest  Boman  of  them  all.”

Several  readers  have  taken  up  the  cudgels  in  behalf  of  Lochinvar  Lodge, Clyde  Burt  Clason’s  story  in  the  March  issue,  which  was  harshly  criticized  by many  readers  because  of  its  indefinite  ending.  Writes  Cecil  Puller,  of  Tulare,

THE  EYRIE

California:  “I  want  to  defend  Lochinvar  Lodge.  The  story  was  a  wonder, and  as  to  the  ending— it  was  great.  Stories  of  thi3  type,  which  leave  some¬ thing  to  the  imagination,  are  worth  while.  Another  splendid  story  of  this type  was  The  Statement  of  Randolph  Carter,  in  which  the  outcome  was  left  to the  imagination  of  the  reader.  Let  those  who  demand  a  conventional  ending torn  to  some  other  magazine,  but  let  Weird  Tales  have  more  stories  that  end

Writes  Joe  Dennis,  of  Detroit:  “I  wish  I  could  fittingly  express  my opinion  of  Weird  Tales.  It  is  quite  impossible  to  praise  it  too  highly.  I  was introduced  to  Weird  Tales  last  August  when  a  crowd  of  us  were  spending our  vacations  camping  in  a  tent  by  the  side  of  a  lonely  lake.  There  were many  idle  hours  and  one  of  the  number  brought  along  some  old  Weird  Tales. I  became  an  enthusiastic  reader.  The  stories  have  a  thrill  not  to  be  found in  any  other  magazine.  They  are  not  all  the  same,  as  is  so  often  the  fault  in other  magazines.  Some  of  them  I  shall  never  forget.  Until  Weird  Tales came  to  relieve  the  monotony  of  stories  based  on  plots  long  considered  antique, such  writers  as  Poe  were  liked  because  they  furnished  a  different  kind  of entertainment.  And  now  I  honestly  believe  that  their  imaginations  were dead,  as  compared  with  some  of  the  contributors  to  your  excellent  magazine.  ’  ’

Frank  Thurston,  of  Chicago,  writes  to  The  Eyrie:  “It  is  impossible  for me  to  refrain  any  longer  from  loudly  proclaiming  my  enthusiasm  for  your IOC  per  cent  readable  magazine:  Weird  Tales.  1  will  not,  however,  enumer¬ ate  the  stories  of  my  choice — they  are  all  first  class.  I  certainly  endorse  your judgment  when  you  link  Lovecraft's  bizarre  works  with  those  of  the  immortal Poe,  for  certainly  his  abstract  account  of  so  gruesome  a  character  as  is  found in  The  Outsider  (April  issue)  is  by  far  the  most  genuine,  perfectly  written weird  story  I’ve  had  the  fortune  to  read.  The  Outsider  is  a  yam  that  will haunt  me  for  some  time.”

Writes  Paul  Pease,  of  Terre  Haute,  Indiana:  “One  year  ago  in  December I  first  became  acquainted  with  Weird  Tales.  When  I  had  finished  reading  it from  cover  to  cover,  I  was  convinced  that  it  was  the  best  magazine  in  existence. Sinee  that  time  I  have  not  missed  a  copy,  and  will  not  in  the  future.”

“Please  print  mere  stories  of  scientific  inventions  and  experiments  like Duval’s  Weird  Experiment  and  The  Phantom.  Drug,”  writes  Edwin  Beard,  of St.  Louis.  “They  are  exceedingly  interesting.  I  especially  like  the  stories  of Jules  de  Grandin  and  Dr.  Trowbridge  written  by  Seabury  Quinn.  And  please print  more  stories  of  stark  horror  such  as  Bat’s  Belfry.  That’s  a  story  that would  send  cold  shivers  up  one’s  spine  if  he  was  at  the  equator.”

Writes  W.  R.  Kirkland,  of  Albany,  New  York:  “I  would  like  to  put  in  a vote  for  an  issue  of  your  wonderful  magazine  twice  a  month  and  hope  you  soon will  be  able  to  see  the  great  benefits  that  may  come  from  such  an  action. Above  all  do  keep  Weird  Tales  weird;  don’t  let  such  stories  as  The  Derelict Mine  creep  in  to  any.  great  extent,  for  while  it  is  a  good  story  it  is  out  of place  in  Weird  Tales,  as  there  is  nothing  weird  or  mysterious  about  it.  Give us  more  stories  of  other  planets,  more  ghosts  like  those  of  Steamboat  Coulee, and  let  us  hear  again  very  soon  from  the  Second  Cycle  where  dwells  the Queen  of  the  Vortex.  And  let  us  hear  again  from  C.  B.  Clason — if  ha  can not  give  us  very  shortly  a  hair-raising  sequel  to  Lochinvar  Lodge  I  vote  that he  be  shot  at  sunrise.”

W.  C.  McGregor,  of  Spokane,  Washington,  writes  to  The  Eyrie:  “I  have every  issue  of  Weird  Tales  from  first  to  last,  and  I  have  them  all  put  away and  am  keeping  them  as  my  most  prized  possession.  I  never  pick  up  Weird


WEIRD  TALES

Tales  and  pick  ont  stories  here  and  there,  but  start  at  the  first  one  and  read through.  My  favorite  authors  are  H.  P.  Lovecraft,  Greye  La  Spina,  Seabury Quinn  and  Arthur  J.  Burks.  For  Weird  Story  Reprints  I  suggest  The  Rats in  the  Walls.”

“I  have  found  in  Weed  Tales  a  ‘Paradise  Lost,’  writes  Jan  Guenther, of  Evansville,  Indiana.  “By  nature  inclined  toward  a  fascination  for  the bizarre  and  unusual,  I  found  myself  dissatisfied  with  the  usual  run  of magazines,  but  by  chance  formed  an  acquaintance  with  your  magazine,  an acquaintance  that  has  ripened  into  a  fervent  friendship.  The  stories  you publish  are  all  that  could  be  desired  by  the  most  skeptical.  I  have  read through  all  of  Poe’s  works  several  times,  and  I  think  The  Outsider  in  the  April Weird  Tales  ranks  with  his  best.”

Mrs.  Clara  Gervais,  of  Chicago,  writes:  Weied  Tales  is  the  only  periodical I  never  miss.  I  am  a  busy  mother  of  three  small  children  and  have  not  much time  to  read,  but  before  the  first  of  the  month  I  get  very  impatient  for Weied  Tai.es  to  arrive.  The  Ghosts  of  Steamboat  Coulee,  in  the  May  issue, was  wonderful.  From  its  easy,  homely  beginning  it  wended  its  way  through a  series  of  horrors,  and  was  not  a  bit  forced  in  the  whole  story.  The  ending was  most  satisfactory,  and  I  am  glad  the  hero  did  not  die  as  I  expected.  The author  proves  that  a  story  can  be  weird  and  not  leave  a  bad  taste  in  the mouth.”

Writes  B.  E.  Conrad,  of  Columbus,  Ohio:  “Congratulations!  Your  May issue  is  wonderful.  The  Confession  of  a  Madman  is  great;  it’s  one  of  the  best stories  ever  in  Weied  Tales.  Hail  to  James  Cocks,  its  author!”

You  will  help  us  to  keep  the  magazine  in  accord  with  your  wishes  if  you will  fill  out  the  coupon  on  this  page  and  let  us  know  which  stories  you  like  best in  this  issue ;  also  which  stories  you  do  not  like,  if  any.  Your  favorite  story in  the  May  Weied  Tales,  as  shown  by  your  ballots,  was  The  Ghosts  of  Steam¬ boat  Coulee,  by  Arthur  J.  Burks.  Second  and  third  choice  went  to  Queen  of the  Vortex,  by  F.  Williams  Sarles,  and  The  Dead  Sand,  by  Seabury  Quinn.

WEIRD  T.A&ES

A  Runaway  World

(Continued  from  page  124) to  us  with  a  wry  smile  on  his  lips  ami a  twinkle  in  his  eyes.

“Just  take  a  peep,  boys,  and  tell me  what  you  see.  ”  He  strove  in  vain to  conceal  his  amusement.

We  both  agreed  that  we  saw  a rather  reddish  star.

“That  ‘reddish  star’,’’  said  Oscar, impressively,  “is  our  old  friend  Mars, and  he  is  revolving  in  an  orbit  be¬ tween  us  and  the  sun!”

Ed  and  I  looked  at  each  other speechlessly  for  some  seconds;  then without  a  word  Ed  dropped  on  his knees  before  me  in  something  of  the fashion  of  an  Arab  bowing  toward Mecca.

“What’s  the  big  idea?”  I  asked, sot  a  little  frightened,  for  I  won¬ dered  if  the  confinement  of  the  years had  crazed  him.

Oscar  was  laughing  so  that  he  had to  hold  on  to  the  telescope  for  sup¬ port,  so  I  concluded  there  was  noth¬ ing  very  radically  amiss  in  the situation.

“lam  worshiping  a  god,”  said  Ed, “for  so  I  would  call  anyone  who  can move  the  planets  about  so  that  they line  up  in  accordance  with  Ids  con¬ ceptions  of  the  way  they  ought  to  do.”

“I’d  like  to  take  the  credit,”  I laughed,  then  more  seriously,  “but  a higher  authority  than  mine  has  charge of  the  movements  of  the  planets.”

“Well,  it  certainly  is  uncanny  how you  have  your  way  in  everything,” grumbled  Ed.


'T'heee  is  little  more  to  tell.  The A  world  soon  adjusted  itself  to  its new  environment.  People  became  ac¬ customed  to  seeing  the  sun  rise  in  the West  and  set  in  the  East.

Vera  was  ineffably  delighted  with the  new  system  of  time  which  was necessitated  by  the  increased  orbit  of

Next  Month THE  WOMAN OF  THE  WOOD

By  A.  MERRITT

Author  of  “The  Horn  Poof

Hebe  is  a  story  utterly  different from  any  you  have  ever  read before — a  tale  of  a  forest  of  trees in  actual  warfare  against  their  hu¬ man  foes — utterly  weird,  utterly fascinating,  utterly  thrilling,  writ¬ ten  by  the  author  cf  “The  Moon Pool,”  “The  Metal  Monster,” “The  Ship  of  Ishtar,”  and  other gripping  books.  It  is  a  tale  of vivid  beauty  and  eery  thrills.

T”'gr  four  centuries  a  family  of French  peasants  had  lived  on the  edge  of  this  forest  in  the Vosges  Mountains ;  and  now,  when the  last  of  the  race  attacked  the trees  with  fire  and  ax,  the  forest struck  back.  This  is  a  story  of graphic  action,  strange  murders and  uncanny  mystery  —  and through  it  shines  the  incredible beauty  of  the  Woman  of  the  Wood. The  story  will  he  printed  complete

In  the

August  Issue  of

WEIRD  TALES

The  Unique  Magazine On  Bale  July  1

WEIRD  TALES

Are  You  Searching  for  the  Truth?

Have  You  Read Page  4?

Classified  Advertisements

Agents

Authors-Monuscripts

tho  Earth.  Inasmuch  as  it  now  re¬ quired  a  trifle  over  two  years  for  our planet  to  make  ?,  journey  once  around the  new  sun,  Vera  figured  that  she was  less  than  half  her  former  age, and  this  new  method  of  figuring,  I may  add,  others  of  her  sex  were  not slow  to  adopt.

The  huge  sun  rendered  the  Earth habitable  clear  to  the  poles,  and strange  to  say,  it  caused  very  little increase  of  heat  in  the  tropics. Astronomers  proved  that,  though  a big  sun,  it  was  not  as  hot  a  one,  for it  was  in  the  later  stages  of  tho  cool¬ ing-off  process  to  which  all  suns  even¬ tually  come.  Two  planets  had  already been  journeying  around  the  giant  sun before  the  advent  of  Mars  and  Earth, and  what  they  thought  of  the  intru¬ sion  of  the  two  strange  worlds  was before  long  made  evident  through radio  communication.

To  the  astronomers  of  this  new  era the  weikin  presented  a  fascinating opportunity  for  studying  new  neigh¬ bors  in  space.

And  thus  the  chemical  experiment of  the  superpeople  of  that  vaster cosmos  was  finished.

Coming  Soon

"ACROSS  SPACE”

By  EDMOND  HAMILTON

A  three-part  story  of  a planet  pulled  from  its orbit.  As  fascinating  a tale  as  ever  was  penned

Watch  for  This  Story  in Weird  Tales

WEIRD  TALES


Through  the  Vortex  I

(Continued  from  page  26) door  burst  in.  The  three  fugitives from  Sufemo  lay  upon  the  floor,  un-  | consoious,  but  with  unmistakable  j signs  of  life.  Two  minutes  later  they  | had  been.carried  into  the  nearest  Pull-  I man,  and  the  train  had  been  searched  j for  a  doctor.

Although  greatly  weakened  by  , their  ordeal,  all  three  were  soon  re-  i vived.  As  the  train  proceeded  Sent  ! gave  a  brief  explanation  to  their  | wondering  rescuers.  Suddenly  the  j conductor  slapped  his  side.

“That’s  where  those  meteors  came  ! from,”  he  exclaimed.  “We’ve  got  or-  ■ ders  to  run  a  bit  easy  on  account  of  ! several  huge  meteors  dropping  around  j this  region  an  hour  ago.  But  I  won-  j der  what  became  of  those  animals  j you’re  talking  about?  Guess  they’d  j not  make  much  impression  on  cld  j terra  firma,  though,  as  far  as  living  j through  it,  anyway.  But  good  night !  j If  I  hadn’t  seen  that  box  out  there I’d  wire  ahead  for  the  first  asylum keeper  to  meet  us.”

He  laughed  and  the  three  Sufernites  joined  in,  though  rather  weakly.

“Speaking  of  wiring,”  said  Kent, “I  wish  you’d  send  a  message  for  me to  the  Major  General  Commandant of  the  Marine  Corps.  Tell  him  Cap¬ tain  Richard  Kent  will  report  at Headquarters  and  explain  his  being absent  without  leave  for  the  last month  or  so.”

As  the  conductor  started  away Kent  glanced  at  Madeline  with  an odd  expression.  Then  he  leaned  over and  whispered  something  she  alone could  hear.  The  girl  blushed  and then  gave  a  barely  perceptible  nod. Kent  called  after  the  retreating  con¬ ductor.

“If  you  don’t  mind,”  he  said  with a  somewhat  embarrassed  smile,  “you might  add  that  Captain  Kent  would like  to  have  a  month’s  leave  as  soon as  possible — for  his  honeymoon.”

Get  On*  of  These  NOW

WRITING  Increases  50,000  magaYOUR  INCOME  zinesand

newspapers want  short-stories,  long  stories,  arti¬ cles,  jokes,  poems,  etc.  Screen  plays and  clever  songs  are  wanted  to  supply liberal  demand.  Send  for  free  copy PROFITABLE  WRITING.  Explains.

CO-OPERATIVE  SERVICE  COMPANY 317  H.  42nd  St  Pfilladalphia

The  Brotherhood  of  Light

Oocultism,  Psychic  Phenom¬ ena,  Spiritualism,  Astrology, New  Thought,  Theosophy and  Nature  Study.

HEALING  THE  UNSEEN  WAY

The  Mighty  Unteen  Powers  are  Tours Let  them  heal,^comfort  and  prosper  you


WEIRD  TALES

LUCK

her  amblam  brinc|hwk

Sees

Hue  White  Mexican  1m.  Diamond.  GuaranSend  atrip  of  paper  to  ahow  finger  risa nd  yon  thia  wonderful  ring.  When  it ej>ootmaaonly$3.®5.  Nothing  more  to - ih«7Pnil^that<1iTO1aend  you.*ir  not  •st¬ ow  money  quickly  rwturod.  Address m*  Wtuaoni  hnyartiag  Ca„  St  Past  Sim.  Bipt  3I-L

FREE!

"0H0Z&%3?hnr

;

r  ;

jPukPaS&teoCo-Dofc

MS  D GET  NAME  CARDS

THE  IJITeS't  HOVELTy'  u’  *•  ‘““sol.  Par  BOOK

— - -  “

GOVT.

POSITIONS

hiiiMfiLU'I'Ji'IFg

nm -

WOMB

Fettered

(Continued,  f  rom,  page  48) take  your  brother  away  from  you  en¬ tirely.  Do  you  understand?”

“Ewan!  Come — please!”  Bessio tugged  at  her  brother’s  sleeve.

Like  a  man  entranced  the  young artist  stood,  his  eyes  fixed  on  the  doc¬ tor’s  wife,  whose  evil  beauty  flamed in  that  gray  dawn  like  a  thing  not of  earth  but  some  other  mystic  plane. G-retel  smiled  with  exasperating amusement  at  Bessie’s  anxiety.

“Ton  may  have  him  for  now,  stu¬ pid  brown  girl.  I’m  through  with him  tonight.  When  I  want  him  again, I’ll  call  him.”  Her  soft  laugh  was erneL  “And  I’ll  pay  up  Dale  for bringing  me  into  these  woods  to  die of  loneliness,”  she  added  sharply.

“Ewan!”  Bessie  was  urging  her brother  anxiously.

“‘You’d  be  lonesome  without  your brother,  wouldn’t  you,  girl?  Well, I’ll  call  you,  too,  you  little  plump thing.  Yes,  I  make  it  a  promise.  I’ll call  you  first,  so  you  won’t  be  lone¬ some.  Just  see  how  kind  I  am!”

Bessie  succeeded  in  drawing  her brother  along  with  her.  He  went down  to  the  river-path,  stumbling  as if  half  dazed,  unseeing  where  his  feet went.  Behind  them,  ringing  out eerily  through  the  gray  morning mists,  sounded  the  pealing  of  Mrs. Armitage’s  strange  laughter,  note  on note.

“Both  of  you?  All  three  of  you. Ewan — Dale — and  Bessie!”  the  doc¬ tor’s  wife  was  crying,  between  her bursts  of  ghastly  merriment.  “You shall  aU  be  minel”

In  next  month's  issue  will  be  told how  the  frightful  doom  that gathered  about  Ewan  and  Bes¬ sie  burst  in  all  its  dread  horror. A  thrilling  story,  that  works  up to  a  stupendous  climax.

[THE END]

============================================================
WITH  THE  HIDDEN  WORLD
by For  that  I
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MUST  HAVE  YOUR  HAIR
by This  I  take
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
DONE
by She  snipped  the  chain  from
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
GAN  TO  SPRINKLE  THE  ROOM
by Raising
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
OTHER  WOULD  ENTER  THE  SILENCE
by Give
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
VAPORS,  ENVELOPING  ME
by There  eame  a
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MADE  ROADS
by My  feet  barely  touched
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
DITCHES  DID  NOT  HINDER  ME  NOW
by Power
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
GIFT  OF  DOUBLE  SIGHT
by Looking  about
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
NO  HESITATION  NOW
by And  night  was
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MOUNTAIN
by My  task  was  near  fulfilTTVakk  and  silent  lay  the  castle.  But
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
-LE  NOT  FOR  LONG
by The  great  portal
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THROUGH  THE  COURTYARD
by The  death  of
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
STRUCTION
by She  still  works  her  spells.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
AGAINST  HIS  HAND
by But  he  shrank
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MORE,  I  A  WAITED  HIM
by When  he  came
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
AS  HIS  WEAK  STATE  ALLOWED
by Many  were
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
IN  THE  COURTYARD
by Suddenly  a  lady
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
SAW  NOTHING  AMISS
by She  looked  as
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
LYING  AT  MY  FEET
by Looking  at  the  girl
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
NOTHINGNESS
by Too  late  I  realized  my
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MORE
by The  shade  entered  and  would
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THE  CASTLE  WAS  FRIENDLY
by Once  it
============================================================

[THE END]
