============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: August 1927
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Swamp--__" by Cristel Hastings
  2. "Beethoven-Robert S" by Carr
============================================================
============================================================
THE SWAMP--__
by Cristel Hastings
============================================================
“So he is,” barked Parmelee, looking flippantly toward the screen.

The Unfinished Story, an O. Henry two-reeler, had begun.


By CRISTEL HASTINGS

Night settles swiftly with its ghostly tread Over the tangled swamp where trees lie dead, Their stumps upright, like lonely shapes of men Long lost in wet morass and shadowed glen.

A silence broods over the sodden aisles Of lifelessness that stretch for aching miles Beyond a moor where clouds hang, gray and cold, Sinister roofing for a pond grown old.

Night gropes with ease about the stealthy weed That sucks its life, a tawny, wind-blown reed, From sodden flooring where mosquitoes hum Their high soprano to the frogs’ shrill drum.

W. T.—3

Here Is the hast Part of

The Dark Chrysalis

By ELI COLTER

The Story So Far

’ John Cloud and Henry Am, discovers the microbe of cancer—a germ shaped like a devilfish, that is visible only when stained with a combination of red and blue dye. He finds that both his mother and Henry Arn are tainted with the cancer-microbe, and works feverishly to find a cure for the dread disease. He is spurred on by Helene Kinkaid’s faith in him. He cures guineapigs of cancer by injecting into their veins a serum made of ether, water and rattlesnake poison. Henry Arn takes the serum, and as he is apparently recovering, Saul is persuaded to give the serum to his mother. Then to his horror he finds that the serum has killed Henry Arn.

THE four living in the room froze to stunned unbelief. Saul stared wildly at Arn’s still white face, dumbly, like a man in a trance. His voice rose to a frantic scream.

“God! What have I done! Damn, damn, damn, the stuff! I have killed my mother!” He hurled the bottle and needle from him savagely, crashing them against the floor, and the odor of ether rose in the air as he rushed from the room.

The three he left behind looked at each other with terrified eyes as they heard his feet go running away from the laboratory down the hard-packed path into the night.

“He’ll do something desperate!” Cloud cried shakily.

“No,” Mrs. Blauvette answered with a strange serenity, a calm they could not understand. “He will go to Helene.”

Whittly started. It was the first time he had ever heard her mention the girl’s name. Helene had told him something of the strained silence that had existed between her and Saul’s mother from the first, and he had kept what he knew to himself. But

This story began in WEIRD TALES for June

he felt intuitively that Mrs. Blauvette was right. Saul had gone to Helene.

“She will hold him steady if anyone can,” he said, forcing himself to speak calmly. “We must take care of Arn. Mrs. Blauvette, are you too tired to give us a little aid?”.

“No. I think I shall never be tired again.” She smiled, and Whittly saw her meaning in her face. “But I am not afraid. Already the pain has lessened in my side. Death lay so close ahead anyway. What does it matter? It is worth so much to be free from pain. But you two must be kind to Saul. He will need you, and he will need—Helene. I wish— I wish I could have seen her. ’ ’

“Oh, here, Mrs. Blauvette, we needn’t take that view of it, ’ ’ Whittly cut in briskly. “We must hang on to hope, at least. There are a number of things to think of. Arn was much nearer the end of his rope than you. It may be that he was simply in too far advanced a stage to be saved. The human body is a great machine. Give it half a chance and it will accomplish wonders, heal from incredible wounds and ravages. But it’s like any other machine—it can be worn too badly for any repair. That may very logically have been the case with Arn.”

“ Yes, I had thought of that. ’ ’ Mrs. Blauvette nodded, turning to look at Cloud. “Do you have anything to offer, John?”

“I donJt exactly know.” Cloud frowned and hesitated. “But there may be something in this, too. It has acted on Henry exactly as 510 acted



on the animals. Perhaps the human body needs" a greater percentage of the ether. We’ve always got to experiment on the human in the last test, you know, harsh as it sounds. Else, how can we know? But I rather fancy that!'Doc’s hypothesis is pretty nearly correct. ’ ’

“We’re going to believe that, anyway, ’ ’ Whittly asserted positively. “And we’re going to strive to forget oiirSelves for a while in taking care of Henry.”

“Can’t we get him out of the house?” Cloud suggested. ‘ ‘ Wouldn’t it be better if Saul didn’t see him here when he returns? We can’t bury him tonight, but at least we can move him from here. We could take him to yOur office temporarily. I could go get the car. If Saul came bhck before we did he wouldn’t miss the auto—he never uses it, you know. He’d rather walk, any time. ’ ’

“Your suggestion may be a good one, but we don’t dare act on it.” Whittly glanced at Mrs. Blauvette, hesitating, then decided to give them both full cognizance of what was stirring in the town. “I haven’t spoken of it to you before, because there was nothing to be gained by it, and because I didn’t think there was any real danger. But the town is fanatically incensed over the mystery that surrounds this laboratory. They are threatening to raise a mob, come out here and burn the buildings down. Let alone, I believe such a sentiment will die out of itself—simply wear itself out. But the people are too badly aroused for us to dare taking any chances. Should anyone see us carrying a dead body away from here in the night, the town would be upon us in an hour. No—we ’ll have to keep Henry here, but we’ll move him into the laboratory for tonight, where Saul won’t see him as he comes into the house. And wee’ll lock that door to keep Saul out of there.” Whittly nodded at the door down the hall, the

one door which connected the living rooms with the laboratory.

‘ ‘ Good Lord! I didn’t know there was any kind of dissatisfaction with us in the town. Does Saul know?” Cloud looked from Whittly to Mrs. Blauvette, startled.

“He does not. Helene knows, but we agreed it was wisest not to tell him. We both thought he had enough to worry about without our adding to it. And then we both believe it will blow over.”

“But what’s the matter with them?” Mrs. Blauvette asked sharply. “Saul hasn’t been bothering them in any way. He has been attending strictly to his own business.”

“Yes, that’s just it. He’s been attending too strictly to his own business,” Whittly returned with dry sarcasm. “They want to attend to it for him. They resent his secrecy. You know how people are in the aggregate, how they look on scientific experimenting. They don’t understand. They imagine a thousand and one ghastly impossibilities. Granted, the real experiments are nearly always ghastly enough, but they multiply them tenfold.”

“Well, why shouldn’t Saul keep his work an absolute secret?” Cloud demanded, irritated at the thought of any intrusion on the part of the populace. “It seems to me it was the only thing to do.”

“I quite agree with you.” Whittly smiled rather grimly. “But the people don’t. They think Saul has been lip to all sorts of terrible things, and they’re about ready to wreck this place. It’s a perfectly logical thing to expect, given the mob spirit once aroused and stirred over something they don’t understand. But we’re giving the matter too much thought entirely and-”

“We’re going to give it a little more thought,” Cloud cut in. “We need to. Somebody is going to meet with an unpleasant surprize if the



people start anything like that. I’ve got a gun over here in my trunk— and it’s loaded for business.”

“Good enough. I have one myself, ’ ’ Whittly approved. “ I’ve been carrying it for the last week, every time I came out here. But we may be fretting over a remote contingency that will never mature into a crisis. Mrs. Blauvette—if you’ll get me an old sheet? We’ll make poor Henry ready for his last sleep.”

"pvowN through the night Saul raced, across the little hill that breathed the spirit of the girl he loved and into the little town. Not even in the streets did he stay his pace, but rushed headlong on to the house where Helene Kinkaid lived. Many an eye watched him go, and many a brain already harassed by dark suspicions regarding that laboratory in the trees took fire at the sight of him running mad and hatless through the thoroughfare. By the time he reached Helene’s door more than a dozen people had collected into a following train, rushing to keep him in sight, taking the opposite side of the street to prevent his noticing their interest in him. Such precaution was unnecessary. In his state of mind he would have noticed nothing less than an earthquake.

He reached the house where Helene lived, leaped up the steps and threw himself headlong at the door. Helene heard the pound of his fists, and the cry of his voice calling her. She dropped the book she had been reading and rushed to admit him.

“Helene!” he cried, as she opened the door and he saw her startled face. “Come with me to the hill!”

“What’s wrong? Saul! You look like a corpse!” The girl caught his shoulder and strove to shake him into coherent attention. “What’s wrong? ’ ’

“Henry”—Saul gasped, but his voice carried clearly to the straining

ears across the street—“ Henry’s dead and I've killed my mother! ’ ’ “Saul—no! No!”- “ It’s true! I’m half insane! Come out to the hill with me!”

He grasped her arm, pulling her toward him and down the steps, drawing her to keep pace with his furiously hurrying feet as he turned her toward the little birch-clad hill. Neither of them saw the horror-frozen group of people huddled in the shadows across the street, people who turned their heads to stare at each other in incensed dismay at the import of his words. Saul and Helene went hurrying on, stricken to dumbness with their own terrible problem, while the group of people behind them broke and ran rapidly in the opposite direction to spread the hideous thing Saul had said.

Upon the little hilltop Saul threw himself on the ground, buried his head in Helene’s lap, gripped her convulsively with his arms and poured out the story of the last few terrible hours at the laboratory. She held him, listening in panic. Her heart shook smotheringly as he finished what he had to tell.

“And now what am I going to do?” Saul’s throat choked shut, and he quivered from head to foot.

“You are coming with me.” Helene drew him to his feet by sheer force with her strong hands, looked intently into his face and pointed down the hill toward the laboratory. “Dr. Whittly is sane, he will keep his head, but Cloud will need you—he must be about crazed, too., And your mother will need us both. We can’t think of ourselves, now. We’ve got to think of your mother.”

“Helene, where are you going?” “I am going at last where I have always wanted to be, where I belong. I am going into your workroom with you, and into the crisis to walk through with you to the end. I am going into that laboratory, to see if



we can find some way out of this terrible disaster that seems to have descended upon us. There may be some wild mistake. There may be some shred of hope yet. God does not desert his own!” She tugged at his arm and started down the hill. “I am going to your mother. ’ ’

T>ack in the town the alarmists had raced from house to house, with shouts and angry cries, broadcasting the thing they had heard, gathering new recruits as they surged on. Over the streets from tongue to tongue flashed the report, gathering ugly significance and rousing flaming fury as it spread. Women stayed behind, trailing the skirts of the mob, shouting to each other the infamy that must be avenged, their outraged sense of fanatical anger rising.

Saul Blauvette had come tearing through the night, calling that Kinkaid girl who worked in Whittly’s office, crying that the man Arn was dead and that he had killed his mother! They had been right all along! Hideous things went on in that mystery-shrouded laboratory! No wonder those fiends had kept their work an utter secret! They were experimenting on human beings!

As they gathered and rushed on toward the end of the town, the enraged minds of the people composing that wild mob envisioned unspeakable things. They saw people shut in that grim-walled building, cut into pieces and tortured to satisfy the gloating curiosity of merciless monsters.. They saw bodies and bones and hideous bestial rites. They saw all the horrible things that lie in the purlieus of subconscious thought, ready to be roused into ghoulish life by inflamed brains. They poured down the street wildly,’ shrieking their indignation, picking up sticks and stones and any destructive missiles that came within reach of their hands.

On to the laboratory! Batter it, wreck it, tear it to splinters! Bum it to the ground! If Saul Blauvette burned with it, little matter! The ghastly, mystery-shrouded, ghost-ridden building must go!

Down through the streets and out of the little town they surged, half running in their spirit of destructive rage, jostling each other, trampling each other, cursing the great barnlike structure that few of them had ever seen. And five of the men in that crazed throng carried waste and cans of inflammable oil. And three of them carried, knowing it, cancers that ate into their living flesh, drove them sick with terror, and rushed them to the yawning grave from which none had been able to save their ravaged bodies.

W hittly and Cloud walked with slow, solemn steps into the lighted laboratory, carrying reverently between them the sheeted body of Henry Arn. Mrs. Blauvette stood in the doorway and watched as they paused by a bottle-littered table.

“Mrs. Blauvette, will you clear away some of this rubbish so that we can lay Henry here?” Whittly knew the value of busy hands, when the brain is harassed by things beyond control.

Mrs. Blauvette hurried forward, brushed the bottles aside and made clear a space large enough to accommodate the body. Gently Whittly and Cloud laid down the man who had come, as he said, to give his life for science in this place. As they turned to leave the laboratory, Cloud paused and gestured at a shelf and another table covered with numberless bottles.

“Doe, that’s 511. There are gallons of it there.. Saul and I were so sure of what we had found at last that we made up enough to inject a hundred thousand people. And that big jug contains unadulterated rattle246


snake poison: the cans by it are ether cans—sufficient material there to make enough 511 to immunize the world to cancer—Saul and I were getting ready for the world. The stuff may be worthless—and it may be the answer to Saul’s dream after alL Suppose that bunch of fanatics in town should get up a mob and come out here in the next few days, before we have time to determine the value of the solution-”

“Yes, you’re right,” Whittly cut in, turning with businesslike briskness to Mrs. Blauvette. “John’s got a wise idea, and we’d better act on it. If you’ll help us, we’ll carry the 511 and all the raw materials out of here and lock up the laboratory. But where the devil are we going to put the stuff?”

“Out in the garage,” John Cloud offered quickly. “It stands back a hundred yards in the trees—Saul wouldn’t have the stink of the gasoline near the laboratory. As if a fellow could ever smell it in this stench! But the 511 would probably be safe back there. If they did come out here and attack the laboratory they’d never think of going out to wreck the garage, too. Frankly, I don’t think we’ve got a thing to worry about. I don’t think they’ll ever eome near here. It’s all talk.”

“Well, I rather look at it that way myself, but caching the solution is a wise precaution.” Whittly stepped to the table and began filling his arms with the bottles numbered 511. “We’ll carry it into the house first, and then move it on to the garage. ”

They worked quickly and efficiently, anxious to have the task off their hands, and in short time the bottles were moved to the living rooms, the lights extinguished in the big laboratory, and the door locked between. •Henry Am lay in the dark hush of the place where he had done his life’s mad work, at peace, alone. Then the three began carrying the solution on

to the garage. They had moved all of it but one last small armful which Cloud was gathering up, when they heard the footsteps of Saul and Helene running up the path outside. All of them turned to glance at the door, startled, as the scientist find the girl burst into their presence.

“Mother!” Saul stared imploringly into the eyes of the tall, gaunt woman who had been silently praying for his return, and his hand gripped the girl’s arm. “Mother, I have brought you Helene.”

Tense silence fell over the room, the silence seeming to belong to that grim place. The two women looked into each other’s eyes, and the three men stood hushed and waiting as Helene spoke.

“I have come to you in the hour of death, and in the hour of life. We both so love your son—we both must see him through. I will not believe that Saul has failed. There must be some terrible mistake.”

“No. There can be no mistake.” Mrs. Blauvette shook her head in a slow gesture of denial, and something like relief lit her eyes as she studied the girl’s face. “I am glad that you have come. I have wanted to see the woman who will stand by my son— when I shall have passed. I am content. But there can be no mistake. Henry Am gave himself the solution 511. Saul gave it to me. And Henry Arn is dead. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Do you believe in God? ’ ’ Helene’s mouth quivered. She took a step toward Saul’s mother, holding her gaze with desperate calmness. “I tell you God has* been leading Saul. He will not fail him now. He sent Saul to save the world!”

“Maybe He sent you here, to save us all,” Mrs. Blauvette answered steadily. “He works in mysterious ways. And if He sent you here, He will lead you on. Still your mind and think—does it come to you what we may do?”



The girl stood motionless, her eyes wide, straining for some tangible thought, and as she so stood, staring into the older woman’s face, Saul noticed the bottles in Cloud’s arms and asked abruptly, “What are you doing with the 511?”

Cloud hesitated and glanced at Whittly. The old doctor nodded.

“Yes, tell him. It’s time he knew.’’

‘ ‘ Time I knew what? ” Saul’s eyes bored into Cloud’s.

“Why, it may amount to nothing, Saul, but Whittly tells me the town is pretty badly aroused, up in arms over the laboratory.” Helene caught her breath in a sharp gasp, and her gaze leaped to Saul’s great slate-gray eyes, but Cloud went on quietly: “They don’t like it because we’ve been so secretive, and are imagining all sorts of ridiculously horrible things as going on out here. They threaten to come out and wreck the place. Doc and I thought we’d better move the solution to the garage where it would be safe in case the people should become fanatical enough to mob the buildings. We’ve moved it all but this.”

“I want to see a bottle of it!” Helene’s voice cut in, and she stepped toward Cloud, holding out her hand. Wonderingly Cloud gave her one of the small bottles, and she turned it over in her fingers, looking at it closely. Suddenly she wheeled on Saul. “Where’s the bottle Henry used? Get it, quickly!”

“Why? What does it matter which he used?” Saul frowned in puzzlement. “They’re all alike.”

“Don’t question her,” Mrs. Blauvette commanded, her eyes still on the girl’s face. “I tell you she was sent; go get her the bottle. It’s on the window-sill in Henry’s room, where he left it.” >

Saul started in surprize, but went to get the bottle without a backward look, and three pairs of eyes centered on Helene intently, as though await-

ing some miracle, as he returned and placed the bottle in her hand. She examined it closely, holding it up to the other one she had received from Cloud. The two bottles were identical, both numbered plainly in small inked figures, 511. She put them both in her left hand, holding her forefinger between them to keep from confusing them with each other, and pulled the corks with her right hand. She sniffed lightly at the small glass necks, and abruptly her eyes lit with a high light. Again she wheeled on Saul.

“How did it act on Henry Am? Tell me!”

“It acted exactly as 510 acted on the animals,” Saul answered, dazed by the expression on her face.

“Yes, it certainly did,” Cloud put in. “I can vouch for that. Mrs. Blauvette can verify that that is what I told her a while ago.”

“Oh, there’s no doubt of its action,” Saul returned. “If it had been 510 that Henry took, I’d know that we’d won the day. I’d know beyond all doubt that the action carried through into humans precisely the same. Helene! What is it? What do you think? What do you knowt”

“It was 510 that Henry used!” The girl held the two bottles toward him, her eyes aflame. “Smell them —the one Henry used contains no ether!’ ’

With a loud cry Saul leaped toward her and snatched the bottles, raising them alternately to his nostrils.

“God!” He turned a whitened eountenanee to his mother. “She’s right! See that small bubble—that flaw on the edge of this bottle-neck? It’s queerly shaped—like a cross. I remember! I took this bottle down to empty the 510 out of it and refill it with 511. John called me out, and I went and left it standing there. I’d already marked it 511, and we were so badly used up and excited that I



forgot to go back and change the solution in it. The cross—the cross on the neck! Apropos! A cross! Henry died in vain!”

“No—he did not die in vain! He died for the cause he slaved to bring to fulfilment. He died for the world. He died that you might know, beyond all doubt. He died that others might live!” Mrs. Blauvette’s voice rose in an exultant cry as she stepped swiftly forward, caught the girl in her arms and turned to her son. “See! 510 acted the same on him as it did on the animals. You and John both said it. Then 511 will act on humans—on me —the same as it did on the guineapig! Saul—you have saved mankind from hell! I know! And Helene was sent to save us all when we were crazed with fear!”

“For God’s sake, listen! What’s that?” Whittly caught Saul’s arm and turned toward the window, his face paling. Tense silence flashed over the room, and five people held their breaths, - listening.

O utside in the night, down the road toward the laboratory, came the tramp of hurrying, ruthless feet. The sound of angry shouts, curses and threats rose in the air, as yet a little way distant, but breaking into the stillness of the room with ugly menace.

“The mob!” Whittly whirled on the others, snapping concise orders. “Saul, you’ve got to get out of sight, quick! John, take that 511 to the garage as fast as you can run, come back here and get your gun. I’ll be waiting for you. You two women go to the garage with John, and stay there till I come for you. Run, John! There’s no time to waste!”

Cloud leaped out of the door with a curse, running swiftly toward the garage, but none of the others moved.

‘ ‘ Go on, Helene! You ’re in danger here! You and Mrs. Blauvette get to the garage. Take Saul with you! ’ ’

Still no one moved to obey the old doctor’s imperative commands. Saul stood watching the two women, clasped in each others’ arms. Helene shook her head slowly, but it was Mrs. Blauvette who spoke.

“No. We will stay here—with Saul. We have stood by him too long to change. We are standing by him now.”

“Saul—make them go!” Whittly demanded furiously.

“No,” Saul denied, his eyes on his mother’s face. “And I shall not go. I shall stand by my workshop-”

‘ ‘ Lord, they ’re here! ’ ’ Cloud burst into the room, leaped to his trunk against the wall and whipped put a loaded revolver. “They’re a bunch of madmen! They’ll do something murderous if we don’t stop them!”

“Saul, you mad fool, you and the women stay here! It’s too late to make the garage now. John and I are going out there armed. You leave that crazy mob to me! They all know me—they may listen to me! ” Whittly pulled an ugly-looking weapon from his pocket and motioned to Cloud. “Come on, John! Shoot if you have to!”

The next instant Whittly and Cloud had dashed out the door, darted along the side of the house and come to a halt in front of the laboratory. The first of the mob had already passed to the other side of the great building, among them the men carrying the waste and the inflammable oil. Whittly leaped to the door and snapped on the huge floodlight that illuminated the front of the structure. The glow swept out in a wide arc, bringing into sharp relief the rage-distorted faces of the advancing throng, eyes glaring with insane fury, mouths gaping and screaming curses, threats and wild cries.

They halted a moment involuntarily, surprized by the swift flash of



light, and the sudden appearance of Whittly-and Cloud with drawn guns.

“Stop!” Whittly’s shout echoed harshly through the instant hush caused by their surprize. “The first one that makes another move, I shoot!.And I ’ll shoot to hit! You ’re mad! You’re a mob of fanatical idiots, come to annoy a man who has been giving his life’s blood to save you and all mankind from worse than death!”

“He’s been experimenting upon people! ’ ’ shrieked someone out in the crowd. Another voice took it up, and another, till the cry rose to a maddened roar. “He’s been killing human beings for his damnable experiments.” “He killed that fellow Arn!” “He killed his mother!” “He said so himself, we heard him!” “This building has got to go!” ‘ ‘ The fiend killed his mother! ’ ’

“He did not! Listen to me! He saved her life!” Whittly’s shout cut through their rage, and their long acquaintance with the doctor, their respect for him and his word, held them in muttering half-quietude to hear him out. “He’s found a cure for cancer! Cancer, do you hear me? Corcoran—I see you out there. I see you, Jordan, and you, Masterson. All three of you have cancers—and you know that I know it! Do you want to die, horribly, as Elfield died last week? Or do you want this man to put life into your veins and make you whole?”

A stunned silence held the mob, shaken at the import of what Whittly had said. Then the voice of the man Corcoran answered belligerently: “If he saved his mother from cancer why did he say he killed her?”

“Arn took the solution himself!” Whittly answered, breathing in a little relief, knowing that he had got their attention. “Blauvette refused to give it to him till he was sure of its action. Arn took it himself. Arn appeared to be getting better, and

Blauvette: s mother was so near death that he gave the solution to her. Then Arn died. Blauvette was nearly crazed, he thought he’d killed his mother. But Arn had taken the wrong solution—and Mrs. Blauvette is alive, made whole again, as you can be made whole. Saul Blauvette has conquered cancer!”

A great shout rose in the crowd.

“If she’s healed bring her out.” ‘ ‘ Bring her out—let us see her! ’ ’

Behind the doctor Mrs. Blauvette and Helene stepped into sight, one on each side of Saul. Whittly paled, holding his breath as he caught sight of them. But the thing was done. The mob that had come to destroy, stayed to cheer.

“Blauvette! Blauvette! God save Blauvette! Blauvette has conquered cancer!’ ’

They advanced toward him, shouting his name, cheering and crying in hysterical abandon, swayed to mad fervor of applause by the thing this man had done. And Cloud’s cry broke above the sound of their shouts in startled dismay:

“Good God! They’ve set fire to the laboratory!”

Whittly wheeled to stare where Cloud pointed. On the other side of the huge building flame and smoke sent up their first menacing pillar and glow. The crowd began to back qway, stumbling over each other in their wild haste, and Whittly called frantically:

“Henry! Henry Am’s body is in the laboratory!”

“Let him stay!” Saul’s answer rose above the increasing crackle of the flames. “He’d rather have it that way! Let him pass with the laboratory that was his love and his life! He would be glad, if he knew! Let. him stay!”

In a. reverent, silent group, Saul, Cloud, Whittly and the two women stood withdrawn from the heat of the rising, roaring flames, backed by the



awed, hushed crowd. And Saul thought of the night that Henry had spoken of Servetus. He remembered his strange premonition—the scorching heat of fire, the cries of an angry mob, the choking gusts of billowing smoke. The great dream was fulfilled, the battle won. It was fitting that Henry should so go out into eternity, in the great laboratory razed by lurid flames, a mighty funeral pyre.

T he next day the news broke. Over the whole world, by the press, by radio and cable flashed a message that staggered the population of the earth. Saul Blauvette had conquered cancer! Cancer! That hideous thing that came, none knew whence or how, that ate into the flesh and destroyed life, was now itself to be forever destroyed. Saul Blauvette! The name was on ten million tongues. He had not discovered the origin of the cancer germ. What need now to know? He had discovered the germ itself, he offered to all humanity the powerful serum that ended the life of the microbe and healed the stricken. Cancer! Saul Blauvette.

The world went wild.. Men shouted in incredulous wonder. Women wept. Out of the dark chrysalis of their fear men and women came bursting into the light, crying the savior name of Saul Blauvette—Blauvette, who offered salvation to the horror-ridden, refusing to take a cent from them, asking only the privilege of* making them whole. In droves they came to surround the office of old Doc Whittly, crowding like sheep. Some came walking with heads held high in hope, some weeping and lean-

ing on others, some carried on stretchers, wan-faced, hardly daring to believe in the saving mercy of the formula 511.

Saul Blauvette, weary, worn, white and radiant, ordered the crew of madly busy assistants, while John Cloud, Whittly, Helene and Mrs. Blauvette moved swiftly among them, carrying bottles and needles filled with 511 and watching the tide of humanity come and go. Dying men and women, released from the grave, threw their hands high in a gesture of gratitude to God and blessed the name of Saul Blauvette. His mother, pausing to glance into his enormous slate-gray eyes, bowed her head in humility before the star in his forehead that shone on all the world.

“Doe!” Saul caught Whittly’s arm. “Look at their eyes! They’ve come into the light! The dark chrysalis is shattered! But I’m still young. Helene and I can’t stop here. Tell me what other horror menaces the world. Tell me what to taekle next. ”

“Next!” Whittly stared at him, and his mother and Helene stood very still just beyond. On his forehead! What a star! Whittly went on slowly: “You’ve done your work., The world knows you for the greatest of the great.”

“Every man’s greatness must be measured by the quantity of his contribution,” Saul answered, his voice deep with exaltation. “It seemed a big thing at first—now it seems so little. I’ve got to go on giving! ’ ’

“To the great all things are small,” breathed Mrs. Blauvette, smiling into Helene’s shining eyes. “He will go on forever. You cm not stay a star!”

[THE END]

“A gigantic, loathsome black shadow was climbing from the grave and floundering gruesomely toward the church.”

NOT all of the few remaining' inhabitants of Daalbergen, that dismal little village in the Ramapo Mountains, believe that my uncle, old Dominie Vanderhoof, is really dead. Some of them believe he is suspended somewhere between heaven and hell because of the old sexton’s curse. If it had not been for that old magician, he might still be preaching in the little damp church across the moor.

After what has happened to me in Daalbergen, I can almost share the opinion of the villagers. I am not sure that my uncle is dead, but I am very sure that he is not alive upon this earth. There is no doubt that the old sexton buried him once, but

he is not in that grave now. I can almost feel him behind me as I write, impelling me to tell the truth about those strange happenings in Daalbergen so many years ago.

It was the fourth day of October when I arrived at Daalbergen in answer to a summons. The letter was from a former member of my uncle’s congregation, who wrote that the old man had passed away and that there should be some small estate which I, as his only living relative, might inherit. Having reached the secluded little hamlet by a wearying series of changes on branch railways, I found my way to the grocery store of Mark Haines, writer of the letter, and he, leading me into a stuffy back room,



told me a peculiar tale concerning Dominie Vanderhoof ’a death.

“Y > should be careful, Hoffman,” Haines told me, “when y’ meet that old sexton, Abel Foster. He’s in league with the devil, sure’s you’re alive. ’Twa’n’t two weeks ago Sam Pryor, when he passed the old graveyard, heared him mumblin’ t’ the dead there. ’Twa’n’t right he should talk that way—an’ Sam does vow that there was a voiee answered him—a kind o’ half-voice, hollow and muffled-like, as though it come out o’ th’ ground. There’s others, too, as could tell y’ about seein’ him standin’ afore old Dominie Slott’s grave—that one right agin’ the church wall—a-wringin’ his hands an’ a-talkin’ t’ th’ moss on th’ tombstone as though it was the old Dominie himself. ”

Old Foster, Haines said, had eome to Daalbergen about ten years before, and had been immediately engaged by Vanderhoof to take care of the damp stone church at which most of the villagers worshiped. No one but Vanderhoof seemed to like him, for his presence brought a suggestion almost of the' uncanny. He would sometimes stand by the door when the people came to church, and y the men would coldly return his servile bow while the women brashed past in haste, holding their skirts aside to avoid touching him. He could be seen on week days cutting the grass in the eemetery and tending the flowers around the graves, now and then erooning and muttering to himself. And few failed to notice the particular attention he paid to the grave of the Reverend Guilliam Slott, first pastor of the church in 1701.

It was not long after Foster’s establishment as a village fixture that disaster began to lower. First eame the failure of the mountain mine where most of the men worked. The vein of iron had given out, and many

of the people moved away to better localities, while those who had large holdings of land in the vicinity took to farming and managed to wrest a meager living from the rocky hillsides. Then came the disturbances in the church. It was whispered about that the Reverend Johannes Vanderhoof had made a compact with the devil, and was preaching his word in the house of God. His sermons had become weird and grotesque—redolent with sinister things which the ignorant people of Daalbergen did not understand. He transported them back over ages of fear and superstition to regions of hideous, unseen spirits, and peopled their fancy with night-haunting ghouls. One by one the congregation dwindled, while the elders and deacons vainly pleaded with Vanderhoof to ehange the subject of his sermons. Though the old man continually promised to eomply, he seemed to be enthralled by some higher power which forced him to do its will.

A giant in stature, Johannes Vanderhoof was known to be weak and timid at heart, yet even when threatened with expulsion he continued his eery sermons, until scarcely a handful of people remained to listen to him on Sunday morning. Because of weak finances, it was found impossible to call a new pastor, and before long not one of the villagers dared venture near the church or the parsonage which adjoined it. Everywhere there was fear of those spectral wraiths with whom Vanderhoof was apparently In league.

My uncle, Mark Haines told me, had continued to live in the parsonage because there was no one with sufficient eourage to tell him to move out of it. No one ever saw him again, but lights were visible in the parsonage at night, and were even glimpsed in the church, from time to time. It was whispered about the



town that Vanderhoof preached regularly in the church every Sunday morning, unaware that his congregation was no longer there to listen. He had only the old sexton, who lived in the basement of the church, to take care of him, and Foster made a weekly visit to what remained of the business section of the village to buy provisions. He no longer bowed servilely to everyone he met, but instead seemed to harbor a demoniac and illconeealed hatred. He spoke to no one except as was necessary to make his purchases, and glanced fro m left to right out of evil-filled eyes as he walked the street with his cane tapping the uneven pavements. Bent and shriveled with extreme age, bis presence could actually be felt by anyone near him, so powerful was that personality which, said the townspeople, had made Vanderhoof accept the devil as his master. No person in Daalbergen doubted that Abel Foster was at the bottom of all the town’s ill luck, but not a one dared lift a finger against him, or could even approach him without a tremor of fear. His name, as well as Vanderhoof’s, was never mentioned aloud. Whenever the matter of the church across the moor was discussed, it was in whispers; and if the conversation chanced to be nocturnal, the whisperers would keep glancing over their shoulders to make sure that nothing shapeless or sinister crept out of the darkness to bear witness to their words.

The churchyard continued to be kept just as green and beautiful as when the church was in use, and the flowers near the graves in the cemetery were tended just as carefully as in times gone by. The old sexton could occasionally be seen working there, as if still being paid for his services, and those who dared venture near said that he maintained a continual conversation with the devil

and with those spirits which lurked within the graveyard walls.

One morning, Haines went on to say, Foster was seen digging a grave where the steeple of the church throws its shadow in the afternoon, before the sun goes down behind the mountain and puts the entire village in semi-twilight. Later, the church bell, silent for months, tolled solemnly for a half-hour. And at sundown those who were watching from a distance saw Foster bring a coffin from the parsonage on a wheelbarrow, dump it into the grave with slender ceremony, and replace the earth in the hole.

The sexton eame to the village the next morning, ahead of his usual weekly schedule, and in much better spirits than was customary. He seemed willing to talk, remarking that Vanderhoof had died the day before, and that he had buried his body beside that of Dominie Stott near the church wall. He smiled from time to time, whieh was unusual for him, and rubbed his hands in an untimely and unaccountable glee. It was apparent that he took a perverse and diabolie delight in Vanderhoof’s death. The villagers were conscious of an added uncanniness in his presence, and avoided him as mueh as they could. With Vanderhoof gone they felt more insecure than ever, for the old sexton was now free to cast his worst spells over the town from the church across the moor. Muttering something in a tongue which no one understood, Foster made his way back along the road over the swamp.

It was then, it seems, that Mark Haines remembered having heard Dominie Vanderhoof speak of me as his nephew. Haines accordingly sent for me, in the hope that I might know something which would dear up the mystery of my uncle’s last years. I assured my summoner, however, that I knew nothing about my



uncle or his past, except that my mother had mentioned him as a man of gigantic physique but with little courage or power of will.

H aving heard all that Haines had to tell me, I lowered the front legs of my chair to the floor and looked at my watch. It was late afternoon.

“How far is it out to the church?” I inquired. “Think I can make it before sunset?”

“Sure, lad, y’ ain’t goin’ out there t’night! Not t’ that place!” The old man trembled noticeably in every limb and half rose from his chair, stretching out a lean, detaining hand. “Why, it’s plumb foolishness!” he exclaimed.

I laughed aside his fears and informed him that, come what may, I was determined to see the old sexton that evening and get the whole matter over as soon as possible. I did not intend to accept the superstitions of ignorant country folk as truth, for I was convinced that all I had just heard was merely a chain of events which the over-imaginative people of Daalbergen had happened to link with their ill-luck. I felt no sense of fear or horror whatever.

Seeing that I was determined to reach my uncle’s house before nightfall, Haines ushered me out of his office and reluctantly gave me the few required directions, pleading from time to time that I change my mind. He shook my hand when I left, as though he never expected to see me again.

“Take keer that old devil, Foster, don’t git ye!” he warned, again and again. “I wouldn’t go near him after dark fer love n’r money. No siree!” He re-entered his store, solemnly shaking his head, while I set out along a road leading to the outskirts of the town.

T had walked barely two minutes bebefore I sighted the moor of which Haines had spoken. The road, flanked by a whitewashed fence, passed over the great swamp, which was overgrown with clumps of underbrush dipping down into the dank, slimy ooze. An odor of deadness and decay filled the air, and even in the sunlit afternoon little wisps of vapor could be seen rising from the unhealthful spot.

On the opposite side of the moor I turned sharply to the left, as I had been directed, branching from the main road. There were several houses in the vicinity, I noticed; houses which were scarcely more than huts, reflecting the extreme poverty of their owners. The road here passed under the drooping branches of enormous willows which almost completely shut out the rays of the sun. The miasmal odor of the swamp was still in my nostrils, and the air was damp and chilly. I hurried my pace to get out of that dismal tunnel as soon as possible.

Presently I found myself in the light again. The sun, now hanging like a red ball upon the crest of the mountain, was beginning to dip low, and there, some distance ahead of me, bathed in its bloody iridescence, stood the lonely church. I began to sense that uncanniness which Haines had mentioned; that feeling of dread which made all Daalbergen shun the place. The squat, stone hulk of the church itself, with its blunt steeple, seemed like an idol to which the tombstones that surrounded it bowed down and worshiped, each with an arched top like the shoulders of a kneeling person, while over the whole assemblage the dingy, gray parsonage hovered like a wraith.

I had slowed my pace a trifle as I took in the scene.- The sun was disappearing behind the mountain very rapidly now, and the damp air



chilled me. Turning my coat collar up about my neck, I plodded on. Something caught my eye as I glanced up again. In the shadow of the church wall was something white —a thing which seemed to have no definite, shape. Straining my eyes as I came nearer, I saw that it was a cross of new timber, surmounting a mound of freshly-turned earth. The discovery sent a new chill through me. I realized that this must be my uncle’s grave, but something told me that it was not like the other graves near it. It did not seem like a dead grave. In some intangible way it appeared to be living, if a grave can be said to live. Very close to it, I saw as I came nearer, was another grave; an old mound with a crumbling stone above it. Dominie Slott’s tomb, I thought, remembering Haines’ story.

There was no sign of life anywhere about the place. In the semi-twi-> light I climbed the low knoll upon which the parsonage stood, and hammered upon the door. There was no answer. I skirted the house and peered into the windows. The whole place seemed deserted.

The lowering mountains had made night fall with disarming suddenness the minute the sun was fully hidden. I realized that I could see scarcely more than a few feet ahead of me. Feeling my way carefully, I rounded a corner of the house and paused, wondering what to do next.

Everything was quiet. There was fiot a breath of wind, nor were there even the usual noises made by animals in their nocturnal rairiblings. All dread had been forgotten for a time, but in the presence of that sepulchral calm my apprehensions returned. I imagined the air peopled with ghastly spirits that pressed around me, making the air almost unbreathable. I wondered,

for the hundredth time, where the old sexton might be.

As I stood there, half expecting some sinister demon to creep from the shadows, I noticed two lighted windows glaring from the belfry of the church. I then remembered what Haines had told me about Foster’s living in the basement of the building. Advancing cautiously through the blackness, I found a side door of the church ajar.

The interior had a musty and mildewed odor. Everything which I touched was covered with a cold, clammy moisture. I struck a match and began to explore, to discover, if I could, how to get into the belfry. Suddenly I stopped in my tracks.

A snatch of song, loud and obscene, sung in a voice that was guttural and thick with drink, came from above me. The match burned my fingers, and I dropped it. Two pin-points of light pierced the darkness of the farther wall of the church, and below them, to one side, I could see a door outlined where light filtered through its cracks. The song stopped as abruptly as it had commenced, and there was absolute silence again. My heart was thumping and blood racing through my temples. Had I not been petrified with fear, I should have fled immediately.

Not caring to light another match, I felt my way among the pews until I stood in front of the door. So deep was the feeling of depression which had come over me that I felt as though I were acting in a dream. My actions were almost involuntary.

The door was locked, as I found when I turned the knob. I hammered upon it for some time, but there was no answer. The silence was as.complete as before. Feeling around the edge of the door, I found the hinges, removed the pins from them, and flowed the door to fall toward me.


Dim light flooded down a steep flight of steps. There was a siekening odor of whisky. I could now hear someone stirring in the belfry room above. Venturing a low halloo, I thought I heard a groan in reply, and cautiously climbed the stairs.

M y first glance into that unhallowed place was indeed startling. Strewn about the little room were old and dusty books and manuscripts—strange things that bespoke almost unbelievable age. On rows of shelves which reached to the ceiling were horrible things in glass jars and bottles—snakes and lizards and bats. Dust and mold and cobwebs encrusted everything. In the center, behind a table upon which was a lighted candle, a nearly empty bottle of whisky, and a glass, was a motionless figure with a thin, scrawny, wrinkled face and wild eyes that stared blankly through me. I recognized Abel Foster, the old sexton, in an instant. He did not move or speak as I came slowly and fearfully toward him.

“Mr. Foster?” I asked, trembling with unaccountable fear when I heard my voice echo within the close confines of the room. There was no reply, and no movement from the figure behind the table. I wondered if he had not drunk himself to insensibility, and went behind the table to shake him.

At the mere touch of my arm upon his shoulder, the strange old man started from his chair as though terrified. His eyes, still having in them that same blank stare, were fixed upon me. Swinging his arms like flails, he backed away.

“Don’t!” he screamed. “Don’t touch me! Go back—go back!”

I saw that he was both drunk and struck with some kind of a nameless terror. Using a soothing tone, I told him who I was and why I had come.

He seemed to understand vaguely and sank back into his chair, sitting limp and motionless.

“Ithought ye was him,” he mumbled. “I thought ye was him come back fer it. He’s been a-tryin ’ t ’ get out—a-tryin’ t’ get out sence I put him in there.” His voice again rose to a scream and he clutched his chair. “Maybe he’s got out now! Maybe he’s out! ’ ’

I looked about, half expecting to see some spectral shape coming up the stairs.

“Maybe who’s out?” I inquired-

* ‘ Vanderhoof! ” he shrieked. “ Th? cross over his grave keeps failin’ down in th ’ night! Every morning the earth is loose, and gets harder t’ pat down. He’ll come out an’ I won’t be able t’ do nothin’.”

Forcing him back into the chair, I seated myself on a box near him. He was trembling in mortal terror, with the saliva dripping from the corners of his mouth. From time to time I felt that sense of horror which Haines had described when he told me of the old sexton. Truly, there was something uncanny about the man. His head had now sunk forward upon his breast, and he seemed calmer, mumbling to himself.

I quietly arose and opened a window to let out the fumes of whisky and the musty odor of dead things. Light from a dim moon, just risen, made objects below barely visible. I could just see Dominie Vanderhoof’s grave from my position in the belfry, and blinked my eyes as I gazed at it. That cross was tilted! I remembered that it had been vertical an hour ago. Fear took possession of me again. I turned quickly. Foster sat in his chair watching me. His glanee was saner than before.

“So ye’re Vanderhoof’s nephew,” he mumbled in a nasal tone. “Waal, ye might’s well know it all. He’ll be back arter me afore long,, he will



—jus’ as soon as he can get out o’ that there grave. Ye might’s well know all about it now.”

His terror appeared to have left him. He seemed resigned to some horrible fate which he expected any minute. His head dropped down upon his chest a^ain, and he went on muttering in that nasal monotone.

“Ye see all them there books and papers? Waal, they was once Dominie Slott’s—Dominie Slott, who was here years ago. All them things is got t’ do with magic—black magic that th’ old dominie knew afore he come t’ this country. They used t’ bum ’em an’ boil ’em in oil fer knowin’ that over there, they did. But old Slott knew, and he didn’t go fer t’ tell nobody. No sir, old Slott used to preach here generations ago, an’ he used to come up here an’ study them books, an’ use all them dead things in jars, an’ pronounce magic curses an’ things, but he didn’t let nobody know it. No, nobody knowed it but Dominie Slott an’ me.”

“You?” I ejaculated, leaning across the table toward him.

“That is, me after I learned it.” His face showed lines of trickery as he answered me. “I found all this stuff here when I come t’ be church sexton, an’ I used t’ read it when I wa’n’t at work. An’ I soon got t’ know all about it. ”

The old man droned on, while I listened, spellbound. He told about learning the difficult formulae of demonology, so that, by means of incantations, he could cast spells over human beings. He had performed horrible occult rites of his hellish creed, calling down anathema upon the town and its inhabitants. Crazed by his desires, he tried to bring the church under his spell, but the power of God was too strong. Finding Johannes Vanderhoof very weakwilled, he bewitched him so that he

preached strange and mystic sermons which struck fear into the simple hearts of the country folk. From his position in the belfry room, he said, behind a painting of the temptation of Christ which adorned the rear wall of the church, he would glare at Vanderhoof while he was preaching, through holes which were the eyes of the Devil in the picture. Terrified by the uncanny things which were happening in their midst, the congregation left one by one, and Foster was able to do what he pleased with the church and with Vanderhoof.

“But what did you do with him?” I asked in a hollow voice as the old sexton paused in his confession. He burst into a cackle of laughter, throwing back his head in drunken glee.

‘ ‘ I took his soul! ” he howled in a tone that set me trembling. “I took his soul and put it in a bottle—in a little black bottle! And I buried him! But he ain’t got his soul, an’ he cain’t go neither t’ heaven n’r hell! But he’s a-comin’ back after it. He’s a-tryin’ t’ get out o’ his grave now. I can hear him pushin’ his way up through the ground, he’s that strong!”

A s the old man had proceeded with his story, I had become more and more convinced that he must be telling me the truth, and not merely gibbering in drunkenness. Every detail fitted what Haines had told me. Fear was growing upon me by. degrees. With the old wizard now shouting with demoniac laughter, I was tempted to bolt down the narrow stairway and leave that accursed neighborhood. To calm myself, I rose and again looked out of the window. My eyes nearly started from their sockets when I saw that the cross above Vanderhoof’s grave had fallen perceptibly since I had



last looked at it. It was now tilted to an angle of forty-five degrees!

“Can’t we dig up Vanderhoof and restore his soul?” I asked almost breathlessly, feeling that something must be done in a hurry. The old man rose from his ehair in terror.

“No, no, nof” he screamed. “He’d kill me! I’ve fergot th’ formula, an’ if he gets out he 11 be alive, without a soul. He’d kill us both!”

“Where is the bottle that contains his soul? ” I asked, advancing threateningly toward him. I felt that some ghastly thing was about to happen, which I must do all in my power to prevent.

“I won’t tell ye, ye young whelp!” he snarled. I felt, rather than saw, a queer light in his eyes as he backed into a corner. “An’ don’t ye touch me, either, or ye’ll wish ye hadn’t!”

I moved a step forward, noticing that on a low stool behind him there were two black bottles. Foster muttered some peculiar words in a low, singsong voice. Everything began to turn gray before my eyes, and something within me seemed to be dragged upward, trying to get out at my throat. I felt my knees become weak.

Lurching forward, I caught the old sexton by the throat, and with my free arm reached for the bottles on the stool. But the old man fell backward, striking the stool with his foot, and one bottle fell to the floor as I snatched the other. There was a flash of blue flame, and a sulfurous smell filled the room. From the little heap of broken glass a white vapor rose and followed the draft out the window.

“Curse ye, ye rascal!” sounded a voice that seemed faint and far away. Foster, whom I had released when the bottle broke, was crouching against the wall, looking smaller and more shriveled than before. His face was slowly turning greenish-black.

“Curse ye!” said the voice again, hardly sounding as though it came from his lips. “I’m done fer! That one in there was mine! Dominie Slott took it out two hundred years ago!”

He slid slowly toward the floor, gazing at me with hatred in eyes that were rapidly dimming. His flesh changed from white to black, and then to yellow. I saw with horror that his body seemed to be crumbling away and his clothing falling into limp folds.

The bottle in my hand was growing warm. I glanced at it, fearfully. It glowed with a faint phosphorescence. Stiff with fright, I set it upon the table, but could not keep my eyes from it. There was an ominous moment of silence as its glow became brighter, and then there came distinctly to my ears the sound of sliding earth. Gasping for breath, I looked out of the window. The moon was now well up in the sky, and by its light I could see that the fresh cross above Vanderhoof’s grave had completely fallen. Once again there came the sound of trickling gravel, and no longer able to control myself, I stumbled down the stairs and found my way out of doors. Falling now and then as I raced over the uneven ground, I ran on in abject terror. When I had reached the foot of the knoll, at the entrance to that gloomy tunnel beneath the willows, I heard a horrible roar behind me. Turning, I glanced back toward the church. Its wall reflected the light of the moon, and silhouetted against it was a gigantic, loathsome, black shadow climbing from my uncle’s grave and floundering gruesomely toward the church.

T told my story to a group of villagers in Haines’ store the next morning. They looked from one to (Continued on page 287)


JAC

BV rob eccr \jttws€

“Surely, she thought, this must he a knight-errant of the olden days, and the fat gentleman is his squire.”

I T IS a supernatural, exciting, aye, an almost unbelievable tale (though I vouch for its truth) that pretty little Kittie Robbins told from her heap of silken cushions amidst the reek of smoldering punk, tinkling of chimes, clang of cymbals, and the soft pattering of slippered feet in Yen Mott Lee’s establishment hard by the waterfront.

Because I know (from newspaper accounts) that relatives, officials of a well-known insane asylum, and the police of many cities have been making a world-wide search for Kittie, who disappeared a few days after the death of her husband, I wish to inform them of the girl’s whereabouts. I desire, also, to add that I am not at all interested in the reward they have

offered. I do feel, though, that what I am about to tell will shed some light on the mystery connected with Jack Robbins’ death. It might also enlighten you as to what you can expect to find when you pass beyond the grave.

Neither would I have my readers conclude that I might have been under the influence of drugs or strong drink. I was perfectly sober. I will admit, though—for fear that I might have been seen there—that I stopped in Joe Dugan’s place at Shipway and Highland streets, took one drink as a matter of respect for the bartender (I know the bartender; it’s beastly stuff he hands out in Dugan’s near-beer saloon—nothing at all like the brew he sold before the days of prohibition)


and then went down to Yen Mott Lee’s place.

When I entered Yen’s establishment I found him burning red-paper prayers at the feet of his ugly tin joss. He gave me no heed. The crowd in the fan-tan room were rolling their wealth away with dice on top of the kettledrums. I did not stop to play, because I had left my last penny with the companionable Joe Dugan. Instead I proceeded back, through the shimmering folds of heavy silk portieres, lured by the unearthly music of a stringed instrument.

I found the player. She was a beauty—such a beautiful creature as I would imagine the angels of heaven to be. She was curled up on a heap of silken cushions, and strumming, lazily, at the strings of a mandolin.

“Good evening,” she said, looking up drowsily, and without a smile.

That smile should have been there. I do not know why, but I felt like screaming to her that she must smile, even though it were just enough to bring the dimple to her cheek—the dimple that I knew belonged there, once, anyway.

“Good evening,” I replied, seating myself on a low teakwood stool, locking my fingers about one knee, and allowing my eyes to feast on this pretty creature—it may be true, as some have said, that she hypnotized me.

“Fan-tan break you?” she asked shortly, nodding her head slowly in the direction from which came the sound of rolling dice and clinking coins on top of the drums.

“No, Miss,” I told her, “I am always broke. It is natural. I am a writer of tales. To know this is to know that I have no coins to roll away on top of Yen Mott’s drums. I was lured to the waterfront by the desire to see, hear or experience something which would make material for a story—by the way, do you never smile?”

I could not resist the temptation to ask her this. The question had a surprizing result. It was like) dropping a match into a can of gasoline. I was not a little startled.

“Smile?” Her drowsiness fell away from her like a cloak. She spat the words out as a snake would dart out its fangs. “Me, smile?” She leaned forward a bit. “What of happiness is my portion that I should smile? Have I not been banished by society as a thing unclean? Am I not an outcast from among my relatives and friends? 1 came to this”—she waved her bracelet-encirdled arm— “because* of their pointing fingers, their whisperings behind my back. Me, Kittie Robbins, who knows that ‘if a man dies he shall live again.’ You ask me to smile when I am approaching insanity—and know it?”

She covered her face with her pretty fingers, threw her head forward in a manner which caused a mass of brown hair to tumble over her face to hide, like' a veil, the tears. Her shoulders heaved with deepthroated sobs, and, in compassion, I placed my hand on her head.

“Don’t touch me!” she exclaimed, drawing back. “Listen, O writer of tales, I’ll tell you who killed Jack Robbins. How the souls of men who have been dead for centuries came to my assistance when my need was great.

“Tn you have read the newspapers you know that Jack Robbins, my husband, was found sprawled on the floor of his study, his fingers clutching deep in the soft velvet carpet, a knife —his knife—on the floor near by. He was dead. There was nothing to show what caused his death—unless it was the bruised spot on his forehead. Medical men, experts at their trade, said that this injury, in itself, could not have killed him. They pointed out that the spot was barely noticeWHO KILLED JACK ROBBINS


able. Just a discoloration of the skin. They found a small ball of iron—a paperweight—on the floor. They (the doctors) agreed that had this weight been thrown with enough force it could have caused the bruise, but never his death. He might have died from disease of the heart? Aye, but the examination proved my husband to have been in perfect health.

‘ ‘ I alone know how he died. They found me in an adjoining room behind locked doors. Friends, relatives and the police listened to my tale— ‘babblings of a disordered brain’ they called it—of how I had killed Jack Robbins with an enchanted bolt. They smiled, shook their heads, and walked away. Because I have read much that has been written about' spiritualism, and all that has been written about the knights of old, and believe in both, they—the fools!—insist that I am insane.

“I married Jack less than a year ago. He was cashier in—well, let that go, it is enough to say that his salary was thirty dollars a week. In spite of this small income we lived in a beautiful mansion on the drive amid luxuries which could be commanded only by the wealthy. My clothing was of the most costly materials. New gowns were produced for the asking. Me, a bit of a child who still played with dolls, how was I to know that the money was not gained honestly?

“But within a few months I discovered that others were sharing Jack Robbins’ wealth and love. There were other women. I became beastly jealous—aye, so jealous that I came to hate the sight of Jack.. Especially when he came home reeling in drunkenness and mouthing curses upon me.

“Then came a night—oh, I shall never, never forget it!—when he brought one of those women—his woman—to the very door with him. Nay,, he brought her into his study and introduced her as a friend.

“He threw a bulging handbag on

the table. I heard something jangle, inside the bag, like clanking metal. His collar was wilted and his tie hung outside his vest. There was a smear of white plaster on his coat sleeve. He peeled off his topcoat, removed his gloves, and stood for a long while glaring at me through squinted, cruel eyes—they had never seemed so cruel before. The whites were streaked with red. His breath came hot and panting as though he had been running. I do not know why he should have been in such disarray, because I had seen a taxi deliver him at the door—him and his woman.

“The woman (I do not know who she was; I had never seen her before) was painted of face. Her yellow, bobbed hair showed a tendency to return to its natural red through the fading of dyes. There was a worried expression on her face. She seemed extremely nervous and was continually glancing toward the door. Once she went to the window, pulled back the draperies, and looked into the street below.

“ ‘Jack, is this your wife?’ she nodded her head in my direction. My eyes grew wide with astonishment as she continued. ‘Robbins, you fool, she’s not what I expected to find, why, this—this ’

“ ‘Yes,’ answered Jack, somewhat angrily, ‘ I know what you expected to find. One of your kind. One of my kind. Instead, you find that I have grown mushy and have fallen for a doll. I have taken a wife who is a pretty baby without backbone or brains. Not much of a helpmate for a man who is engaged in the dangerous business which I follow. Nevertheless, I want you two to be friends. It is high time that my wife became useful as well as ornamental.’

“Friends? Friends! Me, Kittie Robbins, entertain friendly feelings for this painted-faced she-devil who seemed to know my husband’s affairs better than I did! My better judg262


ment, and an entirely peaceful nature, kept telling me to bespeak this woman kindly, gather up my cloak and hat, say good-bye, and walk out of a lot of trouble unmolested. But what is good judgment to a jealous heart? The green-eyed monster of jealousy kept screaming to me, ‘Scratch her eyes out!’ ‘Tear her yellow hair from her headl’ ‘Use your claws! ’ and, quite truly, I would have done so had not my husband—who had the strength of two ordinary men—caught me by my hair and thrown me, unceremoniously, upon a couch. All of which only served to enrage me further.

“ ‘Listen, Kittie, don’t be a fool I’ I heard him shouting near my ear; ‘you will have to aet the part of my wife. I need your help. This woman is nothing to me other than a business associate. You have never asked me where I found the money with which to dress and feed you. Do you think that money grows on trees? I am a thief! A burglar! A safe-opener supreme! I am known—the thief, not Jack Robbins—from Scotland Yard to the American Headquarters as a killer! In that bag is the loot of my last haul. We—this woman who is my helper and myself—were hard pressed by the police. It was necessary that we slip in here for cover until the hounds of the law lose the seent. Now, it is up to you as my wife to use your brains, realize that I am your husband, that I am in danger—help me!’

“ ‘Help you, Jack?’ I heard myself saying, as I glared back into his terrible eyes. ‘I’d do anything in the world for you, providing it be honest, bnt I am no thief—nor can I be a thief’s wife. I can not even associate with, thieves. I shall inform the police immediately. You, in yonr turn, forget who I am. You will have to act the part of my husband. Do you think that good women grow on companion trees to your money trees? ’

“All in all, I believe I answered him rather coolly, under the circumstances. I do not remember that I was—at least not then—frightened. I only know that I was being consumed by the fires of jealousy.

“ ‘Look you, Jack Robbins,’ said the yellow-haired woman through clenebed teeth, ‘what a terrible mess you have brought us into through marrying this woman. There is no.use in beating about the bush. She will inform the police. All they need is a hint as to who you are and the whole gang will dance out of this world on the end of a rope. There is only one way out—kill her! Dead men tell no tales. It is even so with dead ladies. I’ll take the gold. Come to me when the job is done. ’

“With this, the woman snatched at the bag. I saw the lids of Jack’s eyes come more elosely together. I saw his white, strong teeth—like a wolf’s—unbared. I saw the woman withdraw her hand and baek, stumblingly, toward the door.

“ ‘No yeu don’t, old-timer,’ rasped Jack, ‘I’ll bring the gold when I come. ’

“'T'he woman was gone. Jaek Robbins was standing before me, licking his tongue over dry lips, and glaring into my very soul with those dreadful eyes.

“ ‘Kittie, I have no choiee. You know me. I had hoped to bring you to my level, that you would stand by me in my hour of trouble. That is all over. Even though you were to promise to forego your intentions of informing the police, I eould not trust you. I must kill you!’

*‘I saw his hand go to his Kip pocket. I saw the glint of light on the naked knife-blade as he moved toward me, rolling up his sleeves— aye, rolling np his sleeves like a butcher!

“I glanced about frantically for something with which to protect myWHO KILLED JACK ROBBINS

self. There was nothing—unless it was the small ball of iron which we used as a paperweight. This bit of iron might have weighed three ounces. A sorry thing to use as a weapon of protection against a big brute of a man like Jack Robbins. But I snatched it up with a scream in my throat and leaped beneath his upraised arm. He was just about to strike—aye, I heard the ‘swush!’ of the knife arm as I passed under the stroke.

“Before he could right himself and turn to come after me a second time, I had leaped through the doorway to the adjoining room and slammed the door. I hurriedly turned the key in tlfe lock and flung myself on a couch, so terribly frightened that I could not even scream again. My flesh trembled—quivered like jelly. Sweat streamed down from the ends of my eyebrows to mingle with the tears on my cheeks. My heart thumped madly. It would only be a few moments before Jack Robbins would have the door open. I could hear him cursing and threatening.

“ ‘You may as well open the door and have it over with,’ came his voice in a cold, hard tone, ‘there is no escape for you. It is either your life or mine. There are no windows in that room. The only means of exit is by this door, and you will find me here when you come out. You can have your choice—starvation or the knife.’

“I did not reply. I had been staring at a candle which flickered in its gilded holder on a table several feet away from the couch upon which I had fallen. I do not know why I should have become so interested in that candle. It seemed to hypnotize me as a snake’s eyes fascinate a bird. I was so interested in the candle that I hardly heard Jack Robbins’ terrible threats—I remember, though, that I still held the small ball of iron in the hot palm of my hand.

“Suddenly I felt my mind grow weary. I seemed to have a great desire to sleep. This thing—this terrible power of the candle’s flickering flame—frightened me worse than Jack Robbins’ threats! My very soul—that something within all of us which we can not place our fingers on and say ‘that is it’ but which we know exists—was leaving my body. I seemed to be floating in space, away from the couch, until I found myself looking directly down upon the candle-flame as though I were hovering above it. Eventually I found myself on the other side of the table, near the floor, and looking back—through the flickering, shimmering, nervous flare of flame—I saw---

“Don’t laugh at me! I tell you I saw my own body, itself, crouched among the cushions, there on the couch I had just quitted. Objects in the room began to grow dim. Everything seemed to grow confused. I only knew that I floated, quietly, rapidly away into the great beyond where no human has ever visited and returned to tell the tale—except me, Kittie Robbins, and for that they say I am insane.

“While my body of clay, on the couch, trembled in terror, my soul— the thing which looked back— wanted to laugh, wanted to shout: ‘Oh ho, of what would it avail you, Jack Robbins, to kill that body? Break the door in and kill it! You can never kill me!’ I felt elated. It was a great joke on Jack Robbins.

“Suddenly I discovered that I was not in the room. I looked about to find myself in a field surrounded by a great forest of trees. The sun was shining, birds were singing, and a soft breeze tossed the weeds at my feet.

“T was rather at a loss to place myself. Where was I? Who was this approaching from the opposite



side of the field? Could it be Jack Robbins? Surely it was he. His knife was in his right hand. His sleeves were rolled up—like a butcher’s—and there was an evil leer on his face.

“ ‘Oh, I’m coming! You can’t escape me, you little devil-cat!’ he shouted as he approached. ‘You thought you did something wonderful when you slipped under my arm that time. I was not expecting that. You will never be able to repeat it— I’ve driven this knife into more slippery eels than you. I’ve got you right where I want you this time! You forgot that I, too, might follow you into the great beyond. This thing we call life does not start at birth and end with death. Why should it? Why should everything in creation move in circles—without end—and humanity be the one exception? When you pass out, in what you term death, you simply find yourself reborn into this existence. In the same manner you will pass out of this existence to be reborn into the earth’s family—: —’

“ ‘Help! Help!’ I screamed, looking about me wildly.

“ ‘Yell your head off, no one can hear you-’

“For some reason I did not hear what he would have continued to say, for at that moment my attention was attracted by something else. Who was this who was coming out of the forest on the other side? Two men. Certainly they were queer-looking characters. One rode a bony horse. The other rode a mule. It seemed to me that I had met this pair before, but I could not immediately place them. The. man on the horse was partly dressed in armor—but, look you, his helmet was nothing more nor less than a barber’s brass basin—such a basin as the Spanish barber used in the Sixteenth Century —he dug 1 his heels into his bag-ofbones of a mare furiously, but that

good beast simply wagged his ears and carried his master, in answer to my frantic call for help, at an ambling walk. This man was tall, gaunt, deep-set of eyes, and none too cleanly of person.

‘ ‘ The other man—the one who rode the mule—was not near so tall as his companion. He was heavily bearded. His beard would have been none the worse off for a good combing. He looked weary and bedraggled. There was a bandage about his head.

‘ ‘ Surely, I thought, this must be a knight-errant of the olden days, and the bearded gentleman is his squire. My heart was filled with hope. Perhaps this knight would save me from the terrible butcher.

“He was near me now. He was speaking. With a great sweep of his arm and a bowing of his body, which, while none too graceful, was well meant: ‘Ah, Madam, you can be none other than the fair Kittie Robbins, heart of my heart, and I would have you to know that he who addresses you is none other than a famous knight of the olden days. You have, no doubt, read of my wonderful exploits on earth—I am continuing my calling here. I mistake not that my further adventures would make good reading—were it not for the fact that biographers and knights-errant go to widely separated places after death, I make no doubt that those further adventures would be recounted.

“ ‘Be that as it may, I have come to rescue you from this perilous situation in which you now find yourself, that you might return to the world to refute the base slander that knights are all fictitious characters, and to inform humanity that there is a life hereafter—how, I ask you, sir,’ turning to the man on the mule, ‘do you now believe in enchantment?’



“ ‘I’ faith, sir,’ answered the squire, ‘how you can be such an addlepate as to mistake this wench for your lady Kittie Robbins is more than I can understand. Well, be it as you say—a doubter of masters is equal to a quitter. There is no fool like an old fool. Squires are made to obey and not to command their masters. If you say this is your lady Kittie Robbins whom the enchanters have banned to sixty years of life in Yen Mott Lee’s establishment in the world from which we progressed during the Sixteenth Century—be it so. Others can say the moon is green but I can think as I choose. Bamum said there was one born every minute and-’

“ ‘Go on, friend, string your proverbs, though they have as little filling as a bladder of wind. What do you know of Bamum? Bamum was of the days immediately prior to automobiles and airships, your day was that of mule and horseback. Would you suggest that I, your master, am a fool?’

“ ‘I’ troth, sir, I know not, I only know that you promised to show me heaven after death, and this world is much after the fashion of the one we left—everything, even to fools, seems to be reproduced here-’

“ ‘Ingrate! Hand me that enchanted bolt from your saddle-pack. And you, dear lady, take the bolt, heave it with all your strength against the forehead of the approaching giant. Fie on thee—thou imitation of a squire who has not guts enough to fare forth to do battle with you approaching giant. This is little enough which we can do to protect my lady during her enchantment. ’

“ ‘Good sir, I’ faith, I see no giant-’

“ ‘Why, my good sir, ’ I was forced to interrupt. I was somewhat displeased that this squire did not recognize me. ‘Why, my good squire,

can you not see Jack Robbins approaching with his knife?’

‘ ‘ I found the enchanted bolt in my hand. I do not remember taking it from the knight’s hand. It was there—a small bit of iron in the hot palm of my hand. I looked toward Jack Robbins. I was rather surprized* and a bit puzzled that my husband had not arrived closer during the lengthy conversation between the knight and his squire. But enchanters have a way of making things seem what they are not. It seemed to me like a long time since I first found myself in the field; nevertheless the man with the knife was still approaching, and a tremor of fear engulfed me.

“ ‘Whine, whine! You-!’

“It was Jack Robbins who spoke.

“ ‘Did you think you could escape me?’ he continued.

“I drew back my arm, closed my eyes, and threw the ball of iron as hard as I could. The approaching fiend stopped dead in his tracks, threw his knife away from him, raised to his tiptoes, whirled completely about in a circle, then went crashing on his face to claw among the weeds and—be still.

‘ ‘ T looked about to see what had

-*■ become of the knight and his squire. I could not see them. Instead I saw the flickering candleflame. I heard the splintering crash of the door as it was broken by heavy shoulders. I had probably swooned and dreamed all this. I had no time to dwell on the strangeness of it all, for the breaking door told me that Jack Robbins was coming and there was no knight to assist me—even the ball of iron was gone from my hand, as poor a weapon as it was.

“I screamed in terror. I leaped to my feet just as the door fell in, and there—and there stood—not Jack Robbins, as I had expected, but



a big, broad-shouldered man in the blue uniform of a policeman.

“ ‘Come, lady,’ he said, in a kindly, although deep-toned voice, ‘ I feared you had come to harm. My pounding on the door brought no answer from you, and I had to make entrance by force. Who killed Jack Robbins—and how? What has happened here?’

“I did not answer him. X could not find voice to reply. Leaning on his arm I was led out of the room and through the study. As I passed through I saw my husband on the floor. A doctor was bending over him. As I passed close I heard the man of medicines saying, ‘Dead, dead as a door-knob, but for the life of me I can’t determine what killed him.’

“ ‘I know, I know!’ I had found my voice: ‘I killed him with an enchanted bolt from beyond the grave. ’ Then I told my story.

“The doctor looked at me for a moment, his mouth dropped open, he scratched his head, then smiled sadly.

“ ‘Poor soul, she’s insane; something terrible has happened here. Here is the enchanted bolt of which she speaks. It weighs less than three ounces. As for the bag of gold, if it ever existed—where is it now? You gentlemen, who knew Jack Robbins, respectable cashier in the Mauginsville Bank, will hardly consider the incident of the yellow-haired woman and Xhe bag of gold. Take her away, we will look after her later.’

‘ ‘ They did look after me. I fooled them. I escaped and came to this place! And now, you writer of tales, you have your story. Go make fun of me—and if you do, and if you come back here to the waterfront in search of yarns, I’ll scratch your eyes out!”

As I have said, I only tell what Kittie told. She may have been “stringing” me. She may be crazy,

[THE END]

============================================================
by Carr
============================================================
I’m going back some of these times to see if she’s still there. I may ask her what became of the bag of gold. I imagine Kittie knows a lot of interesting yarns.


By ROBERT S. CARR

A few weird chords of music,

Riding the midnight winds,

Snatched my mind away from me And out where the dawn begins.

My mind came back with fantasies, Like cobwebs’ gray festoons,

Looped across my consciousness To sing of gibbous moons;

Of new graves seen by lightning,

And skulls in the seashore’s sand;

Of black ghouls’ lairs in gloomy woods

Where crumbling tombstones stand; Of tortured stars that faint and fall A billion miles through space;

Of moaning ghosts in haunted caves, And snakes with maidens’ face. When the weird chords ceased, my mind came back,

Like a vampire flapping home In the dim dawn light from a ghastly night,

No more, I hope, to roam.


The Queen of Spades*

By ALEXANDER PUSHKIN

THERE was a card party at the rooms of Narumoff of the Horse Guards. The long winter night passed away imperceptibly, and it was 5 o’elock in the morning before the company sat down to supper. Those who had won ate with a good appetite, the others sat staring absently at their empty plates. When the champagne appeared, however, the conversation became animated.

“And how did you fare, Surin?” asked the host.

“Oh, I lost, as usual. I must confess that I am unlucky: I play mirandole, I always keep cool, I never allow anything to put me out, and yet I always lose? r ’

“And you did not once allow yourself to be tempted to back the red? Your firmness astonishes me.”

“But what do you think of Hermann?” said one of the guests, pointing to a young engineer. “He has never had a card in his hand in his life, he has never in his life laid a wager, and yet he sits here till 5 in the morning watching our play. ” “Play interests me very much,” said Hermann, “but I am not in the position to sacrifice the necessary in the hope of winning the superfluous.”

“Hermann is a German: he is economical—that is all! ” observed Tomsky. “But if there is one person that I can not understand, it is my grandmother, the Countess Anna, Feodor ovna. ”

• Translated from the Russian.

“How so?” inquired the guests.

“I can not understand,” continued Tomsky, “how it is that my grandmother does not punt.”

“What is there remarkable about an old lady of eighty not punting?” asked Narumoff.

“Then you do not know why?”

“No, I haven’t the faintest idea.”

“Oh, then listen! About sixty years ago my grandmother went to Paris, where she created quite a sensation. People used to run after her to catch a glimpse of the ‘Muscovite Venus.’ Richelieu made love to her, and my grandmother maintains that he almost blew out his brains in consequence of her cruelty. At that time ladies used to play at faro. On one occasion at the court, she lost a large sum to the Duke of Orleans. On returning home, my grandmother removed the patches from her face, took off her hoops, informed my grandfather of her loss at the gaming table, and ordered him to pay the money. My deceased grandfather, as far as I remember, was a sort of house-steward to my grandmother. He dreaded her like fire; but, on hearing of sueh a heavy loss, he almost went out of his mind; he calculated the various sums she had lost, and pointed out to her that in six months she had spent half a million francs, that neither their Moscow nor Saratoff estates were in Paris, and finally refused point-blank to pay the debt. My grandmother gave him a box on the ear and slept by herself as a sign of her displeasure. The next day she


sent for her husband, hoping that this domestic punishment had produced an effect upon him, but she found him inflexible. For the first time in her life, she entered into reasonings and explanations with him, thinking to be able to convince him by pointing out to him that there are debts and debts, and that there is a great difference^ between a prince and a eoachmaker. But it was all in vain: my grandfather remained obdurate.

“But the matter did not rest there. My grandmother did not know what to do. She had shortly before become acquainted with a very remarkable man. You have heard of Count St. Germain, about whom so many marvelous stories are told. You know that he represented himself as the Wandering Jew, as the discoverer of the elixir of life, of the philosopher’s stone, and so forth. Spme laughed at him as a charlatan; but St. Germain was a very fascinating person, much sought after in the best circles. My grandmother knew that he had large sums of money at his disposal, and she wrote a letter asking him to come to her without delay. The queer old man immediately waited upon her and found her overwhelmed with grief. She described to him in the blackest colors the barbarity of her husband, and ended by declaring that her whole hope depended upon his friendship.

“St. Germain reflected.

V ‘I could advance you the sum you want,’ said he, ‘but I know that you would not rest easy until you had paid me back, and I should not like to bring fresh troubles upon you. But there is another way of getting out of your difficulty: you can win back your* money. ’

“ ‘But, my dear count,’ replied my grandmother, ‘I tell you that I haven’t any money left.’

“ ‘Money is not necessary,’ replied St. Germain: ‘listen to me.’

“Then he revealed to her a secret,

for which each of us would give a good deal.”

The young officers listened with increased attention. Tomsky lit his pipe, puffed away for a moment and then continued:

‘ ‘ That same evening my grandmother went to Versailles to the jeu de la reine. The Duke of Orleans kept the bank; my grandmother excused herself in an off-hand manner for not having yet paid her debt, by inventing some little story, and then began to play against him. She chose three cards and played them one after the other: all three won sonika —that is, in the quickest possible time —and my grandmother recovered every farthing that she had lost. ’ ’

“Mere chance!” said one of the guests.

“A tale!” observed Hermann.

“Perhaps they were marked' cards!” said a third.

“I do not think so,” replied Tomsky gravely.

“What!” said Narumoff; “you have a grandmother who knows how to hit upon three lucky cards in succession, and you have not succeeded in getting the secret from her?”

“That’s the deuce of it,” replied Tomsky: “she had four sons, one of whom was my father; all four were determined gamblers, and yet not to one of them did she ever reveal her secret. But this is what I heard from my uncle, Count Ivan Ilyich, and he assured me, on his honor, that it was true. The late Chap-, litzky—the same who died in poverty after having squandered millions— once lost, in his youth, about three hundred thousand rubles. He was in despair. My grandmother, who was always very severe upon the extravagance of young men, took pity, however, upon Chaplitzky. She gave him three cards, telling him to play them one after the other, at the same time exacting from him a solemn promise that he would never play at


cards again as long as he lived. Chaplitzky then went to his victorious opponent, and they began a fresh game. On the first card he staked fifty thousand rubles and won sonika; he doubled the stake and won again, till at last, by pursuing the same tactics, he won back more than he had lost.

“But it is time to go to bed: it is a quarter to 6 already.”

And indeed it was already beginning to dawn: the young men emptied their glasses and then took leave of each other.


r T~'iiE old countess was seated

in her dressing room before

her looking glass.. Three waiting maids stood around her. One held a small pot of rouge, another a box of hair-pins, and the third a tall cap with bright red ribbons. The countess had no longer the slightest pretensions to beauty, but she still preserved the habits of her youth,

dressed in strict accordance with the fashion of seventy years before, and made as long and as careful a toilette as she would have done sixty years previously. Near the window, at an embroidery frame, sat a young lady, her ward.

“Good morning, grandmamma,” said a young officer, entering the

room. “Bonjour, Mademoiselle Lisa. Grandmamma, I want to ask you something.”

“What is it, Paul?”

“I want you to let me introduce one of my friends to you, and to allow me to bring him to the ball on Friday.”

“Bring him directly to the ball and introduce him to me there. Were you at B-’s yesterday?”

“Yes; everything went off very pleasantly, and dancing was kept up until 5 o’clock. How charming Yeletzkaya was!”

“But, my dear, what is there charming about her? Isn’t she like

her grandmother, the Princess Daria Petrovna? By the way, she must be very old, the Princess Daria Petrovna. ’ ’

“How do you mean, old?” cried Tomsky thoughtlessly; “she ’died seven years ago.”

The young lady raised her head and made a sign to the young officer. He then remembered that the old countess was never to be informed of the death of any of her contemporaries, and he bit his lips. But she heard the news with indifference.,

‘ ‘ Dead! ’ ’ said she; ‘ * and I did not know it. We were appointed maids of honor at the same time, and when we were presented to the Empress....”

And the countess for the hundredth time related to her grandson one of her anecdotes.

“Come, Paul,” said she, when she had finished her story, “help me to get up.. Lizanka, where is my snuffbox?”

And the countess with her three maids went behind a screen to finish her toilette. Tomsky was left alone with the young lady.

“Who is the gentleman you wish to introduce to the countess?” asked Lizaveta Ivanovna in a whisper.

‘ ‘ Narumoff. Do you know him? ’ ’

“No. Is he a soldier or a civilian?’’

“A soldier.”

“Is he in the Engineers?”

“No, in the Cavalry. What made you think he was in the Engineers?”

The young lady smiled, but made no reply.

“Paul,” cried the countess from behind the screen, “send me some new novel, only pray don’t let it be one of the present-day style.”

“What do you mean, grandmother?”

“That is, a novel in which the hero strangles neither his father nor his mother, and in which there are no drowned bodies. I have a great horror of drowned persons.”



“There are no such novels nowadays. Would you like a Russian one?”

“Are there any Russian novels? Pray send me one!”

“Good-bye, grandmother: I am in a hurry.... Good-bye, Lizaveta Ivanovna.”

And Tomsky left the boudoir.

Lizaveta Ivanovna was left alone: she laid aside her work and began to look out the window. A few minutes afterward, at a comer house on the other side of the street, a young officer appeared. A deep blush covered her cheeks; she took up her work again and bent her head down over the frame. At the same moment the countess returned.

“Order the carriage, Lizaveta,” said she; “we will go for a drive.”

Lizaveta arose from the frame and began to arrange her work.

“What is the matter with you, my child, are you deaf?” cried the countess. “Order the carriage to be made ready at once.”

“I will do so this moment,” replied the young lady, hastening into the anteroom.

A servant entered and gave the eountess some books from Prince Paul Alexandrovich.

“Tell him that I am much obliged to him,” said the eountess. “Lizaveta! Where are you running to? ”

“I am going to dress.”

“There is plenty of time, my dear, sit down here and read to me.”

Her companion took the book and read a few lines.

“Louder,” said the countess. “What is the matter with you, my ehild? Have you lost your voiee? Wait—give me that footstool—a little nearer—that will do.”

Lizaveta read two more pages. The eountess yawned.

“Put the book down,” said she; “what a lot of nonsense! Send it baek to Prince Paul with my thanks. But where is the carriage?”

“The carriage is ready,” said Lizaveta, looking out into the street.

“How is it you are not dressed?” asked the countess. “I must always wait for you. It is intolerable.”

Liza hastened to her room. She had not been there two minutes, before the countess began to ring with all her might. The three waiting maids came running in at one door and the valet at another.

“How is it that you can not hear me when I ring fur you?” said the countess. “Tell Lizaveta Ivanovna I am waiting for her. ’ ’

Lizaveta returned with her hat and cloak on.

“At last you are here!” said the eountess. “But why sueh an elaborate toilette? Whom do you intend to captivate? What sort of weather is it? It seems rather windy.”

“No, your Ladyship, it is very calm,” replied the valet.

“You never think of what you are talking about. Open the window. So it is: windy and bitterly cold. Unharness the horses. Lizaveta, we won’t go out—there was no need for you to deck yourself like that. ’ ’

“What a life is mine!” thought Lizaveta Ivanovna.

And, in truth, Lizaveta Ivanovna was a very unfortunate ereature. The old countess had by no means a bad heart, but she was capricious, like a woman who had been spoilt by the world, as well as being avaricious and egotistical, like all old people who have seen their best days, and whose thoughts are with the past and not the present. She participated in all the vanities of the great world, went to balls, where she sat in a comer, painted and dressed in old-fashioned style, like a deformed but indispensable ornament of the ballroom; all the guests on entering approached her and made a profound bow, as if in accordance with a set ceremony, but after that nobody took further notice of her.



Her numerous domestics, growing fat and old in her antechamber and servants’ hall, did just as they liked, and vied with each other in robbing the aged countess in the most barefaced manner. Lizaveta Ivanovna was the martyr of the household. She made tea, and was reproached with using too much sugar; she read novels aloud to the countess, and the faults of the author were visited upon her head; she accompanied the countess in her walks, and was held answerable for the weather or the state of the pavement. A salary was attached to the post, but she very rarely received it, although she was expected. to dress like everybody else, that is to say, like very few indeed. In society she played the most pitiable role. Everybody knew her, and nobody paid her any attention. At balls she danced only when a partner was wanted, the ladies would only take hold of her arm when it was necessary to lead her out of the room to attend to their dresses. She was very self-eonscious, and felt her position keenly, and she looked about her with impatience for a deliverer to come to her rescue; but the young men, calculating in their giddiness, honored her with but very little attention, although Lizaveta Ivanovna was a hundred times prettier than the bare-faced and cold-hearted marriageable girls around whom they hovered. Many a time did she quietly slink away from the glittering but wearisome drawing room, to go and cry in her own poor little room, in which stood a screen, a chest of drawers, a looking-glass and a painted bedstead, and where a tallow candle burnt feebly in a copper candlestick.

/^vne morning—this was about two days after the evening party described at the beginning of this story, and a week previous to the scene at which we have just assisted—Liza-

veta Ivanovna was seated near the window at her embroidery frame, when, happening to look out into the street, she caught sight of a young engineer officer, standing motionless with his eyes fixed upon her window. She lowered her head and went on again with her work. About five minutes afterward she looked out again—the young officer was still standing in the same place. Not being in the habit of coquetting with passing officers, she did not continue to gaze out into the street, but went on sewing for a couple of hours, without raising her head. Dinner was announced. She rose up and began to put her embroidery away, but glancing easually out of the window, she perceived the officer again. This seemed to her very strange. After dinner she went to the window with a certain feeling of uneasiness, but the officer was no longer there—and she thought no more about him.

A couple of days afterward, just as she was stepping into the carriage with the countess, she saw him again. He was standing close behind the door, with his face half-concealed by his fur collar, but his dark eyes sparkled beneath his cap. Lizaveta felt alarmed, and she trembled as she seated herself in the carriage.

On returning home, she hastened to the window—the officer was standing in his accustomed place, with his eyes fixed upon her. She drew back, a prey to curiosity and agitated by a feeling that was quite new to her.

From that time forward not a day passed without the young officer making his appearance under the window at the customary hour, and between him and her there was established a sort of mute acquaintance.. Sitting in her place at work, she used to feel his approach; and raising her head, she would look at him longer and longer each day. The young man seemed to be very grateful to her: a sudden flush covered his pale cheeks



each time their glances met. After about a week she commenced to smile at him.

When Tomsky asked permission of his grandmother the countess to present one of his friends to her, the young girl’s heart beat violently. But hearing that Narumoff was not an engineer, she regretted that by her thoughtless question she had betrayed her secret to the volatile Tomsky.

Hermann was the son of a German who had become a naturalized Russian, and from whom he had inherited a small capital. Being firmly convinced of the necessity of preserving his independence, Hermann did not touch his private income, but lived on his pay, without allowing himself the slightest luxury. And though he was a gamester at heart, he never touched a card, for he considered his position did not allow him, as he said, "to risk the necessary in the hope of winning the superfluous,” yet he would sit for nights together at the card table and follow the game with feverish anxiety.

The story of the three cards had produced a powerful impression upon his imagination, and all night long he could think of nothing else. “If,” he thought to himself the following evening, as he walked along the streets of St. Petersburg, “if the old countess would but reveal her secret to me! If she would only tell me the names of the three winning cards! Why should I not try my fortune? I must get introduced to her and win her favor—become her lover. But all that will take time, and she is eightyseven years old: she might be dead in a week, in a couple of days even. But the story itself: can it really be true? No! Economy, temperance and industry: those are my three winning cards; by means of them I shall be able to double my capital—increase it sevenfold, and procure for myself ease and independence.”

Musing in this manner, he walked on until he found himself in one of the principal streets of St. Petersburg, in front of a house of antiquated architecture. The street was blocked with equipages; carriages one after the other drew up in front of the brilliantly illuminated doorway. At one moment there stepped out on to the pavement the well-shaped little foot of some young beauty, at another the heavy boot of a cavalry officer, and then the silk stockings and shoes of a member of the diplomatic world. Furs and cloaks passed in rapid succession before the gigantic porter at the entrance.

Hermann stopped. “Whose house is this?” he asked of the watchman at the comer.

“The Countess Anna Feodorovna’s” replied the watchman.

Hermann started. The strange story of the three cards again presented itself to his imagination. He began walking up and down before the house, thinking of its owner and her strange secret. Returning late to his modest lodging, he could not go to sleep for a long time, and when at last he did doze off, he could dream of nothing but cards, green tables, piles of bank-notes and heaps of ducats. He played one card after the other, winning uninterruptedly, and then he gathered up the gold and filled his pockets with the notes. When he woke up late the next morning, he sighed over the loss of his imaginary wealth, and then sallying out into the town, he found himself once more in front of the countess’ residence. He looked up at the windows. At one of these he saw a head with luxuriant black hair, which was bent down probably over some book or an embroidery frame. The head was raised.. Hermann saw a fresh complexion and a pair of dark eyes. That moment decided his fate.




izaveta ivanovna had scarcelytaken off her hat and cloak before the countess sent for her and again told her to get the carriage ready. The vehicle drew up before the door, and they prepared to take their seats. Just at the moment when two footmen were assisting the old lady to enter the carriage, Lizaveta saw her engineer standing close beside the wheel; he grasped her hand; alarm caused her to lose her presence of mind, and the young man disappeared—but not before he had left a letter between her fingers. She concealed it in her glove, and during the whole of the drive she neither saw nor heard anything.

It was the custom of the countess to be constantly asking such questions as: ".Who was that person that met us just now? What is the name of this bridge? What is written on that signboard?” On this occasion, however, Lizaveta returned such vague and absurd answers that the countess became angry with her.

"What is the matter with you, my dear?” she exclaimed. "Have you taken leave of your senses, or what is it? Do you not hear me or understand what I say? Heaven be thanked, I am still in my right mind and speak plainly enough!”

Lizaveta Ivanovna did not hear her. On returning home she ran to her room and drew the letter out of her glove. It contained a declaration of love; it was tender, respectful, and copied word for word from a German novel. But Lizaveta did not know anything of the German language, and she was quite delighted.

For all that, the letter caused her to feel exceedingly uneasy. For the first time in her life she was entering into secret and confidential relations with a young man. His boldness alarmed her. She reproached herself for her imprudent behavior, and

knew not what to do. Should she cease to sit at the window and, by assuming an appearance of indifference toward him, put a check upon the young officer’s desire for further acquaintance with her? Should she send his letter back to him, or should she answer him in a cold and decided manner? At length she resolved to reply to him.

She sat down at her little writing table, took pen and paper, and began to think.. Several times she began the letter and then tore it up, for the way she had expressed herself seemed either too inviting or too coldly decisive. At last she succeeded in writing a few lines with which she felt satisfied.

"I am convinced,” she wrote, “that your intentions are honorable, and that you do not wish to offend me by any imprudent behavior, but our acquaintance must not begin in such a manner. I return your letter, and I hope that I shall never have any cause to complain of this undeserved slight.”

The next day, as soon as Hermann made his appearance, Lizaveta rose from her embroidery, went into the drawing room, opened the ventilator and threw the letter into the street, trusting that the young officer would have the perception to pick it up.

Hermann hastened forward, picked it up and then repaired to a confectioner’s shop. Breaking the seal of the envelope, he found inside it his own letter and Lizaveta’s reply. He had expected this, and he returned home, his mind deeply occupied.

Three days afterward, a brighteyed young girl from a milliner’s establishment brought Lizaveta a letter. Lizaveta opened it with great uneasiness, fearing that it was a demand for money, when suddenly she recognized Hermann’s handwriting

“You have made a mistake,” she said: “this letter is not for me.”.?



“Oh, yes, it is for you,” replied the girl, smiling very knowingly. “Have the goodness to read it.”

Lizaveta glanced at the letter. Hermann requested an interview.

‘ ‘ It can not be, ’ ’ she cried, alarmed at the audacious request, and the manner in which it was made. ‘ ‘ This letter is certainly not for me. ’ ’

And she tore it into fragments.

‘ ‘ If the letter was not for you, why have you torn it up?” said the girl. “I should have given it back to the person who sent it. ’ ’

“Be good enough, my dear,” said Lizaveta, disconcerted by this remark, “not to bring me any more letters, and tell the person who sent you that he ought to be ashamed.”

But Hermann was not the man to be thus put off. Every day Lizaveta received from him a letter, sent now in this way, now in that. They were no longer translated from the German. Hermann wrote them under the inspiration of passion, and spoke in his own language, and they bore full testimony to the inflexibility of -his desire and the disordered condition of his uncontrollable imagination. Lizaveta no longer thought of sending them back to him: she became intoxicated with them and began to reply to them, and little by little her answers became longer and more affectionate.

At last she threw out of the window to him the following letter: “This evening there is going to be a ball at the embassy. The countess will be there.. We shall remain until 2 o’clock. You have now an opportunity of seeing me alone. As soon as the countess is gone, the servants will very probably go out, and there will be nobody left but the Swiss, and he usually goes to sleep in his lodge. Come about half-past 11. Walk straight upstairs. If you meet anybody in the anteroom, ask if the countess is at home. You will be told ‘No,’ in which case there will be noth-

ing left for you to do but to go away again. But it is most probable that you will meet nobody. The maidservants will all be together in one room. On leaving the anteroom, turn to the left, and walk straight on until you reach the countess ’ bedroom. In the bedroom, behind a screen, you will find two doors: the one on the right leads to a cabinet, which the countess never enters; the one on the left leads to a corridor, at the end of which is a little winding staircase; this leads to my room.”

TTermann trembled like a tiger, as he waited for the appointed time to arrive. At 10 o’clock in the evening he was already in front of the countess’ house. The weather was terrible; the wind blew with great violence; the sleety snow fell in large flakes; the lamps emitted a feeble light, the streets were deserted; from time to time a sledge, drawn by a sorry-looking hack, passed by, on the lookout for a belated passenger. Hermann was enveloped in a thick overcoat, and felt neither wind nor snow.

At last the countess’ carriage drew up. Hermann saw two footmen carryout in their arms the bent form of the old lady, wrapped in sable fur, and immediately behind her, clad in a warm mantle, and with her head ornamented with a wreath of fresh flowers, followed Lizaveta. The door was closed. The carriage rolled away heavily through the yielding snow. The porter shut the street door; the windows became dark.

Hermann began walking up and down near the deserted house; at length he stopped under a lamp and glanced at his watch: it was twenty minutes past 11.

At half-past 11 precisely, he ascended the steps of the house, and made his way into the brightly illuminated vestibule. He hastily ascended the staircase, opened the door of the anteroom and saw a footman sitting



asleep in an antique chair by the side of a lamp. With a light, firm step Hermann passed by him. The drawing room and dining room were in darkness, but a feeble reflection penetrated thither from the lamp in the anteroom.

Hermann reached the countess’ bedroom. Before a shrine, which was full of old images, a golden lamp was burning. Faded stuffed chairs and divans with soft cushions stood in melancholy symmetry around the room, the walls of which were hung with China silk. On one side of the room hung two portraits painted in Paris by Madame Lebrun. In the corners stood porcelain shepherds and sheperdesses, dining room clocks, bandboxes, roulettes, fans and the various playthings for the amusement of ladies that were in vogue at the end of “the last century, when Montgolfier’s balloons and Mesmer’s magnetism were the rage. Hermann stepped behind the screen. At the back of it stood a little iron bedstead; on the right was the door which led to the cabinet; on the left, the other which led to the corridor. He opened the latter, and saw the little winding staircase which led to the room of the poor companion. But he retraced his steps and entered the dark cabinet.

The time passed slowly. All was still. The clock in the drawing room struck 12; the strokes echoed through the room one after the Other, and everything was quiet again. Hermann stood leaning against the cold stove. He was calm; his heart beat regularly, like that of a man resolved upon a dangerous but inevitable undertaking. One o’clock in the morning struck; then 2; and he heard the distant noise of carriagewheels. An involuntary agitation took possession of him. The carriage drew near and stopped. He heard the sound of the carriage-steps being let down. All was bustle within the

house. The servants were running hither and thither, there was a confusion of voices, and the rooms were lit up. Three antiquated chambermaids entered the bedroom, and they were shortly afterward followed by the countess, who, more dead than alive, sank into a Voltaire armchair. Hermann peeped through a chink. Lizaveta Ivanovna passed close by him, and he heard her hurried steps as she hastened up the little spiral staircase. For a moment his heart was assailed by something like a pricking of conscience, but the emotion was only transitory, and his heart became petrified as before.

The countess began to undress before her looking-glass. Her rose-bedecked cap was taken off, and then her powdered wig was removed from off her white and closely-cut hair. Hairpins fell in showers around her. Her yellow satin dress, brocaded with silver, fell down at her swollen feet.

Hermann was a witness of the repugnant mysteries of her toilette; at last the countess was in her night-cap and dressing gown, and in this costume, more suitable to her age, she appeared less hideous and deformed.

Like most old people, the countess suffered from sleeplessness. Having undressed, she seated herself at the window in a Voltaire armchair and dismissed her maids. The candles were taken away, and once more the room was left with only one lamp burning in it. The countess sat there looking quite yellow, mumbling with her flaccid lips and swaying to and fro. Her dull eyes expressed complete vacancy of mind, and, looking at her, one would have thought that the rocking of her body was not a voluntary action of her own, but was produced by the action of some concealed galvanic mechanism.

Suddenly the deathlike face assumed an inexplicable expression. The lips ceased to tremble, the eyes



became animated: before the eonntess stood an unknown man.

"Do not be alarmed, for heaven’s sake, do not be alarmed!” said he in a low but distinet voice. "I have no intention of doing you any harm, I have only come to ask a favor of you.”

The old woman looked at him in silenee, as if she had not heard what he had said. Hermann thought that she was deaf, and, bending down toward her ear, he repeated what he had said. The aged countess remained silent as before.

“You can insure the happiness of my life,” continued Hermann, “and it will cost you nothing. I know that you can name three cards in order-”

Hermann stopped. The countess appeared now to understand what he wanted; she seemed as if seeking for words to reply.

“It was a joke,” she replied at last. “I assure you it was only a joke. ’ ’

“There is no joking about the matter,” replied Hermann angrily. “Remember Chaplitzky, whom you helped to win.”

The countess became visibly uneasy. Her features expressed strong emotion, but they quickly resumed their former immobility.

“Can you not name me these three winning cards?” continued Hermann.

The countess remained silent; Hermann continued: “For whom are you preserving your secret? For your grandsons? They are rich enough without it; they do not know the worth of money. Your cards would be of no use to a spendthrift. He who can not preserve his paternal inheritance will die in want, even though he had a demon at his service. I am not a man of that sort; I know the value of money. Your three cards will not be thrown away upon me. Come?”

He paused and tremblingly awaited her reply. The countess remained silent; Hermann fell upon his knees.

“If your heart has ever known the feeling of love,” said he, “if you remember its rapture, if you have ever smiled at the cry of your new-born ehild, if any human feeling has ever entered into your breast, I entreat you by the feelings of a wife, a lover, a mother, by all that is most sacred in life, not to reject my prayer. Reveal to me your secret. Of what use is it to you? Maybe it is connected with some terrible sin, with the loss of eternal salvation, with some bargain with the devil. Reflect: you are old; you have not long to live; I am ready to take your sins upon my soul. Only reveal to me your secret. Remember that the happiness of a man is in your hands, that not only I, but my children, and grandchildren, will bless your memory and reverence you as a saint. ’ ’

The old countess answered not a word.

Hermann rose to his feet.

“You old hag,” he exclaimed, grinding his teeth, “then I will make you answer!”

With these words he drew a pistol from his poeket.

At the sight of the pistol, the countess for the second time exhibited strong emotion. She shook her head and raised her hands as if to protect herself from the shot; then she fell backward and remained motionless.

“Come, an end to this childish nonsense!” said Hermann, taking hold of her hand. “ I ask you for the last time: will you tell me the names of your three cards, or will you not? ’ ’

The countess made no reply. Hermann perceived that she was dead!


T izaveta IVANOVNA was sitting in

' her room, still in her ball dress, lost in deep thought. On returning home, she had hastily dismissed the



chambermaid, who very reluctantly came forward to assist her, saying that she would undress herself, and with a trembling heart had gone up to her own room, expecting to find Hermann there, but yet hoping not to find him. At the first glance she convinced herself that he was not there, and she thanked her fate for having prevented him keeping the appointment. She sat down without undressing, and began to recall to mind all the circumstances which in so short a time had carried her so far. It was not three weeks sinee the time when she first saw the young officer from the window, and yet she was already in correspondence with him, and he had succeeded in inducing her to grant him a nocturnal interview! She knew his name only through his having written it at the bottom of some of his letters; she had never spoken to him, had never heard his voice, and had never heard him spoken of until that evening. But, strange to say, that very evening at the ball, Tomsky, being piqued with

the young Princess Pauline N-,

who, contrary to her usual custom, did not flirt with him, wished to revenge himself by assuming an air of indifference: he therefore engaged Lizaveta Ivanovna and danced an endless mazurka with her. During the whole of the time he kept teasing her about her partiality for engineer officers; he assured her that he knew far more than she imagined, and some of his jests were so happily aimed, that Lizaveta thought several times that her secret was known to him.

“From whom have you learnt all this?” she asked, smiling.

“From a friend of a person very well known to you, ’ ’ replied Tomsky; “from a very distinguished man.”

“And who is this distinguished man?”

“His name is Hermann.”

Lizaveta made no reply; but her

hands and feet lost all sense of feeling.

“This Hermann,” continued Tomsky, “is a man of romantic personality. He has the profile of a Napoleon, and the soul of a Mephistopheles. I believe that he has at least three crimes upon his conscience.... How pale you have become! ’ ’

“I have a headache. But what did this Hermann—or whatever his name is—tell you?”

“Hermann is very much dissatisfied with his friend: he says that in his place he would act very differently. I even think that Hermann himself has designs upon you; at least, he listens very attentively to all that his friend has to say about you. ’ ’

“And where has he seen me?”

“In church, perhaps; or on the parade—God alone knows where. It may have been in your room, while you were asleep, for there is nothing that he-”

Three ladies approaching him interrupted the conversation, which had become so tantalizingly interesting to Lizaveta.

The lady chosen by Tomsky was the Princess Pauline herself. She succeeded in effecting a reconciliation with him during the numerous turns of the dance, after which he conducted her to her chair. On returning to his place, Tomsky thought no more either of Hermann or Lizaveta. She longed to renew the interrupted conversation, but the mlzurka came to an end, and shortly afterward the old countess took her departure.

Tomsky’s words were nothing more than the customary small talk of the dance, but they sank deep into the soul of the young dreamer. The portrait, sketched by Tomsky, coincided with the picture she had formed within her own mind, and thanks to the latest romances, the ordinary countenance of her admirer became invested with attributes capable of alarming her and fascinating her



imagination at the same time. She was now sitting with her bare arms crossed and with her head, still adorned with flowers, sunk upon her uncovered bosom. Suddenly the door opened and Hermann entered. She shuddered.

“Where were you?” she asked in a terrified whisper.

“In the old countess’ bedroom,” replied Hermann: “I have just left her. The countess is dead.”

‘ ‘ My God! What do you say? ’ ’

“And I aip afraid,” added Hermann, “that I am the cause of her death.”

Lizaveta looked at him, and Tomsky’s words found an echo in her soul: “This man has at least three crimes upon his conscience!” Hermann sat down by the window and related all that had happened.

Lizaveta listened to him in terror. So all those passionate letters, those ardent desires, this bold obstinate pursuit—all this was not love! Money —that was what his soul yearned for! She could not satisfy his desire and make him happy! The poor girl had been nothing but the blind tool of a robber, of the murderer of her aged benefactress! She wept bitter tears of agonized repentance. Hermann gazed at her in silence: his heart, too, was a prey to violent emotion, but neither the tears of the poor girl, nor the wonderful charm of her beauty, enhanced by^her grief, could produce any impression upon his hardened soul. He felt no pricking of conscience at the thought of the dead old woman. One thing only grieved him: the irreparable loss of the secret from which he had expected to obtain great wealth.

“You are a monster!” said Lizaveta at last.

“I did not wish for her death,” replied Hermann. “My pistol was not loaded.”

Both remained silent.

The day began to dawn.. Lizaveta extinguished her candle: a pale light illumined her room. She wiped her tear-stained eyes and raised them toward Hermann: he was sitting near the window, with his arms crossed and with a fierce frown upon his forehead. In this attitude he bore a striking resemblance to the portrait of Napoleon. This resemblance struck Lizaveta even.

“How shall I get you out of the house? ’ ’ said she at last. ‘ ‘ I thought of conducting you down the secret staircase, but in that case it would be necessary to go through the countess’ bedroom, and I am afraid.”

“Tell me how to find this secret staircase—I will go alone.”

Lizaveta arose, took from her drawer a key, handed it to Hermann and gave him the necessary instructions. Hermann pressed her cold, limp hand, kissed her bowed head, and left the room.

He descended the winding staircase, and once more entered the countess’ bedroom. The dead old lady sat as if petrified; her face expressed profound tranquillity. Hermann stopped before her, and gazed long and earnestly at her, as if he wished to convince himself of the terrible reality; at last he entered the cabinet, felt behind the tapestry for the door, and then began to descend the dark staircase, filled with strange emotions. “Down this very staircase,” thought he, “perhaps coming from the very same room, and at this very same hour sixty years ago, there may have glided, in an embroidered coat, with his hair dressed a, Voiseau royal and pressing to his heart his three-cornered hat, some young gallant, who has long been moldering in the grave, but the heart of his aged mistress has only today ceased to beat.”

At the bottom of the staircase Hermann found a door, which he opened with the key, and then traversed a



corridor which conducted him into the street.


T hree days after the fatal night, at 9 o’clock in the morning, Hermann repaired to the Convent of

-, where the last honors were to

be paid to the mortal remains of the old countess. Although feeling no remorse, he could not altogether stifle the voice of conscience, which said to him: “You are the murderer of the old woman!” In spite of his entertaining very little religious belief, he was exceedingly superstitious; and believing that the dead countess might exercise an evil influence on his life, he resolved to be present at her obsequies in order to implore her pardon.

The church was full. It was with difficulty that Hermann made his way through the crowd of people. The coffin was placed upon a rich catafalque beneath a velvet baldachin. The deceased countess lay within it, with her hands crossed upon her breast, with a lace cap upon her head and dressed in a white satin robe. Around the catafalque stood the members of her household: the servants in black caftans, with armorial ribbons upon their shoulders, and candles in their hands; the relatives —children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren—in deep mourning.

Nobody wept; tears would have been an affectation. The countess was so old that her death could have surprized nobody, and her relatives had long looked upon her as being out of the world. A famous preacher pronounced the funeral sermon. In simple and touching words he described the peaceful passing away of the righteous, who had passed long years in calm preparation for a Christian end. “The angel of death found her,” said the orator, “engaged in pious meditation and waiting for the midnight bridegroom.”

The service concluded amidst profound silence. The relatives went forward first to take farewell of the corpse. Then followed the numerous guests, who had come to render the last homage to her who for so many years had been a participator in their frivolous amusements. After these followed the members of the countess^ household. The last of these was an old woman of the same age as the deceased. Two young women led her forward by the hand. She had not strength enough to bow down to the ground—she merely shed a few tears and kissed the cold hand of her mistress.

Hermann now resolved to approach the coffin., He knelt down upon the eold stones and remained in that position for some minutes; at last he arose, as pale as the deceased countess herself; he ascended the steps of the catafalque and bent over the corpse.... At that moment it seemed to him that the dead woman darted a mocking look at him and winked with one eye. Hermann started back, took a false step and fell to the ground. Several persons hurried forward and raised him up. At the same moment Lizaveta Ivanovna was borne fainting into the porch of the church. This episode disturbed for some minutes die solemnity of the gloomy ceremony. Among the congregation arose a deep murmur, and a tall, thin chamberlain, a near relative of the deceased, whispered in the ear of an Englishman who was standing near him, that the young officer was a natural son of the countess, to which the Englishman replied: “Oh!”

During the whole of that day, Hermann was strangely excited. Repairing to an out-of-the-way restaurant to dine, he drank a great deal of wine, contrary to his usual custom, in the hope of deadening his inward agitation. But the wine only served to exeite his imagination still more. On returning home, he threw himself



upon his bed without undressing, and fell into a deep sleep.

When he awoke, it was already night, and the moon was shining into the room. He looked at his watch: it was a quarter to 3. Sleep had left him; he sat down upon his bed and thought of the funeral of the old (jountess.

At that moment somebody in the street looked in at his window, and immediately passed on again.. Hermann paid no attention to this incident. A few minutes afterward he heard the door of his anteroom open. Hermann thought that it was his orderly, drunk as usual, returning from some nocturnal expedition, but presently he heard footsteps that were unknown to him: somebody was walking softly over the floor in slippers. The door opened, and a woman dressed in white entered the room. Hermann mistook her for his old nurse, and wondered what could bring her there at that hour of the night. But the white woman glided rapidly across the room and stood before him—and Hermann recognized the countess!

“I have come to you against my wish,” she said in a firm voice: “but I have been ordered to grant your request. Three, seven, ace, will win for you if played in succession, but only on these conditions: that you do not play more than one card in twenty-four hours, and that you never play again during the rest of your life. I forgive you my death, on condition that you marry my companion, Lizaveta Ivanovna.”

With these words she turned round very quietly, walked with a shuffling gait toward the door and disappeared. Hermann heard the street door open and shut, and again he saw someone look in at him through the window.

For a long time Hermann could not recover himself. He then rose up and entered the next room. His

orderly was lying asleep upon the floor, and he had much difficulty in waking him. The orderly was drunk as usual, and no information could be obtained from him. The street door was locked. Hermann returned to his room, lit his candle, and wrote down all the details of his vision.


T wo fixed ideas can no more exist together in the moral world than two bodies can occupy one and the same place in the physical -world.

* ‘ Three, seven, ace ’ ’ soon drove out of Hermann’s mind the thought df the dead countess. “Three, seven, ace” were perpetually running through his head and continually being repeated by his lips. If he saw a young girl, he would say: ‘ ‘ How slender she is! quite like the three of hearts.” If anybody asked: “What is the time?” he would reply: “Five minutes to 7. ’ ’ Every stout man that he saw reminded him of the ace. “Three, seven, ace” haunted him in his sleep, and assumed all possible shapes. The threes bloomed before him in the forms of magnificent flowers, the sevens were represented by Gothic portals, and the aces became transformed into gigantic spiders. One thought alone occupied his whole mind—to make a profitable use of the secret which he had purchased so dearly. He thought of applying for a furlough so as to travel abroad. He wanted to go to Paris and tempt fortune in some of the public gambling houses that abounded there. Chance spared him all this trouble.

There was in Moscow a society of rich gamesters, presided over by the celebrated Chekalinsky, who had passed all his life at the card-table and had amassed millions, accepting bills of exchange for his winnings and paying his losses in ready money. His long experience obtained for him the confidence of his companions, and his open house, his famous cook, and



his agreeable and fascinating manners gained for him the respect of the public. He came to St. Petersburg. The young men of the capital flocked to his rooms, forgetting balls for cards, and preferring the emotions of faro to the seductions of flirting. Narumoff conducted Hermann to Chekalinsky’s residenceThey passed through a suite of magnificent rooms, filled with attentive domestics. The place was crowded. Generals and privy councilors were playing at whist; young men were lolling carelessly upon the velvet-covered sofas, eating ices and smoking pipes. In the drawing room, at the head of a long table, around which were assembled about a score of players, sat the master of the house keeping the bank. He was a man of about sixty years of age, of very dignified appearance; his head was covered with silvery-white hair; his full, florid countenance expressed good-nature, and his eyes twinkled with a perpetual smile. Narumoff introduced Hermann to him. Chekalinsky shook him by the hand in a friendly manner, requested him not to stand on ceremony, and then went on dealing.

The game occupied some time. On the table lay more than thirty cards. Chekalinsky paused after each throw, in order to give the players time to arrange their cards and note down their losses, listened politely to their requests, and put straight the corners of cards that some player’s hand had chanced to bend. At last the game was finished. Chekalinsky shuffled the cards and prepared to deal again.

“Will you allow me to take a card?” said Hermann, stretching out his hand from behind a stout gentleman who was punting.

Chekalinsky smiled and bowed silently, as a sign of acquiescence. Narumoff laughingly congratulated Hermann on his abjuration of that abstention from cards which he had

practised for so long a period, and wished him a lucky beginning.

“Stake!” said Hermann, writing some figures with chalk on the back of his card.

“How much?” asked the banker, contracting the muscles of his eyes; “excuse me, I can not see quite clearly.”

“Forty-seven thousand rubles,” replied Hermann.

At these words every head in the room turned suddenly round, and all eyes were fixed upon Hermann.

“He has taken leave of his senses!” thought Narumoff.

“Allow me to inform you,” said Chekalinsky, with his eternal smile, * ‘ that you are playing very high; nobody here has ever staked more than two hundred and seventy-five rubles at once.”

“Very well,” replied Hermann; “but do you accept my card or not?”

Chekalinsky bowed in token of consent.

“I only wish to observe,” said he, “that although I have the greatest confidence in my friends, I can only play against ready money. For my own part, I am quite convinced that your word is sufficient, but for the sake of the order of the game, and to facilitate the reckoning up, I must ask you to put the money on your card.”

Hermann drew from his pocket a bank-note and handed it to Chekalinsky, who, after examining it in a cursory manner, placed it on Hermann’s card.

He began to deal. On the right a nine turned up, and on the left a three.

“I have won!” said Hermann, showing his card.

A murmur of astonishment arose among the players. Chekalinsky frowned, but the smile quickly returned to his face.



“Do you wish me to settle with you?” he said to Hermann.

“If you please,” replied the latter.

Chekalinsky drew from his pocket a number of bank-notes and paid at onee. Hermann took up his money and left the table. Narumoff could not recover from his astonishment. Hermann drank a glass of lemonade and returned home.

The next evening he again repaired to Chekalinsky’s. The host was dealing. Hermann walked up to the table; the punters immediately made room for him. Chekalinsky greeted him with a gracious bow.

Hermann waited for the next deal, took a card and placed upon it his forty-seven thousand rubles, together with his winnings of the previous evening.

Chekalinsky began to deal. A knave turned up on the right, a seven on the left.

Hermann showed his seven.

There was a general exclamation. Chekalinsky was evidently ill at ease, but he counted out the ninety-four thousand rubles and handed them over to Hermann, who pocketed them in the coolest manner possible and immediately left the house.

The next evening Hermann appeared again at the table. Everyone was expecting him. The generals and privy councilors left their whist to watch such extraordinary play. The young officers quitted their sofas, and even the servants crowded into the room. All pressed round Hermann. The other players left off punting, impatient to see how it would end. Hermann stood at the table and prepared to play alone against the pale but still smiling Chekalinsky. Each opened a pack of cards. Chekalinsky shuffled. Hermann took a card and covered it with

a pile of bank-notes. It was like a duel. Deep silenee reigned around.

Chekalinsky began to deal; his hands trembled. On the right a queen turned up, and on the left an ace.

“Ace has won!” cried Hermann, showing his card.

“Your queen has lost,” said Chekalinsky, politely.

Hermann started; instead of an ace, there lay before him the queen of spades! He could not believe his eyes, nor could he understand how he had made such a mistake.

At that moment it seemed to him that the queen of spades smiled ironically and winked her eye at him. He was struck by her remarkable resemblance....

“The old countess!” he exclaimed, seized with terror.

Chekalinsky gathered up his winnings. For some time, Hermann remained perfectly motionless. When at last he left the table, there was a general commotion in the room.

“Splendidly punted!” said the players. Chekalinsky shuffled the cards afresh, and the game went on as usual.

H ermann went out of his mind, and is now confined in room Number 17 of the Obukhoff Hospital. He never answers any questions, but he constantly mutters with unusual rapidity: “Three, seven, ace!” “Three, seven, queen!”

Lizaveta Ivanovna has married a very amiable young man, a son of the former steward of the old countess. He is in the service of the government, and receives a good income. Lizaveta is also supporting a poor relative. Tomsky has been promoted to the rank of captain, and has become the husband of the Princess Pauline.


The Eyrie

(Continued from page 148)

plovers Into Infinity cries aloud for a sequel. Let Martt and Prank and Prannie and Dr. Gryce go after Brett. Let Brett return. Let anything happen, but we must hear about it through your pages—soon. ’ ’

Except for these five letters objecting to the story, or its ending, all the other letters received up to the time this issue goes to press have been favorable, some mildly so, but most of them enthusiastic in praise of Mr., Cummings ’ imaginative tale.

“Explorers Into Infinity, by Ray Cummings, ended splendidly, this story making me a Cummings fan,” writes Herbert E. Woodbum, of Irvington, New Jersey. "Eli Colter’s new story, The Dark Chrysalis, promises wonders, something different from the usual run.”

"Here are bouquets for your shivery, delightful magazine from a new species of friend, the ‘flapper’ reader of Weird Tales,” writes Cathryn M. Banks, of Staten Island, New York. "I’ve been reading it since the time when, a few years ago at boarding school, one of our greatest joys was to pile up on the bed after a chafing-dish party and listen while our best orator read to us from Weird Tales. The effect was as spooky as we could desire, for we put all the lights out, and our reader sat on the floor behind a screen, a torchlight at her elbow. To name my favorite stories is not an easy matter; I enjoy nearly all of them. The scientific ones are thrilling, educational, and some of them, I hope, prophetic. The experiences of the delightful little Frenchman, Jules de Grandin, are fascinating. The Man Who Cast No Shadow had enough shivers in it for two or three weird tales. But of all the grisly tales you’ve printed, I think the prize-winner is one you printed a year or more ago, The Return of the Undead, by Arthur Leeds. I nominate it as the weirdest of weird tales; the mere recollection of it has a strange effect on one. One of your most fascinating stories was The City of Glass; it was full of romantic glamor, yet it seemed so entirely plausible. Could one read anything ghostlier than The Outsider or The Ghosts of Steamboat Coulee? And besides all these, you have another type of story which appeals to me, perhaps, most of all—those lovely, fanciful things, such as The Woman of the Wood, a poetic idyl I shall long remember; and The Greatest Gift, one of the best love-stories I have had the pleasure of reading. ’ ’

"I do not know when a story has affected me as much as the first installment of The Dark Chrysalis, unless it be Dracula, which I read many years ago,” writes H. J. Herster, of Easton, Pennsylvania. "Too bad, though, it is a serial.”

"May I vote for The Dark Chrysalis by Eli Colter as the best story in the June issue?” writes Gordon Philip England, of Sutton, Quebec. "That promises to be one of the most thrilling tales you have yet printed—which is saying a good deal.”

Mrs. J. C. Murphy, of Washington, D. C., writes: “Explorers Into Infinity finished without a let-down, and A Suitor From the Shades was glorious. Practically every story in this issue was worth buying the magazine for. Can’t give any knocks to this issue (June)—only shrieks of appreciation. But, in retrospect, I didn’t like Drome. The reason I pick on it is because it let on to be something wonderful, and everybody said it was, but it fell mighty flat with me. Now Explorers Into Infinity —that is something! Each

284.


copy of W. T. has several delicious stories, and one or two deliriously delightful ones.”

“Keep up the weird-scientific stories,” writes Jim McDougall of Calgary, Alberta. “Reprints are not necessary—fill this space with tales such as Explorers Into Infinity and The Left Eye.”

“Let me congratulate you on editing the most bizarre and interesting magazine on the market,” writes Daniel E. Goodhue, of Boston. “Serials I don’t think are an attraction to any magazine unless they are of the type of Mr. Cummings’ Explorers Into Infinity; few are as good as that, though.”

Writes Mrs. George H. Worley, of Kansas City, Missouri: “I just had to write and congratulate you on your new serial. Have read your magazine for about three years, and though you have had some wonderful stories, your new serial, The Bark Chrysalis, bids fair to be your best. It hits right at a thing that interests everyone—the great mystery: is there no cure for cancer? Your stories are always food for thought, and I have to hurry and read my copy so as to pass it on, as I live in an apartment house and everyone here likes Weird Tales.”

“By the way,” writes Robert Smith, Jr., of Easton, Pennsylvania, “where did you pick up that group of weird story-tellers? I am under the impression they are modem writers (excepting the monthly reprint-story) —and their names are not familiar to me as contributors to any other periodical. I am well pleased with the way your stories are told. Your authors are real story-tellers and raconteurs. Not just a mere jumble of weird words, without plot or observance of the rules of story-telling, nor yet stories that are commonplace, but really striking stories, admirably told.”

Readers, your favorite story in the June issue, as shown by your votes, is the first installment of The Dark Chrysalis, by Eli Colter, which is closely pressed for first honors by the concluding installment of Explorers Into Infinity, by Ray Cummings. What is your favorite story in the present issue?

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE AUGUST WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

(1)- -

( 2 )- ---

(3)- ---

( 1 )

(2)

I do not like the following stories: - Why? _

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, Ill.

Reader’s name and address:



The Bride of Osiris

(Continued from page 172)

sively masked Anubis advanced in the moving eirele of light.

\ s buell and Rafferty were led before the throne, the former again scanned the face of the man seated thereon. The closer view brought full recognition. He was the man of whom Doris Lee had been in mortal fear at the opera and later at the cafe, from in front of which she had been abducted. Evidently he had worn a heavy false beard and mustache both to serve as a disguise and to cover the odd, sickle-shaped beard which would have made him conspicuous anywhere in Chicago.

Horus of the hawk-mask stepped into the eirele of light.

“Mighty Osiris,” he proclaimed, “I present Dan Rafferty and Alan Buell of the upper world. They sought admittance at the gates of Karneter, saying that they bore a message to the High One. ’ ’

The man on the throne looked down at them from beneath beetling brows.

“We await the message,” he said.

The ibis-masked Thoth poised his pencil expectantly.

Rafferty looked at Buell and Buell looked back at Rafferty. There was a moment of ominous silence.

‘ ‘ Quick! The message? ” snapped Horus.

Buell gazed defiantly throneward.

“I demand the immediate release of my fiancee, Doris Lee,” he said.

A sneering smile curled the lips of the potentate.

“A jackal may demand his mate from a lion,” he replied, “and as readily gain the favor. Tour insolence is in keeping with your rashness in entering Karneter. Know you, then, that she who was Doris Lee in the upper world exists no more as

Next Month

The

Wolf-Woman

By BASSETT MORGAN

'"They dug her out of a glacier, this golden-haired vampire of the North, and she called the white wolves to her bidding. A strange tale of dire occult evil and terrific adventures in the Northland.

p^RESSEY found her, the most ^ beautiful woman he had ever seen, entombed in the ice that had been her grave for centuries. When he released her from her icy tomb he unwittingly loosed a darjc influence on the valley—an influence that worked weird madness on the handful of white men and drained them of their lives, as the vampirewoman thundered into the plain on the head of her mammoth and surrounded by her white wolves. This story will be printed complete in the

September Issue of


On Sale August 1

Clip and Mail this Coupon Today!

450 East Ohio St.,

Chicago, m.

Enclosed find $1 for special five months subscription to “Weird Tales” to begin with the September issue. (Special offer void * unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Address _ _____

City___State_



Life’s Secrets!

Ama^ng-jnew book, “Saf eCounsef,

know straight From th© shoulder. Gives adU

Send No if onep

° n '*£BS associat’iom 0 '** 0 ' 011LUCK IN LOVE

Be A Detective

re, teBches all the triclts,

. spotting, railroad, fact-., getting positions, etc. Only

* 2.


Send for Bona Fide Proposition

Bss&iasaBsxss

budaum. Costs S2.00 -

STANDARD LABORATORIES. Sa.N 33. |

ft*ft


Inks, *1.50;

_ _ _, —ents,$3.00;

Slick Ace Cards, $1.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c. CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY,

112 N. La Salle Street, Chicago, Ill.

TOBACCO^^^

fflBEBBSPtSMesg

OLD MONEY WANTED {*“

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Money, it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x0. Guaranteed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash.

CLARKE COIN CO., TV. T. Dept., LeRoy, N. Y.

MEN WANTING FOREST RANGER JOB, $125-$200 month; nice cabin. Hunt, trap and patrol. Nat'l Forest list free. Write Rayson, Dept. B-43, Denver. Colo.

INVENTIONS COMMERCIALIZED. PATented or Unpatented. Write Adam Fisher Mfg. 06., 551 Enright, St. Louis, Mo.

such. She is being prepared for the ceremony which will be the crowning event of the great Festival of Re four days hence, when she will become Isis, bride of Osiris, and co-ruler with him of the blessed realm of Karneter. But enough of this. We must to business. He who was Dan Rafferty will henceforth be called Baku. He has been an electrician, a policeman, a sailor and a detective. Put him to work at his first occupation.”

“Now how the diwil did yez know I was a trouble-shooter fer the Western Electric? ” he exclaimed.

“Silence!” commanded Ho'rus. “The mighty Osiris sees all—knows aU.”

The potentate struck the gong and two roaring, hideously masked Ammits leaped into the circle of light. They seized Dan Rafferty and hurried him away, leaving Buell with Anubis, Horus and the scribbling Thoth.

“As for him who was Alan Buell, in the upper world,” said the potentate when the roaring had subsided, “his name shall be ‘N.’ We have selected him for the high honor of impersonating the Osiris N at the Festival of Re.”

“May I ask,” queried Buell, “the reason for this unmerited kindness?”

‘ * ’Tis but a trifling thing, and will soon be ended,” was the reply. “Before the festival is over you will have entered that inner Karneter whence no man retumeth.”

“Yon mean I am to be killed?”

“Precisely, but there is nothing about that for you to he greatly concerned over. You will not know when the blow is struck, nor will you know aught afterward, so far as this physical world is concerned. ’ ’

He smote the gong and the noisy Am-mits rushed Buell off into the darkness.

The strange, thrilling and weird adventures that befell Doris and Buell and Rafferty in the underground city of Karneter will be narrated In next month’s issue.



Two Black Bottles

(Continued from page 258)

the other with little smiles during my tale, I noticed, but when I suggested that they accompany me to the spot, gave various excuses for not earing to go. Though there seemed to be a limit to their credulity, they cared to run no risks. I informed them that I would go alone, though I must confess that the project did not appeal to me.

As I left the store, one old man with a long, white beard hurried after me and caught my arm.

“I’ll go wi’ ye, lad,” he said. “It do seem that I once heared my gran’pap tell o’ su’thin’ o’ the sort concernin’ old Dominie -Slott. A queer old man I’ve heared he were, but Vanderhoof’s been worse.”

Dominie Vanderhoof’s grave was open and deserted when we arrived. Of course it could have been graverobbers, the two of us agreed, and yet.... In the belfry the bottle which I had left upon the table was gone, though the fragments of the broken one were found on the floor. And upon the heap of yellow dust and crumpled clothing that had once been Abel Foster were certain immense footprints.

After glancing at some of the books and papers strewn about the belfry room, we carried them down the stairs and burned them, as something unclean and unholy. With a spade which we found in the church basement we filled in the grave of Johannes Vanderhoof, and, as an afterthought, flung the fallen cross upon the flames.

Old wives say that now, when the moon is full, there walks about the churchyard a gigantic and bewildered figure clutching a bottle and seeking some unremembered goal.

—.'oil amount, deduct 5%.

CHICAGO TIRE & RUBBER COMPANY

3100 So. Michigan Ave« Dent. 312 Chicago


—— My Biff Three Part Treatment is tba

ONLY ONE that gives POL It DEVELOPMENT without bathing, ous^absu §i? nPS ° r i other ^ a!1 serguaranteed'two DOLLAR “

14-day rnrn

TREATMENT ff ULL

DIME toward expenses.

If yon-

(A Large AIu___„

i k‘!l /'.li; IS IT WORTH 10c T If not. your dime back by

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

“Clouds Dispelled”

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Act today! Write NOW!!


Dept. O, Box 1525, _ Los Angeles, Calif,


THE LATEST 1 * NOVELTY - U * S ‘ Pi 50c. Per Book

yt Each book contains 50 perfect little name cards, size in genuine leather case. Choice of black.

refC MIDGETCARDSHOP

i S. Second Street., Harrisburg, P.





THE remarkable success of Weird Tales has been built on thrilling stories of a type that can be found in no other magazine; eery stories, such as Edgar Allan Poe used to write; tales that are utterly strange; Btories of the spaa-s between the worlds; shuddery tales of horror; bizarre and fantastic stories; gripping orientales; ghost-tales, and tales of weird monstrosities; weird-scientific stories of tremendous dooms that menace the earth. Among the many thrilling stories in the next few issues will be:

THE RED BRAIN, by Donald Wandrei

A tale of cosmic space—the stars blotted out by great dust-clouds engulfing t^unwerse, and only the efforts of the Red Brain to drive back the swirling

PICKMAN’S MODEL, by H. P. Lovecraft

An eldritch tale of the cellars In a New England city, and unutterable monstrosities that crept from behind the crumbling walls—a horror-tale by the author of “The Outsider" and “The Rats in the Wail."

SALADIN’S THRONE-RUG, by E. Hoffmann Price

A fascinating story set IN Chicago, but not OP Chicago, for it breathes of spices and incense and the weird witchery of the Orient—a tale of a strange and. eery murder.

THE DARK LORE, by Nictzin Dyalhis

The author of “When the Green Star Waned” and “The Eternal Conflict” lets his imagination roam through the starry spaces, and builds a tale of nightmare honors unequaled in literature.

THE POLTERGEIST, by Seabury Quinn

The old-fashioned ghost is a rarity in WEIRD TALES, but here is one that satisfies all requirements—a fascinating tale of Jules de Grandin.

THE DEAD WAGON, by Greye La Spina

A short but powerful tale of the curse that took the first-born son in each generation of Lord Melverson's family—a ghost-tale of shuddery

THE MOON MENACE, by Edmond Hamilton

A terrifying prospect faced a darkened world—man gone forever, a lightless earth spinning blindly through the heavens, and the moon men its masters from pole to pole.

THESE are but a few of tbe many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weird Tales. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

1 year's subscription to “Weird Tales,”

the September h

Thb£V

Det£^ £

While the;, last

7; 7/4e I'M

^TenS‘r^/ u Ueh\

ktsA^'

MIZ. Derrm&'D 0

4 %

A splendid collection of 12 astounding mystery stories for only $1.00. Marvelous tales that spread before your eyes a new and fascinating world of romance and adventure—a breathless succession of amazing episodes—and crammed with mysterious action that will hold you spellbound. They are uncommon tales that will cling to your memory for many a day and will help to pass away many a lonely hour, In convenient pocket size. Just the thing for vacation reading.


This offer may be withdrawn at any time. Treat yourself to some real entertainment while you still have the chance. Send for these stories today. Do it now! Just pin a dollar bill to the coupon.

POPULAR FICTION PUBLISHING CO. Dept. 33, 312 Dunham Bldg., Chicago, Ill.

Address. City -

Easy as A

"You Can Play Any Instrument In a Few Months p |, '

This Delightful ^ -I ^ '

New Easy Why!

Quickest because natural and pleasant. Grateful students say they learn in a fraction of the time old dull methods required. You play direct from the notes. And the cost is only a few cents a lesson.

LEARNING music is no longer a difficult task. If you can read the alphabet, J you can now quickly learn to play your favorite instrument! A delightful new method has made it positively easy to become a capable performer within just a few months. And the cost is only a fraction of what people used to spend on the old, slow methods!

You don’t need a private teacher, this new way. You study entirely at home, in e privacy of your own room, with no one And, strar ery mini s agreeal

The Surest Way to Be Popular and Have a Good Time

'(Please"write Plainly)"

[THE END]
