============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 20, Number 3
Date: September 1932
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "An Open Window Robert W" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
AN OPEN WINDOW ROBERT W
by Howard
============================================================
Her lips were moving a little, and when the maid touched her shoulder gently, she heard Melora whimpering in a little diild voice, "Go away, please. Talliaferro killed you— homely witch-woman. I saw him. Go away. Aunt Hattie.”

n Window

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

Behind the Veil what gulfs of Time and Space?

What blinking mowing Shapes to blast the sight? I shrink before a vague colossal Face Born in the mad inunensities of Night.

W. T.— 4

Uhey

-C^mpire

of the Necromancers

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

^An endless army of plague-eaten bodies, of tattered skeletons, poured in ghastly torrents through the streets of the city

T he legend of Mmatmuor and Sodosma shall arise only in the latter cycles of Earth, when the glad legends of the prime have been forgotten. Before the time of its telling, many epochs shall have passed away, and the seas shall have fallen in their beds, and new continents shall have come to birth. Perhaps, in that day, it will serve to beguile for a little the black weariness of a dying race, grown hopeless of all but oblivion. I tell the tale as men shall tell it in Zothique, the last continent, beneath a dim sun and sad heavens where the stars come out in terrible brightn&s before eventide.


M matmuor and Sodosma were necromancers who came from the dark isle of Naat, to practise their baleful arts in Tinarath, beyond the shrunken seas. But they did not prosper in Tinarath; for death was deemed a holy thing by the people of that gray country; and the nothingness of the tomb was not lightly to be desecrated; and the raising up of the dead by necromancy was held in abomination.

So, after a short interval, Mmatmuor and Sodosma were driven forth by the anger of the inhabitants, and were compelled to flee toward Cincor, a desert of the south, which was peopled only by the bones and mummies of a race that the pestilence had slain in former time.


The land into which they went lay drear and leprous and ashen btelow the huge, ember-colored sim. Its crumbling rocks and deathly solitudes of sand would have struck terror to the hearts of common men; and, since they had been thrust out in that barren place without food or sustenance, the plight of the sorcerers might well have seemed a desperate one. But, smiling secretly, with the air of conquerors who tread the approaches of a longcoveted realm, Sodosma and Mmatmuor walked steadily on into Cincor.

Unbroken before them, throu^ fields devoid of trees and grass, and across the channels of dried-up rivers, there ran the great highway by which travellers had gone formerly between Cincor and Tinarath. Here they met no living thing; but soon they came to the skeletons of a horse and its rider, lying full in the road, and wearing still the sumptuous harness and raiment which they had worn in the flesh. And Mmatmuor and Sodosma paused before the piteous bones, on which no shred of corruption remained; and they smiled evilly at each other.

"The steed shall be yours,” said Mmatmuor, "since you are a Ettle the elder of us two, and are thus entitled to precedence; and the rider shall serve us both and be the first to acknowledge fealty to us in Cincor.”

Then, in the ashy sand by the wayside, they drew a threefold circle; and standTHE EMPIRE OF THE NECROMANCERS


ing together at its center, they performed the abominable rites that compel the dead to arise from tranquil nothingness and obey henceforward, in all things, the dark will of the necromancer. Afterward they sprinkled a pinch of magic powder on the nostril-holes of the man and the horse; and tfie>)(diite bones, creaking mournfully, rose up from where they had lain and stood in readiness to serve their masters.

So, as had been agreed between them, Sodosma mounted the skeleton steed and took up the jewelled reins, and rode in an evil modtery of Death on his pale horse; while Mmatrauor trudged on beside him, leaning lightly on an ebon staff; and the skeleton of the man, with its ridi raiment flapping loosely, followed behind the two like a servitor.

After a while, in the gray waste, they found the remnant of another horse and

rider, which the jackals had spared and ffie sun had dried to the leanness of old mummies. These also they raised op from death; and Mmatmuor bestrode the withered charger; and the two magicians rode on in state, like errant emperors, with a lich and a skeleton to attend them. Other bones and charnel remnants of men and beasts, to which they came anon, were duly resurrected in like fashion; so that they gathered to themselves an everswelling train in their progress throu^ Cincor.

Along the way, as they neared Yethlyreom, whicli had been the capital, they found numerous tombs and necropoli, inviolate still after many ages, and containing swathed mummies that had scarcely withered in death. All these they raised up and called from sepulchral ni^t to do their bidding. Some they ccnnunanded to



sow and till the desert fields and hoist water from the sunken wells; others they left at diverse tasks, such as the mummies had performed in life. The century-long silence was broken by the noise and tumult of myriad activities; and the lank liches of weavers toiled at their shuttles; and the corpses of plowmen followed their furrows behind carrion oxen.

W EARY with their strange journey and their oft -repeated incantations, Mrnatmuor and Sodosma saw before them at last, from a desert hill, the lofty spires and fair, unbroken domes of Yethlyreom, steeped in the darkening stagnant blood of ominous simset.

*'It is a goodly land,” said Mrnatmuor, "and you and I will share it between us, and hold dominion over all its dead, and be crowned as emperors on the morrow in Yethlyreom.”

"Aye,” replied Sodosma, "for there is none living to dispute us here; and those that we have summoned from the tomb shall move and breathe only at our dictation, and may not rebel against us.”

So, in the blood-red twilight that thickened with purple, they entered Yethlyreom and rode on among the lofty, lampless mansions, and installed themselves with their grisly retinue in that stately and abandoned p&lace, where the dynasty of Nimboth emperors had reigned for two thousand years with dominion over Cincor.

In the dusty golden halls, they lit the empty lamps of onyx by means of their cunning sorcery, and supped on royal viands, provided from past years, which they evoked in like manner. Ancient and imperial wines were poured for them in moonstone cups by the fieshless hands of their servitors; and they drank and feasted and revelled in fantasmagoric pomp, deferring till the morrow the resurrection of those who lay dead m Yethlyreom.

They rose betimes, in the dark crimson dawn, from the opulent palace-beds in which they had slept; for much remained to be done. Everywhere in that forgotten city, they went busily to and fro, working their spells on the people that had died in the last year of the pest and had lain unburied. And having accomplished this, they passed beyond Yethlyreom into that other city of high tombs and mighty mausoleums, in which lay the Nimboth emperors and the more consequential citizens and nobles of Cincor.

Here they bade their skeleton slaves to break in the sealed doors with hammers; • and then, with their sinful, tyrannous incantations, they called forth the imperial mummies, even to the eldest of the dynasty, all of whom came walking stifily, with lightless eyes, in rich swathings sewn with flame-bright jewels. And also, later, they brought forth to a semblance of life many generations of courtiers and dignitaries.

Moving in solemn pageant, with dark and haughty and hollow faces, the dead emperors and empresses of Cincor made obeisance to Mrnatmuor and Sodosma, and attended them like a train of captives through all the streets of Yethlyreom. Afterward, in the immense throne-room of the palace, the necromancers mounted the high double throne, where the rightful rulers had sat with their consorts. Amid the assembled emperors, in gorgeous and funereal state, they were invested with sovereignty by the sere hands of the mummy of Hestaiyon, earliest of the Nimboth line, who had ruled in half -mythic years. Then all the descendants of Hestaiyon, crowding the room in a great throng, acclaimed with toneless, echo-like voices the dominion of Mrnatmuor and Sodosma.

Thus did the outcast necromancers find for themselves an empire and a subject people in the desolate, barren land where

THE EMPIRE OF THE NECROMANCERS


the men of Tinarath had driven them forth to perish. Reigning supreme over all the dead of Cincor, by virtue of their malign magic, they exercised a baleful despotism. Tribute was borne to them by fleshless porters from outlying realms; and plague-eaten corpses, and tall mummies scented with mortuary balsams, went to and fro upon their errands in Yethlyreom, or heaped before their greedy eyes, from inexhaustible vaults, the cobwebblackened gold and dusty gems of antique time.

Dead laborers made their palace-gardens to bloom with long-perished flowers; liches and skeletons toiled for them in the mines, or reared superb, fantastic towers to the dying sun. Chamberlains and princes of old time were their cupbearers, and stringed instruments were plucked for their delight by the slim hands of empresses with golden hair that had come forth untarnished from the night of the tomb. Those that were fairest, whom the plague and the worm had not ravaged overmuch, they took for their lemans and made to sen^e their necrophilic lust.


I N ALL things, the people of Cincor performed the actions of life at the will of Mmatmuor and Sodosma. They spoke, they moved, they ate and drank as in life. They heard and saw and felt with a similitude of the senses that had been theirs before death; but their brains were enthralled by a dreadful necromancy. They recalled but dimly their former existence; and the state to which they had been summoned was empty and troublous and shadow-like. Their blood ran chill and sluggish, mingled with water of Lethe; and the vapors of Lethe clouded their eyes.

Dumbly they obeyed the dictates of their tyrannous lords, without rebellion or protest, but filled with a vague, illimitable

weariness such as the dead must know, when having drunk of eternal sleep, they are called back once more to the bitterness of mortal being. They knew no passion or desire or delight, only the black languor of their awakening from Lethe, and a gray, ceaseless longing to return to that interrupted slumber.

Youngest and last of the Nimboth emperors was Illeiro, who had died in the first month of the plague, and had lain in his high-built mausoleum for two hundred years before the coming of the necromancers.


Raised up with his people and his fathers to attend the tyrants, Illeiro had resumed the emptiness of existence without question and had felt no surprize. He had accepted his own resurrection and that of his ancestors as one accepts the indignities and marvels of a dream. He knew that he had come back to a faded sun, to a hollow and spectral world, to an order of things in which his place was merely that of an obedient shadow. But at first he was troubled only, like the others, by a dim weariness and a pale hunger for the lost oblivion.

Drugged by the magic of his overlords, weak from the age-long nullity of death, he beheld like a somnambulist the enormities to which his fathers were subjected. Yet, somehow, after many days, a feeble spark awoke in the sodden twilight of his mind.

Like something lost and irretrievable, beyond prodigious gulfs, he recalled the pomp of his reign in Yethlyreom, and the golden pride and exultation that had been his in youth. And recalling it, he felt a vague stirring of revolt, a ghostly resentment against the magicians who had haled him forth to this calamitous mockery of life. Darikly he began to grieve for his fallen state, and the mournful plight of his ancestors and his people.



Day by day, as a cup-bearer in tfie halls where he had ruled aforetime, Illeiro saw the doings of Mmatmuor and Sodosma. He saw their caprices of cruelty and lust, their growing drunkenness and gluttony. He watched them wallow in their necromantic luxury, and become lax with indolence, gross with indulgence. They neglected the study of their art, they forgot many of their spells. But still they ruled, mighty and formidable; and, lolling on couches of purple and rose, they planned to lead an army of the dead against Tinarath.

Dreaming of conquest, and of vaster necromancies, they grew fat and slothful as worms that have installed themselves in a charnel rich with corruption. And pace by pace with tibeir laxness and tyranny, the fire of rebellion mounted in the shadowy heart of Illeiro, like a flame that struggles with Lethean damps. And slowly, with the waxing of his wrath, there returned to him something of the strength and firmness that had been his in life. Seeing the turpitude of the oppressors, and knowing the wrong that had been done to the helpless dead, he heard in his brain the clamor of stifled voices demanding vengeance.

Among his fathers, through the palacehalls of Yethlyreem, Illeiro moved silently at the bidding of the masters, or stood awaiting their command. He poured in their cups of onyx the amber vintages, brought by wizardry from hills beneath a younger sun; he submitted to their contumelies and insults. And night by night he watched them nod in their drunkenness, till they fell asleep, flushed and gross, amid their arrogated splendor.

There was little speech among the living dead; and son and father, daughter and mother, lover and beloved, went to and fro without sign of recognition, making no comment on ^ their evil lot. But at

last, one midnight, when the tyrants lay in slumber, and the flames wavered in the necromantic lamps, Illeiro took counsel with Hestaiyon, his eldest ancestor, who had been famed as a great wizard in fable and was reputed to have known the secret lore of antiquity.

H estaiyon stood apart from the others, in a comer of the shadowy hall. He was brown and withered in his crumbling mummy-cloths; and his lightless obsidian eyes appeared to gaze still upon nothingness. He seemed not to have heard the questions of Illeiro; but at length, in a dry, rustling whisper, he responded:

"I am old, and the night of the s^ulcher was long, and I have forgotten much. Yet, groping backward across the void of death, it may be that I shall retrieve something of my former wisdom; and betweai us we shall devise a mode of deliverance.” And Hestaiyon searched among the shreds of memory, as one who reaches into a place where ttie worm has been and ttie hidden archives of old time have rotted in their covers; till at last he remembered, and said:

"I recall that I was once a mighty wizard; and among other things, I knew the spells of necromancy, but employed them not, deeming their use and the raising up of the dead an abhorrent act. Also, I possessed other knowledge; and perhaps, among the remnants of that ancient lore, there is something which may serve to guide us now. For I recall a dim, dubitable prophecy, made in the primal years, at the founding of Yethlyreom and the empire of Cincor. The prophecy was, that an evil greater than death would befall the emperors and the people of Cincor in future time; and that the first and the last of the Nimboth dynasty, conferring together, would effect a mode of release and the lifting of the doom.' ’ The

THE EMPIRE OF THE NECROMANCERS


evil was not named in the propheqr; but it was said that the two emperors would learn the solution of their problem by the breaking of an ancient clay image that guards the nethermost vault below the imperial palace in Yethlyreom.”

Then, having heard this prophecy from the faded lips of his forefather, Illeiro mused a while, and said:

"I remember now an afternoon in early youth, when searching idly through the unused vaults of our palace, as a boy might do, I came to the last vault and found therein a dusty, uncouth image of clay, whose form and countenance were strange to me. And, knowing not the prophecy, I turned away in disappointment, and went back as idly as I had come, to seek the moted sunlight.”

Then, stealing away from their heedless kinfolk, and carrying jewelled lamps they had taken from the hall, Hestaiyon and Illeiro went downward by subterranean stairs beneath the palace; and, threading like implacable furtive shadows the maze of nighted corridors, they came at last to the lowest crypt.

Here, in the black dust and clotted cobwebs of an immemorial past, they found, as had been decreed, the clay image, whose rude features were those of a forgotten earthly god. And Illeiro shattered the image with a fragment of stone; and he and Hestaiyon took from its hollow center a great sword of unrusted steel, and a heavy key of untarnished bronze, and tablets of bright brass on which were inscribed the various things to be done, so that Cincor should be rid of the dark reign of the necromancers and the people should win back to oblivious death.

So, with the key of untarnished bronze, Illeiro unlocked, as the tablets had instructed him to do, a low and narrow door at the end of the nethermost vault, beyond the broken image; and he and

Hestaiyon saw, as had been prophesied, the coiling steps of somber stone that led downward to an undiscovered abyss, where the sunken fires of earth still burned. And leaving Illeiro to ward the open door, Hestaiyon took up the sword of imrusted steel in his thin hand, and went back to the hall where the necromancers slept, lying a-sprawl on their couches of rose and purple, with the wan, bloodless dead about them in patient ranks.

U PHELD by the ancient prophecy and the lore of the bright tablets, Hestaiyon lifted the great sword and struck off the head of Mmatmuor and the head of Sodosma, each with a single blow. Then, as had been directed, he quartered the remains with mighty strokes. And the necromancers gave up their unclean lives, and lay supine, without movement, adding a deeper red to the rose and a brighter hue to the sad purple of their couches.

Then, to his kin, who stood silent and listless, hardly knowing their liberation, the venerable mummy of Hestaiyon spoke in sere murmurs, but authoritatively, as a king who issues commands to his children. The dead emperors and empresses stirred, like autumn leaves in a sudden wind, and a whisper passed among them and went forth from the palace, to be commimicated at length, by devious ways, to all the dead of Cincor.

All that night, and during the blooddark day that followed, by wavering torches or the light of the failing sun, an endless army of plague-eaten liches, of tattered skeletons, poured in a ghastly torrent through the streets of Yethlyreom and along the palace-hall where Hestaiyon stood guard above the slain necromancers. Unpausing, with vague, fixed eyes, they went on like driven shadows, to seek the subterranean vaults below the palace, to pass through the open door where II*



leiio waited in the last vault, and then to wend downward by a thousand thousand steps to the verge of that gulf in which boiled the ebbing fires of earth. There, from the verge, they fiung themselves to a second death and the clean annihilation of the bottomless flames.

But, after all had gone to their release, Hestaiyon still remained, alone in the fading sunset, beside the cloven corpses of Mmatmuor and Sodosma. There, as the tablets had directed him to do, he made trial of those spells of elder necromancy which he had Imown in his former wisdom, and cursed the dismembered bodies with that perpetual life-in-death which Mmatmuor and Sodosma had sought to inflict upon the people of Gncor. And maledictions came from the pale lips, and the heads rolled horribly with glaring eyes, and the limbs and torsos writhed on their imperial coudhes amid clotted blood. TTien, with no badcward look.

knowing that all was done as had been ordained and predicted from the first, the mummy of Hestaiyon left the necromancers to their doom, and went wearily through the nighted labyrinth of vaults to rejoin Illeiro.

So, in tranquil silence, with no further need of words, Illeiro and Hesuiyon passed through the open door of the nether vault, and Illeiro locked the door behind them with its key of untarnished bronze. And thence, by the coiling stairs, they wended their way to the verge of the sunken flames and were one with their kinsfolk and their people in the last, ultimate nothingness.

But of Mmatmuor and Sodosma, men say that their quartered bodies aawl to and fro to this day in Yethlyreom, finding no peace or respite from their doom of life-in-death, and seeking vainly through the black maze of nether vaults the door that was locked by Illeiro.

<52)eserted Manor

By MARION DOYLE

* From every side the gaunt and dying pines.

Stooped with their burden of two hundred years. Lean toward the ancient manor’s saolled designs. Whispering incessantly; each strangely peers Across the sagging roofs, the ornate eaves.

Where winds complain and hidden waters break The eery silence with the intolerable ache Of echoed music when the wood-dove grieves.

Even tlie moonlight enters warily.

Stealthily stepping on the ruined stair.

Fearful of being taken imaware.

Yet seems to listen for some embassy

From unseen worlds, throwing a spangled glance Into the gloom before the next advance.

By KIRK MASHBURN

thrill-tale of a fierce and bloody fight in a Louisiana swamp between a maddened group of Cafuns and a horde of vampires

I T MUST have been a fierce and bloody fight. I heard excited talk of it as soon as I stepped from the train in Labrandi. My duties as district highway engineer had brought me there before, and nearly every one in the little town knew who I was. But they are folk shy in the presence of strangers, most of them, in that rural, almost isolated section. I was an outsider, and sensed something of their talk kept apart from me as such.

I heard only that there had been a wild fight, the night before, between the sheriff’s men and a gang of murderous gipsies — ^tfiough particulars were more than vague about the gipsies. On the island in the fork of Labranch Bayou, they said it was; and that roused my interest at once. For it was there the highway department was building a diffiailt stretch of road no contractor had cared to undertake. I hurried to the island, and what I



tWEIRD TALES

found in the road camp brought me back at once to town.

I had been told — almost the only definite information I had got — that I would find young Delacroix, the timekeeper and camp clerk, at the only hotel in Labranch. I located his room, and entered in a considerable temper, when he opened to my knock.

''G)me in — sit down,” Delacroix greeted me pleasantly, waving to a chair and himself slumped casually upon the bed. His gesture embraced a bottle of whisky, half empty, that sat upon a table handy to his readi. “Have a drink?”

"No, I won’t have a drink!” I snapped. "Is everybody else drunk, too? I went out to the job, and found two teams idling around, and a half-dozen Cajun and nigger laborers sitting stupidly on stumps — ^no engineer, no foreman, no timekeeper — nobody!”

“I guess so,” Delacroix agreed vaguely, pouring himself a drink. I was by now thoroughly exasperated.

“You guess so!” I exploded. “You’re like those Cajun laborers, for all your two years at the imiversity! The total information I got out of diem was where to find you. They wouldn’t even tell me where the foreman was. Nor Gregory.” The latter was -the department’s section engineer.

“'They don’t know where Gregory and the foreman are — but you’ll never see them again,” Delacroix informed mildly, after he had swallowed his drink. 'Then, with sudden force — “Have a drink and keep quiet — or just keep quiet — and I’ll tell you about it. Sit down!”

Startled, I obeyed without thinking, dropping into the chair behind me. As I was on the point of rising and rescuing my dignity, Delacroix’s words cau^t my attention. Forgetting my anger, I sat and listened.

'This is the meat of what I heard:

O LD man Landry [Delacroix began] had a son who was attacked, one evening after sunset, while he was hunting in the woods of Labranch Island. 'They found what was left of him the next day, a small wound in his throat, and his body drained of blood. Well! Right away, everybody said that Placide’s wife did it — the wife Placide Duboin buried one night a dozen years ago, because he thought he had killed her. But Nita, his wife, came out of her grave, an undead thing who preyed on the living after sundown. Placide was her first victim.

'This dead-alive woman, who lay like a corpse in her grave during each day, rose and walked abroad at night between sunset and dawn, seeking living victims to quench her thirst for blood. Old Landry’s son was one of the first to fall her prey, nearly eleven years ago. 'They found him the next day, and buried him with a stake through his heart. So he did not lie where Nita left him, to arise the next night with his own terrible craving for blood — to be from then on, another such thing as she.

Oh? No, I am not drunk; not yet, at any rate. I am trying to tell you what became of Gregory, and why the road camp is almost empty. Do you want to listen, or not?

Well, anyway, Nita, and those who fell into her clutches and became like her, could not get o£F that island between the forks of Labranch Bayou, an island some six to eight miles wide, by nearly fifteen miles long. (Vampires and werewolves, you understand, can not cross running water. )

It is across this island that we have been building the new highway. One night, not very long ago, while I was telling Gregory tlie story of Placide’s wife,

THE LAST OF PLACJDE’S WIFE


Acre was a knock on the door. And who do you suppose was Acre? Placide’s wife, herself! She pretended oAerwise, naArally, but I recognized her and called to old Landry, who had hoped to meet her, and been prepared for Ae meeting, ever since his son’s deaA. He carried a gun loaded wiA silver bullets blessed by the priest, Ae only kind that can kill a vampire. But Nita ran to Ae woods before Landry came up, and I kept him from following. In Ae forest, wiA her padc around her, she would have made Aoit work of Ae old man.

It had become Ae main Aing in Landry’s Efe, to even up wiA Nita on account of his son. He finally got so impatient Aat he went into the woods alone, one evening, hoping to put a silver bullet into Nita. Doubtless he was a little crazy on Ae subject. And it turned out Aat Nita got him! At least, we found he had gone, and he did not come back.

Gregory was sort of skeptical, and didn’t muA believe Ae story I told him about Placide’s wife. He insisted Nita was noAing but one of a band of gipsy Aieves and murderers. He was a sp^ial deputy Aeriff, Gregory, so he could carry a gun, on account of our payroll and things like Aat, and he was pretty mad, you understand, about old man Landry. He was already disgusted because it was hard for us to get men who were not afraid of Nita and would stay in our camp on Ae island at night, and they would come straggling in late every morning. So Gregory got most of our men togeAer the next morning and gave Aem guns; then sent word to Ae sheriff here in Labranch, Aat he was going into Ae swamps and round up Ae "gipsies”. Ha! I was one of Aose who went.

We went clear down to where the swamp begins at Ae end of the island on Ae' bay, wiAout seeing any sign cif

anybody except two trappers we ran across, men we knew. Nobody expected to find Nita, except Gregory. The men be^ui to get imeasy, late in Ae afternoon, and decided to Arn back before sundown caught us away from camp. Gregory didn’t like it, but what was he going to do? 'The men told him he could stay if he wanted, but Aey were going bade. Gregory used some language I wish I could remember — me, I never can say what I want to when I’m mad! — but he turned back wiA Ae rest.

S UNDOWN found US a good mile away from camp, deep in Ae woods. We still could count on nearly an hour of daylight, and Gregory sneered at Ae men’s uneasiness because Ae sun had set. But everybody else was imeasy, some more than oAers. 'The woods were Aick, and in Ae fading ligjht of late day, dim and Aadowy. Except for the noise we made ourselves, Ae forest was still and quiet. But it was an uncomfortable quiet, as if the trees all around us hid things Aat Vt^atched, and waited Aeir own time to show Aemselves. So!

Suddenly, amid startled exclamations, we stopped in our tracks. Anybody would have stopped! I think we all saw Ae gleaming shape Aat barred our way, at Ae same moment. In a little cleared space ahead of us stood a slender figure, a woman whose body gleamed in Ae red light of sunset like a staAe carved from smooA old ivory. She was completely nude, except that Ae light breeze wrapped Ae ends of her shining black hair (whiA hung like a dark cloak almost to Ae backs of her knees), carelessly about her hips. Her face was Ae most beautiful 1 have ever seen on a woman. Beautiful, Aat is, except for Ae evil in her bright eyes, and Ae cruelty in Ae smile of her scarlet lips.

But Aere was noAing beautiful about her to us — we knew Aat here was Ae



thing we had hunted — that we had met at last with Placide’s wife!

Nita stood, with that mocking smile, looking at us from between narrowed lids that slanted upward, a little, at the comers. She seemed careless, and amused, but I saw her nostrils twitch from where I stood. Like any other wild, naked thing of the woods! Her eyes opened suddenly wide, and they blazed with the same light I have seen in a cat’s when she pounced upon a mouse. She waved one slim hand toward us in a swift, fierce gesture.

The woods were suddenly alive. Silent, gritming figures, some clad and some as naked as she, sprang at us from among the trees. Without waiting for a word from Gregory, our men blazed away, with shotgims and pistols. Gregory himself aimed squarely at Nita, and I saw his shotgun spit fire. Nita stood straining forward on her toes, watching as her pack closed with us, her lips drawn tightly back from her sharp, pointed teeth. I saw her laugh, horribly, as Gregory shot at her; then she sprang at him. He pumped buckshot from his gun at close range, but she merely gurgled with that horrible laughter, and leaped at him. After that, I was too busy with a shockheaded and foul-smelling old devil who flung himself on me, to bother with Gregory and Nita.

Nita’s band numbered about the same as ours, but they had the strength of oxen, "rhe thing with which I fought, for all his blazing red eyes and dripping mouth, looked like only a scrawny old man. But his hands were iron, and I was helpless in his grip. It seemed that I was tangled in a web, and my arms and legs would not move as I wanted them to, after the old man glared into my eyes. It was like a nightmare, when you try to scream, to run, and not. Unable to do more

than stare ahead with my eyes popping in fright, I felt the awful, reeking mouth of that ancient horror drooling upon my neck. Dimly, I heard Nita screaming, felt the cold lips draw back from my flesh. Nita’s voice kept on, sounding as if she moved swiftly from otie place to another. All about was a snarling, as of hungry beasts driven from their kills; then everything swam in blackness.

My head cleared, after a minute, and I realized that I was being carried along through the forest, thrown over the shoulder of that old creature who stank, and who had fought me. I said he was old and scrawny; but he carried me as easily as a ten-pound sack of meal. We went through the woods as fast as a horse trots, the trampling of many feet keeping pace with us. I twisted my head alwut, trying to see.

We went through a dim open space; I twisted enough to look ahead of the dirty old one who carried me, and saw Nita, with Gregory slung on her back, leading the way as easily as though she ran unburdened. Around and behind, the hell-pack ran with us. Each of them carried a man, and some of them seemed to be carrying double. All flitted through the woods, silently and lightly as daric shadows.

On we went, and I knew our direction more by instinct than otherwise, toward the southern end of the island, where the dank woods blend into the swamp that becomes a marsh, lying along the Gulf.

S OON we were in the swamp. Often I heard the suck of soggy earth that clutched at hurrying feet; once scummy water splashed into my down-hung face, as the pack pattered through a shallow pool of smelly, stagnant water. All this time, until we finally came to a stop, I lay

THE LAST OF PLACIDE’S WIFE


quietly over that old one’s shoulder. His arms were about my legs like bands of steel, but not even the thought of struggle or escape came into my queerly dulled brain.

When the troop finally halted, I dimly saw that we were in the middle of a large piece of dry land, slightly higher than the swamp around it, and almost clear of trees. 'The old pig who carried me let me slip head first to the groimd. Thanks to the soft ground, and none to him, my neck was not broken; it was bad enough at that.

I sat up and looked around that place. Other men, no doubt also dropped like sacks of onions, were lying on the ground, or sitting looking stupid, like me. A few were getting groggily to their feet. Not much showed plainly in the dark, but there were other figures with eyes gleaming like wolves’, standing over those on the ground, or getting in the way of the few who tottered on their feet. All of these with glowing eyes were half stretching their hands toward the ones they stood by, and at the same time, all looking eagerly at something near where I sat. I looked to see what it was they stared at so, and saw that Nita was standing there. Her eyes were glowing like yellow coals, and she had one hand out to steady Gregory on his feet. ’Then she waved her other hand lazily toward a clump of bushes, and the shadows with eyes pulled the figures upon the ground to their feet, and prodded them in that direction.

All at once, the knoll began to glow with a dim bluish light, like a wet match in the dark. It came from nowhere, you understand, and did not seem to light the swamp beyond the wide knoll. ’The light grew stronger, while my dirty old one pushed me along with the rest.

Nita led toward a covert of bushes almost in the middle of the knoll. Within these bushes, the blue light glowed stronger than anywhere else. Nita parted the growth and stepped through, leading Gregory. We pushed and jostled our way behind her.

We scrambled throu^ into a circular open place, in the center of which was a low mound of earth. Nita urged Gregory toward the mound, and gently forced him to sit. She herself leaped lightly up, and turned to face the rest of us, her body gleaming now like a silver column in the blue light. My old one pushed me closer, and the others crowded around. Nita looked us over carefully for a moment, before she spoke.

'"There are two more than we are,” she said, evidently talking for the benefit of her pack. "I will keep the man I have taken” — she motioned toward Gregory —

"and also those other two ” She

paused and leaned slightly forward, as the place hummed with angry murmurs and snarls of protest. Her eyes blazed from her narrowed lids, and she snarled back at them.

"Pigs and cattle! I say that three are mine! I am first among you, the mother of the pack, and I claim the right.” Her gaze rested on me. "I will take that one,” she said, pointing. The smelly old creature who had my arm tightened his grip until his hard, skinny fingers sank into my flesh.

"No!” he screeched; "I caught this one, and I keep him.”

"Durand has two: take that one from him.” The old one followed the point of her finger, and observed a wolf-eyed one who held fast to a pair of our men. 'They were two young fellows out of our grubbing gang; and though they stood as quietly as terrified sheep in the clutch of the one Nita called Durand, they were both husky, full-blooded youngsters. My



sale vieux peered at them, both so much larger and stronger than I, and grinned. Slobbering as he grinned, he pushed me toward Nita, and with a little squeal of satisfaction ran and pounced upon the nearest of the grubbers.

Nita coolly claimed a third captive, and the pack started to hustle the rest of our men out of the circular enclosure with sudden eagerness. Nita halted them with a sharp word.

"Wait!” she called, her hand upraised. The pack paused. "Remember,” Nita oontinued, "there is a new one among us, who must have a grave that he can not dig himself, . . . Let the newcomers dig his — and their oum ! — before you . . . drink. . . Then she waved them away.

M ost of the dullness that had numbed my wits cleared, with the transfer of that old thing's attention from me, and I suddenly observed one that I had not before noticed. I saw old Landry (he whom we had come to avenge!) pushing from the place as eagerly as any of Nita’s crew. One knotted hand gripped a staring, white-faced figure — a man he. had worked beside, a few days before — that he regarded with greedy, blazing eyes! Landry was the recruit to whom Nita had referred!

'The place was* left bare of all except Nita and us three she had claimed; Gregory, m)rself, and a youngish fellow named Alcide Breaux. Nita bent and smiled into Gregory’s eyes.

"I leave you for a little while,” she told him; and it amused me, even then, because she said it as if it was something for Greg to regret. She stared into his eyes a moment more, and added, "Wait here, quietly, imtil I come back.”

Stepping lithely down, she came over to me, a mocking smile upon her lips.

"So, M’sieu’ Delacroix! We meet again!” She, waited for me to answer,

but I only stared at her, trying to put my finger on something that puzzled me.

'"This time, you can not call for old Landry to come with his silver bullets — as you did another time, when I knocked at your door in the road camp! This little talk is different, yes?”

That was it! Her talk. Queer, is k not, how trifles occupy the mind at such times?

"Yes,” I said; "your talk is a whole lot different: the last time I heard you, your English, it was not so good.”

“Aha, Msteu le Cajun," she mocked, "your own is rather queer!” She smiled indulgently, and explained, "I am spetdeing my own language, the language spoken in the high mountains in a country far beyond the sea. You understand because I will it, and it seems to you that I speak a familiar tongue."

I shrugged, because I could think of nothing to say. Nita touched my chin willi the tip of her finger, v/hich was cold as the hand of Death. I bent my head under her touch, so that I looked full into her dark eyes, that seemed to have points of flame dancing in ffieir deptfis. Once more I began to feel dull and numb, and my wits grew sluggish. It was an effort to think, to concentrate. Nita lightly flipped my chin as she took away her finger.

"You amuse me — a very little, but still you amuse me,” I heard her mocking voice in a kind of daze. "I think I shall leave you until later, and take this other

oaf. Go sit upon my ” Whatever

she was about to say, she checked it, and finished, "Go sit with Gregory.”

With no thought to do otherwise, I went and sat down where she told me. Then I saw she was staring into Breaux’s face as she had into mine; but her smile was a terribla and ghoulish thing, while her eyes werC: like flaming pools of fire.

THE LAST OF PLACIDE’S WIFE


"Come!” she commanded, in a husky, quivering whisper. Obediently, though with a fleeting spasm of despair twitching his face, Breaux followed. He moved too slowly for Nita’s liking, for she seized his arm and drew him with feverish eagerness across the clearing. Into the screening bushes she pulled him. Nita fairly panted as she pushed poor Alcide through the growth, and I thought, dully, tiiat her red mouth drooled. It is horrible when I think of it now; but I looked on without interest, then, as the bushes closed behind them, and Nita and Alcide . . . were gone. . . .

H ow long Gregory and I sat there alone, I have no idea. Neither of us spoke, and time seemed to stand still. It would have been too much effort to talk or move, or even lie back to rest. We kept motionless, I think, and waited; nothing at all mattered, until Nita suddenly came back and smiled down at us.

The fire had left her eyes, and she seemed younger, and refreshed . . . . There was a smile of exhilaration on her beautiful red lips, redder now than before. I saw the tip of her tongue lick over those lips with satisfaction. Poor Alcide!

Nita dropped lazily down between us, smiling first at Gregory, then at me. "Don’t be so dull-witted!” she reproved. She must have had some deliberate intention of lifting the .spell that kept us so listless; for my brain cleared with her words, and I straightened as I sat. So did Gregory. Nita leaned toward him.

"Ah, that is better!” she breathed. "It has been long since any one except stupid, clod-like men, little better than brute beasts, came to this place.” She reached out a hand, put it softly upon Greg’s knee, her eyes, half closed, smoldering with a fire different from the fierce light that had flamed in them earlier in the evening. "'There are other good things

besides food and drink — warm, salty drink! This body of mine is still a woman’s. ... Is it not fair?”

She leaned lazily back upon her hands and Gregory and I held our breaths together. Here was a gorgeous creature of pale ivory and ebony and scarlet. Pale ivory body, scarlet lips; and long loose hair as black and bewitching as sin.

God, she was beautiful! There was reason for Gregory to lean toward her, biting his lips — even though he knew, now, what sort of thing she was. Nita had said that she came from a far land: her old-ivory skin, with its hint of underlying olive tint, and the upward slant of her eyes at the corners, told that she spoke the truth. 'The shameless creature lay back and laughed with brazen delight at Gregory’s open fascination.

“Do you find me beautiful?” she demanded naively. Sitting up quickly, she eagerly asked, "Do you like beautiful things?”

Gregory stared at her without answering, but there was something in his silence that seemed to please Nita as well as words. "Will you come to me willingly, Gregory, rather than as that one of your men I — ^had — tonight, without my arms and love to make — what happened — a caress and a promise of future delight in me? Will you take a love no mortal woman could give?”

Suddenly she struck the earth with one small hand. "Do you know what this is?” she demanded. Without waiting for answer, she told us, "It is where I lie and rest during the day — is it not in a good place, here in the heart of this swamp? No trappers or hunters come so far, and you will be safe with me.” She laughed, with sudden malicious merriment.

"Old Placide, that dear husband of mine, showed me this place! 'There was a gipsy peddler who wanted both me



and Placide’s money: the money he got for his land when oil was found on it, before I came to Labranch and married him. The money was buried near our house, but Placide was frightened of the peddler, and dug it up, and brought it here where he knew no one would ever come to look for it. I spied on him when he did it, and followed him here. Afterward, I remembered this place. His money is there now, at the head of my earthen couch!” She laughed gleefully again, but sobered quickly. She leaned toward Gregory, and her voice was vibrant with passion. Gregory half raised his hands, and her pale body writhed into his arms. I stared, you can imagine, with my mouth open: I was astonished at Nita, but I was ashamed of Gregory. I was thinking of poor Alcide, you understand!

Then, in a flash, I comprehended. Nita’s wild mood fixed her interest on him, and Gregory played up to her, so she would not notice me. He was forcing himself to hold her close, swallowing his disgust to bend his head to those rmclean red lips — so I might slip out and escape!

As Greg seized Nita in a sudden fierce grip that I thought was fine acting, I crept on hands and knees behind her bade, toward that place through which she took Aldde. Creeping through the bushes, I came on something that caused me to jerk upright, scratching my face on the twigs around me. I looked down into the dead, staring face of Alcide, and shivered all over as I made the cross. Behind me was that mound in the darkness, with a glow like phosphorus hanging around it and around two dark forms, so close together that they were like one. . . .

N ot until that minute did I fully realize the awful nightmare of that place and the things that lived there. All

my life I had heard tales of vampires and werewolves; I had listened to stories of Placide’s wife, and how men had gone into this same swamp, and had not come back. True, I wondered, and I had been careful to keep in camp after sundown, since we had been on the island. But the tales had been tales, and this was something else. I felt the little silver medal hung on a cord around my neck, and whispered to all the saints I could remember. Heh! You can believe that!

Very carefully, I poked my head out and looked around. There was not much of a moon, and all I could see, at first, was those other mounds that covered the flat knoll. TTie bluish glow that had lighted up the place when we first came had died away; but there was that sort of phosphorous haze about some of the mounds, and I gradually made out some dark objects lying or hunkered up on ail of them. In most cases, there were two of them on each mound — one lying across the other.

In a flash, I knew what those dark shapes were! One of each pair was a man of our party; the other was the thing that owned the mound. ... It was horrible, I tell you! Those devils were lying there on our poor fellows, still and quiet, like dogs that have gorged on too mudi meat. Pff-f!

I remembered that I didn’t have time to get sick at the stomach. You comprehend, I wanted to be going, to get away from there and bring back help to Gregory. ^The way we had come was mostly over a dry path through the swamp; I wondered if I could slip across the knoll and get back the same way. I started to find out, crawling on hands and knees, and holding my breath to keep from making a sound.

One of the mounds was close by, but I aawled past it without anything happenW. T.— 4

THE LAST OF PLACIDE’S WIFE


ing. After going a little further, I saw that, whichever way I turned, there was nothing for it but to creep between two more. I went forward inch by inch, cold sweat running down into my eyes. But the things lying on the mounds kept lying tliere. They were so close together that I had to crawl near enough to see that the mounds were heaps of turned-up raw clods; there was an open hole to the side of them. Dully, I wondered how much trouble it was for the things to pull the dirt in on top of them, when they crawled in their holes at sun-up. . . . My heart stood still when the one on my right made a noise in its throat, and moved a little. But it was quiet, after that, and I crept on.

There was not much farther to go until I would be on the path through the swamp. One more heap of raw clods I had to pass; but there was a clump of those low bushes near it, that would hide me as I passed. I reached the bushes, when a low squeaking noise made me sink flat on my stomach. I listened, my ears strained like my nerves, and heard it again — it seemed to come from over my head. I looked up. The white skeleton of a dead cypress stood on the other side of that grave the bushes grew by. Hanging to the lowest limb of the dead tree was a black something that looked like a bat — only it couldn’t be. But it was! A bat as big as one of those buzzards, hanging there by its feet, and making overgrown squeaks, as bats do in their sleep.

I went around the bushes, hugging the ground. I had that bat all figured out, you understand — there had been only one black splotch on those clods under the dead cypress!

The bat was too mudi on my mind. I didn’t notice where I was going. Something moved, out there ahead of me. I had nm right onto another one of those vampire nests — two glowing eyes glared W. T.— 5

into mine, and a great wolf-thing — that I knew was no wolf! — ^rose up from on tlie other side of a hole, not twenty feet away!

The wolf snarled; I could see the gleam of its teeth in the dim moonlight. I knew that I was caught, that I had to run for it. There was no use in waiting there for that thing to come slobbering at my throat. The swamp was right ahead of me. I jumped up and dashed for it; and that wolf howled and dashed after me!

N ever did I go anywhere as fast as I went from that place. IThe howls of the wolf behind me roused the knoll; a dozen howls answered, as if that many of the vampires took up the chase in the form of wolves. I had no thought of path, now; but plunged in blind fear through the swamp. Once more I felt of the little silver medal of the Virgin hung around my neck; I felt it while I called silently on all the saints I could remember.

The wolf panted at my heels, and only my terrible fright kept me ahead of it for so long. It was bound to catch me — I could almost feel its hot breath on my back. I whirled, just as the beast put on an extra spurt, to spring a’c my shoulders. What good my bare hands could have done against that slavering terror, I can not imagine; but I threw them out, instinctively.

Something strange happened. One clenched hand had torn the blessed little medal from its cord around my neck. That was pure accident; and it was also accident that I cast that medal straight into the open maw of the mad beast as it sprang at me. For one terrible instant I felt the hot stinking breath of the thing in my face. Then it dropped down, bucking and making choking noises in its throat.



Whether the holiness of the little medal had anything to do with it, or whether it was a plain case of the wolf-thing choking on it, I neither knew nor cared. The main thing was for me to go on while the going was good; and I did.

Suddenly out of the darkness behind me came a furious squeaking, and something beat at my head, scratching my cheek. It was a great bat, like the one I had seen hanging to the dead cypress; and another joined it. Their little eyes blazed like red fires of hate, and the wings that beat at me were as heavy as a man’s arms. ’Ihey beat me down on my knees in the mud. The howling of the vampire wolves from the knoll came closer and closer through the swamp.

Without thinking, I dug handfuls of the soft mud at my knees, flinging the slimy stuff into the squeaking faces of the monster bats. It seemed to annoy them, for they squeaked furiously and darted up out of reach. I used the second before they swooped back, to spring to my feet and stagger on. Then they were on me again, their heavy wings battering at my head, the claws on the wings scratching my face until the blood ran down onto my neck. A great, fire-eyed owl swooped suddenly down and joined the bats. The wdtewolves were so close that I saw their dark forms, their flaming eyes; and there were other dark shapes running with them, like men, but with eyes that blazed like theirs.

I felt the clinging mud beneath my feet go thin, become water that wet my ankles. I could go no farther; the heavy wings pounded at my head, and I slipped and fell sprawling. Half choked with slimy water, I lay as I fell, lifting my head only to clear my nose and mouth. The water slowly crawled against my chin. Too exhausted to get up, or even to move or put my arms over my head to keep off those

terrible wings, I waited without hope for an awful end.

Nothing happened. The wolves came dashing up, so close that I heard their panting, between yelps and snarling growls. Turning over on one elbow, I looked back and wondered. There were the wolves, whimpering and slavering, not more than a couple of yards from my feet; and the red-eyed things in the shapes of men snarled there with them. In the air a half-dozen of the bats whirled and squeaked, and a pair of huge black owls with fiery eyes like saucers whirled with them. But none of the swooping things passed over my head; none of the whining pack sprang at me!

Suddenly I knew what held them back. Years and years before, some one had sunk what was hoped to be an oil well, on this part of the island. The well came in, flowing nothing but salt water, and was left there without even the casing being pulled. After all these years, a little water still flows occasionally from that old well, and seeps through the swamp to the bayou. I lay in water that flowed, however shallow and sluggish — and those vampires could not cross or enter running water, nor even fly above it!

As long as I lay there I was safe! But I could not lie there until morning sent the devil pack scampering to its holes, because of Gregory. I must get back to him before it was too late. I knew that old well was not far from the fork of the bayou nearest Labranch. 'The things that whined for my blood could not follow except by scampering all the way around the head of that blessed water. Perhaps I could beat them to the bayou bank. Well, I would try! So!

I staggered to my feet, shaking my fist at the things like men and wolves that yowled their helpless hate at me, and at those other things that hooted and

THE LAST OF PLACIDE’S WIFE


s^pieaked, swooping above them through the trees.

I HAD my breath back now, was no longer weak and panting. Splashing out of the water, I started for the bayou as fast as my legs would take me. The thirsting things behind me yelped and raced off to round the old well, and so come at me again. God, how I ran! And thanked heaven as I ran, that there was not much except solid ground under my feet, so far, nor much undergrowth to slow my pace.

On I went, until I began to pant for breath again. Hope of reaching the bayou rose, for I knew it could not be much farther away, and I had not yet heard any more of the howling devils on my track. Just as I was about to slow down and take it easier, I heard them again, jelping in the distance but coming like the rush of wind. On I staggered; on to the bayou. I could sense the nearness of the saving stream, now. Two hundred yards ahead through the darkness ... a hundred. . . .

SUently, without warning, the bats swarmed out of the swamp at my back. They came in a cloud, great devil owls with the monster bats, swooping, beating again at my head. I struggled on, on. . . .

Tte wolves came up; close behind them padded the things like men widi eyes of fire. There were so many that th^ were in one another’s way; and that was all that saved me from being torn to pieces at once. The great bats beat me with their wings, and tore at my face with booked claws. One of the men vampires seized my wrist. This time, I knew that my end had surely come.

It was horrible to die like that, and with the bayou so near — ^horrible to die an unclean death from which I would rise to be one of those things that howled

for my blood! I went mad for a moment, and fought with such fury that I held them off a little longer, screaming as I fought. And then — even in my madness, I heard what it was that made those snarling things fall back and stand quivering, listening; I had screamed — and the cries of m^my men answered from near by in the swamp!

Even while we stood frozen, those fiends and I together, points of light showed faintly, moving through the trees. Lights — lanterns! — and the voices of men!

"Help!” I aied. "This way— help!”

Again my cry was answered; and some one fired three shots, as if th^ were a signal. Farther off, the baying of houn^ soimded, and three rapid, answering shots.

The things around me, all but one of the werewolves, tiuned and rushed to meet the men who were running up with lights. The lone beast sprang in to finish me, but I fought so desperately, now that help was near, that it could not get at my throat It knocked me from my feet, and we rolled and fought on the ground. I knew there could be but one end to this business; but shots rang out from close at hand, and yelps and howls mingled with shouts and curses of men. There was something — something of surprize and fear and pain — ^in the howls that made the beast leave off its slashing at me. It sprang back, bristling, its red eyes glaring redder than ever. Suddenly it let out one howl of its own, and raced to join the pack.

S TAGGERING to my feet, I saw that a mad fight was on, there among the trees. Dark figures blazed away with guns that spit fire in the murk; others stabbed at wolf and bat and red-eyed vampires in the shapes of men, with pointed wooden stakes. Every time a



gun roared, there would be a shriek of agony, and a bat-thing would fall thudding to the ground; a wolf would spring high into the air, yowling its hate; or a thing like a man with blazing eyes would scream and fall writhing.

But the guns were few, and the men with stakes were not having things all their own way. Some of them fell, and I don’t like to remember it. The vampires greatly outnumbered the others, you imderstand; But the baying of hounds came nearer and nearer. The dogs themselves burst into view, furious and eager to join the fight. 'They rushed in — and yelped with sudden terror when they found what things they had to fight. Here were creatures no dogs could stand against. The poor beasts turned and fled!

But other men followed the dogs; and two of these had gims that joined the few already roaring. Now the odds changed; and suddenly something else happened. Except for maybe a dozen that were lying still on the ground — ^there were no vampires! The bats shot off through the trees; wolves streaked into the bushes; the things that looked like men faded into a gust of wind that swept away into the swamp!

I stumbled forward, and some one came to meet me. It was Sheriff Desarde.

"Hey,you,Delaj:ro!x!”he cried, "what’s happened down here? Where’s Gregory and the rest of your fellows?” Somebody had a canteen of water, and handed it to me. I gulped half of it down my dry throat before I started urging the sheriff toward that knoll where I had left Gregory with Nita. Tired as I was, I thought I could guide the sheriff and his men back over the way I had escaped, and I was in a hurry to go. I told Desarde what had taken place, in as few words as possible, and we set off at double time.

"They’ll know we’re coming, and not all of them were here,” I warned the sheriff. Desarde was confident.

"I was in Baton Rouge this morning,” he told me as we went, "and Legendre” — Rene Legendre is his chief deputy, you understand — "didn’t know what to do when Gregory’s men came in with his note about old Jules Landry’s disappearance, and saying he was going to go into the swamp and round up the "gipsies.” I got back to town just before another man came in from your camp, saying you fellows hadn’t come back. It was seven o’clock then, and I knew what had happened — I was a grown man when Placide Duboin married that Nita, and I know as much about her as anybody!

"I got a gunsmith to jerk the lead out of enough bullets for a half-dozen guns, and put silver in them, instead. That was all we had time to wait for; so I gave the rest of them some poles I had, already sharpened, ready to stake out some pole beans I’m growing; we took them by the church and wet them plenty, in the font of holy water ... I got a pint flask of holy water on my hip, too.”

You can believe me, I was glad the sheriff was born in this country, and had more sense about some things than men who thought they were a lot smarter — Gregory, for instance! So!

W E CAME to the knoll, all right; and a lot quicker than I had been in getting away. The place was dark, but we could see red eyes glaring at us out of the blackness. The vampires were there waiting for us, ready to fight for their nest.

"Gregory!” Desarde shouted; "where are you?” ’There was no answer, either then or when the sheriff yelled again, louder. We hesitated, and Desarde called for all the men with lanterns to bring them to the front. 'Then something swept down at us, and sharp claws raked my face. The sheriff cursed and fired at

THE LAST OF PLACIDE’S WIFE


something that slashed at his own head. It was like a signal; the fight was on.

Something snarled and rushed at me. There was a lantern on the ground in back of me, and I recognized, with satisfaction, the old devil who had brought me to the knoll in the first place. I had one of the stakes Desarde had brought, and it was pointed like a toothpick. I jabbed the old one in the stomach with it. He howled and hopped back, but started for me again.

"Aho, sale vieux!” I told him; "You want a better one, I see — well, take it!” And I drove it at his breast with all my strength. Uh-h! Did you ever drive a sharp pole into anybody’s chest, vampire or otherwise? Neither did I, until then, but you comprehend that it was not nice , . . the way he crunched!

(Wait till 1 get a drink on that!

You ? Oh, very well then! You

never pushed a sharp pole into anything that crunched and squalled! )

Well! That old fellow flopped down like a bundle of rags. I pulled my stake out of him and jabbed up at a bat’s stomach. It squealed and wheeled away. Snarling and growling things fought all over the place. The lanterns on the ground made just enough light to see a little; some of them were overturned and broken.

A wolfish shape sprang snarling into my face. I jabbed at it with my pole and missed, and then I was down. Desarde’s gun roared, and the loup-garou went limp on top of me. I pushed it off and scrambled up. The sheriff was blazing away only whenever he was suxe of a hit; he had none of the silver bullets to waste. Suddenly the fight died away. There was nothing there for us to fight! As before, the vampire pack had melted into the forest.

"Now,” I reminded, "we find Gregory — and Nita!”

Desarde called a half-dozen men to bring lanterns, and told the rest to hurry and surround the knoll, and be on the lookout for a return of the pack. I rushed to the mound where I had left Nita and Gregory, the sheriff and the men with lanterns running with me. Not sure of what to expect, but in fear that Nita had run into the swamp with her pack, I pushed through the bushes.

W HATEVER I thought to find, it was not what the lanterns at my back showed. Gregory was on his knees, holding tight to Nita, who’ struggled and fought in his arms like a wild thing. Silent, panting, she clawed at his face, and he hunched his chin tight on her shoulder to protect himself from her sharp teeth.

"Quit fighting,” Gregory pleaded, "these are my friends, and they won’t hurt you.”

"Let me go, fool!” Nita screamed at him. "Let me go!”

Why she was not able to fade from his arms and whisk herself away, what had passed between her and Gregory that may have made her powerless in his arms, I do not know. But Gregory held tight to her, though she screamed now and fought like a mad thing. Desarde brushed past me.

"Let her loose, Greg!” the sheriff cried — "Move out of the way and I’ll quiet her with a silver bullet.”

Nita screamed louder; the howls of her pack ranged in closer. Gregory jerked his head around at us, unmindful that Nita seized the opportunity to bite savagely at his exposed neck.

"No!” he aied, in startled alarm. "She’s mine from now on — I’ll take care of her, and you won’t have to worry about her, now. Go away and let us alone!”

What do you know about that? I thought Gregory was playing up to Nita


uWEIRD TALES

so she wouldn't watch me, and I could get away — and he meant it, all along! He had actually fallen for that bloodsucking thing! He put his body between her and Desarde, and managed to stagger to his feet with her kidcing in his arms.

The sheriff thought Gregory was crazy. So did I, as far as that goes, and I think so, now — no man could take a vampire in his arms and keep sane! Desarde was afraid to fire at Nita, for fear of hurting Gregory. He seemed to have a sudden idea; for I saw him grab at his hip pocket.

"Let’s see what this’ll do!’’ he muttered, pulling out the flask of holy water. "I can sprinkle this on both of them.”

He slopped the water from the uncorked bottle on the pair, wetting Gregory as much as Nita. Greg started away with her, taking long steps and not seeming to mind the water; but she shrieked and howled, twisting as if Desarde had poured add on her.

"Close in!” the sheriff cried to us. "Take her away from him and let’s finish this!”

Gregory heard him, and began to run toward the swamp with Nita. Desarde started to jump after him. Then, without any warning, Nita’s padc burst onto the knoll from gut of the woods, and hell broke loose again. Howling, snarling and squeaking, fiends like wolves and bats and men flung themselves upon us, and between us and the poor fool who carried the mistress of them all.

We were hard pressed for a minute, and two of our men went down and never got up. Poor fellows! But heavy odds were with us in point of numbers, since we had killed at least a dozen in the first two fights; and there were still a few silver bullets in the guns. The vampires gave way, and then we realized that they were really beaten, and only fought to keep us away from Gregory and Nita.

We punched and jabbed with the sharpened stakes; now and then a gun blazed, whenever a sure shot offered. The blackness of the swamp was beginning to take on a gray tinge. Under the threat of dawn, the howls of the things became uneasy. We pushed on after Gregory with less resistance. The light grew, and we could see him staggering along ahead. Nita sagged limp and dangling in his arms.

The things swirling around us, just out of reach, began to change their snarls to whimpers. Two of them ran up to Gregory, fluttering around him like two frightened old women. He shook them off and tottered on. On toward the banks of the bayou, that showed through the grayness, not far away.

There was sudden silence aroiuid us, for a moment. Snarls and whimpers hushed. Then, as if at a signal, the vampire pack whirled and raced away behind us.

Understanding flashed through my brain; and it was queer how I felt a little touch of pity for those things. They could not face the sun, and scampered away to their holes, where we would find them with our stakes before another night . . .

Gregory stood swaying, facing us with his back to the bayou. We came slowly closer, seeing that his face was drawn and weary. He carried dead weight that must have felt like lead in his arms; Nita hung limp, moaning.

"Get back!” Gregory demanded hoarsely. "You can’t shoot me, and I won’t let you touch her. I’m too tired for it, but if you come closer. I’ll jump in the bayou and try to swim across with her — if I drown, it’ll be the same as if you murdered me.”

Desarde stepped slowly forward, empty hands outstretched, intending to tzy

THE LAST OF PLACIDE’S WIFE


reasoning with him. Gregory misunderstood, turned to jump, even while the sheriflF cried to him to wait. Nita jerked suddenly to life, shrieking as she saw the water under them.

"No!” she screamed. For a fraction of a second, while Gregory tottered on the bank, she bit and clawed, and fought to tear his arms away. Desarde ran toward them, and we with him. But we were too late. Nita gave one last awful scream of fear, as Gregory toppled witli her to the water. . . .

There was a blinding flash, a bluewhite sheet of flame that burned up the air we breathed. It burned to the back of our eyeballs. For long minutes we stood there, arms across our eyes, blinded, and afraid to move. Finally that passed, and we could see again. But there was nothing upon tlie surface of the bayou; the black water flowed on as it always had: creeping darkly toward the bay. What happened, or how, I don’t pretend to know. Nor why. But all my life I’ve heard it said, vampires can cross no plowing water! Gregory had tried to take Nita. . . . And that flame; and they were gone. . . .

God! Let’s have a drink!

# * * * #

I AM intere.sted in folklore, and had listened to Delaaoix more for that reason than any other. Otherwise, I can not explain why ray patience burst boimds no sooner.

"I don’t want a drink, and you’ve already had too many.” I was angry, and let him have it straight. "I heard talk in the town about a wild fight the sheriff’s

posse had with a gang of gipsies on the island; and then you waste my time with a version that would make Munchausen green with envy.”

Delacroix laughed shortly. "You don’t expect the people who know the truth to tell it to outsiders, do you? And be called crazy, or liars like you’re calling me?”

"Anyway,” I retorted, "you’d better sober up and be on the job in the morning. If your past record wasn’t unusually good. I’d fir-e you now!”

"Oh!” Delacroix exclaimed innocently, "I forgot to tell you: When we* went back to the knoll to take care of what was left to do, I hung back and did some private digging of my own! OldPlacide’s money was there, just as Nita said. . .

Reaching into a pocket, he drew out a wallet. As he carelessly flipped the contents with his thumb, a sheaf of old currency showed for a minute, like the open corner of a fan. 'The bills were faded and dirty, and their size proved them of oldfashioned issue. Old and soiled they may have been, but the four numerals in their comers seemed very vivid to my startled eyes.

"Just a tin box and a little oilskinwrapped pack of greenbacks,” Delacroix observed. "But big ones! So! 'The only reason I’m here is because I can’t get a train to New Orleans for a couple more hours. . . .

"You better have a drink before you go? All right! Whether you do, or w'hether you don’t” — he looked up, his grin taking the malice from his parting shot — "you take your job and go hop in the bayou — and see what happens to your

of Truth

By ARLTON EADIE

'A fascinating story of a Greek who found strange powers in the ruins of a te77tple in Boeotia

ESSIEURS, mesdames, fakes vos jeux!"

With a sharp twist of his right hand the croupier set the roulette wheel in motion, and a moment later he threw the little ivory ball upon the spinning disk. A tense, breathless hush fell upon the circle of well-dressed men and women seated round the green-covered table; the only sound to be heard was the merry clicking of the tiny ivory ball as it leaped and spun in its dance of fortune.

Gradually the wheel slowed down until the alternating red and black sections could be faintly distinguished — slower still, until one could see the blur of the numbers on the outer rim of white — ^slower and slower, until the eye could follow the tiny white ball as it circled round in one of the black sections of the wheel, and read the number marked upon the rim.

"Dix, noir, .pair et manque]” announced the droning voice of the croupier.

For a few seconds he plied his rake deftly, whisked away the stakes of those who had lost, pushing their winnings across to those on whom fortune had smiled.

"The Count wins again!’’ whispered one woman to her neighbor. *'Ma foil but he has the luck of le grand diable himself!”

The other woman sighed enviously as she watched her few notes go to swell the great pile opposite the man referred to.

"Ah, but he is one who has the courage to flout Dame Fortune by turning his

back on her while she smiles upon him. See — ^he is about to leave the table.”

"V raiment! he can well afford to be content,” exclaimed the first speaker. "Tonight he has won a fortune!”

"Last night he did the same — and the night before, too. Many times have I watched him, tempted to follow his play, yet fearing that such luck can not hold. But it does hold. Tenez! it is beyond belief! Who is he?”

The other woman raised her pencilled eyebrows and shrugged.

"Ah, many people have asked that question without finding an answer to it. 'The man is a mystery. Nobody knows his name, so the habitues oi die tables have invented one for him. They call him 'Count Roulette’.”

Meanwhile the object of their conversation had risen leisurely to his feet, swept together his winnings and thrust them carelessly into his pocket. He was a tall and extremely handsome man, although well past the prime of life, if one might judge by the snowy whiteness of his hair and the long pointed beard which covered the lower portion of his face. Yet his skin, though pale as old ivory, showed scarcely a trace of a wrinkle, while his dark eyes shone beneath their heavy brows with a keen vivacity that seemed almost youthful.

The moment he rose there was a rush of bystanders to occupy the "lucky chair;” but he did not even glance toward them as he crossed to the door leading to the atrium, where all hats and coats must be

THE EYE OF TRUTH


deposited. Before he coold reach it his arm was seized violently from behind.

"Pardon, monsieur,” the speaker, a total stranger to him, was quivering wilh eagerness and excitement "You play on a system — yes? I will pay your own price for the secret of itl”

The man who had won a fortune paused and regarded the other for a moment through the old-fashioned glass which he usually wore suspended from his nedc by a hne gold chain.

"I have no system, monsieur,” he said coldly. His French was perfect, but he spoke it with a slight intonatim whidi

seemed to indicate it was not his native tongue.

The man’s grip ti^tened on his atm.

"No system?” he whispered in a voice of hoarse incredulity. "Yet you win, and win, and win ”

"True, monsieur.” Foe the first time that evening a faint smile lightened the habitual sadness of the bearded man’s face. "I win because — unfortunately — I can not lose. I have the honor of wishing you good-night — ^and better fortune.”

He released his arm with a quick movement and, before the other could recover from his astonishment, passed through



the swinging doors into the vestibule. Tendering his numbered vestaire check, he received his hat and overcoat, and as the attendant was helping him to don the latter, one of the frock-coated officials approached and whispered in his ear.

■'Would it not be well if a gendarme accompanies monsieur to his hotel.? The hour is late, and you have a large sum of money in your possession, and there have been instances where players have been robbed of their winnings ”

"Pray have no fear,” interrupted the Count. "I have a ... a friend not far away.”

"As monsieur pleases.”

T he official returned to his post in the gaming-room and the other stepped out into the palm-shaded path that led through the gardens of the Casino. As he disappeared, two men, who had quitted the tables a few seconds before him, emerged from the shadows and followed noiselessly in his wake.

Stepping out briskly and Inhaling with evident relief the cool sea breeze which swept in from the Mediterranean — • doubly refreshing after the vitiated, scentladen atmosphere of the crowded gamingrooms — the stranger soon reached the curving terrace' overlooking the Pointe Focianana. Here he came to a halt and, lighting a cigar, leant his arms on the stone balustrade and contemplated the scene before him.

Immediately below was the little square harbor, with its twin lighthouses guarding the entrance, their lights, red on one side and green on the other, mirrored with scarcely a break in the smooth, unruffled waters. Beyond the harbor towered the fortress-crowned Rock of Monaco, ancient, grim, rugged and gray; its siege-scarred walls and bastions looking down as though in savage contempt at the

ultra-modem Casino which, glittering with a thousand lights and looking as dainty as the white ornament on a bridal cake, faced it across the bay.

A faint crunching sound on the gravel path behind him caused him to swing round. Confronting him, their faces concealed by masks, were two men, the foremost holding a revolver aimed straight at his breast.

"Your money, monsieur, or you die!”

The man with the white beard leaned back against the balustrade and laughed softly.

"Pardon my mirth, messieurs, but one would imagine that you had studied your — er — profession at some opera bouffe "

The right harfd of the threatened man made a quick movement toward his breast, but it was merely to grasp the curious eyeglass which dangled on its gold chain. Raising it to his eye, he surveyed each man in turn as coolly and dispassionately as though he were inspecting two rare specimens in a museum. So unexpected was that calm scmtiny that the man with the pistol shrank back and stood irresolute. But the other came forward with a muttered curse.

"Norn de Dieu, why do you waste time? Put a bullet into the old cochon if he won’t hand over ”

Again the man with the white beard laughed.

"Your threats are empty, messieurs, as empty as the weapon you threaten me with. Your revolver is not loaded!”

TTie two men stared at the speaker for an instant in speechless amazement.

"You are surprized that I know that,” the old man continued, "but there are many more things about you that I know equally well. You” — ^he pointed to the man who held the revolver — "are Raoul Lecontier, otherwise known as 'Le Lapin,’

THE EYE OF TRUTH


ao apache badly wanted by the Surete Gmerale of Paris for the murder of the baker in the Rue du Petit Camas. Your companion is Anton Grezan, otherwise known as ”

"Mille tonnerres! You know too mudi, old man, to be allowed to live! Money or no money, he mustn’t get away from here!"

Pocketing his empty pistol, the ruffian slid a knife from his belt, and slowly and cautiously the two began to approadi their victim. But the old man had no intention of allowing himself to be cornered. Hurowing his hat in the face of the foremost man, he dashed off to the right and tore along a path which stretched dim beneath the arching palms and sub-tropical undergrowth, his assailants in hot pursuit. ’

“Help!” he cried, raising his voice and speaking in English. "Help me! I am beset by thieves!”

With a promptitude that could scarcely have been exceUed had the summons been awaited, a figiure rose from one of the stone seats and placed itself in fighting attitude between pursued and pursuers. For an instant the two apaches paused; then, with bared knives held ready for the deadly upward lunge, they circled round to attack the newcomer from both sides simultaneously.

But the man was evidently fully alive to the importance of getting his attadc in first. Instead of making a retreat before such odds, he sidestepped quickly and witii the force and dexterity of a trained . boxer, sent a lightning right and left to the jaw of the nearest man.

"You’re down for the count, anjway, my beauty!” he muttered as the Frenchman sagged forward and pitched headlong on to the gravel, his knife falling from his hand. Giving the weapon a kick which sent it slithering well out of

reach, the victor turned his attention to the remaining man, but this time he waited for his opponent’s move.

It was not long in coming.

"Mort de Dieu!” screamed Le Lapin, springing forward with upraised knife. “Dog of an Englishman — ^you die!”

"Not on your life, monsieur!” came back with a mocking laugh.

What happened subsequently was entirely beyond the apache’s experiences of such encounters. 'The vague impression he retained in his mind was that his intended victim was in two places at once, but before he had time to give this extraordinary phenomenon due attention a fist shot out of nowhere in particular and landed with the force of a battering-ram behind his left ear in what was — although the recipient knew it not — a very scientific and perfect "cross counter.”

“Two!” said the victor, as the gallant Lapin went to join his prostrate accomplice. “And now I should be glad to know what all the fuss is about.”

'The white-bearded man, who liad been an interested spectator of the fight, now stepped forward.

“These two gentlemen very kindly offered to relieve me of a few thousand francs that I had won at the tables,” he said with a slight smile. “When I declined to allow them to act as my bankers, they tried to kill me.”

“Shall I hand them over to the police?” asked the young man.

The other surveyed the limp forms of his late antagonists, then shook his head.

“I think they have leamt their lesson not to molest inoflFensive strangers. I will drop a hint in the ri^t quarter to insure that Monte Carlo becomes too hot to hold them another twenty-four hours. Really," he paused and regarded his rescuer through his strange eyeglass, "I am ratlior grateful to the rogues, since they have



been the means of my becoming acquainted with a young artist whom I have long wished to know.”

"Meaning myself?” The surprize in the young man’s voice was too deep to be disguised.

"Exactly. As a matter of fact, I ran down this rather dark and forbidding patli well knowing that I should find you seated at the farther end, and I may add, well knowing, too, that you would not fail me in my hour of need.”

The other gave a laugh of frank incredulity.

"Your good opinion of me is very flattering, sir, but I fear you must be mistaken. How could you have foreseen that I should be in the Casino gardens at this hour of the night? Why, I’m positive that I have spoken to no one of my intention to come here; in fact I did’ not make up my mind to do so imtil — ”

"Exactly a quarter past five this afternoon, when you were packing up your paints and easel after completing your picture of the distant Citadel of Monaco.”

T hey had fallen into step together and had been walking along the avenue which runs parallel to the Quai de Plaisance, but as the older man made this extraordinary remark the young artist stopped dead and stared at him in amazement.

"How could you possibly have known what was in my thoughts?” he cried.

The other shrugged slightly, and a wistful smile rose to his bearded lips.

"I am a man who knows many things tfiat are hidden in the hearts of others,” he said slowly, "though it is doubtful whether I am to be envied my knowledge. For instance, although you are living in an obscure lodging in the unfashionable quarter of the town, I know that you are

Frank Hartley, the only son of Matthew Hartley, the millionaire oil-king.”

"Quite correct,” the young man admitted. "But such information might have been gained by a few discreet inquiries. I must have more convincing proof than that if I am to believe in your boasted omniscience. Tell me, for instance, the most important thing that I intend to do tomorrow.”

The old man raised his eyeglass to his eye and favored Frank Hartley with a long stare.

'"The most important thing that you intend to do tomorrow, Mr. Hartley — although you have not yet quite made up your mind to take the plunge — is to ask Lady Vanda Delafer to become your wife.”

'The statement seemed to strike the young man speechless. For a moment he stood rigid and motionless with sheer amazement, and the other went on:

"If an old man may offer a little advice to one younger than himself, I would counsel you to beware of putting too much trust in new-found friends — no matter how beautiful and fascinating. Remember that, although your father has disinherited you because you chose to follow art instead of leading the idle, useless life of a fashionable man about town — • remember, I repeat, that he may relent before he dies, and Frank Hartley, heir to the Hartley millions, may succeed in love where Frank Hartley, as the penniless artist, would be rejected with scorn.”

Hartley started forward and seized the old man’s shoulder.

"Who are you?” he demanded fiercely.

"Men call me ‘Count Roulette,’ and that name will serve as well as any other,” the unknown answered with a shrug. "My home is that large steam yacht, the Veritas, which you can see moored at the quay yonder. As for my occupation —

THE EYE OF TRUTH

365 :

well, I can only describe myself as a seeker.”

"A seeker?” Frank repeated wonderingly. "What do you seek, then? Is it love? — fame? — riches?”

With a slow, inscrutable smile. Count Roulette shook his head.

"I seek none of those things, my friend, but rather a thing that one might imagine to be much easier to find. Yet I find my quest strangely diflEcult — so difficult, indeed, tliat until this night I have almost despaired of accomplishing it. But now

I have hopes ” He paused and with

a slow, impressive movement raised to his eye the curious eyeglass which dangled on its gold chain, intently scrutinizing the young man’s features as he muttered to himself, "Yes, most decidedly I have hopes — now.”

Then, dropping the glass, he raised his hat with a courtly, old-fashioned bow and hurried away, walking with rapid strides down the inclined road which led to the harbor.

Frank Hartley watched him until he turned the corner, a puzzled frown on his rather handsome features.

"He must be crazed — obsessed by a fantastic quest,” he muttered as he turned away. "Yet the poor old fellow looked

so kindly — so intelligent ” He

started suddenly as his thoughts flew back to the old man’s strange words. "But all the same it’s mighty queer how he came by his knowledge of my private affairs, and was able to guess my intentions regarding Lady Vanda. Yes, it’s very queer ... I wonder. . . .”

He pondered deeply over the problem as he made his way through the silent streets to his lodging in the older and less fashionable district known as La Condamine. But when he fell asleep that night he had advanced no farther toward the solution of the mystery which surroimded

the strange, white-bearded man whose amazing luck had gained for him the title of "Count Roulette.”

I N THE daintily decorated breakfast room of a suite de luxe in the most exclusive and expensive hotel in Monte Carlo, two people were seated the following morning. Neither of them seemed to have much appetite for the breakfast which the waiter had just set out on the table in the window overlooking the sea. The girl, a strikingly handsome blond attired in a wrapper of coral-pink silk, was puffing at a perfumed cigarette while she manipulated a cocktail-shaker with the facility of an expert.

There was a strong facial likeness between her and the man who was lounging on the settee, glancing through a Continental edition of an English newspaper — a likeness which was rendered even more striking by his effeminate air, drawling utterance, and languid movements.

'The Honorable Bobby Delafer was two years older than his sister Vanda, but hers was the dominating will, and in the not infrequent discussions as to the best ways and means of what in less exalted society is termed "raising the wind,” hers was the casting vote which decided their tactics. For, although the ancestral heads of the house of Delafer had bequeathed to their descendants an ancient and — outwardly, at least — ^unsullied title, there had been no fat rent-roll accompanying it.

The present Lord Delafer, the tenth of his line, had early in his career evinced a partiality for high stakes at cards, and this taste, combined with a certain novel and dexterous method of manipulating them, had caused him to resign his commission in a crack cavalry regiment at the urgent and very caustic request of his commanding officer. At the present time he was drawing a very modek and precarious in366

WEIKD TALES

come by allowing his name to figure on the lists of directors of sundry newly fledged mining companies. To his two offspring he had given his fatherly advice and blessing before launching them on the sea of life, to trim their sails by such favoring winds as fate might send, in the hope of berthing in the snug and secure haven of a rich marriage.

To the Honorable Bobby this much-desired consummation seemed as far off as ever; the enterprising Vanda, however, had at one time seemed (to maintain the nautical simile) almost on the point of hooking her anchor firmly in the golden shoals accumulated by old Matthew Hartley. With infinite patience she had cultivated the acquaintance of his only son, Frank, even going to the length of takitig lessons in art — a thing she heartily detested. To the generous and unsuspicious young student she appeared like a kindred soul. Friendship ripened quickly into that camaradarie which prevails in the studios, and that in turn ripened — on Frank’s part at least — to a deep and abiding love. Then, with the pri2e almost within her grasp, came the bombshell which shattered her hopes. Quite casually, as though it were a thing of but little importance, Frank happened to mention that his father had quarrelled with him because he had chosen to become an artist, and that his hopes of inheriting the bulk of the old man’s millions were very slender.

Frank had been considerably puzzled by her sudden and unaccountable coolness tOM'ard him, but little did he realize the real reason for it. Indifferent to wealth himself, he credited the adorable Vanda with a like disinterestedness. He might have seen fit to revise his opinion of that lady had he seen her that morning as she filled two tall glasses with the fog-colored

liquor from the shaker, and raised one of them in a sardonic toast.

"Here’s to our next venture, Bobby — and may it prove a more profitable stunt than angling for a paint-slinging fool of a pauper!’’

The Honorable Bobby shook his head slightly as he sipped his cocktail.

"Not quite a pauper, Vanda,’’ he oocrected. “He has a bit of an income ’’

"Yes — enough to pay my hair-dressing and beauty-parlor bills.’’ There was a sneer of her carmined lips that revealed little cruel lines at the corners of her mouth. "No, I’m afraid the dear innocent Frank Hartley is a back number as far as I am concerned. I mi^t have been able to tolerate him as a husband with a million or two to burn, but he’d drive me crazy as a love-in-a-cottage partner. I’ll write to him tliis morning and tell him that I’m through — ^that I’m 'wedded to my art’ — like he is, the poor fish!”

Bobby, who had been listlessly glancing down the columns of the paper, now looked up with a sudden exclamation.

"Hold on, my dear. You’re travelling a bit too rapid. I’d leave that note imwritten for a day or two, if I were you.”

"Why?” she demanded harshly. “If you imagine for a moment that I’m going to waste my chances on ”

“Waste nothing!” he jerked out sharply. "Just read that.”

He laid the paper before her and pointed to a paragraph half-way down the middle page.

Vanda snatched up the paper and hastily scanned the headline, her breast rising and falling rapidly, her hands trembling with an excitement which she did not attempt to control.

MILLIONAIRE DIBS INTESTATE DRAMATIC COLLAPSE OF

MR. MATTHEW HARTLEY IN OFHCE SEARCH FOR MISSING HEIR

THE EYE OF TRUTH

367 )

The actual report was brief, merely intimating that the well-known oil magnate had died of a heart attack while attending to his private correspondence in his London office. Then followed the usual outline of the dead man’s career, with a list of the various companies and combines in which he had held a controlling interest. It was the final paragraph which caused a wave of wild elation to mount to Vanda Delafer’s brain;

The solicitors of the late Mr. Hartley have made known the extraordinary news that the dead millionaire has left no will, in which case it is to be presumed that the whole of his immense fortune will devolve on his only son. Although his aaual whereabouts is at present unknown, Mr. Frank Hartley is believed to be travelling on the Continent. Inquiries are being set on foot, and he is requested to communicate without delay with Messrs. Harrow and Brett, solicitors, of Gray’s Inn Square, London.

S HE tossed the paper aside and sprang to her feet, her eyes shining, her sharp white teeth showing in a smile of triumph.

"So Frank will be rich after all!” she cried. "And I was about to give him up!”

Her brother shrugged his narrow shoulders as he gave a smile of conscious superiority.

"Your impulsiveness will be your ruin one of these days, my dear sister,” he drawled. "Lucky for you that you have me to give you a little brotherly guidance now and then. If it had not been for me you would have let that poor fish wriggle off the hook after having played him so patiently.”

"No fear of that happening — now!” The grating laugh which accompanied her words seemed strangely at variance with her delicate beauty. I’m willing to bet that I’ll be murmuring a coy 'Yes’ to his proposal some time today.”

The Honorable Bobby favored his sister with an approving grin.

"Leave it until the shades of evening are softly falling — he will feel more romantic then,” he advised with the certitude of an adept in such matters. "But for heaven’s sake don’t let him know you’ve seen that report of his father’s death.”

Vanda received his advice as though it were a personal affront.

"Think I was born yesterday?” she asked in a tone of acid reproof. "Leave it to me, boy. I reckon there’s no flies on your little sister when it comes to vamping a simp like that!”

A disaeet tap on the door interrupted their conversation at this stage, and a moment later one of the hotel valets made his appearance.

"A young lady wishes to speak with' madame,” he said.

"Oh yes, show her up.” Vanda turned to her brother with a little laugh when the man had gone. "I’ve got a surprize for you, Bobby. You never suspected that I was a perfect unknown genius of an artist, did you? Well, I am — or perhaps I should say. I’m going to be one.”

"Good lord!” Bobby gasped in surprize. "Why, the only thing I’ve ever seen you paint is your face!”

"Don’t be horrid, or I shan’t tell you how clever I’ve been. You know how Frank absolutely raves over anything connected with art? Well, I’m going to paint some lovely pictures for him to gloat over.”

Bobby shook his head with a puzzled air. "I can’t imagine you painting anything that Frank Hartley is likely to gloat over.”

"You foolish boy. I’m not going to paint them myselj — I’m going to pose as a genius by proxy. I saw a girl making sketches on the Corniche Road yesterday — just the style of thing that Frank raves about — so I arranged to buy a few of her pictures, so as to pass them off as my own work- "


.WEIRD TALES

“Bat it's rather risky. Supposing ”

"Hush! here she is.”

"rhe girl who entered was slim and dark, and of such remarkable beauty that even the blase Bobby stared. Here was a face almost Madonna-like in its serene purity, with a clear complexion that had been toned and ripened to rich damask coloring by long hours in the open air, and with steady blue-gray eyes which looked so transparently sincere. Although she might have passed for a girl still in her teens, Mary Deane was twentyone, and her short experience of the world had not been free either from struggle or hardship. Adversity might have robbed her of the illusions of youth, but in their place it had given her poise, and a dogged confidence in her own ability to win through.

"Ah, good morning. Miss Deane.” Vanda’s tone was slightly more gracious than that which she used when addressing her maid. "You have brought the sketches, I see.”

"Yes, and I have also brought the one I was working on when you spoke to me yesterday.”

Mary Deane opened the leather portfolio and took out four pictures and laid them on the table. Bobby uttered a sound which was intended to express admiration.

"By Jove, I’ve never seen anything I like better.” His gaze was not on the pictures as he spoke. "I could sit here and feast my eyes for hours on sudi beauty.”

The girl made a slight inclination of her head.

“It is indeed a pleasure to meet such an ardent admirer — of coast scenery,” she said in a voice which betrayed a slight tinge of irony. "'Ihere are so many other attractions in Monte Carlo, that to many visitors the natural beauties pass almost unnoticed.”

Catching her brother’s eye, Vanda gave him a warning frown as he was about to launch into another enthusiastic panegyric.

"I’m rather glad that you do not sign your work,” was her own highly practical remark. "Personally, I think it’s much nicer to have unsigned pictures hanging on the walls — unless, of course, they are by well-known artists — and, after all, it is the painting itself, not the signature, that matters.”

The ghost of a smile touched the lips of Mary Deane as she listened. Hard and practical experience had taught her different, and often in the past she had seen a mediocre work bearing the signature of a well-known R. A. eagerly snapped up while a better work by an unknown artist had failed to find a buyer.

"Undoubtedly a famous name has its value,” she contented herself with remarking. "But I fear that your ladyship' is mistaken, in assuming that my pictures are quite unsigned. If you look very closely in the corner of each picture you will see a tiny monogram, M. D., my own initials.”

"By Jove, sounds quite doctorish — what?” broke in Bobby.

Vanda Delafer’s brows met in a frown of annoyance as she bent over the pictures, carefully examining the spot indicated by the young artist. At last she shook her head.

"I can not see the monogram,” she said.

"It is very difficult to make out,” Mary explained. "For instance, in this picture it is composed of the stems of the clump of grass in the foregroimd; in this, it is markings on the fragment of rock. It is a queer little notion of my own to mark my pictures in this way,” Mary Deane went on with a smile, "a sort of a compromise between a signed picture and an unsigned one. I suppose I must have just

W. T.— 5

THE EYE OF TRUTH


sufficient of the artistic temperament to prevent me writing my name in full, and just too Ettle to allow me to leave it out altogether,”

Vanda took another long look and a sigh of relief escaped her lips.

"But it is quite unnoticeable unless one looked for the monogram,” she said.

"Oh, quite,”

"Then it really does not matter whether it is there or not.” She placed the pictures together and crossed to the bureau in the comer of the room. "I will buy the four pictures. Miss Deane. I think you said you valued them at ten guineas eadi? Very well, I will write you out a chedc now.”

She seated herself at the bureau, took up a pen, and thai started to search frantically, pulling out the drawers and nunmaging among the littered papers.

' Dear me, wherever could I have put my^ chedc-book.!* One of those careless maids must have mislaid it.” She turned to the girl with a (harming smile of apology, "I’ll have to send the (heck on to you, after all. Will you just scribble the address where you are staying, so that I can send the money on to you when my check-book turns up? It’s frightfully annoying, but I hope you won’t mind the slight delay?”

"Not in the least. Lady Delafer.”

Mary Deane wrote down the address and Vanda dismissed her with a gracious smile and the assurance that she would receive the check by the first available post.

"Dear Ettle trustful soul!” said Bobby, after the door had closed on the unsuspicious girl. "Where does she hang out?”

He craned forward to read the address, but his sister quickly snatched it away,

"You’ll please keep out of this little business, Bobby,” she said sharply. "If Mary Deane is trustful now, she wouldn’t W. T.~€

be trustful long after you had started amusing yourself with her.”

The Honorable Bobby scowled sulkily as he lit a cigarette.

"All right. But it certainly amuses me to hear you moralizing, my dear Vanda,” he answered with a sneer. "How long do you think she would have trusted you if you’d written out that check? I know the amount is only £42, but your present bank balance is something of a minus quantity.”

There was a derisive smile on Lady Vanda’s painted lips, and a light of sly triumph glinted between her heavy eyeEds.

"Have no fear of that, my dear Bobby,” she said calmly. "There will be plenty of money in the bank to meet that check when it is presented. From now onward nothing can mar my plans. I am determined that I shall be Frank Hartley’s wife within a month, and I defy the devil himself to prevent me ”

Bobby’s warning cry caused her to swing round. Her confident boast ended in a low gasp of dismay.

Framed in the open doorway, still and silent as a granite sphinx as he stood regarding her through a quaint, oldfashioned eyeglass, was the mysterious man known as Count Roulette.

F or nearly a minute there was silence in the dainty room, silence that was broken only by the ticking of the gilt clock on the mantelpiece and the quick breathing of the startled girl. Then, with an ugly oath, Bobby sprang to his feet and advanced toward the intruder.

"What do you mean by sneaking in here like that?” he demanded furiously. "This is a private suite — not the smokeroom!”

Count Rcmlette dropped his eyeglass



and bent his head in a little deferential bow.

"I must beg of you to forgive a foolish old man for his unintentional intrusion,” he said in perfect English. "As some slight excuse for my offense, I may mention the fact that I knocked twice before entering, but unfortunately I mistook Lady Vanda’s somewhat loudly voiced remarks for an invitation to enter.”

"What do you want, anyway?” queried Bobby, eyeing him with a suspicious scowl.

"I came here in the hope of meeting Mr. Frank Hartley.”

"Are you a friend of his?” Vanda asked quickly.

The Count made a gesture of polite deprecation as he shook his head.

"I can scarcely claim to be that. Lady Vanda. I spoke to him for the first time last night.”

Vanda heaved a long sigh of relief. The man was a mere casual acquaintance, and it was hardly likely that Frank would have told him about his private affairs. She hastened to switch the conversation into a different channel.

"I have heard about your sensational winnings at the tables. Count — indeed, who has not done so?” she said with a dazzling smile. "Were you equally lucky last night?”

The old man’s fingers strayed toward the dangling eyeglass as he nodded gravely.

"Yes, mademoiselle, I was indeed fortunate.”

"Did you break the bank?” Bobby asked eagerly.

The Count spread his hands, at the same time giving a humorous lift of his eyebrows.

"Helas! in these days one can do nothing so sensational as 'break the bank,’ for when the croupier of one table finds his

funds are running low, he quietly sends to one of the other tables for more money. Still, I have no reason to complain of my fortune last night.”

"I’d give a good deal to know the system that you play on. Count,” said Vanda, shooting a keen glance at his impassive face, '"rhey say you have a marvelous fledr for the exact moment to begin your play.”

Again that slow smile broke the sphinxlike calm of the old man’s features.

"More important than that, my dear Lady Vanda, I know the right moment when the game gets too difiicult to play with safety — a knowledge which is of value in even more risky pastimes than roulette.”

Lightly as the words were spoken. Lady Vanda sensed a subtle note of warning underlying them. For an instant she felt a strange and unreasoning fear of this soft-spoken man with the bright yet in-_ scrutji>le eyes, but she dismissed the^ssing presentiment with a careless lau^.

“Really, my dear Count, you are so sure of yotir Imowledge of the future that I’m tempted to think you must have dealings in the Black Art,” she said with a faint sneer. "You speak with all the confidence of an ancient oracle!”

"Your ladyship may regard me as one, if the idea affords any amusement.” Again that baffling smile touched his lips as he added, "An oracle of Ancient Greece.”

With a sudden start the suspicion flashed over her that the old man was merely talking to gain time until Frank Hartley should arrive. Her smile was sweeter than ever as she rose to her feet to end the interview.

"Just at present I’m too frightfully busy to consult oracles of any description,” she said, extending her hand. "Must you really be going now?”

The hint was too pointed to be ignored.

THE EYE OF TRUTH


Count Roulette took the proffered hand and for an instant his dark eyes looked straight into hers.

"/la revoir, Lady Vanda Delafer,” he said slowly. "My stay in Monte Carlo is likely to be a short one, but something — ■ call it my prophetic instinct, if you like — tells me that we shali meet again.”

Witli a little bow and a parting glance tlirough his eyeglass, he took his departure. For nearly a minute Lady Vanda stood motionless, ^staring at the closed door with eyes which had of a sudden become filled v/ith dread; then, with a low sob, she sank into her chair.

"Who is that man? — what is he?” she asked in a hoarse whisper. "I loathe him, yet I fear him even more. And when he looked at me through that eyeglass I felt as if ail the secrets of my innermost soul were lying bare before him. I believe he is the devil himself!”

"In that case you should find him highly congenial company,” Bobby answered with a grin. "But as a matter of fact I suppose the fellow is nothing more than one of the usual crowd of dubious foreign ‘counts’ that one meets in a place like this. He has gained a sort of cheap notoriety by a few fortunate runs at the tables; but wait till his luck changes — as it must do sooner or later — and you’ll see him vanish — like that!”

And the Honorable Bobby blew a cloud of cigarette smc^e into the air.

W HEN, some two hours later, Frank called at the hotd he found Vanda attired in an artist’s overall and apparently in (he act of cleaning her palette.

"What, at work so early?” he cried in surprize. "You positively put me to shame — I haven’t touched a brush for nearly a week. Let's have a look at the picture.”

Vanda lifted her shoulders in a shrug of affected indifference.

"Oh, it’s nothing much — just a sketch I dashed off a few days ago. I really did not intend you to see it, for I just dread having my poor amateur efforts criticized. Please let me hide it away in merciful oblivion.” And she made a movement as if she were about to cover it up.

Greatly to her disappointment, he made no effort to prevent her. "As you please, Vanda,” was all he said. "I have no wish to pry into matters that you would rather I did not.”

She turned her eyes on him with a look of laughing dismay.

"Really, my dear Frank, that remark sounded frightfully mysterious — any one would imagine that I had all sorts of grisly skeletons in my cupboards! I suppose I must show it to you now, if only to convince you that there’s nothing sinister about my poor daub. If you promise you won’t be too scathing in your comments, I’ll let you have one little peep. There!” She placed the sketch that Mary Deane had sold her on the easel so that the light fell upon it to the best effect. "As Shakespeare says somewhere or other, *A poor thing, but mine own’!”

With a tolerant smile Frank turned to look, but as his eyes fell upon the picture his expression changed to a look of delighted wonder.

"By Jove, Vanda, this is simply wonderful!” he cried in a tone of genuine admiration. "I had no idea that you could turn out such clever and distinctive work.”

Vanda raised her brows with an expression of artless surprize.

"Then you don’t think it so very bad, Frank?”

"Bad?” he cried, catching her hands in his strong grasp and drawing her to him. "I only wish that I could paint half as well! Have you any more sketches that



you have 'dashed oflF,’ as you so modestly caU it?”

"Oh, I’ve kept a few,” she answered carelessly, and without a tremor or a blush she took out the other three sketches of Mary Deane’s and laid them before him. “It’s a wonder that I did not destroy these, as I have the rest of my work. I had no idea that they were really good.”

"Why, you dear little unassuming genius, every one of them is a masterpiece!” Frank exclaimed with a boyish laugh. "After we are married I must get you to give me some lessons ”

"Married? Oh, Frank, do you really mean that?” Without waiting for an answer, she flung her arms round his neck and kissed him passionately. "You have made me the happiest girl in all the world!”

For a moment he stared at her stupidly. The words had been spoken unconsciously, his thoughts more on the glorious colorings of the pictured scenes than on Vanda herself. He would have recalled them had it been possible, but as it was there was only one thing that he could do.

"Of course I meant it, Vanda,” he said gently, yet in a voice that he knew was strangely lacking in warmth. "I have always liked you, but now that there is another bond between us, your wonderful art ”

With a little playful laugh she put her hand on his mouth.

"For today let’s forget all about those old pictures,” she begged. "I shall get quite jealous of them if you persist in singing their praises, and if I once get the idea that you think more of them than you do of me, I declare I shall never paint another one again! Tell me that you love me for myself.”

Smiling down at the blue eyes which looked into his so appealingly, Frank gave her the assurance she asked for. Yet,

even as he spoke the words, his eyes wandered from the throbbing form he held in his arms to the glowing colors of the picture on the easel, and in his secret heart he knew that he lied. And Lady Vanda, flushed with triumph though she was, felt a pang of bitter resentment as she realized that the real inspirer of Frank’s love was the genius of Mary Deane, the girl whose pictures she had claimed as her own.

I T MUST be admitted that Frank and Lady Vanda looked a handsome and well-matched couple as they passed through the hotel foyer and into the sunny street, and their smiling, and apparently happy faces drew many an envious glance from the wrinkled dowagers and flabby, bilious-looking old gentlemen who seemed to make up the greater part of the residents.

The moment they reached the sidewalk Frank was aware of a familiar figure hurrying across the square toward them.

"I want to introduce you to a new friend, Vanda,” he said. "He is a strange man, and I met him under strange circumstances, and I can not help thiiiking that, in some way or other, he is going to have a great influence in my life.”

Vanda’s eyes grew hard as she recognized the object of his words.

"You mean Count Roulette? If so, then your introduction comes somewhat late. The Coimt and I have met before.”

Before Frank could voice his siyprize at this unexpected piece of information, the Count was by their side.

"Well met, mes amis!” he cried, raising his broad-brimmed hat with a gesture which might have seemed exaggerated had it been less graceful. "I seemed to have a premonition that I should encounter you as you came out either to enjoy a walk in the morning air, or to woo the fickle goddess of chance.”

THE EYE OF TRUTH

373!

Lady Vanda’s fair eyebrows were lifted in genuine surprise as she turned to the Count. "Surely you must be aware that the Casino is not open so early in the day?"

"Truly, mademoiselle. But there are other ways of gambling at Monte, besides roulette or trente-et-quarante.”

He pointed to the farther side of the square, where an old man was walking up and down displaying a large printed placard and at the same time calling out, "Loterie! J^terie!” Every now and then one of the passers-by would approach him, tender a coin, and receive in exchange a pink ticket torn from the book he held in his hand.

"The State Lottery is the only form of gambling in which the native Monegasques are allowed to indulge, for the authorities very wisely exclude their own citizens from the gaming-rooms,” Count Roulette explained, his eyeglass focused on the old ticket-seller; then he added with a smile: "Now is your opportunity to make a little speculation. Although he does not know it, that shabby old man is at the present moment holding in his hand the ticket which will win 200,000 francs when the result of the draw is made public today. The winning check is niunber L7F. 49368 , and it is the fourth ticket in the book he is holding in his hand."

A smile of amused contempt came over Vanda’s features as she listened.

"Surely you do not expect me to believe that you can tell the winning number beforehand?” she cried.

"Oh, no, mademoiselle. I do not in the least expect you to believe such an apparent absurdity.” The Count’s tone was gently apologetic. "Yet it is a fact nevertheless. If you would like to be the richer by 200,000 francs before tonight, I would advise you to buy the check numbered L7F. 49368 before it is sold to some one

else. It is now the third ticket from thd top, for he has sold one since I last spoke.”

"You must be joking. Count,” she cried. "Such a thing is unheard of.”

Count Roulette shrugged slightly.

"Alas, mademoiselle, it is only the unheard-of things which excite our intere^ in the present age of scientific marvels.’* He turned his head and threw a lightning glance at Lady Vanda’s chauffeur, who was listening eagerly to the conversatiooi "But you will have to hurry if you wish to secure the winning ticket. It is now the second in the old man’s book.”

"I’ve a good mind to take your tip,” Frank cried. "It’s a chance, an)rway.”

"Alas, my dear friend, it is a chance which you have lost!” said the Count, shaking his head and pointing to the chauffeur who was hurrying across the road in the direction of the ticket-seller« "See, the enterprising Jules has forestalled you. He has already bought the ticket that will win what to him will mean a fortune.”

"Lucky Jules!” Vanda laughed mockingly.

There was a strange expression on the Count’s face as he raised his eyeglass and through it watched the chauffeur as he climbed into the driving-seat of Lady Vanda’s high-powered car.

"Lucky?” he repeated softly. "Lucky . we shall see!”

For a while they chatted on different subjects, until Vanda glanced at the tiny watch she wore on her wrist and uttered an exclamation of surprize.

"I hope you won’t think me a flatterer when I say that time passes very quickly in your company. Count,” she cried gayly. "We must really be going now, as we have arranged to have a run to Nice by way of the Corniche Road. I have never



been by car before, and they say the scenery is wonderful.”

"Nice.^” There was a far-away expression in the old man’s dark eyes as he repeated die word. **I am rather interested in that town, not because of its fashionable hotels and expensive shops, but because it v/as one of the places where my ancestors, the ancient Greeks, overcame the aboriginal inhabitants and built tlieir Acropolis on the great rock which overhangs the litde cove of Us Fonchettes, and in it set up a grei^ statue of Nike, the winged Goddess of Victory. It is from that almost forgotten goddess, Nike, that the modern name of the town, Nice, is derived.”

"Indeed?” she murmured politely, suppressing a yawn with difficulty. "You must be frightfully clever to know all about such dead-and-done-with events.”

Count Roulette shook his head and almost unconsciously his fingers strayed to the eyeglass which dangled from its gold chain.

" ’Dcad-and-done-with’ is a very apt description, my dear Lady Vanda,” he replied quietly. "Yet who shall say how little or how much we moderns owe to the sages and philosophers of the ancient civilizations which have preceded us into the Eternal Night?” He broke off abruptly with a little laugh of apology. "But I fear I shall get the name of a bad companion if I indulge in such speculations on such a delightful morning as this — one should keep gloomy thoughts for gloomy weather, and tell ghost tales only when the snow is on the ground and the wind moans in the chimney, as is your English custom. I do not think I could do better than follow your example and take a run in my car along the Comiche Road as far as Nice.”

Disregarding Vanda’s warning frown,

Frank turned as he was about to enter the car.

"Why not accompany us. Count? 'There’s plenty of room and I should welcome your company.”

For a second it seemed as if Count Roulette was on the point of accepting; but, after raising his glass to his eye and glancing at the chauffeur he shook his head.

"I would prefer to use my own car for the journey there and back. However, I trust you will do me the honor of lunching with me at the Negresco at Nice. You will? Good! Then au revoit till we meet there. I will phone the maUre d’hd~ tel to reserve a private room, for I may possibly have something to tell you of a rather confidential nature.”

With a sweep of his broad-brimmed hat, Count Roulette turned away and hurried off in the direction of the quay. Frank’s eyes followed the tall figure until it was lost to sight amid the fashionably dressed crowd. 'Then, vaguely imeasy, he turned to the waiting Jules and motioned to him to start the car on its journey along the Comiche Road.

A lthough visitors to the Riviera are 1. accustomed to speak of "the Corniche Road,” there are, strictly speaking, no less than three hi^ways that come under that general designation. There is the Grande Comiche, the great road hewn out of the rugged face of the mountains as part of the first Napoleon’s ambitious plan for the conquest of Italy; ffrere is the Moyenne or Middle Comiche, a newly constmcted road which follows the general trend of the former, though at a lower altitude; and lastly there is the Petite Comiche, sometimes called the Corniche du Littoral, which, as its name implies, follows the coastline more or less

THE EYE OF TOUTH


closely and Is the nearest route between Monte Carlo and Nice.

Jules, having a good car beneath him and a clear road in front, set off at a speed which would have covered the whole distance in some twenty minutes or so. But Frank soon pulled him up.

"I don’t mind a bit of fast travelling occasionally,” he said to Vanda by way of explanation, "but it seems like sacrilege to rush through such beautiful scenery with the speed of an express train. Just look at the wonderful shades of blue in that sea — sapphire, turquoise, with here and there a shimmer of that fleeting sheen that one sees on the breast of a peacock. Well has this coast been named the C6te d’Azur!”

Vanda turned languidly in her seat and allowed her eyes to travel over the expanse of sun-kissed waters.

"Oh yes, it’s very pretty,” she said, anxious to show her appreciation. '"The colors are exquisite — ^that stretch of sea between that rock and the beach reminds me of a perfect dream of a dress I bought as I came through Paris — it was exactly that shade.”

"Doesn’t it remind you of anything else?”

Struck by his tone, she turned and saw that he was regarding her with a puzzled frown. Rousing herself, she looked at the scene before her with a new interest, and her heart gave a quick nervous throb as she realized how narrowly she had escaped a bad blunder.

"Why of course, it’s the place I chose for the sketch I showed you this morning,” she cried. "Really, it was stupid of me not to recognize it before. But my eyes were dazzled by the sun, and I have a splitting headache. Do please tell Jules to stop at the first place which looks as if it could provide a decent cup of tea.”

A few minutes later they halted in the

villa-lined boulevard of Cap-d’Ail, before an establishment which proudly announced its ability to supply every want of the English or American visitor, and while Vanda was drinking her tea Frank strolled out and gazed over the low stone wall to where the distant promontory of Gip Ferret hung like a faint blue cloud midway between sea and sky.

For several minutes he remained in silent contemplation of the scene before him; then, with something that sounded like a sigh, he turned to make his way back to the car. As he’ swung round he noticed for the first time a girl who was seated before a small sketching-easel on a stretch of grass overlooking the scene he had just been admiring.

Mary Deane had felt a very natural elation when she had quitted Lady Vanda Delafer at the Hotel de Paris that morning. Her art meant something more to her than just a pleasant mode of passing the time in the open air; it was her livelihood, and to have sold four pictures in one morning was an event as rare as it was welcome. She had received no money, it is true; but it never occurred to Mary to doubt her somewhat haughty patron when she had promised to let her have a check the following morning. Had she known the real character of that lady, and the deception in which her own pictures were to play a prominent part, Mary’s steps might have been less buoyant and her mind less at ease than was actually the case when she had sallied forth — rafter an early and somewhat more sumptuous lunch in honor of the occasion — to begin another picture. It was while she was engaged in "roughing in” the outline that Frank Hartley caught sight of her.

At first his interest was awakened by the girl’s occupation rather than by the girl herself. All unconscious of his pres376


eooe, she was seated with her face half tamed away from him, her eyes fixed alternately on the canvas before her and the distant view. All he could see was the outline of her face against the shadowy green of the foliage behind, yet the dimly seen profile was one which represented in living flesh and blood his own mental conception of ideal beauty.

But he was conscious of something more than mere prettiness in her face; character and determination showed in the line of her dark eyebrows and in her firm, red-lipped mouth and resolute chin; while the steady eyes of blue-gray were singularly intelligent as well as beautiful. Dark though her hair was, something told him that the girl was neither French nor Italian. Was she English? or American —

"Frank! Frank! Where have you disappeared to?"

The voice of Vanda, harsh with impatience, broke in upon his thoughts. With one lingering glance at the unknown girl at the easel, Frank stepped out into the road and waved his hand.

'X)h, there you are! I was beginning to think you intended remaining in this place all day. I finished my tea ages ago, and I’ve been looking for you everywhere "

Frank looked at Vanda curiously as her voice came to an abrupt stop. Her eyes, wide open and filled with an expression which looked more like fear than surprize, were looking past him at the girl seated at the easel, who now had riser, to her feet and was regarding Vanda with what looked like a smile of recognition.

"Why — do you know her?” Frank cried in eager surprize.

"No — -yes — that is, sli^tly.” Vanda, with the merest suspicion of a nod to Mary Deane, grasped Frank’s arm and

almost dragged him to the car. "Let us be moving on.”

She sprang into the car and held the door open. Frank hesitated, his foot on the step.

"But who is that girl? She seemed to know you.”

Lady Vanda’s quick wits had already concocted an explanation.

"Oh, her?" she drawled carelessly. "She’s some poor creature who called at the hotel the other day hawking some wretched daubs which she said she’d painted. I really couldn’t help feeling sorry for her, for she told a pitiful story of having been lured to Monte Carlo by an adventurer who had deceived her by promising marriage. Of course, one meets all kinds of such people in a place like this, and I am not narrow-minded, thank heaven! I gave the girl a few guineas out of pure charity, and I suppose the poor creature is grateful. Please don’t humiliate her by questioning her further. 'Ibe best thing we can do is to get along to Nice.”

Jules let in the clutch and the great cat began to glide smoothly along the road which stretched like a twisted ribbon of white between tlie blue of the sea and the warm gray of the mountains. Turning, Frank caught a glimpse of the girl still standing by her easel. When a turn of the road hid her from sight, he settled himself in his seat and lit a cigarette with a thoughtful and slightly puzzled air.

Somehow the girl with the blue-gray eyes and Lady Vanda’s description of her did not seem to fit.

“■¥11 7" hat's all the excitement about, VV Jules?”

Their car had crossed the Pont Garibaldi at Nice, and had entered the Place Massena, when the sight of a large and

THE EYE OF TRUTH


eacdted ctowd gathered before the Hotel de Viik brought forth Frank's inquiry.

"They are waiting to hear the result of the Public Lottery, m’sieu — the same that I bought a ticket for before we left Monte Carlo."

Frank smiled slightly as he remembered how the nimble-witted Frenchman had forestalled him in the purchase of the lottery ticket recommended by Count Roulette.

"Weil, ycju deserve to be fortunate — if only for your pluckl” he said half jestingly. "Say, what would you do if your ticket carried off the first prize?”

"I would make good use of the mtmey, m’sieu/’ the man replied with an earnestness that was almost pathetic. "I have nty eye on a little garage business that is going cheap — cheap, m’sieu will understand, for a man with 200,000 francs in his pocket. 'Hiere I would make much VBsxesj, and there is a girl ... at Narbonne ... we have waited so long, u^sieu, for we are both poor; and when Momieur le Comte spoke of the winning ticket i seemed to see a way ”

"I underhand.” Frank's tone was free from jesting now. "You run us round to thcNegresco, garage the car, and then skim off to see if you’ve been lucky. And I hc^ you have — for the sake of the girl at NarixMine.”

"I thank m"sJeu for his good wishes.”

The car turned into the Promenade des Anglais and a few minutes later came to a halt opposite the great hotel where Count Roulette had promised to meet them. Jules immediately disappeared with the car in the direction of the hotel garage, and Frank and Lady Vanda made their way through the vestibule and incpiired for the room which had been reserved for them.

It was quickly evidoit that Count Roulette's was a name to conjure with in the

Hotel Negresco. It was the height of the winter season, when the hotel is at its busiest^ yet the room which was placed at their disposal was one of the much-coveted apartments with a southerly aspect, with large windows overlooking the limpid blue waters of the Baie des Anges. It was with an ever-increasing wonder that Lady Vanda saw the deference which the mere mention of his name inspired.

"Who is tiiis mysterious Count?” she asked Frank as they sat on the shaded balcony awaiting his arrival. "Is he a prophet — a seer? Or iS he merely a little wrong in hb head?”

Frank could only shrug helplessly.

"I really know no more dxrut him than you do, Vanda.”

'The girl frowned at what she imagined was an evasive answer.

"Is he a madman?” she demanded bluntly.

"There b method in hb madness, then,” Frank laughed, "and I know Fd sooner trust his judgment than that of the sanest man living. He nuy be a little strange and eccentric, Vanda, but you can take my word for it that he’s far fixun mad.”

For a few minutes there was silence, tire girl gazing out to sea with eyes that were half veiled in thought.

"Have you noticed that cpieer eyeglass tliat he carries on a gold chain?” she asked suddenly. "Have you noticed hb trick of looking al people through it, almost as if he were examining their secret soub? I thought he was short-sighted at first, but I watched him and found that he could see things near to him and far off without using it I suppose that is part of the poor man’s eccentricity?”

"Maybe.” Frank’s tone was cult, for Vanda’s question was but a thinly veiled sneer. "Peihaps he can see moj?e than we



suspect with that antique-looking glass of his."

Lady Vanda Delafer threw back her head and gave a peal of mocking laughter,

"Perhaps he saw the winning number of the lottery in which poor Jules, with a faith that would be touching if it were not laughable, invested his money this morning?”

"He may have seen even that!” Frank Hartley crossed to the bell and a moment later one of the waiters entered the room. "Do you know the number of the winning ticket in the National Lottery?” he asked the man.

"Mats out, monsieur. I myself have speculated, but without success, helas! The winning number was L7F. 49368.”

Vanda sat back in her chair with a gasp.

"It is the very number that the Count told you to buy!” she cried, her eyes wide open with something more than surprize. "Jules has won a fortune!”

"Well, he deserves his luck, for he had more faith in the Count than we had,” cried Frank. "And I must say I’m glad, both for his sake and die sake of the girl at Narbonne ”

“And I, monsieur, am deeply sorry!” -lAsaid a voice which caused them both to l(»k round with a start.

Count Roulette had entered the room at the heels of the waiter and was regarding them with an expression of sadness on his pale handsome face. He came slowly forward, dismissed the waiter with a nod, then raised his eyeglass and looked fixedly at the newly engaged pair.

"Doubtless it seems strange to you that I should express sorrow at the news of your chauffeur’s good fortune,” said the Coimt. "But I have a presentiment that sorrow and tragedy will follow. Will

you think it presumptuous of me if I beg of you not to return to Monte Carlo in your car?”

"But — but why not?” Frank stammered in bewilderment. "We were looking forward to the run back by moonlight.”

'The Count shrugged.

"There is an excellent train service, or my own car is at your disposal. But on no account travel by the one driven by Jules.”

At the cool audacity of what she considered his attempt to dictate to her, a wave of anger came over Lady Vanda.

"You speak in riddles. Count,” she cried. "You have made one or two pretty shrewd guesses, but that does not give you the right to rule us like a pair of babies! Why shouldn’t we go back by my car? Jules is a careful driver, and I shall feel quite safe in his charge.”

Count Roulette made a little gesture of smiling dissent, but his voice was grave as he replied.

"Tonight, mademoiselle, he will be neither steady nor safe. He has already celebrated his good fortune in more than one caf6, and he is a man who carries his liquor well — up to a certain point. But the Comiche is a dangerous road to take chances on. There will be a bad accident at the sharp bend above Cap Roux, and the car will swerve over the diflF onto the rocks below. Jules will be killed instantly. I wish to save you and Monsieur Hartley from a similar fate.”

For one moment the steady eyes and slow, measured utterance had their eflfect; then the bantering voice of Vanda broke the tension.

"A thousand thanks for your warning, my dear Count, but I am not nervous,” she drawled. "If you feel jumpy about a little moonlight spin you are at perfect liberty to return by rail. As for me, the arrangements stand.”

THE EYE OF TRUTH


G)uQt Roulette turned to Frank.

"And you?” he queried.

"Frank will be guided by me,” Vanda interposed swiftly. "Please say no more on the subject. The matter is settled.”

With a silent shrug Count Roulette rang the bell and ordered dinner to be served. He proved to be an excellent host and during the progress of the meal did not revert to the topic of the homeward journey. It was only when he was bidding the pair good-bye in front of the hotel that he spoke what was in his mind.

"You are determined to disregard my warning, then?” His voice was almost wistful as he put the question.

Lady Vanda laughed openly as she took her seat in the car.

'*As you are so solicitous about our safety, my dear Count, why not come with us to look after us?” she scoffed. "The car will easily hold another passenger.”

Count Roulette raised his eyeglass and surveyed the vehicle as though to verify her , words. Then he came closer and sank his voice to an impressive whisper which she alone could hear.

"There is another passenger — although you see him not — a personage whom the mediaeval artists usually represented riding on a pale horse, with an hour-glass slung round his bony hips, and a whetted scythe grasped in his skeleton hands. The Shadow of Death is your fellowtraveller, Lady Vanda!”

"Won’t you introduce him?” lauded the girl. "I should imagine that his company would be a trifle more cheerful than yours.”

She nodded to Jules and the car began to move. Count Roulette raised his hat with a slow, sweeping gesture.

"He will need no introduction from me, mademoiselle,” he said gravely, " — when you get to Cap Roux!”

T he big car in which Lady Vanda and Frank Hartley were being driven back to Monte Carlo was the last word in luxury and speed. Within a few minutes of leaving the hotel it had purred its smooth way along the palm-shaded Promenade des Anglais, skirted the ornamental gardens which face the Casino Municipal, and begun to thread the narrower streets which lead to the eastern outlet to the town, mounting the steadily rising gradient to the Corniche Road with the effortless ease of a swallow on the wing.

Mindful of the Coimt’s grim prediction, Frank watched the chauffeur’s manner of taking the corners and avoiding the oncoming traffic; but Jules seemed, if anything, more careful than usual. It was not until they were abreast of the treecrowned hill of Montboron that he leant back in his seat, convinced that the wine whidi Jules had taken to celebrate his accession to wealth had not affected his eyesight or his judgment. It was true that Count Roulette had made some lucky guesses in the past, but he had evidently made a big blunder in stating that there would be a crash that night. It was curious, though, how he had contrived to foretell the number of the winning lottery ticket. Could it be by some manner of thought-reading that he made such confident statements? Or was it mere chance that he had happened to be right? But tonight he had made his first mistake. There would be no falal accident; he would reach Monte Carlo safely and in the morning would call on the Count and chaff him unmercifully on the danger of being too explicit in his predictions.

With a smile at his foolishness in taking the man’s pretensions so seriously, Frank dismissed the subject from his mind and gave himself up to enjbying the beauty of the night



The three G)miche Roads which lead eastward from Nice have been well named; each is actually a mere "corniche” or ledge hewn for the greater part of its length from the sheer face of the cliff, a ribbon coiled and draped between the mighty ramparts of the mountain hinterland and the tideless sea. The road they were now traversing had appeared beautiful enough when seen basking in the dazzling sunshine, with sky, sea, and the flower-decked gardens combining in a riot of color. Now, as Frank lay back in his cushioned seat, watching the procession of dark pines and palms silhouetted against the starry sky, breathing the warm air scented with wisteria and golden mimosa, he felt as though he were being borne by some fabled genii through an enchanted land. Every unexpected twist of the mazy track brought its fresh angle of vision. At one moment the bonnet of the car would be pointing straight inland to where the purple-blue heights rose, star-crowned and mysterious; a sudden bend, and they would be looking over the smooth moonlit waters, with nothing but a light railing or a crumbling, moss-grown wall between them and the sheer verge of the cliffs.

"You seem v^ silent tonight, Frank. Has our cheerful friend, the Count, rubbed the fear of death into you with his crazy prophecies.^”

There was a note of sarcasm in the slowly drawled query that brought him to earth with a sudden jar.

"My thoughts were far away from Count Roulette and his prophecies,” he answered.

"Then what were you thinking of.^ Come, dear,” she moved closer to him and slipped her arm coaxingly through his. "There should be no secrets between engaged couples, you know. Will a penny

buy your thoughts, Of shall I have to bid higher.^”

Her smiling lips were temptingly close to his as she leaned forward; but he was almost unconscious of them as he turned his head and again looked out into the night.

"Just at that moment I fear my thoughts were not worth even a penny,” he answered carelessly. "I was merely admiring the scenery and thinking what wonderful pictures might be painted of some of the spots we have passed. I’m rather surprized that the same thought did not occur to you, Vanda — with such scenes to inspire you, you might even excel that wonderful sketch you showed me this morning.”

"Yes, yes — of course,” she hastened to say, turning her head aside to hide the frown that had gathered on her forehead. His words had recalled the memory of her debt to the pretty young artist, and her own non-existent bank balance. How she wished that she had taken the advice of the eccentric Count Roulette and risked a few francs on the lottery ticket he had so confidently asserted would win the prize. Mad or sane, his ludc was amazing; his guesses of the trend of future events had been verified in a manner that was almost uncanny. But no man could always be right, and it seemed selfevident that he had overreached himself when he had predicted disaster that night.

"What place is that.^” she adced as they came through a cluster of white villas on a bold promontory overlooking the sea.

"Beaulieu.” He glanced at her with a slight smile as he added: "The point you can see about a mile farther on is Cap Roux. Unless Count Roulette is a lying prophet, it is there we shall meet our fate! So, if you wish to circumvent the decrees of destiny you had better get out and walk.”

THE EYE OF TRUTH


"How absurd!’* her laugh rang out in amused contempt. "I wonder that you have the patience to listen to such nonsense. Nobody but a madman would claim to see the future as he does.”

"Quite so, my dear, but all the

same ” He reached up and took the

speaking-tube from its clip. "Jules!” he called through to the chauffeur, "Please be careful as you take that sharp turn above Cap Roux — just before you come to the railway bridge, you know.”

"Trust me for that, m’sieu,” came back the confident reply. "One does not want to break one’s neck just after having won a fortune!”

The car was now skirting the wide sweep of the Bay of Beaulieu, past the fantastic masses of tumbled rocks and jagged cliffs which have received the fanciful name of "Petite- Afrique.” Here the broken nature of the ground has compelled the road to run through a series of short tunnels beneath the towering bluffs which intersect its path. Jules slowed down to a mere crawl as they entered the last timnel, which pierces the Cap itself, and it was only when they emerged into the moonlight on the farther side that he stepped on the accelerator and the car leapt forward like a hound unleashed.

A derisive laugh came from Lady Vanda’s lips.

"We’re through without mishap!” she cried. "Your wonderful prophet is a charlatan — a trickster — a cheap liar! . . . Ah, God help us! . .

Her mocking voice ended in a saeam of mortal terror as a pair of glaring headlights sprang into view round the bend a few yards ahead. It was a high-powered English car, traveling at speed, on the left — the wrong according to Continental usage — side of the road.

Jules had a bare two seconds in which jlo act, yet he might have avoided a collision had his brain been unclouded by the fumes of wine. A sli^t turn of the steering-wheel, and he could have passed on the other side with twice the width of the car to spare. As it was, he jammed on the brakes, and the car skidded to the right, crashed its way through the light iron railing and remained poised precariously on the very verge of the abyss below.

But only for an instant. There was a rending crash as the oncoming car strudc the rear of the chassis, sending it nearer the edge. Frank felt the floor beneath his feet take a steeper angle as the bonnet began to dip; streams of loosened clods and fragments of stone began to clatter down the cliff.

"Jump!” he shouted to Vanda. "Jump for your life!”

But the girl was crouching bade in her seat, her hands pressed over her eyes, too terrified to move. Quick as thought, Frank stepped to her side. His left arm seemed strangely limp and useless, but with his right he strove to lift her from the seat. With the unreasoning panic of semi-consciousness she climg to the side of the car, resisting his efforts to save her.

"Let go!” he cried, striving to break her hold with his one serviceable hand. "It’s death to stop here!”

Even as he spoke, the car gave anothee lurch forward. There came a sound of tearing and rending of metal as the last remnant of the shattered railings gave way beneath the weight thrown upon them. Just in time Frank leapt upward, his right hand stretched to grasp Ae branch of a tree which showed black against the sky a few feet above his head. And as he sprang the doomed car slid from beneath him, plunging, accompanied by an avalanche of stones, over the edge and falling with a dull splash into the sea far below.

It seemed ages that he hung there before willing arms grasped him by the legs



and lowered him to the ground. Faint and reeling, side with horror and the pain of an arm which he now realized was broken, he staggered to the road as a large covered car appeared from the direction of Nice and came to a standstill. A moment later he was looking into the face of Q)unt Roulette.

"So, the accident has happened?” the voice of the mysterious Greek was as unconcerned as if he were making a remark on the weather. “It seems as if my wild prophecy was not very wide of the truth.”

Frank Hartley took an unsteady pace forward and looked the old man full in the ^es.

"Who are you?” he demanded hoarsely. “Ate you angel of liglit or fiend from hell that you are able to see the fates of men and read their hearts like the pages of a book? Seer — ^magician — angel — devil? Which are you? Speak!”

A faint smile broke the sphinx-like immobility of Count Roulette’s features as he shrugged slightly.

"None of these things am I, my young friend,” he said, his somber eyes fixed on the other’s face. "I am merely a man like yourself — but I am a man who sees the truthr

For an instant Frank stared stupidly, trying to grasp his meaning. Then came the inevitable reaction of the shock and numbing pain. He opened his lips to speak, but before the words came he swayed unsteadily and fell in a dead faint at the feet of the man with the strangelooking eyeglass.

D reams, vivid and swift-moving, yet vague and confused as a fogged cinema film, preceded Frank Hartley’s return to consciousness. Once more he fought the two apaches in the gardens of the Casino; once more he saw the graceful figure of the unknown girl seated at her

easel against a badegtound of sea and sky; then came the repetition of the Count's solemn warning; the night ride through the scented air; the impact of the colliding cars and the vision of Lady Vanda’s terror-frozen features as she fell. When at length his delirium passed and he looked sanely on his surroundings it was only with difficulty that he persuaded himself that what he saw was not Miother phase of his visions.

He was lying in bed in a prettily decorated room overlooking the sea. The furniture and decorations, though plain and inexpensive, evidenced a perfection of taste with v/hich he could find no fault. 'Hie tempered sunshine, entering through drawn window curtains of gay-colored chintz, showed trifles and Imickknadks suNly indicative of a woman’s presence; an easel beating an unfinished sketch in oils hinted that the owner of this haven of harmony and repose possessed at least one taste in common with him.

Turning his eyes again toward die window, he noticed that a girl was bending over a small table set there, arranging some flowers in a china bowl. Something familiar about that slender, shadowjr outline caused him to ca*:ch his breath in a low gasp of surprize. He blinked his eyes and looked again, dreading that she would fade away like the other phantoms of his dreams. But she was still there — and she was, in very truth, the girl whom he had seen painting on the cliflPs on that afternoon that now seemed so long past.

"All, you are evidently beginning to take an interest in your surroundings,” said a cheery, well-remembered voice from the other side of the bed.

Frank essayed to turn, and for the first time discovered that his left arm was encased in splints and surgical bandages, and strapped immovably across his chest,

"No, no, don’t move,” Giunt Roulette

THE EYE OF TRUTH

383 ’

went on hastily, moving round the bed so that he came within Frank’s range of vision. "You have been through a bad time, what with the shock and the fracture. But you are on the mend now, and in a few days you may be about again.”

"But the others — Jules and Lady Vanda? Were they killed?”

There was a grave expression on the old man’s face as he inclined his head in assent.

"No human efforts could have saved them. It is a sheer drop of eighty feet into deep water . , . the bodies were not recovered imtil two days later.”

"Two days!” Frank gasped, '"rhen how long have I been lying here?”

"A week,” came the answer, and as he spoke the G)unt beckoned to the girl at the window. "And you have to thank this young lady for her clever nursing during your crisis. Allow me to introduce jou to Miss Mary Deane.”

Frank felt a strange thrill as her cool hand touched his own for an instant.

"How can I thank you for your kindness?” he said in a voice full of genuine emotion. "I was a stranger to you, yet you gave me shelter — nursed me ”

She held her hand up in protest.

"What else could I have done?” she said. "My bungalow was the nearest to the scene of the accident — or almost the nearest — and you were much too ill to be carried farther. How could I turn you from my door when Count Roulette solemnly declared that the delay in gettingyou to the hospital would mean the difference between life and death? Besides, you were not quite a stranger, since the Count vouched for you — and he seems to be an excellent judge of character.”

A smile spread over Frank’s pale face.

"He does indeed,” he agreed heartily, "seeing that he has chosen you for my guardian angel.”

The whole-hearted fervor with which the words were spoken caused a deepar tint to creep into the girl’s cheeks.

"I can see that you are getting lightheaded, Mr. Hartley,” she said in a tone of severe reproof as she poured out a dose of medicine and held it to his lips. "Come, drink this. 'Tlien go to sleep imtil you can talk rationally.”

There was a gleam of amusement in Count Roulette’s eyes as he raised his ^eglass and looked at each in turn.

"I venture to predict a speedy recovery for our patient,” he said with a smile as he quitted the room. "Mr. Frank Hartley may consider himself very fortunate to be here — in more ways than one,” he added under his breath as the door closed behind him.

“'YT’OU are a strange man, Count, and

X you possess a positively uncanny power of guessing the trend of future events.” It was three days later, when Frank and Count Roulette were seated on the balcony of the bimgalow, that the younger man made the remark. "And I must confess that I envy you your strange gift.”

“Are you sure you mean that?” The old man’s eyes were fixed on Frank with a keen penetrating gaze as he asked the question. "Is it enviable, think you, toi walk the crowded streets of a great city, conscious of the greed, hatred, jealousy and dishonesty which eat like loathsome cankers in the hearts of those around me? To see, beneath the smug, respectable faces of the business men, or the beautiful faces of the women, hidden thoughts which make one turn to the dumb animals for relief? To have every ideal — every| pleasing illusion shattered for ever? No, no, envy me not my strange power, but rather go down on your knees in thankfulness that you have been spared the pos384


session of such a dangerous, saddening gift."

Frank Hartley was bewildered at the intense emotion which vibrated in the old man’s voice.

"You almost speak as if this power had been forced on you against your will,” he observed with a slight smile.

"In one sense it has been forced on me. Nothing was farther from my thoughts when I discovered the Eye of Veritas.”

“Veritas?” Frank repeated the word slowly, a puzzled frown creasing his forehead. '"rhat has something to do with truth, has it not?”

G>unt Roulette gave an aflftrmative nod.

“It is the name of one of the deities of Ancient Greece — the Goddess of Truth. She was not very famous or well known, I must admit, and you will find but few references to her in the classical writers; for the Greeks of old apparently had as slight a veneration for the virtue she symbolized as have the people of the present day. But she had her temples and her mysteries, and one lonely mountain shrine in Bceotia was considered especially sacred, and thither flocked crowds of pilgrims, all eager to know the truth and — for the time being — to revere so rare a virtue. It was in the ruins of that Temple of Veritas that I became the most favored, the most cursed, the most disillusioned of mortals — a man who saw the Truth!”

A low, long-drawn sigh escaped the lips of Q)unt Roulette, and for a while he sat silent, his dark eyes fixed on the distant horizon with an expression of v/istful yearning, as though he were regretting something lost to him for ever. Presently he roused himself and continued:

"At the time it happened, some forty years ago, I was a young man fresh from college; but, young as I was, I had made a special study of the classical lore of my country, which resulted in my obtaining

a permanent post in the Excavations Department of the Hellenic Archeological Society. For some time our headquarters at Athens had been receiving vague rumors of hoards of statues, coins, and relics being unearthed by the peasants on the site of the ancient city of Tanagra, which is quite close to the modern village of Skimatari. I was deputed to go to the district to see if I could find out if there was any truth in the rumors; in order to allay suspicion I went alone, in the character of a man who travels for pleasure.

“I soon found that my task was not likely to be either easy or pleasant. In ancient times Boeotia had a most unenviable reputation, and the cultured Athenians were never tired of contemptuously referring to the inhabitants as stupid, awkward, uncivilized and ignorant They pointed out, witli truth, that the country had contributed nothing to Greek literature, nor had it produced a great sculpto^ or painter of note — indeed, the veiy'word Bceotian was at that period almost synonymous with imbecility. And I can aflSirm, from personal experience, that their present-day descendants have many of the trails of their departed ancestors. I have traveled much since that time, but never have I encountered a more degraded, dishonest, brutal and treacherous horde of scoundrels than the inhabitants of that wretched village near the site of the ancient Temple of Truth.

“There were only two men in Skimatari whom I felt I could trust; one was the village priest, a venerable old man with flowing silvery hair and a patriarchal beard, and the other was the landlord of the inn where I put up. This latter was the very personification of the traditional innkeeper of stage and story; fat, redchedced; with merry, twinkling eyes and a bluff, hearty manner that made me take to him at first sight. His name was GiorW. T.— 6

THE EYE OF TRUTH


gios Dimitri, but he was usually railed by his nickname of ‘Barba-Jorghi’, which means 'Old George'. As for the rest of the villagers, they seemed to suspect the reason of my presence and remained sullenly aloof. Needless to say, the moment 1 arrived the secret excavations that they bad been making were filled in, and I could discover nothing.

"Well, I had hung about the village to no good results for a week or more, and I was seriously thinking of giving up my quest as a bad job and making my way back to Athens, when, late one night, after the last toper had staggered out of the inn, Barba-Jorghi sidled up to me with a proposition that sent my hopes soaring to the skies.

"Of course he did not come to the point directly. He began a long rambling diatribe about the scarcity of travelers, the poverty of his village customers, the high price of wine and the smallness of his .jirofitSs From that he went on to draw comparisons between tfie^resent wretchedness of the district and its former wealth, pointing his words, to my great ama 2 ement, by producing a well-thumbed copy of Muller’s translation of Dicaerchus, a classical author who wrote in the second century B. C. Thinking to draw him out by a little flattery, I complimented him on bis archeological knowledge, and he snapped at the bait like a famished pike.

" You are right!' he cried. 'Although you see me here, the keeper of a poor inn, struggling to make a paltry drachma or two, I am not like the ignorant swine around me. No, no! — Old Jorghi can read; he can study; he can think; he can look up and see far afield while the other fools toil with their faces to the ground. Old JorgJii fs wise, even as you are, my yoimg friend. We are two wise men in a community of fools, and like wise men we should turn our wisdom to account.’ W. T.— 7

"Naturally, I asked him how, and he went on: ’

" 'This writer speaks of a famous oracle situated near here, which people came from all parts to consult. He says that this oracle, which was kept in a small temple in the mountains, predicted future events, laid bare the secret thoughts, illuminating the hidden souls of men like the noonday sun shining throu^ a crystal goblet of wine. Not that you or I bdieve such fairy-tales,’ he added with a knowing wink, 'but the all-important thing which concerns us is that the juicient pilgrims believed them, and showered their offering of gold, silver and predous stones into the coffers of the wily priests. There must be wealth untold lying in the ruins of that Temple of Veritas — enough to make us both millionaires!’

"His words and manner set my poises racing with excitement, for it was clear that he was about to broach the very matter which had brought me from Athens. I managed to infuse a note of amused incredulity into my voice as I replied: 'But there’s small chance of us ever finding it, worse luck!’

"The innkeeper leaned nearer to me across the table, his eyes glittering in the dim lamplight.

" 'I have already found it — I, BarbaJorghi, the keeper of a village inn — I have found the site of the ancient Oracle of Truth!’

"For the first time a vague suspicion entered my mind.

" "Then why do you confide in me?’ I asked. 'Why don’t you take the treasure and be rich?’

" 'I would if I could,’ he answered with engaging frankness. 'But it will need the strength of two men to move the blocks of stone which seal the door of the treasure chamber. I dare not ask the aid of my neighbors — ^they would murder me



without the slightest hesitation for a hundredth part of the wealth which is inside. But you are a gentleman and honest. I can trust you to share with me fairly.’

"His childlike trust in me, no less than the magnificence of the offer itself, almost took my breath away.

" 'But I am an utter stranger to you ’ I began to protest.

" 'All the better,’ he interrupted quickly, with a smile which rather puzzled me at the time. 'Being a stranger, you can leave the district without raising comment. Tomorrow you must let it be known that you are tired of the place and intend returning to Athens. You will set off on horseback in full view of the villagers, and take the highroad which follows the coast, setting your pace so that you arrive at Oropus a little after dusk has fallen. A little beyond the town is a bridle path leading back across the mountains. Follow this, and you will come to a deserted post-house at the crossroads. I will be awaiting you there with the necessary tools and a spare mule to carry the treasure, which you will bear to some obscure retreat until I can settle up my affairs here, sell the inn for what it will fetch, and afterward join you. Do you think my plan is good?’

"I nodded silently, well pleased that he had played so blindly into my hands, and after we had gone over the details once more, we parted and retired for the night.

“1^ VERYTHING went off without a hitch.

I reached the deserted post-house shortly after ten o’clock, tethered my horse in one of the roofless stables, and followed Barba-Jorghi along a narrow boulder-strewn track which led at a steep angle up the mountain. It was ticklish work in the darkness, for at places the path overhung the gorge below, and a single false step would have meant death.

But Jorghi had made himself well acquainted with the track, and after about an hour of stiff climbing we emerged safely on to a little wooded plateau which jutted out like a broad spin from the mass of the mountain proper. Without hesitation he plunged into the dense undergrowth, forcing his way through, until he came to a halt facing what seemed to be a huge mound overgrown with tangled bushes. Here he lit the lantern he carried, and by its light he searched for a time along the edge of the mound. Presently he set the lantern down and pulled aside a heap of dead leaves and branches.

" 'Look!’ he said, pointing downward.

"My heart leapt when I saw a portion of a wall of squared masonry, with the sculptured lintel of a door just showing above the surface of the ground. It did not need a second glance at the angular Greek cliaracters engraved on the weatlierworn stone to tell me that I stood on the threshold of.Ae-fabted'Temple’bTTruth.

"In'silence we set to work to dig down far enough to effect an entrance; but the door proved to be blocked by a wall of rough blocks of stone, which seemed to have been built in haste. As soon as we had cleared sufficient space in which to manipulate a pick and crowbar, we attacked this with a will. It was heavy work, but hope spurred us on, and at last, panting and streaming with perspiration, we squeezed our bodies through and stood within.

"The light of the lantern was dim, and it was only by slow degrees that we were able to examine our surroundings. As I made a slow circuit of the place I cau^t glimpses of sculptured friezes, fluted columns, Doric capitals, matchless statues still upright on their pedestals. Treasure or no treasure, I knew that we had made the discovery of a lifetime — an ancient Greek

THE EYE OF TRUTH

3»7

temple as k was in the hq/^y ol ks splendor.

" “We waste time.*'* cried Jorghi, impatiently snatching the tantein from me. 'The treasure, man, the treasuref

■^Beyond the small ring of lantemlight the darkness seemed to hem us in like a solid wall; the air was pervaded with a deathlike chill'; the silence so intense that our restrained breathing sent vague echoes gKding before us like sighing ghosts as we made our way into the innermost sanctuary, where a huge statue of Truth, naked yet chaste, towered dimly above us. With a shout of joy, Barba- Jorgjii darted forward and flung himself on a massive coffer of greenish bronze which stood ki a recess behind the statue.

“ It is here — the treasure!' he shoiked. The treasure at last!’

"Seizing the crowbar, he thrust the point under the hasp which secured the Kd, wrenching the corroded metal apart. With a creaking of disused hinges, the lid swung up, revealing a he^ of yellowish-gray material. A cry of disappointment burst from my companion.

" 'Rags — ^nothing but old rs^!’ he groaned.

" 'Be silent!’ I whispered fiercely, for my own nerves were on edge. 'Who knows what is underneath?’

"1 thrust him aside and knelt before the chest, lifting out the garments one by one and laying them on ^ floor. They liad the appearance of ceremonial rdses worn by the priests, but they were so tender with age that the material came into shreds even as I lifted them. Right at the bott<wn of the coffer I came upon this ”

Count Roulette paused in his narrative and held up the eyeglass that was suspended from his neck. Frank Hartley looked surprized.

"But I ffiought the science of optics

was quite unknown io those ancient days,” he said.

'The Count nodded in agrement.

"Quite so; but they were acquainted with something even more wonderful.”

Struck by his peculiar tone, Frank bent forward and examined the object with closer interest. Apparently it had no magnifying power, for the surfaces were quite flat; it seemed to be nothing mote than a thin segment of natural, colorless crystal, slightly oval in shape and set in a narrow band of gold, the handle being formed of the slender flgure of a woman, probably intended to represent Verkas herself.

"'There does not appear to be anything very wonderful about that glass,” Frank dedbured at length.

"So I thought myself when I first discovered it,” the old man continued. "Naturally my first act was to take k up and hold it to my eye to ascertain if ft possessed any optical properties, and (he most convenient object on which to focus it was the face of Barba-Jorghi as he stood watching me keenly. To my eye, however, the crystal seemed to have no more effect than a piece of common glass; but its effect on my brain, my understanding, was astounding. As though illuminated by a ray of sunlight entering a pitch-dark room, I saw the man as he really was — his hidden thoughts — ^his schemes — ^his villainy — lay bare before me. Beneath his bluff, hearty mask was a soul filled with avarice, cunning and treachery. Having paved the way by inducing me to announce my departure openly, thus making sure that no awkward questions would follow my disappearance, be intended to murder me the moment the treasure was unearthed, and with one swift, well-aimed shot rid himself of an inconvaiieat witrress and a sharer in the spoil. *1116 rev388


elation was so sudden and unexpected that for a moment I was stunned.

" 'What have you found, my friend?’ The smooth, oily voice roused me. Ts it gold? — a jewel?’

*' 'Something more precious than either,’ I answered swiftly. 'Why are you aiming a loaded revolver at me from beneath your cloak?’

"The unctuous smirk vanished from his face as his jaw sagged open. I saw a quick movement of his hand beneath his cloak and had barely time to duck before a shot rang out and a bullet smacked against the wall behind me. Before the echoes of the explosion had died away I had drawn my own weapon and shot him dead.

“T HAVING his body lying before the altar,

JL/ I slipped the Glass of Truth into my pocket and quitted the sanctuary, hastily filling in the pit we had dug in order to enter. That night I rode fast and far, and by daylight I found myself in a little seaport on the Gulf of Petali. There I sold my horse and with the proceeds paid my passage to Messina by a small tramp steamer that was on the point of sailing. In Sicily it did not take me long to find a gambling-hell where, thanks to my magic glass, I won in^ an hour enough to carry me to the more palatial casinos of the Riviera. I could easily have broken the bank at each, but I dreaded attracting attention, so contented myself with modest stakes, reserving the bulk of my winnings for big deals on the stock markets of different European capitals. In less than a year I was a wealthy man.

"But the mere accumulation of money gave me little satisfaction; I wanted to turn my marvelous gift to some purpose that would bring lasting benefit to humanity. 'Then came the great disillusionment. Travel where I would, search as

I might, everywhere I saw the same deceit, guile, and greed in the hearts of those with whom I came into contact. Few indeed were there from whom I did not shrink with disgust when I examined them through my magic glass; I almost despaired of humanity imtil I chanced upon a young artist who had given up his hopes of inheriting his father’s millions that he might earn his livelihood by his own talents. But he was on the point of ruining his happiness by marrying a worthless woman whose only aim was a life of wealth and luxury. This unscrupulous harpy, in order to effect her purpose, had acquired the pictures of a struggling artist and passed them off as her own work. 'The masterpieces you so admired as the work of Lady Vanda were in reality painted by Mary Deane, the girl to whose devoted nursing you owe your life.’’

T he effect of the Count’s words v.as galvanic. During the unfolding of the story, amazement, incredulity and doubt had in turn shown on the young man’s mobile features; but as he now struggled to his feet, his shining eyes and flushed face told that belief had prevailed over the sober dictates of common sense.

"What would I not give to possess the Eye of Truth!’’ he cried. "By its aid I could solve the deepest mysteries — read the hearts of all men — control the stock markets of the world — back the winning horse in every race! I could discover the hidden virtues and beauties of the world ’’

"And likewise its hatreds, its sins, its miseries !’ ’ Count Roulette shook his head as he laid his hand kindly on Frank’s shoulder. "Seek not too deep a knowledge, my young friend. If the Eye of Truth can show you the path' to happiness, believe me, it can do no more.”

“No more?” the other gasped, his face

THE EYE OF TRUTH


blank with surprize. "Could I not discover every gold mine in the world.^ — unearth secret treasures ?”

"One treasure — one inestimable treasure — may yet be yours.”

The old man raised his voice as he called the name of Mary Deane, and as the girl approached, looking curiously from one to the other, he held the Eye of Truth between her and Frank so that each looked at the other through its crystal disk.

For a full minute they stood there gazing into each other’s eyes and reading there the secret that their lips had never uttered. Then, without speaking, Frank leant forward and caught her slender body in his arms, bending his head until her trembling lips fluttered up to his.

"And now,” said Count Roulette softly, "it is time for us to part.”

Frank turned quickly at the sound of the word.

"Part? Surely not so soon?” Therewas genuine regret in his voice. "You have brought such happiness into my life that I am loth to say good-bye. Besides, I should like to have a few more peeps through that wonderful glass of yours.”

'There was a whimsical expression on the Count’s face as he shook his head.

"No, no, my young friend. You had

better rest content with what you have already seen. The Eye of Truth has shown you how to be happy — it can do no more. Remember, it is a wise lover — and a still wiser husband — ^that does not see too much!” He held out both hands to them as he went on: "My mission here is ended. At sundown my yacht sails from Monte Carlo, and it is unlikely that our paths in life will cross again. So farewell to you both, my cliildren. . . . Farewell!”

S OME three hours later, as the dying sun was drooping towafd the horizon, a white-painted yacht crept into sight round the distant rocky headland of Monaco, and steamed westward along the coast. It was Count Roulette leaving for his unknown destination.

Standing hand in hand on the balcony of the bungalow, Mary Deane and Frank watched it draw abreast of them, and saw the tiny flag at the masthead dip thrice in silent salute. Then the bows of the Veritas swung seaward and the dainty craft grew gradually smaller and dimmer until its trailing plume of smoke merged into the shadows of the coming night.

The Eye of Truth had passed, but it had left behind a legacy of love and happiness that would only pass with life itself.

Vhe T)

C/-^ hantom Hand

By VICTOR ROUSSEAU

An astounding novel of Black Magic, eery murders, and weird occult happenings.

The Story Thus Par

H urrying home from Oiina to Loma West, to whom he is engaged, Don Wentworth is appalled to learn that her father. Senator Lemuel West, has paid the supreme penalty of the law for the murder of Police Captain Morse, who was investigating his political activities.

At Cannonville, West’s home, he meets one Sudh Hafiz, a Persian in charge of a Babist temple, who informs him of a gang of conspirators who railroaded West to his doom. 'These consist of Moroni, the bootlegger; Walstein, the political boss; Abner Wells; and their leader, Godfrey Moore, the millionaire, a master of black magic.

Hafiz takes Don out to Moore’s house, where he finds Loma living, mentally deranged. She hardly knows him. 'That night, while Moroni is a guest at a television demonstration on Moore’s radio, the phantom of .West appears in place of the grand opera stage, and Moroni drops dead.

Next day, returning to Moore’s house, Don and Hafiz find Moore tied up. He says Walstein has kidnapped Lorna and taken her to Moroni’s headquarters, where he has gone to search for Moroni’s secret papers. 'The two follow to the lonely cabin on the shore, and are surprized and bound. Loma becomes entranced and West’s phantom appears while the search is proceeding, and attacks Walstein, who, thinking Moroni’s men have assaulted him, engages in a duel with them, ending 390 This story began in

in his death and that of the three other?. Don rescues Lorna.

The story continues:

I T WAS on the evening of the day of Walstein’s death. Don had brought Lorna back to Sudh Hafiz’s house and kid her on the loxmge in the living-room. The girl had been in the same automatonlike condition as when he had seen her in the vault of Moroni’s hangout. She had obeyed all Don’s requests, but she had seemed to have become a mere machine.

She had stepped quietly out of the car and gone into the house, and Don had laid her down. Sudh Hafiz had mixed her a sherbet, and she had drunk it at Don’s instructions, after which she had seemed to fall asleep.

"It is a powerful Oriental dmg,’’ Sudh Hafiz explained. "It has the exactly opposite effect of hashish and opium — that is to say, it binds the soul more tightly to the lx)dy, instead of loosing it. It may be that she will awaken well again.’’

"In which case I shall ask her to marry me immediately,” said Don.

While Loma slept, the two men had discussed the situation. It was not likely that the bodies of Walstein and the three other dead men would be discovered for a considerable time, since there was no reason to suppose that Walstein had gone to Moroni’s hangout. Already Moore had succeeded in doing away with two of his confederates in crime, and there remained only Abner Wells, the ex-candidate for mayor on the "silk-stocking” ticket. If Don was to clear Senator West’s name,

imRD TATES for July

THE PHANTOM HAND


it was essential that Abner Wells should live.

A hasty glance at the papers taken from the cellar showed that Wells was implicated in various shady transactions, but there was no proof that he had plotted the death of Captain Morse.

"It is essential,” said Sudh Hafiz, "that Miss West shall not fall into Moore’s hands again. It is only through her that her father’s phantom can be materialized. You must marry her and take her away, Wentworth, and forego all thoughts of

vengeance upon Moore for the present.”

"That is my intention,” answered Don.

"Our great need is to manage to get in touch with West. If we could talk to him, and convince him that his blind, murderous attacks upon his persecutors are defeating their own ends, that only by letting Abner Wells live can we hope to obtain the evidence that will clear him. . . . But imfortunately it is only through his daughter that he can be reached, and that means throwing her into her state of catalepsy.”



"No more of that,” said Don.

/Then — we can do nothing.”

"How about frightening Wells by telling him we know all about his involvement in the Cannonville Traction deal, letting him think we know more than we do?” asked Don. "If we could get hhn as an ally on our side, with the promise of immunity ”

"Suppose you take Miss West away first,” answered the Persian. "Marry her, restore her to health, give her a chance to forget. Then we’ll see what can be done. Remember, Godfrey Moore knows you are his most bitter enemy. He has struck twice, and successfully. As soon as he ' has disposed of Abner Wells, he will try to put you out of the way. Let m see what is die effect of the drug 1 have given her.”

“I^ON, you've come back! I’vewanted you so!”

Don, overjoyed to find Loma in her ri^t mind at last, kneeled down beside her and put his arms about her.

"Where are we, Don? How long have you been back in America? I — I’ve been ill, I think.”

"You’ve been ill, dear. I only returned yesterday. I hurried back as soon as I was set free by the brigands who captured me in Qiina. You knew about that.?”

"Oh yes, Don, and I was so anxious about you. I — I don’t seem to remember much after — what happened. The shock of it must have unhinged me, I think. I remember Mr. Moore was kind enough to offer me a home, but — this isn’t his home, is it?”

"No, this is the house of Sudh Hafiz ”

"The Persian. Of course I know him. He was very kind to poor father when he — oh, I can’t bear to think about that!

If only you’d been able to come in time! But how did I get here?”

"I took you away from Mr. Moore’s house this morning, Loma. I told him that I felt I had a better right than anyboch' else to care for you. I want you to marry me, dear, right away. Don’t you remember we agreed to be married as soon as I returned?”

"Don, I can never marry you now. Not imtil poor father’s name has been cleared. And that may never be.”

"Loma, your father was innocent. You and I know it. What do we care what others believe? I am going to make it life task to clear him. But I want you as my wife, Loma.”

"Don, it wouldn’t be right. It would be a millstone about your neck.”

"I like that sort of millstone, dear. Say ’yes.' ”

"But not — ^not today, Don. Let us wait till I am stronger. I feel so weak. I’d just be a burden.”

’Xoma, dear, if you don’t marry me I’ll never be able to begin my work on behalf <rf your father.” He turned as Sudh Hafiz, bad left the room, appeared in the doorway. "I think I’m going to persuade Miss West to marry me tonight,” he said. "It’s still possible to marry in this state without a preliminary waiting, isn’t it? It was when I went away. We’d planned to be married the day that I came back.”

"It’s still possible,” smiled Sudh Hafiz. "Well, Miss West, I’m glad to see you looking so much better.”

"I shall never cease to be grateful to you for your kindness to poor father,” said the girl. "I’d do anything to show my gratitude.”

"'Then marry Don Wentworth, and you’ll never regret it,” replied the Persian promptly. "I can get the Reverend Mr. Suydam here in ten minutes, have you

THE PHANTOM HAND


married in twenty, the wedding supper in an hour, and see you off on your honeymoon in my car inside of an hour and a half."

"But my clothes — unless they’re here, I don’t know ’’

"I guess they’re at Godfrey Moore’s,” said Don, "but you don’t need to worry about them, darling. If you can last till tomorrow we’ll stop at some large town and I’ll buy you a complete trousseau.”

"But I haven’t even a toothbrush,” said Lorna.

"If you’ll only marry me first, I promise you a dozen toothbrushes, darling, before midnight. Gmoc, say that little word.”

"Yes,” said Lorna.

"You’d better lie down and rest till Mr. Suydam gets here,” suggested Sudh Hafiz. "I’ll ’phone him at once.” He drew Don into the next room. "I don’t altogether like this,” he said in a low voice.

"My getting married?”

"No, this sudden improvement. It’s too good. There should normally be a slight confusion of mind. It looks to me ” he hesitated.

"Go on,” said Don.

" as if a certain entity was in

diarge, and letting her come through in order to conceal the fact of his presence.”

"You mean Lemuel West?” asked Don aghast.

"No, I don’t. 'That’s the worst of it. Lemuel West would never harm her, though he makes use of her. No, I mean an entity sent by Moore.”

"I’ll take care of that entity,” answered Don, smiling. Again he was beginning to discount the Persian’s suggestions, for Loma’s recovery had made the past once more begin to seem incredible. Sudh Hafiz, without answering, went to the telephone.

"Mr. Suydam will be here in half an hour,” he said to Don, who had stolen back to see Lorna again.

"She’s fallen asleep,” said Don. "It’s just as well there will be a little delay.”

"She’ll need a lot of, taking care of,” answered Hafiz. "Above all, you must do your best to discourage her father from manifesting.”

He crossed to a cabinet in the room and took from it a bottle containing some tiny pellets. "I fixed these up for you just now,” he said. "Give her two, morning and evening. It is the same drug I gave her this afternoon. Hello!” he a^ded, as the door-bell rang. "That can’t be Mr. Suydam!”

He went to open it, admitting an elderly man with a fine, sensitive face, a small, drooping mustache, blue eyes and thinning silvery-gray hair. 'The newcmnet lotAed from the one man to the other.

"I take it you are Mr. Hafiz and you are Mr. Wentworth,” he said in bHtCT tones. "My name is Abner Wells. No need to ask if you have heard of me.”

"I certainly have,” said Don.

"Won’t you come in and sit down?” inquired Sudh Hafiz.

"I’ll come in, but I won’t sit down.” Abner Wells entered the room, turned and faced Don. "I understand that you have been circulating libelous statements about me, Mr. Wentworth,” he cried.

"That is absolutely false,” said Don. "I only got back from Qiina yesterday, and at <he time I hadn’t heard your name. May I ask who your informant is?”

'"That makes no difference. I believe the statement to be true!” Abner Wells’s face grew white. He raised his fist. "Let me warn you, young man, you and that Walstein fellow had better draw in your horns!” he shouted. "I’ve got influence enough in this city to break Walstein and his gang.”


.WEIRD TALES

S UDH HAFIZ stepped to the door and closed it. He came back. "Walstein’s dead,” he said.

Abner Wells’s face grew whiter. He staggered back as if he had received a mortal blow.

"Wh-when did it happen?” he asked in a shocked whisper.

"He went to Moroni’s hangout after his death, to look through his papers,” answered Sudh Hahz. "He wanted to get hold of all papers that might incriminate him; among others, that one that you were so incautious as to sign, relative to the Cannonville Traction deal, now in our possession. But he was chiefly afraid that Moroni might have been in possession of evidence that would link him up witli the murder of Captain Morse.”

Abner Wells uttered a strangled cry. His face looked ghastly.

"A quarrel arose between Walstein and his man Benny, and two of Moroni’s men. They shot and stabbed it out in the cellar and killed one another. But let me speak more plainly, Mr. Wells,” continued the Persian. "You are a very different type of man from Walstein and Moroni. You know that Godfrey Moore’s researches in the Black Art are not mere dabbling in superstition, but hideously real. You have the faculty of putting two and tyo together. Next to Moore, you are the most intelligent of all those implicated in railroading poor West

to the gdlows ”

“It’s a damned lie!” gurgled Wells. “It’s true,” said Sudh Hafiz suavely. "And you are able to see that the death of Moroni and Walstein leaves Moore at the mercy of only one man, yourself. And tliat your own chances of prolonged life are what we may call slender.”

Now Abner Wells was silent. His lean face was working, his sensitive eyes alight with intelligence. It was plain that he was doing some rapid thinking.

“I think it may be to your advantage to come to terms with us, Mr. Wells,” said Hafiz.

Abner Wells looked at him searchingly. But at that moment the bell rang again, and the Persian admitted the Reverend Mr. Suydam, a jovial, elderly clergyman in clerical attire. He shook hands with Abner Wells, whom, of course, he knew, and, much more cordially, with Don.

"I have heard about you, Mr. Wentworth,” he said. “Your kidnapping by those Chinese brigands caused quite a sensation in Cannonville. I shall be delighted to marry you and Miss West immediately, poor thing. It was sad, most sad, and I congratulate her on obtaining a husband of such sterling integrity as yourself, Mr. Wentworth.”

“I guess I’m the person to be congratulated,” answered Don.

Suydam smiled. "You have two witnesses, I suppose?” he asked.

"Why, there’s my boy,” said Hafiz

"Pray permit me to be the other,” interposed Wells. "It will be a great pleasure, I assure you, if I may be allowed.”

"Why, that will be charming of you, Mr. Wells,” said the clergyman. "The sooner the better. You’ve got the ring, of course? No, I’ll bet ”

"Yes,” answered Don, laughing as he produced the little circlet of gold. “I bought it before I left Cannonville, and kept it hidden about me all the while I was in the brigands’ hands.”

"You see,” smiled Sudh Hafiz, "Miss West is getting a husband who has his wits about him.”

T he ceremony was over. Don couldn’t believe it. No extraordinary change had taken place in Loma, standing at his side, smiling, and apparently fully restored to her normal health. And he

THE PHANTOM HAND


felt just the same. Odd that one could be married and feel no different!

Jolly Mr. Suydam had kissed the bride and was preparing to depart when Abner Wells gestured to Don and Hafiz to step aside. "What you said about coming to

terms ” he began. "I’m ready. This

has got to be settled.” His face was agitated. "Can you gentlemen come around to my apartment at once and talk things over?”

Don looked at Hafiz. The Persian had an inspiration. He turned to the clergyman.

"It’s unfortunate,” he said, "but a most important matter of business has cropped up, concerning Miss West. I wonder whether we couldn’t ask you to stay with her here for half an hour while we are gone. You’ll understand, it’s a matter that won’t permit of delay ”

*T can quite understand,” Suydam responded. "I shall be more than delighted to remain here with Miss West — come, come, my dear friend, you mean Mrs. Wentworth! — until you gentlemen are back.”

Don went up to Loma and explained, but the girl looked at him a little reproachfully.

"Must you leave me, dear?” she asked imploringly.

"For half an hour — three-quarters at the most,” said Don. “It’s something that cropped up — I can’t tell you now, dear, but it’s unavoidable.”

"I suppose you must, then, Don,” said the girl. “But I shall be afraid all the while you are gone. I don’t ever want us to be separated again as long as we live.”

"I hope we never shall be, dearest,” responded Don. "You’re an angel to stand for it at such a time. But you won’t be afraid with Mr. Suydam.”

"No, I won’t be afraid with Mr. Suydam,” answered the girl mechanically.

"I have my car outside,” said Wells.

"We can reach my apartment in five minutes.”

They went out. It was already growing dark. Hafiz got in beside Wells, Don seated himself in the rear, and in a few minutes they parked outside Wells’s apartment, in one of the finest apartmenthouses in Cannonville.

"My sister keeps house for me,” said Wells, "but she’s out this evening and we shall not be disturbed.”

T he elevator deposited them on the fifth floor, and Wells opened his door and ushered them in. 'The living- > room showed the tastes of a gentleman and a scholar. 'The rugs and color scheme were of the finest. Old prints hung on the walls, and the library was not of the kind that is purchased in sets wholesale.

Abner Wells waved Don and SucBi Hafiz to chairs and drew up his own opposite them. He looked at them in his searching way, saying nothing for a while, and they looked back at him. Abner Wells, the blue-stocking politician and reformer, was a man of considerable intelligence.

"You think you’ve got me cornered,” he said slowly, showing his teeth. "I’m not so sure. What do you want to propose?”

"We’ve got you on that traction deal, of course,” said Sudh Hafiz.

Abner Wells uttered a cool laugh. "So you’ve found the reformer as bad as the rest of them, eh?” he asked. "I rate your intelligence higher than that, gentlemen. You may have all the papers you like, but you’ll never bring that home to me. Now, between friends — at least, provisional friends — ^what next?”

"I am speaking in the dark,” said Sudh Hafiz, and his voice took on a purr of complacency. "I don’t know whether, in the matter of the conspiracy to send West to the gallows ”


.WEIRD TALES

"I refuse to accept that word!” shouted Abner, who had evidently recovered from hb first fears and had devised what he considered a way out of his dilemma.

" whether you have the goods on

Godfrey Moore, or whether he has tlie goods on you, but in either case I think you will read a warning in the deaths of Moroni and Walstein.”

“How do I know Walstein’s dead?” demanded Abner.

“If you don’t know, you’ll soon learn of his disappearance. Come, let us have done with fencing.”

' 'What’s your game? Lay your cards on the table.”

“My game, as you call it,” answered Don, “is to clear a dead man’s name.”

Abner Wells looked at him closely. “Excuse me for a moment, gentlemen,” he said, and left the room. Within two minutes he was back.

“I accept your statement that Walstein is dead,” he said. He was shaking, in spite of his affected nonchalance. “What do you offer?”

Sudh Hafiz leaned forward. “I know,” he said, “that you were the least guilty in the conspiracy against poor West.” 'This time Abner Wells made no attempt to refute the charge. "Help us bring the proofs home to Godfrey Moore. Help us for your own sake, for otherwise he will assuredly kill you.”

He turned to Don. “I think in such event we can offer Mr. Wells immimity?” he asked.

Don nodded. “I’ll pledge myself to that,” he answered.

“And how, pray, do you imagine tliat Godfrey Moore has the power to take my life?” asked Abner. “I am no fool, gentlemen, though I may have given you the impression of being one.”

“I don’t know,” answered Sudh Hafiz, “how far Moore has initiated you into his devilish practises, but I do know that you.

like many another apparently hard-boiled business man, are well aware that there is another world than this. You have consulted mediums habitually, you have seen and talked to the spirit of your dead son ”

“Oh God!” cried Abner Wells, and dropped his face into his hands. When he raised it, a moment later, it was the face of an old man, drawn and gray.

“Gentlemen,” he whispered, “that devil has me in his power. Yes, I know — I know that he encompassed the death of West. And I know how. Do you?”

The Persian nodded. “He can do that to you,” he said. “Just as he sent West’s astral to kill Captain Morse while poor West was drugged and unconscious in his house, so he can send yours upon another hellish mission.”

“I have no proofs, no papers that will incriminate Moore. But I’ll help you. I’ll do everything I can. God, this has been a long nightmare! What do you want me to do?”

“When the time comes. I’ll tell you,” answered Hafiz. “For the present, we have your pledge, and you have ours of immunity.”

T hey left Wells seated in his chair, looking ten years older than when they had entered the room with him, and walked back briskly toward the house of Sudh Hafiz.

“We didn’t learn much,” said Don. “No, and I think Wells was telling the truth when he said he had no proofs against Moore. But at least we have found out where he stands, and, even if he breaks his pledge, I think we have taken the life out of his opposition. Now, my dear fellow, you must have a whole month of honeymoon with that little bride of yours. If you see any evidences of trance, if her father takes possession of her, ignore him. He will not harm you.

THE PHANTOM HAND


"When you come back, we shall endeavor to get into touch with Lemuel West in other ways, and bring him to a realization of the fact that he is dead, and only furthering Moore’s devilish schemes by letting himself be used as a tool by him. Meanwhile, I shall be at work in his interests and Lorna’s.”

"How do you think it may be possible to get into touch with him?” asked Don.

"I believe,” answered Sudh Hafiz, "that if we are unable to bring him into touch with us on earth, one of us may have to go down into the shadow world in order to communicate with him more freely. But that is a fearful journey for a living man to make, and few indeed have made it successfully and returned, as the old Greek myth of Orpheus attests. But tliat is part of the training we received from my Master, who is even now watching from his retreat in my own country. I know how to do it.”

"You said 'One of us’,” said Don. "I’m willing — anything that I can do to dear poor West’s name.”

Sudh Hafiz hesitated. "Wentworth,” he answered, "I am able to speak to you more frankly than hitherto. It is strange, but the Akashic Mirror, in which I can get fragmentary glimpses of the immediate future, seems to indicate that you will be that one. I don’t exactly understand it. But I foresee that all will, in the end, be well.” His tone became less grave. "I believe that when you return, Mrs. Wentworth will be fully restored to health,” he said. "Have you made your plans for the trip?”

"I’m thinking of driving along the coast road to Florida,” answered Don. "I want to motor hard and fast for a few days, so as to get as far from here as possible, and give Loma a complete change of scene.”

"A very wise decision. You’ll use my car, of course.”

"Why,” stammered Don, "I was thinking of buying one tonight. I really couldn’t deprive you ”

"No deprivation. I must insist on it. Just bring her out of the house, step into the car, and away you go. And here I must say au revoir, Wentworth,” he added.

They had reached the outside of the temple, from within which a soft glow was proceeding. Three or four persons were already ascending the steps. A man looked back and nodded to Sudh Hafiz.

"Yes, this is one of the nights for our regular services,” said the Persian, "and I’m a little late as it is. Convey my warmest regards to your bride, Wentworth, and when you return, come straight to the house.”

Sudh Hafiz gripped his hand, and before Don could urge him to come in and say good-bye to Lorna, he had passed up the steps into the interior of the temple, from which the soft strains of the organ had begun to roll.

Standing there, looking after him, Don suddenly became conscious of fears for Lorna. Could anything have happened to her in the short time he had been away? His heart beginning to pulsate violently, he hurried to the door of Hafiz’s house.

H e was immensely relieved when, at his knock, old Mr, Suydam opened it to him almost immediately, for the smiling, benevolent face of the clergyman told him that all was well.

"Well, here you are back already!” exclaimed Suydam. "You’ll be surprized to hear that your little wife is sleeping soundly. Poor child, she seemed all tired out with the excitement of being married! She asked me to lower the lights, said that they hurt her eyes. You must be very gentle and patient with her at first, Wentworth. But I know that being married to the man of her heart is the best



tonic she could have,” he added, smiling.

But fear was again hammering at the gates of Don’s heart. Why had Lorna asked to have the lights lowered? Was it possible that Lemuel West was again obsessing her, within an hour of their marriage? He strode swiftly into the drawing-room.

Then his relief was like a physical pang as he saw Loma, his very own Loma, asleep, curled up in the big chair, and her own sweet face instead of that ghastly, hate-distorted one of Lemuel West’s that he had been afraid of finding.

He stood there for a moment, looking down at her in the ecstasy of his reaction. He vowed that he would win her back to health and strength and happiness. He would fight the devil Moore and beat him. But for the present — only Lorna.

She opened her eyes and smiled at him. "I knew that you were there, even when I was asleep,” she said. ’T had rather a bad dream, Don. I dreamed that they had taken you away from me — or me from you.”

"Never, dearest,” answered Don. "I’m with you.” He knelt down beside her for a moment, took her hand, and pressed it to his lips. "Always, Loma. Do you feel well enough to start now?”

"Yes, I’m well enough. I’m really quite well, except that I have such wretched dreams. But I’m not going to have them any more. I’m quite resolved on that. I do feel tired, but I shall be so happy with you. Where are we going, Don?”

"To Florida,” answered Don. "Do you like the idea of that, Loma?”

"I think it will be g?:eat,” she answered enthusiastically. "But where are we going to stop tonight?”

"At Evansville. Do you know it? It’s only forty miles from here, and we can be there in almost no time. 'There’s a

good hotel there, too. And as soon as I’ve you to bed. I’m going out to buy you a toothbmsh, and anything else that you require,” he added, laughing.

Lorna rose and put her arms about his neck. "You’re always so good to me, Don,” she said.

She was so slight and frail, he fdt a msh of pity. Impulsively he picked her up and strode with her past the genially waving Mr. Suydam, and carried her to the sedan, which stood outside.

*T’m going to put you in the rear seat, dearest,” he said. "You’ll be able to sleep there.”

He tucked her into a big mg that was folded on the seat, and made her lean her head against the comer of the cushions. He closed the door, got in the front, and took the wheel. In another moment the car was rolling softly away along the main road that ran inland about four miles from the coast.

O NCE or twice he glanced around, to see that Lorna was sleeping comfortably. But his heart misgave him as he realized how frail she looked. He would have to take the greatest care of her. It was going to be a longer task than he had thought, bringing her back to health, and a month would h>e barely long enough.

He would take her to some seaside place in Florida — ^not the Florida of the tourists, but the strip that lies west of the Floridan peninsula. There, in the bracing air, with the warm sun and the sea, Lorna would come back to her old self and forget the dreadful tragedy that had seared her life.

And he himself resolved to put all thoughts of the matter out of his mind till his return. He, too, had been under a fearful strain, and that strain must necessarily react upon Lorna.

He looked back again, but he could see nothing but the faint outlines of her iu>w,

THE PHANTOM HAND


for they had left the street lights far behind, and were passing through the desolate pine forests. Thank heaven he must be half-way to Evansville! He pressed down the accelerator, and sent the sedan up to fifty-five, sixty, sixty-five miles an hour.

But what was he hurrying for? There was nothing wrong with Lorna. He was fleeing as if she was mortally ill and in need of a doctor. That was absurd. He slowed down again, came to a stop, looked back.

"Lorna!” he called.

There came no answer. She was asleep, she must be asleep, he told himself. He leaned back over the rear of the front seat and laid his hand upon the rug.

"Lorna, dear!” he said.

No answer still. He could just see the outlines of her body, but they were dimmer than they had any right to be under that brilliant moon. He touched the rug again. God, it folded inward! It coldapsed as if there were nothing under it!

And suddenly Don became aware that there was nothing under it. Lorna was gone!

Fallen out of the car? No! The door was not only closed fast, but locked! And yet she was not there! Frantically Don climbed over the rear seat, and the rug collapsed under his hands, showing the seat beneath it!

Don stood back in horror, trying to make his brain function. Lorna had been there and was gone, and she could not have fallen out of the car. She seemed to have dematerialized into thin air!

And, as he stood back, he saw that she was there after all, a phantom, her eyes closed in sleep, looking infinitely weak and wan and tired.

He clutched at her, and his arms passed through her and met.

A wild cry broke from him. He

thought he was going mad. He shrank back. There she was again, huddled up in the corner. But this time she opened her eyes and smiled at him, and extended her arms toward him.

And again his arms encountered only empty air!

Then of a sudden, as he stood there, he heard voices, infinitely far away, low, and yet clear, and seeming to emanate from within his brain rather than from any objective place. It was like voices heard over the telephone when a connection is faulty.

"You tell me I’m with you? I tell you I’m with him. I’m in the car with him. I love him. He’s my husband!”

And that was Lorna’s voice, and, as she spoke, once more the astral double in the car smiled at Don, as if it responded instantly to the thoughts of the living woman far away.

"I tell you you’re in my power. You’ll do as I tell you if you ever want to see him again!” And that was the voice of Godfrey Moore.

"I’m in your power no longer,” came Lorna’s voice, sweet but faint. "I was in your power once, but I’m awake now. I want him.”

"I’ll bring him to you.”

"You’ll bring him — ^here?”

"I’ll bring him here, to show you that I have complete control over him. After that you’ll let your father come to me.”

"Not while I live!”

"Not while you live?” answered Godfrey Moore’s voice mockingly. And then suddenly Don was aware that it was addressing him.

"You fool,” it said, "to have thought you could thwart me! Your life was in my hands last night. What did you want to interfere for? I’m giving you your chance now, your last chance. Get out and stay out! Lorna is with me. She



slij^jcd oat of the car when you slowed down a mile from my house on the upper road, and I left her double with you to mock you. Watch it? Watch carefully,^ Don Wentworth.” His voice took on the singsong of a conjurer. "Now you see it! Now you don’t!”

It was horrible, but the astral form of Loma seemed responsive to Moore’s words. One moment he saw her in the comer of the rear seat, smiling at him, the next she was gone.

And now she was gone without returning, and Moore’s mocking voice was in Don’s ears again:

"You thought to corrupt Abner Wells! You fatuous fool, playing with fire and not knowing it. I offer you your last chance of life. Drive, drive like the devil and be out of the state by morning. Otherwise you die.”

"Liarr screamed Don. He lost all self<ontrol, he pounded the cushions with his fists, as if they bad been Godfrey Moore. '*Liar and devil! I’m coming to you, if all the fiends of hell are at your back!”

He heard Moore’s faint laugh of derision, and, fainter still, a cry of appeal from Loma.

"Come along, Wentworth,” came Moore’s answer. "I knew you'd come. There’s a warm welcome waiting for ]mu. You’ll learn what it means to cross me. You’ll find your wife here, only it won’t be quite the same as you expect. 'There’s a crossroad a mile back from where you are that runs right into my private road a hundred yards from my house. Come, and welcome!”

The voice died away. Don was staring at the empty seat in front of him.

H e turned the car and drove back, found the crossroad that he had passed without noticing, and drove like a madman through the pines southward

toward the sea. Was he crazed? Had Lorna fallen from the car after all? It mattered nothing. Don knew that so long as Godfrey Moore lived, one living devil bestrode the earth, and he meant to throttle him with his own hands, if be were hanged for it.

On and on along the dirt trail through the desolate pine forests Don drove, fury in his heart and madness in his brain, until of a sudden he saw Moore’s private road before him, and Moore’s house, ablaze with lights, and he was forced to jam on the brakes with all his might, to prevent shooting across the concrete way into the mud flats beyond.

With grinding, screeching brakes Don brou^it the car to a standstill at the very edge of the concrete, backed and turned. Looking round from force of habit as he straightened out the car, he saw the shadowy outlines of Lorna’s double behind him once again.

And again he heard those faint yokes:

"He is coming to me.” ~~

"I told you I bad complete controi over him, tiiat I would bring him.”

"He’s coming of his free will because he loves me.”

"His love will avail you nothing.”

"It will avail me everything, because our love is stronger than your evil powers. My eyes are open now. You thought you’d killed the soul in me, but it exists and it defies you.”

Don heard Godfrey Moore’s scornful lau^ ring out. 'Then it seemed as if Loma was at the phantom telephone alone.

"Don, dearest. Don, where are you? I feel you near me, but I can not see you.”

"I’m here, Lorna,” Don whispered, and, mad with eagerness though he was to go on to Moore’s house, he could not but wait there until she had finished speaking. And now he could see her double in the

W. T.— 7

THE PHANTOM HAND


rear seat again, smiling at him. Involuntarily he put out his hand to touch her, but it passed through empty air. Don knew that was not Lorna, only a simulacrum, having no more of her personality than a picture might have had. It was her love for him that had dung it there upon the screen of the night.

'Tm here, Loma,” Don whispered again.

"Go back, Don. He is stronger than we are. He can kill our bodies, but he can never kill our souls.”

"I’m coming to you, Lorna. My place is at your side. If he can kill us, we’ll die together.”

The answering sigh was very faint and far away. Next moment the simulacrum had vanished. Don was alone.

He drove the car through the gates and up the drive beneath the live-oaks, trailing their festoons of moss, brought it to a halt before'~fhe~h©use,_Md leaped out. 'BSFote him stood the open ^trance doors, and a shaft of brilliant light shone out. .

With three bounds Don was up the steps and inside. 'Tve come,” he cried. 'Tm here, Godfrey Moore, I’m here!”

'There came no answer, and Don pushed through into the long drawingroom, with the radio set in the corner and the blue velvet portieres. "Loma!” he cried. "Loma!” But the room beyond was empty, and the next, and the next, and beyond that the door gave upon a passage leading into the kitchen on one side, and miming straight past it to another door, some distance away.

The house seemed empty, but as Don called Lorna’s name again, he thought he heard the faint, mocking echo of Moore’s laugh. He grew silent, and the laugli was not repeated.

Infuriated, he shouted his challenge. "I’m here, Godfrey Moore, I’m here!" he called again. "You dared me to come, W. T.— 8

and I’m here, to fight it out with you to the last!”

Still silence, and Don turned and began stamping through the rooms on the lower floor, shouting Moore’s name and Lorna’s alternately. But there was no one there, and presently he found himself bade in the passage.

He stopped irresolutely. Behind him he could see the staircase running up to the bedrooms, but it was not likely that Moore or Loma would be there. His heart sank as it occurred to him that Moore might have been playing a trick on him, that Lorna had been spirited away far from the house, that he had been drawn there on a fool’s errand.

"Moore, damn you, you shan’t escape me! By God, I’ll follow you to the ends of the earth!” he cried. "Where are you skulking.^’

"Is that you, Wentworth?” Moore’s bland voice sounded suddenly, as if in Don’s ear, so that he whirled about, only to realize that he was still alone.

"I’m here! Where are you?” shouted Don.

"Pray excuse me, my dear fellow! I didn’t expect you’d be here so soon. Yes, I have your wife with me. Poor diild, she came to me in sudden panic. She didn’t like the idea of being married — to you. She slipped out of your car and dashed away through the pines ”

"You can save your breath, Moore. No need to lie!” aied Don.

"Why, Wentworth, that’s a word I don’t like,” answered Moore’s voice blandly. "But I realize that the situation must be a painful one for you. Let’s talk it over like gentlemen. I can’t come to you for the moment. Can you come to me?”

"I’ll go to hell for you, Moore,” said Don, and he heard a throaty chuckle in response.


iWEIRD TALES

"Odd that you should have tried all doors but the right one, Wentworth. The one at the end of the passage. There, straight in front of you. It’s my laboratory, my den, whatever you like to call it.”

Don, without replying, strode down the corridor until he reached the door. Now he saw a tiny window in the wall overhead, admitting a modicum of light, and through it he could see the low bluff at the back of the house. He had not guessed the building ran back so far. Moore’s den must be actually hollowed out of the rocky bluff above him, and deep in the earth.

O NE moment, with his hand upon the door, Don hesitated. It was not fear. It was rather the realization that he was on the verge of committing Lorna and himself irrevocably, that he was about to step consciously into a trap.

He knew it, but the surge of blind fury that filled him, blinded him, made him reckless of the consequences.

He flung the door open and passed through.

Nothing! Darkness! But Don heard the door click fast behind him, and he shouted again, "I’m here, Moore! Show yourself! Don’t skulk in the dark! Do your worst! I’m ready for you!”

Again he heard that throaty chuckle, and then of a sudden the room was filled with blinding, dazzling light. But it was not ordinary light intensified to the nth power. It was a light that could be felt, that exerted pressure on all sides of him at the same time; light that seemed to hold him like a trap of steel wires, and at the same time made it impossible for him to open his eyes.

He tried to take a step forward. He tried to extend his hands to grope his way. He could move, but it was as if the wire trap moved with him, still imprisoning him. Gradually he managed to get his eyes partly open. The light was less intolerable. It seemed to be exercising pressure upon his eyelids, but it did not sear his eyes.

Minutes went by in silence. Little by little Don got his eyes open at last. He could see now. The light was no longer dazzling, but it was brighter than any light he had ever seen — brighter in a different way. A mellow, soft, and infinitely piercing light that seemed to penetrate through and through him.

Now Don could take in his surroundings. He was in a small room, excavated in the rock, for overhead was rock shored up by beams. 'There was nothing in the room but glass. The walls were covered with glass mirrors, set at slightly different angles, so that Don could see himself duplicated and reduplicated a hundred times, could see every inch of his body from all possible ^ngl5i,__

In front-ofTiim was a long trianglii^ frame of what looked like glass, extending horizontally the entire width of the room, and laid about four feet from the floor, being supported upon a number of tripods. Behind this prism the light streamed through a narrow slit in the far wall, yet it was so intolerably bright that it illumined the entire room. ,

On the far side of the prism it entered, white sunlight, but from the side nearer Don it emerged in the seven component colors into which sunlight is dissolved by a prism. Violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, red, each color was perfectly distina, and running through them were the black lines of the solar spectrum.

At each end there was a gap, and Don knew enough of physics to be aware that these represented the invisible ultra-violet and ultra-red rays respectively.

'There came a click, a purring sound, and suddenly Don found himself held as

THE PHANTOM HAND


in a vise. New beams of light were streaming in on him from every side, pressing upon him so that movement was all but impossible.

And in that light Don had a singular feeling as if his bones were being turned to marrow. He felt weak and helpless. He had neither the will nor the power to struggle.

Again there sounded Moore’s malicious chuckle, as if coming from within the room. "Well, you’re here, Wentworth,” came the taunting words. "You stepped into the trap. There’s no Black Magic here, my friend, simply a new scientific process of which I am the inventor, though I do not intend to patent it.

"'The disintegrating powers of light, rightly applied, are generally known. 'The earthworm shrivels up and dies when exposed for a moderate time to sunlight. Light kills most germs. And you, my dear friend, tliough your knowledge is not profound, have probably heard of ectoplasm, that exudes from the body of a medium during a seance. If so, you are aware that the sliglitest approach to sunlight causes it to disappear immediately.

"This ectoplasm — pardon me if I am explicit, but it is a pleasure to have a moderately intelligent man to talk to — this ectoplasm has been analyzed, and has been found to be nothing mysterious or ghostly, but the primal basis of all matter. It is subject therefore to ail the conditions of the physical world. The light which is now being applied to yourself, Wentworth, is of a nature discovered by ntyself. It is of a series of ray lengths midway between sunlight and the X-ray, ordinarily invisible, but made visible by certain processes into which I need not enter.

"Its purpose is to efiFect sudi a disintegration of your own ectoplasmic contents, that they will be automatically disunited

from your physical organism. In briefer words, this is an apparatus for separating — painlessly separating — the body from its double, or astral.

"Since you have challenged me, Wentworth, it is my intention to reduce you to the after-death condition, in which state I hope to utilize your services for certain purposes of my own. After which I promise you that I shall give you back your body again and leave you free to depart.”

Again that chuckle came from Moore’s lips. Don, who had hardly understood what the man was saying, and only knew that he was trapped in some infernal mechanism, flung all his strength into a desperate effort to free himself.

If he could only reach the prism, not a dozen feet in front of him, smash it, or at least hurl it from its supporting tripods! . . . but his limbs were as heavy as lead, and it was with the utmost difficult}' that he was able to raise his arms an inch.

Brighter grew the light and more intolerable. More and more intensely came that rending feeling. He could no longer stir now. He was in no pain, but an intense weakness and lethargy held him, and he would have fallen but for die feeling of being suj^rted on all sides by steel wires.

Now strange prickles were coursing through all his arteries and sinews. His body began to grow numb, cold, dead. Only his brain was alive, but that seemed more vividly alive than ever before. Memories of his life, down to minute and long-forgotten details, rushed through it.

Then ensued a brief period of unconsciousness. Suddenly Don awoke. He found himself looking straight into his own eyes!

He was exterior to his body, which stood, a sagging, lifeless thing, in the



middle of the floor. And suddenly, as if released from the thongs of light that held it, it dropped. It lay upon the floor, inert and, to all appearances, dead.

And Don, standing over it, had never felt so well, so alive in every limb.

F or a few moments, staring at the thing that had been he, he could not understand. Then suddenly the truth was borne in upon him. He was exteriorized. He was what the world called dead. He had become a phantom — yet a phantom that retained all the emotions, all the will and impulses of a living man, all the intense desire to find Lorna and save her from this fiend.

Suddenly he was aware that Godfrey Moore was in the room. Moore was in evening dress; he held a half-smoked cigar in his hand, and he was looking at the lifeless body upon the floor. He raised one foot, shod in patent leather, and kicked it meditatively.

But there was a change in Moore’s appearance. When Don had first seen him, he had been struck by the man’s benign appearance. Now, though his face was imaltered, Don seemed to see him from some interior point of vision, and the look on Moore’s face was that of a devil.

Moore in the room, within reach of Don’s fist, ignorant, apparently, that he was in his victim’s power!

Don drew back his right fist and struck with all his might, straight from the shoulder. It was a haymaker that would have felled a strong man and staggered a Dempsey. To Don’s dismay, the blow failed to perturb Moore in the slightest. His fist passed straight through Moore’s face and stood out behind his head.

A cry of utter horror broke from Don’s Ups. At last he knew!

Moore raised his head and looked at

Don fixedly. A sneering chudde broke from him.

"I can just see you, my friend,” he said. ‘'You have taken a slight element of physical matter with you, so that the experiment has not been wholly a success, but you are sufficiently dematerialized for my purposes. And now, Wentworth” — Moore thrust his face iForward till it was almost touching Don’s — "now you are going to learn what it means to try to cross me!”

He raised one hand, revealing a sort of disk of black metal, not unlike a watch. He flicked his fingers, and a long tongue of white flame leaped from it, stinging Don like a whip.

Don hurled himself upon Moore again, his fists striking him madly, but he encoiuitered only empty air. And again and again Moore snapped his fingers, and tlie white tongues leaped at Don, inflicting unendurable pain.

"Down, dog!” laughed Moore. "Down through the floor! You’ll find some old friends of yours below!”

Again Don leaped, and again he reeled back in agony. Anywhere, to obtain refuge and surcease from pain.

"Down!” shouted Moore, pointing to the solid boards.

As Don looked at them, they seemed to dissolve. The room was growing shadowy. At the mere thought of obeying, the floor vanished. Don found himself descending into a dark crypt, lit by the faintly phosphorescent forms of human shadows.

Exhausted, but not cowed, he crouched like a wild beast against the rock wall. If this was death, he had never felt more alive.

Don Wentworth fe in Moore's power, his very soul at the mercy of the black masician, and Lorna lost to Mm. Can Sudh Ha^ save him 7 What hope Is th^re of regaining his bride and inflicting retribution upon the arch-criminal 7 But Godfrey Moore has a diabolical scheme to involve all in a common ruin. Be sure to order your copy of the October Weird Tales from your dealer now*

o ver Time’s Threshold

By HOWARD WANDRET

51 weird story of the fourth dimension — a tale of speeding years and an eery experiment in Professor Capal’s laboratory

A CLOCK ticking in an empty house.

What might that bode? Finch turned to the girl and said, "The agent told me this place has been closed up for four years.”

She nodded. It was an undeniable ticking, the heavy, clipped chucking sound of a large timepiece. The sound came from the one unexplored room on the ground floor, and Finch walked with the girl toward the door of the room with some curiosity.

The uncovered furnishings of the old house were gray with dust. There had been no caretaker for these four years, and its present condition gave it a cheap place in the market, even among prevailing low prices. The dusty furnishings were of a rather respectable nature, some of them rich enough to give the girl’s eyes an incipient sparkle. And those of the room in the left wing which they were approaching were especially interesting. Subconsciously Finch noted that the door of this room was peculiar among those they had tried on the ground floor, in its standing open. The two paused on the threshold of the room and looked in, harking to the ticking of the clock.

A heavy table in the mathematical center of the room supported a large retort filled with a liquid colored a pale applegreen. The glass arm of the retort appeared to be depositing this fluid by slow drops into a fair-sized graduated glass whose capacity must have been ^)out equal to the liquid in the retort. A drop now hung from the extended retort arm.

minute accumulations gradually inviting its fall. Finch looked at the litter of test tubes and other apparatus on the table and glanced at the book-lined walls.

"Capal’s laboratory,”, he said. The girl looked at him inquiringly.

"Professor Capal,” he said again. "He used to live in this house, and it looks as though he worked in this room.”

"Oh, he used to teach at the university.”

"Yes. He sort of disappeared four years ago, and the house has been vacant since.”

Loud ticking filled the room, and now the two watching the clock noted its peculiar character with some astonishment. It was of unusually heavy construaion, and had a broad, engraved face set with antique numerals. Around this face the two hands were describing arcs with furious irregularity. 'The minute hand passed in rapid movement past the numeral three, stopped dead and retreated almost to the top of the face. 'Then both minute and hour hands disappeared in a blurred whirl. The heavy ticking became confused; the sound was full of unaccountable interruptions and double strikings and displayed as many irregularities as the movement of the hands. The weights in the case changed position tmcertainly, and the motion of the pendulum could not be followed; it seemed to appear ubiquitously in its arc. The whir of the machinery behind the face suddenly stopped. Finch automatically took out his watch for the correct time and found to his surprize that




both gave the same hour precisely, 3:10.

At this moment the girl stepped into the room to examine the dock more closely. As she crossed the threshold and Finch was about to step after her the retort deposited a drop of the green stuff in the fractionally filled beaker on the table. The hesitating hands of the clock leaped and the girl vanished.

Finch looked about blankly.

"Sherna— ; — ” he called questioningly.

The ticking sounded rhythmically, now clear, now confused as with the sound of another escapement striking somewhat faster. The hands hesitated, whirled, stopped, swung back and forth like the steadying needle of a compass.

“Sherna!” Finch ran into the room and looked about him, breathless and frightened. And now the clock ticked with precision, but terrifying things were occurring about the house. He turned to the room’s long windows and looked at the sky. It had blackened in less than a minute. It was night. He looked amazed at the stars, and then turned his shocked eyes from immediately succeeding daylight. The sun had burst like thunder through the belt of Orion.

Night again succeeded. The sun became a mere arc of fire aaoss the sky — a yellow-golden rafnbow, and night was an instant’s blur of darkness. The hands of the ticking clock followed precisely the progress of the sun. The alternation of night and day fell swifter and swifter, and with Finch at the window it was like looking out of the quickly winking eye of a camera. A time camera. The succession of light and darkness blended into a tone of twilight under a gray sky sliced lower and lower by the arc of the sun, as cold crept into the room, and snow fell abroad over the land. TTien the arching sun mounted the sky so rapidly that its many appearances seemed one broad band of fire in the sky..

Now it was midsummer, and the hands of the dock ceased their crazy whirl and hesitated, performing aimless arcs back and forth across the circled numbers of the face. This happening had almost die appearance of malice, as if to allow the man time to take account of his disaster.

F inch looked about him. The room seemed the .same; there was a thickening of the dust if anything. He wrote "Finch” in the dust on a free end of the apparatus-littered table, and noticed the new accumulation of green stuff at the end of the retort arm.

Capal had been a physidst, and this arrangement of liquid and glass looked like one of his remote experiments in chemistry. Finch thrust his forefinger into the liquid the beaker had collected, and withdrew it hastily. The stuff was sO cold it burned, and pain rushed up his arm like a train of exploding needles. In the summer sky the sun marked the month as June, but Finch and the girl had entered the room in early August. He believed nothing, but accepted everything under the name of phenomena.

At the university Capal had propagated a number of sdentifically malodorous ideas, and was accounted a trifle mad; Finch pleasantly conjectured that the professor had been tricked by his own queer notions, and wondered what his disappearance had to do with his laboratory.

The retort was mounted upon legs that separated it from the table by almost an inch. To one side was a dockwork mechanism screwed firmly to the table. Projecting from the side was a free metal arm, to the end of which was fastened a small plate of some reddish composition that glinted with metal filings. This plate would swing under the base of the retort, but a test-tube rack had fallen and blocked its progress. Copper wires led from binding-posts on the dockwork to a series of

OVER TIME’S THRESHOLD

jars of colorless Uquid ranged along the side of the apparatus.

The girl had vanished before his eyes, and he himself had vanished from his own time; Where was she? Where Capal was. And Capal? Finch had good nerves, and knew the uselessness of dashing about looking for the girl aimlessly. He was caught in a trap, and the spring was set by Capal. The phenomena that played in this room were incident to the professor’s clutter of glass and clockwork, and it was by means of these that he would find normality. He was ready to follow any adventure through to its completion, and now ascertained that the clockwork was in order by pushing out the metal arm to the limit of its swing. The composition plate was carried forward by cliddng little wheels until it met the testtube rack again.

As he was about to remove the rack he noticed the arm of the retort, and decided to start evenly by cleaning off the small quantity of liquid that had collected at its mouth. His finger tip wiped the glass, and at the contact his arm jerked convulsively with electric shock as he caught sight of the girl standing opposite him, looking about wildly.

Finch retreated from the table confusedly and called the girl’s name. 'The clock’s ticking blurred into one continuous sound of speaking metal, and the hands spun hazily. 'The room rocked and reeled. Again the world was in twilight, and in the speeding seasons Finch alternately shook with cold and perspired in summer heat. He sneezed violently; he was aware of a dim, avalanchian roar that clarified and advanced portentously. 'The old house crashed about his ears, having run into complete decay in a matter of minutes, and he choked in a chaos of dust and falling, rotten timbers.

Now he found himself prostrated among ruins that dwindled and supported


vegetation even before his eyes. As he scrambled to his feet on a level of crumbled wood and mortar, howling chaos dinned in his ears, and then the world was calm and he was looking out over a late autumn wilderness.

There was no house; there was no city about him, and an ancient cottonwood sank its wrinkled trunk in the ground where the table had stood. A terrific shock tumbled him to the ground and when he arose the world was cold and the sun directly overhead was a great, dimglowing mass that shed at most a red twilight.

Far off on the horizon was the glow of flame. A creeping blanket of smoke marked some great fire. About a hundred yards away, standing beneath another huge cottonwood, was the figure of a man anxiously examining the place all around.

He wore tattered clothes, and spectacles reflected light as he turned his head. A great beast of some odd canine species tightened a leash he gripped in one hand. The animal saw Finch and growled: the man looked up and shouted. Whereupon the beast jumped against the leash, and man and dog beat their way up the knoll toward Finch. All his skin prickled and his throat stiffened in fright.

"Stop!” he screamed.

"I’m Capal!” shouted the other. "Don’t move! You can’t move!”

Finch shuddered whitely. He heard a confusion of .syllables, something about "clockwork,” and looked around dazed at the suddenly present room of the old house. A drop was hanging from the arm of the retort. It fell, sparkled globularly on the table of liquid in the glass, and then became part of it. As he hastily ran through the door and sprawled on the floor outside he thought he heard the girl call his name. At which he raised his abraded cheek from the floor and looked



ba<k, but the room was empty. He lay there for long and long, sleeping heavily through the early hours of the morning.

H e wakened with the sun pouring through the doorway, shafting the spot his body occupied. His face lay closely against the floor. His cheek hurt with raw soreness.

"God! God! God!” he said, and turned stiffly to look into the room, sitting up. A drop of green fell from the retort and the girl’s body appeared on the floor, twisted angularly.

"Sherna!” He started to his feet and she disappeared. He stopped at the threshold, muttering to himself. The dust in which he had written his name, he noted grimly, was undisturbed. Then, burying his face in his arms and leaning against the wall, he listened to the aimless, staccato chucking of the clock.

The sportive changes in the room mocked any reasoning, and Finch was hungry. After walking around the empty house for a time, absently combing his disordered hair with his fingers, he left the place slowly and took his way to a near-by restaurant. The reality of food made Capal’s laboratory seem exceedingly remote. But the girl was gone. Where?

Was that really‘Capal he had seen running up that lonely knoll? What cursed beast was that with him?

'This time Finch circled the house and stood on the ledge that footed the windows of the laboratory. He could hear the clock ticking through the panes, like a mechanical heart. Otherwise everything was quiet. The windows were curious in themselves. 'They didn’t open, and the panes were of quartz-glass. 'The place was built solidly, and would last for a long time. He glued his ear to the glass and listened to Capal’s strange clock for a few minutes, and then peered closely at the only other significant object visible —

the retort. At the end of its arm was a glimmer of green liquid.

He dropped from the window and walked across the unkept lawn to the front steps. Here he looked at his watdi and noted that the girl had been absent for nearly sixteen hours. He had awakened at about six o’clock, just as a drop had fallen. Last night one fell at five, when they entered the room, and again at about ten, because of the modicum he removed with his finger. It took about four hours for one drop to accumulate, granting one had fallen while he had been asleep. So. His worried face suddenly straightened. He had seen the girl when he touched the retort, and when the drop fell as he awakened this morning; and heard her voice as he was leaving the room. Coincidences.

Hurriedly leaving his seat on the stoop he jumped the front steps. He snatched open the front door, dashed madly down the hall, and cut through the living-room into the left wing. About ten feet from the laboratory door he caught sight of the girl lying in the same position in which he had seen her last. He shouted and dived headlong through the yawning door as another green drop fell into the beaker.

His body sprawled into the table and he stood up dazed to find himself once more in the room alone. Thereupon he stumbled toward the door. The capricious clock again forecast the unknown with its spinning hands and syncopated ticking.

T he hill on which Capal’s house was built flattened, and suffocating, humid masses of foliage crowded the spongy earth. Finch, lying prone, looked wearily and worried on the blanketed, peaty leaves and vegetation covering the ground, and saw near his face black beetles and a fat spider crawling horribly. A train of soft red insects about the size of peas mounted his arm on their clinging.

OVER TIME’S THRESHOLD


tentacic-like legs, and licked his shuddering flesh with little ted tongues like small flames. He shook them off, and rising to his feet stamped on the lot, and dispatched the bloated spider and all the insects within the area the room would enclose. Then he fearfully returned to the spot his body had occupied when he first recognized this new change.

Here he stood waiting patiently, resolved that these things were so. First, two objects can not occupy the same space at the same time. Second, every four hours the retort deposited a magical green drop in the receptacle under the arm, and time momentarily identified itself with the fall of the drop. It was either Capal’s scientific necromancy or coincidence, and Finch didn’t care to dispute existence with the table or book-case. And leaving the room might mean never returning.

For four hours he would be lost in time, and therein he was prey to everything about him. He closed his eyes in a savage agony of nostalgia. A curious sensation in his feet attracted his attention. Looking down he saw the peat-blanketed ground mounting his legs graspingly. All around were palisades of trees, and the surface of the land was jungled with brush and vines. A huge creeper the size of his wrist commenced life at the base of a smooth-boled tree near by and careered through the air with dizzy life, whipping and cracking as it grew. The peat-level mounted to his knees. He stood stiffly while a shaggy beast hurtled past him, pursued by a barking uproar of wild dogs. He listened to the snarling tragedy dully. The level of earth withdrew suddenly, and whole stands of trees disappeared.

Time in retrograde? Cursing Capal’s genius he sat weakly on the groimd as he thought of going back and back and back. But there was little time after all to wonder whether the influence of the lost professor’s apparatus were limited or not. There was just time to see a stagnant expanse of water, soupy and green and crawling with life. 'The damp, heavy atmosphere was unbearable. Upward gushes of moisture-laden air choked his lungs and spun his brain. The sun flamed whitely, and the forest reeked and shimmered with wisps of steam. Then the rushing vegetation swept in and buffeted him so that he stood on his feet against the billowing foliage. A lithe, active vine whirled through the air and burst through the fleshy part of his arm’. Finch clutched futilely at it, crying out at the pain; the vine had already disappeared in the shuttling years.

Another period was running to its close. Finch looked at his watch, and stooped purposefully in one of time’s hesitating moments to pick up from the ground a handy water-rotted root. He heard the ticking of the clock, and the laboratory of Capal’s house formed instantly.

He stood anxiously eyeing the clock and retort, gripping the root. The arm gleamed greenly, and a drop of liquid hung ready to fall as the hands of the clock ceased their spasmodic whirling and swung back and forth over the twentyfirst hour since the phenomena had begun. Finch gripped the root, poised to throw, while the skipping noise of the clock resolved itself into regular, heavy ticking. He looked eagerly for the girl, and now the hands were almost at a dead stop. The ticking became a slow hammering.

Finch trembled; with nervous accuracy he flung ^e root at the glass works on the table as the body of the girl appeared at his feet.

Quickly he stooped to lift the girl from the floor, though speed was no longer necessary. 'The root struck the retort squarely and smashed it into a green soup of liquid and shattered glass. The beaker



was raked from the table along with the wired jars, and a tinkle of dropping and breaking test-tubes and glass rods accompanied him as he left the room.

Where the green stuff touched the table the varnish fumed and fumed and blackened.

The clock stopped.

UU\i<tn Chaugnar Wakes

By FRANK BELKNAP LONG, JR.

A billion miles beyond the suns Which gild the edge of space.

Great Chaugnar dreams, and there is hate And fury on its face.

Beyond the universe of stars

Where red moons wane and swim.

Great Chaugnar stirs, and heaves its bulk Upon a crater’s rim.

Its ropy arms descend to suck Dark nurture from the deeps

Of lava-pools within a cone

That shines whilst Chaugnar sleeps.

Explorers from the outer stars

Have glimpsed that glowing cone.

Have glimpsed the vast and silent shape Asleep upon its throne.

Explorers from the world we know Have seen that shape in dreams.

Have watched its shadow fall and spread On dim familiar streams.

When Chaugnar wakes, its mindless hate Will send it voyaging far:

It may set Sirius adrift.

Or seek a humbler star.

A humbler star with satellites.

Small planets in its train:

And that is why I ktieel and kneel Before Great Chaugnar’s fane.

Vhe

^)eath

Mist

By CAPTAIN GEORGE H. DAUGHERTY, JR.

'An eery story of the Great War and an officer who thought he was

recreant to his trust

T hrough the jagged stumps of the Argonne forest swirled the mist of a November evening. Lieutenant John Blackmer, U. S. Infantry, blundered into a clearing and stopped. To his bewildered gaze the trees assumed fantastic shapes, seemed to close aroxmd him, then to retreat far off in the eddying fog. The muffled popping of rifle fire he had heard faintly some moments before was silent. The war and all the w'orld had vanished, leaving him alone in a universe of grayness. Tlie heavy vapor lifted a trifle so that he could see that he stood on the edge of a shell hole. Beyond it was the dim outline of a big tree broken off near the ground. As the cloud lifted again, the white wood of the broken trunk showed in livid streaks. On the other side of the shell hole sprawled a dead man, with arms and legs extended woodenly, like some broken puppet.

Not so much weary as unutterably depressed in spirits. Lieutenant Blackmer sank down upon a log. For a time he stared idly, his mind as much a blank as the grayness around him, but always with a terrible sense of despair clutching him. Little by little his thoughts took definite shape. This was the end. Tonight, or tomorrow at the latest, he would stumble on his outfit, or, failing that, be arrested as a straggler. Then would come the inevitable questioning. Why had he become lost from his command? Why had he not carried out his orders?

For a moment a gleam of hope flashed through his mind as the tliought struck

him: perhaps Captain Racker, his company commander, had been killed or wounded. Might not his defection from duty pass unnoticed? Then realization rushed over him again like the icy wav« of the fog. Even if Racker were dead, the three majors knew his story, and the lieutenant-colonel, and the colonel. At this moment, the regiment, or what was left of it, would be digging in for the night. He was missed, was being asked for, no doubt, at this moment. He groaned, or at least he thought he did; although no sound disturbed the silence of tlie clearing. They would think he was dead, no doubt, and so would forget him, until he turned up. For a minute he considered the possibility of desertion, then decided it was of no use. The military police would only pick him up, and he would have no defense. As matters stood, he could at least claim that he had been temporarily separated from his men, or stunned by a shell-burst. If this were only the first time, that might do. But it wasn’t the first time.

As he stared into the shifting eddies of the mist he recalled vividly the colonel’s headquarters, the grave face of the C. O., grizzled, stern; Captain Racker, with heavy eyebrows knit into a ferocious scowl; the solemn majors, even the rubicund Lieutenant-Colonel MacNamee with an expression of pain on his round and usually jovial coimtenance. He heard again the colonel:

"Lieutenant Blackmer, it plainly appears that you have failed in your du^.




For the second time you have become separated from the men in your command, leaving them in a perilous situation in the face of the enemy. I have heard that the first time this happened there seemed to be some extenuating circumstances; but this time ■we can not admit them. The only thing that saves you from a general court-martial is the fact that Corporal Jason of your command, by extraordinary presence of mind, managed to lead your patrol safely back to our lines. I tell you that if a man of your patrol had been killed I would have no choice but to order you under arrest. I would do it now were it not for the disgrace that would attach to the entire regiment. Therefore I will give you one more chance. Go back to your company, sir, and try to remember at least what you owe to this regiment, if not to yourself, your men, and your country. One more such failure to do your duty, and I will see that you go to Fort Leavenworth.”

Lieutenant Blackmer remembered, with shame, tire episodes to v/hich the colonel referred. Not that he had meant to be a coward. Nor was he entirely sure that he was a coward. Twice he had been ordered to lead a night-patrol. The first time, all went well until suddenly guttural voices sounded m front. Machine-guns clattered. A German grappled with him. When he got free of the fellow by a stab with his trench-knife and three shots from his automatic, the platoon was gone; nor did he find them until they blundered into the American trench ten minutes after he had wormed his way there. None of them had seen him struggling with the German, so that his story was incredulously received by Captain Racker. The captab, however, said nothing about it, that time.

The second episode was worse. Blackmer writhed mentally as he thought of

that night — the sudden star shells, the bursting grenades, his dive into the shell hole, the paralyzing fear that prevented him from leaving until it was too late to rejoin the patrol. This time. Captain Racker reported both episodes to the colonel. Blackmer shuddered again.

T he fog had now lifted until it seemed to hang in the limbs of the trees of the clearing. The light being stronger, the lieutenant noticed the dead body again. It lay on its back with its arms flung wide, and its face turned away so that only a gray cheek was visible. For a moment the lieutenant had an impulse to go over and make sure that the man was dead. Then he noticed, even at that distance, the red splotch on the tunic and the heavy grotesque posture of the corpse. No living body, even in the soundest sleep, assumes the stuffed-doll attitudes of deatli.

Again he took up the thread of his recollections. Why had he failed again today.^ He had led his platoon out of their fox-holes at the time of the jump-off with the fixed determination to keep the men together and gain the objective. Nor had he felt any especial fear, even when they went through the enemy barrage just as they entered the wood. There he had seen two of his men blown to atoms, and three others wounded, one horribly, so that he saeamed; and his screams followed the platoon for a long time through the trees. There were snipers and machine-gunners in the woods. Twice the platoon had to drop flat, and worm their way cautiously to flank the positions from which came those deadly streams of lead. Both times they lost heavily, and both times it was the lieutenant who led the final rush and hurled the grenades which put the machine-gims out of business, with the gunners sprawled aaoss them. ReTHE DEATH MIST


calling these things Blackmer again asked himself, Was he a coward? Yet, as he did so, he marvelled both at the thrill of combat he had felt in the morning, and at his present desperate and hopeless depression.

Again he resumed his recollections of the battle. So far, all was clear and even to his credit. After the capture of the second machine-gun he had reorganized the platoon, now reduced nearly half, and had sent runners to right and left. These returned in good time with reports of contact established. One of them carried a message from Captain Racker to move forward at once. He did so, though the undergrowth was very thick and a gray mist had already begun to form. What then? Another furious barrage. Shell bursts flaming red in the murk. Thunderclaps of sound. The shriek and hiss of fragments. It was just after this, he recalled, that they must have run into a German company. Brown and gray figures had grappled. Shouts, screams, the clatter of rifle fire, the booming of grenades; all seemed to mingle as in an endless nightmare. At first he was with his men; then they had evaporated. He had gone in frantic search, of them. Once he was suddenly among a group of the enemy. He remembered, in a flash, their bucket-helmets and bearded faces all about him; again he was almost atop of a machinegun that spat directly at him, yet never touched him. . . . Once more the mist swirled over all, until suddenly he realized that the battle was far away, and he was alone, he knew not how or why.

Looking up, he saw that the fog was nearly gone, but that the forest would soon be dark. Faint shots and the faraway clatter of a machine-gun in front of him showed in which direction the front lay.

H e rose to go, with the leaden feeling that it was to his own execution. At the same time, he wondered why he seemed not to notice the weariness, hunger, and faintness that usually tortured him after such a day. Instead, he felt only a horrible despair.

All at once, with intense amazement, he looked again about him. . . . That broken tree — ^had he not seen it topple and fall, leaving that bunch of splinters on the stump like some fantastic, clutching hand? Then he recognized the clearing. The platoon had passed that way in the afternoon. Wat it not here that the second rain of shells had caught them, just as the fog closed down? And the dead man — ^he must have been one of Blackmer’s own outfit.

Feeling his own despair lighten in a sudden wave of pity for the poor devil. Lieutenant Blackmer went toward the body. In this lonely place, he thought, the corpse might easily escape notice, and so remain unburied, while the man would be listed for ever among the missing. The lieutenant could at least lake one of the neck-tags and give directions for the location and proper burial of the body. It would be the last service he could render any one of his men, and that but a poor return for his desertion of them in the thick of the battle.

So thinking, and again in the grip of the deathly chill at the thought of his own past and future. Lieutenant Blackmer approached the dead man. But what was this — an officer? Could it be Captain Racker? Blackmer bent over the corpse. Then, as the icy waves of the fog rolled over him for the last time, he realized the cause of his despair. The convulsed and blood-stained features which stared at him were his own!

GWt)

By MARY WOLLSTONEGRAFT SHELLEY

The Story Thus Par

R obert WALTON, captain of a ship seeking a passage through the Arctic Ocean, saw a low carriage, fixed on a sledge and drawn by dogs, pass over the ice-field to the north. In it sat a being which had the shape of a nan, but apparently of gigantic stature.

The next morning, after the ice had broken, he rescued from an ice-field another man, greatly emaciated. Only one of his dogs remained alive, for he had been marooned for some time. The man was Victor Frankenstein, a young scientist, who related to Captain Walton the incredible story of his life and how he can^ to be on the ice-floe.

Frankenstein had lived in Geneva with his father and his adopted sister, Elizabeth, to w^iom he was betrotihed. His father sent him to school at Ingolstadt with his chnm, Henry Clcrvai. There he progressed in his studies of natural science to such a point that he learned to create life.

Without taking Clerval into his secret, Frankenstein created a monster, eight feet tall and human in appearance, taking his

materials from graveyards, slaughterhouses and dissecting-rooms. The monster was so terrible to look upon that Frankenstein fled from it, and the rr>ooster escaped.

Abandoned by its creator, the monster made its way to the vicinity of Frankenstein's home, where he murdered Frankenstein's younger brother, William, nKdcing it appear that Justine Moritz, a friend of the family, had committed the murder. Justine was convicted and sentenced to death; while Frankenstein, knowing that if he told the truth he would be considered a lunatic, was forced to keep silence.

Frankenstein met tfie monster in a hut in the Alps, and there the monster told him how he had learned to talk ly observing a peasant family for many months, and how he had dianged from a being with good impulses to a malevolent demon because when he revealed himself to the eyes of the peasants by entering their cottage, they had been so horrified by his frightful appearance that they beat him with sticks and drove him away; and all men’s hands were raised against the hideous monster.

This stoiv in WEIRD TAIiBS for May


FRANKENSTEIN


CHAPTER 16

URSED, cursed creator! Why did I live? Why, in that instant, did I not extinguish the spark of existence which you had so wantonly bestowed? I know not; despair had not yet taken possession of me; my feelings were those of rage and revenge. I could with pleasure have destroyed the cottage and its inhabitants, and have glutted myself with their shrieks and misery,

"When night came, I quitted my retreat, and wandered in the wood; and now, no longer restrained by the fear of discovery, I gave vent to my anguish in fearful bowlings. I was like a wild beast that had broken the toils; destroying the objects that obstructed me, and ranging through the wood witli a stag-like swiftness. Oh! what a miserable night I passed! The cold stars shone in mockery, and the bare trees waved their branches above me: now and then the sweet voice of a bird burst forth amidst the universal stillngss. All, save me, were at rest or in enjoymenfrT, like the arch-fiend, bore a hell within me; and, finding myself unsympathi 2 ed with, wished to tear up the trees, spread havoc and destruction around me, and then to have sat down and enjoyed the ruin.

"But this was a luxury of sensation that could not endure; I became fatigued with excess of bodily exertion, and sank on the damp grass in the sick impotence of despair. There was none among the myriads of men that existed who would pity or assist me; and should I feel kindness towards my enemies? No: from that moment I declared everlasting war against the species, and, more than all, against him who had formed me, and sent me forth to this insupportable misery.

"The sun rose; I heard the voices of men, and knew that it was impossible to return to my retreat during that day. Accordingly I hid myself in some thick underwood, determining to devote the ensuing hours to reflection on my situation.

"The pleasant sunshine, and the pure air of day, restored me to some degree of tranquillity; and when I considered what had passed at the cottage, I could not help believing that I had been too hasty in my conclusions. I had certainly acted imprudently. It was apparent that my conversation had interested the father in my behalf, and I was a fool in having exposed my person to the horror .of his children. I ought to have familiarized the old De Lacey to me, and by degrees to have discovered myself to the rest of his family, when they should have been prepared for my approach. But I did not believe my errors to be irretrievable; and, after much consideration, I resolved to return to the cottage, seek the old man, and by my representations win him to my party.

"These thoughts calmed me, and in the afternoon I sank into a profound sleep; but the fever of my blood did not allow me to be visited by peaceful dreams. The horrible scene of the preceding day was for ever acting before my eyes; the females were flying, and the enraged Felix tearing me from his father’s feet. I awoke exhausted; and, finding that it was already night, I aept forth from my hiding-place, and went in search of food.

"When my hunger was appeased, I directed my steps towards the well-known path that conducted to the cottage. All there was at peace. I crept into my hovel, and remained in silent expectation of the accustomed hour when the family arose. That hour passed, the sun mounted high in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear. I trembled violently, apprehending some dreadful misfortune. The inside of the cottage was dark, and I heard no motion; I can not desaibe the agony of this suspense.



"Presently two countrymen passed by; but, pausing near the cottage, they entered into conversation, using violent gesticulations; but I did not understand what they said, as they spoke the language of the country, which differed from that of my protectors. Soon after, however, Felix approached with another man: I was surprized, as I knew that he had not quitted the cottage that morning, and waited anxiously to discover, from his discourse, the meaning of these unusual appearances.

" 'Do you consider,’ said his companion to him, 'that you will be obliged to pay three months’ rent, and to lose the produce of your garden.^ I do not wish to take any unfair advantage, and I beg therefore that you will take some days to consider of your determination.’

" ‘It is utterly useless,’ replied Felix; 'we can never again inhabit your cottage. 'The life of my father is in the greatest danger, owing to the dreadful circumstance diat I have related. My wife and my sister will never recover from their horror. I entreat you not to reason with me any more. Take possession of your tenement, and let me fly from this place.'

"Felix trembled violently as he said this. He and his companion entered the cottage, in which they remained for a few minutes, and then departed. I never saw any of the family of De Lacey more.

“T CONTINUED for the remainder of the A day in my hovel in a state of utter and stupid despair. My protectors had departed, and had broken the only link that held me to the world. For the first time the feelings of revenge and hatred filled my bosom, and I did not strive to control them; but, allowing myself to be borne away by the stream, I bent my mind towards injury and death. When I thought of my friends, of the mild voice of De Lacey, the gentle eyes of Agatha,

and the exquisite beauty of the Arabian, these thoughts vanished, and a gush of tears somewhat soothed me. But again, when I reflected that they had spumed and deserted me, anger returned, a rage of anger; and, unable to injure anything human, I turned my fury towards inanimate objects. As night advanced, I placed a variety of combustibles around the cottage; and, after having destroyed every vestige of cultivation in the garden, I waited with forced impatience until the moon had sunk to commence my operations.

"As the night advanced, a fierce wind arose from the woods, and quickly dispersed the clouds that had loitered in the heavens: the blast tore along like a mighty avalanche, and produced a kind of insanity in my spirits that burst all bounds of reason and reflection. I lighted the dry branch of a tree, and danced with fury around the devoted cottage, my eyes still fixed on the western horizon, the edge of which the moon nearly touched. Ajpaff of its orb was at lengtlriirdTund-F-^aved my brand; it sunk, and, with a loud scream, I fired the straw, and heath, and bushes, which I had collected. The wind fanned the fire, and the cottage was quickly enveloped by the flames, which dung to it, and licked it with their forked and destroying tongues.

"As soon as I was convinced that no assistance could save any part of the habitation, I quitted the scene and sought for refuge in tlie woods.

“And now, with the world before me, whither should I bend my stq>s? I re* solved to fly far from the scene of my misfortunes; but to me, hated and despised, every country must be equally horrible. At length the thought of you crossed rny mind. I learned from your papers that you were my father, my creator; and to whom could I apply with more fitness

W.T.— 8

FRANKENSTEIN


than to him who had given me life? Among the lessons that Felix had bestowed upon Safie, geography had not been omitted. I had learned from these the relative situations of tlie different countries of the earth. You had mentioned Geneva as the name of your native town; and towards this place I resolved to proceed.

"But how was I to direct myself? I knew that I must travel in a southwesterly direction to reach my destination; but the sun was my only guide. I did not know the names of tiie towns that I was to pass through, nor could I ask information from a single human being; but I did not despair. From you only could I hope for succor, although towards you I felt no sentiment but that of hatred. Unfeeling, heartless creator! you had endowed me with perceptions and passions, and then cast me abroad an object for the scorn and horror of mankind. But on you only had I any claim for pity and redress, and from you I determined to seek that justice which I vainly attempted to gain from any otfier being that wore the human form.

“Tt^y TRAVELS were long, and the suf- -I- ferings I endured intense. It was . late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided. --I traveled only at night, fearful of encountering the visage of a human being. Nature decayed around me, and the sun became heatless; rain and snow poured around me; mighty rivers were frozen; the surface of the earth was hard, and chill, and bare, and I found no shelter. Oh, earth! how often did I imprecate curses on the cause of my being! The mildness of my nature had fled, and all within me was turned to gall and bitterness. The nearer I approached to your habitation, the more deeply did I feel the ^irit of revenge enkindled in my heart.

"Snow fell, and the waters were hardW. T.— fl

ened; but I rested not. A few incidents now and then directed me, and I possessed a map of the countiy; but I often wandered wide from my path. The agony of my feelings allowed me no respite: no incident occurred from which my rage and misery could not extract its food; but a circumstance that happened when I arrived on the confines of Switzerland, when the sun had recovered its warmth, and the earth again began to look green, confirmed in an especial manner the bitterness and horror of my feelings.

"I generally rested during the day, and traveled only when I was secured by night from the view of man. One morning, however, finding that my path lay through a deep wood, I ventured to continue my journey after the sun had risen; the day, which was one of the first of spring, cheered even me by the loveliness of its sunshine and the baiminess of the air. I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure, that had long appeared dead, revive within me. Half surprized by the novelty of these sensations, I allow^ myself to be borne away by them; and, forgetting my solitude and deformity, dared to be happy. Soft tears again bedewed my cheeks, and I even raised my humid eyes with thankfulness towards the blessed sun which bestowed such joy upon me.

"I continued to wind among the paths of the wood, until I came to its boundary, which was skirted by a deep and rapid river, into which many of the trees b^t their branches, now budding with the fresh spring. Here I paused, not exactly knowing what path to pursue, when I heard the sound of voices that induced me to conceal myself under tlie shade of a cypress. I was scarcely hid, when a young girl came running towards the spot where I was concealed, laughing, as if she ran from some one in sport. She continued her course along the precipitous sides of



the river, when suddenly her foot slipt, and she fell into the rapid stream.

"I rushed from my hiding-place; and, with extreme labor from the force of the current, saved her, and dragged her to shore. She was senseless; and I endeavored by every means in my power to restore animation, when I was suddenly interrupted by the approach of a rustic, who was probably the person from, whom she had playfully fled. On seeing me, he darted towards me, and tearing the girl from my arms, hastened towards the deeper parts of the wood. I followed speedily, I hardly knew why; but when the man saw me draw near, he aimed a gim, which he carried, at my body, and fired. I sunk to the groimd, and my injurer, with increased swiftness, escaped into the wood.

"This was then the reward of my benevolence! I had saved a human being from destruction, and, as a recompense, I now writhed under the miserable pain of a wound, which shattered the flesh and bone. The feelings of kindness and gentleness which I had entertained but a few moments before gave place to hellish rage and gnashing of teeth. Inflamed by pain, I vowed eternal hatred and vengeance to all mankind. But the agony of my wound overcame me; my pulses paused, and I fainted.

‘‘TT'or some weeks I led a miserable life -T in the woods, endeavoring to cure the wound which I had received. The ball had entered my shoulder, and I knew not whether it had remained there or passed through; at any rate I had no means of extracting it. My suflFerings were augmented also by the oppressive sense of the injustice and ingratitude of their infliction. My daily vows rose for revenge — a deep and deadly revenge, such as would alone compensate for the outrages and anguish 1 had endured.

"After some weeks my wound healed, and I continued my journey. The labors I endured were no longer to be alleviated by the bright sun or gentle breezes of spring; all joy was but a mockery, which insulted my desolate state, and made me feel more painfully that I was not made for the enjoyment of pleasure.

"But my toils now drew near a close; and in two months from this lime I reached the environs of Geneva.

"It was evening when I arrived;'^d I retired to a hiding-place among the fields that surround it, to meditate in what manner I should apply to you. I was oppressed by fatigue and hunger, and far too unhappy to enjoy the gentle breezes of evening, or the prospect of the sun setting behind the stupendous mountains of Jura.

"At this time a slight sleep relieved me from the pain of reflection, which was disturbed by the approach of a beautiful child, who came running into the recess I had chosen, with all the sportiveness of infancy. Suddenly, as I gazed on him, an idea seized me, that this little creature was unprejudiced, and had lived too short a time to have imbibed a horror of deformity. If, therefore, I could seize him, and educate him as my companion and friend, I should not be so desolate in this peopled earth.

"Urged by this impulse, I seized on the boy as he passed and drew him towards me. As soon as he beheld my form, he placed his h^nds before his eyes and uttered a shrill scream: I drew his hand forcibly from his face, and said, 'Child, what is tlie meaning of this? I do not intend to hurt you; listen to me.’

"He struggled violently. 'Let me go,’ he cried; 'monster! ugly wretch! you wish to eat me, and tear me to pieces — ^You are an ogre — Let me go, or I will tell mj^ papa.’

FRANKENSTKN


" *80/, 70U will never see your father again; you must come with me.’

" 'Hideous monster! let me go. My papa is a Syndic — ^he is Monsieur Frankenstein — ^he will punish you. You dare not keep me.’

" 'FrankensteinI you belong then to my enemy — ^to him towards whom I have sworn eternal revenge; you shall be my first victim.’

"The child still struggled, and loaded me with epithets which carried despair to my heart; I grasped his throat to silence him, and in a moment he lay dead at my feet.

"I gazed on my victim, and my heart swelled with exultation and hellish triumph: clapping my hands, I exclaimed, 'I, too, can create desolation; my enemy is not invulnerable; this death will carry despair to him, and a thousand other miseries shall torment and destroy him.’

"As I fixed my ^es on the child, I saw something glittering on his breast. I todc it; it was a portrait of a most lovely woman. In spite of my malignity, it softened and attracted me. For a few moments I gazed with delight on her dark eyes, fringed by deep lashes, and her lovely lips; but presently my rage returned: I remembered that I was for ever deprived of the delights that such beautiful creatures could bestow; and that she wh<»e resemblance I contemplated would, in regarding me, have changed that air of divine benignity to one expressive of disgust and affright.

"Can you wonder that such thoughts transported me with rage? I only wonder that at that moment, instead of venting my sensations in exclamations and agony, I did not rush among mankind and peri^ in the attempt to destroy them.

"While I was overcome by these feelings, I left the spot where I had coflumtted the murder, and seeking a more secluded hiding-piac^ I entered a barn which had appeared to me to be empty. A woman was sleeping on some straw; she was young: not indeed so beautiful as her whose portrait I held; but of an agreeable aspect, and blooming in the loveliness of youth and health. Here, I thought, is one of those whose joy-imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me. And then I bent over her, and whispered, 'Awake, fairest, thy lover is near — he who would give his life but to obtain one look of affection from thine eyes: my beloved, awake.f*

"ITie sleeper stirred; a thrill of terror ran through me. Should she indeed awake, and see me, and curse me, and denounce the murderer? Thus would she assuredly act, if h« darkened eyes opened and she beheld me. The thought "was madness; it stirred the fiend within me — not I, but she shall suffer: the murder I have committed because I am for ever robbed of all that she could give me, she shall atone. The crime had its source in her: be hers the punishment! Thanks, to the lessons of Felix and the sanguinary laws of man, I had learned how to work mischief. I bent over her, and placed the portrait securely in one of the folds of her dress. She moved again, and I fled.

"For some days I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place; sometimes wishing to see you, sometimes resolved to quit the world and its miseries for ever. At length I wandered towards these mountains, and have ranged ihiou^ their immense recesses, consumed by a burning passion which you alone can gratify. We may not part until you have promised to comply witfi my requisition. I am alone, and miserable; man will not associate with me; but one as deformed and horrible as myself would not deny herself to me. My companioa must be of



the same species, and have the same defects. This being you must create.”

CHAPTER 17

T he being finished speaking, and fixed his looks upon me in expectation of a reply. But I was bewildered, perplexed, and unable to arrange my ideas sufiiciently to understand the full extent of his

proposition. He continued

"You must create a female for me, with whom I can live in the interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being. This you alone can do; and I demand it of you as a right which you must not refuse to concede.”

The latter part of his tale had kindled anew in me the anger that had died away while he narrated his peaceful life among the cottagers, and, as he said this, I could no longer suppress the rage that burned within me.

"I do refuse it,” I replied; "and no torture shall ever extort a consent from me. You may render me the most miserable of men, but you shall never make me base in my own eyes. Shall I create another like yourself, whose joint wickedness might desolate the world? Begone! I have answered ypu; you may torture me, but I will never consent.”

"You are in the wrong,” replied the fiend; "and, instead of threatening, I am content to reason with you. I am malicious because I am miserable. Am I not shunned and hated by all mankind? You, my creator, would tear me to pieces, and triumph; remember that, and tell me why I should pity man more than he pities me? You would not call it murder if you could precipitate me into one of those ice-rifts, and destroy my frame, the work of your own hands. Shall I respect man when he contemns me? Let him live with me in the interchange of kindness; and, instead

of injury, I would bestow every benefit upon him with tears of gratitude at his acceptance. But that can not be; the human senses are insurmountable barriers to our union. Yet mine shall not be the submission of abject slavery. I will revenge my injuries: if I can not inspire love, I will cause fear; and chiefly towards you my arch-enemy, because my creator, do I swear inextinguishable hatred. Have a care: I will work at your destruction, nor finish until I desolate your heart, so that you shall curse the hour of your birth.”

A fiendish rage animated him as he said this; his face was wrinkled into contortions too horrible for human eyes to behold; but presently he calmed himself and proceeded

"I intended to reason. This passion is detrimental to me; for you do not reflect that you are the cause of its excess. If any being felt emotions of benevolence towards me, I should return them an hundred and an hundred fold; for that one creature’s sake, I would make peace with the whole kind! But I now indulge in dreams of bliss that can not be realized. What I ask of you is reasonable and moderate; I demand a creature of another sex, but as hideous as myself; the gratification is small, but it is all that I can receive, and it shall content me. It is true we shall be monsters, cut off from all the world; but on that account we shall be more attached to one another. Our lives will not be happy, but they will be harmless, and free from the misery I now feel. Oh! my creator, make me happy; let me feel gratitude towards you for one benefit! Let me see that I excite the sympathy of some existing thing; do not deny me my request!”

I was moved. I shuddered when I thought of the possible consequences of my consent; but I felt that there was some

FRANKENSTEIN

'421

justice in his argument. His tale, and the feelings he now expressed, proved him to be a creature of fine sensations; and did I not as his maker owe him all the portions of happiness that it was in my power to bestow.? He saw my change of feeling and continued

"If you consent, neither you nor any other human being shall ever see us again: I will go to the vast wilds of South America. My food is not that of man; I do not destroy the lamb and the kid to glut my appetite; acorns and berries afiFord me sufficient nourishment. My companion will be of the same nature as myself, and will be content with the same fare. We shall make our bed of dried leaves; the sun will shine on us as on man, and will ripen our food. The picture I present to you is peaceful and hiunan, and you must feel that you could deny it only in the wantonness of power and cruelty. Pitiless as you have been towards me, I now see compassion in your eyes; let me seize the favorable moment, and persuade you to promise what I so ardently desire.”

"You propose,” replied I, "to fly from the habitations of man, to dwell in those wilds where the beasts of the field will be your only companions. How can you, who long for Ae love and sympathy of man, persevere in this exile? You will retiun, and again seek their kindness, and you will meet with their detestation; your evil passions will be renewed, and you will then have a companion to aid you in the task of destruction. This may not be: cease to argue the point, for I can not consent.”

"How inconstant are your feelings! but a moment ago you were moved by my representations, and why do you again harden yourself to my complaints? I swear to you, by the earth whidi I inhabit, and by you that made me, that, with the companion you bestow, I will quit the neighborhood of man, and dwell as it may chance in the most savage of places. My evil passions will have fled, for I shall meet with sympathy! my life will flow quietly away, and, in my dying moments, I shall not curse my maker.”

H IS words had a strange effect upon me. I compassionated him, and sometimes felt a wish to console him; but when I looked upon him, when I saw the filthy mass that moved and talked, my heart sickened, and my feelings were altered to those of horrbr and hatred. I tried to stifle these sensations; I thought that, as I could not sympathize with him, I had no right to withhold from him the small portion of happiness which was yet in my power to bestow.

"You swear,” I said, "to be harmless; but have you not already shown a degree of malice that should reasonably make me distrust you? May not even this be a feint that will increase your triumph by affording a wider scope for your revenge.”

"How is this? I must not be trifled with: and I demand an answer. If I have no ties and no affections, hatred and vice must be my portion; the love of another will destroy Ae cause of my crimes, and I shall become a thing of whose existence every one will be ignorant. My vices are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor; and my virtues will necessarily arise when I live in communion with an equal. I shall feel the affections of a sensitive being, and become linked to the chain of existence and events, from which I am now excluded.”

I paused some time to reflect on all he had related, and the various arguments which he had employed. I thought of the promise of virtues which he had displayed on the opening of his existence, and the subsequent blight of all kindly feeling by the loathing and scorn which his protec422


tors bad manifested towards him. His power and threats were not omitted in my caknlations: a creature who could exist in the kc-cavcs of the glaciers, and hide himself £n»n pursuit among the ridges of inaccessible precipices, was a being posssessing faculties it would be vain to cope with. After a long pause of reflection, I concluded that the justice due both to him and my fellow-creatures demanded of me that I should comply with his request Turning to him, therefore, I said — —

"I consent to your demand, on your solemn oath to quit Europe for ever, and every other place in the neighborhood of man, as soon as i shall deliver into your hands a female who will accon^pany you in your exile.’"

"I swear,” he cried, **by the sun, and by the blue sky of heaven, and ty the fire of love that bnirns my heart, that if you grant my prayer, while they exist you shall never behold me again. Depart to your home, and commence your labors: I ^all watdi flieir progress with unutteraUe anxiety; and fear not but that when you are ready I shall appear.”

Saying this, he suddenly quitted me, fearful, perhaps^ of any change in my sentiments. I saw him descend the mountain with greater speed than the flight of an eagle, and quickly lost among the undur lations of the sea of ice.

His tale bad occupied the whcde day; and the sun was upon the verge of the horizon when he departed, i knew that I ou^t to hasten my descent towards the valley, as I should soon be encompassed in darkness; but my heart was heavy, and my steps slow. The labor of winding among the little paths of the mountains, and fixing my feet firmly as 1 advanced, perplexed me, occupied as I was by the emotions which the day had produced.

Night was far advanced when I came to d:>e half-way resting-place, and seated

myself beside tihe fountaia The stm shone at intervals, as the clouds passed from ofver them; the dark pines rose before me, and every here and there a broken tree lay on the ground: it was a scene of wonderful solemnity, and stirred strange thoughts within me. I w^ bitterly; and clasping my hands in agony, I exclaimed, "Oh! stars, and clouds, and winds, ye are all about to mock me: if ye really pity me, crush sensation and memory; let me become as nought; but if not, depart, depart, and leave me in darkness.”

These were wild and miserable thoughts; bait I can not describe to you how the eternal twinkling of the .stars weighed upon me, and how 1 listened to every blast of wind as if it were a dull ugly siroc on its way to consume me.

Morning dawned before I arrived at the village of Chamounix; I took no rest, but returned immediately to Geneva. Even in my own heart I could give no exp>res- •sion to my sensations — they weighed on me with a mountain’s weight, and their excess destroyed my agony beneath them. Thus I returned home, and entering the "house, presented myself to the family.

My haggard and wild appearance awoke intense alarm; but I answered no quKtion, scarcely did I speak. I felt as if I were placed under a ban — as if I had no right to claim their sympathies — as if never more might I enjoy companionship with them. Yet even thus I loved them to adoration; and to save them, I resolved to dedicate myself to my most abhorred task. The prospect of sikJi an occupation made e\^efy other circumstance of existence pass before me like a dream; and that thought only had to me the reality of life.

CHAPTER IS

D ay after day, week after week, passed away on my return to Geneva; and I could not ooifeil the courage to reoocoFRANKENSTEIN


mence my work. I feared the vengeance of the disappointed fiend, yet I was unable to overcome my repugnance to the task which was enjoined me. I found that I could not compose a female without again devoting several months to profound study and laborious disquisition. I had heard of some discoveries having been made by an English philosopher, the knowledge of which was material to my success, and I sometimes thought of obtaining my father’s consent to visit England for this purpose; but I clung to every pretense of delay, and shrunk from taWng the first step in an imdertaking whose immediate necessity began to appear less absolute to me.

A change indeed had taken place in me: my health, which had hitherto declined, was now much restored; and my spirits, when ^checked by the memory of my unhappy promise, rose proportionably. My father saw this change with pleasure, and he turned- his thoughts towards the best method of eradicating the remains of my melancholy, which every now and then would return by fits, and with a devouring blackness overcast the approaching sunshine.

At these moments I took refuge in the most perfect solitude. I passed whole days on the lake alone in a little boat, watching the clouds, and listening to the rippling of the waves, silent and listless. But the fresh air and bright sun seldom failed to restore me to some degree of composure; and, on my return, I met the salutations of my friends with a readier smile and a more cheerful heart.

It was after my return from one of these rambles, that my father, calling me aside, thus addressed me:

"I am happy to remark, my dear son, that you have resumed your former pleasures, and seem to be returning to yourself. And yet you are still unhappy, and still

avoid our sodety. For some time I was lost in conjecture as to the cause of this; but yesterday an idea struck me, and if it is well founded, I conjure you to avow it. Reserve on such a point would be not only useless, but draw down treble misery on us all.”

I trembled violently at his exordium, ^d my father continued

"I confess, my son, that I have always looked forward to your marriage with our dear Elizabeth as the tie of our domestic comfort, and the stay of my declining years. You were attached to each other from your earliest infancy; you studied together, and appeared, in dispositions and tastes, entirely suited to one another. But so blind is the experience of man that what I conceived to be the best assistants to my plan may have entirely destroyed it. You, perhaps, regard her as your sister, without any wish that she might become your wife. Nay, you may have met with another whom you may love; and, considering yourself as bound in honor to Elizabeth, this struggle may occasion the poignant misery which you appear to feel.”

"My dear father, reassure yourself. I love my cousin tenderly and sincerely. I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth does, my warmest admiration and affection. My future hopes and prospects are entirely bound up in the expectation of our union.”

"The expression of your sentiments of this subject, my dear Victor, gives me more pleasure than I have for some time experienced. If you feel thus, we shall assuredly be happy, however present events may cast a gloom over us. But it is this gloom, which appears to have taken so strong a hold of your mind, that I wish to dissipate. Tell me, therefore, whether you object to an immediate solemnization of the marriage. We have



been unfortunate, and recent events have drawn us from that everyday tranquillity befitting my years and infirmities. You are younger; yet I do not suppose, possessed as you are of a competent fortune, that an early marriage would at all interfere with any future plans of honor and utility that you may have formed. Do not suppose, however, that I wish to dictate happiness to you, or that a delay on your part would cause me any serious xmeasiness. Interpret my words with candor, and answer me, I conjure you, with confidence and sincerity.”

I listened to my father in silence, and remained for some time incapable of offering any reply, I revolved rapidly in my mind a multitude of thoughts, and endeavored to arrive at seme conclusion. Alas! to metlieideaof an immediate imion with my Elizabeth was one of horror and dismay. I was bound by a solemn promise, v^idi I had not yet fulfilled, and dared not break; or, if I did, what manifold miseries might not impend over me and my devoted family! Could I enter into a festival with this deadly weight yet hanging round my neck, and bowing me to the ground.? I must perform my engagement, and let the monster depart with his mate, before I flowed myself to enjoy the delight of an vmion from which I expected peace.

I remembered also the necessity imposed upon me of either journeying to England, or entering into a long correspondence with those philosophers of that country, whose knowledge and discoveries were of indispensable use to me in my present undertaking. The latter method of obtaining the desired intelligence was dilatory and unsatisfactory: besides, I had an insurmountable aversion to the idea of engaging myself in my loathsome task in my fadier^s house, while in habits of familiar intercourse with those I loved. I

knew that a thousand fearful accidents might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale to thrill all connected with me with horror. I was aware also that I should often lose all self-command, all capacity of hiding the harrowing sensations that would possess me during the progress of my imearthly occupation. I must absent myself from all I loved while thus employed. Once commenced, it would quickly be achieved, and I mi^t be restored to my family in peace and happiness. My promise fulfilled, the monster would depart for ever. Or (so my fond fancy imaged) some aeddent mi^t meanwhile occur to destroy him, and put an end to my slavery for ever.

These feelings dictated my answer to my father. I expressed a wish to visit England; but, concealing the true reasons of this request, I clothed my desires under a guise which excited no suspicion, while I urged my desire with an earnestness that easily induced my father to comply. After so long a period of an djsorbing melancholy, that resembled madness in its intensity and effects, he was glad to find that I was capable of taking pleasure in the idea of sudi a journey, and he hoped that change of scene and varied amusement would, before my return, have restored me entirely to myself.

The duration of my absence was. left to my own choice; a few months, or at most a year, was the period contemplated. One paternal kind precaution he had taken to ensure my having a companion. Without previously communicating with me, he had, in concert with Elizabeth, arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasburgh. This interfered with the solitude I coveted for the prosecution of my task; yet at the commencement of my journey the presence of my friend could in no way be SQ impediment, and truly I rejoiced that this I should be saved many hours of loodgi

FRANKENSTEIN


maddening reflection. Nay, Henry might stand between me and the intrusion of my foe. If I were alone, would he not at times force his abhorred presence on me, to remind me of my tasl^ or to contemplate its progress?

To England, therefore, I was bound, and it was understood that my union with Elizabeth should take place immediately on my return. My father’s age rendered him extremely averse to delay. For myself, tfiere was one reward I promised myself from my detested toils — one consolation for my unparalleled sufferings; it was the prospect of that day when, enfranchized from my miserable slavery, I might claim Elizabeth, and forget the past in my union with her.

I now made arrangements for my journey; but one feeling haunted me, which filled me with fear and agitation. During my absence I should leave my friends unocm^ous of the existence of their enemy, and unprotected from his attacks, exasperated as he might be by my departure. But he had pronaised to follow me wherever I might go; and would he not accompany me to England? 'This imagination was dreadful in itself, but soothing, inasmuch as it supposed the safety of my friends. I was agonized with the idea of the possibility that the reverse of this might happen. But through the whole period during which I was slave of my creature, I allowed myself to be governed by the impulses of the moment; and my present sensations strongly intimated that the fiend would follow me, and exempt my family from the danger of his machinations.

I T WAS in the latter end of September that I again quitted my native country. My journey had been my own suggestion, and Elizabeth, therefore, acquiesced: but she was filled with disquiet at the idea of

my suffering, away from her, the inroads of misery and grief. It had been her care whidi provided me a companion in Clerval — and yet a man is blind to a thousand minute circumstances, which call forth a woman’s sedulous attention. She longed to bid me hasten my return, — a thousand conflicting emotions rendered her mute as she bade me a tearful silent farewell.

I threw myself into the carriage that was to convey me away, hardly knowing whither I was going, and careless of what was passing around. I remembered only, and it was with a bitter anguish that I reflected on it, to order that my chemical instruments should be packed to go with me. Filled with dreary imaginations, I passed through many beautiful and majestic scenes; but my eyes were fixed and unc^- serving. I could only think of ihe bourne of my tr^els, and the work whidi was to occupy me whilst they endured.

After some days spent in listless indolence, during which I traversed many leagues, I arrived at Strasburgh, where I waited two days for Clerval. He came. Alas, how great was the contrast between us! He was alive to every new scene; joyful when he saw the beauties of the setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise, and recommence a new day.

He pointed out to me the shifting colors of the landscape, and the appearances of the sky. ’"This is what it is to live,” he cried, "now I enjoy existence! But you, my dear Frankenstein, wherefore are you desponding and sorrowful?”

In truth, I was occupied by gloomy thoughts, and neiffier saw the descent of the evening star, nor the golden sunrise reflected in the Rhine. And you, my friend, would be far more amu^ with the |ournal of Qerval, who observed the scenery with an eye of feeling and delight, (Please *urn to page 431 )

S INCE we announced that we would not reprint Dracula, the readers of this magazine who dislike serial reprints have centered their attacks upon Frankenstein. We asked, you remember, whether you would like us to reprint some of the lesser known weird novels, after Frankenstein is completed, as it will be in our December issue. So far, those of you who do not want us to use any serial reprints are in a majority, as shown by your letters.

"There seems to be a considerable diversity of opinion as to what your policy toward reprints should be,” writes Paul S. Smith, of Orange, New Jersey. “But there is one fact that no one can deny — ^namely, that the back numbers of Weird Tales constitute a veritable treasure house of fine weird stories; and I am sure that an overwhelming majority of the readers would like to have the best of these stories reprinted from time to time. When you reprint a story that is not from an old issue of your magazine there is very often the probability that most of your readers are familiar with it, because so many lovers of weird fiction have been reading this type of literature for years. Furthermore, most of these well-known weird stories by noted writers of the past are easily obtained from public libraries. Many readers, no doubt, have some of them in their own book collections. These facts constitute a strong argument against reprinting well-known weird stories. If the stories are not well known, Ae case is different; but such stories, Aough always welcome, are not always easy to find.”

"How about some good spooky ghost stories, and some witchcraft and blade magic tales?” queries Mi's. C. G. McDowell, of Santa Monica, California. "The serial by Seabury Quinn is splendid — ^please give us more and more about Jules de Grandin; also more creepy poetry wiA a swing like All Hallou/s E’en and Madmarfs Song — and shorts like Maurice Level’s Night and Silence.”

Lion Penhall Rees, of Toronto, writes to Ae Eyrie: "Why have serials? The atmosphere of horror and weirdness can not be recaptured after a monA elapses. Instead of publishing long stories, always available in book form, why not give us lists — author, title, publisher, price, wiA a brief synopsis? 'Then we could buy Aese books if we wished. It seems to be your fashion to pretend Aat no one can hops to equal Poe, and very few can expect to compete wiA Lovecraft. Giving full aedit to boA these fine writers, I claim Aat every issue contains at least one story as good as Aeir best, and often much better! These two men seem to be your idols, and you

(Please turn to page 428)


AFFLINGlaVSTERY TORIES

GIVEN

FREE

THRILLING

DETECTIVE Jf You Act Now!

ADVENTURES

HERE THEY ARE

I. The TsIIay at Minrine Men — Read how Parkinson discovered this baffling mystenr — a story pulsating with hair-raising incidents.

S. Buff — ^A. cab reporter and a death mystery — a story that works up to a crashing climax.

3. The Xriangle of Terror — A goosafleah story that will send the cold shivers up your spine.

4. Crimsim Poppiee — ^Dr. Howes evolves a fiendish plot to inherit the wealth ot a lunatiu mllllon5. The Sign of the Toad — An eerie detective story, full of exciting Bituattons and mysterious deaths.

6. The Hyetcry at Bagte Indge —

Soul-gripping, fascinating, tense, full of action — ^You will move in the land of make-believe with a touch of the unreal.

7. The Web— This talc threads the sinister net that waa torn asunder by the murder of James Blake.

8. The Glass Kyo— The convict worked out a clever and diabolical scheme, but a dead man’s eye betrayed him.

9. Ten Dangerous Honrs — Bristling with excitement and full of surprises — a remarkable story with thrills galore.

10. Disappearing Bullets — Crammed with blood-curdling action and strange happenings in the underworld — master-mind crooks and crlminala

II. The Green-Byed Monster — A thrilling book, replete with startling climaxes and bristling with action.

13. Deering-Do — A vivid tale of Chlnam«gi, opium traffic, the secret service, and desperate fighting.

R HAD how Experience Smith, master detective, solved the baffling mystery of "Disappearing Bullets*' — a swift.acttoa ’ story with dramatic situations. Each one an exciting doteetive story. These novels fcrmeriy sold for the regular prkc of $1.00 l>er set. Now, for a limited time only, we are giving them away absolntely free with a year's snbscrlptlon to Oriental Stories, the latest magazine of thrilling mystery adventure stories.

SPECIAL INmODUCTOilY OFPBR

Oriintal STORtES is rapidly growing in direulatian heeause of its fascinating stories of the East. The Orient makes a romantic appeal to the bnaglnation that no other part of theworidcaa equal. The inscmtable mystery of Tibet, the veiled allure of Oriental harems, the charge of fierce Arab tribeameB. the

singing cf almond-eyed maidens under a Jidianese moon, the whirling of dervishes, the barherle splendor of meditsval sultans. the ageleas Kfe of Egypt— from all these the story-writeia humdrum world of everyday Ufa Toader into a fairyland of iraaginatioo, but a fairyland that ^gts in ite full reality in Asia. Simply send $1.00. the regular yearly suhscrtpflon price for OKTENTAL STORIES, and the U Detective Story Novels will be sent to you without cost. A $2.00 sahie for $1.00. Yon receive the magazine for one year and the novels free of eharga The anpply of novels is limited, f a nnny.

" ORIENTAL STORIES

MON. M^Sffan Avg.» Dept. A-Tl, CKIea«o« IlL

840 N. Michlgran Aye., Cbicaffo, IIL

I enclofte $1.90. Send at once, postage prepaid, the 1* DefcectiTe Story Novels rdvertised, and enter my subscription to ORIENTAL STORIES for one year to becrln with the current Issue. It is understood tbie $1^09 is payment lu full.

Name

Address _

City state



( Continued from page 426 )

expect us to bow down and worship! I am a free-thinker, and, wishing the best, believing in acknowledging it when found.”

Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes to the Eyrie: "If you continue reprint serials, please use only those stories that are out of print and those not available in the English language. The Devil’s Bride rose to a smashing conclusion in the great July issue of Weird Tales. The African scene is the best in tlie entire story. I hope that the story will be put in book form and in the films. T he Phantom Hand by Victor Rousseau promises to be even better than The Devil’s Bride, if the first installment is a sample of what is to come. The story starts right off without a whole lot of introduction. Welcome back, Mr. Rousseau.”

Writes Thomas de V. Harper from Marshfield, Oregon: "Just to introduce myself, would say that I have not missed a copy of Weird Tales since the very first issue. I want to register my vote against serial reprints. My choice of the reprint department would be one complete story each month, taken from one of the old issues of Weird Tales. Stories such as Dracula, Frankenstein, The Wolf-Leader, and the like are available to those that want them, while most of the outstanding stories which have been published in Weird Tales are not available an)rwhere else. I agree with Guy Detricl^ in the July Eyrie, that the Hyle of writing of these older authors is decidedly tiresome to present-day readers. Frankenstein may have been a wonderful novel in its day, but it is to me one of the most tiresome things I have ever tried to read. You might have turned that over to Seabury Quinn and had him write it up to date and you would have had something worth while. Seabury Quinn is the best writer on your staflF. But — I made the suggestion once before — I would like to see de Grandin fail once, actually miss altogether, and have Trowbridge bring the case to a successful conclusion. I would like to see what de Grandin would say to that. And for Pete’s sake, don’t adopt the trick of putting a group of silly questions at the end of your serials, as you did this month at the end of The Phantom Hand. End your serials with a simple, dignified "To be continued” and let it go at that. I don’t have much use for seriak an)rway, and for my part would rather there weren’t any in the magazine at all. I want to see some more stories of the interstellar patrol by Edmond Hamilton. Some readers apparently do not like these, but I think they are the best interplanetary stories I have read. 'They were action stories, and not burdened with alleged scientific descriptions of various sorts of madiinery — ^they were written in a manner that implied that we knew all that stuflF, and got on to the action of the plot. I like ’em, and hope there will be some more. I want to thank you for the many pleasant hours the magazine has brought me, and to assure you that I hope to continue to read it for a long time to come.”

A letter from 'Thomas C. Marks, of Jackson, Tennessee, says: "I have just completed Quinn’s novel. The Devil’s Bride, and think it by far the most marvelous story ever published in your magazine. From beginning to end it held my attention as no other story has ever done. I have been a regular reader of Weird Tales since April, 1924. In fact, I still have that issue, and am saving it for Lovecraft’s poem,

(Please turn to page 430)

Coming Next Month

I T IS hard to convey the full awfulness of that scene. In the first place, the room was not dark; it was alight with an unearthly greenish glow which emanated from the uncouth shape before me. No hue of heaven or hell was ever like that oily, viscous mass of writhing vapor, dangling half-way between floor and ceiling, above Vernon’s chair. No living thing born of woman was ever even remotely like that hideous abhorrence. No stench from the foulest slaughter-house ever approached that vile reek of living death and embryonic putrescence.

The thing had no certain outlines, no definite form. It possessed no single human characteristic — arms, legs, or face. It was a thousand times more horrible than any twisted mockery of human life. It was like a monstrous malformed devilfish with bloated, swollen tentacles; and from the very center of its loathsome mass came the sound of its breathing.

Breathing, I call it! God, that sound! Like a gigantic slug the thing enveloped Vernon’s chair — and it was eating! I could hear the sucking of its unseen maw. I could hear its shapeless lips — if it had lips — drooling blood and tearing flesh. I could hear the bones snapping, splintering, grinding.

And then I saw! . . .

What it was that Doctor Moller saw in that horrific instant, when physical darkness rolled like a thick fog and wrapped an entire community in its folds, makes a blood-free2ing tale of gripping interest and fascination. It will be printed complete in the October WEIRD TALES:

SPAWN OF INFERNO

By HUGH B. CAVE

— ALSO—

THE HEART OF SIVA THE DOGS OF DOCTOR DWANN

By Seabury Quinn By Edmond Hamilton

A startling weird mystery tale of eery murders An eery, blood-chilling story of weird surgery and the gruesome fate of the dancers in the Bal- and the things that ran in the night and howled let Russe — a tale of Hindoo fanaticism. through the forest in the Adirondack hills,

THE WAND OF DOOM By Jack Williamson

Spiders, huge as horses and venomous as cobras, made Paul Telfair's dreams hideous — and then came the ghastly horror of reality when he was no longer dreaming — a weird-scientific tale.

DEMONS OF THE FILM COLONY THE TESTAMENT OF ATHAMMAUS

By Theodore Le Benbon By Clark Ashton Smith

A g^antic hoax was perpetrated on the author A horrific story of an incredible monster that by "Dracula" Lugosi and "Frankenstein” Karloff, struck panic terror to the hearts of an entire aided and abetted by the photographer. city — as told by the state executioner.

October WEIRD TALES Out September 1




(Continued from page 428)

Nemesis. For nine years Weird Tales has been growing better and better. That is something that few maga 2 ines can boast.”

Writes Mrs. M. R. McCrorey, of Glendale, California: "I would like reiy mudi to see some stories about witches and wizards in Weird Tales. Couldn’t you give «s a story about the witches of oldai days, with (heir spells and familiars?” [Weird Tales has from time to time published sudi stories in the past, and will continue to do so in the future. Noteworthy among those we have alr^dy published were the series of witchcraft stories by Seabury Quinn, and Paul Ernst’s story, A Witches Curse. — ^The Editors.]

“I am not a reader of long standing,” writes Fred C Miles, of New Providence, New Jersey, "but I must cast my vote in the Dracula 'reprint’ discussion. Ldoe most of your other readers, I know this book almost by heart; therefore I am indeed joyful to see your announcement in the July issue that you have decided to forego its reprinting. The little fantastic verses whidi appear in the magazine are excq)- tioaally good. The Utile Gods Wait, in particular, was well written. Guess I’ll look through the Coming Next Month announcement. Ah! what’s this? A story by Clark Ashton Smith? '' The Maker of Gargoyles — boy! that sounds interesting! Ah, well, what has Mr. Smith written that isn’t interesting? He, undoubtedly (well, in my opinion, anyway) is your best author. Seabury Quinn is excellent, but Smith is super-excellent! I am thrilled indeed to see notice of a coming novel by Otis Adelbert Kline. May his stories never cease to appear! Clark Ashton Smith, Seabury Quinn, and Otis A. Kline are a triumvirate who never fail to please.”

Readers, we shall be glad if you will let us know what are your favorite stories in this issue. The concluding installment of Seabury Quinn’s novel of devil-worship, The Devil's Bride, won first place in the Jtdy issue, with Robert E. Howard’s eery story of Africa, Wings in the Night, la second place.

iWEIRD TALES

m

Frankenstein

(Continued from page 423) than in listening to my reflections. I, a miserable wretch, haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue to enjoyment.

We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from Strasburgh to Rotterdam, whence we might take shipping for London. During this voyage, we passed many willowy islands, and saw several beautiful towns. We stayed a day at Mannheinv-Wd, on the fifth from our departure from Strasburgh, arrived at Mayence. The course of the Rhine below Mayence becomes much more picturesque. The river descends rapidly, and winds between hills, not high, but steep, and of beautiful forms. This part of the Rhine, indeed, presents a singularly variegated landscape. In one spot you view rugged hills, ruined castles overlooking tremendous precipices, with the dark Rhine rushing beneath; and, on the sudden turn of a promontory, flourishing vinqrards, with green sloping banks, and a meandering river, and populous towns occupy the scene.

We traveled at the time of the vintage, and heard the song of the laborers, as we glided down the stream. Even I, depressed in mind, and my spirits continually agitated by gloomy feelings, even I was pleased. I lay at the bottom of the boat, and, as I gazed on the cloudless blue sky, I seemed to drink in a tranquillity to which I had long been a stranger. And if these were my sensations, who can describe those of Henry? He felt as if he had been transported to fairyland, and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted by man.

Stopped

His Whiskey

Drinking

He Happy Rennioo

Try It FREE

Wives, mothers, sisters, it is you that the man who driuks Whiskey, Wine or Beerto excess must depend upon to help save him from a ruined life and a drunkard’s grave. Take heed from the

thousands of men ^ing to ruin daily throuiA vile bootlegger’s Whiskey, and the homble stun called home brew from private stills. Once he

§ ets it in his system he finds it difficult to stop— ut you can help him. What it has done for others is an example of what It should do for you. All you have to do is to send your name and address and we vill send absolutely FRE& in plain wrapper, a trial package of GOLDEN T^A'TMENT. You wifi beuiankful as long as you Uve that you did it. Address DR. J. W. HAINES CO.

914 Glenn Buiidins; Cincinneti. Ohio

Rerardlessofslzc or strength. detendyonr-' , self and friends arainst any foul attack, from bullies, or by sun, knife or club. SuMkic with 1 ease persons mnehstronaer than yourself. A comn olete course on approved American Police JiuJitsu by Internationally known police Instructor.

151 illustrations with detailed instructions, pocket size. 13 knockout blows without uilmt fists.

Send One Dollar. ^11 price, or C.O.D.

S. J. JORGENSEN 1900 Lloyd Building Seattle. Washington

“back issues

For complete list of prices write to Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Do You Read the Companion Magazine to WEIRD TALES?

We know you will be enthusiastic over

ORIENTAL STORIES

BUY A COPY TODAY!



NEXT MONTH

Hie Heart of Siva

By SEABURY QUINN

A STARTLING weird mystery tale, packed with thrills and ^ills — about the eery murders that horrified a Russian ballet troupe — the terrible fate of two beautiful dancers who impersonated the Hindoo god Siva, with his many arms — a fast-moving story of religious fanaticism and blood-expiation.

T hrough this maze of mystery and horror, gathering the loose threads of the tragedy and untangling the involved dues, shines the scintillant personality of that most fascinating detective of all detective fiction — the mercurial little French physidan and sdentist, Jules de Grandin. This novelette will be printed complete

in the October issue of


on sale September 1st

To avoid missing your copy, dip and mail this (oupots today for SPECIAL SIPBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WBIRD TAI.BS R40 N. Mlehisran Aye.,

111 .

Ihiclosed find $1.00 for wklch send me the next five iesues of WEIRD TADES to be^in with the Octehor issue <11.75 in Canada). BpecI: 1 offer void ualees remittMoe U accompanied by coupon.

"I have seen,” he said, "the most beautiful scenes of my own coimtry; I have visited the lakes of Lucerne and Uri, where the snowy mountains descend almost perpendicularly to the water, casting black and impenetrable shades, whidi would cause a gloomy and mournful- appearance, were it not for the most verdarit islands that relieve the eye by their gay appearance; I have seen this lake agitated by a tempest, when the wind tore '^p whirlwinds of water, and gave you an idea of what the waterspout must tse’cm the great ocean; and the waves dash widi fury the base of the mountain, where di<S priest and his mistress were overwhelmed by an avalanche, and where their dying voices are still said to be heard amid the pauses of the nightly wind; I have seen the mountains of La Valais, and flie Pay^ de Vaud: but this country, Victor, pleases me more than all those wonders.”

Beyond Cologne we descended to the plains of Holland; and we resolved to, post the remainder of our way; for th^ wind was contrary, and the stream of the river was too gentle to aid us.

Our journey here lost the interest arising from beautiful scenery; but we arrived in a few days at Rotterdam, whence we proceeded by sea to England. It was on a clear morning, in the latter days of December, that I first saw the white cliffs of Britain. The banks of the Thames presented a new scene; tliey were flat, but fertile, and almost every town was marked by the remembrance of some story. We saw Tilbury Fort, and remembered the Spanish armada; Gravesend, Woolwic^i, and Greenwich, places which I had heard of even in my country.

At length we saw the numerous stee>' pies of London, St. Paul’s towering ahovjs all, and the Tower famed in En glish hii* tory.

(To be continued next montS^ W.T^

The

Dragoman^s

Confession

By

OTIS ADELBERT KLINE

T hen Lo Foo danced.

Never before had I seen her so beautiful, so radiant, or so madly alluring. The key color of the ensemble she had chosen for that dance was red, the color of love. Her skirt was a tenuous, diaphanous material of a shade that matched the red of her lips, and was suspended on a girdle of cloth of gold, studded with rubies. Her breast shields were bloodred coral beads, woven on golden threads, and her anklets and armlets were gold, decked with figures of red lacquer.

The dance was one of passionate love — of wooing and of mating. Never had she danced thus before me, and never had I been so powerfully affected. The throbbing music, the rhythmic swaying of her slim, young body, and the matchless perfection of her face and figure, held me enthralled.

Suddenly I realized that the dance was over. The music had ceased, and the little dancer had flung herself down before me. I caught her up, and she nestled in my arms like a tired child. But her eyes were the eyes of a woman, and they were starry with a light which a man, though he see it but once, may never mistake. The fragrance of her breath intoxicated me like heady wine. Unmindful of the slave-girls and the eunuch, I claimed the sweetness of her lips. Her arms stole about my neck, and clung. Still holding her in my arms, I stood up, and carrying her into our room, gently lowered her to the diwan.

Behind me, Musa, the eunuch, closed the door. . . .

Here is a fascinating story that takes you into the harem of an oriental potentate. You can always be sure of thrilling and glamorous entertainment from the inspired pen of Mr. Kline. This action-adventure novelette of Hamed the Dragoman and his love for a beautiful Chinese princess is printed complete in the current issue of ORIENTAL STORIES. You can not afford to miss this remarkable tale.

O riental

jToniEr

Entertainment of a quality not found outside

THE ARABIAN NIGHTS

If your magazine dealer is sold out mail 25c to the Publishers at 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

A Ghostly Voice from the Ether

Threatened the Lives of all Mankind

T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

Who Was This Dictator of Destiny?

Y ou will want to know the answer to this question. Read "The Moon Terror,’’ the most enthralling fantastic-mystery story of the age. And you can get this splendid book FREE.

Special Offer

For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours v/ithout further cost. You receive the magazine for six

months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. RememBer, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


840 N. Michisran Ave., Dept. S-21. Chicag’o, 111.

r M'EIRD TAEBS, Dept. S-21,

I 840 N. Michigian Ave., Chicagro, III,

I I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid, I the book “The Moon Terror,” and enter my subI scription to WEIRD TALES for six months to ’ begin with the October issue. It is understood this I $1.50 is payment in full.

NameI City-

[THE END]
