============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: June 1933
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The  Crawling  Curse _ Hugh  B" by Cave
  2. "Black  Colossus _ Robert  E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
THE CRAWLING CURSE _ HUGH B
by Cave
============================================================
"He fired twice blindly and mtssed; then be fired jour times methodically."

Vhe

G^rawling

By HUGH B. CAVE

A shivery tale of an East Indian murder and the ghastly fate that hounded the murderer to his doom

Curse

yESKER, the Dutchman, paced metliodically down the second-floor corridor and entered the room numbered 213. It was the room of the man he meant to murder; and without emotion or nervousness or any feeling whatever, he hid himself there to await his victim’s arrival.

The hour was eleven o’clock at night, and Vesker’s victim would return at eleven-fifteen. His name was Tenegai LaRoque, and he was a good man. He was part French and part Saputan, which

made him a half-caste in the eyes of certain white men and a king invincible in the eyes of certain up-river natives. Government ofiicials had thought enough of him to overlook the fact that he was the illegitimate son of a Saputan sorceress, and remember that he was also the son of a distinguished French ofiicer. Consequently he held a position of high importance in Bandjermasin.

At present he was playing bridge with his wife and his wife’s friends. It was his wife’s arrangement. His wife was 733.



twenty-four and unforgivably lovely, and passionately French.

It was for her sake, as well as his own, that Vesker was hiding in Tenegai LaRoque’s room. She and Vesker had planned the details together. Neither of them loved the man who was to be murdered.

The room was shadow-ridden and murky, and a very good place for Vesker’s purpose. It was one of the best rooms in Bandjermasin’s best hotel, which meant that it possessed two narrow windows and smelled a little and seldom saw light enough to dispel the lurking gloom. Tonight, as Vesker stood at the east window, the gloom was thick enough to be alive, and the view outside was one of black house-tops, twisted street-alleys, and occasional furtive eyes of ocher light.

Vesker stood and listened, and heard nothing; so he paced the room twice and then leaned against the wall with a cigarette dangling from his mouth. He was not afraid of what he was going to do. It would be quite simple and silent, and no one would know. No one but God, Vesker thought; and God was too busy with big affairs to worry about mere details.

There would be questions, afterward, and perhaps an official investigation. But that meant nothing. Bandjermasin was full of officious persons who had nothing to do but investigate this and that, without learning anything.

It was eleven-fifteen. Vesker dropped his cigarette and stepped on it, and flattened his body against the wall behind the door. From his pocket he took a short length of lead piping, which was heavy and very solid. And he waited.

Presently he heard some one coming. The door opened, and a tall, stoop-shouldered shape stepped over the threshold. Vesker lifted the lead piping and brought it down again mightily. There was a

crunch of bone, and a thin wheezing, and then the thump of a falling body.

Vesker stood over his victim and smiled thoughtfully. He put the weapon back into his pocket. Then he moved to the door, stepped out, listened intently, and came back again. He went to his knees and adjusted the limp body over his shoulder.

He closed the door of Tenegai LaRoque’s room after him and carried Tenegai LaRoque to his own room, on the third floor. There he dropped his victim on the bed, and grinned, and breathed deeply with satisfaction.

No one would know.

IaRoque was dead. Vesker bent over J him and listened for the sound pf a beating heart, and heard nothing. He fumbled with the man’s wrist and felt no pulse. So he went to a cupboard and took out four empty burlap bags, and dropped them on the floor. Then, from a bureau drawer, he took a large sheet of waterproof canvas and spread that over the carpet. He put the dead man on it.

While he was doing this, Tenegai LaRoque’s wife came into the room.

She was undoubtedly beautiful, this woman. Her hair was black and her eyes were black, and a tropical sun had darkened her skin so that it stood out in startling contrast to the off-white of her evening gown. She was slender and not too tall, and the lines of her body were daringly revealed by the fit of her dress. She came and stood beside Vesker and looked down into the dead face of her husband.

"You are a brave man, Corlu,’’ she smiled.

Vesker looked at her. He wanted this woman. From the very first night of their friendship, when he had met her at an exclusive social affair, he had wanted her.



"Any man can be brave,” he said, "for sufficient reason.”

"And I am sufficient?”

He took her in his arms and buried his lips in her black hair, and there was no need to answer.

"I love you, Renee,” he said. But he did not love her; he wanted her. And he knew the diflFerence. He held her against him until the perspiration of his arms left wet lines in her dress. Then he released her and said quietly:

"This will not be pretty. You had better go.”

"You will come to me later?”

"As soon as it is finished.”

She kissed him and touched the body of her husband with her foot. Then she laughed softly, and went out, and Vesker locked the door after her.

He knelt beside the dead man, then, and undressed him, leaving him stark naked on the canvas sheet. Looking at what he had done, he smiled and said almost inaudibly:

"Yes, it will not be pretty. But it will soon be over, my friend.”

He went to the bed and raised the mattress, and took out a leather case which contained instruments. Then he went to the door again and made sure that it was locked. After tliat he loosened one of the bulbs in the chandelier above him, because the bright light seemed to threaten his solitude. And finally, with the case of instruments on the canvas beside him, he knelt again beside the dead man.

IT WOULD have been an all-night job had he not known how; but among otiier things he had studied medicine and knew the use of scalpel and hadc-saw. And he had no personal feelings about the task. It was mechanical and did not frighten him.

He began with the dead man’s leg, and

at the first stroke of the knife the body twitched convulsively and the victim’s lips parted to release a groaning monotone. Vesker stiffened and stared into the man’s countenance. Then he listened again at the man’s breast, and scowled. After that he worked very quickly.

He worked for an hour before he felt that he was not alone. The feeling grew upon him and annoyed him, so that he ceased his labor and rocked back on his knees. He had already removed both of his victim’s legs and placed them to one side. The severed head and left arm lay with them on the canvas. Only the right arm remained, and it lay limp with its fingers slightly curled.

Vesker stared at it uneasily and told himself that the slow opening of the fingers was due to natural causes, and not to anything else. But a mist was forming over the fingers, or seemed to be, and it frightened him. The mist was like cigarette smoke, thin and gray and tenuous, and in motion. Was it taking form? No, of course it was not. That was only his silly imagination, and the lateness of the hour, and the unpleasantness of his task. And yet surely -

The mist was taking form. Vesker watched it and shrank away from it. It was a hand, now, like the hand of the dead man on the floor, except that these smoky fingers were malformed and exceedingly long. And they w'ere descending slowly into the real hand. They were becoming a part of it.

The fingers of the dead man’s hand opened, then, while Vesker watched them. The index finger pointed into his face accusingly, as if that other hand had given it the power of life. But of course it was not that; it was merely a mechanical reflex action caused by the severing of certain cords. Vesker laughed throatily.

He stopped laughing and held his



breath. Over the victim’s torso a second mist was forming, and the mist was becoming a face. Yes, it was a face, a woman’s face. How could there be a woman’s face like that? Was it his imagination? No, because he was thinking of LaRoque’s wife, and this woman was not LaRoque’s wife.

It was almost no face at all, but what there was of it was vicious and sinister. The eyes were slanted and the cheekbones were high and the lips were full. The woman was a native, and very old. She was -

But that was foolish! There was no woman here at all. He was making her up in his mind and his inner consciousness was projecting an image of her. ’That was idiocy.

"There is nothing here,’’ Vesker said aloud.

'The woman’s lips parted in a smile and seemed to form words to answer him. Vesker cursed and leaned forward and swept his arm through her. And then he laughed, because she was not there. She had never been there.

'The hand of the dead man had shifted position on the canvas, and the index finger was still pointing at him. But that was only reflex action.

"I would make a poor professional,” Vesker said, smiling. "My nerves are whisky-soaked.”

He finished his task and put his instruments back into the case. ’Then he filled three of the burlap bags with portions of the dead man’s body, and into the fourth bag he thrust the bloody canvas and the leather case. He wiped his hands on a towel and put the towel in his pocket. 'Then he unlocked the door and looked out.

The lights had been turned oflF in the corridor. Vesker took two of the burlap bags with him and went out, and locked

the door after him. He carried the bags down the back stairs, and a car was standing in the side street. The street was deserted, and the car was his own. He placed the bags in the rear compartment.

He returned to his room, then, and made sure that every trace of evidence had been removed before he took the other two bags down to the car. Then he sat behind the wheel and drove.

He drove to the east end of the waterfront and dropped one of the four bags into the sea, after weighting it with heavy stones. He drove farther and dropped the second bag from the end of an abandoned dock. The third bag and the fourth he took with him in a rowboat and transported far out into the bay.

Then he returned to the hotel and went straight to Renee LaRoque’s room and let himself in with his own key. And the dead man’s wife was waiting for him.


Four days later, when he first saw it, he was living in a private home in the European quarter with Tenegai LaRoque’s wife. And he laughed, because he thought that the favorite cat of his mistress had eaten too much and was having cramps.

He had forgotten about Tenegai LaRoque. Four days had passed and there had been an investigation. Government oSicials had questioned the hotel authorities aimlessly and foolishly, because LaRoque had disappeared. Where had LaRoque gone? No one knew. Perhaps he had tired of the heat and monotony of Bandjermasin and taken silent leave of absence to Singapore. Other men had done that. He would come back.

So they had stopped asking questions and they were now wondering what LaRoque would say when he returned and W. T.— 4



found his wife living witfi Corlu Vesker. Presently they would find something else to wonder about, and they would forget the whole affair. There would be a native uprising, or a Chinese merchant found stabbed, or something else to take its place.

So Vesker laughed when he first saw it, because he had nothing to worry about.

He was alone on the veranda, in the mosquito room. It was night, and a lamp burned on the table, and the wire netting was alive with droning insects. The glow of the lamp reached feebly out over the lawn and illuminated the veranda steps.

Vesker saw the thing on the steps. Then he saw what it was, and he recoiled so abruptly that he knocked the swizzlestick out of the tall glass on the table beside him. For the thing was not a cat, but a human arm with a hand and five fingers, and it was sliding across the veranda floor toward him.

He stood up and drew a deep breath and walked toward it, because he did not believe what he saw. But he did not open the door of the mosquito room. He stood with his face pressed against the screen, staring silently. Then he shouted wildly:

"Renee! In the name of God, come quick!”

The thing was ten feet away and approaching like a large caterpillar, humping itself in the center and clawing forward with its five groping fingers. Vesker stood quite still and watched it. His eyes were wide and his face pale, and he was afraid.

"Renee!” he shouted. "Renee! Come out here!”

Then he took a small pearl-handled revolver from the bulging pocket of his linen coat, and flung the screen door open. He fired twice blindly and missed, and then he fired four times methodically. The thing ceased its forward motion and W. T.— 5

reared like a swaying snake, with its five fingers opening and closing in the air. It fell backward with the impact of the last bullet. Then it wriggled away with incredible speed, while Vesker clung to the door and gaped at it.

In a moment Renee LaRoque came and stared at Vesker and said shrilly:

"What is it? What were you shooting at?”

Vesker looked down at the revolver in his hand, and looked at the veranda floor, and shook his head heavily.

"I must be drunk,” he said.

But he knew better.


ESKER wrote a letter.

It was the evening of the seventh day, and the lamp on the table threw his big shadow grotesquely over the paper. He was alone in the room and he was afraid, and his letter was both a confession and a lie.

"I killed him, and there was a good reason for doing so. You knew him, Fournier, so you will understand.”

Fournier — Captain Jason Fournier — was in charge of the native police squad which patrolled the evil quarter of Bandjermasin’s waterfront.

"He was a half-caste and a rotter, and he deserved to die, but I should not have interfered except that he was dragging his wife’s good name in the dust. He was playing with another woman and the authorities suspected it. For Renee’s sake I had to stop it.

"That night I went to his room at the hotel and argued with him. He was drunk, Fournier. You have seen him drunk, and you know how utterly uncontrollable he can become. He attacked me and I struck him, and when I bent over him he was dead.



"Why am I telling you this? Because I know it will go no further. We are friends. And I need your help. A terrible thing has happened, and I am going mad thinking of it. Four days after I had hidden his body, a horrible beast tried to get into the mosquito room to kill me. It was his hand, Fournier. As God is my witness, it was his hand and arm. His! I shot it, and it went away, but last night it came again and tried to get into my window.

“That was about two o’clock in the morning. I heard a scratching sound, like rats, and I sat up in bed and switched on a flashlight. The window was shut, Fournier. I always sleep with my windows shut, thank God. And the thing was coiled on the sill, with its five fingers flattened against the glass. It had forced the screen up, but the window was locked. It was awful! You will laugh at me, thinking I am drunk, but I am not drunk and I was not drimk last night when the thing came. What I saw was real.

"I screamed, Fournier, and rushed to the bureau for my revolver. But the thing has a brain, because when I turned again to shoot it, it was not there. Renee came running into the room — she is my guest, you know, for the time being, until she gets over the shock of her husband’s infidelity — and she asked me what was wrong. I told her. She said I was mad. But I am not mad, Fournier. I was never more sane or sober in my life. And it was LaRoque’s hand, his arm and fingers, trying to kill me.

"You must help me. I can not go to the police. The police would not know what to do, anyway. This is a terrible thing and driving me crazy. I am afraid, because LaRoque was not a white man but a half-caste, and part Saputan. They say his mother was a sorceress.

"What shall I do, Fournier? You have

studied these things and know more than I. What shall I do?’’

Vesker read what he had written. It did not give him courage; it frightened him more. Putting his beliefs on paper made him sure of them. He heard footsteps in the corridor outside his door, and he turned in his chair like a scared animal.

"Who is there?’’ he said harshly.

The knob turned and the door opened, and Renee LaRoque stood there. She wore yellow pajamas which were deep orange in the lamplight, and she had let her hair down so that it covered her shoulders and accentuated the white smoothness of her breasts. Vesker pushed his letter aside and stood up to meet her.

"Are you coming to me tonight?’’ she said softly.

"Yes.”

"I’m tired of waiting, Corlu.”

He held her passionately and kissed her until her eyes were wide with anticipation. Then he walked with her to the door.

"I will come in a moment,” he promised. "I must finish a letter.”

"To a woman?” she said quickly.

"There is no other woman. You know that.”

She leaned in the doorway and pushed her hair back with smooth, slender fingers. Vesker lifted his hands and stepped close to her, and then stepped back again, laughing softly.

"As soon as I have finished the letter,” he promised. And he closed the door after her.

He went to the table and began to read the letter over again, but it frightened him. He sealed it quickly, addressed the envelope, then turned the lamp low.

The corridor was dark, and Renee LaRoque’s room was at the other end. He tiptoed along, smiling and rubbing his



hands togdher softly. He was quite contented. Desire was greater now than fear, and in a moment he would forget about Tenegai LaRoque and about the creeping beast with five fingers.

He removed his necktie and carried it in his hand, and began to unbutton his shirt, because he was impatient. He was fumbling with the fourth button when he heard the scream.

He stopped abruptly. The scream was human, and came from the rear of the house where the servants’ quarters were located. It was a vibrant shriek, full of terror.

Vesker stood quite still, waiting for it to come again, and after the scream he heard some one talking in a loud, frightened voice. Then he hurried down the corridor, and he was running when he reached the source of the sound.

It was the room of the Malay houseboy, Melgani. There was a light burning on the wash-stand, and the little brownskinned native was kneeling foolishly on the carpet, with his bare arms uplifted and his face turned to the ceiling. From his lips poured a torrent of incoherent syllables which were prayers.

Vesker stood over him and frowned and shook him. The boy flung both arms around him and sobbed.

"What is it?” Vesker said sullenly.

The Malay muttered in his own tongue, pointing to the window. The window was half-way open and_ the screen was up. The white cotton curtains were moving indolently in the breeze.

"WTiat is it?” Vesker said again. "Talk English, damn you!”

"Dem snake, Tuan!” the Malay whined. "Dem snake him come t’ rough window affer me!”

"What snake?”

"Dem big white-color snake him hab twitchy head!”

Vesker stiffened and lodced about (be room fearfully. He said: "Where is it?”

"Him come ’cross floor! Him try dimb on bed! Me yell, Tuan!”

"Wfliere is it, I asked you!”

The Malay gazed about, too, and shook his head from side to side.

"Me — me not know, Tuan.”

And there was no snake. Vesker looked; Melgani looked. Holding the lamp, Vesker went to his knees and searched the floor, the corners, the bedshadows. Rising, he searched the window-ledge, the wash-stand, the cupboard. There was no snake.

"Did you leave your window open?” Vesker demanded.

"No, no, Tuan! No!”

"Well, it’s not here. It’s gone again. Go back to bed.”

Then he went out and walked slowly down the corridor to Renee LaRoque’s room. But he was afraid again and he struck four matches, one after another, to light the way. And his hand trembled when he opened the door.

He thought at first that Renee LaRoque was lying that way for his benefit, because she was lovely and passionate and because she wanted him. She lay across the bed, limp and relaxed and nearly naked, with her hair dangling and her white throat exposed.

But when he had shut the door and tiptoed toward her, he saw something else.

She was not lying there for him. She had been flung there. Her lips were blue and parted, and her tongue protruded. Her throat was blotched with crimson. Her yellow pajamas were not open because she had opened them, but because they had been tom open!

Vesker could not believe it. He still expected something else. So he sat beside her and caressed her body with his

.740


big hands, and not until she failed to respond to his caresses did he realize that she was dead.

Then he moved away from her and stared at her, and licked his lips. He could not understand it. He still wanted her. She was limp and exquisite and warm, and yet she was dead. How could that be?

He leaned forward again to touch her, but terror took hold of him instead. He leaped to his feet and paced the room, turning always to look at her. The lamp was burning on the dressing-table, and its pink silk shade made a bloody glow of the light. Beyond that the window was open. Renee had never slept with her window open!

The hand had killed her! The hand which had gone to the Malay’s room, first, by mistake! God in heaven!

Vesker stared at her and felt cold blood climbing through his legs into his body. He could not take his eyes from her, but he did not want her now; he was afraid of her. She was no longer lovely; she was something dead and cold and horrible. But he was afraid to leave her.

He stood and stared, until he saw another face in the room. It was the same face he had seen on the night of the murder. It was the old native woman, nameless and strange, hovering over the body of Tenegai LaRoque’s wife, and smiling — smiling triumphantly, as if she were proud of something.

Vesker said thickly: "Who — who are you?”

The woman looked at him. She was only the face of a woman. She did not answer.

"What do you want?” Vesker moaned.

But she was not there any more. There was only the strangled body of Renee LaRoque, and the lamp with the red silk shade, and the open window.

And fear. The fear was a living thing that seeped into Vesker’s brain, undermining his reason. He rushed to the bed and glared into the space where the woman’s face had hung. He beat at the space with his fists. He muttered, and said meaningless things aloud. He screamed hysterically.

Then he sank to his knees and buried his face in Renee LaRoque’s breast, and sobbed with terror.


He did not mail the letter to Captain Jason Fournier. When he left Renee LaRoque and returned to his own room, the letter was not where he had put it. He found it on the floor, tom into very small pieces.

He looked at the pieces a long time before he could find courage enough to pick them up. And then he burned them. He was afraid of them.

"It is a good thing,” he said. "If I had mailed the letter, there would have been trouble. If they ever learn that Tenegai LaRoque’s wife is dead, they will hang

He would have to hide the body. Pacing his room, back and forth for an hour, he thought of possible hiding-places. It was a quarter after three o’clock, his watch said. He would have to complete the task before daylight, or the native servants would know.

He went back to Renee LaRoque’s room and rolled the body in the top blanket of the bed. That was considerate, he thought. 'The blanket was soft and woolly and would not irritate. Then he put the bundle over his shoulder and carried it upstairs to the top floor of the house, and up a final flight of wooden steps to the attic. It was very dark up here, and the only light was the probing eye of his flashlight.



He carried the body to the very end of the attic floor and laid it there. Then he held the flashlight in his hand and pointed its circular glare above him, to where three large cross-beams supported the sloping roof. One of those crossbeams was not a beam at all, but a hollow long-box containing seven thin waterpipes. He had opened it the first day, to repair one of the pipes, because the Malay servants did not know how.

He found a ladder and adjusted it carefully, and carried the blanket-wrapped body to the top of it. Resting his burden on the first and second beams, he sat a-straddle the third and pried the boards loose with his fingers. The seven pipes were of lead, and he bent them to enlarge the space. Then he stood on the beams and lowered the dead woman into the opening, and replaced the boards.

"They will never know,” he said.

And he returned to his own room.


Two evenings later he had dinner at the Karnery Club, and one of his friends said slyly:

"So you’re keeping bachelor quarters again, Vesker. Eh?”

Vesker said: "They never stay long, these lovely ladies.”

It was a very special occasion. A brilliant young government chap was being married tomorrow and having his last fling tonight. Exclusively stag. Imported whisky, wine for those who preferred it, and sufiicient of both to make a regiment drunk. The doors of the Karnery Club were closed and locked to strangers. Every man of importance was present.

Vesker had come by invitation. They were sorry for him. They thought Renee LaRoque had walked out on him and

taken the customary "silent leave.” Most of Vesker’s women had done that eventually.

"I suppose you’ll be moving back to the shack, Vesker.”

The "shack” was the small residential hotel exclusively reserved for government bachelors.

"Temporarily,” Vesker smiled.

"Until romance wings through the window again, eh?”

'"There are many fish in the water,” Vesker shrugged. "Of course” — and he raised his eyebrows suggestively — "I loved her.”

Ordinarily he would have been angry at their persistence, but tonight he did not mind. If they thought she had left him of her own accord, let them think so!

He spoke of it whenever the opportunity occurred. 'That was the best Aing to do — make light of it. Left him? Of course, of course! Perhaps she had received a message from her husband, and had skipped off to him. These women!

"You’ve had pretty good luck with them, Vesker. More than most of us.”

"Ye-e-es.”

"Ever really been in love?”

"Always,” Vesker grinned.

He wanted to ask certain questions. Captain Jason Fournier was here, and, as a pleasant surprize. Lord Willoughby of the British North. Willoughby knew Borneo forward and backward. He had made a special study of Dyak lore, and knew every inch of the Merasi, the Upper Barito, the black-water country, the inland — everywhere. Willoughby had spent years among the Ibans, the Penihings, the Long-Glits, the Saputans.

But Willoughby was a hard man to talk td. You had to lead the conversation to him. And how could you switch it from women to natives?

"I have one rival,” Vesker said, feeling



his way along. "Heard recently about an up-river kapala who married fourteen women at the same time.”

‘W’

"Probably a huge lie. The Dyaks don’t do that, do they, Willoughby.!*”

Willoughby sudced the end of his pipe and uncrossed his legs. "It’s possible,” he said. "What tribe was it?”

"Damned if I know. The fellow was a Saputan, I think.”

"Hard to believe, then, unless the chap was a blian."

One of the younger men frowned and said: "What?”

"A blian. Witch-doctor. Sorcerer. They have things pretty much their own way. If one of them wanted fourteen women, he’d take ’em."

"It’s a queer thing, that,” Vesker said. "The power they’re supposed to have over the people, I mean. Absolute tommyrot, of course.”

"Is it?”

"Eh?”

"You’re a white man,” Willoughby shrugged. "Being a white man, you can’t see beyond the end of your all-important nose.”

"You mean to say it’s not tommyrot?”

"I do, emphatically!”

"I heard a tall yarn once,” Vesker said hesitantly, "about a chap who murdered one of those fellows. Rather, a relative of one.” Now he would have an answer to his questions! Willoughby would know and tell the honest truth. But how to ask him? How to put the case clearly, without overstepping the bounds of discretion?

"After murdering the native,” he said slowly, "this chap cut the body up and buried it. And then, one night - ”

One of the listeners rose, with a dry smile, and turned out two of the three electric lamps. The third lamp was be-

hind Willoughby’s chair, and Willoughby was leaning slightly forward with his face in the amber glare of it. The rest of the room was in shadow, made furtive and restless and sinister by Vesker’s words.

"One nigfit a horrible snake-like thing crawled into the murderer’s room, for vengeance. It was the murdered man’s arm, with five twisted fingers on the end of it!”

"And did it kill him?” Willoughby asked quietly.

"I don’t - ” Vesker hesitated. He

was going to say "I don’t know,” but then he would have to answer questions. And he wanted some one else to answer the questions. So he said bluntly: "Yes, it killed him.”

Willoughby nodded, and the others watched him, waiting for his comment. He looked at them indifferently and said; "Well, what of it?”

"But such a thing isn't possible!” Vesker said.

"Why isn't it?”

"Why isn’t it? Great Scott, man, a dead man’s arm can’t crawl out of its grave and - ”

"Why not?”

"Well, how can it?”

Willoughby reached out and scratched a match on the cover of a book which lay on the table. He held the flame to the bowl of his pipe and stared at Vesker while he sucked the pipe-stem.

"With white men,” he said, "it might be rare. Few whites know the secrets of necromancy. But you say the murdered man came of a sorcerer’s family. A brother, was he?”

"I — I believe it was father and son,” Vesker faltered. "Or mother and son.”

"Well then, the father knew of his son’s death, and the whys of it. So he raised the dead. You say the body was



dismembered. He raised enough of it to retwn the murderer’s compliment.”

"You absolutely believe in necromancy, Willoughby?” a listener protested.

"Absolutely.”

"Seen it work?”

"A hundred times, in Saputan kampongs.”

"You should have some good stories, old chap.”

Willoughby smiled. He had a reputation for his good stories. 'They were not bedtime tales, either. They filled his listeners with nocturnal dread and very real shudders. But men like that sort of thing.

"I’ll tell you one,” Willoughby said. "It’s not pleasant.”

Creaking rockers filled the room with suggestive sound as the men drew closer. A door opened and closed, and a newcomer said: "What the devil!” Jason Pbumier silenced him with a curt word and made r(X)m for him. There was no other sound after that, except the breathing of many men and the bubbling noise of Willoughby’s pipe. The lamplight was yellow and feeble.

“JT HAPPENED in Ola-Baong, on the -I Upper Barito,” Willoughby said. "The village blian was a wicked old Saputan named Merningi. He had a particular grudge against a chap who had run ofiF with his favorite woman.”

Vesker stared. Behind Willoughby’s chair a mist was forming. It was cigarette smoke, of course — or pipe smoke. But why was it taking that particular shape? Why, in the name of God, was it becoming a woman’s face?

"The Saputans, you know,” Willougnby said, "have a particularly gruesome form of necromancy which leads a man to horrible death. 'They dress a corpse in the cl«thes of the intended victim and hide it

aw’ay in the jungle, to rot. As the corpse decays, so does the victim. I’ve known men to go stark mad looking for the Hiding-place, to avoid such a death.”

Vesker’s fingers were white and bony on the arm of his chair. 'The shape behind Willoughby’s head was fully materialized now, and hideously clear. It was the same shape, the same face — the same sinister old woman! Great God, was he the only one who could see it? Were the others all blind?

"Merningi, the blian,” Willoughby said, "obtained the body of an old woman who had died of beri-beri, and dressed it in the clothes of his intended victim. Then he toted it into the jungle and secreted it there.”

But Willoughby was not saying that! Willoughby was no longer there! His face was the woman’s face, with boring black eyes and withered lips. And his body was the body of a nearly naked Saputan woman, clad in dirty gray sarong and grass sandals! In God’s name, could the others not see it?

"The next day the victim took sick. There was no reason for it; he simply became ill. He didn’t know what Merningi had done, you see; so he couldn’t help himself. Had he known, he might have found the body and ripped his clothes off it in time to break the connection. But he became violently ill the second day, and on the fourth day he began to rot.”

Vesker was unable to cry out. He cursed himself for being an idiot. There was no woman there! How under heaven could any woman be sitting there when Willoughby was occupying the chair? He closed his eyes and opened them again, and the woman was looking straight at him, smiling significantly.

"The fellow died. He simply rotted away until the life was gone out of bis



body. I was with him when he gave up the ghost.”

There was silence. Vesker leaped to his feet and cried harshly: "Stop it! Good God, stop it!”

Then one of the younger men turned on the lights and Willoughby, sitting in the chair, said with a dry smile:

"You asked for it, old man. Have a drink.”

And the native woman was not there.

VESKER sat up in bed and stared fearfully at the thing on the floor.

He had come home late from the club, and he had been drinking heavily. His lips were thick and sour. His sight was blurred. His stomach ached.

But before going to bed, he had packed all of his clothes and possessions into two big suit-cases, and this was his last night in the accursed house which harbored Renee La Roque’s dead body. A tramp freighter, leaving Bandjermasin in the morning, would take him to Kuching.

Climbing into bed, he had removed his clothes and tossed them on a chair. And now they were on the floor.

They were on the floor, and something was dragging them!

Vesker sat and stared. He was dreaming, of course. The whole horrible affair, from beginning to end, had been the product of his own imagination. How could a dead man’s arm have life? How could it crawl along, like a snake, and drag a handful of clothes in its curled fingers? That was madness. He was drunk.

Besides, he had locked his door carefully and turned the latch on the window. He looked at the window now, and it was shut tight. Faint moonlight glowed through it, illuminating the room. But

the door was open, and the key was lying on the carpet!

Vesker screamed.

"I didn’t mean to do it!” he shrieked. "I didn’t mean to!”

The hideous thing paid no attention to him. It continued to crawl backward, pulling the clothes after it. How in the name of God had it gained admission? Had it clawed its way up the door and turned the lock with its fiendish fingers, after poking the key loose? Was there nothing it could not do?

But it was taking his clothes. What for? What good were his clothes? Did it think to imprison him in his room? Was it as foolish as that?

Vesker watched it. It slithered backward over the threshold, into the corridor. It turned to the right. Then it was gone.

Vesker leaped from the bed and slammed the door shut. He had other clothes; they were in one of the two suitcases! At the club he could find a room for the rest of the night, and in the morning he would be far away from dead bodies and crawling hands, and faces that came from nowhere to leer at him.

Faces! He was on his knees, fumbling with the suit-case, and he remembered. He stood up, pawing his naked chest, stood with his eyes wide and his legs stiff as wood, huge and grotesque in loosefitting pajamas. From his lips came a thick, bubbling sound.

He turned and ran to the door, and opened it. There he stopped, because the darkness of the corridor terrified him. He groped back again and sat on the bed, clawing with his fingers until the bedclothes were wrinkled and sweat-stained,

"Had he known, he might have found the body and ripped his clothes off it irt time to break the connection,. But he be* x



came violently ill the second day, and on the fourth day he began to rot."

Willoughby had said that. No, no, the woman had said it! Almighty God, the thing had taken his clothes! If he did not get them back -

He rushed to the open suit-case and pushed his hands deep into it, searching for a flashlight. Gaining his feet, he stood swaying. Where had the horrible creature taken his clothes? What dead body -

"Oh God, no!” he sobbed. "Not her! Not up there!”

But there was no other dead body. The thing had to have a dead body. Up there in the attic, in awful darkness, she was lying. Up there where he had put her, in the wooden casing which covered the water-pipes.

He ran to the door, and the glaring eye of the flashlight preceded him crazily as he groped into the corridor. The long corridor was full of moving shapes and suggestive sounds. It loomed over him and under him, clutching at him as he paced down it. He stopped twice and looked behind him. Merciful God, why had he hidden the body up there?

He gripped the railing with his left hand and held the flashlight rigid before him as he climbed the staircase. The light only made the surrounding darkness more hideous. Below him, when he was half-way up, a well of frightful gloom lay waiting. Above him was the singsong of the wind outside the house, and the creak of wooden floors inside.

On the upper landing he found one of his socks. The hand had dropped it.

He climbed the final flight of wooden steps, counting them subconsciously as he went. Seven of them. Seven terrible ascents into a vault of horror. His slippers thumped thunderously. The

hammering of his heart was even louder.

He could hear his breath whine in and out, and at the top of the seven steps he stopped to push the wet hair out of his eyes. The flashlight made a ghastly yellow-ringed glare over the floor. Then he began the march of torment to the far end of the chamber.

And then the face came.

It was the woman’s face, and it hung before him in the light, like a shadow. Its eyes drilled into him, and a triumphant leer curled its thin lips. But it made no attempt to stop him; it hung always before him as he stumbled forward.

With one hand he lifted the ladder into place, because he feared to put down the flashlight. Above him hung the three black cross-beams. And the face sat on every rung, always before him, as he ascended.

He stood swaying on the beams, high above the floor. The ceiling sloped over his head. Once, when he lost his balance and clutched wildly to steady himself, the flashlight threw a crazy figure 8 over ceiling, floor, and wall. And the face was always within it.

Trembling in every muscle, he lowered himself slowly and straddled the coflin which contained Renee LaRoque’s body. He placed the flashlight between his legs, so that his hands were leprously white in the gleam of it as he leaned forward to loosen the boards. And on the other end of the beam, where the glare was pale, the face sat and watched him.

The boards came loose in his fingers. He dropped them and shuddered violently as they clattered to the floor beneath his perched body. One after another he let them fall. Then he stared at the thing in the coffin.

The face of Tenegai LaRoque’s wife stared back at him, silent in death. His

i746


own clothes covered her body. Her yellow pajamas and the soft blanket lay neatly folded under her feet. And on the other end of the beam, the old woman was still watching him.

He clawed madly, raking his fingers in dead flesh and tearing his clothes loose from it. His own breathing was louder than the sound of his exertions. The flashlight made his task hideous and terrible, until the dead woman lay naked under his outstretched hands.

Then he leaned back, with madness in his eyes. He held the clothes in the crook of his arm and stood erect on the beam, rocking from side to side. He glared at the face of the native woman and laughed at it, and the laugh was a jangling cackle.

"You won’t kill me!” he screamed. "I know who you are! You’re LaRoque’s mother! You’re the sorceress! But you won’t kill me! I’m too strong for you!”

'The face sat on the end of the beam and smiled triumphantly. It did not answer him. When he turned the flashlight and walked along the beam to the top of the ladder, it did not follow him.

He put one foot on the ladder and started down. His left hand pressed the crumpled death-clothes against his body. His right hand held the light and climg to the wooden rungs as he descended.

He reached the floor and stood swaying, and looked up triumphantly,

"You won’t get me!” he shouted.

And then he stiffened. Above him, on

the black end of the third beam, something stirred. Vesker’s lips writhed open to release a scream of terror. He flung himself backward.

He fell, and the flashlight clattered from his hand. His scream died to a whimpering moan. On hands and knees he clawed for the light, blindly, with his horrified gaze riveted on the thing above him. Then his twisted body became rigid, and he screeched wildly.

"No! No! Don’ttouchme! Don’t - ”

Above him, on the cross-beam, the thing slowly coiled.

"Don’t touch me!” Vesker gibbered. "Don’t — oh God, don’t!”

’The thing shot out and down with the speed of a leaping snake. It struck with vicious strength. A white, cold arm encircled Vesker’s neck. Five twisted fingers buried themselves in the flesh of his throat.

Vesker’s screech died to a gurgle. Wildly he staggered to his feet, clawing with both hands at the living-dead fingers which strangled him. Cold sweat stood out on his forehead. His eyes opened to hideous bigness and became white, glaring crescents. His breath choked in his throat. His face purpled.

He stumbled toward the exit, blindly. But he did not reach it. His legs went limp beneath him and he sagged to the floor And the five living-dead fingers finished their task

v-^enius Loci

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

'7 saw the emergence of three human faces that partook of the same nebulous matter, neither

The story of a deathly horror that lurked in the scummy pond in the meadow where old Chapman had been found dead

“TT IS a very strange place,” said I Amberville, "but I scarcely know how to convey the impression it made upon me. It will all sound so simple and ordinary. There is nothing but a sedgy meadow, surrounded on three sides by slopes of yellow pine. A dreary little stream flows in from the open end, to lose itself in a cul-de-sac of cat-tails and boggy ground. The stream, running

slowly and more slowly, forms a stagnant pool of sorne extent, from which several sickly-looking alders seem to fling themselves backward, as if unwilling to approach it. A dead willow leans above the pool, tangling its wan, skeleton-like reflection with the green scum that mottles the water. There are no blackbirds, no kildees, no dragon-flies even, such as one usually finds in a place of tiiat sort,


P'48

It is all silent and desolate. The spot is evil — it is unholy in a way that I simply can’t describe. I was compelled to make a drawing of it, almost against my will, since anything so macabre is hardly in my line. In fact, I made two drawings. I’ll show them to you, if you like.”

Since I had a high opinion of Amberville’s artistic abilities, and had long considered him one of the foremost landscape painters of his generation, I was naturally eager to see the drawings. He, however, did not even pause to await my avowal of interest, but began at once to open his portfolio. His facial expression, the very movements of his hands, were somehow eloquent of a strange mixture of compulsion and repugnance as he brought out and displayed the two watercolor sketches he had mentioned.

I could not recognize the scene depicted from either of them. Plainly it was one that I had missed in my desultory rambling about the foot-hill environs of the tiny hamlet of Bowman, where, two years before, I had purchased an uncultivated ranch and had retired for the privacy so essential to prolonged literary effort. Francis Amberville, in the one fortnight of his visit, through his flair for the pictorial potentialities of landscape, had doubtless grown more familiar with the neighborhood than I. It had been his habit to roam about in the forenoon, armed with sketching-materials; and in this way he had already foimd the theme of more tlian one lovely painting. 'The arrangement was mutually convenient, since I, in his absence, was wont to apply myself assiduously to an antique Remington typewriter.

I examined the drawings attentively. Both, though of hurried execution, were highly meritorious, and showed the characteristic grace and vigor of Amberville’ s style. And yet, even at first glance, I found a quality that was more than alien

to the spirit of his work. The elements of the scene were those he had described. In one picture, the pool was half hidden by a fringe of mace-reeds, and the dead willow was leaning across it at a prone, despondent angle, as if mysteriously arrested in its fall toward the stagnant waters. Beyond, the alders seemed to strain away from the pool, exposing their knotted roots as if in eternal effort. In the other drawing, the pool formed the main portion of the foreground, with the skeleton tree looming drearily at one side. At the water’s farther end, the cat-tails seemed to wave and whisper among themselves in a dying wind; and the steeply barring slope of pine at the meadow’s terminus was indicated as a wall of gloomy green that closed in the picture, leaving only a pale margin of autumnal sky at the top.

All this, as the painter had said, was ordinary enough. But I was impressed immediately by a profound horror that lurked in Aese simple elements and was expressed by them as if by the balefully contorted features of some demoniac face. In both drawings, this sinister character was equally evident, as if the same face had been shown in profile and front view. I could not trace the separate details that composed the impression; but ever, as I looked, the abomination of a strange evil, a spirit of despair, malignity, desolation, leered from the drawing more openly and hatefully. ’The spot seemed to wear a macabre and Satanic grimace. One felt that it might speak aloud, might utter the imprecations of some gigantic devil, or the raucous derision of a thousand birds of ill omen. 'The evil conveyed was something wholly outside of humanity — ^more ancient than man. Somehow — fantastic as this will seem — the meadow had the air of a vampire, grown old and hideous with unutterable infamies. Subtly, indefinably, it



thirsted for other things than the sluggish trickle of water by which it was fed.

HERE is the place?” I asked, after

VV a minute or two of silent inspection. It was inaedible that anything of the sort could really exist — and equally incredible that a nature so robust as Amberville should have been sensitive to its quality.

"It’s in the bottom of that abandoned ranch, a mile or less down the little road toward Bear River,” he replied. "You must know it. There’s a small orchard about the house, on the upper hillside; but the lower portion, ending in that meadow, is all wild land.”

I began to visualize the vicinity in question. "Guess it must be the old Chapman place,” I decided. "No other ranch along that road would answer your specifications.”

"Well, whoever it belongs to, that meadow is the most horrible spot I have ever encountered. I’ve known other landscapes that had something wrong with them, but never anything like this.”

"Maybe it’s haunted,” I said, half in jest. "From your description, it must be the very meadow where old Chapman was found dead one morning by his youngest daughter. It happened a few months after I moved here. He was supposed to have died of heart failure. His body was quite cold, and he had probably been lying there all night, since the family had missed him at supper-time. I don’t remember him very clearly, but I remember that he had a reputation for eccentricity. For some time before his death, people thought he was going mad. I forget the details. Anyway, his wife and children left, not long after he died, and no one has occupied the house or cultivated the orchard since. It was a commonplace rural tragedy.”

"I’m not mudi of a believer in spooks,” observed Amberville, who seemed to have taken my suggestion of haunting in a literal sense. "Whatever the influence is, it’s hardly of human origin. Come to think of it, though, I received a very silly impression once or twice — the idea that some one was watching me while I did those drawings. Queer — I had almost forgotten that, till you brought up the possibility of haunting. I seemed to see him out of the tail of my eye, just beyond the radius that I was putting into the picture: a dilapidated old scoundrel with dirty gray whiskers and an evil scowl It’s odd, too, that I should have gotten such a definite conception of him, without ever seeing him squarely. I thought it was a tramp who had strayed into the meadow bottom. But when I turned to give him a level glance, he simply wasn’t there. It was as if he melted into the miry ground, the cat-tails, the sedges.”

"'That isn’t a bad description of Chapman,” I said. "I remember his whiskers — they were almost white, except for the tobacco juice. A battered antique, if there ever was one — and very unamiable; too. He had a poisonous glare toward the end, which no doubt helped along the legend of his insanity. Some of the tales about him come back to me now. People said that he neglected the care of his orchard more and more. Visitors used to find him in that lower meadow, standing idly about and staring vacantly at the trees and water. Probably that was one reason they thought he was losing his mind. But I’m sure I never heard that there was anything unusual or queer about the meadow, either at the time of Chapman’s death, or since. It’s a lonely spot, and I don’t imagine that any one ever goes there now.”

"I stumbled on it quite by accident,” said Amberville. '"The place isn’t visible from the toad, on account of the thick



pines.... But there’s another odd thing: I went out this morning with a very strong and clear intuition that I might find something of uncommon interest. I made a bee-line for that meadow, so to speak; and I’ll have to admit that the intuition justified itself. The place repels me — but it fascinates me, too. I’ve simply got to solve the mystery, if it has a solution,” he added, with a slightly defensive air. "I’m going back early tomorrow, with my oils, to start a real painting of it.”

I was surprized, knowing that predilection of Amberville for scenic brilliance and gayety which had caused him to be likened to Sorolla. "The painting will be a novelty for you,” I commented. "I’ll have to come and take a look at the place myself, before long. It should really be more in my line than yours. There ought to be a weird story in it somewhere, if it lives up to your drawings and description.”

SEVERAL days passed. I was deeply preoccupied, at the time, with the toilsome and intricate problems offered by the concluding chapters of a new novel; and I put off my proposed visit to the meadow discovered by Amberville. My friend, on his part, was evidently engrossed by his new theme. He sallied forth each morning with his easel and oil-colors, and returned later each day, forgetful of the luncheon-hour that had formerly brought him back from such expeditions. On the third day, he did not reappear till sunset. Contrary to his custom, he did not show me what he had done, and his answers to my queries regarding the progress of the picture were somewhat vague and evasive. For some reason, he was unwilling to talk about it. Also, he was apparently loth to discuss the meadow itself, and in answer to direct questions, merely reiterated in an

absent and perfunctory manner the accoimt he had given me following his discovery of the place. In some mysterious way that I could not define, his attitude seemed to have changed.

There were other changes, too. He seemed to have lost his usual blitheness. Often I caught him frowning intently, and surprized the lurking of some equivocal shadow in his frank eyes. There was a moodiness, a morbidity, which, as far as our five years’ friendship enabled me to observe, was a new aspect of his temperament. Perhaps, if I had not been so preoccupied with my own difficulties, I might have wondered more as to the causation of his gloom, which I attributed readily enough at first to some technical dilemma that was baffling him. He was less and less the Amberville that I knew; and on the fourth day, when he came back at twilight, I perceived an actual surliness that was quite foreign to his nature.

"What’s wrong?” I ventured to inquire. "Have you struck a snag? Or is old Chapman's meadow getting on your nerves with its ghostly influences?”

He seemed, for once, to make an effort to throw off his gloom, his taciturnity and ill humor.

"It’s the infernal mystery of the thing,” he declared. "I’ve simply got to solve it, in one way or another, 'the place has an entity of its own — an indwelling personality. It’s there, like the soul in a human body, but I can’t pin it down or touch it. You know that I’m not superstitious — but, on the other hand, I’m not a bigoted materialist, either; and I’ve run across some odd phenomena in my time. That meadow, perhaps, is inhabited by what the ancients called a Genius Loci More than once, before this, I have suspected that such things might exist — might reside, inherent, in some particular spot.



But this is the first time that I’ve had reason to suspect anything of an actively malignant or inimical nature. The other influences, whose presence I have felt, were benign in some large, vague, impersonal way — or were else wholly indifferent to human welfare — perhaps oblivious of human existence. This thing, however, is hatefully aware and watchful: I feel that the meadow itself — or the force embodied in the meadow — is scrutinizing me all the time. The place has the air of a thirsty vampire, waiting to drink me in somehow, if it can. It is a cul-de-sac of everything evil, in which an unwary soul might well be caught and absorbed. But I tell you, Murray, I can’t keep away from it.”

"It looks as if the place were getting you,” I said, thoroughly astonished by his extraordinary declaration, and by the air of fearful and morbid conviction with which he uttered it.

Apparently he had not heard me, for he made no reply to my observation. '"There’s another angle,” he went on, with a feverish tensity in his voice. "You remember my impression of an old man lurking in the background and watching me, on my first visit. Well, I have seen him again, many times, out of the corner of my eye; and during the last two days, he has appeared more directly, though in a queer, partial way. Sometimes, when I am studying the dead willow very intently, I see his scowling filthy-bearded face as a part of the bole. TTien, again, it will float among the leafless twigs, as if it had been caught there. Sometimes a knotty hand, a tattered coat-sleeve, will emerge through the mantling algas in the pool, as if a drowned body were rising to the surface. Then, a moment later — or simultaneously — there will be something of him among the alders or the cat-tails. These apparitions are always brief, and

when I try to scrutinize them closely, they melt like films of vapor into the surrounding scene. But the old scoundrel, whoever or whatever he may be, is a sort of fixture. He is no less vile than everything else about the place, though I feel that he isn’t the main element of the vileness.”

"Good Lord!” I exclaimed. "You certainly have been seeing things. If you don’t mind. I’ll come down and join you for a while, tomorrow afternoon. The mystery begins to inveigle me.”

"Of course I don’t mind. Come ahead.” His manner, all at once, for no tangible reason, had resumed the unnatural taciturnity of the past four days. He gave me a furtive look that was sullen and almost unfriendly. It was as if an obscure barrier, temporarily laid aside, had again risen between us. The shadows of his strange mood returned upon him visibly; and my efforts to continue the conversation were rewarded only by half-surly, half-absent monosyllables. Feeling an aroused concern, rather than any offense, I began to note, for the first time, the unwonted pallor of his face, and the bright, febrile luster of his eyes. He looked vaguely unwell, I thought, as if something of his exuberant vitality had gone out of him, and had left in its place an alien energy of doubtful and less healthy nature. Tacitly, I gave up any attempt to bring him back from the secretive twilight into which he had withdrawn. For the rest of the evening, I pretended to read a novel, while Amberville maintained his singular abstraction. Somewhat inconclusively, I puzzled over the matter till bed-time. I made up my mind, however, that I would visit Chapman’s meadow. I did not believe in the supernatural, but it seemed apparent that the place was exerting a deleterious influence upon Amberville.



The next morning, when I arose, my Qiinese servant informed me that the painter had already breakfasted and had gone out with his easel and colors. This further proof of his obsession troubled me; but I applied myself rigorously to a forenoon of writing.

Immediately after luncheon, I drove down the highway, followed the narrow dirt road that branched off toward Bear River, and left my car on the pine-thick bill above the old Chapman place. Though I had never visited the meadow, I had a pretty clear idea of its location. Disregarding the grassy, half-obliterated road into the upper portion of the property, I struck down through the woods into the little blind valley, seeing more than once, on the opposite slope, the dying orchard of pear and apple trees, and the tumbledown shanty that had belonged to the Chapmans.

It was a warm October day; and the serene solitude of the forest, the autumnal softness of light and air, made the idea of anything malign or sinister seem impossible. When I came to the meadow bottom, I was ready to laugh at Amberville’s notions; and the place itself, at first sight, merely impressed me as being rather dreary and dismal. The features of the scene were those that he had described so clearly, but I could not find the open evil that had leered from the pool, the willow, the alders and the cat-tails in his drawings.

AmberviUe, with his back toward me, was seated on a folding stool before his easel, which he had placed among the plots of dark green wire-grass in the open ground above the pool. He did not seem to be working, however, but was staring intently at the scene beyond him, while a loaded brush drooped idly in his fingers. The sedges deadened my footfalls; and he did not hear me as I drew near.

With much curiosity, I peered over his shoulder at the large canvas on which he had been engaged. As far as I could tell, the picture had already been carried to a consummate degree of technical perfection. It was an almost photographic rendering of the scummy water, the whitish skeleton of the leaning willow, the unhealthy, half-disrooted alders, and the cluster of nodding mace-reeds. But in it I found the macabre and demoniac spirit of the sketches: the meadow seemed to wait and watch like an evilly distorted face. It was a deadfall of malignity and despair, lying apart from the autumn world around it; a plague-spot of nature, for ever accursed and alone.

Again I looked at the landscape itself — ^and saw that the spot was indeed as AmberviUe had depicted it. It wore the grimace of a mad vampire, hateful and alert! At the same time, I became disagreeably conscious of the unnatural silence. There were no birds, no insects, as the painter had said; and it seemed that only spent and dying winds could ever enter that depressed vaUey-bottom. The thin stream that lost itself in the boggy ground was like a soul that went down to perdition. It was part of the mystery, too; for I could not remember any stream on the lower side of the barring hill that would indicate a subterranean outlet

Amberville’s intentness, and the very posture of his head and shoulders, were like those of a man who has been mesmerized. I was about to make my presence known to him; but at that instant there came to me the apperception that we were not alone in the meadow. Just beyond the focus of my vision, a figure seemed to stand in a furtive attitude, as if watching us both. I whirled about — and there was no one. Then I heard a startled ay from AmberviUe, and turned



to find him staring at me. His features wore a wild look of terror and surprize, which had not wholly erased a hypnotic absorption.

"My God!” he said. "I thought you were the old man!"

I can not be sure whether anything more was said by either of us. I have, however, the impression of a blank silence. After his single exclamation of surprize, Amberville seemed to retreat into an impenetrable abstraction, as if he were no longer conscious of my presence; as if, having identified me, he had forgotten me at once. On my part, I felt a weird and overpowering constraint. That infamous, eery scene depressed me beyond measure. It seemed that the boggy bottom was trying to drag me down in some intangible way. The boughs of the sick alders beckoned. The pool, over which the bony willows pr«ided like an arboreal Death, was wooing me foully with its stagnant waters.

Moreover, apart from the ominous atmosphere of the scene itself, I was painfully aware of a further change in Amberville — a change that was an actual alienation. His recent mood, whatever it was, had strengthened upon him enormously: he had gone deeper into its morbid twilight, and was lost to the blithe and sanguine personality I had known. It was as if an incipient madness had seized him; and the possibility of this terrified me.

In a slow, somnambulistic manner, without giving me a second glance, he began to work at his painting, and I watched him for a while, hardly knowing what to do or say. For long intervals he would stop and peer with dreamy intentness at some feature of the landscape. I conceived the bizarre idea of a growing kinship, a mysterious rapport between Amberville and the meadow. In some intan-

gible way, it seemed as if the place had taken something from his very soul — and had given something of itself in exchange. He wore the air of one who participates in some unholy secret, who has become the acolyte of an unhuman knowledge. In a flash of horrible definitude, I saw the place as an actual vampire, and Amberville as its willing victim.

How long I remained there, I can not say. Finally I stepped over to him and shook him roughly by the shoulder.

"You’re working too hard,” I said. "Take my advice, and lay off for a day or two.”

He turned to me with the dazed look of one who is lost in some narcotic dream. This, very slowly, gave place to a sullen, evil anger.

"Oh, go to hell!” he snarled. "Can’t you see that I’m busy?”

I left him then, for there seemed nothing else to do under the circumstances. The mad and spectral nature of the whole affair was enough to make me doubt my own reason. My impressions of the meadow — and of Amberville — were tainted with a delirious horror such as I had never before felt in any moment of waking life and normal consciousness.

At the bottom of the slope of yellow pine, I turned back with repugnant curiosity for a parting glance. The painter had not moved, he was still confronting the malignant scene like a charmed bird that faces a lethal serpent. Whether or not the impression was a double optic image, I have never been sure: but at that instant I seemed to discern a faint, unholy aura, neither light nor mist, that flowed and wavered about the meadow, preserving the outlines of the willow, the alders, the reeds, the pool. Stealthily it appeared to lengthen, reaching toward Amberville like ghostly arms. The whole image was extremely tenuous, and may well have



been an illusion; but it sent me shuddering into the shelter of the tall, benignant pines.

The remainder of that day, and the evening that followed, were tinged with the shadowy horror I had found in Chapman’s meadow. I believe that I spent most of the time in arguing vainly with myself, in trying to convince the rational part of my mind that all I had seen and felt was utterly preposterous. I could arrive at no conclusion, other than a conviction that Amberville’S' mental health was endangered by the damnable thing, whatever it was, that inhered in the meadow. The malign personality of the place, the impalpable terror, mystery and lure, were like webs that had been woven upon my brain, and which I could not dissipate by any amount of conscious effort.

I made two resolves, however: one was, that I should write immediately to Amberville’s fiancee. Miss Avis Olcott, and invite her to visit me as a fellow-guest of the artist during the remainder of his stay at Bowman. Her influence, I thought, might help to counteract whatever was affecting him so perniciously. Since I knew her fairly well, the invitation would not seem out of the way. I decided to say nothing about it to Amberville: the element of surprize, I hoped, would be especially beneficial.

My second resolve was, that I should not again visit the meadow myself, if I could avoid it. Indirectly — for I knew the folly of trying to combat a mental obsession openly — I should also try to discourage the painter’s interest in the place, and divert his attention to other themes. Trips and entertainments, too, could be devised, at the minor cost of delaying my own work.

The smoky autumn twilight overtook

me in such meditations as these; but Amberville did not return. Horrible premonitions, without coherent shape or name, began to torment me as I waited for him. The night darkened; and dinner grew cold on the table. At last, about nine o’clock, when I was nerving myself to go out and hunt for him, he came in hurriedly. He was pale, dishevelled, out of breaA; and his eyes held a painful glare, as if something had frightened him beyond endurance.

He did not apologize for his lateness; nor did he refer to my own visit to the meadow-bottom. Apparently he had forgotten the whole episode — had forgotten his rudeness to me.

"I’m through!’’ he cried. "I’ll never go back again — never take another chance. 'That place is more hellish at night than in the daytime. I can’t tell you what I’ve seen and felt — I must forget it, if I can. There’s an emanation — something that comes out openly in the absence of the sun, but is latent by day. It lured me, it tempted me to remain this evening — and it nearly got me.... God! I didn’t believe that such things were possible — that abhorrent compound of - ’’ He broke off, and did not fin-

ish the sentence. His eyes dilated, as if with the memory of something too awful to be described. At that moment, I recalled the poisonously haunted eyes of old Qiapman, whom I had sometimes met about the hamlet. He had not interested me particularly, since I had deemed him a common type of rural character, with a tendency to some obscure and impleasant aberration. Now, when I saw the same look in the eyes of a sensitive artist, I began to wonder, with a shivering speculation, whether Giapman too had been aware of the weird evil that dwelt in his meadow. Perhaps, in some way that was beyond human comprehenGENIUS LOCI


sion, he had been its victim... He had died there; and his death had not seemed at all mysterious. But perhaps, in the light of all that Amberville and I had perceived, there was more in the matter than any one had suspected.

"Tell me what you saw,” I ventured to suggest.

At the question, a veil seemed to fall between us, impalpable but tenebrific. He shook his head morosely and made no reply. The human terror, which perhaps had driven him back toward his normal self, and had made him almost communicative for the nonce, fell away from Amberville. A shadow that was darker than fear, an impenetrable alien umbrage, again submerged him. I felt a sudden chill, of the spirit rather than the flesh; and once more there came to me the outr^ thought of his growing kinship with the ghoulish meadow. Beside me, in the lamplit room, behind the mask of his humanity, a thing that was not wholly human seemed to sit and wait.

OF THE nightmarish days that followed, I shall offer only a summary. It would be impossible to convey the eventless, fantasmal horror in which we dwelt and moved.

I wrote immediately to Miss Olcott, pressing her to pay me a visit during Amberville’s stay, and, in order to insure acceptance, I hinted obscurely at my concern for his health and my need of her coadjutation. In the meanwhile, waiting her answer, I tried to divert the artist by suggesting trips to sundry points of scenic interest in the neighborhood. Tliese suggestions he declined, with an aloof curtness, an air that was stony and cryptic rather than deliberately rude. Virtually, he ignored my existence, and made it more than plain that he wished me to leave him to his own devices. This, in

despair, I finally decided to do, pending the arrival of Miss Olcott. He went out early each morning, as usual, with his paints and easel, and returned about sunset or a little later. He did not tell me where he had been; and I refrained from asking.

Miss Olcott came on the third day following my letter, in the afternoon. She was young, lissome, ultra-feminine, and was altogether devoted to Amberville. In fact, I think she was a little in awe of him. I told her as much as I dared, and warned her of the morbid change in her fiance, which I attributed to nervousness and overwork. I simply could not bring myself to mention Chapman’s meadow and its baleful influence: the whole thing was too unbelievable, too fantasmagoric, to be offered as an explanation to a modem girl. When I saw the somewhat helpless alarm and bewilderment with which she listened to my story, I began to wish that she were of a more wilful and determined type, and were less submissive toward Amberville than I surmised her to be. A stronger woman might have saved him; but even then I began to doubt whether Avis could do anything to combat the imponderable evil that was engulfing him.

A heavy crescent moon was hanging like a blood-dipped horn in the twilight when he returned. To my immense relief, the presence of Avis appeared to have a highly salutary effect. The very moment that he saw her, Amberville came out of the singular eclipse that had claimed him, as I feared, beyond redemption, and was almost his former affable self. Perhaps it was all make-believe, for an ulterior purpose; but this, at the time, I could not suspect. I began to congratulate myself on having applied a sovereign remedy. The girl, on her part, was plainly relieved; thou^ I saw her q^eing him iil a slightly

[756


hurt and puzzled way, when he sometimes fell for a short interval into moody abstraction, as if he had temporarily forgotten her. On the whole, however, there was a transformation that appeared no less than magical, in view of his recent gloom and remoteness. After a decent interim, I left the pair together, and retired.

I rose very late the next morning, having overslept. Avis and Amberville, I learned, had gone out together, carrying a lunch which my Chinese cook had provided. Plainly he was taking her along on one of his artistic expeditions; and I augured well for his recovery from this. Somehow, it never occurred to me that he had taken her to Chapman’s meadow. The tenuous, malignant shadow of the whole affair had begim to lift from my mind; I rejoiced in a lightened sense of responsibility; and, for the first time in a week, was able to concentrate clearly on the ending of my novel.

The two returned at dusk, and I saw immediately that I had been mistaken on more points than one. Amberville had again retired into a sinister, saturnine reserve. The girl, beside his looming height and massive shoulders, looked very small, forlorn — and pitifully bewildered and frightened. It was as if she had encountered something altogether beyond her comprehension, something with which she was humanly powerless to cope.

Very little was said by either of them. They did not tell me where they had been; but, for that matter, it was unnecessary to inquire. Amberville’ s taciturnity, as usual, seemed due to an absorption in some dark mood or sullen revery. But Avis gave me the impression of a dual constraint — as if, apart from some enthralling terror, she had been forbidden to speak of the day’s events and experiences. I knew that they had gone to that accursed

meadow; but I was far from sure whether Avis had been personally conscious of the weird and baneful entity of the place, or had merely been frightened by the unwholesome change in her lover beneath its influence. In either case, it was obvious that she was wholly subservient to him. I began to damn myself for a fool in having invited her to Bowman — though the true bitterness of my regret was still to come.

AWEEK went by, with the same daily excursions of the painter and his fiancfe — the same baffling, sinister estrangement and secrecy in Amberville — the same terror, helplessness, constraint and submissiveness in the girl. How it would all end, I could not imagine; but I feared, from the ominous alteration of his character, that Amberville was heading for some form of mental alienation, if nothing worse. My offers of entertainments and scenic journeys were rejected by the pair; and several blunt efforts to question Avis were met by a wall of almost hostile evasion which convinced me that Amberville had enjoined her to secrecy — and had perhaps, in some sleightful manner, misrepresented my own attitude toward him.

"You don’t understand him,’’ she said, repeatedly. "He is very temperamental.”

The whole affair was a maddening mystery, but it seemed more and more that the girl herself was being drawn, either directly or indirectly, into the same fantasmal, evil web that had enmeshed the artist.

I surmised that Amberville had done several new pictures of the meadow; but he did not show them to me, nor even mention them. My own impressions of the place, as time went on, assumed an unaccountable vividness that was almost hallucinatory. 'The incredible idea of



some inherent force or personality, malevolent and even vampirish, became an unavowed conviction against my will. The place haunted me like a fantasm, horrible but seductive. I felt an impelling morbid curiosity, an unwholesome desire to visit it again, and fathom, if possible, its enigma. Often I thought of Amberville’s notion about a Genius Loci that dwelt in the meadow, and the hints of a human apparition that was somehow associated with the spot. Also, I wondered what it was that the artist had seen on the one occasion when he had lingered in the meadow after nightfall, and had returned to my house in driven terror. It seemed that he had not ventured to repeat the experiment, in spite of his obvious subjection to the unknown lure.

The end came, abruptly and without premonition. Business had taken me to the county seat, one afternoon, and I did not return till late in the evening. A full moon was high above the pine-dark hills. I expected to find Avis and the painter in my drawing-room; but they were not there. Li Sing, my factotum, told me that they had returned at dinner-time. An hour later, Amberville had gone out quietly while the girl was in her room. Coming down a few minutes later. Avis had shown excessive perturbation when she found him absent, and had also left the house, as if to follow him, without telling Li Sing where she was going or when she might return. All this had occurred three hours previously; and neither of the pair had yet reappeared.

ABLACK and subtly chilling intuition of evil seized me as I listened to Li Sing’s account. All too well I surmised that Amberville had yielded to the temptation of a second nocturnal visit to that unholy meadow. An occult attraction, somehow, had overcome the horror of his

first experience, whatever it had been. Avis, knowing where he was, and perhaps fearful of his sanity — or safety — had gone out to find him. More and more, I felt an imperative conviction of some peril that threatened them both — some hideous and innominable thing to whose power, perhaps, they had already yielded.

Whatever my previous folly and remissness in the matter, I did not delay now. A few minutes of driving at precipitate speed through the mellow moonlight brought me to the piny edge of the Chapman property. There, as on my former visit, I left the car, and plunged headlong through the shadowy forest. Far down, in the hollow, as I went, I heard a single scream, shrill with terror, and abruptly terminated. I felt sure that the voice was that of Avis; but I did not hear it again.

Running desperately, I emerged in the meadow-bottom. Neither Avis nor Amberville was in sight; and it seemed to me, in my hasty scrutiny, that the place was full of mysteriously coiling and moving vapors that permitted only a partial view of the dead willow and the other vegetation. I ran on toward the scummy pool, and nearing it, was arrested by a sudden and twofold horror.

Avis and Amberville were floating together in the shallow pool, with their bodies half hidden by the mantling masses of algae. The girl was clasped tightly in the painter’s arms, as if he had carried her with him, against her will, to that noisome death. Her face was covered by the evil, greenish scum; and I could not see the face of Amberville, which was averted against her shoulder. It seemed that there had been a struggle; but both were quiet now, and had yielded supinely to their doom.

It was not this spectacle alone, however, that drove me in mad and shudder758


ing flight from the meadow, without m^ing even the most tentative attempt to retrieve the drowned bodies. The true horror lay in the thing, which, from a little distance, I had taken for the coils of a slowly moving and rising mist. It was not vapor, nor anything else that could conceivably exist — that malign, luminous, pallid Emanation that enfolded the entire scene before me like a restless and hungrily wavering extension of its outlines — a phantom projection of the pale and death-like willow, the dying alders, the reeds, the stagnant pool and its suicidal victims. The landscape was visible through it, as through a film; but it seemed to curdle and thicken gradually in places, with some unholy, terrifying activity. Out of these curdlings, as if disgorged by the ambient exhalation, I saw the emergence of three human faces that partook of the same nebulous matter, neither mist nor plasm. One of these faces seemed to detach itself from the bole of the ghostly willow; the second and third swirled upward from the seething of the phantom pool, with their bodies trailing formlessly among the tenuous boughs. The faces were those of old Chapman, of Francis Amberville, and Avis Olcott.

Behind this eery, wraith-like projection of itself, the actual landscape leered with the same infernal and vampirish air which it had worn by day. But it seemed now that the place was no longer still — that it seethed with a malignant secret life — that it reached out toward me with its scummy waters, with the bony fingers

of its trees, witli the spectral faces it had spewed forth from its lethal deadfall.

Even terror was frozen within me for a moment. I stood watching, while the pale, unhallowed exhalation rose higher above the meadow. The three human faces, through a further agitation of the curdling mass, began to approach each other. Slowly, inexpressibly, they merged in one, becoming an androgynous face, neither young nor old, that melted finally into the lengthening phantom boughs of the willow — the hands of the arboreal Death, that were reaching out to enfold me. Then, unable to bear the spectacle any longer, I started to run.

There is little more that need be told, for nothing that I could add to this narrative would lessen the abominable mystery of it all in any degree. The meadow — or the thing that dwells in the meadow — has already claimed three victims... and I sometimes wonder if it will have a fourth. I alone, it would seem, among the living, have guessed the secret of Chapman’s death, and the death of Avis and Amberville; and no one else, apparently, has felt the malign genius of the meadow. I have not returned there, since the morning when the bodies of the artist and his fiancee were removed from the pool... nor have I summoned up the resolution to destroy or otherwise dispose of the four oil paintings and two water-color drawings of the spot that were made by Amberville. Perhaps... in spite of all that deters me... I shall visit it again.

"One blow caused the crushing hands to relax from Ariel's throat."

Vhe

^^wellers in the House

By SOPHIE WENZEL ELLIS

tale of Ahmad Yaztj, the evil Arabian who changed bodies at will and perpetuated his ego throughout the ages.

“ A ND may God have mercy on your soul.”

The closing words of the death sentence rolled out solemnly in Judge Farrington’s cavernous voice.

"And may Allah have mercy on yours!”

Ahmad Yazij, the convicted murderer, who throughout the trial had sat in an indifferent heap, leaped up and pointed a shriveled brown finger at the judge.

The sudden quiet in the crowded courtroom was more dramatic than any outcry of horror could have been; every one knew that the Arabian spoke with the venom of a sorcerer pronouncing a curse.

Judge Farrington, white and visibly disturbed, pounded his gavel.

"Remove the prisoner!”

Two ofiicers seized Yazij roughly and



hurried him away. The strange man’s shoulders shook with laughter, as though he enjoyed a gruesome joke. At the door he turned his brown, wizened face and shot a parting look of hate at the judge.

"We shall meet again, yah abu 7 jood!”

Throughout the trial it had been thus, hate flashing between the benevolent judge beloved for his mercy and the prisoner at the bar who had not cared whether or not he was convicted of murdering the young man who had assisted him in the evil hideout Yazij had called his laboratory. Frequently, to the thwarted curiosity of the audience, the judge and Yazij had exchanged heated Arabic. Judge Farrington was a rather profound scholar.

From the first, it seemed that the judge had wanted to convict Yazij, who had not employed an attorney to defend himself. The judge had appointed young Rodney Sterrick as attorney for the defense, who was so deeply in love with beautiful Ariel Farrington that he dared not risk his prospects by objecting to the impassioned vituperation that her learned father had hurled at Yazij, and to some of the damning questions he had asked in his judicial aoss-examination. That was the whisper that often went around the courtroom.

Now, after the prisoner had been taken away, Rod said to the judge, "Why were you so hard on the poor devil.^’’

Healthy color flamed angrily in the other’s broad face.

"Poor devil! Leave off the poor. Execution is too good for him. My God, Rod!’’ He mopped at his brow with a moist handkerchief. "Didn’t you feel it, too — the damnable excreta of — of inhumanness that fouls the very atmosphere he breathes?”

"He’s only a very dirty old man, a little mad, perhaps - ”

"Do you know anything of Eastern occultism? No, you don’t You didn’t see what I saw in him, a aeature whose least crime would be the killing of the man whose mutilated body was found buried in that pestQential yard behind Yazij’s den. You remember the strange evidence of the coroner, that Vaynce’s body, although little decayed, weighed only forty-five pounds. Think of it! A man fairly well-fleshed weighing so little! Is that natural?”

"But the coroner said he might have had some unknown disease which wasted the tissues mysteriously.”

The judge laughed. "Of course, you had to have some kind of defense for your client. Rod.”

At that moment a deputy approached and told Rod that Yazij wished to see him immediately, before being taken to the penitentiary.

AFEW minutes later Rod went to the jail, where the prisoner was temporarily confined. Now, as always, he squirmed as he approached Yazij’s cell, for about it hung a foul stench. He had thought it resulted from the Arab’s unwashed flesh and clothes, but his talk with the judge made him shiver with dread.

"Yazij!” he called to the heap on the cot beyond the bars.

The Arab lifted his head, revealing a face the color of rotten leather. As he came forward, his over-large clothes seemed to bring the foul odor closer. Through the bars he poked a shrunken hand holding a folded paper.

"Meester lawyer, you have ask for no fee — Allah hadik! But I give you fee, eh? Here, take.”

Rod took the paper, odorous with the stench. In good English, written eviTHE DWELLERS IN THE HOUSE


dently by the jailer for Yazij’s signature, he read;

I, Ahmad Yaaij, do give to Rodney Sterrick all my possessions and belongings, including my most precious books, my furniture, and my equipment, all contained in my rooms at number 4 St. Louis Court. May he select a worthy buyer who will continue where I have ceased, i would suggest showing the lot to the honorable Judge Farrington, who has knowledge of things forgotten.

Ahmad Yazij.

A wave of pity for the condemned man swept over Rod.

■'Thanks, Yazij,” he said. "But I did not ask for a fee.”

"No. I give you fee. The honorable judge, learning about Ahmad Yazij's books — and secrets — will want to buy. Aywah!”

Rod looked uncomfortable. "I did my best for you, Yazij.”

"Your best. Death, it is not bad; only a moving from an old house fallen to ruins. I move from old house before. I move again.”

His matted eyebrows lifted enough to let Rod see his rheiuny old eyes; old, old eyes that looked too ancient to be quite human.

** Allah yeseeliml”

The leathery face sank among the clothes that bundled him from neck to feet. Without sound he turned and moved back to the cot. Rod was dismissed.

He sought Judge Farrington again immediately, who read Yazij’s note.

"Hmmm! Have you seen the stuff yet. Rod?”

"Only casually, when I went to his rooms while I was getting up the defense. It is a damp, musty, unpleasant place, full of terribly old books.”

"The books — ah!” The judge’s eyes leaped. "You know what a bookworm I am. Rod, especially over old Eastern books. Have dinner with us tonight, and then you and I shall inspect Yazij’s stuff.”

And so it was arranged. After dinner

at the Farrington home and an hour of delight with lovely Ariel Farrington, Rod and the judge drove to the semi-slum section where Ahmad Yazij had made his home above a questionable second-hand shop.

Up dark, creaking steps that hugged the building’s moldy side they mounted to the door that gave on a landing. Rod unlocked the door and plunged his hand cautiously into the darkness to reach for the light switch. The stale air seemed thick and slimy against his flesh.

The room came alive suddenly under the dim light; a room hung with archaic maps, strewn with braziers, bunches of dried herbs, pieces of metal, and broken furniture. Dangling from the ceiling and laced thickly in corners, black cobwebs seemed trying to hide the time-festered books that made crooked rows against the walls.

"My God, Rod! What books!” Judge Farrington went to one of the disordered shelves and removed a volume, a thick, misshapen mass of crumbling leaves between yellowed parchment covers. As he read here and there, all the healthy color faded from his face; but still he continued to turn the pages with avid eagerness.

Rod looked over his shoulder. It was written in Arabic.

"Can you really read it. Judge?”

Judge Farrington gulped hard, as though something stuck in his throat.

"It is an ancient work on Eastern occultism. But the strangest thing about it is the name of the author. Ahmad Yazij, Rod!”

"An ancestor of the Yazij we know?” "I hope so. Listen.”

He paused to read a certain passage, and then translated it slowly:

Each time I do move into a new House I grow stronger and more able to conquer the other



dwellers in the House, who make war with each other and disturb the flesh. For a thousand — nay, ten thousand years — ^will I work to acquire a House to my liking, and then will I have the power to cast out the other dwellers and have eternal life with the one Self.

"What a lot of gibberish!” Rod scoffed.

"Nothing that these ancient Arabs wrote is gibberish, Rod. Until I have studied the entire book, of course, I can not understand what he means, although I have an idea.” He shivered visibly.

While the judge continued to examine the crumbling books. Rod puzzled himself over the only modem-looking thing in the room, an appliance that slightly resembled a spectroscope, yet much larger than the common prism spectroscope. Instead of being fitted with a flint prism, it carried in its middle a giant vacuum tube.

"Look here. Judge! What an anachronism! This modem instrument placed among objects of incalculable age!”

Judge Farrington left the books and came toward the colossal spectroscope. But it was not the strange appliance that claimed his attention; he paused over a recently written manuscript lying on a table close by. As he read, his face seemed to grow thinner.

"Rod!” he exclaimed. "I am not sure that I ought to dare do this, for I may be courting destruction. But I’m going to buy the whole lot from you, just as Yazij suggested. There’s a strange mystery here, and I’m going to discover it.”

"What do you suspect?”

"Nothing. My mind refuses to accept the evidence. Rod! What would you think if you knew that half of this library is written by Ahmad Yazij, and that some of the books bearing his name are hundreds of years older than others?”

"Why, I’d say that there was a long line of Ahmad Yaziis.”

The other’s smile was sickly. "You’d have to say that — for your sanity’s sake. And now, you’ll sell me the stuff, won’t you?”

And thus Judge Farrington came into possession of all the effects of Ahmad Yazij. He had them moved to his home the next day, where he established an attic den which he always kept locked.

From the moment that he became a confessed disciple of the seer, or the long line of seers who had written the books he had bought, a subtle change came over Judge Farrington. Rod and every one else who came in contact with him in the courtroom saw his kindness and joviality change into harshness and ill-temper, until, before a month had passed, there was talk among the lawyers of trying to get him impeached.

Some even whispered that his great mind was decaying, for his favorite topic of conversation was Ahmad Yazij. He seemed to take an unhealthy interest in the execution, which the governor had set for an unusually early date after the conviction. Ariel Farrington complained to Rod that every moment of her father’s spare time was spent in his den, where,. far into the night, his light burned, and where muttering and mumbling could be heard, as though her father were holding conversation with some one who was certainly not in the room with him.

And now came the day for Ahmad Yazij to die. At dawn he went indifferently to the electric chair. Rod, sleeping after an uneasy night, was awakened before six o’clock by the ringing of his telephone. Ariel was on the line.

"Can you run over immediately. Rod? Some kind of attack has seized Father. Just at daybreak I heard a terrible scream from the attic. When we got the door broken in, we found Father lying on the



floor unconscious, with a frightful look on his face. I’ve called a doctor, but can’t you come over and be with me until he comes? Father is still unconscious.”

"Coming!” Rod assured her. But as he turned from the telephone, his face was pasty-white. Why had Judge Farrington received his stroke at the very moment when Ahmad Yazij had gone to his death?

At the Farrington home he found the judge still unconscious, jabbering almost constantly in broken Arabic.

Ariel, her beautiful face showing traces of tears, seemed reluctant to be alone a moment with the father she adored.

"I’m afraid of him. Rod!” she confessed. "He almost doesn’t seem like Father.”

"The doctor will bring him around when he gets here,” Rod said cheerfully.

But the doctor’s efforts did not seem rapidly successful. The judge still remained unconscious. He remained thus until the sudden tense excitement of newsboys screaming "Extry!” broke in the street below.

“Extry paper! Stowall Vaynce alive! Stowall Vaynce - ”

"Vaynce!” shrieked Judge Farrington. He sat up in bed and looked around him almost calmly. "That was the man Ahmad Yazij killed. Get me a paper.”

Rod, feeling the nearness of some hidden horror, rushed out for a paper. The headlines glared at him.





A few minutes after Ahmad Yazij had died early this morning in the electric chair for the ffluider of Stowall Vaynce, a man calling himself Vaynce appeared at police headquarters, saying he had just returned from a western trip. Vaynce

is being held until the body of the murdered man has been exhumed.

Rod did not finish reading, but took. the paper to Judge Farrington, who almost snatched it from his hands.

"Ah!” the completely recovered man said a few minutes later. "Then I was not wrong in what I thought I knew. What a mystery for them to crack their brains over!”

'The chuckle he gave was so unlike the kind, dignified man he had been a few weeks ago that each one in the room sought the others’ eyes uncomfortably. It was plain that Judge Farrington did not seem to regret even now that he had helped to bring Ahmad Yazij to his death.

Suddenly Rod stiffened and put a horrified hand to his nose. A foul odor, more horrible because of its subtle vagueness, began to grow in the room. It seemed to have had immediate conception and to gain strength with each passing second. Instantly he recognized that ancient putrescence, which brought terrible recollection of a leathery-faced Arab waiting stoically for death. Judge Farrington swung himself out of bed, and the odor stirred with him, filling the room with horror.

"I’m going to my den,” he annoxmced calmly. "I’m all right now.”

Even the doctor could not detain him, and as he brushed by Rod, the young man gasped over the cloud of stench that seemed to flow from the very pores of his body.

In passing, Judge Farrington gave Rod a long, deep glance, with a whisper that caused his scalp to stir.

"Don’t be alarmed, my lawyer. Mektoob!”

Accent for accent, it was as though Ahmad Yazij had spoken.


J57EIRD TALES

Ariel cried out in consternation: "What is it. Rod? You are pale as a ghost!”

And then it was plain to Rod that only he had caught that hellish stench, and that he alone was aware of a beginning horror that hovered beyond the borderland of sanity.

He let Ariel bring him the drink he needed badly, cautioned her to keep close watch on her father, and then he went to police headquarters to wait for the first information on the Stowall Vaynce case.

He was present at the grave when the body was exhumed. The living Stowall Vaynce was also present. That young man, with frightened levity, declared he wanted to make sure that he was really alive. Vaynce said that he had been the only employee of Yazij, who had hired him as a subject for experiment with an instrument which Yazij had called a "soul spectroscope.” Vaynce, a dull-witted fellow, could throw no light on what the experiments were. He only knew that he sometimes suffered pain in Yazij ’s laboratory, which had led him to run away from his master and hide in another city.

The mystery assumed new terror at the second examination of the body. Mark for mark, it was exactly like the live Vaynce. Scars; hair; Bertillon measurements; finger prints; all were perfect mates. The only difference between the two was weight. The body weighed only forty-five pounds, which was surprizing, while Vaynce weighed a little over one hundred, which also was surprizing, because he seemed rather well-fleshed.

Puzzled medical men claimed the body for a complete autopsy. Newspapers reporting their findings stated, in the language of the layman, that nothing abnormal had been discovered, although one scientist had declared that if the body

had been in a better state of preservation he could probably have proved his opinion that almost two-thirds of its mass was made up of air cells instead of solid protoplasmic cells, a condition rare but not completely unknown in a less exaggerated degree.

And thus the strange matter remained a mystery, soon forgotten. For hadn’t Ahmad Yazij been punished for whomever he had killed?

SCARCELY a week after the newspapers had stopped carrying Stowall Vaynce news. Judge Farrington astounded the bench and bar by resigning. He issued a statement to the press that he wished to retire for study and rest. Even Rod, who called at the Farrington home almost daily, could not learn his real reason for forsaking the career he loved. But a few days after the resignation, Ariel told Rod that her father had bought a secluded estate in an undeveloped part of the state, where he would go into retirement with his library.

"I’ll have to go with him Rod,” she said, with a touch of unhappiness. "You know. I’ve been daughter, mother and wife to him since Mother died. I can’t forsake him now that this queer hobby is consuming his life,”

Rod looked down hungrily into her exquisite face; sweet little Ariel, the sort of girl every young man dreams of knowing and loving. But it would be several years before he had built a practise to support a wife comfortably.

Now, when he longed to take her into his arms and tell her that he loved her, he only seized her hands and said miserably:

"I wish you did not have to go, Ariel. But will you promise to write to me every day and let me know everything that happens— everything?”



Ariel promised, and her blue eyes shyly promised something else, something that he had no right to accept now. But from the moment he saw her climb into her father’s car to begin the journey to their new home, terror began to shadow him. For this restless-eyed John Farrington was certainly not the wholesome Judge Farrington he had known with respect and admiration. He did not even look the same. He had lost flesh and grown hollow of eye and jaw. Rod had to force himself not to think that his old friend looked a very little like the filthy Arab whose body now lay in a criminal’s grave.

Ariel kept her promise to write every day. Her letters seemed cheerful enough; for she spoke of a beautiful countryside, of the comfort of the picturesque old pioneer homestead they occupied, and of her father’s deep content with their new life. But through it all Rod thought he detected a subtle undertone of loneliness and uneasiness.

Several troublesome cases kept Rod so busy that three weeks passed before he could break away to see Ariel. His going then was not of his own choosing. A note from Ariel, written in nervous fright, urged him to come immediately. An hour later, he was driving to the remote hills which hid the Farrington retreat.

Long before he approached the little mountain town where the Farringtons received their mail, modem roads swept away into more densely settled regions and left only deeply rutted clay roads whose very impassability seemed a warning to strangers to keep away. Elemental nature was here, sullen, defiant, stupendously old in bare rock cliffs and narrow streams that had eaten deep into the hills. Life other than human was here in abundance. Crows especially were numerous.i

They followed Rod’s car constantly, unnerving him with their sad hunger call. It was a lonely, desolate country for a young girl to live in with a father who might be a little mad.

WHEN he passed through the last settlement, the long summer afternoon was waning. For several miles he saw no houses, not even the time-rotted shacks that pocked the countryside behind. Soon he began to go down — down into a valley that cupped a broad, shallow lake. The water had a black, unwholesome look, except where a stinking green scum laid a gangrenous carpet along the edges.

So close to the brink of this lake that it must have received flood waters was the Farrington house, a rambling stmcture of thick, ancient logs backed by giant evergreen trees. He no sooner saw the house than he saw Ariel, too. She was standing knee-deep in the water, snatching at something that darted between the lily pads. She did not seem aware of him until he called to her.

"Rod!” she cried out gladly, and leaped toward the car.

In the instant before she threw herself into his arms, he saw that her dress was torn and soiled. That was completely unlike dainty Ariel. He was surprized, too, at the offer of her pouting red lips. He kissed them hungrily, his first kiss. Often he had dreamed of that kiss, but now, in a subtle way, it was disappointing.

"So glad to see you, Roddy!” she said lightly.

Rod held her off and looked hard at her, the pointed, cleft-chinned face, the blue eyes behind long curling brown lashes. He sensed a change in her, yet could not understand what it was.

"You don’t seem so worried,” he told her. "By your note asking me to hurry;



here, I thou^t you were frightened about something.”

"My note? Foolish!” She rubbed her dieek against his. It felt diilly and moist against his skin. "I didn’t write you a note telling you to come.”

"You did. What’s the matter, Ariel?”

She laughed impishly, ignoring his question. "Look what I caught in the lake. Rod.”

Reaching into the torn bosom of her dress, she drew forth a tiny green watersnake, languidly alive.

Again Rod felt vague horror, as though an unnatural effluvium of evil had laid a spell upon this whole strange country.

"What’s the matter with you, Ariel? You’d put that thing in your bosom, you who used to be afraid of a worm? You' re — ^you’re a different girl.”

"Silly! I’m not. I’m the same girl that topped your root beer with soap-suds last April Fool’s day. 'The same one who stuck a pin in a rose and had you smell it.”

Rod nodded, remembering. He also remembered her sudden remorse over both childish pranks. Dear little Ariel of a doaen moods! There was a streak of earth across one pink clieek, and a bit of water-weed was caught between her bare, perfect toes. Looking, Rod again felt that prickling of his scalp. Never had he seen this strange mood in her. It was as though all that was elfin and prankish in her were concentrated in the ragged little urchin laughing up at him, laughing from shallow, soulless eyes and lips that were not quite warm enough for a creature of warm human blood.

She was leading him to the house, her bare feet flying over the ground in happy, skipping steps. Her skirt was so torn that he could see her round white thigh as she moved.

"Isn’t it lonesome for you, Ariel?” he asked.

"Not a bit. I’m helping Daddy in some mighty interesting work. And then I have the lake and the woods to play about in.”

She turned to look back at him, and he saw that the green things about had reflected their own forest tint in the eyes that should be blue.

With an effort he pulled himself together. He was imagining things. That would never do. He needed all his common sense now.

As they entered the house, he saw that it was even older and cruder than it had seemed from the road. In an enormous living - room, furnished comfortably enough with many of the appointments that had been in the old city home, he waited while she went for her father.

IT WAS many minutes before John Farrington appeared, and then he stood in the door and called out rudely and sullenly: ’Well?”

'The change in the man was shocking. He had grown so thin he was almost lost in the clothes of former days.

"How are you. Judge?” Rod cried heartily, coming toward his old friend with outstretched hand, which the other ignored.

"I’m well enough, especially when I’m not interrupted. I’m busy now. Rod. I can’t give you any time until after supper.” He gestured to Ariel. "Get him something to eat, and then hurry and join me. I need you for an hour or two.”

Turning, he left the room abruptly, while Ariel danced away with a promise of supper in a few minutes.

Rod felt a moment of anger. He was half tempted to leave immediately, but again his consciousness of latent mystery enveloped him. He would have to remain, for Ariel’s sake.



In a few minutes the girl was back again, wheeling a tea-wagon bearing a cold supper. She had not changed her ragged clothes, and in this disheveled condition joined Rod in the meal.

Rod could not shake off his overpowering sense of unreality. He felt almost as though he were wandering in a dream. The pixy-faced ragamuffin facing him over the table could not be the Ariel he had wanted to marry. She scarcely stirred his pulses now, this pretty child-girl with the soulless eyes.

"What is your father doing now, Ariel.?” he asked her. "Still poring over Ahmad Yazij’s books, I suppose?”

"That — and other things."

"For instance?”

"Mind your business, Roddy. If you stay here long enough, you’ll find out.” She laughed teasingly, cocking her head birdwise and looking at him. "I suspect he’d like to work on you, at that — gentleman, cave-man, warm-hearted boy, cold-hearted lawyer. Oh! you’d be a case.”

Rod found the meal singularly unpleasant. Each moment he was more convinced that Ariel was changed in a way that made him vaguely frantic with apprehension. Something he had loved in her, some primary characteristic which used to reach out to him and claim his very soul, seemed to have disappeared. It was almost as though the Ariel he had loved were dead, and this girl before him was only a laughing shadow that mocked him.

His final bewilderment came when Ariel threw herself on his knee. It was not her conduct that surprized him, but her lack of weight. He scarcely felt the pressure of her body. Suddenly he swooped her into his arms and lifted her, and the experiment brought a cry from him. She seemed no heavier than a baby.

Was he facing another Stowall Vaynce mystery?

"Ariel!” he aied, putting her down hastily. "Tell me what your father does to you in his laboratory. Tell me!”

"Not now, old curiosity!” she teased, patting his cheek. "You’ll find out, though. He’s already told me that your turn was next. Now, run and play on the lake for an hour or two until he is through with me for the day.”

She skipped away.

The house was suddenly repellent to Rod. He went outside, to walk along the lake edge. There was enough moonlight to make the going easy, and in a few minutes he was enjoying the scent of the water-lilies.

Gradually another odor began to impinge itself upon his sensibilities, a stench so unpleasant that his nostrils quivered. Closer to the brink he crept, to determine whether the smell came from the nightblade waters which slapped among the lily pads.

And then, as the odor gained strength, terrific understanding came to him. His horrified nostrils drank in great breaths of the putrescence, for he had to be sure. He could not be mistaken. Aloud he groaned the name of the one being who could produce that evil stench.

"Ahmad Yazij!”

God! Could he ever forget that stench that reeked of disease and unspeakable corruption which sullied everything the Arab had touched? Mad fear almost sent him shrieking back to the house, but he controlled himself and forced his lagging steps onward. He had to go on. He felt that he was trailing something which he must see and know.

He left the trail along the bank’s edge and went down to the slimy mud, to stumble over sprawling cypress knees and step into cray&h holes.

i768


As he progressed, the foul odor became an effluvium so violently repellent that it seemed to well up from the cancerous depths of an elder world. In his hunger for more light, he used his cigarette-lighter. The feeble flame at least guided his footsteps in the immediate vicinity. A minute later, he was hysterically glad that he had this tiny spot of light, which saved his feet from abomination. For directly in his path, half buried in mud and water, was a human body.

For a moment. Rod paused, revolted. Here lay a woman. Her white dress and arms were coated so thickly with dried lake silt and scum that she seemed, in the moonlight, almost like a figure of clay. He swept his light over the still form. When it reached the face, his scream echoed through the giant cedar trees.

The woman was Ariel.

There could be no mistake, for only her face and her golden hair were undefiled by the mud. From the discolored hue of the flesh, the body must have been here several days. It must have been here when he had talked to Artel today! It probably had been here when the note summoning him had been written.

He did not rush away immediately, a human revolted against a loved thing because it had ceased to be human; he stood there half paralyzed with the realization that he faced evil blacker than the down-pressing night. Now that he was close to the poor, lifeless shell to which that compelling odor had led him, he was conscious that the odor was gone. Only the natural smell of the lake ooze tainted the air, which after the foulness of the other, seemed cleaner than the breath of flowers.

Rod must have turned a little mad in that shocking moment before he could

find his courage again, for he babbled foolishly.

"Ariel alive, Ariel dead! Stowall Vaynce alive, Stowall Vaynce dead! Ahmad Yazij dead, Ahmad Yazij - ”

His voice caught in his throat. Was Ahmad Yazij alive? Ahmad Yazij, who had been writing books for hundreds ot years?

With such insane thoughts upsetting his reason, he could not feel real grief over the girl’s body at his feet. He was not viewing dead Ariel, but some sinister mystery which had no place on the earth. He tried to bring himself to touch the body to ascertain whether or not it was only visionary, but his shrinking hand was not capable of the revolting act. Drawing off his coat, he laid it over the muddy form, and was relieved to see that the coat really lay over something.

Then he ran back to the house. Darkness and stillness lay over the ancient wooden pile. Rod entered, passed through the great living-room, and on to the leanto in the rear, where he saw a crack of light coming from under the door. This was John Farrington’s study.

He was about to knock on the door when he heard a sound that sent quivering terror through him.

It was Ariel’s voice, raised in a wild protest. "I won’t! I won’t!’’

"Come now!’’ shouted her father, "I’ll have no stubbornness. Get over there under the focus.”

"For God’s sake. Daddy, don’t you see — can’t you see that you’ve destroyed the last one? It is I now. Don’t make me - ”

Her words ended in a scream of despair.

Rod turned the door-knob frantically; the door was locked. With Ariel’s voice begging for mercy spurring him to desperation, he flung himself against the anW. T.— 6



cient wood, and almost instantly a panel broke in.

Father and daughter were struggling, and just as Rod fell into the room, the father won. His hands found the white throat that strained away from him.

But Rod, instead of rushing in to the assistance of the girl he loved, stood paralyzed, every sense revolted against the insane sight that abominated his eyes.

There was one Ariel struggling with her father, and another stretched out on a table, apparently lifeless. The body on the table was the tattered ragamufi&n he had met earlier in the evening, the stranger in Ariel's form who had puzzled and distressed him. The other Ariel, fighting for her life with the shrunken-faced creature who shrieked Arabic curses, was the well-groomed girl he hoped to marry.

In that dreadful moment of revelation. Rod knew that he did not face the real John Farrington, but the withered shell of his body housing a fiend. He seized the first object that his hands touched, a heavy metal tube. One blow from this caused the crushing hands to relax instantly from Ariel’s throat. With a gentle sigli, the man who looked like a strange blending of John Farrington and Ahmad Yazij fell to the floor.

Rod gave all his attention to Ariel. She was not seriously injured, and after a thirsty draft of water which tortured her bruised throat, she was able to speak.

"Is he unconscious. Rod? Really unconscious?’’

"Yes.”

"Then hurry! I have a dreadful tadc to perform, and you must help.”

Without stopping to explain, she busied herself with the giant spectroscopelike appliance that Rod recognized as being the one which had come from Ahmad Yazij. After Ariel had made certain adjustments, she called to Rod.

W. T.— 7

"Will you lift him. Rod, to that high chair in front of the soul spectroscope?”

She was white-faced and so excited that her blue eyes were nearly black. Working under her directions. Rod placed the inert body in the chair, and rolled the chair into the exact center of a pentacle marked upon the floor with a reddish-brown substance suspiciously like dried blood.

"Don’t step into the symbol,” she warned, her voice high-pitched with illconcealed dread.

As Rod observed her, he discovered that something in her voice, some halfperceived expression in her blue eyes, were proof that here was the old Ariel and not the soulless girl of the afternoon, who apparently lay lifeless in this very room.

At last everything was in readiness to Ariel’s liking. She walked over to Rod and slipped her hand into his with almost child-like trust and simplicity.

"I’m sorry I had to force you to view what you’re going to see, Rod. I asked you to come only because I need you so.”

And this was the girl in the image of her who that afternoon had denied writing him to come!

Rod pressed the hand in his. "I’m with. you to the last drop of my blood, Ariel. And I’m ready for anything that is to take place, for I know that we’re both experiencing what was never intended for normal human beings to see.”

"You’ll not be harmed,” she promised, "if you keep hold of your nerves and your reason.”

She swung into place the long tube which somewhat resembled the collimator on the ordinary spectroscope. Instead of the usual lens in the end, the tube was fitted with an arrangement of silvery wires twisted into a geometrical pattern

i770

WEffiD TALES

so singular that Rod felt a creeping of his scalp when he looked at it. Only a moment of gazing gave him the sensation that those insanely angled wires were cutting through his flesh, through his very mind, until, tearing his eyes away, he realized that he had had a glimpse of forms stolen from some elder world, perhaps from another dimension of space and time,

"Go to the other end of the room. Rod, and watch.”

Rod obeyed, his eyes again seeking the silver-wired tube that was focused on John Farrington’s body, which now was animated with returning consciousness.

Ariel did something to the soul spectroscope which caused a blinding white light to pour from the silver wires. 'The radiance, in long pale beams, was interlaced in the same dreadful pattern that the wires made. Reaching out to the convulsed body of John Farrington, the rays seemed to slash through him like knives of steel.

Suddenly from the man’s open mouth poured a stream of black smoke so foul that both Rod and Ariel clapped their hands to their mouths. 'The stench of Ahmad Yazij; instantly Rod recognized it, sensing it issuing from a foul source rotten with age and corruption. 'The smoke began to shape itself into a form, a man; a black wraith with features and eyes that were readily recognizable. Rod and Ariel clung together, for Ahmad Yazij’s shade hovered before them, still attached to John Farrington’r mouth. The features grew plainer, until the hate they revealed seemed to have deadly force.

With an enormous effort, Ariel recovered herself. Close to the pentacle marked on the floor she went, Wanting in bad Arabic. As she approached, the hate on the wraith’s face changed to fear. With one last burst of courage, Ariel

reached out a finger and touched the living shadow. Instantly it detached itself from John Farrington’s mouth, floated up for another foot or two, and burst like a bubble.

Ariel fainted, and the two men rushed to her aid.

"Ariel! Daughter!” groaned John Farrington, completely recovered. "My brave little girl.” He gathered her into his arms.

Ariel did not remain unconscious more than a moment. Strength returned to her almost immediately. She sat up and gasped.

"Quick, Father! Let’s burn the room and everything in it.”

Leaping to her feet, she began tumbling the books from the shelves, tearing out leaves and scattering them in heaps.

"Wait, Daughter.” John Farrington hesitated, and his worn face paled to a ghastlier hue. "There is something not in this room which — ^must be destroyed. Rod?”

The eyes of the two men met and clung in horrible, unspoken understanding.

"Get me some sheets, Ariel,” the older man went on.

In a few moments, bearing a broad board taken from the broken door, the two men were plunging into the night, following the lake path that led to the thing in the mud.

John Farrington would not let Rod touch the poor, befouled body.

"I’ll take my just share of punishment. Rod. Hand me the sheets — and don’t look.”

Rod turned his head and tried to close his ears to the sucking sounds made by a body leaving its muddy bed. His nostrils quivered with the odor of death; the odor that hung between the two men throughout that dreadful return walk.



Not once did the young man glance at the sheeted thing bound to the board. Even after they had entered the house and deposited their burden on the laboratory floor, he refused to look. Near the brc^en door he stood while John Farrington and Ariel broke bottles of chemicab and scattered their contents. He heard the scratch of a match.

"Get out — quick!” shouted John Farrington.

They were no sooner outside than explosions began shaking the house. At a safe distance they watched the flames lick the sky, roaring higjier after each explosion.

"Thank God for fire!” John Farrington said grimly. "Those half-real bodies will be consumed like paper, and there will not be a trace left to tell the world that I tampered with what should have remained secret.”

Not until the three had entered Rod’s car parked far from the house did John Farrington allay Rod’s curiosity. While the house burned, the high-reaching flames painting the night with quivering red, the two men talked.

"I am prepared to understand anything you tell me, Judge. I saw the two Stowall Vaynces. I saw three Ariels. They were as real as my own flesh. And, God help me. Judge! I — I saw Ahmad Yazij look out of your eyes.”

The other placed a comforting hand on his knee.

"It’s all right now, boy. I’m your old friend again.” After a pause, he went on, in a brisker tone of voice. "Rod, have you ever been surprized at your own actions and decisions, which made you feel almost as though a stranger inside you were directing your mind.?”

"We’re all like that. Judge, aren’t we? We’ve got to fight ourselves, beat our-

selves, make ourselves think, act, and live decently.”

"But are you sure we are fighting ourselves? Has it ever occurred to you that your body might be like a house sheltering a large, quarrelsome family?”

Rod laughed. 'Tve felt like that at times.”

"And that’s what I — ^what Ahmad Yazij proved. He started his work nearly two thousand years ago, and could never have completed it had he not possessed enough occult power to pass himself on to younger, stronger bodies, which he forced to carry on the work of his will.

"The human body is only a house. Rod, equipped with various natural devices called senses which give the dweller or the dwellers contacts with consciousness. There is one master of the house, which is your true self, but there are many interlopers, tramps that come from outside; wandering, bodiless souls seeking a home. Sometimes one, sometimes the other, takes ascendency over all the rest, and we call the phenomenon 'changing mood.’

"At least three hundred years ago, Ahmad Yazij started out to find a way to cast out all the other dwellers of a body except himself, but not until modern science began to be developed did he make much headway.”

Rod broke in nervously. "Terrible thought, that: his coming up to the present time through all the other ages of ignorance and dawning knowledge.”

"I think it rather sublime. Rod; that is, if he hadn’t misused his power. But he was inherently evil. To go on, though: he did not discover the soul spectroscope until he was in the incarnation that we knew, the shriveled, hideous Arab.” He paused and breathed audibly for several moments. "'The soul spectroscope. Rod. It’s a devilish mongrel, spawned from

,772


modern science wedded to occultism, for separating souls as the prism spectroscope separates the different radiations from a luminous source. It shows up the tramps that have stolen into a body, and, at the operator’s will, casts them out.”

"But, Judge,” Rod interrupted, "I can’t forget that the — the extra bodies I saw were of flesh and blood. 'There was Stowall Vaynce and — and Ariel - ”

"Yes, they were real, half-real; creatures made up of matter of a sort. But do we know so very much about matter, after all? Matter and energy are the same in the last analysis. Ahmad Yazij, in the form of the Arab we knew, having acquired a knowledge of modern science to add to his ancient lore of occultism and magic, discovered that it was possible, when separating souls, to split off material atoms from the living body to clothe the tramp with flesh. Don’t be too shocked. Your own living body is doing that constantly, casting off its own atoms, renewing itself at least every seven years. What Ahmid Yazij did was to steal only enough living atoms to make a second body of similar mass, but of less density.”

"And that is why the dead thing called Stowall Vaynce weighed only forty-five pounds?”

"Yes; and it was the reason why he was dead. For he was the original Vaynce, you know, who had been forced to give up too much of his living substance. 'The one that came back was one of the poor devil’s harmless body interlopers. Not until Yazij got into my body, younger and more vigorous than his, and with a mind perhaps more carefully educated, did he discover hew to materialize souls without destroying the parent-body. Using me, he separated two interlopers from Ariel. And when I succeeded in beating him back and getting ascendency, I

killed both. It was all tqo dreadful; please comprehend. To retaliate, he tried to kill the real Ariel. Many times. You saw one occasion. But it’s all right now; he’s gone.”

Rod looked back at the burning house and shuddered. "Gone? Are you sure?”

"I am sure. Ariel cast him out without giving him flesh; cast him unfleshed from a living body. Had he passed out of a dead body, as he did when he was executed, he could seize another home. But now he is a homeless wanderer in space and time.”

"But have you any assurance that he can never come back — that he can never seize another home, as you call it?”

John Farrington paused long before answering.

"I can’t be sure — too sure,” he said. "I only know that he can never take my body again. I know how to guard against him now.”

Along silence fell, for the three of them were now watching the final spectacle of the burning house, nearly consumed by the flames. 'The old building had crashed in, half smothering the fire, so that black smoke belched up in vast clouds.

"Look!” saeamed Ariel. "Look!” Her pointing finger picked out the topmost peak of the smoke cloud, swaying against the red-lighted sky. It had formed a colossal man, his feet planted in the fire, his head high above the tree tops. The features were plainly visible, sculptured from fire-painted smoke.

"Is it smoke?” Ariel quavered. "No, no! Daddy, it’s looking at us, looking - ”

But John Farrington, not heeding her, got out of the car quietly, holding his arms wide, while he chanted in Arabic,



Suddenly the black form writhed high caught it, tore it to fragments, and sent into the air and sailed out over the lake, the fragments scattering, to be swallowed still intact, until a sudden gust of wind by the black night.

cJ P

(2/ prig of Rosemary

By H. WARNER MUNN

A tender story about a skinflint whose heart had turned to ice, and how it was softened after his death

WHEN I was a boy in the little village of Pequoig, which is hidden away in a fold of northwestern Massachusetts' hilly country, I remember distinctly an old man with a long white beard seen often on the streets and side lanes, always alone.

Stump, stump, stump, would go his peg-leg on the plank sidewalks as he strode along, with occasionally a sharp rattle of his cane along the pickets of the bordering fences.

We boys would cry to each other, "Watch out, here comes old Uncle Moses!” as he came in sight; then it was "Good day to you, Mr. Crockett!” to his face.

"Humph!” was his invariable reply, while his beard twitched as though about to throw off sparks and the gnarled hand clenched on his stout stick. Crack! Down it would come on the boards and off he would march, as though mightily insulted by our greeting. Stump, stump, stump, down the street; the hollow sound from the boarding coming back long after he was out of sight.

There was a tale in the village, that old Uncle Moses had not always been so morose, but his leg and his temper left him together, shot away by a cannon ball during the War of 1812.

He came home, hurt body and soul, eager for sympathy, limping straight to the door of the girl who had promised to be his bride when the war was over. For would he not be covered with glory and resplendent with glittering buttons and braid?

She took one long horrified look at him, standing there on her stoop, haggard, worn and crippled, leaning on his crutches, and she threw up her hands in dismay.

"Oh, Moses!” she cried, "I’d rather see you dead than coming home this way!” and slammed the door in his face.

Hurt and bewildered, his heart became like ice. From that day on, he had a kind word for no one; scowling, friendless, solitary, he stumped the streets of Pequoig and grew old alone.

The avuncular appellation came not from any kin of his, for he had no relatives. People called him Uncle because of his pawnbroker habits, and the name stuck. He loaned money at exorbitant interest and only upon excellent security. No tale of hard times could induce him to part with a penny due him, and many a curse was heaped upon his head from some poor soul thrust out into the wide world, sans house, property or hope.

Little by little, his fingers poked into every pie in Pequoig. Hardly an individ-

.774


ual but was somehow in his debt, and one in debt to Uncle Moses rarely threw off his bonds.

The Civil War came and found many that took advantage of his pocketbook. Was the man with a family drafted? To old Uncle Moses then, for the hundred dollars to pay some single man to take his place.

Long after the war was over, some found their paid interest had totalled many times the principal, but the original sum loaned had not been abated a penny and they still owed old Uncle Moses one hundred dollars.

Mortgages, civic funds, rents, all came eventually to his eager clutching hands and there was a specter behind every man’s bed as he tossed sleepless at night; for there was no pity in old Uncle Moses’ stony heart for any living being.

By some he was looked upon with disgust and rq>ulsion, by others with scorn, but underneath there was fear and hatred. And so time wore on.

As he grew older, the familiar stumping was heard less frequently, but the village dogs avoided him still, for there was power in his arm and a bite in his stick even in these late days when I came to know him.

At that time the pleasant custom of decorating graves on Memorial Day had recently come into fashion and was received with great enthusiasm and interest in Pequoig.

How well I remember seeing old Uncle Moses, standing with his weight on his peg-leg, looking on at the exercises in Highland Cemetery, mentally reckoning up the cost in good hard cash of all the flowers and wreaths laid out for the rains to destroy!

"Humph!” he grunted loudly. "Pagan superstition! Criminal waste of money!” and stumped away home.

This spread through the village on indignant tongues, and feeling ran high, so that there was talk of hooded men and tar and feathers. Nothing probably would have come of it in the end, for the fear of his power was too great, but there was no time given to decide the question.

The very next morning, a debtor calling to pay money due, found old Uncle Moses dead in his chair, with his jaw dropped down and with his stick clutched firmly in his hand.

All over town there was silent rejoicing and if ever there was talk of a judgment sent straight from heaven, it was then, with Moses Crockett as a horrible example.

He had made no will, so even before his burial, a special town meeting was called to settle the question of his money. Almost unanimously it was voted to cancel all debts owing to his estate, bring back and settle again all townspeople who had been evicted through him, and use the remainder of his wealth in civic improvements.

It might be thought that this would have caused old Uncle Moses to turn over in his coflan, but calm and peaceful he lay, and was lowered into the grave. The ground leveled, a simple headstone placed and the sexton went away and left him alone as he would have chosen to be.

And while the town was glad, in a furtive diamefaced way, to see the last of him, a family living near the river were made happy for another reason.

Almost at the very instant that the spades patted down the last heap of loose earth in the Crockett lot, a girl baby was born to the Keltons.

She did not cry at first, like most babies, quickly afterward to fall asleep, but the beginning of her life was one of smiles. "What shall we call her, Patience?”



said Abner, stroking his wife’s hair with a horny, work-gnarled hand.

"We will call her Rosemary, dear,” she answered weakly. "Rosemary. Rosemary Kelton. Isn’t it lovely, Abner.? She likes it, see how she smiles! Rosemary — that’s for remembrance.”

Then mother and daughter fell fast asleep and the great day was over.

The Keltons were one of the expatriated families brought back to better times by the death of old Uncle Moses. Soon they left the little shack by the river and returned into the village again to their old home.

One day Abner, his wife, and Rosemary, still in arms, went through the cemetery. They paused beside the grave of Moses Crockett for a moment. There were none of the usual eulogies of the dead upon his stone, merely a record of the dates of birth and death and his name; that was ail.

"Poor old man!” said Mrs. Kelton. "I’m sorry for him. Nobody ever had a good word for him.”

"Why should they.?” flared up Abner. "He never did anything decent for anybody while he lived. In fact, the only good thing he ever did was die and get out of the way. Why, in a few more years, nobody in Pequoig would have been able to breathe unless they asked old Crockett’s permission! Why, what’s the matter with the child?”

For little Rosemary, whether frightened by her father’s violent and angry tone, or for another reason, had commenced to cry bitterly and would not be comforted. Nor did she ever after that show such a liking for her father as had been her wont.

Another year crept by. Little Rosemary became "free, goin’ on four,” as she would proudly announce to all who begged to be informed.

Again on Memorial Day, the family went to Highland Cemetery to lay tributes upon ancestral resting-places.

Here in Pequoig, it has always been a custom that a thing worth doing at all is worth doing well, and the graves were loaded with flowers. This made it all the more noticeable, when they passed, as they were obliged to do, old Moses Crockett’s grave.

It was bare and luitended. The grass grew upon it uncut and in stiff clumps. 'The headstone had tipped drunkenly askew. The whole effect was that of desolation and neglect.

Rosemary looked at this depressing sight and hung back on her mother’s hand.

"Mama! Why hasn’t he got some flowers, too? Everybody else has got lots. Couldn’t they g've him a few?”

Mrs. Kelton looked at the grave and at her earnest-faced little girl. It did seem petty and spiteful to neglect this hard, unloved man, now that he was dead and gone.

"Give him this if you like, little daughter,” she smiled, and broke off a little sweet-smelling sprig of blue flowers from the bouquet she carried. "It’s rosemary, the pretty little shrub that we named you after. Put it there, dear. Now come, we will be late for the exercises.”

"Why didn’t he have any flowers. Mama?”

"Nobody loved him, darling. He didn’t have any little girl like you to think about him and bring him flowers. He was all alone, you see.”

"Poor old man! I’ll be his little girl. Mama. I’ll love him too and bring him flowers. Can’t I be your little girl and his too. Mama?”

Tears sprang to her mother’s eyes. She knelt and hugged her baby.

"Mother's thoughtful little daughter!



Of course you can. We will come here together, whenever you wish.”

And there the matter ended for a while.

On Sundays Mrs. Kelton and Rosemary came to be regular visitors to the grave. It took on a different aspect.

The headstone was straightened, the grass neatly clipped, with seed sown to fill in the bare spots. Flowers were brought, fresh every week, whatever was in season at the time. A little bush had sprung up of itself upon the grave and one day Mrs. Kelton noticed that the spot it occupied must be directly over the old man’s heart. It was rosemary.

The year wore away to early fall.

Goldenrod and fringed gentians appeared upon the grave and the little girl had formed the habit of going to the cemetery alone.

At first, she had wandered off and had been sought anxiously and with much concern, only to be found coming home with the calm explanation that having nothing else to do she had gone to the cemetery with flowers for old Uncle Moses.

Entering into the spirit of the play, Abner asked teasingly, "How did be like ’em? Did he thank ye for ’em, now?”

*' ’Deed he did, Papa. He walked all the way here with me, too, but when he saw you he went back.”

Abner’s eyes almost popped from his head. He looked at his wife. She paled.

"Are you sure it was him, dear? How was he dressed?”

"Course ’twas him. He wore the same clothes he always wears. A black suit, big wide floppy hat, and his shoes are square at the toe.

"Poor man,” she interrupted herself. "I mean 'shoe,’ of course, because he’s only got one foot. But he gets along real

good with his peg-leg and his cane with the silver on the handle.”

Over the child’s head, the parents exchanged an awed look. She had described his garb to the life, and there was not a picture of Moses Crcx:kett in the entire village of Pequoig!

"You have seen him before, then?” queried Abner.

"Course. Lots of times. We talk together every time I go up there.”

"What aibout?”

"Oh, things,” she replied, evasively. "He talks like he’s glad to have me for a little girl.”

Home again, the parents held a long colloquy, and arrived at the opinion that for the sake of her future sanity she must be kept away from the grave.

So, for a month. Highland Cemetery went unvisited by any Kelton, and grass grew up in clumps upon the grave and turned brown and sere in the chill nights of autumn.

Rosemary wept, but parental orders were stern. Then one day she was missing again and was found this time in the cemetery itself, radiant and happy. She was sitting by the headstone, talking rapidly, and appeared to be enjoying herself so much that Mrs. Kelton had not the heart to drag her away, but withdrew unobserved.

She came home in wild excitement. Old Uncle Moses, it appeared, had hit a big dog with his cane, when it jumped out at her as she was passing by Asa Higgins’ house.

Abner kelton put on his hat and c^at - and went out without saying a word. In front of the Higgins house lay a dog. He did not remember ever having seen it about the village. Its back had been broken by a heavy blow and it was dead. He went to Highland Cemetery in the



gathering dark. Standing before the grave he took off his hat.

"I’m much obliged, Mr. Crockett,’’ he said, in a steady voice. "We think the world of that little girl.”

Off in the depths of the wooded cemetery a whippoorwill sounded its plaintive, half -human cry. It came like a distant, sardonic laugh.

Abner started and put on his hat. "You poor, dumb fool!” he said to himself and strode home.

There is little more to tell.

Scarlet fever came to Pequoig before the first snow fell, and among the early victims was Rosemary Kelton. Parched and hot, she threw herself about upon her little bed in the agonies of delirium and nothing the anguished parents could do would bring her ease.

"I want Uncle Moses. Why don’t Uncle Moses come to me?” she kept continually calling, and in desperation Abner Kelton went to Highland Cemetery with grief in his heart.

He knelt beside the grave.

"God,” he said, very simply, "I ain’t much on praying, but if you can let Moses Crockett come home with me for a spell. I’ll be much obliged.”

He paused; he felt there should be something more, but nothing would come to his mind. There was no sound to be heard but the wind dolefully whining through the leafless branches of the weeping willows, and soughing in the pines.

"Amen,” he said, and stood up.

He walked out of the cemetery on the gravel path. He stopped and looked back; there was nothing to be seen, but he thought that he heard an irregular step on the gravel behind him.

He went on, down into the village. Far behind came a hollow stump, stump, stump, on the board walk, and faint but clear, a long rattle such as might be made

by a stick dragged along the white-painted pickets of a fence.

Abner Kelton hurried home.

Stump, stump, stump, on the other side of the street.

Abner Kelton raised the latch of his gate and went into his house.

Lying on her bed, Rosemary smiled at him. "You sent him, didn’t you. Papa? He loves you too now. Papa, because you came for him. He said he came before, but your hearts were against him and he couldn’t get in. How good his cool hands feel on my forehead!”

She fell off into easy slumber, and that night the fever broke.

The parents spoke little of what had happened, but lying awake, they heard in the nights of sickness that followed, little noises that sounded like the slight tapping of a wooden leg set softly as might be in the taking of steps. And there was talking from below stairs. Sometimes they could swear they heard another voice besides that of their daughter, but so often as they went down to see, the other voice stopped and they found Rosemary muttering in her sleep.

So they gave up and left her with her unseen companion, for that she was in loving care could not be doubted.

But, although the fever was gone, Rosemary did not get well. Day by day she became more thin and pale, daily more feeble, until in spite of all their efforts she whispered one evening with a tired little sigh: "I love my Mama and Papa, and my Uncle Moses,” and closed her eyes for ever, with the setting of the sun.

That was a night of sleepless sorrow.

The grief-stricken mother sat by the beside of her first-born and mourned, dry-eyed and heartbroken.

Along toward morning, outraged nature had her way, and she dropped off to

,778


sleep in her rocker. People afterward thought she dreamed what followed, but she always swore that a sudden noise brought her eyes open.

Rosemary was sitting up in the bed, holding out her arms to some one behind her mother. She was unable to turn, but she heard a deep, hearty, happy laugh, no more like the surly tones that she remembered from Moses Crockett than anything in the world.

"I knew you would come back for me. Uncle Moses,” crowed the little girl, with a lovely smile. "I waited for you. I just couldn’t go by myself. It was so far and so dark.”

The person behind Mrs. Kelton laughed again.

"Come,” said the hearty, goodhumored tones. "Come, darling, we will go together. Did you think I would let the only one in the whole wide world who ever loved old Uncle Moses go alone?”

'Then she saw that there were two Rosemarys, for one jumped out of bed and left the other lying there. The first Rosemary ran past the rocker.

"Here,” said the happy voice, "put on your shoes. We are going to have a long

journey, you know. So! There we are. Now, put this on the bed, then when your mother wakes up, she will know that everything is all right, and you will be waiting for her to follow us by and by.”

The first Rosemary ran back to the bed and tucked something into the clasped fingers of the second.

"Now then, here we go. Come on. Up! You shall have a ride.”

The door opened and closed again. At once Mrs. Kelton sprang up. She darted to the bed and took a tiny twig from between the fingers of the little girl who lay smiling there.

At last, tears blinded her eyes, but she heard a sound in the room and dashed them away. Abner stood at the foot of the stairs, looking sadly at her. She walked toward him.

"Oh, Abner,” she began and paused, listening.

Stump, stump, stump, far away on the board sidewalk, and faint but clear, the sharp rattle of a stick on a picket fence.

She held up the sweet-smelling sprig before his face.

"Rosemary,” she said unsteadily. "Rosemary. That’s for remembrance.”

Drive

By CARL JACOBI

A short story of a grisly ride through a blizzard with a corpse

IT WAS a cold wind that whipped across the hills that November evening. There was snow in the air, and Jeb Waters in the cab of his jolting van shivered and drew the collar of his

sheepskin higher about the throat. All day endless masses of white cumulus cloud had raced across a cheerless sky. They were gray now, those clouds, leaden gray, and so low-hanging they seemed to



lie like a pall on. the aest. of each distant hillock. Off to the right, stem and majestic, like a great parade of H. G. Wells’ Martian creatures, marched the towers of the Eastern States Power lines, the only evidence here of present-day civilization. A low humming whine rose from the taut wires now as the mounting wind twanged them in defiance.

Through the windshield Jeb Waters scanned the sky anxiously.

"It’s going to be a cold trip back,’’ he muttered to himself. "Looks mighty like a blizzard startin’.”

He gave the engine a bit more gas and tightened his grasp on the wheel as a sharper curve loomed up suddenly before him. For a time he drove in silence, his mind fixed only on the barrenness of the hills on all sides. Mardiester lay thirty miles ahead, thirty long, rolling miles. Littleton was just behind. If there were going to be a storm, perhaps it would be wise to return and wait until morning before making the trip. It would be bad to get stuck out here tonight, especially with the kind of load he was delivering. Enough to give one the creeps even in the daytime.

Marchester with its few hundred souls, hopelessly lost in the hills, too small or perhaps too lazy to incorporate itself, had been passed by without a glance when the railroad officials distributed spurs leading from the main line. As a result all freight had to be trucked thirty miles across the country from Littleton, the nearest town on trackage. But there wasn’t much freight, as the officials had suspected, and although Jeb Waters drove the distance only twice a week, he rarely returned with more than a single package.

Today, however, the load had stunned him with its importance. In the van, back of him, separated by only the wooden wall of the cab, lay a coffin, and in tfiat coffin

was die body of Philip Carr, Marchester's iiHTSt promising son. Philip Carr — Race Carr they had called him because he was such a driving fool—was the only man v.'ho could have brought the town to fame. With his queer-looking Speed Empress, the racing-car which was a product of his own invention and three years’ work, he had hoped to lower the automobile speed record on the sand track of Daytona Beach, Florida. He had clocked an unofficial 300 miles an hour in a practise attempt, and the world had sat up and taken notice.

On the fatal day, however, a tire had failed to stand the centrifugal force, and in a trice the car had twisted itself into a lump of steel. Philip Carr had been instantly killed. There was talk of burying him in Florida, but Marchester, his home town, had absolutely refused. And so the body had been shipped back to Littleton, the nearest point on rails, and Jeb Waters had been sent to bring it from there to Marchester.

JEB hadn’t liked the idea. There was nothing to be afraid of, he knew, but somehow when he was alone in these Rentharpian Hills, even though he had known no other home since a child, he always felt depressed and anxious for companionship. A coffin would hardly serve to ease his mind.

The wind was mounting steadily, and now the first swirls of snow began to appear. The cab of the van was anything but warm. A corner of the windshield was broken out, and the rags Jeb had stuffed in the hole failed to keep out the cold.

Premature darkness had swooped down under the lowering clouds, and Jd? turned on the lights. The van was a veiy old one, and the lights worked on the magneto. As the snow became thicker and



thicker Jeb was forced to reduce his speed, and the lights, deprived of most of their current, dimmed to only a low dismal glow, illuminating but little of the road ahead.

Yet the miles rolled slowly by. The snow was piling in drifts now. It rolled across the hills, a great sweeping blanket of white, and swirled like powder through the crevices of the cab. And it was growing colder.

Frome’s Hill, the steepest rise on the road, loomed up abruptly, and Jeb roared the rickety motor into a running start. The van lurched up the ascent, back wheels spinning in the soft snow, seeking traction. The engine hammered its protest. The transmission groaned as if in pain. Up, up climbed the truck until at length it reached the very top.

"Now it’s clear sailing,” said Jeb aloud.

But he had spoken too soon. With a sigh as if the feat had been too great, the motor lapsed into sudden silence. The lights blinked out, and there was only the gray darkness of the hills and the swishing of the snow on the sides of the cab.

For a full moment Jeb sat there motionless as the horror of the situation fell upon him. Snowbound with a corpse! Twenty miles from the nearest habitation and alone with a coffin! A cold sweat burst out on his forehead at the realization of the predicament.

But he was acting like a child. It was ridiculous to let his ner\’es run away with him like that. If he could only keep from freezing there would be no danger. In the morning when it was found he hadn’t reached Marchester the people would send help. Probably Ethan would come. Old Ethan. He would come in that funny sleigh of his. And he would say:

"Well Jeb, howdja like spending the night with a dead ’un?”

And then they would both laugh and

drive back to town.... But that was tomorrow. Tonight there was the storm — and the corpse.

He set the spark, got out, and cranked the engine. But he did it half-heartedly. He knew by the tone of the engine when it had stopped that it would be a long time before it would resume revolutions.

At length he resigned himself to his plight, returned to the cab and tried to keep warm. But the cab was old and badly built. The wind blew through chinks and holes in great drafts, and snow sifted down his neck. It suddenly occurred to him that the back part of the van, which had been repaired recently, would give better protection against the blizzard than the cab. There were robes back there too, robes used to keep packages from being broken. If only the coffin weren’t there! One couldn’t sleep next to a coffin.

Another thought followed. Why not put the coffin in the cab.^ There was nothing else in the van, and he would then have the back of it to himself. He could lie down too and with the robes manage to keep w'arm somehow.

In a moment his mind was made up, and he set about to accomplish his task. It was hard, slow work. 'The coffin was heavy, the cab small and the steering-post in the way. Finally by shoving it in end up he managed it successfully, and then going to the back of the van, he went in, closed the door, tolled up like a ball in the robes and lay down to sleep.

SLEEP proved elusive. He stirred restlessly, listening to the sounds of the storm. Occasionally the truck trembled as a stronger gust of wind struck it. Occasionally he could hear the mournful Eolian whine of the power lines. Powdery snow rustled along the roof of the van. And the iron exhaust pipe cracked loudly as the heat left it. Minutes dragged by, slowly, interminably.


781'

And then suddenly Jeb Waters sat bolt upright. Whether or not he had dozed off into a fitful sleep he did not know, but at any rate he was wide awake now.

The van was moving! He could hear the tires crunching in the snow, could feel the slight swaying as the car gained momentum. He leaped to his feet and pressed his eyes against the little window that connected the back of the van with the cab.

For a moment he saw nothing. A strip of black velvet seemed pasted before the glass. Then the darkness softened. A soft glow seemed to form in the cab, and vaguely he seemed to see the figure of a man hunched over the wheel in the driver’s position.

The van was going faster now. It creaked and swayed, and the wheels rumbled hollowly. Yet strangely enough there was no sound of the engine. Jeb hammered on the little pane of glass.

"Hey!” he cried. "Get away from that wheel! Stop!”

The figure seemed not to hear. With his hands grasping the wheel tightly, elbows far out, shoulders hunched low, he appeared aware of nothing but the dark road ahead of him. Faster and faster sped the van.

Frantically Jeb rammed his clenched fist through the window. The glass broke into a thousand fragments.

"Do you hear?” he cried. "Stop, blast you! Stop!”

The man turned and leered at him. Even in the half -glow Jeb recognized the features — that deathly white face, the black, glassy eyes.

"Oh, my God,” he screamed. "It’s Philip Carr!” His voice rose to a hysterical laughing sob. His hands trembled as he clutched the careening walls, striving to keep his balance.

"Philip Carr,” he shouted. "You’re

dead. You’re dead, do you hear? You can’t drive any more.”

A horrible gurgling laugh came from the man at the wheel. The figure bent lower as if to urge the van to a greater speed. And the van answered as if to a magic touch. On it raced into the storm, rocking and swaying like a thing accursed. Snow swirled past in great white clouds. The wind howled in fanatical accompaniment.

Jeb plunged his arm through the broken window and clawed for the throat of the driver.

"Stop!” he screamed. And then he gurgled in horror as his hands touched the ice-cold skin.

Suddenly with a lurch the van left the road and leaped toward the blacker shadows of a gully. A giant tree, its branches gesticulating wildly in the wind, reared up just ahead.

'There came a crash!

“Tt’s odd,” said the coroner, and X frowned.

Old Ethan scratched his chin.

"It ’pears,” he said, "as if that danged van engine went and stopped right on the top of that hill. Then Jeb, he musta gone into the back of the van to keep warm, and durin’ the night the wind started the thing a-rollin’. It come tearin’ down the hill, jumped into this here gully and ran smash agin the tree. That’s the way I figure it. Poor old Jeb!”

"Yes,” replied the coroner, "but there doesn’t seem to be the slightest injury on Jeb’s body. Apparently he died of heartfailure. And the corpse of Philip Carr!... The crash might have ripped open the coffin. But that doesn’t explain why the body although set in rigor mortis is in a sitting position. 'The way his arms are extended, it looks almost as though he were driving once more.”

9\5:

ellie Foster

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

A brief tale of a woman who would not stay quiet in her grave

Mrs. KRAFT came hurriedly from the house, closed the white gate behind her, and half ran across the dusty street. With one hand she held her long skirts clear of the walk; with the other she pressed a white handkerchief tightly to her lips. Her dark eyes were fixed on the green and white house at the end of the block, almost hidden in the shade of overhanging elms of great age.

The gate stood open, and Mrs. Kraft stepped quickly on to the lawn, forgetting to close the gate behind her. She avoided the low veranda, going around the side of the house, and entered the kitchen through the open door at the back.

Mrs. Perkins was leafing through her recipe book when the shadow of Mrs. Kraft momentarily darkened her door. She looked up and said, "How do, Mrs. Kraft? You’re out early this morning.” She smiled.

Mrs. Kraft did not smile. She stood quite still, her handkerchief still pressed tightly against her mouth, nodding curtly to acknowledge her neighbor’s greeting.

Mrs. Perkins looked at her oddly. "What is it, Mrs. Kraft?” she asked a little nervously.

Mrs. Kraft took the handkerchief away from her mouth, clenching it tightly in her hand, and said, "It happened again last night.”

Mrs. Perkins put her recipe book aside suddenly. "How do you know?” she asked breathlessly. Her eyes were un782

naturally wide. "How do you know, Mrs. Kraft?”

Her visitor opened her hand jerkily. "It was my niece this time. She saw the woman, too. I didn’t want Andrew to let the child go out last night, but she would have her way. She wanted to go to her Aunt Emmy’s.”

"Beyond the cemetery,” breathed Mrs. Perkins. "But she came back before dark, surely?”

Mrs. Kraft shook her head. "No. At dusk, just before the street lights went on. The woman was there, standing in the road. The child was afraid, even when the woman took her hand and walked along with her.”

"What did she do? Oh, I hope nothing serious happened!”

"The same as before. The woman kissed the child, and the little one went to sleep. This morning she is so weak, she couldn’t get up. Loss of blood, the doctor said.”

Mrs. Perkins clasped her hands helplessly in her lap. "What can we do, Mrs. Kraft? Nobody would believe us if we said what this must be.”

Mrs. Kraft made an impatient movement with her head. Then she leaned forward, her dark eyes shining, speaking in a low voice. "The child knew the woman.”

Mrs. Perkins started. "It wasn’t... wasn’t -

Mrs. Kraft nodded. "Nellie Foster — not yet a month dead!”

Mrs. Perkins wove her fingers together



nervously. She had gone pale, and her uneasiness was more pronounced than her visitor’s.

"My niece is the third child, Mrs. Perkins. We must do something, or it will continue — and the children may die.’’

Mrs. Perkins said nothing. Her visitor went on.

"I’m going to do something, if you won’t,” she said. "Tonight I’m going to watch at the cemetery. There won’t be another child to be taken like that.”

"I don’t know what I can do,” murmured Mrs. Perkins quietly. "I get so nervous. If I saw Nellie Foster, I’d probably scream.”

Mrs. Kraft shook her head firmly. "That would never do,” she admitted.

"Did you go to the minister?” asked Mrs. Perkins.

Mrs. Kraft pressed her lips tightly together before she spoke. 'Then she said, "He said there were no such things. He said only ignorant people believed in vampires.”

Mrs. Perkins shook her head in disapproval.

"He asked me how Nellie Foster could have become one, and I told him about the cat jumping over her cofiin. He smiled, and wouldn’t believe me.” Mrs. Kraft stood up, nodding her head. "And I know it’s Nellie Foster, because I was out to the cemetery this morning, and there were three little holes in the grave — like finger holes, going ’way down deep.”

"What are you going to do?”

"I don’t know yet. But I’ll watch, and I won’t let her get out of the cemetery.”

"Maybe the men could do something,” suggested Mrs. Perkins hopefully.

"It would be worse than telling the minister, to go to them. They’d laugh. If he wouldn’t believe it, they wouldn’t,”

said Mrs. Kraft scornfully. "It will be left for some one else to do.”

"I wish I could help,” said Mrs. Perkins.

Mrs. Kraft looked at her reflectively, her eyes hardening. "You can, if you want.”

Mrs. Perkins nodded eagerly.

"If I’m to go to the cemetery. I’ve got to be protected.”

The other woman nodded. Mrs. Kraft pursed her lips firmly. "I need something,” she went on, "and I’d like to use that blessed crucifix your son brought from Belgium, the one Cardinal Mercier gave him, a very old one, he said it was.”

For a moment Mrs. Perkins wavered. Her lips faltered a little. Then, quailing before the stern eyes of Mrs. Kraft, she moved noiselessly to get the crucifix.

Mrs. Kraft attached it to a black ribbon around her neck, and tucked it out of sight in the bosom of her black dress. 'Then she rose to go.

"I’ll tell you what happened in the morning, Mrs. Perkins. And if I don’t come” — Mrs. Kraft faltered — "then something’s wrong. And if I’m not here before noon, you’d best go to the cemetery, perhaps, and look around a bit.”

Mrs. Perkins quavered, "You don’t think she’d go for you, Mrs. Kraft?”

"They don’t only go for children, Mrs. Perkins. I’ve read about them. If they can’t die, they have to have blood — and we’ve blood, too.”

Nodding her head sagely, Mrs. Kraft went from the house, her lips still pursed, her hand still tightly clenching her handkerchief.

Mrs. KRAFT sat on the back porch with Mrs. Perkins a little after sunrise the next morning. 'The dew was not yet gone; it hung heavy on the hollyhocks and delphinium. 'Hie early sun784


light threw long shadows across the garden.

Mrs. Kraft was talking. "I got there just after sunset and hid behind the oak tree near old Mr. Prince’s grave, and watched for Nellie Foster. When the moon came up, I saw something on her grave, something gray. It was like a part of some one lying there, and it was moving. It was misty, and I couldn’t see it well. Then I saw a hand, and then another, and after that a face.” Mrs. Kraft coughed a little; Mrs. Perkins shuddered.

"And then?” prompted Mrs. Perkins. She leaned forward, fascinated.

"It was Nellie Foster,” Mrs. Kraft went on in a low voice. "She was crawling out of her grave. I could see her plainly then in the moonlight. It was Nellie, all right. I’d know her anywhere. She pulled herself out — it was like mist coming out of those holes in the grave, those little holes.”

"What did you do?”

"I think I was scared. I didn’t move. When the mist stopped coming there was Nellie standing on the grave. Then I ran toward her, holding the cross in my hand. Before I could reach her, she was gone.”

Mrs. Kraft’s face twisted suddenly in pain. "This morning they found the little Walters girl, like the others. I should have watched beside the grave. I should have stopped Nellie. I shouldn’t have let her get out. It’s my fault that the little Walters girl was attacked. My fault. I could have stopped Nellie. I could have watched there all night. I should have gone forward before she got out of the grave.”

She rose suddenly, disturbed. "I’m going now, Mrs. Perkins. Let me keep the cross a little longer. I think I’ll need it tonight.”

Mrs. Perkins nodded, and her visitor

was gone, her black-clothed figure walking quickly across the road. Mrs. Perkins watched her go, wondering about Nellie Foster, hoping that soon something might be done to stop her coming from her grave. There was her own little Flory to think about. What if some day Nellie Foster should see her, and then they would find little Flory Perkins like that? Mrs. Perkins shuddered. "Oh Lord, give me power to do something,” she thought. "Let me help.” Then she thought, "And Nellie Foster was always such a nice girl! It’s hard to believe.” She went into the house, shaking her head.

She had intended to go over to see Mrs. Kraft just after dinner, to talk about doing something, but a sudden storm struck the town, and for six hours it raged, pouring rain, darkening the town. For six hours only lightning flashes brightened the darkness. Then, at seven o’clock, the sky cleared abruptly, and the setting sun came out to finish the July day in a blaze of rainbow glory.

Mrs. PERKINS finished washing the supper dishes, saw her Flory go out to play until dark, and finally started for Mrs. Kraft’s. Going out to the sidewalk, she saw an elderly man coming quickly down the street. Mr. Shurz, she thought. Seems in a hurry, too. She pondered this. Something on his mind, likely. She purposely slowed her pace.

At the gate she met him. He would have gone past had he not spied her suddenly. 'Then he stopped breathlessly. "Miz’ Perkins, have y’ heard the news?”

Mrs. Perkins shook her head. "Lightning strike somewhere?” she asked.

"If only ’twere that, Miz’ Perkins, ma’am.” The old man shook his head dolefully. "The like of this we’ve never had in this town before, ’slong as I can remember. This afternoon during the W. T.— 7



storm, some one got into the cemetery and dug open Nellie Foster's grave!”

Mrs. Perkins leaned over the gate, her hands tightly clenched on the pointed staves. "What?” she whispered hoarsely. "What’s that you say, Mr. Shurz.?”

" 'Tis just as I say, Miz’ Perkins. Some one dug into Nellie Foster’s grave, in all that storm, too, and opened the coffin, Miz’ Perkins, ma’am, and druv a stake clean through her body!”

"A stake... through her body!” She shook her head. "Just what Mrs. Kraft said should be done,” she murmured to herself.

Mr. Shurz did not hear her. He nodded vehemently. "Qean through, Miz’ Perkins, ma’am. And a poyverful lot of blood there were, too; ’twas a surprize to Doctor Bames. A strange, unnatural thing, the doctor said.”

"But surely the coffin was covered again?”

"Partly, only partly, Miz’ Perkins. Seems the man got scared away.”

"Oh... it was a man, then?”

Mr. Shurz looked at her, smiling vacuously. " ’Course ’twas a man, Miz’ Perkins.”

"He was seen, then?”

Mr. Shurz shook his head. "Oh, no, he wasn’t seen. No, ma’am, he wasn’t seen. Too slick for that, he was.”

Mrs. Perkins felt her heart pounding in her breast. She felt suddenly that she was stifling. She opened the gate and stepped onto the sidewalk at Mr. Shurz’s side, walking along with him. She did not hear what he was saying.

Mrs. Kraft was out on her lawn. She was pale, dishevelled. Mrs. Perkins was thinking, I hope he won’t notice anything, I hope he won’t notice anything. Mr. Shurz stopped with Mrs. Perkins. Mrs,

Perkins could hardly bring herself to say, "How do, Mrs. Kraft?”

Then, as Mr. Shurz was repeating his story to Mrs. Kraft, Mrs. Perkins’ eyes fell on the stain of red clay on Mrs. Kraft’s hands, a stain at first difficult to wash away. She wanted to look away from Mrs. Kraft’s rough hands, but she could not. Then she noticed that Mr. Shurz had seen the stain, too.

"Been digging in red clay, have you, Miz’ Kraft?” He laughed hollowly. "Looks mighty like that clay they dug away off Nellie Foster’s coffin, now.” He wagged his head.

Mrs. Perkins felt faint. She heard him talking, rambling on. Deep down in her she wanted to say something, anything, to change the subject, but she could not. Then she heard Mrs. Kraft speaking.

"I’ve been digging in the garden, Mr. Shurz,” she smiled politely, despite her white, drawn face. '"This stain is mighty hard to get off your hands.”

Mrs. Perkins heard herself saying, "That’s right. I warned Mrs. Kraft not to touch the red clay when we were digging up her sweet william right after the storm, but she wouldn’t listen.” She was thinking, "Oh Lord, don’t let him look into the garden; don’t let him see how black the ground is there.”

Mr. Shurz grinned broadly and shrugged his shoulders. " ’Tis a good time to dig garden, after rain. Well, I must be off. We’ll be catching him who meddled with Nellie Foster.”

The women, standing one on each side of the fence, watched the old man go down the street. Mrs. Perkins was afraid to look at Mrs. Kraft. Then she heard her neighbor cough lightly, and turned.

Mrs. Kraft was holding out the crucifix. "I don’t think I’ll need it any more, Mrs, Perkins,” she was saying.

SC'^ORD of explanation is due our readers as to the change in dating of Weird

Tales. Heretofore, like many other magazines, Weird Tales has been

dated one month later than its actual sale date. For instance, our March issue went on sale February 1, and went oflf sale on the news stands March 1, to make way for our April issue. We have intended for a long time to change Weird Tales to a rational dating, and we are doing this with the current (June) issue. To effect this change in dating, the April issue was kept on the stands forty-five days. The May issue went on sale, therefore, on April 15 instead of April 1; and this issue (June) goes on sale June 1. Hereafter Weird Tales will go on sale each month on the first day of the month it bears date of. There is no advantage, to either the magazine or the readers, in pre-dating a magazine of fiction.

From the new Asiatic state of Manchukuo comes a letter from Mrs. Dakotawin E. Hayakawa of the Manchuria Medical University at Mukden: "Your magazine is superb and I shall say at once and without a moment’s hesitation that your best writers are Seabury Quinn and Otis Adelbert Kline. I have never enjoyed any story as much as I am enjoying Buccaneers of Venus. Give us many more serials of this type. I have never written to the Eyrie before, and I am only writing today because I feel that I must add my few words of praise for Mr. Kline’s thoroughly fascinating serial.”

From New Brighton, New Zealand, comes this letter from G. W. Hockley: "Just a few lines to congratulate you on the continued high quality of the good old mag. Even though adverse exchange rates, sales taxes and what not, make the price here equivalent to 60 cents a copy, I manage to procure it somehow — it’s my one solace in these times of depression. Congratulations on changing your reprint policy. No more dreary drivel like Frankenstein, please! I was tickled to death to be able to read The Night Wire and The Cats of Ulthar. Keep up the good work — only reprints from back issues of Weird Tales. What has happened to H. P. Lovecraft? Surely the master of the weird tale has not deserted your pages for keeps! His stories are all the more appreciated, maybe, because of their scarcity, but don’t make us wait too long. Robert E. Howard has excelled himself in The Scarlet Citadel. I have never read a poor, or even medium, R. E. H. story yet; and this one certainly rang the bell. Howard has that rare quality of transporting the reader completely away from this mundane old earth and opening up imaginative vistas utterly strange and alien.”

"I am thrilled at the news of the Weird Tales broadcasts and send best wishes for their magnificent success,” writes Frank Harrison Cunningham from Roanoke,




Virginia. “I hope some of the stories will be filmed. Karloff would have beai a wow in Howard’s Skull-face.”

Miss E. Myers, of Brooklyn, writes to the Eyrie: "For a good many years I have been a very willing addict and devoted reader of Weird Tales. It is my urgent plea to you not to publish any more so-called weird-scientific stories. Truly, they are not weird, and consequently they have no place in your unique magazine. Please print more stories of the kind that give us goose-flesh up and down our spines, make us afraid of the dark and of going to bed. Make us wonder fearfully whether our next-door neighbor is not a vampire — after all his ears are long and tapering and his teeth long and pointed, and his lips are unnaturally red. And what are those strange sounds emanating from his room? Is he in the midst of some dreadful Black Mass? Please heed this lengthy plea.”

Writes E. M. Barnett, of Plymouth, Massachusetts: "Not in many moons have I read a story as unusual and gripping as Carl Jacobi’s masterpiece in the April issue of Weird Tales.' Revelations in Black. I am not an old-time reader of your magazine, since only about a year ago was I fortunate enough to discover it on the news stand. Since then I have bought the magazine regularly and enjoyed it tremendously. Now I must write to say how much I liked the story. Revelations in Black. I hope there will be many more by Mr. Jacobi in the future.”

"Is this a private fight, or can an interested bystander take off his coat and get in?” asks S. G. Gurwit, of Chicago. "I am referring to the differences of opinion regarding interplanetary yarns. Otis A. Kline certainly knows how to write this type of story and I am for having them. Everything out of the everyday routine of ordinary life is weird — and these stories can be classed as weird. They certainly hold the interest. When I start reading one, I forget this entire world we live in and go adventuring. By all means, keep them in Weird Tales. As for Hamilton, I’ve gotten many a thrill out of his stories. They’re pretty nearly perfect examples of their kind. Robert E. Howard, too, is one of my favorites. What a smash he packs! All told, I like Weird Tales as it is. It’s one of the magazines I really wait for each month with a sense of anticipation, knowing I’m going to get something different, new; something that will stir me up. Keep up the good work.”

From River Falls, Wisconsin, comes a letter from Edward Walden: "I have never taken it upon myself to write to your reader’s department before, but the April issue has without question more good stories in it than any month it has been my privilege to read. Revelations in Black was all that you labeled it to be, an utterly strange story and very good.”

"Your April Weird Tales was undoubtedly the finest issue you have given us in months,” writes B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts. "I wish especially to congratulate you on Golden Blood by Jack Williamson. This starts out as the finest serial you have ever published. I have always considered A. Merritt the greatest creator of fantastic stories, but if the remainder of Golden Blood is on a par with the first part, I shall have to admit that Williamson is a close second to Merritt. By all means keep him writing for you. Carl Jacobi found a new and unique angle to vampire stories in his Revelations in Black. This story was utterly different from the usual run of vampire stuff, and the finest of its kind I have ever seen anywhere. ’Then there was Price’s Return of Balkis, which though not



equal to his Girl from Samarcand, still rang the bell; and Bassett Morgan’s Tiger Dust, his best since Bimini."

Otto J. Precht, of Bellmore, Long Island, writes to the Eyrie: "Mr. Price’s story, The Return of Balkis, merits a letter of commendation. The red-blooded character, Nureddin, warms the heart. But I regret very much that Mr. Price had to kill him. Why didn’t he let him live so that he could rob more caravans?’’

Jack Poltec, of Denver, writes to the Eyrie: "How do you do it? Not satisfied with publishing the only magazine of weird fiction that is interesting enough to survive the depression which has killed off so many magazines, here you go and land smack in the middle of the adventure magazine field with the Magic Carpet Magazine, which lays it over every magazine of its kind in pep, fascination, and power. Robert E. Howard’s historical tales in the Magic Carpet are the equal of any stories ever published in the English language. Seabury Quinn’s series about the swashbuckling vagabond-at-arms are even better than his de Grandin tales, and Bedford- Jones’ stories are models of action and dash, with a thrill on every page. Of your two magazines. Weird Tales and the Magic Carpet Magazine, I prefer the latter. I regard it as the best fiction magazine on the stands today — and that’s going some!”

By the time our next issue goes on sale, July 1, we hope to give you full details regarding the Weird Tales broadcasts. In the next twelve months, radio dramatizations of fifty-two stories from this magazine will be broadcast nationally, with your favorite motion picture actors and actresses in the casts. Watch your local papers for announcements of this thrilling series.

Readers, let us know what stories you like best in this issue of Weird Tales. Carl Jacobi’s unusual vampire story. Revelations in Black, won first place in your affections among all the stories in our April issue. A close second in popularity was the first part of Jack Williamson’s strange novel. Golden Blood.

My favorite stories in the June WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

(1) - -

(2) - - -

(3) - -

I do not like the following stories:

(1)-

(2).

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Why?.

By M. HUMPHREYS

SEPTEMBER 17, 1922.— I sat down to breakfast this morning with a good appetite. The heat seemed over, and a cool wind blew in from my garden, where chrysanthemums were already budding. The sunshine streamed into the room and fell pleasantly on Mrs. O’Brien’s broad face as she brought in the eggs and coffee. For a supposedly lonely old bachelor the world seemed to me a pretty good place. I was buttering my third set of waffles when the housekeeper again appeared, this time with the mail.

I glanced carelessly at the three or four letters beside my plate. One of them Bore a strangely familiar handwriting. I gazed at it a minute, then seized it with a beating heart. Tears almost came into my eyes. There was no doubt about it — it was Arthur Barker’s handwriting! Shaky and changed, to be sure, but ten years have passed since I have seen Arthur, or, rather, since his mysterious disappearance.

For ten years I have not had a word from him. His people know no more than I what has become of him, and long ago we gave him up for dead. He van- • Fr«m weird tales tor May, 1923,

ished without leaving a trace behind him. It seemed to me, too, that with him vanished the last shreds of my youth. For Arthur was my dearest friend in that happy time. We were boon companions, and many a mad prank we played together.

And now, after ten years of silence, Arthur was writing to me!

The envelope was postmarked Baltimore. Almost reluctantly — for I feared what it might contain — I passed my finger under the flap and opened it. It held a single sheet of paper torn from a pad. But it was Arthur’s writing;

"Dear Tom:

"Old man, can you run down to see me for a few days? I’m afraid I’m in a bad way.

"Arthur.”

Scrawled across the bottom was the address, 536 N. Marathon Street.

I have often visited Baltimore, but I can not recall a street of that name.

Of course I shall go.... But what a strange letter after ten years! There is something almost uncanny about it.




I shall go tomorrow evening. I can not possibly get off before then.

SEPTEMBER 18 — I am leaving tonight.

Mrs. O’Brien has packed my two suitcases, and everything is in readiness for my departure. Ten minutes ago I handed her the keys and she went off tearfully. She had been snifHing all day and I have been perplexed, for a curious thing occurred this morning.

It was about Arthur’s letter. Yesterday, when I had finished reading it, I took it to my desk and placed it in a small compartment together with other personal papers. I remember distinctly that it was on top, with a lavender card from my sister directly underneath. This morning I went to get it. It was gone.

There was the lavender card exactly where I had seen it, but Arthur’s letter had completely disappeared. I turned everything upside down, then called Mrs. O’Brien and we both searched, but in vain. Mrs. O’Brien, in spite of all I could say, took it upon herself to feel that I suspected her.... But what could have become of it? Fortunately I remember the address.

SEPTEMBER 19 — I have arrived. I have seen Arthur. Even now he is in the next room and I am supposed to be preparing for bed. But something tells me I shall not sleep a wink this night. I am strangely wrought up, though there is not the shadow of an excuse for my excitement. I should be rejoicing to have found my friend again. And yet -

I reached Baltimore this morning at eleven o’clock. The day was warm and beautiful, and I loitered outside the station a few minutes before calling a taxi. The driver seemed well acquainted with

the street I gave him, and we rolled off aaoss the bridge.

As I drew near my destination, I began to feel anxious and afraid. But the ride lasted longer than I expected — Marathon Street seemed to be located in the suburbs of the city. At last we turned into a dusty street, paved only in patches and lined with linden and aspen trees. The fallen leaves crunched beneath the tires. The September sun beat down with a white intensity. The taxi drew up before a house in the middle of a block that boasted not more than six dwellings. On each side of the house was a vacant lot, and it was set far back at the end of a'long narrow yard crowded with trees.

I paid the driver, opened the gate and went in. The trees were so thick that not until I was half-way up the path did I get a good view of the house. It was three stories high, built of brick, in fairly good repair, but lonely and deserted-looking. The blinds were closed in all of the windows with the exception of two, one on the first, one on the second floor. Not a sign of life anywhere, not a cat nor a milk-bottle to break the monotony of the leaves that carpeted the porch.

But, overcoming my feeling of uneasiness, I resolutely set my suitcases on the porch, caught at the old-fashioned bell, and gave an energetic jerk. A startling peal jangled through the silence. I waited, but there was no answer.

After a minute I rang again. Then from the interior I heard a queer dragging sound, as if some one was coming slowly down the hall. The knob was turned and the door opened. I saw before me an old woman, wrinkled, withered, and filmyeyed, who leaned on a crutch.

"Does Mr. Barker live here?” I asked.

She nodded, staring at me in a curious way, but made no move to invite me in,

"Well, I’ve come to see him,” I said.



"I’m a friend of his. He sent for me.”

At that she drew slightly aside.

"He’s upstairs,” she said in a cracked voice that was little more than a whisper. "I can’t show you up. Hain’t been up a stair now in ten years.”

"'That’s all right,” I replied, and, seizing my suitcases, I strode down the long hall.

"At the head of the steps,” came the whispering voice behind me. "The door at the end of the hall.”

I climbed the cold dark stairway, passed along the short hall at the top, and stood before a closed door. I knocked.

"Come in.” It was Arthur’s voice, and yet — not his.

IOPENED the door and saw Arthur sitting on a couch, his shoulders hunched over, his eyes raised to mine.

After all, ten years had not changed him so much. As I remembered him, he was of medium height, inclined to be stout, and ruddy-faced, with keen gray eyes. He was still stout, but had lost his color and his eyes had dulled.

"And where have you been all this time.?” I demanded, when the first greetings were over.

"Here,” he answered.

"In this house?”

"Yes.”

"But why didn’t you let us hear from you?”

He seemed to be making an effort to speak.

"What did it matter? I didn’t suppose any one cared.”

Perhaps it was my imagination, but I could not get rid of the thought that Arthur’s pale eyes, fixed tenaciously upon my face, were trying to tell me something, something quite different from what his lips said.

- 1 felt chilled. Although the blinds were

open, the room was almost darkened by the branches of the trees that pressed against the window. Arthur had not given me hisi hand, had seemed troubled to know how to make me welcome. Yet of one thing I was certain: He needed me and he wanted me to know he needed me.

As I took a chair I glanced about the room. It was a typical lodging-house room, medium-sized, with flower^ wallpaper, worn matting, nondescript rugs, a wash-stand in one corner, a chiffonier in another, a table in the center, two or three chairs, and the couch which evidently served Arthur as a bed. But it was cold, strangely cold for such a warm day.

Arthur’s eyes had wandered uneasily to my suitcases. He made an effort to drag himself to his feet.

"Your room is back here,” he said, with a motion of his thumb.

"No, wait,” I protested. "Let’s talk about yourself first. What’s wrong?”

"I’ve been sick.”

"Haven’t you a doctor? If not, I’ll get one.”

At this he started up with the first sign of animation he had shown.

"No, Tom, don’t do it. Doctors can’t help me now. Besides, I hate them. I’m afraid of them.”

His voice trailed away, and I took pity on his agitation. I decided to let the question of doctors drop for the moment.

"As you say,” I assented carelessly.

Witliout more ado, I followed him into my room, which adjoined his and was furnished in much the same fashion. But there were two windows, one on each side, looking out on the vacant lots. Consequently there was more light, for which I was thankful. In a far corner I noticed a door, heavily bolted.

"There’s one more room, ” said Arthur,



as I deposited mjr belongings, "one that you’ll like. But we’ll have to go through the bathroom.’’

Groping our way through the musty bathroom, in which a tiny jet of gas was flickering, we stepped into a large, almost luxurious chamber. It was a library, well-furnished, carpeted, and surrounded by shelves fairly bulging with books. But for the chillness and bad light, it was perfect. As I moved about, Arthur followed me with his eyes.

"There are some rare works on botany - ’’

I had already discovered them, a set of books that I would have given much to own. I could not contain my joy.

"You won’t be so bored browsing around in here - ’’

In spite of my preoccupation, I pricked up my ears. In that monotonous voice j-bere was no sympathy with my joy. It was cold and tired.

When I had satisfied my curiosity we returned to the front room, and Arthur flung himself, or rather fell, upon the couch. It was nearly five o’clock and quite dark. As I light^ the gas, I heard a sound below as of somebody thumping on the wall.

"'That’s the old woman,’’ Arthur explained. "She cooks my meals, but she’s too lame to bring them up.’’

He made a feeble attempt at rising, but I saw he was worn out.

"Don’t stir,” I warned him. "I’ll bring up your food tonight.”

To my surprize, I found the dinner appetizing and well-cooked, and, in spite of the fact that I did not like the looks of the old woman, I ate with relish. Arthur barely touched a few spoonfuls of soup to his lips and absently crumbled some bread in his plate.

Directly I had carried off the dishes, he wrapped his reddish-brown dressinggown about him, stretched out at full

length on the couch, and asked me to turn out the gas. When I had complied with his request, I again heard his weak voice asking if I had everything I needed.

"Everything,” I assured him, and then there was unbroken silence.

I went to my room, finally, closed the door, and here I am sitting restlessly between the two back windows that look out on the vacant lots.

I have unpacked my clothes and turned down the bed, but I can not make up my mind to retire. If the truth be told, I hate to put out the light.... There is something disturbing in the way the dry leaves tap on the panes. And my heart is sad when I think of Arthur.

I have found my old friend, but he is no longer my old friend. Why does he fix his pale eyes so strangely on my face? What does he wish to tell me?

But these are morbid thoughts. I will put them out of my head. I will go to bed and get a good night’s rest. And tomorrow I will wake up finding everything right and as it should be.

SEPTEMBER 26 — I have been here a week today, and have settled down to this queer existence as if I had never known another. The day after my arrival I discovered that the third volume of the botanical series was done in Latin, which I have set myself the task of translating. It is absorbing work, and when I have buried myself in one of the deep chairs by the library table, the hours fly fast.

For health’s sake I force myself to walk a few miles every day. I have tried to prevail on Arthur to do likewise, but he, who used to be so active, now refuses to budge from the house. No wonder he is literally blue! For it is a fact that his complexion, and the shadows about his eyes and temples, are decidedly blue.

What does he do with himself all day? Whenever I enter his room, he is lying



on the couch, a book beside him, which he never reads. He does not seem to suffer pain, for he never complains. After several ineffectual attempts to get medical aid for him, I have given up mentioning the subject of a doctor. I feel that his trouble is more mental than physical.

SEPTEMBER 28 — A rainy day. It has been coming down in floods since dawn. And I got a queer turn this afternoon.

As I could not get out for my walk, I spent the morning staging a general house-cleaning. It was time! Dust and dirt everywhere. The bathroom, which has no window and is lifted by gas, was fairly overnm with water-bugs and roaches. Of course I did not penetrate to Arthur’s room, but I heard no sound from him as I swept and dusted.

I made a good dinner and settled down in the library, feeling quite cozy. The rain came down steadily and it had grown so cold that I decided to make a fire later on. But once I had gathered my tablets and notebooks about me I forgot the cold.

I remember I was on the subject of the Aster trijolium, a rare variety seldom found in this country. Turning a page,' I came upon a specimen of this very variety, dried, pressed flat, and pasted to the margin. Above it, in Arthur’s handwriting, I read: September 27, 1912.

I was bending close to examine it, when I felt a vague fear. It seemed to me that some one was in the room and was watching me. Yet I had rtot heard the door open, nor seen any one enter. I turned sharply and saw Arthur, wrapped in his reddish-brown dressing-gown, standing at my very elbow.

He was smiling — smiling for the first time since my arrival, and his dull eyes were bright. But I did not like that smile. (Please turn to page 794X

Just a bloc^ or two from every where— one and onehalf blocks from Union Station and two blocks from Traction Terminal

All Outside Rooms and each with bath

RADIO


Sinsle

$2-00 $2-50

Double

S3.00 $3.50


ARTHUR ZINK, ManagingDirector

121 SOUTH ILLINOIS STREET

[794

WEmD TALES

( Continued from preceding page )

In spite of myself I jerked away from him. He pointed at the aster.

"It grew in the front yard under a linden tree. I found it yesterday.”

"Yesterday!” I shouted, my nerves on edge. "Good Lord, man! Look! It was ten years ago!”

The smile faded from his face.

"Ten years ago,” he repeated thickly. "Ten years ago?”

And with his hand pressed against his forehead, he went out of the room still muttering, "Ten years ago!”

As for me, this foolish incident has preyed upon my mind and kept me from doing any satisfactory work.... September 27,... It is true, that was also yesterday — ten years ago.

October 1 — One o’clock. A cheerful morning this has been, the sun shining brightly, and a touch of frost in the air. I put in an excellent day’s work in the library yesterday, and on the first mail this morning came a letter from Mrs. O’Brien. She says the scarab chrysanthemums are in full bloom. I must positively run up for a day before they are gone.

As I lighted a cigar after breakfast, I happened to glance over at Arthur and was struck by a change in him. For he has changed. I ask myself if my presence has not done him good. On my arrival he seemed without energy, almost torpid, but now he is becoming restless. He wanders about the room continually and sometimes shows a disposition to talk.

Yes, I am sure he is better. I am going for my walk now, and I feel convinced that in a week’s time I shall have him accompanying me.

Five o’clock. Dusk is falling. O God!

What has come over me? Am I the same man that went out of this house

three hours ago? And what has happened?...

I had a splendid walk, and was striding homeward in a fine glow. But as I turned the corner and came in sight of the house, it was as if I looked at death itself. I could hardly drag myself up the stairs, and when I peered into the shadowy chamber, and saw the man hunched up on the couch, with his eyes fixed intently on my face, I could have screamed like a woman. I wanted to fly, to rush out into the clear cold air and run — to run and never come back! But I controlled myself, forced my feet to carry me to my room.

There is a weight of hopelessness at my heart. The darkness is advancing, swallowing up everything, but I have not the will to light the gas....

Now there is a flicker in the front room. I am a fool; I must pull myself together. Arthur is lighting up, and downstairs I can hear the thumping that announces dinner....

It is a queer thought that comes to me now, but it is odd I have not noticed it before. We are about to sit down to our evening meal. Arthur will eat practically nothing, for he has no appetite. Yet he remains stout. It can not be healthy fat, but even at that it seems to me that a man who eats as little as he does would become a living skeleton.

October 5 — Positively, I must see a doctor about myself, or soon I shall be a nervous wreck. I am acting like a child. Last night I lost all control and played the coward.

I had gone to bed early, tired out from a hard day’s work. It was raining again, and as I lay in bed I watched the little rivulets trickling down the panes. Lulled by the sighing of the wind among the leaves, I fell asleep.

(Please turn to page 796)

Coming Next Month

Even as he spoke, the fire-beasts, with deep, bellowing roars that reverberated loudh', were charging through the flames toward the two heat-armored humans!

Jerry had no time to think, but aaed instinctively. One of the fire-beasts wa; in advance of the rest, and Jerry brought up his long pointed steel staff and held it level until the monster’s glassy eyes and gaping jaws were directly before him. Then he thrust the steel fiercely between the creature’s jaws.

The steel staff drove through its open mouth into its body. The thing fell and thrashe 1 wildly in the fires, while Jerry jerked his weapon out of it. As he faced the other charging fire-beasts the thought hammered in his brain that even though they were impervious to fire these creatures were not unkillable.

He thrust at the nearest of the onrushing fire-beasts, and as it fell too, the other creatures drew back, bellowing in rage. Jerry, eyeing them tensely with Helen still behind him, hoped that they would give over the attack, but they came on again. He felt his steel tear into another of the things, but this fire-beast was only wounded, and as it shied away with a terrific bellow, it tore the steel from Jerry’s grasp.

The other fire-beasts were upon him and Helen — ^he heard the girl scream behind him — when they stopped and turned.

Two of the beasts had suddenly fallen in mid-charge. And now Jerry and Helen saw beyond them other and different black shapes approaching through the fires.

The newcomers were a dozen or more dark, man-like shapes! ’They did not wear heatarmor, yet did not seem more affeaed by the terrible fires than the fire-beasts. Like the fire-beasts, their bodies seemed of dark, stony flesh impervious to heat and flame. ’They were of human height and had human features, but their eyes were covered by a glassy protective film. They were clad in red harnesses of woven mineral-fibers and carried gun-like weapons of metal, which they were aiming at the fire-beasts.

As another fire-beast fell beneath the gun-weapon of these newly arrived fire-men, the other monsters lumbered off in flight.

Jerry and Helen stared at the human-shaped fire-men. Jerry had recovered his steel staff. "Fire people!” Jerry Holt exclaimed. "People able to walk and live in these fires without armor or protection! Men and beasts living and fighting down in these fiery spaces of the volcano. Helen, it’s - ”

'This breath-taking story by the author of Crashing Suns tells of a strange descent into the aaive crater of Mauna Loa, and thrilling adventures among weird beings in the heart of the volcano. It will be printed complete in next month’s Weird Tales:


By EDMOND HAMILTON

— ALSO—

THE DREAMS IN THE WITCH-HOUSE By H. P. Lovecraft

A story of mathematics, witchcraft and Walpurgis Night, in which the horror creeps and grows — a new tale by the author of "The Rats in the Walls,”

THE HORROR IN THE MUSEUM By Hazel Heald

A shuddery tale of the elder gods, and the blasphemous monstrosity that slithered through the corridors of the waxworks museum.


[THE END]

============================================================
BLACK COLOSSUS _ ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
By Seabury Quinn

A stirring tale about an Orientalist who was willing to sacrifice his own daughter to gain occult power — a story of the little French scientist, Jules de Grandin.

THE THING FROM THE GRAVE By Harold Ward

A goose-flesh story of the hideous fate that befell a judge who had sentenced a murderer to death.

July WEIRD TALES Out July 1




( Continued from page 794 )

I awoke (how long afterward I can not say) to feel a cold hand laid on my arm. For a moment I lay paralyzed witli terror. I would have cried aloud, but I had no voice. At last I managed to sit up, to shake the hand off. I reached for the matches and lighted the gas.

It was Arthur who stood by my bed — Arthur wrapped in his eternal reddishbrown dressing-gown. He was excited. His blue face had a yellow tinge, and his eyes gleamed in the light.

"Listen!” he whispered.

I listened but I heard nothing.

"Don’t you hear it?” he^ gasped, and he pointed upward.

"Upstairs?” I stammered. "Is there somebody upstairs?”

I strained my ears, and at last I fancied I could hear a fugitive sound like the light tapping of footsteps.

"It must be somebody walking about up there,” I suggested.

But at these words Arthur seemed to stiffen. The excitement died out of his face.

"No!” he cried in a sharp rasping voice. "No! It is nobody walking about up there!”

And he fled into his room.

For a long time I lay trembling, afraid to move. But at last, fearing for Arthur, I got up and crept to his door. He was lying on the couch, with his face in the moonlight, apparently asleep.

October 6 — I had a talk with Arthur today. Yesterday I could not bring myself to speak of the previous night’s happening, but all of this nonsense must be cleared away.

We were in the library. A fire was burning in the grate, and Arthur had his feet on the fender. The slippers he wears are as objectionable to me as his dressinggown. They are felt slippers, old and

worn, and frayed around the edges as if they had been gnawed by rats. I can not imagine why he does not get a new pair.

"Say, old man,” I began abruptly, "do you own this house?”

He nodded.

"Don’t you rent any of it?”

"Downstairs — to Mrs. Harlan.”

"But upstairs?”

He hesitated, then shook his head.

"No, it’s inconvenient. 'There’s only a peculiar way to get upstairs.”

I was struck by this.

"By Jove! you’re right. Where’s the staircase?”

He looked me full in the eyes.

"Don’t you remember seeing a bolted door in a comer of your room? The staircase mns from that door.”

I did remember it, and somehow the memory made me uncomfortable. I said no more and decided not to refer to what had happened that night. It occurred to me that Arthur might have been walking in his sleep.

October 8 — ^When I went for my walk on Tuesday I dropped in and saw Doctor Lorraine, who is an old friend. He expressed some surprize at my rundown condition and wrote me a prescription.

I am planning to go home next week. How pleasant it will be to walk in my garden and listen to Mrs. O’Brien singing in the kitchen!

October 9 — Perhaps I had better postpone my trip. I casually mentioned it to Arthur this morning.

He was lying relaxed on the sofa, but when I spoke of leaving he sat up as straight as a bolt. His eyes fairly blazed.

"No, Tom, don’t go!” There was terror in his voice, and such pleading that it wrung mv heart.



"You’ve stood it alone here ten years,”

I protested. "And now - ”

"It’s not that,” he said. "But if you go, you will never come back.”

"Is that all the faith you have in me?” "I’ve got faith, Tom. But if you go, you’ll never come back.”

I decided that I must humor the vagaries of a sick man.

"All right,” I agreed. "I’ll not go. Anyway, not for some time.”

October 12 — What is it that hangs over this house like a cloud? For I can no longer deny that there is something — something indescribably oppressive. It seems to pervade the whole neighborhood.

Are all the houses on this block vacant? If not, why do I never see children playing in the street? Why are passers-by so rare? And why, when from the front window I do catch a glimpse of one, is he hastening away as fast as possible?

I am feeling blue again. I know that I need a change, and this morning I told Arthur definitely that I was going.

To my surprize, he made no objection. In fact, he murmured a word of assent and smiled. He smiled as he smiled in the library that morning when he pointed at the Aster trifolium. And I don’t like that smile. Anyway, it is settled. I shall go next week, Thursday, the 19th.

October 13 — I had a strange dream last night. Or was it a dream? It was so vivid.... All day long I have been seeing it over and over again.

In my dream I thought that I was lying there in my bed. The moon was shining brightly into the room, so that each piece of furniture stood out distinctly. The bureau is so placed that when I am lying (Please turn to page 798 )


By OTIS ADBLBERT KI.INE:

(Limited Autographed First Edition)

Price $2.00

WBmD TALES BOOK DEPAKTSB^T,

Don't Miss...

The

Lion of Tiberias

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

The author of "Black Colossus” in this issue, pilots the Magic Carpet back to the stirring days of the Crusades, when Zenghi. Lord of Mosul and precursor of Saladin, rode up the glittering stairs of empire to his doom. You will be thrilled wiA the sweep of Mr. Howard’s style in this story, for he has caught all die glamor and flavor of a colorful age.



(Continued from preceding page) on my back, with my head high on the pillow, I can see full into the mirror.

I thought I was lying in this manner and staring into the mirror. In this way I saw the bolted door in the far corner of the room. I tried to keep my mind o£E it, to think of something else, but it drew my eyes like a magnet.

It seemed to me that some one was in the room, a vague figure that I could not recognize. It approached the door and caught at the bolts. It dragged at them and struggled, but in vain — they would not give way.

Then it turned and showed me its agonized face. It was Arthur! I recognized his reddish-brown dressing-gown.

I sat up in bed and cried to him, but he was gone. I ran to his room, and there he was, stretched out in the moonlight asleep. It must have been a dream.

October 13— We are having Indian Summer weather now — almost oppressively warm. I have been wandering about all day, unable to settle down to anything. This morning I felt so lonesome that when I took the breakfast dishes down, I tried to strike up a conversation with Mrs. Harlan.

Hitherto I have found her as solemn and uncommunicative as the Sphinx, but as she took the tray from my hands, her wrinkles broke into the semblance of a smile. Positively at that moment it seemed to me that she resembled Arthur. Was it her smile, or the expression of her eyes? Has she, also, something to tell me?

"Don’t you get lonesome here?” I asked her sympathetically.

She shook her head. "No, sir. I’m used to it now. I couldn’t stand it anywhere else.”

"And do you expect to go on living here the rest of your life?”

"That may not be very long, sir," she said, and smiled again.

Her words were simple enough, but the way she looked at me when she uttered them seemed to give them a double meaning. She hobbled away, and I went upstairs and wrote Mrs. O’Brien to expect me early on the morning of the 19th.

October 18 — Ten a. m. — Am catching the twelve o’clock train tonight. Thank God, I had the resolution to get away! I believe another week of this life would drive me mad. And perhaps Arthur is right — perhaps I shall never come back.

I ask myself if I have become such a weakling as that, to desert him when he needs me most. I don’t know. I don t recognize myself any longer....

But of course I will be back. There is the translation, for one thing, which is coming along famously. I could never forgive myself for dropping it at the most vital point.

As for Arthur, when I return I intend to give in to him no longer. I will make myself master here and cure him against his will. Fresh air, change of scene, a good doctor, these are the things he needs.

But what is his malady? Is it the influence of this house that has fallen on him like a bli^t? One might imagine so, since it is having the same effect on me.

Yes, I have reached that point where I no longer sleep. At night I lie awake and try to keep my eyes off the mirror across the room. But in the end I always find myself staring into it — watching the door with the heavy bolts. I long to rise from the bed and draw back the bolts, but I’m afraid.

How slowly the day goes by! The night will never come!


l79S

Nine p. m. — Have packed my suitcases and put the room in order. Arthur must be asleep.... I’m afraid the parting from him will be painful. I shall leave here at eleven o’clock in order to give myself plenty of time.... It is beginning to rain....

October 19 — At last! It has come!

I am mad! I knew it! I felt it creeping on me all the time! Have I not lived in this house a month.^ Have I not seen.?... To have seen what I have seen, to have lived for a month as I have lived, one must be mad.,..

It was ten o’clock. I was waiting impatiently for the last hour to pass. I had seated myself in a rocking-chair by the bed, my suitcases beside me, my back to the mirror. The rain no longer fell. I must have dozed off.

But all at once I was wide awake, my heart beating furiously. Something had touched me. I leapt to my feet, and, as I turned sharply, my eyes fell upon the mirror. In it I saw the door just as I had seen it the other night, and the figure fumbling with the bolt. I wheeled around, but there was nothing there.

I told myself that I was dreaming again, that Arthur was asleep in his bed. But I trembled as I opened the door of his room and peered in. The room was empty, the bed not even crumpled. Lighting a match, I groped my way through the bathroom into the library.

The moon had come from under a cloud and was pouring in a silvery flood through the windows, but Arthur was not there. I stumbled back into my room.

The moon was there, too.... And the door, the door in the corner was half open. The bolt had been drawn. In the darkness I could just make out a flight of steps that wound upward.

l?lease turn to page 800)^


OF.THE

TVhat strange Dowers, did the ancients possess? Where was the source of. knowledge that made it pos- / sibie for them to perform, M miracles? Were these profound 1/ secrets burned with ancient / libraries or are they buried bewmeath crumbling Xempie walls?' J Those wise men of the past, J knew the mysteries of life and'

I personal power. This wisdom 1 I not lost, — it Is withheld from th„

J mass. It is offered TO YOU ifj."

I with an open mind, you wish to/.

I step out of the rut of monotoI nous existence and MABTERA [ ^YOUR LIFE.

THIS FREE BOOK^

Man’s Intolerance has at timesil swept his achievements from the I face of the earth, yet secret broth.<'l erhoods have preserved this sacredM.wisdom of the ages. The Roslcru-{i clans, one of these ancient brother- M hoods, INVITE YOU to write and I secure free copy of “The Wisdomi I of the Sages." It will point out I how you may receive age-old I truths for study in the privacy ' | of your home. You can learn tof I MAKE YOUR LIFE ANEW—'/

I the fulfillment of your idsaUi I '} awaits you. Address.: '

Scribe O. D. O.

' ROSrCRVCIAN BBOTHERHOtflU 1 “mJese (AMQRC) Californiai^. *..<The Rosicruclan Orders


For complete list and prices write to Wejrdi Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill,




The

Hand of Glory

By SEABURY QUINN

ASTIRRING tale about an Orientalist v/ho was willing to sacrifice his own daughter to gain occult power. A story of the ingenious little French scientist-detective, Jules de Grandin, in a spectacular exploit.

T F YOU have not made the acquaintance of this most unusual detective in all fiction, you can not afford to miss reading this fascinating tale— a tale of weird rites in an old church, through which, like a cold wind from the tomb, blows a breath of shuddery horror. It will be printed complete

in the July issue of


On sale July 1st

T o avoid missint your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

(Continued from preceding page)

I could no longer hesitate. Striking another match, I climbed the back stairv/ay.

When I reached the top I found myself in total darkness, for the blinds were tightly closed. Realizing that the room was probably a duplicate of the one below, I felt along the wall until I came to the gas jet. For a moment the flame flickered, then burned bright and clear.

O God! what was it I saw? A table, thick with dust, and something wrapped in a reddish-brown dressing-gown, that sat with its elbows propped upon it.

How long had it been sitting there, that it had grown more dry than the dust upon the table! For how many thousands of days and nights had the flesh rotted from that grinning skull!

In its bony fingers it still clutched a pencil. In front of it lay a sheet of scratched paper, yellow widi age. With trembling fingers I brushed away the dust. It was dated October 19, 1912. It read:

"Dear Tom:

"Old man, can you run down to see ma for a few days? I’m afraid I’m in a bad way - ’’


A stupenduous novel of vampirism that will make your blood run cold;

THE VAMPIRE-MASTER By Hugh Davidson

Watch for this powerful and gripping story in WEIRD TALES. You can not afford to miss it.

W. T.— 8

Pearls From Macao

By


CLEGHORN turned into the passage, passed the door of the girl’s cabin, shoved open his own door, and reached for the light. His figure was illuminated by the light in the passage; the cabin was pitch-black. As he put out his arm, something moved before him. Every sense alert, he ducked, and swerved quickly to one side.

A furious blow glanced from his head — had he not ducked, it would have brained him. Half stunned, he hurled himself to one side, and collided full with an unseen figure. His hands shot out. A grim and furious satisfaction seized Cleghorn as his fingers sank into the throat of a man, sank in with a terrible grip.

Another smash over the head, and another.

Blinded, he sank in his fingers the deeper. The two struggling figures hit against the door, and it slammed shut. Now there was perfect darkness. In his ears, Cleghorn heard the hoarse, frenzied panting of a man, felt the smashing blows of the other’s fists and of some blunt weapon. He had not the slightest idea who it could be, and cared not. This fellow had been waiting here to get him, and had come within an ace of it.

That man, gripped about the throat by those fingers of iron, gasped terribly, struggled with blind and frantic desperation to loose the grip, and could not. His strength began to fail. Again Cleghorn caught a terrific smash over the head, and this fourth blow all but knocked him out.

He lost balance, but did not lose his grip. He dragged down the other with him; they fell heavily, rolled against the closed door, and lay there sprawling. Flashes of fire beat before Cleghorn’s eyes. He tried to rise, and could not. He felt his senses slipping away. With an effort, he held himself motionless, let all his strength, all his will-power, flow into his hard-gripped fingers. Even when everything went black before him, there was no slackening of his frightful hold.... Don’t miss this vivid thrill-tale of a desperate voyage on the China sea, with murder striking from the shadows again and again, and a beautiful girl on board — all bound for a coral reef off the Manchurian coast, where a treasure-ship lay wrecked. This stirring novelette is published complete in the current issue of the Magic Carpet Magazine. — Adv.

[THE END]
