============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 10, Number 6
Date: December 1927
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "When the Dead Return - Percy B" by Prior
  2. "The Sleepers August W" by Derleth
  3. "Bells of Oceana Arthur J" by Burks
============================================================
============================================================
by Prior
============================================================
went out and examined the body. Inmate No. 17 was dead. His neck was broken.”

A Shorty Strange Tale Is


By PERCY B. PRIOR

WITHOUT a doubt it is very disconcerting to meet a dead man, particularly if he chances to have been your husband.

In the circumstance it is no wonder that Marian screamed.

As it w'as midday and on Broadway, the scream attracted a good deal of attention and, with one exception, everj’^one in the vicinity rushed toward Marian, who was charming enough to merit the fulle.st sympathy. The one exception walked quickly round the comer of John Street and vanished. He had a reason for doing this. He was a dead man.

Normally Marian might have thought there had been some mistake regarding her late husband’s demise. But this W'as hardly possible. He had died in bed and in her presence. Furthermore, the medical man. Dr. Henrj- Delware, who had also been present, could doubtless swear that the dead man had shuffled off his mortal coil.

Marian was twenty-two when she became a widow. It was a year later when she screamed on Broadway, and by that time she was no longer Mrs. Creed, relict of the late Mark Creed.

She had become Mrs. James Turner.

That was one reason why her scream had such a stricken note. It becomes really embarrassing to encounter a dead husband when one has no further use for him.

82G

Wliat made the matter more disconcerting, and argued against the chance of delusion or of the dead man’s having a double, was the fact that the newspapers had recently contained a number of circumstantial accounts of dead people having been seen. There was a veritable epidemic of apparitions.

A psychic committee had formed itself to collate and record the evidence and had investigated such incidents as that of Arthur Johnson, age twenty-four, who had died suddenly in a public city park. Some six months later he had been seen by both his mother and sister near their residence, and when they had tried to speak to him he had fled and boarded a street-car post-haste.

Then there was Mrs. Tumley, seen by her son leaving her favorite seat in a well-knowTi New York picture palace. He had tried to trace her in the crowd but had failed. That was four months after her death.

Strangest of all, however, was the case of Felix Malheur, the French chef, who had been fatally stabbed in the neck by Henri Marzot, a malicious deed for which Marzot went to the electric chair.

Some seven months had elapsed when a man, convincingly identified as Malheur, and having a scar on his neck exactly similar to the fatal wound, W'as arrested for vagrancy. He swore that he was not Malheur,



but would give no particulars of himself. The one point of doubt in this case was the fact that the arrested man had a scar on his chest, whereas no such mark was mentioned in the description of the deceased Malheur.

With these circumstances in mind, it is not surprizing that Marian Turner screamed when she caught sight of her dead first husband, whom she had married when she was but eighteen, and whose doglike devotion she had found irritating rather than otherwise, and whom she had done her best to forget since she had been married to her wonderful James Turner.

The instant she screamed, however, she realized that the position contained embarrassments, so when the passers-by crowded around her she apologized.

“It’s all right,” she explained, “I’m sorry to be so silly, but I was sure that car was going to run over that little child.” And she pointed to the scene of a fictitious narrow escape.

That evening she told her husband of the apparition, and together they consulted Dr, Delware as to possible pre-natal effects of such a shock on a child-to-be. He reassured them, but they were still a little troubled as to the legal status of children if dead first husbands were going to make a practise of returning to life.

Tt was at the same time that the authorities, in further investigation of the Malheur affair, decided to exhume the murdered man’s body. The grave was opened. It contained an empty coffin. Malheur was missing.

This made it look as though Marzot had been executed under false pretenses, though it was admittedly rather late to make amends.

Even after this, the arrested “vagrant” still denied that he was the dead man, and he was released after a short detention. Thereupon he vanished.

Following this exhumation, the undertaking firm of Interments, Inc., which had carried out the last rites on the murdered man, was interviewed by Detective Bowler, who had charge of the case. Mr. Marlow, who seemed to be the whole firm, could offer no explanation.

But it so chanced that this Mr. Marlow was unpopular among the undertaking fraternity. A short while previously he had been struggling along, small, suburban, and almost bankrupt. Then without apparent reason he had burst forth in a blaze of advertisements as Interments, Inc., and had taken a large establishment in the heart of New York, It was then that he became unpopular. He gave cut-rates for funerals, and a facetious competitor even remarked that he would next be introducing a cash-and-carry system to the profession.

This unpopularity led to gossip and it was then noticed that quite a number of the alleged apparitions were of people who had been inanimate patrons of Interments, Inc. That fact, combined with Malheur’s empty coffin, furthered the police investigation, and eventually established the fact that not merely several, but every one of the apparitions had been buried by Interments, Inc.

Among other people interviewed by Detective Bowler during these inquiries was Marian Turner, not because there was any suspicion that she had seen her dead husband, but because his funeral had left the mortuary chapel of Interments, Ine., instead of his late residence.

Mrs. Turner stated that she had actually desired the cortege to leave the house, but that Mr. Marlow had been so insistent that in the end she



liad agreed to its leaving his premises.

Following this, Detective Bowler consulted the register of companies, and found that Marlow 'was only a nominal shareholder in the firm, virtually all the shares being in the name of one Henry Delware, medical practitioner....

Before doing anything further, the officer decided to consult his chief, but about 11 o’clock that night a telephone message asked him to call immediately at the residence of Mr. James Turner.

There he heard that Mrs. Turner had seen her first husband, supposed to be dead, as a very substantial apparition in Broadway, a few days previously. Also that a second apparition had occurred scarcely an hour since. Mr. Turner, explaining this, stated that he and his wife had retired about 10 o’clock, but had not switched off the light. It was a sultry evening and although the blinc^ were drawn one window had been left open. Suddenly Mrs. Turner had screamed and pointed to this window. Her husband, looking quickly round, had seen the blind move. Jumping up, he had rushed outside to see a figure vanish throu^ the side gate, but though he gave chase the figure eluded him.

T he morning papers recorded nothing of this. They had something much moi'e startling:


Dr. Delware Murdered


The details showed that the doctor had received an urgent call toward midnight at his residence, and going down had admitted someone to his surgery. A few minutes later his wife heard a strange voice, loud and

angry,, and two shots had immediate* ly followed. Running downstairs she found the doctor lying on the floor, dead, and a strange man lying beside him with a terrible wound in his neck. The doctor had been shot through the heart. Detective Bowler, it was stated, had the case in hand.

The evening papers were able to go one better and print verbatim, in cold, official phrases, the dying depositions of the wounded man, who had since succumbed:

My name is Mark Creed. About a year ago I died. That is, I became unconscious, and awoke to find Dr. Delware standing beside an operating-table on which I was securely strapped. He had previously been attending me in my home. He told me I had died and that he had brought me back to life. He made me swear that I would not reveal myself to anyone, not even my wife. He said his experiments must be secret for a while yet. He said he would not let me live unless I promised. I promised.

After that he treated me for about six months in a sanatorium. It took about an hour’s ride to get to it. I don’t know where it was. The car was closed. When ho discharged me from there he made me promise again I would not see my wife. He told me she had married again and that she was now very happy.

A few days ago I saw her on Broadway. After that I could not keep my promise. I loitered about the house hoping to see her. Last night I peeped beneath the windowhlind. That made me mad. They saw me and a man gave chase. I got away among some ti'ees. I then went to Dr. Delware. I cursed him. I cursed him for bringing me back to such a life of torment. Then I shot him.”

The man had died almost immediately after signing this statement. Subsequent investigation at the doctor’s surgery seemed to confirm quite clearly that he had been resuscitating the dead, apparently by the hypodermic injection of some unknown drug soon after death, followed by a surgical operation and actual massage of the heart, probably under an electrical impetus.

The reason for his association with Interments, Inc., is plain. He had financed the company and attracted



business by reduced rates in order to get possession of subjects for his experiments, one of the most grisly business associations on record.

The various apparitions were thus explained, and some strange reunions resulted.

But they are not likely to recur. Dr. Delware’s astounding secret died with him, and Marian Turner at least will probably agree that it is just as

[THE END]

============================================================
by Derleth
============================================================
well.

A dead husband is such an embarrassing thing to be at large

A Short Ghost-Story


By AUGUST W. DERLETH

‘‘KT^HAT story,” began the man I with the gold spectacles, JL crossing his legs, “reminds me of an odd incident that befell me just last year.”

The other three men moved closer around the fireplace and looked over at him expectantly. The man with the gold spectacles repeated his statement. Unnoticed by them, a thin little man clad in a blue suit with brass buttons slid onto the fifth seat somewhat back in the shadows. The inquisitive flames in the fireplace leaped higher to light up the face of the newcomer, but the effort was too much for them, and they sank back exhausted. The four men did not see him.

“ It was last summer. I was at the time in Hollywood working with the director of my latest book, which was being filmed, when my publisher in Chicago wired me to come to him at once. The matter was urgent, he stated. Somewhat testily I wired back that I would come immediately. The train I took was the Midnight

Express. When I called for my ticket every Pullman was filled to capacity. Certainly, thought I, I am not going to be cheated out of a night's rest merely because the Pullman cars are all filled to capacity. So I clamored loudly for a Pullman. I was not alone in my demand, for a pompous salesman, who had purchased his ticket after I had procured mine, added his voice to mine. At length another Pullman was added. Had it not been for the hullabaloo the salesman and I raised, the incident I am about to relate would never have happened.

“It being shortly after midnight I wanted to retire. I left the salesman smoking out on the rear platform of our car, and I went into the extra Pullman. My berth was lower seven, and I went directly over to that number and pulled the curtains aside. But I shut them again as quickly as I had opened them. For a man lay in my berth, sleeping peacefully. I was indignant that the officials should cause such an error.



I called for the porter, who came in as fast as his sleeping feet would carry him.

“Said I, when the negro had come abreast of me, ‘Sam, there’s a man in my berth.’

“He grinned foolishly and pulled the curtains slightly aside, ‘Indeed, suh, indeed tliere is. Very unfortunate, suh, and tha’s a fac’.’

“ ‘Sam,’ I answered, ‘go and get me the Pullman conductor, and don’t you dare to come back without him.’

“ ‘Indeed I will, suh.’

“After what seemed a wholly unnecessary interval Sam returned with the Pullman conductor. When the conductor stepped into the car, he asked, ‘Are you McCarthy?’ ‘Yes,’ said I, ‘I’m McCarthy.’ ‘H. P. McCarthy?’ ‘Yes,’ said I again, ‘H. P. McCarthy.’ He came up to me. ‘Sam tells me that you claim that your berth is occupied. Lower seven was assigned to H. P. McCarthy and to no one else. As a matter of fact there are only two people in this extra car: you and a salesman, C. E. Schweers.’

“ ‘Is that right?’ said I. It annoyed me that the conductor took so much for granted; he had never even peeped into the berth, and already he was turning to go. ‘Just a minute! Mr. Schweers is out on the platform. Mr. McCarthy is right here, yours truly, and I say that there’s a man in lower seven!’ And I pulled aside the curtain and the conductor looked in and saw the man there. It wounded his pride to find that he was wrong, and so he called loudly to the sleeping man. But the man didn’t move. So he went over to him and reached his hand in to shake the sleeper.

“Now I couldn’t see what happened, but I was staring right into the conductor’s face, and I saw his expression change so rapidly that I thought he was going to faint. His

face went white altogether. He pulled his hand out quickly,- as if he had been touching a hot iron; and then he pushed the curtains wide apart to admit as much light as possible. Then he looked in again. All the time I could see the man lying' there in the light admitted by the widely opened curtains. I said nothing. He turned to me and pointed at the sleeper. ‘McCarthy, reach in there and touch him.’

“I thought it was an odd request, but I did it, and I’ll wager any amount that my face went as white as his did. For I swear that I saw that man there with the coverlet turned back at his shoulders; I saw that, but my hand felt the undisturbed smoothness of the coverlet! And as I looked, my hand went straight through the man! Sam left by one door as Mr. Schweers came in by the other. The conductor and I stood in the aisle staring stupidly at the sleeper in my berth.

“A smothered exclamation from Schweers caused us to turn to him. He stood before berth three, the lower, staring at something. We knew what he would say before he said it. ‘There’s a man in my berth!’

“The conductor stared at him; I stared at him. He turned to the conductor. ‘Well, what are you going to do about it? I’m not paying for a filled berth!’ ‘Feel him,’ the conductor stammered. ‘Yes,’ said I, ‘feel him.’ He looked oddly at us, but obediently he reached in to feel him. And shortly there were three white-faced people in the aisle of the extra Pullman, all staring stupidly at a man sleeping in the berth of a Pullman car.

“ ‘By God,’ said the conductor with effort, ‘there’s some mystery in this,’ a fact which had not escaped the notice of any of us. He moved resolutely to berth six and pulled aside the curtains. And there lay a



woman sleeping, and again, what we saw, we could not feel! And the three of us made the rounds, and every berth, upper and lower, was occupied by a man, woman, or child. And we came back to berth seven and stood there staring at the sleeper.

“And whilQ we stood there, the door opened at the end of the ear, and a thin little man who wore a conductor’s blue suit with brass buttons walked in and looked nervously around. He had the attitude as of being summoned, and looking for whoever had summoned him. ’ ’

“Not so, Mr. McCarthy. The conductor had a premonition that all was not well and he came into the Pullman to justify or destroy that premonition. ’ ’ It was the little man, the newcomer, who had spoken. But no one seemed to have heard him.

“But we didn’t stare very much longer,” continued the man with the gold spectacles. “For suddenly the thin little conductor that had entered, vanished in the side of the Pullman car, and when we turned back to look at the sleepers we saw only the unrumpled spreads on our beds I

‘ ‘ Immediately the conductor rushed out onto the rear platform. Mr. Schweers and I followed him. We were going round the famous Horseshoe Curve. The country was all radiant in the bright moonlight.

‘ ‘ The conductor turned to us. ‘ Do either of you know what happened here at this spot one year ago today?’ ‘No,’ said Schweers, ‘I can’t think of anything. ’ I, too, was forced to shake my head. ‘What?’ returned the conductor; ‘have both of you forgotten the famous Midnight Express wreck of last August 7?’ Of course we hadn’t. ‘It happened on that spot just a little way back there in the moonlight, on a night just like this. Seventy-seven people died in that wreck. This car is one that was salvaged from the wreckage and was rebuilt. This is its first trip in its rebuilt form.’ ‘But the people in the berths?’ interrupted Schweers. ‘Yes, those people in the berths. You noticed they all disappeared on the spot of the accident. Didn’t they? Well, figure it out for yourselves, gentlemen.’ And with that he went back to his post.

“And that’s what I say to you, gentlemen, figure it all out for yourselves. Were those sleepers, or weren’t they? For my part I am convinced. ’ ’

There was a meditative silence. Then the man with the gold spectacles spoke again.

“By the way, didn’t one of you gentlemen say something about a premonition the phantom conductor had? I thought someone said something about it, but as I recollect the accident the conductor was killed at once, so you couldn’t possible know how he felt before the accident. Didn’t anyone say something?”

And all of the men turned to the fifth chair iipon which the thin, little man in the faded blue conductor’s suit with brass buttons had been sitting. There was no answer.

And the firelight flickered on the bolt of the locked door.

A Startling Weird-Scientific Story Is

The Time-Raider

By EDMOND HAMILTON

The Story So Far

1X7HILE exploring the ruins of Angkor, Profes- ”” Ror Canneil is captured by the Time-Kaider, a creature from fifteen thousand years in the future, which sweeps back through time for its victims to build up an army of warriors with whicli the Kanlars can overwhelm the parent city of Kom. Canncll’s friends, Wheeler and Lantin, build a time-car and pursue the Raider into the future, but are captured by the Kanlars and held prisoner with the teeming hordes of warriors in the City of the Pit. The two friends, with Denham (an English soldier of the time of George III). D’Alord (a French musketeer), Fabrius (a Roman legionary) and Ixtil (an Aztec caciciue). plan to escape up the spiral stairway and to the city of Kom in Lantin’s time-car, which is hidden near the city of the Kanlars.

CHAPTER 14 UP THE STAIR

WHEN we entered the broad clearing of the plaza, we found it almost entirely deserted. Above us loomed the winding, spiral stair, and where that stair touched the pit’s floor, we saw the blaze of ruddy light that illuminated the high, barred gate of the stair. Keeping well within the shadows, we passed toward the farther edge of the plaza, and in the darkness there, Lantin and I took up our position directly beneath the lowest curve of the spiral stairw^iy, which hung in the air some thirty feet above our heads. Even where we stood, we could hear the tramp of feet around the stair’s curve, as guards came and went, constantly patrolling the lower part of the airy pathway. And, too, we heard the chatter and broken laughter of the other guards massed inside the gate.

Speaking in whispers, Denham said, “Be ready to make your at832

tempt at any moment now. But be sure that all the guards on the stair have come down to the gateway before you try it.’’’

“If we get out and come back w'ith aid,” I said, rapidly, “where will we find you?”

He reflected for a moment, then said, “You know that tall bari;acksbuilding at the northera edge of the pit, right under the w’all?”

“The one that is roofed?” I asked, and he nodded. “Yes, that’s the one. Well, we four will spend all our nights on that roof from now on. You could come straight down the shaft, in your fijung-car, and pick us up from that roof in the darkness without the knowledge of any here in the pit. But first, go and get aid from the people of Kom, as w^e planned. ’ ’

“And Canneil?” said Lantin. “You w'ill look for him?”

“Never fear,” ansAvered D’Alord, “we’ll find him for you.”

The calm voice of Fabrius broke into our speech. ‘ ‘ It is time to do our part at the gate,” he said to Denham, and the Englishman nodded. “Goodbye,” he told us. “I know you’ll do your best.” A w'arm hand-clasp from each, and then they had slipped away into the shadows.

For a minute or so, Lantin and I stood silent, listening to the tramp of feet on the stair above us, and then a sudden high-pitched cry broke on our ears from the center of the plaza. It was D’Alord ’s voice, and he w'as shouting at the top of his lungs, “Out,

This story Itcfrnn in WKIRD TAT.RS for October



comrades, out! We are to be loosed on Kom tonight!”

The cry rang out over the silent city, and then was repeated, but louder, the Frenchman’s three friends adding their voices to his. There was an uneasy murmur from the guards at the gate, and one anaong them called to the Frenchman, whom they could not see in the darkness, to cease his shouting.

He went on with the cry, unheeding, and now, out of the buildings along the branching streets, men were pouring, running toward the plaza. They heard D’Alord’s cry and took it up, thinking that his statement was a true one, and repeating it.

“Loose us on Kom tonight!” they bellowed, rushing toward tiie gate of the stair and pressing against it. Away across the great clearing, we saw a sea of faces around the ruddy lighted gate, pressing against it and against the high wall that balustraded the stair’s length for the first few yards. And from all around, from all of the nine branching streets, came others, sword in hand, afire to be led out to loot the city whose riches had been many times described to them.

They beat against the barred gate in one buffeting wave of solid humanity, in eager hope of freedom and pillage. Their cry rose up like that of a single, vast voice, but in a thousand different tongues.

“Loose us tonight! Loose us on Kom tonight!”

There were anxious cries from the guards on the stair as the great mob battered at the gate. Those of the guards who patrolled the stair’s upper part ran down swiftly to aid their fellows in holding the gate. It was this that Lantin and I awaited, and at once I grasped the metal grapplinghook, whirled it round my head bythe attached rope, and then sent it hurtling through the air toward the edge of the stair above us.

It struck the outside of the stair’s low wall with a loud clang that brought my heart to my throat, and that I feared would attract the attention of the guards at the gate, even over the clamor of the crowd. But the hook had not caught and fell down beside me.

Before I could throw it again there was a warning whisper from Lantin, and in a moment a solid group of some fifty men rushed by us, heading toward the riot at the gate, news of which had evidently penetrated to the city’s farthest reaches. They raced by, not seeing us in the darkness, and after them came four or five single stragglers who likewise passed us without stopping. Then, the coast again being clear for the moment, I slung up the hook again, with more force than before, and felt a tlirob of relief when it caught, slid a little along the edge of the stairwall, and then caught again.

I tried the rope hastily, but it held firm, so I hastily began to climb up it, by means of the thick knots along its length. Scrambling up with panicky swiftness, I reached the rail, pulled myself over, and lay gasping for a moment on the stair. Then, leaning over the rail, I signaled to Lantin, whom I could see but dimly in the darkness. Bracing myself against the wall of the stair, I pulled in the rope until after a seeming eternity my friend’s head appeared above the wall. He scrambled over, and then, winding the rope around my body and tossing the hook as far away as possible, I stood for a moment motionless.

Across the plaza, and below us, was the gate, flooded with crimson light and alive with activity. The mobs of the city’s dwellers were pressing against the gate, while the guards were repelling them by thrusting through the bars with their long spears. And from all the long streets that stretched away into the darkness



there came the sound of many running feet, and the cries of excited men. Certainly the riot which our friends had kindled to aid us was no mean one.

AMOMENT only I watched the scene below, then turned, and with. Lantin beside me, began the long climb up the spiral stair.

As we toiled up along the steeply slanting spiral, the clamor at the gates below gradually lessened in voliTme as we drew away from it. That the riot below had not yet ])ccn quelled, though, was evident, for before we had been on the stair ten minute.s, a tiny beam of blue light flashed out at the gate, a narrow little shaft of azure light that clove up to the shaft above ivs, and seemed to stab straight up to the metal cover of that shaft.

I remembered Denham’s words concerning the signaling of the guards, and wondered if that was the cause of the little light. In a minute it vanished, but as we raced on up around the great spiral, a faint sound came down to us from far above, a grating clash of metal that we could barely iiear.

“The temple floor!” I cried to Lantin. “They’ve swung it aside! They’ve uncovered the shaft of the stairway!”

He did not answer, out of breath from the toilsome climb. Before many more minutes had ])assed, we had progressed half-way from the floor of the cavern to its roof, up the stair. Abruptly something his.sed doAvn from above througli the circle of the spiral stair. The hissing was repeated, and now I saw that it had been caused by a number of thick ropes tliat had been dropped from above, and that now swxrng free at the center of the stairw'ay’s spiral.

I grasped Lantin, flung myself flat on the stair, pulling him down with me. And not a moment too soon, for

peering cautiously over the low wall, I saw dark shapes flashing down along those swinging cables, in long strings, one after another. When they had passed, we jumped to our feet and sped on.

“The guards from above,” I told my companion. “Let’s hope that ail above have gone down.”

On we raced, around and around the spiral, ever upward. The sound of the riot in the pit had faded from our ears by now, and we came to the roof of the cavern, and the shaft that pierced it. On we went, the wall of the shaft on our left side now, and we hugged that wall closely as we sped up the narrow pathway.

I judged that we had traversed two-thirds of the stair’s length, when Lantin suddenly halted. \\^en I turned, he held up a warning hand, listening intently.

“Hear it?” he asked, in a low voice.

I listened tensely, and in a moment heard the sound that had halted him. It was a rhythmic, regular thudding, and seemed to come from a point some distance above us, and across the shaft from us.

“The guards!” he whispered. “Some of them are coming down the stair! ’ ’

All the blood drove from my heart at the thought, for we were caught on the airy stairway without chance to advance or retreat. And every minute that I stood there in indecision, the tramping feet of the guards were nearing me. Why they were descending by the stair instead of the ropes, I could not guess, though it may have been that they had already started down the stair before the alarm from below. But whatever the reason, they were coming nearer and nearer, until finally they were directly across the shaft, coming around the downi-slanting curv’e of the stairway toward us.



My brain, momentarily stupefied by the oncoming deadly peril, again acted, and with frantic speed I unrolled the rope that was wound round my body. The low wall that protected the stair’s right side was pierced at regular intervals with circular, ornamental openings, and swiftly I passed the rope through one of these and tied it securely, then tied its other end into a double loop. At once Lantin saw my purpose, and with a muttered “Good!” he set his foot in one of the loops, while I did the same with the other.

Swiftly the tramping feet were coming around the curve toward us, though in the murky darkness of the shaft we could make out nothing. Feet in the loops at the rope’s end, we grasped the low wall of the stair and gently swung ourselves over it. Then, hanging a^ve the abyss, we lowered ourselves until we swung some twenty feet below the stair, floating gently back and forth at the rope’s end, with nearly two miles of space below us.

The marching guards came quickly around the stair’s curve, and I held my breath as they passed the place where our rope was tied. If one but felt it and slashed carelessly with a knife, we would hurtle down to death on the floor of the pit, far below. But the guards passed on, and I could plainly hear the command of their leader to move faster, as they went by us.

Waiting until they had progressed to the opposite side of the shaft, Lantin and I began to pull ourselves up. Slowly, toilsomely, we fought our way upward until our hands gripped Ihe stair’s rail and we were able to scramble over it onto the steps.

As I rolled over the wall onto those steps, the hilt of my rapier struck the metal stairway with a loud jar. Appalled, I lay tense for minutes, but there was no sound to indicate the guards had heard, and we could hear their marching footsteps dying away below.

I rose to my feet, then, breathing hard. “A near shave, that,” I told Lantin, who was also struggling to regain his breath. “If those guards had caught us on the stair, it would have been all up with us.” Untying the rope from the wall, I again wound it round my body, and stepped up to where Lantin awaited me.

He was looking back the way we had come, peering into the darkness. As I stepped up toward him he cried suddenly, “Look out, Wheeler!” and as I instinctively threw myself flat on the stairway, a heavy knife hurtled out of the air behind me and passed over me, striking the wall. I jumped to my feet and turned, ripping out my sword.

Five steps down the stair from us a guard was standing, a taU, darkfaced fellow whom I could just see in the nightmare blackness of the shaft. In a flash, I knew that the clang of my rapier on the stairway had been heard, by this fellow at least, and that he had come back to investigate and had found us.

The man below me uttered a hoarse cry, and ran straight up toward me, his long spear aimed at my heart. But by now my own rapier was out, and avoiding the spear by a quick sidestep, I thrust with my blade at his throat, where no armor protected him. The stab was a true one, and he sank to the stair with a ehdting, terrible cry that rang out eerily there in the vast dark shaft. From far below his cry was answered. There was no time to lose, and we pressed on up the stair.

But now there were cries from below, and a bugle peal came up toward us. It was evident that the alarm had been sounded by the cry of the guard I had killed, and that we were being pursued.



I laiew that we were very near to the stair’s top, by then, but although we Iniew the metal cover of the shaft was not in place, there was no light from the great opening above us, the great temple being as dark as the shaft below it.

“Pray God there are no guards at the top of the stair,” I cried to Lantin, as we sped upward. He did not answer, and from his agonized breathing I knew that he was out of wind from our long, torturing climb. And, away across the shaft now, there was a chorus of shouts as the guards beneath raced after us. Their cries halted for a moment, and by this I knew that they had found the body of the man I had killed. Then, with yelps of rage, they sped on after us.

STAGGERED drunkenly up the last curve of the stair. Out of the darkness- appeared the little collapsible stairway which joined the temple’s black ring of flooring with the great spiral on which w'e stood. There was no sign of the presence of any guards around or above it, so I jerked out the sword at my belt, and clasping it in one hand, strode cautiously up the little stair until I stood on the black flooring that was the rim of the shaft up which we had come.

Dense darkness reigned in the gigantic building, and the complete silence in it showed me that it was deserted. Lantin was beside me now, and the cries of the pursuing guards were ringing up the shaft ever louder, as they neared us. I sprang to the building’s wall, clawing frantically along its side.

Abruptly my hands encountered the thick lever I was searching for, and as I jerked it down as far as it would go, I sobbed with relief. There was a loud click, and the little collapsible stair swung up and folded iato an aperture in the wall.

“That will hold them on the stair.

for a time,” I told my friend, who had come up to me and was grasping my arm. As we raced around the wall to the building’s entrance and exit, I explained in a few words what I had done. It was well for us, too, that I had remembered how the little stair was folded and unfolded, for as we sped down the tunneled gateway to the outside air, there came a shout of baffled rage from behind us, as the guards on the stair found their progress thus stopped.

Speeding down the arched tunnel through the temple’s great wall, we emerged at last into the open air. For a moment, heedless of the clamor in the temple behind us, we stood with swelling hearts, breathing in the free air, expanding, almost, there beneath the limitless sky, after our sojourn in the cramped cavern below.

Darkness reigned over the city of the Kanlars, a d^kness intensified by the absence of moon or stars above. From where we stood, the broad street, plashed with ruddy light from the glowing bulbs along its length, stretched away to the east, piercing the mass of winking lights that betokened the city’s presence. Even from where we stood, we could see that there were many of the guards in the street, and there was no chance of our passing them unchallenged.

I turned to Lantin, but before I could speak we both shrank back into the temple ’s entrance. Footsteps were sounding on the ground near us, coming toward us along the outside of the temple’s wall!

We crouched against the wall of the tunneled entrance, hearing the footsteps come nearer. From the temple behind us came the faint, raging clamor of the guards on the stair, who were still blocked by my stratagem. Then two figures appeared in the entrance of the tunnel, two ghostly white figures who were advancing through the darkness.



“Slaves!” muttered Lantin, and from the white robes and stiff movements, I saw that he had guessed the identity of the two aright. They walked on toward us, then passed us, at arm’s length, walking stiffly, mechanically, past us. Whether or not they saw us, I can not say, though if they had glimpsed us, I doubt whether their soulless natures would have understood the significance of our presence there. At any rate, they passed us by, and proceeded on down the tunnel.

My sword was in my hand, and grasping it by the blade six inches or more be^neath the hilt, I stole quickly down the tunnel after the white-robed figures. As quietly as possible, I hastened after them, and in a moment the heavy hilt of my rapier swung down on their skulls in two swift blows, and they slumped to the floor. A low call brought Lantin to my side, and we hastily pulled the long white robes from the two on the floor, and put them on over our own elotliing. I shuddered with deep loathing, in the process, for these two men on the floor were icy-cold to the touch. Dead-alive, and slaves to the Kanlars! I hoped, at least, that my blows had released them from their dreadful servitude.

Disguised now by the white garments, we hastened again out of the tunnel and down the broad ramp into the red-lit street. We passed some distance along that street before we came near to any of the guards, and when we did so, we changed our pace, walking stiffly and rigidly, eyes staring straight ahead, striving to give to our faces the blank, deathly expression of the faces of the slaves.

We were unchallenged, the guards passing us without giving us more than a casual glance. And as we passed group after group of the armored men, we began to breathe easier, thouigh we still kept to our unlifelike walk and expression.

A s WE drew larther toward the city’s edge, the sti’eet became more deserted. The buildings began to lessen in size and frequency, and we were not far from the spot where the red lights along the street ended and it became a road.

Abruptly, I clutched Lantin ’s arm. Prom far behind us, from the temple whence we had fled, there rose a great ringing sound, a vast bell-note tliat echoed out over all the city clearly. It was repeated, and now, from far behind us also, came a dim, angry clamor, a score or more of raging shouts, through which there cut the clear note of a bugle.

“The guards!” I whispered to Lantin, tensely. ‘ ‘Someone has found them there on the stair! They’re after us!”

“Paster,” he muttered to me, without turning. “We’re almost out of the city.”

It was so, in truth, for we were nearing the end of the street’s lighted part, while on each side the buildings were becoming fewer. We had met m one on the street for the last few minutes, and as we passed under the last of the glowing bulbs, I turned and cried to my friend, ‘ ‘ Out of the city, L^tin! ’ ’

He caught his breath, turned to me, his face livid, and whispered, “h'or God’s sake, Wheeler, be still! That guard over there is watching us!”

My heart contracted suddenly, as, I looked toward the left of the street and saw the man he referred to, a guard in full armor who stood at the doorway of a small building and regarded Its suspiciously. No doubt his attention had been aroused by the spectacle of one slave talking to another, and I cursed my folly in crying out to Lantin.

We passed on, hearts thumping, into the darkness that lay beyond the lane of crimson light. Once safe within it, we swiftly shed the white robes, whose length hampered our

m


movements^ and then set out along the road at a rapid trot.

Awa7 back in the city, the disturbed, angry clamor of our pursuers lessened, faded. We were in open country now, and as the road soon ended, we fled on over the long, grassy.swells toward the east, toward the hills and the valley where our time-car was hidden.

“Safe!’^’' I exulted, as we stumbled on through the thick darkness. "They'll never even know what direction w’e took.”

‘‘They will if the guard who saw us talking tells them what he saw,’^’^ replied Lantin, and I sobered.

‘‘Even then ” I began, but

broke off suddenly, and looked back. ‘ ‘ Lantin! ” I shouted. ‘ ‘ Lantin! ’ '

Out of the city toward us were streaming a hundred or more men, carrying with them on long poles many of the flashing red light-giving bulbs, whose crimson rays struck down and glinted on the armor and.■^ear-points of the men who carried them. Over a mile behind, yet the gap between us was fast decreasing as they came straight on toward us.

“The grass!” I gasped,, as we stumbled on; "they can track us easily by it!”

The grass ever which we ran was high and seemingly very dry and brittle, so that at every step we crushed down great masses of it into a trail that a child could have followed. And a great, wolflike shouting came from behind, as our pursuers struck our track.

On we ran, lungs laboring and hearts near to bursting, but steadily the guards behind us drew nearer until they were within a half-mile of us. By that time, we knew that we must be drawing near to the valley' where our car was concealed, and then it was that our real race began.

I heard Lantin 's breath coming in great sobs, and knew that he was almost winded. The long climb up

the stair from the pit and the flight through the city had sapped his.strength, and his endurance was near its breaking point.

Through the darkness, a darker mass loomed up, and as we sped toward it, it sliowed itself to us as the little wood that lay across the valley’s mouth. More by blind chance than by design, I think, we had eome straight toward our objective, and now we struggled through the thicket with frantic bursts of speed.

We emerged from the wood into the open vaUey, and as we did so, Lantin sank to the ground.

“Go on, Wheeler,” he gasped. “You can get to the car and get away. I can’t go farther.”

I looked back, and saw that our pursuers were advancing in a broad line tlirough the wood, carrying forward a chain of the ruddy lights so that we might not hide from them in the shadows. There was no grass beneath the trees, and they could not track us in that way, but came on swiftly, for all that, shouting to each other mirthfully.

“I can’t leave you here,^’ I told Lantin. “If you stay, I stay.”

onl”^ he ordered. “You can make it, without me. Hurry

I glanced back, hesitated a moment, then swiftly stooped and swung an arm under Lantin ’s shoulders, half lifting him to his feet. Then, half dragging, half carrying him, I toiled up the valley toward our hidden ear.

I did not look back, but long rays of red light stabbed past me as our pursuers and their lights emerged from the wood. By tliat crimson glare they saw me, for a savage cry w'ent up. A few strides and I was at the spot on the valley’s bottom, on the slope above which lay the time-car. With fast-waning strength, I started up that slope.

Down the valley toward me bounded a score of men, spears and swords' gleaming in the H^t of the



bulb-torehes behind them. Dragging Lantin on, blind with sweat and every muscle straining to its utmost power, I toiled up the slope, more like a goaded, maddened beast than a human being, while Lantin still besought me to drop him and save myself.

And up the slope after me raced the shouting guards, a hundred yards behind and gaining every second. I burst through the screen of boughs around our car, and sobbed with relief to see that it was still there, untouched. I spun open the circular door in its top, and dropped Lantin inside. I had just placed my feet inside the opening, when a dozen of the armored guards burst through the screen of brandies, their red bulbtorches illuminating the little clearing with crimson light.

They stopped short on seeing me, some fifteen feet away. The three nearest me raised their right arms above their heads, a heavy spear poised in each. Then, like leaping metal serpents, the three heavy, dagger-pointed weapons flashed through the air toward me.

But in that split second there came the click of a switch from the interior of the ear, a gust of sudden wind smote me, and then the guards, torches, and even the three spears in midair had vanished, and the car, Lantin and I were speeding on into time.

CHAPTER 15 OVER THE ICE.

T^I^e had flashed through two days

' ^ and nights before Lantin judged it safe to stop our progress in time. By then, we had started the spacemovement mechanism, and had sent the car up to a height of a mile above the ground. Once there, we snapped off the time-wave, and hung in midair, motionless in both time and space.

It was eariy morning now, bright and sunny, and peering down over the car’s side to the valley below, I could see no sign of life. In the two days through which we had passed so quickly, it was evident that the guards had given up searching for us and had returned to the city. I wondered how they explained to themselves our sudden disappearance.

I slid down into the car’s interior, now, and closed the circular door above me. Sinking down on the padded floor with utter weariness, I tried to express to Lantin my thanks for saving my life, since had he acted a fraction of a second later, I should have been struck down by the flashing spears of our pursuers. But Lantin would not hear me, declaring that alone he would have been unable ever to reach the car, and so, conscious that without the other each of us would have perished, we let the matter rest.

In a few minutes, Lantin returned to the controls, and swinging the car in a great circle, pointed it south, opening up the power gradually until we were racing down toward the southern horizon with our highest speed. Soon, far ahead, the glistening icc came into view, and in a few minutes after that the green land behind us had dwindled to a speck against the ice, and then vanished. High above the ground, we sped across the endless ice, splitting the air like a meteor.

Hour after hour we fled on, across the gleaming fields of whiteness. The cold air had forced us to turn on the heater of the car, and even with it, wc were none too warm. Below, from horizon to horizon, billowed the frozen fields, with here and there a white dune or hill to break the monotony of the landscape.

Finally, in midaftemoon, a thickening line of black showed against the southern horizon. We reduced our speed, and sinking closer to the



ground, sped down toward the black line.

It seemed to grow as we came nearer, loomed larger and larger, until at last we hung above the black mass, gazing down at it in silent awe. And it was a wall.

But what a wall! A gigantic, mountain-high and mountain-thick barrier of solid black metal, extending as far as we could see, feom the eastern to the western horizon. A colossal barrier of metal, all of a mile and a half in height, with a thickness at the bottom of nearly a mile and at the top of half that much. A smoothsided, dully gleaming mass beside which the walls of mighty Babylon would have been toylike, microscopic.

And with that wall, the ice stopped. On the northern side of the barrier, the fields of ice stretched away as far as the eye could reach. But on its southern side there was no ice. Grass of dull green, and small trees, gnarled and twisted by the glacier’s cold, lay to the wall’s south, a vista of roiling, bleak plains that extended down to the southern horizon.

Hanging above the mighty, flattopped barrier, we surveyed it, stupefied. All around us was no sign of life. No sound, no movement. Only the white expanse to the north, the green one to the south, and between them, separating and defining them, the titani? wall.

Lantin spoke, excitedly. “You see its purpose, Wheeler? It has been built here as a dam to hold back the glacier, to stem the tides of ice. But how built? To think that men can do things like that!”

I saw now' that Lantin spoke aright, and that it was to dam the engulfing, southw'ard-flowing ice that the wall had beeii built. And I was struck with aw'e at the achievement. What were the great Chinese w'all and Martian canals, to this? Here in the far future, fifteen thousand j'ears ahead of our own time, we were seeing another step in the conquest of nature by man. He had leveled mountains and turned rivers, and here, below us, had thrust forth a hand and halted the resistless glaciers.

An hour we hung above the colossal barrier, fascinated, and then remembered our mission and sped again south.

A s WE rocketed on, we could see no sign of life below, nothing but the bleak arctic plains with here and there some sparse vegetation.

Again Lantin cried out, and when I looked south, I discerned an odd flicker of light, a seeming hesitating wavering of the air. We sped dowm toward it, dropping dow'n again to a scant mile above the ground.

Far ahead showed expanses of bright green, and as w'e drew nearer, I saw that there were small patches of white against the green, oddly regular in shape. As we sped on, these white blotches changed to buildings, and the green to verdant lawns and gardens, in which they were set. Again Lantin stopped the car, while we looked down, puzzled. For in a straight line from east to west, was the boundary, the limit, of the gardens and the buildings. North of that line were the cold, wind-swept plains and stunted, arctic vegetation, while south of the same invisible line, seemingly only a few feet from the bleak tundras, began the luxuriant, tropical gardens, stretching away south as far as the eye could see. And also the elusive flicker of light seemed to begin at the same point, and to be present everywhere south of it. If you have ever seen the flicker of heated air above railway tracks or hot sand, on a warm afternoon, you will understand me. It was like that, an elusive, fleeting w'avering in the air, below us.

“I can’t understand it,” said Lantin, ])ointing down to the invisible line which separated arctic world



from tropic. “Gardens like those, only a few feet away from the cold plain. ’ ’

“It’s beyond me,”. I told him. “Another thing, Lantin, the car is as cold as ever, even witli the heater functioning. Yet down there the country looks tropical.”

He sliook his head, and starting the car, we sped on south, as cold as we had been above the glacier, while below was a landscape that reminded me of Florida, in my own time. Set in the lawns and gardens, the white buildings became more numerous as we sped on. We could see that they were of varying shapes, some coneshaped, others cubical, while still others were spherical, like great globes of white stone sunk a little in the earth. The cone-shaped buildings were the most numerous, I saw, though there were many of the other designs. But nowhere was there a building that was cylindrical.

Ever and again our eyes caught that inexplicable flicker in the air below us. We were flying with reduced speed, now, less than a mile above the ground, and beneath us the lawns and gardens had disappeared, giving way to the crowded Wldings of a great city. In the broad streets of that city were tiny, moving figures, and many vehicles seemed to flash continually along the wide avenues. But there was no sign of aircraft.

Always the buildings grew' larger, and it was plain that we were approaching the city’s center. Away ahead of us a great cone began to loom up gigantically, an immense, conorshaped building that was fully as large as the temple of the Raider, back in the city of the Kanlars. We changed our course, headed down toward the colossal center building. As w'e drew nearer, we saw that it was smooth and unbroken of side, and at its top it w'as truncated, flattened, the summit of the cone forming a flat, circular platform a few hundred feet

in diameter. We glimpsed this much, and then Lantin sent the car down on a long slant toward the cone’s flat summit.

“We’ll land there,” he said. “This city is Kom, without doubt.”

I nodded but did not answer, for my attention was engaged by scunething else. As we slanted smoothly down toward the cone, with moderate speed, I noticed that the strange flicker of light that had puzzled us seemed to be growing plainer, stronger, nearer. It apparently hung steady above the cone, a few rods over its summit. And as we rushed down toward that summit, the truth struck me, and the nature of Ihe odd flickering was clear to me in a sudden flash of intuition.

“Lantin!” I screamed. “That flicker! It’s a roof, a transparent roof! Stop the car!”

His face livid, he reached toward the space-mechanism control, but before ever his hand touched it, there was an ear-splitting crash, I was thrown violently forward in the car, and as my head hit its steel wall witli stunning force, something seemed to explode in my brain, and consciousness left me.

CHAPTER 16


^^HROUGH a throbbing, pain-racked -^darkness, light came down to me, stronger and stronger. There was a dull, monotonous sound that seemed to float down to me from great heights. I turned, struggled, opened my eyes.

I was lying on a soft mat, set on a low, narrow platform of metal. Above me was a high, white ceiling, and as I half-raised myself on one’ arm, I was able to survey the i*est of the room in which I lay.

It was a bright, airy room, whitewalled and sunny. At one end of it were high, open windows, without



glass or shutter, and through them streamed the sunliglit and the soft air. Except for the bed on which I lay, and two metal chairs of simple design, the room was quite bare, but it was an austere, clean bareness that was pleasing to the eye.

Now memory rushed back to me, and sudden fear came with it. Where was Lantin? Had he survived the crash? I began to struggle up from my reclining position, but sank back for a moment as a door in one of the walls slid aside, and a man entered the room.

Tall and commanding of appearance, with dark hair and clear youthful face, yet something about the eyes stamped him as a man of middle age, almost elderly. He was dressed in a short white tunic, bordered with three narrow stripes of purple. When he perceived that I was awake and regarding him, he paused for a moment in surprize, then came on toward me.

A friendly smile illumined his face as he spoke to me, in the Kanlar tongue.

“You are awake, Wheelaire? And your friend, too, has just awakened.”

“Lantin!” I exclaimed. “He is all right? He was not hurt?”

The other smiled. “No more than yourself. Would you like to see him?”

I assented eagerly, and made to rise, but he pushed me back. “It is not needful,” he said, and reaching down to the foot of the metal platform on which I lay, he touched a concealed button. At once, the platform rose gently from its supports imtil it swung in the air four feet above the floor. When my new-found friend laid his hand on its edge, it moved gently through the air under the impetus of a slight push.

He saw my astonishment, and explained, “The metal is clorium, the same material we once used for our air-boats. It is weightless, under

the influence of certain forces.” Then, as an afterthought, he added, “My name is Kethra.”

Pushing my platform easily through the air before him, he was moving toward the door of the room when I stopped him with a gesture. “Can I look from the window there a moment?” I asked, indicating the high openings. By way of answer, he stepped over to the window in question, his hand on my platform’s edge bringing me there also. I raised myself, gazed eagerly out.

I saw at once that I must be near the top of the great cone-shaped building we had been making for when we crashed. Below, and all around, the white buildings extended to the horizons, looking like thousands of huge geometry-models cast down indiscriminately, cones and spheres and cubes. High above them as I was, yet I could discern swift movement in the streets, crowds of pedestrians surging to and fro, flashing vehicles of strange design, that followed the broad thoroughfares, rising in the air here and there to pass over each other. Glancing away down the long, slanting side of the cone near whose summit I stood, I saw at its base other great crowds, who massed and swirled aimlessly around the building. I turned to Kethra.

“And this is Kom?” I said.

He nodded. “ It is Kom. ’ ’

I pointed toward the teeming crowds that eddied around the building’s base. “You must count your people here by the millions?” I queried.

His face grew somber as he too looked down at the masses of humanity below. “It is seldom there are crowds like that,” he said.. “But this is a time of great events, and our people gather around this building, which is the seat of the Council of Kom, that they may learn what decisions have been made.”



He turned from the window, face solemn and unsmiling now, and with a slight push sent my platform drifting toward and through the door. Conducting me down a long corridor, he turned in at another room, similar in every detail to the one I had Just left. And there, standing up and gazing down tlirough an open window as I had just done, was Lantin.

He turned and saw' me, came toward me anxiously. At a touch from Kethra, my platform sank down to the floor, and assisted by my friend, I rose weakly to my feet.

“You’re all right, Wheeler?” he asked quickly. I assured him that I was, for the weakness and dizziness I had felt were rapidly leaving me. Lantin laughed ruefully. “What a fool 's trick of mine, to smash straight down into that roof!” He pointed upward, toward the blue sky, and walking over to the window beside him, I looked up curiously.

There was the same flicker in the sky that I had noticed from above, an elusive, wavering flash of light that I knew now was caused by the sunlight glinting off the flat, transparent roof.

“The roof,” I said to Kethra, “does it cover all the city?”

“All of Kom lies beneath it,” he said. “Without it, could we live like this?” He swept an arm around in a wide gesture that included the soft, warm air, the open windows^ and the white city below, laced w'ith the greenery of gardens.

“But how is it built?” I asked. “^How' supported? Is it glass, or what material?”

“It’s no material at all,” he replied, astoundingly. “It’s Wee.”

I looked at him, a little incredulously. “Force? It was solid enough when we crashed into it.”

“Yes, it is force,” he smiled. “That’s the reason it is almost invisible, from above or below. “It is a perpetual sheet of electric force.

drawn over the eity from end to end. It is so designed and projected, from a ring of stations around the eity, that it excludes some vibrations of the ether, and allows otliers to enter. For instance, it excludes the vibrations called matter,.such as air, or such as your car. All of the city’s air is pumped in through special vents in the force-shield. On the other hand, it allows the vibrations of light and of radiant heat to enter, and so our city is lighted and heated by the sun itself. Without such a ^ield, we would be living in a eity as bleak and cold as the plains that surround it.”

“So we crashed into an invisible field of force,” I said, and shook my head. “Well, it seemed solid enough when we hit it.”

“The most powerful force in the world could not crash through it,” said Kethra, “and it is fortunate that you were not going at high speed or you would have been annihilated. As it was, we found you both lying unconscious in your car, up on the force-shield, and as we can neutralize it at will, at given spots, we were able to bring you down to the city,”

“But the car!” I cried. “It is not destroyed, is it? It was not completely smashed?”

He shook his head. “It was hardly damaged at all,” he a.ssured us. “The point, or prow, was bent back, but that has already been repaired.” He paused a moment, then said an astounding thing. “The ear does you credit, in its design. It is too bad that, after making it and coming so far into the future, you have been imable to find your friend. ’ ’

I gasped and looked at Lantin. His face reflected utmost surprize, and he said, “I didn’t tell him, Wheeler. I’ll swear I didn’t.”

Kethra smiled. Neither of you told me,” he said. “But you have lain unconscious for a day, and in



that time we learned all your story, my friends, and learned how you came here to warn us of the peril beyond the ice, that peril of an evil being, whom you call the Raider.” “But how?” I asked helplessly.

In answer, he touched a button set in the wall, and motioned us to seat ourselves in the chairs beside the window, A green-robed servant entered, in a moment, with a metal cabinet. He handed this to Kethra, and then departed.

T he cabinet was an oblong box of black metal, a yard or more in its greatest length. Our companion touched a stud in the floor with his sandaled foot, and a small square section of the floor sprang up on four legs, or supports, forming a little table. Setting the cabinet on this table, our friend opened it.

Inside was a small, gleaming apparatus, consisting of a squat little box on which was set a small horn like that of a radio loud-speaker, but much smaller. From the box a flexible cord led, splitting at its end into three separate cords, each of which was metal-tipped. Setting this on the table, Kethra then drew from the cabinet three or four small, shapeless objects, gray and withered and deeply wrinkled, smaller in size than a baseball, the nature of which I could not guess.

He turned to us, now. “This mechanism,” he said, indicating the gleaming apparatus, “is what we call a brain-reader. As you know, the brain preserves in its convolutions an indelible, unchangeable record of every word and action. When we remember a thing, we simply refer to that record, which we call memory, but which is in reality a very tiny change, but a lasting one. And this apparatus, when connected to a human brain by way of the nervous system, reads, from the

myriad convolutions of that brain, the record of memory which is stamped on those convolutions.”

With a swift movement, he fastened three clamps of metal to his body, one above the forehead, one around the neck, and the other along his spine. “These clamps make direct contact to the nervous system, through the skin,” he explained, “and to them I attach the three cords from the brain-reader,” suiting the action to the word. This done, he snapped a switch in the little box beneath the horn, and at once a nasal, metallic voice began to speak from that horn, in the Kanlar tongue.

Kethra ’s own voice came' to us above the twanging one from the brain-reader. “It is giving a record of my experiences within the last few hours,” he explained, “and will go back farther and farther as it continues, back to my very first memory, if allowed to run. Or I can use it to concentrate on any given period of my own life, and it will read with unvarying accuracy the impressions and sensations of my brain during that period. A mechanical, perfect memory,” and he snapped off the switch and removed the clamps from his body.

“Nor does its usefulness stop there,” he added, while we stared dumfoundedly at the little mechanism. “Here,” he went on, picking up one of the withered gray objects, “is a human brain, the brain of one of the great men of our people, who died five centuries ago. And yet every memory and every thought and sensation in his life, imprinted unchangeably on his brain, is available to us by using the brain-reader. ’ ’

He rapidlji" fitted over the withered brain a hollow hemisphere of metal, and attached to it the cords from the apparatus. A snap of the switch, and again the same nasal voice broke



the silence, from the horn, speaking in the Kanlar tongue, and reading steadily on from the brain it was connected with, reciting the inmost thoughts and ideas and aspirations of a man dead for five hundred years. I shuddered, involuntarily, and Kethra snapped off the apparatus.

“It seems strange to you,” he said, “but you will see the wisdom of such an apparatus. When a great man dies, a man of mental ability above the rest of us, his brain is removed, especially prepared, and then filed and indexed in a building reserved for that purpose. There are thousands of brains preserved there, and every one of them is available at all times, by means of the brainreader, to aid us with its knowledge, its experience, its memories. Thus when a man dies among us, his intelligence does not die, but remains as a record for us to consult at will, a record of that man’s ideas and achievements.”

“And while we were unconscious,” I broke in, “you used the brainreader on us? Learned our story, learned why we came here? ’ ’

. “It is so,” he said, and his face darkened. “We sought to know who you might be, the first strangers ever to approach us. And from the brainreader came your amazing tale, and we know all that you came to tell us, concerning that creature of evil you term the Raider. And it is that knowledge that has brought those crowds below to await the decision of the Council.”

“But the Raider?” I cried. *‘Wliat is it, Kethra? Do you know?”

“I know,” he said simply, and a brooding expression dropped on his face. “I know,” he repeated, “and all here in Kom know. And that you too may know, who have had dealings with this same Raider, I will relate to you what we do know. Soon

the council meets, and you will be questioned further. But now ”

He was silent a moment, then spoke in a voice vibrant and low-toned.

history of the Kanlars,” he

A began, “the people of the cylinders, the evil ones whose doom draws near. Know, men of the past, that ages ago, though not so far back as your own time, our people dwelt in four mighty cities, each of which was nearly as large as Kom itself. There was no iceflood from the north, then, and the country around those cities was green and fair, yet none lived in that country, all preferring the gayer life of the vast towns. Long ago, the people had learned to make their food from the soil direct, as we do today, and so there was no need of tilling the land, or living on it. And so, into the four great cities had drifted all the people in this land.

“In each city, the buildings were constructed of a different design. Here in Kom, all of the buildings were cone-shaped, and thus this became Imown as Kom, the city of cones, and we, the dwellers in it, as the people of the cones. Another city was the city of cubes, another the city of spheres, and still another the city of cylinders.

“Each of these four cities was free and independent, each ruled by a council selected by its inhabitants. And being thus independent, there arose rivalry between the cities, and fierce jealousy. Each strove to outdo the others, in their scientific achievements, and each strove to keep its blood from intermixing with the others. Thus in the city of cylinders, the Kanlars, or people of the cylinders, gradually evolved into a brighthaired race, while in Kom, the Kliluns, or people of the cones, were a dark-haired race. And the other two cities differed likewise from each other and the rest.



“Ages passed, and then down from the north rolled a mighty tide of ice, sweeping over the whole land and submerging all under its frozen flood. It rolled down toward the four cities, and finally had forged south until it was at the gates of the city of cubes. In desperation, the people of the cub^ appealed to those in Koti for shelter, and it was granted them. They cam© down to Kom, every one, and the ice rolled over and hid the city of cubes. Next it engulfed the city of spheres, and its people likewise found refuge in Kom, which was the most southern of all the four cities. And finally, the ice-tide swept over the city of cylinders, and its people, the Kanlars, were forced to seek refuge in Kom also, though they liked it not.

“But the ice did not stop. It came on, ever south, until it threatened to cover Kom also, and leave our people homeless and shelterless. So, taking counsel among themselves, the people of Kom set out to -stop the progress of the glacial sheet.

“They kindled great uprisings far beneath the earth’s surface, until the tortured earth heaved up in a great wall across the ice-flood’s path. And then, that this wall of earth might not be swept away, the scientists of Kom showed them a way by which every kind of material could be transmuted at will into other elements, by a recasting of its electronic structure. And, using this power, the people of Kom smoothed the gigantic barrier they had created, and then, using the instruments their scientists had devised for them, they turned on the great wall a ray that changed it to metal by its power of element-transmutation. It was finished, and when the ice rolled down to this smooth mountain-range of metal, it was checked, halted. Far away, on either side, it rolled on and engulfed the country, but the wall so

dammed it that it could not progress farther toward the city.

“Yet the cold of the glacier was not halted by the wall, and to combat that cold, the great shield of force was devised that stretches over all Kom, and into which you crashed in your car. It admitted the sun’s light and heat, but excluded the cold winds from the glacier. And thus, having tiiwarted nature itself, the troubles of the people of Kom were seemingly at an end.

“The people of the other three cities settled down contentedly enough in Kom, and each i)€ople built their own type of dwelling, cube or sphere or cylinder. And all mixed, intermarried, and mingled in race, with the exception of the Kanlars, the people of the cylinders. These still held apart, thou^ unobtn^ively.

“And as the years went by, the scientists of Kom came to more and more wisdom. They found ways to strengthen their own bodies, so that they lived for great stretches of time, as we do yet. They sent their explorers out to other planets, they cast their vision out to the farthest stars. They learned to create life, and they learned to conquer death, almost. The flight of the soul from the body they could not control, for there is a wisdom above man’s, but the body itself they could retain as moving and lifelike as in life itself, though soulless.

“It seemed, indeed, that no other steps of wisdom remained up which to climb. And then, without the knowledge of the other people, the Kanlar scientists set themselves to conquer the secret of time. Unable to find a way of controlling time themselves, of moving in it at will, they created a monstrous, undreamedof thing, a thing of shapeless, inchoate body, which was yet living, and which could transform itself, at will, into mists and vapors, and in


S4T

gaseous form could travel at will through time. And this thing tile Kanlars made, setting in it three orbs of li^t that were its organs of sense and its seat of intelligence, and this thing is the same that you now call the Raider.

“This, rndeed,^ happened in my own lifetime, a scant score of years, ago. And when the Kanlaxs brought their creation before the supreme eotmcil of Kora, I was a member of that eouneiJ.

‘ ‘ They explained the power of their creation, they showed: its life, its intelligence. And they proposed to the council a plan which possession of the Raider made possible.

“They pointed out tliat since the Raider could travel at will through time, it could whirl back into the past, or into the future, and seize people from every age, bringing them back to our own time to be our slaves. Always- there had been none but free people in our cities, nor were slaves needed, since nearly all of our work was done by machinery, yet such was the evil plan of the Kanlars.

“The council rejected the plan in horror. And it also warned the Kanlars that unless tiiey destroyed the thing they had made, the council would hunt it out and destroy it itself. The Kanlars left in rage, and took with them the Raider, but later they promised to destroy it within a certain period o-f timfr, saying that they desired to study it further before doing soi

“So for a time they kept the Raider, and it grew swiftly in power and intelligence, until it became a deity to the Kanlars, a being whose every word to them was law. Again the council warned them to destroy their creation, and again they agreed to do so. But in secret, on a night soon after, every one of the Kanlars assembled on their air-boats and fled from the city, taking with them the Raider.

“ We could not know where thig^ had gone, but sent out many scouts to search for them. And when all our scouts had returned without finding trace of them, we decided that they had fled with their evil god to another planet, and so the matter rested. We had alwas^s thought that the ice-fields in the north extended clear to the pole, and could not know of the land there where the Kanlars had gone.

“But now, with the foowledge thebrain-reader gleaned from you while you were unconscious, all the people in Kom Imow the peril that hangs over them, know that the Raider and the Kanlars have gathered thousands of fierce warriors from all ages, and that they plan to.sweep down and loot our city and kill its people. So the council meets, now, to decide what course of action we will take.*^’ Kethra finished, and I silently pondered his amazing story, but Lantin broke in with a query. “Two tilings puzzle me,”’ he said; “how is it that you speak the same tongue as the Kanlars, and why are there no cylindrical buildings in the city below? You spoke of each people building its own design of dwellings here, but there are no cylinders. ” “When the Kanlars fled,*^’ Kethra explained, “the cylinders were demolished, for none of the other peo*- ples would then live in them. As to our language, it was always the same, for all the four cities. You call it the Kanlar tongue because you heard it first froth them, but it is equally the language of the people of Kom.”

B efore we could ask more questions, a single bell-note- sounded from a comer of the room. “The council,” murmured Kethra; “you are summoned before it.”

He motioned us out of- the room and led us down the corridor outside, toward a small elevator that was curiously familiar in appearance,



there in that building of the future. A lever was touched and we flashed silently down a long shaft, past level after level of the great cone’s interior. The car stopped, and we stepped out of it into a small antechamber. Following Kethra across it, we strode through a high, arched entrance, into a great amphitheater, a semicircular room with bank on bank of rising tiers of seats. In each seat was a man attired like Kethra, and the gaze of all was instantly focused on us as we entered. On a dais at the semicircle’s center sat four men, older than the others, and there was another chair beside the four, which was empty. A servant swiftly placed two collapsible seats on the dais, on which Lantin and I seated ourselves. Then Kethra strode to the front of the dais and began to address the assemblage.

He spoke in an even, unraised voice, but from the expressions on the faces of the council members it was easy to see that his words were of intense interest to them. He reviewed the history of Kom, which he had already briefly recounted to us, and then pointed out the peril that threatened the city. He concluded with a strong plea that the people of Kom should take the offensive and strike at the Kanlars and the Raider in their own city, rather than let the battle come to Kom.

When he had finished, there were many questions as to the means to be employed for the battle. It seemed that air-boats had not been used greatly of late in Kom, because of the difficulty of fljdng beneath the great roof of force, and thus it would be hard to transjmrt a force over the icefields in any short space of time.

But Kethra waved aside these objections. A great fleet of air-boats could be made in a few days, he declared, if the people of Kom turned their energies toward it. As to weapons, the scientists of Kom could design these, and they would also be made in great numbers, as effective as possible.

A solidly built, white-haired matt in a lower row stood up and exclaimed, “But what of the Raider?’* (I give our own equivalent of the unpronounceable term used by the people of Kom for that being). “Remember he is powerful, how powerful we can not even guess. And, if hard-pressed, he can flee into time and bide his time to strike at us again, with or without the Kanlars.”

‘ ‘ Not so, ’ ’ replied Kethra. ‘ ‘ When we build our air-boats, we will equip each with the time-traveling apparatus invented by these two men, which is installed in their own car. Thus equipped, our air-boats will be able to pursue the Raider into time and destroy him, should he flee there.”

There were other objections, other questions, but Kethra overrode them all. It was plain that he was intent on following his plan of striking at the Kanlars unexpectedly, instead of awaiting their attack, and he finally won the council over to his side. We were called on twice to furnish information on pertinent points, and finally, after hours of debate, the council voted by a large majority to build with all speed a great fleet of airboats, equipped for time-traveling, like our own car. As soon as completed, and provided with weapons by the scientists, the entire force was to speed north under the leadership of Kethra, drop unexpectedly upon the city of the cylinders, and crush the Kanlars and ^e Raider forever.

The pursuit of the Raider through the future of the world, while the sun grows cold and the earth withers, is thrillingly described in the startling chapters that bring this story to a conclusion in next month’s issue.


Dracula's Guest*

By BRAM STOKER

WHEN we started for our drive the sun was shining brightly on Munich, and the air was full of the joyousness of early summer. Just as we were about to depart, Herr Delbriick (the maitre d ’hotel of the Quatre Saisons, where I was staying) came down bareheaded to the carriage and, after wishing me a pleasant drive, said to the coachman, still holding his hand on the handle of the carriage door:

“Remember you are back by nightfall. The sky looks bright but there is a shiver in the noiHi wind that says there may be a sudden storm. But I am sure you will not be late.” Here he smiled, and added, “for you know what night it is.”

Johann answered with an emphatic, “Jo, mein Herr,” and, touching his hat, drove off quickly.

When we had cleared the town, I said, after signaling to him to stop: “Tell me, Johann, what is tonight?”

He crossed himself, as he answered laconically: “Walpiirgis HacM.” Then he took out his watch, a great, old-fashioned German silver thing as big as a turnip, and looked at it, with his eyebrows gathered together and a litle impatient shrug of his shoulders. I realized that this was his way of respectfully protesting against the unnecessary delay, and sank back in the carriage, merely motioning him to proceed.

He started off rapidly, as if to make

* This story was intended as an episode in Bram Stoker’s novel, Dracula, but was excised because of the leneth of the book.

up for lost time. Every now and then the horses seemed to throw up their heads and sniffed the air suspiciously. On such occasions I often look^ around in alarm. The road was pretty bleak, for we were traversing a sort of high, wind-swept plateau. As we drove, I saw a road that looked but little used, and which seemed to dip through a little, winding valley. It looked so inviting that, even at the risk of offending him, I called Johann to stop — and when he had pulled up, I told him I would like to drive down that road. He made all sorts of excuses, and frequently crossed himself as he spoke. This somewhat piqued my curiosity, so I asked him various questions. He answered fencingly, and repeatedly looked at his watch in protest. Finally I said:

“Well, Johann, I w'ant to go down this road. I shall not ask you to come unless you like; but tell me why you do not like to go, that is all I ask.” For answer he seemed to throw himself off the box, so quickly did he reach the ground. Then he stretched out his hands appealingly to me, and implored me not to go. There was just enough of English mixed with the German for me to understand the drift of his talk. He seemed always just about to tell me sometliing — ^the very idea of which evidently frightened him; but each time he pulled himself up, saying, as he crossed himself: “Walpitrgis Nacht!”

I tried to argue with him, but it was difficult to argue witli a man when I did not know his language.




The advantage certainly rested with him, for although he began to speak in English, of a very crude and broken kind, he always got excited and broke into his native tongue — and every time he did so, he looked at his watch. Then the horses became restless and snilfed the air. At this he grew very pale, and, looking around in a frightened way, he suddenly jumped forward, took them by the bridles and led them on some twenty feet. I followed, and asked why he had done this. For answer he crossed himself, pointed to the spot we had left and drew his carriage in the direction of the other road, indicating a cross, and said, first in German, then in English: “Buried him — ^him what killed themselves.”

I remembered the old custom of burying suicides at cross-roads; ‘ ‘ Ah! I see, a suicide. How interesting!” But for the life of me I could not make out why the horses were frightened.

Whilst we were talking, we heard a sort of sound between a yelp and a bark. It was far away; but the horses got very restless, and it took Johann all his time to quiet them. He was pale, and said: “ It sounds like a wolf — but yet there are no wolves here now. ’ ’

“No?” I said, questioning him; “isn’t it long since the wolves were so near the city?”

‘ ‘ Long, long, ’ ’ he answered, ‘ ‘ in the spring and summer; but with the snow the wolves have been here not so long.”

Whilst he was petting the horses and trying to quiet them, dark clouds drifted rapidly across the sky. The sunshine passed away, and a breath of cold wind seemed to drift past us. It was only a breath, however, and more in the nature of a warning than a fact, for the sun came oxit brightly again. Johann looked under his lifted hand at the horizon and said:

“The storm of snow, he comes before long time.” Then he looked at his watch again, and, straightway holding his reins firmly — for the horses were still pawing the ground restlessly and shaking their heads — he climbed to his box as though the time had come for proceeding on our journey.

I felt a little obstinate and did not at once get into the carriage.

‘ ‘ Tell me, ’ ’ I said, ‘ ‘ about this place where the road leads,” and I pointed doAvn.

Again he crossed himself and mumbled a prayer, before he answered: “It is unholy.”

“What is unholy?” I enquired.

“The village.”

“Then there is a village?”

“No, no. No one lives there hundreds of years.”

My curiosity was piqued: “But you said there was a village. ’ ’

“There was.”

“Where is it now?”

Whereupon he burst out into a long story in German and English, so mixed up that I could not quite understand exactly what he said, but roughly I gathered that long ago, hundreds of years, men had died there and been buried in their graves; and sounds were heard under the clay, and when the graves were opened, men and women were found rosy with life, and their mouths red with blood. And so, in haste to save their lives (aye, and their souls! — and here he crossed himself) those who were left fled away to other places, where the living lived, and the dead were dead and not — not something else. He was evidently afraid to speak the last words.

As he proceeded with his narration, he grew more and more excited. It seemed as if his imagination had got hold of him, and he ended in a perfect paroxysm of fear — white-faced, perspiring, trembling and looking round him, as if expecting that some dreadful presence would manifest

DRACULA’S GUEST


itself there in, the bright sunshine on the open plain. Finally, in an agony of desperation, he cried: “Walpurgis Naclit!” and pointed to the carriage for me to get in.

All my Englisli blood rose at this, and standing back, I said:

“You are afraid, Johann — ^you are afraid. Go home; I shall return alone; the walk will do me good.” The carriage door was open. I took from the seat my oak walking-stick — which I always carry on my holiday excursions — and closed the door, pointing back to Munich, and said, “Go home, Johann — Walpurgis Nacht doesn’t concern Englishmen.”

The horses were now more restive than ever, and Johann was trying to hold them in, while excitedly imploring me not to do anything so foolish. I pitied the poor fellow, he was so deeply in earnest; but all the same I could not help laughing. His English was quite gone now. In his anxiety he had forgotten that his only means of making me understand was to talk my language, so he jabbered away in his native German. It began to be a little tedious. After giving the direction, “Home!” I turned t(^ go down the' cross-road into the vaUey.

With a despairing gesture Johann turned his horses toward Munich. I leaned on my stick and looked after him. He went slowly along the road for a while: then there came oyer the crest of the hill a man tall and thin. I could see so much in the distance. When he drew near the horses, they began to jump and kick about, then to scream with terror. Johann could not hold them in; they bolted down the road, running away madly. I watched them out of sight, then looked for the stranger, but I found that he, too, was gone.

a light heart I turned down ’ ^ the side road through the deepening vaUey to which Johann had objected. There was not the slightest reason, that I could see, for his objection; and I daresay I tramped for a couple of hours without thinking of time or distance, and certainly without seeing a person or a house. So far as the place was concerned, it was desolation itself. But I did not notice this particularly till, on turning a bend in the road, I came upon a scattered fringe of wood; then I recognized that I had been impressed unconsciously by the desolation of the region through which I had passed.

I sat down to rest myself, and began to look around. It struck me that it was considerably colder than it had been at the commencement of my walk — a sort of sighing sound seemed to be around me, with, now and then, high overhead, a sort of muffled roar. Looking upward, I noticed that great thick clouds were drifting rapidly across the sky from north to south at a great height. There were signs of coming storm in some lofty stratum of the air. I was a little chilly, and, thinking that it was the sitting still after the exercise of walking, I resumed my journey.

The ground I passed over was now much more picturesque. There were no striking objects that the eye might single out; but in all there was a charm of beauty. I took little heed of time and it was only when the deepening twilight forced itself upon me that I began to think of how I should find my way home. The brightness of the day had gone. The air was cold, and the drifting of clouds high overhead was more marked. They were accompanied by a sort of far-away rushing sound, through which seemed to come at intervals that mysterious cry which the driver had said came from a wolf. For a while I hesitated. I had said I would see the deserted village, so on I went, and presently came on a wide stretch of open country, shut in by hills all around. Their sides were covered with trees which spread down



to the plain, dotting, in clumps, the gentler slopes and hollows which showed here and there. I followed with my eye the winding of the road, and saw that it curved close to one of the densest of these clumps and was lost behind it.

As I looked there came a cold shiver in the air, and the snow began to fall. I thought of the miles and miles of bleak country I had passed, and then hurried on to seek the shelter of the wood in front. Darker and darker grew the sky, and faster and heavier fell the snow, till the earth before and around me was a glistening white carpet the farther edge of which was lost in misty vagueness. The road was here but crude, and when on the level its boundaries were not so marked as when it passed through the cuttings; and in a little while I found that I must have strayed from it, for I missed underfoot the hard surface, and my feet sank deeper in the grass and moss. Then the wind grew stronger and blew with ever increasing force, till I was fain to run before it. The air became icy-cold, and in spite of my exercise I began to suffer. The snow was now falling so thickly and whirling around me in such rapid eddies that I could hardly keep my eyes open. Every now and tlien the heavens were torn asunder by vivid lightning, and in the flashes I could see ahead of me a great mass of trees, chiefly yew and cypress, all heavily coated with snow.

I was soon amongst the shelter of the trees, and there, in comparative silence, I could hear the rush of the wind high overhead. Presently the blackness of the storm had become merged in the darkness of the night. By and by the storm seemed to be passing away: it now only came in fierce puffs or blasts. At such moments the weird soimd of the wolf appeared to be echoed by many similar sounds around me.

Now and again, throu^ the black

mass of drifting cloud, came a stragling ray of moonlight, which lit up the expanse, and showed me that I was at the edge of a dense mass of cypress and yew trees. As the snow had ceased to fall, I walked out from the shelter and began to investigate more closely. It appeared to me that, amongst so many old foundations as I had passed, there might be still standing a house in which, though in ruins, I could find some soil; of shelter for awhile. As I skirted the edge of the copse, I found that a low wall encircled it, and following this I presently found an opening. Here the cypresses formed an alley leading up to a square mass of some kind of building. Just as I caught sight of this, however, the drifting clouds obscured the moon, and I passed up the path in darkness. The wind must have grown colder, for I felt myself shiver as I walked; but there was hope of shelter, and I groped my way blindly on.

I stopped, for there was a sudden stillness. The storm had passed; and, perhaps in sympathy with nature's silence, my heart seemed to cease to beat. But this was only momentarily; for suddenly the moonlight broke through the clouds, showing me that I was in a graveyard, and that the square object before me was a great massive tomb of marble, as white as the snow that lay on and all around it. With the moonlight there came a fierce sigh of the storm, which appeared to resume its course with a long, low howl, as of many dogs or wolves. I was awed and shocked, and felt the cold perceptibly grow upon me till it seemed to grip me by the heart. Then while the flood of moonlight still fell on the marble tomb, the storm gave further evidence of renewing, as though it was returning on its track.

Impelled by some sort of fascination, I approached the sepulcher to.see what it was, and why such a thing stood alone in such a place.

DRACULA’S GUEST


I walked around it, and read, over the Doric door, in German:



1801.

On the top of the tomb, seeminglydriven through the solid marble — for the structure was composed of a few vast blocks of stone — was a great iron spike or stake. On going to the back I saw, graven in gi’eat Russian letters:

“Tlie dead travel fast.”

There w'as something so weird and uncanny about the whole thing that it gave me a turn and made me feel quite faint. I began to wish, for the &st time, that 1 had taken Johann’s advice. Here a thought struck me, which came under almost mysterious circumstances and with a terrible shock. This was Walpurgis Night!

Walpurgis Night, when, according to the belief of inillions of people, the devil was abroad — when the graves were opened and the dead came fortli and walked. Wlien aU evil things of earth and air and water held revel. This very place the driver had specially shunned. This was the depopulated village of centuries ago. This was where the suicide lay; and this was the place where I was ^one — unmanned, shivering with cold in a shroud of snow with a wild storm gathering again upon me! It took all my philosophy, all the religion I had been taught, ^ mj^ courage, not to collapse in a paroxy'sm of fright.

And now a perfect tornado burst upon me. The ground sliook as though thousands of horses thundered across it; and this time the storm bore on its icy wings, not snow, but great hailstones which drove with such violence that they might have come from the thongs of Balearic slingers — ^Iiailstones that beat down leaf and branch aixd made the shelter of the

cypresses of no more avail than if their stems were standing com.

At the first I had rushed to the nearest tree; but I was soon fain to leave it and seek the only spot that seemed to afford refuge, the deep Doric doorway of the marble tomb. There, crouching against the massive bronze door, I gained a certain amount of protection from the beating of the hailstones, for now they only drove agahast me as they rieochetted from the ground and the side of the marble.

As I leaned against the door, it moved slightly and opened inward. The shelter of even a tomb was welcome in that pitiless tempest, and I was about to enter it when there came a fiash of forked lightning that lit up the whole expanse of the heavens. In the instant, as I am a living man, I saw, as my eyes were turned into the darkness of the tomb, a beautiful woman, with rounded cheeks and red lips, seemingly sleeping on a bier. As the thunder broke overhead, I was grasped as by the hand of a giant and hurled out into the storm. The whole thing was so sudden that, before I could realize the shock, moral as well as physical, I found the hailstones beating me down. At the same time I had a strange, dominating feeling that I was not alone. I looked toward the tomb. Just then there came another blinding fiash, which seemed to strike the iron stake that surmounted the tomb and to pour through to the earth, blasting and crumbling the marble, as in a burst of flame. The dead woman rose for a moment of agony, while she was lapped in the flame, and her bitter scream of pain was drowned in the thundercrash. The last thing I heard was this mingling of dreadful sound, as again I was seized in the giant-grasp and dragged away, while the hailstones beat on me, and the air around seemed reverberant with the howling of wolves. The last sight that I remem854


ber was a vague, white, moving mass, as if all the graves around me had sent out the phantoms of their sheeted dead, and that they were closing in on me through the white cloudiness of the driving hail.

« * w * #

G radually there came a sort of vague beginning of consciousness; then a sense of weariness that was dreadful. For a time I remembered nothing; but slowly my senses returned. My feet seemed positively racked with pain, yet I could not move them. They seemed to be numbed. There was an icy feeling at the back of my neck and all down my spine, and my ears, like my feet, were dead, yet in torment; but there was in my breast a sense of warmth which was, by comparison, delicious. It was as a nightmare — a physical nightmare, if one may use such an expression; for some heavy weight on my chest made it difficult for me to breathe.

This period of semi-lethargy seemed to remain a long time, and as it faded away I must have slept or swooned. Then came a sort of loathing, like the first stage of sea-sickness, and a wild desire to be free from something — I knew not what. A vast stillness enveloped me, as though all the world were asleep or dead — only broken by the low panting as of some animal close to me. I felt a warm rasping at my throat, then came a consciousness of the awful truth, which chilled me to the heart and sent the blood surging up through my brain. Some great animal was lying on me and now licking my throat. I feared to stir, for some instinct of prudence bade me lie still; but the brute seemed to realize that there was now some change in me, for it raised its head. Through my eyelashes I saw above me the two great flaming eyes of a gigantic wolf. Its sharp white teeth gleamed in the gaping red mouth, and I could feel

its hot breath fierce and acrid upon me.

For another spell of time I remembered no more. Then I became conscious of a low growl, followed by a yelp, renewed again and again. Then, seemingly very far away, I heard a “Holloa! holloa!” as of many voices calling in unison. Cautiously I raised my head and looked in the direction whence the sound came; but the cemetery blocked my view. The wolf still continued to yelp in a strange way, and a red glare began to move around the grove of cypresses, as though following the sound. As the voices drew closer, the wolf yelped faster and louder. I feared to make eitlier sound or motion. Nearer came the red glow, over the white pall which stretched into the darkness around me.

Then all at once from beyond the trees there came at a trot a troop of horsemen bearing torches. The wolf rose from my breast and made for the cemetely. I saw one of the horsemen (soldiers by their caps and long military cloal^) raise his carbine and take aim. A companion knocked up his arm, and I heard the ball whizz over my head. He had evidently taken my body for that of the wolf. Another sighted the animal as it slunk away, and a shot followed. Then at a gallop, the troop rode forward — some toward me, others following the wolf as it disappeared amongst the snow-clad cypresses.

As they drew nearer I tried to move, but was powerless, although I could see and hear all that went on around me. Two or three of the soldiers jumped from their horses and knelt beside me. One of them raised my head, and placed his hand over my heart.

“Good news, comrades!” he cried. “His heart still beats!”

Then some brandy was poured down my throat; it put vigor into me, and I was able to open my eyes

DRACULA’S GUEST


fully and look around. Light.s and shadows were moving among the trees, and I heard men call to one another. They drew together, uttering frightened exclamations; and the lights flashed as the others came pouring out of the cemetery pell-mell, like men possessed. When the farther ones came close to us, those who were around me asked tliem eagerly:

“Well, have you found himf”

The reply rang out hurriedly:

“No! no! Come away quick — quick! This is no place to stay, and on this of all nights! ’ ’

“What was it?” was the question, asked in all manner of keys. The answer came variously and all indefinitely as though the men were moved by some common impulse to speak, yet were restrained by some common fear from giving their thoughts.

“It — it — indeed!” gibbered one, whose wits had plainly given out for the moment.

“A wolf — and yet not a wolf!” another put in shudderingly.

“No use trying for him without the sacred bullet,” a third remarked in a more Ordinary manner.

“Serve us right for coming out on this night! Truly we have earned our thousand marte!” were the ejaculations of a fourth.

“There was blood on the broken marble, ’ ’ another said after a pause — “the lightning never brought that there. And for him — is he safe? Look at his throat! See, comrades, the wolf has been lying on him and keeping his blood warm.”

The officer looked at my throat and replied:

“He is all right; the skin is not pierced. What does it all mean? We should never have found him but for the yelping of the wolf.”

“What became of it?’” asked the man who was holding up my head, and who seemed the least panicstricken of the party, for his hands were steady and without tremox’.. On

his sleeve was the chevron of a petty officer.

“It went to its home,” answered the man, whose long face was pallid, and who actually sliook with terror as he glanced around him fearfully. “There are graves enough there in which it may lie. Come, comrades — come quickly! Let us leave this cursed spot.” ^

The officer raised me to a sitting posture, as he uttered a word of command; tlien sevei’al men placed me upon a horse. He sprang to the saddle behind me, took me in his arms, gave the word to advance; and, turning our faces away from the cypresses, we rode away in swift, military order.

As yet my tongue refused its office, and I was perforce silent. I must have fallen asleep; for the next thing I remembered was finding myself standing up, supported by a soldier on each side of me. It was almost broad daylight, and to the north a red streak of sunlight was reflected, like a path of blood, over the waste of snow. The officer was telling the men to say nothing of what they had seen, except that they found an English stranger, guarded by a large dog.

“Dog! that w'as no dog,” cut in the man who had exhibited such fear. “I think I know a wolf when I see one.”

The young officer answered calmly: “I said a dog.”

“Dog!” reiterated the other ironically. It was evident that his courage was rising with the sun; and, pointing to me, he said,“Look at his throat. Is that the work of a dog, master? ’ ’

Instinctively I raised my hand to my throat, and as I touched it I cried out in pain. The men crowded round to look, some stooping down from their saddles; and again there came the calm voice of the young officer:

“A dog, as I said. If aught else were said we should only be laughed at.”



I was then mounted behind a trooper, and we rode on into the suburbs of Munich. Here we came across a stray carriage, into which I was lifted, and it was driven off to the Quatre Saisons — the young officer accompanying me, whilst a trooper followed with his horse, and the others rode off to their barracks.

we arrived, Herr Delbriick rushed so quickly down the steps to meet me, that it was apparent he had been watching within. Taking me by both hands he solicitously led me in. The officer saluted me and was turning to withdraw when I recognized his purpose, and insisted that he vshould come to my rooms. Over a glass of wine I warmly thanked him and his brave comrades for saving me. Ho replied simply tliat he was more than glad, and that Herr Delbriick had at the first taken steps to make all the searching party pleased; at which ambiguous utterance the maitre d ’hotel smiled, while the officer pleaded duty and withdrew.

“But Herr Delbiaiek,” I enquired, “how and why was it that the soldiers searched for me?”

He shrugged his shoulders, as if in depreciation of his own deed, as he replied:

“I was so fortunate as to obtain leave from the commander of the regiment in which I served, to ask for volunteers.”

“But how did you know I was lost?” I asked.

“The driver came hither with the remains of his carriage, which had been upset when the horses ran away. ’ ’

“But surely you would not send a search-party of soldiers merely on this account?”

“Oh, no!” he answered, “but even before the coachman arrived, I had this telegram from the Boyar whose guest you are,” and he took from his pocket a telegram which he handed to me, and I read:

Bistritz.

Be careful of my giiest — ^his saiety is most precious to me. Should aught happen' to him, or if he be missed, spare nothing to find him and ensure his safety. He is English and therefore adventurous. Tliere are often dangers from snows and wolves and night. Lose not a moment if you suspect harm to lum. I answer your zeal with my fortune.

Deacdi,a.

As I held the telegram in my hand, the room seemed to whirl around me; and, if the attentive maitre d ’hotel had not caught me, I think I should have fallen. There was something so strange in all this, something so weird and impossible to imagine, that there grew on me a sense of my being in some way the sport of opposite forces — the mere vague idea of which seemed in a way to paralyze me. I was certainly under some form of mysterious protection. Prom a distant country had come, in the very nick of time, a message that took me out of the danger of the snow-sleep and the jaws of the wolf.

7 Out of 10 Are Prospects!

If You Sell VE-PO-AD

The New Vest Pocket Adding Machine

Men, here is a wonder I If you’re looking for a rapid-fire seller — an item that sells for a popular price — an Item that nets you 100 per cent profit — an item that appeals to 7 out of 10 men — an item that sells itself on demonstration — ^I've got it I Is it any wonder that scores of my men are reporting sales of

$200 a Week— Easilyl Yes. that's what most of them are doing. Shapiro, of California, cleaned up orer $475 in one week. Many others do almost as well, and H*a ••ay work, for VE-PO-AD sells Itself on demonstration.

VE-PO-AD is without a doubt one of the cleverest, most ingenious inventions of the last 25 years A complete and accurate adding machina that will do all the work of a $300 machine, yet fits into your ves' pocket and retails for only $2,951 What'a more, you make 100 p»r eanl on •¥•!) aalat VE-POAD counts clear up to 999.999, 999» (derates like lightning, can be cleared by a pull of the finger and yet Sells for Only $2.9S It's almost unbelievable that $2.95 could buy so much This remarkable

invention is truly vest-pocket size. Only % inch thick, 5 inches long and 3% inches wide. Handsomely bound in blue leatherette cover. Face Is of etched brass. Works easily and silently. So simple a child can learn to operate It in three minutes.

100^ Pro0t for You

Frankly, I don't know of any other proposition which retails for $2.95 that will net you a profit of 100 per cent. Yet that’s exactly what I offer you — 100 par oant profit on ovorv sale. And just stop to think for a minute what a big field there is In your own territory for an article like this! Every storekeeper on Main Street needs It— merchants, farmers, storekeepers, housewives — In fact, everybody will find VE-PO-AD a big aid In the daily use of figures. Surely, no other article has 80 universal an appeal.

Mail Coupon Today For Sample Maclixne

There Is only one way for you to appreciate what a money-maker VE-POAD will be for you. and that is to send me the coupon and let me put a machine in your hands so you can see it.


Dept.799 184 W« Washington St., Chicago, 111.

use it and prove that all my claims are true. Although VE-PO-AD sells regularly for $2.95, 1 will furnish you one at the special price of $1.65, with the understanding that this amount will be credited to you on your first order for five machines, or that If you can not see the ssles possibilities of VE-PO-AD. you can return this sample maifiiine to me within ten days and your money will be refunded in full. There are no strings attached to this offer. It's genuine and 100 per cent fair to you. If you are really interested in making money and in earning a substantial, steady income, investigate VE-PO-AD today. Mail the coupon now and let me put you on the way to big money.

IT

I I


C. M. Cleary. Sale* Mgr^

Ratlabta AdOlng Maehlna Carp.,

Daat. 799,

184 W. Waahliigtan St., Chlesgo, IK.

Pleaaa sand ma oaa VB-PO-AD, for wbleb

win ba aant poatpdid.) I nadarstaad mit | may ratura mia maebiaa wldiiB 10 diye asd you win rafmd my moaay. or that you mil credit ma mtb mfa aum on my flrat ordar for fira or okmw mneblnea.

Name

Address

City-.. StsteKindly mention this magazine when answering advertisements



The Eyrie

(Continued f rom page 726)

me a real recreation in the daily monotony of life, and also sometiLnig like an occasional pleasure trip to a world outside the existing world of hard reality. I, for one, think you sliould continue your policy of giviog us a monthly repsrint story. For even the most genial of modem authors of weird or uncanny stories can not stir a developed fantasy as can Sfueh clasme geniuses as Poe, Andreyeff, and several others. For instance, Andreyeff’s Lazarus, which yon recently published, could hardly be surpassed for weirdne®, combined with literary skill. Of your late serials, I can not think of any that I admire more than The Dark Chrysalis. And your serial. The Bride of Osiris, is splendid, giving a very lucid idea of the old Egyptian rites and cult.”

“Was much alarmed to hear of Dr. de Orandin’s proposed trip back to France,” writes Mrs. W, B. Pennington, of Smithville, Missouri, in a letter to The Eyrie. “For goodness’ sake don’t let him get away for good, whatever you do, as he’s the spice of the whole magarine. Don’t let him get away.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? It will help us to keep the magazine in line with your liking if you will let us know. Your favorite story in the October issue, as shown by your votes, was Pickman’s Model, by H. P. Loveeraft, which wms closely pressed for first honors by The Dark Lore, by Nictrin Dyalhis, and the first installment of The Time-Raider, by Edmond Hamilton.


ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

( 1 )

( 2 )

I do not like the following stories: Why?

r

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out tiiis coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, 111.

Reader’s name and address:



I

Unusual Stories

T heee is an eery fascination about tales of the supernatural, the unknown and the terrible, a fascination that grips the reader’s imagination and sends shivers of apprehension up his spine. Weird Tales specializes in outr6 masterpieces of this kind and prints the best weird fiction in the world today — stales of strange monsters; creepy mystery stories; ghost-tales; shuddery tales of eery horror; tales of devil-worship, witchcraft, vampires and werewolves; orientales of wild beauty; also weird-scientific tales of the spaces between the worlds; surgical tales; and stories of tremendous dooms that menace the earth. Anumg the amazing tales in the next few issues will be:

THE GIANT WORLD, by Ray Cummings

A thrilling sequel to ^‘Explorers Into Infinity"— eery monstrosities— the onslaught of the giants — the weird women of that vaster world— the City of Ice — and the pursuit of the giants up into largeness unfathomable.

THE STRANGE PEOPLE, by Murray Leinster

Eery was the mystery that surrounded the Stranse People; uncanny and exciting were the weird adventures of two Americana as they struggled to penetrate the secret.

THE GHOST-TABLE, by Elliot O^DonneU

A rampant beast, lusting to kill, was this curious table with the tigor-claws — an utterly strange and gripping tale of occult phenomena. ^

THE CALL OF CTHULHU, by H. P. Lovecraft

A superb masterpiece of outrd literature by the author of “The Outsider”— the loathsome cult of Cthulhu prepared for the renascence of the obscene monstrosity that sent its thought-waves aUthering through the earth.

THE GOLDEN WHISTLE, by Eli Colter

He came from a far planet, searching through all the worlds for a soul so attuned that he could draw it to himself by his uncanny mastery of atomic vibration.

THE FEATHERED SERPENT, by Walter Carrington

The Gray Death slithered through the ruins of the Temple of Xupa, where Cyrene Cortelyou. with a love that transcended mortality, fought against the Thing that had crushed the life out of her sweetheart.

THE EIGHTH GREEN MAN, by G. G. Pendarves

A weird tale of the uncanny horror that befell the guests of the innkeeper when the Green Men held revel — a story replete with eery shudders.

T hese are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weird Tales. To make sure of getting your eopy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let ns send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

WEIRD TALES,

450 E. Ohio St..

Chicago, HI.

Enclosed And $2.60 for 1 year’s subscription to “Weird Tales.” to begin with the January issue. (23.00 in Canada.)

Name. Address City

!

State..



New Secret Book Loaned to You

The Infiders Daughter

( Continued from page 752)

Reveals Rosicrucian Laws and Secret Teachings

Haa Made Thousands Happy, Successful, and Mig:hty in the Control of Natural Laws.

Because this new book is so remarkable and difficult to secure, the Supreme Council of the Bosicruclans has decided to loan SBALKD COPIES of it to sincere and worthy seekers who will promise to study it and help In the great work of promoting success and health in life. It is called ''Rosicrucian Illumination’* and irf issued by the oldest mystical fraternity in the world. Just write and say that you will read it, study the wonderful laws and return it. Enclose two cents for actual postage, and It will be mailed. Address:

LIBRARIAN NO. 444, AMORC Rosicrucian Square

Memorial Bou levard, Tampa, Florida

Anyone CANXE^^RN*

(•'/h No teleot or «zp«rl<

^sc&itttiajrwork. PaytlM loiMlete motnicttot BOOK ‘ *■ • ^.Col«- •

Si

\\ k f/v/ EARN IMMEDimiYA I- U / WE FURNISH equipment TO START

smartest. mostlnteiestiDir, entertaining and Ins^etlYc Masftzineln Amerlcal JOu>e€A$/dr OfiltflPc. special! ntroductoiy offer. Nomaga* sine like It Full of important nets, pictures and the best most popular fiction for all members of the family. Send name, address and lOe today. The Patl^der. Dept p.loe. Waablngton. P. jX

$5.00; Cards, $1.25; Inks,$1.50; MAulla Magic Fluid forTransparenta, t3.00;

Slick Ace Cards, 31.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c.

CBNTRAI- NOVELTY COMPANY, 740 W. Madtson St., Chicago, 111.


[THE END]

============================================================
by Burks
============================================================
SONG POEM WRITERS IVKITE BIBBELEB,

D-156, 2104 N. Keystone Ave., Chicago.

Watch for this story

THREE COFFESrS

By ARTHUR J. BURKS

An eery tale of the West Indies

dazzling blue whiteness. But this time in vain: for the massive door of the seventh stage was of plates and ponderous bars of bronze, against which no cutting torch can operate.

Hammers, chisels, hatchets and bars of ii’on were drawn from beneath the saffron robes of the Knights: and likewise, in anticipation of their ultimate entry, they produced and laid to one side cords, whips, and small cans of oil,


murmured the Infidel's Daughter as she withdrew from Landon’s embrace, “they have come to take the cabaret girl,”

“What?”

“Yes. Listen....”

A dull tapping; and then a voice from without muffled by the thickness of the massive door.

‘ ‘ Let us in. We only want the girl. ”

“Come in and get her!” mocked Landon.

“If we have to force this door, you'll get what’s coming to her.”

“Try and force it!” And then, to the girl: “There is no other exit. Still ” And his eye paused, regarding an ancient, bull-headed mace that hung on the wall. “I’ll give them a surprize.”

He advanced toward the ponderous door.

“Don’t!” protested the Infidel’s Daughter.

‘ ‘ Single-handed ’ ’

“No. In this ziggurat you called me from the shadows. Away from

( Continued on page 862)




CleWi

tier

iafouneerantiifetmoretBt-' tappearance

Strenstt^SmiSS I

feattier with Binooth^nd-poIlsS^

. aoee bridKO and sneefnlly curved I temple bows that cauoot cut the most tender cose or ears., A ~ ^work of beant; and a delisht ' >the wearer.-'

Send No Money —Perfect Satisfaction Guaranteed

LetnieseiidyCDoa 30 Days*Trlalmyfainoua**ClearSieht*''SpeetaeIes. WfllenableyoDtoreadtheBmallcstpriota thread the flbestneedlesseofarortiaara If you are not amazed and delisted* if yoa do not think my apeetadea at only S 3.98 egnal to those add alsewtiere at tlS.OO, send them back. Yon won't lose a cent. Ton are to be the sole fndye. Himdreda of tboosanda now in uae everywhere. Beantifol case inelnded FREE. Jnat aend yoor name, addr^s and age on the coupon below. I will idaotoll you how to sat a pair for youraotf witheat cost*


Clear Sight Spectacle Co., Dept. JD2249 1445 W. Jackson Boulevard,Chicago,III.

1 want to try your npeetscles for 30 days. XUS places me nnder do obligation. Also please tell me bow to get a pair furmy^f FIBEC.

Naatt

Ao*

Strat and No.

Box No.

dtp

Snuo

R.F.D.

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

** Clouds Dispelled**

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Aet today! Write NOW!!


Dept. O, Box 15S5, Bos Ansreles, CnUf.

BOOKS — SCIENTIFIC AND WEIRD Romances for sale. “Master Mind of Mars” — Burroughs 75c, “Lady of the Shroud” — Stoker $1.25, “The Lost Continent” — Hyne $2, “The Invisible Man” — Wells $1.50. Catalogue 2c. Fresno Book Shop, 1940 Tuolumne St., Fresno, Calif.

MEN WANTING OUTDOOR WORK, QUALIFY for forest ranger position. Start $125 month; cabin and vacation: patrol the forests, protect the game; give tourists information. Write Mokane, Dept. M-37. Denver. Colo.

SECRETS mystYries

The world's most amazing Encyclopedia of Cucious Secrets or *'Tlie Silent Friend. Mar* riage Quldo & Medical Adviser" is a gold mine of money-saving, money-making secrets; manufacturing and beauty formulas: home remedies; household recipes; farmers and trappers' secrets; exposes gamblers* secrets; the $50,000 secret; many ways to wealth; guide for lovers; exposes ancient and modern magic, tricks, conjuring; futility cX charms, seals, talismans: mysteries ci Forbidden Qbala; occult arts; animal training; flea circus; hundrads of spcll-blr^lng secrets, fascinating pictures, etc.. FOE ADUjLTS ONLY. Only |$ complete. Send cash, stamps or M. O. or pay €. O. D. Sent sealed in plain wrapper. Money Back Offer.

Cduoaler Press* Puller Bldg., Jersey City* N. J., Oept. A -1013

OUR WONDKRFTL, NEW PLAN WILL PUT you in the $5,000 class. 350 products. Low prices, supreme quality. Complete outfit free. We furnish automobile. Write quick. American Products Co., 9166 Monmouth, Cincinnati, Ohio.

INVENTIONS commercialized. PATented or Unpatented. Writ© Adam Pisher Mfg. Co., 551 Enright. St. Louis, Mo.

Travel For “Uncle Sam”


$158 to $225 MONTH

Mall Ooapon Before

!t

us mmUTE. Dipl. R-ire. RRCSESrER, «. 1

Sirs: Rush to mo without charge copy of 32page book, "How to Get U. 8. Oorernment Jobs," with list of positions obtainable, and full particulars telling how to get them.

Steady Work— No l«ayoffs — Paid Vacations ^ TRAVEL-SEE YOUR COUNTRY #

MEN— BOYS 18 UP g

Comnrzon Education Sufficient # AtfdrcM.



( Continued from page 860)

here I can have no existence. The mortal frame of her who sought shelter with you has been consumed in the fire of your vision, so that she is not; nor was she ever. You, you can leave; single-handed, fight your way out. But me you must leave behind, if you leave at all.”

‘ ‘ Fight my way out, and leave you behind? ’ ’

“Yes. For they can not harm or even touch me. The cabaret girl, yes; but not Bint el Kafir, not Sarpanit who has crossed the Border.”

The besiegers were making no headway, no impression on the massive door which a hundred men with battering rams could not force.

“Nor can they pass that door until your vision has been fulfilled to the uttermost ”

“What further, KadisMuf” wondered Landon, drunk with the splendor from across the Border.

“Thus far I have not overstepped human bounds; nor did I intend to until the end of this avatar, a long time from this first evening. For you are a man after my own heart, Adon, and no mortal woman could love you as I do: so that I would have witheld the Hundred and First Kiss until the Lords of the Sign recalled me, for no mortal may live to tell of its mystery. But those meddling fools ”

She evaded his embrace, then continued, “But think well, Adon. You can fight your way to freedom and escape. Me they will not find, for now I am not, save in your mind alone. The one tliey think they seek, the cabaret girl, has ceased to exist: for she served but to bring me to you. Therefore save yourself. And go your way, knowing what you have done. Knowing also that there is nothing before you: for you can not a second time call me from across the

STATEMENT OP THE OWNERSHIP, MAN*

AGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OP CONGRESS OP AUGUST 84, 1918,

Of Weird Tales, published monthly at Indianapolis, Indiana, for October 1, 1927.

State of Illinois \

County of Cook i

Before me, a notary public In and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wm. R. Sprenger, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc,, of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this foi*m, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Editor — Farnsworth Wright, 450 E, Ohio St., Chicago, III.

Managing Editor — None.

Business Manager — William R. Sprenger. 460 E. Ohio St.. Chicago, 111.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, Its name and address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addressee ef the individual owners must be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those of each individual member must be given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Win. B. Sprenger, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, Illinois.

Farnsworth Wright, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, Illinois.

George M. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

George H. Cornelius, 2467 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. Cornelius, 2467 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so state). None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest, direct or indirect, in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him,

5. That the average number of copies of each

issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the six months preceding the date shown above is (This information is required from daily publications only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER, Business Manager.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 29th day of September, 1927. JAMES H. COREY,

[SEAL] Notary Public.

My commission expires July 12, 1928.

WEIRD TALES ‘


Border. If you wish... take your vision to its uttermost, and be consumed entirely, even as was Naramsin of Agade, whom you saw asleep in my villa on Djeb el Kafir... or go your way, to live long and emptily, without having tasted the fullness of your destiny. That door wall hold until you open it to scatter those fools before you... or until like Naramsin you have been calcined in the mptery of the Hundred and First Kiss.... Choose, Adon!”

Forgotten were the vengeful Knights who vainly battered the massive brazen door; forgotten was all peril, all the past and its multitudinous turmoils and imbroglios; forgotten all save the wonder and radiance of the Infidel’s Daughter, Sarpanit whom he had called from across the Border, the Bright and Shining One whose smoldering eyes transfixed him, whose serpentine arms invited him, whose low, rippling voice murmured of incredible bliss and wonder beyond human endurance.

Landon dropped the heavy mace and turned from the brazen door.

“I have chosen.”

The Lord of the Sign flamed fiercely as a bead of flame threaded on a silver wire....

E ven bronze has its limits. So that, failing by sheer force, the Knights finally succeeded with mallets and chisels. As the great door yielded, they wondered at the silence within, and at the overpowering, deadly sweetness that enveloped them, a dizzying, intoxicating, maddening sweetness that made their senses whirl and falter in confusion.

The Knights in their amazement forgot the girl they sought, and stared at the exalted, godlike features of the sleeper, that fierce outlaw whose hard eyes and haughty air had

SAVE^

§r

GOODRICH* 1 GOODVCAHt 1 FISM, CTC. ]

Best used tiresO treated with H our secret Dro« I cesj» — gteinff |

THOUSANDS f UNUSUAL MILEAGE

QUARANTeClAnytirafanine. Shipping Charge toipve satisfaction replaced at One>half purchase pried. SendSl.OOdepositon each tire. Right reserved to sabstitute. If you send full amount, deduct 5%.

CHICAGO TIRE & RUBBER COMPANY, 0100 99 * HleMgan Ava^ Pept> 370 0Meago,


Size Tire New Tube

30x3 $2.73 $1.2S

30x3 i-2 2.95 1.50

32x31-2 3.25 31x4 as 3.95 32x4 4.00

33x4 4.45

34x4 4.45

32x4 1-2 4.95 33x41-2 5.00 34x41-2 5.25 1-30x5 5.25

,t 33x5 5.50

135x8 5.75

I 29x4.40 2.85 I 30x8.77 5.25 >131x5.25 8.45

Plus Shipping Charge

To advertise bur business, make new friends and introduce our new bargain catalogue of Klgln watches, we will send this elegant watch by mall post paid for ONLY 51.85 (safe delivery guaranteed). Dust proof case, stem wind and stem set. newest style decorated dial, a perfect timekeeper and fully guaranteed for 5 years. Send this advertisement to us with $1.85 and watch will be sent at once by mall post paid, or send 83.00 and we will send two watches. Satisfaction guarairteed. NATIONAL IMPORT CO.

413— W.T, — Iwaurance Bldg. Wea hl ngtent D« C«

CpmpieM coane of HrpootiRn.Mind Rondfng and Magnetic Healing. 2o fascinaung leegona. How to becomo an expert, hypnotize at a glMce, make others obejr your wishes, overooms bad b^its and eno* mies. gain in power, wealth, tore. Simple, eaay system. Equals *20 Coarse; now only $1. Send stamps, cash; no more to pay.

Educator Press. 19 Park Row. New York. Dept. 10-11

OLD MONEY WANTED *rr

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Money, it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaranteed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash. CBARKB COIN CO., W. T. Dept., DeR-y, N. T.

Stop Using a Truss

STUART’S PLAPAO.

PADS are different from the truss, belnz mcebanicp. cbemico anpUcators mada aelf-adhosive purposely to bold the distendod tnusclea securely in placa No straps, buckles or spring attached —cannot.slip, so cannot chafe or press against tbo pubiobone- IThousands have successfully treated thempie SbStl. without

Gnld *^“dranco from work— most J

Goio Mgaftli obstinate cases conquered. GrMilPflii Soft as wfvof— easy to apply^nexpensivt. Awarded Gold Medal and Grand Prlx. Process of recovery la natural, so afterwards no further use for trusses. Wo prove It by sending Trial of Plapao absolutely |7p CD Wrlto name oa iJottpon and send TODAY. ^ aVCi£i Plapao Co.. 4099 Stuart Bldg.,%St. Loni* Moa

Name

Address

Betuia mall will bring VYeo Vtfal Plapao



Next Month


By SEABURY QUINN

\ SUPERB tale about the exploits of the little French ghostbreaker, Jules de Grandin, in his war against occult evil transplanted in America from India.

I^viL was the black image of Kali, ^ the dark god of the Hindoos, and dire was its fearful power over the unfortunate Idoline Chetwynde. De Grandin calls to his aid the potent magic of a medicineman of the American Indians, and the shadowy incarnations of the Gods of East and West wage a thrilling battle over the soul of the lovely American woman who has been enslaved by the occult evil of Kali. This story will be printed complete in the

January issue of


On Sale December 1

Clip and Mail this Coupon Todayl]

WBIRD TAUEH 4S0 East Obio M.,

CUcago, ni.

Enclosed find $1 for special five montbs sutiecription to “Weird Tales" to begin with the January Issue ($1.25 In Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Address

City State

so long baffled them. On the shoulder of his purple robe they saw a strand of blue-black hair. On his forehead was a rosy imprint, as of the kiss of heavily rouged lips.

“Come to life!” growled the Grand Master with nervous gruffness. Then, remembering his mission: “Where is she?”

He shook the sleeper by the shoulder.

“Lord Christ!” he shrieked; “nothing but skin and bones!”

“Nothing but skin and bones!” echoed a mocking, deathly bitter voice from the shadows of the far comer of the shrine. The Infidel’s Daughter, wraithlike, shadowy as a wisp of smoke, confronted them. “Pools! Meddlers!” continued that passionless, cold voice: “To save him from your stupidity which would have killed his soul too many years in advance of his body, I took the life of him who evoked me from the shadows and gave me human form. So take what is left of him... skin and bones!”

Her laugh was like the touch of a frosty blade... like the whisperings of an evil spirit.

The Grand Master was the first to reach the door. He tripped on his saffron robe, fell headlong down the stairs. And before sunrise he died, babbling of skin and bones, and t>f a girl and her poisonous, evil laugh.

As the sun rose, Ismeddin, whose tough skull had survived the blow that had stunned him, emerged from behind the winged bull where the invaders had tossed him.

The old man knew better than to touch the form of his master, or to disturb the curiously wrought sUver diadem that lay in the hollow of Landon’s shoulder.

‘ ‘ He found her in spite of me... and perhaps he will forgive my treason....” And then, with profound obeisance, “Es salaam aleika, saidi!”

M

COUD gold ^ect case, guaranteed 25 years. Riehly engraved. Railroad model with famous Lmnard regulator. Adjusted for absolute Factory by Million Dollar

If Sod® ”°NEY. Pay Postman Sale Priee

and postage on arrival.

«bain and knifei

m^ded with this wateh during sale.

^ Order by No. L IOB Sale Price '

AN'S Special

CypHv mount'

* inn:, rolled (sold k plate. ReproduC' tion Diamond. ORDER L IS

S3.98I

RKD Ruby rolopcd!

pom full of I smoldrrinK lire. A | beauty!

ORDER

I. 16

Sale S2.98|

R I’BY Iipm

h«m'«“d by flasliinp Renrodut- I tion l>i»r *»• A| bouutif ORDER CALE

*j.9e

— ume of tone from this handsome ukulele matches hiph' priced instruments. I Ricli walnut finish., Kxcellently made.

^ Book of instructions - sent free with 8p«^imen lessons and songs. Rasy to learn to play* and^ easy to own at our big sale pr icy.

/Order by L 126 Sale Price

pRlENUSHII*

ring. Roll gold plate. L'ni ual.

Order L

XHE 1 Thf

^ Skin Nickel plated ring Good tone volume, method course given free.

Order l 9S

ARABIAN


P^AMOUS Kosmos ring ot ^ rolled gold plate iii horseshoe ring style. Sparkling garnet of deep smoldering red. - A stunning ring*

Order ^ 139 a Sale Price- T

zir

139.

?2,98l

Triplet.

Three c\tro I brilliant Reproduction Diamonds. | Very rich.

Order L 19

Sb49

'X'llE Banker. Elc- ^ goni ring of I rolled gold plate set I with extra bril- 1 liant Reproduction Diamond. |

Order, g. SALE SI.4

Senator. | Looks like million dollars.

Order l 21 sale $1981

'THE

a Loo

luck in love. Old gold finish. Set ruby and cmTyiAXINE, platinum effect case. Jewelled, accurate, elegant! Stores ask $15 for this stylci

SK98

]U Y S T I C “S e‘

Famous charm replica against sickness and evil. Used by Hindus to bring Good Luck. /4-karat gold shell. Ruby colored gem head.

Order L 140 I Sale Price

SPLENDID


6 JEWELS Sapphire blue stone stem. Dainty, refined, gance.

NO,^.

L 135

Don't Send a Penny

MEN'S MILITARY WRIST WATCH

SIMPLE, virile, good looking. ^ Miniature “Sam Brown" belt strap and buckle. Movement selected for accuracy. Case guaranteed to stor^ hard use. <

ORDER L 91 Si

SM PRICE

shape, gold_ plated. Accurate jewelled A# movement. Clever Vj pansion bracelet. match. Will slip* er your hand and < lUgly fit your ^rist. Imagine

the sur- B prise and I delight of V the lucky ^ weorers. J Will you ^ be one of them?

Order L 90/

Wholesale Newton Branch.

Jewelers BOSTON, MASS.

A-4

It Was the Greatest Shock

of My Life to Hear Her

how had she found time to practice?

“*¥'TfTELL. Jim — I told you I had a surprise for you I”

’ * She beamed at her husband, delighted to see how surprised — and pleased — he was.

And I was astonished, too. Quite casually she had gone to the piano, sat down — and played! Played beautifully — though I had never seen her touch a piano before. Neither of us could conceal our curiosity.

“How did you ever do it?” her husband asked. “When did you find time to practice?”

“And who is your teacher?” I added.

“Wait, wait!” she laughed. “One question at a time. I have no teacher, that is. no private teacher, and I do my practicing between dishes.”

“No teacher.”

“No — I learned to play the piano an entirely neto way — without a teacher. You see, all my life I wanted to play some musical instrument. I thought I’d never Ifearn how to play, though — for I haven’t much time to spare, and I thought it would take long hours of hard work. And I thought it would be expensive, too.”

“Well, it is hard work, and it is expensive,” I said. “Why, I have a sister..

“I know.” she laughed, “but I learned to play the piano through the new simplified method. Some time ago I saw an announcement of the U. S. School of Music. It told how a young man had learned to play the piano during his spare time without a teacher. I found that thousands of others had learned to play their

favorite musical instruments in this same delightful, easy way, and so I decided to enroll for a course in piano playing.”

“But you didn’t tell me anything about it,” Jim said.

“Well, you see, that was my big surprise. Ever since I received my first lesson I’ve been practicing by myself — during the day while you’ve been away at business. I turned my spare moments between housekeeping and shopping into something pleasant and profitable.”

“If you planned to surprise me — you’ve certainly succeeded,” said Jim.

Learn to Play at Home

This story is typical. Thousands of men and women have learned to play their favorite musical instruments through the U. S. School of Music.

Are you letting priceless moments slip by when you could be learning to play some musical instrument — easily, quickly?

You simply can. not go wrong. First you are told how a thing is done, then by illustration and diagram you are shown how, and

when you play — you hear it.

Thus you actually teach yourself to become an accomplished musician

right in your own home. Without any long hours of tedious practice. Without dull or uninteresting scales you learn how to play real music from real notes.

Here is your chance to become a good player — quickly — without a teacher. The U. S. School 6f Music

will make you a capable and efficient player. Many of our pupils now have positions with professional bands and orchestras.

Demonstration Lesson Free

Half a million people have already taught themselves to play their favorite instruments right in their own home. To prove that you, too, can learn music this fascinating way, let us send you our free book, “Music Lessons in Your Own Home,” which fully explains this remarkable method. We will include also our Free Demonstration' Lesson.

Mail Coupon Today

If you really want to gain new happiness and increase your popularity — send off this coupon at once. Forget the old-fashioned idea that “talent” means everything. Decide which instrument you want to play, and the U. S. School of Music will do the rest. At Idle average cost of only a few pennies a day! Act Now. Mail coupon today for the fascinating free book and Demonstration Lesson. U. S. School of Music. 4612 Brunswick Bldg., New York City.

tl. S. School of Music

4612 Brunswick Bldg., New York City.

Please send me your free book ".Music Lessons in Your Own Home” with Introduction by Dr. Frank Crane. Demonstration Lesson and particulars of your offer. I am interested in the following course:

Have you above instrument?

fCarae

(Please Write Plainly)

Address

(Mty State.

Choose Your Course

Piano Drums and Organ Traps

Violin INIandolin

Piccolo Harmony and

Clarinet Composition Flute Sight Singing

Harp Ukulele

’Cello Trombone

Guitar Cornet Hawaiian Saxophone Guitar,

Voice aiit^Speech Culture Automatic Finger Control

Piano Accordion Banjo (Plectrum, 5striiig or Tenor)

[THE END]
