============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 1, Number 1
Date: February 1931
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Tree-Man-Henry S" by Whitehead
============================================================
============================================================
THE TREE-MAN-HENRY S
by Whitehead
============================================================
tively. Few notice him. If anyone does and makes inquiries. Big Pat answers, "Just an old bum that blew in. A bit cracked in the head, I guess. We call him Crazy Jim.”

The Tree-Man

By HENRY S. WHITEHEAD

A tale of the Virgin Islands—the Blacks who came from Dahomey brought their eery superstitions with them

M Y FIRST sight of Silvio Fabricius, the tree-man, was within a week of my first arrival on the island of Santa Cruz not long after the United States had purchased the Danish West Indies and officially renamed its new colony "The Virgin Islands of the United States."

On that occasion, which is a number of years ago, the ship on which I was travelling down to the islands came into Frederiksted Harbor, on the west coast of the island, just at dusk. I saw a half¬ moon of white sand-beach with the charming little town in its middle, and I was entranced. I had the feeling of "coming home,” which was strange enough because it was my first sight of the island whereon my residence has been ever since except when I come north summers or spend the winter on St. Thomas, the chief island of the group where the capital town and the U. S. Naval Station are located.

In the midst of the bustle aboard ship incident to anchoring in the roadstead there came over the side an upstanding gentleman in a glistening white drill uni¬ form with shining brass buttons. This gentleman came up to me, bowed in a manner to commend himself to kings, and said:

"I am honored to welcome you to Santa Cruz, Mr. Canevin. I am Director Despard of the police department. It is my privilege to place the police boat at your disposal when you are ready to go ashore. May I be of any assistance in seeing that your luggage is cared for?”

This was a welcome indeed, and de¬ cidedly unexpected. Beyond the fact that I was to live here for perhaps a year, had engaged a house by long-distance communication, and had notified the per¬ sons with whom I transacted this neces¬ sary business of the date of my arrival, no one, I supposed, had ever heard of me, Gerald Canevin, a young fellow quite obscure and without in those days even that evanescent recognition which comes —and goes—in the case of a writer of fiction and informative articles.

I was, as you can imagine, surprized. To put it mildly, I was simply knocked off my feet by such a reception on the part of this magnificent official whose courtesy was easily matched by his aristo¬ cratic appearance.

I thanked Director Despard in care¬ fully chosen phrases, and before many minutes, and wholly because of his solici¬ tous kindness, my four trunks were over¬ side, my various articles of hand-luggage were bestowed in the police-boat waiting at the ladder gangway, and I was seated beside him in the boat’s stern-sheets, he holding the tiller ropes, while four coalblack convicts rowed us ashore with tre¬ mendous pulls at their long sweeps.

Through the dusk I observed that the landing-wharf was crowded with Black people. Behind these there stood halfa-dozen knots of White people, convers¬ ing together. Along the background of waterfront buildings stood, parked, some thirty or forty cars. I remarked to the Police Director:

"Is it usual for so many persons to be

y S. Whitehead.

Copyright, 1131. by Her


THE TREE-MAN


on the docks at the landing of a vessel, Mr. Director?"

"It is not usual,” replied the dignified gentleman beside me. "It is for you, Mr. Canevin.”

"For me?” said I, and again, stultified, feeling that I was like a person playing without notice a strange part in some gor¬ geous comedy, “What—my dear sir—-cer¬ tainly not for me. Why-”

"Yes, it is for you, Mr. Canevin,” Mr.

Despard's beautifully modulated voice re¬ assured me. "You are Captain McMillin’s great-nephew, you know, my dear sir.”

So that was it: my great-uncle, who had "been a planter” on Santa Cruz, and who had been, at that moment, before Mr. Despard had enlightened me, about the last person in my mind.

Arriving smartly at the concrete jetty, Mr. Despard and I landed and in what



was left of the daylight I perceived that confronting us and massed together in orderly fashion enough, were perhaps a thousand Negrdes. Back of these stood the various groups of White People which I have mentioned, and which w ere made up, as I was to learn, of practically all the island’s landed gentry.

We started along the jetty toward the thronged Negroes and I perceived that their interest—the African is usually quite naive in such affairs—was entirely genuine. I began to get some glimmer¬ ings of the quality of the community which I was now seeing for the first time. . . .

After being received by the people who had come to meet me, I was installed in a small private hotel pending the prep¬ arations to my own hired residence. I found every house on Santa Cruz open to me. Hospitalities were showered up¬ on me to the point of embarrassment. Kindnesses galore, considerate bits of in¬ formation, help of every imaginable kind, ushered my quasi-permanent residence as a transplanted Santa Crucian to a delight¬ fully successful culmination as a member of the inner circle of Santa Crucian so¬ ciety.

I had come because our government had entrusted me with a minor mission— lying wholly outside the scope of this narrative—and I had been advised that its successful prosecution should occupy, normally, about a year. Because of the doors opening before me, the silent co¬ operation here, the expert, whole-hearted guidance there, this mission of mine was fulfilled at the end of precisely nine weeks from the date of my arrival on Santa Cruz.

I learned, almost at once, many details about my great-uncle, Captain the Honorable William McMillin, which in¬ formation was almost entirely new to me.

It was, naturally, not long after I had arrived on the island that I went to visit his estate. Great Fountain. I went with Hans Grumbach, in his Ford car, a bumpy journey occupying more than three hours, because this took us not only up hills and through ravines and along precipitous trails, but because the roads were incred¬ ibly roundabout.

All the way Hans Grumbach talked about this section of the island, now al¬ most never visited. Hans, in his young¬ er days, had lived up here as the last of the long line of resident managers which the old estate had known since the day, in 1879, when my relatives had sold their land. It was now, after several changes of hands, the property of the largest of the local sugar-growing corporations, known as the Copenhagen Concern, and, because of its inaccessibility, cultivation there had finally been abandoned. Then Hans Grumbach had come to live in Frederiksted; where, having married one of Mrs. Heidenklang’s daughters, and so allied himself to a most respectable creole family, he had settled down to the keep¬ ing of a store in the town.

But, it appeared, Hans had wanted, for ten years, to go back. This trip toward the old place stimulated him, and he sang its praises, a process which I spare my readers. It was, according to this pan¬ egyrist, incredibly fertile at Great Foun¬ tain. One needed, according to Hans, merely "to stick some seed in the ground, anywhere,” and it would "grow and flourish there” like the shamrock on old Ireland’s sod!

We arrived at last. I had never, of course, seen the estate land before, but it required no sympathetic assurances on the part of my voluble guide to realize its amazing fertility.

We walked over the nearer and more accessible portions of the old estate, and, as it lay in a great cup of table-land here

THE TREE-MAN'


in the north-central hills of the island, we also looked out over its domain from various angles. The ancient estate was in a sad state of rack and ruin. The vil¬ lage was about half tumbled down, and even the cabins that remained were out of repair. The characteristic tropical in¬ roads upon land "turned out,” that is, out of .organized cultivation, were apparent everywhere. Everything except the spor¬ adic cultivation of occasional vegetable patches and one good-sized grove of banana trees was overrun and choked with rank weeds. The ancient farm buildings, although soundly constructed of stone and brick, were likewise terribly dilapidated, and there was only the word of Hans and of the caretaker to account for the site of my great-uncle’s Great House, the very foundations of which had disappeared.

I had on this visit to Great Fountain, my first experience with what has come to be known as the "grapevine” method of communication among Africans. I had been perhaps four days on the island, and it is reasonably certain that few of its people had ever so much as heard of me before; certainly none of these obscure village Negroes cut off here in the hills from others the nearest of whom lived miles away. Yet we had hardly come within a stone’s long throw of the re¬ mains of the village before we were sur¬ rounded by the total population, of per¬ haps twenty adults, and at least as many children of all ages.

As one would expea, these Blacks were of very crude appearance; not only "country Negroes” but that in exagger¬ ated form. Negroes in the West Indies have some tendency to live on the land where they originated, and, as it hap¬ pened, most of these Negroes had been born up here and several generations of their forebears before them.

All the adult Negroes knew Grumbach from his long residence here up to ten years or so previously as manager, but to him they paid scant attention. They crowded about me in much the same way as the Negroes at the wharf at the time of my arrival, only, somehow, in a crud¬ er, more outspoken fashion. "English” though it is, I was at that period of my residence quite unable to understand their speech. The Black people talked to me and at me in the friendliest fashion imaginable, and Hans Grumbach, when it seemed desirable for me to speak, prompted me.

I had come prepared with a double handful of small-change. This I hand¬ ed over to the oldest man of the villag¬ ers, requesting him to distribute it among them all, and I was gravely blessed for this largesse. Translating the comments of the group on this present which my instina as a member of the old Captain’s family prompted me to make to the de¬ scendants of his estate-people, later, on the way home, Grumbach told me that they had compared me to my collateral ancestor!

A fter lunch, Grumbach took me to ■-see the "fountain” from which the old estate had originally derived its title.

We walked up a ravine toward it, along a sandy stream-bed which, this be¬ ing an exceptionally dry season near the end of a three-years’ drought, was now a mere trickle.

The "fountain” itself was a delicate, natural waterfall, coming thinly over the edge of a high rock, source of the one unfailing stream on an, otherwise very "dry” island.

It was when we were coming back, by a slightly different route, for Grumbach wanted me to see everything possible, that I saw the tree-man. He stood, a youngish, coal-black Negro, of about twenty-five years, scantily dressed in a



tattered shirt and a sketchy pair of trou¬ sers, about ten yards away from the fieldpath we were following and from which a very clear view of a portion of the es¬ tate was obtained, and beside him, tower¬ ing over him, was a magnificent coconut palm. The Negro stood, motionless. I thought, in fact, that he had gone asleep standing there, both arms clasped about the tree’s smooth, elegant trunk, the right side of his face pressed against it.

He was not, however, asleep, because I looked back at him and his eyes—-rather intelligent eyes, they seemed to me—were wide open, although to my surprize he had not changed his position, nor even the direction of his gaze, to glance at us; and, I was quite sure, he had not been in that village group when we had stood among them just before our lunch.

Grumbach did not speak to him, as he had done to every other Negro we had seen. Indeed, as I turned to him for some possible comment, I saw that his face looked a trifle—well, apprehensive; and, I thought, he very slightly quickened his pace. I stepped nearer to him as we walked past the man and the tree, and then I noticed that his lips were moving, and when I came closer I observed that he was muttering to himself. I said, very quietly, almost in his ear:

"What’s the matter with that fellow, Grumbach?”

Grumbach glanced at me out of the corner of his eye, and my impression that he was disturbed grew upon me.

"He’s listening!” was all that I got out of Grumbach. I supposed, of course, that there was something odd about the fellow; perhaps he was slightly demented and might be an annoyance; and I sup¬ posed that Grumbach meant to convey that the young fellow was "listening” for our possible comment upon him and his strange behavior. Later, after we had said good-bye to the courteous caretaker

and he had seen us off down the first hill¬ side road with its many ruts, I brought up the subject of the young Black fellow at the tree.

"You mentioned that he was listen¬ ing,” said I, "so I dropped the matter; but, why does he do that, Mr. Grumbach —I mean, why does he stand against the tree in that unusual manner? Why, he didn’t even gee his eyes to look at us, and that surprized me. They don’t have vis¬ itors up here every day, I understand!”

"He was listening—to his tree!” said Hans Grumbach, as though reluctantly. "That was what I meant, Mr. Canevin.” And he drew my attention to an extra¬ ordinarily picturesque ruined windmill, the kind once used for the grinding of cane in the old days of "muscovado” sugar, which dominated a cone-like hill¬ side off to our left as we bumped over the road.

B etween getting settled in my house, attending to the preliminary work of my mission, and fulfilling the almost numberless social engagements which crowded upon me, I can not say that I forgot about the tree-man, but, certainly, he and his queer behavior were anything but prominent in my mind. It was not until months later, when I had gained the confidence of Hans Grumbach, that that individual gave me any further enlight¬ enment.

Then I learned that, along with his nostalgia for the life of an agriculturist, there was mixed in with his feelings about the Great Fountain estate a kind of inconsistent thankfulness that he was no longer stationed there! This intrigued me. I saw something of Grumbach and got rather well acquainted with him as the months passed that first year of my residence. Bit by bit, in his reluctant manner of speech, it came out.

To put the whole picture of his mind

TOE TREE-MAN


on this subject together, I got the idea that Grumbach, while always suffering from a faint nostalgia for his deep-coun¬ try residence and the joys of tilling the soil, felt, somehow, safe, here in the town. If he chafed, mildly, at the re¬ strictions of town life and his storekeep¬ ing, there was yet the certainty that “something”—a vague matter at first, as it came out—was not always hanging over him; something connected with a lingering fear.

The Negroes, up there at Great Foun¬ tain, were not, it seemed, quite like the rest of the island’s Black population. No —the Great Fountain village was, some¬ how, at least in Hans Grumbach’s dark hints, different; sui generis, "a peculiar people” as the biblical phrase runs.

They were, to begin with, almost pure¬ ly of Dahomeyan stock. These Dahomeyans had drifted "down the islands” —in the general southerly direction; that is, from Haiti, beginning soon after the revolt from France in the early Nine¬ teenth Century. They were tall, very dark-skinned, extremely clannish Blacks. And, just as the Koromantyn slaves in British Jamaica had brought to the West Indies their Obay-i ("obeah”) or herbmagic, so, it seemed, had the Dahomeyans carried with them their vodu, which, properly defined, means the practises ac¬ companying the vague Guinea worship of “The Snake."

This worship, grown into a vast local¬ ized cultus in unimpeded Haiti and in the Guiana hinterlands down in South America, is a vastly intriguing matter, very imperfectly understood even to this present day. But, its accompaniments; all the charms, ouangas, philtres, potions, talismans, amulets, "doctoring” and what¬ not, have spread all through the islands and are thoroughly established in widely variant forms. Haiti is its West Indian home, of course. But down in French

Martinique its extent and intensity is a fair rival to the Haitian supremacy. It is rife on Dominica, Guadeloupe, even on British Montserrat. Indeed, one might name every island from Cuba to Trinidad, and, allowing for the variations, the local preferences, and all such matters, one might say, and truly, that the vodu, generically described by the Blacks them¬ selves as "obi,” is very thoroughly estab¬ lished.

According to Grumbach, the handful of villagers at Great Fountain was very deeply involved in this sort of thing. Left to themselves as they had been for many years, forming a little, self-sustaining community of nearly pure-blooded Dahomeyans, they had, it seemed, reverted very nearly to their African type, and this, Grumbach alleged, was the fact despite their easy kindliness, their use of "Eng¬ lish,” and the various other outward ap¬ pearances which caused them to seem not greatly different from other "country Ne¬ groes” on this island of Santa Cruz.

On the subject of Silvio Fabricius— for that was the tree-man’s rather fanci¬ ful name—my information was derived directly from Grumbach. He had known the young Negro since he had been a pick’ny on the estate. He knew, so far as his limited understanding of Black People’s magic extended, all about Silvio. He had been manager at the time the boy had begun his attentions to the great co¬ conut palm. He had heard the to him "stupidness” which had attended the set¬ ting apart of this neophyte; in other words, there had been three days — and nights; particularly the nights—when not a single plantation-hand would do a piece of work for any consideration. It was, as he bitterly remembered it all, "the crop season.” His employers, not sens¬ ing, businessmen as they were, any un¬ derlying reason for no work done when they needed the cane from Great Foun238


tain for their grinding-mill, had been hard on him. They had, in Santa Cru¬ cian phraseology, "pressed him” for cane deliveries. And there, in his village, quite utterly ignoring his authority as es¬ tate-manager, those Blacks had danced and pounded drums, and burned flares, and weaved back and forth in their inter¬ minable ceremonies—"stupidness"—for three strategic days and nights, over some¬ thing which had Silvio Fabricius, then a rising pick’ny of twelve or thirteen, as its apparent center and underlying cause. It was no wonder that Hans Grumbach raved and probably swore mightily and threatened die estate-hands.

But—the expression of his anger and annoyance, the threats and cajolings, the offers of bonuses, "snaps” of rum, and pay for piece-work; all these efforts to get his ripe cane cut and delivered had come to nothing. The carts stood empty. The mules gravely ate the long guinea-grass. The cane-tops waved in the soft breath of the northeast trade wind, while.those three days stretched themselves out to their conclusion.

This conclusion took place in the day¬ time, about ten o’clock in the morning of the fourth day, and after that, which was a very brief and apparently meaningless matter indeed, the hands sheepishly re¬ sumed the driving of their mule-carts and the plying of their canebills, and the Fountain cane travelled slowly down the rutted hill road toward the factory below. On that morning, before resuming their work, the whole village had accompanied young Silvio Fabricius as he walked ahead of them up toward the source of the perennial stream, stepped out into the field, and clasped his arms about a young, but tall and promising coconut palm which stood there as though accidentally, in solitary towering grandeur. There the villagers had left the little black boy when they turned away and filed slowly and si¬

lently back to the village and to their in¬ terrupted labor.

There, beside his tree, Grumbach said, Silvio Fabricius had stood ever since, only occasionally coming in to the village and then at any hour of the day or night, ap¬ parently "reporting” something to that same oldest inhabitant, a gnarled, ancient grandfather with pure white wool; after which brief visit he would at once, and with an unshaken gravity, return to his tree. Food, said Grumbach, was always carried out to him from die village. He toiled not, neither spun! There, day and night, under the blazing sun, through showers and drenching downpours, erect, apparently unsleeping—unless he slept standing up against his tree as Grumbach suspected—stood Silvio Fabricius; and there he had stood, except when he climbed the tree to trim out the "cloth” or chase out a rat intent on nesting up there, or to gather the coconuts, for eleven years.

The coconuts, it seemed, were his per¬ quisite. They were, Grumbach said, ab¬ solutely tabu to anybody else!

Grumbach’s attitude toward Silvio Fab¬ ricius was, it came out, one of fear! That his "fear” of this young Negro went deep I sensed. I was, later, to see my suspicion justified!

F or a long time I had no occasion to revisit Great Fountain. But, six years later, while in the States during the summer, I made the acquaintance of a man named Carrington who wanted to know "all about the Virgin Islands” with a view to investing some money there in a proposal to grow pineapples on a some¬ what large scale. I talked with Mr. Car¬ rington at some length, and in the course of our discussions it occurred to me that Great Fountain estate would be virtually ideal for his purpose. Here was a very considerable acreage; the land, as I well

THE TREE-MAN


knew, was very rich; the Copenhagen Company would probably rent it out for a period of years for a very reasonable price, since it was bringing them in noth¬ ing.

I spread before Carrington these ad¬ vantages, and he travelled down on the ship with me that autumn to make an in¬ vestigation in person.

Carrington, a trained fruit-grower, spent a day with me on the estate, and thereafter with characteristic American energy started in to put his plan into practise. A lease was easily secured on terms mutually advantageous, the village was repaired and the fallen stone cabins rebuilt, and within a few weeks cultivating-machinery of the most modern type began to arrive on the Frederiksted wharf.

After a considerable consultation with Hans Grumbach, to whose lamentations over the restrictions of town life I had been listening for years, I recommended him to Mr. Carrington as manager of the laborers, and Hans, after going over the matter with his good wife and coming to an amicable arrangement, went back to Great Fountain, where a manager’s house had been thrown up for him on the foun¬ dation of one of the ruined buildings. At Carrington’s direction, Grumbach set the estate laborers at work on the job of re¬ pairing the roads, and, as the village cabins went up one after another, other laborers, enticed by the prospect of good wages, filled them up and ancient Great Fountain became once more a busy scene of simple industry.

During these preparatory works on the estate I was up there several times, be¬ cause I was naturally interested in Joseph Carrington’s venture being a success. I had, indeed, put several thousand dollars into it myself, not solely because it looked like a good investment, but in part for Sentimental reasons connected with my

great-uncle. On these occasions, being by then thoroughly familiar with the odd native speech, I made it a point to visit the village and talk at length with the “people.” They were courteous to me, markedly so; “deferential” would be a better word to describe their attitude. This, of course, was wholly due to the family connection. Only a very few of them, and those the oldest, had any per¬ sonal recollection of Captain McMillin, but his memory, aided by the folksong to which I have alluded, was decidedly green among them.

In the course of my studies of Negro matters, especially African manners and customs, which had included a wide course of reading, for I wished to master that abstruse subject, I had run across the peculiar affair of a “tree-man.” I un¬ derstood, therefore, the status of Silvio Fabricius in that queer little Black com¬ munity; why he had been "devoted” to the tree; what were the underlying rea¬ sons for that strange sacrifice.

It was, on the pan of that handful of nearly pure-blooded Dahomeyan villagers there at my great-uncle’s old place, an at¬ tempt, a recrudescence perhaps—a reviv¬ al, certainly—of a custom probably as old as African civilization. For—the Afri¬ can has a civilization. He is at a vast dis¬ advantage when among Caucasians, com¬ peting as he necessarily must with Cau¬ casian "cultures.” His native problems are utterly different, utterly diverse, from the White Man’s. The African’s whole history among us Caucasians is a history of more or less successful adaptation. Place an average American businessman in the heart of "uncivilized” Africa, in the Liberian hinterland, for example, and what will he do—how survive? The an¬ swer is simple. He will perish miserably, confronted with the black jungle night, the venomous insea-life, the attacks of wild beasts, the basic problem of how to



feed and warm himself; for even this last is an African problem. African nights chill to the very bone. I know. I have been on safari in Uganda, in British East Africa, and in Somaliland, and I speak from experience.

Africans, supposedly static in cultural matters, have solved all these problems. And, very prominent among these, es¬ pecially as it concerns the agricultural na¬ tions — for there are, perhaps, as many Black nations, kindreds, peoples, tongues, as there are Caucasian—is, of course, the question of weather.

Hence, the "tree-man.”

Introduced with the ceremonies which were ancient when Hammurabi sat on his throne in Babylon, a young boy is dedi¬ cated to a forest tree. Thereafter he spends his life beside that tree, cares for it, loves it, "listens” to it, becomes "thebrother-of-the-tree” in time. He is "set apart.” To the tree he devotes his entire life, dying at last beside it, in its shade. And—this is African "culture” if you will; a culture of which we Caucasians get, perhaps, the faint reactions in the, to us, meaningless jumble of Negro super¬ stition which we sense all about us; the "stupidness” of the West Indies; faint, incomprehensible reflections of a system which, in itself, is practical, dogmatic, and utilitarian.

These Negroes at Great Fountain were, primarily, agriculturists. They had the use of the soil bred deeply in their blood and bones. That, indeed, is why the canny French brought their Hispaniola slaves from Dahomey. Left to them¬ selves at the old estate in the north cen¬ tral hills of Santa Cruz, the little com¬ munity rapidly reverted to their African ways. They tilled the soil; sporadically, it is true; yet, they tilled it. They needed a weather prognosticator. There are sud¬ den storms in summer throughout the vast sweep of the West India Islands,

devastating storms, hurricanes indeed; long, wasting periods of drought. They needed a .tree-man up there. They set apart Silvio Fabricius.

That fact made the young fellow what a White man would call "sacred.” Not for nothing had they danced and per¬ formed their "stupid” rites those three days and nights to the detriment of Hans Grumbach’s sugar-cane. No. Silvio Fab¬ ricius from the moment he had clasped his arms about the growing coconut palm was as much a person "set apart,” dedi¬ cated, as any White man’s pundit, priest, or yogi. Hence the various tabus which, like the case of the green coconuts, had puzzled Hans Grumbach. He must nev¬ er take his attention away from the tree. There, beside it, he was consecrated to live and to die. When he departed from his "brother the tree,” it was only for the purpose of reporting something which the tribe should know; something, that is, which his brother the tree had told him! There would be drenching rain the sec¬ ond day following. A plague of small green flies would, the third day later, come to annoy the animals. The banana grove must be propped forthwith; other¬ wise, a high wind, two days hence, would nullify all the work of its planting and care.

Such were the messages that Silvio Fabricius, austere, introspective, unnotic¬ ing, his mind fully preoccupied with his brotherhood to the tree, brought to his tribe; proceeded, the message delivered, austerely back to his station beside the magnificent palm.

All this, because of my status as the great-nephew of an old Bukra (White Lord) whom he remembered with love and reverence, and because he discovered that I knew about tree-men and many other matters usually sealed books to Bukras, the old fellow who was the vil¬ lage patriarch, who, by right of his seTHE TREE-MAN


niority, received and passed on from Silvio the messages from Silvio’s brother the tree, amply substantiated. There was nothing secretive about him, once he knew my interest in these things. Such procedure as the securing of a tree-man for his tribe seemed to the old man en¬ tirely logical; there was no necessary se¬ cret about it, certainly not from sym¬ pathetic me, the "yoong marster” of Great Fountain Estate.

And Hans Grumbach, once he had fin¬ ished with his road-work, not being aware of all this, but sensing something out of the ordinary and hence to be feared about Silvio Fabricius and his palm tree, de¬ cided to end the stupidness out there. Grumbach decided to cut down the tree.

If I had had any inkling of this inten¬ tion I could have saved Grumbach. It would have been a comparatively simple matter for me to have said enough to Carrington to have him forbid it; or, in¬ deed, as a partner in the control of the estate, to forbid it myself. But I knew nothing about it, and have in my state¬ ment of his intention to destroy the tree supplied my own conception of his mo¬ tives.

G rumbach, although virtually Cau¬ casian in appearance, was of mixed blood, and quite without the Caucasian background of superior quality which makes the educated West Indian mestizo the splendid citizen he is. Grumbach was quite devoid of the Caucasian aristo¬ crat’s tolerance for the preoccupations of the Blacks. To him such affairs were "stupidness,” merely. Like others of his kind he held the Black People in a kind of contempt; was wholly, I imagine, without sympathy for them, though a worthy fellow enough in his limited way. And, perhaps, he had not enough Negro in him to understand instinctively even so. W. T.—7

much as what Silvio Fabricius, the treeman, stood for in his community.

He chose, cannily, one of the periods when Fabricius was away from his tree, reporting to the village. It was early in the afternoon, and Grumbach, having finished his road-work several days be¬ fore, was directing a group of laborers who were grubbing ancient "bush”— heavy undergrowth, brush, rank weeds, small trees—from along the winding road which led from the village to the fountain or waterfall, now feeding, for the drought was no longer plaguing the island, a tumbling stream which Carring¬ ton intended to dam, lower down, for a central reserve reservoir.

The majority, if not all, of these labor¬ ers under his eye at the moment were new to the village, members of the increasing group which were coming into the re¬ stored stone cabins as fast as these became habitable. They were cutting out the brush with machetes, canebills, and knives, and, for the small trees, a couple of axes were being used from time to time. This work was being done quite near the tree, and from his position in the roadway overlooking his gang, Grumbach must have seen the tree-man leave his station and start toward the village with one of his "messages.”

This opportunity—he had, unquestion¬ ably, made up his mind about it all—was too good to be lost. As I learned from the two men whom he detached from his grubbing-gang and took with him, Silvio Fabricius was hardly out of sight over the sweep of the lower portion of the great field near the upper edge of which the coconut palm towered, when Grumbach called the two axmen to follow him, and, with a word to the rest of the gang, led the way across the field’s edge to the tree.

About this time Carrington and I were returning from one of our inspections of



the fountain. We had been up there several times of late, since the scheme for the dam had been working in our minds. We were returning toward the village and the construction work progressing there along that same pathway through the big field from which, years before, I had had my first sight of the tree-man.

As we came in sight of the tree, toward which I invariably looked when I was near it, I saw, of course, that Fabricius was not there. Grumbach and his two laborers stood under it, Grumbach talk¬ ing to the men. One of them as we ap¬ proached—we were still perhaps a hun¬ dred yards distant—shook his head em¬ phatically. He told me later that Grum¬ bach had led them straight to the tree and commanded them to chop it down direct¬ ly, one working on either side, opposite each other, the ax-strokes to alternate with each other. Detailed instructions such as these are invariably given to such laborers in the West Indies.

Both men had demurred. They were not of the village, it is true, not, certain¬ ly, Dahomeyans. But—they had some idea, even after generations away from "Guinea,” that here was something strange: something over which the suit¬ able course was to "go stupid.” Both men, therefore, "went stupid” forthwith.

Grumbach, as was usual with him, poor fellow, was vastly annoyed by this process. I could hear him barge out at the laborers, see him gesticulate. Then from the nearest, he seized the ax and attacked the tree himself. He struck a savage blow at it; then, gathering himself together, for he was stout like the mid¬ dle-aged of all his class, and unused to such work, he struck again, somewhat above the place where the first ax-blow had landed on the tree.

"You’d better stop him, Carrington,” said I, "and I will explain my reasons to you afterward.”

Carrington cupped his hands and shouted, and both Negroes looked toward us. But Grumbach, apparently, had not heard, or, if he had, supposed that the words were directed to somebody other than himself. Thus, everybody within view was occupied, you will note—Car¬ rington looking at Grumbach; the two laborers looking toward us; Grumbach intent upon making an impression on the tough coconut wood. I alone, for some instinctive reason, thought suddenly of Silvio Fabricius, and directed my gaze toward the point, down the long field, over which horizon he would appear when returning.

Perhaps it was the sound of the ax’s impact against his brother the tree, ap¬ prehended by a set of senses for seven¬ teen years attuned to the tree’s moods and rustlings, to the "messages” which his brother the tree imparted to him; per¬ haps some uncanny instinct merely, that arrested him in his course toward the vil¬ lage down there, carrying the current "message” from the tree about tomor¬ row’s weather.

As I looked, Silvio Fabricius, running lightly, erect, came over the distant "hori¬ zon” of the lower field’s bosomed slope. He stopped there, a distant figure, but clearly within my view. Without taking my eyes off him I spoke again to Car¬ rington:

"You must stop him, Carrington— there’s more in this than you know. Stop him—at once!”

And, as Carrington shouted a second time, Grumbach raised the ax for the third blow at the tree, the blow which did not land.

As the ax came up, Silvio Fabricius reached for the small, sharp canebill which hung beside him from his trouserbelt, a cutting tool with which he smoothed the bark of his brother the tree on occasion; cut out annually the choking

THE TREE-MAN


mass of "cloth” from its top; removed fading fronds as soon as their decay reached the stage where they were no longer benefiting the tree; cut his coco¬ nuts. I could see the hot sunlight flash against the wide blade of the canebill as though it had been a small heliographmirror. Fabricius was about a thousand yards away. He raised the canebill in the air and with it made a sudden, cut¬ ting, pulling motion downward.

Fascinated, I watched him return the canebill to its place, on its hook, fastened to the belt at the left side.

But, abruptly, my attention was dis¬ tracted to what was going on nearer at hand. Carrington’s shout died, half ut¬ tered. Simultaneously I heard the yells of uncontrollable, sudden terror from the two laborers at the tree’s foot. My eyes, snatched away from the distant tree-man, turned to Carrington beside me, glimps¬ ing a look of terrified apprehension; then, with the speed of thought, toward the tree where one laborer was in the act of falling face-downward on the ground— I caught the terrified white gleam of his rolled eyes—the other, twisting himself away from the tree toward us, the very epitome of crude horror, his hands over his eyes. And my glance was turned just in time to see the great coconut which, detached from its heavy fibrous cordage up there, sixty feet above the ground, struck Grumbach full and true on the wide pith helmet which he affected, planter-wise, against the sun.

He seemed almost to be driven into the ground by the impact; the ax flew off at an angle, past the tree.

He never moved. And when, with the help of the two laborers, Carrington and I, having summoned a cart from the near-by road-gang cutting bushes, lifted the body, the head which had been that poor devil Grumbach’s, was merely a mass of sodden pulp.

We took the body down the road in the cart, toward his newly erected man¬ ager’s house. And a few yards along our way Silvio Fabricius passed us, running erectly, his somber face expressionless, his stride a kind of dignified lope, glancing not to right or left, speeding straight to his brother the tree which had been in¬ jured in his absence.

Looking back, where the road took a turn, I saw him, leaning now close be¬ side the tree, his long fingers probing the two gashes which Hans Grumbach, who would never swing another ax, had made there, about two feet above the ground; while aloft the glorious fronds of the massive tree burgeoned like great sails in the afternoon trade wind.

Later that afternoon we sent the mor¬ tal remains of Hans Grumbach down the long hill road to Frederiksted in a cart, decently disposed, after telephoning his wife’s relatives to break the sorrowful news to her. It was Carrington who tele¬ phoned, at my suggestion. I told him that they would appreciate it, he being the head of the company. Such nuances have their meaning in the West Indies, where the finer shades are of an impor¬ tance. He explained that it was an ac¬ cident, gave the particulars as he had seen them with his own eyes—Grumbach had been working under a tall coconut palm and a heavy coconut, falling, had struck him and killed him instantly. It had been a quite merciful death. . . .

T he next morning—we were at that time sleeping at Great Fountain as we oversaw in person the carrying out of the basic works there—I walked up toward the fountain again, alone, after a sleepless night of cogitation. I walked across the section of field between the newly grubbed roadside and the great tree. I walked straight up to the tree244


mao, stood beside him. He paid no at¬ tention to me whatever. I spoke to him.

"Fabricius,” said I, "it is necessary that I should speak to you.”

The tree-man turned his gaze upon me gravely. Seen thus, face to face, he was a remarkably handsome person, now about thirty years of age, his features regular, his expression calm, inscrutable; wise with a wisdom certainly not Cau¬ casian, such as to put into my mind the phrase: "not of this world.” He bowed, gravely, as though assuring me of his at¬ tention.

I said: "I was looking at you yesterday afternoon when you came back to yon tree, over the lower end of the field— down there.” I indicated where he had stood with a gesture. Again he bowed, without any change of expression.

"I wish to have you know,” I contin¬ ued, "that I understand; that no one else besides me saw you, saw what you did— with the canebill, I mean. I wish you to know that what I saw I am keeping to myself. That is all.”

Silvio Fabricius the tree-man continued to look into my face, without any visible change whatever in his expression. For the third time he nodded, presumably to indicate that he understood what I had said, but utterly without any emotion whatever. Then, in a deep, resonant voice, he spoke to me; the first, and last, time I have ever heard him utter a word.

"Yo’ loike to know, yoong marster,” said he, with an impressive gravity, "me brudda”—he placed a hand against the tree’s smooth trunk—"t’ink hoighly ’bout yo’, sar. Ahlso ’bout de enterprise fo’ pineopples. Him please’, sar, yoong marster; him indicate-me yo’ course be serene an’ ahlso of a profit.” The treeman bowed again, and without another word or so much as a glance in my direc¬

tion, detaching his attention from me as deliberately as he had given it when I first spoke to him, he turned toward his brother the tree, laid his face against the trunk, and slowly encircled the massive trunk with his two great muscular black arms. . . .

I arrived on the island the middle of October, 1928, coming down as usual from New York after my summer in the States. Our property at Great Fountain had suffered severely in the hurricane of the previous month, and when I arrived there I found Carrington well along with the processes of restoration. Many pre¬ cautions had been taken beforehand and our property had suffered because of these much less than the other estates. I had told Carrington, who had a certain re¬ spect for my familiarity with "native man¬ ners and customs,” enough about the treeman and his functions tribally to cause him to heed the warning, transmitted by the now nearly helpless old patriarch of the village, and brought in by the treeman four days before the hurricane broke —and two days before the government cable-advice had reached the island.

Silvio Fabricius had stayed beside his tree. On the third day, when it was pos¬ sible for the villagers to get as far as the upper end of the great field near the fountain, he had been fourid, Carrington reported to me, lying in the field, dead, his face composed inscrutably, the great trunk of his brother the tree across his chest, which had been crushed by its great weight, when, uprooted by the wind, it had fallen.

And until they wore off there had been smears of earth, Carrington said, on the heads and faces of all the original Dahomeyan villagers and upon the heads and faces of several of the newer laborer families as well.

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS

By FRANK BELKNAP LONG, JR.

Chaugnar Faugn goes ravening out into the world in search of victims

C'm'u:

The Story Thus Far

3. An Archeological Digression

r HE figure is totally unfamiliar,” said Doctor Imbert. "Nothing even remotely resembling it ocs in Asian or African mythology.”

This story began in WEBB

He scowled and returned the photo¬ graph to his youthful visitor, who de¬ posited it on the arm of his chair.

"I confess,” he continued, "that it puz¬ zles and disturbs me. It’s preposterously archeological, if you get what I mean. It isn’t the sort of thing that one would— imagine.”

Young Harris nodded. "I could never have imagined it. I visualize unmention¬ able things constantly—I’m a sensationalTALK8 for January 245



ist-introvert of extreme type—but I could never have imagined anything so—

"Racial,” put in Doctor Imbert. "I be¬ lieve that is the word you were groping for. That thing is a symbolic embodiment of the massed imaginative heritage of an entire people. It’s a composite—like the Homeric epics or the Sphinx of Giza. It’s the kind of art manifestation you would expea a primitive people to produce colleaively. It’s so contradiaory in concep¬ tion and so inexplicably foul that one can scarcely conceive of a mere individual any¬ where in the world deliberately sitting down and creating it out of his own imagi¬ nation. I will concede that an unusually gifted artist might be capable of imagin¬ ing it, but I doubt if such an obscenity would ever form in the human brain with¬ out a raison d’etre. And no individual living in a civilized state would experience the need, the desire to imagine such a thing, and least of all, to give it objective expression.

"Insanity, of course, might account for it, but the so-called interpretative reveries of madmen are nearly always of prediaable nature. Grotesque and absurd as they may sometimes be, certain images occur in them again and again and these images are definitely meaningful. They follow prescribed patterns, are crude and dis¬ torted representations of familiar objeas and people. The morbidities out of which they arise have been studied and classified and an alienist who knows his business can usually decipher them. If you have ever examined a batch of drawings from a lunatic asylum you will have noticed how the same motifs occur repeatedly and how utterly unimaginative such things are from a sane and sophisticated point of view.

"It is of course true that the folk crea¬ tions of primitive peoples usually embody

or symbolize definite human preoccupa¬ tions, but more boldly and imaginatively, and occasionally they depart from the prediaable to such an extent that even our expert is obliged to throw up his hands.

"I have always believed that most of the major and minor monstrosities that figure so conspicuously in the pantheons of barbarian races—feathered serpents, animal-headed priests, grimacing sphinxes, etc., are synthetic conceptions. Let us sup¬ pose, for instance, that a tribe of reason¬ ably enlightened barbarians is animated by the unique social impulse of co-opera¬ tive agriculture and is moved to embody its ideals in some colossal fetish designed to suggest both fertility and brotherhood —in, let us say, a great stone Magna Mater with arms outstretched to embrace all classes and conditions of men. Then let us suppose that co-operative agriculture falls into disrepute and the tribe becomes obsessed by dreams of martial conquest. What happens? To an obbligato of tom¬ toms and war drums the Mother Goddess is transfigured. A spear is placed between her extended arms, the expression of her face altered from benignity to ferocity, great gashes chiseled in her cheeks, red paint smeared on her arms, breasts and shoulders and her ears lopped off.' Let an¬ other generation pass and the demoniac goddess of war will be transformed into something else—perhaps into a symbol of the foulest debauchery.

"In a hundred years the original fetish will have become a monstrous caricature, a record in stone of the thoughts and emotions of generations of men.

"It is the business of the ethnologist and the archeologist to decipher such records, and if our scientist is sufficiently learned and diligent he can, as you know, supply a reason for every peculiarity of configura¬ tion. Competent scholars have traced, in a - rough way, the advance or retrogression of

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


racial groups in ethical and esthetic direc¬ tions merely by studying and comparing their objects of worship and there does not exist a more fruitful science than hol¬ ography.

"But occasionally our ethnologist en¬ counters a nut that he can not crack, a god or goddess so diabolical or grotesque or loathsome in conformation that it is im¬ possible to link it associatively with even the most revolting of tribal retrogressions. It is a notorious fact that human races are less apt to advance than circle back on the course of evolution, and that idols and fetishes that were originally conceived in a comparatively noble spirit very often be¬ come, in the course of time, embodiments of the bestial and the unclean. The de¬ graded objects of worship now employed by African bushmen and Australian abo¬ rigines may conceivably have been consid¬ erably less revolting ten or fifteen thou¬ sand years ago. It is impossible to predict the depths to which a race may descend and the appalling transformation which may occur in its sacred imagery.

"And so occasionally we encounter shapes that we scarcely like to speculate about, shapes so complicatedly vile that they haven’t even analogous counterparts in comparative mythology. Your fetish is of that nature. It is, as I say, preposter¬ ously archeological and it differs unmis¬ takably—although I am willing to concede a superficial resemblance—from the dis¬ torted caricatures conjured up by futurists and lunatics. Only racial dissolution and decay extending over wide wastes of years could, in my opinion, account for such a ghastly anomaly.”

He leaned forward and tapped Alger¬ non significantly upon the knee. "You haven’t told me its history,” he admon¬ ished. "Reticence is an archeologist’s pre¬ rogative, and in our work it is always an

asset, but for a young man you’re almost abnormally addicted to it.”

Algernon blushed to the roots of his hair. "I’m seldom actually reticent,” he said. "At the Museum they all think I talk too much. I’ve an exuberant, officious way at times that positively appalls Mr. Scollard. But this affair is so—so outside all normal experience that I’ve been dread¬ ing to tax your credulity with a resume of it.”

Doctor Imbert smiled. "Your books reveal that you are a very cautious and hon¬ est scholar,” he said. "I don’t believe I’d be inclined to question the veracity of whatever you may choose to tell me.”

"Very well,” said Algernon. "I’ll cut loose then. But I must entreat that you suspend judgment till you’ve heard all of the evidence. One can adduce rational explanations for each of the incidents I shall describe, but when one views them in the sequence in which they occurred they resolve themselves into a devastatingly hideous enigma.”

Very tersely, without self-consciousness or affectation, Algernon then related all that he knew and all that he surmised and suspected about the thing whose image spread defilement on the paper before him.

Doctor Imbert heard him out in silence. But his eyes, as he listened, grew bright with horror and his chin evinced an agita¬ tion impossible to describe.

"I doubt if I can help you,” he said, when Algernon was done. "This thing transcends all of my experience.”

There ensued a silence. Then Alger¬ non sputtered hysterically. "But what are we to do? Surely you’ve something to sug¬ gest!”

Doctor Imbert rose shakingly to his feet. "I have—yes. I know some one who can, perhaps, help. He’s a recluse, a psychic— a magnificent intellect obsessed by myster¬ ies and mysticisms. I put little faith in


such things—to me it’s a degradation. But I’ll take you to him. I’ll take you anyway. God knows you’re in trouble—that is obvi¬ ous to me. And this man may be able to suggest something. Roger Little is his name. No doubt you’ve heard of him. He used to be a criminal investigator. A good one—a pschologist—discerning, erudite, shrewd—no mere detective-novel sleuth.”

Algernon nodded understandingly. "Let us go to him at once,” he said.

4. The Horror on the Hills

I T was while Algernon and Doctor Imbert were journeying in the subway toward Roger Little’s residence in the Borough of Queens that the Horror was announced to the world. An account of its initial manifestation had been flashed from Spain at midday to a great American news syndicate and all of the New York papers had something about it in their eve¬ ning editions. The News-Graphic’s ac¬ count was perhaps the most ominously dis¬ turbing in its implications. A copywriter on that enterprising sheet had surmised that the atrocities were distinguished by something outre, something altogether in¬ explicable, and by choosing his diction with unusual care he had succeeded in con¬ veying to his unappreciative readers a tingling intimation of shockingness, of terror.

Beneath half-inch headlines which read:

HIDEOUS MASSACRE IN THE PYRENEES he had written:

"The authorities are completely baffled. Who would wish to assassinate fourteen simple peasants? They were found at sundown on the mountain’s crest. All in a row they lay, very still,very pale— very silent and pale beneath the soft Spanish sky. All about them stretched new-fallen snow and be¬ side them on the white expanse were marks, pecu¬ liar and baffling. Men do not make footprints a yard wide. And why were all the victims laid so evenly in a row? What violence was it that could deprive them of their heads, drain the blood from their bodies and lay them stark and naked in a row upon the white snow?”

5. Little's Dream

“ Dome one has been murdered and so you wish my advice,” murmured Roger Little wearily. "You wish the advice of an old eccentric idiot who has ceased to traffic with crime.” He was staring into the fire and the lurid radiance which streamed roomward from the grate so il¬ lumed the sharp outlines of his profile that Algernon was struck silent with awe.

"A positively Satanic presence,” he mur¬ mured, to himself. "The exact facsimile of a sorcerer from the Malleus Maleficarum. They would have burned him in the Fifteenth Century.”

"Murder,” resumed Little, "has become a shabbily synthetic art and even the most daring masterpieces of the contemporary school are composed of inferior ingredi¬ ents clumsily combined. Men no longer live in fear of the unknown, and that utter and absymal disintegration of soul which the wise still call psychic evil no longer motivates our major atrocities. Anger, jealousy, and a paltry desire for material gain are pitiful emotional substitutes for the perverse and lonely egoism which in¬ spired the great crimes of the Twelfth, Thirteenth and Fourteenth Centuries. When men killed with the deliberate cer¬ tainty that they were jeopardizing their im¬ mortal souls and when the human body was regarded as a tabernacle for something more—or less—than human the crime of murder assumed epic and unholy propor¬ tions. The mere discovery of a mutilated cadaver in an age when men still believed in something—at least in something— filled every one with terror and with awe. Men, women and children took refuge be¬ hind barricaded doors and the more devout fell upon their knees, crossed themselves, lighted candles and chanted innumerable exorcisms.

"But in this decadent age when a hu¬ man being is assassinated society merely

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


shrugs its shoulders and relinquishes the sequel to the police. What have the police to do with a sacrament of evil in our midst? The sense of virtually immitigable evil, of stark unreasoning fear which mur¬ der once left in its wake, and the intense esthetic enjoyment which certain indi¬ viduals derived from merely studying such crimes as works of perverse and diabolical art have no parallels in contemporary ex¬ perience. Hence it is that all modem mur¬ derers commit commonplace crimes—kill prosaically and almost indifferently with¬ out any suspicion that they are destroying more than the lives of their unfortunate victims. And people go calmly about their business and are apparently not dis¬ pleased to rub shoulders with the unholy ones in theaters, restaurants and subways!”

Algernon shifted excitedly in his chair. "But the problem we bring to you is en¬ meshed in the supernatural more hideous¬ ly than any atrocity of the Ages of Faith. It transcends normal experience. If you will listen while I-”

But Little shook his head. "I have plumbed to satiety the cosmic abysses,” he affirmed. "I have written books—many books—adducing dozens of instances of possession, of return, of immolation, of divination, and of transformation. I have confirmed the reality of the concubitus daemonum; have proved incontestably the existence of vampires, succubi and lamias, and in this very room I have slipt, not too unwillingly, into the warm and clinging arms of women five centuries dead.”

He shuddered. "But all infamies and decadencies on the crustal earth are eclipsed by the befouling and venomous nastiness that lurks bodilessly in undimen¬ sioned space. In my dreams I have heard the nauseous piping of its glutinous flutes and I have glimpsed terribly for an instant the nets and trawls with which it angles for men.”

Algernon’s eyes were points of fire.

"That horror is like-” he began, but

Little would not let him finish.

"My books gangrene on grime-blade shelves,” he muttered. "No one will read them because they treat of—facts. I am everywhere sneered at as an eccentric—a madman. Erudite Mid brilliant, but as mad as Bruno when he provided a roast for the Fathers.”

He rose passionately to his feet. "So I’ve definitely renounced the collection and correlation of facts,” he said. "Hereafter I shall embody my unique convictions in the eloquent and persuasivd guise of a fable. I shall write a novel. The art of fiction as a purveyor of essential truth has innumerable advantages which detached and impersonal utterance must of necessity lack. The fictioneer can familiarize his readers gradually with new and startling doctrines and avoid shocking them into a precipitous retreat into the shell of old and conventional beliefs; can prevent them from taking refuge in tradition before their minds have grasped one-quarter of the novelties he is intent upon promulgat¬ ing. Then, too, the artist can be so much more persuasive and eloquent than the scientist, and it can never be sufficiently emphasized that eloquence is never so effective in convincing men that certain things which are obviously false are mo¬ mentarily true as it is in inducing them to discover that which is ultimately true be¬ neath all the distortions of reality which have been accepted by the race in response to an urge for mere wish-fulfilment. Hu¬ man wishes and desires are so eloquent in themselves that certainly some eloquence must be used in combating them. And that is why the mere scientist is so hope¬ lessly at a loss when he seeks to convert others to what he himself believes to be the truth. He doesn’t perceive that new truths must be presented to the human mind vividly, uniquely, as though one were initiating a mystery or instituting a



sacrament, and that every failure to so pre¬ sent them decreases the likelihood that they will gain proponents, and that an en¬ tire civilization may pass away before any one arises with sufficient imagination and sufficient eloquence to take truths which have been enunciated once or twice coldly and forgotten because of the repugnance with which the common man regards facts barely recited and to clothe them in gar¬ ments of terror and splendor and awe and so link them with far stars and the wind that moves above the waters and the mys¬ tery and strangeness that will be in all things till the end of time.”

Little’s looks were ecstatic, his eyes ta¬ pers of fire. "At this moment,” he ex¬ claimed, "lam enmeshing in art’s Delphic profundity the most sublime of my dreams —I am fabricating a garment, goldenwebbed, swimming in the dew of starland, wet with the strangeness of constel¬ lations afar to veil with enchantment the milieu cosmic, to enshroud in glamor the hideous appalling nakedness of that which is without form and void, of blackness shrieking to the pit it has itself created, of sticky chaos ravening in the undimen¬ sioned.”

He stopped suddenly and stared at Algernon and Imbert with inturned, un¬ seeing eyes. Then, slowly, that which had been afar returned with blood-rush to the entranced brain, and his lips spoke, prof¬ fering apology. "I have raved, no doubt. Like Blake, like Rowlandson, like Gerard De Nerval I am always dreaming dreams, seeing visions. And to worldly men, calm and objective toward earth-things, skeptical of all else, such visions, such glimpses, astonish, appall—or are wholly incomprehensible. And you, no doubt, are inwardly smiling, waggishly smiling, branding me 'touched.’ But if you knew a little, only a little more of cosmic lore you might—sympathize a little.

"For there are things from outside

watching always, secretly watching our little capers, our grotesque pranks. Men have disappeared. You’re aware of that, aren’t you? Men have disappeared from the dear, familiar earth—at high noon, in the sunlight. Malignant and unknowable entities, fishers from outside have let down invisible tentacles, nets, trawls, and they have been caught up, have vanished into a vacuum. And others have gone mad, wit¬ nessing such things.

"When a man ascends a flight of stairs it does not inevitably follow that he will arrive at the top. When a man crosses a street or a field or a public square it is not foreordained that he will reach the other side. I have seen strange shadows in the sky. Other worlds impinging on ours? I know that there are other worlds, but per¬ haps they do not dimensionally impinge. Perhaps from fourth, fifth, six-dimensional worlds things with forms invisible to us, with faces veiled to us, reach down and take—instantaneously, mercilessly. Feed¬ ing on us perhaps? Using our brains for fodder? A few have glimpsed the truth awfully for an instant in dreams, visions. But only minds psychically attuned to the rhythms of curved and angled space can journey in subconscious mentation toward the bodiless shapes that flicker appallingly in the void a thousand billion light years beyond the remotest of the spiral nebulae.

"Yet I—can do this. And you,” he laughed, "come to me with a little mun¬ dane murder.”

For an instant there was silence in the room. Then Algernon rose and voiced fierce protest. "You say,” he exclaimed, "a little mundane murder, but I—a thing more hideous, more alien and revolting to sanity and the world we know than all your cosmic trawlers, than all your 'intru¬ sions’ from beyond.”

Little shook his head. "No,” he said. "No. You have harkened to some nurs¬ ery tale, have given heed to the child’s

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


burden of wo. I mean, the surmises, fears, dreads, forebodings of ordinary men. Imaginative in a worldly sense, but blinder and dumber than dods cosmically. I could unravel your puzzle with the most superfidal layer of my waking mind, the little conscious mind that is so weak, so futile to grapple with anything more disturbing than what the body shall eat and drink and wear.”

"And had I not seen,” said Algernon, speaking very deliberately, "a stone thing shift its bulk, doing what the inanimate has never done in all the ages man has looked rationally upon it, I should have shunned you for a madman!”

"A stone, you say, moved?” For the first time Little’s interest quickened questward.

"Yes, in the shape in which something —nature primeval perhaps, in eons pri¬ meval—shaped it. Moved in the night, unwatched by me. When Chaugnar Faugn-”

He stopped, was silent. For from his chair Little had sprung with a cry, his face bloodless, his knees wobbling, a cry of terror issuing from his thin lips.

"What is the matter?” gasped Doctor Imbert, and Algernon choked, not know¬ ing what to make of so strange an occur¬ rence, For Little seemed completely un¬ done, a mystic gone energetically mad, hysterically epileptic, with brain parti¬ tions awry and mind a jumbled ferment of fantasy and horror. But at last he sank again into the chair from which he had so shockingly arisen, and a trace of color re¬ turned to his cheeks.

"Forgive me,” he murmured brokenly, "for my skepticisms and for this exhibi¬ tion of—of cowardice. I’m compelled to use that word. Honesty demands it. When you mentioned Chaugnar Faugn I was for an instant mortally terrified."

He drew a deep breath. "The dream was so vivid that my mind rejected in¬

stantly a symbolic or allegorical interpre¬ tation. That name especially—Chaugnar Faugn. I was certain that something, somewhere, bore it; that the ghastliness that took Publius Libo on the high hills was an actuality, but not, I had hoped, an actuality for us. Something long past, I prayed, something long past and forgot¬ ten. A horror of the ancient world that would never return, never intrude itself into our prosaic little lives.” He broke off, seemingly lost in thought.

"Tell me about it,” he entreated, after a moment.

W ith bloodless lips Algernon related once again the history of Chaug¬ nar Faugn as he had gleaned it from Ulman’s revolting narrative, enhancing a little its hideousness by half-guesses and surmises of his own. Little listened quies¬ cent, his face a mask, only the throbbing of the veins on his temples betraying the agitation which racked him. As Alger¬ non concluded, the clock on the mantel, a tall, negro-colored clock with wings on its shoulders and a great yellow ocean spider painted on its opalescent face, struck the hour: eleven even strokes pealed from it, raping the stillness that had settled for an instant on the room. Algernon shivered, apprehensive at the lateness of the hour, fearful that in his absence Chaugnar Faugn might move again.

But now Little was speaking, striving painfully to keep his voice from sinking to a whisper.

"I had the dream last Halloween,” he began, "and for detail, color and somber, brooding menace it surpasses anything of the kind I have experienced in recent years. It took form slowly, beginning as a nervous move from the atrium of my house into a scroll-lined library to escape the sound of a fountain, and continuing as an earnest and friendly argument with a stout, firm-lipped man of about thirty252


five, with strong, pure Roman features and the rather cumbersome equipment of a legatus in active military service. Im¬ pressions of identity and locale were so nebulous and gradual in their unfoldment as to be difficult to trace to a source, but they seem in retrospect to have been present from the first.

"The place was not Rome, nor even Italy, but the small provincial municipium of Calagurris on the south bank of the Iberus in Hispania Citerior. It was in the Republican age, because the province was still under a senatorial proconsul in¬ stead of a legatus of the Imperator. I was a man of about my own waking age and build. I was clad in a civilian toga of yellowish color with the two thin reddish stripes of the equestrian order. My name was L. Cselius Rufus and my rank seemed to be that of a provincial quaestor. I was definitely an Italian-born Roman, the province of Calagurris being alien, colo¬ nial soil to me. My guest was Cnaeus Balbutius, legatus of the XII Legion, which was permanently encamped just outside the town on the river-bank. The home in which I was receiving him was a subur¬ ban villa on a hillside south of the com¬ pact section, and it overlooked both town and river.

"The day before I had received a wor¬ ried call from one Tib. Annaeus Mela, edile of the small town of Pompelo, three days’ march to the north in the territory of the Vascones at the foot of the mysterious Pyrenees. He had been to request Balbutius to spare him a cohort for a very extraordinary service on the night of the Kalends of November and Balbutius had emphatically refused. Therefore, knowing me to be acquainted with P. Scribonius Libo, the proconsul at Tarraco, he had come to ask me to lay his case by letter before that official. Mela was a dark, lean man of middle age, of

presentable Roman features but with the coarse hair of a Celtiberian.

"It seems that there dwelt hidden in the Pyrenees a strange race of small dark people unlike the Gauls and Celtiberians in speech and features, who indulged in terrible rites and practises twice every year, on the Kalends of Maius and No¬ vember. They lit fires on the hilltops at dusk, beat continuously on strange drums and howled horribly all through the night. Always before these orgies people would be found missing from the village and none of them were ever known to return. It was thought that they were stolen for sacrificial purposes, but no one dared to investigate, and eventually the semi-annual loss of villagers came to be regarded as a regular tribute, like the seven youths and maidens that Athens was forced to send each year to Crete for King Minos and the Minotaur.

"The tribal Vascones and even some of the semi-Romanized cottagers of the foot¬ hills were suspected by the inhabitants of Pompelo of being in league with the strange dark folk —Miri Nigri was the name used in my dream. These dark folk were seen in Pompelo only once a year— in summer, when a few of their number would come down from the hills to trade with the merchants. They seemed incapa¬ ble of speech and transacted business by signs.

"During the preceding summer the small folk had come to trade as usualfive of them—but had become involved in a general scuffle when one of them had at¬ tempted to torture a dog for pleasure in the forum. In this fighting two of them had been killed and the remaining three had returned to the hills with evil faces. Now it was autumn and the customary quota of villagers had not disappeared. It was not normal for the Miri nigri thus to spare Pompelo. Clearly they must have reserved the town for some terrible doom,

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


which they would call down on their un¬ holy Sabbath-night as they drummed and howled and danced outrageously on the mountain’s crest. Fear walked through Pompelo and the edile Mela had come to Calagurris to ask for a cohort to invade the hills on the sabbath night and break up the obscene rites before the ceremony might be brought to a head. But Balbutius had laughed at him and refused. He thought it poor policy for the Roman ad¬ ministration to meddle in local quarrels. So Mela had been obliged to come to me. I enheartened him as best I could, and promised help, and he returned to Pom¬ pelo at least partly reassured.

"Before writing the proconsul I had thought it best to argue with Balbutius himself, so I had been to see him at the camp, found him out and left word with a centurion that I would welcome a call from him. Now he was here and had reiterated his belief that we ought not to complicate our administration by arousing the resentment of the tribesmen, as we undoubtedly would if we attempted to suppress a rite with which they were obviously in ill-concealed sympathy.

"I seemed to have read considerable about the dark rites of certain unknown and wholly barbaric races, for I recall feeling a sense of monstrous impending doom and trying my best to induce Bal¬ butius to put down the sabbath. To his ob¬ jections I replied that it had never been the custom of the Roman people to be swayed by the whims of barbarians when the for¬ tunes of Roman citizens were in danger and that he ought not to forget the status of Pompelo as a legal colony, small as it was. That the good-will of the tribal Vascones was little to be depended upon at best, and that the trust and friendship of the Romanized townsfolk, in whom was more than a little of our own blood after three generations of colonization, was a matter of far greater importance to the

smooth working of that provincial govern¬ ment on which the security of the Roman imperium primarily rested. Furthermore, that I had reason to believe, from my stud¬ ies, that the apprehensions of the Pompelonians were disturbingly well-founded, and that there was indeed brewing in the high hills a monstrous doom which it would ill become the traditions of Rome to countenance. That I would be surprized to encounter laxity in the representatives of those whose ancestors had not hesitated to put to death large numbers of Roman citizens for participation in the orgies of Bacchus and had ordered engraved on public tablets of bronze the Senatus Con¬ sultant de Bacchanalibus.

"But I could not influence Balbutius. He went away courteously but unmoved. So I at once took a reed pen and wrote a letter to the proconsul Libo, sealing it and calling for a wiry young slave—a Greek called Antipater—to take it to Tarraco.

"The following morning I went out on foot, down the hill to the town and through the narrow block-paved streets widi high whitewashed dead-walls and gaudily painted shops with awnings. The crowds vere very vivid. Legionaries of all races, Roman colonists, tribal Celtiberi, Romanized natives, Romanized and Iberized Carthaginians, mongrels of all sorts. I spoke to only one person, a Roman named Aibutius, about whom I recall nothing. I visited the camp—a great area with an earthen wall ten feet high and streets of wooden huts inside, and I called at the praetorium to tell Balbutius that I had written the proconsul. He was still pleasant but unmoved. Later I went home, read in the garden, bathed, dined, talked with the family and went to bed—having, a little later, a nightmare within the dream. which centered about a .dark terrible des¬ ert with cyclopean ruins of stone and a malign presence over all.

"About noon the next day—I had been



reading in the garden—the Greek returned with a letter and enclosure from Libo. I broke the seal and read: 'P. SCRIBONIVS. L. CAELIO. S. D. SI. TV. VALES. VALEO. QVAE. SCRIPSISTI. AVDIVI. NEC. ALIAS. PVTO.’

"In a word, the proconsul agreed with me—had known about the Miri Nigri himself—and enclosed an order for the advance of the cohort to Pompelo at once, by forced marches, in order to reach the doom-shadowed town on the day before the fatal Kalends. He requested me to ac¬ company it because of my knowledge of what the mysterious rites were whispered to be, and furthermore declared his design of going along himself, saying that he was even then on the point of setting out and would be in Pompelo before we could be.

“T lost not a second in going personally -I- to the camp and handing the orders to Balbutius, and I must say he took his defeat gracefully. He decided to send Cohors V, under Sextus Asellius, and pres¬ ently summoned that legatus —a slim, supercilious youth with frizzed hair and a fashionable fringe of beard-growth on his under jaw. Asellius was openly hostile to the move but dared not disregard orders. Balbutius said he would have the cohort at the bridge across the Iberus in an hour and I rushed home to prepare for the rough day and night march.

"I put on a heavy psenula and ordered a litter with six Illyrian bearers, and reached the bridge ahead of the cohort. At last, though, I saw the silver eagles flashing along the street to my left, and Balbutius—who had decided at the last moment to go along himself—rode out ahead and accompanied my litter ahead of the troops as we crossed the bridge and struck out over the plains toward the mystic line of dimly glimpsed violet hills. There was no long sleep during all the

march, but we had naps and brief halts and bites of lunch—cakes and cheese. Bal¬ butius usually rode by my litter in conver¬ sation (it was infantry, but he and Asel¬ lius were mounted) but sometimes I read —M. Porcius Cato De Re Rustica, and a hideous manuscript in Greek, which made me shudder even to touch or look at but of which I can not remember a single word.

"The second morning we reached the whitewashed houses of Pompelo and trem¬ bled at the fear that was on the place. There was a wooden amphitheater east of the village, and a large open plain on the west. All the immediate ground was flat, but the Pyrenees rose up green and menac¬ ing on the north, looking nearer than they were. Scribonius Libo had reached there ahead of us with his secretary, Q. Trebellius Pollio, and he and the edile Mela greeted us in the forum. We all—Libo, Pollio, Mela, Balbutius, Asellius and I— went into the curia (an excellent new building with a Corinthian portico) and discussed ways and means, and I saw that the proconsul was with me heart and soul.

"But Balbutius and Asellius continued to argue and at times the discussion grew very tense. Libo was an utterly admirable old man, and he insisted on going into the hills with the rest of us and seeing the awful revelations of the night. Mela, ghastly with fright, promised horses to those of us who were not mounted. He had pluck—for he meant to go himself.

"It is impossible even to suggest the stark and ghastly terror which hung over this phase of the dream.

"Surely there never was such evil as that which brooded over the accursed town as the sinking sun threw long menacing shadows amidst the reddening afternoon. The legionaries fancied they heard the rustling of stealthy, unseen and ominously deliberate presences in the black encir¬ cling woods. Occasionally a torch had to be lighted momentarily in order to keep the

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


frightened three hundred together, but for the most part it was a dreadful scramble through the dark. A slit of northern sky was visible ahead between the terrible, cliff-like slopes that encompassed us and I marked the chair of Cassiopeia and the golden powder of the Via Lactea. Far, far ahead and above and appearing to merge imperceptibly into the heavens, the lines of remoter peaks could be discerned, each capped by a sickly point of unholy flame. And still the distant, hellish drums pounded incessantly on.

“At length the route grew too steep il. for the horses and the six of us who were mounted were forced to take to our feet. We left the horses tethered to a clump of scrub oaks and stationed ten men to guard them, though heaven knows it was no night nor place for petty thieves to be abroad! And then we scrambled on— jostling, stumbling and sometimes climb¬ ing with our hands’ help up places little short of perpendicular. Suddenly a sound behind us made every man pause as if hit by an arrow. It was from the horses we had left, and it did not cease. They were not neighing but screaming. They were screaming, mad with some terror beyond any this earth knows. No sound came up from the men we had left with them. Still they screamed on, and the soldiers around us stood trembling and whimpering and muttering fragments of a prayer to Rome’s gods, and the gods of the East and the gods of the barbarians.

"Then there came a sharp scuffle and yell from the front of the column which made Asellius call quaveringly for a torch. There was a prostrate figure welter¬ ing in a growing and glistening pool of blood and we saw by the faint flare that it was the young guide Accius. He had killed himself because of the sound he had heard. He, who had been born and bred at the foot of those terrible hills and had

heard dark whispers of their secrets, knew well why the horses had screamed. And because he knew, he had snatched a sword from the scabbard of the nearest soldier —the centurio P. Vibulanus—and had plunged it full-length into his own breast.

"At this point pandemonium broke loose because of something noticed by such of the men as were able to notice anything at all. The sky had been snuffed out. No longer did Cassiopeia and the Via Lactea glimmer betwixt the hills, but stark blackness loomed behind the continu¬ ously swelling fires on the distant peaks. And still the horses screamed and the faroff drums pounded hideously and inces¬ santly on.

"Cackling laughter broke out in the black woods of the vertical slopes that hemmed us in and around the swollen fires of the distant peaks we saw prancing and leaping the awful and Cyclopean silhou¬ ettes of things that were neither men nor beasts, but fiendish amalgams of both— things with huge flaring ears and long wav¬ ing trunks that howled and gibbered and pranced in the skyless night. And a cold wind coiled purposively down from the empty abyss, winding sinuously about us till we started in fresh panic and strug¬ gled like Laocoon and his sons in the ser¬ pent’s grasp.

"There were terrible sights in the light of the few shaking torches. Legionaries trampled one another to death and screamed more hoarsely than the horses far below. Of our immediate party Trebellius Pollio had long vanished, and I saw Mela go down beneath the heavy caligae of a gigantic Aquitanian. Balbutius had gone mad and was grinning and simpering out an old Fescennine verse re¬ called from the Latian countryside of his boyhood. Asellius tried to cut his own throat, but the sentient wind held him powerless, so that he could do nothing but scream and scream and scream above the



cackling laughter and the screaming horses and the distant drums and the howling colossal shapes that capered about the demon-fires on the peaks.

"I myself was frozen to the helplessness of a statue and could not move or speak. Only old Publius Libo the proconsul was strong enough to face it like a Roman— Publius Scribonius Libo, who had gone through the Jugurthine and Mithridatic and social wars—Publius Libo three times praetor and three times consul of the re¬ public, in whose atrium stood the ances¬ tral forms of a hundred heroes. He and he alone had the voice of a man and of a general and triumphator. I can see him now in the dimming light of those hor¬ rible torches, among that fear-struck stam¬ pede of the doomed. I can hear him still as he spoke his last words, gathering up his toga with the dignity of a Roman and a consul: 'Malitia vetus—malitia vetus est — venit—tandem venit - -

"And then the wooded encircling slopes burst forth with louder cackles and I saw that they were slowly moving. The hills —the terrible living hills—were closing up upon their prey. The Miri Nigri had called their terrible gods out of the void.

"Able to shriek at last, I awoke in a sea of cold perspiration.

"Calagurris, as you probably know, is a real and well-known town of Roman Spain, famed as the birthplace of the rhetorician Quintilianus. Upon consult¬ ing a classical dictionary I found Pompelo also to be real, and surviving today as the Pyrenean village of Pampelona.”

He ceased speaking, and for a moment every one in die room was silent. Then Algernon: "The Chinaman had a strange dream too. He spoke of the horror on the mountains—of great things that came clumping down from the hills at night¬ fall.”

Little nodded. "Mongolians are ex¬ tremely psychic,” he said. "Their minds

are still virgin, untainted by skepticisms. Their under-consciousnesses are athrob with cosmic rhythms. Intimations, warn¬ ings, starland harbingers, prophecies from outside alight at night on die fertile soil of their minds and bear ominous fruit.”

"And you think that Hsieh Ho’s dream was a prophecy?” whispered Imbert.

"I do. Some monstrous unfettering will ensue. That which for two thou¬ sand years has lain somnolent will stir, wax bestial, strike. The 'great things’ will descend from their frightful lair on the Spanish hills drawn manward through the will of Chaugnar Faugn. We are in pro¬ pinquity to the primal, hidden horror that festers at the root of being, with the old, hidden loathsomeness which the Greeks and Romans veiled under the vaguely analogous form of a man-beast— the feeder, the all. The Greeks knew, for the horror left its lair to ravage, striding east¬ ward in the dawn across Europe, wading waist-deep in the dark Ionian seas, loom¬ ing monstrous at nightfall over Delos, and Samothrace and far-off Crete. A nimbus of star-foam engirdled its waist; suns, con¬ stellations gleamed in its eyes. But its breath brought madness, and its embrace, death. The feeder—the all.”

The telephone bell at his elbow was jangling disconcertingly. Stretching forth a tremulous hand he grasped the receiver firmly and laid it against his cheek. "Hello,” he whispered into the mouth¬ piece. "What is it? Who is speaking?”

"From the Manhattan Museum.” The words smote ominously upon his ear. "Is Mr. Algernon Harris there? I phoned Doctor Imbert’s house and they gave me this number.”

"Yes, Harris is here.” Little’s voice was vibrant with apprehension. "I’ll call him.”

He turned the instrument over to Alger¬ non and sank back exhaustedly in his chair. For a moment the latter conversed in a low tone; then an expression of utter W. T.—7

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


terror appeared on his face and a wild, distraught cry burst from his ashen lips.

He put back the receiver and tottered toward the fireplace. For an instant he stood staring intensely into the coals, his shoulders trembling and twitching in the most sickening fashion, his hands grip¬ ping the mantel’s edge so tightly that his knuckles showed blue. Then he whirled and spoke in a voice pitched to such an ex¬ tremity of horror that Little wished, des¬ perately, that he might stop his ears.

"Chaugnar Faugn has disappeared,” he cried. "Chaugnar Faugn has left the mu¬ seum. No one saw him go and the idiot who phoned thinks that a thief removed him. Or possibly one of the attendants. But ive know how unlikely, how incon¬ ceivable are such surmises.” Hysterically he paced the room. "I am to blame,” he muttered. "I should have insisted they patrol the alcove. I should have put them definitely on guard. I should have ex¬ plained to them that some one might try to steal Chaugnar Faugn. They would have laughed at the truth, but I could have convinced them that the god was at least— evidence.”

He smote his forehead. "But what am I saying? A watchman would have been utterly impotent to cope with such a hor¬ ror. Chaugnar Faugn would have effaced him hideously in an instant. And now it is loose in the streets!”

He walked to the window and stared across the glittering harbor at the Gargan¬ tuan bulk of lower Manhattan. "It is loose over there,” he cried, raising his arm and pointing., "It is crouching in the shad¬ ows on dark streets and shambling across the lawns of deserted parks and leering tri¬ umphantly upon its prey.”

Little rose and laid his hand on Alger¬ non’s arm.

"Steady, my lad,” he urged. "I haven’t said I couldn’t help. Though Chaugnar is a very terrible menace it isn’t as omnipW. T.—8

otent as Ulman thought. It and its broth¬ ers are incarnate manifestations of a very ancient, a very malignant uncleanliness— a cancer whose growth I can retard—at least retard. And if I am successful I can send it back to its foul lair beyond the galactic universe, can cut it asunder for ever from our three-dimensional world. Had I known that the horror still lurked in the Pyrenees I should have gone, months ago, to send it back. Yes, even though the thought of it now fills me with a terror and a loathing unspeakable, I should have gone.

"I am not,” he continued, "a merely theoretical dreamer. Though I am by temperament disposed toward specula¬ tions of a mystical nature, I have forged a very concrete and effective weapon to com¬ bat the cosmic malignancies. If you’ll step into my library I’ll show you something which will a trifle restore your confi¬ dence.”

6. The Time-Space Machine

R oger little’s vast dim laboratory was . illumed by a single bluish lamp im¬ bedded in the concrete of its sunken floor. An infinite diversity of mechanisms lined the walls and sprawled their precise lengths on long low tables and dangled eerily from hooks set in the high domed ceiling; mechanisms a-glitter in blue-lit se¬ clusion—a strange, bizarre foreglimpse into the alchemy and magic of a far-dis¬ tant future, with spheres and levers and condensers and bells in lieu of stuffed crocodiles and steaming elixirs.

All of the contrivances were arresting, but one was so extraordinary in size and complexity that it dominated the others and riveted Algernon’s attention. He seemed unable to drag his gaze from the thing. It was a strange agglomeration of metallic spheres and portions of spheres, of great bluish globes surrounded by tiny



clusters of half-globes and quarter-globes, whose surfaces converged in a most fan¬ tastic way. And from the globes there sprouted at grotesque angles metallic cres¬ cents with converging tips.

To Algernon’s excited imagination the thing wore a quasi-reptilian aspect. "It’s like a toad’s face,” he muttered. "Bulbous and bestial.”

Little nodded. "It’s a triumph of me¬ chanical ugliness, isn’t it? Yet ’twould have been deified in Attica—by Archimedes especially. He would have exalted it above all his Conoids and Parabolas.”

"What function does it perform?” asked Algernon.

"A sublime one. It’s a time-space ma¬ chine. But I’d rather not discuss its precise function till I’ve shown you how it works. I want you to study its face as it waxes nonEuclidean. When you’ve glimpsed a fourth-dimensional figure you’ll be pre¬ pared to concede, I think, that the claims I make for it are not extravagant. I know of no more certain corrective for an excess of skepticism. I was the Critique of Pure Reason personified until I looked upon a skinned sphere —then I grew very humble, reverent toward the great Suspected.

"Watch now.” He reached forward, grasped a switch and with a swift down¬ ward movement of his right arm set the machine in motion. At first the small spheres and the crescents revolved quickly and the large spheres slowly; then the large spheres literally spun whilst the small spheres lazed, and then both small spheres and large spheres moved in unison. Then the spheres stopped altogether, but only for an instant, whilst something of movement seemed to flow into them from the revolv¬ ing crescents. Then the crescents stopped and the spheres moved, in varying tempo, faster and faster, and their movement seemed to flow back into the crescents. Then both crescents and spheres began to move in unison, faster and faster and

faster, till the entire mass seemed to merge into a shape paradoxical, outrageous, un¬ thinkable—a sphenoid with a non-Euclidean face, a geometric blasphemy that was at once isosceles and equilateral, convex and concave.

Algernon stared in horror. "What in God’s name is that?” he cried.

"You are looking on a fourth-dimen¬ sional figure,” said Little soothingly. "Steady now.”

For an instant nothing happened; then a light, greenish, blinding, shot from the center of the crazily distorted figure and streamed across the opposite wall, limning on the smooth cement a perfect circle.

But only for a second was the wall illumed. With an abrupt movement Little shot the lever upward and its radiance dimmed, vanished. "Another moment, and that wall would have crumbled away,” he explained apologetically.

With fascination Algernon watched the outrageous sphenoid grow indistinct, watched it blur and disappear amidst a resurgence of spheres.

"That light,” cried Little exultantly, "will send Chaugnar Faugn back through time. It will reverse its decadent random¬ ness —disincarnate and disembody it, and send it back for ever.”

"But I don’t understand,” murmured Algernon. "What do you mean by ran¬ domness.”

"I mean that this machine can work havoc with entropy!” There was a ring of exaltation in Little’s voice.

"Entropy?” Algernon scowled. "I’m not sure that I understand. I know what entropy is in thermodynamics, of course, but I’m not sure-”

"I’ll explain,” said Little. "You are of course familiar with the A B C’s of Einsteinian physics and are aware that time is relatively arrowless, that the sequence in which we view events in nature is not a cosmic actuality and that our conviction

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


that we ate going somewhere in time is a purely human emotion conditioned by our existence on this particular planet and the limitations which our five senses impose upon us. We divide time into past, present and future, but in reality an event’s se¬ quence in time depends wholly on the position in space from which it is viewed. Events which occurred thousands of years ago on this planet haven’t as yet taken place to a hypothetical observer situated billions and billions of light years remote from us. Thus, cosmically speaking, we can not say of an event that it has hap¬ pened and will never happen again or that it is about to happen and has never hap¬ pened before, because "before” to us is "after” to intelligences situated elsewhere —if such intelligences exist.

"But though our familiar time-divisions are purely arbitrary there is omnipresent in nature a principle called entropy which, as Eddington has pointed out, equips time with a kind of empirical arrow. The entire universe appears to be 'running down.’ It is the consensus of astronomical opinion that suns and planets and electrons are con¬ stantly breaking up, becoming more and more disorganized. Billions of years ago some mysterious dynamic, which Sir James Jeans likens to the Finger of God, streamed across primeval space and created the uni¬ verse of stars in a state of almost perfect integration, welded them into a system so highly organized that there was only the tiniest manifestation of the random ele¬ ment anywhere in it. The random element in nature is the uncertain element—the principle which brings about disorganiza¬ tions, disintegration, decay.

"Let us suppose that two mechanical men, robots, are tossing a small ball to and fro, to and fro. Th« process may go on indefinitely, for the mechanical creatures do not tire and there is nothing to make the ball swerve from its course. But now let us suppose that a bird in flight collides

with the ball, sends it spinning so that it misses the hand of the receiving robot. What happens? Both robots begin to be¬ have grotesquely. Missing the ball, their arms sweep through the empty air, mak¬ ing wider and wider curves and they stag¬ ger forward perhaps, and collapse in each other’s arms. The random, the uncertain element has entered their organized cos¬ mos and they have ceased to function.

"This tendency of the complex to dis¬ integrate, of the perfectly-balanced to run amuck, is called entropy. It is entropy that provides time with an arrow and, dis¬ rupting nebulae, plays midwife to the birth of planets from star-wombs incalculable. It is entropy that cools great orbs, hotter than Betelgeuse, more fiery than Arcturus through all the outer vastnesses, reducing them to sterility, to whirling motes of chaos.

"It is the random element that is slowly breaking up, destroying the universe of stars. In an ever widening circle, with an ever increasing malignancy—if one may ascribe malignancy to a force, a tendency— it works its awful havoc. It is analogous to a grain of sand dropped into one of the interstices of a vast and intricate machine —the grain creates a small disturbance which in turn creates a larger one, and so on ad infinitum.

"And with every event that has oc¬ curred on this earth since its departure from the sun there has been an increase of the random element. Thus we can legiti¬ mately 'place’ events in time. Events which occurred tens of thousands of years ago may be happening now to intelligences situated elsewhere, and events still in the offing, so to speak, may exist already in another dimension of space-time. But if an earth-event is very disorganized and very decadent in its contours even our hypothetical distant observer would know that it has occurred very late in the course of cosmic 'evolution’ and that a series of



happier events, with less of the random element in them, must have preceded it in time. In brief, that sense of time’s passing which we experience in our daily lives is due to our intuitive perception that the structure of the universe is continuously breaking down. Everything that 'happens,’ every event, is an objective manifestation of matter’s continuous and all-pervasive decay and disintegration.”

Algernon nodded. "I think I under¬ stand. But doesn’t that negate all that we have been taught to associate with the word 'evolution? It means that not ad¬ vancement but an inherent degeneration has characterized all the processes of nature from the beginning of time. Can we ap¬ ply it to man? Do you mean to sug¬ gest-”

Little shrugged. "One can only specu¬ late. It may be that mediaeval theology wasn’t so very wrong after all—that old Augustine and the Angelic Doctor and Abelard and the others surmised correctly, that man was once akin to the angels and that he joined himself to nature’s decay through a deliberate rejection of heaven’s grace. It may be that by some mysterious and incomprehensibly perverse act of will he turned his face from his Maker and let evil pour in upon him; made of himself a magnet for all the malevolence that the cosmos holds. There may have been more than a little truth in Ulman’s identifica¬ tion of Chaugnar with the Lucifer of medi¬ aeval myth."

"Is this,” exclaimed Imbert reproach¬ fully, "a proper occasion for a discussion of theology?”

"It isn’t,” Little acknowledged. "But I thought it desirable to outline certain— possibilities. I don’t want you to imagine that I regard the intrusion of Chaugnar Faugn into our sane world as a scientifi¬ cally explicable occurrence.”

"I don’t care how you regard it,” af¬

firmed Algernon, "so long as you succeed in destroying it utterly.”

"I hate it as Aquinas hated the devil, as Anthony the succubi of the desert, as St. Simeon Stylites the shabby robustness of the go-getter.”

"And yet you propose to combat it with science,” exclaimed Imbert.

"With a concrete embodiment of the concepts of transcendental mathematics,” corrected Little. "And such concepts are merely empirically scientific. I am aware that science may be loosely defined as a systematized accumulation of tendencies and principles, but classically speaking, its prime function is to convey some idea of the nature of reality by means of an in¬ ductive logic. Yet our mathematical physicist has turned his face from induc¬ tion as resolutely as did the mediaeval scho¬ lastics in the days of the Troubadours. He insists that we must start from the univer¬ sal assumption that we can never know positively the real nature of anything, and that whatever 'truth’ we may deduce from empirical generalities will be chiefly valu¬ able as a kind of mystical guidepost, at best merely roughly indicative of the direc¬ tion in which we are travelling; but withal, something of a sacrament and therefore superior to the dogmatic 'knowledge’ of Nineteenth Century science. The specula¬ tions of mathematical physicists today are more like poems and psalms than anything else. They embody concepts wilder and more fantastic than anything in Poe or Hawthorne or Blake or Gautier or Hoff¬ man.”

He stepped forward and seized the entropy-reversing machine by its globular neck. "Two men can carry it very easily,” he said, as he lifted it a foot from the floor by way of experiment. "We can train it on Chaugnar Faugn from an auto.”

"If it keeps to the open streets,” inter¬ jected Algernon. "We can’t follow it up a fire-escape or into the woods in an auto.”

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


"I’d thought of that. It could hide itself for days in Central Park or in the woods north of Dyckman Street. But we won’t cross that bridge till we come to it. ’ He moistened his lips. "We could dis¬ pense with the car in an emergency,” he said. "Two men could advance fairly rapidly with the machine on a smooth ex¬ panse.”

"We must make haste,” he continued, after a moment. "My chauffeur’s probably A. W. O. L., but I’ll taxi down to the garage and fetch the car myself.” He turned to Algernon. "If you want to help, locate Chaugnar Faugn.”

Algernon stared. "But how-” he

gasped.

"It shouldn’t be difficult. Get in touch with the Manhattan police—Assistance and Ambulance Division. Ask if they’ve received any unusually urgent calls, any¬ thing of a sensational nature. If Chaug¬ nar has slain again they’ll know about it.”

He pointed urgently toward a phone in the comer and dashed from the labora¬ tory.

7. A Cure for Skepticism

W hen Algernon had completed his phone call he lit a cigarette very calmly and deliberately and crossed to where Doctor Imbert was standing. Only the trembling of his lower lip betrayed the agitation which racked him. "There have been five emergency calls,” he said, "all from the midtown section—between Thirty-fifth and Forty-eighth Streets.” Imbert grew pale. "And—and deaths?” Algernon nodded. "And deaths. Two of the ambulances have just returned.” "How many were killed?”

"They don’t know yet. There were five bodies in the first ambulance—three men, a woman and a little girl—a negress. All horribly mutilated. They’ve gone wild over there. The chap who spoke to me wanted to know what I knew, why I had

phoned—he shouted at me, broke down and sobbed.”

"God!”

"There’s nothing we can do till Little gets back,” Algernon moaned.

"And then?” Imbert was in the throes of a mounting hysteria. "What do you suppose we can do then?”

"The machine-” Algernon began

and stopped. He couldn’t endure putting his faith into words. Rationally Little’s machine was a grotesque jest, Little him¬ self a lunatic, or worse. But it was neces¬ sary to believe in the machine, to have con¬ fidence in Little’s sagacity—supreme con- - fidence. It would have been disastrous to doubt in such a moment that a blow would eventually be struck, that Little and his machine together would dispose, for ever, of the ghastly menace of Chaugnar Faugn. But to defend such a faith rationally, to speak boldly and with confidence of a mere intuitive conviction was another matter.

"You know perfectly well that Little’s insane,” affirmed Imbert, "that it would be madness to credit his assertions. ’ ’ He ges¬ tured toward the machine. "That thing is merely a mechanical hypnotizer. Ingenious, I concede—it can induce twilight sleep with a rapidity I wouldn’t have thought possi¬ ble—but it is quite definitely three-dimen¬ sional. It brings the subconscious to the fore, the subconscious that believes every¬ thing it is told, induces temporary som¬ nolence while Imbert whispers: 'You are gazing on a fourth-dimensional figure. You are gazing on a fourth-dimensional figure.’

"And of course you’d believe it. You’d believe it because you are such a confirmed skeptic and cynic. All skeptics are credu¬ lous in their under-consciousnesses. It’s a sort of compensation. I believed it too, of course, but only momentarily. It’s left no lasting impression on my conscious mind.



But you—you think Little’s a god. You’ve been hypnotized and don’t know it.”

"I’d rather not discuss it,” murmured Algernon. “I—I can’t believe the figure we saw was wholly a deception. It was too ghastly and unbelievable. And remember that we both saw the same figure. I was watching you at the time—you looked positively ill. And mass hypnotism is vir¬ tually an impossibility. You ought to know that. No two men will respond to sugges¬ tion in the same way. We both saw a fourth-dimensional figure—an outrageous figure.”

"But how do you know we both saw the same figure? We may easily have responded differently to Little’s suggestion. Group hypnotism is possible in that sense. I saw something decidedly disturbing and so did you, but that doesn’t prove that we weren’t hypnotized.”

"I’ll convince you that we weren’t,” exclaimed Algernon. "A time-space ma¬ chine of this nature isn’t theoretically in¬ conceivable, for physicists have speculated on the possibility of reversing entropy in isolated portions of matter for years. Watch now!”

Deliberately he walked to the machine and shot the lever upward.

8. What Happened in the Laboratory

A lgernon raised himself on his elbow k. and stared in horror at the gaping hole in the wall before him. It was a great circular hole with j agged edges and through it the skyline of lower Manhattan glim¬ mered nebulously, like an etching under glass. His temples throbbed painfully; his tongue was dry and swollen and it adhered to the roof of his mouth.

Some one was standing above him. Not Imbert, for Imbert wore spectacles. And this man’s face was destitute of glitter, a blurred oval faultlessly white. Confusedly Algernon recalled that Little did not wear

spectacles. This, then, was Little. Little, not Imbert. It was coming back now. He had sought to convince Imbert that the machine wasn’t a mechanical hypnotizer. He had turned it on and then—good God! what had happened then? Something neither of them had anticipated. An ex¬ plosion! But first for an instant they had seen the figure. And the light. And he and Imbert had been too frightened—too frightened to turn it off. How very clear it was all becoming. They had stood for an instant facing the wall, too utterly be¬ wildered to turn off the light. And then Little had entered the room, had shouted a warning—a frenzied warning.

"Help me, please,” exclaimed Alger¬ non weakly.

Little bent and gripped him by the shoulders. “Steady, now,” he commanded, as he guided him toward a chair. "You’re not hurt. You’ll be all right in a moment. Imbert, too, is all right. A piece of plaster struck him in the temple, gave him a nasty cut, but he’ll be quite all right.”

"But—what happened?” Algernon ges¬ tured helplessly toward the hole in the wall. "I remember that there was an ex¬ plosion and that—you shouted at me, didn’t you?”

"Yes, I shouted for you to get back— into the room. You were standing too close to the wall. Another instant and the floor would have crumbled too and you’d have had a nasty tumble—a tumble from which you wouldn’t have recovered.”

He smiled grimly and patted Algernon on the shoulder. "And that’s that, me child. I’ll get you a whisky and soda.”

"But what, precisely, happened?” per¬ sisted Algernon.

"The light decreased the wall’s random¬ ness, sent it back through time. I warned you that the wall would crumble utterly away if the light rested on it for more than an instant. But you had to experiment.”

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


"I’m softy,” muttered Algernon shame¬ facedly. “I fear I’ve ruined your apart¬ ment.”

"Not important, really. It’s eery, of course, having all one’s secrets open to the sky, but my landlord will rectify that.” He gazed at Algernon curiously. '"Why did you do it?” he asked.

"To convince Imbett. He said the ma¬ chine was merely a mechanical hypnotizer.”

“I see, Imbert thought I was rather pathetically 'touched’.”

"Not that exactly. I think he wanted to believe you-”

"But couldn’t. Well, I can’t blame him. Five years ago I would have doubted too— laughed all this to scorn. I approve of skeptics. They’re dependable — when you’ve succeeded in convincing ’em that unthinkable and outrageous things occa¬ sionally have at least a pragmatic potency. I doubt if even now Imbert would con¬ cede that this is an entropy-reversing ma¬ chine, but you may be sure his respect for it has grown. He’ll obey me implicitly. And I want you to. We must act in uni¬ son if we are to exterminate Chaugnar Faugn.”

Algernon began suddenly to tremble. "We haven’t an instant to lose,” he ex¬ claimed. "Chaugnar is slaying in the streets. I got in touch with the police just before you came back—they’re sending out ambulance calls from all over the city. It will destroy hundreds if we don’t act

instantly. Come, for God’s sake-”

Algernon had risen and was striding toward the door.

"Wait!” Little’s voice held a note of command. "We’ve got to wait for Imbert. He’s downstairs in the bathroom dressing his wound.”

Reluctantly Algernon returned into the room.

"A few minutes' delay won’t matter,” continued Little, soothingly. "We’ve such

a hideous ordeal before us that we should be grateful for this respite.”

"But Chaugnar is killing now,” pro¬ tested Algernon. "And we are sitting here letting lives-”

"Be snuffed out? Perhaps. But at the same instant all over the world other lives are being snuffed out by diseases which men could prevent if they energetically be¬ stirred themselves.” He drew a deep breath. "We’re doing the best we can, man. This respite is necessary for our nerves’ sake. Try to view the situation sanely. If we are going to eradicate the abscess which is Chaugnar we’ll need a surgeon’s calm. We’ve got to steel our wills, extrude from our minds all hysteri¬ cal considerations, and all sentiment. The salvation of our race is at stake.”

"But it will kill hundreds,” moaned Algernon. "In the crowded streets-”

"No,” Little shook his head. "It is no longer in the streets. It has left the city.”

"How do you know?”

"There has been a massacre on the Jer¬ sey coast—near Asbury Park. I stopped for an instant in the Brooklyn Standard office on my way up from the garage. The night staff is in a turmoil. They’re rush¬ ing through a sensational morning extra. I found out something else. There has been a similar massacre in Spain! If we hadn’t been talking here we’d have known. All of the papers ran columns about it— hours ago. They’re correlating the dis¬ patches now and by tomorrow every one will know of the menace. What I fear is mass hysteria.”

"Mass hysteria?”

"Yes, they’ll go mad in the city tomor¬ row—there’ll be a stampede. A supersti¬ tious foreign population, you know. They’ll go mad. Down on the East Side. Thousands of people will run amuck, pil¬ lage, destroy. There’ll be more lives lost than Chaugnar destroyed tonight.”

"But we can do something. We must.”



"Yes, yes, of course. I said that we were merely waiting for Doctor Imbert.”

He crossed to the eastern window and stared for a moment into the lightening sky. Then he returned to where Algernon was standing. "Do you feel better?” he asked. "Have you pulled yourself to¬ gether?”

"Yes,” muttered Algernon. "I am quite all right.”

“Good.”

The door opened and Imbert came in. His face was distraught and of a deathly pallor, but a look of relief came into his eyes when they rested on Algernon. "I feared you were seriously hurt,” he cried. "We were quite mad to experiment with —with that thing.”

"We must experiment again, I fear.” Little’s voice held gravest urgency.

"Well, so be it. I’m ready to join you. What do you want us to do?”

"I want you and Harris to carry that machine downstairs and put it into my car. I’ve got to go for an electric torch. To illume our Golgotha,” he murmured, as he passed through the door.

9. The Honor Moves

“IITE must overtake it before it

V T reaches the crossroads,” shouted Little.

They were speeding by the sea, tearing at seventy miles an hour down a long, white road that twisted and turned betwixt ramparts of sand. On both sides there towered dunes, enormous, majestic, morning stars a-glitter on the dark waters intermittently visible beyond their seaward walls. The horseshoe¬ shaped isthmus extended for six miles into the sea and then doubled back toward the Jersey coast. At the point where it changed its direction stood a crossroad, explicitly sign-posted with two pointing hands. One of these junctions

led directly toward the mainland, the other into a dense, ocean-defiled waste, marshy and impregnable, a kind of morass where anything or any one might hide indefinitely.

And toward this retreat Chaugnar fled. For hours Little’s car had pursued it along the tarred and macadamized roads that fringe the Jersey coast—over bridges and viaducts and across wastes of sand, in a straight line from Asbury Park to Atlan¬ tic City and then across country and back again to the coast, and now adown a thin terrain lashed by Atlantic spray, deserted save for a few ramshackle huts of fisher¬ men and a vast congregation of gulls.

Little and his companions were in the throes of a consuming terror. Chaugnar Faugn had moved with unbelievable rapidity, from the instant when they had first encountered it crouching somnolent¬ ly in the shadows beneath a deserted bath¬ house at Long Branch and had turned the light on it and watched it awake to the moment when it had gone shambling away through the darkness its every move¬ ment had been ominous with menace.

Twice it had stopped in the road and waited for them to approach and once its great arm had raised itself against them in a gesture of malignant defiance. And on that occasion only the entropy machine had saved them. Its light Chaugnar could not bear, and when Little had turned the ray upon the creature’s flanks the great obscene body had heaved and shuddered and a ghastly screeching had issued from its bulbous lips. And then forward again it had forged, its thick, stumpy legs moving with the rapidity of pistons—carrying it over the ground so rapidly that the car could not keep pace.

But always its tracks had remained visible, for a phosphorescence streamed from them, illuming its retreat. And always its hoarse bellowing could be heard in the distance, freighted with fury

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


and a hatred incalculable. And by the stench, too, they trailed it, for all the air through which it passed was acridly de¬ filed—pungent with an uncleanliness that evades description.

"It is infinitely old," cried Little as he maneuvered the car about the base of a sea-lashed dune. "As old as the earth’s crust. It would have crumbled, else. You saw how the bathhouse crumbled—how the shells beneath its feet dissolved and vanished. It is only its age that saves it.”

"You had the light on it for five min¬ utes,” shouted Algernon. His voice was hoarse with excitement. "And it still lives. What can we do?”

"We must corner it—keep the light directed at it for—many minutes. To send it back we must decrease the random element in it by a billion years. It has re¬ mained substantially as it is now for at least that long. Perhaps longer.”

"How many years of earth-time does the machine lop off a minute?” shouted Imbert.

"Can’t tell exactly. It works different¬ ly with different objects. Metals, stone, wood all have a different entropy-rhythm. But roughly, it should reverse entropy throughout a billion years of earth-time in ten or fifteen minutes.”

“There it is!” shouted Algernon. "It’s reached the crossroads. Look!”

Against a windshield glazed with seamist Imbert laid his forehead, peering with bulging eyes at the form of Chaugnar, phosphorescently illumed a quartermile before them on the road, and even as he stared the distance between the car and the loathsome horror diminished by fifty yards.

"It isn’t moving,” cried Little. He had half risen from his seat and was gripping the wheel as though it were a live thing. "It’s waiting for us. Turn on the light, sir. Quick! for God’s sake! We're almost on top of it!”

Algernon fell upon his knees in the dark and groped about for the switch. The engine’s roar increased as Little stepped furiously upon the accelerator. "The light, quick!” Little screamed the words.

Algernon’s fingers found the switch and thrust it sharply upward. There en¬ sued the drone of revolving spheres whilst Little raved. "It's moving again. God, it’s moving!”

Algernon rose shakingly to his feet. "Where is it?” he shouted. "I don’t see it!”

"It’s making for the marshes,” shrilled Little. "Look. Straight ahead, through here.” He pointed toward a clear spot in the windshield. Craning hysterically, Algernon descried a phosphorescent bulk making off over the narrowest of the bi¬ secting roads.

With a frantic spin of the wheel Little turned the car about and sent the speedometer soaring. The road grew narrower and more uneven as they ad¬ vanced along it and the car careened perilously. "Careful,” shouted Algernon. "We’ll get ditched. Better slow up.”

"No,” screamed Little. "We can’t stop now.”

The light from the machine was streaming unimpeded into the darkness before them.

"Keep it trained on the road,” cau¬ tioned Little. "It would destroy a man in an instant.”

They could smell the mud flats now. A pungent salty odor of stagnant brine and putrescent shellfish drifted toward them, whipped by the wind. A sickly yellow light was spreading sluggishly in the eastern sky. Across the road ahead of them a turtle shambled and vanished hideously in a flash.

"See that?” cried Little. "That’s how Chaugnar would go if it wasn’t as old as the earth.”



"Be ready with the brakes,” advised Algernon.

The end of the road had swept into view. It ran swiftly downhill for fifty yards and terminated in a sandy waste that was half submerged at its lower levels. The illumed bulk of Chaugnar paused for an instant on a sandy hillock. Then it moved rapidly downward toward the flats, arms spread wide, body sway¬ ing strangely, as though it were in awe of the, sea.

Little steered the car to the side of the road and threw on the brakes. "Out— both of youJ” he shrieked.

Hysterically Algernon clambered to the ground and stood for an instant shakingly clinging to the door of the car. Then, in a sudden access of determina¬ tion, he sprang back and began tugging at the machine, whilst Imbert strove valiantly to assist and enhearten.

Came a bellow’ from the great form that was advancing into the marsh. Algernon drew close to Little, grasping his arm and pouring out a plea for sobriety and caution. "Hadn’t we better wait here?” he whispered. "It seems to fear the sea. We can entrench our¬ selves here and attack it with the light when it climbs back.”

"No,” Little’s voice was emphatic. "We haven’t a second to waste. It may— mire itself. We’ll drive it forward into the marsh, trust to the mud. Quick now.”

Resolutely he stooped and beckoned to his companions to assist him in raising and supporting the machine. Dawn was spreading in the east as the three men staggered downward over the sandy waste, a planet’s salvation in the glitter¬ ing shape they carried.

Straight into the morass they went, quaking with terror but impelled by a de¬ termination that was oblivious to cau¬ tion. From Chaugnar there now came an insistent screeching and bellowing, a

noise that smote so ominously on Alger¬ non’s ear that he wanted, desperately, to drop the machine and flee. But above the obscene bellowings of the horror rose ' Little’s voice in courageous exhortation. "Don’t stop for an instant,” he cried. “We must keep it from circling back to the road. It’ll turn in a moment. It’s sinking deeper and deeper. It will have to turn.”

Their shoes sank into rotting heaps of squashy bivalves and sea-soaked marsh weeds, whilst luridly across the glisten¬ ing morass streamed the greenish light from the machine, effacing everything in its path save the mud itself, which mere¬ ly bubbled unctuously, made younger in an instant by ten thousand years. And then, suddenly, the great thing turned and faced them.

K nee-deep in the soft mud it turned,

. its glowing flanks quivering with ire, its huge trunk malignly upraised, a flail of flame. For an instant it loomed thus terribly menacing, the soul of all malignancy and horror, a cancerous cyclops oozing fetor. Then the light swept over it, and it recoiled in a revul¬ sion hideous to witness. Though half mired, it retreated awfully, and its bel¬ lows turned to hoarse gurglings, such asno animal throat has uttered in all earth’s eons of sentient evolution.

And then, slowly, it began to change. As the light streamed over and enveloped it, it quivered with agony, and began un¬ mistakably to shrivel and darken.

"Keep the light steady,” screamed Little through moistless lips. His features were set in an expression of utter re¬ vulsion and his cheeks had a purplish cast. With palsied arms Algernon and Imbert advanced with the machine, their lips mumbling invocations, their eyes fixed in a glassy tumescence.

And now that which had taken to

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS


itself an earth-form in eons primordial began awfully to disincam and before their gaze was enacted a drama so revolt¬ ing as to imperil reason. A burning hor¬ ror withdrew from its garments of clay and retraced in patterns of unspeakable dimness the history of its enshrinement. Not instantly had it incamed itself, but by stages slow and fantasmal and sick¬ ening. To ascend, Chaugnar had had to feast, not on men at first, for there were no men when it lay stickily and ven¬ omously outspread on the earth’s crust, but on entities no less malignant than itself, the excrements of star-births in¬ calculable. For ere the earth cooled she had drawn from the skies a noxious progeny, which had roamed and ravened on her body, like vermin, like leeches. Drawn earthward by her holocaust they had come, and relentlessly Chaugnar had devoured them.

And now as that which had occurred in the beginning was enacted anew these blasphemies were disgorged, and above the dark wrack defilement spread. And at last from a beast-shape to a jelly Chaugnar passed, a jelly spiralled in smoke and green flame indescribable. For an instant it moved above the black marsh, as it had moved in the beginning when it had come down from outer space to wax bestial in the presence of man. And then the flames vanished and noth¬ ing remained but a cold wind blowing and a spirit of evil loose and ravening in the void above them.

Little let out a great cry and Algernon released his hold on the machine and dropped to his knees on the wet earth. Imbert, too, relinquished the machine, but before doing so he shot back the lever and directed its fall so that it would land where the mud was firmest.

Then the three men embraced one an¬ other and began wildly to rejoice. But only for an instant did their victory go

unchallenged. For before the spheres on the prostrate machine had ceased to re¬ volve, before even the light had van¬ ished- from the gleaming waste, the malignancy that had been Chaugnar re¬ shaped itself in the sky above them.

Indescribably it loomed through the gray sea-mists, its bulk magnified a thou¬ sandfold, its trunk a horror Gargantuan, demoniac, sounding in its frenzied writhings a knell which banished hope. A cry of fright almost animalistically inarticu¬ late came from Algernon’s throat, whilst Imbert fell forward upon the ground and beat with his fists at the base of the dis¬ carded machine. Only Little faced it standing, with head uptossed and coun¬ tenance illumed by a sublime, an undreamed-of courage.

Something like lust shone in the hor¬ ror’s eyes. For a second it hung above them, glaring venomously. Then, like a racer, it stooped and floundered forward and went groping about with its mon¬ strous hands for the little shapes it hated. Its mouth, as it groped, drooled phos¬ phorescent saliva, and an odor of corrup¬ tion surged from its Cyclopean flanks.

10. Little’s Explanation

was the fifth day since Chaugnar Faugn had been sent back through time. Algernon and Little sat in the lat¬ ter’s laboratory and discussed the loath¬ some event over cups of black coffee.

"You think, then, that the last mani¬ festation we saw was purely spectral?”

"Not wholly, perhaps,” replied Little. "It stunk, you know. An odor of putre¬ faction came from it. I should regard the phenomenon as a kind of tenuous re¬ assembling. Chaugnar had been incarnate for so long in the hideous shape with which we are familiar that its disem¬ bodied intelligence could reclothe itself in a kind of porous mimesis before it re268


turned to its fourth-dimensional sphere. So rapidly did our machine reverse entropy that perhaps tiny fragments of its terrestrial body survived, and these, by a tremendous exercise of will, it may have reassembled and, figuratively, blown up. That is to say, it may have taken these tiny fragments and so increased their porosity beyond the normal porosity of matter that they produced the cyclopean apparition we saw. All matter, you know, is tremendously porous, and if I could remove all the 'vacuums’ from your body you would shrink to the size of a pin-head.”

Algernon shuddered. "It was more baneful and abhorrent than Chaugnar incarned,” he murmured. "I thought myself done for. And Imbert, poor fel¬ low, will never get over the shock. Seen him recently?”

Little shook his head.

"He looks ghastly. Ten years older and eighty pounds leaner. And quite unable to speak without stuttering. He seldom leaves his home and is threatened with a neurotic complex—a fear of open spaces.”

Little sighed. "I’m damnably sorry. Imbert is a star of the first Yankee mag¬ nitude.”

For a moment Algernon was silent. Then he stood up, laid his coffee cup on the window-sill and crossed to where Little was sitting. "We agreed,” he said, "that we wouldn’t discuss Chaugnar till time had a little dulled the horror’s edge. It was a wise decision, I think, for I was trembling on the verge of a neural col¬ lapse, and there were certain incidents, certain — bizarreries which I wanted desperately to forget. Yet I’m now so certain that what we both witnessed was not an illusion that I must insist you re¬ turn an honest answer to two questions. I shall not expea a comprehensive and wholly satisfying explanation, for I’m

aware that you do not know yourself the exaa nature of Chaugnar. But you have at least formed an hypothesis and I’m sure that with your vast occult erudition you can supply a key that will throw, if I may speak in jumbled metaphor, a glim¬ mer of light on that most hideous enigma.”

"What do you wish to know?” Little’s voice was constrained, reluaant.

"What destroyed the horror in the Pyrenees? Why were there no more massacres after—after that night?”

Little smiled wanly. "Have you for¬ gotten the pools of black slime which were found on the melting snow a thou¬ sand feet above the village three days after we sent Chaugnar back?”

"You mean-”

Little nodded. "Chaugnar’s kin, un¬ doubtedly. They accompanied Chaugnar back, but left, like their master, a few re¬ mainders. Little round pools of putres¬ cent dark slime—a superfluity of rotten¬ ness that somehow resisted the entropyreversing action of the machine.”

"You mean that the machine sent lethal emanations half across the world?”

Little shook his head. "I mean simply that Chaugnar Faugn and its hideous brethren were joined together in the fourth dimension and that we destroyed them simultaneously. It is an axiom of virtually every speculative philosophy based on the newer physics and the con¬ cepts of non-Euclidean mathematics that we can’t perceive the real relations of objeas in the external world, that since our senses permit us to view them merely three-dimensionally we can’t perceive the fourth-dimensional links which unite them.

"If we could see the same objects— men, trees, chairs, houses—on a fourth¬ dimensional plane we’d notice connec¬ tions that are now wholly unsuspeaed by us. My chair, for instance, may actually

^oVMMTItr 81



be joined to the window-ledge yonder, and to you also, and to the Woolworth Building. Or you and I may be but in¬ finitesimally tiny fragments of some gi¬ gantic monster occupying vast segments of space-time. You may be a mere excres¬ cence on the monster’s back, and I a hair of its head—I speak metaphorically, of course, since in the fourth dimension there can be nothing but analogies to objects on the terrestrial globe—or you and I and all men, and everything in the world, every particle of matter, may be but a single fragment of this larger entity. If anything should happen to the entity you and I would both suffer, but as the monster would be invisible to us, no one—no one equipped with normal human organs of awareness—would sus¬ pect that we were suffering because we were parts of it. To a three-dimensional observer we should appear to be suffer¬ ing from different causes and oar invisible fourth-dimensional solidarity would re¬ main wholly unsuspected.

"If two people were thus fourthdimensionally joined, like Siamese twins, and one of them were destroyed by a machine similar to the one we used against Chaugnar Faugn, the other would suffer effacement at the same instant, though he were on the opposite side of the world."

Algernon looked puzzled.

"But why should the link be invisibie? Assuming that Chaugnar Faugn and the Pyrenean horrors were fourth-dimensionally joined together—either because they were parts of one great monster, or mere¬ ly because they were—well, one in the fourth-dimensional sphere, why should this fourth-dimensional connecting link be invisible to us?”

"My dear chap, you are positively obtuse. If you were a two instead of a three-dimensional entity, if, when you re¬ garded objects about you—chairs, houses,

animals—you saw only their length and breadth, you wouldn’t be able to form any intelligible conception of their relations to other objects in the dimension you couldn’t apprehend — the dimension of thickness. Only a portion of an ordinary three-dimensional object would be visible to you and you could only make a mys¬ tical guess as to how it would look with another dimension added to it. In that, to you, unperceivable dimension of thick¬ ness it might join itself to a thousand other objects and you’d never suspect that such a connection existed. You might perceive -hundreds of flat surfaces about you, all disconnected, and you would never imagine that they formed one object in the third dimension.

"You would live in a two-dimensional world and when three-dimensional objepts intruded into that world you would be unaware of their true objective con¬ formation—or relatively unaware, for your perceptions would be perfectly valid so long as you remained two-dimensional.

"Our perceptions of the three-dimen¬ sional world are only valid for that world —to a fourth-dimensional entity our con¬ ceptions of objects external to us must seem utterly ludicrous. And we know that such entities exist. Chaugnar Faugn was such an entity. And because of its fourth-dimensional — perhaps fifth and sixth dimensional nature—it was joined to the horror on the hills in a way we weren’t able to perceive. We can perceive connections when they have length, breadth and thickness, but when a new dimension is added they pass out of our ken, precisely as a solid object passes out of the ken of an observer in a dimension lower than ours. Have I clarified your perplexities?”

Algernon nodded. "I think—yes, I am sure that you have. But 1 should like to ask you another question. Do you believe that Chaugnar Faugn is a transcendant



Here’s another rousing tale of weird and awesome adventures upon Venus!

It Thrills the Senses and Stirs the Emotions

“np HE Prince of Peril” is a fanJL tastical yarn which gives new evidence of the marvellous powers of Otis Adelbert Kline’s vivid imagina¬ tion and writing skill. Another out¬ standing characteristic is the terrific action—a startling new adventure on

every page, each one more electrify¬ ing and stimulating than the last!

Through the fabric of this violent adventure is woven a bright thread of romance which makes the entire fantasy, with all its tumult and tur¬ bulence, seem realistic and probable to even the most skeptical.

EXCITING, SWIFT-MOVING ACTION

Zinlo, man of three worlds, prince of peril, finds his ex¬ istence on Venus a hectic one. From the time of his ar¬ rival there, via the telepathic route, life is one battle for survival after another. Above the ground, beneath the surGENUINE

AUTOGRAPHED

a copy of this special _ edition autographed by the author, at the regular price of an ordinary edi¬ tion. Bound in rich linen cloth with attractive three colored jacket. Remember, first edition copies grow more valuable with the years and when autographed become doubly valuable. Or¬ der today!

mtographed c

face, up in the air, on the water, everywhere, someone attempts to kill him by every means conceivable. For swiftmoving action "The Prince of Peril” is entitled to first rank because it is filled with exciting situations from be¬ ginning to end.

FIRST EDITION ONLY $2.00



world-soul endowed with a supernatural incorporeality, or just—just an entity? I mean, was Ulman’s priest right and was Chaugnar an incarnation of the acroamatic Oneness of the Brahmic mysteries, the portentous all-in-all of theosophists and occultists, or just a spawnment of the physical universe?”

Little took a long sip of coffee and very deliberately lowered his head, as though he were marshalling his convictions for a debate. "I believe I once told you,” he said at last, "that I didn’t believe Chaug¬ nar Faugn could be destroyed by any agent less transcendental than that which we used against it. It certainly wasn’t protoplasmic or mineral, and no mechan¬ ical device not based on relativist con¬ cepts could have effected the dissolution we witnessed. An infra-red ray machine, for instance, or an atom-disintegrator, as¬ suming that such a marvel existed, would have been powerless to send it back. Yet despite the transcendental nature of even its camate shell, despite the fact that even in its earth-shape it was fashioned of a substance unknown on the earth and that we can form no conception of its shape in the multidimensional sphere it now in¬ habits, it is my opinion that it is inherent¬ ly, like ourselves, a circumscribed entity —the spawn of remote stars and unholy dimensions, but a creature and not a creator, a creature obeying inexorable laws and occupying a definite niche in the universe.

"In a way that we can never under¬ stand it had acquired the ability to roam

and could incarn itself loathsomely in dimensions lower than its own. But I do not believe it possessed the attributes of deity. It was neither beneficent nor evil, but simply amorally virulent. Cosmically and amorally virulent—a purulent un¬ cleanliness from far stars strayed by chance into our little mundane world.”

"But do you believe that it actually made a race of men to serve it?—that the Miri Nigri were fashioned from the flesh of primordial amphibians?”

Little frowned. "I do not know. Con¬ ditions on the crustal earth may once have been such that creations of that nature were constantly occurring. And we may be sure that Chaugnar Faugn with its in¬ scrutable endowments could have fash¬ ioned men-shapes had it so desired— could have fashioned them even from the organic alluvium of primeval strands.”

Little lowered his voice and leaned forward on his elbow. "Some day,” he murmured, "Chaugnar may return. We sent it back through time, but in ten or twenty or a hundred thousand years it may return to ravage. Its return will be presaged in dreams, for when its brethren waxed agile on the Spanish hills both I and the Chinaman were disturbed in our sleep by harbingers from beyond. Telepathically to sleeping minds Chaugnar spoke, and when it returns it will speak again; for man is not isolated among the sentient beings of earth but is linked to all that moves in fourth-dimensional continuity.”

[THE END]

W. T.—S

No Collection of Books

Owned by Anyone Who Speaks the English Language Is

Complete Without These Two Famous Classics

By Frank Owen

The

WIND

that

TRAMPS

theWORLD

The

PURPLE

SEA

ACCLAIMED BY CRITICS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD

New York Times: "Fanciful, touched by the super¬ natural, exotic in thought and coloring. Flowers, poems, music and jade are interwoven with their themes and the effect is often both quaint and charming.”

The China Weekly Review, Shanghai, China: "Reveals a true sense of gentleness, the heart of a dreamer, a deep sense of rhythm and beauty. He sees China and the Chinese through misty, naive, sometimes philo¬ sophic eyes.”

Honolulu Star-Bulletin, Honolulu, Hawaii: "They are strange and glowing tales of an unearthly beauty. Their scenes are laid in China but they might be anywhere. They are essentially a part of the history of those lost lands where Dunsanv's heroes live and die magnificently and where Walter de la Mare's dark travelers knock vainly at mysterious moonlit doors.”

Ohio State Journal, Columbus, Ohio: "There is some weirdness here, some mystery and some tender passages, enough of each to make a superlative ensemble that won for this author a secure place in the field of Far East fiction."

Daily Argus Leader, Sioux Falls, S. D.: "This is a collection to be read, laid down and read again.” Wilmington Every Evening, Wilmington, Del.: "De¬ serves a place among one's favorite books.”

Radio Station KDKA, Pittsburgh: "For those who are interested in Chinese literature and traditions, we believe this book will find a cordial welcome. A very beautiful book.”

The Globe, Toronto, Ont.: "Dealing with curious phases of Chinese life, they are imaginative, colorful and replete with poetry. For the first of these qualities they might be likened to some of the creations of Edgar Allan Poe, but even the weirdest of them possess a tenderness to which Poe was a stranger.”

Arizona Republican, Phoenix, Ariz.: "It is not often that such a book, as deserving of praise and as full of real literary merit as "The Wind That Tramps the World,” comes our way. This sounds like effusiveness, but it isn't. It's merely giving credit for a real literary achievement. . . . They are masterpieces of a rich imagination, deep and gripping in their beauty and romance."

SPECIAL AUTOGRAPHED FIRST EDITIONS

Here are some real gems of literature. Poetic and fanci¬ ful Chinese stories with a real thrill to them. These are stories that deserve to live forever. Their ethereal sweet¬ ness will grip you. Both books are special first editions autographed by the author. These books are very artis¬ tically bound and would make an excellent gift to a friend or a valuable addition to your own library. Remember, first edition copies grow more valuable with the years and when autographed become doubly valu¬ able. Order today. Price <1.50 each postpaid.

W. T.—9

Weird Tales, Book Dept. F. O.

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Enclosed find $_Please send me an auto¬

graphed first edition of—

□ "The Wind That Tramps the World"

□ "The Purple Sea”

Name_

AddressCity.

.State.


On the River

By GUY DE MAUPASSANT

I HAD rented, last summer, a little country house on the banks of the Seine a few miles from Paris, and I used to go down there every night to sleep. In a few days I made the ac¬ quaintance of one of my neighbors, a man between thirty and forty, who was cer¬ tainly the most curious type that I had ever met. He was an old rowing man, crazy about rowing, always near the wa¬ ter, always on the water, always in the water. He must have been born in a boat, and he would certainly die in a boat at last.

One night, while we were walking to¬ gether along the Seine, I asked him to tell me some stories about his life upon the river; and at that the good man suddenly became animated, transfigured, eloquent, almost poetical! In his heart there was one great passion, devouring and irresist¬ ible—the river.

"Ah!” said he to me, "how many mem¬ ories I have of that river which is flow¬ ing there beside us! You people who live in streets, you don’t know what the river is. But just listen to a fisherman simply pronouncing the word. For him it is the thing mysterious, the thing pro¬ found, unknown, the country of mirage and of fantasmagoria, where one sees, at

♦Translated from the French.


night, things which do not exist, where one hears strange noises, where one trem¬ bles causelessly, as though crossing a graveyard. And it is, indeed, the most sinister of graveyards—a graveyard where there are no tombstones.

"To the fisherman the land seems lim¬ ited, but of dark nights, when there is no moon, the river seems limitless. Sailors have no such feeling for the sea. Hard she often is and wicked, the great Sea; but she cries, she shouts, she deals with you fairly, while the river is silent and treacherous. It never even mutters, it flows ever noiselessly, and this eternal flowing movement of water terrifies me far more than the high seas of ocean.

"Dreamers pretend that the Sea hides in her breast great blue regions where drowned men roll to and fro among the huge fish, in the midst of strange forests and in crystal grottos. The river has only black depths, where one rots in the slime. For all that it is beautiful when it glitters in the rising sun or swashes softly along between its banks where the reeds murmur.

"The poet says of the ocean:

" 'Oh seas, you know sad stories! Deep seas, feared by kneeling mothers, you tell the stories to one another at flood tides!



And that is why you have such despairing voices when at night you come toward us nearer and nearer.’

"Well, I think that the stories mur¬ mured by the slender reeds with their lit¬ tle soft voices must be yet more sinister than the gloomy dramas told by the howl¬ ing of the high seas.

“But, since you ask for some of my recollections, I will tell you a curious ad¬ venture which I had here about ten years ago.

"I then lived, as I still do, in the house of the old lady Lafon, and one of my best chums, Louis Bernet, who has now given up for the Civil Service his oars, his low shoes, and his sleeveless jersey,

lived in the village of C-, two leagues

farther down. We dined together every day—sometimes at his place, sometimes at mine.

"One evening as I was returning home alone and rather tired, wearily pulling my heavy boat, a twelve-footer, which I al¬ ways used at night, I stopped a few sec¬ onds to take breath near the point where so many reeds grow, down that way, about two hundred meters before you come to the railroad bridge. It was a beautiful night; the moon was resplen¬ dent, the river glittered, the air was calm and soft. The tranquillity of it all tempted me; I said to myself that to smoke a pipe just here would be extreme¬ ly nice. Action followed upon the thought; I seized my anchor and threw it into the stream.

"The boat, which floated down again with the current, pulled the chain out to its full length, then stopped; and I seated myself in the stem on a sheepskin, as comfortable as possible. One heard no sound—no sound; only sometimes I thought I was aware of a low, almost in¬ sensible lapping of the water along the bank, and I made out some groups of reeds which, taller than their fellows,

MOULDING A MIGHTY ARM

Get a 17 Inch Bicep

Complete Course on Arm Building

ONLY 25c

RUSH THE COUPON TODAY

REACH OUT-GRASP THIS SPECIAL OFFEB

Jowctt Institute of Physical Culture

422 Poplar Street, Dept. 56P, Scranton, Penna.

Dear Mr. Jowett: I am enclosing 25c. Please send me the couree “MOULDING A MIGHTY ARM” and a/free copy o f “THE THRILL OF BEING STRONG”

27 6


took on surprizing shapes, and seemed from time to time to stir.

"The river was perfectly still, but I felt myself moved by the extraordinary silence which surrounded me. All the animals—the frogs and toads, those noc¬ turnal singers of the marshes—were si¬ lent. Suddenly on my right, near me, a frog croaked; I started; it was silent; I heard nothing more, and I resolved to smoke a little by way of a distraction. But though I am, so to speak, a regular blackener of pipes, I could not smoke that night; after the second puff I sick¬ ened of it, and I stopped. I began to hum a tune; the sound of my voice was painful to me; so I stretched myself out in the bottom of the boat and contem¬ plated the sky.

“XT'OR some time I remained quiet, but -F soon the slight movements of the boat began to make me uneasy. I thought that it was yawing tremendously, strik¬ ing now this bank of the stream, and now that; then I thought that some Being or some invisible force was drag¬ ging it down gently to the bottom of the water, and then was lifting it up simply to let it fall again. I was tossed about as though in the midst of a storm; I heard noises all around me; with a sud¬ den start I sat upright; the water spar¬ kled, everything was calm.

"I saw that my nerves were unsettled, and I decided to go. I pulled in the chain; the boat moved; then I was con¬ scious of resistance; I pulled harder; the anchor did not come up, it had caught on something at the bottom of the river and I could not lift it. I pulled again— in vain. With my oars I got the boat round up-stream in order to change the position of the anchor. It was no use; the anchor still held. I grew angry, and in a rage I shook the chain. Nothing moved. There was no hope of breaking

the chain, or of getting it loose from my craft, because it was very heavy, and riv¬ eted at the bow into a bar of wood thick¬ er than my arm; but since the weather continued fine, I reflected that I should not have to wait long before meeting some fisherman, who would come to my rescue. My mishap had calmed me; I sat down, and I was now able to smoke my pipe. I had a flask of brandy with me; I drank two or three glasses, and my situation made me laugh. It was very hot, so that, if needs must, I could pass the night under the stars without incon¬ venience.

"Suddenly a little knock sounded against the side. I started, and a cold perspiration froze me from head to foot. The noise came, no doubt, from some bit of wood drawn along by the current, but it was enough, and I felt myself again overpowered by a strange nervous agita¬ tion. I seized the chain, and I stiffened myself in a desperate effort. The an¬ chor held. I sat down exhausted.

"But, little by little, the river had cov¬ ered itself with a very thick white mist, which crept low over the water, so that, standing up, I could no longer see either the stream or my feet or my boat, and saw only the tips of the reeds, and then, beyond them, the plain, all pale in the moonlight, and with great black stains which rose toward heaven, and which were made by clumps of Italian poplars. I was as though wrapped to the waist in a cotton sheet of a strange whiteness, and there began to come to me weird im¬ aginations. I imagined that some one was trying to climb into my boat, since I could no longer see it, and that the river, hidden by this opaque mist, must be full of strange creatures swimming about me. I experienced a horrible uneasiness, I had a tightening at the temples, my heart beat to suffocation; and, losing my head, I thought of escaping by swimming; then



in an instant the very idea made me shiver with fright. I saw myself lost, drifting hither and thither in this impenetrable mist, struggling among the long grass and the reeds which I should not be able to avoid, with a rattle in my throat from fear, not seeing the shore, not finding my boat. And it seemed to me as though I felt myself being drawn by the feet down to the bottom of this black water.

"In fact, since I should have had to swim up-stream at least five hundred me¬ ters before finding a point clear of rushes and reeds, where I could get a footing, there were nine chances to one that, how¬ ever good a swimmer I might be, I should lose my bearings in the fog and drown.

"I tried to reason with myself. I real¬ ized that my will was firmly enough re¬ solved against fear; but there was some¬ thing in me besides my will, and it was this which felt afraid. I asked myself what it could be that I dreaded; that part of me which was courageous railed at that part of me which was cowardly; and I never had comprehended so well before the opposition between those two beings which exist within us, the one willing, the other resisting, and each in turn getting the mastery.

"This stupid and inexplicable fear grew until it became terror. I remained motionless, my eyes wide open, with a strained and expectant ear. Expecting— what? I did not know save that it would be something terrible. I believe that if a fish, as often happens, had taken it into its head to jump out of the water, it would have needed only that to make me fall stark on my back into a faint.

"And yet, finally, by a violent effort, I very nearly recovered the reason which had been escaping me. I again took my brandy-flask, and out of it I drank great drafts. Then an idea struck me, and I began to shout with all my might, turnA New Skin

Smooth, Clear and Beautiful. New Discovery Removes Old Blemished Skin



ing in succession toward all four quarters of the horizon. When my throat was completely paralyzed, I listened. A dog howled, a long way off.

"Again I drank; and I lay down on my back in the bottom of the boat. So I re¬ mained for one hour, perhaps for two, sleepless, my eyes wide open, with night¬ mares all about me. I did not dare to sit up, and yet I had a wild desire to do so; T kept putting it off from minute to minute. I would say to myself: 'Come! get up!’ and I was afraid to make a move¬ ment. At last I raised myself with in¬ finite precaution, as if life depended on my making not the slightest sound, and I peered over the edge of the boat.

"I was dazzled by the most marvelous, the most astonishing spectacle that it can be possible to see. It was one of those fantasmagoria from fairyland; it was one of those visions described by travellers returned out of far countries, and which we hear without believing.

"The mist, which two hours before was floating over the water, had gradually withdrawn and piled itself upon the banks. Leaving the river absolutely dear, it had formed, along each shore, long low hills about six or seven meters high, which glittered under the moon with the brilliancy of snow, so that one saw noth¬ ing except this river of fire coming down these two white mountains; and there, high above my head, a great, luminous moon, full and large, displayed herself upon a blue and milky sky.

"All the denizens of the water had awaked; the bullfrogs croaked furious¬ ly, while, from instant to instant, now on my right, now on my left, I heard those short, mournful, monotonous notes which

the brassy voices of the marsh-frogs give forth to the stars. Strangely enough, I was no longer afraid; I was in the midst of such an extraordinary landscape that the most curious things could not have astonished me.

“TT ow long the sight lasted I do not A A know, because at last I had grown drowsy. When I again opened my eyes the moon had set, the heaven was full of clouds. The water lashed mournfully, the wind whispered, it grew cold, the darkness was profound.

"I drank all the brandy I had left; then I listened shiveringly to the rustling of the reeds and to the sinister noise of the river. I tried to see, but I could not make out the boat nor even my own hands, though I raised them close to my eyes.

"However, little by little the density of the blackness diminished. Suddenly I thought I felt a shadow slipping along near by me; I uttered a cry; a voice re¬ plied—it was a fisherman. I hailed him; he approached, and I told him of my mis¬ hap. He pulled his boat alongside, and both together we heaved at the chain. The anchor did not budge. The day came on—somber, gray, rainy, cold—one of those days which bring always a sor¬ row and a misfortune. I made out an¬ other craft; we hailed it. The man aboard of it joined his efforts to ours: then, little by little, the anchor yielded. It came up, but slowly, slowly, and weighted down by something very heavy. At last we perceived a black mass, and we pulled it alongside.

"It was the corpse of an old woman with a great stone round her neck.”



Tzo-Lin’s Night¬ ingales

(Continued from page 174)

Extreme violence that made my teeth, knock; then my shoulder struck some¬ thing sharp, and I awoke. A single glance above me, ahead of me, over my shoulder, and I leaped to my feet, shak¬ ing and shrieking for terror with all the strength of my lungs.

Where once shelf upon shelf had borne up a thousand odds and ends of brasses and statuary, many compartments layered with dust and cobwebs glowered emptily out of the darkness. The ceiling bad fallen through at irregular intervals, and six or seven of the blackened beams strewed the floor, straddling the breadth of the room diagonally, like prone colos¬ si. On every joint and cornice the spiders bad woven heavily, and, as if to reinforce their workmanship, a dust, like pumicepowder, had settled on every thread, and dotted. But more than this, more than the horror of dust and spiders, it was the swift glimpse of the two figures in the rear of the room that left me weak and tortured with a terrible unrest for so many months after.

Two figures. And I saw them just at the moment the trap-door over my head was lifted, in response to my insane pummelings (I had heard the scrape of feet somewhere above me and guessed myself to be in a cellar of some sort). Two fig¬ ures. One a man, the other a woman; both in glittering, flower-painted robes, lying with phosphorescent pallor and green horror on their faces, arms inter¬ locked and veiled over three times with cobwebs, while cage after cage, each hold¬ ing a single brown figure like a bird with¬ in it, glimmered silently in a wide drcle above their heads. . . .

BIC PAY-% *Away I

Shirts, S r /es; Underwear/

Our Free Offer* Now Famous

Immediate opening for you to tell your friends about Carlton'snationalwhale-ofa-sale! New merchandise plan “/vl sweeping the country from coast to coast. Big Cash Pay for you starts at once. Sales experience unnecessary.

1 Shirt Free with Every 3 Yourcustomerswon’tmatch these valuesanywhere.Also 1 Tie Free with every 3...1 suit of lightweight UnderwearFreewithevery3. Free Hosiery, too! The plan's a business winner—a proven money maker.

MailCoupon—Test this Plan Complete line of gorgeous samplefabricsgiven free.De luxepresentation that hands you cash with every show¬ ing. Act at Once—Capitalize this amazing free offer plan. CARLTON MILLS, INC.

79 Fifth Avenue, NewYork

“JS&i

Carlton Mill*. Inc., Dept. (606-G)

79 Fifth Ave., New York

I think I can give away Free Shirts, aTies, Underwear. Send your samples.

Name___

I City,.

MARRY!

If you want "A Rich Wife!”, or "Wealthy Husband!”, send for our big (FREE) list of descriptions. ("ONE”) may be your ideal. AMERICAN FRIENDSHIP SOCIETY Box 100-AD. Detroit, Michigan

BRAINS can win in LOVE

as they do in Business. Thought power can send frequent messages to your beloved and keep you always in mind. Read the story and directions. Thought Transmission and Love Messages. Send one dollar to Unique Book Agency, 1013 North Jackson 8t., Dept. WT-3. -

LONELY?

W. T. BRAUN, 353 W. 45



Siva the Destroyer

(Continued from page 169)

enigma like a wall, falling back, trying to scale it again. I rehearsed every part of it I had witnessed, I kept turning it over and over. After a long time the telephone broke in on me. It was the laboratory, calling to report the success of their efforts with the plates. Their analysis had got nowhere, their attempts had been fruitless; the substance of the plates was metallic, but it was something totally un¬ known to them, something of a new atomic structure. If it was a composition it was according to a formula that physical science knew nothing about.

I returned to my fruitless mental strug¬ gle. I lay at full length on the bed, my eyes closed, my mind moving like a weary treadmill. Time passed; the hotel grew quiet; the noise of planes arriving and de¬ parting on the roof fins around me grew more infrequent. By degrees I sank into a semi-doze.

H ow much later I awoke I do not know, but I awoke with that start a person has when there is a sharp noise near him. For an instant I could not place it; then it came again, a sharp creak of wood to the left. My eyes swung that way. The window was slowly opening.

The window was opening and there was no one outside.

The room was entirely dark. My gun was in my coat across the room. The sash had already opened wide enough to admit the passage of a man.

Feet jumped cat-like to the floor.

By an enormous effort of will I held my body perfectly still. It was my only chance. If I sprang up for my revolver I was defenseless. My only hope was

waiting until he came to me. There was no other.

Siva had got to me.

I kept my body rigid with my whole strength; it was an appalling effort; the sweat stood out on my skin. The feet moved softly across the rug. Slowly, soft¬ ly. Cautiously. As though with hands outspread he was seeking among the dark¬ ness of the room.

Something soft like a hand touched the bottom of the bed.

I turned my elbows the barest fraction, to get my hands free. The feet crept nearer, stopped. They were standing beside me. An indistinct sound of breath¬ ing was above me. It bent closer.

I sprang from beneath with all my strength at the position of that sound. My arms clasped something like a neck; I swung on it, kicking out, pivoting, throwing myself forward at the floor. We crashed down; sharp pain bit my side; I swung my fists heavily into the shape, metal gave under my knuckles. I tried to spring back; he had me by the leg; I kicked out savagely; we reeled, clawed, rolled on the floor; steel cut by my cheek; I twisted free, I was up. I turned to dive for my coat and hit a chair; I stumbled headlong. Before I could recover he was on me; something cut into the floor with a zip of metal; I swung the chair by one leg and connected; I was free again. He was gone from me now into some other part of the room; I crashed around blind¬ ly once or twice and then stopped, mo¬ tionless, listening, crouching.

No sound came. I tried to hear his breathing, tried to locate him. I could not. I knew not what other weapons he had beside the knife I had felt. I dared



ot move. He was stalking me in that

From twenty feet away came the si¬ cced spit of a revolver.

I plunged headlong at that flash with le chair raised over my head. One lance in a million. If I missed he r ould riddle the room till he found me.

I hit the corner, swinging the chair raight down. Crash! Something was lere. Something was moving. The gun sat. I swung furiously, madly, unceaslgly, using the chair like an ax. Wild )unds were coming from my throat.

There was silence.

I crouched for a moment panting, eaving, my throat rasping. I thrust one and forward. The body was still.

I ran across to the lights and flashed tern on. My cheek was bleeding, my nuckles were torn. I whipped out my nife, ran to the prostrate form, began to p away the plates.

A body came into view.

The burns were fresh, smaller, less eep. The flesh was warm. I worked ipidly, feverishly. I worked up to the ead, exposed the neck, the chin, the leek. I sprang back with a cry.

I ran desperately for water, ran back, ung it over that insensible face.

The lips parted, shuddered, the eyes pened. It was Van West!

Van West, the young science graduate, le man who had been going as assistant > Doctor Khalid Bey!

His lips moved. Life was in his eyes, he double shock had riven through the )ma that held his mind.

I bent down. "Who is it? Who is ? Who has done this to you?”

He murmured in a tortured voice: Khalid Bey.”

Khalid Bey!

Khalid Bey was Sival

I stood upright with the shock.

I leaned over him again, forcing his

SANITARY

Rubber Goods

of all kinds mailed postpaid by us in plain, sealed wrapper. Write for mail-order price list, savins 50%. Dept, 14, Novelty Rubber Co., 11 Chatliam St., Hamilton, Ontario.



eyes, compelling his waning attention.

"Where is he?” I said. "Where has he gone? Where is the place you were to return?”

A jumble of words came from his lips, incoherent, meaningless, but among them were figures which taken together made an aeronautical position over the Sahara.

He was unconscious again.

I sprang for the phone, called the ho¬ tel doctor, carried the limp form of Van West to the bed. Then I ran to the win¬ dow, climbed the fire escape to the roof fin, ran to the dark shape of my Bat.

The night was black. The roof was silent. The way the Bat’s nose pointed was the direction of the Sahara.

1 streaked like a meteor through the black sky. As my eyes automatically picked up guiding lights, as my hands automatically corrected my position, my mind was still held by the incredible truth. Khalid Bey was Siva. The warn¬ ing he had received was merely a ruse, to remove him from suspicion. No won¬ der he had not had the envelope it was mailed in; there had been no envelope; he had written the warning himself. While the voice had spoken to me over the televisor it had been his mind that di¬ rected it; that was why his lips moved— an unconscious effect of intense concen¬ tration. That explained why the voice knew my name, how it knew I was there —knowledge verging on the supernatural by any other explanation. That was why his emissary knew where to find me while I lay asleep—I had telephoned Khalid Bey a few hours before. And now he was gone, with our full permission, with our full cognizance, into his secret re¬ treat in the Sahara.

I cut off the rocket motors as soon as the great yellow beacon from the harbor of Algiers showed I was over the African

coast. I wanted no stream of light to warn of my approach. Inland I shot, climbing steeply over the unstable air above the Atlas Mountains; now all was black below me, I was above the limit¬ less wastes of the Sahara. I attended carefully to my position, checking and re¬ checking. In ten minutes I was swinging in a gigantic circle, auxiliary engines cut, my eyes trying to pierce the darkness be¬ low. I was over the spot.

My head shot forward suddenly. A tiny circle of light was there, a diffused effulgence such as might come from be¬ neath the edges of a protected dome. Far, far below it lay, a weak glow-worm of light. I touched my key, flashing its po¬ sition into space; whatever police opera¬ tors were listening would pick that up and ships would follow.

I descended straight down toward the position of that glow.

I was not worried now about the noise of my plane. I had remembered that he would be expecting a ship.

I alighted on a roof, a wide roof, the roof of a huge building. It was desert¬ ed; a gigantic noise of generators was be¬ neath me, throbbing, pulsating, shaking even the roof beneath my feet. To the left rose the dome; it seemed to be plated with lead. A door in it was ajar, with the carelessness of entire unsuspicion.

I moved quietly toward that door, my gun in my hand. From thirty feet away I could look in, see an entire section of the room. Intricate apparatus was there: coils, electro-magnets, gigantic mush¬ room-shaped condensers, bulky terminals, Tesla coils, looped cables. I moved gradually until I had scanned the whole room. The apparatus covered all the sides of the dome, converging in the cen¬ ter above two enormous copper balls, be¬ low which was a strangely-shaped recep¬ tacle, man-sized, armored with cables like



an octopus with a thousand legs. At a long bare table, absorbed in some dia¬ grams before him, sat Khalid Bey.

He was alone. His back was turned. I stepped to the door, stepped inside, swung it shut behind me.

He swung around at the sound. He was looking into the muzzle of my gun.

"So you are Siva the Destroyer," I said.

He sat motionless, his hawk-like head thrust forward, his brilliant eyes unblink¬ ing. His face was without expression.

"You are the murderer of Hanishaw and Ferrand,” I said.

He said nothing. He was like an im¬ age, like an image of one of the bird¬ headed gods of the Nile. The eyes re¬ mained upon me like two cold gems.

"Get up,” I said. "If you make a move toward anything I’ll kill you.”

He rose slowly. The eyes still stayed fixed upon me, glittering, compelling. I went over him quickly. He was un¬ armed.

I stepped back. "Sit down,” I said. "It will do you no good to try to think any of your assistants up here. The door’s bolted. You’re caught.”

The lids dropped over his eyes like two films.

"It is true,” he said in a voice entirely without emotion. He sat down. "May I smoke?”

"You admit you did this?” I said.

"I am Siva the Destroyer,” he said. He took a cigarette from the box. His movements were calm, almost casual. "What good is it to deny it? If I had thought Van West would have failed I would have killed him before he started. Unfortunately I am not omniscient. You have caught me napping and I am help¬ less. It is over. I have failed.”

I stared at him. "You seem reMAGIC

TRICKS, BOOKS, AND SOPFLIES In MM

Strifes^ tT

CHICAGO MAGIC CO.

•ad BpMtiMl-I-

“ "■‘nd for large Illustrated professional catalog

ude FREE Thurston's “Cut and Restored

Dept. H, 146 S. Dearborn St„ Boom 1036, Chicago, HL

LONELY? Interesting” lettent

• photoe Many attractive and wealthy. Stamp appreciated.

W. T. BRAUN, 353 W. 47th/,Chicago



signed,” I said. "Doesn’t it affect you that you are facing death?”

"Death?” he said. "Why should it affect me? I am not afraid of death. It is no more unnatural than birth. It means no more to me.”

"Why did you do these things?” I said.

He flashed his eyes at me. "I told you this afternoon. A gesture of power.”

"A gesture of power! To kill two in¬ nocent men, your associates, your friends?”

He shrugged a little. "They were the only two men alive of scientific knowl¬ edge and ability approaching mine. Their death was necessary as a preliminary to controlling the world.”

"So that was your object!”

"Control of the world,” he said, and closed one fist slowly, while his eyes gleamed with a peculiar luminous ra¬ diance. It was the first sign of emotion he had shown, that indescribable look. Yet it was not emotion, it was too cold and inhuman. I knew then that the man was mad, with the kind of madness that is more calm and lucid than sanity.

He had masked his eyes again. "Hanishaw and Ferrand knew the secret of chorybdium,” he said. "Chorybdium, the invisible metal. We had come on the secret of its composition accidentally, in our efforts to break down the atom.” He stopped, and smiled slightly at me, a smile more sinister than his eyes. "Or perhaps you do not care to hear about it?”

"By all means,” I said.

'The formula will die with me,” he said. "But I will tell you some of its peculiarities. Most metals, most things, have an affinity with the visible end of the spectrum. Chorybdium has an affinity with the invisible end, the ultra and infra rays. It does not reflea what we com¬ monly call light, the visible rays. But its

defea is made up by the intensity with which it absorbs the invisible rays. Hence the bums. They are perverted Roentgen ray bums, perverted by the atomic idio¬ syncrasy of chorybdium; they spread over large superficial areas, and after a time cover enough surface to cause death. I can manage to stave death off for a longer period by a series of insulations on the subjea.” He nodded slightly toward the oaopus-like box. "Long enough for the subjea to be of considerable service to me, where otherwise he could not survive for many hours continuous contaa with the metal. Two insulations are usually necessary. I destroy an infinitesimal layer of the epidermis, substitute for it . . .”

He stopped suddenly. "Does any¬ thing of this interest you?” he asked.

"It all interests me,” I said. "It will interest your jury very much.”

He was looking at me steadily.

"Does anything of the thought of power interest you?” he asked.

"What do you mean?” I said.

"There are many young men who come to me,” he said. "Earnest students, eager seekers after knowledge, anxious for a chance to study under me, to learn in my laboratories. Gullible young men, they are flattered at being chosen as sub¬ jects for any experiments of mine. The supply is almost without limit.” His voice had lost its casual note. "Let your imagination play with the thought of power. Descending where you will, de¬ stroying what you will, taking what you will—money, gold, plunder, anything you desire. Entire nations bending to your will, a subjugation of the earth.”

"Are you suggesting that I join in with you in this scheme of yours?” I asked.

He was leaning forward. His eyes flashed now strangely with warmth; they were vivid, persuasive, magnetic. "I am



offering you the chance to be my equal. To be my partner in sharing the earth.”

I said: "It could never happen in a thousand years.”

"The prospect does not interest you?” he said.

"Not in the slightest,” I said grimly. "The only prospect that appeals to me is seeing you brought to dock for your mur¬ ders.”

Again the lids filmed his eyes. "Very well,” he said. He shrugged slightly. "There is no use opposing the inevitable.” He extended his hands. "I am ready to go with you.”

I stepped across and slipped the hand¬ cuffs on him. As I did so he turned one hand over; there was a sharp prick in the base of my wrist. I started back with an exclamation; on his face again was that sinister, inscrutable smile.

Instead of a cigarette he had taken from the table a narrow hypodermic syringe!

It was in his hand. I could see it. I could see it, though I did not seem able to move; I tried to raise the gun, to fire it; something heavy as lead and volatile as mercury seemed to be spreading through my veins.

He rose slowly, still smiling, from his chair.

"Morphic ether,” he said. "The most powerful anesthetic known to science. Its effects are immediately paralyzing, though the senses dim out more slowly.”

Objects in the room seemed to have re¬ ceded to a plane; his voice came to me as from a distance.

"Now you. Captain Stanage,” he said, "will join the company of invisible men.”

I tried to cry out, I tried to wheel, to struggle; I was powerless, it was like laboring in a dream. I felt myself fallBE A MAN!

EFFECTIVE with this issue, WEIRD TALES will be published every other month.

■ ■

Don’t miss the next issue,as it will contain powerful stories by some of your favorite authors:

ROBERT E. HOWARD EDMOND HAMILTON CLARK ASHTON SMITH ARLTON EADIE

Also, fascinating tales by authors new to these pages.

B ■

Next Issue On Sale April 1



ing; one of his arms was around me; his face bent over me.

'Two insulations,” he said. "After that the armor.”

T here was a space then in which events moved dimly around me and as though hidden by an intervening sight¬ less fog. My mind was crying out the horrible truth; I was to join the ranks of Van West and the others, I was to be his creature, to go out and do unspeakable deeds! And even as I framed the thought my mind was losing itself, dissipating in¬ to nothingness, going out into that sight¬ less fog. The sense of touch went last. I felt myself being dragged over the floor, felt myself being lifted, felt the hard surfaces of something enclose me.

I was in the octopus-like box. Something closed over me.

My last impression of anything in that room was of those enormous copper balls, gleaming, suspended overhead. . . .

I drifted nowhere.

There was a sound as of an infinite turbulent sea churning around me, en¬ compassing me, lashing me, drowning me.

Blackness descended like a sword, riv¬ ing my mind apart, striking to my soul, plunging me into unfathomable Night.

I seemed to dream.

Fragments of scenes appeared, cities, seas at midnight, storm-bent trees, the spectral radiance of the moon. Faces I had known, faces I had never known, whirling, parading, floating, mingling, vanishing.

Eons seemed to pass.

Pain struck through me in a white flash of agony, unutterable pain, blinding, timeless.

With that pain chaos began around me; formless blooms of things, unnamable floating fantasmagoria, mad whorls of spectra without shape.

Again pain rove me to infinite, un¬ bearable, swooning depths; it was like the sounding of a chord, like monstrous hammer-blows, like the striking of a gi¬ gantic clock. It increased, mounted, struck harder, faster; it was intolerable, my flesh could not stand it, it seemed to be behind me, following me. I seemed to be spinning through space, faster, fast¬ er, mounting through infinite leagues, whirling, rushing, ascending in a mad curve through void.

Objects in the room appeared vaguely before me, swimming in a dissolving mist.

I heard his voice say: "The first insu¬ lation.”

My senses wore returning. The terri¬ ble effects of the insulation had destroyed the power of the drug.

I was no longer in the box. I seemed to be sitting upright; his face was before me. Strength was coming back to me; objects were resuming their natural po¬ sition.

But my mind was dull, flaccid. It was inert, it lacked volition. It wanted to rest, it did not care what happened.

Something in the bottom of me seemed to say: It is your last chance. It is your last chance before oblivion.

His face leaned closer. Those bril¬ liant baleful eyes were upon me. They fixed mine, they flashed insistently, commandingly, they seemed to plumb my soul.

"You will obey me,” said his voice. "You will be my slave, my creature, you will go out to do as I say, you will obey me utterly.”

I tried to gather my tired mind to¬ gether. With every ounce of my strength I strove to resist the force of those eyes.


287j

The hypnosis was commencing. If it succeeded I was doomed.

It was like a struggle on the edge of some giddy precipice. I slid toward it; the eyes flashed, he pressed me; I groped painfully forward; he held me once more, I could do nothing; he overcame me again; I was hanging by my hands; I pulled up; he resisted; we struggled soul to soul, neither gaining; I was tired; I could not hold on; I was slipping back, sliding over, slipping over the brink. . . .

With a tremendous effort I gathered myself together to do something physical. I could not cope with him mentally. It was the last and the utmost effort in my body. It was the ultimate that I could ever do.

I threw my hands forward to seize h by the throat.

It was weak. It was like a child’s ges¬ ture. He threw my arms aside with a sweep of his hand, but in that instant attention had shifted. The concentrati broke. I plunged forward from the chair, diving at the floor, trying to i over, to gain time.

With a cry he leaped down to seize r

Strength was flooding through r abounding strength, my blood sang w it. I twisted over, swinging my fi: lashing out at him, trying to gain my knees. He leaped back, clubbed me with something, sprang at me to drive down. He was strong, with the nervr strength of a maniac. But I was strc with the hope of life. I came up under his arm, drove my fist once, twice, into that basilisk face. He cried out, fe back, whirled, broke from me, dove at th table where he had sat.

It was there the narrow syringe lay.

I threw myself after him in a flying dive. I struck his knees as he struck the table. We battled, twisting, sma ing, snarling. He got his body half


NEXT ISSUE

THE DUST OF DEATH

By HUGH JEFFRIES

A powerful thrill-tale of the Flor¬ ida Everglades. Doctor Tsu Liang, the brilliant Chinese scientist, develops to titanic proportions the little fungus that attacks caterpillars, and proceeds to destroy millions of people. Gigantic puffballs destroy the homes and the artificially modified caterpillar fungus destroys the lives.

H ow this menace was fought by Gregory Morris, aviator, and how the Chinaman swept triumphantly for¬ ward in his scheme of wholesale death and the final catastrophe, makes a breath-taking story of incomparable fascination and gripping interest. This story will be published complete in the

April-May issue of


On Sale April 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

cityover the table and reached for the hypo¬ dermic. I had his wrist. He had the needle in his hand.

If he could turn his hand over . . .

gouging

human strength was in him. He raised the hand that held the needle; I still grasped it; he raised it higher; his eyes were like a demon’s; he was at the apex

I could see in his eyes the shock of something he hing was at th In that insti arm back again There was a cried: "Stanat

you?”

His face was suddenly ashen. The eyes were dead. With a desperate wrench he thrust the needle into his shoulder and drove the plunger to the base of the syringe.

Men were in the room.

I did not seem to know they were mill¬ ing around me, I did not seem to hear their shouts, until the face of one thrust close to mine cried: ''Why, it’s Khalid Bey!”

I let the inert body slide limply to the floor.

"It is Siva the Destroyer,” I said. "And he is dead.”

Coming soon—

MOTH

By G. R. MaUocfa

A stupendous story of gigantic cater¬ pillars gnawing their way through Lonlon—destroying—killing.

Watch for this thrilling novelette in WEIRD TALES.

W. T—9

This Book Is Now Given FREE

—Sms—« EiBSS SHLHiM 5 ** 2

“But I Thought That Bo ok Was Suppressed! ” Gasped Bess!

‘f. How On Earth Did You Ever Get It?”

[THE END]
