============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 18, Number 1
Date: August 1931
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Old  Roses Stella  G.  S" by Perry
  2. "Prince  Borgia’s  Mass August  W" by Derleth
  3. "that  Robert  E" by Howard  is  writing  some  more  Solomon  Kane  stories.  They  are  about
  4. "not  have  stood  for  it" by Please  print  more  stories  of  the  Interstellar  Patrol  by  Edmond Hamilton.  Seabury  Quinn  is  also  a wonderful  writer.  I am  surely  glad  to  hear
============================================================
============================================================
by Perry
============================================================
and the even more thrilling and breath-taking adventures of Tam and Nina that follow, in the September number of Weird Tales, on sale August first.


By STELLA G. S. PERRY

A tender and touching tale of the Vieux Carre — a story of New Orleans

The tiny, piautesque figure on the old box-steps looked like a boy. It wore bright blue trousers, highbelted, long and tight, held up by straps over the shoulders of a faded pink shirt and punctuated about the girdle by white buttons; but frills at cuffs and neck, a flat tie of white ribbon, diminutive hands and feet and a certain grace revealed a little girl.

Johnny’s sun-colored curls were cut like a lad's; but her face was all feminine roguishness and she pursed her mouth with inborn coquetry. It was a pixy face

and teasing, plainly telling that here was one accustomed to diplomacy toward her elders.

Johnny stood on the box-step before the old green-plank door with the trefoil cut in the top and the broken hinge. She was looking up and down the street, as if fearing arrest by her household authorities.

She was slipping away to her secret play-place. None of the grown-up ones knew how she had found a way of swinging the green door back on its broken hinges, until an opening came just wide




enough for her to flash through, like a fish behind a leaf. There, without permission or interference, she played alone in the curve of the old stone steps between the green door and the inner wrought-iron gate it protected.

In a niche behind a broken stone were Johnny’s treasures: dried peach-stones that she played jacks with, a precious sack of colored sand, a bottle of water in which two orange blossoms were decaying in the vain hope that she was manufaauring perfume; and there were limp paper dolls sketchily cut from old magazines.

It was a lair to be well guarded; Johnny was cautious. But just now the few people in this quiet street of the Vieux Carre — that historic old "square” in New Orleans — were all looking in the other direaion.

Whether they were hanging over the balconies of wrought-iron lace, or grouped on the bluestone or red-brick pavements, all their interest was in the large house down the street, the Hotel de Madame Renaud. All heads were turned toward it, like roosting sparrows turning one way in a wind.

They were looking at the doaor’s car before the door of Madame Renaud’s courtyard.

But today he comes too late! What can he do — now?” sighed old Miss Cleste Ledoux to her crony, Madame Crenelle. "The best doaor in New Orleans is powerless now. Eh? Is it not so? But, well, he had a long, strong life.”

"And a good one! Some day for us all!”

"Look! Already they post the notices,” some one pointed.

Renewed alertness raised and fixed each head, as with a photographer’s clutch-piece. A man had begun to tack

up on the telegraph poles the blackbordered, black-printed notices, with the name written in with strong ink — as is the ancient custom in the city — to tell the passers-by that Jean de Plaine Dionne was dead at ninety years.

Screened by this greater interest, little Johnny, feeling herself unobserved, carefully drew her hand from behind her back and regarded a bouquet of roses that she held concealed there.

It was a stiff, old-fashioned nosegay, scallop-edged with paper lace. The roses were slightly faded and the stems showed that they had spent a day in a vase of water.

Indeed, Johnny had stolen it from the vase on the three-legged table beside Grandpere’s bed.

It was naughty to steal, of course. But her colored nurse. Mam’ Bea, herself, had said that those roses ought to be changed; and surely there were other flowers enough in that room where Grandpere lay, so sound asleep that Johnny could not wake him, making horrid noises in his throat but seeming not to mind them himself. Poor Grandpere!

Johnny was glad he was better now. She had feared he was worse when, just after she had stolen the roses, everybody ran into Grandpere’s room — Petite Maman and Daddy Toutou and Tante and Mam’ Bea — and all of them had called out and cried so and said, "It is over!”

But just then she saw Grandpere himself, standing out there in the hall, and he smiled at her. So she knew everything was all right. He smiled at the stolen flowers, too. He had not in the least objeaed to her taking his bouquet. He looked at it and smiled.

Grandpere was always so good. to her! Little Johnny was never afraid of him, even when she was naughty. Petite Maman was a little bit afraid of him



sometimes, and Tante, and even Daddy Toutou. But Little Johnny never! Mam’ Bea often said with a sigh, "He make her still mo’ spoiled. She do what she please wid dat Grandpere.”

Therefore when Johnny had met him in the hall, she had fearlessly shown him the stolen roses, looking up at him with her wheedling air of contrition; and Grandpere had smiled.

It was a different smile, though — not her own special one; and he had looked at her as if he were going to ask her about something. It was just the way he had smiled on her two days ago when she had "told on” Doaor Fouret.

She had told on the doaor because she was angry with him for making Petite Maman cry in the hall. She had gone straight into the room where Daddy Toutou sat beside Grandpere, and protested indignantly, "Doaor Fouret is making Petite Maman cry! Out there in the hall.”

Daddy Toutou had silenced Johnny quickly, with an anxious side-glance at Grandpere.

But Grandpere had answered her so gently and so slowly and so low — not a bit "click-click,” as Grandpere usually spoke — "It is not Doaor Fouret who makes her cry. It is Another.”

"But, yes, ^ Grandpere; it is Doaor Fouret ”

"Well, never mind. Come here, mignonne.” And Grandpere had looked a long time into her eyes, in that same pleading way, with that same different smile.

Johnny had felt so sure that he was begging her to do something for him that she said, "I will, Grandpere!” as if he had asked her to promise. They understood each other, these two. She had no idea what Grandpere wanted done; but she knew he would tell her in good time, when he got better; and then, whatever it

was that he wanted, she would do it for her Grandpere.

Then Grandpere said to Daddy Toutou, "It is too late for me to do it. It has always been too late. But it seems somehow that my Little Johnr^ will help me — get a chance — try again. One last time. Who knows?”

Daddy Toutou had taken her away then and had whispered to the doaor in the hall, "His mind is wandering.”

But Johnny had slipped away from them and run back to the door and called out firmly, "Oh, yes, Grandpere! I will. Whatever you wish, I will do it. Honor of a soldier!” in the formula of a game they played together.

Grandpere had smiled. He understood. He knew everything!

It would have been no use hiding these flowers from him, anyway, she thought now. She could hide things from the others, until there were "findings out” and tears and humiliating confessions; but never was any dreadful confessing necessary to Grandpere; for he always knew from the first, all the time.

Why, just think how he knew about this very green door and the closed house!

Just today, while they were all crying and sobbing so loud, there in his room, around the bed, she had met him in the hall and Grandpere had pointed to this green door, pointed through the staircase window. He knew her secra about it.

Johnny laughed. She had believed that nobody knew about it but Beauregard, her kitten. But Grandpere knew everything.

Still, he did not objea; indeed she saw that he wanted her to go there with her roses.

So she had blown him a kiss and slipped out to her green door, hiding the stolen flowers behind her.



Now she pushed the green door open, There were those cool, broad, shady, hidden, delightful blue-gray stone steps.

Johnny had meant to play with her treasures in this corner, so remote and yet so safely near the outside world and its noises. But now that she was here, she did not want to play. Instead, on a sudden courageous impulse, she did what she had never dared do before.

She proceeded onward, up the bluegray steps, and pushed against the wrought-iron inner gate.

That gate creaked a little — and opened! Beyond it, the steps went upward a few yards to the right, then turned sharply back and ascended again in the other direaion.

Johnny, taking great strides, mounted, turned, mounted with them.

She found herself on the porch of the old house, in the open air. Now she was afraid that somebody in the street would see, would call to her.

But no one was looking. Besides, she was not in full view; the flowery wrought iron-lace balustrade with its broad porch rail reached taller than her head, and, as the old house was on the shady side of the street, the shadows were almost as blue as her blue trousers.

So far, safe. She dimpled. It was an adventure.

In the middle of the porch stood the door of the house, a big door of black wood, with blackened knobs that she did not know were silver. Something urged her to open it. She turned the knobs shyly, more boldly pushed at the door. It clicked a little, but nothing moved.

Johnny pouted. Was the enterprise so soon over? Ohe! It was as well, perhaps; there might have been a scolding at the other end of it. Anyway, it was fine up there on the porch. The street looked

different from tliis height; who would have thought there were so many potted plants on Madame Blair's gallery?

But look! They were tying something on the door of the Hotel de Madame R^aud, where Johnny lived on the chief floor with Grandpere and Petite Maman and Daddy Toutou and the others, A long black thing. Perhaps she had best go back and see about that; she felt strong disapproval of whatever that black thing was that they were hanging there.

SHE had begun to descend the steps when a faint sound behind her cau^ her attention. The glass in one of the French windows leading on the gallery where she stood vibrated as she passed it; that window had lost a shutter and the glass reached to the floor. It sounded to Johnny as if it Invited her. She returned to investigate.

The glass was too dirty to be seen through; but a lower pane was broken out and she stooped down and peeped through this opening.

In the sunlight that came from an opposite window, across the wide room inside, she saw a cabinet, an etagere, thick with dust on its carved ebony, its little shelves falling to pieces. Oh! What a hiding-place for her treasures! In an empty house! She could never resist it.

Johnny crept in, wriggled in, through the frame that had lost its pane. She had to take care not to crush Grandpere’s flowers.

Then she gasped; stopped short.

Some one was calling. From upstairs. The voice itself did not scare her, because it was sweet. Still she was frightened, for she knew herself guilty of trespass.

The voice upstairs repeated, "Who is there?” and then asked, "Is that you, Johnny?”



Oh, what a relief! Good chance! It was some one who knew her; some neighbor, perhaps, who would not scold.

"Yes’m. Oui, madame. It’s Johnny,” she answered, rather faintly.

A laugh like the sparkles in the skyrockets on New Year’s Eve, floated up, then down.

"Don’t be afraid,” said the sweet voice tenderly. “Come, my dear! Have you the flowers for me.^”

Oh-h! It was all right, then. The lady wanted the posy. Johnny was very willing to give the roses to a lady with that sweet voice. She was a friendly little person and glad to make her elders happy, for all their incomprehensible ways.

She climbed the inner staircase as quickly as she could — for the steps were high — wondering that this house, if occupied, should be so shut up and so bare within. But adult ways were beyond deciphering; always some mystery or other!

The upper room she now entered was not bare. It was very pretty. It opened with high windows on the street — their graying white shades were drawn and there were birds and garlands and butterflies painted on them — and with long windows on the back gallery over the courtyard, these flooded with sunlight and the smell of honeysuckle. The room was furnished with gilt chairs and pinky sofas under golden Cupids, and rosy hangings over lace, tied back with golden cords. There were plump and ruddy footstools. There were vases, with flowers painted on one side, and on the other, lovely bowing and curtseying gentlemen and ladies, all dressed in pink and blue and mauve, with ribbons and fluttering frills. Johnny could see both sides, because the vases were reflected in long, gold-bound mirrors that reached from floor to ceiling.

The carpets were so flowery that it was like walking in a garden.

A sunny mist filled the room — as if Johnny were looking at it through a golden veil.

In the midst of all this beauty, like a little white moth in a rose, sat a small, white-haired, white-clad old lady, with eyes as young and blue as Johnny’s own.

She pushed away the tapestry at which she had been working and rose eagerly.

Then she stepped back, plainly disappointed.

"Oh!” she said sadly. "I thought it was Johnny. Who are you, little boy?”

"It is Johnny. Vm Johnny. I’m not a little boy, though. I’m a girl. Grandpere’s boy-girl. Grandpere likes them, when he can’t have boys.”

"Why do you come here?”

Johnny blushed, and made her eyes beg forgiveness. " ’Cause I’m naughty. Just a little mischief.” Then, seeing the sadness as of a hope.deceived on the old lady’s face, Johnny said winningly, “I’ve brought you the flowers.”

Instantly the sorrow on that face changed to radiance.

"The flowers!” the old lady cried, taking them rapturously in both hands. "The flowers! Whose flowers? Whose?”

"We-ell, it’s true they’re not really mine. But it’s all right. Grandpere saw me take them,” Johnny began, but the old lady paid no attention to her; she was fumbling in the bouquet.

"There is no card,” she said. "No note. No name. But they must be his at last. Is there no name, no note?” feeling among the blossoms with nervous fingers, turning a troubled face to the child. "Whose flowers, little girl? Whose roses are these? His name! Tell his name. Don’t you know his name?”

"Grandpere’s name? Of course I do,” said Johnny laughing. "It’s just like mine.



Yes’m, it is. Oai, madame. Sure enough. I’m named like 'him, if I rfw a girl. He is Jean de Plaine Dionne. I’m Jeanne. Both two Johnnies, big and little!”

A sudden joy transfigured the lady. "Thank God!” she whispered. "Oh! Thank, thank God!”

For a long time she fondled the flowers, forgetting the child, did not seem to hear her as Johnny prattled on sociably. "Yes’m. I’m named after him. Daddy Toutou was named something else, although he was Grandpere’s real little boy. But Daddy Toutou’s poor maman died before she ever saw him and so he was named for her folks. But it was a great mistake, because they never noticed him at all. And then they died. I was ordered to be a boy, but Doaor Fouret got mixed up somehow and didn’t bring a boy, though he’d promised to. And I was nearly an awful disappointment to Grandpere; only he liked me after all and wouldn’t let them send me back. He kept me and let me be his boy-girl and named Johnny, like him. So that made it ail right. Because there has to be a Johnny Dionne in this city, you know. There must. Oh! Look at the flowers! Look, look!”

She ran excitedly up to the pink rocker where the old lady sat holding the flowers. Little Johnny laughed with amazement and delight to see them brighten, freshen, revive themselves in the frail little hands. "'They’re all fresh again!” she cried out. "They were dying. How did you make them do that?”

"I can not see you very clearly,” the old lady said apologetically, in a dreamy, puzzled way. "You must forgive. You do not seem entirely real to me. And yet I seem strangely to — ^yes, to love you. I can not understand it,” she laughed that brilliant skyey laugh. "It is as if you were my fairy. I do not really believe in you.

but I want you to be true, to belong to me. Even if I am only dreaming you, you seem — beneficent to me.”

JOHNNY understood very little of all this; but it was grown-up talk and that was often vague. It did not matter.

She laughed and said, dimpling, "I’m real. I’m not a fairy a bit.”

She sat on die floor at the old lady’s feet. The old lady’s nearness was comfortable. "I’d like to belong to you,” said Johnny sincerely.

"It’s waiting so long for the flowers that makes me stupid and blind,” the old lady said, sighing. "If he could know how I’ve waited, and so long! He’d be astonished that I’ve stayed and waited; wouldn’t he?”

"Out, madame. Yes’m,” said Johnny. "Reckon prob’ly he would.” She was astonished herself. How had this lady known that the flowers were coming?

"We were both too proud,” her hostess continued. "I was spoiled by having been so much sought after and pampered. And perhaps I did remember, though I thought I tried to ignore it, that I had left a home far richer than my husband’s and that so many others had wanted me. I expeaed to be courted always, even after we were married. Ah, yes! And Johnny Dionne was proud, too, of ail that he had accomplished, as he had good right to be. But he loved me dearly. I knew that all the time, Johnny, my dear. Indeed, I knew it. Oh, yes, child, little girl! But the little things, the small attentions so valuable to me, sometimes they seemed silly to him. Or not silly. Oh, no, never really that!” She shook her head. "He couldn’t have meant they were silly. But when those great matters were weighing on his mind, you understand, as the approach of the War and Beauregard relying on him so — why,

W. T.— 6



then, my daily gift of flowers that seemed a service, a symbol to me, to him they became a trivial custom, wilfully imposed. I dare say he did not understand women — or flowers. Men do not understand what flowers can mean to women. Nor love them as we do.”

"My Grandpere loves flowers,”' said Johnny. "Specially roses.”

"Your Grandpere.?” gropingly.

Johnny remembered that this old lady liked to hear people’s full names. "Big Johnny de Plaine Dionne loves flowers,” she amended. "Every day he brings them and puts them on his table. And when he was sick he made Tante get them for him and he put them right by his bed. Flowers every day! And when he puts them down he always says, Tor you, Fernandel’ ”

"Oh! Is it so? Is it true? Say it once more! I beseech you! But once more!” '

Little Johnny obligingly said it once more, her hands clasped about her knees, her eyes wide, wondering why Grandpere’s floral habit delighted this strange lady and so transfigured her. As she enjoyed making people happy, Johnny expatiated, "Yes, even when he was so sick ”

"No, no!” the lady interrupted. "It was I who was ill; not he. He could not know that I was going to be so very ill. He did not even know that our child was to come. I had meant to tell him that, that very day. But he bade me a brisk — almost a brusk — good-bye, that morning, without the flowers! Looking into my moist eyes, he said, 'I have not the time today, my dear. Do not be childish. Do not be — silly. I can not stop for flowers at a time like this.’ Ah, me! I was foolish, young. I was leaving home, going away to visit cousins, that day, too; and that also he had forgotten in his excitement about the States. I was W. T.~7

too proud, too hurt to remind him. How I wanted to wait here for the evening, for forgiveness, for good-byes! But I did not wait for his return. I went to my cousins. Then the War! You see, it kept me from getting back to our home. All those months. And it kept Johnny from coming to me. Then I was so ill and — something happened to me.” She paused. "Ah, well! I came home for him after all. I have waited for him ever since. And now he has sent the roses at last. Thank God!”

"I brought them,” Johnny ventured.

The bewildered look returned. "Why did he not bring them? Where is he, himself? How did you know about it, little child? Why are you the one to come to me from him?”

"My Gran — Big Johnny Dionne,” said Johnny, thinking that she saw at last the grown-up reason in all this, "he said, 'Little Johnny will do it.’ He said, 'It is too late for me, but Little Johnny will do everything for me.’ And I will do it all for him, too. He made me promise. I reckon he just knew I come to this house and that you wanted the roses. He knows everything. And that’s why he didn’t scold when he saw I had them, but just pointed to this door,” sagely. "He couldn’t come bring them, I s’pose. So he meant for me to’ tote them to you for him. And I did it!”

"He has not come; but he remembers! I knew he would remember. And sends roses. Ah, my dear one! Perhaps he no longer thinks the little attentions, the tender thoughts and deeds, the small considerations, the acts of grace, are trivial, foolish, childish.”

"My — Big Johnny Dionne,” said Johnny, "I think that’s what he’s always talking about. To Daddy Toutou. He

says the littlest, sweetest doings are ”

She puckered her brow, a brow very like



that of the lady before her. "I forget. I forget what he says Fernande called them.”

"Fernande? But I am Fernande.”

''\5m-hum? Are you? I didn’t know it. Then what was it you told Gr — told Big Johnny Dionne that sweet little nice doings were? Oh, I remember now! Pressed roses. Sweet kind little doings are ”

"Like roses pressed in the pages of memory,” said Fernande.

"Yes, ma’am! Out, madame!” exultantly. "That’s just what Grandpere said you said. — Didn’t you, Grandpere? Here comes Grandpere, right now!”

Grandpere stood in the doorway.

He smiled glowingly at Little Johnny Dionne, Then he never saw her

again.

"Fernande!” he cried running into the room. "I could not find you until you had my roses, Fernande, my love! You must forgive me, for I sent you the roses.”

"And you must forgive me, too, Johnny, my darling. For I have waited for them.”

His eyes and hands caressed her. "But, tna mte!” Grandpere exclaimed in astonishment. "You are changed. Your hair is white. Can you be old? You, old? How can this be? You are beautiful always — but your hair has grown white. You went so young! And, now, are you old, like me?”

Then Fernande lifted up her face and

the blessed brightness fell full upon little Johnny Dionne, as she said, looking into her husband’s eyes, "And did you think I would go, still young, and let you grow old without me? Darling, I would not go all the way. I have been waiting here all the time, here in our home, for you!”

Grandpere kissed her hands. Fernande put one arm in his, holding her bouquet proudly in the other. She walked like a bride and said, "Come, now! We two must go — on. To grow young again, together.”

'They passed down the stairway.

Little Johnny followed them, taking the high steps carefully.

But when she reached the lower room, they were not there.

She wondered about this for a moment. But the ways of adults were all mysterious. It did not matte^.

Little Johnny crawled through the frame of the broken window-pane, went down the stone steps, through the iron gate and wooden door, back into the street.

All the neighbors were standing, just as she had left them, looking toward the Hotel de Madame Renaud.

Johnny looked, too. She saw some men carrying great armfuls of flowers in through the courtyard door.

And Johnny Dionne, the last of the name, said to herself, "I reckon that’s why it all smells so lovely ’round here — like roses.”

V

“V


By AMELIA REYNOLDS LONG

'A shuddery tale of a flapping creature with a bloated face that spread wild terror upon the moor

“rr^HERE it is now!” Henry I Thorne’s dilated, terrified eyes stared past me into the darkness. "On the wall behind you! Look!”

I wheeled sharply and stared where the undulating refleaion from the fire made the bizarre, misshapen shadows careen in grotesque dance upon the decaying wainscot. "I see only shadows,” I said.

"Only shadows?” he repeated, laughing a little hysterically. "Well, perhaps. But shadows are driving me mad.”

I filled his glass with brandy from the bottle on the table and made him drink it. "You’re overwrought,” I said in my most

matter-of-fact tones. "Your brother’s death, and the coming of this other, hitherto unknown brother — odd Sir James never spoke of him before.”

"He never told me anything until near the end,” Heniy replied. "I might have been a total stranger instead of his halfbrother. And now — Michael, do you believe in ghosts?”

"I have dabbled in psychical research,” I answered guardedly. "But tell me your story from the beginning. Remember, I know almost nothing.”

"My brother’s illness came upon him suddenly,” he began. "He suffered from




no discernible disease, yet he was slowly but surely dying. He never spoke to me about it, but I knew that his coming dissolution preyed upon his mind; for I often came upon him at twilight, swaying his body rhythmically back and forth and muttering half beneath his breath. I can not describe his face as k appeared at those times. It showed neither fear nor resignation; only an eery, set expressionlessness that was somehow unhuman.

''About two weeks before his death, he called me to his room. 'I suppose you are expeaing to inherit the manor when I die,’ he said. Before I could answer, he went on: 'It is only natural that you should, but you will most likely be disappointed; I have a twin brother in Tibet whom I have sent for. However, if he does not appear within six months after my passing, you may assume that he, too, is dead, and claim the baronetcy and the estate.’

"That is all he would say upon the subjea, and when I attempted to question hiiii, he sent me away.’’

"But did he never bring up the subjea again?’’. I asked.

"No,” answered Henry, "although I thought he meant to when he sent for me the day before he died. However, he wanted me for something quite different: He. made me solemnly swear that when he was dead I would not permit his body to be cremated. What put such an idea into his head, I can’t imagine; for it is a tradition with our family that all the baronets be buried in the crypt under the manor-house.

"It was about a month after his death that his brother George appeared. I say hh brother, for I can’t feel any fraternal connection between myself and this man. I was standing at one of the library windows, looking out over the moor. It was that timeless hour when day has just died

and night is still unborn and a niggard gray twilight broods, giving familiar objeas the alien, fey quality of another world. Presently I saw a black figure approaching the house. Its movements were stiff and jerky, like some ungainly bird’s, but I knew from its size and general shape that it must be a man wrapped in a long cloak. As I watched him, he stopped and stretched out his arms. 'The cloak, draped from them, flapped in the wind like the leathery wings of a bat. I turned away in loathing, and when I looked again, he was gone. Just then my butler came in to announce that Sir George Thorne, the new baronet, had arrived. To my horror, the man he brought in was the black stranger of the moor!

"He didn’t say a word, but simply handed me his credentials. As I pretended to glance through them in the half-darkness, I could feel his dead-black eyes staring at me impersonally out of his white, bloated face. I gave his papers back to him, muttering something about hoping he’d like the manor. Then he spoke, and his hollow, cadaverous voice was more awful than his appearance. 'I shall live in the tower — alone,’ he said. 'You may continue to live in the rest of the house, if you care to.’ With that, he was gone. I have not seen him since.”

"What!” I exclaimed incredulously. "Do you mean to say that the two of you inhabit this house together, and never see each other?”

"No,” he replied. "I said that I have not seen him, which is quite different. He sees me, knows my every movement, knows that I am talking with you at this moment.” He leaned. toward me across the table, and dropped his voice to a hoarse, rasping whisper. "I am convinced that the man is a sorcerer — or worse.”

"Oh, I say!” I began protestingly.

"I know,” he interrupted. "Sorcerers



and their kind are considered a worn-out superstition. But have you ever sat alone at night and felt dead, impersonal eyes feeding upon the back of your head, then turned just in time to see a shadow like a big bat scuttle out of sight into the surrounding darkness? Never anything but the shadow!”

"And you sent for me to help you catch a shadow?” I laughed.

He shrugged. "Wait until you have been here a while,” he said.

Realizing that he was genuinely unstrung, I tried to lead the conversation into healthier channels, but I saw that, while he listened courteously and answered intelligently, his attention was elsewhere. Around half past ten, I gave up, and had him show me to my room.

Although I closed and bolted my ^door, I did not prepare for bed. Something of Henry’s nervousness had communicated itself to me. I found that I was at high tension, waiting for something that had been preordained to take place.

I did not laugh at this mood as I had laughed earlier to reassure Henry: I knew too much of psychic influences to disregard it. Instead, I returned to my door, softly unbolted it, and opened it a few inches. 'Thus I might receive quicker intelligence of anything occurring in another part of the house.

In the hall outside, the blackness was like a thick, turgid fluid that oozed clammily into the room. I sat listening by the open door, but there was no sound anywhere, not even the usual groanings of an old house settling down for the night. The silence was so intense that I began to fear lest some unknown force had deprived me of my powers of hearing; then

I had heard nothing, but I knew that

some one was moving about the house. It was as if something were passing through that heavy, sluggish darkness, causing it to ripple. I slipped into the hall and crept to the head of the stairs. From there I could dimly see the hall below under its series of tall. Gothic arches.

Suddenly I was aware that far down the hall a light was appearing. It was growing steadily brighter as if moving down the hall, sending the long shadows racing before it like black heralds of evil. As I watched, it resolved into a lantern carried by a tall figure wrapped from head to foot in a long, black cloak that flapped in leathery folds. One hand held the lantern out at arm’s length; the other lay lifelessly across the breast. Above it all floated a white, bloated face with puffy, lack-luster eyes, like a huge, unhealthy fungus.

I stared soundlessly at the apparition. So this was Sir George Thorne! Poor Henry! No wonder he — by this time the thing had passed. I heard it raise the latch of the library door, and knew by the disappearance of the light that it had gone into the room. It was the click of the latch that brought me out of my temporary trance. Silently as a shadow I glided down the stairs and toward the library.

At the threshold I stopped. On the library table stood the lantern, but of the mysterious walker there was no sign. But he could not be far away, since he had left his lantern. I decided to secrete myself and await his return.

I was about to slip behind an arras when a thought smote me with the smashing force of a physical blow: Henry Thorne’s room was directly overhead! It did not matter that the only direa means of communication was the stairway by which I had just descended; I knew that the cloaked figure had gone there!



In an instant I was retracing my steps at top speed. My rubber-soled shoes made no noise upon the solid old stones of stairs and halls, and the first sound I made was when I clicked the latch and flung open Henry’s bedroom door. My head swam at what I saw there.

On the side of the bed perched a gigantic black shape, at the top of which I thought I discerned a swollen, bleached face! It started violently at my entry, uttered a shrill, rodent-like cry, and rose high in the air to lose itself among the shadows of the ceiling!

I struck myself smartly upon the forehead with the palm of my hand in an attempt to dispel the fog that was enwrapping my senses. There was a humming in my head like the beating of heavy wings. I looked toward the ceiling. There were wings up there; I could hear them thrashing about. Suddenly something darted toward the fireplace, and for an instant I saw the silhouette of a big bat outlined against the glow of the dying coals! The next instant it had disappeared up the chimney.

I turned back to Henry, who was now awake and staring at me.

"You saw the shadow?” he asked. "It was here?”

"There was a bat in the room,” I replied evasively, wondering how much of my adventure I should tell him and how much I could safely believe myself.

"A bat?” he repeated. "Perhaps. But it was not a bat at first.”

The next morning I went with him to visit a tenant farmer on his estate. The man had a fine horse for sale, which Henry, who is an enthusiastic horseman, was contemplating buying. When the business had been concluded and we were about to leave, the farmer remarked: "They do zay, zor, as how the poor

loony what escaped two weeks ago was vound last night ower in the wood; him and Master Dorn’s little boy.”

Henry looked up sharply. "Found!" he exclaimed. "How? Who found them?”

"Ay,” affirmed the farmer, "they be vound, but both of them be stone-dead. Aleck Zmith were out huntin’ voxes yesterday, and as he were cornin’ home late last evening, what should he stumble ower right there in the wood but the body o* little Bob Dorn! Aleck knew that it were again’ the law to touch the laddie, bein’ dead there like that; zo after markin’ well the spot, he started off to the village to get the crowner. He had only gone a bit of a way when he comes upon the body o’ the loony. Findin’ one corp’ were bad enough, but the two o’ them near bowled him ower, he zays.”

"Had the lunatic killed the child, and then destroyed himself?” I asked.

"Us don’t know', zor,” replied the farmer. "The crowner, he thinks not, zeein’ as they were both killed zo strange.”

"And how was that?” I inquired.

"They were a little wound in the neck of each o’ them,” the farmer explained, "and every drop o’ blood had been drained from their bodies.”

"Horrible!” I cried. "Who could have done such a thing?”

"Us wishes us knew,” answered my informant dryly. "Today they be scourin' the wood to zee if they can find Mrs. Williams and the little Evans girl what disappeared last week.”

As we rode back to the manor, Henry was morosely silent. Finally he turned to me with, "Well, now you know why I sent for you?”

I did not pretend to misunderstand. "You believe that Sir George— —?” I began.

He nodded. "Perhaps not with his own



hand,” he said, "but his was the brain responsible. He — oh, I don’t Jcnow what I believe, Michael. It’s all too impossible — too horrible!”

I did not ask him what he meant, for with his words a hideous suspicion had suggested itself. What had the creature called Sir George Thorne been about to do last night? Suppose — the idea was monstrous; and yet

That afternoon I found excuse to visit the farmer again.

"By the way,” I said off-handedly, "did they find those other two bodies you were telling me about this morning?”

"Ay, zor,” he answered, "that they have, an’ they both be dead the zame as the virst two.”

"How shocking! Do you suppose the lunatic could have been the murderer after all?”

"They be zome what thinks zo,” he granted non-committally.

"And you?” I prompted.

"Oh, I be only an ignorant varmer, zor,” he hedged.

I tried a bold stroke. "You may as well tell me,” I said, giving him a significant look. "I am a friend of Mr. Henry’s, and — I suspea it too.”

He glanced at me quickly, then looked away again. "My old ’oman an’ me, us thinks it must be zo, although us did blame the loony till they vound the bodies,” he said quietly. "You may zet no vaith by it, zor, but if I had been Mizter Henry, I’d have pinned Zor James to his coffin with an aspen spike through his heart. He was always a queer un; an’ they has been others o’ the Thornes what wouldn’t stay dead.”

I walked back to the manor with my thoughts in a* turmoil. So it was reputed that there had been vampires, living dead men, in the Thorne family! I had begun

to suspect it after hearing of the bloodless bodies and after Henry’s, "Well, now you know why I sent for you?” It all linked up with Sir James’ fear lest he be cremated. And yet the whole theory was too bizarre, too terrible to be possible.

When I reached the manor-house Henry read my thoughts in my face. "So you suspea at last,” he commented. "Is such a horror really possible, Michael? I must know definitely,or I shall go insane.”

"It is impossible to say with certainty,” I replied. "There are many records of vampires in the past, but up to the present the Society for Psychical Research has never come into contaa with any of the creatures. What is this story of vampires in your own family?”

"In the days of the Commonwealth,” he answered, "a series of mysterious murders followed the death of Sir Geoffrey Thorne. At the advice of a mystic, his coffin was opened, and the body examined. His heart was found to be full of fresh blood.”

"Does Sir George know this legend?” I asked.

"Yes.” At my question, all his old terror returned, and he gripped my arm convulsively. "He knows — and he knew what would be its present sequel before he came here. He — he is here to aid and abet the thing that was my brother James!”

"Hold on,” I cut in, attempting to steady him. "We are not sure that there is such a thing. It may all be a lot of superstitious ’ ’

"Then we must make sure,” he interrupted hysterically. "And there is only one way to do that. We must go down to the crypt, and make sure that James’ body is in its coffin!”

I tried to dissuade him, but he was resolved. Moreover, he was determined to go at once. Resignedly I accompanied



him as, taper in hand, he unfastened the iron-bound door and began to descend the worn stone steps that led to the crypt.

Overhead the broad arches that supported the heavy roof fell away in shadow, but on all sides the walls and pillars glimmered moistly in the light of the candle. The air was damp, and heavy with the odor of slow decay. The unwholesomeness of the place was nauseating.

Henry led the way through the ranks of long-dead Thornes to a stone sarcophagus that stood apart in one corner. "Here,” he said, and stopped.

Together we lifted the stone slab from the top of the sarcophagus; then with my pocket knife I loosened the screws of the wooden coffin-lid beneath. Henry was now trembling so violently that he dropped several of them as I handed them to him.

At last I was able to slide the lid to the flagged paving of the crypt. Wordlessly I took the candle from Henry’s quivering grasp, and bent forward. A dim, white shroud took form in the flickering glimmer. I thrust in my hand, and did what I had to do....

"It’s all right,” I reported a minute later.

But it was not all right. The body was there, but it was lying on its side, and there were no signs of decomposition!

Two or three days passed uneventfully. Meanwhile I once more visited the farmer, and elicited his promise to notify me at once if there should be any more mysterious disappearances in the countryside.

One day Henry came to me with a strange question. "Michael,” he asked, "have you ever heard of a corpse’s being brought to life by being fed human blood?”

"Good Lord!” I exclaimed. "No! Where did you ever get such an idea?”

He held up an ancient, hand-made book. "I foimd this in the library,” he explained. "It is the work of a necromancer of the Middle Ages. In it he describes an experiment in which he partly revived a corpse by feeding it the blood of unfortunate travelers whom he lured to his tower. Finally his activities were discovered, and put a stop to.”

I made no comment, although I guessed.what was in his mind. After a moment’s hesitation, he put it into words:

"If the thing was done once, it could be done again. Could Sir George have come here under James’ orders to — to ”

I was about to make an emphatic denial when I remembered the condition of the body in the crypt. Had Henry stumbled upon the solution to the weird mystery that had already cost four lives? But the thing was preposterous! His authority was only the mad ravings of a mediaeval magician, and not to be credited.

And then a curious thing happened. Across the blank space of the opposite wall flitted the ugly shadow of an immense bat! At the same instant, although we heard no actual sound, the air of the room seemed to vibrate with the echo of wild, unholy laughter!

Suddenly my mind was made up to a course of aaion. "Come!” I exclaimed.! "We are going to the tower to see Sir George!”

Together we mounted the flight of stairs leading to the tower room, from whose high, narrow windows the gleam of a lantern burning far into the night had often before spoken to me of the invisible presence of Sir George Thorne. Our repeated knocking at the stout oaken door at the top brought no response.



Henry reached past me, and raised the latch. To our surpri2e, the heavy door swung open.

The room beyond was vacant, but on a table stood the ancient lantern, burning. We closed the door behind us, and looked around. Save for the table with the lantern and a narrow cot-bed, the apartment was unfurnished.

On the end of the cot something black was lying. I crossed and examined it. It was a broad-brimmed black hat and a black cloak. As I picked them up, a, musty odor of mold breathed from them. And there was something else; along the edge of the cloak was a smear of a substance that made the material stiff to the touch.

Henry and I regarded it silently. Against the dark cloth it looked like rust, but we both knew that it was something far more sinister. Should we confront Sir George with it, or should we take it away for evidence? But before we could decide, a sound broke the stillness. It was a slow, cumbrous step on the stair!

We cast about frantically for a place of concealment, for suddenly we knew that we must not be found with that cloak in our possession — not in that room! There was no other exit, no long curtains behind which to slip. There was only one chance; the door opened inward. I seized Henry by the arm, and we flattened ourselves against the wall beside it.

The steps were just outside now. Then the latch clicked, and the door swung slowly open. We heard the rhythmic, deliberate footfalls cross to the cot and stop. There was the rustle of cloth, and a tall figure, swathed in the hat and cloak that had lain on the cot, came within our range of vision as it crossed to the table, took up the lantern, turned, and with trancelike movement retraced its steps. We

drew a sigh of relief as the door closed behind it; it had not discovered us.

Giving it just time to reach the foot of the stairs, I fumbled in the darkness for the latch. “We must follow him,” I whispered to Henry. "Hell alone knows where he is going or what mischief he is planning.” For now I was convinced that Sir George Thorne was at the heart of the ghastly terror that hovered over the countryside.

We hurried down the stairs and out into the cool night. The figure in blade should be some ten rods in front of us, at most. We peered guardedly forth. To our amazement, there was no sign of it in any direaion!

"He may have gone into the main part of the house,” Henry said.

We went in and searched, but there was nothing anywhere.

All that evening the atmosphere seemed charged with a growing tension, a gathering, evil force that was preparing to break in some horrible climax. We could do nothing to circumvent it, for we had no idea how or where it meant to strike.

"Michael,” Henry asked once, "should we not send some warning to the neighboring farmers and villagers?”

"Warning against what?” I asked ironically, for I had already thought of that. "Against Sir George Thorne?”

He was silent, realizing the impossibility of it. Presently he left the room, and came back with a small pistol.

"What’s that?” I asked.

"Merely an ordinary pistol,” he an-' swered, "but I have had made for it — a silver bullet.”

"What!” I exclaimed. "You are not going to shoot your half-brother as a sorcerer?”

"Nor unless I must,” he replied grimly. "But we must have some weapon to



use against him if it should become necessary.”

After that, silence fell between us for a long time. And then suddenly the old house resounded to a furious thumping at the front door!

We heard the servant go to answer it. Then footsteps rushed past him, and a disheveled man staggered into the room. It was my acquaintance, the farmer.

"Vor the love o’ God, zor,” he gasped, "help us! The Thing has been amongst us again, and this time it has taken my brother’s little girl! My wife an’ me saw it as it were makin’ off with her, and it were headed this way.”

"You saw it?” I cried. "What was it like?”

"It were all wrapped in a long black cloak that made it flap like a big bat,” he replied all too vividly.

I saw Henry’s face turn a sickly gray. But before any of us could speak further, a new sound startled us. Through the night outside rang the frightened cry of a child!

A long window behind us opened upon a stone balcony. With one accord we rushed through it, in time to see a great bat-like figure disappear around an angle of the house. In an instant we had leaped the low stone parapet, and were in hot pursuit.

As WE roimde’d the corner of the house, >-we saw the monster, carrying something light flimg over one shoulder, running close under the shadow of the wall. Suddenly he darted across a patch of feeble moonlight, and made straight for the tower.

"We’ve got him!” exclaimed Henry exultantly. "There’s no other way out of there.”

Like hounds when their quarry is in sight, we raced after him, thundering up

the steep, narrow steps just as the door at the top was slammed shut. The next instant we had flung our combined weight against it. It flew wide open under the impaa.

In the center of the room, the black thing turned at bay to face us. When it saw that there were three of us, it dropped the child it had been carrying, and made a dash for the window. A second it poised upon the sill in the pallid light of the moon; then it spread its cloaked arms like great webbed wings, and jumped.

Leaving the farmer to look after the child, we flung ourselves down the stairs and out into the night, expecting to find a crushed, broken figure at the tower’s foot. There was nothing there!

Of a sudden, as if a voice had shouted orders into my ear, I knew what to do. "To the crypt!” I cried. "He will go there.”

Back into the house we sped, and, pausing only long enough to snatch up a powerful elearic torch, made for the crypt. As we passed along its damp, gelid vaults, our steps were drawn as if by a magnet to that new sarcophagus in the corner. We stopped before it, and our blood grew chill with cold horror: The coffin was open, and its occupant was gone!

"My God!” gasped Henry. "It isn’t

Sir George out there; it’s ” Then a

new thought struck him. "But where is Sir George?”

I did not reply, for I did not like to contemplate the answer to that question just then. I drew Henry with me into the shadow of a pillar to wait for the thing that I knew would soon make its appearance.

Soon it came. We heard the measured, hollow ring of its steps, like clods of earth falling upon a coffin-lid. My heart



beat stiflingljr as I listened to it — ^the vampire returning to its grave!

In a second or so it came into view, going straight for the open sarcophagus. But before it quite reached its destination, it turned its head and saw us. With a high, piercing squeak of rage and fright, it darted back, flapping its ungainly winglike arms.

"Stop it!” I cried, in my excitement addressing the bare stone walls around me. "It is a murderer, a thing of evil!”

The creature was now flitting in and out among the vaulted pillars that held up the roof. "Stop it!” I cried again in desperation. "If it escapes now, we can never capture it!”

The thing flapped its pinion-like cloak as if in defiance, and rose several feet in the air. And then from behind me rang the sharp crack of a pistol. The monster screamed, and collapsed in a heap upon the flagging.

Henry, smoking weapon in hand,

leaned weakly against the wall while I knelt beside the thing on the stones. As I removed the crumpled felt hat, the beam of my elearic torch betrayed that which the dim candle-light had failed to reveal upon our former visit to the crypt: the face of the corpse was the bloated, funguslike face of Sir George Thorne!

Two days later, the body of James Thorne, under its adopted name of George Thorne, was cremated, and its ashes scattered upon the winds of the moor. It was given out that the baronet. Sir George, had been the viaim of a shooting accident; and this fiction was politely accepted by the countryside. Henry, now Sir Henry, although he seldom uses the title, has left the manor for an indefinite period. There now remains

[THE END]

============================================================
PRINCE BORGIA’S MASS AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
no evidence of this awful interlude save a silver bullet, oddly flattened into the shape of a pentagon, which I wear set in a ring as a memento of our grotesque adventure with the undead.

Prince Borgia’s Mass

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

A brief tale of black magic, in which the Cesare Borgia plays

a leading part

CESARE, the Prince Borgia, Duke of Valentinois and Romagna, Lord of Imola and Forli, of Rimini and Pesaro, of Faenza and Urbino, stretched forth his imperial hand and- took from the lackey the paper he extended. At the same moment two figures moved out of the shadows behind the Borgia and peered over his shoulder at the paper. The younger of the two, he with the incipient

mustache, nervously stroked the down on his sharp chin; the other, an older, grayhaired man in military costume, betrayed by nought save the narrowing of his eyes the intensity of his interest.

Cesare, the Prince Borgia, grunted suddenly. "Three more!” he exclaimed with sullen vehemence.

"DeviPs work,” muttered the militar>' men.



"Three more,” repeated the young man under his breath.

"Some aaion must be taken, Highness,” said the military man in a jerky voice. "This thing can not... must not continue.”

"It is not fitting that you rebuke me thus. Captain,” returned the Prince Borgia shortly. "Be assured; aaion has already been taken. This very night shall see the end of this satanic business.” He turned abruptly to the lackey, who at once began to bow with the rapidity and regularity of an automaton. "Summon before me the mage, Rene!”

The lackey, still bowing, backed himself out of the spacious tent. The young man sank into a chair at the side of the Prince Borgia.

"What would you with Rene, Highness? Is it that you need magic now to combat this vandalism?”

Cesare, the Prince Borgia, turned his gaze on his companion. "Your mind is yet too young, Midi, to know this thing. Think you common vandals come to steal the bodies of my dead... such bodies already denuded of all things costly and of value? Pah!”

"It is good to think not. Highness. But if it is not vandals who do this thing, who then?”

The captain leaned forward. "You suspea then. Highness? Shall we take them this night?”

"They shall die before the dawn!”

"That is well,” said the captain. "Yes, that is well.”

Cesare nodded.

The flap of the tent was drawn aside, and into the large, dimly lit space shuffled the bent, wizened figure of Rene, the mage, and his grotesque, bird-like shadow followed behind, trailing the wall of the tent. He approached the Prince Borgia.

"Highness!” he murmured, and inclined his head.

"Rene, this night have three more bodies gone.” Cesare paused for the full import of his words to reach the mage. In a moment he continued, "These, my men, have died an honorable death in battle, and it is fitting that an honorable burial be given them. But their bodies have been taken, and burial is not to be for them. Ya, you were set to watch them with a purpose. Have you accomplished that purpose, Rene?”

The mage bowed low. "My commission is fulfilled; it is as you had foreseen. Highness. If a body of retainers is summoned together, I shall guide Highness to the spot where the bodies have been taken. There Highness shall see and know the guilty, and shall devise for them fit punishment. Fourteen bodies now in all have gone; these three we can yet save from indignity.”

"Well done, my worthy Rene; go now and array yourself for the journey.” The Prince Borgia turned. "And you. Captain, give orders for picked men to be in readiness to accompany us within the hour.”

The captain murmured, inclined his head, and left the tent, the crabbed figure of Rene trailing slowly in his wake.

A half-hour’s hard riding brought the group of men to the base of a small knoll some distance from the camp, where Rene indicated that the Prince Borgia should give the signal to dismount. The Borgia relayed a curt order to his captain, and in a moment the body of men was creeping silently up the slope, Rene, with the Prince Borgia, Midi, and the captain in the lead. Topping the rise, Rene turned and raised a hand to enjoin silence. Then he bent to the three around him.

PRINCE BORGIA’S MASS


"Recollect, Highness,” he muttered in a low voice, "tonight is Walpurgis night; this night do all the demons of the earth, the air, the fire, and the water come together to serve through earthly men at the Black Mass. See there!” He crouched low, and pointed.

Before them, in a slight depression at the base of the knoll, there stood a grove of trees; in the midst of this grove could be discerned vague, black shadows moving to and fro in the flickering light of huge candles. Midi gasped. The Prince Borgia gave the order for the men to surround the grove in silence; at his call they were to take those in the grove.. Then the four, again led by the mage, crept forward, and came at last to a vantagepoint, where they st(X)d to watch the horrible ritual taking place before them. Midi, the young companion of Cesare, started forward, the better to see, but Cesare drew him softly back.

There were nine of the men in the grove, and each was robed in black from head to toe, and upon each face there was a grotesque mask. Their robes, the watchers could see, were decorated with furs. Midi turned a startled, pu22led face to Rene.

"Mockery, Messer,” said the mage softly. "The furs of panther, lynx, and cat are worn always in these rituals. And those candles. Highness,” he went on, turning now to the Prince Borgia, "those candles are made from the fat of corpses. See too how they are made, each in the form of an inverted cross. Their bowls are skulls, and their fires are fed with cypress branches, and with the wood of gibbets. Soon they will consecrate a black host before that huge inverted cross they have stolen somewhere.”

The air was heavy with the stench of sulfur and evil-smelling asafetida. The watchers saw the nine in the grove walk

upon an earth covered with triangles, columns, stars, pentagrams and all manner of cabalistic signs. Now one of the nine separated himself and strode forward alone, where, with incredible obscenities, he held aloft a black host, and at once there arose from the eight before him a low chant, a calling upon Beel2ebub and Ahriman, a paean to Satan on high.

But the Prince Borgia was not inclined to grant the nine sufficient time to complete their rituals; for suddenly he gave a sharp command, and at once there came rushing from all sides the retainers, who threw themselves upon the black priests in fury. "Alive!” called Cesare. "I want them brought to me alive!” He turned and began to walk rapidly to where his horse was tethered. "Come,” he said to the three with him, "I shall pimish them to fit the crime; they shall celebrate with me a Mass of my own devising... and that their last!”

They rode swiftly back to the camp, where Cesare gave a quick order, rousing his troops from their sleep. At his order, too, men started to fashion nine inverted crosses, to set them in the ground when they were completed. Then he, with Midi and the mage, sat to await the coming of his retainers with the nine black priests.

They came at last, with the nine, a sorry group, stripped of their robes, securely bound. Cesare, the Prince Borgia, scrutini2ed them closely. Then he motioned for them to be brought forward and flung to their knees; again he studied the faces before him. He leaned forward to speak to them.

"Did you not know this the camp of the Borgia Prince, eh?... And yet you took from it the bodies of its dead!... Swine! Know that you are about to die; prepare to go before your black master.”



He motioned to the men. "Strip these of all clothing, and nail them upon the crosses... see to it that their heads do not touch upon the earth.” He turned now to Rene. "Take with you their bladk hosts, and by your magic make them white.”

The mage bowed and shambled away.

"Look you to it that upon each cross there is placed a portion of the tallow candles these swine have used,” the Prince addressed his men. "These must be placed and lit so that each drop of hot wax strikes the faces of the men below; let it remind them of their eternity.”

Rene appeared suddenly, in his hands nine of the white wafers which had been black only a moment before. These he gave to Cesare, and stood aside to await the further orders of the Prince Borgia.

"To fight these carrion,” murmured Cesare, "I can use either white or black magic... and it is my pleasure to use black. Think you not the black more fitting, Rene.?”

"Highness knows best.” The mage inclined his head. "Black, too, is the more dangerous.”

"And the better then,” said Cesare and strode forward. "Come!”

Obediently Rene followed him. The Prince Borgia paused before the first of the nine, and with his own fingers forced into the man’s mouth one of the unconsecrated white wafers. At the same moment Rene mumbled a short ritual in Latin. Cesare waited until the mage had finished; then he moved to the second, repeated his process, and the mage again said the ritual. Thus the nine were served. Now Cesare turned once more to the retainers.

"Bring to me the skull-bowls these carrion have used.”

Two retainers moved forward with the bowls, whidi the mage took carefully in his hands. The Prince Borgia moved

forward in his turn and dipped his hands into the fluid in the bowl; then he turned and began to sprinkle the bodies on die crosses with the fluid. This completed, he stepped away and gave the ritual into the charge of the mage.

Rene cast from him the skulls, so that they fell before the crosses, and more of the fluid splattered upward into the straining faces of the nine. Then he took from one of the retainers a black robe, which had been worn in the grove that night, and put it over his clothes. Now he fell to gesticulating and shouting, and at last, with incredible rapidity, began to repeat the entire ritual of the Black Mass backward, and at its conclusion pronounced in a loud voice the name of Beelzebub seven times.

Hardly had the sound of his voice died away, when there came from the depths of the sky a dense black cloud resembling nothing so much as a mass of dull black velvet suspended in the air. This hovered for a moment above the crosses; then descended suddenly, and immediately the air became intolerable for the smell of sulfur saturating it. Instinctively the soldiers crowded back; but Rene held his ground. For a moment the black cloud clung to the crosses, writhing and weaving about them; then suddenly there came a bluish pallor, and at once a brilliant flash of flame... and it was gone.

Then the startled soldiers saw that though the crosses remained as fresh as they had been made, the bodies of the nine were gone, and with them the skullbowls, and the tallow candles — but below each cross there lay a tiny heap of ashes!

"My Mass is over,” said Cesare, the Prince Borgia. "And I am very tired... And you, Midi? Come.”

Together the two moved away, and behind them in silence came the crabbed, weary figure of the mage, Rene.

A W eird Voyage to a W eird Planet

A Voyage to Sfanomoe

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

There are many marvelous tales, untold, unwritten, never to be recorded or remembered, lost beyond all divining and all imagining, that sleep in the double silence of far-recessive time and space. The chronicles of Saturn, the archives of the moon in its prime, the legends of Antiilia and Moaria — these are full of an unsurmised or forgotten wonder. And strange are the multitudinous tales withheld by the light-years of Polaris and the Galaxy. But none is stranger, none more marvelous, than the tale of Hotar and Evidon and their voyage to the planet Sfanomoe, from the last isle of foundering Atlantis. Harken, for I alone shall tell the story, who came in a dream to the changeless center where the past and future are always coiitemporary with the present; and saw the veritable happening thereof; and, waking, gave it words:

Hotar and Evidon were brothers in science as well as by consanguinity. They were the last representatives of a long line of illustrious inventors and investigators, all of whom had contributed more or less to the knowledge, wisdom and scientific resources of a lofty civilization matured through cycles. One by one they and their fellow-savants had learned the arcanic secrets of geology, of chemistry, of biology, of astronomy; they had subverted the elements, had constrained the sea, the sun, the air and the force of gravitation, compelling them to serve the uses of man; and lastly they had found a way to release the typhonic power of the atom, to destroy, transmute and reconstrua the molecules of matter at will.

However, by that irony which attends all the triumphs and achievements of man, the progress of this mastering of natural law was coincidental with the profound geologic changes and upheavals which caused the gradual sinking of Atlantis. Age by age, eon by eon, the process had gone on: huge peninsulas, whole seaboards, high mountain ranges, citied plains and plateaus, all went down in turn beneath the diluvial waves. With the advance of science, the time and location of future cataclysms was more accurately predictable; but nothing could be done to avert them.

In the days of Hotar and Evidon, all that remained of the former continent was a large isle, called Poseidonis. It was well known that this isle, with its opulent seaports, its eon-surviving monuments of art and architeaure, its fertile inland valleys, and moimtains lifting their spires of snow above semi-tropic jungles, was destined to go down ere the sons and daughters of the present generation had grown to maturity.

Like many others of their family, Hotar and Evidon had devoted long years of research to the obscure telluric laws governing the imminent catastrophe; and had sought to devise a means of prevention, or, at least, of retardation. But the seismic forces involved were too deeply seated and too widespread in their operation to be controllable in any manner or degree. No magnetic mechanism, no zone of repressive force, was powerful enough to affea them. When the two brothers were nearing middle age, they realized the ultimate fu111



tility of their endeavors; and though the peoples of Poseidonis continued to regard them as possible saviors, whose knowledge and resource were well-nigh superhuman, they had secretly abandoned all effort to salvage the doomed isle, and had retired from sea-gazing Lephara, the immemorial home of their family, to a private observatory and laboratory far up in the mountains of the interior.

Here, with the hereditary wealth at their command, the brothers surrounded themselves not only with all the known instruments and materials of scientific endeavor, but also with a certain degree of personal luxury. They were secluded from the world by a hundred scarps and precipices and by many leagues of little-trodden jungle; and they deemed this seclusion advisable for the labors which they now proposed to themselves, and whose real nature they had not divulged to any one.

Hotar and Evidon had gone beyond all others of their time in the study of astronomy. The true character and relationship of the world, the sun, the moon, the planetary system and the stellar universe, had long been known in Atlantis. But the brothers had speculated more boldly, had calculated more profoundly and more closely than any one else. In the powerful magnifying mirrors of their observatory, they had given special attention to the neighboring planets; had formed an accurate idea of their distance from the earth; had estimated their relative size; and had conceived the notion that several, or perhaps all, might well be inhabited by creatures similar to man; or, if not inhabited, were potentially capable of supporting human life.

Venus, which the Atlanteans knew by the name of Sfanomoe, was the planet which drew their curiosity and their conjeaure more than any other. Because of its position, they surmised that it might readily resemble the earth in climatic conditions and in all the prerequisites of biological development. And the hidden labor to which they were now devoting their energies was nothing less than the invention of a vehicle by which it would be possible to leave the ocean-threatened isle and voyage to Sfanomoe.

Day by day the brothers toiled to perfea their invention; and night by night, through the ranging seasons, they peered at the lustrous orb of their speculations as it hung in the emerald evening of Poseidonis, or above the violet-shrouded heights that would soon take the saffron footprints of the dawn. And ever they gave themselves to bolder imaginings, to stranger and more perilous projeas.

The vehicle they were building was designed with complete foreknowledge of all the problems to be faced, of all the difficulties to be overcome. Various types of air-vessels had been used in Atlantis for epochs; but they knew that none of these would be suitable for their purpose even in a modified form. The vehicle they finally devised, after much planning and long discussion, was a perfea sphere, like a miniature moon; since, as they argued, all bodies travelling through etheric space were of this shape. It was made with double walls of a metallic alloy whose secret they themselves had discovered — ■ an alloy that was both light and tough beyond any substance classified by chemistry or mineralogy. There were a dozen small round windows lined with an unbreakable glass, and a door of the same alloy as the walls, that could be shut with hermetic tightness. The explosion of atoms in sealed cylinders was to furnish the propulsive and levitative power and would also serve to heat, the sphere's interior against the absolute cold of space. Solidified air was to be carried in electrum containers and vaporized at the rate which

.W. T.— 7



would maintain a respirable atmosphere. And foreseeing that the gravitational influence of the earth would lessen- and cease as they went further and further away from it, they had established in the floor of the sphere a magnetic zone that would simulate the effea of gravity and thus obviate any bodily danger or discomfort to which they might otherwise be liable.

Their labors were carried on with no other assistance than that of a few slaves, members of an aboriginal race of Atlantis, who had no conception of the purpose for which the vessel was being built; and who, to insure their complete discretion, were deaf-mutes. There were no interruptions from visitors, for it was tacitly assumed throughout the isle that Hotar and Evidon were engaged in seismologic researches that required a concentration both pr6found and prolonged.

At length, after years of toil, of vacillation, doubt, anxiety, the sphere was completed. Shining like an immense bubble of silver, it stood on a westward-facing terrace of the laboratory, from which the planet Sfanomoe was now visible at eventide beyond the purpling sea of the jungle. All was in readiness: the vessel was amply provisioned for a journey of many lustrums and decades, and was furnished with an abundant supply of books, with implements of art and science, with all things needful for the comfort and convenience of the voyagers.

Hotar and Evidon were now men of middle years, in the hale mamrity of all their powers and faculties. They were the highest type of the Atlantean race, with fair complexions and lofty stature, with the features of a lineage both aristocratic and intellectual. Knowing the nearness of the final cataclysm, they had never married, they had not even formed any close ties but had given themselves to science W. T.— 8

with a monastic devotion. They mourned the inevitable perishing of their civilization, with all its epoch-garnered lore, its material and artistic wealth, its consummate refinement. But they had learned the imiversality of the laws whose operation was plunging Atlantis beneath the wave — ^the laws of change, of increase and decay; and they had schooled diemselves to a philosophic resignation — a resignation which, mayhap, was not untempered by a foresight of the singular glory and novel, unique experiences that would be entailed by their flight upon hitherto-untravelled space.

Their emotions, therefore, were a mingling of altruistic regret and personal expeaancy, when, on the evening chosen for their departure, they dismissed their wondering slaves with a writ of manumission, and entered the orb-shaped vessel. And Sfanomoe brightened before them with a pulsing luster, and Poseidonis darkened below, as they began their voyage into the sea-green heavens of the west.

The great vessel rose with a buoyant ease beneath their guidance; till soon they saw the lights of Susran the capital and its galley-crowded port Lephara, where nightly revels were held and the very fountains ran#\'ith wine that people might forget awhile the prediaed doom. But so high in air had the vessel climbed, that Hotar and Evidon could hear no faintest murmur of the loud lyres and strident merrymaking in the cities beneath. And they went onward and upward till the world was a dark blur and the skies were aflame with stars that their optic mirrors had never revealed. And anon the black planet below was rimmed with a growing crescent of fire, and they soared from its shadow to unsetting daylight. But the heavens were no longer a familiar blue, but had taken on the lucid ebon of ether;



and no star nor world, not even the Httlest, was dimmed by the rivalship of the sun. And brighter than all was Sfanomoe, where it hung with unvacillating 1ambence in the void.

Mile by stellar mile the earth was left behind; and Hotar and Evidon, peering ahead to the goal of their dreams, had almost forgotten it. Then, gazing back, they saw that it was no longer below but above them, like a vaster moon. And studying its oceans and isles and continents, they named them over one by one from their maps as the globe revolved; but vainly they sought for Poseidonis, amid an unbroken glittering waste of sea. And the brothers were conscious of that regret and sorrow which is the just due of all evanished beauty, of all sunken splendor. And they mused awhile on the glory that had been Atlantis, and recalled to memory her obelisks and domes and mountains, her palms with high and haughty crests, and the fire-tall plumes of her warriors, that would lift no longer to the sun.

Their life in the orb-like vessel was one of ease and tranquillity, and differed little from that to which they were accustomed. They pursued their wonted studies, they went. on with experiments they had planned or begun in past days, they read to each other the classic literature of Atlantis, they argued and discussed a million problems of philosophy or science. And time itself was scarcely heeded by Hotar and Evidon; and the weeks and months of their journey became years, and the years were added into lustrums, and the lustrums into decades. Nor were they sensible of the change in themselves and in each other, as the years began to weave a web of wrinkles in their faces, to tint their brows with the yellow ivory of age and to thread their sable beards with ermine. There were too many things to be solved or debated, too many speculations and

surmises to be ventured, for such trivial details as these to usurp their attention.

Sfanomoe grew larger and larger as the half-oblivious years went by; till anon it rolled beneath them with strange markings of untravelled continents and seas unsailed by man. And now the discourse of Hotar and Evidon was wholly concerning the world in which they would so soon arrive, and the peoples, animals and plants which they might expea to find. They felt in their ageless hearts the thrill of an anticipation without parallel, as they steered their vessel toward the ever-widening orb that swam below them. Soon they hung above its surface, in a cloud-laden atmosphere of tropic warmth; but though they were childishly eager to set foot on the new plana, they sagely decided to continue their journey on a horizontal level till they could study its topography with some measure of care and precision.

To their surprize, they found nothing in the bright expanse below that in any manner suggested the ‘work of men or living beings. They had looked for towering cities of exotic aerial architecture, for broad thoroughfares and canals and geometrically measured areas of agricultural fields. Instead, there was only a primordial landscape of mountains, marshes, forests, oceans, rivers and lakes.

At length they made up their minds to descend. Though they were old, old men, with five-foot ermine beards, they brought the moon-shaped vessel down with all the skill of which they would have been capable in their prime; and opening the door that had been sealed for decades, they emerged in turn — Hotar preceding Evidon, since he was a little the elder.

Their first impressions were of torrid heat, of, dazzling color and overwhelming perfume. There seemed to be a million odors in the heavy, strange, unA VOYAGE TO SFANAMOE


stirring air — odors that were almost visible in the form of wreathing vapors — perfumes that were like elixirs and opiates, that conferred at the same time a blissful drowsiness and a divine exhilaration. Then they saw that there were flowers everywhere— that they had descended in a wilderness of blossoms. They were all of unearthly forms, of supermundane size and beauty and variety, with scrolls and volutes of petals many-hued, that seemed to curl and twist with a more than vegetable animation or sentiency. They grew from a ground that their overlapping stems and calyxes had utterly concealed; they hung from the boles and fronds of palm-like trees they had mantled beyond recognition; they thronged the water of still pools; they poised on the jungle-tops like living creatures winged for flight to the perfume-drunken heavens. And even as the brothers watched, the flowers grew and faded with a thaumaturgic swiftness, they fell and replaced each other as if by some legerdemain of natural law.

Hotar and Evidon were delighted, they called out to each other like children, they pointed at each new floral marvel that was more exquisite and curious than the rest; and they wondered at the speed of their miraculous growth and decay. And they laughed at the unexampled bizarrerie of the sight, when they perceived certain animals new to zoology, who were trotting about on more than the usual number of legs, with orchidaceous blossoms springing from their rumps.

They forgot their long voyage through space, they forgot there had ever been a planet called the earth and an isle named Poseidonis, they forgot their lore and their wisdom, as they roamed through the flowers of Sfanomoe. The exotic air and its odors mounted to their heads like a mighty wine; and the clouds of golden and snowy pollen which fell upon them from the

arching arbors were potent as some fantastic drug. It pleased them that their white beards and violet tunics should be powdered with this pollen and with the floating spores of plants that were alien to all terrene botany.

Suddenly Hotar cried out with a new wonder, and laughed with a more boisterous mirth than before. He had seen that an oddly folded leaf was starting from the back of his shrunken right hand. The leaf unfurled as it grew, it disclosed a flower-bud; and lo! the bud opened and became a triple-chaliced blossom of unearthly hues, adding a rich perfume to the swooning air. Then, on his left hand, another blossom appeared in like manner; and then leaves and petals were burgeoning from his wrinkled face and brow, were going in successive tiers from his limbs and body, were mingling their hair-like tendrils and tongue-shaped pistils with his beard. He felt no pain, only an infantile surprize and bewilderment as he watched them.

Now from the hands and face and limbs of Evidon the blossoms also began to spring. And soon the two old men had ceased to wear a human semblance, and were hardly to be distinguished from the garland-laden trees about them. And they died with no agony, as if they were already part of the teeming floral life of Sfanomoe, with such perceptions and sensations as were appropriate to their new mode of existence. And before long their metamorphosis was complete, and every fiber of their bodies had undergone a dissolution into flowers. And the vessel in which they had made their voyage was embowered from sight in an ever-climbing mass of plants and blossoms.

Such was the fate of Hotar and Evidon, the last of the Atlanteans, and the first (if not also the last) of human visitors to Sfanomoe,

The Time -Traveler

By RALPH MILNE FARLEY

what would you do if you were given a chance to influence events so that you

could live the past over again?

IF HE had his life to live over again, and especially one certain day in his college career back in Cambridge, would he rescue his room-mate from the icy waters of the Charles River, as he had done on that particular day?

Professor John D. Smith turned this question bitterly over in his mind. For he had just received a blow, the crowning indignity of a long series of indignities at the hands of that ungrateful room-mate!

The blow consisted in a letter from the board of regents, informing him that Paul Arkwright (that room-mate), rather than himself, had been chosen to fill the vacancy as dean of the mathematics department. The letter went on to suggest taafully that, if Professor Smith objeaed to serving under a junior, his resignation would be accepted, although regretfully.

This last was too much!

Smith exploded to his wife, "Mary, I can see Paul’s hand in this, the dirty crook! Not content with beating me out of the position, he even wants to get me oflF the faculty, in addition. It’s the last straw! Why didn’t I let him drown ten years ago?”

Up TO ten years ago, the two men had been bosom friends: John Smith, the student; and Paul Arkwright, the athlete and handshaker. Then came the day when Paul had upset his rowingshell, and John had plunged into the frigid stream to save Paul’s life.

Some philosopher has said: "To make

a man love you, let him do you a favor; to make him hate you, do a favor for him.”

This had proved true in this instance. Smith adored his room-mate all the more. But Arkwright became secretly embittered that he, an athlete, had been rescued by a mere grind, especially as the Boston newspapers all featured that phase of the story.

John Smith was graduated with honors, and received an appointment to a Western university. He secured for his friend a position on the same faculty; which favor still further intensified Smith’s love and Arkwright’s hate. The latter, as soon as he was firmly established, began bootlicking the regents and negleaing Smith. As Smith stood in the way of his further ambition. Smith must be eliminated, gratitude or no gratitude.

So when Smith published his first big bit of research, Arkwright supplied a footnote pointing out a fundamental flaw. When Smith published his second thesis, his ex-friend called attention to the faa that the theory was old, and hinted that Smith had deliberately plagiarized it.

Yet even so. Smith was merely grieved, rather than resentful. But now came the last straw, and his long-suffering love for his old chum turned to hate.

Mrs. Smith was desolated by the situation.

Said she, "Of course, you will have no difficulty getting a good position in some other college. But I love this town. We have many friends here. And we shall



have to sell our beautiful house. Oh, the ungrateful wretch!”

” 'He who expeas gratitude hath not conferred a favor,’ ” quoted Smith, adding bitterly, "But Paul might, at least, have given me a square deal.”

That evening his colleague. Dr. Willis, called to condole with him, and to take his mind off his troubles by staging one of their periodic quarrels about relativity.

Assuming a gayety which he did not feel. Smith recited the following limerick:

There was a young lady named Bright,

Who could travel much faster than light.

She set out one day In a relative way,

And arrived on the preceding night.

Dr. Willis, horrified at this sacrilege, protested: "If you will persist in refusing to accept the Einstein theory, please, please use argument, rather than arrant flippancy!”

"Very well,” said Smith, "here goes for some argument. If, as you say, time is a dimension, like length, breadth and thickness, why can’t we go backward and forward through time, the same as we can in the other three direaions.^”

"It’s not the fault of time,” Willis replied, "but is merely due to our own limitations. God can view all time and space as one complete whole, so who knows but that some human beings, by virtue of the divine spark within them, may occasionally be able to travel backward through time.?”

"Bosh!” objeaed Smith.

But Willis persisted, "Isn’t memory really a sort of traveling backward through time?”

"No, it isn’t!” asserted Smith positively; "for, if it were, then we could go back to a past event in memory, change the event in the light of our present

knowledge, and then return to the present and enjoy the fruits of that change.”

. V

To himself he added, "If I could go back into the past, there is one event which I should most certainly change: my rescue of Paul Arkwright!”

Late that night he fell asleep, still cursing his ungrateful chum.

PROFESSOR SMITH dreamed that he was a college boy again, standing on a bridge over the Qiarles River, watching an athletic youth navigate the stream in a single-scull racing-shell. The air was crisp and cold. He saw a submerged log just ahead of the rower, and shouted a warning. But it was too late. The craft struck and capsized. No danger, though, for Paul was as expert a swimmer as he was a rower.

The dream was as vivid as though it were real! To the dreamer it was actually real; he had no idea that he was merely dreaming.

As Smith looked, the swimmer’s face suddenly contorted and his head went under. As he came to the surface again, he cried in a strained voice, "Cramps! Help!”

"Coming, Paul!” shouted Smith, casting off his coat and leaping onto the pa;;;.oer of the bridge.

But hen something stayed him, some premonition, or an Einsteiniari memory of the fumre, who can say which?

"Sink, you damned scoundrel!” Smith shouted; and jumping down from the parapet again, he put on his coat and walked briskly away, without even glancing back at the drowning man.

PROFESSOR Smith awoke in a sweat of horror, for he had dreamed that he had deliberately let his best friend drown. He switched on the light and shuddered. 'Then he remembered all that this false


tWEIRD TALES

friend had done to injure him in ithe years that had followed that drowning, from which he had really rescued the friend, instead of deserting him as in the dream. And with the recollection of all those ungrateful indignities, he sincerely wished that the dream were true, and that the truth had been only a dream.

But no such luck, for there on his dresser lay the fateful letter from the regents, complete proof of his friend’s faithlessness!

Smith reached for the letter, and opened it; then rubbed his eyes and looked again. For the letter from the board of regents took pleasure in informing him of his seleaion as dean of mathematics, the coveted position!

’'This must be some more of the same dream,” Smith thought, "for this is what would have happened if I had let that beast drown, instead of saving his ungrateful hide as I did.”

To see if the illusion still held, he got up and went over to the bookcase, which held the bound copies of the Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society. Taking out one well-thumbed volume, he turned to the page where Paul Arkwright’s damning note had pointed out the fallacy in Smith’s thesis. 'There stood the thesis and the note, but the note was very mild, and was by the editor instead of by Arkwright.

Professor Smith turned to his second article in another volume. Sure enough, there was the note abotit the German anticipation of his ideas, but this note too was by the editor, and it contained no veiled accusation of intentional plagiarism.

Professor Smith smiled. The dream was going good! So he looked up Arkwright’s name in the college catalog, only to find no such person among the faculty. Even Paul’s mathematics courses

were all listed as given by others. Smith’s smile became a grin.

The gray light of morning was beginning to show. He dressed quietly, then sneaked downstairs, and getting into his car, drove out to the new subdivision, where Paul Arkwright’s house was being built. But the lot stood vacant, and still held a "for sale” sign.

About the time that Professor Smith readied home again, he began to realize that he was awake and not dreaming. And then he began to worry. 'Things like this just don’t happen in real life! Yesterday Paul had blocked his promotion; today all trace of Paul had been wiped from the face of the earth. Of else he himself was losing his mind.

His one hope lay in his wife. She would, she must, remember their despairing conference of the night before!

At breakfast she appeared, looking worried; and no wonder, with him traipsing off in the car in the early morning, when usually she had difficulty getting him out of bed in time for breakfast!

He noticed her tense look, and it cheered him, for he interpreted it as being due to the letter of the night before. But still he could not be sure.

So he said in a level tone, "Do you remember that letter from the regents last night?”

To his surprize, his wife brightened at once.

"Indeed I do!” she said. "Isn’t it splendid! You aaed like a kid when you read it to me. And didn’t we have a wonderful celebration-party together downtown! A regular second honeymoon. To you, the promotion means the fulfilment of your ambitions. And to me it means that we shall soon be able to pay off the ffiortgage on our home. Oh. Joto, isn’t it glorious!”



"'But how about Paul Arkwright?” he asked, bewildered.

"You poor dear,” she sympathized, "it’s just like you to grieve over your old room-mate in your hour of triumph. I wish that I had known him. He must have been quite a fellow, to judge from the way you have always praised him. He would be so glad, I am sure, if he were alive today, to know of your success.”

Professor Smith gave it up! He passed a bewildered hand across his brow. He would accept the gift of the gods without question. Paul’s death would never be on his conscience, for he Icnew in his heart of hearts that he had aaually saved Paul ten years ago, and that letting Paul drown had been only a figment of last night’s dream.

And yet had it been merely a dream? As the day wore on. Professor Smith began to believe that some probably unfounded premonition had caused him actually to kill his beloved and trusting room-mate, years ago; and that the long chain of ungrateful indignities at the hands of that room-mate had been the dream, a mere invention of his imagination, conjured up by some defense-mechanism in his brain, to justify his dastardly aa.

In spite of the congratulations which were showered upon him because of his promotion, he became more and more morose and harassed during the day. By evening he was a wreck!

That night the same dream came again. Once more John Smith, the college grind, stood on the parapet overlooking the Charles River, and watched

his athletic room-mate, Paul Arkwright, struggling amid the ice-cakes.

’'If I save him,” the thought flashed through Smith’s mind, "he will be ungrateful. He will hound me and ruin my career. But if I let him drown, his death will haunt me forever.”

"Coming, Paul!” he cried, and dived into the swirling stream.

PROFESSOR Smith awoke, feeling very proud of himself. He had saved Paul Arkwright’s life.

But had he?

There lay the letter from the regents. That letter would tell the tale.

Fearfully Smith arose, and approached the letter as though it had been a poisonous serpent. Gingerly he reached out for the envelope. For a moment he held it, not daring to look inside. But at last, with an effort, he took out the letter and unfolded it. With a further efifort, he looked at it and read it carefully.

Then he actually smiled with relief! The letter was in its old original form, informing him of Paul Arkwright’s appointment as Dean, and taafully suggested his own resignation. He could stand it now, for his conscience was clear. 'There were worse things in life than a lost job!

Professor Smith then remembered his dispute with Dr. Willis on the Einstein theory two evenings ago, and his grin became even broader.

"Won’t Willis be interested!” said he to himself. "I’ve twice gone back into time, and have twice changed my entire career.” Then he smiled ruefully, and added, "And yet how can I ever prove it to anyone?”

The Wolf-Leader

By ALEXANDRE DUMAS

CHAPTER 1

The Grand Master of His Highness' W olf hounds

The Seigneur Jean, Baron of Vez, was an indefatigable sportsman. If you follow the beautiful vallej' which runs between Berval and Longpre, you will see, on your left-hand, an old tower, which by reason of its isolated position will appear doubly high and formidable to you.

It was a building of the Twelfth or Thirteenth Century, rugged and gloomy, its terrifying exterior having assumed no kindlier aspea as the years rolled by. True, the sentinel with his measured tread and flashing steel cap no longer paced its ramparts, the archer with his shrill-sounding horn no longer kept watch and ward on the battlements; the postern was no longer guarded by men at arms, ready at the least signal of danger to lower the portcullis and draw up die bridge; but the solitude alone which surrounded this grim giant of granite was sufficient to inspire the feeling of awe-inspiring majesty' awakened by all mute and motionless things.

*Thi3 remarkable werewolf novel, by Alexandre Dumas, file, is not included in the published collections of Diunas’ works in English, and will therefore be new to our readers, except those who have had the STOod fortune to read the story in the original French.

The lord of this old fortress, however, was by no means so much to be dreaded; those who were more intimately acquainted with him than were the peasants, and could do him more justice, asserted that his bark was worse than his bite, and that he caused more fear than harm — that is, among his fellow Christians. With the animals of the forest it was different, for he was their implacable enemy.

He was chief wolf-hunter to his Royal Highness Louis Philippe of Orleans, the fourth of that name — a post which allowed him to gratify the inordinate passion he had for the chase. Although it was not easy, it was yet possible to bring the Baron to listen to reason in other matters; but as regards the chase, if once he had got a fixed idea in his head, nothing would satisfy him uritil he had carried it out and had achieved his purpose.

His wife, according to report, was the natural daughter of the Prince, which, in conjunction with his title of chief wolfhunter, gave him almost absolute power throughout the domains of his illustrious father-in-law, a power which no one dared to contest with him, especially after the remarriage of his Royal Highness with Madame de Montesson. This had taken place in 1773, since which date he had almost abandoned his castle at ViU



lers-Cotterets for his delightful residence at Bagnolet, where he entertained all the first wits of the day and amused himself with play-acting.

And sOj whether the sun was shining to rejoice the earth, or the rain was saddening it, whedier the winter fields lay hidden beneath a shroud of snow, or the spring had spread her fresh green carpet over the meadows, it was rare, on any day of the year, not to see the great gates of the castle thrown wide open between eight and nine o’clodc in the morning, and first the Baron come forth, and immediately after him his chief pricker, Marcotte, followed by the oAer prickers. Then appeared the dogs, coupled and held in leash by the keepers of the hounds, under the superintendence of Engoulevent, who aspired to become a pricker. Even as the German executioner walks alone, behind the nobles and in front of the citizens, to show that he is the least of the former and the first of the latter, so he walked immediately after the prickers and ahead of the keepers of the hounds, as being the chief of the whippers-in and least of the prickers.

The whole procession filed out of the castle court in full hunting array, with the English horses and the French hounds; twelve horses, and forty dogs.

Before we go any farther, let me say that with these twelve horses and forty dogs the Baron hunted every sort of quart}’, but more especially the wolf, in order no doubt to do honor to his title.

No further proof will be needed by the genuine sportsman of the fine faith he had in the general quality of his hounds, and in their keenness of scent, than the fact that next to the wolf he gave preference to the boar, then to the red deer, then to the fallow-deer, and lastly to the roebuck; finally, if the keepers of the pack failed to sight the animal they had tracked, he uncoupled at random, and

went after the first hare that crossed his path. For the worthy Baron went hunting every day, and he would sooner have gone for four-and-twenty hours without foor or drink than have spent that time without seeing his hounds run.

But, as everybody knows, however swift the horses, and however keen rfte dogs, hunting has its bad times as well as its good.

One day, Marcotte came up to where the Baron was awaiting him, with a crestfallen expression of countenance.

"How now, Marcotte,” asked the Baron frowning, "what is the matter this time? I see by your face we are to expect bad sport today.”

Marcotte shook his head.

"Speak up, man,” continued the Baron with a gesture of impatience.

"The matter is, my lord, that the black wolf is about.”

"Ah! ah!” exclaimed the Baron, his eyes sparkling; for you must know that this made the fifth or sixth time that the worthy Baron had started the animal in question, but never once had he been able to get within gun-shot of him or to run him down.

"Yes,” Marcotte went on, "but the damned beast has employed himself so well all night crossing his track and doubling, that after having traced him over half the forest, I found myself at the place from which I started.”

"You think then, Marcotte, that there is no chance of getting near him.”

"I am afraid not.”

"By all the devils in hell!” exclaimed the Lord of Vez, who had not had his equal in swearing since the mighty Nimrod. "However, I am not feeling well today, and I must have a burst of some kind, to get rid of these bad humors. What do you think we can hunt, Marcotte, in place of this damned black wolf?”



"Well, having been so taken up with the wolf,” answered Marcotte, "I have not traced any other animal. Will my Lord uncouple at random and hunt the first animal that we come across?”

The Baron was about to express his willingness to agree to this proposal when he caught sight of little Engoulevent coming toward them cap in hand.

'Wait a moment,” he said; "here comes Engoulevent, who, I fancy, has some advice to give us.”

"I have no advice to give to a noble lord like yourself,” replied Engoulevent, assuming an expression of humility on his sly and crafty face; "it is, however, my duty to inform you that there is a splendid buck in the neighborhood.”

"Let us see your buck, Engoulevent,” replied the chief wolf-hunter, "and if you are not mistaken about it, there will be a new crown for you.”

"Where is this buck of yours?” asked Marcotte; "but look to your skin, if you make us uncouple to no purpose.”

"Let me have Matador and Jupiter, and then we shall see.” Matador and Jupiter were the finest among the hounds belonging to the Lord of Vez. And indeed, Engoulevent had not gone a hundred paces with them through the thicket, before, by the lashing of their tails, and their repeated yelping, he knew that they were on the right scent. In another minute or two a magnificent ten-tined stag came into view. Marcotte cried tally-ho, sounded his horn, and the hunt began, to the great satisfaaion of the Lord of Vez, who although regretting the black wolf, was willing to make the best of a fine buck in its stead. The hunt had lasted two hours, and the quarry still held on. It had first led its pursuers from the little wood of Haramont to the Chemin du Pendu, and thence straight to the back of Oigny, and it still showed no sign of fatigue; for it was not one of those poor

animals of the flat country who get their tails pulled by every wretched terrier.

As it neared the low grounds of Bourgfontaine, however, it evidently decided that it was being run rather hard, for it gave up the bolder measures which had hitherto enabled it to keep ahead, and began to double.

Its first maneuver was to go down to the brook which joins the ponds of Baisemont and B6urg, then to walk against stream with the water up to its haunches, for nearly half a mile; it then sprang on to the right bank, back again into the bed of the stream, made another leap to the left, and with a succession of bounds, as vigorous as its failing strength allowed, continued to out-distance its pursuers. But the dogs of my lord Baron were not animals to be put out by such trifles as these. Being both sagacious and well-bred, they, of their own accord, divided the task between themselves, half going up stream, and half down, these hunting on the right, those on the left, and so effeaually that they ere long put the animal off its changes, for they soon recovered the scent, rallying at the first cry given by one of the pack, and starting afresh on the chase, as ready and eager as if the deer had been only twenty paces in front of them.

And so with galloping of horses, with cry of hounds and blare of horn, the Baron and his himtsmen reached the ponds of Saint Antoine, a hundred paces or so from the confines of Oigny. Between these and the osier-beds stood the hut of Thibault, the sabot-maker.

WE MUST pause to give some description of this Thibault, the shoemaker, the real hero of the tale.

You will ask why I, who have summoned kings to appear upon the stage, who have obliged princes, dukes, and barons to play secondary parts in my roTH£ WOLF-LEADER


mances, should take a simple shoemaker for the hero of this tale.

First, I will reply by saying that, in my dear home country of Villers-Cotterets, there are more sabot-makers than barons, dukes and princes, and that, as soon as I decided to make the forest the scene of the events I am about to record, I was obliged to choose one of the actual inhabitants of this forest as hero.

More than that, it is not the author who decides on the subjea, but the subjea which takes possession of the author, and, good or bad, this particular subjea has taken possession of me. I will therefore endeavor to draw Thibault’s portrait for you, plain shoemaker as he was, as exaaly as the artist paints the portrait which a prince desires to send to his ladylove.

Thibault was a man between twentyfive and twenty-seven years of age, tall, well made, physically robust, but by nature melancholy and sad of heart. This depression of spirits arose from a little grain of envy, which he harbored toward all such of his neighbors as had been more favored by fortune than himself.

His father had committed a fault, a serious one at all times, but more especially in those days of absolutism, when a man was not able to rise above his station as nowadays, when with sufficient capacity he may attain to any rank. Thibault had been educated above his posi-. tion; he had been at school under the Abbe Fortier, at Villers-Cotterets, and had learnt to read, write, and cipher; moreover, he knew a little Latin, which made him inordinately proud of himself. Thibault had spent a great part of his time in reading, and his books had been chiefly those which were in vogue at the close of the preceding century. But he had not been a sufficiently clever analyst to know how to separate tlte good from the bad,

or rather he had separated what was bad. and swallowed it in large doses, leaving the good to precipitate itself at the bottom of the glass.

At twenty years of age Thibault had certainly had dreams of being something other than a sabot-maker. He had, for instance, for a very little while, cast his eyes toward the army. But his comrades who had worn the double livery of king and country had left the service as they entered it, mere soldiers of the ranks, having failed during five or six years of slavery to obtain promotion, even to the not very exalted grade of corporal.

Thibault had also thought of becoming a sailor. But a career in the navy was as much forbidden to the plebeian as one in the army. Possibly after enduring danger and storm and battle for fifteen or twenty years, he might be made a boatswain's mate, and that was all. Besides, it was by no means Thibault’s ambition to wear a short vest and sail-cloth trousers, but the blue uniform of the king with red vest and gold epaulettes. He had moreover known of no single case in which the son of a mere shoemaker had become master of a frigate, or even lieutenant. So he was forced to give up all idea of joining the King’s navy.

Thibault would not have minded being a notary, and at one time thought of apprenticing himself to the Royal Scrivener, Maitre Niquet, as a stepping-stone, and of making his way up on the strength of his own legs and with the help of his pen. But supposing him to have risen to the position of head clerk with a salary of a hundred crowns, where was he to find the thirty thousand francs which would be required for the purchase of the smallest village practise?

There was, therefore, no better chance of his becoming a scrivener than of becoming an officer on sea or land. Meanwhile, Thibault’s father died, leaving



very little ready money. There was about enough to bury him, so he was buried, and this done, there remained some thirty or forty francs over for Thibault.

Thibault knew his trade well; indeed, he was a first-rate workman; but he had no inclination to handle either auger or parer. It ended, therefore, by his leaving all his father’s tools in the care of a friend, a remnant of prudence still remaining to him, and selling every vestige of furniture; having thus realized a sum of five hundred and forty livres, he determined to make what was then called the tour of France.

Thibault spent three years in traveling; he did not make his fortune during that time, but he learnt a great many things in the course of his journey of which he was previously ignorant, and acquired certain accomplishments which he had previously been without.

He learnt amongst other things that, although it was as well to keep one’s word on matters of business with a man, it was no use whatever keeping love vows made to a woman.

So much for his charaaer and habits of mind. As to his external accomplishments, he could dance a jig beautifully, could hold his own at quarter-staff against four men, and could handle the boarspear as cleverly as the best huntsman going. All these things had not a little served to increase 'Thibault’s natural selfesteem, and, seeing himself handsomer, stronger, and cleverer than many of the nobles, he would exclaim against Providence, crying, "Why was I not nobly born? Why was not that nobleman yonder born a peasant?”

But as Providence took care not to make any answer to these apostrophes, and as Thibault found that dancing, playing at quarter-staff, and throwing the boar-spear only fatigued the body, without procuring him any material advantage, he began to turn his thoughts toward his ancient' trade, humble though it was, saying to himself, if it enabled the father to live, it would also enable the son. So Thibault went and fetched away his tools; and then, tools in hand, he went to ask permission of the steward of his Royal Highness Louis Philippe of Orleans to build a hut in the forest, in which to carry on his trade. He had no difficulty in obtaining this, for the steward knew by experience that his master was a very kind-hearted man, expending as much as two hundred and forty thousand francs a year on the poor; he felt sure, therefore, that one who gave away a sum like this would be willing to let an honest workman who wished to ply his trade have thirty or forty feet of ground.

As he had leave to establish himself in whatever part of the forest he liked best, Thibault chose the spot near the osier-beds, where the roads crossed, one of the most beautiful parts of the woods, less than a mile from Oigny and about three times that distance from VillersCotterets. The shoemaker put up his work-shop, built partly of old planks given him by Monsieur Panisis, who had been having a sale in the neighborhood, and partly of the branches which the steward gave him leave to cut in the forest.

When the building of the hut, which consisted of a bedroom, cozily shut in, where he could work during the winter, and of a lean-to, open to the air, where he could work in the summer, was completed, Thibault began to think of making himself a bed. At first, a layer of fern had to serve for this purpose; but after he had made a hundred pairs of wooden shoes and had sold these to Bedeau, who kept a general shop at Villers-Cotterets, he was able to pay a sufficient deposit to get a mattress, to be paid for in full by the end of three months. The framework



of the bed was not difficult to make; Thibault was not the shoemaker he was without being a bit of a carpenter into the bargain, and when this was finished he plaited osiers to take the place of sacking, laid the mattress upon them, and found himself at last with a bed to lie upon.

Little by little came the sheets, and then in turn the coverlids; the next purchase was a chafing-dish, and earthenware pots to cook in, and finally some plates and dishes. Before the year was out Thibault had also made additions to his furniture of a fine oak chest and a fine walnut-wood cupboard, both, like the bed, his own handiwork. All the while he was driving a brisk trade, for none could beat Thibault in turning a block of beech into a pair of shoes, and in converting the odd chips into spoons, saltcellars and nattly little bowls.

He had now been settled in his workshop for three years, that is, ever since his return after the completion of his tour round France, and there was nothing for which any one could have reproached him during this interval except the failing we have already mentioned — that he was rather more envious of the good fortune of his neighbor than was altogether conducive to the welfare of his soul. But this feeling was as yet so inoffensive that his confessor had no need to do more than awaken in him a sense of shame for harboring thoughts which had, so far, not resulted in any artive crime.

CHAPTER 2

The Seigneur Jean and the Sabot-maker

As ALREADY Said, the buck began to ^ dodge and double on reaching Oigny, turning and twisting round Thibault’s hut, and the weather being fine although the autumn was well advanced, the shoemaker was sitting at his work in his open lean-to. Looking up, he suddenly espied the trembling animal, quivering in every limb, standing a few paces in front of him, gazing at him with intelligent and terrified eyes.

"Saint Sabot!” he exclaimed — I should explain that the festival of Saint Sabot is the wooden-shoe fete — "Saint Sabot! but that is a dainty morsel and would taste as fine, I warrant, as the chamois I ate at Vienne once at the grand banquet of the Jolly Shoemakers of Dauphine. Luclcy folk who can dine on the like every day. I tasted such once, and my mouth waters when I think of it. Oh! these lords! these lords! with their fresh meats and their old wines at every meal, while I have to be satisfied with potatoes to eat and water to drink from one week’s end to the other; and it is a chance if even on Sunday I can feast myself with a lump of rusty bacon and an old cabbage, and a glass of pignolet fit to make my old goat stand on her head.”

It need scarcely be said, that as soon as Thibault began this monologue, the buck had turned and disappeared. Thibault had finished rounding his periods, and had just declaimed his peroration, when he heard himself roughly accosted in forcible terms:

"Ho, there, you scoundrel! answer me.”

It was the Baron, who, seeing his dogs wavering, was anxious to make sure that they were not on the wrong scent.

"Ho, there, you scoundrel!” repeated the wolf-hunter, "have you seen the beast?”

There was evidently something in the manner of the Baron’s questioning which did not please our philosophical shoemaker, for although he was perfealy aware what was the matter, he answered: "What beast?”

"Curse you! why, the buck we are hunting! He must have passed close by here, and standing gaping as you do, you must have seen him. It was a fiine stag of



ten, was it not? Which way did he go? Speak up, you blackguard, or you shall have a taste of my stirrup-leather!”

"The black plague take him, cub of a wolf!” muttered the shoemaker to himself. Then, aloud, with a fine air of pretended simplicity, "Ah, yes!” he said, "I did see him.”

"A buck, was it not? a ten-tiner, eh? with great horns.”

"Ah, yes, to be sure, a buck, with great horns — or great corns, was it? — yes, I saw him as plain as I see you, my Lord. But there, I can't say if he had any corns, for I did not look at his feet, anyhow,” he added, with the air of a perfea simpleton, "if he had corns, they did not prevent him running.”

At any other time the Baron would have laughed at what he might have taken for genuine stupidity; but the doublings of the animal were beginning to put him into a regular huntsman’s fever.

"Now, then, you scoundrel, a truce to this jesting! If you are in a humor for jokes, it is more than I am!”

"I will be in whatever humor it may please your Lordship I should be.”

"Well, then, answer me.”

"Your Lordship has asked me nothing as yet.”

"Did the deer seem tired?”

"Not very.”

"Which way did he come?”

"He did not come, he was standing still.”

"Well, but he must have come from one side or the other.”

"Ah! very likely, but I did not see him come.”

"Which way did he go?”

"I w'ould tell you direaly; only I did not see him go.”

The Lord of Vez cast an angry look at Thibault.

"Is it some while ago the buck passed this way, Master Simpleton?”

"Not so very long, my lord.”

"About how long ago?”

Thibault made as if trying to remember; at last he replied: "It was, I thitdc, the day before yesterday,” but in saying this, the shoem^er, unfortunately, could not suppress a grin. This grin did not escape the Baron, who, spurring his horse, rode down on Thibault with lifted whip.

Thibault was agile, and with a single bound he reached the shelter of his leanto, whither the wolf-hunter could not follow, so long as he remained mounted; Thibault was therefore in momentary safety.

"You are only bantering and lying!" cried the huntsman; "for there is Marcassino, my best hound, giving cry not twenty yards off, and if the deer passed by where Marcassino is, he must have come over the hedge, and it is impossible, therefore, that you did not see him.”

"Pardon, my lord, but according to our good priest, no one but the Pope is in^ fallible, and Monsieur Marcassino may be mistaken.”

"Marcassino is never mistaken, do you hear, you rascal? and in proof of it I can see from here the marks where the animal scratched up the ground.”

"Nevertheless, my Lord, I assure you,

I swear ” said Thibault, who saw the

Baron’s eyebrows contraaing in a way that made him feel uneasy.

"Silence, and come here, blackguard!” cried my lord.

Thibault hesitated a moment, but the black look on the sportsman’s face became more and more threatening, and fearing to increase his exasperation by disobeying his command, he thought he had better go forward, hoping that the Baron merely wished to ask a service of him.

But it was an unlucky move on his part, for scarcely had he emerged from the protection of the shed, before the horse



of the Lord of Vez, urged by bit and spur, gave a leap, which brought his rider swooping down upon Thibault, while at the same moment a furious blow from the butt end of the Baron’s whip fell upon his head.

The shoemaker, stunned by the blow, tottered a moment, lost his balance and was about to fall face downward, when the Baron, drawing his foot out of the stirrup, with a violent kick in the chest, not only straightened him again, but sent the poor wretch flying in an opposite direaion, where he fell with his back against the door of his hut.

"Take that!” said the Baron, as he first felled Thibault with his whip, and then kicked him. "Take that for your lie, and that for your banter!”

And then, without troubling himself any further about the man, whom he left lying on his back, the Lord of Vez, seeing that the hounds had rallied on hearing Marcassino’s cry, gave them a cheery note on his horn, and cantered away.

Thibault lifted himself up, feeling bruised all over, and began feeling himself from head to foot to make sure that no bones were broken.

Having carefully passed his hand over each limb in succession, "That’s all right,” he said; "there is nothing broken either above or below, I am glad to find. So, my lord Baron, that is how you treat people, because you happen to have married a Prince’s bastard daughter! But let me tell you, my fine fellow, it is not you who will eat the buck you are hunting today; it will be this blackguard, this scoundrel, this simpleton of a 'Thibault who will eat it. Yes, it shall be I who eat it, that I vow!” cried 'Thibault, confirming himself more and more in his bold resolution, and it is no use being a man if, having once made a vow, one fails to keep it.

So without further delay, Thibault thrust his bill-hook into his belt, seized his boar-spear, and after listening for a moment to the cry of the hounds to ascertain in which dirertion the hunt had gone, he ran off with all the speed of which a man’s legs are capable to get the start of them, guessing by the curve which the stag and its pursuers were following what would be the straight line to take so as to intercept them.

There were two ways of doing his deed open to Thibault; either to hide himself beside the path which the buck must take and kill him with his boar-spear, or else to surprize the animal just as he was being hunted down by the dogs, and collar him there and then.

And as he ran, the desire to revenge himself on the Baron for the latter’s brutality was not so uppermost in Thibault’s mind as the thoughts of the sumptuous manner in which he would fare for the next month, on the shoulders, the back, and the haunches of the deer, either salted to a turn, roasted on the spit, or cut in slices and done in the pan. And these two ideas, moreover, of vengeance and gluttony, were so jumbled up in his brain, that while still running at the top of his speed he laughed in his sleeve, as he pictured the dejected mien of the Baron and his men returning to the castle after their fruitless day’s hunt, and at the same time saw himself seated at table, the door securely fastened, and a pint of wine beside him, tete-a tete with a haunch of the deer, the rich and delicious gravy escaping as the knife returned for a third or fourth cut.

The deer, as far as Thibault could calculate, was making for the bridge which crosses the Ourcq, between Noroy and Troesne. As the river was very high and very rapid, Thibault decided that the deer would not attempt to ford it; so he hid



himself behind a rock, within reach of the bridge, and waited.

It was not long before he saw the graceful head of the deer appear above the rock at some ten paces’ distance; the animal was bending its ears to the wind, in the endeavor to catch the sound of the enemy’s approach as it was borne along the breeze. ’Thibault, excited by this sudden appearance, rose from behind the rode, poised his boar-spear and sent it flying toward the animal.

The buck, with a single bound, reached the middle of the bridge; a second carried him on to the opposite bank, and a third bore him out of sight.

’The boar-spear had passed within a foot of the animal, and had buried itself in the grass fifteen paces from where ’Thibault was standing. Never before had he been known to make such an unskilful throw; he, Thibault, of all the company who made the tour of France, the one known to be surest of his aim! Enraged with himself, therefore, he picked up his weapon, and bounded across the bridge with an agility equal to that of the deer,

Thibault knew the country quite as well as the animal he was pursuing, and so got ahead of the deer and once more concealed himself, this time behind a beech-tree, half-way up, and not too far from a little footpath.

'The deer now passed so close to him, that Thibault hesitated whether it would not be better to knock the animal down with his boar-spear than to throw the weapon at it; but his hesitation did not last longer than a flash of lightning, for no lightning could be quicker than the animal itself, which was already twenty paces off when Thibault threw his boarspear, but without better luck than the time before.

And now the baying of the hounds was drawing nearer and nearer; another few minutes, and it would, he felt, be

impossible for him to carry out his design. But in honor to his spirit of persistence, be it said that in proportion as the difficulty increased, the greater became Thibault’s desire to get possession of the deer.

“I must have it, come what will!” he cried. "I must! and if there is a God who cares for the poor, I shall have satisfaction of this confounded Baron, who beat me as if I were a dog; but I am a man notwithstanding, and I am quite ready to prove the same to him.”

And Thibault picked up his boar-spear and once more set off running. But it would appear that the good God whom he had just invoked, either had not heard him, or wished to drive him to extremities, for his third attempt had no greater success than the previous ones.

"By Heaven!” exclaimed 'Thibault, "God Almighty is assuredly deaf, it seems. Let the Devil then open his ears and hear me! In the name of God or of the Devil, I want you and I will have you, cursed animal!”

Thibault had hardly finished this double blasphemy when the buck, doubling back, passed close to him for the fourth time, and disappeared among the bushes, but so quickly and unexpectedly that ’Thibault had not even time to lift his boar-spear.

At that moment he heard the dogs so near him that he deemed it would be imprudent to continue his pursuit. He looked round him, saw a thickly-leaved oak tree, threw his boar-spear into a bush, swarmed up the trunk, and hid himself among the foliage. He imagined, and with good reason, that since the deer had gone ahead again, the hunt would only pass by following on its track. The dogs had not lost the scent, in spite of the quarry’s doublings, and they were not likely to lose it now.

Thibault had not been seated among the brandies for above five minutes, when first the hounds came into sight, then the

W. T.-^8



Baron, who in spite of his fifty-five years, headed the chase as if he had been a man of twenty. It must be added that the Lord of Vez was in a state of rage that we will not even endeavor to describe.

To lose four hours over a wretched deer and still to be running behind it! Such a thing had never happened to him before.

He stormed at his men, he whipped his dogs, and had so plowed his horse’s sides with his spurs that the thick coating of mud which covered his gaiters was reddened with blood.

On reaching the bridge over the Ourcq, however, there had been an interval of alleviation for the Baron, for the hounds had so unanimously taken up the scent, that the cloak which the wolf-hunter carried behind him would have sufficed to cover the whole pack as they crossed the bridge.

Indeed the Baron was so pleased, that he was not satisfied with humming a tirra-la, but, unslinging his hunting-horn he sounded it with his full lung-power, a thing which he only did on great occasions.

But, unfortunately, the joy of my Lord of Vez was destined to be short-lived.

All of a sudden, just as the hounds, that were crying in concert in a way which more and more delighted the Baron’s ears, were passing under the tree where Thibault was perched, the whole pack came to a standstill, and every tongue was silenced as by enchantment. Marcotte, at his master’s command, dismounted to see if he could find any traces of the deer, the whippers-in ran up, and they and Marcotte looked about, but they could find nothing.

Then Engoulevent, who had set his heart on a view-halloo being sounded for the animal he had tracked down, joined the others, and he too began to search. Every one was searching, calling out and W. T.— 9

trying to rouse the dogs, when above all the other voices, was heard, like the blast of a tempest, the voice of the Baron.

"Ten thousand devils!’’ he thundered. "Haye the dogs fallen into a pit-hole, Marcotte?’’

"No, my lord, they are here, but they are come to a check.”

"How? Come to a standstill?” exclaimed the Baron.

"What is to be done, my lord? I can not understand what has happened, but such is the fact.”

"Come to a check!” again exclaimed the Baron, "come to a standstill, here, in the middle of the forest, here where there is no stream where the animal could have doubled, or rock for it to climb. You must be out of your mind, Marcotte!”

"I, out of my mind, my lord?”

"Yes, you, you fool, as truly as your dogs are all worthless trash!”

As a rule, Marcotte bore witli admirable patience the insults which the Baron was in the habit of lavishing upon everybody about him at critical moments of the chase, but this word trash, applied to his dogs, was more than his habitual longsuffering could bear, and drawing himself up to his full height, he answered vehemently, "Trash, my lord? my dogs worthless trash! dogs that have brought down an old wolf after such a furious run that the best horse in your stable was foundered! my dogs trash!”

"Yes, trash, worthless trash, I say it again, Marcotte. Only trash would stop at a check like that, after hunting one wretched buck so many hours on end.”

"My lord,” answered Marcotte, in a tone of mingled dignity and sorrow, "my lord, say that it is my fault; call me a fool, a blockhead, a scoundrel, a blackguard, an idiot; insult me in my own person, or in that of my wife, of my children, and it is nothing to me; but for the sake of all my past services to you, do not attack me



in my office of chief pricker, do not insult your dogs.”

"How do you account for this silence, then.? tell me that! How do you account for it? I am quite willing to hear what you have to say, and I am listening.”

"I can not explain it any more than you can, my lord; the damned animal must have flown into the clouds or disappeared in the bowels of the earth.”

"What nonsense are you talking?” exclaimed the Baron. "Do you want to make out that the deer has burrowed like a rabbit, or risen from the ground like a grouse?”

"My lord, I meant it only as a manner of speech. What is a truth, what is the faa, is that there is some witchcraft behind all this. As sure as it is now daylight, my dogs, every one of them, lay down at the same moment, suddenly, without an instant’s hesitation. Ask anybody who was near them at the time. And now they are not even trying to recover the scent, but there they lie flat on the ground like so many stags in their lair. I ask you, is it natural?”

"Thrash them, man! thrash them, then,” cried the Baron, "flay the skin off their backs; there is nothing like it for driving out the evil spirit.”

And the Baron was going forward to emphasize with a few blows from his own whip the exorcisms which Marcotte, according to his orders, was distributing among the poor beasts, when Engoulevent, hat in hand, drew near to the Baron and timidly laid his hand on the horse’s bridle.

"My lord,” said the keeper of the kennel, "I think I have just discovered a cuckoo in that tree who may perhaps be able to give us some explanation of what has happened.”

"What the devil are you talking about, with your cuckoo, you ape?” said the Baron. "If you wait a moment, you

scamp, I will teach you how to come chaffing your master like that!”

And the Baron lifted his whip. But with all the heroism of a Spartan, Engoulevent lifted his arm above his head as a shield and continued:

"Strike, if you will, my lord, but after that look up into this tree, and when your lordship has seen the bird that is perched among the branches, I think you will be more ready to give me a crown than a blow.”

And the good man pointed to the oak tree in which 'Thibault had taken refuge on hearing the huntsmen approach. He had climbed up from branch to branch and had finally hoisted himself on to the topmost one.

The Baron shaded his eyes with his hand, and, looking up, caught sight of 'Thibault.

"Well, here’s something mighty queer!” he cried. "It seems that in the forest of Villers-Cotterets the deer burrow like foxes, and men perch on trees like crows. However,” continued the worthy Baron, "we will see what sort of creature we have to deal with.” And putting his hand to his mouth, he halloed:

"Ho, there, my friend! would it be particularly disagreeable for you to give me ten minutes’ conversation?”

But Thibault maintained the most profound silence.

"My lord,” said Engoulevent, "if you

like ” and he made a sign to show

that he was ready to climb the tree.

"No, no,” said the Baron, at the same time putting out his hand to hold him back.

"Ho, there, my friend!” repeated the Baron, still without recognizing Thibault, "will it please you to answer me, yes or no.?”

He paused a second.

"I see, it is evidently, no; you pretend



to be deaf, my friend; wait a moment, and I will get my speaking-trumpet,” and he held out his hand to Marcotte, who, guessing his intention, handed him his gun.

Thibault, who wished to put the huntsmen on the wrong scent, was meanwhile pretending to cut away the dead branches, and he put so much energy into this feigned occupation that he did not perceive the movement on the part of the Baron, or, if he saw, only took it as a menace, without attaching the importance to it which it merited.

The wolf-hunter waited for a little while to see if the answer would come, but as it did not, he pulled the trigger; the gun went oflF, and a branch was heard to crack.

The branch which cracked was the one on which Thibault was poised; the Baron was a fine shot and had broken it just between the trunk and the shoemaker’s foot.

Deprived of his support, Thibault fell, rolling from branch to branch. Fortunately the tree was thick, and the branches strong, so that his fall was broken and less rapid than it might have been, and he finally reached the ground, after many rebounds, without further ill consequences than a feeling of great fear and a few slight bruises on that part of his body which had first come in contact with the earth.

"By Beelzebub’s horns!” exclaimed the Baron, delighted with his own skill, "if it is not my joker of the morning! Ah! so, you scamp! did the discourse you had with my whip seem too short to you, that you are so anxious to take it up again where we left off.^”

"Oh, as to that, I assure you it is not so, my lord,” answered Thibault in a tone of the most perfect sincerity.

"So much the better for your skin, my good fellow. Well, and now tell me what you were doing up there, perched on the top of that oak-tree.^”

"My lord can see himself,” answered Thibault, pointing to a few dry twigs lying here and there on the ground, "I was cutting a little dry wood for fuel."

"Ah! I see. Now then, my good fellow, you will please tell us, without any beating about the bush, what has become of our deer.”

"By the devil, he ought to know, seeing that he has been perched up there so as not to lose any of its movements," put in Marcotte.

"But I swear, my lord,” said Thibault, "that I don’t know what it is you mean about this wretched buck.”

"Ah, I thought so,” cried Marcotte, delighted to divert his master’s ill-humor from himself, “he has not seen it, he has not seen the animal at all, he does not know what we mean by this wretched buck! But look here, my lord, see, the marks on these leaves where the animal has bitten; it was just here that the dogs came to a full stop, and now, although the ground is good to show every mark, we can find no trace of the animal, for ten, twenty, or a hundred paces even.”

"You hear.^” said the Baron, joining his words on to those of the pricker, "you were up there, and the deer here at your feet. It did not go by like a mouse without making any sound, and you did not see or hear. You must needs have seen or heard it!”

"He has killed the deer,” said Marcotte, "and hidden it away in a bush — that’s as clear as the day.”

"Oh, my lord,” cried Thibault, who knew better than anybody else how mistaken the pricker was in making this accusation, "my lord, by all the saints in paradise, I swear to you that I have not killed your deer; I swear it to you on the salvation of my soul, and may I perish on the spot if I have given him even the slightest scratch. And besides, I could not have killed him without wounding him.



and if I had wounded him, blood would have flowed. Look, I pray you, sir,” continued Thibault, turning to the pricker, "and God be thanked, you will find no trace of blood. I kill a poor beast.? and, my God, with what? Where is my weapon? God knows I have no other weapon than this bill-hook. Look yourself, my lord.”

But unfortunately for Thibault, he had hardly uttered these words, before Maltre Engoulevent, who had been prowling about for some minutes past, reappeared, carrying the boar-spear which Tliibault had thrown into one of the bushes before climbing up the tree.

He handed the weapon to the Baron.

There was no doubt about it — Engoulevent was Thibault’s evil genius.

CHAPTER 3 Agnelette

The Baron took the weapon which Engoulevent handed him, and carefully and deliberately examined the boarspear from point to handle, without saying a word. On the handle had been carved a little wooden shoe, which had served as Thibault’s device while making the tour of France, as thereby he was able to recognize his own weapon. The Baron now pointed to this, saying to Thibault as he did so:

"Ah, ah. Master Simpleton! there is something which witnesses terribly against you! I must confess this boarspear smells to me uncommonly of venison, by the devil it does! However, all I have now to say to you is this: You have been poaching, which is a serious crime; you have perjured yourself, which is a great sin; I am going to enforce expiation from you for the one and for the other, to help toward the salvation of that soul by which you have sworn.”

Whereupon, turning to the pricker, he

continued: "Marcotte, strip off that rascal’s vest and shirt, and tie him up to a tree with a couple of the dog leashes, and then give him thirty-six strokes across the back with your shoulder belt — a dozen for his perjury, and two dozen for his poaching; no, I make a mistake, a dozen for poaching and two dozen for perjuring himself — God’s portion must be the largest.”

This order caused great rejoicing among the menials, who thought it good luck to have a culprit on whom they could avenge themselves for the mishaps of the day.

In spite of Thibault’s protestations, who swore by all the saints in the calendar that he had killed neither buck nor doe, neither goat nor kidling, he was divested of his garments and firmly strapped to the trunk of a tree; then the execution commenced.

The pricker’s strokes were so heavy that Thibault, who had sworn not to utter a sound, and bit his lips to enable himself to keep his resolution, was forced at the third blow to open his mouth and cry out.

'The Baron, as we have already seen, was about the roughest man of his class for a good thirty miles round, but he was not hard-hearted, and it was a distress to him to listen to the cries of the culprit as they became more and more frequent. As, however, the poachers on His Highness’s estate had of late grown bolder and more troublesome, he decided that he had better let the sentence be carried out to the full, but he turned his horse with the intention of riding away, determined no longer to remain as a spectator.

As he was on the point of doing this, a young girl suddenly emerged from the underwood, threw herself on her knees beside the horse, and lifting her large, beautiful eyes, all wet with tears, to the Baron, cried:



"In the name of the God of mercy, my lord, have pity on that man!”

The Lord of Vez looked down at the young girl. She was indeed a lovely child; hardly sixteen years of age, of a slender and exquisite figure, with a pink and white complexion, large blue eyes, soft and tender in expression, and a crown of fair hair, which fell in luxuriant waves over neck and shoulders, escaping from underneath the shabby little gray linen cap which endeavored in vain to imprison them.

All this the Baron took in with a glance, in spite of the humble clothing of the beautiful suppliant, and as he had no dislike to a pretty face, he smiled down on the charming young peasant girl, in response to the pleading of her eloquent eyes.

But, as he looked without speaking, and all the while the blows were still falling, she cried again, with a voice and gesture of even more earnest supplication:

"Have pity, in the name of Heaven, my lord! Tell your servant to let the poor man go, his cries pierce my heart.”

"Ten thousand fiends! ’’cried the Grand Master; "you take a great interest in that rascal over there, my pretty child. Is he your brother.?”

"No, my lord.”

"Your cousin.?”

"No, my lord.”

"Your lover?”

"My lover! My lord is laughing at me.”

"Why not? If it were so, my sweet girl, I must confess I should envy him his lot.”

The girl lowered her eyes.

"I do not know him, my lord, and have never seen him before today.”

"Without counting that now she only sees him wrong side before,” Engoulevent ventured to put in, thinking that it was a suitable moment for a little pleasantry.

"Silence, sirrah!” said the Baron sternly. Then, once more turning to the girl with a smile:

"Really!” he said. "Well, if he is neither a relation nor a lover, I should like to see how far your love for your neighbor will let you go. Come, a bargain, pretty girl!”

"How, my lord?”

"Grace for that scoundrel in return for a kiss.”

"Oh! with all my heart!” cried the young girl. "Save the life of a man with a kiss! I am sure that our good cure himself would say there was no sin in that.”

And without waiting for the Baron to stoop and take himself what he had asked for, she threw off her wooden shoe, placed her dainty little foot on the tip of the wolf-hunter’s boot, and taking hold of the horse’s mane, lifted herself up with a spring to the level of the face of the hardy huntsman, and there of her own accord offered him her round cheek, fresh and velvety as the down of an August peach.

The Lord of Vez had bargained for one kiss, but he took two; then, true to his sworn word, he made a sign to Marcotte to stay the execution.

Marcotte was religiously counting his strokes; the twelfth was alx)ut to descend when he received the order to stop, and he did not think it expedient to stay it from falling. It is possible that he also thought it would be as well to give it the weight of two ordinary blows, so as to make up good measure and give a thirteenth in; however that may be, it is certain that it furrowed Thibault’s shoulders more cruelly than those that went before. It must be added, however, that Thibault was unbound immediately after.

Meanwhile the Baron was conversing with the young girl.

"What is your name, my pretty one?”

"Georgine Agnelette, my lord, my mother’s name! but the coimtry people



are content to call me simply Agnelette.”

"Ah, that’s an unlucky name, my child,” said the Baron.

"In what way, my lord?” asked the girl.

"Because it makes you a prey for the wolf, my beauty. And from what part of the country do you come, Agnelette?”

"From Preciamont, my lord.”

"And you come alone like this into the forest, my child? that’s brave for a lambkin.”

"I am obliged to do it, my lord; for my mother and I have three goats to feed.”

"So you come here to get grass for them?”

"Yes, my lord.”

"And you are not afraid, young and pretty as you are?”

"Sometimes, my lord, I can not help trembling.”

"And why do you tremble?”

"Well, my lord, I hear so many tales, during the winter evenings, about werewolves, that when I find myself all alone among the trees, and can hear no sound but the west wind, and the branches creaking as it blows through them, I feel a kind of shiver run through me, and my hair seems to stand on end; but when I hear your hunting-horn and the dogs crying, then I feel at once quite safe again.”

The Baron was pleased beyond measure with this reply of the girl’s, and stroking his beard complacently, he said:

"Well, we give Master Wolf a pretty rough time of it; but, there is a way, my pretty one, whereby you may spare yourself all these fears and tremblings.”

"And how, my lord?”

"Come in future to the Castle of Vez; no werewolf, or any other kind of wolf, has ever crossed the moat there, except when slung by a cord on to a hazel-pole.”

Agnelette shook her head.

"You would not like to come? And why not?”

"Because I should find something worse there than the wolf.”

On hearing this, the Baron broke into a hearty fit of laughter, and, seeing their master laugh, all the huntsmen followed suit and joined in the chorus. The faa was, that the sight of Agnelette had entirely restored the good humor of the Lord of Vez, and he would, no doubt, have continued for some time laughing and talking with Agnelette, if Marcotte, who had been recalling the dogs, and coupling them, had not respectfully reminded my lord that they had some distance to go on their way back to the Castle. The Baron made a playful gesture of menace with his finger to the girl, and rode off followed by his train.

Agnelette was left alone with Thi- -bault. We have related what Agnelette had done for Thibault’s sake, and also said that she was pretty.

Nevertheless, for all that, Thibault’s first thoughts on finding himself alone with the girl were not for the one who had saved his life, but were given up to hatred and the contemplation of vengeance.

Thibault, as you see, had, since the morning, been making rapid strides along the path of evil.

"Ah! if the devil will but hear my prayer this time,” he cried, as he shook his fist, cursing the while, after the retiring huntsmen, who were just out of view, "if the devil will but hear me, you shall be paid back with usury for all you have made me suffer this day! that I swear.”

"Oh, how wicked it is of you to behave like that!” said Agnelette, going up to him. "The Baron is a kind lord, very good to the poor, and always gently behaved with women.”

"Quite so, and you shall see with what gratitude I will repay him for the blows he has given me.”



"Come now, frankly, friend, confess that you deserved those blows,’’ said the girl, laughing.

"So, so!” answered Thibault, "the Baron’s kiss has turned your head, has it, my pretty Agnelette.^”

"You, I should have thought, would have been the last person to reproach me with that kiss. Monsieur Thibault. But what I have said, I say again; my lord Baron was within his rights.”

"What, in belaboring me with blows.^”

"Well, why do you go hunting on the estates of these great lords?”

"Does not the game belong to everybody, to the peasant just as much as to the great lords?”

"No, certainly not; the game is in their woods, it is fed on their grass, and you have no right to throw your boar-spear at a buck which belongs to my lord the Duke of Orleans.”

"And who told you that I threw a boar-spear at his buck?” replied Thibault, advancing toward Agnelette in an almost threatening manner.

"Who told me? why, my own eyes, which, let me tell you, do not lie. Yes, I saw you throw your boar-spear, when you were hidden there, behind the beechtree.”

'Thibault’s anger subsided at once before the straightforward attimde of the girl, whose truthfulness was in such contrast to his falsehood.

"Well, after all,” he said, "supposing a poor devil does once in a way help himself to a good dinner from the superabundance of some great lord! Are you of the same mind. Mademoiselle Agnelette, as the judges who say that a man ought to be hanged just for a wretched rabbit? Come now, do you think God created that buck for the Baron more than for me?”

"God, Monsieur Thibault, has told us not to covet other men’s goods; obey the

law of God, and you will not find yourself any the worse off for it!”

"Ah, I see, my pretty Agnelette, you know me then, since you call me so glibly by my name?”

"Certainly I do; I remember seeing you at Boursonnes, on the day of the fete; they called you the beautiful dancer, and stood round in a circle to watch you.”

Thibault, pleased with this compliment, was now quite disarmed.

"Yes, yes, of course,” he answered, "I remember now having seen you; and I think we danced together, did we not? but you were not so tall then as you are now; that’s why I did not recognize you at first, but I recall you distinaly now. And I remember too that you wore a pink frock, with a pretty little white bodice, and that we danced in the dairy. I wanted to kiss you, but you would not let me.”

"You have a good memory. Monsieur Thibault!”

"And do you know, Agnelette, that during these last twelve months — for it is a year since that dance — ^you have not only grown taller, but grown prettier too; I see you are one of those people who understand how to do two things at once.”

The girl blushed and lowered her eyes, and the blush and the shy embarrassment made her look more charming still.

Thibault’s eyes were now turned toward her with more marked attention than before, and in a voice not wholly free from a slight agitation he asked:

"Have you a lover, Agnelette?”

"No, Monsieur Thibault,” she answered, "I have never had one, and do not wish to have one.”

"And why is that? Is Cupid such a bad lad that you are afraid of him?”

"No, not that, but a lover is not at all what I want.”

"And what do you want?”

"A husband.”


iWEIRD TALES

Thibauk made a movement, which Agnelette either did not, or pretended not to see.

"Yes,” she repeated, "a husband. Grandmother is old and infirm, and a lover would distract my attention too much from the care which I now give her; whereas a husband, if I found a nice fellow who would like to marry me — a husband would help me to look after her in her old age, and would share with me the task which God has laid upon me, of making her happy and comfortable in her last years.”

"But do you think your husband,” said Thibauk, "would be willing that you should love your grandmother more than you loved him? and do you not think he might be jealous at seeing you lavish so much tenderness upon her?”

"Oh,” replied Agnelette, with an adorable smile, "there is no fear of that, for I will manage so as to let him have such a large share of my love and attention that he will have no cause to complain; the kinder and the more patient he is to the dear old thing, the more I shall devote myself to him, the harder shall I work that there may be nothing wanting to our little household. You see me looking small and delicate, and you doubt that I should have strength for this; but I have plenty of spirit and energy for work, and then, when the heart gives consent, one can work day and night without fatigue. Oh, how I should love the man who loved my grandmother! I promise you that she, and my husband, and I, we should be three happy folks together.”

"You mean that you would be three very poor folks together, Agnelette!”

"And do you think the loves and friendship of the rich are worth a farthing more than those of the poor? At times, when I have been loving and caressing my grandmother. Monsieur Thibauk, and she takes me on her lap and clasps me in

her poor weak trembling arms, and puts her dear old wrinkled face against mine, and I feel my cheek wet with the loving tears she sheds, I begin to cry myself, and, I tell you. Monsieur Thibauk, so soft and sweet are my tears, that there is no woman or girl, be she queen or prineess, who has ever, I am sure, even in her happiest days, known such a real joy as mine. And, yet, there is no one in all the country round who is so destitute as we two are.”

Thibauk listened to what Agnelette was saying without answering; his mind was occupied with many thoughts, such thoughts as are indulged in by the ambitious; but his dreams of ambition were disturbed at moments by a passing sensation of depression and disillusionment.

He, the man who had spent hours at a time watching the beautiful and aristocratic dames belonging to the court of the Duke of Orleans, as they swept up and down the wide entrance stairs; who had often passed whole nights gazing at the arched windows of the keep at Vez, when the whole place was lit up for some festivity, he, that same man, now asked himself, if what he had so ambitiously desired to have, a lady of rank and a rich dwelling, would, after all, be so much worth possessing as a thatched roof and this sweet and gentle girl called Agnelette. And it was certain that if this dear and charming little woman were to become his, he would be envied in turn by all die earls and barons in the countryside.

"Well, Agnelette,” said Thibauk, "and suppose a man like myself were to offer himself as your husband, would you accept him?”

It has been already stated that Thibauk was a handsome young fellow, with fine eyes and black hair, and that his travels had left him something better than a mere workman. And it must further be borne



in mind that we readily become attached to those on whom we have conferred a benefit, and Agnelette had, in all probability, saved Thibault’s life; for, under such strokes as Marcotte’s, the victim would certainly have been dead before the thirty-sixth had been given.

"Yes,” she said, "if it would be a good thing for my grandmother.”

Thibault took hold of her hand.

"Well then, Agnelette," he said, "we will speak again about this, dear child, and that as soon as may be.”

"Whenever you like, Monsieur Thibault.”

"And you will promise faithfully to love me if I marry you, Agnelette?”

“Do you think I should love any man besides my husband?”

"Never mind, I want you just to take a little oath, something of this kind, for instance: Monsieur Thibault, I swear that I will never love anyone but you.”

"What need is there to swear? The promise of an honest girl should be sufficient for an honest man.”

"And when shall we have the wedding, Agnelette?” and in saying this, Thibault tried to put his arm round her waist.

But Agnelette gently disengaged herself.

"Come and see my grandmother,” she said, “it is for her to decide about it; you must content yourself this evening with helping me up with my load of heath, for it is getting late, and it is nearly three miles from here to Preciamont.”

So Thibault helped her as desired, and then accompanied her on her way home as far as the Forest-fence of Billemont, that is until they came in sight of the village steeple. Before parting, he so begged of pretty Agnelette to give him one kiss as an earnest of his future happiness, that at last she consented, and then, far more agitated by this one kiss

than she had been by tlte Baron’s double embrace, Agnelette hastened on her way, in spite of the load which she was carrying on her head, and which seemed far too heavy for so slender and delicate a creature.

Thibault stood for some time looking after her as she walked away across the moor. All, the flexibility and grace of her youthful figure were brought into relief as the girl lifted her pretty rounded arms to support the burden upon her head, and thus silhouetted against the dark blue of the sky she made a delightful piaure. At last, having reached the outskirts of the village, the land dipping at that point, she suddenly disappeared, passing out of sight of Thibault’s admiring eyes. He gave a sigh, and stood still, plunged in thought; but it was not the satisfaction of thinking that this sweet and good young creature might one day be his that had caused his sigh. Quite the contrary; he had wished for Agnelette, because Agnelette was young and pretty, and because it was part of his unfortunate disposition to long for everything that belonged or might belong to another. His desire to possess Agnelette had been quickened by the innocent frankness with which she had talked to him; but it had been a matter of fancy rather than of any deeper feeling, of the mind, and not of the heart. For Thibault was incapable of loving as a man ought to love, who, being poor himself, loves a poor girl; in such a case there should be no thought, no ambition on his part beyond the wish that his love may be returned. But it was not so with 'Thibault; on the contrary, the farther he walked away from Agnelette, leaving it would seem his good genius farther behind him with every step, the more urgently did his envious longings begin again as usual to torment his soul.

It was dark when he reached home* (To be continued next month)



The Earth -Owners

(Continued from page 31)

always thought we were the owners. Lords of creation — the highest work of nature — until our owners came!”

'Tve been thinking of what Bent told tjs about the light-globes he sjiw fighting out there outside earth with the clouds.” I said. "Do you suppose there are other beings in the universe as strange and alien as those two kinds?”

"There must be many,” said Ran don slowly. "No doubt long ago those lightglobes or some other alien beings would have descended on earth if it hadn’t been owned by these black clouds. Because of their ownership we lived in a false security. No doubt the animals our farmers fattened for slaughter felt the same security.”

'JThe end is near,” he said. "For us here and for all humanity. Our work here has shown us no single way of fighting the clouds, and meanwhile the clouds have swept over half this nation, the mightiest on earth, without even knowing that we are resisting them!”

Randon was right when he said the. end was near, though he could not know that night how right he was. For it was on the next day, the ninth after the appearance of the clouds on earth, that the end came.

It came with hoarse shouts that brought us all running from our laboratories and quarters into the streets. One glance was enough to show us what had caused those shouts. A group of seven black clouds was moving calmly over the village from the south.

The following moments are to me even now a confused memory. I know that as I stumbled along the street in a moment’s

desperate, instinaive flight. Carter and Randon were beside me, that at the street’s edge Hackner with crimson face was shaking his fist upward in mad defiance, that the sunlight was suddenly darkened about us as the clouds sank downward on us.

I looked up, saw the colossal masses of black vapor looming immense just over us, stumbled, and as I fell heard a mad cry from Randon.

I struggled up to see Randon point with trembling finger upward. The clouds had halted above us, were rising again!

Out of the sunlight far above them, great things of light were plummeting down upon the clouds, great globes of dazzling light in groups of scores!

These light-globes and the seven black clouds were meeting and mingling in the air high over us! The clouds were endeavoring to envelope the globes, while from the light-globes shot tremendous tentacles of living light that seemed to grasp the clouds, to rive them asunder!

''They’re fighting!” Randon screamed. "T he black clouds that own the earth and the light-globes that want it — they’re fighting for the earth — for us!”

"Out of here, then, while we can get out!” Carter cried. "Whichever wins it means death for us!”

"Too late!” Randon cried. "Look, the light-globes are annihilating the clouds!”

The stupendous battle overhead was swiftly ending. The light-globes had with their outthrust tentacles torn asunder five of the clouds, scattering them in wisps of black vapor.

One of the remaining clouds enveloped a light-globe, seemed to smother and destroy it within its black vapors. But in an instant the scores of other light-globes



were upon these two also, and in a moment of them also but wisps of vapor floating away remained.

The light-globes gathered and a halfdozen of them sank downward, stupendous spheres of pure and living light descending on us. In a stupor in which we hardly felt fear we saw them, and then as they paused in the air just over us, immense tentacles of light whipped down from them toward us.

I felt myself grasped as though by a strong yet intangible great arm, a tentacle of light wrapping round me and Randon and Carter, others grasping Rillard and Bent and dozens of others in the street. We were held by those strange great limbs of light!

It seemed to me that into my mind was rushing the will, the thoughts, of the huge light-globe that held us, that all fear was leaving my mind and that there beat upon me the vast, calm, beneficent will of the light-globe, reassuring me as one might reassure a frightened child! I saw the faces of Randon and Carter and the rest drained of their terror as they too stood in that grasp of living light!

The light-tentacles gently released us then, and the light-globes massed together quickly high above us. They sped away toward the west, disappearing quickly. We staggered in the street, our terror gone, and the amazement that had replaced it overwhelming.

"They didn’t hurt us!” Carter was saying dazedly. "They didn’t come to destroy us but to protect us from the black clouds! They liked us!”

"But why.?” I cried. '"The black clouds are the earth-owners, yet these light-globes fought them to save us!”

"No, I see it all now!” Randon cried. "We’ve been wrong all along! Earth is owned as we thought, but the black clouds aren't the owners — the light-globes are

the owners! It is the light-globes that have owned earth maybe for ages, that have guarded it against all the other superbeings of space! They’ve guarded it and guarded us, because somewhere in their alien, tremendous minds is liking for us, benevolence toward us, perhaps pity of us!

"They’ve had sentries or guards outside earth to warn off all hostile beings — light-globes have been seen by astronomers near earth many times. But the black clouds that came to prey on earth’s life met these sentries and destroyed them all but one, as Bent saw when he observed the clouds and light-globes struggling!

"Then the clouds descended on eartli and started their ravages, but either the light-globes in whatever far region of space or whatever world they inhabit knew in some way about it, or were informed by that one of their guards that escaped. For they’ve come to earth in force to destroy the black clouds, have come to beat away the invaders of this world they own!”

From a doorway somewhere along the street some one was shouting. "'They’re broadcasting that the light-globes have appeared over earth in thousands — they’re destroying the clouds wherever they find them!”

Thus ends my record of the black clouds’ coming to earth and of the terror they brought. All the world knows now how that terror ended, how the light-globes swiftly, surely, hunted down the clouds and annihilated them until none remained on earth. And how, with that done, the light-globes rose and departed into the heavens, into the outer void.

Somewhere out there they are now, we know, those mighty minds cased in spheres of light that are the owners and



the guardians of this earth. Never since then has any cloud or any other dread invader appeared on our world. We know that out in space around earth the guards and sentries of the light-globes still must be, watching and warding this world of ours, warning away whatever other hideous beings roam the void with predatory purpose.

Once humanity would have felt inexpressibly humiliated to know that it and its world were owned. But we who have known the dread clouds are glad. Glad that the vast, beneficent intelligences of the light-globes are a shield against all the terrible super-entities that the universe may hold.

And our dreams and aspirations remain unchecked. Randon expressed them to me a few minutes ago, as he and Carter watched me write these pages, in his cottage whose windows look east on a Boston again filled with life.

"We know that we and our earth are owned and we’re glad they are,” he said, "but we won’t always remain thus. As our own knowledge and power increase we’ll come at last to the point where we can live without need of this guardianship of the light-globes, able to fight our own battles against any beings.

"Who knows, we may even some day attain to such power and wisdom that we too will take over the ownership and guardianship of other worlds, protecting the weaker races on them from predatory powers as the light-globes now protect us. If ever that day comes, let us remember that in that guardianship and trust we are but discharging a debt that we owe to those who now own and guard our earth.”

Moon Madness

(Continued from page 13)

out of here I am going to kill the man who sent us on that awful journey and then skulked behind. I’ll make him pay for the death of my Mary as I have paid. Oh, I know she is not dead. She suffers worse than death.’

"What had been Francois Marden staggered to his feet and shouted so that the padded walls resounded dully: Til nail Henry Weatherford to a rocket and send him shooting upward to the moon and to hell! Go tell him sol’

"The threat ended in a scream as he hurled the empty glass at me.

"I stumbled away. That night I got howling drunk from sheer fright and horror. Next day I fled London. Finally I came here as the least likely place on God’s earth for Marden to find me when he is released. Oh, I know he will get out somehow, sometime, and follow me. And shoot me to the moon. And I shall be as they are.

"But,” cackled Henry Weatherford, wagging a lean finger at me "he can’t find me when the moon goes down. It’s gone now, I think.”

He lurched to his feet, peered out a rear door which opened onto the filthy street, placed a finger on his lips, and, without giving me another thought, tiptoed away into the panting Asiatic night.


CALLING a huge black who bore a heavy hammer, Hassim ordered him to open the door of the tomb.

As the black swung up his sledge, Solomon Kane gave a sharp exclamation. Was he mad.? The apparent antiquity of this brooding mass of stone was proof that it had stood undisturbed for thousands of years. Yet he could have sworn that he heard the sound of footfalls within. Back and forth they padded, as if something paced the narrow confines of that grisly prison in a never-ending monotony of movement. A cold hand touched Kane’s spine. Wither the sounds registered on his conscious ear or on some unsounded depth of soul or sub-feeling, he could not tell, but he ^»ew that somewhere within his consciousness there re-echoed the tramp of monstrous feet from within that ghastly mausoleum.

"Stop!” he exclaimed. "Hassim, I may be mad, but I hear the tread of some fiend within that pile of stone.”

Hassim raised his hand and checked the hovering hammer. He listened intently, and the others strained their ears in a silence that had suddenly become tense.

"I hear nothing,” grunted a bearded giant.

Hassim laughed harshly and made a gesture to the black. 'The hammer fell with a crash that re-echoed deafeningly and shivered off through the black jungle in a strangely altered cachinnation. Again — again — and again the hammer fell, driven with all the power of the rippling black muscles and the mighty ebon body. And between the blows Kane still heard that lumbering tread, and knew that inside that hideously ancient mausoleum some nameless moved with soul-shaking and elephantine tread.

At last, beneath the heavy blows the ancient lock shattered; the hinges snapped;

the door burst inward. And Yussef screamed. From that black gaping entrance

What horror it was that burst forth you will never guess, but we won’t tell you now, we will keep it a secret and let you find out for yourself in the next issue when

[THE END]

============================================================
by Howard is writing some more Solomon Kane stories. They are about
============================================================
you read


[THE END]

============================================================
by Please print more stories of the Interstellar Patrol by Edmond Hamilton. Seabury Quinn is also a wonderful writer. I am surely glad to hear
============================================================
The Footfalls Within

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

— ALSO—

SATAN’S STEPSON by Seabury Quinn

The eeriest and most thrilling of all Jules de Grandin’s adventures — a tale of the Black Mass.

DEADLOCK by Everil Worrell

A striking and unusual story, about a weird flight into outer space ax open airplane — an eery and fearsome flight to the limits of our solar system, out beyond the planet Neptune and back.

THE IMMEASURABLE HORROR by Clark Ashton Smith An incredible monster, like a horror out of some particularly terrible nightmare, attacked the explorers on the planet Venus.

THE GOLDEN ELIXIR by Paul Ernst

A whimsical, eery story of a man whose personality was divided into two parts, and the awkward situations into which he blundered in consequence.

'These are some of the super-excellent stories that will appear in the next issue. Also, another thrilling installment of Tam, Son of the Tiger, by Otis Adelbert Kline.

September WEIRD TALES out August 1

l4l



The Eyrie

(Continued from page 6)

me with tliat 'after sense of refreshment.’ My favorite author without a doubt is) Seabury Quinn. His inimitable little Frenchman and his cocksure ways are all the more pleasing because I can understand French. Let’s have him more and more. If The Horror from the Hills continues in the vein of the January issue it’s gonna be awfully chilly around here. I just bought a new sweater to keep down the goose-flesh while I read the concluding chapters. Now may I speak a good word about Weiro Tales' companion magazine, Oriental Stories.^ I believe that I bought the first copy in the city of Batavia. I was in the local news store when they were unpacked — that’s how I waited for them. They are splendid. I am a movie operator, and your magazine is just the thing to keep one’s mind alert after nine hours of gruelling work in a hot, stuffy booth.”

"Keep the magazine weird by all means,” writes Harold Farnese, of Los Angeles; "not too many mechanical stories, aviation, etc.; a modern atmosphere usually lacks the thrill of things unknown, unless penned by a master hand. Speculative stories of other planets, however, should be welcomed by your readers. H. P. Lovecraft’s poems are very fine and play a good second to this author’s inimitable stories. His style of building up a weird and eldritch atmosphere has yet to be equalled by other writers.”

A letter from Rose Perricone, of Brooklyn, who signs herself "a prodigal reader,” says: "I used to be a constant reader of Weird Tales; then stopped, but something drew me back to it. It was Seabury Quinn’s stories. No matter how much I tried I could not forget him. He is wonderful, marvelous, superb and unforgettable. And as for Hugh Jeffries, his story called T he Dust of Death is also incomparable. Let’s have more from him.”

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE AUGUST WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

(1)

(2)

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

(2)

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

r

I


f

I

I

Reader's name and address:



Creeping Fingers

( Continued from page 21 )

came from, of course — called for help at the top of my voice, and then tried to get the door open. In a minute there was a crowd of bellboys and guests around me and all together we broke down the door. Well, you weren’t in the bedroom, so we went to the bathroom door. It wasn’t locked, because it hadn’t any key, you know, but we couldn’t open it. And all the time we could hear you inside, drowning. We didn’t waste any time, as you can imagine. We t>roke the door down at last and got you out just in time. 'The doctor said a little more immersion would have finished you. I had you brought to the best room in the hotel, got a doaor and nurse, and here you are....”

He looked up, and smiled, and I realized that the experience was one that the manager of the Hoffman House would not forget very quickly. Standing in that damp, cold corridor, alone, and hearing me cry for help in the accents of insane fright, was something that would tend to remain in a man’s memory.

"Yes,” I said, "here I am, a little the worse for wear, and very bewildered.” I told him my story, from my first impressions of the rooms to my last moment when I felt myself sinking into the deep water. When I finished, he nodded very quietly.

"I thought it was something like that. 'The rooms have a vile reputation; it’s just as well they’re being broken up. I’ll tell their story and perhaps it will explain things a little, I don’t know. Anyhow,’i he took another long drink from the glass at his elbow, and resumed, "317 was taken three years and a week ago, to be exaa, by two men, an old man very feeble, and a much younger man, uncle and nephew they were. Anyhow, that night the young

rc stone GOOD /YEAR

FISK,and otherTires

These well known brands on!7 slfsbtly osed are taken from cars cban^ng to oar New Super Service Cnstom Built Tires. Garefnlly selected and guaranteed.

We have such great confidence in these tires that we guarantee them for 15,000 againet blowouts, broises and rim cuts. Any tire failing to deliver this mileage will be roEuaced at half price. This great Compcmy has b^nsatisfying coRtomers all over America for sixteen years. YOU TAKE NO R13K. If any tire yon order is not satisfactory upon de> livery retam to us at once for refund.

High Pressure Cords BALLOON CORDS we —.. -.

80x3

Tires Tubes $2.20 $1.00

Size

29x4.40

20x4.50

80x4.50

80x4.95

28x5.26

30x5.26

81x5.26

82x6.00

83x6.00

82x6.50

88x6.76

AH tubes new— guaranteed flrrtauall^. l

~ sH for each tire, balance 0. 0« D. Deduct i price with order.

Tires Tubes $2.30 $1.10. 2.40. 1.15. 2.45, -*

. 2.90.

. 2.9S.

. 2.95.

. 3.10.

. 3.20.

. 3.20. 3.50

. 3.75.

Another Sizes $3.50 Send only $1.00 de-

' 5 per cent if you send

. 1.20. 1.S5. 1.86. 1.35, 1.S5. 1.40. 1.45. 1.66, 1.76

posit for each t full price with ox

AMERICAN TIRE COMPANY,

1329 South Michigan Avenue Chicago, llihiass


• •

For complete list and prices write to Weird Tales, 840 N, Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEiMENTS

Song Writing

SONGWRITERS: READ “SONG RKQUIRBiMENTS of Talking Pictures, Radio and Records,” an explanatory, instructive book SENT FREE to aspiring writers of words for songs. We compose, arrange music and secure copyrights. Write today. Newcomer Associates, 1674-Z Broadway, New York.

Help Wanted

POSITIONS ON OCEAN LINERS; EXPERIENCE unnecessary. List of positions free. 292-G, Mount Vernon, N. Y,

Old Gold Wanted

MAIL. PS VOPK DISCARDED JEWELRY, GOLD Crowns, Watches, Diamonds. Money sent at once. Goods Returned if our offer refused. United States Smelting Works, Dept. 19, Chicago.

Personal


World’s Greatest Social Extension Bureau. Make new friends. We have a companion or sweetheart for you. Many worth 5,000 to 75,000. Photos, descriptions, introductions free. Send no money. Standard Club. Box 607, Grayslake, 111.

LEXTER CLPB FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN. Big paper free, send for one. Eastern Agency 22, Bridgeport, Conn.

CORRESPONDENCE CLPB— BOOK OF PHOTOS and descriptions of wealthy members sent free In plain wrapper. The Exchange, Dept. 24, Kansas City, Mo.

“IF YOP WANT A RICH HPSBAND?” SEND for my big (free) list of descriptions. Box 100-AD,. Detroit, Michigan.

MARRY— ILLUSTRATED MARRIAGE JOURNAL mailed free. Many wealthy patrons. Write Priendahip Publishing Co. Medina, N. Y.

“IF YOP WANT A RICH WIFE?” SEND FOR my big (free) list of descriptions, Box 100-AD. Detroit, Michigan.

Here’s another rousing tale of weird and awesome adventures upon Venus!

% Prince of

PERIL

by OTIS ADELBERT KLINE

It Thrills the Senses and Stirs the Emotions

“ry^HE Prince of Peril” is a fanJL tastical yarn which gives new evidence of the marvellous powers of Otis Adelbert Kline's vivid imagination and writing skill. Another outstanding characteristic is the terrific action — a startling new adventure on

every page, each one more electrifying and stimulating than the last!

Through the fabric of this violent adventure is woven a bright thread of romance which makes the entire fantasy, with all its tumult and turbulence, seem realistic and probable to even the most skeptical.

EXCITING, SWIFT- MOVING ACTION

Ztnlo, man of three worlds, prince of peril, finds his existence on Venus a hectic one. From the time of his arrival there, via the telepathic route, life is one battle for survival after another. Above the ground, beneath the surGENUINE


While they last, you can get a copy of this special first edition autographed by the author, at the regular price of an ordinary edition. Bound in rich linen cloth with attractive three colored jacket. Remember, first edition copies grow more valuable with the years and when autographed become doubly valuable. Order today!

face, up in the air, on the water, everywhere, someone attempts to kill him by every means conceivable. For swiftmoving action "The Prince of Peril” is entitled to first rank because it is filled with exciting situations from beginning to end.

FIRST EDITION ONLY $2.00

WEIKD TALES, BOOK BEPT. KPP 840 N, Miehigran Ave., Chicagro, Illinois.

I enclose $2. Send at once, postage prepaid, an autographed copy of “The Prince of Peril” as per your offer.

Name —

Address - -

City State

XyyryrvTyyyr^T

frryyTvrvr»»»¥r»yy»ryyy»wyvvrvyy^'yyryTYTrvyrrvyTrvTvrvrymffffyvTV¥¥vywwyv},

#:

If you haven't read this thrilling Chinese story you have missed one of the strangest stories ever told. Ex« citing incidents follow in such quick succession that the Interest in the story is at white heat all of the time.

This book is beautifully bound in rich cloth, with attractive colored jacket. It is our gift to you and will make a valuable addition to your library.

You will want to read the thrilling adventures of Dt. Ferdinand Gresham, the eminent American astronomer, in his encounters with Kwo-Sung-tao, high priest of the SeunH’sin (the Sect of Two Moons). The Suen-H’sin are the sorcerers of (Thina, and the most murderou.sly diabolical breed of human beings on this earth. Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham to take part in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God — when he crosses the Mountain.^ of Fear — half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz’chuen — swims the River of Death — sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwlu, where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their campfires on their journey to Nirvana. Here is a story that urill thrill you.

Amazing Subscription Offer

This book formerly sold for the regular price of $1.50. Now you can have it free for a limited time onlv with a six months’ subscription to WEIRD TADES. Pimply send $1.50. the regular six months’.subscription price for WEIRD

TALES, and this splendid book is yours absolutely free. A $3.00 value for $1.50. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, »o we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!

WEIRD TALES,

H40 N..Michigan Ave., Dept. S-3.

Chicago, III.

WKIKI> TALES, Dept. S-3,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid, the book "The Moon Terror,” and enter my subscription to WKIRD TALES for six months. It Is understod this $1,50 is,)ayment In full.

Name

Address

City




SATAN’S

STEPSON

By SEABURY QUINN

ACOMPLETE novel about Jules de Grandin, the little French occultist, ghost-breaker, and scientist. A story of the eery thing that came back from the grave to wreak havoc on those who had thwarted him in life. A blood-curdling, goose-flesh tale of unusual interest and fascination.

This is not the usual story of devilworship, but is replete with thrills that send the cold chills down the spine of the reader. A powerful picture of the Black Mass, with a woman’s warm body as the living altar, provides a horrifying background for this story, which will be printed complete in the

September issue of


On sale August 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WEIRD TAXES 840 N, Michigran Ave,,

Chicago, III.

Knclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next are issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the September issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name -,,

Address —

City State

man drowned his uncle in the bathtub, §:hd disappeared. He was tracked down later, and hung."

I shivered. The rooms had been the scene of murder then. No wonder their air of being consecrated to evil. The door that had been shut so strangely on the night that I was there had been shut those years before by the murderer. Just so had he crept in, hidden by the high sides of the tub, then, when the old man lay unsuspetting, laid his hands on the side of the marble, and a moment later.... It must have been easy to do, considering the age of the victim and the youth and strength of the murderer, to push him beneath the water and hold him there, until his last struggles were over. I shivered at the ugly picture, and the strange closeness of my escape.

"That's not all," the manager went on. "The next year it didn’t happen to be occupied, on the fifteenth. The year after that, last year, it was occupied, and a man was found drowned in the tub the next morning — accidentally, we thought, of course. And the night you were there was the third anniversary. You see, I wasn’t manager at the time all these things happened, and I didn’t have facts at first hand, or I would have thought twice about letting you take the room. But you were so insistent, so I... anyhow. I’ve had one coincidence too many; so the rooms are being torn down, and won’t be used for living purposes any more.”

"A damn good thing," I said, picking up my hat from the table, and lifting my suitcase. And as he turned to go with me to the door, I realized unhappily that never again would I see a bathtub without a psychic shudder stirring at the roots of my hair, and that of all the numbers and alt the possible combinations of numbers in the world, "317" was the one I would never be able to forget.

W. T.— 9

[THE END]
