============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 16, Number 5
Date: November 1930
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Siesta Alexander L" by Kielland
============================================================
============================================================
SIESTA ALEXANDER L
by Kielland
============================================================
Siesta

By ALEXANDER L. KIELLAND

I N ONE of those elegant bachelors’ lodgings in Rue Castiglione a merry company lingered over the dessert. Senor Jose Francisco de Silvis was a Portuguese, short in stature, black as a coal. He was one of diose Brazilians who are wont to cross the ocean with incredible fortunes, to lead incredible lives in Paris, and to distinguish themselves,

above all things, by making the most incredible acquaintances.

At this little dinner-party diere was hardly one who was acquainted with his neighbor on the right, or on the left; excepting, of course, those coming together. The host himself had met them either at a ball, or at table-d’hote, or in the street.

Senor de Silvis laughed loudly, talked



loudly, wherever he went, as rich foreigners always do. Not being able to gain entry into the Jockey Club, he collected around himself whatsoever he happened upon. He immediately asked for the address. The next day he sent an invitation for a small dinner-party.

He spoke all languages — indeed, even German. One could see that he was not a little proud when he called across the table, ’'Mein lieber Herr Doktor! — wte geht’s Ihnen?”

And there was, too, a real bodily German doaor in the party, with an exuberant beard, as red as fire, and that smile of Sedan, worn by all Germans in Paris.

The temperature of the entertainment rose with the champagne. Fluent French and murdered French alternated with Spanish and Portuguese. The ladies leaned back in their chairs and laughed. The party was soon sufficiently acquainted to cast aside all embarrassment. Jesting and witty words flew over the table from mouth to mouth. The "Iteber Doktor" alone discussed seriously with his neighbor — a French journalist, with a red ribbon in his button-hole.

And there was still another present who did not allow himself to be carried away with the general gayety. He sat at the right of Mademoiselle Adele. On her left sat her new admirer, the corpulent Anatole, who had been eating excessively of the truffles.

During the meal Mademoiselle Adele had attempted, by many harmless little devices, to enliven her neighbor on the right. But he remained quiet, answered courteously, but shortly and in a low voice.

She thought at first that he was a Pole; one of those most wearisome of creatures who travel about and play the despised. But she soon discovered that she had erred. That annoyed Mademoiselle Adele.

It was one of her many accomplishments to be able to distinguish, at the first glance, the many foreigners whom she encoiuitered. And she was wont to declare that she could guess the nationality of a man as soon as he had exchanged ten words with her.

But this taciturn stranger was the source of much perplexity to her. If he had only been blond! Then she would at once have made him an Englishman, for he spoke like one. But he had black hair, a heavy dark mustache, and a fine petit figure. His fingers were remarkably long, and he had a peculiar way of crumbling the bread and playing with the dessertfork.

"He is a musician,” whispered Mademoiselle Adele to her corpulent friend.

"Ah,” replied Monsieur Anatole, "I fear that I have eaten too many truffles.”

Mademoiselle Adele again whispered some good advice into his ear, whereupon he laughed and appeared smitten with love.

Meanwhile, however, she could not neglea the interesting stranger. After she had enticed him to drink several glasses of champagne, he became livelier and more talkative.

"Oh,” she suddenly cried out, "I perceive by your speech that you are certainly an Englishman!”

The stranger blushed and hastily replied, "No, madam!”

Madenioiselle Adele laughed.

"Pardon me,” she said; "I know, Americans are always vexed when one takes them for English.”

"I am not an American either,” returned the stranger.

This was too much for Mademoiselle Adele. She bent over her plate and seemed very much embarrassed. Then, indeed, she observed that Mademoiselle Louison, sitting opposite to her, was delighted with her blunder.

The strange gentleman imderstood this,

W. T.— 8

SIESTA


and added, half aloud: "I am an Irishman, madam.”

"Ah,” uttered Mademoiselle Adele, with a grateful smile, for she was easily reconciled.

"Anatole — Irishman! What is that.?” she whispered.

"They are the poor in England,” he whispered in reply.

"So! — hem!” Mademoiselle Adele raised her eyebrows and cast a sly glance at her neighbor on the right. With one stroke he had completely swept away her interest in him.

D e silvis’ dinner was excellent. They had been long sitting at the table. When Monsieur Anatole remembered the oysters, which had introduced the menu, they were to him like a pleasant dream. The truffles, on the contrary, continued to be to him a lasting reality.

The dinner proper was ended. Now and then some one lifted his glass again, or culled from the dish one of the choice fruits or little bonbons.

Tender-hearted, blond Mademoiselle Louison was lost in deep revery over a grape which she had dropped into her champagne glass.

"Look,” cried Mademoiselle Louison, turning her great, liquid eyes toward the journalist; "see how the white angels bear a sinner toward heaven!”

"Ah, charming, mademoiselle. What a sublime idea!” cried the enraptured journalist in return.

Mademoiselle Louison’s sublime idea made the circuit of the table, and was generally applauded. The frivolous Adele alone whispered to her corpulent admirer: "Really, ’twould take a whole host of angels to carry you to heaven, Anatole!”

The journalist, in the interim, knew how to grasp the opportunity and arrest the general attention of the company. Furthermore, he was happy at the prosW. T.— 9

pect of escaping a wearisome political discussion with the German. And since he wore the red ribbon in his button-hole, and, in addition, had the matchless, important tone of a journalist, the entire party gave him audience.

He explained how small forces, when combined in operation, can bear such great burdens. And then he passed to the topic of the day:. The magnificent collections of the press for sufferers from the floods in Spain and for the destitute in Paris.

He had much to relate. Every moment he spoke of the press as "we,” while in the heat of his eloquence he talked of "these millions which we have raised with sudi enormous sacrifices.”

But each of the others also had his story to tell. Innumerable traits, small or noble, were revealed on these days of festivities and pleasures. And all of them savored somewhat of self-sacrifice.

Mademoiselle Louison’s best friend, an unimportant lady, whose place was almost at the foot of ffle table, related, despite Louison’s protest, how three poor sewinggirls had come to her own lodgings, and how she had made them sew the whole night on her gown for the celebration at the Hippodrome. Moreover, in addition to their wages, she had generously given these poor girls coffee and cake!

Mademoiselle Louison became suddenly an important personage at the table, and the journalist began to show her the most marked attentions.

'These many noble incidents of benevolence and Louison’s liquid eyes inspired the entire company with a feeling of repose, satisfaaion, and sympathy for mankind, which was most eminently fitting to the weariness following the fatigue of the meal.

Indeed, this feeling of comfort mounted even a few degrees higher, when they



came to rest themselves in the soft armchairs of the little cool salon.

There was no other light here than the glow from the open fireplace. Its ruddy brightness stole softly across the English carpet and ascended to tlie golden cornices of the hangings; it played upon the gilded frames of the paintings, touched the piano which stood near the chimney; here and there it fell also upon a face, wonderfully illuminating and reclaiming it from the darkness. Otherwise nothing was visible except the red, glowing tips of cigars and cigarettes.

The entertainment began to flag; only a whisper now and then, or the clink of a coffee-cup disturbed the silence.

Every one seemed inclined to surrender himself distraaed to the still enjoyment of his digestive powers and his philanthropic temperament. Even Monsieur Anatole forgot his truffles, while he stretched himself out in the low easy-chair near the sofa, on which Mademoiselle Adele had seated herself.

"Is there no one present who can give us a little music?” inquired Senor de Silvis. "You are always wont to be so obliging, Mademoiselle Adele.”

"Oh dear, no — ^no!” cried Mademoiselle. "I’ve been eating too heartily !” At the same time, leaning back upon the sofa, she drew up her little feet, and, with a satisfied air, folded her hands across her breast.

But the stranger, the Irishman, emerged from his comer, and advanced to the piano.

"Oh! you’re going to play something for us! Many thanks — Monsieur — hem. Monsieur ” Senor de Silvis had forgotten the name, a thing happening very often, indeed, with his guests.

"You see, he is a musician!” said Mademoiselle Adele to her friend. Anatole answered with a grunt of admiration.

'There was something else. The others

also perceived it at once, noticing the manner in which he sat down and struck a few chords here and there to awaken the instrument, as it were.

He then began to play — sportively, flightily, frivolously — just as the mood was upon him.

The melodies of the day whirled away into gay waltzes and tuneful glees; all those insignificant popular tunes hummed by all Paris for the past week he snatched up and executed with spirit and fluency.

'The ladies cried out with astonishment, sang a few bars in accompaniment, beat time softly on the floor. The entire company followed him with intense interest. He had gained their sympathy, and carried them away with him from the very beginning. 'The "lieber Herr Doktor” alone listened with that Sedan smile. Such things were too simple for him.

But soon there was something for even the German. He nodded now and then somewhat approvingly.

A bit of Chopin burst forth and wonderfully accorded with the general temperament — ^the pungent fragrancy filling the air, the gay women, the men so frank, so unconcerned, each strange to the other, lost in the obscurity of the dusky salon, each following his own most secret thoughts, borne along by the mysterious, half-distina, half-confused music, while the light of the open fireplace brightened now, now sank back again, causing everything golden to glimmer with a faint, trembling glow.

And now there was still more for the doaor. From time to time he turned toward de Silvis and motioned to him whenever the harmonious sounds suggested "our Schumann,” "our Beethoven,” or, indeed, "our famous Richard.”

M eanwhile the stranger continued playing, slightly inclined to the left, though without effort, in order to put

SIESTA


more force into the bass. It sounded as if he had twenty fingers — all of steel. He knew how to assemble a multitude of tones, so that the instrument itself produced one powerful, united, distinct soimd. Not stopping, not marking the transitions, by ever newly recurring surprizes, imitations, happy combinations he fixed their attention so firmly that even the most unmusical person was forced to follow him with rapture.

Wholly unnoticed, the music changed its charaaer. The artist played the deep tones uninterruptedly. He then inclined himself more and more upon the left, and there arose a wonderful commotion in the bass. The anabaptists of the Prophet approached with heavy steps; a knight from the Damnation de Faust mounted from the depths below with that desperate, hobbling, diabolical gallop.

More and more it rumbled and thundered in the deeper tones, and Monsieur Anatole began to feel the truffles anew. Mademoiselle Adele leaned half forward from the sofa; the music would not allow her to rest in peace.

Here and there the chimney-fire was refleaed in a pair of black eyes staring fixed upon the player. He had bewitched them; they could now no longer detach themselves fromliim; he led them ever deeper down, down, down, where the sound was muffled and gloomily muttered with lamentations and threats.

"He manages his left hand marvelously,” said the doaor. But de Silvis did not hear him; like the others, he sat in breathless suspense.

A mysterious, oppressive fear stole out from the music and brooded over the whole assembly.

The artist seemed to clench his left hand into a fist, which could never again relax, while with his right he cast hither and thither descants of sounds leaping aloft

like sparkling flames. It sounded as if something dismal, horrible had been committed in the cellar, while those upstairs were dancing, laughing, and amusing themselves under the resplendent candelabra.

There was heard a sigh, a low cry from one of the ladies who felt unwell, but no one took notice of it. The performer was now wholly occupied with the bass, on which he was playing with both hands. His tireless fingers rapidly mingled the sounds together, so that cold chills ran up and down the backs of his hearers.

There was, however, a gradual ascension from the threatening, tumultuous lower sounds to the higher notes. The tones ran into each other, over each other, past eacli other, upward, ever upward, but never seeming to advance. There arose a wild tumult, a struggle to reach the top. They swarmed like little black demons, fighting, wrangling, full of raging wrath, feverish hurry, climbing, clinging, clenching with hands and teeth, each kicking, crushing the other with its feet, cursing, shrieking, praying — and, meanwhile, his hands glided along the keys so slowly, oh, so painfully slowly!

"Anatole,” whispered Mademoiselle Adele, as pale as a ghost, "he is playing the 'Poverty!’ ”

"Oh, dear! — those truffles!” moaned Anatole, beginning to writhe with pain.

The salon suddenly became as bright as day. Two servants entered from behind the portiere with lamps and candelabra. At the same moment the strange musician stopped playing, with all the might of his steeled fingers striking a discord so impossible, so startling that the entire party instantly sprang to their feet.

"Away with the lamps!” cried de Silvis.

"No, no!” shrieked Mademoiselle Adele; ''come in with the light. I’m



afraid in the dark. Oh, the horrible creature!”

"Who was he? — yes, — who was he?” And they involuntarily thronged round their host. Nor did they notice that the stranger had slipped out behind the servants.

De Silvis tried to laugh it off by saying: "I think it was the devil. Come, let us go to the opera!”

"To the opera? Not for the world,” cried Louison. "I won’t listen to any music for a fortnight. Ugh! think of that crowd on the opera stairway!”

"Oh, my truffles!” howled Anatole.

T he company broke up. They all suddenly realized that diey were strangers in a strange place. Each one desired to steal away home and be alone by himself.

On accompanying Mademoiselle Louison to her carriage the journalist said: "There, you see, that’s the result of allowing one’s self to be persuaded to accept the invitations of one of those half-barbarians. One never knows what sort of a crowd one will meet.”

"Oh, dear, yes! He has quite put me out of humor,” replied Louison, plaintively, all the time lifting her liquid eyes appealingly to him. "But won’t you accompany me to Trinity? I know that a quiet mass will be read there at midnight.”

The journalist bowed acquiescence, and took his place beside her in the carriage.

While Mademoiselle Adele and Monsieur Anatole, on the other hand, were passing the English apothecary in Rue de la Paix, the latter bade the coalman stop, and said, "No,” beseechingly to her, "I think I must be put down here and have them give me something for my truffles. You won’t be angry with me? But, you see — the music ”

"Please do not let it trouble you in the least, my friend. To be frank, I think that neither of us is in a specially happy mood tonight. Well, good-night! Auf Wiedersehen tomorrow!”

She leaned back in the cushions of the carriage. She felt relieved. She was alone. And the frivolous creature wept, as if she had been whipped! She was then driven home.

Of course Anatole was suffering extremely from the truffles, but it seemed to him that he felt better the moment the carriage rolled away.

Since the time that they had become acquainted they were never so satisfied with one another as at this very moment of parting.

But the one who had best recovered from the affair was the "lieber Herr Doktor,” for, being a German, he had become inured as far as the music was concerned.

Notwithstanding this, however, he resolved to stroll off to the brasserie Muller in Rue Richelieu, to drink over it a good square pint of German beer, with a bit of ham, perhaps.

DEAFNESS HEAD NOISES

CATARRH

Trial Treatment Free !

Many Sufferers from Ear Tubal Deafness Successfully Treated by Simple Method Originated by a Doctor for Office Practice but Later Perfected for the Home

Phenomenal succeas has attended this home treatment. More than 508,740 cases of deafness, head noises due to ear tubal catarrh and ordinary nasal catarrh have used this treatment in all sections of the country and out of this number a huge number have reported complete satisfaction.

Most of these sufferers have been people whose hearing was bad in one ear and was rapidly getting bad in the other. With every cold the hearing grew worse. This condition was relieved for many; relieved not only for a time but their catarrhal condition was better and in many cases all traces of the disease disappeared.

Nasal Catarrh Relieved

Without doubt, nasal catarrh is the most offensive of all diseases; it disgusts and nauseates all who may be within hearing. The constant hacking and snifBing and stifled mouth breathing — the mucous discharge which can only be eliminated by blowing the nose or continual spitting, is sickening to all who are near.

It has been demonstrated so often that this treatment has restored hearing and ended head noises from nasal catarrh, that every sufferer may now try it free. You can prove, without expense, that the results are quick and convincing.

Eemember, the Dr. Coffee Treatment does not involve the use of any device or instrument for the magnification of sound. NEITHER IS IT AN INTERNAL REMEDY. It goes right to the seat of the trouble and thus it brings about its results in a normal, natural manner so much

Don’t You Think An Old I.ndy Like Me Would Be Happy to Be Relieved of Her Deafness and Catarrh?

latest book which explains the causes and symptoms of deafness, head noises and catarrh.

Please state for which you desire treatment. Both trial treatments are free and sent all postage prepaid. Send the coupon!

desired.

THIS TREATMENT CONTAINS INGREDIENTS DESCRIBED AND DEFINED IN U. S. PHARMACOPOEIA AND NATIONAL FORMULARY.

You Can Try It Free

No money is asked for this free trial treatment for deafness, or for catarrh only. Either will be sent by parcel post with full instructions how it should be used.

Many people have written that the free demonstration has benefited or restored their hearing and relieved them from head noises and catarrh. You ought to try it. Fill in the coupon today. With this free test treatment you will also receive a copy of the Dr. W. O. Coffee Co.’s

FREE TRIAL COUPON

r~~ ** ~ I

I DU. W. O. COFFEE CO., I

I 19Z St. JameA Bldg:., Davenport, Iowa |

I Please send me Free Trial Treatment, and | I Preo Book on "Deafness, Head Noises and Ca- | I tarrh," both by prepaid parcel post. It Is under- I I stood that this does not obligate me In any way. I I (Either print name and address or write plainly.) |

J Name J

I Street |

I or R. P. D g

I I

j Town State j

I State below whether you want treatment for S I deafne.sa. head noises or simply for catarrh? |



The Uncharted Isle

( Continued from page 608 )

the low, liquid, many-vowelled words which they spoke to each other were not denotive of any recorded language.

None of them appeared to notice me; and I went up to a group of three who were studying one of the long scrolls I have mentioned, and addressed them. For all answer, they bent closer above the scroll; and even when I plucked one of them by the sleeve, it was evident that he did not observe me. Much amazed, I peered into their faces, and was struck by the mingling of supreme perplexity and monomaniacal intentness which their expression displayed. There was much of the madman, and more of the scientist absorbed in some irresoluble problem. Their eyes were fixed and fiery, their lips moved and mumbled in a fever of perpetual disquiet; and, following their gaze, I saw that the thing they were studying was a sort of chart or map, whose yellowing paper and faded inks were manifestly of past ages. The continents and seas and isles on this map were not those of the world I knew; and their names were written in heteroclitic runes of a lost alphabet. There was one immense continent in particular, with a tiny isle close to its southern shore; and ever and anon, one of the beings who pored above the map would touch this isle with his finger-tip, and then would stare toward the empty horizon, as if he were seeking to recover a vanished shoreline. I received a distina impression that these people were as irretrievably lost as I myself; that they too were disturbed and baffled by a situation not to be solved or redeemed.

1 WENT on toward the stone platform, which stood in a broad open space among the foremost houses. It was perhaps ten feet high, and access to it was given by a flight of winding steps. I mounted the steps, and tried to accost the people who were crowding about the armillary-like instrument. But they too were utterly oblivious of me, and intent upon the observations they were making. Some of them were turning the great sphere; some were consulting various geographical and celestial maps; and, from my nautical knowledge, I could see > that certain of their companions were - taking the height of the sun with a kind of astrolabe. All of them wore the same look of perplexity and savant-like preoccupation which I had observed in the others.

Seeing that my efforts to attraa their attention were fruitless, I left the platform and wandered along the streets toward the harbor. The strangeness and inexplicability of it all were too much for me; more and more, I felt that I was being alienated from the realms of all rational experience or conjecture; that I had fallen into some unearthly limbo of confoundment and imreason, into the culdesac of an ultra-terrestrial dimension. These beings were so palpably astray and bewildered; it was so obvious that they knew as well as I that there was something wrong with the geography, and perhaps with the chronology, of their island.

I spent the rest of the day roaming around; but nowhere could I find any one who was able to perceive my presence; and nowhere was there anything to reassure me, or resolve my ever-growing confusion of mind and spirit. Everywhere there were men, and also women; and though comparatively few of them were gray and wrinkled, they all conveyed



to my apprehension a feeling of immemorial eld, of years and cycles beyond all record of computation. And all were troubled, all were feverously intent, and were perusing maps or reading ancient pells and volumes, or staring at the sea and sky, or studying the bra2en tablets of astronomical parapegms along the streets, as if by so doing they could somehow find the flaw in their reckonings. There were men and women of mature years, and some with the fresh, unllned visages of youth; but in all the place I saw but one child; and the face of the child was no less perplexed and troubled than those of its elders. If any one ate or drank or carried on the normal occupations of life, it was not done within my scope of vision; and I conceived the idea that they had lived in this manner, obsessed with the same problem, through a period of time which would have been praaically eternal in any other world than theirs.

I came to a large building, whose open door was dark with the shadows of the interior. Peering in, I found that it was a temple; for across the deserted twilight, heavy with the stale fumes of burnt-out incense, the slant eyes of a baleful and monstrous image glared upon me. The thing was seemingly of stone or wood, with gorilla-like arms and the malignant features of a sub-human race. From what little I could see in the gloom, it was not pleasant to look upon; and I left the temple, and continued my perambulations.

Now I came to the waterfront, where the vessels with orange sails were moored at a stone mole. There were five or six of them in all: they were small galleys, with single banks of oars, and figureheads of metal that were graven with the likeness of primordial gods. They were indescribably worn by the waves of untold years; their s^ls were rotting rags; and

Stopped

His Whiskey

Drinking

Try It FREE

Wives, mothers, sisters, it is you that the man who drinks Whiskey, Wine or Beer to excess mu^ depend upon to help save him from a ruined life and a drunkard’s grave. Take The Happy Reunion ^he thrasands of men going to ruin daily through vile bootlegger’s Whiskey, and the horrible stuff called home brew from private stills. Once he gets it in his system he hnda it difficult to stop — but you can help him. What it has done for others is an example of what it should do for you. All you have to do is to send your name and address and we will send absolutdy FREE, in plain wrapper, a trial package of GOLDEN TREATMENT. You will be thankful as long as you live that you did it. Address DR. J. W. HAINES CO.

4140 Glenn Building Cincinnati Ohio

What Made His Hair Grow?

Read His Letter for the Answer

“Two years ago I was bald all over the cop of the bead.

“I felt ashamed for people to see my head. I tried to overcome this, but 1 remained bald aotil 1 osed Kotalko.

“New hair came almost immediately and kept oa growing. lo a short time 1 had A splendid head of luir» which has been perfect ever since— and no retoro of the baldness.**

This statement It by Mr.H. A. Wild. He isbncooe of those who voluntarily attest Kotalko has stof^d falling hair, eliminated aandmff or aided new, loxuriant hair growth.

Women also report oev hair growth through KOTAXKO. Many testittontaUfrom men and women whose health wat andoobtediy good and whose hair roots were not dead.

Is your physical condition eqaal to theirs? And are yoor hair roots alive but dormant? If so, they may be scimufated into growing hair trough Kotatko, me right sort of invigorant. Sold by busydruggists. m prove the efficacy of

El r 0 A H A y Kotalko, formen’s, women’s

I I V V U U A and children’s hair, the pro*

ducers are giving Proof Boxes.

Kotal Co.,B-61 1, Station O, New York

Please tend me FREE Proof Box of KOTALKO*

Name

Fall AddrcM



no less than all else on the island, they bore the impress of a dread antiquity. It was easy to believe that their grotesquely carven prows had touched the eon-sunken wharves of Lemuria.

I returned to the town; and once again I sought to make my presence known to the inhabitants, but all in vain. And after awhile, as I trudged from street to street, the sun went down behind the island, and the stars came swiftly out in a heaven of purpureal velvet. The stars were large and lustrous and were innumerably thick; with the eye of a practised mariner, I studied them eagerly; but I could not trace the wonted constellations, though here and there I thought that I perceived a distortion or elongation of some familiar grouping. All was hopelessly askew, and disorder crept into my very brain, as I tried once more to orient myself, and noticed that the inhabitants of the town were still busied with a similar endeavor. . . ,

I HAVE no way of coinputing the length of my sojourn on that island. Time didn’t seem to have any proper meaning there; and, even if it had, my mental state was not one to admit of precise reckoning. It was all so impossible and unreal, so much like an absurd and troublesome hallucination; and half the time, I thought that it was merely a continuation of my delirium — ^that probably I was still drifting in the boat. After all, this was the most reasonable supposition; and I don’t wonder that those who have heard my story refuse to entertain any other. I’d agree with them, if it weren’t for one or two quite material detaik. . . .

The manner in which I lived is pretty vague to me, also. I remember sleeping under the stars, outside the town; I remember eating and drinking, and watching those people day after day, as they

pursued their hopeless calculations. Sometiihes I went into the houses and helped myself to food; and once or twice, if I remember rightly, I slept on a couch in one of them, without being disputed or heeded by the owners. 'There was nothing that could break the spell of their obsession or force them to notice me; and I soon gave up the attempt. And it seemed to me, as time went on, that I myself was no less luireal, no less doubtful and insubstantial, than their disregard would appear to indicate.

In the midst of my bewilderment, however, I found myself wondering if it would be possible to get away from the island. I remembered my boat, and remembered also that I had no oars. And forthwith I made tentative preparations for departure. In broad daylight, before the eyes of the townspeople, I took two oars from one of the galleys in the harbor, and carried them across the ridge to where my boat was hidden. The oars were very heavy, their blades were broad as fans, and their handles were fretted with hieroglyphs of silver. Also, I appropriated from one of the houses two earthen jars, painted with barbaric figures, and bore them away to the lagoon, intending to fill them with fresh water when I left. And also I colleaed a supply of food. But somehow the brainmuddling mystery of it all had paralyzed my initiative; and even when everything was ready, I delayed my departure. I felt, too, that the inhabitants must have tried innumerable times to get away in their galleys, and had always failed. And so I lingered on, like a man in the grip of some ridiculous nightmare.

One evening, when those distorted - stars had all come out, I became aware that unusual things were going on. The people were no longer standing about in groups, with their customary porings and



discussions, but were all hastening toward the temple-like edifice. I followed them, and peered in at the door.

The place was lit with flaring torches that flung demoniac shadows on the crowd and on the idol before whom they were bowing. Perfumes were burnt, and chants were sung in the myriad-vowelled language with which my ear had become familiarized. They were invoking that frightful image with gorilla-like arms and half-human, half-animal face; and it was not hard for me to surmise the purpose of the invocation. Then the voices died to a sorrowful whisper, the smoke of the censers thinned, and the little child I had once seen was thrust forward in a vacant space between the congregation and the idol.

I had thought, of course, that the god was of wood or stone; but now, in a flash of terror and consternation, I wondered if I had been mistaken. For the oblique eyes opened more widely, and glowered upon the child, and the long arms, ending in knife-taloned fingers, lifted slowly and reached forward. And arrow-sharp fangs were displayed in the bestial grin of the leaning face. The child was still as a bird beneath the hypnotic eyes of a serpent; and there was no movement, and no longer even a whisper, from the waiting throng. . . .

I CAN not recall what happened then:

whenever I try to recall it, there is a cloud of horror and darkness in my brain. I must have left the temple and fled across the island by starlight; but of this, too, I remember nothing. My first recolleaion is of rowing seaward through the narrow chasm by which I had entered the lagoon, and of trying to steer a course by the wried and twisted constellations. After that, there were days and days on a bland, unrippling sea, beneath a heaven

IT IS NOT TOO LATEto read one of the most popular stories that has been printed in this magazine to date. Through popular demand we have published a cloth-bound edition of “The Moon Terror,” by A. G. Birch, to satisfy those who were not fortunate enough to read this startling story when it appeared serially in the early issues of Weied Tales.

R ead the thrilUng adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham* the eminent American , astronomer, in his encounters with KwoSungr-tao, high priest of the Seuen-H’sin (the Sect of Two Moons). The Seuen-H’sin are the sorcerers of China, and the most murderously diabolical breed of human beings on this earth. Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham to take part In the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God — ^when he crosses the Mountains of Fear^half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz'chuen — swims the River of Death— sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwlu, where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their campflres on their journey to Nirvana. Here Is a story that will thrill you.

SPECIAL OFFER

This book is beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orange-colored jacket and is for sale direct from the publishers at the special price of $1.S0 postpaid.

Bemember, this edition is limited and this offer is good only as long as the supply lasts. Send for this fascinating book now while it is fresh in your mind.

Weird Talce* Book Dept., M-33*

840 N. Itticiugan Ave., Chicago* Illinois.

Enclosed dnd $1.50 for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR at publishers' price.

Name

Address ........

City State -



of dazzling incandescence; and more nights below the crazy stars; till the days and nights became an eternity of tortured weariness; and my food and water were all consumed; and hunger and thirst and a feverous calenture with tossing, seething hallucinations, were all that I knew.

One night, I came to myself for a little while, and lay staring up at the sky. And once more the stars were those of the rightful heavens; and I gave thanks to God for my sight of the Southern Cross, ere I slid back into coma and delirium. And when I recovered consciousness again, I was lying in a ship’s cabin, and the ship’s doaor was bending over me.

'They were all very kind to me on that ship. But when I tried to tell them my tale, they smiled pityingly; and after a few attempts, I learned to keep my silence. They were very curious about the two oars with silver-fretted handles, and the painted jars which they had found

with me in the boat; but they were all too frank in refusing to accept my explanation. No such island and no such people could possibly exist, they said: it was contrary to all the maps that had ever been made, and gave the direa lie to all the ethnologists and geographers.

Often I wonder about it, myself, for there are so many things I can’t explain. Is there a part of the Pacific that extends beyond time and space — an oceanic limbo into which, by some unknowable cataclysm, that island passed in a bygone period, even as Lemuria sank beneath the wave? And if so, by what abrogation of dimensional laws was I enabled to reach the island and depart from it? 'These things are beyond speculation. But often in my dreams, I see again the incognizably distorted stars, and share the confusion and bafl3ement of a lost people, as they pore above their useless charts, and take the altitude of a deviated sun.

THE CYPRESS-BOG

By DONALD WANDREI

Lethal waters sleep and swoon By a cypress-veiled lagoon, ‘

Flickering flames and flre-flies Burn beneath the stagnant skies,

Lighting swamps and tarns unholy Where miasmal stenches slowly Rise from half-decaying logs And the miles of rotten bogs.

Sucking sounds invade the ni^t,

Air and water creatures fight,

Shrieking, thus to settle whose That dead body in the ooze.

Footprints of a man-bat woven With the fresher tracks of cloven Feet are ended in a fen —

Neither thing will walk again.



The Master Strikes

( Continued from page 604 )

his memory turned to the blue eyes and golden hair of the girl wife whom he had left across the river to seek and obtain aid from a relative in Love Lane.

There was a boy, too, back in Blois, where he had met the girl while working for her father, a boy whose name was Leon, but whose good looks were all his mother’s.

As he thought of these things, the loss of Heaven itself seemed a slight thing beside those which he had gained.

A lark sang, not ten feet away, charmed with the freshness of the summer morning; the limpid air played softly among the leaves of the green bush, and below — children and women were dying horribly, their men-folk snarling defiance, dying with content if they had time to snatch a weapon and get their backs to a wall.

Gunnar sighed and lay close in his gutter.

After a long time the crowd dispersed and went raging away to other scenes, and there was a pitiful silence along the narrow street, where the dead lay thick and piled high around the doorways where they had been thrown from within, or where some householder bereft of all save life had made a furious stand, till even that was snatched away.

From afar cries of "A has Coligny! A has les Huguenots!” rose to the lofty rooftop, and again from a filthy street in the rear of his refuge he heard an indescribably savage chanting, a derisive version of a popular Protestant song:

"Hau! Hau! Huguenots!

Paites place aux Papegots!”

Like rats the Huguenots of Paris were being hunted down, and only Theophide I

XT, Novels for $f .00

These are copyright novels by well known writers. Printed on good paper with illustrated covers.

Thrilling Mystery Fiction

Each of these books is an exciting mystery or detective story. Guaranteed to hold your interest.

And you get the entire set of twelve novels for only one dollar! There is no other charge.

But — you must act immediately t The supply Is limited. Right now. while you think of it. tear out this advertisement, fill in the coupon below, and return to us with $1.00 (coin, stamps or money order). The complete set of twelve novels will be mailed to you promptly, postage prepaid.

POPULAR FICTION PUBLISHING CO..

Dept. 62, 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, 111.

I enclose $1.00. Send me the twelve novels, postage prepaid, at once. This $1.00 is payment In full.

Name -

Address

City — — . State —



Gunnar upon his roof-top was to know why.

The sun rose high and beat down mercilessly into the deep gutter, but the ragged refugee did not move.

From Love Lane, peopled only by the dead, a stench of a butcher’s shambles drifted up. Still he waited patiently, though his nostrils wrinkled in distaste.

The afternoon waned and found him chewing the green leaves to assuage a burning thirst, while the stm, now hidden behind a cloud of smoke that hung low over towers and roofs, shone red and brazen as through a canopy of hell.

Beneath that pall the rattle of firing went on, now far, now near, while occasionally a frantic cry punauated the dull uproar.

All day the drums had grumbled sullen gutturals of menace, and at nightfall a rolling volley of firearms and a clatter of hoofs betrayed the entering of a troop of horse into the desolated street.

Their leader was a young man, perhaps twenty or twenty-one, sitting his horse superbly. He wore a gray ridingcoat and was a head taller than any of his companions. Jewels gleamed in his bonnet and there was pride in his face.

The riders that followed him were richly and handsomely dressed, though some wore corselets over satin coats and lace collars floated above jerkins of plain buff.

A herd of raving men straggled behind, their faces alight with furious glee, and a head borne aloft upon a pike was in a manner prophetic of Parisian amusements some two hundreds of years in the future.

'The wolf-pack of Henri le Balafre, Duke of Guise, was hunting in the twilight for stray game!

Gunnar noticed that all wore bands of

white around their left arms and white crosses in their caps and bonnets. With some elation, he had begun to tear a strip from his ragged shirt when his attention was sharply distraaed by a movement in the huddle of bodies direaly beneath him. A white arm had feebly lifted and as quickly dropped again.

Gunnar would have thought nothing of the matter had not a flash of green stones glittered on the pale wrist. With eyes sharpened by anxiety he pierced the shadows, saw a mass of golden hair and a lovely wan face that he knew well, although a trickle of blood had clotted upon the side of the dear head.

"Croisette!” he gasped and recognized his wife, whom he had thought safe in the Faubourg St. Germain, where no massacre had taken place.

"rhe recognition had taken a brief part of a second; instantly he stared about to see if any had noticed the movement.

None too soon, he saw that the finger of Henri of Guise was pointing at the heap of bodies near the wall, and that he was turning as if to shout.

Apparently no other had seen the sign of life. His decision was instant. From the roof-top, the bellow of an arquebus awoke the echoes in the miserable street.

Guise reeled in his saddle and his bonnet was snatched from his head, shedding a sprinkle of jewels as it flew.

A howl went up from below, and a scattering, aimless volley clattered against the chimneypots.

Gunnar recoiled into his shelter, cursing his unsteady hand, while he reloaded with mad haste.

A shadow fell across him as he worked, and he looked up and over his shoulder with a fearful squint, when a voice spoke whose malignant accents he remembered well.


717 ,

"Your'work is wasted, Theophide; you have come to the end of your days!”

The dwarf, whom he had known as Guillame, his father’s companion, sat cross-legged upon the mossy roof, leering obscenely at him.

Below, the men were beating in the house door as he continued silently with his loading. He tamped down the powder and the calm voice went on.

■'Did you think, Gunnar, that you could outrace the long arm of the Master.^ I could have killed you in Brussels as I meant, had you not struck me down as I was changing. Death after that was too good for you; I planned that you should suffer. Would it interest you to know that I caused your wife to come here just as the killing began.?”

The roar in the street below was louder now.

"Ten years ago, I began to spread the seed of calamity in Paris. It grew, blossomed and has fruited today. When will you mortals learn that the Master knows what you plan, far in advance of your childish plotting?”

Gunnar could hear the tramp of feet inside the house and knew that the hunters were climbing the crazy crooked stairways.

Doggedly he finished tamping his powder and dropped in the slugs, not replying to the taunting words.

"I knew,” went on the Master, "when you and your woman came to Paris to seek aid from her imcle, so that you might cross to Scotland and secure the remainder of the key to the bishop’s tomb. I am aware that your five-yearold son in Blois has the other half of the key and I am taking excellent care of him, I assure you. Excellent care! It is quite possible that whoever enters the tomb of the bishop may be surprized at what he

ALLIED^RADIO

C O iL PC I O N""

The latest In Radio . . . new 1981 Sereen Grid Hornless All-E3eetiie Sets* remote control* poblie address, pbooo* eombimUitma . • • all dynamic speaker \ equipped. AIm oattery operated sets. Beaotifid constries. Acceesorles, parts* kits* electric aroHances, etc. Srad for this 16B-page ^EE book today!

KTIIWIAKEST. Pept.lOT CHICAGO J

DAM-ZINE

For Sick Glands Caused From Age Abuse, Disease, Etc.

A product of medical research prescribed by Physicians In the treatment of starved glands. Tou take no chances and waste no money. Sat> Isfaction guaranteed or money refunded. We in* vlte correspondence with Physicians. Packed 25 Dam-Zincs, $1.00, 200 for $5.00. A $1.00 order now means a $5.00 order later. Special Pbysl* clans offer 1,000 Dam-Zincs for $21.25. All goods sent in plain sealed package postpaid. No

O. O. D. Send cash or money order and expect Dam-Zines by first return mall. No delay. Write DOW. All correspondence confidential.

DAM*ZINE LABORATORIES CO.

P. -O. Box 101 Columbus, Ohio

LONELY HEARTS

L et us arrange a romantic eorrespemdenee for you. Meet sour sweetheart thru the world’s foremost high-class social oorrespondence club, a club for re* fined kmely pe<^le. Members every

ly CX>NF1DENT^L, efficient and dignifiM

•ovice. We have made thousands of lonely peegde happy, why not youT Write for FREE Particulars.

MOORE. B0X909. JACKSONVILLE, WA .

HAVE A SWEETHEART FOR YOU

Do you want to learn how to get

EMPLOYMENT?

If 80 we can help you

Send name and address for free literature. THB BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT, DEPT. O, Box 1625* Los Angeles, Calif*

Banish the craving for tobacco as tbousandshave. Make yourself free and happy with Tobacco Redeemer. Notasubstitute, not habit fonning. Write for free booklet telling of injurious effect of tobacco and depend* able, easy way to relieve the craving many men have . Newell Pharmacol Co.

Dept 917. Clayton, Mo.

FREE

BOOK

ARE you LONELY?? and single, too. Don’t wonder what on earth to do! Just send a line to BETTY TRUE,

Her Club will ehase the blues for you! (Write totlay.)

Box 796. Los Angeles, Calif.

,718


finds there. In faa I feel certain that he will!”

He chuckled deep in his throat like a ghoul who unearths a freshly buried corpse at midnight.

Theophide Gxmnar still did not speak, but swung the muzzle of the arquebus around till it pointed at the Master’s black, naked chest and pulled the trigger. A haze of smoke hid the gloating face; it passed and the cackle of the Master’s mirth rang out as the rabble came out upon the roof-top.

"Load again, Gunnar! Load again!” the monster cried. "Here are the bullets you loaned me! Load and try again, man!”

He cast the slugs in Gunnar’s face, turned and vanished in the puff of powder smoke.

A s THE men came near, Gunnar’s brave ‘-heart failed. With the clarity of sight given to the dying, he perceived that he had lost his battle against the evil genius of his race; knew also that his cause was lost, that all over Paris men were dying because of his presence there; saw clearly that the very existence of a Gunnar anywhere meant sorrow and calamity for that place.

Tlie foremost of the butchers that had drenched Paris in blood on that fateful day reached out a hairy hand to grasp him.

Theophide Gunnar poised upon the gutter edge, tall, straight, handsome, leapt and hung in air as a diver does and plunged headlong into the street.

He had chosen his spot, and when they came to him, they saw that peace was on his face. A trail of blood showed

where he had dragged his broken body to a pile of corpses near a wall.

A white arm was around his neck and golden hair mingled with his own brown locks.

A man stooped to wrendi away a green-gemmed bracelet from the pale wrist, and seeing that one of the twain still lived, he drove a pike through both and left them pinned together there.

After the Guisards had gone, the dwarf stood by them silently and bent down at a flicker of the man’s eyelids. The eyes opened but saw nothing. The head rolled slowly sideways till his lips touched golden hair.

"Croisette!” fluttered the lips, and the eyes closed.

The Master followed the rioting Guisards where a roar of voices sounded. He was well content witli himself and his battle with his enemy. The toll of massacre and intolerance that he had incited would go on until thirty thousand lay dead in Paris. A score was being piled up that would not be wiped out by all the dead in the great street-fight at Cahors.

Chatillon would ride through the faubourgs of Paris nine years later, remembering his father Coligny and giving no quarter, and still the tally would remain unpaid.

Men would be speared by hundreds at Courtas and Ivry and yet not one of the dead on the tragic Saint Bartholomew’s day would be avenged, for the issue was Man as a race, against the Master, and not Catholic against Huguenot.

And the kindly concealing dark came down upon the deserted and quiet street which was called Love Lane.



A Million Years After

( Continued from page 598 ) the sky as well, a great repulsive bulk, reptilian yet not scaly, patterned strangely with spots of vivid green and orange; a monster of one hundred million years ago when the earth was young and men as yet unaeated; huge, powerful, yet vulnerable as an insect to the man-made weapons of today. Its jaws, small in comparison to its size, were drawn back in the weird and sickly semblance of a smile. An objea that no one in the crowd that colleaed cared to look long upon, save the curator of the museum, and even he turned away at last a little white about the lips.

"No one must touch it,” he ordered. "It’s the greatest find since the age of man, yet a bit of a problem as to how to remove it, and a good deal of red tape to be gone through with at that. ... It is, unquestionably, the produa of the lost dinosaur’s egg that has somehow, somewhere, mysteriously hatched itself. We believed them to be petrified in the rock, yet in some miraculous way the germ of life was not destroyed.” So the curator, his thin scholar’s cheek flushed, his quiet eyes agleam, discoursed to the crowd about the obscene giant carcass in the morning simlight.

The spot was roped ofiF, and vehicles instruaed to take the lower road. A police officer guarded each end so that no one could approach unchallenged. 'The crowd was not great. No one that looked once came again.

But in spite of what seemed an adequately protective guard a fateful thing happened that night. On either side of the road beside the spot where the mysteriously reborn extina monster lay, stood two old barns stacked with hay. A careQUIT TOBACCO

No man or woman can oacapo the harmfo 1 effects of tobacco, g Don’t try to bantah onaided f the bold tobacco has yoa.i

Join tbethoosanda of laveter-^ ato tobacco nsera that have

f oond tt easy toqoit with tbe aid of the Koeley Treatment.

TREATMENT

STOPS

Tobacco HabU

Qidekly banfahes all eravinff for tobacco. Write today for Free Book telling bow toqnlckly Freo youraelf from tbo tobac c o habit and oor Money Back Goarantee.

.THB KCELCV INSTiTUTC

KEELEY

DeotJI^SOe

Dwight^ nilnala

Foonders TEMPLE OF TRUTH (INC.)

Prof. Carl D. Oaks, Pres., Dr. Annette Dolly Oaks, Sec’y & Treaa. Demonstrators of Dnst India Occultism. You are groping in the dark. We can show you the light. Realize your future, know what to do, by sending your name in full, also date and month of birth. Ten questions answered. Mail one dollar money order or currency. Address:

TEMPLE STUDIO

3169 Routhport Avr. Chicago, HI.

iTo Any Suit!

I Double the life of your /coat and vest with correctly I matched pant8.100,000 patterns* I Every pair na^ t **

, ..-..J tailored to your measure; no

1 ’’readymades.’* Our match sent FREE for yoor I O. K. before pants are made. Fit guaranteed.

Rd piece of cloth or vest today.

SUPERIOR MATCH PANTS COMPANY^ ,

\ g&a So. oeartoem straat. Dept. hm. Chleace

HUNDREDS SEEKING MARRIAGE

If you are lonely and sincere I can arrange a romantic correspondence that will help you to find your ideal in a CONFIDENTIAL and digniAed manner. Just the opportunity you have been awaiting. Full particulars for stamp. Mrs. F. Willard. 3004 N. Clark St.. Chicago, 111.

CLASSIFIED ADVKRT1SE»1BNTS

Song Writing

ADVANCE KOTALTY PAYMENTS, TALKING picture song requirements, etc., fully explained in free booklet. Write today. Newcomer Associates, 1674-Z Broadway, New York.

SONG POEM WRITERS — ’’REAL’* PROPOSITION. Hibbeler, D156, 2104 Keystone. Chicago.

Help Wanted

POSITIONS ON OCEAN LINERS; EXPERIENCE unnecessary; good pay. List of positions free. Box 292-x, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

Personal

CHASE THOSE LONELY HOURS AWAY! I’VE the very pal for you, lonesome like yourself. Write today — you’ll be glad. Free particulars, confidential, interesting descriptions, attractive members everywhere (many wealthy). Mrs. Budd. Box 753-W, Ban Francisco, C?alif.

LONFXY? WANTS NEW FRIENDS OR A LIFE Partner? We can help you. Reliable, confidential introductory service for ladies and gentlemen. Write, Get- Acquainted Correspondence Club, B-1251, Denver, Colo.

LETTER CLUB FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN. Big paper free, send for one. Eastern Agency 22, Bridgeport, Conn.

MEN--ENLAROB MUSCLES; STRICTLY CONhdentia). Stamp r.ppreciated. Address: Laboratory; Manager, Bos S34. Santa Ana. Calif.



CREATE MIRACLES FOR YOU

Bring miracles into your life — happiness, health, and freedom from worry.

Don’t waste years WAITING for these things. CREATE THEM NOW.

A key to your problems is offered here.

ASTOUNDING RESULTS

Harness your vast mind power to your problem — then watch results — learn to direct the creative forces of your mind.

Thoughts are material like brick?, lumber, and steel. To build with them you must have a definite plan — or they are wasted. Inspirations, ideas, originate in your mind, but they must be controlled, mastered. If you wish to make them serve you. A few rules, simple and practical, will be the means of showing you how to CHANGE the COURSE OP TOUR LIFE to one of happiness.

Are you willing to unlock the treasures of your mind^or gamMe with luck and chance T

FREE BOOK EXPLAINS

Thousands in America today, and in many other lands, have demonstrated marvelous changes in health, peace and Joy by using their MIND POWER. Write today for a free copy of the book, “LIGHT OP EGYPT," and learn how you may change the course of your life. Address letter to:

LIBRARIAN L. F. U.

ROSICRUCIAN BROTHERHOOD

(AMORC)

SAN JOSE CALIFORNIA

(Perpetuating the Original and Only Rosicruclan Fraternity)

less farmhand dropped a cigarette and went his way. Half an hour later they were a sheet of flame. Before either of the police guards could get to the nearest fire alarm box it was too late. It had been a dry summer.

In that mighty flame, that raging funeral pyre, the remains of the giant monster perished, leaving no trace of its lonely coming and haunted death save a^ few charred bones bearing no resemblance to the skeletons of today — as if the God of things as they are did not intend the lost and hidden works of an earlier grotesque age to survive even in efiigy before the eyes of man.

Reconstruct it as you can from the titanic skeletons in the museum — it is enough. The completed monster, lifeendowed, is not for our eyes. Even the curator of the museum shivers a little and pales as he describes it. For the rest it may be summed up in the words of the constable, Sam Hill.

"Wisht I’d never seen the blamed reptile — ^kinder comes back to me o’ nights. 'They say as how men didn’t walk on the earth till things got too small and hard for these here dinysores, an’ that proves to my mind that God didn’t mean the eye of man to look upon ’em. Good thing it was burned — ^that’s what I says. What is one hundred thousand dollars and an extina rep//7^ compared with a man’s peace o’ mind?”

Coming soon —

THE HORROR FROM THE HILLS

By Frank Belknap Long, Jr.

One of the weirdest and most powerful stories ever printed.

WATCH FOR IT.

W. T.— i

Classics of Weird Literature

Autographed by the Author

The Wind That Tramps the World

The Purple Sea

AGGLAUfED BT GR1T1G8 THROUGHOUT THE WORLD

New York Times; "Fanciful, touched by the supernatural, exotic in thought and coloring. Flowers, poems, music and jade are interwoven with their themes and the effect is often both quaint and charming.”

The China Weekly Review, Shanghai, China: "Reveals a true sense of gentleness, the heart of a dreamer, a deep sense of rhythm and beauty. He sees China and the Chinese through misty, naive, sometimes philosophic eyes.”

Honolulu Star-Bulletin, Honolulu, Hawaii: "They are strange and glowing tales of an unearthly beauty. Their scenes are laid in China but they might be anywhere. They are essentially a part of the history of those lost lands where Dunsany's heroes live and die magnificently and where Walter de la Mare’s dark travelers knock vainly at mysterious moonlit doors.”

Ohio State Journal, Columbus, Ohio; "There is some weirdness here, some mystery and some tender passages, enough of each to make a superlative ensemble that won for this author a secure place in the field of Far East fiction.”

Daily Argus Leader, Sioux Falls, S. D.: "This is a collection to be read, laid down and read again.” Wilmington Every Evening, Wilmington, Del.: "Deserves a place among one’s favorite books.”

Radio Station KDKA, Pittsburgh: "For those who are interested in Chinese literature and traditions, we believe this book will find a cordial welcome. A very beautiful book.”

The Globe, Toronto, Ont,; "Dealing with curious phases of Chinese life, they are imaginative, colorful and replete with poetry. For the first of these qualities they might be likened to some of the creations of Edgar Allan Poe, but even the weirdest of them possess a tenderness to which Poe was a stranger.”

Arizona Republican, Phoenix, Ariz.; "It is not often that such a book, as deserving of praise and as full of real literary merit as "The Wind That Tramps the World,” comes our way. This sounds like effusiveness, but it isn’t. It’s merely giving credit for a real literary achievement. . . . They are masterpieces of a rich imagination, deep and gripping in their beauty and romance.”

SPECIAL AUTOGRAPHED FIRST EDITIONS

Here are some real gems of literature. Poetic and fanciful Chinese stories with a real thrill to them. These are stories that deserve to live forever. Their ethereal sweetness will grip you. Both books are special first editions autographed by the author. These books are very artistically bound and would make an excellent gift to a friend or a valuable addition to your own library. Remember, first edition copies grow more valuable with the years and when autographed become doubly valuable. Order today. Price $1.50 each postpaid.

Weird Tales, Book Dept. F. O.

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Enclosed find $ Please send me an autographed first edition of —

D "The Wind That Tramps the World”

□ "The Purple Sea”

Name

Address

City.

.State.

Protects lour Car fium Thieves

. . . Automatically!

This oiiquebt/ionably is the queerest, most incredible invention since the first discoveries of radio! A magdcal, automatic watchman that actually is far more than human! Never sleeps, rests or gets tired!

Stands ^ard over your entire car from spare tire to headlights and steering wheel! Endorsed by police!

Approved by Motor Associations ! Now offered on generous 5-day test basis ! The coupon brings full details.

A Startling, Uncanny Money Maker For Agents

makes it work?” ‘’Where on earth did you get V V it ?” “Bet you five dollars he’s got someone hiding in there!” “It simply can’t be true.” A running fire of comment like this breaks out whenever and wherever this new invention is exhibited. And why not? When no one ever heard of such a startling, uncanny device be'fore! In fact few people would even dare to dream there could be such a thing! So this, men, is something really XEW, something to grip the imagination of everyone, something that sells to every autoist on sheer novelty alone. Distributors, “star” s,alesmen, every man who wants to double and triple his present income shouldnote carefully the following facts.

The Secret Of A Theft-Proof Car

Xow in this amazing new way, every car can be protected from theft for 24 full Siours a day. In the garage or parked on the street, jf any thief so much as pulls at your spare tire or touches his foot to your running board — ZOWIE ! A riot of noise starts instantly ! And your car never shuts up till the thief leaves. And listen to this. Even if the thief is wise to what’s up, you alone place the secret control button anywhere you want it around the car. The thief can’t possibly find it. ^ If he wastes time looking for it — Bingo !

He’s caught and on his way to jail ! This astonishing invention guards your spare tire, head-lights and spot-lights as well as the car itself.

InstalBed In 10 Minutes — Casts Nothing To Operate

The inventor has asked the U. S. Government to protect his patent rights in this revolutionary discovery. Because of its

uncanny powers and to distinguish it from everything else on earth this queer discovery is now called “Devil Dog.” Among its amazing features is the fact that it can be in-, stalled by anyone in 10 minutes or less. There is absolutely no cost for operation. It will last as long as the car. Fits any car from Ford to Rolls Royce without adjustment or fussing.

For introductory purposes a special 5-day test offer is now being made. If you are interested in learning about the most astonishing invention since the radio first came in, use the coupon at once. If your present income is less than $50 a week, the profit possibilities as our agent may astonish you. The coupon brings details of all offers. Mail it now.

NORTHWEST ELECTRIC CORP.,

Dept. R-660

Pukwana, So. Dakota AlJTQMATir

DEVIL fp DOC

r ElecfrT? * ** ^ ^ ^ —

I Dept. R-660, Pukwana, So. Dakota.

5 Rush details of your big 5-day test offer and big profits I for agents.

I Name

I

Address

State

) □ Check here if interested only in one for your own car and not in agents’ money-making offer.

[THE END]
