============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: November 1924
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "story lay before him" by In the name of
============================================================
============================================================
STORY LAY BEFORE HIM
by In the name of
============================================================
He lifted his eyes in distress. His gaze roved furtively over the little park, as if seeking an answer to his question. A passing Illinois Central train poured black smoke into his eyes, but this was hardly a drop in the infinite ocean of his misery. For he was about to be crushed

by Martha Washington on the field of argument. It was too much.

Voices from the other bench (the park boasts of two) came to his cars. Having removed the cinders from his eye, he now removed his thumb, and looked irritably at the two speakers. But his irritation vanished immediately into thin air, and he forgot the cinders. There on the other bench, not fifteen feet away, was the man who could solve his problem for him, if! anybody could. This was Dr. Elusha Jones, the most penetrating in¬ tellect (in George Washington’s opiaion) that had ever graced the South Side.

George had listened to him, awestruck, in several debates, and become a hero worshiper in the presence of that' master mind. Why, only two weeks ago he had heard the doctor annihilate his adver¬ sary in a public debate as to whether baptism were absolutely essential to sal¬ vation, or whether it were merely an outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual change. Dr. Jones had proved conclusively that without bap¬ tism there can be no inner change, and therefore the act.itself, the application of the water, is necessary to the saving of the soul.

Having had this auricular proof of the surpassing power of the doctor’s mentality, George Washington did not doubt that it would be but play for the gentleman to solve his problem of the ultimate destination of rheumatism when it leaves its abode in the human body. He would state his problem to the doctor, and return in triumph to Martha Wash¬ ington with the solution.

Feeling much happier, now that he was about to prove to Martha the superi¬ ority of masculine brains over feminine, he slid softly to the other end of the bench, to be nearer Dr. Jones and his companion, and pick up any stray pearls

THE GREAT PANJANDRUM

Of thought that might fall from their lips. His change of position was not noticed by the two men. They continued their discussion, and their voices rose by degrees from the subdued murmur which had first come to the ears of George Washington.

* The men had looked with disfavor on iGeorge’s intrusion, when he first entered the park, but they had' lost interest as they saw him slouch down, a drooping flower, on the park bench. They had lowered their voices, momentarily, but tpe excitement that was mastering them scion found its way into their speech, and became audible to the listener on the other bench.

. George suddenly sat bolt upright, for be thought he heard Dr. Jones mention the Great Panjandrum. Now the Great Panjandrum, as everyone knew, was the high priest of voodoo. But was this @ighty being a real person? And was he a friend of Dr. Jones and his com¬ panion?

, His'pulse beat faster, and he edged Closer to the other bench. But. his heart went into his mouth at what' he heard, slnd he left his bench and crawled on hands and knees, until he was directly behind the two men. His tongue was dry, and he swallowed with difficulty. His byes were starting from their Sockets. All thought'of propounding his problem to Dr. Elusha Jones had left him, for the man seemed no longer a 'gtfeit intellect. He was, rather, a sinister being, sent to destroy the colored rice. For he was planning an African republic in Chicago, which would surely bring the fires of the- white man’S venge¬ ance upon every colored man and woman on the South Side. The whole city, per¬ haps the nation, would be involved in a race war more terrible than anything ever known in the United States before.

A street address dropped from Dr. Jones’ lips. George Washington’s ears drank it in, and he fastened his mind on it, for it was the home of the Great Panjandrum, the fanatic whose chief in¬ strument for spreading sedition was this doctor of philosophy there before him, Elusha Jones. The Great Panjandrum, then, was a living being, and not a mere

“And do not write it down,” Dr. Jones was saying to his companion, “for it there should be any miscarriage of our plans, no one must know where to find the master. If not today, then his dream must be realized at another date. For we shall try, again and again, until the African race comes into its own, as our superior abilities entitle us to do.”

George Washington, flat on his face behind the two speakers, felt a Cold shiver run over him. Drops of cold sweat fell unheeded on the grass. A panic fear, gnawed at his vitals:

“Everything is ready,”'continued the doctor of philosophy. ‘‘At 2'o’clock the uprising will start. But' nothing must be done until" the Great Panjandrum', him! self gives the signal. Everything de¬ pends on that.”

G eorge Washington rose

stealthily to his knees, and crept, backwards, to the bench he had first occupied. Once seated there, he yawned lackadaisically, .attracting the iriomcri'- tary attention of the two conspirators! Then he strolled nonchalantly but of the park. Once on the street, he turned north and ran with all his speed to the Cottage GTove Avenue police station.

A florid-faced, desk sergeant, wearing with what dignity he could'an aureole of flame-colored hair arid d closely cropped mustache of the same color; stopped him in ‘the midst of a breathless recital of the Great Panjandrum’s plans. 1


Perspiring, : panting from running, the excited negro breathlessly began again to stammer out fragmentary details of what he had heard about the uprising of blacks scheduled for that afternoon.

“Calm yerself. me boy,” the arm of the law admonished him. emphasizing his words by pulling an imaginary trig¬ ger on the pencil stub which he held in his fat. fingers.. “Are yez gone clean crazy? Or is ut moonshine in ye that’s talkin’?. Slower, me lad. Now, phwat is ut ye want? Spake out.”

“The Great Panjandrum!” George Washington blurted out.

Three or four coppers had strolled into the office. • They listened with amused contempt to George Washington’s re¬ cital.

“Phwat in the world are ye talkin’ about?” continued the desk sergeant, implacably. '“Ha's the Great Pan-whatyC-eall-him-shtiSleh Anything from ye? is he tidin’' to murder ye? Hand us hia uame^nd we^U book him' for ye, if ut's as’sCHOfis as allfhat. ‘ Out with ut, 006 boy. Phwat’s bitin’ yet"' Whoare ye;

' “JaiVge Washin’ton,” stammered the unhappy negro, and attempted to resume his narration:

The listeners broke into coarse laughter,

“My regards to your wife, Martha Washington, old top.” said a tall, cadaverous copper, . jocularly giving George a slap on the back that almost bowled him over.

“She’s at home haiigin’ oat the washmi” skid George, meekly, interrupting his narrative, again.

The'Outburst that greeted this reply wounded his pride. He felt aggrieved. He was trying to help the forces of law and order, but they were giving him the , horse laugh.

“Silence!” roared the desk sergeant,- glaring at the disorderly coppers with outraged dignity. “Where d’ye think ye are, at home?”

The hilarity subsided into baritone giggles.

“Where do ye live?” obstinately con-, tinued the desk sergeant, holding "the pencil as if it were a pistol, and taking, careful aim with it at George’s breast, “On Fo’tieth street, jes’ off Cottage Grove avenue, your Honor,” George reThe hilarity broke out afresh, with urn preeedented violence, at the title: George so innocently bestowed on the desk sergeant, and that dignitary shot glanees of fierce anger at the recalcitrant police¬ men. If looks were daggers, the Ooppeig would have died .on the instant, ' “Ah lives in de fo’th house f’um.de corner, iir de rear.”

“Well, phwat do ye want? Wbg£ don’t ye spake up? Who is'this Great Panhandler, or what 'd’ye call him?” “ “De Great Panjandrum,’’ George cor¬ rected him. “Hfc's apussoh, sub. Dey’i a parade of soldyahs, suh, : at '.2 o’clock dis aftahnoon; DCy want : a bonus of suhipin. An’ dey’s gwine be trouble/’ “Trouble, is ut? Well, bejabers', them boys have a police permit to parade, and if anyone Shtarts trouble—'’ Here the sergeant took careful aim with his pencil, and again pulled the airy trigger, three times, as if shooting somebody. - 1 '

“But phwat’s all this got to do witbithe Great Panjabers ? Out with ut, hoW. Phwat’s wrong?”

“De Great Panjandrum done lib on Federal street,” went on George Wash¬ ington, desperately. “Two dobs no’th f’um Thirty-second, on de nppah story. An’ he’s gwine organize a cullud re¬ public. Yes, suh, dot’s jes’ wot he’s callatin’. fo' to .do. An’ hit means

THE GREAT PANJANDRUM

trouble. ’Coz ef he succeeds, or ef he doan’ succeed, hit’s all de same. Fo’ de wite folks will sholy put dat republic down in blood, lots of it, an’ hit means dat hundreds of po’ cullud folks an’ po’ wite folks dat ain’t nevah hahm’d no¬ body in dair lives is gwine git murdered. Dat’s jes’ wot hit means. Yes, suh.”

“Say, nigger,” retorted the sergeant with heat, “how do ye get that way? You leave that moonshine alone. It’s whisky that’s shpakin’ in ye. If your Great Panjoobers is such a punkins that he thinks he can set up a nigger republic, why don’t you help him? You’re a fine nigger, you are!”

The coppers laughed again. George Washington felt sick at heart. But he threw back his shoulders and looked the desk sergeant squarely between the eyes.

“Yes, suh,” he said, “I’se cullud. I’se black. Ah ain’t no mulatto, neithah. But I ’so an American citizen, an’ ah ain’t gwine stan’ fo’ no fumadiddles. Ah doan’ want to see no race riots in dis yeer town, but I ’se tellin’ you right now, dat ef you doan’ go an’ get de Great Panjandrum an’ lock him up in a good safe jail dat he cain’t git out of, dey’s gwine be de worstes’ an’ bloodies’ race riot dat you evah heared tell of. Yes, suh. Fo’ de Great Panjandrum done been gwine give de signal at 2 dis aftahttoon, an’ den de po’ fools dat believes in him is gwine attack de parade an’ staht de fightin’. Dey aims to set up a re¬ public an’ kill de wite people. Yes, suh.”

“D’ye get that?” asked the desk sergeant sarcastically, talking to the cop¬ pers, and screwing his fiery eyebrows into a fierce scowl. Then, turning his attention to George Washington again: “Clear out o’ this, now, with yer moon¬ shine about the Great Pajamas, or I’ll book ye fer bein’ drunk. Why don’t ye arrest him yerself, if ye can find him?

The Great Pajamas! Ha, ha! That’s good!”

“Dat’s jes’ wot ah’m fixin’ fo’ to do,” retorted George Washington. “De good Lawd knows ah done tried mah bestes’ to get you to stop dis race riot, an’ now I ’se got to stop it all by mahse ’f. ’ ’

He beat a hasty rfetreat from the sta¬ tion, and wandered along the streets, his mind working at fever heat. The officers of the law had refused to aid him, and his race was in terrible danger. There were three million people in Chicago'. What could the less than half-million negroes of the South Side do against all those white men? It would mean a bloody war, in which he visioned the extermination of his race, the death of Martha Washington (he shuddered at the suggestion), and the end of everynpORMENTED with these thoughts, •*- and with his own helplessness, he

walked for what seemed a very long time, tracing and retracing his steps. Martha Washington and his argument with her were both forgotten. Forgotten, alsoi, was his rheumatism. The only thing that mattered was to stop the impending trouble.

He looked at the clock in a barber shop as he passed, and started in terrified alarm. He had been wandering for hours. It was already a quarter past one. For a minute he thought of ap¬ pealing to the mayor, but there was no time for that. The Great Panjandrum would give the signal at 2 o’clock, and the uprising would be on.

George looked about him, and found himself at the corner of Federal street and Thirty-third. He was only one block away from the fountain-head of the re¬ volt.

Hardly daring to express in definite form the resolve that flashed across his mind, for fear he would reject it if he


saw it in its naked reality, he ran down the street, and stopped in front of the three-story frame building where dwelt the grand mogul Of sedition. Up the stairs he went, three steps at a time, and burst into a small room where three colored men were engaged in excited conference, with their heads close to¬ gether, speaking in agitated whispers. They leaped to their feet as George Washington rushed in.

The three men were robed in whito garments, cowled like monks, with the hoods thrown back, revealing their heads. One was fat, and squinted at the in¬ truder through puffy folds of flesh around his dull black eyes. The other two men were lean and malign. Their robes were spotted with dabs of fresh blood, and red crosses had been drawn in blood over the men’s hearts.

George Washington shuddered as he confronted the sinister trio.

“I has a message fo’ do Great Pan¬ jandrum,” he panted. “Wich is him?”

The taller of the two lean men looked at him skeptically.

“The Great Panjandrum cannot be seen,” ho said. “Prom whom is the message?”

“F’um Doctah Elusha Jones, suh,” replied Georgo Washington.

The name proved a talisman, an ‘ 1 open sesame” to the inner temple of voodoo. The desperate colored man felt that sinister rites must be going on behind the heavy black curtain that covered one side of the room. This, curtain was now drawn back by unseen hands, reveal¬ ing a small door, covered with weird and horrible symbols. A painted green serpent writhed malevolently across the paneling, crushing in its folds a white infant, and menaced by a charging black ram with short, sharp horns. George experienced acute nausea. A sensation of cold fear attacked the pit

of his stomach, for he realized that he was about to stand in the presence of the high priest of voodoo.

The door swung slowly back. In George’s disordered fancy the painted snake moved, drawing its folds tighter about the form of the child, and the black ram seemed to shake its sharp horns. The tall, lean man who had ques¬ tioned him now shoved him forward, and : the door swung shut behind him.

For a minute George could make out nothing, for a brilliant electric arc light dazzled his eyes. Then he saw, standing before him, at coal-black negro, scarcely more than five feet tall, wizened, and apparently very old. Fuzzy tufts of gray hair showed behind his cars. His faco was carved by a thousand wrinkles. His thin hands, ending in carefully polished nails, clutched nervously at a tract that he had been reading when Georgo Washington entered the cham¬ ber. He tvas loosely garbed in a white robe, dabbled in fresh blood, like the gar¬ ments of his aids in the outer room. A tall stove-pipe, hat sat on his thin temples.

The room was hung with heavy black curtains, which shut out all light from outside. It was illuminated solely by the arc light that had dazzled George when he first came into the room. On the table was a bowl filled with blood from a small black goat, freshly killed: The animal’s carcass lay alongside on the table, and, its heart was floating in the bowl. The table, like the walls, was shrouded in black cloth.

The cunning eyes of the wizened negro looked searehingly into the face of the intruder, as if seeking to read his errand

“Is you de Great Panjandrum?” asked George, struggling for words, and frightened nearly to death.

“I am he.” replied the other.

THE GREAT PANJANDRUM

“Says wick?’*

“I am he. What do you want? Be quick, fool; I can’t talk to you all day.”

“Oh, mistah, Doctah Jones done sen’ dis message by me, dat hit ain’t no use fo’ to staht dat dcre revolooshion nohow. Hit ain’t got no chance fo’ to succeed, an’ you is jes gwine frow away de lives of dc cullud people. Yes, suh.”

The high priest’s face took on a ter¬ rible expression.

“This to me?” he roared. “This from Elusha Jones? He dares dictate to me?”

“Yes, suh. I mean, no, suh.”

“We will proceed without him. It is time to strike, and at once.”

The Great Panjandrum began to di¬ vest himself of the blood-streaked robe of his voodoo priesthood, revealing a neat business suit underneath.

“No, suh, hit ain’t Doctah Jones. Hit’s me, an’ hit’s de othah cullud folks dat will be kilt in dis yeer foolish revolt! No, suh, you cain’t mean you is gwine staht to fire on de soldyahs dat’s out paradin’ fo’ to get a bonus f’um Con¬ gress. Cain’t you see, beggin’ youah pahdon, suh, but cain’t you see dat hit ain’t no use? Dat dcy ain’t no chanst fo’ hit to succeed? No, suh. Dey ain’t no chanst. An’ you ain’t gwine move f’um dis yeer room, till you promises me dat dey ain’t gwine be no revolooshion. ’Coz nobody ain’t gwine staht nuffin’ less you gives ’em de signal.”

The Great Panjandrum raised his voice in a sharp command. The door swung open, and the three men from the

“Bind him and gag him and drop him into the hole,” the high priest ordered, abruptly.

The robed figures moved forward to obey, but George Washington, in an agony of desperation, clung to the robe of the leader in a last entreaty.

“No, suh. Ah ain’t gwine leave you till yon promises. Hit cain’t do no good, suh, to de cullud folks. Hit cain’t do no good nohow.”

The three men leaped upon him, but he clung with the grip of despair to the Great Panjandrum. The table crashed over on its side. The bowl upset, and drenched George in the blood of the black goat. His shabby felt hat fell to the floor, and was kicked to one side in the scuffle.

The fat man turned his attention to a hidden push-button under the carpet, waiting for the other two to pry George loose from the Great Panjandrum. But the four men rolled and scuffled and kicked and bit, and the fat man could not press the button without dropping all four of them into the black hole that yawned beneath the carpet. The flying legs of one of the men struck the fat man on the back of the head. .With a howl of pain, he involuntarily pressed the button. Tho floor opened. George, whose right hand had been pried loose, clutched frantically at the leg of the fat man, and pulled him down. All five fell through the floor, and the bowl rolled after them, together with the re¬ mains of the black goat. The trap-door closed above them.

T T ARDLY had the Great Panjandrum and his men fallen into the dark hole with their prisoner, when a shuffling of feet was heard overhead. Several men burst into the room. The votaries of voodoo clapped their hands over George' Washington’s mouth, to silence him. They listened intently.

The men, who had entered the room with drawn revolvers, were a detail of police, sent to arrest the Great Panjan¬ drum, after a later warning than George’s had wakened them to a sense of the peril confronting the South Side.


Dr. Jones and his companion were already in custody, and several others had admitted their part in the scheduled uprising. But the head-spring of the movement was gone, for the room of the Great Panjandrum was empty. The carpet, perfectly synchronizing with the edges of the trap-door, concealed the tell-tale crevice that would otherwise have led the police to find the high priest and his caiptive in the dark hole directly beneath their feet.

George heard their exclamations of disappointment, as they caught sight Of the overturned table 1 , and other evidences of a struggle. One of the coppers picked up George’s blood-stained hat.

“Don’t this belong to that nigger who caine to the station this morning, the one who told us' where the Great Pan¬ jandrum could be found?’’ he asked.

The coppers passed the hat from hand to hand. It was drenched in the goat’s blood that had poured on it from the overturned bowl. The carpet was dabbled in blood. Evidently the struggle had been, desperate.

“Poor devil,’’ said one of the coppers. “He’s dead enough now, I guess. The damn fool must have tried to capture the Grand Panjabrum all by himself! He had nerve, anyway, that bird had.”

Georgo swelled with pride. Not vis¬ ibly, for it was very dark in the hole; but he swelled nevertheless. Why, he was a hero! Or at least he would be if he got out of this scrape alive. He tore at the hands of his captors, who held him fast by the mouth, effectually gag¬ ging him. He tried to scream out, to tell the coppers that he was there, just under their feet. But the tall, lean man pressed his thumb tight against the un¬ happy captive’s windpipe, and shut off his breath. George struggled hard for a minute, and then lost consciousness.

How long afterwards he awoke from his swoon he did not know, but it seemed to him that a long time had elapsed, for his dreams had been long and troubled. He was still in the black hole, and a hand was held tightly over his mouth. But there was no longer a pressure on his windpipe. The men with him—the Great Panjandrum and his aids—Were as silent as death. Not a whisper passed between them. Even their breathing was inaudible.

George opened his eyes. All was as dark as the pit. He heard a slight noise over his head, as if someone were rolling pebbles over the floor. Voices made themselves audible to him, and he dis¬ tinctly heard a man cursing. The noise of pebbles stopped, then began again.

“Little Phoebe!” said a voice. “Comb

“A dollar he comes,” said another 1

“A dollar he doesn’t.”

By the voices George knew there were three men in the room above. They were coppers who had been left behind to seize the Great Panjandrum if he should return. George knew well enough what their conversation signified, for rolling the spotted cubes was one of his proudest accomplishments. He had lost more money that way than he had ever spent on all the other necessities of life put to¬ gether. He had even been forced to put in many extra hours soliciting washing for Martha, to get the wherewithal to fling the flying dominoes.

The sound of the rolling dice recalled him to a sense of life and the pleasures thereof. He could not die like a rat in a trap, when liberty, life, joy, were flaunting themselves just a few feet above his head.

Wrenching himself free for an instant; he screamed for help. Instantly the struggle Was renewed in the black hole, but the coppers had heard his cry. They

THE GREAT PANJANDRUM

tore up the carpet, and the hidden push¬ button was revealed. Standing back from the trap, they pushed the button, and the door fell back. One of the coppers held it from springing into place again by inserting the dice in the springs, and another flashed his pocket light into the dark hole.

..Resistance was futile, and the Great Panjandrum and his aids surrendered. One by one they gave their hands to the coppers, and were pulled out of the hole and handcuffed. George was last. He stood upon his two feet, a hero, and told his story, which he had to repeat later gt the police station,

T> U.T IN the meantime there was wailing and weeping at Martha Wash¬ ington’s. She had received the news of George Washington’s death with the grief that was becoming and proper to a faithful and loving wife. First she buried her face in a pillow-slip that she had just iroucd, and drenched it with tears, making a further ironing neces¬ sary. Then she took the blood-stained hat from the policeman who had brought it, and wept over. it, and called upon heaven to witness that she had always loved this wonderful hero husband of hers with a love that surpassed all under-

-The news of his death had spread rapidly, .together, with , the story of his incredible heroism in attempting to take tj}e Great Panjandrum single-handed, after the poliee had refused to help him. Gpe report had it that he had slain the <$reat Panjandrum in . mortal combat, and was thereupon foully done to death from behind- by a craven disciple of yoodoo, and dragged away and his body thrown down a well. But all accounts agreed that he had been , a hero. Andthe blood-stained, hat, still red front the life-fluid of the black goat, was mute witness that he had been murdered.

“Oh, mah man, mah man!” moaned Martha. ‘ * He was a hero, mah man was! An’ naow he done lef’ me! He won’t nevah come back to me, nevah no mo’! An’ all his life he was so kind, an’ we nevah ain’t had one cross word pass be¬ tween, us all our lives. An’ naow he's dead! Ain’t it awful?”

Her grief was sincere. There could be no doubt of that, although some of her neighbors thought she was overdoing it just a little.

“Wy, you Martha, doan’ tell so many lies, ef you wants to git to heb’n wen you dies,” Mandy Williams reproached her.. “Jawge warn’t no hero, else he’d a gone in de ahmy. An ’ you was always quarrelin’, you two. Lan’ sakes, ah nevah knowed two sech people fo’ callin’ each bfhah names, as Jawge Washin’ton

“Mandy, yo’ quit talkin’ dat way! I’se enjoyin’ mah misery, an’ heah yo’ comes an’ tries to spoil it all f”

TJUT George Washington was far from ® dead. He walked homeward with a sprightly step, after he left the police station, for the world was his. 1 He had vanquished : the Great Panjandrum, and now and henceforth forever he would be a hero. What would Martha Washing'

She was almost alone when he burst in. upon her 'grief. ‘ She looked up through scared eyes, and blinked. ThC woman with her, who had come to con¬ sole. her and gather the latest news,

., “Watsa mattah?” asked George. “Wy you-ail lookin’ dat way? You-all sho’ does look skeered. o’ suihpin. Watsa mattah, Martha?” , . ,.

“Jawge Washin’ton! Yo’ .hain’t nq ghost? Yo’se all heah in do flesh?.An| yo’ hain’t ben murdered ! P.ralke be!”


This was something like what he had expected. George’s chest swelled higher, with pride. 1 But there was something else on Martha’s mind. Her eyes were as big as saucers. She was looking at his manly shoulders, and the devil-maycare toss of his head.

“Jawge Washin’ton!” she scolded him. “Whah yo’ ben all day? An’ whah yo’ rheumatiz done gone? Haow come yo’ frows yo’ shouldahs back lak dat, wen yo’ hain’t nevah ben good fo’ nuffin’ wid de rheumatiz?”

George was stunned.’

“W-wy, Martha,” he stammered. “Ah guess ah done, fergot about de misery in mah back. Leastwise hit ain’t botherin’ me none now. But Martha, ain’t you

kinda glad to see me back again? Ain't you proud of me, Martha?”

“Well,” said Martha, relenting, ‘ ‘ mebbe ah is. Mebbe ah is proud ob yo'. But yo’ hurry up naow”—her voice rose querulously—“an’ get dem close offn de line, ’coz ah got a big ironin’ an’ ah got to git it done. Git a move on, niggah; yo’ heahs me?”

George Washington obediently shoul¬ dered the basket and went out into the hack yard. Martha Washington’s highpitched voice followed him. But there was a happy gleam in his dark eyes as he took down the clothes and threw them into the basket. For at last, after all these years, Martha Washington was proud of him.

The

VALLEY of TEEHEEMEN

By ARTHUR THATCHER

Begins in the December Number of


A short, imaginative novel, crammed with strange happenings, bristling with excitement and full of surprizes.

On Sale November I

^ House o/Dust

JiMystery Serial by L-A Borah

CHAPTER ONE LAHONT HOUSE

A FAR as Davis Junction, the journey was irksome beyond words. Doctor Kirk Hayward leaned back against the moth-eaten, maroon upholstery of the car seat and sought vainly for a comfortable pos¬ ture. The top of the seat-back tor¬ tured him constantly, smiting the lower edges of his shoulder blades when the jolting of the ear became extreme. The shallowness of the seat and the length of his legs combined to bang his knees against the scat in front of him at frequent, ill-advised intervals.

Three hours of this he had endured —three hours!—three hours with nothing to look at but the dull south¬ ern landscape of a gray October afternoon, seen through a coach win¬ dow so mottled with soot and grime as to lend a sullen tone to the whole scene which crawled toward him.

For the last hour he had been alone in the coach. Twice he had dozed, only to be awakened by the chugging of the one-lung locomotive up ahead, or the slamming of a door when the conductor made his trips from coach to coach at fifteen-minute intervals in search of a chance passenger who might have eluded him on his former rounds. Twice rain splattered against the panes and made snaky rivulets through the grime, twisting the scene into grotesque forms that interested the traveler mildly. But the rain did not materialize beyond a-sprinkle.

Towns crept up at more, or less regular intervals. The combination freight and passenger train halted interminably at various dun-colored depots, exchanged packages and jerk¬ line gossip with local reception com¬ mittees, gave Hayward a glimpse of mules and mud and mulattoes, cotton bales or turpentine vats ot a tobacco¬ spitting cracker; then the journey was resumed.

Then came Davis Junction. Hay¬ ward became aware of increased ac¬ tivity about this station at the cross¬ ing of the L. & N. There were shouts and bustle and the rattle of trucks, but no other passengers entered the soot-grimed car in which he sat. The bustling ceased eventually, and he could hear the strident tones of the station hands shouting gibes back and forth with the trainmen. He idly cursed the delay, the weather, the roadbed, and the business that had necessitated this roundabout way to Crawford, the thriving little Louisi¬ ana town where he had spent his early years and where he had started his practise two years before.

From somewhere up the line came the croak of a whistle, and the reason for the delay became evident as the long line of coaches of an incoming train slowed to a stop on the track beyond the station.

Hayward descried the girl before she was halfway across the platform. From out the little group about the station door she walked quickly toward his train. He sat up at sight of her. What there was about her



that attracted him, he could not have told in that instant glimpse; but, un¬ impressionable as he had prided him¬ self, he became aware of an inexpli¬ cable feeling of satisfaction in her very nearness, despite the fact that he had never seen her before.

Slender, and a trifle under average height, she was a wisp of a girl with an alertness and graee of carriage that seemed fairly to radiate health and vivacity. A smart little hat, tilted almost rakishly above crisp ten¬ drils of brown hair, enhanced the pi¬ quancy of a face almost elf-like in its roguish appeal. She wore a trim suit of some dark material of which Hay¬ ward fully approved, although he could have identified neither its color nor its texture. He watched her eagerly as she approached, and breathed a prayer of acknowledgment to the god of good fortune when she appeared in the door of his coach.

He understood her little gasp of dismay at sight of the uncomfortable, seats. As she entered the car and walked uncertainly down the aisle in an attempt to discover a place ’not littered with orange and banana peels or peanut shells, Hayward was so fascinated by the soft contour of her checks, touched as they were with the slight depression that held promise of a dimple when she smiled, that he was unaware he was staring almost rudely, until he saw the tinge of color heighten under her clear olive com¬ plexion and her chin jerk up in slight hauteur as she hurried past him.

In some confusion lie turned quick¬ ly to the window again, and, snatch¬ ing up the magazine that he had so impatiently cast aside a tedious hour before, he read assiduously for some’ forty-odd times the first sentence of an article the substance of which he had digested twenty minutes after the beginning of his journey.

Three times, in the hour that fol¬ lowed, he stole a surreptitious glance back toward the occupant of the rear

of the coach. Once, flattering him¬ self that he caught the hint of a smile, he essayed a timid response; but he sank back in his seat, disconsolate, when the slate-gray eyes became un¬ seeing and the perky little chin swept up to an angle entirely discouraging.

He read again that profound first sentence in the medical journal, then, with a snort of disgust, he flung the offending periodical from him and turned for relief to the landscape. A slight sound, like a giggle, emanated from the region behind him. He did not risk an exploring glance, but stared aghast as he realized that the train was dragging its tortuous way along the shore of ■Pine Lake to the outskirts of Crawford.

He scrambled to his feet. Locking the recalcitrant medical journal in his bag, slapping his hat upon his ruffled hair, and snatching up his top-coat, he turned for a brazen look at the girl before he should leave her. She was not even heeding him, but was staring wistfully down the gray, sullen length of the lake, at the far end of which loomed, through the dusk, the shape¬ less mass of Lamont House, an aban¬ doned mansion popularly reputed to be inhabited by ghosts. He shrugged his shoulders and headed for the ear platform, arriving just as the brakeman flung wide the door, and bawled some version of “Crawford” into bis very face.

The train stopped for water a hun¬ dred feet short of the station plat¬ form, and Kirk started down the car steps preparatory to dropping off at the tank to make a short cut to the livery stable where he had left his car a few days before. The flagman stopped him with a question as to the progress of a fellow-trainman for whom Hayward had been earing, so that half of the dozen moments at the water tank were gone before Kirk prepared to step off. He was entirely ignorant of two firm little feet upon the car platform behind him until a

THE HOUSE OP DUST


sudden jerk of the train shot one of them into his back and flung their owner upon his unoffending shoulders.

By good luck he maintained his own balance, and succeeded in pre¬ venting the girl from catapulting out upon the graveled roadbed. As the train stopped at the station, he righted himself and turned to her.

“I—I beg your pardon,” she gasped, trying vainly for composure, and making a brave effort to squeeze back the tears. She was seated upon the top step, slightly disarrayed by her fall, and clutching a slim ankle in one white gloved hand.

“Glad I was able to save you from something more serious,” Kirk re¬ plied. “Are you hurt!”

The girl flushed slightly.

“No, thank you—I—my ankle—.”

From the platform below, the flag¬ man ventured to interrupt the col¬ loquy.

“Say,” he bawled, “I can’t hold this train all day. Take her into the station and look her over, Doc.”

“You’ll hold the train until we get off,” Kirk snapped, “or there’ll be somebody else holding down your job. Take the lady’s bag.”

He turned to the girl again.

“Can you walk as far as the wait¬ ing room?”

“Surely.”

By dint of leaning on Kirk’s arm she made the distance, the humbled person wearing brass buttons and a flagman’s cap following behind with Kirk’s yellow ease and the girl’s black bag. Once ensconced in a chair, she smiled up at Kirk. The latter slipped a greenback to the flagman, and de¬ voted himself to the injured ankle.

“My name is Hayward, Kirk Hay¬ ward,” he began. “Perhaps you gathered, from what that halfbaked specimen said, that I am a phy¬ sician. Won’t you let me see how badly you have twisted that ankle!”

“It did hurt at first, but it is much better,” she assured him. “Thank

you just the same. You’ve been very kind. My brother was to have met me, but apparently he isn’t here.”

“Your brother!”

“Yes. I—I’m Elise Lamont, and my brother, Jarrell—”

Kirk interrupted excitedly.

“—was the chap I fought most, when I was a kid.”

The gray eyes suddenly filled with light.

“Then you know him?”

Kirk laughed.

“I used to know him. Jarrell left this town long before I did. He couldn’t have been more than eight at the time. I’m just his age—twen¬ ty-eight. He hasn’t been back since, so far as I know. Did I understand you to say that he was to meet you ? ’ ’

“Yes.”

A troubled look came into her eyes.

“You see Jarrell has been married lately, only last summer in fact; and it was his idea to spend a portion of his honeymoon down at the old house at Pine Lake—our old home, yon

Hayward made reservation men¬ tally that Lamont House was the last place in the world in which to stage a honeymoon, but he refrained from saying anything, remembering in the nick of time that the haunted reputa¬ tion which the house had been ac¬ corded had grown out of the fact that this girl’s father had been discovered mysteriously murdered there some twenty years ago. He substituted a more conventional query.

“And you were to be one of the party?”

She laughed a little.

“Yes. Rather unusual, isn’t it? But I have never seen Caroline, my new sister-in-law, and Jarrell thought that it would be nice for us to get together here at the old place. I’ve not been back since—well, it’s over twenty years. It really seems quite a lark tome.”



She forced another little laugh, which caused Kirk to suspect that the “lark” was not so pleasantly antici¬ pated as she would have him believe. But he pried no further, supposing it to be merely the natural hesitancy occasioned by meeting the new sister.

“If he’s newly married, I’m not surprised that Jarrell isn’t here to meet you,” he gibed. ’“Better let me drive you out in my car; you can’t walk far with that ankle. ’ ’

“It really doesn’t hurt-at all,” she protested. “I couldn’t think of put¬ ting you to that trouble. I can get a cab—or a taxi.”

“A taxi! In this town?” Kirk laughed. “ You might get Jake Cor¬ bin’s old mule and buckboard,. but you’d be shaken to' pieces before yon had covered half that distance. I’ll have the car here in a jiffy.”

“But Jarrell—”

“Jarrell is probably seated in one of the cozy nooks of Lamont House

The girl drew herself up.

“Pardon me, but I couldn’t help it. I am as contrite as can be, but I refuse to take it back. What I really started to say was that Jarrell was probably engrossed in preparations for the home-coming: The old place must be in rather bad shape. Twenty years of disuse doesn’t make any house ex- . actly homelike. How long has Jarrell been here? I left day before yester¬ day, and I hadn’t heard of him then. ’ ’

F IVE minutes later they were whirling along the dusty road toward Pine Lake and Lamont House. The sprinkles of rain had pockmarked the road but had not been sufficient to lay the dust. The low-hanging clouds, however, held promise of a wet night, and the stillness and the dark¬ ness and the nearness of the sky gave their world an ominousness that Elise found difficult to cast aside. There

was an unwonted gloom, a yellow, ghastly lambency of the western sky, a strange sense of impending catas¬ trophe, an unshakable oppression in the very atmosphere, and lest she feel it too strongly, she resorted to con¬ versation with the nervous stage

As they rounded the foot of the lake, a glance over the long dark strip of water gave no hint of the house that lay at the opposite end. The huddled pines along the shores showed inky against the yellow-gray of the west. Hayward was disheartened. Was it possible that Elise was going to meet with further disappointment ? Had plans miscarried so as to delay the arrival of Jarrell Lamont and leave the girl alone in the ghost-ridden old mansion? Something of the same thought must have flashed into the girl’s mind, for she started to speak, then cheeked herself as a gleam of light showed star-like in the midst.of the pine grove a mile and half away. She clapped her hands.

“Oh, they are there,” she cried. ‘ ‘ I knew they would be. Hurry, please hurry. Dr. Hayward. I know Jarrell will be worried. He probably sent some man, and the fellow missed us. Do hurry, please.”

And Hayward hurried. That sud¬ den gleam, steady, motionless, framed in those silhouetted pines at the far end of the lake had made him exultant too. The car leaped forward. Over the outlet bridge he roared, out in one long, grand shoot along the southern shore, the road stretching like a creamy ribbon through the dusk be¬ fore them, behind them a swirl of

Past Pine Tree House, the chief hostelry of the little resort colony, they flashed and turned into the last half-mile lap which should bring them to Lamont House. The road was shrouded with pines now, and Hay¬ ward switched on the lights. To all appearances they were the only living,

THE HOUSE OP DUST

moving things in the universe, they and the car thrusting on into the night as if seeking to escape the dead¬ ening forces that seemed to encumber

Kirk depressed his brakes sharply as the headlights picked up the twin stone pillars that flanked the gateway to the Lamont estate. Elise touched

“Let me out here, Dr. Hayward. Now that we know that they are here, I’m all right. I’ll walk from here to the house. ’ ’

Kirk shook his head, and headed for the gateway.

“Not if I have my way,” he said. : “Please, Dr. Hayward.”

And at the note in her voice, Hay¬ ward stepped on his brakes again, and turned to remonstrate with her. She interrupted his attempt,

“There’s no use to reason with me, Doctor, and I am really running no risk. We both saw the light, arid look there—”

She pointed to the roadway in front of the machine.

' “Some one has been here; see the wheel tracks. You mustn’t come any farther, Doctor; give me my bag and I’ll skip up the roadway and around the bend, and walk in on them when they least expect it. I wouldn’t cheat myself of the fun of surprising them for anything. Please.”

. Kirk debated for a moment.

“But why not drive- in?” he queried.

She laughed tinklingly.

“Drive in? With this juggernaut? Dr. Hayward, your car is a beauty, but I really think that if they were listening, they must have heard us every foot of the way from the station. No, you creep bapk as quietly as you can, and I’ll stalk the newlyweds. I can’t thank you enough for bringing

Kirk clambered-out over the wheel.

“At least I shall escort you on foot, ’ ’ he decided, and helped hen from the car.

Taking her bag from its resting place, he led the way into the grounds, Elise at his side.

The branches of the pines over¬ lapped above the winding roadway. There was no sound of wind through the foliage. There was no breath stirring, only a sullen atmosphere pregnant with moisture. The only sound \vas the slither of their foot¬ steps as they went down the sand driveway. When they spoke, it was softly, as if to preserve the very stillOut of the dark, the blackness of . the house itself suddenly loomed be¬ fore them; huge, ungainly, with its mansard roof showing dimly against the grayness of the sky. Prom some window farther down, a shaft of light pierced the blackness like a dim spot¬ light. Elise pointed to the shaft in vindication.

“There,” she said laughingly, “I told you I would have been all right. You must go back now. ”

She turned her back upon the. house and-held out her hand to him. .

“I hope to see you some other-time; Perhaps by then I shall have thought up some good way to thank you for what you have done. ”

She stood facing him, silhouetted against the faint nimbus of light from the window. He held out- a heavy electric torch which he had ‘brought from the car.

“I’ve got to have some excuse fpr seeing you' again,” he said, “so I’ll leave this with you, and come for it in the morning; You may need it iii negotiating those steps. ”

He took the hand she held out to him, and shook it-stiffly in a sort of mock formality to cover a suddeh in¬ definable confusion.

•‘‘Good night,” he said, "until to


He turned! sharply and went down the roadway.- She. stared after him for a moment, seeing nothing against the blackness, hearing the crisp sonnd of his footsteps upon the sand. The sound died out as he turned the bend. She faced about, and started for the steps, only; to; bring herself up short ■with a sharp exclamation.

The light from the window had dis¬ appeared.

CHAPTER TWO DUST

*TpQ BE snatched suddenly from a

A-moment ■ more or less Sublime in the contemplation of A personable young man disappearing into the murk of a- stormy: night, and to be flung fahe to face with the fact that one is alone in a pine grove under the shadow- of:a mountainous house from whiehi comes no sign of life 1 is. no: slight

Elise Lament gasped-and gaped atthe place, where: the flood'of light'had' been a moment before. Blackness wasf 1here~-iihpanetrable,< limitless; spirit* laden! She-shuddered as the horror of her;plight forced itself upon her. Then, somnroning courage, ahe shook' her fear aside and clicked the switch of. the torch that Hayward had thrust, into her hand.

-The beam of white light shot through the darkness so suddenly that it startled the girl, keyed as she was to the pitch. of tense • nerves. The circle, of;-illumination -focused upon the warped: steps that led to the main doorway. She raised the torch, and the dopr itself sprang into, the glare. Par fpom feeling fright at the eone of. light and its. gyrations, Elise now came to feel- in it a sort of compan¬ ionship, a sense of protection. , She began to reason more calmly, and even risked a little laugh at the terror that ; had squeezed her heart at the first realization that .the light, from the window was gone.

The explanation was simple, after all. Jarrell or Caroline or Weems, the butler, had simply removed the lamp from one room to another, or perhaps had drawn the shade or closed the shutters. What was the matter with her ? Was the eery spirit of the place forcing itself upon her already? Perhaps it was the night itself which caused all this silly hys¬ teria. She stooped, picked up her black bag and walked briskly up the steps.

The circle of light shrank to a bril¬ liant disk a foot in diameter throwing into rusty relief the huge lateh of the: paneled door. Elise pressed the lever under the door handle. There was no. movement. She pressed harder. There was the creak of metal on metal; she could feel the catch, release, and she tugged at the door. It would not yield. Bringing the torch close to the crack between the door and the casing, she could detect a dull metal bolt. The door was locked.

■Exasperated, she turned down the 1 roofless veranda, trying the shutters of the windows as she passed. : The-' determination to surprise Jarrell-and Caroline-had reasserted itself, and she. was resolved- to get in without their knowledge. She rounded a corner, and-came upon a pair of French win¬ dows. The shutters, which masked' all the other windows of the house so. far as she could determine,- were in: this ease thrown back, and her torch¬ light glinted upon the long panels of glass. She touched the little latch; and the tall window swung inward; releasing a gust of stale air.

She stood in the opening and shot: the gleam of her torch this way and that about the great room before her. At sight of its condition, she shrank back aghast. It had once been her father’s library, and its furniture and books were where he had left them'

not the same. The furniture was all in place, even to n pair of candlesticks

THE HOUSE OP DUST


that graced the mantel. The old hang¬ ings still covered the windows; the long bookcases still towered to the ceiling. But dust shrouded every¬ thing—gray dust, thick fluffy dust, thin silky dust—dust of every con¬ ceivable texture and shade of gray! There was nothing but dust every¬ where ! She shuddered at its ghastly, deadly grayness under the cold eye of the torch.

The whine of the wind through the pines came to her ears, and a moment later the swirl of a gust blew shut the French window behind her. Then the heavens burst and let down a deluge. Rain splashed in dashing sheets against the window through which she had just entered. She breathed a sigh of relief at the thought of the soaking that would have been hers had she hesitated ten seconds more about entering. But her sigh ended in a gasp of dismay as she realized that Kirk Hayward was driving an open car through this flood—and all because of her, or rather because of Jarrell’s neglecting to meet the train. But that dust—!

She crossed to the table and drew a finger along its top. The sensation was that of rumpling soft velvet, and a shallow furrow followed her finger, disclosing the dull sheen of aged ma¬ hogany beneath. She swept the light about the room again, letting it flit from piece to piece of the once luxur¬ ious furnishings. She was heartsick at the thought of such beautiful things hidden for a score of years simply because local superstition had made of the old house a place of awesome fear. How silly people were—especi¬ ally Louisiana people!

Not twenty minutes later she was to recall that thought and remark how silly it had been. She moved toward a door, which apparently led to a main hallway, and through which she hoped to find some communication with the rest of the house.—that part which Jarrell had had renovated for his

honeymoon. She could hear the rain roaring its flood upon the house and slashing through the pines, and she thanked the stars that guided her destiny that she had a roof over her head. She swept her torch toward that roof. The ceiling was festooned with cobwebs. She shuddered, for she had a maddening fear of anything like a spider or a spider’s web. B-r-r-r-r! She could stand the dust, perhaps, but those dangling webs—! She vaguely imagined that she heard the scuttling of spiders in the tarry comers of the high ceiling.

She hurried out into the hall. Here again was that terribly silent, deaden¬ ing dust. She tried to disregard it, for it struck a chill to her heart to contemplate it. One phrase forced itself into her thought, strive to evade it though she did. It was a part' of the funeral service: ‘ ‘ Dust to dust, ashes to ashes—” Dust and death! She fled from room to room of the lower floor, seeking some way of en¬ trance to that part of the house where this dust would have been removed, where there were lights and cheery rooms and the joy of cheery compan¬ ionship, but she could find no such exit from this sarcophagus of dead

One thing did come to her out of the cone of white light which stretched before her wherever she went. Here and there she came upon details in the old rooms which stirred dormant memories, so that she seemed to be moving through chambers with which she was fully familiar. Her mind, flashing ahead of her as she moved swiftly from room to room, antici¬ pated the exact location of fixed pieces of furniture before she so much as entered the room in which they were located.

Thinking that communication might be established along the second floor level, she started upstairs. Inadver¬ tently she stretched out her hand to lay hold of the stair rail, but she


cheeked herself at thought of laying her hand upon that downy gray sur¬ face, so much had she come to hate the dust. She paused for a moment, and allowed the beam of the torch to sweep up the steep incline. She stared, almost fascinated by the uncanny smoothness of that six-inch rail, stretching up and away with all the

ribbon.

B-r-r-r-r! She shivered at the thought of how near she had come to touching that thing; and she hurried up the stairs to the floor above.

Two-thirds of the way up, a narrow casement was set into the wall, and as she passed the window, Elise was startled by a flash of lightning that set the sky aflame with a lurid glow and revealed the branches of the pines tossing in a wild carousal of swirling silhouette. The instantaneous ex¬ posure was photographed upon her very brain. She could hear the drive of the storm without, and, between gusts, the sound of water gurgling 'down the eaves and drain pipes punc¬ tuated the ceriness of the night. She hastened up the remainder of the flight.

O N THE upper floor again she found nothing but dust—dust— dust. The main corridor upstairs proved a cul-de-sac, ending in a blind wall that must have formed one side of the huge chimney from the fire¬ place below stairs. She opened six of the seven doors that opened upon this hallway, however, and found a dustladen room behind each. Beds were in orderly condition, toilet articles even on the dressing tables; but every¬ thing was buried beneath that even blanket of grayness.

The seventh room was locked— bolted, and the bolt was rusted shut. Dim memory recalled it as her father’s den, and a connoted thought dragged in a hint once received that it was in that room, behind that door,

that her father’s mutilated body had been found twenty years before.

Stifling whatever sense of loathing or of latent horror she might have felt, she thought to venture an en¬ trance into the chamber. But on the instant that her hand was about to rest upon the porcelain surface of the doorknob, she noted that that surface was free of-dust. She recalled dis¬ tinctly that such had not been the ease with the handles of the other doors. She seized the knob firmly, and turned it, but the door did not

For a brief moment she stood pon¬ dering the problem of why that partic¬ ular door, of all on that floor, should be locked. She felt a sudden fasci¬ nated desire to know what lay behind those oaken panels. Then from be¬ yond the bolted door there came a sound that drove her heart up against her palate. It was the sound of some¬ thing falling — something small — something hard—something metallic, perhaps—but the unmistakable sound of a falling body striking upon a bare floor.

Before she had time to attempt an explanation, her coward feet carried her more courageous self back to the staircase and started the descent. Down the long staircase she came, swiftly, with an occasional quick glance into the dark behind her, pick¬ ing her steps carefully, seeking to avoid contact with the wall on one side and the dust-covered rail on the

Suddenly she stopped, her throat gone dry, her spine prickling. Some¬ where, in the rooms below her, she had heard a sound. It was nothing pronounced—something akin to the screech of a loose floor board, or the complaint of a rusty hinge closing under a careful hand. Unmistakable, uncanny, untraceable though it was, she was as certain she had heard it as she was that it was storming outside.

THE HOUSE OP DUST

The thought of the storm offered a very plausible explanation, and her pulse resumed its regularity. It had been the screech of a hinge right enough, she concluded, the screech of a shutter swinging in the wind. She came on down the stairs, more swiftly now, impelled by an emotion scarcely akin to fear, yet smacking of the ter¬ ror that accompanies real courage.

As she approached the foot of the staircase, the beam of her torch swung to the right and focused upon a detail that made her eyes almost leap from their sockets. On the velvet surface of that dust-laden rail was the im¬ print of a human hand, and below it a smear where a garment had touched and brushed tho gray coating aside!

In the few moments during which she had been above stairs, some one— she had almost said some thing —had stood on this very stair, had apparent¬ ly started to ascend the staircase, but had turned back. Instant with the realization came action. She snapped off the glare of her torch, and scuttled for the French window by which she had entered.

Midway across the library, she stopped suddenly, and turning, raced back to the foot of the staircase, flash¬ ing her torch as she did so. She had forgotten her bag, which she had placed beside the newel post before ex¬ ploring the upper floor.

But when she reached the foot of the staircase, the bag was nowhere in sight. She scanned the hallway eager¬ ly, fearful, filled with a dread uncer¬ tainty. There was no sign of the bag. Her heart pounding like a steam riv¬ eter, she tried to think back over what she had done during the last half hour, and the more she thought the less certain she was as to the exact moment in her travels when she had set down her bag. She decided to make a hasty search of the rooms again, for to go out in this deluge would mean a soaking, and dry clothes

would be indispensable. So from room to room she sped again. But she found no sign of the bag and her search ended again at the foot of the stairSuddenly an explanation of the dis¬ appearance of the bag and the other untoward events of the evening flashed upon her, and the explanation seemed so absurdly simple that it drew forth a little involuntary laugh that echoed horribly about the high cornel's of the rooms. Some one from the other part of the house had en¬ tered this part and had found her bag; then, thinking that she had gone out into the storm again to seek another entrance, had taken the bag back into that other region. The theory fitted the other happenings exactly—tho sound of the hinge, the finger prints on the banister. It might have been Weems or Jarrell himself. Those smears in the dust—she would have another look at them.

Half afraid, half ridiculing her fear, she ascended the four or five steps necessary to obtain a sight of that clawlike imprint on the stair rail.

The ray of white light swung to the rail, focused—then swept the whole length in a tremble of fear.

An instant later the torch struck the floor with a clatter, and the girl leaped wide, struck in a heap, scrambled to her feet, and fled blindly across the dusty library. She crashed heedlessly into furniture, blundered against the French doors, and stumbled wild-eyed out into the down¬ pour of rain.

Chapter three

THE TRANSIENT TRACE

H AYWARD, wet and uncomfort¬ able, stood with his back to the sputtering grate fire in the living room of the Pine Tree Inn, his hands nervously clasping and unclasping behind him, as he answered with heed¬ less monosyllables the thousand ques74

WEIED TALES

tions of innkeeper Tab Shepard and Tab’s wife, Esmerelda.

The storm had caught Kirk before he had driven a quarter-mile from the Lamont Place, and he had forced the car to the shelter of the little hotel. Now, as he went over with ever-in¬ creasing uneasiness the events of the evening, the conviction was forced: upon him that he should never have left the girl alone on that gloomy ap¬ proach to the house.

Vague, disquieting fancies troubled him. What if her brother had not yet arrived? What if she had been unable to arouse any one by knocking at the heavy door? What if the halflight that had shone through the dustcaked window had been that of some guttering candle lit by a gang of tramps ? He knew those ruffians often spent the night in a deserted mansion. He felt that he was a miserable fool. He would go back to make sure that everything was all right.

With an exclamation of impatience, he snatched up his sodden coat and hat, and started for the door, not heeding Esmerelda’s querulous: “Laws, honey, you cain’t be thinlrin’ of goin’ out agin’ sech a night as this ? ’ ’ Then a thought deterred him. If he should go splashing back through the tempest to that old house only to find Elise pleasantly comfort¬ able at her brother’s hearth, he would very likely be well laughed at for his pains. He recalled her fearlessness and her delight at the prospect of surprising the newlyweds, and he could picture with just how mocking a toss of her head, she would greet his blundering return.

“No,” he assured his hostess, “I think I ’ll stay. ’ ’ And he forced him¬ self to return to the fire and the monotonous drone of country gossip in which he had not the slightest interest.

For the fourth time Esmerelda had regaled him with the narrative of how she had saved her sister-in-law’s

youngest when it had been “took with the croup”, and Hayward, in his turn, had returned reluctantly from the mental contemplation of a pair of slate-gray eyes laughing from under the brim of a perky little hat to assure her that her methods were in the highest degree scientific, when there came a startling interruption to the medical dissertation.

From out of the night came the sound of rushing steps across the porch, a hysterical pounding upon the door. Before any one could start from the fireside to answer the summons, the door crashed open. A gust of wind and rain thrust Elise Lamont before it into the room.

Tab sprang to shut the banging door and exclude a second deluge. Esmerelda and Hayward leaped to where the limp form of the girl lay in a sodden, huddled heap on the floor.

Kirk, the more agile, more vitally concerned, got there first, and gath¬ ered the slim form into his arms, snapping out crisp orders as he did so, until (as Esmerelda afterwards expressed it), “he must hev thought I had a dozen pairs of hands and as many eyes.”

“Some brandy, quickly, Mrs. Shep¬ ard,” he said as they laid Elise upon the horsehair couch to the left of the fireplace. Esmerelda produced a ■flask, and Kirk forced a little of the liquor between the lips of the uncon¬ scious girl. Then he set Esmerelda to chafing her wrists, while he and Tab piled more wood on the fire.

“She’s cornin’ to, Doc,” shrilled Esmerelda suddenly, and Hayward whirled from the blaze to the drag¬ gled form on the cot. Elise was a pitiful figure as she lay there under the glare of the kerosene bracket lamp above the mantel. Pale she was, and waxen of skin, and that iri¬ descent black hair at which he had marveled that afternoon clung in damp strands about her face. Her chic little hat was gone, and the oozy


THE HOUSE OF DUST


CHAPTER FOUR THE SEVENTH ROOM »yHE STORM was at its. hei

sra sisTiffS . h tSx

™s“4

Hayward would uol b,

SHSaS

:ape only made him drive the faster.

not be taUie

yiis.tsrjsus.ii

ssl



in the crevices. It clung to every curtain, every wall-hanging. It hung heavily on the long festoons of mat¬ ted cobwebs that half hid the ageold rafters of the ceiling. On the queer-shaped, old-fashioned windowpanes it made grotesque figures.

Hayward let the glow of his torch pass around the room, to fall finally upon the long rail of the stair and follow its smooth length from bottom to top. There was absolutely no mark, no finger print to blemish the velvet surface. The rail was evenly coated with what seemed the gray accumulation of twenty years. Sure¬ ly Elise must have been mistaken about the hand print on the banister.

On the steps the dust was not so smoothly distributed. Here and there a spot of polished wood showed fairly clean. This condition Kirk was puzzled to explain, until in stooping the better to examine one of the clear spots, he became aware of a faint draft of cold air. To be sure, the wind through some broken window or warped door-jamb had moved the gray film. But then the dust coat on the rail was unbroken, and the moving air was foul, not in the least like a breath from outdoors. What could it mean?

Continuing the inspection of the steps, he found unmistakable marks of a woman’s shoes; and a wave of tenderness touched his heart at the sight. A vivid picture came to his mind of Elise, fighting bravely against her terror, ascending into the black region of the second story.

At the thought instinctively he flashed his torch toward the hall above. Was it some figment of imagination conjured out of the eeri¬ ness of the place and the recollection of Elise’s story? Or was it reality? It almost appeared to him that a shape flitted across the range of his vision, weirdly indistinct in the danc¬ ing shadows.

With a bound he was up the flight of steps, and he flashed his light into every nook of the upper hall. Not a thing was there but dust—dust and silence, and dread.

He did not understand the cause, but he felt strangely tense, nervous, breathless. There was a sickening emptiness at the pit of his stomach. With a shrug he forced a laugh in an attempt to fling off the feeling. The sound of his own voice rang unnatur¬ ally loud and shrill through the cor¬ ridor. For the first time he realized just how still it was in the house. A death-like quiet hung over every¬ thing like a muffling pall. From the wild storm without, not a whisper struck his ear. He could hear the labored sound of his own breathing, the quickened beating of his own

With a contemptuous snort at his weakness, he went back to the lower floor, determined to examine every room with the utmost care. At first he made a good deal of unnecessary noise by way of defiance to the qualms to which he had almost suc¬ cumbed a moment before. But the mystery and the shadows gradually got on his nerves, and he was soon creeping about as quietly as possible, straining his ears for the faintest sound.

In one room, which had evidently been finished as a dining room, he received a turn that set his heart thumping wildly. Just as he had fin¬ ished his survey of the walls and floor and had started for the door, something rustled stealthily across the region behind him. Whirling like a flash, he leapt for the sound— and upset an ancient china closet. The clatter of breaking crockery echoed through the entire house with a frightful din that brought Hay¬ ward’s heart into his mouth. He swung his light quickly about the room again. In a corner it struck

ggSSSvata:



As he sat there, it seemed to him that a faint, peculiar fragrance hung in the air. He sniffed suspiciously, but could gain no definite olfactory image. It was a nameless sort of sweetness that was ineffably deli¬ cious. After a time he became intol¬ erably drowsy. The scent in the air was like a soporific. His eyelids drooped. He started up and fought against the sleepiness. Then the strange odor became oppressive, overpowering. He felt that he was afloat on great billowing waves of languorous fragrance. A deep slum¬ ber engulfed him.

Wild dreams danced before him. He seemed to be lost in a black, fe¬ brile swamp, where hideous reptiles moved writhing through the clutch¬ ing ooze of quicksands. A slimy, horrid thing slid over his hand. Then the dream faded. Oblivion overtook

How long he slept he had no means of telling. Perhaps it was minutes, perhaps hours. He awoke with a start to panic confusion, realizing at first neither where he was nor what had aroused him. The moonlight, streaming through the mottled win¬ dow panes, shone so brightly into his face as almost to blind him. He groped to a sitting posture. Then suddenly he was shocked into full, alert consciousness.

A blood-chilling scream sounded twice from the region down the hall —a scream which ended in a horri¬ ble, bubbling gurgle!

Hayward leaped to his feet and back against the wall just in time. Even as he moved, a pencil of green¬ ish light flashed across the lower end of the corridor; and a knife whirred past his head and struck quivering, glittering into the window casing. There was the crash of a closing door and the light was gone.

He jerked his revolver from his pocket and fired at the point where the light had appeared. Then he

dashed down the hall toward the blank wall.

He was in total darkness now. His torch had burned out. He came back to the stairs, revolver in hand, and began again to try in order the doors along the corridor.

Everything was just as it had been before he slept, until he came to the door of the seventh room, the room of the fireplace. That was locked. He could not even shake it. He fum¬ bled for a match, found one, and struck a light.

The flame disclosed a heavy bolt, shot and rusted tight as if it had not been loosened for years. What did it mean? In his excitement he dropped the match, and then bent to pick it up.

As he stooped, his eye came to the level of the lock; and he sprang back with a lurch. A faint glimmer of light showed through the keyhole.

Kneeling, he peered through the opening. The room was dimly re¬ vealed, half illuminated by the ghast¬ ly glow of a green shaded lamp. At a table opposite the door sat a man, his head tilted grotesquely back. It was several moments before Hay¬ ward discovered that the man was dead—dead from a welling gash across the throat, so deep that it had all but severed the head from the body—dead recently enough that the blood was still flowing!

Hayward snatched the wrench from his coat pocket and beat franti¬ cally at the door fastening. The great bolt would not move. He be¬ gan hammering at the panels of the door. He soon made an opening in the rotten wood, large enough to ad¬ mit his body. Through this he plunged into the room, stumbled, and fell against the body of the murdered

As he recovered himself, he glanced up at the wall opposite the door and saw the reflection of his own white face staring at him from a full-length mirror, a streak fif

THE HOUSE OF DUST

blood from the dead man across his forehead. The effect was ghastly; He- half turned away.

At that instant an unbelievable thing happened. Beside his own mirrored image for a second ap¬ peared another. It was the face of Elise Lamont I

CHAPTER FIVE THROUGH THE SPLINTERED DOOR

W ITH a sobbing cry of terror, Elise Lamont sat bolt upright in bed, her wide-open eyes staring unseeingly about the moonlit room. She was in the clutch of a horrible dream. In fancy, she was back in the dreadful darkness of that house of creeping dust at the threshold of the seventh room, the room of the bolted door. She had lifted her hand to try the. lock, when without waphihg the dream door had swung open before her, . The heart-chilling hop¬ per of the vision that had been, re¬ vealed’to her had caused the scream. There on the floor, his ghastly' face, upturned .to the green light of an old student lamp, that stood on the table, she seemed to see her brother Jarrell. She sprang to him and lift¬ ed. his head. Something warm and sticky covered her. hands. The back of the head had been crushed in.

The sound of her own voice, broke the spell of the nightmare, and she awoke. She. was trembling all oyer. A cold sweat drenched her. So peal had been the vision, that even awake she could not throw off the terror it had inspired.. An unshakable con¬ viction possessed her mind that some¬ thing horrible had really happened

She got up. and going to the win¬ dow. gazed intently across the whitcly gleaming forest toward the huge, squat shape that was Lamont House. At first she saw nothing unusual. Then; suddenly a. light flared in an

upstairs window. One thought and one only came to her.: Jarrell was really lying in that house, the victim of foul play. That hideous dream had been telepathic, a warning of some fearful calamity.

Forgetting herself, her horror of the place, the peril of the undertaking, everything except that her brother was in dire need of her, she snatched her clothing from the chair upon which Esmerelda had placed it, flung open the window, climbed out upon the hotel balcony, - and without an in¬ stant’s hesitation started : for Lamont

Keeping to the grass along -the roadside to avoid the retarding mud, she covered the distance quickly. In fifteen minutes she stepped softly upon the dark veranda of the old mansion, crept along the wall to the open French window, and entered the library. There was not a ray of light to guide her, for the moonlight did not strike the windows on this side of the house.. She felt her way tp. the staircase by sheer instinct.

On the. steps she paused for. a mo¬ ment. A memory of that disappear¬ ing handprint squeezed her heart. But the warning of the awful dream of Jarrell drove-even that fear from her mind. Heedless of the- lurking terrors of the black, shadows, she climbed to the head of the stairs. She became aware, as she neared the top, of a. sickeiiingly sweet odor that was almost overpowering; but it drew her on as if by some inexplicable attrac¬ tion. She halted for a few seconds, striving to identify the strange fra : grance; but she could gain no definite concept, though the scent was vaguely

Through the hall window the moon shone palely, lending a ghostly half light to objects on the landing. She. shrank back into the shadows on the steps, hesitating to cross the patch 'of light. Then it was that her eye caught the glint of something metallic against the dark wood of the window



casing. Fascinated, yet dreading to touch the thing, she crept toward it, reached it. It was a great sheath knife, stained darkly near the hilt, but clean and bright along the blade. It was imbedded deeply in the case¬ ment. She jerked the weapon free with an effort and stood dazedly star¬ ing at it. Where could it have come from?

A slight noise from the further end of the corridor caught her attention and caused her to whirl about. A ghastly green light, like that of the nightmare shone dimly across the hall from the broken door of the sev¬ enth room. Breathless with dread, yet drawn on by a power beyond her own will, the girl crept toward the strange radiance. At last, with a desperate courage, she sprang directly into the doorway.

An almost unbelievable scene lay beyond the shattered panels of the door. At the table beneath the green light of an antique student lamp sat an. old man, his head thrown .back grotesquely, a gaping cut across his throat. And over him, turned half away from the door, one bloody hand raised as if to strike, a streak of blood across his white face, stood Kirk Hayward! -

.With a piercing; scream, the girl flung the. knife clattering upon the. floor and fled. Along the hall, down the stairs, out upon the. veranda and on into the road she ran, blind with terror and screaming; insanely.

Behind her she heard some one spring in pursuit, and the knowledge only sent her forward the faster. Once in the road; she turned, and sped madly toward the inn. Whoever it was that had started after her must have given up the chase, for she reached the. inn yard without further mishap. Sobbing, breathless, trem¬ bling so that she could hardly stand, she staggered around to the open win¬ dow .and dragged herself back into her chamber. With her last strength she closed and locked the heavy shut¬

ters, slipped out of her clothing and crept into bed.

There she lay shivering for an hour, her excited mind a prey to a thou¬ sand heart-stopping thoughts. Who was the murdered man? Had Hay¬ ward killed him? If so, why? What had caused her dream of Jarrell? Whence had come the knife? Was the vision of Jarrell a premonition of

It seemed to her that the dawn would never come. In the midst Of these wild conjectures, utterly beaten down to a state of nervous collapse, she fell asleep. She dreamed that the man in the chair had tried to kill Jar¬ rell and that Hayward had struck him down to save her brother.

A T SIGHT of the apparition in the mirror, Hayward fell back against the table, shocked for the mo¬ ment beyond the power to move. He had caught only a fleeting glimpse of the reflection, but that, glimpse had been enough for him to identify Elise —Elise,. deathly pale, her face dis¬ torted, her hand clutching a knife.

Chill horror fairly dazed him. He stood there staring- at the mirror like one in a trance. Only his. own pallid, blood-smeared image gave back his look. • Almost he believed that he was out of his senses, that the. vision had been some illusion of delirium.

-It was the-loud clatter of the girl’s feet on the bare staircase that struck through his lethargy and roused him at last to action. He wheeled .and sprang through the door in. hot pur¬ suit. . But he was .too late. Even as his.. feet struck : the top step of the flight, the lock of the French win¬ dows downstairs told him. that the in¬ truder had got clear of the house, and for a few'seconds he .heard her screaming as she fled into the night. He plunged down: to the lower hall and out into the yard. His eyes searched in every direction for a fleeing figure. The moonlight slept on the rain-wet pines. There was not



tom of that black well! He flung himself face down on the floor and reached with the lamp as far into the shaft as he could; but to no avail. With a last feeble sputter, the light

ness came, over Hayward as the blank darkness closed over him. In his present predicament it was worse than useless for him to continue his investigation. lie must go back to town for a torch, for help perhaps. Not a thing could be gained by stay¬ ing here. He felt his way out of the fireplace, across the room, and into the corridor, thence downstairs and out into the night.

His car was standing just as he had left it in the clump of bushes. He climbed in, drove carefully from the grounds and turned toward home. At ghost-breaking he had proved a fizzle.

As he entered the outskirts of Crawford, a question occurred to him. Should he notify the authorities of the murder at Lamont House! It was the only logical thing to do; yet he hesitated, a picture of the inept, bewhiskered village constabulary com¬ ing before his mind.

Then another argument presented itself. To bring outsiders into the affair might be to incriminate Elise. He remembered only too clearly the startling reflection in the mirror. Such evidence, in the opinion of the stupid officers, would be enough to warrant the girl’s arrest.

He decided to work out the ease

CHAPTER SIX WHAT THE MOON SHOWED BILL

T HREE o’clock in the morning!

Pine Lake Road, drowned in puddles and indescribably muddy, alternately gleamed and gloomed as the waning moon now emerged from the rack of flying clouds, now hid it¬ self in lowering blackness. The chill

wind that had accompanied the break in the storm moaned and sobbed in the black branches of the pines. Now and then, a ruffled owl whooed dis¬ consolately, or a bat, disturbed by the rattling gale, hurtled across the dark¬ ness. Once a wolf shrilled a weird minor to the moon. There was some¬ thing uncanny in the very air.

So at least thought Bill Joy, re¬ turning along this lonely track from •‘setting up” with Katie Barnes, his Pine Township sweetheart. As he urged old Dock, his “paw’s gentlest buggy hawse,” ever faster along the ghostly trail that led through the tossing wood around the edge of Pine Lake, and past the old Lamont Place, his thoughts turned shudderingly to the tales of hants, voodoos, and^other horrors with which this whole neigh¬ borhood was supposed to be infested.

He glanced furtively, fearfully at the yawning shadows along the road. The goose-flesh roughened on his fat body. At every unusual night noise, his fluttering heart leapt and sank sickeningly. The entire length of his short spine prickled as with a thou¬ sand nettles. Never had old Dock been so belabored since the days when Bill ’b “paw” had come home over the same road from “sparking” Mary Ann Timmons.

Old Dock resented urgency. Hav¬ ing reached the age of discretion, he was* jealous of his rights; so he merely shook a disparaging tail at the speed demon in the democrat buggy behind him, and plodded along at the same old gait. On and on they went along that interminable streak of blackness and red Louisiana mud, old Dock stolid, Bill gasping and trembling with the fear of the unAbout a half mile north of Lamont Place, the road emerged from the for¬ est and ran for a space along a wind¬ ing ridge. Here Bill breathed a lit¬ tle more regularly, until the moon, bursting suddenly from a murk of clouds, disclosed the awesome bulk of

THE HOUSE OF DUST

Lamont House, looming grotesquely among the black trees above the high hank of Pine Lake.

This fleeting illumination, unex¬ pected as it was, almost unnerved Bill. His short arms trembled, and with difficulty he swallowed a cry of terror. It is quite probable that he should never have summoned courage to pass the Lamont Place, had not old Dock gratuitously decided to quicken his pace almost to a gallop, and to drag his unwilling driver lurchingly after him.

Down from the ridge plunged the ancient steed, down through the gruesome shades of a phosphor-glow¬ ing swamp; then up the pine-roofed tunnel that wound between Lamont House and the fearful high bank of the lake. And Bill perforce must cling desperately to his seat, almost pushing on the reins in his eagerness to be past the place of horror.

After what seemed to Bill an end¬ less time, old Dock dragged the mudsplashed vehicle to a point directly opposite the dreadful house and just at the verge of the high bank. And there, of all places, he decided to balk!

First with wrath and blows, then almost with tears, Bill besought the old horse to go on. But Dock had made up his mind to tarry there on that spot for a rest. What could he understand of the qualms of the young swain brought up on spooky stories of hants and hobgoblins?

Shivering, Bill climbed down from his sodden chariot. Fervently he cursed the impulse of mad vanity that had induced him to venture forth last night despite the menacing sky. to come before the coy Katie in the glory of his new mail-order outfit. What though a man delight ten Katies with brown derby hat, only a little too small; green and gray and brown and red cheeked suit; patent leather oxford slippers, and a wonderful vest and tie? What if a man—or a boy (Bill reflected self-pityingly upon

his tender years)—knock 'em all dead at the dance over to the school house? Better that he were at home in his bed, unhonored and unadorned, than stalled here in a world of eery terror, wet to the skin, and fearful for his very life. Afraid even to glance toward the old house, he kept on the side of the buggy next the lake, while he fumbled with Dock’s harness in trembling eagerness to get the proces¬ sion started again.

At last the old horse showed signs of returning locomotion, and Bill started back to the democrat to climb to the seat again. He put one foot upon the buggy step and was in the act of swinging up to his place, when there came from the dreadful black¬ ness almost into his face the horrid screech of a hoot owl—a screech that sent Dock galloping up the road as fast as his rickety legs would take him and sent Bill staggering.

With a quavering squawk, Bill turned and started to run. in blind terror, straight toward the edge of the precipitous lake bank! A providen¬ tial root laid hold on one flying foot and flung him as flat as he could lie upon the rotundity of his abdomen.

He lay for a moment on the ground, kicking, clawing, and groaning with pain and terror. The moon, which had been obscured since the begin¬ ning of Dock’s rash down the ridge, shone forth again with the ghastly light that heralded approaching dawn. Its radiance illuminated the lake and struck a shaft on the chubby figure of the prostrate Bill. He had fallen so close to the bank that his head pro¬ truded from the edge!

His protuberant, eyes stared about for a space unseeinglv. Then grad¬ ually he began to notice objects be¬ low him and to realize his predica¬ ment. Among broken white rocks and drift at the foot of the cliff the water of the lake lashed itself into foam or swirled away in horrible, black eddies. The effects of the storm had not yet passed. Seeing all



this, Bill moved with celerity. He fairly clawed the ground in his haste to be up and away.

But his troubles had only begun. As he was scrambling back from his perilous position, he caught sight of something moving in the edge of the water—something that rose and fell with the waves sluggishly like drift, yet something that was not drift. Bill stared at the strange thing, fascinated. He saw it whirled away from the shore, then a moment later, by an unusually heavy wave, flung high on the rocks, to lodge firm¬ ly in a crevice. When the water re¬ ceded, the thing lay stretched out full length in the moonlight, half in the churning wash, half out.

Like one hypnotized by terror, Bill gazed down upon the ghastly object, which was now clearly revealed to him by the blue radiance of the moon. What he saw was the body of an old man, the white face upturned to the stars, the long white hair rippling snakily in the water, the chin wob¬ bling sickeningly. above a gaping cut across the throat!

Stupor held the unfortunate youth for a moment, but for a moment only. When the full force of his discov¬ ery dawned upon his dazed mind, he let out a yell that might have been heard in Crawford, three miles away, and fled.

He fled with animation. He took the obstacles like a string of hurdles. Neither fence nor ditch stayed him.

On he fled—on and on!

H OW many times Bid fell in that aimless dash, the world will never know. It is doubtful if Bill himself known. From the thrashing trail discovered by the searching party next day, however, the number of croppers must Jiave been something to conjure with.

Running with a natural galloping stride, Bill described in his going a sort of irregular semi-circle; and final¬ ly slipped and fell flat on his back in

the Pine Lake Road south of Lamont House. There he lay, gasping for breath, and staring fixedly at a road¬ side bush from the branches of which wailed a plaintive whippoorwill.

Owing to the obstacles that had im¬ peded Bill’s wild journey, old Dock, galloping steadily along the road toward his oats, was not far behind his master when the clinging mud of the road claimed its victim. Indeed, Bill had just summoned strength to extricate himself from the mire and had clambered to his feet preparatory to continuing his flight, when he heard a horrible slogging, splashing noise just behind him that caused him to shrink back into the bush of fearsome bird calls, every hair of his head lift¬ ing as at the touch of a spirit.

The tattered vagabond that had been the effulgent lover of Katie Barnes was clinging weakly to a sickly sapling when old Dock floun¬ dered by; and it was with joy and re¬ lief beyond expression that Bill sprang in hot pursuit of the lurching democrat, caught on to the endgate, and climbed at last into the seat. Dock loped peacefully along, unmind¬ ful of the return of his driver.

Bill felt, for the moment, compara¬ tively safe, and he gathered up the fallen reins with a show of returning calm. He even began to whistle “Hold the Fort” to steady his cour¬ age. Still he found himself casting troubled glances toward the reeking trees that crowded the road; and the occasional flutter of some night crea¬ ture would set his heart wildly pound¬ ing again.

It seemed that the powers of dark¬ ness were out in force. The water¬ logged pines were vocal with weird whispers; the moon, sinking in a pall of inky blackness, shed a fitful, ghast¬ ly light that set the noisome waters of dismal forest swamps asheen, only to fade away to utter night.

Somewhere a rivulet was babbling among rocks, and its sound brought back to Bill a vivid mental picture of

THE HOUSE OF DUST

the tiling he had seen from the lake bank. He stood up in the democrat the better to lay upon the back of the now lagging Dock the ancient buggy whip; and, blind with his terror, he steered the horse out of the road.

As the wheels began to crash over the uneven turf off the trail, Bill realized his hapless situation and be¬ gan praying in a loud voice for divine light and heavenly guidance. Almost, it seemed, in answer to his prayer, a flash of distant lightning leapt into life on the scud of the subsiding storm and revealed to him his sur¬ roundings. He was in the middle of the old Damont family burying ground ! 1

The flying wheels had just struck an ancient tombstone, and there was a crash as the thing fell! Just as the lightning flashed, a long, clammy branch of dripping hemlock struck Bill’in the face hard enough to knock him'back into the buggy seat. Then a mourning dove, scenting the ap¬ proach of dawn, cooed sribbinglv ffom^a cypress 1 near by; and from a dank sWale of the forest sounded a raucous, blatant, long-drawn laugh!

..With pne horrified leap Bill ieft the democrat. . lie was running when, his feet struct the ’.ground. He faded away, from that place even as the lurid glow faded from the cloud pall. It was yet two miles to Crawford, but Bill covered the distance in about the length of . time it would have taken an ordinary runner to travel half as far. He flung himself upon his fath¬ er ’s porch and began clawing and beating at the door.

Old Man Joy, who was at the mo¬ ment just getting dressed, heard his son’s final struggles .and naturallythought one of the coon dogs was beg¬ ging for breakfast. “Wait a minute, drat, ye,” he called out. "I’ll feed ve, right smart soon. ” .

•At: the welcome sound of- his par¬

ent’s voice, poor Bill revived. “Oli paw, paw, ’ ’ he moaned. “ it’s me. it’s me. Fer God’s sake, lemme in.” He choked. “The Senecas hev took to the warpath an’ skelped the hull win¬ ter colony out to the lake. I seen the bodies a layin’ on the rocks below that high bank a-bleedin’ like stuck hawgs.”

^ There was a rattling sound, then si :

Mouth agape, the old man hurried to the door and haled his recordbreaking son into the house. He laid the inert scarecrow on the lounge and stood back to stare in wonder.

As Bill revived from his self-in¬ duced stupor, he became partially co¬ herent and the more-or-less authentic details of the night of horror came out. His father ■ swallowed some. of the yarn and discounted the rest, so that he arrived at last at a fairly shrewd approximation of the truth. At least he became , certain that his son really had seen something out.of the ordinary.

“We’ll git Clem Withersbee,” the old man decided when Bill’s narrative had begun to ramble back over the old trail. “Git up, boy. and' come

Together father and son left the ’ house and hurried away toward Craw¬ ford and the constable. As- they went, the old man kept muttering to himself in a way that caused Bill to hnddle close to his side.

“I reckon,” was the burden of the father’s half-whispered monologue, “I reckon, Bill, yeh have run on to the awfullest thing you ever dreamed of. Putts me in mind of the tak’ off o’ ol’ Cash Lamcmt twenty years

Aind so was the news brought to Crawford of Pine Township’s first terrible murder since the mysterious death of Cassius Damont a score of

[TO BE CONCLUDED!

SIX BEARDED * MEN -

/yBmJ.(W

I UCIFER P. LUGENVOLL, the money lender, was alone in the -« spacious library of his elabo¬ rately furnished bachelor residence. Long before, his housekeeper and his private secretary had retired for the night; but Lucifer still pondered over private papers, as had been his cus¬ tom during the thirty greedy, un¬ scrupulous years he had hoarded his wealth.

Into the early morning hours he re¬ mained. His emaciated face was tensely drawn; his gray hair was di¬ sheveled by the nervous action of his long bony fingers; and his small green eyes moved slowly, studiously over' the lines of the yellowish-brown docu¬ ment that lay unfolded oft the massive walnut table. The second reading for the night.

He settled a little deeper into the comfortable upholstering of his large winged chair. For a moment his eyes were riveted upon the feminine signa¬ ture—a. lonely widow. The eyelids, dropped, his colorless brow wrinkled, and a quiver went through the gaunt, aged form.

He clutched at his hair, and with bowed head arose from the table. His troubled mind unconsciously carried him through the folding door into the reception room and on to the great plate-glass window that looked out upon the city street.

The Egyptian darkness of the night, as compared with his brightly illuminated rooms, the deserted pave¬ ment, and the extreme quietude, turned him back.

Reluctantly, half-mechanically, he retraced his steps. Again his eyes fell' upon the faded paper on the

table. His lean, grasping fingers caught the much handled corner and he started to fold the document. The signature stood out plainer than ever before. His eyes closed and he crum¬ pled into his chair.

Shortly, the door bell rang wearily. Lucifer listened. The sound of muffled voices and cat-like steps broke upon his ear. His trembling hand reached across the table and the forefinger pressed upon the button to summon his secretary. It would not respond to his touch.

He gasped weakly and waited. Again the alarm at the door, and again painful silence.:

The knob turned, and inch by inch the heavy, paneled door swung noise¬ lessly ope..

Lucifer rested his head’ upon , the tapestried wing of the chair. His hands dropped limply to his sides. He struggled to arise, but could not

A silent command. Six men dressed in black, all with flowing, black beards, marched languidly through the portals of the outer doors.

The aged money lender attempted to cry out, but words stopped in his throat; his tongue was tied., .

To the library they came and formed in single line on the opposite side Of the table,: directly in front of him. There they stopped as. if at military attention.

Lucifer cleared his throat with great effort.

The leader held up his hand for silence and averted his solemn black eyes to the man at the rear of the line.

SIX BEARDED MEN

: The man stepped back and closed the double door; his face turned ceilingward; an upraised hand, and all was still. Slowly, he returned and took his place.

“The spell is upon the house; no sound can penetrate beyond this room,” said he. His voice was low and frigid.

Dead silence.

The leader stroked his long, black

“We are here, -Lucifer, and we want you. We want you now, ’ ’ they whispered in deep, well-rounded uni-

“ Who are you that you should enter my home unbeckohed at this un¬ seemly hour of the night?” groaned Lucifer, his drawn face twitching

The leader took one step toward the table and, in a monotone, enunci¬ ating each word perfectly, replied:

“A judge of last resort, an adminis¬ trator of the final law, ami”

He paused a moment, then bowed to number two, who likewise advanced a step.

With,uplifted right- hand, he spoke slowly and in deep undertone:

“A minister of the gospel, a media¬ tor for the crimes of mortal man, a servant of the dying, has been my chosen calling.”

The leader nodded to number three, who took his place beside the minister.

“A doctor’s degree have I, a dis¬ penser of medicine and skilled in deli¬ cate surgery. To the latter, my nerves have been attuned for many, many

He spoke sharply, but in even a lower voice than had the other two.

A gesture from the leader and the remaining three stepped promptly into place. Another signal and their voices blended together:

‘ ‘ R ecognized masters of art are we; workers of mystic spells, and co-ad¬ justors of moral wrongs.”

They paused a moment, then turned to the leader.

“Proceed! We shall gladly await your judgment.”

Lucifer leaned forward with strained eyes.

“Have mercy, men, I am weak in the fullness of years. I have money. What, is j-our price? I wish to retire and spend my life in peace. Say what you wish! But have mercy, men. have mercy. ”

“He pleads for mercy,” chimed the three mystics, dolefully. “Mercy! He knows not the meaning of the

Again dead- silence.

Five eager faces turned with solemn mien to the leader. Thoughtfully he stroked his flowing beard.

“Is it not the law, that he who is silent, when in justice he should have spoken, shall be silent when personal gain urges that he speak ? ”

The leader’s voice was slightly louder than a whisper. The five others each nodded in his turn.

“Then,” said he in firmer tones, a slight raise in his voice, “we shall examine the papers tin the table; each extortion of money shall constitute a crime, and each crime a punishment. ”

He turned to the man at his side.

“Right Reverend, what does the Old Testament say? An eye for an eye?”

“It does.”

“Then along this line it shall be. The papers, honest men, and search them carefully. Let not one thing escape your cautious vision. ”

Through the folded documents the visitors of the night did quickly delve. Foreclosures, all of them. Thirteen documents. Then, the yellowishbrown sheet Spread upon the table,



making fourteen in all. The first man read the unfolded one, and groaned vengeance.

“Poor woman, now a guest of char¬ ity,” he mumbled and passed it to another.

Each man in turn did read the much worn document, and each was deeply pained.

The leader spoke an inaudible word and six men stepped back in line.

Lucifer’s hands reached out clutchingly toward the papers; his lips moved, but no word could get beyond his teeth. He gasped, shuddered and shrank back into the chair. Muscles of his waxen face twitched, wrinkles became quickly deeper, a quiver, and he was limp. His eyes closed slowly; he breathed with effort.

The leader raised his hand, and, pointing to the man across the table, commanded: ‘ ‘ Look you upon the wan face for a moment! Bear well in mind the documents you have read and the punishment they have in¬ flicted upon the people who came to him to borrow. Consider with a kindly heart the weight of ripening years, and” (his voice became more firm) “in the balances of justice place the good he might have done—and did

He looked each man squarely in the face, and went on more slowly: "Weigh the value of his life, and be not rash. When your minds have reached a judgment, state the penalty.

The minister was the first to speak.

“Upon his promise to further wrong no man, I vote to give him one more chance.”

“No, no!” cautioned the leader quickly. "You understand wrongly. This is a final judgment. Tonight he pays. No other chance did he give to the lonely widow or the others he did rob. Again, I state, the penalty must

be paid tonight, even as he does de¬ mand when settlement is due.”

The three mystics stepped forward as if they were one man.

“We pass judgment—”

Lucifer leaned forward and a groan crept through his straight-cut lips.

The mystic second from the end raised his hand.

“Just now I call a spell.”

His voice was strong but weird.

“Lucifer shall hear but can not speak, he shall feel but shall not move; this, that we need not mince words with him, that he may remain helpless

"What is your judgment, men!” The leader stepped forward as he

The man who stood beside the doc¬ tor answered for the three.

“He shall pay in flesh. For each small amount, we take a toe; larger amounts, a foot; and still larger, a

“ ’Tis granted,” declared the leader in a solemn tone. “Doctor of medicine and practitioner of surgery, prepare your instruments. Men of the mystic art, make bare the table and lay his body straight upon itB

The minister stepped back and took

“You can not count me a party to the plan. I did not come to mete out a punishment such as this. I came to show this man his wrong and turn him to the right. No, men, I shall drop out but shall remain. And should his life be blotted out, I shall say the last rites over his remains.”

“Proceed,” ordered the leader, "the hours say that the day is soon to break, and we must of this make

T HE table was soon cleared, and while the mystics placed the help¬ less form upon its top, the surgeon


All were silent while the surgeon amputated the doomed member. This done, he wiped his instruments, laid them upon the small table and stood

“This plan,” said he, as his eyes turned to each of the bearded men, “has suffered much. His breathing is slow and irregular. His voice is stilled. Let us leave him thus. ’ ’

“Never!” declared the leader in a determined tone. “It shall not be. We each have read the unfolded docu¬ ment. It is most brutal that he should take all that this kind old woman trusted in his hands. She now does die in want and misery, while Lucifer does still live. He takes her life blood, and you would ask that we should let him pass.”

His voice grew strong.

11 Men of the mystic art, this doctor has grown weak. We can not falter now. Say what you will. I wait.”

“It shall be death,” declared the mystic of the third art.

"Not by my hands,” said the doc¬ tor with a groan.

“Perhaps not,” the leader replied, “but so shall it be. Lucifer can not speak, nor can he walk, neither can he move from the flatness of his back. Still his clutching hands remain.”

“Just that,” murmured the three mystics in unison.

“Doctor, we excuse you,” said one, reaching out his hand. “Place in my hand the keenest instrument that you have and we will ask no more.”

A moment, and the shining blade was in his hand. He held up the other.

“Lucifer can now move his right arm,” he whispered.

He held the knife toward the man on the table.

Lucifer’s clutching fingers seized the handle.

“The point shall go to his chest,” commanded the mystic, “and he shall press it to the hilt.”

He stood over the white-haired man and spoke in sepulchral tones.

“Place your forefinger upon' the end and meet death by your own

Slowly, the point went to the place indicated. Little by little, the blade entered the flesh.

“Hold!” commanded the leader. “We leave now. Let the spell still hold him. But I decree that he shall be alone when the end does come.”

He turned quarter way round and addressed the minister.

“Offer up a silent prayer, and we 3hall be gone.”

With upraised hands the minister prayed, then touched the forehead of the money lender. He folded his arms and nodded that he was through.

“When we are out the door, press hard, Lucifer,” ordered the mystic. “Press hard or we will return.”

Six bearded men fell into line, and filed -’vwly out of the room, and through tho outer door.

L UCIFER pressed hard and long with his forefinger. Faintly, the sound of a distant bell rang in his ears. It was not until he heard the foot-falls of his approaching secretary that he unclosed his eyes.

Before him lay the open document, and beside it the numerous folded ones. He beckoned the secretary to come close.

“Take these papers,” said he weak¬ ly, “and bring every one of the people who have signed them to my library at noon today. Call my banker and have him present also, for I shall write checks freely—freely, my dear fellow, freely.”

He arose and staggered forward a few steps.

“Your arm, dear sir, your arm. I will now go to my room that I may become rested.”

An Odd hit tie Story of Weird Ghinese Revenge

The Green and Gold Bug

By J. M. ALVEY

Author of “Spirits” and “Tragedy Island”

T HE inquest was over. The coroner had gone, and so had the twelve men who formed his jury. The police officials and reporters for thepress had ceased to ring our doorbell. The undertaker, polite- and low-spoken, had got his work well in hand and the two coffins day side-by side in the ditnlj-- lighted parlor. An awed silence was in the house where but a few houfe' agb grim tragedy Stalked its hideous way."

But I am starting my story at the wrong end. Let us turn back fortyeight hours to the beginning. . . r

It was.early on Wednesday night-, and my uncle and I, dressed for dinner, sat, each at:.a window in the living-room watching every passing taxi in the street. At last one stopped outside; two figures stepped out into the cold night; fcnd while one paid the taxi driver, the other rushed up the front steps'and came Into the front hall and flung her arms round my uncle’s neck. It was my kid sister Joe, back from a five months honeymoon in the far-distant and mysterious coun¬ tries of the orient.

“Well, well,” said my uncle, “is the little rosebud glad to be home again and rest once more in her. uncle’s armst” .

And Joe said; “Yes—oh, yes!” and burst Out crying and hid her face on my uncle's oversize vest and held his coat lapels, each with a tiny, girlish-hand,- :

I went out to greet her husband but fell back before him as he advanced, so •shocked was I at the change in his ap¬ pearance. Prom a handsome youth, wellbuilt and smiling, he had become a pale, shriveled "gure which staggered under the weight of the light hand baggage he was. dragging into the house..

.. My uncle and I had planned to give the travelers a royal, welcome. Our plans, however, were rudely swept aside;- and the bridegroom was.Tushed npstaii-s to bed and the doctor summoned.

Just what the sick man’s ailment was the physician was unable to- determine. There were times when his heart- raced like fury and his breath came Hi gasps and his neck,swelled and his eyes bulged. At such times he clutched the bed clothes with an iron claw and tried to raise him¬ self. Then, the spell would pass like asnap of the fingers, and the patient would relax and fall back as if exhausted from a violent struggle.

About midnight he rested easier, and joe, my uncle and I sat down to the untasted dinner.

“A month ago, in. China,” said Joe, ■“we went up into the mountains one day, to a temple where a horrible old creature sat on the floor with incense burning-all around him. He was a magician, or priest, or soothsayer or something, and had power with the Chinese gods. But

94 WEIRD

Dick laughed at him and said the poor Chinamen were suckers to fall for his

“And the magician was angry and rose up in all his ugliness and put a curse on Dick and on his family. Dick was going to fight him right there, and we would have been murdered, I’m sure, only I pulled him away and' made him take me quickly back into the city.

“And that night,” said Joe, “Dick had the first attack.”

“Josephine!” cried my uncle. “Do you know what you are sayingt I’m— Confound it, my dear, what nonsense! ’Put a curse on him!’ You know better than to believe such trash. ‘Curse,’ the devil, my dear! Dick has got some lowdown foreign plague.' It don’t matter whether the Democrats or the Repub¬ licans are in power, there’s no place like the U. S. A. Confound these outlandish, God-forsaken, evil-smelling places, where all the pests and misery of the world are bred. Dick’s got bubonic plague, or the beri-beri or some such-fool thing.”

Joe told us thait Dick got over the first attack in a few hours, but two weeks later on the first night out at sea on the way home he had the second, and it was worse than the first. After that they became more frequent and more violent, and Dick was wasting away and poor Joe’s heart was breaking.

“Fiddlesticks!” said my uncle. “Bosh and tommy rot! ‘Curse,’ my eye! I'm no doctor, but the .lad’s got some heathen disorder. But cheer up, little woman. We’ll have your lover overhauled and in A 1 shape in a jiffy. It may take a month to get real sick in China, but that’s China. You’re home now, my dear, and! it don’t take all day to get a pain in the tummy here, nor all night to get over it. Just smile, little girl, and get ready to go to housekeeping. That’s what.”

TALES

It was two o’clock before the house settled down. It was three when I heard a noise outside my door. I went out to see what it was.

The light at the top of the stairs had been left burning, and as I-opened my, door there was enough light to show me the deformed creature that was creeping along the wail of the hallway, a hideous man, a weird beast, some terrible imp from hell, what I could not say, so awful 1 was it, so unlike anything I have ever seen, or heard of, or fancied.

And this thing opened the door of the honeymooners’ room and passed in.

I had no revolver, so I took up a dumb¬ bell that I used of a morning for exer T cise and went to the door of the room where the thing had entered. I opened it, and reached in and snapped on'the lights. In the bed iay the travelers sound asleep. I went, over and touched them Jo make sure they , were only sleep¬ ing. I looked under the bed, in the closet arid out on the porch, roof under the windows. There was riothing there.

Joe, open-inouthed and wide-eyed, caused me to pull my head in from the

‘‘ What’s the matter? What’s the matter!”

“Nothing,” said I. “Don’t be fright¬ ened. I thought I heard'the fire engines goifffe down town and came Over to look.” 1

I went downstairs to look around a bit. The hall, the. parlors, the dining- • room were all empty, but in the little: passage, thatruns from the dining-room to the kitchen I thought I heard, a .foot¬ step. I was sure : I did., I stood, andlistened. And then somebody sneezed.

I pulled the swinging door open. There stood my uncle in his nightshirt.

“God bless.my soul!” he said. “I was about to shoot you.”

“You’re catching cold,” I told him. “Go to bed. What are you tramping around here for this hour of the night!”

THE GREEN AND GOLD BUG

“And why are you, sir! ”

“I heard a noise,” I explained.

“So did I.”

“And I thought I saw something.”

“ ‘Thought!’ ” he cried. “ ‘Thought,’ hell. I did."

“You did. Wheret”

“You saw it, too)”

“Yes,- in the corridor outside my

“You’re lucky,” said my uncle. “I

He smiled a grim smile.

“I was so shocked that I could not move. After it left I got up and came down here. I thought it might have come this way.”

“No, ” I said. “It came past my room

'T'HE next day the sick man was much

. improved. Joe was brighter. My uncle smiled, in spite of his troubled mind. I said nothing.

That night we went to bed early. I was tired out and soon fell asleep. It was three o’clock again when I heard a noise. This time I rushed out and came face to face with the unearthly visitor: It gave me one mighty crack on the chin that sent me back into my room. I lay on the floor in a semi-dazed condi¬ tion for full five minutes as well as I can estimate. Then I grabbed my dumb¬ bell and went out again.

As on the previous night, I went to the door of Joe’s room and opened it and switched on the lights.

On the floor lay Joe, blood at her

mouth and nose. Across the foot of the bed lay her husband, looking more like his old self than I had seen him since the day of his wedding.

I. told my story at the inquest. The police officials laughed at it. The re¬ porters seized upon it as great stuff for the papers. The coroner’s jury con¬ sidered it gravely, and then gave it as their verdict, “that Josephine Blackton was murdered by her husband Richard Blackton, who afterward died by his own hand.”

They are right and yet they are wrong. I have found new evidence. I shall make it known.

In the trunks of the honeymooners, which arrived tonight, was a collection of curios. Among them was a small bottle containing a strange insect,, a green-and-gold-colored bug, and the bottle was labeled: “Shang-tang Jan. 15. The strange bug that stung Dick last night. We believe that someone threw it in the window.” .

I don’t like the.idea of a murder and a suicide in our family. I don’t want that coroner’s verdict to stand- I’m going to prove that an enraged old magician in the mountains pear Shangtang caused the green and gold bug to be thrown in the window where the. Americans were staving and it poisoned Dick and slowly drove him mad; de¬ stroyed his human qualities, mind and body; and that the two who lay side by side in their coffins were both mur¬ dered and that the murderer sits among his incense burners seven thousand miles away. I’m going to prove it if I have to go to China!

A Fascinating Weird Story of Voodoo and Witchcraft is

The Tortoise-Shell Cat

By GREYE LA SPINA

Extract from a letter from Althea Benedict, Pine Valley Academy for Young Ladies, to Mrs. Words¬ worth Benedict, New York City.

I N SPITE of your care to reserve a room for me, Miss Annette Lee called me into her office yester¬ day and begged me to share it with a new girl.

It seems that Vida is the only child of a very old friend of hers, Felix di Monserreau, a rich Louisiana planter. Miss Lee says she thinks I may have a good influence over my new room-mate, but she managed to evade my tactful inquiry as to what Vida’s vices might be. She did seem awfully disturbed. She said that she appreciated my nice attitude; and if I found the companionship dis¬ turbed me, would I report it to her immediately? She was so agitated she just couldn’t look me in the face. I can’t imagine what ean be the mat¬ ter with Vida.

So far, my new room-mate appears to be rather nice. Her father has been most generous and our room is the envy of all the other girls. I would have written you earlier, mother, but we’ve been getting our new things settled/

Vida wants everything to go with her particular style of beauty! She confessed that she was perfectly miserable if she didn’t have a back¬ ground that suited her, and that she knew I wouldn’t mind—particularly as she was willing to pay for the

decorations. So she has the room decorated in the most stunning fash¬ ion, in shades of orange and dull green, with heaps and heaps of down cushions. She says she loves to lie around on a pile of cushions, like a

I wish you eould sec her. She’s really a type of girl to attract atten¬ tion anywhere with her dead-white skin, her dark red lips, her black hair and her eyes—. Her eyes are quite the queerest I’ve ever seen. They are narrow, long, slumbrous, with drooping lids through which she looks at one in her peculiar way. The iris is a kind of pale golden brown that gives the impression of warm yellow. When dusk comes, I’ve seen the pupil glowing with some strange iridescence, the iris a narrow yellow rim about it; for all the world, it makes me think of a

Don’t forget to tell Cousin Edgar to send me the necklace he promised to bring me from Egypt. I’ve told the girls about it, and they’re dying to see it.

YOUR ALTHEA.

The same to the same:

. . . Studies are going forward nicely. Nothing new, except a cou¬ ple of rather queer things about my room-mate. I thought I’d better write you first, before saying any¬ thing to Miss Lee about it. Perhaps I’m only imagining things, anyway.

Vida is certainly a very odd girl,

san

The same to the s(

dth a t

mg;.

gjSSSf&S

mMm,

n3i"»

x^'s

whh S that S raon S e b hi her hands, and I

vtor.^ri^zri

plsis

IlSSif


The door was still locked; the win¬ dow was open, but it was a thirdstory window, as most of the dormi¬ tory windows in our building are, and there is no balcony under it.

Mysterious, wasn’t it t Our floor monitor, Miss Poore, declared that Natalie must have dropped her ring on the floor, but Natalie has hunted and hunted. The ring certainly isn’t in her room. Who took it} How? It frightened Natalie so that she is afraid to be alone in her room with¬ out a light.

The odd thing about it is the way that Vida looked at me when the girls told us. about it. She actually wants me to believe that her “in¬ visible guardian” stole the ring to punish Natalie for having been sar¬ castic to her. Did you ever?

I wonder if poor Vida is—well, just a bit flighty, mother?

How about that necklace?

The same to the same:

. . . I’m so excited that I can’t write coherently. All the school is in an uproar over what took place last night. I am more disturbed than the rest, for I am beginning to have a suspicion that Vida is right when she says that unpleasant things hap¬ pen to people who cross her. It makes me nervous, for fear she may get provoked at me for something. I don’t know whether or not I ought to report the whole thing to Miss Annette; I’m afraid she’ll think I’m romancing. Won’t you please write me and tell me what to do?

Yesterday morning Vida’s old col¬ ored mammy. Jinny, who is in Pine Valley in order to be near her charge, came up for Vida’s laundry. Miss Poore came in while Vida was put¬ ting her soiled things together, and offered to help sort them over.

Mammy Jinny gave a kind of con¬ vulsive shiver. She looked up at Vida, staring hard at her for a mo¬ ment. Vida stared back in a queer,

fixed way. Then my room-mate’s eyes flashed yellow fire. She told Miss Poore in a kind of fury' that she’d better mind her own business and not stick her old-maid nose into other people’s private concerns.

Miss Poore was wild.. (You can’t blame her. It was really nasty of Vida). She took Vida by the shoul¬ ders and shook her hard. Vida didn’t resist, but she looked at the floor monitor with such an expression of malice that Miss Poore actually stepped back in dismay.

“I’m sorry for you. Miss Poore,” said Vida to her. “I’in afraid you are going to suffer severely for lay¬ ing your hands on me. I’d save you if I could—.but I can’t.”

Miss Poore went out of the room without answering. Vida gave the laundry to Mammy Jinny, who in¬ sisted upon taking laundry-bag and all. After the old colored woman had gone, Vida flung herself on. her bed and cried for an hour. She said she was crying because she was sor¬ ry for Miss Poore. I failed at the time to see any significance in her remark, until after last night—.

About two o’clock this morning, the whole floor was wakened by the most terrible screams coming from Miss Poore’s room. I sprang out.of bed and rushed into the hall, where I met the other girls, all pouring out of their rooms. We rushed to Miss Poore’s room and she finally got her door open to let us in.

Mother, she was a sight! Face, hands, arms, were all covered with blopd from bites and scratches. She was hysterical, and no wonder. "She declared that some kind of wild ani¬ mal had jumped in at her window and attacked her in the dark. The queer thing is, how did that creature —if there was one—get into her room and then out again before we opened the hall door? Her window was open, but it is a third-story one and there is no tree nearby from

CAT



di Monscrreau. asleep in a big armebair by the fireplace. She had crouched on her knees, with her hands out on the arm of the chair and her chin on her outstretched hands, for all the world like a com¬ fortable pussy-cat.

I said to Cousin Edgar: “Here’s your cat,” and laughed.

lie looked at Vida closely. Then he said softly to me. “Althea, you are speaking more to the point than is your wont.” (You know how he loves to tease me, mother.) “Intro¬ duce mo to the pussy,” said he.

I waked Vida. She was terribly embarrassed to have been seen in such an unconventional pose, but she told me afterward that she liked Cousin Edgar more than any other man she’d ever met. I think he liked her, too, although, of course, he didn't say much to me about it.

Vida asked him. almost at once, if he didn’t have another cat-chain like mine. She’d taken a tremen¬ dous fancy to it, she said.

“Perhaps you can prevail upon Althea to give you hers. If you can. I ’ll get her something else to take its

At this suggestion of his, Vida turned imploring eyes upon me. Mother, I was disturbed. I thought of what had happened to Natalie and to Miss Poore, and 1 wondered if something horrible would happen to me if I refused to give Vida my chain. So I just put it to her pointblank.

“What will happen to me if I don’t give my chain to you. Vida?”

“Nothing to you, Althea, darling. I could never be really angry at you, ” she whispered.

“Then please don’t ask me to give up my chain,” I begged.

I looked back as I went from the room with Cousin Edgar, and her eyes were on me in the most wistful way. Poor Vida!

. . . I wonder what the attrac¬ tion is? Cousin Edgar is'remaining here for au indefinite visit, he says. I do hope he hasn’t fallen in love with Alma Henning: I simply can¬ not bear that girl. I suppose he won't ask my advice, though, if he has fallen in love with one of the girls. Belle Bragg is wild over him. and Natalie thinks him scrumptious.

He has old Peter with him and .is stopping at the little hotel in Pine Valley.

The same to the same:

... I suppose I ought to tell you some things I’ve hardly dared write before because they are so—well, so extraordinary. I’ve been afraid you might think something the matter with my brain, because I’d been studying too hard. Cousin Edgar says it is in good condition and my head straight on my shoulders arid to write you the whole thing, exactly what I thought about it.

Mother, there is something uncanny about Vida di Monserreau. I told you how catlike she was at times, and how she loves sitting in the dark, or prowl¬ ing about the room in the dark.

The other day I came into the room ten minutes before lights-out. The room was empty when I turned on the light. But as I went to my desk, a great tortoise-shell eat was stretching itself lazily in the armchair where Vida loves to sif, near the window.

Like a flash Miss Poore’s experience passed through my mind and I started for the door.. As I got to the hall, I turned around, and—mother, believe me or not—there wasn’t a sign of a eat. But sitting in the arm¬ chair, staring at me with those queer yellow eyes of hers, was Vida di MonI sat down on a chair near the door and breathed hard for a moment. Then I said, “ My gracious, Vida, how you startled me! I didn’t see you when I came in. What happened to the cat?"

THE TORTOISE-SHELL CAT


“Cat?” says she, yawning. What oat?” She stretched her arms lazily and settled herself comfortably on the cushions.

I can tell you I felt queer. My eyes had played me a very strange trick, making me sec a striped black and yellow cat where Vida was sitting. I felt it best to say no more to her for fear she might think me out of my head. But the more I think about it, the more I am convinced that there

And if I did see a cat, stretching and yawning in the armchair, where, if you please, was Vida when I was looking at the cat? And where did the animal get to? (I looked every¬ where before I’d go to bed, although I didn’t tell Vida what for. I pre¬ tended I’d mislaid my gym slippers, that were all the time in my locker. I could feel her yellow eyes on me while I peeked under the beds and around.)

When I happened to mention the incident to Cousin EdgaT, he told me not to forget that I’d promised not to remove the chain he’d given me. He said something about its being a talisman to ward off evil influences.

Now, mother, don’t write and tell me not to study so hard! Cousin Edgar doesn’t think I’m crazy or de¬ lirious, so I guess you needn’t.

The same to the same:

. . . This morning Cousin Edgar called me on the telephone to ask if anything had been stolen from one of the girls last night. There had. Grace Drcene had lost a locket and chain. Cousin Edgar asked if the locket had her initials on it in chip diamonds! How did he know? I’ll tell you.

Last night he was sleepless, so he took a walk up here. The moon was shining directly on my side of the dormitory and he distinctly saw a great tortoise-shell cat come out of what he thought was my room.

There is a very narrow ledge around the building, under the win¬ dows, about three inches wide. The cat walked along that ledge until it reached Grace’s window, where it jumped in. After a moment it came out with something glittering in its mouth!

Cousin Edgar hissed, “Scat!” The cat hesitated, startled, and the thing went flashing from its mouth to the ground. Cousin Edgar watched it go back to my window, then he picked up the article. It was Grace’s locket and chain. The cat had stolen it from Grace’s room! Did you ever hear of anything so queer, mother? I’ve read of monkeys and jackdaws, but a cat!

Cousin Edgar mailed the chain to Grace. Fancy the astonishment of the girls when the stolen thing came back through the mail!

But what do you make of it ? The cat came out of, and went back into, my room! The things I do think are so extraordinary that I’m afraid to say them, even to myself.

From Captain Edgar Benedict’s noteA FTER having found out all I could from Althea about the strange facts in this most interesting case, I determined to follow the only clue that presented itself, i. e., the old colored mammy. It seems that she called regularly every Tuesday, so I made it a point to linger near the academy on a Tuesday morning, and was rewarded by seeing the old wom¬ an appear bright and early for her young mistress’ laundry.

She is a queer character. Far from being the decrepit old creature I had been led to expect by Althea’s description, she is a tall, handsome mulatto woman with flashing eyes that hold a strange magnetism in their direct, unblinking gaze. Her face is deeply lined with wrinkles that to my opinion have been etched by the character of her thoughts rather


thau by the hand of time. She car¬ ries herself humbly when in the pres¬ ence of academy people, but I have seen her, once out of sight of the school, straighten up that gaunt form and throw her head back proudly, al¬ tering her dragging walk into a brisk and lively stride.

She carried the young lady's fresh laundry into the academy and in half an hour came out laden with the soiled laundry, which she had in an embroidered laundry-bag. Once out of the sight of the school, she broke into a rapid, swinging walk, and I had much ado to keep her in sight. She reached Pine Valley and made for the negro quarters, where she entered a house that I noted carefully.

As I wanted very much to get a personal impression, I knocked at her door, and inquired if she could do my laundry work. She stared at me, pride in those blaek eyes of hers. Then she said very curtly that she did washing for one person only, and shut the door in my face. There is a fierce, implacable atmosphere about that old black woman. I would dis¬ like tremendously to arouse her

. . , Just gotten back from a nigbt visit to Mammy Jinny’s cabin. For¬ tunately, when X got there, she had left a full inch of space between the window frame and the lower edge of the window shade. Through it. I got a fine view of the old witch—for witch she certainly is, and somehowinvolved in the mysterious happen¬ ings at the academy.

It is not the first time I have watched a witch’s incantations. But I have never before had such a strong personal interest in them.

The old negTess pulled out the laundry from the bag, and with it tumbled a flashing emerald ring! That must have been the ring of Na¬ talie Cunningham. How did it get into Vida di Monserreau’s soiled laundry, unless put there by Vida

herself? Is Vida an accomplice or an innocent victim ?

Mammy Jinny now drew from her bosom a stocking, and shook out of it as fine a collection of rings, brooches, bracelets, chains, as I’ve ever seen outside a jeweler’s shop. She laid the emerald ring with them and sat staring at her plunder. After a while, she pushed it back into its hid¬ ing-place. Then she began to pace the dirt floor of her squalid cabin.

As she walked, she muttered. Sometimes she wrung her hands. Fragments of her words drifted to my ears, as I listened.

“My baby Vida—my little missy! Forgive me, missy! But you must pay for your father’s crime. I can¬ not forgive him!”

All at once she flung herself down before the hearth, for all the world like a great eat and began to stare unblinkingly into the smoldering em¬ bers. By my watch, she remained in that posture absolutely motionless for fully two hours, during which I honestly wished I were elsewhere; there was something about her tense attitude that conveyed a baleful sig¬ nificance to my intuition. I knew that she was projecting her mental powers to accomplish her blaek pur¬ poses. like the evil old witch she was. It was hardly an agreeable situation for me, but I dared not move until she herself began to stir.

I have an idea that the witch, the tortoise-shell cat and the odd Vida are more closely connected than might seem credible. I must take Althea somewhat into my confidence.

. . . My plan worked perfectly. Vida was very happy to possess the cat-chain and easily agreed not to take it off. Last night I kept watch over the old negress. and Althea— at my request—watched Vida. Vida slept peacefully through the very hours when I watched Mammy Jinny sweating and working her incantamwsm %wsm

SfsffiKtft ssassss

SS55&H gi'S&S

SbHISirSS

ggyS^Efil ^f«4? *'f£ps ISEESuI SSPrlS!

could never hope to see h,s wife asain. out of Vida’s life henceforth,. _

/» WEIRD TALES next month

KAIVALYA

By MRS. EDGAR SALTUS

A weird tale of hypnotism and eery crime

ON SALE NOVEMBER 1

B IG BILL HAWKINS laid the trap with admirable precision. Every little'detail had been worked out with the utmost nicety.

The care-free manner of his part¬ ner, Seth Ormsby, indicated that he suspected nothing, though he did seem somewhat puzzled by Big Bill’s unwonted loquacity and unprece¬ dented joviality. He had shown a Btrange lack of enthusiasm when, after a summer of unrequited toil, the prospectors had stumbled on the vein that promised to make them both independently wealthy.’ Dur¬ ing the days spent in preliminary work with a view to replenishing their depleted larder, he had been unusually taciturn, even sullen at

As they rode abreast along the trail, followed by the two packmules, the foremost of which bore in its saddlebags enough gold dust to purchase the entire general store at Bed Dog, Big Bill outdid himself in his efforts to be agreeable. At the same time he was thinking, planning.

Big Bill, a dyed-in-the-wool pros¬ pector, had first met Ormsby in the Deer Foot Saloon at Bed Dog. He had lived up most of his savings and needed a grub-stake. Ormsby, a wan¬ dering cowpnncher out of a job, had the necessary money. Under the mel¬ lowing influence of liquor they had struck up a partnership.

The country through which they wandered was an open book to Haw¬ kins, and Ormsby, the newcomer, al¬

ways relied on his burly partner when a choice of directions was to be made. It was Hawkins who, in this instance, had suggested they take this new trail to Bed Dog, where papers were to be filed and supplies purchased.

Big Bill felt that he had ample rea¬ son to hate Ormsby. For nineteen years he had been prospecting in this region, sometimes with a partner, but more often alone. He had managed to find enough pay-dirt to keep body and soul together and had made occa¬ sional moderate strikes rich enough to support him in idleness for several months at a time. The thing that stuck in his craw was the fact that when the big strike came—the strike for which he had been hoping, toiling and struggling for nineteen years— he must share it with this greenhorn: this newcomer who couldn’t tell quartz from shale. He had gambled the best years of his life for this stake and felt that fortune had cold-decked him when she finally dealt him one royal flush and Ormsby the other. It meant that they must either split the pot or leave it up for a show-down, and Big Bill had resolved on a show¬ down dealt from his own stacked deck.

“Seems like we’re goin’ sorta outa the way to git to Bed Dog, ” remarked Ormsby when they suddenly turned at a fork in the trail.

“Not so much,” replied Big Bill with studied indifference. “They’s a water hole down this way and the ani¬ mals ain’t goin’ to be none the worso

r^f^ trideandtheothei - traU

riESiiS^SS

IsiiS

rSHSIpHS^i

*W

ar£L..__

Sta;«

iHl

mmm

sS£H

of e Hawk‘ he S rOPe ' “ feH a ' * he feet

■sc:

HS-H

oS^-Tss^xr

taZ h * y to.

don’t ir; .

THE PHANTOM RIDER


ror tomorrow. He’s rich enough to buy this whole town now.”

B IO BILL, galloping hastily along the village street, felt sure that he was being pursued. He spurred his horse until the blood spurted from its gashed sides, and tried to think. What, was it he had done? For the life of him he could not remember. Everything was hazy up to the time the sheriff had appeared. Suddenly his hand touched the empty holster. He had used his gun. Perhaps he had killed a man.

Killed a man! The thought per¬ sisted. Yes. He had killed a man only the day before. And that man had sworn — what was it he had sworn ? The exact words of the dying Ormsby came back to him with amaz¬ ing vividness.

“I’ll get you for this if I have to break out of hell to do it.”

Could a man break out of hell, or wherever his spirit might chance to go? Could the dead return to wreak vengeance on those who had wronged them? He wondered, then urged his horse forward with renewed frenzy as the sharp clatter of hoof-beats sound¬ ed close behind him.

It seemed, however, that with the first staccato click of those pursuing hoofs the horse needed no urging. The frightened beast leaped forward with ears laid back and nostrils distended as if running for its very life. But despite the speed he was making, the increasing distinctness of the sounds behind him told Big Bill that his pur¬ suer was gaining on him—gaining with amazing rapidity.

He expected to hear a command to halt or feel a bullet between his shoulder-blades at any moment. He feared to go on, feared to stop—even feared to turn and look at his pursuer. The suspense was nerve-racking.

Well. It would soon be a matter of his life or that of the sheriff. Un¬

doubtedly he had shot a man and, if taken for it, would surely swing. Ilis forty-five was gone, but he still had his derringer. With an oath he snatched it from his pocket and swung in the saddle. His pursuer was less than fifty feet behind, and Big Bill seldom missed at fifty feet.

He raised the tiny weapon and fired. Then, seeing that the bullet had not taken effect, he cursed and' fired again. His pursuer came on, sit¬ ting bolt upright in the saddle, appar¬ ently unmoved.

There was something strange about the appearance of the oncoming man and beast—something terrifying, ap¬ palling. He had not noticed it at first, but the realization suddenly burned itself into his consciousness. The horse was strangely familiar and the man—only one man he had ever known wore his Stetson creased thus and at that peculiar, jaunty angle. And that man was dead—murdered. Again the words of the slain Ormsby came back to him:

“I’ll get you for this if I have to break out of hell to do it.”

He strained his eyes in an attempt to pierce the semi-darkness. Suddenly the moon peered from behind a rap¬ idly-moving cloud—and he knew . . .

The derringer dropped from his nerveless fingers. A queer choking feeling paralyzed his throat. He passed his hand before his eyes and looked again. The vision persisted.

Nearer and nearer came that silent, relentless pursuer. With a shudder of horror Big Bill saw that he or it was uncoiling a lariat.

The loop widened, whirled about that ghostly head and shot through the air. Big Bill ducked, then uttered a shriek of mortal terror that ended in a gurgling, agonized wail as the rope settled and tightened about his throat. For a moment he felt himself dangling in empty air—then all went black . . .



E ARLY the following morning two cowpunchers from the Bar L Ranch rode into Red Dog. One car¬ ried an extra saddle and bridle, the other the rapidly stiffening body of Big Bill Hawkins.

They were quickly surrounded by a crowd of curious onlookers, foremost among whom was the sheriff.

“Where’d you find him? What happened?” asked the sheriff, as two men assisted in lowering the corpse to the ground.

The cowboy whose horse had borne the body dismounted.

“Dangdest queerest thing I ever seen,” he said. “We found Big Bill and his horse lying at the bottom of a ratine. Bill was dead and the horse had broken both forelegs, so we shot

“But what killed Bill?”

“As near as I can make out, he was roped and strangled. There’s a rope bum around his neck and he don’t seem to have no broken bones or other injuries.”

“Who follered Big Bill out of Red Dog last night?” demanded the sher¬ iff, facing the crowd.

“No one follered him,” volunteered a prospector. “I seen him come out and ride away alone.”

“Whoever got him,” continued the cowboy, “must’ve left in an airship.”

“An airship? What do you mean?”

“Well, me and my pardner went up to the top of the ravine to try and find out what happened. We saw the tracks of Bill’s horse where he had come runnin’ up and plunged over the edge. Beside them was the trail of another horse that ended in a fourtrack slidin’ square like your brone’ makes when you rope a steer.”

“And where did they go from there?”

‘ ‘ That’s just the point. We hunted high and low and circled the place for a hundred yards in every direction. There wasn’t a single track of horse or man leading away from the place where Bill Hawkins died!”

This Unusual Tale Was Written by a St. Louis Newspaperman Who Afterwards Committed Suicide

A Soulless Resurrection

A AVAS my custom each year, I went to St. Maude, that beautiful little suburb of Paris, in June, 19—, to spend my vacation after a tax¬ ing year of study in the Ecole Polytech¬ nique, where I was being fitted, as my father had been before me, to emblazon upon the family escutcheon the title “Architect” and thus justify my exisSt. Maude was but a step for me. In Pont St. Esprit, which the good God chose to have the honor of my birth (for, with my lofty ambitions that would out¬ strip the works of Notre Dame and St. Peter in Rome, I considered even Paris wouhj some day like to claim me), I had often made thirty-five kilometers a day hunting with my father. I was proud of my strong limbs and rugged frame, and the mincing promenades of the afternoon I left to the boulevardiers. So I set out on foot for St. Maude, where my fair young cousin Genevieve, her mother and the latter’s aged father, long a retired physician, expected, me.

Bright and fair was the day of my approach to the pleasant suburb where I was to spend the next two months. The sun’s brilliant rays glistened like rain drops on the rich foliage of the stately trees so generously scattered at every turn of the eye. The humming of a bee that I startled from a vagrant honey¬ suckle by the roadway as I trudged along with springing step, gladdened my heart with its musical suggestion of bucolic quiet and aroused a flood of happy asso¬ ciations formed in idle moments spent

in the picturesque purlieus of my aunt’s little home. I drew in full breaths of the fragrance of lovely bluebells and lilies of the valley. In the distance I could see the cattle lazily grazing. As I crossed a rustic bridge, my eyes fell upon two youngsters languidly reclining on the bank of the stream awaiting the disappearance of their cork floats to an¬ nounce that some venturesome fish had swallowed the bait. At sight of them my own pleasant boyhood days were r*-

They recognized me instantly and called, “Hello,- Jean!” and I whiled away a bit of time with them, promising to join them in their sport, some day soon. They were overjoyed to see me, for the little rascals knew there was fun ahead and a few sous.

I tramped along the border of the woods, enjoying with infinite zest the smell of the fresh green earth. I heard the cheerful chatter of a busy little squirrel, disturbed in his woodland in¬ dustry. Cutting through the patch of forest, where at every turn I recalled some familiar spot, I soon espied my aunt’s quaint cottage half-concealed by a growth of birches.

Its gabled roof, even from that distant viewpoint, showed sorry need of a re¬ pairing hand. Where the sun’s burn¬ ing rays penetrated through the loop¬ holes left by the foliage, the shingles had cracked and curled. Blistered patches of paint, too, rendered the house more in spirit w'ith its woodland environ¬ ment. As I neared it I could sec that,

WEIRD


as of old, the tower boxes stood on the front window sill and from them trailed the clematis and nasturtium. A dainty ivy threaded its serpentine way to the eaves. Saucy little birds chirped and sported about the ancient chimney. In the garden everything ran in nature’s own seeming confusion save in one Jittle spot where.a woman’s hand had set some choice plants. Here a patch of mari¬ golds, there a cluster of peonies, then a touch of daisies showed their pretty heads in the midst of the geraniums, and with a careless eye to artificial nicety bashful fuchsias hung their tender bells in the shadow of some giant sunflower.

Traveling the.well-worn path I had so often trod,. I suddenly came upon my young cousin, fairer this day than ever. She was sprinkling the flowers, and until then had been hidden from my view by a mass of rose bushes. She turned as she heard my footstep, and, instantly recognizing me, ceased her pleasant labor and ran to welcome my arrival, throwing her arms about my neck and kissing my cheeks. Her beautiful face, the picture of lovely innocence, was radiant with joy. Her voice, as soft and sweet as the nightingale’s, thrilled me with its lovely tone. Zip, the old house dog, came leap¬ ing upon me. Genevieve’s mother, at¬ tracted by the unwonted commotion, next greeted me.

We talked about the flowers, the woods, the odd little house and the dog. I even found myself twitting my lovely cousin about the fantastic weathervane that whirled and squeaked' and turned jerkily this way and that as if in a pet over the contrary winds that never would let it point in one direction for even a minute. Indeed, under the charm of her singular beauty, the music of her voice and the grace of her sinuous figure, I forgot to reply to her invitation to enter the house and partake of refresh¬ ments. At last* however, having ex¬

changed all the news that came spontane¬ ously to our minds, we stepped inside.

My granduncle, they told me, was in his laboratory. Of late, they said, he was eternally puttering about with his chemieals, attempting experiments that sometimes by their strange noises would arouse them suddenly from their sleep in the middle of the night. Perhaps I would see him in the evening, but I was cautious not to disturb him at his work, for he had become exceedingly secretive and peevish.

Inside the house, everything bore the touch of the hand of time and the ear¬ marks of generations before me. The ancient clock in the hall seemed weary of ticking away the moments of mortal

That night I did not see my old grand¬ uncle. I could hear the tinkling of test tubes, the gurgling of fluids and the shuffling of his feeble footsteps as he dragged himself about in his workshop, from which pungent odors of acids emanated.

Next day at lunch I heard him slowly feeling his way like a blind man through the narrow hall that led from the room he used for his laboratory to the dining room. He nodded his ragged head when he saw me and smiled absently, but never deigned to say a word or proffer his hand in welcome. I was struck by the marked ehange a year had wrought in him. Long white locks fell disheveled over his aged head. His face was like ai time-worn sheet of parchment, wrinkled, in a thousand folds and yellowish grays in patches. His eagle-like eyes, set be¬ neath finely arched brows and a magnif¬ icent forehead, burned with an unnat¬ ural fire. Constantly he was deeply engrossed in his thoughts, to the exclu¬ sion of the rest of us.

But with tho charming Genevieve, sparkling in her maiden beauty, what more needed I to fill my time and mako

A SOULLESS RESURRECTION


the summer days pass happily ? Often I sighed because this fascinating girl was so near to me in relationship. Other¬ wise I should surely have courted her impetuously and, no doubt, have lost her through my reckless ardor. We strolled together through the summer woods, her mother often accompanying us, or sat for hours on the rustic bench in front of the cozy home, as happy as the birds building their nest.

Once a week I would take her to Paris, this exquisite flower, so fresh, ingenuous and lovable. We would wander through the Louvre, admiring the marvelous paintings, or stray through the Luxem¬ bourg. On other days we would prome¬ nade along the Boulevard des Italiens or the Champs Elysees, commenting on the ceaseless gaiety of the life we saw. Once I took her to the Ecole Polytechnique, showed her all the departments and even the desk at which I sat and absorbed the knowledge I hoped would some day re- 'dound to the fame of my family. One night we went to that most magnificent of opera houses, the Grand Opera, and saw “L’Afrieaine.” For a week she was in ecstasy over that immense pro¬ duction. Her gentle soul responded sensitively to all that was beautiful and

A FORTNIGHT after one of these delightful trips, a sudden gloom and sorrow smote this happy circle.. I came home one night from a two days’ sojourn in Paris to find my beautiful cousin in bed, her mother, grandfather and Dr. Maneau around her. She had tripped, the day before, on a rusty barrel hoop. A jagged end had penetrated her dainty foot and blood poisoning was making rapid progress. I was distressed beyond belief. Five days later, death had for¬ ever clouded the brilliant luster of Genevieve’s soulful orbs.

That night we carried her into the old parlor and laid her gently upon her bier. My granduncle said he would embalm her body himself, and even though kind¬ ly Dr. Maneau offered to arrange all the funeral details, the old man held to his determination to do the ghastly work.

In the evening, the mother, exhausted from grief and loss of sleep, fell into a profound slumber in her room. I had remained all day beside the bier. I ate nothing. About dusk I went out to cool my fevered brow. For hours I wan¬ dered through the woods and fields, hal¬ lowed by the feet of her who had gone.

Returning, I saw the room where the bier lay, dimly lit, and from the shifting shadow on the curtain I knew her grand¬ father was standing over the corpse of the saintly girl.

It was not with premeditation that I approached the house softly and quietly, turned the knob and shut the door so noiselessly that even I heard no sound. My great grief had rendered me uncon¬ sciously quiet in my every movement. At the side of the room nearest the old man was a folding screen wrought in fan¬ tastic tapestry, and a step further was a lounge. Not wishing to disturb the bid gentleman in his sad contemplation of that dear face with its ghostly traces of mortal beauty, I sat down upon the lounge, completely hidden from his view, and buried my weary, aching head in my hands.

How long I sat thus, I do not know nor do I remember hearing the old hall clock sound the midnight hour. I was suddenly startled by the shrill voice of the old man. From the stairway which led to above, I could hear the heavy breathing of the worn-out mother, ft was not his voice that chilled my very bones, though at that hour and in that situation, considering the condition of my nerves, a bit of nervousness could be overlooked.

VEIRD TALES

“It must work this time! It cannot fail! It cannot fail!” I heard his piping

I arose and looked over the screen. There he was. as before, leaning over that white lovely face, hands clasped be¬ hind his back, fingers nervously clutch¬ ing each other, his breath comiug in short gasps, his whole frame atremble.

“One more, another one, five thou¬ sand units more and it cannot fail! Ahh-h-h-h! How the Academy will hail me, me the old Bergeau!”

I saw him take a hypodermic needle. I saw him grasp a tiny phial from a pocket of his shabby coat. I watched him fill the needle to the full, his hand shaking as if palsied. A strange light was burning in his eager little eyes. Like a ghastly goblin haunting some grave¬ yard sepulcher, he stretched out his thin gaunt arms and turned toward the dead girl. I was transfixed with horror. Why I did not intervene, I cannot say. Some horrible curiosity kept my eyes fastened on his weazened form and held my limbs powerless to move.

I could sec him part the dainty lace that covered her cold, alabaster bosom. He sank the needle into the lifeless, un¬ responsive flesh and slowly stepped to tht end of the bier to watch jealously the saintly face, ethereally pure in

For several seconds he kept his ghast¬ ly watch. The terrible silence froze my breath. The old clock ticked with awful regularity. The great brass lamp on the heavy' center table flickered a ghostly flare, and I thought I saw the girl’s lips move. But it was only a fancy then.

Five minutes went by, the old man standing immovable save for the trem¬ bling of his arms. My eyes turned first to him and then to the girl on the bier.

The old clock struck one, so faint and

solemn that it seemed miles away, and I knew midnight had flown.

A/TERCIFUL Father! What was that!

Had my mind snapped? Had rea¬ son suddenly left me? Had madness insidiously' crept into my brain? Or were my strained eyes growing treacher¬ ous? God, no, for the old man was trembling so violently now that his teeth chattered, his eyes dilated frightfully, and he began to reel and totter like a drunkard as his wheezy voice exclaimed:

“She moves, oh. God. she moves!"

Sick and faint with horror, clutched by an icy dread, my throat swelling under a strangling sensation and my eyes feeling as if they-would burst their sockets, I groaned heavily and my head dropped to my breast as I saw the girl's eyes open, one hand raise itself from its folded position of repose on her bosom and her lower limbs tremble as if shocked by electricity.

When I looked again, she had raised her head and half turned her body. An¬ other moment and she fell heavily from the bier. Like one asleep, she slowly raised herself and stood at full height, now seeming doubly high in her long white robe, her rich black hair streaming down her back. Such a picture of name¬ less horror no human being ever saw before. The old lamp threw a dim glare over the tall ghastly figure. Her eyes, wide open and staring vacantly, were as glassy as in death: her white lips were parted in rigid lines, the whole giving an unearthly expression to her ashen face, tinged at the cheeks with the faint¬ est trace of color.

The old man had resurrected her body, but not her soul! It was a corpse, alive, moving, more terrible a hundred-fold than death!

From sheer horror, I fell at full length as the animated Thing came

In the December Issue of WEIRD TALES

“I, a woman of the Earth, have destroyed a religion, and a city—who knows if I have not destroyed a whole people: the inhabitants of a globe? In the glass I can see it still—always: the flames, the smoke blinding the setting of a scarlet sun, the walls crumbling, the tower falling—falling—”

READ

“The Earth Girl”

By CARROLL K. MICHENER

ON SALE NOVEMBER I

Disappointment iti hove Resulted Strangely in the Life of This American Artist in Paris

A Suicide Complex

By ROBERT ALLWAYS

OLY catfish!”

A scuffle in the bar and a child’s scream brought me to my feet. Through the open door a cognac glass hurtled past my face and shattered against the rows of bottles lin¬ ing the wall. A machine-gun chat¬ ter of French and a heavy-artillery roar of American profanity began in the bar. The eternal Battle of Paris, still going on four years after the armistice!

I stepped cautiously in, expecting to find a drunken tourist suffering from a too thorough reacquaintanee with Amer¬ ican mixed drinks, which since their de¬ portation by Mr. Volstead have become native of Paris, but with some surprise I discovered Hawkins. He was nursing a heavily bandaged shoulder and singing it to sleep with a lullaby of international cusswords.

After several attempts to interrupt him, it became clear that one of the patron’s children had bumped the wounded shoulder and that he had pro¬ ceeded to kick the child out of doors. Gradually, as Hawkins’ vocabulary ex¬ hausted itself, his arm quieted down and he concluded a discourse on the clumsi¬ ness of Parisian barkeepers’ children with an apology for the cognac glass which had so nearly hit me. That, he explained, was'a mere gesture, entirely by way of emphatic punctuation.

By this time I had computed the ap¬ proximate amount of monev Hawkins

owed me (this was no simple matter, for he had touched me several times in two or three currencies a year or so before) and I dragged him into the other room, ordering two double Calvadoses and giv¬ ing the patron fifty centimes for the broken glass to restore peace. I could well have used the modest sum my com¬ putations resulted in, but I was destined never to get it.

“Why the mummy clothing?” I asked when we had settled around a threelegged table. We were just off the Place St. Michel in an underground bar , known as the Bolee de Cidre, chiefly noted for its very hard cider and the drawings by assorted artists of all nationalities which roam the Quartier Latin. These literally covered its dingy walls. The room was half-full of barrels of wine, though the favorite drink was Calvados or apple-jack, and a pungent odor of cider and sawdust filled the air. I had fallen into the habit of dropping into this cool, quiet place after lunch, where I could write for three or four hours without interruption and later join in the discussion of the latest events and theories of the art world of Paris with the artists who usually dropped in for an hour before their rather late din¬ ner, to sip an aperatif and talk.

“Overwork,” replied Hawkins. “My foot slipped when I was painting on the rocks up in Brittany last week and I fell and broke my shoulder.”

SUICIDE COMPLEX

“Tiens! I heard you hadn’t been working. Haven’t seen anything of yours lately—nothing in the last two Salons. You’ve been away from Paris!”

He twirled his thin-stemmed glass a moment, frowning, and I noticed that he was thin and haggard. Then he gulped down the white, bitter liquid and ordered a whole bottle. While the waiter was bringing it, he fidgeted around the room, twice breaking into a little hack¬ ing. laugh that sounded half like a sob.

“No,” he said, finally sitting down, “that’s all a lie about falling off the rocks in Brittany, and I haven’t touched a brush for a year. At present I’m work¬ ing at a psychological problem—etching, not on a copper plate but On a living

He broke oft' nervously, then, leaning across toward me and picking at my sleeve, he continued:

“I owe you something. . . well, I’ll pay you in a story, old man, a piece of human living that will make you shiver. It’s what I’ve been doing the last nine months. Tracking a man over half of Europe, opening his mind and writing across it, spreading out his soul and bit¬ ing a word into it with acid: one word, suicide!’’

Hawkins was trembling like a leaf, his eyes starting out of their sockets. No longer conscious of me, he was 1 talking like a drug fiend, making strange short gestures with his free hand. Then he gave that hacking, sobbing laugh again and again.

“Suicide! Ha ha ha! Suicide! Ha ha

To stop him from becoming complete¬ ly .hysterical, I offered him a cigarette and filled the glasses. He calmed down a little at the interruption, then con¬ tinued :

in

“You never knew the man. He was my best friend. We studied together for years, shared the -same studio, painted the same models, and drank the same liquors. I helped him get his start, and many a time had to do a lot "of his work for him while he was out playing the society game.

“In the war he left painting and went into the infantry, while I got in the camouflage corps and kept on studying. After the armistice, when all of us went back into the schools to brush up and get back to serious painting again, what did he do but play around in society and paint silly portraits of actresses and bankers’ wives!

“Still we stayed together, though he was getting so stuck up that it was pretty hard at times to live with him. Then, after all I’d done for him, what does he do but snake me—the skunk! Played me dirt on the one thing that would have made me!

“She was one he had missed in his highbrow parties, a stunning looking girl and just crazy for romance, small town beauty from somewhere in Iowa, with lots of money and tired to death of the ogling of a dozen local, swains. Simply fell for art and the poor, struggling genius stuff, wanted to be priestess of the living flame, fan it into a blaze with her father’s greenbacks, and so forth.

“Believe me, I was all for it, but the family was awful! Sausage factory or sewer-pipe outfit, stick-in-the-muds with a terrible zero-hour sense of morality. You know the kind. They come over here and carry a bottle of Vichy water around for fear someone will offer them

“Well, we had that all fixed. I knew of a long-winded title I could buy for nothing—Roumanian, and it doesn’t mean a thing but. it sounds like the angelus put to jazz and Mother-in-law


would have fallen and dragged the bank account along (you know what desperate climbers they are in Middlewostcrn cross¬ roads towns). Oh. it was spiked for fair, and we were going to run away to Vienna where you can get a fool-proof marriage in a day. Then my friend played his dirty trick!

“I brought her over to the studio one night, and as luck would have it, he was at home, lie came, he saw, and he fell, simply lost hiis head, and believe me, I enjoyed jt after, his floating about snobbing with the four hundreds of all Europe. There he was at home, simply eating out of her lovely, provincial hand, and the next day we were to be off to

“Well, that night we had some dinner, ate in all the French we had learned in six years and drank in assorted lan¬ guages! Somehow, we must have let something drop. Anyway, he got the idea, and it didn't help his disposition. Once or twice- he started to say some¬ thing and nearly choked!

“Then her family burst upon us. found out where I lived and followed us! W T ow! The place turned blue— with laws. Morality spouted all over us. Old Sausages started in with a new Iowa edition of the Ten Commandments that made Moses sound like a prehistoric lullaby, and long before he had run out Mother-in-law got. her breath. It’s a good thing we weren’t using candles, for she would have blown every one at the first blast.

“They roared and growled and thun¬ dered at us. Really, it was better than the chorus in ‘Aida,’ and then they sur¬ rounded the girl, who was seared half to death, and dragged her back to their hotel. I’m sure they barricaded the doors when they got there and bribed the entire staff of servants not to let any¬ one come near that hotel for a week. At

any rate, the next day I couldn’t reach her by telephone, telegraph, or radio. I tried to say it with flowers, candy, and Coty’s Origan, but couldn’t get a word through, and what was worse, she couldn’t reach me. I hunted her all day and waited that night at the Gare de l’Est and watched the Vienna Express pull out, and then went homo.

“Obviously our elopement, was off until her ancestors calmed down, so I spent, the next few days trying to find her—haunting the Rue dc la Paix and the boulevards, shadowing half a dozen hotels (they had changed theirs) and had about decided that they had left Paris when I read of her marriage to my best friend.

"The blackguard had gone over and talked half the night with them, dug up everything I had ever done and made up a lot more, absolutely double-crossed me with the ancients and turned his oily line on the girl. He even had the nerve to give her the same stuff I’d pulled about bearing the flaming torch of genius and being priestess of the sacred fire,' told her I was after her money and didn’t love her and then swore his disinterested motives and eternal affection.

“The next day he rounded up half of the French and English nobility as references of his angelic character and even got a special dispensation from the prefect of police for a speedy marriage^ and there I was without the girl and her money! Married to my best, friend, mind you, the man I’d done everything for all his life. Ha ha ha!”

TTAWKINS had been getting more ^ and more excited as he ran on, and I tried to stop him, but he silenced me with a gesture that was almost a threat.

“I read the newspapers every morn¬ ing now,” he continued, his hands clutching spasmodically, “the suicide

A SUICIDE COMPLEX


column! Some day he ’ll be there! Some day soon. I’ve followed him from that day to this, through Berlin, Borne, Vienna, Florence, Munich, even to Mos¬ cow, always meeting them, always send¬ ing him something. He has a collec¬ tion of tho world’s weirdest suicide im¬ plements-poisons, daggers, pistols, ropes, everything a man could use to kill himself. For nine months now, wher¬ ever he goes, suicide stares him in the face. It’s working, too. It’s getting into his soul. He’s come back to Paris at last, to kill.”

He broke off suddenly, his whole body twitching and his mouth open. He was staring over my head as if he had seen a ghost. For an interminable second there was utter silence., than a suave voice broke in.

“Hello, Hawkins! Any more curios for my vicarious collection?”

I turned and recognised Jefferson Southworth, whose fashionable portraits I knew well and whom I had met once or twice a year or more ago, standing in the door. He was smiling half quiz¬ zically sis he watched Hawkins get up, moving painfully as if his muscles had forgotten how to function, and fade out of the room, still staring like a ghost.

“Too bad, that case,” Southworth continued as he came over to the table and shook hands with me. “One of these days he ’ll kill himself if somebody esm’t help him.”

He tapped his shoulder significantly, holding his arms as if in a sling.

"He tried it a couple of weeks ago but didn’t have the nerve. Drove up to the American Hospital in a taxi late one night and shot, hut only splintered the shoulder blade. Too bad, too bad, for he had talent.”

“What’s eating him, Southworth?” I asked. “He’s been telling me a strange qtory. Said it was in payment of a debt,

and went so fast I couldn’t stop him to ask for the money. And the way he went out just now! You knew him pretty well?”

“Lived with him for years before my marriage last year. Not a pleasant chap, but he showed too much promise to let him go to the dogs. He loved only two things, money and painting. But he seems to love money most lately. He has borrowed from everyone. Don’t think yourself singled out by fortune. He not only borrows from his own friends, but from mine as well, which keeps me pretty constantly in scrapes. Oh, well, life’s little habits.”

He waved his hand as if dismissing the matter.

“He told you the story of his best

I nodded.

“Me,” he said after a pause. “But you know the girl could not be sacrificed even to his pictures. It was perfectly clear that once he got her money she would never see him again.”

Then he added very gently, as if speaking to himself, “Besides, we loved each other.”

He looked at his watch.

“By the way, you’ll meet her. She should drop in here soon to meet me—my wife, you know.”

He interrupted himself to order two iced aperatifs and then went on, speak¬ ing slowly and with absolute sincerity.

“It set him off, losing the money after he’d lived pretty close for so long, and this 'suicide obsession gets worse and worse. I have tried to help him, in¬ directly of course, because the fixed idea has fastened on me and I am the last person who could help him directly.

“The most eminent physicians merely shake their heads and refer me to the psychiatrists, who talk about the prob¬ ability of his committing suicide, hut


WEIRD

can offer no definite suggestions. It seems a fairly common case, his sub¬ conscious mind always suggesting suicide to him and his conscious always trans¬ ferring the idea to some victim. I hap¬ pen to be the victim, but if he ever loses his head and the subconscious gets con¬ trol, they predict he will carry out its wishes: suicide. Poor devil!”

He stopped and sat a moment study¬ ing the frosted glasses. Then he looked up as the door by which he had entered the room, opened. At the same moment the peculiar sobbing laugh came from the bar. With a shudder we both recog¬ nized Hawkins’ hysterical voice. I turned and caught sight of a beautiful girl standing in the door, her large eyes fixed on the passage into the bar. Her face was slightly flushed and her rapid breathing showed that she, too, recog¬ nized that laugh.

COUTH WORTH laid a restraining ^ hand on my arm, but before he could speak a weird figure stood framed in the door. The bandage was torn, and here and there spots of blood mottled its sur¬ face. Hawkins was hardly recognizable —his black hair was disheveled and hung in strands like prison bars across the dead white face. The eyes, burning like live coals, protruded from their sockets and the eyebrows were lifted high on the forehead, giving him a racking look of indecision as if his very soul was tom between two impulses. But strangest of all was the mouth, like a gash in his face, curved at the comers into the strangest of smiles, as if the knife that cut it had slipped.

It was the face of an idiot or a demon, but for a second it gave us all the imTALES

pression of a frightened child about to cry. Then he moved, and we all saw the automatic he held in his free hand. His eyes shifted back and forth constantly between Southworth and the beautiful girl in the doorway. Neither of them moved perceptibly, but the hand on my arm tightened like a vise.

Slowly the automatic pistol came up, wavered across me until it covered Sonthworth, lingered an eternal moment on him, then crossed slowly back across me until it covered the girl. Then it re¬ traced its silent path back across me to Southworth. wavering a little. I could see the veins at Hawkins’ wrist and hand swollen as if they would burst. Back and forth it traveled, and still no one moved. The only sound was the rasping cough of Hawkins’ breathing.

At last he began to talk, whispering hoarsely to himself. Broken phrases reached us.

"Kill him! Pull—the—trigger. Kill her—there she is. Sui—cide!! Stop it! Hold—still. Now—pull—the—trigger. Su. . su.

Beads of sweat broke out upon his forehead. His eyes seemed bursting from his head, and the gun moved as if it weighed thousands of pounds. The hoarse whisper became entirely unintel¬ ligible and changed gradually into that hacking, sobbing laugh, and suddenly he bowed his head and vanished!

I tried to leap after him, but for a moment my body would not move. Sonthworth sent the table spinning as he strode toward the girl and then I started down the passageway, but there was a shriek of laughter and a clatter of glass, drowned by the crash of the auto¬ matic ! Hawkins had paid his debts.

F OR five years I had loved Lois Howard. Mine was a quiet, sincere love that never found expression in words, for I, a mere in¬ ventor, did not pretend to be a sheik. We spent many delightful evenings together and discussed almost every conceivable subject, except that of love. So I should not have been sur¬ prised when Lois eloped with John Leighton, an impetuous, romantic young fellow who had been my chum since boyhood days.

But when the news came to me, I felt so intensely jealous that it al¬ most drove me insane. In the soli¬ tude of my room, I walked about for hours, cursing and fighting with my¬ self.

As days passed, I learned to take a sane view of the affair. After all, I could not blame Lois, nor would I be justified in condemning Leighton. My love for Lois was so deep that, after the first hours of blind anger, I felt truly glad that she had married my friend, for I knew she would be far happier with him than she could have been with me. When, a month later, I received an invitation to visit the couple in their new home, I felt sufficiently calm to accept.

The home was one of those ideal •places seldom found outside of dream¬ land—a beautiful cottage, set in the midst of a large, luxurious garden with rolling lawns. In the rear was a small grove of trees. The house was furnished in the elegant style that Leighton’s wealth per¬ mitted, but every comer of it was

homelike. In short, it was the sort of home I had told myself that Lois and I would occupy some day.

As I watched Lois moving about the house and observed the affection she displayed for her husband, my fine feelings commenced to disappear. The blind madness of those first few hours returned with doubled force. It wasn’t right for Leighton—damn the traitor!—to enjoy these things which should have been mine. He had deliberately taken from me the one thing that would have made life bearable for me: marriage to Lois. I looked at Leighton and saw a cynical devil where before I had seen a

I disguised my feelings, and neither Leighton nor his wife suspected the true state of my emotions. It was an evening of soul-tormenting agony for me, and I was glad when it was late enough for me to leave.

I returned to my house, where an ignorant servant was my only com¬ panion. The unattractive rooms, foul-smelling with chemicals that I had used in experiments, were a con¬ trast to the home I had just visited.

I did not sleep that night—nor any succeeding night during the follow¬ ing week. I could not concentrate on work for even a few minutes, although I had almost completed a mechanical invention that gave promise of enor¬ mous royalties, and in spite of the fact that I had been engaged in con¬ ducting chemical experiments that the scientific world awaited with in122


Many times I tried to read, but, whether I took a light novel or a technical treatise, I threw the book aside after a minute. I tried to find recreation in hunting, but the cold steel of my rifle aroused such thoughts of murder that I did not trust my¬ self. I took long walks, but talked to myself so incessantly and beat my hands so nervously that people whis¬ pered to their neighbors, “He has gone crazy.’'

My face became drawn. Dark cir¬ cles formed under my eyes, which had acquired a strained, evil expres¬ sion. My patient servant endured harshness and unreasonableness with¬ out complaint. I refused to see any callers. Mail remained unopened, and the telephone rang unanswered.

I lost interest in everything—ex¬ cept revenge. Finally, I sat down and, with paper and pencil, planned various forms of punishment. I did not want to kill Leighton, but in¬ tended to devise a plan that would produce the maximum of mental tor¬ ture and terror.

Some plans were rejected as too common and obvious to suit the scien¬ tific side of my nature. Others in¬ volved a possibility of detection, which I wanted to be certain of avoid¬ ing. Still others were ingenious, but too difficult to carry out.

Eventually, I decided on a plan that pleased me. A load seemed to lift from my mind. For the first time in many brain-racking days, I experienced a sensation of pleasure. Smiling, I sketched a program for the carrying out of my idea.

That day, I invited Leighton to visit me on Sunday, explaining that I wanted to tell him about a new dis¬ covery. There was nothing unusual about this, for I always had described freely to him experiments that I would not have confided to any other living being.

A S SOON as Leighton stepped in¬ side my front door, he stepped back in amazement.

“You look terrible, 'Joe!” he ex¬ claimed.

For a moment, I was disconcerted by the sympathy evident in his

“You look haggard—all worn out.” “Oh, it’s nothing,” I said, with a wave of the hand. “Just the result of a little night work, and maybe concentrating a little harder than usuaL But listen! You would be willing to forget sleep if you were as close as I am to the most remarkable invention of ages! In fact, I have already perfected it, and there are just a few details to finish. Sit down, Leighton, and I ’ll tell you about it. ’ ’ Knowing that I am ordinarily very conservative in all my statements, John Leighton watched me with in¬ terest. Always he had been the first to hear about my discoveries, and now it was apparent that he expected something tremendously great.

“I have been devoting my atten¬ tion to electricity,” I started. “Af¬ ter considerable research and count¬ less experiments, I have conceived something that has been in the back of my mind since I was a boy. And it works—it works! Its usefulness will be great, and its power for evil will be next to that of the devil him¬ self.”

“Tell me what it is,” Leighton ex¬ claimed impatiently, his curiosity; thoroughly aroused.

“I have developed a light—it hap¬ pens to be purple—which will auto¬ matically dissolve anything on which

I almost whispered the words. Leighton, never quick-witted, did not seem to understand. He stared

I repeated the statement, and add¬ ed, “The power of the light is so great that it will destroy any metal,

srarisss

'^.•^xaei

J§H§

" Sr

^iS3wS

kSSs

Sand bU a^thing° W ]ike W that. m But” I

■S3r™s”HEj

THE PURPLE LIGHT


this purple light. I really think that you ought to smash up the thing at once. It might do some good—though I don’t see how—but it’s certain to result in a lot of wholesale killing and vandalism when it falls into the hands of the wrong people. You owe it to the world to forget about it. It’s —it’s diabolical, and mere Christian decency requires that you destroy it.”

I laughed at the nervous man’s fears, and switched the conversation to other subjects.

Just before Leighton departed, I invited him to step into my laboratory and view my invention. He refused, shuddering, as I knew he would. I extracted from him a promise that he would call again on Sunday.

When Leighton called on the fol¬ lowing Sabbath, he was as much of a wreck as I had been. His eyes were bloodshot with sleeplessness, and his expression indicated the excessive worrying to which he was so suscep¬ tible.

As soon as he stepped inside, the man pleaded, “I must ask you not to mention that thing of yours—the light. I can’t bear to think about the damned thing!”

“All right,” I agreed readily enough.

We went out into the garden, and sat on a bench, discussing old times.

Suddenly, Leighton said, “Joe, I need some nerve, and I’ll never have it as long as I permit-myself to be a coward. I’m ashamed of myself for asking you to say nothing about your wonderful invention. Tell me all about it—about what you’ve done with it since I saw you last.”

“Step inside and I’ll show you an interesting experiment,” I invited.

The man on whom I had sworn re¬ venge waited in the library while I spent five minutes in the laboratory.

“I have accomplished what I told you I could do,” I explained when I returned. “I have succeeded in fo¬ cusing the purple light accurately and

in casting it great distances. Step over here and watch the purple light have its effect on Pan’s Tombstone. You can watch from this window while I go into the laboratory and operate the machine.”

Pan’s Tombstone was a rock, weighing several tons, that stuck up in an empty field a half-mile away.

Less than five minutes after I re¬ turned to the laboratory there was a deafening roar and Pan’s Tombstone flew into a thousand pieces.

I stepped back into the library, and found Leighton, breathing heavily, clutching the walls for support.

“I played the light less than a thousandth of a second, and not at full force,” I remarked casually. “Otherwise the rock would have crumbled into nothing. I wanted to make it interesting for you.”

Color slowly returning to his face, Leighton rushed up to me and shook

“Joe!” he screamed. “Yon must, you must destroy that thing! Tell me you will!”

“Of course not,” I said quietly.

Without looking at me again, Leighton grabbed his hat and rushed out, running down the path as if the devil were after him.

D URING all that week I was hap¬ py. My plans had worked per¬ fectly, and now I was ready. Yes, ready for the revenge that would be worthy of a great scientist! My hate had not lessened in the least, and I looked forward to the occasion with anticipations that thrilled me.

On the following Sunday night, I telephoned to John Leighton.

“Yes f” he snapped, his voice far from cordial.

“I want you to come over this eve¬ ning.”

“Not for a million dollars! You’re welcome to come over here, Joe, but I simply can’t stand being near that



purple light of yours, and seeing the things it does.”

“Oh, forget it!” I laughed. "If that’s the trouble, I promise faith¬ fully that I won’t mention it, or show you any of its handiwork.”

“No, I’m sorry, but I won’t come.”

“Please come,” I pleaded. “I’m lonesome, and, now that you’re hap¬ pily married, surely you owe your best friend that much.”

‘ ‘ Oh, well, if you put it that way— I’ll come.”

I found some letters that Leighton had written me when we were boys. After he arrived, I read them to him. We laughed for hours at the amusing incidents and queer phraseology. I found the old regard for my chum re¬ turning, hut smothered the feeling.

I excused myself, saying that I wanted to get a drink of water. Out of Leighton’s sight, I rushed to the back porch and pulled the switch, putting the house in darkness. While there, I placed an object in my pocket.

When I returned, Leighton, from his comfortable chair in the comer, said, “Funny the way the lights went out so suddenly, wasn’t it?”

“Funny, ch!” I snarled, releasing the pent-up hatred of weeks. “I suppose you thought it was funny when you married the girl I love, too, didn’t you? Thought you were put¬ ting one over on me! Well, Mr. Leighton, your friend Joseph happens to be just a little too smart for you.”

A queer little laugh came from the dark comer.

“Joe, another of your pranks! Stop your fooling and turn on the light.”

“I’m not fooling,” I said evenly. “I always loved, and still love, Lois. All those things I invented—every¬ thing I did—was for her. Then you, a wolf in sheep’s clothing, came, and you took her away.

“I’ve thought it all over,” I con¬ tinued, secretly glad that my voice was hard and firm. “I hate you.

Therefore I’m going to punish you. It won’t be wrong, because no wrong could equal the wrong you have done me—the agony you have caused me —the remorse—”

When Leighton interrupted, 1 was surprised at the tone of courage in

“Joe, I didn’t know that you loved her. You have been, always, more than a brother to me, and your hap¬ piness means more to me than my own. If Lois loves you, pal, I’ll gladly step out of the picture. I mean it. If you had only told me—”

For a moment, my anger cooled. How typical of Johnnie Leighton this was—this fine self-sacrifice. I knew, deep in my heart, that he meant every word of it—that he would have died for me. But I gave myself a mental shaking, the moment of saneness was gone, and anger dimmed my brain

“You liar!” I screamed. “You hypocrite! You thief! God, how I hate you! You’ve ruined my life, and now I’m going to take yours in payment. It won’t be hard on you —I’m that generous—and there won’t be any evidence. Just you, and a purple light, and then only the purple light.”

“No! No!” Leighton shouted in trembling tones.

He placed his hands on the arms of his chair and started to get up, but fright had weakened him so that he

My heart leaped with joy. I could see him dimly, for we were now used to the blackness of the room.

“Yes, just a little purple light,” 1

Every word had the effect of the turning of a dagger in a wound, and Leighton was suffering. “A pretty light it is, too. Watch it closely, be¬ cause it will be the last thing you will see on this earth.”

In the gloom I could see that Leighton was staring at me in openA Hand from the Deep

In the December WEIRD TALES ON SALE NOVEMBER I

WEIRD CRIMES

By SEABURY QUINN No. 7. The Human Hyena

JLLE TONNERRES!

The prefect of police beat the polished top of his bureau with a furious fist and bent a stare of angry incredulity on the sergeant de surete who stood at attention before him.

“It has happened again, do you say ? Nom d ’un nom! Is a policeman never to sleep again in this accursed

“Even so, Monsieur le Prefet,” re¬ plied the sergeant imperturbably. “Another of the poor ones has been dragged from her blessed rest—”

“And dismembered, ha?” the pre¬ fect fairly thundered.

“Yes, Monsieur; dismembered, even as the others.”

“Nom d’un p’tit bonhomme!” ex¬ claimed the prefect. Then, feeling that “the name of a good little man” was scarcely a strong enough oath for the occasion, he added, “et nom de Dieut”

. He drummed a moment on the pol¬ ished surface of his desk with nervous fingers, regarding his companion thoughtfully. “Eh, bien,’’ he said at last. “A way must be found to lay this sly one by the heels, not?”

“Perfectly, Monsieur,” agreed the sergeant.

“Has a guard been placed in all the cemeteries?”

“Not all, Monsieur; the city is so unsettled, the gendarmes are sorely needed for patrol duty—”

“Yes, yes; I understand,” the pre¬ fect interrupted. “We must decide upon some other way. Leave me, I will think this thing over. Something must be done at once. Pardieut ’tis

getting so no man can sleep peaceful¬ ly, even in his grave I ”

The sergeant saluted, placed his right foot exactly six inches behind his left, swung round in a perfect about-face, and left the room, closing the door noiselessly behind him.

Alone, the prefect of the Paris po¬ lice lighted a long, thin cigar and stared fixedly at his office wall, blow¬ ing clouds of rancid tobacco smoke from his nose.

The prefect’s hands were very full. It was the autumn of 1848, and France was in such turmoil as she had not known since the days of the Di¬ rectory. That summer the people had risen; Louis Philippe, the last of the Bourbons, had fled to England under the assumed name of Mr. Smith, and a second republic had been declared, with Lamartine, the poet-historian, as its provisional head. But reactionary plots were thicker in Paris than mag¬ gots in a cheese, and the gendarmerie were kept busy guarding the life of the infant republic.

Taking advantage of the police¬ men’s political preoccupation, crimi¬ nals of all sorts and degrees were ply¬ ing their nefarious trades, often in broad daylight; and no man’s life or property were safe. Now, added to this ordinary, run-of-the-mill crime, a new scandal had broken out in the city and environs of Paris.

Several cemeteries within or near the city limits had been broken into during darkness, and many graves had been rifled.

At first the depredations had been ascribed to medical students seeking cadavers for anatomical study, but

eSSMS

Gs^ar

.ilfl^l Mms

agaa srj grt «SSS&2

■«“

PSs'EH^SSi

before* ^e^r^fT^nngmaTron!

p£'H!Ei3£

kk'StSSH

c K i‘ssrt=«

I'EEHSSr.i'a.pirt:

=ir^'SfX'“Kr;s

EsriSrHS

=£~-

:sr™X'EiiZ'.rs.‘

S52rsHSssS

SSFSSwS

^asp.s.*: p ‘-

A°i

E=i"€stiLis

The palmy^aysVcrimewereended,

5S-“™

53ffi&9fi£

£j£SB~B

*mmm

arble tombs and the rough,

burials bcrides'those ^"’the'PotteiV

THE HUMAN HYENA


came the ten-year concessionaires, whose relatives had bought them the right to lie in moderately deep graves for a decade, after which they would be exhumed and deposited in a com¬ mon charnel-house, all trace of their identity lost. The five-year conces¬ sions graves were scarcely deeper than the height of the coffins they enclosed, and their repose was limited to half a decade, while the three-year conces¬ sions (placed nearest the cemetery walls) were merely mounds of earth heaped over coffins resting on the sur¬ face of the ground, destined to be broken down and emptied thirty-six months after their tenants’ burial.

“Pardieul” one of the gendarmes swore, sinking lower under his water¬ proof cape. “What a night—and what a place. Better a thousand times the battlefield than such a patrol. The shout of conflict, the crash of musket¬ ry—”

Bangl The report of a discharged rifle cut through his words, and a streak of yellow-red fire tore the raindrenched darkness above the wall be¬ yond the three-year concessions.

“Kom d’un coql” exclaimed the startled gendarme, leaping to his feet and grasping his sable hilt. “It is he; the canaille has come!”

Together the officers raced across the boggy graves, their drawn swords glistening dully in the rain. Impeded in their progress by the mud and darkness, they were in time to see a dark figure in a military mantle leap the wall and disappear in the gloom.

Marks of blood, however, gave evi¬ dence the spring gun’s bullet had struck its mark, and a scrap of blue cloth clinging to one of the iron spikes with which the wall was topped afforded an added clue to the ravisher of the graves.

“TJn soldat!” the elder of the gen¬ darmes pronounced. “Alas, that a follower of that noble profession should sink to such a crime!”

Next morning the search was on in earnest. From barracks to barracks the gendarmes went, inquiring if any of the military personnel had reported himself suffering from gunshot wounds.

Almost immediately they found their man in the person of Lieutenant Bertrand, a junior officer of an infan¬ try regiment stationed in the capital. Not only did this young man show such a wound as would match the spring gun’s ball, but his cloak was ripped by some sharp instrument, and the fragment of cloth in the gen¬ darmes’ possession matched the rent. Their circumstantial case was comThe wounded man was confined un¬ der guard at Vale de Grace hospital till his wound was healed, then placed on trial.

In England or America his hearing would have been before a civil tribu¬ nal, for (during time of peace) in these countries the civil power is sepa¬ rate from and superior to the mili¬ tary; but France, though a republic, was still imbued with continental Eu¬ ropean ideas of jurisprudence, main¬ taining one general law for the citizen¬ ry and another, or administrative sys¬ tem, for the military and official classes. Consequently, it was not a civil criminal court, but a court-mar¬ tial, which heard Bertrand’s case.

The judge advocate was relieved of the necessity of proving his case, for the young lieutenant made a free con¬ fession, revealing one of the most amazing stories ever detailed before a judicial inquiry.

He was twenty-three years of age, excellently educated, having been a student at the theological seminary at Langes from early youth until, at the age of twenty, jhe had entered the army with a junior lieutenant’s com¬ mission. He was a young man of re¬ tiring habits, frank and cheerful to his comrades in arms, and beloved by every member of his regiment from

ssSSSSwSS £S=ks

S^TTSiSS^Si

laid myself flat to the ground (ventre cold sweat, to a little y grove, there I

ailiiti

sssa

TSS&SSSOii

m^s-s

»?£I?SSLg’‘SUS

^Ts.ns.ssn»“

Ill:§ll3l

THE HUMAN HYENA


not very difficult to imagine the basis of his original perversion.

To use a good, though mneh over¬ worked and loosely employed term, he was the victim of a “complex”; that is, a series o£ emotionally accentuated ideas in a repressed state.

Like (lilies de Laval, the Sire dc Beta, whose case has already been discussed.* the celebrated “Jack, the Ripper," whose crimes mystified the London po¬ lice a generation, ago. and the in¬ famous Marquis de Sade. Lieu¬ tenant Bertrand unquestionably suffered from, that form of mental derangement known to modern psychiatrists as algolagnia, cou¬ pled, perhaps, with what is called coprophilia, or a pathological liking for filth, this last being shown by his desire to associate with interred corpses.

His periods of great excitement while indulging his disgusting mania for the mutilation of dead bodies, and the following periods of profound lassitude, all point plainly to this in the light of modern psychiatry, though these same symptoms were the cause of some odd speculations by several observers of the ease.

October, I92S, Weird Tales. (This maga¬ zine was tho first to have the courage to make public the shocking revelations of the original "Bluebeard's” trial.}

The late Dr. Sabine BaringClould, a profound student of folk lore and anthropology, naively suggested Bertrand to be the vic¬ tim of demoniacal possession; while Elliott O'Donnell believes (or affects to believe! him a were¬ wolf!

To substantiate this surprising theory, he tells of a young Prcneh woman, one Constance Armande, who was suddenly seized with an uncontrollable desire to enter a house of mourning, seize the body lying in its open coffin, and eat portions of it. Two cases of luna¬ cy cited to prove one absurd superstition!

Whatever the facts of Ber¬ trand’s case, it is not to be denied he suffered a great injustice through the sentence of the courtmartial, since the crimes he com¬ mitted were obviously of a patho¬ logical origin, and by his own statement committed under the urge of an irresistible impulse. His moral sense told him he was doing a wrong, but. able though he was to distinguish the crimi¬ nal nature of his acts, he was unable to resist the dictates of his mania.**

of insanity might have been legally raised. See Clark , or any other standard tcork on Criminal Lair. —fit. Q.

SeaBury Quinn, author of this series of “Weird Crimes,” has prepared for you a startling series of “Noted Witchcraft Cases.” Watch for them in

J ACK HARDING shook the wa¬ ter from his rain soaked hat and stood looking at the strong, high, rust-encrusted gates of the main en¬ trance to the grounds of Liscard

Throughout the three miles of his tramp from the suburbs of the manu¬ facturing town the rain had fallen in sheets, but now, as if it had aban¬ doned the idea of subduing this figure who so persistently stumbled through the mud and darkness, the rain had ceased. Great rifts appeared in the low, scuttling clouds, disclosing at in¬ tervals—now long, now short—the silver sphere of the full moon.

Jack Harding felt a momentary shiver pass through his rain soaked frame. It may have been the chill of the wind as it whispered through the naked branches of a nearby oak; and yet his circulation was still strong, his breath was scarcely down to normal. Throughout his three mile walk through the rain and mud he had not paused or slackened his pace, but plodded as one who, having before him an unpleasant task, seeks to have done with it with the utmost possible dispatch.

It seemed hardly possible that two short hours before he had been seated at his case in the warm, almost luxu¬ rious room, the guest of the local Com¬ merce Club of a busy manufacturing town in the County of Lancashire, England.

Jack Harding was in England on business for his firm, Messrs. Franklin

& Goldstine of New York, who con¬ trolled a chain of department stores throughout the Eastern States.

His business at an end and, having two more days before he could return to New York, he had, at the request of some of the business men of the town, delayed his departure for Liv¬ erpool and become a guest at the din¬ ner held in honor of a visiting magThe dinne - over, and the last speech made, a party of the younger members had retired to the smoking room of the club. The conversation had turned to the supernatural, for, being free for the time from the cares of‘commerce, they chose a topic as re¬ mote as possible from the usual, as a workman, leaving his work bench, dresses in his best clothes and saun¬ ters at his leisure through the resi¬ dential part of the city.

It was young Saunders (the son of the man who had, early in the eve¬ ning, spoken at length upon matters more or less of interest to the mem¬ bers present) who 1 first mentioned the haunted manor outside the limits of the town.

“It’s a weird looking pile, half ruins,” he said, leaning back in his chair, a look of devilment on his slightly flushed, good-looking, boyish features.

“Yes, sir. Precisely at two in the morning, you know,” smiled Saun¬ ders, turning to Jack Harding. “We rather pride ourselves in having in our ghost something out of the ordiwmm

2S=feS«i ^sg.i

SftSL'S.S.’S g?W*>^■ 1“;^ ;

Clent -” large-headed' nails into the floor of

&&mm ns

« d t ntl t . f»Uy- d It fair enough. He

H^hJa=er ^ “ ““

assr/r's.r” 1 " 5 ’ 1 ”

•Z&SISS*”*- *-'"

SiSi

JtSKS

jpISars

=S=fr1?s§l

s^gf! IMSfl

==sa5b

elimhTin by^ome window'and ftod the

SKSrsSS

ttSStezutt

SSSBSrH

could see by the feeble light of the

Hfeinstill

SS %V"

£££ yjSiKS

ES-Hs

wmm

S-Sia

3 .^f=^^sofn«

I^SI«

T^^^SdZnhlmm^r 1

,, %pri;j:

THE GHOST OF LISCARD MANOR

He did not know it, bnt now he was moaning—his reason was fast leaving him. As the handle finished its turning, the door commenced to open, inch by inch, foot by foot, until it revealed a shapeless, hideous figure, bathed in the sickly light of the moon. Slowly, without apparent effort, it drifted, rather than walked, toward the center of the room. One shape¬ less arm. which seemed to be detached from the rest of the body, pointed to¬ ward him.

He attempted to rise and make a dash for the window — better be dashed to pieces in the courtyard be¬ low than crouch there with this thing slowly advancing toward him. But he could not rise—the extended arm seemed to have stricken him powerless. Strive as he might, he could not move. If this thing would only speak or make a sound; but it stood there mo¬ tionless. Even the rats had ceased their scuffling and remained silent in their holes.

Something like a taut violin string seemed to snap in his brain. Stark madness took the place of fear. Grasp¬ ing the revolver, he aimed at the si¬ lent figure. Again and again he pressed the trigger. The roar of the discharge in that silent house sounded like peals of thunder. It was impossi¬ ble to miss at that distance, but the figure did not move; it gave no indi¬ cation of injury, but stood there as shapeless and horrible as ever.

The revolver slipped from his fin¬ gers and clattered to the floor. Hot searing panic was tearing at his heart. Mechanically he groped with his hand at his breast and his fingers felt the holster of his automatic. He snatched the gun from its holster, and firing at the figure one last shot, slumped forward unconscious.

T HE MOON had sunk behind a distant hill; the light of day would soon be taking its place; when the manor rang to the sound of calling

voices and the grounds became less mysterious in the light of stable lan¬ terns carried in the hands of a bois¬ terous party of searchers.

■Whistling and calling, they made tlieir way up the weed-entangled drive. And yet in their laughter and calling one could detect a note of anx¬ iety. Entering the manor, they has¬ tened up the staircase and burst open the door of the haunted room without ceremony. There they stood aghast.

Holding a lantern aloft, the better to see, they entered.

Lying on his back, a black-daubed sheet thrown to one side, as if in his death agony he had endeavored to cast it away, lay the body of Saun¬ ders, the breast of his shirt saturated with blood. Hastily examining him, they found life extinct. That last shot had entered his heart.

One of the party picked up the re-

“I don’t understand it!” he stam¬ mered. “I loaded it myself—they were all blanks.”

They bent over Harding and tried to raise him, but could not do so: in his haste to be through with the ham¬ mering, he had driven the nails through the skirt of his long overcoat into the floor and held himself fast.

They tore the nails from the floor and felt his heart. It was still beating, but his lips were slimy with saliva. His open eyes stared with a look of insanity at the light, held above him.

As they turned him to a more rest¬ ful position, the automatic fell from the folds of his coat. Someone picked

“My God! I did not know he had an automatic! I am going for a doc¬ tor,” he called over his shoulder.

“And the police,” someone advised

As they stood there uncovered, the laughter gone from their faces, the light of dawn slowly commenced to flood the room.

Jack Harding had won his wager.

‘■‘■Take Thy Beak From Out My Heart and Take Thy Form From Off My Door ”

— Poe , in “The Raven ”

THE PELICAN

By CHARLES L. FREDERICK

O NE early morning in mid-Decem¬ ber we were making slow time up the higher stretches of the Peace River from Port St. John to Hudson’s Hope. The night fog had not lifted wholly and the half-breed pilot ran her hard and fast on to a sand-bar.

The shock tumbled me out of my berth on the upper deck and I heard the caplain swearing furiously in the pilot house and calling for full-steam astern, then felt the ship tremble violently as the monstrous paddle-wheel throbbed and grated. We were stuck, and prepara¬ tions were made to haul her off with cables fastened to shore-bound trees and turned by the power of the capstan.

Four of us who were cabin passengers went ashore in the second life-boat, to stretch our legs a bit. There was Travers, a novelist, out for some northern “color,” McGrath, P. and G. trader from Fort Smith, Gerry and myself.

I was by way of being a writer but found fur-buying a good deal more profitable and had a working agreement. with Revillon Flares. It waB my fourth year north of Edmonton. As for Gerry, he was anything you liked to call him— fur-trader, gambler, heavy drinker, but generous to a fault—would share his last dollar with you, or last drop, for that matter. “Gerry” might have been cither baptismal or surname. To my knowledge

he had never explained the matter, and no one had ever asked him. He was not a taciturn man, but he gave not con¬ fidences and expected none. It was com¬ monly taken that he was a gentleman and had see better days.

I was surprised, then, when, after we had climbed the river bank, and sat down for a smoke and to enjoy the view over the broad stretch of the Peace, to hear Gerry opening in conversation.

“Say,” he began, "any of you chaps ever happen to be in a certain place at a certain time and think that you had been there before—same associa¬ tions, you know, and all that!”

I stared, but Travers, the novelist, nodded his head in understanding. Mc¬ Grath remained idly curious, throwing small bits of stick at vagrant gulls cir¬ cling in the water below us.

“It was just sueh a day as this,” Gerry continued in his slow, rather ac¬ centuated drawl. “Hot, you know, and extraordinary visibility—”

He cut off suddenly. “Say,” he con¬ tinued, “do any of you happen to be¬ lieve in the transmigration of souls!”

I was astounded and McGrath turned around sharply, taking his pipe out of his mouth and fixing Gerry with a stare. Travers was going to speak, but Gerry, with his gaze fixed out over the river, went on.

THE PELICAN


“A day like this, as I told you.’’ he said, “but it was on. the Southern Cali¬ fornian coast, a cliff edge, plateau ar¬ rangement, y’understand, like this river bank. Only we had the Pacific out in front instead of the Peace. The Peace is wide, but the Pacific goes a long way

“I used to paint a bit, watorcolor and oils both. You wouldn’t know it to look at my hands, 1 suppose, but that ’a some years ago. Was roaming down there— seaside hotel—big luxurious place; golfers; other artists, writers—all that sort of thing. There I met a chap named Rider.

“Queer duck. Rider—ah artist too: painted damn well, a sight better than I ever hoped to, although he was a younger man and I had the greater advantages— Sorbonne three years, five in Rome—you wouldn’t suspect it, I know.

“Well, we came to chumming around, as you will in those places, and finally to going out sketching together, rambling for hours along the coast.

“One day we came upon a lonely stretch about four miles from the hotel. Nothing in. sight—not a house—no golfers. I said ‘fine’ and Rider un¬ strapped his easel.

“See those gulls circling around there? They think something may be thrown overboard from the boat-. We used to see gulls along that coast, too— hundreds of them—but larger and they cried and wheeled a good bit more. Rider -couldn’t stand them—said they got on his nerves; cursed me roundly every time I threw them pieces of bread and scraps of meat from our lunch basket.

“Tell you what they have got there though, that you won’t see here, and those are pelicans—maybe you have seen ’em too—lumbering, awkward things, with ridiculous looking bills and webbed feet. They fly over the water and when

they see the shadow of a fish they dropplop—like lightning, and have him gobbled up before you can think.

“For three mornings, now, we had been going out to this spot, taking lunch and spending the afternoons until the light grew bad. I was painting straight out to sea—not a sunset nor sunrise, or anything conventional like that—just broad noon, as near as I could get it— something different, you know, Rider was facing north, getting a stretch of the cliff and sea both, and said the colors were giving him hell. Between times he’d turn and regard my daub nervous¬ ly. ‘I don’t like it,’ he would say. ’What’s the idea of all that glaring sun¬ shine effect? Who wants to paint high noon, anyway, especially seascape?’

“ ’I don’t like the sea at noon,’ he would go on. ‘ Too still and quiet, then —ominous—and in all this glare, ugh!’

“He was funny that way—strangest things used to irritate him, and some¬ times he’d sit there looking straight ahead of him and laugh, go on laughing like a fool, and sometimes I’d look around and see him shivering—all of a quake, if you know what I mean—shoul¬ ders twitching, and me peeled down to my shirt, and that open with the per¬ spiration fairly rolling off me.

“After he’d had one of these spells he’d usually turn and regard me. I tried not to notice anything wrongfelt it would be prying into business that didn’t concern me anyhow, but one time I turned and caught him sitting there with a look on his face of such utter listless despair that I wanted to ask him what was the matter. In a mo¬ ment, however, he caught himself up and I turned back to my work as if nothing had happened. I knew next to nothing of his past, and if he had a secret, it was probably his own business. I felt



it would serve nothing for me to ask for confidences, if you understand my point.

“Well, as I was saying, we had been going out to this place three days. It was right after lunch, and I was throwing scraps to the gulls, who were getting bolder now and advancing to within a distance of four or five feet of us, to retreat when they had grabbed some¬ thing, as if in a great scare. All of a sudden a big shadow fell athwart the grass where I was lying. I looked up amazed and here was a full-grown pelican, large as you please, alighting not a yard away and pecking at a crust. I could have reached out and touched him with my hand. I called to Rider, to see what he made of it, and he wheeled around in a flash. ‘What the hell!’ he

“I had to laugh, he looked so startled, although I had jumped a good bit at first. Rider got up in a great state, knocking over his easel, but not stopping to pick it up. He rushed violently at the pelican, who bridled at his approach, circumvented a kick and dodged clumsi¬ ly around me. It set me laughing worse than ever—couldn’t help it—the specta¬ cle of this absurd pelican waddling around, and Rider after it, grinding out furious oaths between clenched teeth, his face purple and working in his rage.

“On he came, with this damned crea¬ ture flapping around me. Rider bore down on the thing like a hawk after a chicken and the pelican uttered a cry. It didn’t sound a bit like the squawk they usually make, but I didn’t think of that at the time. The sound stopped Rider dead in his tracks, though, and he turned to me with the queerest frightened expression on his face. By that time the bird had taken wing, but instead of vanishing out to sea it circled about and I heard its wings flapping hard close beside us. I cried a warning

and the thing turned and flew straight as an arrow, towards us, fast, and with wings closed, like a thunderbolt. It launched itself straight at Rider’s head. He threw up his hands to protect his eyes, but the pelican struck with such force as to nearly knock him off his feet. Then the damned thing spread its wings again and without touching ground turned seaward again and disappeared. I looked at Rider and he had a great cut on his forehead where it had been opened with the creature’s sharp beak.

“ A LL his purple rage of countenance had disappeared and he waswhite as death. I thought he was going to faint, for he reeled and staggered like a sick man, not seeming to notice the wound until he raised his hand there and brought it away with blood upon it. Blood began streaming into his eyes, but he wiped it away abstractedly, look¬ ing bewildered at his hand, and shaking his head, as a dog will do when some¬ thing is worrying or perplexing it.

“I was pulling out my handkerchief to wipe, the cut clean when there came up suddenly a strong gust of wind, and I grabbed my easel to steady it. At the same moment small clouds came scurry¬ ing up out of nowhere and hid the sun. It was a squall and I yelled to Rider for God’s sake to get his stuff together, be¬ cause we would have to hurry if we were going to make the hotel before the rain came. He was still standing there, dazedlike, if you know what I mean, and star¬ ing at the blood on his hand. I was going to pack up his easel, when suddenly I no¬ ticed the canvas was gone, although palette and brushes were there still.

“ ‘Where’s your canvas?’ I asked him. The wind was howling a gale and he did not hear me. I shouted: ‘ What did you do with the painting—hey—picture, you know?’ The wind was screaming along

THE PELICAN

the cliff edge now, and the surf was thunderous. Rain began to fall in im¬ mense drops. I made signs to Rider, imitating the motions of painting, tak¬ ing up the palette and dipping the brushes towards it—it was ridiculous. Losing patience at last I bundled our stuff together, poking his easel towards him. He took it mechanically, and catching, him by the arm I urged him along the cliff to the hotel at a fast trot. The rain beat upon us, drenching us to the skin, but wc never stopped until we reached the hotel. People were out on the verandas, watching the rain, and when we drew in sight they began laugh¬ ing and pointing. I was wet but hot from the run. The blood was running from the cut on Rider’s forehead, and we looked comic enough, I suppose, but the sight of those giggling fools roused me to fur}-. I urged Rider into the drive and would have made a rush through the front entrance, but he stopped me. ‘Come on, you fool!’ I said, impatient. ‘Get inside and have some iodine put on that cut. Do you want to be poisoned ? ’

“ ‘The pelican took it,’ he said, look¬ ing at me fixedly.

‘‘I thought the man was crazy. ‘Took what?’ I said.

“ ‘Why, my canvas,’ he replied, still fixing me with that strange look.

“ ‘You idiot!’ I said, although I con¬ fess the idea startled me, in its eery suggestion. ‘The picture must have fallen into the sea. The wind took it

" ‘Not the wind,’ he returned quietly.

“We went inside then. I looked straight ahead, although I was uncom¬ fortably conscious of the curious stares of everyone in the lobby, over which an unaccustomed silence fell as we passed through. Rider, however, looked directly at them and out beyond, as

though he were totally unaware of their existence. We got into the elevator. The attendant did not seem to notice any¬ thing amiss and I was relieved. Rider’s room was first along the hall, and I pushed him into it, proceeding then to mine. I set down my outfit, dove into my trunk and found no iodine but a bottle of hydrogen peroxide. With this in my hand I went to Rider’s room and tried the door. It was locked. I knocked. No answer. I called him by name, once, twice, and at the third time knocked again and then rattled the handle. A reply came in a strained voice: ‘It’s all right, old chap. I can manage.’

“ ‘I’ve brought some antiseptic for your cut,’ I called.

“ ‘I’ve washed it out,’ he answered, his voice faint and strained through the door. ‘It’s only a scratch. Please don’t trouble. ’

“I protested, but receiving no answer I decided to leave the ungrateful wretch to his own devices, and if the wound had poisoned him, so much the better. It would be a lesson.

“ A FTER I had bathed and dressed, however, I felt a good deal re¬ freshed, both in mind and body. The weather, too, had cleared, in that capricious fashion which is half the charm of Southern California. The sun was making glorious splendor of setting over the headland whence wc had come running through the rain and in the bay some large birds were flying low. ‘Pelicans,’ I thought, and pulled down the blind.

“On the way to dinner I passed Rider’s door and knocked, but received no reply. Through the door, however, I heard deep and sustained breathing and concluded he was asleep.

“Next morning I was awakened early by a knock on my door. I arose and



opened it. It was Rider. His face was pale and he wore a long sliver of plaster across his forehead. His eyes were clear, as if he had slept well, hut his manner was diffident.

“He apologized at first. Had been a fool, he said. Unstrung, he supposed. That rain coming, when it ha'’ .lot rained for so long, atmospheric conditions up : set, what?—and all that. I could see ho was anxious not to refer to the absurdity of the pelican" incident, and to spare him I began to talk briskly, while dis¬ robing for a shower. He sat on my bed and smoked my cigarettes. I splashed water about and made a good deal of noise. It seemed to make him happier, and when I emerged he was in fine humor and said he had an appetite for breakfast.

“Afterwards we sat and smoked on the veranda. The morning was clear, de¬ licious, with only a few early golfers abroad, calling to each other over the course about half-a-mile distant.

“Rider said the day was an inspiration and he felt he could work. I made some mention about the vanished canvas, and instantly cursed myself for a fool, for opening my mouth, because instantly he went white and straightened in his chair. ‘I think I shall begin another,’ he said. ‘Something new. I didn’t care much for the last one, anyway. Sort of got started off on the wrong foot. Stupid of me, wasn’t it, to kick over the easel and lose it that fashion?’

“ ‘Why don’t you tack down your stuff?’ I said, concealing an immense pleasure that he had decided to take the loss in a commonsense manner. He replied evasively, and we went indoors to assemble our outfits.

“As we were leaving the hotel I asked Rider where we should head for. ‘Along the cliff, of course,’ he replied, eying

me steadily. 'You’ve still got your piece to finish, haven’t you?’

“I cursed myself again for being a stupid fool, and we began to talk quite cheerily in the course of our walk. When we came within sight of the scene of our yesterday’s experience, however, Rider grew silent and distrait, biting nervously at the pipe he gripped, unlit, between his teeth.

“I appeared to notice nothing unus¬ ual, and, arrived at our rendezvous, I set up my easel, took out palette and brashes and began to work. I occupied myself with detail. It was a perfect morning, the sun dazzlingly bright, the sky abso¬ lutely unflecked.

“There was a vague swell on the water, however, as though it were up¬ heaving in response to the urgings of subterranean force, and I began to wonder at the change of tide, when sud¬ denly I glimpsed the moon over my shoulder—a cold, remote object, fixed disccrnibly in that fleckless blue. The moon in daytime always impresses me, somehow, with a sense of unreality, and I saw that Rider was watching it too, his gaze transfixed and inscrutable. Our eyes met and I turned back to my work.

“Bye-and-bye I ventured a glance in Rider’s direction. He had a large can¬ vas out and was painting absorbedly with broad strokes. The contours of the thing intrigued me instantly, and I strolled up for a closer inspection. The subject was a bit of landscape entirely foreign to anything I had seen Rider do, and utterly apart from sight of any¬ thing except the . imagination. It was dark stuff, with unnatural shading, no highlights visible.

“ ‘What are you doing?’ I asked, curious. He laughed nervously. ‘I don’t know,’ he said. ‘That is, I can’t tell, exactly. I’ve just been going on, you know—started in on this thing without

THE PELICAN


tie faintest idea of what, it’s going to

be>

"It was high noon now, and I turned back to work at my reflections. Rider 14ft his easel and came to watch me. ‘I can’t work now in this light, with so much sun, ’ he said, in a querulous tone. His -voice was pitched a trifle high. I could sense, rather than discern, his gathering nervousness. ‘I hate this Rghti’ he added. ‘Why do you want to paint in it?’

“Reply was useless. The plaint was familiar, but we sat down to luncheon and the tension eased up a bit. When we were through, and with Rider lying on the grass, pulling at his pipe, I began abstractedly tossing some sandwich scraps towards the sea, when it was borne in upon me that my friends, the gulls, were not here today. I was about tq exclaim on this fact to Rider when a shadow fell athwart both of us. A large body, interposed itself momentarily be¬ tween ourselves and the sun, and dropped awkwardly beside the lunch basket, gulping wolfishly at a crust I. had thrown there.

“TT WAS a pelican. Rider was sitting up now, wide-eyed and shaking. He pointed to the bird which was gulping the food down the length of its skinny throat and looking at us out of beady, shining eyes, hard and brilliant as sequins. ‘It’s the pelican 1’ he said, gasping.

“I will admit the coincidence had me Sumfounded for a minute, but the pelican walked calmly towards me and snatched away a crust I was holding mechanically in my hand, I had time to reflect in my subconscious mind that here was the first pelican I ever knew to show inclination for food other than fish diet. Then I was alarmed by Rider rising and going towards the bird.

“The thing sat there stolidly, looking up at Rider with its bright eyes. There was something impudent in the lift of its head with the ridiculous pendent bill. It stood still there as if it had viewed some Medusa-head, which was Rider, and had been turned to stone. It stood still as a carving, seeming to have taken on petrified form before my very

“ Rider stooped to touch it. I wanted to stop him, but something arrested the protest that rose to my lips. He circled his hand, tentatively, about the bird’s neck, a strange, fascinated expression on his face. The thing never moved, just stood there looking up at him. I saw Rider’s hand close, convulsively, and the bird made a dry sucking movement through its throat. Rider snatched his hand away with a frightened look. The pelican waddled away to forage for more food.

“ ‘Ugh!’ said Rider. ‘The thing felt all cold and wet—clammy!’

“I did not know what to reply. I ignored both the bird and Rider and turned back to my work. Bye-and-bye I heard his brush being drawn over the canvas, then a pause, and then a sort of frightened sob from him. ‘Well, I’m damned,’ he said, hysterically, half laughing or crying, I could not tell

“There was that damned pelican, if you will believe me, stationed in front of the canvas, and to one side, in perfect pose for a sitting, and looking up at Rider as if in impudent demand.

“A fury seized on Rider. ‘I’ll paint you, damn y ou! ’ he shouted, sorting his brushes in a frenzy. The pelican re¬ mained there, unmoved. Rider grabbed up his palette and set to work like a

“I had no doubt then that indeed he was crazy, but the thing had begun to



exercise a strange fascination over me. I found myself trying to laugh—trying to see it as a joke, a burlesque—a pelican, bird of caricature from time immemorial, being painted, sitting there for his por¬ trait, as self-satisfied as you please. The sun shone brilliantly as ever, out of a sky from which the moon had now faded altogether, but in spite of myself I sensed an unreality about the day, and the place, and the sea below us, and a glimpse of the white working face of my friend served to heighten my concern.

“I went back to my reflections,.but it was a poor attempt at best. After'two hours l heard a quick rush of wings and a muffled exelamation from Rider. I turned just in time to see the bird wing¬ ing out to sea. Rider was sitting there with a peculiar tense expression on his face, but it was the canvas that com¬ pelled my attention.

“There was the body of that pelican painted in a style entirely foreign to any¬ thing I had seen Rider do, or any man for that matter. The thing loomed up monstrous against that exotic back¬ ground, and black as night. The wings were raised, hoveringly, but there was no head.

“ ‘Where’s his head!’ I asked, as though it were the most natural thing in the world.

“‘His head?’ said Rider. ‘Head? I didn’t get it. I was going to paint it when the damned creature walked around and looked at the canvas, then flew away.’

. “ ‘Nonsense,’ I said. ‘Looked at it?’

“Rider was silent.

“ ‘EJow, did you get him hovering— that effect?’ I queried. ‘Looks like a bird of ill-omen; and what did you paint him black for, when he’s mottled gray?’ , “ ‘I painted him black because he’s black, damn him! ’ Rider almost shouted at me. ‘ Black as night and blacker than

the powers of darkness—black as hia cursed black heart!’’ then dropping his voice almost to a whisper: ‘I-painted 1 him hovering because he looked that wav to me. He put his wings up—so!’ He illustrated like a child with his hands.

“Like a child, too, I walked him back to the hotel, and he held my hand part of the way, stopping only once to com¬ ment on the disappearance of the moon. ‘First quarter, isn’t it?’ he remarked, gazing apprehensively skyward. ‘What day is it?’

“ ‘Friday,’ I answered.

“ ‘Not the thirteenth?’—with a sickly smile.

“I tried to laugh. ‘No, it’s the four¬ teenth. Friday, September the four¬ teenth. ’

“ ‘No! No!’ he cried in agitation. ‘Not that!’

“ ‘Why, man,’ I said. ‘What do you

“He gasped. ‘In two days, then. In

“ ‘Two days will be Sunday,’ I said, ‘and on Sunday afternoon, as we planned, you v know, we are going to Los Angeles.

“(I had some business to transact there and we had wanted particularly to attend a certain play, opening that eve¬ ning.)

“ ‘To Los Angeles; certainly,’ he said, seeming to be relieved. ‘But let’s get the picture finished first.’

“I thought he meant mine, and re¬ plied: ‘By all means.’

"W E weut * >aolc 40 tEe hotel, dressed,

' ' and had dinner. Rider was flushed and talked a great deal in a rather non¬ sensical strain. Had he been a drinking man I should have suspected him of be¬ ing intoxicated, but there was no evi¬ dence of this. , I went to bed early but woke up once during the night to hear

THE PELICAN


someone pacing np and down the court¬ yard' outside. I looked out, and as the figure passed by a lighted window I saw it was Rider, walking with hared head, his hands behind his back. ‘Rider!’ I called. He looked up and to my amaze¬ ment I saw tears were in his eyes and streaming down his face. He wiped them away unaffectedly with a handker¬ chief and went indoors. A few minutes later I heard him enter his rooms.”

At this. point Gerry paused in his story. Dead silence lay upon all of us. Travers, the novelist, motioned for him to go on. He was completely immersed in the web of the tale. McGrath lay quiet¬ ly sprawled, looking skyward. For my¬ self I was suddenly made aware of the fait that there was a white moon riding very high and remote overhead in a sky Of cloudless blue.

“I hardly know how to go on with 'this,” said Gerry, “it seems too absurd, but you will remember what I asked yon fill about the transmigration of souls?”

"We nodded and Travers signaled impatiently for him to go on.

“iWell, it was this way,” said Gerry, in a matter-of-fact tone, and his drawl hqd never before seemed so maddeningly

“We set out again next morning after breakfast, but I could see right away that there was something very much the matter with Rider. At breakfast he had asked me twice what was the date, and I told-him ‘Saturday the fifteenth.’

" ‘Of September?’ he asked.

“ ‘Of course,’ I said, irritated, and then he had requested the waiter for con¬ firmation, and the man, having heard the query and my reply, was dumfounded and produced a calendar. There it was, Saturday the fifteenth—a crazy proceed¬ ing, T reflected, and hardly calculated to start the day off in a sane manner.

“You can understand that by this time I was beginning to feel—well, not exactly a strain—but a sense of some¬ thing inexplicable intruding itself upon us. Our very surroundings appeared to have taken on an unreal aspect. An ultraclarity of atmosphere which per¬ sisted despite the intense heat distorted the semblance of the hills, magnifying them to towering masses, appallingly close, and imparting to the sea a vivid and ominous shimmer.

'“Especially so was this true when we arrived at the spot we had chosen. I felt disturbed, withont knowing exactly why. There was a small bit of sand near the cliff-edge, and imprinted visi¬ bly on it were the marks of webbed feet. I was hoping Rider would not notice them, but he followed ray glance and came over to inspect them closely.

“ ‘Sea-birds,’ I remarked, feeling that I should say something.

“ ‘A large one, a pelican,’ he said, as if forcing himself to speak. ‘Did you ever see such huge tracks for a bird? What can it mean?’

“The tracks were assuredly large, but not abnormal, and I said so. Rider did not answer. I set up my easel and went to work, but could do nothing properly. Rider set his up also, but turned that terrible canvas with the black bird painted on it away from him and kept staring at the blank whiteness of the reverse side and biting on his pipe-stem until I felt I should go mad.

“It was intensely hot, and just at noontime by my watch I heard an ex¬ clamation from Rider. I wheeled around. He was ashen and was pointing skyward. I knew what it was before I looked. That shadow, blotting out the sun a moment, lit by our feet and resolved itself into the pelican.

“The bird was sleek today, and darker, somehow, as if he had taken color



and size, too, from Rider’s canvas. I have asked myself since how we should have known It was the same pelican, or whether indeed it was. I never ques¬ tioned it at the time, I know, but this day the damned thing had a human air about him. He looked at once furtive and impudent. He disdained a crust I offered him. I sat down to lunch, but Rider would eat nothing. The pelican, seeing him at his easel, waddled into its accustomed place, and sat there looking up at him. Entirely absorbed, Rider turned his canvas right side to, and be-

“He painted steadily on, and the shadows began to lengthen before I turned to speak to him. At that moment I heard a ghastly cry, indescribably hor¬ rible, and then felt something cold and wet brush past by my cheek. It was the pelican in flight, I rushed over to Rider, who was' lying face downwards on the grass, his shoulders shaking in an agony of grief. I tried to rouse him. He only motioned me away.

1 ‘ I turned to the canvas and my senses reeled. It was a human face my friend had put upon the shoulders of this hor¬ rible thing. There it was—half bird, half man. The face was merged into such dark shadows that the expression on the features was not to be clearly de¬ fined, but I could discern that it was leering, horrible. The contracted fea¬ tures held a suggestion of such utter malignance that I was revolted, and put up my hands in front of me,-to shut out the sight”

Here Gerry paused a second time, and locked with interest at the sun.

“It is high noon, now,” he said, and I glanced at my watch for confirmation.

“It is a coincidenoe,” Gerry con¬ tinued. “That will lend some dramatic effect to the remainder of my story. ”

“Go ahead,” We demanded.

“How we got back to the hotel that night I never will know. It was dark by the time we reached it, and the jour¬ ney was like a nightmare. Rider in¬ sisted on bringing the horrible canvas, although he would not look at it, but wrapped it in the tablecloth taken from the lunch-basket.

“Dinner was a horrible strain, and afterwards I complained of being tired and went to bed. I was tired, thank Godl and slept soundly, rising only once with the thought that I heard that horrible cry again, but everything was still as the grave. I cursed my fancies and-slumbered on.

“Next morning I was awakened early again. Rider entered, flushed high as with a fever.

“‘Why, you’re sick, man!’ I ex¬ claimed. I felt his forehead—it was cold and wet, and his hands, too, were cold..

“ ‘It is Sunday, Sunday the six¬ teenth!’ he cried, his voice quavering and high pitched as with a great, fear.

“ ‘We go to Los Angeles this after¬ noon,’ I said, trying to speak reassur¬ ingly.

“ ‘Yes, for God’s sake!' he answered. ‘Let us get away from this horrible

“‘Agreed,’ I said. ‘What about a round of golf this morning?’

“ ‘No, no!’ he cried. ‘First, the painting!’

“ ‘But it’s finished,’ I said. ‘That is, all except a few touches, and I can do those out- of my head.’

“ ‘But the lights—the high light of noon!’ he cried. ‘How are you going to get that? No, we must go out.’

“I protested that I did not want to go. Some inner sense kept crying me a warn¬ ing, and I tried to heed it, but Rider grew almost sullen, so that I became afraid he might go off by himself, and at last agreed. He brought out his traps,

THE PELICAN


with that fearful canvas still wrapped up in the cloth.

“TT was about eleven o’clock when we reached the appointed place on the cliffs. I sat down and forgot about Rider in the joy of my work, which at last was coming right. The day was hot again. The sea had almost a brassy tinge to it. One could feel the scant grass'about us burning and wilting beneath the stare of the sun. As for Rider, he did not move.

“He was waiting for that bird.

“It came flopping down before us, just at the stroke of noon. To my aston¬ ished eyes it was almost coal-black now. It faced us, hovering with half-raised wings, as Rider had it in the painting, with that ridiculous bill hanging pendu¬ lous. It was very real and very horrible.

“I tried to make some joking remark to Rider, but my lips only formed the words. My tongue refused to utter

“As for Rider, he was motioning, in a mechanical way for the awful thing to come beside him. He did not speak to it—just motioned—and in. response to that grotesque mimicry, the bird hopped along and took up its former position in front of the easel. Arrived there it lifted its head to look at Rider.’’

Gerry paused again, and glanced at his wsJtch.

“And what then?” demanded Travers, all excitement.

“It was just about the time it is now, nearly half after twelve,” said Gerry, consulting his watch. “I tore my gaze away from Rider, painting in the detail of his horrible face, and looking at that frightful bird from time to time as though there was some mesmeric contact between them.

‘ ‘ Finally he called out, loud and clear: ‘God Almighty, help me!’ and I heard

a sound of wings beating. The pelican rushed past me to the edge of the cliff, with Rider after it, his face like death. On the very verge the thing turned and faced him. Rider made a blind rush and stumbled against the bird, clutched it, and went on headlong, sheer over the cliff. An unearthly cry came,up from that place.

“I had to run back for a mile before I found an incline that would make descent to the beach possible, and when 1 came to him he was quite dead, but the pelican was gone, and there were no traces of it—no feathers, even—and yet Rider’s hand was clutched as if he still held the neck of the thing and was strangling it through all eternity. I took one look at his face and covered it with my handkerchief.”

Gerry paused again—a long pause, and this time we were silent.

Finally he recommenced:

“You remember that first of all I asked you if you believed in the trans¬ migration of souls. We found a clip¬ ping among Rider’s effects—a news¬ paper clipping and photograph. The article told of a man’s body being found on a Florida beach, at the bottom of a cliff. Murder was suspected. The body was found at 6 o’clock, but the hands of the man’s watch were stopped at 12:30. The date of the occurrence was September 16, on a Sunday, ten years

“I had a shock when I looked at the picture in the newspaper. It was blotched, and the paper was yellow and faded, but I could have sworn the fea¬ tures bore an actual resemblance to those Rider painted in on the shoulders of the pelican, and yet it may have been only fancy.

“The painting? That must have blown into the sea, too. . . . Rider never was a man to pin down his stuff.”

A Storiette of Real Distinction

THE DOOR

By HENRY S. WHITEHEAD

Author of “Too, Leaves"

T HOSE in the motor car hardlyfelt the slight, though sicken¬ ing impact. It was rather, in¬ deed, because of 'the instinct for something-gone-wrong, than because of conviction that he had struck any¬ thing more important than a roll of tangled burlap from some passing moving van, that the driver brought his heavy car to a stop with a grind¬ ing of brakes strenuously applied, and went back to sec what he had struck.

He had turned the corner almost in¬ cidentally; but when he alighted and went back, when the thin gleam of his flashlight revealed to him the heap of huddled pulp which lay there, the driver realized in the throes of a hide¬ ous nausea what it was his heavy ma¬ chine had spurned and crushed.

R oger Phillips, intent upon

the first really decent act of his whole life, hardly noticed what was forward. He had been crossing the street. He continued to be intent on liis own concerns. Interrupted only by a kind of cold shudder to which he gave only passing thought as if with the very outer edge of his mind, he did not stop, but crossed the side¬ walk, looking up as he had done many times before to reassure himself that the lights were out in the living-room of the apartment up there on the third floor of the apartment house.

They were out, as he had confi¬ dently anticipated, and, reassured, he quickly mounted the steps to the front entrance. .Some one came out.

hurriedly, and passed him as he en¬ tered, the rush taking him by sur¬ prize. He turned his head as quickly as he could, to avoid recognition. It was old Mr. Osier, his father’s neigh¬ bor, who had rushed out. The elderly man was in his shirt sleeves, and ap¬ peared greatly agitated, so much so that young Phillips was certain he had not been recognized, hardly even noticed, indeed. He breathed an audi¬ ble sigh of relief. He did not want old Osier to mention this chance meet¬ ing to his father the next time he should see him. and he knew Osier to be garrulous.

The young man mounted lightly and hurriedly the two flights of steps that led to the door of his father’s apartment. He thrust his key into the patent lock of the apartment door confidently, almost without thought— a mechanical motion. As mechanical¬ ly, he turned the key to the right. It was an old key, and it fitted the key¬ hole easily. He knew that his father and mother were at the symphony concert. They had not missed one for years during the season for sym¬ phony concerts, and this was their regular night. He had chosen this night for that reason. He knew the colored maid was out, too. He had seen her, not. five minutes earlier, get¬ ting on a car for Boston. “The coast,” as he phrased the thought to himself, somewhat melodramatically, “was clear!” He was certain of security from interruption. Only let him get safely into the apartment, do what

THE DOOR

he had to do, and as quietly and un¬ obtrusively depart, and he would be satisfied, quite satisfied.

But the lock offered unexpected re¬ sistance. It was inexplicable, irritat¬ ing. His overtensed nerves revolted abruptly at this check. The key had slipped into the slot, as always, with¬ out difficulty—but it would not turn! Furiously he twisted it this way and that. At last he removed it and stared at it curiously. There was nothing amiss with the key. Could his father have had the lock changed ?

Anger and quick shame smote him, suddenly. He looked closely at the lock. No, it was unchanged. There were the numberless tiny scratchmarks of innumerable insertions. It was the same.

Gingerly, carefully, he inserted the key again. He turned it to the right. Of course it turned to the right; he remembered that clearly. He had so. turned it countless times.

It would not move. He put out all his puny strength, and still it would not turn. Hot exasperation shook

As he swore under his breath in his irritation at this bar to the fulfillment of his purpose, he became for the first time conscious of a rising commotion in the street below, and he paused, ir¬ resolutely, and listened, his nerves suddenly strung taut. Many voices seemed to be mingled in the excited hum that came to his ears. Bits of phrases, even, could be distinguished. Something had happened down there, it seemed. As he listened, the commo¬ tion of spoken sound resolved itself into a tone which, upon his subcon¬ scious effort to analyze it, seemed to him to express-horror and commisera¬ tion, with an overtone of fear. The fear communicated itself to him. He shook, as the voice of the growing throng, a blended, corporate voice, came up to him in sickening waves of apprehension.

"What if this should mean an inter¬ ruption f Impatiently wrenching him¬ self away from his preoccupation and back to his more immediate concern with the door, he thrust the key into the lock a third time, this time aggres¬ sively, violently. Again he tried to snap the lock. Again it resisted him, unaccountably, devilishly, as it seemed to him.

Then, in his pause of desperation, he thought he heard his own name spoken. He could feel his face go white* the roots of his hair prickle. He listened, intently, crouching cat¬ like there on the empty landing befoie the door of his father’s apartment, and as he listened, every nerve in¬ tent, he heard the entrance-door be¬ low flung open, and the corporate voice of the throng outside, hitherto muffled and faint, came to him sud¬ denly in a wave of sound, jumbled and obscure as a whole, but with cer¬ tain strident voices strangely clear and distinct.

A shuffle of heavy feet came to his ears, as if several persons were enter¬ ing the lower hallway, their footsteps falling heavily on the tiled flooring. They would be coming upstairs!

He shrank back against the door— that devilish door! If only he could get it open!

Something like this, he told him¬ self, in a wave of self-pity that swept, him—something like this, unexpected, unforeseen, unreasonable—something like this was always happening to him!

That door! It was an epitome of his futile, worthless life! That had happened to him, just the same kind of thing, a month ago when he had been turned out of his home. The events of the intervening weeks rushed, galloping, through his overtensed mind. And now, as ever since that debacle, there was present with him a kind of unforgettable vision of his mother—his poor mother, her face covered with the tears which she made

THE DOOR


rolled. The broken body had been grievously crushed.

Roger Phillips, utterly distraught, cowered, a limp heap, against the un¬ yielding door of his father’s apart¬ ment. He had looked for one hor¬ rific instant into his own distorted, dead face!

The men, breathing hard, reached the landing. One of them,, gingerly shifting his portion of the burden upon the shoulder of another, stepped forward to ring the bell of the Phil¬ lips apartment. No one answered the ring, and the man rang again, im¬ patiently, insistently. The bell trilled inside the empty apartment. • The men stood, silently, shifting uneasily

from one foot to another. Behind them, a thin mutter came from the waiting stragglers who had followed them,, moved by an inordinate curi¬ osity.

“Here’s a key sticking in the door,” said the man who had rung the bell. “Guess we’d be all right if we opened the door and took the young fellow in. There doesn’t seem to be anyone home.”

A murmur of assent came from the

He turned the key to the left, then to the right, and the door opened. They carried the broken body inside and carefully laid it out on the sofa in the living-room.

What Do YOU Know About Spiritualism?

Read the Astounding Expose of Fraud Mediums —

“The SPIRIT FAKERS of HERMANNSTADT”

By HOUDINI, The Master Magician

The Most Miraculous True Story Ever Written

The master of escape relates in this thrilling story his adventures when he fell into the hands of an unscrupulous hand of blackmailers and murderers, who threw him, naked and handcuffed, into the black dungeon of an old castle on the Maros Biver in Hungary. . HOUDINI tells how he exposed their leader, the notorious charlatan medium Popkens, teacher of Kasputin, the Black Monk of Russia. This gripping true story, crammed with excitement and surprizes, together with many other startling stories, was published serially in the 1924 March and April numbers of WEIRD TALES..

We have a limited number of these on hand, and, while the supply lasts, will mail both copies, postage prepaid, to any address for

FIFTY CENTS

Address: WEIRD TALES, 325 N. Capitol Ave., Indianapolis, Ind.

S INCE the Black Republic won its freedom from the French it has been ruled by a line of ty¬ rants and monsters, until the timely intervention of Uncle Sam.

History and legends bring down to us tales of Toussaint L’Ouverture, a man with the courage of his convic¬ tions, who banded the black slaves to¬ gether and instilled into their hearts the will to overthrow their masters. The tale of Toussaint is a tale of beastly lust, brute aggrandizement, freedom from restraint for men with the passions of wild animals, the strength of the savage, and the bloodlust of followers of the green serpent. The story has it that the French mas¬ ters paid for their cruelty to their slaves with their own blood, which ran down the rock-walled gutters of Cap Haitien in erimson streams which had their origin in the public square where the French were slaugh¬ tered by those whom they had ruled.

Following L’Ouverture came Christophe, self-named Henri I, Emperor of the .North, whose black consort be¬ came his Empress and whose children —those of whom Christophe admitted fatherhood—were known as Princes of the Blood. He created a royal family of color that made him the inost ridiculous figure in the history of his time. He was a monster who killed for the love of killing. He marched a whole company of soldiers over a high cliff to prove to a visiting minister that his discipline was ironbound. Ho caused to be slain those

who dared to look upon his face with¬ out permission. There is no word in the English language by which this great black brute may be properly classified. A slave who ruled his fel¬ low-slaves as no one since his time has been able to rule them, who scarcely knew how to read and write, yet who created monuments to himself that puzzle the best engineers of today— his Citadel a few miles from Cap Haitien, and his castle of Sans Souci.

He was filled with despair at last because he could not overthrow Pres¬ ident Petion, at Port au Prince, and so make himself emperor of all Haiti. He killed himself with a silver bullet because he felt that no lesser metal might come in contact with that di¬ vine brain of his.

There were other monsters who came after him, some to rule for a day, some to rule for a year, each one dying violently when his time came, all too suddenly. Not, until a few years ago did an ex-president peace¬ fully look on at the inauguration of his successor. L’Ouverture, Chris¬ tophe, Petion, Dessalines—a line of ruling monsters such as may not be found in the history of any other country.

Then came Guillaume San, beside whose evil deeds the combined bru¬ talities of all these others grow pale and insignificant.

He was a mulatto, yellow-skinned, pimply-faced, suffering from some in¬ herited organic disease that pinched his features into a mask of perpetual

THUS SPAKE THE PROPHETESS

pain. His brow was forever covered with the dew of internal suffering, which he bore with what fortitude he could muster. When the pain became too great for him to bear all Haiti knew it, for he seemed to believe that , the blame for his suffering lay with his black subjects. He sent his ragged soldiers through the highways and by¬ ways, with orders to slay without mercy, and the soldiers gloried in carrying out those orders.

Guillaume had spies in every place in Haiti where there were more than half a dozen persons banded together. These spies kept him informed of every word and act of his subjects. 'Did a man, woman, or child speak an evil word concerning his royal per¬ son, Guillaume knew it as soon as a swift messenger could reach Port au Prince with the tidings, which meant short shrift for the guilty one, and an unburied body bloating in the sun. Up through the sunny air of Haiti went the stench of uncovered bodies of those who had been slain, directly or indirectly, by the evil hand of Guil¬ laume San.

Innocent perished with the guilty, for if a spy had a grudge against a neighbor he had but to go to Guil¬ laume San and bear false witness— and that person’s corpse lay shortly alongside the road, to be passed by natives with averted heads.

Guillaume San became president

led the rioters who entered the pal¬ ace and bore his predecessor forth to be slaughtered in the street outside the palace courtyard. It was his genius which led to the hewing in pieces of the dead president, and he caused those pieces to be impaled upon the iron points of the fence which circled the palace. A tactful warning to the populace!

Thus began his career of bloodshed which was to continue and end in a trail of crimson.

Now to his story and the words of the prophetess.

G uillaume san lay in in his

bed in the palace. The head doc¬ tor had given him but a few hours to live. Guillaume cursed the doctor and commanded that he be beheaded at once and his head brought to the sick room as a warning to the other doctors who were in attendance.

Once Guillaume raised his head and looked forth from a window which gave on to the Champs de Mars. He saw that the heat-blighted plaza was black with milling multitudes. Mur¬ derous shouts went up in the after¬ noon air and came, subdued by dis¬ tance, in through the president’s win¬ dow. He shuddered as he recalled the fate of his predecessor. Then he saw that every yard of the ironfenced palace grounds was patrolled by double sentries, the black soldiers who were the pride of Guillaume’s heart. Not even that great multitude would dare the gleaming points of the sentries’ bayonets! He knew that they, the multitude, but waited for word from the palace to the effect that Guillaume had fallen into a coma which would give him into their hands. Even those soldiers could not h61d them then. They might even join the black birds of prey who clamored for Guillaume’s death!

“Look at them! Waiting like vul¬ tures for the corpse to cool!”

He shook a feeble fist at the window. “I’ll fool them all!” he cried, “I’ll die in my bed as a president should!”

He sank back and wiped the cold dew from his forehead.

An orderly entered and salaamed in the royal presence.

“What is it, Adan Tebo?” demand¬ ed the president.

“Chal Yac, one of hiB Excellency’s agents, waits without, sir!”

“Tell him to send in his report.” The orderly withdrew, and re-en¬ tered a moment later.

“Flee! Flee for your very lives!”

! i ®§8

"He! he!—he! he! he!—he! he!”

. ..

IIIh——=

“He! he!—he! he! he!—he! he!”

her Th h e ant CroneeaCkledandWaShWl

W E HAD been messing around in the hottest part of south¬ ern Persia, with snakes and Arab sheiks and sand fleas all pester¬ ing us to the full extent of their various abilities. Greaves was ob¬ sessed with the idea that we had lo¬ cated what was once the backyard of one of the ancient Assyrian kings, who used to race his two-wheeled chariots up and down the highways of those parts. On, my side, X was not so sure about it. But I was certain that some food, other than the hard bread and canned meat which we had been living on for the last six weeks, would taste good.

Our map showed a native town about sixteen miles to the east. We tossed up a penny to see whether both of us should hike over, or whether I should chance it alone, and bring back whatever could be found in the way Of fresh meats and vegetables. The penny fell heads up. and I was off alone: Not exactly alone, though, be¬ cause old Mizrah, one of our native bearers, was persuaded to go with me. It took quite a bit of urging to get him to come along, and I wondered what was in his mind. He acted like, a man who has seen a ghost in a grave yard and does not care to go back that way unless it is a matter of dire need. From what I could gather, it was neither the town nor the journey that made him afraid. I laid it to some native superstition and dis¬ missed it from mind.

Before he Would start, Mizrah in¬ sisted on daubing a little smear of black mud on my forehead, and he muttered a few guttural words in his native tongue as he did it.' He was in dead earnest, so I shrugged my shoulders and let him have his will in the matter. In fact, I had come to look upon some of the strange na¬ tive customs as the natural outcrop¬ pings from the mysterious country, in which they dwelt. I had long adopted their loose cotton robe and sandals, because I found these more comforta¬ ble than the close-fitting shoes and shirts and trousers of civilization. The sun, and the burning winds, had tanned my skin a deep copper brown, so that, even when stripped naked, I was scarcely to be told from the men of the desert who made up our small retinue of bearers and handy-men.

It is hard to let the man who is unfaTniliar with that country understand what the path was like.- Underfoot, the earth was a fire-box coated with a layer of baked dust from three to twelve inches deep. Beneath that lay a bed of rotten sandstone. Here and there the sandstone cropped out in ledges, solid masses of raw red, or slashed in twisted green stripes lifee pools of blood with green snakes writhing on the surface.

It was late afternoon when wo started. Even before the sun set, a great, sallow moon crept into the east¬ ern sky, as if to make sure that the features of the unholy country abopt us should not for a moment be hidden.

THE TOWER OF SILENCE


On and on we puttered through the dust. The trail seemed fairly well iparked, and, once on the way, I did not think it necessary to look again at the map which I had brought with me. For this carelessness I was later to pay, and pay dearly.

Mizrah made no sound, except to grunt occasionally as we passed over some unusually forbidding stretch of ground. After several hours of tramping, I glanced at my watch, only to find that it had stopped. Oddly enough, the hands stood at five o’clock, the exact hour at which we had left • camp. When I pointed this out to Mizrah, he appeared shocked by the news and was for turning back at once. To him, it was an ill omen, and from the look in his eyes, he might have been expecting the moon to stay its course in the heavens, or leap down and devour us. I smiled at his child¬ ishness, but there was an odd sense of portending trouble shadowing my mind which I could not altogether down.

With no way to gage the passing of time, except by the height of the moon, it was not now so easy to estimate the distance we had traveled. At last it seemed to me that we must be nearing the end of our journey, and I began to look about for signs of human habi¬ tation. Except for an occasional jackal flitting in and out of the shad¬ ows by the rocky ledges, nothing livWc finally mounted to the highest point on one of the ledges, and by the light of the moon I unrolled my map and tried to locate our position on it.

The next I knew, Mizrah had hold of the sleeve of my cotton robe, and was jabbering and pointing. I looked, and saw a tiny light, scarcely bigger than the faintest stars which hung aigainst the sky-line. It went out of sight, then reappear^ then vanished again. It looked as if some one were carrying a lantern along a winding path among the ledges. I decided that

the town lay in that direction, and wo struck out for it across the open

If the going had been nasty before, it was terrifying now. The sandstone formations humped themselves up in the moonlight like ungainly beasts in all manner of fantastic shapes, and a slight breeze swirled the dust in shimmery veils across them, till even my nerves began to get jumpy. Mizrah was soon in a state of quivering ter¬ ror, and shivering like a man chilled to the marrow of his bones. Drops of sweat broke out on his brow, and I had to smile at the strange way they shone in the moonlight, like little glass

A T LAST we reached a well-trod¬ den way, and it seemed we were nearing the town we sought. I began to feel relieved and to conjure up the meal I was soon to eat.

Then, without warning, came a sight which sickened me and erased all thoughts of eating from my mind. On a wooden cross, set up about twen¬ ty paces from the wayside, was nailed the corpse of a naked man. He had been horribly mutilated. At cither side of him sat two huddled figures which I at first thought to be dead also, until I saw their eyes shining under their red turbans.

We left that part of the trail be¬ hind in a hurry. Evidently this was not a healthful country for certain people, and I was not at all assured of our own standing in the community.

It may have been ten minutes later when the road made a sharp turn, and right in front of us there loomed the shape of a huge stone idol, squatting cross-legged on a circular platform, with a lighted lamp in his out¬ stretched hand, and a red turban swathing all his head above his green jade eyes. The grounds about him were well tended, and I looked right and left to discover the whereabouts

THE TOWER OP SILENCE


of the wall was slimy with the drop¬ pings of birds, in one final effort I scrambled over it and swung my body inside. As I let go with my hands, the last thing I saw was a faint, rosy glow in the east, where dawn was just spreading across the sky.

It must have been twenty feet sheer that I fell before my feet struck on something soft and slippery. I in¬ haled a deep breath of the most putrid and nauseating air man ever smelled, skidded backward, and struck my head on the wall, and must have been knocked unconscious.

M Y SENSES, drifted back to me gradually. First, I was dimly conscious of the horrible odor that pervaded the place. Next, I noticed that the sun was tipping the upper edge of the wall with gold. Then I looked beside me at a huddled figure, its face and eyes partly pecked away. With an indescribable thrill of hor¬ ror, I crawled on hands and knees, away from the wall and into the cen¬ ter of the paved courtyard. My head slowly cleared, but the stenches turned my stomach, so that I was seized with spasms of vomiting. These were the more racking because I had, eaten nothing in many hours, and my stom¬ ach was bare of food. It was evident that I had stumbled into one of the horrible charnel pens, or Towers of Silence, in which the strange sect known as the sun-worshipers disposes of its dead.

In one section of the circular wall stood a great wooden gate, closed, and apparently fastened from outside. Without it, I heard a murmur of voices. I had picked up enough of the various native dialects, during my two years in Persia, to understand part of what was said. The hunt for me, accursed defiler of their god, was to go ort, and tortures were already being planned against the hour when I should b« caught.

I had but two choices. Either I

could give myself up at once, or I might secrete myself somewhere about the enclosure and await my chance to escape. You may think it strange, but I was on the point of giving my¬ self up, when I again thought of the figure on the crucifix, and that de¬ cided me on concealment.

Although I searched the enclosure carefully, I could find no place to hide. The floor was just a great cir¬ cular stone pavement, with a walk running around the edge of it, and iron gratings on which the naked dead bodies were laid out. Finally I hit upon the plan of concealing my clothes in a crack between two paving stones, and lying naked upon the grids among, the dead bodies: of course, I could sit up or walk about, so long as no one came into the en¬ closure. I got my robe and sandals off, and took a position such that I could stretch myself on the grid in a hurry, if any one entered.

About that time I noticed a speck or two, drifting in mile-wide spirals down the stretch of sky above me. Vultures! Soon the sky was flecked with them. One alighted on the wall. Others came to rest beside him.

Soon, with a hoarse chuckle, they hopped off of the wall and plumped down on the iron grating. Then their ghastly feast began. I can still see their smeared beaks, rending and tearing, and their snaky, featherless necks, which contorted as they bolted chunks of flesh as big as my fist. They stunk almost as bad sis the corpses, and big gray lice scooted about on patches of their scaly skin, where bunches of feathers had fallen out.

Weakened as I was by lack of food and by the strenuous events of the night, it is small wonder that my mind began to wander amid this in¬ ferno of abominable stenches, grue¬ some sights, and horrible noises. I took no note of time. Even in the hot sunshine, my body felt cold; and the pangs of thirst moved me little.



The first break in my misery came when a clamor of wailing voices broke through my reeling consciousness. It seemed inside my own head. Louder it grew; chains rattled; rusty hinges creaked; I saw that the gate was open¬ ing. There was just time to stretch myself on one of the grates before a funeral procession filed slowly in.

Through half-closed lids I watched them; saw them pile six bodies, which had been borne in on straw mats, upon the grid next to me; saw them stand with bowed heads while several vultures, drawn by this new supply of food, started their feast by pecking out the eyes of the corpses. Then the procession, with the red-turbaned priests in front and a few sorrowing women lagging in the rear, made a circuit of the walk and wound out through the gate.

Last to pass me was a young woman of about twenty-four, beautiful de¬ spite her tear-stained cheeks. I kept my eyes upon her—God! What dam¬ nable carelessness. With a blow of my fist I knocked one of the buzzards from the grid, just as his beak was descending toward- my eyes. The woman saw my move, and with a fear¬ ful little sob she threw her veil topsy¬ turvy over her face and hurried on without looking back. To her, I must have been a dead man troubled by evil spirits.

Truth to tell, at that moment I wished myself dead, and the horror ended. As the day wore on, I felt that my senses were wandering and I was slowly going mad. I muttered at the vultures. I pounded on the stone wall with my naked fists. I bit my nails till the blood dripped from the tips of my fingers. And the agony went on, endless as time.

Evening found me stark mad, and raving. I was no more human than the vultures. A recollection haunts me of taking a short run along the stones and then jumping into the air and flopping my arms, just as the vul¬

tures fanned the air with their wings when they rose to flight. But when they had all flown away I was still going through my mad antics, still a prisoner.

As the air cooled, and darkness set in, my senses partly came baek to me. Hardly more alive than the half-de¬ voured corpses, I stretched myself on the stone pavement and fell into a restless doze, marked by delirious vi¬ sions of all the fantastic shapes of hell. A clammy weight was creeping up and down my naked chest. A red hot forceps was tearing off one of my thumbs. Then I awakened, and, if my throat had not been beyond all power of speech, I must have screamed in a frenzy of agony. Rats! More horrible even than the vultures! Plump, well-fed ones, they had come for their share of the ghoulish feast.

I staggered to my feet. From then on, nothing is clear. I was a mad man among the dead who would not let me rest. The spirits of all the dead that had ever rotted there re¬ turned to torment me. They wore red turbans, and had vulture beaks, and their touch was clammy. After the moon had climbed well into the heavens, one of them sailed across the sky in an airplane and threw a grin¬ ning skull at me, which struck at my feet and then was nothing but a pa¬ per-white shadow in the moonlight. I lived through all the hell of all eternity. To escape the ghosts, I pounded on the wooden gate with my bare hands and tried to shout, but my voice sounded in my ears like the croaking of a frog. At last the priests outside heard; voices debated, the chains rattled.

G AME a blinding flash, and an ex¬ plosion that ripped the base from a section of the wall. The upper part swayed once, twice, then thudded to the ground, and a fan of dust belched high into the air. A second flash, more distant, and another explosion. (Continued on page 182)

Do You Believe a Memory Can be Inheritedf Read This Startling Yale

John Caroll, Legionary of Rome

By B. WALLIS

T HEBE was the sound of many voices and loud laughter around me as I awoke to the stage of consciousness which precedes full possession of one’s faculties. For a moment the sounds impinged upon my ears without arousing any par¬ ticular emotion. Then with a snap I was awake and staring at a scene which left no room for any sensation save speechless amazement.

It could not have been more than half an hour back, I should imagine, that I, John Caroll, American citizen, had fallen asleep on - the crest of Coomber Head, which lies some 1,500 feet above the village of Coomsbury on the North Devon coast in England, where I had been spending the first few days of my vacation and first visit to the land of my ancestors.

Although-no later than the end of May the weather had been most in¬ fernally hot the last few days, and the top of this headland had appeared to me the most comfortable and airy spot fer an after-dinner snooze that could be found. Here I had lain down upon the pleasant springy heather that cov¬ ers the walls of the great circular earthen enclosure known locally as “Caesar’s Camp.”

“What the deuce!” I said aloud in the act of opening my eyes. And then instantaneously I became merely a registering machine incapable of any connected or logical mental proc¬

ess. For what I registered was ut¬ terly beyond all human experience, and as incredible as an objective real¬ ity; And yet every one of those as¬ tounding figures by which I was sur¬ rounded was as obviously flesh and blood as I was myself l

The entire enclosure to the crest of the walls was covered with a mass of humanity. Hundreds, thousands of them there must have been. Some were in motion, but the majority sat or reclined on the bare earth, for so, unconsciously, I noted the ground upon which I lay appeared to be; not a blade of grass or a twig of heather could be seen, nothing but brown, bare, fresh-turned soil. In the center stood a number of large, flat-roofed tents, and several fires near by were burning vigorously and appeared to be the stage of immense culinary op¬ erations.

These things I noted almost as un¬ thinkingly as a sensitive plate records the detail of a scene exposed for but a second, and by the same process it was impressed upon me that all the figures were arrayed in the most fan¬ tastic manner, outside of a pageant, it is possible to conceive. Yet there was a naturalness and ease in their wearing of these strange trappings which instinctively impressed me with the conviction that these were the right and customary habiliments of the wearers; and yet I knew that in

WIMM

&sa;jaA«! sr^rrsttsaw:

™

Ihal he ossorlod I had been asleep and ture. SomethiM^^^botoi-rinB

I^IS

and short kilt partly covered avilh brain in abrupt waves of thought. ina-<zs&&.iziai

SSS2 SSSs

JOHN C A ROLL, LEG]

|f“fj

= H3JSi£r= s,;»ts«sx a M£

ilistp

her. Now was her time come. SiasttsttareSKS

££'{~iriiLxr€

mmmm

JOHN CAROLL, I/EGIONART OF ROME


days, flickered before me r but flashes, unrelated fragments of things that had passed, such as a former landing on these'shores, the streets of Rome, the Appian Way, a mighty throng, miles upon miles of wildly cheering people showering flowers upon us, a travel-stained legion marching slowly between the endless erowds, the fair¬ haired captives in the rear, led in leashes like dogs, our second landing on this coast and the fierce struggle to beaeh our boats. In no wise, however, were these pictures a eonnketed story of my life; they simply came and van¬ ished; consciously my mind had no concern with them. All I knew was that I, Carolus, had a work in hand which the might of the whole world could not stay.

Soon I was right in the forefront of the inner circle, which held its rigid line as if a fence forbade further advance; and that fence was the stem discipline of the camp, the decree that whosoever encroached unbidden a foot within the vacant area need say fare¬ well to life. Though I knew that, as simply as the fact that night followed day, yet I cared as little for the man¬ date as for the inevitable conse¬ quences of breaking it. Now but twenty paces distant stood the maid, her head bravely, resolutely, held on high, her lips clenched tight, and her gaze fixed in stony defiance upon some far distant point. Old Fabius sat a pace away upon a low, skin-covered bench, watching her calmly, impas¬ sively, as one might idly consider the writhings of an impaled insect. To him she was hut a message in cipher which he was essaying to translate. Beside him stood or reclined some half a dozen of our officers watching with similar indifference the work of the Gauls. Two I overheard wager fifty sesterces whether she would speak now or under the eord. The men around me were mostly in low tones dilating on her person in the plainspoken mode of our rank.

Rage, red and consuming, coursed my every fiber. That I had so amused myself on other similar occa¬ sions did not trouble me. I was di¬ vorced from reason or thought. One. emotion alone possessed me and that was a devouring, burning flame of wrath. “Strike and slayt Each blow a red slash of death! Slay! Slay!” sang and thundered madly over and over again through my brain. This girl was mine. I did not understand, or try to, the why of this I only knew that she was mine, and these dogs were marring, craeking this fair flesh, making a mock and a thing of scorn of mine own. By the gods! I would spill life like water, and by the road of red, sereaming death she and I would en¬ ter the gardens of the gods; stark naked souls should be the steps of the ladder we would scale.

“Twenty paces, Carolus!” warned a voice behind me, and a grip was laid on my arm. “Are you tired of life!”

I spun around to face the speaker, and then I mistily realized that I was a good pace in front of the foremost.

“Yes, greatly am I wearied of it,” I said slowly. “And you! There—

As I uttered the words I snatched my sword from my belt and ran the blade from neck to waist, and a red cavern opened, from which his spirit fled. And then I leapt. In two great bounds I cleared that vacant area and was beside the maid. My work was the movement of a lightning stroke. One slash, and the two Gauls were twitching corpses on the ground. They had no time to run; I doubt if they saw me until my blade in the same sweep had caught one in the throat and the other across the ribs and slashed him nigh in twain. Wheeling round, I faced the maid. Coolly, squarely, steadfastly her eyes met mine: it was but the flick of a second our eves met, yet in that tiny instant



I read that she knew of my purpose, and awaited, serene, unfearing, the re¬ lease I brought with me. As I turned, I had my arm drawn back, crooked at the elbow for the thrust. There was no more than the beat of a hawk’s wing between her and the great dark¬ ness when in the instant my purpose ,was shattered, and I knew that not mine was the arm to speed that noble spirit on its airy flight. I did not think; there was no time; with one single sweep I gathered her into my left arm and flung her across my shoulder so that she lay in the curve of my raised arm. As I caught her up I wheeled in a circle with arm as rigid as the blade the fingers gripped, and the swish of several sinews and the crackle of cloven bones smote my car as the closing circle of shouting men changed their wrathful cries to sobbing gasps and spilled their lives on the bare brown earth. I had no scrap of heed where my blade bit: be it slave man, or centurion, it was one to me. Simply was I a raging engine of destruction to every living thing that came within my reach; I would have slain the gods themselves had they been there.

Again and again I wheeled and slashed, and it seems to me that ever just behind there raced a red mist which ran as a shadow chasing the flash of my raking blade. Faces came and vanished; only one have I a clear memory of, and that is Fabius, his eyes glaring rage and incredulous amazement as he fell forward in a welter of spurting blood from a gap¬ ing gash that had come close to sever¬ ing his trunk in two.

I see the image of these things, and I hear again the thunder from a thou¬ sand throats, and I know that I was raging and pressing swiftly toward a certain set point, the great open gate¬ way which every night was barred with many hundred earth-filled sacks, but during day had' naught but a few sentries to guard it. Swiftly was I

pressing toward it, for 1 think as yet not half the camp had awakened from their blank astonishment at my sud¬ den madness. Every motion had been so sudden that I was half way to the gate before more than a score had es¬ sayed to block my path, and discov¬ ered their error. And then 1 saw the hundreds on cither side rushing to in¬ tercept my way.

That way was hopeless; mere weight of numbers must stay my steps and I should be overwhelmed, even as the huge •urochs was overcome by a pack of wolves. What I hoped to gain by this unthinking urge of flight I knew not. I had neither plan nor hope for the future; my actions were the result of mere instinct, the blind rush and madness of a fleeing animal. Ab¬ ruptly I swerved at right angles and made for the encircling barrier of earthwork. By some chance the way here was open and it seemed that I might top the crest before the racing streams to the gateway could retrace their steps and cut me off. Only had I the horde behind to reckon with, and, save a few, there lay many paces between us. A dozen, more or less, I cared naught for—one swinging slash when within reach and the foremost would be writhing on the bare ground a gory mess of passing life. Since manhood it was said that by much was I the strongest man in all our glorious legions. Certainly never had I met one in sport or earnest who caused me to doubt the truth of the tale. Now was I a god! Men melted away from me as if riven by the mad rage that flamed within me. The picked men of the finest army the world has ever seen were but puppets and playthings for my wrath.

Then I had reached the great earthen wall and there was none to stay my steps in front; and I knew that my long limbs had more than held their own with the press behind, in spite of the burden I carried, which then I heeded no more than a single

mmm

sir r : e z kJl , 1 rj ^ my n»„d i couw see them ««.

s=“rSS

HSsHS=

SSSeT ^- 8

corpses in the gathering dusk cleave

■ta

“=H=HS

S«B:S«££

mssssr*


WEIRD

For a moment he paused as if his wrath had strangled his utterance.

“But a good soldier you have ever been, Carolus,” he. continued more calmly, 4 4 and on mine honor I promise you shall die as a soldier, neither by fire, nor rope, but only the swift flight of a blade. Come now; I have passed my word. Surrender. But if not, you starve until, a shadow, the guard nails you to a cross to die as a thieving slave. You were ever a brave soldier; your cohort would have your end an

As he spoke, the calm logic and fair¬ ness of his words sank home to my already relenting spirit. Truly I had worked evil enough upon my brave comrades, and the end was-as certain as it would be welcome. Yet I had a mind to suit myself as to the manner of it. Always I had been the victor in combat and I had little liking to relinquish the r61e. Abruptly a solu¬ tion flashed upon me.

“Noble Licinius, I thank you for your gracious words. But I have an¬ other thought which commends itself to me; therefore I reject your oflfer and now proceed upon my way. Fare¬ well, noble Licinius; farewell, good comrades!” I called suddenly in a loud cheerful voice, as in a few rapid steps I retreated to the end where lay the silent figure.

Taking it very tenderly in my arms I whispered softly:

44 Are you already waiting, beloved ? But a moment, and even in your steps my feet are racing. A flight with your dear shell, and then—whatt The gods and you alone know.”

As the last word fell from my lips I took one step to the vast sheer drop and there leapt straight out, my bur¬ den and I.

A BUSH as of some huge wind sped ^ by and upward, roaring and screaming, while I, like a seamew, lay floating motionless in its clamorous violence. So it seemed to me. The noise of that mighty blast drummed

TALES

upon my brain with a deafening in¬ sistence beyond all speech; I had never conceived the possibility of such an immensity of sound. It penetrated every particle of my flesh; it crashed through every atom of space; and yet I hung motionless and unmoved amid it. Nor dread, nor care, nor regret lay upon me. I was as a lone god, supreme in nothingness, and I dwelt serene and untroubled for eons upon eons amid formless chaos, dwelt care¬ free until from an immense distance there seemed to drift the sound of a faint whisper, and in spite of the stu¬ pendous roaring it clove its path to me and would not be stayed. Louder it grew and more insistent, calling without pause and urgently, as if in some terrible distress. "Whether I would or not, I had to listen, though I was aware now of a faint annoyance that my ineffable peace should be in¬ vaded. Louder, still louder and nearer it came. Something within me stirred, and as the voice grew more distinct, the clamor that had filled the universe sank and sank, until only a thin mur¬ mur of a passing breeze remained.

“Help! Help!”

I heard the words distinctly, as they were repeated over and over again in a woman’s high pitched note. And now I was curious to discover the ori¬ gin of the outcry, though as yet I had no wonder or desire to reconcile the happening with my past or the pres¬ ent. I leaned my head forward uncon¬ sciously, as one will in such circum¬ stances ; and there was I, John Caroll, on my knees, bare gray rock beneath me and a foot ahead the edge of a vast precipice that sank sheer and grim for hundreds of feet to the sullen surge that beat against its base! And the strangest thing about my position was that it caused me no astonishment or the least confusion of thought. From the second my gaze alighted on that figure hanging desperately to the face of this awful descent, my whole mind and energies were wrapped up in reJOHN CAROLS, LEGIONARY OF ROME


leasing tho girl from her frightful peril. For it was a girl, and even in that terrible moment I realized she was a very lovely one, too.

Only a few feet below me she lay, held in the cleft of a large slab that had cracked away from the main body of rock and so exposed a wide crevice slanting inwards. By some providence one leg had caught and been wedged tight into this cleft, holding her secure for the time, though in a most painful position; for with one limb dangling over the fearful drop, she lay with her back resting on the sharp crest of the slab and so was utterly unable to aid herself or even ease her torture. In¬ deed it was probably well that such was the ease, as the slab appeared but very uncertainly attached to the cliff, and any movement might have com¬ pleted the separation. I could almost swear that the crack widened a shade as I stared. How she came to be there, how I came to be staring down at her, I could not imagine, and had no time to realize the astounding posi¬ tion. I must act without a moment’s

“Don’t move an inch! I’ll get you up somehow,’’ I exclaimed.

My brain was working at top speed, but coolly, logically. She lay no more than four feet below me, but quite out of my reach for retaining the neces¬ sary leverage to sustain her weight in my grasp. Hastily I whipped off my stout leather belt and, removing my jacket, slipped out of my soft silk shirt. In a second I had tied the sleeves together at the cuffs, forming a % wide noose; through this I wove my belt.

‘ ‘ Pass the noose under your arms, ’' I called as I lowered it to her. “Be very careful! Don’t move an inch you need not. That slab is only just balI was lying full length on the ledge, for it was but a narrow ledge some ten feet below the broken crest of the cliff. My knees were bent, and my

feet, raised upwards, were desperately striving to discover some projection that would afford a purchase to work upon when her full weight lay on my arms. Sheer strength only could res¬ cue her, and there was no chance of using my own weight to assist me. Fortunately I am a six-footer and, be¬ ing somewhat of an amateur athlete, I was in fair condition, but knew that every ounce of strength I possessed would be required, and then the result was but a gambling chance. Anxiously I watched; she was very cool and col¬ lected and was following my instruc¬ tions carefully, moving her arms and body with the utmost deliberation.

“Quickly! Get it under you! Hold tight! The slab’s going!” I called in a tense voice of horror.

There could be no mistaking the fact—the crevice was widening! Slow¬ ly but perceptibly the crack was open¬ ing, and at any second the slab might leap forward and go crashing down. In a flash she had raised her body and slid the noose into place. I heard a little gasp; now she could see the movement herself, even note that she was slowly being parried outward from the face of the cliff. Her eyes were lifted to mine in pitiful entreaty. My God! Where had I seen those eyes before ? And that gaze of trust in my succor T

“Hold tight! Don’t struggle!” I shouted as I strained mpward on the belt, the end of which was doubled around my left wrist and both hands gripped with the clutch of steel below. Thank heaven, my feet had found a little projecting knob of rock on the face of the cliff behind me! Had it not been for that I do not think I could have raised her. As it was, with cracking sinews I lifted her clear from the cleft and with the one huge heave had her level with the ledge, which immediately she caught at, thus tak¬ ing a little' of her weight from my arms. I drew myself rigidly backward and slid her fairly on to the ledge.

m


It was all over id a minute, and not a second too soon, for as she reached my side there came a loud cracking, a grinding screech, and by the convul¬ sive shudder which sped through the form lying beside me I knew that she realized the narrow margin of her es¬ cape from a frightful death.

For a little we lay panting and ex¬ hausted. Then, recovering, I aided her to a sitting posture. She was deathly pale, but betrayed no trace of hysteria. Indeed she was the first to

“I thought you would never find

Her tone was almost reproachful, though her voice was singularly gen¬ tle.

“You wandered and wandered; I could see you in the distance before you got close, and the cliff hid you. I suppose it was difficult to find me, and you were running so quickly, too.”

“I—I don’t quite understand,” I said, staring at her. “I never heard your cry for help until I leaned over the edge. Running? Where? Good heavens! So I was—”

And then I stopped. I suddenly re¬ membered perfectly that I had been running, and very vividly every inci¬ dent of that desperate flight to—why, it was to this very ledge 1

I stared around in dumb amaze¬ ment. There could be no doubt of it. Here it was that I, Carolus, legionary of Rome, had taken my last stand. A few feet away lay the sharp bend be¬ hind which had stood Licinius and his men. I could hear his voice again: "You were ever a good soldier, Caro¬ lus.” Surely those words had been spoken no more than a few minutes back! There at the end of the ledge was the very spot where had laid a silent figure, for whom I had forsaken and slain my comrades and leapt—but what was this madness I was think¬ ing? There was some gulf, possibly of insanity, which had opened in my life, and I could not explain or under¬

stand it. At any rate, for the present I must hold the secret, though in my mind confusion and bewilderment ran riot. And now, how could I explain my hasty statement ?

“You didn’t hear me until you came to the edge?”'she queried in-as¬ tonishment.

“Well, not exactly that. The fact

I hesitated, groping blindly for some plausible story, and it came to

“I have had some trouble witlr-my hearing lately—strange noises—been under a specialist; and I hardly knew if your cry was due to this or not. In fact, until I came to the edge I could not be certain,” I replied rather lamely.

“Yes, that explains it,” she said , quietly, but the words were so ambigu¬ ous—to my ears—that I was thankful to escape at the price. “How can I thank you ? But for you I should have, been hanging there now; perhaps even already—”

She paused and shivered as her glance went in dread to the void be¬ yond the ledge, and as her head turned slightly in that direction I no¬ ticed what in the confusion of my mind had .escaped my attention until now. Her dress was ripped clean across the shoulders, and on the light blue of her blouse lay a band of deep red.

“I say, do you know your shoulder is hurt?” I exclaimed anxiously. “I must see to it at once. ’ ’

She looked a little startled and hesi¬ tated, but being evidently a sensible girl offered no objection to my serv¬ ices. Gently I drew back the torn blouse. There was cause enough for that broad, deep stain. She must have suffered the injury when arrested by the rugged sharp edges of the slab. The flesh between the shoulders was lacerated badly.

“I did not feel it in the least at the time,” she remarked as I bound it

liSSS

1§PI5

— 5 -r&m

srSt^r^z.- .

srsHSi

HE editor of Weibd Tales has something on his mind about which

he wants advice from the readers. Just what do YOU think of horror

■*" stories—we mean really strong stories, such as “The Hermit of Ghost Mountain,” by C. Franklin Miller, in this year’s March number, and “The Loved Dead,” by C. M. Eddy, Jr., in the Anniversary Number?

“The Hermit of Ghost Mountain,” as those of you who have read tho story will remember, told of a hermit who solved the secret of long life by a diet of human blood, mixing the various kinds—young blood, bold blood, old blood—in jars so that he could regulate his diet according to the charac¬ teristics of his victims. It was a masterpiece of gruesome literature, but it called out many letters of protest from the readers. “The Loved Dead” described the mania of a young man for exhuming and eating the bodies of his relatives.

One reader writes (anent “The Loved Dead”): “Why will you give us such sickening stories? I read Eddy’s yarn late at night. It nauseated me, but I could not stop reading, for the story was fascinatingly told. My eyes must have bulged in horror as I read, for when I finished I was covered from head to foot with clammy sweat, but wild horses could not have dragged me away from Weibd Tales before I had read through to the end. But please, please—why will you feed us such disgusting themes? Surely you chn give us mystery thrillers, and even strong horror stories, without making us sick at the stomach. Poe did it, in such weird' masterpieces as ‘Ligeia’ and ‘The Tell-tale Heart,’ even though he also was sickeningly disgusting in- ‘The- Case of M. Valdemar.’ Ambrose Bierce’s best story is that eery thing of wonder and beauty, ‘ An Inhabitant of Carcosa, ’ but one hates to read a volume of Bierce for fear of stumbling upon some such nauseatingly morbid tale as ‘The Death of Halpin Frayser.’ Give us all the ‘Ligeias’ and ‘Tell-tale Hearts’ you can find, but for the sake of all that is sweeb and wholesome, spare us any more stories such as ‘The Loved Dead’.”

Readers, the editor puts it up to you. Do you want an occasional story such as “The Hermit of Ghost Mountain” or “The Loved Dead,’' or shall we purge the magazine of all strong horror? If we find a nauseating story



as well handled as these two stories, shall we print it anyway 1 The editor wants to hear from you on this question, and he will follow your advice.

In the meantime, to show what we think of Mr. Eddy and Mr. Miller, we are going to print two excellent stories of prehistoric men by Mr. Eddy, which will hold your interest without making you even the least bit sick; and in our January number we are going to give you an unusual story called “Fog,” by Mr. Miller. This last is an eery, fascinating tale of explora¬ tion in Patagonia, and tells of a strange prehistoric beast that yet survives in the caves of that little-known region, and whose breath rises in dense fog that enmeshes and—but you will have to read the story to learn more. The editor’s advice is that you do not read it at night,' alone in your room, lest you suffer the horror that fell to the lot of the intrepid explorer of the story.

And now the editor wishes to call your attention to two authors who are new to the readers of Weird Tales. These are Frank Belknap Long, Jr., author of “The Desert Lich,” and Estil Critchie, author-of “Thus Spake the Prophetess.’’ Both stories are found in the present issue.

When the manuscript of “The Desert Lich” was received in the office of Weird Tales, the editor read it and then uttered a loud cry of “Eureka.” The story was accepted so quickly that it must have made Mr. Long’s head swim. And he has written other stories for you, which are quite as wonderful as the present one: “Death-Waters”, which will be printed in the next issue; “The Dark God,” and “The Ocean Leech.-” Mr. Long is a young man (he is only twenty-two), but he has a style as distinctive as Rudyard Kipling, and an originality, an invention, an insight into human motives, and a gift of story-telling that set him in the small circle of the greatest story-tellers. It would be as impossible to imitate Mr. Long’s indi¬ vidual style as it would be to duplicate Kipling or Daudet.

Estil Critchie gathered the material for his weird narratives in Santo Domingo and Haiti while he was in the intelligence service of the United States marines during the American occupation of the two republics of that island. “Thus Spake the Prophetess” will be followed by another Haitian story,/ “Voodoo,” in the December issue of Weird Tales, and then will follow a series of six “Strange Tales From -Santo Domingo,” which are little masterpieces.

Robert Lee Heiser is another author who makes his bow to the readers of Weird Tales with the present issue. Those who read his “Adventure of Souls” will watch for his name in future issues. His utterly fascinating occult story of crime, called “The Dreamer,” will be published soon.

Greye La Spina, whose story, ‘ ‘ The Tortoise-Shell Cat, ’ ’ you have enjoyed in this issue, has also written foT you an absorbing tale about a scientist who tried to determine the physical weight of the human soul. The story, called “The Remorse of Professor Panebianeo,” will be published soon.

You will he glad, also, to resume acquaintance with your favorite writers of past issues. H. P. Loveeraft, a master of the weird in fiction, has written

THE EYRIE


additional stories for the readers of this magazine. John Martin Leahy, author of “Draconda,” has written for you a short, powerful novelette of crime and ghosts called “The Voice of Bills”—a ghost story with a rational explanation. Otis Adelbert Eline, author of “The Cup of Blood” and other thrillers, is represented in this number by “The Phantom Rider”; and Seabury Quinn adds the seventh of his remarkable series of “Weird Crimes.” Mr. Quinn, whose work has been one of the most admired features of Weird Tales, has other good things in store for you. Besides several remarkable short stories, he is writing a series of “Noted Witch Cases” as a companion group to his ‘ ‘ Weird Crimes. ’ ’

“In looking over the translations from the German from which I obtained my data for the ‘Magic Mirror Murders’,” Mr. Quinn writes, “I ran across one of the most remarkable stories ever connected with judicial procedure. If the thing didn’t have the stamp of the court’s finding on it I’d be inclined to believe it a romance. It has every essential element—the be-youtee-ful girl, the villain, a rejected suitor, the real lover, who happens to be a noble in disguise, the false accusation of witchcraft, the trial, and dam near the execution, with the hero riding up in time and running a boar spear through the villain not three minutes before the hour set for the young witch’s turning off on the gallows.”

You have a series of monthly treats in store from the authors you have learned to look for in Weird Tales, and you will also be given some remark¬ able stories by young authors whose work has never before appeared in these pages. Just a word about Arthur Thatcher,, whose serial, “The Valley of Teeheemen,” begins in the December issue. You have neve'r heard of himf Well, perhaps not; but we will bet our bottom dollar that if you once start “The Valley of Teeheemen” you will eagerly await the appearance of the next issue so that you can go on with the absorbing tale. The only reason we are waiting until December is that we do not like to have more than one serial running at a time, and “The House of Dust”, by L. A. Borah, holds the boards until then.

Weird Tales, almost alone among fiction magazines, cares nothing for big names. What it wants is good stories, and the editor gets a greater thrill out of finding a crackerjaek of a weird yam by John Jones or Molly Murphy, of Kokomo, or Milpitas, than he could possibly get out of a new yarn by Kipling. “The Tower of Silence”, by Don Willis, in this issue, is the author’s first story, and yet few incidents in fiction are more dramatic than that scene in the house of the dead where the naked man on the grid slaps off the vulture as it thrusts down its ugly beak to peck out his eyes, and the mourning woman runs out thinking she has seen a dead man tormented by evil spirits.

This magazine will print the finest weird fiction that it can get, regardless of whether the authors are known or unknown. But it needs the constant advice and help of its readers. This is your magazine, and anything you have to say, either in praise or in blame, will be listened to with eager attention. Address your communications to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 32;'> N. Capitol Avenue, Indianapolis, Ind.

And tell us which story you like best in the present issue. We intend to take a poll each month to find out what stories are the most popular with our readers.


SexSecrets.

_JKBKSJL..

_ Send l\lo Money

'Si*S2irjpxS‘*—-«-.

ftptclajcll| 0 . 0 5ptc*fll 0t at VtjS «' ■ :

PafamwJBt Tn£<c£»«t. Kill. 34 ».0 21 «,«. I

How To Make Others Love You

Subscribe Now!

THE TOWER OF SILENCE

(Continued from page 162) Running feet. Shouts. A hand on my arm. An English voice. A short walk through the breach in the walk Then I fainted dead away.

The next I knew, I was in my own tent with Greaves standing beside me and an English doctor sitting at the edge of my cot. It seems that Mizrah had seen me scale the wall, and had then made his way back to camp with the news. Greaves wired the informa¬ tion on to the British at a coast fort, some two hundred miles away. A plane was dispatched at once to our camp. Greaves went up with the pilot, and they succeeded in locating me, in fact they threw me a note, evi¬ dently the paper that I mistook for a ghostly Skull. They flew back to camp, and a couneil of war was held. It was decided to try and dynamite the wall of my prison. Luckily we had dyna¬ mite on hand for our excavating work. For good measure, and to divert at¬ tention, they also stuck a couple of sticks, with a time fuse attached, be¬ hind the big idol. The plan worked, as you already know. The natives were frightened half to death and lost no time in getting out of that vicinity. There was already a plague of some sort among them, and they no doubt considered the whole affair as a direct expression of the wrath of their god.

Today, although I am still a young man, my hair is perfectly white. The only other visible mark I bear of my experience is a tooth-scarred thumb, which, I explain to curious acquaint¬ ances, was caught in the jaws of a rattrap. I hope my friends who read this will understand and will withhold any further questions on the subject. I have had enough of adventure. Even talking of it displeases me. Some time I hope to sleep without morbid nightmares goading my body into a clammy sweat of fear. That is not

the subject of his crowning experi- swore that come what might no cry,

^ss-kt: vsr=;”:r

r.tss, ^TiS-^r'S as is k.= 1 „s?,^ asAsssa? asasa «mast-4a:

iisri i?ss sjs.s, bir.S’- >?;,


WEIBD TALES

tion. I can give but a poor idea of the agony I endured. Blit it was all in one place, seemingly withiA niy cranium. Alas, I did not know then that my cranium was reduced to ashes! A million demons might have been stabbing at my brain with redhot needles. Darkness, a terrible roar¬ ing, were all about. Is this the end 1 I thought. Am I in the abode of the damned? For the torture of those moments seemed to me impossible ex¬ cept in the place taught by the faith of my childhood to be the final home of evil. Thought, concentration, were impossible. I have only the memory of the sensations. The noise increased, grew unbearable. A cracking, shriek¬ ing roar, mounting higher and higher, seemed about to split the ear drums I no longer had. Then oblivion for another indeterminate period. With returning consciousness the symptoms gradually subsided, and at length I was able to observe an alternate change of light to darkness and dark¬ ness to light occurring about once every two minutes. During the light periods I became able to distinguish objects, and slowly I regained my nor¬ mal power of vision. I saw that I was in a large and fully equipped labora¬ tory—the room in which you are sit¬ ting tonight. But what was my hor¬ ror to perceive in a mirror on the op¬ posite wall, not myself as I had been in life, but this glass jar wherein you see me, and within it my own brain and eyeballs attached thereto by their nerve cords. And then I knew that Jaeger’s accursed experiment had succeeded. I, my living brain, was functioning in hiB liquid. Far better, I thought, had death claimed me.

“From then on I lived in a world devoid of all sensations of sound, odor or feeling. My first terrible agonies had been due to the irritation of the ends of the severed spinal cord and sensory nerves. Nothing was'left me now but my sense of sight,—thanks to


the surgical skill of that ingenious fiend.

“The eternal silence was oppressive, maddening. I prayed for death in vain, for I possessed no material body with whioh to execute self-destruction. My mind and personality were help¬ lessly chained to this lump of clay called the brain.

“Then I found something to live for.

“Every day comes the doctor to work long hours at his experiments, sometimes with chemicals, test tubes and retorts, sometimes with tissue and microscopes or again with strange photographic apparatus. And every night before he leaves he comes and stares at me for many minutes. He knows that the tissue of my brain lives, but he has as yet found no way of determining whether or not it functions. And it pleases me to keep him in ignorance, for the day of my vengeance is very near. That is what I have found to live for.

“I have learned a great deal since my incarceration here, among other things, that Dr. Jaeger, whatever may be his nature and personal character, is one of the world’s great scientists, a specialist in many things, in all of which he excels. I have learned, too, something of the manner in which I am kept alive here. The tube leading into the jar from above connects with the nickel tank, which contains a sup¬ ply of the secret fluid. The valves are arranged to let the fluid pass very slowly through the jar, finding egress through the lower valves and out through the tube which they control. The.liquid is nutritious and at body temperature. A subtle, periodical chemical 'reaction causes the color change, designed to protect my naked eyes from the light. Beyond the fact that the fluid has a chemical similarity to human blood and contains a color¬ less compound carrying oxygen. T liaye no knowledge of its composition.

“But I have learned much more

ANNOUNCING

the

December Number of


The Unique Magazine

If you enjoy a story of thrills and horror and breathless interest, written by a master story-teller, don’t fail to read

Death Waters

By Frank Belknap Long, Jr.

Author of “The Desert Lick”

The surface of the lake was covered with little pink water snakes. They wriggled and glided over the water, and from, the crest of the hill rolled down a mass of slither¬ ing things that froze up the centers of speech in the two white men. And the black stood 'wp in the canoe and shouted in a jubilant outburst of cannibalistic hysteria. A remarkable story, told with fas¬ cinating vividness.

In the December Issue

Clip and Mail this coupon today!


325 N. Capitol Ave., Indianapolis, Ind.

25c for a copy of the

in' for SPECIAL 6 n_

o WEIRD TALES MagaNote: Special offer void unless accom¬ panied by thio coupon.

Name

TALES

—*i——art?

s ItilES§l

ssK’jSrSv £T'° :

mmm

.UmateJtlfe

asSU £2

iliifll

50-50

Fifty Stories for Fifty C<

StfL^iSSUL Wt

a£WS'

"■K,ss.»s ssa

dJS’tk^^JL wS'K^SS? ££ li.'MSS

i Sto** *"“

Your Glands Wear Out!

DEMONSTRATION TREATMENT SENT FREE

mmmm mmmm

teJL WMl

[THE END]
