============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: August 1928
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Three Poems in Prose" by Charles Baudelaire
  2. "The Demoiselle D’Ys_Robert W" by Chambers
============================================================
============================================================
THREE POEMS IN PROSE
by Charles Baudelaire
============================================================
dinary and calamitous nature had occurred at the scene of the banquet during the night. Some had it that the temple had collapsed upon the (Continued on page 288)

Three Poems in Prose

By CHARLES BAUDELAIRE

(Translated by Clark Ashton Smith)

L* Irreparable

I

C AN we stifle the old, the long Remorse, who lives and moves and twists and turns, and feeds upon us like the worm upon the dead, or like the caterpillar upon the oak? Can we stifle the implacable Remorse?

In what philtre, in what wine, in what magistral, may we drown this ancient enemy, gluttonous and de¬ structive like the courtezan, patient like the ant? In what philtre?—in what wine?—in what magistral?

Tell it, fair sorceress, oh! tell, if thou dost know, to a spirit crushed with anguish, and like to one who is overwhelmed by mortal wounds and bruised by the hoofs of horses; tell it, fair sorceress, oh! tell, if thou dost know, to this dying wretch whom the wolf already smells, and whom the crow surveys; to this broken soldier who must needs despair of having his cross and his tomb; this dying wretch whom the wolf already smells!

Can one illuminate a black and muddy sky? Can one tear apart the darkness more dense than pitch, with¬ out mom and without even, without stars, without funereal lightnings? Can one illuminate a black and muddy sky?

Our hope, that burned in the panes of the tavern, is blown out, is dead forever! Without moon and without rays, to find where lodge the martyrs of an evil road! The Devil has put out all the panes of the tavern!

Adorable sorceress, dost thou love the damned? Say, dost thou know

the irretrievable? Dost thou know Re¬ morse, with the envenomed darts, for whom our heart serves as target? Adorable sorceress, dost thou love the damned?

The Irreparable gnaws with its ac¬ cursed teeth; it gnaws our soul, a piteous monument, and often, like the termite, it attacks the edifice by the foundation. The Irreparable gnaws with its accursed teeth.

II

I have seen, sometimes, in the midst of a common theater, enkindled by the sonorous orchestra, a Fay who relumes a miraculous dawn in an in¬ fernal sky; I have seen, sometimes, in the midst of a common theater, a Be¬ ing, wholly made of light and gold and gauze, who casts to the earth an enormous Satan; but my heart, for¬ ever unvisited by ecstasy, is like a theater where one awaits in vain, always in vain, the Being with the wings of gauze!

Les Sept Vieillards

C warming city, city full of dreams, ^ where the phantom in full day picks up the passer! Mysteries flow everywhere like sap in the narrow ducts of the mighty Colossus.

One morning, while in the sad street the houses, whose height was in¬ creased by the fog, resembled the two quays of a fallen river, and a foul and yellow mist had inundated space, —a setting like the soul of an actor,— I went forth, stiffening my nerves like a hero and debating with my soul already tired, to follow the streets of



the suburb shaken by heavy dust¬ carts.

All at once, there appeared to me an old man whose yellow tatters imitated the colors of the watery sky, and whose aspect would have brought down a rain of alms without the ma¬ lignity that glittered in his eyes. One would have said that his pupils were drenched in gall; frost sharpened his regard, and his beard of long hairs, stiff as a sword, projected like the beard of Judas.

He was not bowed but broken, his spine making a perfect right angle with his leg, so that his walking-stick, which served to complete the picture, gave him the figure and the awkward pace of an infirm quadruped or a Jew with three feet. He went on, impeded by the snow and the mire, as if he crushed the dead beneath his worn-out shoes; hostile to the universe rather than indifferent.

His double followed him; beard, eye, back, stick, tatters, nothing dis¬ tinguished this centenarian twin, who had come from the same hell; and these baroque specters walked with the same pace toward an unknown goal.

To what infamous complot was I then exposed, or what evil chance humiliated me thus? For I counted seven times, from minute to minute, this sinister old man who multiplied himself before me!

Let him who laughs at my dis¬ quietude, him- who has never been seized by a fraternal shudder, know well that despite so much decrepitude these seven hideous monsters had the air of eternal things!

Could I, then, without dying, have contemplated the eighth, inexorable, ironic and fatal double, disgusting Phoenix, the son and father of him¬ self?—But I turned my back to the infernal cortege.

Exasperated like a sot who sees double, I returned; I closed my door, terrified, ill and benumbed, my spirit

feverish and troublous, wounded by mystery and by absurdity!

Vainly my reason wished to cross the bar; the playing storm defeated all its efforts, and my soul danced and danced, an old barge without masts, upon a monstrous sea that had no shores.

Une Charogne

emembee, my soul, the thing we saw on that beautiful morning of sweet summer: beside the path an in¬ famous carrion on a couch sown with pebbles, its legs in the air like a lascivious woman burning and sweat¬ ing her poisons, laid open in a cynical and nonchalant manner its belly filled with exhalations.

The sun shone down upon this putrefaction, as if to cook it to a turn, and render back a hundredfold to great nature all that she had joined together; and the sky saw the superb carcass unfold like a flower. The fetor was so powerful that you be¬ lieved you would swoon on the grass.

The flies hummed on the putrid belly, where issued black battalions of larvas that flowed along these living tatters like a thick liquid. All these descended and mounted like a wave, or darted forth in sparklings; one would have said the body lived and multiplied, swollen by a vague breath. And this world gave forth a strange music, as of wind and running water, or the grain that a winnower agitates and turns with his fan in rhythmic movements.

The forms withdrew and faded, and were no more than a dream, an out¬ line that is slow to arrive on the for¬ getful canvas, and is finished by the artist from memory alone.

Behind the rocks a restless bitch re¬ garded us with an angry eye, watch¬ ing for the moment to retrieve from the skeleton a morsel she had let fall.

-And still you will be like this

ordure, this horrible infection, star of my eyes, and sun of my being, you, my angel and my passion! Yes, such

THREE POEMS IN PROSE

you will be, 0 queen of graces, after the final sacraments, when you have gone, beneath the grass and the rich flowers, to mold among the bones of the dead.

Then, 0 my beauty! say to the worms who will devour you with kisses, that I have kept in memory the form and the divine essence of my decomposed loves!

"2 Marlow Wonderfully Preserved Relics

T HE zeal of the early and me¬ dieval Christians, and the yearning for some tangible souvenir of the founders of the reli¬ gion, coupled with the general child¬ like belief in rumor, brought about the preservation of a quantity of rel¬ ics, great numbers of which could not have been other than spurious. For example, there would be skulls in several churches, all claimed to have been originally in the head of the same saint; and in some cases, enough bones of a single saint were scattered over Europe to have made up several complete skeletons.

The famous Iron Crown of Lom¬ bardy was said to contain one of the nails used in the Crucifixion, though the actual history of the crown can be traced no farther back than the Ninth Century. Gregory of Tours said that another of the nails was thrown into the Adriatic by Queen Radegunda, rendering it therewith one of the safest seas in the world to navigate.

One church in Rome claimed a tooth of St. Peter, another of St. Paul, a part of the chemise of the Virgin Mary, a part of Christ’s gir¬

dle, a piece of Moses’ rod, some of the earth on which Christ prayed, the reed and sponge used at the Cru¬ cifixion, three spines of the Crown of Thorns, a part of the towel with which Christ washed His disciples’ feet, part of the swaddling clothes in which He was wrapped at His na¬ tivity, and a part of the shroud in which He was buried. One of the Savior’s tears was formerly pre¬ served at Vendome, France.

D’Aubigne tells us that in the Church of All Saints at Wittenberg were shown a fragment of Noah’s Ark, some soot from the Babylonian furnace in which the three Hebrew children, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, were so miraculously pre¬ served, and nineteen thousand other relics. At Scliaffhausen was kept the breath of St. Joseph, which Nicodemus had received in his glove! Wurttemberg had a feather from the wing of the Archangel Michael. St. Augustine (354-430 A. D.) said that in his day people were still going to see the dung-heap on which Job had sat— although the Book of Job was writ¬ ten at least seven to ten centuries before his time.

A Grim 'Tale of Torture Is

THE JUSTICE OF THE CZAR

By CAPTAIN GEORGE FIELDING ELIOT

D IMITRI MININ, chief execu¬ tioner of the prison of St. Peter and St. Paul, rose from his seat as an imperative knock clat¬ tered at the door of Ills quarters, high in the north tower.

“Be at ease, Tasia, ’ ’ he said to his wife, who had also started up. “I have many a summons lately, since this conspiracy against the holy per¬ son of His Majesty has been discov¬ ered. Doubtless it is but some wretch¬ ed boyar to be put to the question.”

He flung open the door. In the shadows of the stair-landing the light of a guard lantern gleamed on the accouterments of a sergeant of the Praeobajensky Regiment.

“To the lower dungeons, butcher!” snapped the soldier. “Quickly—you are wanted!”

“Dog!” retorted Minin. “Is it thus that you address an official of the Czar’s household? Perhaps—you would like to feel the butcher’s hands at work on you?”

He extended his long, powerful, sinewy hands toward the man, open¬ ing and closing the fingers sugges¬ tively.

“With the hot pincers, eh?” he added.

The soldier shuddered visibly. “No, no, good Dimitri!” he said. “I but spoke in haste. Yet come quickly, for it is the governor’s own order!” Dimitri nodded.

“I come,” he said, and flinging a black cloak round his shoulders he stepped out on the landing.


“I think I shall not be long, Ta¬ sia,” he said. “Have a bit of soup warm against my return—those dun¬ geons are chill enough, all of them, but the lower dungeons especially!”

He closed the door behind him and followed the sergeant down the nar¬ row, winding stair.

D own, down through the heart of the grim prison-fortress, past the guardroom, past the doors open¬ ing into the great hall, down to the cellars; then past a little iron door leading to the upper dungeons, and still the stair descended into black, dank chill—along a corridor, lit only by a single torch guttering in the cold air; then another iron door. Here Dimitri knocked, with a peculiar se¬ quence ; and instantly chains and bolts rattled within, the door was flung open, and Dimitri stepped into a vaulted chamber, lit by a dozen flaring lamps. A harsh voice—that of the prison governor—dismissed the sergeant.

The door clanged shut behind Dimitri as he bowed low to the gov¬ ernor.

The scene within was familiar enough to the executioner, and yet this night it had some novel fea¬ tures. There was the governor, and the slender, dark-clad figure of the prison physician. There, hanging from the ceiling of oft-used chains, was the naked figure of the vietim: a slender white body, apparently that of a young man, his wrists high

THE JUSTICE OF THE CZAR


above his head in the grip of the iron bracelets, his ankles locked to the floor by the stocks provided for that purpose.

But—and this was strange to Dimitri—the victim’s face and head were hooded and concealed by a black sack, drawn over the head and secured about the man’s neck by a stout cord. It was the first time that Dimitri had ever seen this done, and he wondered.

One of his assistants silently glided forward from a comer and handed Dimitri a knout. Dimitri gripped the heavy oaken handle of the ter¬ rible whip in practised fingers—ran through his hands the long knotted thongs, with their cruel steel goads at the ends. He nodded.

“A good knout, Paul,” he said, and turned expectantly toward the governor.

He was ready to begin.

But the governor was not looking at Dimitri. He was staring across the room—staring at a little group of men standing at the farther side, out of the direct glare of the lamps.

The governor’s face was white be¬ neath the brim of his fur hat; the eyes which had looked unmoved on so much torture and death were filled with a strange emotion.

Was it—fear? Dimitri, accus¬ tomed to reading the expressions in men’s eyes, felt a sudden unac¬ countable dread clutch at his heart.

If his Excellency the Governor of St. Peter and St. Paul—known far and wide in Holy Russia as Black Nikolai—was afraid: Black Nikolai afraid! —ah, then common men might well look to themselves. God! what business was this?

Dimitri followed the governor’s gaze.

There were five men at the far side of the dungeon—no, there were more; for in one comer were half a dozen Tartar troopers of one of the newly raised regiments of irregular horse, which the Czar had recruited in the

south. Brutish, pig-eyed fellows these, short and squat and bowlegged : in stolid silence they watched the scene before them. A block stood there also, and a Tartar ax—and Dimitri thought he understood.

Here was quick release for the vic¬ tim—after the knout had ripped his secrets from his quivering body! Dimitri had had experience of such methods.

But the silent group of five in the other corner—one in a long red cloak and hat drawn well down over his eyes, the others officers of the Impe¬ rial Guard in military cloaks, booted and spurred—why were they so si¬ lent? Were they witnesses—were

they-? Again, unaccountably,

Dimitri felt the icy grip of that strange fear.

The man in the red cloak suddenly inclined his head.

The governor bowed; turned to Dimitri. “Begin,” he said in low tones.

Dimitri, in silence, stepped for¬ ward into the center of the floor, placing himself with practised de¬ liberation at exactly the proper dis¬ tance from his prey. He flung off his cloak, tossed it to his assistant; re¬ moved also his tunic, and stood bared to the waist, his tremendous muscles rippling under his hairy skin, his splendid torso like a figure of some pagan god there in the flickering lamplight.

He swung the knoiit experimental¬ ly; the thongs whistled through the air; the naked man in chains shrank at the sound, as well he might Dimitri, his strong hands gripping the handle of the awful knout, stepped back, poised for the first stroke-

“Wait!”

Surprized, Dimitri turned. It was the man in the red cloak who had spoken. Some great one, this, with¬ out a doubt; for instantly the gov¬ ernor confirmed with a sharp word the order given.



The red-cloaked one looked over the muffling edge of his cloak at the trembling victim.

“One last word, Alexis,” said he. “The knout is ready—you have heard the whine of its thongs—will you speak? The names of your accom¬ plices—of those who have led you into this conspiracy! The names! Speak —and a swift and merciful death shall be your reward! ’ ’

And then for the first time the masked one spoke. One word, muffled by the black hood, yet firm, resolute, determined: “Never!”

The eyes of the man in the red cloak glared with a rage truly infer¬ nal. “By the bones of Saint An¬ drew!” he swore, grinding out the words between his teeth; “ere this night is over, you will speak, and gladly. Proceed, executioner!”

Again Dimitri took his stance; poised; swung back the knout. The thongs whizzed through the air and bit deep into the back of the naked man.

A scream rang out—a terrible scream, the scream of a man who has never before known physical pain; it echoed away through the arches of the vaulted roof, those grim old arches which had echoed so many screams of agony.

Across the white back of the vic¬ tim were now seven red weals as the thongs fell away—weals dotted with larger spots of red, where the knots had torn little gouts of flesh from the quivering back as with practised hand Dimitri jerked them aside.

Again the knout swung back—for¬ ward—whined and struck home— again—again—and all the time the screams rang through the dungeon, till the Guard officers turned away their heads and even the stolid Tar¬ tars muttered in a vague distress which was as near to pity as they could come.

T wenty strokes of the knout had fallen; now the back of the naked man was one great mass of raw, pul¬ sating flesh. No skin at all remained, save a few strips still hanging pre¬ cariously here and there. And still the pitiless red whip rose and fell.

The screams were not so loud, now; they lost their piercing quality, sank into mere moans of unutterable agony. And at last even these were silent.

Dimitri paused in his dreadful task. “I think he has fainted, sir,” he said to the physician.

“Revive him, and continue,” grated the man in the red cloak, at the gov¬ ernor’s inquiring—almost shuddering —glance.

The physician gave low-voiced in¬ structions to the assistants; a bucket of water was flung over the poor bleeding body hanging there by its wrist-chains. It washed away some of the blood, some of the loose flesh; not only the back had suffered, for in front, on the stomach and chest, the flesh had been tom to ribbons by the steel tips of the thongs as they curved round the body at the conclusion of each stroke.

Another bucket of water; now the physician was forcing brandy between the clenched teeth of the victim— teeth which had at the last met and fixed themselves in the lower lip. There was a low moan—a choking sob; the tom body moved a little.

“Will you speak, Alexis?” de¬ manded the inexorable voice of the man in the red cloak.

And again, from the depths of that black hood, faintly now but still with that ring of deathless resolution, came one word: ‘ ‘ Never! ’ ’

The red-cloaked one snarled word¬ lessly; motioned with his arm; the governor spoke.

Again the knout rose and fell, rose and fell, rose and fell; now at every blow blood and flesh spurted forth, spattered the walls, reddened and

THE JUSTICE OF THE CZAR


soaked into the earthen floor beneath the victim, where no stones had been laid, so that there might be no need to remove the blood of countless poor wretches who suffered there.

The physician whispered to the governor.

“What is that?” snapped the redcloaked one.

“He is saying, lord,” replied the governor, “that a few more strokes will kill.”

“So be it!” exclaimed the other, savagely. “Go on, executioner; fin¬ ish your work! ’ ’

“To the death?” asked Dimitri, panting from his exertions, while the red thongs of the knout trailed their horror on the floor.

“To the death!”

The voice of the man in the red cloak seemed to break for a moment, but he spoke no more; the governor nodded, and the knout was at work again.

Swiftly now the strokes fell. Dimitri charged from one side to the other, shifting the knout from his right hand to his left. Long prac¬ tise had made him equally dexterous with either hand, and the knout had been busy these past years.

The terrible shreds of what had been a strong and vigorous youth hung limply from the wrist-irons. No cries, no moans; not a sound save the whistle of the lash, the deep breath¬ ing of Dimitri, and the sodden thud of the blows.

Again the physician whispered to the governor.

* * Enough! ’ ’ said Black Nikolai.

Dimitri ceased his horrible exer¬ tions ; stood aside, silent, waiting.

The physician stepped forward to the bloody thing that had once been human. A moment—then he bowed his head on his breast.

“It is done, lord,” he said; and suddenly turned, sprang to the door, tore open the bolts and was gone. They could hear his footsteps clatter¬ ing up the stone stair in mad haste.

An assistant executioner, at a sign from the governor, loosed the chains from their ring and lowered the body to the ground.

The man in the red cloak stepped forward to its side, moving slowly, almost wearily. Long he looked down at it in silence; then with a sudden motion tore the cloak from his shoul¬ ders and flung its ample scarlet folds over the horror on the floor, not less scarlet.

“Come!” he cried in a great voice to the Guard officers. “Come! Take up the body of His Imperial High¬ ness, the Crown Prince Alexis Petrovitch Romanoff, and bear it with all fitting honors to the chapel of the fortress!’ ’

He raised his head—his burning eyes seemed to shrivel Dimitri’s very soul.

It was the Czar—Peter the Czar, surnamed the Great!

For a moment he stared at the executioner; then slowly his terrible eyes traveled downward to the hands which still gripped that bloody knout. There they rested for a long moment.

“Go, Nikolai, and see that all is done well! ” said the Czar, choking on the words. Already the Guard offi¬ cers were lifting, as gently and care¬ fully as they could, the torn remnants of the Crown Prince of Russia. In silence they bore the body from the room; the governor followed.

“Dismiss your assistants,” ordered the Czar; and Dimitri, still wonder¬ ing, still with that chill of fear at his heart, obeyed.

The Czar took a step back.

It was over, thought Dimitri; his mind turned from the dreadful scene that had been to the hot soup that Tasia would have waiting for him in the tower. God! He would need a measure of brandy first, after this!

He glanced furtively at the lower¬ ing figure of the Czar; that burning gaze again was fixed on his hands— on the knout.



The Czar was trembling. Sudden¬ ly, with an indescribably violent movement—almost as though it re¬ quired a terrific effort to tear his eyes from those blood-stained hands and that scarlet whip—the Czar turned away. His eyes fell on the silent Tartar troopers, on the block and ax that were to have been the instruments of his imperial mercy.

The Czar took a step forward— paused-

“Seize him!” he cried in a terrible voice, pointing at Dimitri.

The Tartars sprang forward in

instant obedience; Dimitri, his blood congealing in his veins, felt their strong fingers grip his arms.

‘ ‘ To the block with him! ’ ’ cried the Czar. ‘ ‘ Strike off those hands—those hands that have tom the life from my son—ah, God! my son! my son! ’ ’

The Czar turned toward the stair; the last sound that came to Dimitri’s ears as the Tartars dragged him to¬ ward the corner where waited the

[THE END]

============================================================
THE DEMOISELLE D’YS_ROBERT W
by Chambers
============================================================
block and the ax was that despairing cry: “Ah, God! my son! my son!’’

Then the door closed on the horror that remained.

The Demoiselle d’Ys

By ROBERT W. CHAMBERS

“There be three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, four which I know not:

“The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent upon a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a man with a maid.”

T HE utter desolation of the scene began to have its effect; I sat down to face the situa¬ tion and, if possible, recall to mind some landmark which might aid me in extricating myself from my pres¬ ent position. If I could only find the ocean again all would-be clear, for I

knew one could see the island of Groix from the cliffs.

I laid down my gun, and kneeling behind a rock lighted a pipe. Then I looked at my watch. It was nearly 4 o’clock. I might have wandered far from Kerselec since daybreak.

Standing the day before on the cliffs below Kerselec with Goulven, looking out over the somber moors among which I had now lost my way, these downs had appeared to me level as a meadow, stretching to the hori¬ zon, and although I knew how decep¬ tive is distance, I could not realize

THE DEMOISELLE D’YS


that what from Kerselee seemed to be mere grassy hollows were great valleys covered with gorse and heath¬ er, and what looked like scattered boulders were in reality enormous cliffs of granite.

“It’s a bad place for a stranger,” old Goulven had said; “you’d better take a guide;” and I had replied, “I shall not lose myself.” Now I knew that I had lost myself, as I sat there smoking, with the sea-wind blowing in my face. On every side stretched the moorland, covered with flowering gorse and heath and granite boulders. There was not a tree in sight, much less a house. After a while, I picked up the gun, and turning my back on the sun tramped oil again.

There was little use in following any of the brawling streams which every now' and then crossed my path, for, instead of flowing into the sea, they ran inland to reedy pools in the holiows of the moors. I had followed several, but they all led me to swamps or silent little ponds from which the snipe rose peeping and wheeled away in an ecstasy of fright. I began to feel fatigued, and the gun galled my shoulder in spite of the double pads. The sun sank lower and lower, shin¬ ing level across yellow gorse and the moorland pools.

As I walked, my own gigantic shad¬ ow led me on, seeming to lengthen at every step. The gorse scraped against my leggings, crackled beneath my feet, showering the brown earth with blossoms, and the brake bowed and billowed along my path. From tufts of heath rabbits scurried away through the bracken, and among the swamp grass I heard the wild duck’s drowsy quack. Once a fox stole across my path, and again, as I stooped to drink at a hurrying rill, a heron flapped heavily from the reeds beside me. I turned to look at the sun. It seemed to touch the edges of the plain. When at last I decided that it was useless to go on, and that I must make up my mind to

spend at least one night on the moors, I threw myself down thor¬ oughly fagged out. The evening sun¬ light slanted warm across my body, but the sea-winds began to rise, and I felt a chill strike through me from my wet shooting-boots. High over¬ head gulls were wheeling and tossing like bits of white paper; from some distant marsh a solitary curlew called. Little by little the sun sank into the plain, and the zenith flushed with the afterglow. I watched the sky Qhange from palest gold to pink and then to smoldering fire. Clouds of midges danced above me, and high in the calm air a bat dipped and soared. My eyelids began to droop. Then as I shook off the drowsiness a sudden crash among the bracken roused me. I raised my eyes. A great bird hung quivering in the air above my face. For an instant I stared, incapable of motion; then something leaped past me in the ferns and the bird rose, wheeled, and pitched headlong into the brake.

I was on my feet in an instant peering through the gorse. There came the sound of a struggle from a bunch of heather close by, and then all was quiet. I stepped forward, my gun poised, but when I came to the heather the gun fell under my arm again, and I stood motionless in si¬ lent astonishment. A dead hare lay on the ground, and on the hare stood a magnificent falcon, one talon bur¬ ied in the creature’s neck, the other planted firmly on its limp flank. But what astonished me was not the mere sight of a falcon sitting upon its prey. I had seen that more than once. It was that the falcon was fitted with a sort of leash about both talons, and from the leash hung a round bit of metal like a sleigh-bell. The bird turned its fierce yellow eyes on me, and then stooped and struck its curved beak into the quarry. At the same instant hurried steps sounded among the heather, and a girl sprang into the covert in front. Without a



glance at me she walked up to the falcon, and passing her gloved hand under its breast, raised it from the quarry. Then she deftly slipped a small hood over the bird’s head, and holding it out on her gauntlet, stooped and picked up the hare.

She passed a cord about the ani¬ mal’s legs and fastened the end of the thong to her girdle. Then she started to retrace her steps through the covert. As she passed me I raised my cap and she acknowledged my presence with a scarcely perceptible inclination. I had been so astonished, so lost in admiration of the scene be¬ fore my eyes, that it had not occurred to me that here was my salvation. But as she moved away I recollected that unless I wanted to sleep on a windy moor that night I had better recover my speech without delay. At my first word she hesitated, and as I stepped before her I thought a look of fear came into her beautiful eyes. But as I humbly explained my un¬ pleasant plight, her face flushed and she looked at me in wonder.

“Surely you did not come from Kerselec! ’ ’ she repeated.

Her sweet voice had no trace of the Breton accent nor of any accent which 1 knew, and yet there was something in it I seemed to have heard before, something quaint and indefinable, like the theme of an old song.

I explained that I was an Ameri¬ can, unacquainted with Finistere, shooting there for my own amuse¬ ment.

“An American,” she repeated in the same quaint musical tones. “I have never before seen an American.”

For a moment she stood silent, then looking at me she said: “If you should walk all night you could not reach Kerselec now, even if you had a guide.”

“But,” I began, “if I could only find a peasant’s hut where I might get something to eat, and shelter. ’ ’

The falcon on her wrist fluttered

and shook its head. The girl smoothed its glossy back and glanced at me.

“Look around,” she said gently. “Can you see the end of these moors? Look north, south, east, west. Can you see anything but moorland and bracken?”

“No,” I said.

‘ ‘ The moor is wild and desolate. It is easy to enter, but sometimes they who enter never leave it. There are no peasants’ huts here.”

“Well,” I said, “if you will tell me in which direction Kerselec lies, tomorrow it will take me no longer to go back than it has to come.”

She looked at me again with an ex¬ pression almost like pity.

“Ah,” she said, “to come is easy and takes hours; to go is different— and may take centuries.”

I stared at her in amazement but decided that I had misunderstood her. Then before I had time to speak she drew a whistle from her belt and sounded it.

“Sit down and rest,” she said to me; “you have come a long distance and are tired.”

She gathered up her pleated skirts and motioning me to follow picked her dainty way through the gorse to a flat rock among the ferns.

“They will be here directly,” she said, and taking a seat at one end of the rock invited me to sit down on the other edge. The afterglow was beginning to fade in the sky and a single star twinkled faintly through the rosy haze. A long, wavering tri¬ angle of water-fowl drifted south¬ ward over our heads, and from the swamps around plover were calling.

“They are very beautiful—these moors, ’ ’ she said quietly.

“Beautiful, but cruel to stran¬ gers,” I answered.

“Beautiful and cruel,” she repeat¬ ed dreamily, “beautiful and cruel.”

“Like a woman,” I said stupidly.

“Oh,” she cried with a little catch in her breath and looked at me. Her

THE DEMOISELLE D’YS


dark eyes met mine and I thought she seemed angry or frightened.

“Like a woman,” she repeated under her breath; “how cruel to say so!” Then after a pause, as though speaking aloud to herself, ‘ ‘ How cruel for him to say that! ’ ’

I don’t know what sort of an apol¬ ogy I offered for my inane, though harmless, speech, but I know that she seemed so troubled about it that I began to think I had said something very dreadful without knowing it, and remembered with horror the pitfalls and snares which the French language sets for foreigners. While I was trying to imagine what I might have said, a sound of voices came across the moor and the girl rose to her feet.

“No,” she said, with a trace of a smile on her pale face, “I will not accept your apologies, Monsieur, but I must prove you wrong and that shall be my revenge. Look. Here come Hastur and Raoul.”

T wo men loomed up in the twi¬ light. One had a sack across his shoulders and the other carried a hoop before him as a waiter carries a tray. The hoop was fastened with straps to his shoulders, and around the edge of the circlet sat three hood¬ ed falcons fitted with tinkling bells. The girl stepped up to the falconer, and with a quick turn of her wrist transferred her falcon to the hoop, where it quickly sidled off and nes¬ tled among its mates who shook their hooded heads and ruffled their feath¬ ers till the belled jesses tinkled again. The other man stepped forward and bowing respectfully took up the hare and dropped it into the game-sack.

“These are my piqueurs,” said the girl, turning to me with a gentle dignity. “Raoul is a good fauconnier and I shall some day make him grand veneur. Hastur is incomparable.”

The two silent men saluted me re¬ spectfully.

“Did I not tell you, Monsieur, that

I should prove you wrong?” she con¬ tinued. “This then is my revenge, that you do me the courtesy of ac¬ cepting food and shelter at my own house.”

Before I could answer she spoke to the falconers, who started instantly across the heath, and with a gracious gesture to me she followed. I don’t know whether I made her understand how profoundly grateful I felt, but she seemed pleased to listen, as we walked over the dewy heather.

“Are you not very tired?” she asked.

I had clean forgotten my fatigue in her presence and I told her so.

“Don’t you think your gallantry is a little old-fashioned?” she said; and when I looked confused and hum¬ bled, she added quietly, “Oh, I like it, I like everything old-fashioned, and it is delightful to hear you say such pretty things.”

The moorland around us was very still now under its ghostly sheet of mist. The plover had ceased their calling; the crickets and all the little creatures of the fields were silent as we passed, yet it seemed to me as if I could hear them beginning again far behind us. Well in advance the two tall falconers strode across the heather and the faint jingling of the hawks’ bells came to our ears in dis¬ tant murmuring chimes.

Suddenly a splendid hound dashed out of the mist in front, followed by another and another until half a dozen or more were bounding and leaping around the girl beside me. She caressed and quieted them with her gloved hand, speaking to them in quaint terms which I remembered to have seen in old French manuscripts.

Then the falcons on the circlet borne by the falconer ahead began to beat their wings and scream, and from somewhere out of sight the notes of a hunting-horn floated across the moor. The hounds sprang away be¬ fore us and vanished in the twilight, and the falcons flapped and squealed



upon their perch, and the girl taking up the song of the horn began to hum. Clear and mellow her voice sounded in the night air:

“Chasseur, chasseur, chassez encore, Quittez Rosette et Jeanneton,

Tonton, tonton, tontaine, tonton,

Ou, pour rabattre, d&s l’aurore,

Que les Amours soient de planton, Tonton, tontaine, tonton.”

As I listened to her lovely voice a gray mass which rapidly grew more distinct loomed up in front, and the horn rang out joyously through the tumult of the hounds and falcons. A torch glimmered at a gate, a light streamed through an opening door, and we stepped upon a wooden bridge which trembled under our feet and rose creaking and straining behind us as we passed over the moat and into a small stone court, walled on every side. From an open doorway a man came and bending in salutation pre¬ sented a cup to the girl beside me. She took the cup and touched it with her lips, then lowering it turned to me and said in a low voice, “I bid you welcome.”

At that moment one of the falcon¬ ers came with another cup, but before handing it to me, presented it to the girl, who tasted it. The falconer made a gesture to receive it, but she hesitated a moment and then stepping forward offered me the cup with her own hands. I felt this to be an act of extraordinary graciousness, but hardly knew what was expected of me, and did not raise it to my lips at once. The girl flushed crimson. I saw that I must act quickly.

“Mademoiselle,” I faltered, “a stranger whom you have saved from dangers he may never realize, empties this cup to the gentlest and loveliest hostess of France.”

“In His name,” she murmured, crossing herself, as I drained the cup. Then stepping into the doorway she turned to me with a pretty gesture and taking my hand in hers, led me into the house, saying again and

again: “You are very welcome, in¬ deed you are welcome to the Chateau d’Ys.”


I awoke next morning with the music of the horn in my ears, and leaping out of the ancient bed, went to the curtained window where the sunlight filtered through little deepset panes. The horn ceased as I looked into the court below.

A man who might have been broth¬ er to the two falconers of the night before stood in the midst of a pack of hounds. A curved horn was strapped over his back, and in his hand he held a long-lashed whip. The dogs whined and yelped, dancing around him in anticipation; there was the stamp of horses too in the walled yard.

“Mount!” cried a voice in Breton, and with a clatter of hoofs the two falconers, with falcons upon their wrists, rode into the courtyard among the hounds. Then I heard another voice which sent the blood throbbing through my heart: “Piriou Louis, hunt the hounds well and spare neither spur nor whip. Thou Raoul and thou Gaston, see that the epervier does not prove himself niais, and if it be best in your judgment, faites courtoisie a, Voiseau. Jar diner un oiseau like the mue there on Hastur’s wrist is not difficult, but thou, Raoul, mayest not find it so simple to govern that hagard. Twice last week he foamed au vif and lost the beccade although he is used to the leurre. The bird acts like a stupid branchier. Paitre un hagard n’est pas si facile.”

Was I dreaming? The old lan¬ guage of falconry which I had read in yellow manuscripts—the old for¬ gotten French of the Middle Ages was sounding in my ears while the hounds bayed and the hawks’ bells tinkled accompaniment to the stamp¬ ing horses. She spoke again in the sweet forgotten language:

THE DEMOISELLE D’YS


“If you would rather attack the longe and leave thy hagard au bloc, Raoul, I shall say nothing; for it were a pity to spoil so fair a day’s sport with an ill-trained sors. Essimer abaisser ,—it is possibly the best way. Qa lui donnera des reins. I was per¬ haps hasty with the bird. It takes time to pass d la filiere and the exer¬ cises d’escap.”

Then the falconer Raoul bowed in his stirrups and replied: “If it be the pleasure of Mademoiselle, I shall keep the hawk.”

“It is my wish,” she answered. “Falconry I know, but you have yet to give me many a lesson in Autourserie, my poor Raoul. Sieur Piriou Louis, mount!”

The huntsman sprang into an archway and in an instant returned, mounted upon a strong black horse, followed by a piqueur also mounted.

“Ah!” she cried joyously, “speed Glemarec Rene! speed! speed all! Sound thy horn, Sieur Piriou!”

The silvery music of the huntinghorn filled the courtyard, the hounds sprang through the gateway and gal¬ loping hoof-beats plunged out of the paved court; loud on the drawbridge, suddenly muffled, then lost in the heather and bracken of the moors. Distant and more distant sounded the horn, until it became so faint that the sudden carol of a soaring lark drowned it in my ears. I heard the voice below responding to some call from within the house.

“I do not regret the chase; I will go another time. Courtesy to the stranger, Pelagie, remember!”

And a feeble voice came quavering from within the house, “Courtoisie.”

I stripped, and rubbed myself from head to foot in the huge earthen basin of icy water which stood upon the stone floor at the foot of my bed. Then I looked about for my clothes. They were gone, but on a settle near the door lay a heap of garments which I inspected with astonishment. As my clothes had vanished I was

compelled to attire myself in the cos¬ tume which had evidently been placed there for me to wear while my own clothes dried. Everything was there, cap, shoes, and hunting-doublet of silvery gray homespun; but the closefitting costume and seamless shoes be¬ longed to another century, and I re¬ membered the strange costumes of the three falconers in the courtyard. I was sure that it was not the modem dress of any portion of Franee or Brittany; but not until I was dressed and stood before a mirror between the windows did I realize that I was clothed much more like a young huntsman of the Middle Ages than like a Breton of that day. I hesi¬ tated and picked up the cap. Should I go down and present myself in that strange guise? There seemed to be no help for it; my own clothes were gone and there was no bell in the ancient chamber to call a servant, so I contented myself with removing a short hawk’s feather from the cap, and opening the door went downstairs.

B y the fireplace in the large room at the foot of the stairs an old Breton woman sat spinning with a distaff. She looked up at me when I appeared, and, smiling frankly, wished me health in the Breton lan¬ guage, to which I laughingly replied in French. At the same moment my hostess appeared and returned my salutation with a grace and dignity that sent a thrill to my heart. Her lovely head with its dark curly hair was crowned with a head-dress which set all doubts as to the epoch of my own costume at rest. Her slender fig¬ ure was exquisitely set off in the homespun hunting-gown edged with silver, and on her gauntlet-covered wrist she bore one of her petted hawks. With perfect simplicity she took my hand and led me into the garden in the court, and seating her¬ self before a table invited me very sweetly to sit beside her. Then she



asked me in her soft quaint accent how I had passed the night and whether I was very much inconven¬ ienced by wearing the clothes which old Pelagie had put there for me while I slept. I looked at my own clothes and shoes, drying in the sun by the garden-wall, and hated them. What horrors they were compared with the graceful costume which I now wore! I told her this, laughing, but she agreed with me very se¬ riously.

“We will throw them away,” she said in a quiet voice. In my astonish¬ ment I attempted to explain that I not only could not think of accepting clothes from anybody, although for all I knew it might be the custom of hospitality in that part of the coun¬ try, but that I should cut an impos¬ sible figure if I returned to France clothed as I was then.

She laughed and tossed her pretty head, saying something in old French which I did not understand, and then Pelagie trotted out with a tray on which stood two bowls of milk, a loaf of white bread, fruit, a platter of honeycomb, a flagon of deep red wine. “You see I have not yet bro¬ ken my fast because I wished you to eat with me. But I am very hungry,” she smiled.

“I would rather die than forget one word of what you have said!” I blurted out while my cheeks burned. “She will think me mad,” I added to myself, but she turned to me with sparkling eyes.

“Ah!” she murmured. “Then Monsieur knows all that there is of chivalry-”

She crossed herself and broke bread—I sat and watched her white hands, not daring to raise my eyes to hers.

“Will you not eat?” she asked. “Why do you look so troubled?”

Ah, why? I knew it now. I knew I would give my life to touch with my lips those rosy palms—I understood now that from the mo¬

ment when I looked into her dark eyes there on the moor last night I had loved her. My great and sud¬ den passion held me speechless.

“Are you ill at ease?” she asked again.

Then like a man who pronounces his own doom I answered in a low voice: “Yes, I am ill at ease for love of you.” And as she did not stir nor answer, the same power moved my lips in spite of me and I said, “I, who am unworthy of the lightest of your thoughts, I who abuse hospital¬ ity and repay your gentle courtesy with bold presumption, I love you.”

She leaned her head upon her hands, and answered softly, “I love you. Your words are very dear to me. I love you.”

“Then I shall win you.”

“Win me,” she replied.

But all the time I had been sitting silent, my face turned toward her. She also silent, her sweet face resting on her upturned palm, sat facing me, and as her eyes looked into mine, I knew that neither she nor I had spoken human speech; but I knew that her soul had answered mine, and I drew myself up feeling youth and joyous love coursing through every vein. She, with a bright color in her lovely face, seemed as one awakened from a dream, and her eyes sought mine with a questioning glance which made me tremble with delight. We broke our fast, speaking of ourselves. I told her my name and she told me hers, the Demoiselle Jeanne d’Y’s.

She spoke of her father and moth¬ er’s death, and how the nineteen of her years had been passed in the little fortified farm alone with her nurse Pelagie, Glemarec Rene the piqueur, and the four falconers, Raoul, Gas¬ ton, Hastur, and the Sieur Piriou Louis, who had served her father. She had never been outside the moor¬ land—never even had seen a human soul before, except the falconers and Pelagie. She did not know how she had heard of Kerselec; perhaps the

THE DEMOISELLE D’YS


falconers had spoken of it. She knew the legends of Loup Garou and Jeanne la Flamme from her nurse Pelagie. She embroidered and spun flax. Her hawks and hounds were her only distraction. When she had met me there on the moor she had been so frightened that she almost dropped at the sound of my voice. She had, it was true, seen ships at sea from the cliffs, but as far as the eye could reach the moors over which she galloped were destitute of any sign of human life. There was a legend which old Pelagie told, how anybody once lost in the unexplored moorland might never return, because the moors were enchanted. She did not know whether it was true; she never had thought about it until she met me. She did not know whether the falconers had even been outside or whether they could go if they would. The books in the house which Pelagie the nurse had taught her to read were hundreds of years old.

All this she told me with a sweet seriousness seldom seen in anyone but children. My own name she found easy to pronounce and insisted, because my first name was Philip, I must have French blood in me. She did not seem curious to learn any¬ thing about the outside world, and I thought perhaps she considered it had forfeited her interest and respect from the stories of her nurse.

We were still sitting at the table and she was throwing grapes to the small field birds which came fear¬ lessly to our very feet.

I began to speak in a vague way of going, but she would not hear of it, and before I knew it I had prom¬ ised to stay a week and hunt with hawk and hound in their company. I also obtained permission to come again from Kerselec and visit her after my return.

“Why,” she said innocently, “I do not know what I should do if you never came back;” and I, knowing that I had no right to awaken her

with the sudden shock which the avowal of my own love would bring to her, sat silent, hardly daring to breathe.

“You will come very often?” she asked.

“Very often,” I said.

“Every day?”

“Every day.”

“Oh,” she sighed, “I am very happy—come and see my hawks.”

She rose and took my hand again with a: childlike innocence of posses¬ sion, and we walked through the gar¬ den and fruit trees to a grassy lawn which was bordered by a brook. Over the lawn were scattered fifteen or twenty stumps of trees—partially imbedded in the grass—and upon all of these except two sat falcons. They were attached to the stumps by thongs which were in turn fastened with steel rivets to their legs just above the talons. A little stream of pure spring water flowed in a wind¬ ing course within easy distance of each perch.

T he birds set up a clamor when the girl appeared, but she went from one to another, caressing some, taking others for an instant upon her wrist, or stooping to adjust their jesses.

“Are they not pretty?” she said. “See, here is a falcon-gentil. We call it ‘ignoble,’ because it takes the quarry in direct chase. This is a blue falcon. In falconry we call it ‘noble’ because it rises over the quarry, and wheeling, drops upon it from above. This white bird is a gerfalcon from the north. It is also ‘noble!’ Here is a merlin, and this tiercelet is a f alcon-heroner. ’ ’

I asked her how she had learned the old language of falconry. She did not remember, but thought her father must have taught it to her when she was very young.

Then she led me away and showed me the young falcons still in the nest. “They are termed mats in falconry,”



she explained. “A branchier is the young bird which is just able to leave the nest and hop from branch to branch. A young bird which has not yet moulted is called a sors, and a mue is a hawk which has moulted in captivity. When we catch a wild falcon which has changed its plumage we term it a liagard. Raoul first taught me to dress a falcon. Shall I teach you how it is done?”

She seated herself on the bank of the stream among the falcons and I threw myself at her feet to listen.

Then the Demoiselle d’Ys held up one rosy-tipped finger and began very gravely, “First one must catch the falcon.”

“I am caught,” I answered.

She laughed very prettily and told me my dressage would perhaps be difficult as I was noble.

“I am already tamed,” I replied; “jessed and belled.”

She laughed, delighted. “Oh, my brave falcon; then you will return at my call?”

“I am yours,” I answered gravely.

She sat silent for a moment. Then the color heightened in her cheeks and she held up her finger again say¬ ing, “Listen; I wish to speak of fal¬ conry-”

“I listen, Countess Jeanne d’Ys.”

But again she fell into the revery, and her eyes seemed fixed on some¬ thing beyond the summer clouds.

“Philip,” she said at last.

“Jeanne,” I whispered.

“That is all,—that is what I wished,” she sighed,—“Philip and Jeanne.”

She held her hand toward me and I touched it with my lips.

“Win me,” she said, but this time it was the body and soul which spoke in unison.

After a while she began again: “Let us speak of falconry.”

“Begin,” I replied; “we have caught the falcon.”

Then Jeanne d’Ys took my hand in both of hers and told me how with

infinite patience the young falcon was taught to perch upon the wrist, how little by little it became used to the belled jesses and the chaperon d comette.

‘ * They must first have a good appe¬ tite,” she said; “then little by little I reduce their nourishment which in falconry we call pat. When after many nights passed an bloc as these birds are now, I prevail upon the hagard to stay quietly on the wrist, then the bird is ready to be taught to come for its food. I fit the pat to the end of a thong or leurre, and teach the bird to come to me as soon as I began to whirl the cord in circles about my head. At first I drop the pat when the falcon comes, and he eats the food on the ground. After a little he will learn to seize the leurre in motion as I whirl it around my head, or drag it over the ground. After this it is easy to teach the fal¬ con to strike at game, always remem¬ bering to ‘faire courtoisie a, I’oiseau,’ that is, to allow the bird to taste the quarry.”

A squeal from one of the falcons interrupted her, and she arose to adjust the longe, which had become whipped about the bloc, but the bird still flapped its wings and screamed.

“What is the matter?” she said; “Philip, can you see?”

I looked around and at first saw nothing to cause the commotion which was now heightened by the screams and flapping of all the birds. Then my eye fell upon the flat rock beside the stream from which the girl had risen. A gray serpent was mov¬ ing slowly across the surface of the boulder,, and the eyes in its flat tri¬ angular head sparkled like jet.

“A couleuvre,” she said quietly.

“It is harmless, is it not?” I asked.

She pointed to the black V-shaped figure on the neck.

“It is certain death,” she said; “it is a viper.”

We watched the reptile moving slowly over the smooth rock to where

THE DEMOISELLE D’YS


the sunlight fell in a broad warm patch.

I started forward to examine it, but she clung to my arm crying, “Don’t, Philip; I am afraid.”

“For me?”

“For you, Philip,—I love you.”

Then I took her in my arms and kissed her on the lips, but all I could say was: “Jeanne, Jeanne, Jeanne.” And as she lay trembling on my breast, something struck my foot in the grass below, but I did not heed it. Then again something struck my ankle, and a sharp pain shot through me. I looked into the sweet face of Jeanne d’Ys and kissed her, and with all my strength lifted her in my arms and flung her from me. Then bend¬ ing, I tore the viper from my ankle and set my heel upon its head. I re¬ member feeling weak and numb,—I remember falling to the ground. Through my slowly glazing eyes I saw Jeanne’s white face bending close to mine, and when the light in my eyes went out I still felt her arms about my neck, and her soft cheek against my drawn lips. **#*#*« TX7hen I opened my eyes, I looked * ’ around in terror. Jeanne was gone. I saw the stream and the flat

rock; I saw the crushed viper in the grass beside me, but the hawks and blocs had disappeared. I sprang to my feet. The garden, the fruit trees, the drawbridge and the walled court were gone. I stared stupidly at a heap of crumbling ruins, ivy-covered and gray, through which great trees had pushed their way. I crept for¬ ward, dragging my numbed foot, and as I moved, a falcon sailed from the tree-tops among the ruins, and soar¬ ing, mounting in narrowing circles, faded and vanished in the clouds above.

“Jeanne, Jeanne,” I cried, but my voice died on my lips, and I fell on my knees among the weeds. And as God willed it, I, not knowing, had fallen kneeling before a crumbling shrine carved in stone for our Mother of Sorrows. I saw the sad face of the Virgin wrought in the cold stone. I saw the cross and thorns at her feet, and beneath it I read:

PRAY FOR THE SOUL OF THE DEMOISELLE JEANNE D’YS,

WHO DIED

IN HER YOUTH FOR LOVE OF PHILIP, A STRANGER,

A. D. 1573.

But upon the icy slab lay a woman’s glove still warm and fra¬ grant.

I N ANNOUNCING a vampire story of unusual beauty and fascination by Seabury Quinn—a story wherein the reader feels pity and sympathy for the vampire instead of loathing—we hasten to reassure those of our readers who have written anxious letters asking us whether we are going to part company with the fascinating little French ghost-breaker, Jules de Grandin. This delightful personage—scientist, occult investigator and keen analyst—has built a place all his own in the hearts of Weird Tales readers; and when, as occasionly happens, we omit Seabury Quinn’s de Grandin stories for one or two issues, we invariably receive a flood of letters from you, the readers. Some of these are worried for fear we have discontinued the de Grandin stories; others threaten us with dire penalties unless we immediately restore the Frenchman to our pages. It is a real feat to create a character in fiction so likable, so human, and so fascinating that he immediately makes himself loved by thousands of readers, and this is what Seabury Quinn has done in creating the temperamental and vivacious Jules de Grandin for your delectation.

It is our earnest hope that Jules de Grandin will continue to fascinate the readers of Weird Tales for many years to come. Mr. Quinn is at present working on some of the eeriest, most breath-taking adventures that the quick¬ tempered little Frenchman has yet encountered. And in Restless Souls, the vampire story in which Jules de Grandin plays the leading role, he has pic¬ tured a vampire woman who wins the sympathy and admiration not only of the readers, but even of the relentless de Grandin himself, so that he temporizes with duty and finally does with tears in his eyes that which is needful to do. The story will be published soon. Vampire tales are usually stories of shuddery horror; but occasionally there is written a vampire tale of fascinating beauty and loveliness. La Morte Amoureuse by Theophile Gautier was one; Restless Souls by Seabury Quinn is another.

Writes William Russell Moore, of Fulton, Missouri, in a letter to The Eyrie: “The Dimension Terror, by Edmond Hamilton, would have taken the lead among the stories in the June issue were it not for the competition of Mr. Seabury Quinn and his charming character, Jules de Grandin. When the

THE EYRIE


little Frenchman is between your pages, other authors should not feel slighted if their stories take second place, for de Grandin is a character so real that it does not seem possible that he does not actually exist. Whether it is the author’s personality shining in his character, or just the genuineness of the created character, is not for me to say, but it is the character Jules de Grandin that gives us the good stories, and it is a safe bet that Mr. Quinn would have to work mighty hard to write a story that would surpass a typical de Grandin story. So voting first place in the June issue to The Serpent Woman, not so much for the plot idea as for the character Jules de Grandin, I will close; and as de Grandin himself would no doubt express it, ‘I beg you hurry, make haste, step hard on the gas, and speed us another story of the so excellent de Grandin.’ ”

Writes N. J. O’Neail, of Toronto, Canada: “Just a word of enthusiastic commendation for Weird Tales from a reader of ten months’ standing. Not that everything in it appeals to me, of course; but what does, DOES: par¬ ticularly H. P. Lovecraft’s work, which is in a class by itself. G. G. Pendarves’ work is also remarkably good; I am surprized to see him receive so little honorary mention in The. Eyrie. Bassett Morgan and Seabury Quinn are among my other favorites. I don’t care so much for scientific stuff, but realize, of course, that thousands do. However, I won’t complain along that line. Let’s have as much more of Lovecraft as possible; but for heaven’s sake, never run anything of his as a serial—you’d have half your readers dead of suspense before it ended.”

William Randolph writes from the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia: “I suppose you don’t ever have a call from your soldier readers, do you? There are a few thousand of us here, and we read as a relief from the tension and strain of studying, as well as learning how best to protect the interests of our country. I for one, and practically all of my buddies, read Weird Tales. We fellows like the uncanny, mysterious, weird and scientific stories; for as you can well imagine, we get pretty well fed up on the ordinary. ’ ’

Writes Jerry Snow, of Minneapolis: “The Moon Terror, that fascinating Weird Tales serial which you have reprinted as a book, was a marvel! Why not bring out a book of Lovecraft’s stories?”

“I have been a reader of Weird Tales for about two years,” writes Clara Espiritu, of Isleton, California, “and I wish to say that it is getting better all the time. Ghost-stories, good shuddery ones, are what I crave, although The Bat-Men of Thorium promises to satisfy me. The Lurking Fear was by far the best story in your June issue. I surely was disappointed with Jules de Grandin; he let himself be used for a common detective story. It is a dirty shame to treat such a talented man that way.”

Writes Veith Dali, of Chicago: “I picked The Lurking Fear by Lovecraft as June’s best story. And I think a lot of credit should go to Donald Wandrei for his Sonnets of the Midnight Hours. They are typically weird.



I never read such high-grade, high-powered stories as you publish. Each one carries a ‘kick’.”

J. W. Meek, of Jackson, Mississippi, writes to The Eyrie: "It has been my pleasure to read your magazine Weird Tales from your first issue to your issue of this month, and during this time in no issue have you printed a story that has been as interesting, weird or breath-taking as H. P. Lovecraft’s story, The Lurking Fear. Weird tales, ghost-stories and other supernatural stories have been my hobby for years, and during this time I have made a collection of what, in my opinion, have been the best stories. Most of these stories come from your magazine Weird Tales, others from Poe and other writers of this nature; and I certainly intend to add to this collection The Lurking Fear. The thing that impressed me most was that Lovecraft actually gave a descrip¬ tion of the Thing; he did not say as the usual run of stories do that ‘no pen could describe it’ or that ‘it was too horrible for words’.”

“The Lurking Fear by Lovecraft is his best so far,” writes Paul Hen¬ drickson of Lancaster, Ohio. ‘‘I like his ability, to keep one uncertain as to whether the plot will end in some far abyss, or in the way it eventually did.”

Writes Jack Darrow, of Chicago: ‘‘The June issue of Weird Tales is one of the best issues you have had for a long time. It contains your best authors— Edmond Hamilton, H. P. Lovecraft, Seabury Quinn, Bertram Russell, and Everil Worrell. I had the mumps and couldn’t go out, so I spent my time reading Weird Tales.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? The most popular story in the June issue, as shown by your votes, was The Lurking Fear , by H. P. Lovecraft. Your second and third choices were The Dimension Terror, by Edmond Hamilton, and The Devil’s Martyr, by Signe Toksvig.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE AUGUST WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story

Remarks

(1).

(2).

( 3 ).

I do not like the following stories:

(1) - Why? _

(2) - ---

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it te The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, Ill.

Reader’s name and address:



You Can’t Kill a Ghost

(Continued from page 170)

cover that Henriquez had been shot through the chest. He was a sly dog, wqs Henriquez. And his wound didn’t bleed! Even the captain did not suspect. But he collapsed in the arms of the mate when he attempted to leave the ship.”

“He died?” I asked.

Talbot threw away his cigar and laughed. “Nothing could kill Hen¬ riquez—not even a bullet. But I never saw him again. He slipped overboard that night and swam ashore. ’ ’

“Did the president forgive him?” I asked.

Talbot grunted. “Henriquez was the president,” he replied.

I stared.

“But that isn’t all of my story,” he continued. “I said nothing could kill him. You can’t kill a ghost. Henriquez was assassinated before I escaped from prison. You may have read about him in the papers. ’ ’

“And you mean to say-?” I

stammered.

“A rather unusual story, isn’t it?” grinned Talbot. “Of course none of the conventional magazines would take it. They detest the unusual and amazing in fiction. But you can mention my name and perhaps some civilized editor will run it. You know, it’s beastly exhilarating to be earned on the back of a ghost!”

Coming Soon—-

The

SHADOW KINGDOM

By ROBERT E. HOWARD’

Another weird tale by the author of “Red Shadows”

Your Old Skin Made New

This Simple Scientific Way By Yourself—At Home!

A

New Skin!

On Any Part of Your Face, Neck, Arms, Hands, Body

READ FREE OFFER

1X7 HAT would you say if you awoke some momins—looked in your mirror and saw a new, youthlike, clear skin on your face, and the ugly blemishes all gone?

You would jump with joy—just like thousands of people have done who have learned how to perform this simple treatment themselves—the same that beauty doctors have charged enormous prices for.

—and, what was considered impossible before— the banishing of pimples, blackheads, freckles, large pores, tan, oily skin, wrinkles and other defects—can now be done by the patient himself, or herself, in 3 days’ time at home, harmlessly and economically.

It is all explained in a new treatise called “BEAUTIFUL NEW SKIN IN 3 DAYS,” which is being mailed absolutely free to readers of this magazine, so, worry no more over your humili¬ ating skin and complexion. Simply send your name and address to MARVO BEAUTY LAB¬ ORATORIES, Dept. 324-C, No. 1700 Broadway, New York, N. Y„ and you will receive it by re¬ turn mail, without charge. If pleased, tell your friends about it. Don’t delay!

FRANK B. LONG, Jr. H. P. LOVECRAFT

Critical and advisory service for writers of jjrose and verse; literary revision in all de282


Red Shadows

(Continued from page 164)

those doing homage to N’Longa. How could he know the craft and hatred in that dusky, slanting skull that had led the negro, escaping the vengeance of his tribesmen, to trail down the only man he had ever feared? The Black God had been kind to his neophyte; had led him upon his victim helpless and un¬ armed. Now Gulka could kill his man openly—and slowly, as a leop¬ ard kills, not smiting him down from ambush as he had planned, silently and suddenly.

A wide grin split the negro’s face, and he moistened his lips. Kane, watching him, was coldly and de¬ liberately weighing his chances. Gulka had already spied the rapiers. He was closer to them than was Kane. The Englishman knew that there was no chance of his winning in a sudden race for the swords.

A slow, deadly rage surged in him —the fury of helplessness. The blood churned in his temples and his eyes smoldered with a terrible light as he eyed the negro. His fingers spread and closed like claws. They were strong, those hands; men had died in their clutch. Even Gulka’s huge black column of a neck might break like a rotten branch between them— a wave of weakness made the futility of these thoughts apparent to an ex¬ tent that needed not the verification of the moonlight glimmering from the spear in Gulka’s black hand. Kane could not even have fled had he wished—and he had never fled from a single foe.

The gorilla-slayer moved out into the glade. Massive, terrible, he was the personification of the primitive, the Stone Age. His mouth yawned in a red cavern of a grin; he bore himself with the haughty arrogance of savage might.

Kane tensed himself for the

struggle that could end but one way. He strove to rally his waning forces. Useless; he had lost too much blood. At least he would meet his death on his feet, and somehow he stiffened his buckling knees and held himself erect, though the glade shimmered before him in uncertain waves and the moonlight seemed to have be¬ come a red fog through which ho dimly glimpsed the approaching black man.

Kane stooped, though the effort nearly pitched him on his face; he dipped water in his cupped hands and dashed it into his face. This re¬ vived him, and he straightened, hop¬ ing that Gulka would charge and get it over with before his weakness crumpled him to the earth.

Gulka was now about the center of the glade, moving with the slow, easy stride of a great cat stalking a victim. He was not at all in a hurry to consummate his purpose. He wanted to toy with his victim, to see fear come into those grim eyes which had looked him down, even when the possessor of those eyes had been bound to the death stake. He wanted to slay, at last, slowly, glutting his tigerish blood-lust and torture-lust to the fullest extent.

Then suddenly he halted, turned swiftly, facing another side of the glade. Kane, wondering, followed his glance.

A t first it seemed like a blacker shadow among the jungle shad¬ ows. At first there was no motion, no sound, but Kane instinctively knew that some terrible menace lurked there in the darkness that masked and merged the silent trees. A sullen horror brooded there, and Kane felt as if, from that monstrous shadow, inhuman eyes seared his very soul. Yet simultaneously there

RED SHADOWS

came the fantastic sensation that these eyes were not directed on him. He looked at the gorilla-slayer.

The black man had apparently for¬ gotten him; he stood, half crouching, spear lifted, eyes fixed upon that clump of blackness. Kane looked again. Now there was motion in the shadows; they merged fantastically and moved out into the glade, much as Gulka had done. Kane blinked: was this the illusion that precedes death? The shape he looked upon was such as he had visioned dimly in wild nightmares, when the wings of sleep bore him back through lost ages.

He thought at first it was some blasphemous mockery of a man, for it went erect and was tall as a tall man. But it was inhumanly broad and thick, and its gigantic arms hung nearly to its misshapen feet. Then the moonlight smote full upon its bestial face, and Kane’s mazed mind thought that the thing was the Black God coming out of the shad¬ ows, animated and blood-lusting. Then he saw that it was covered with hair, and he remembered the man¬ like thing dangling from the roofpole in the native village. He looked at Gulka.

The negro was facing the gorilla, spear at the charge. He was not afraid, but his sluggish mind was wondering over the miracle that brought this beast so far from his native jungles.

The mighty ape came out into the moonlight and there was a terrible

majesty about his movements. He was nearer Kane than Gulka but he did not seem to be aware of the white man. His small, blazing eyes were fixed on the black man with terrible intensity. He advanced with a curious swaying stride.

Far away the drums whispered through the night, like an accom¬ paniment to this grim Stone Age drama. The savage crouched in the middle of the glade, but the primor¬ dial came out of the jungle with eyes bloodshot and blood-lusting. The negro was face to face with a thing more primitive than he. Again ghosts of memories whispered to Kane: you have seen such sights before (they murmured), back in the dim days, the dawn days, when beast and beastman battled for supremacy.

Gulka moved away from the ape in a half-circle, crouching, spear ready. With all his craft he was seeking to trick the gorilla, to make a swift kill, for he had never before met such a monster as this, and though he did not fear, he had begun to doubt. The ape made no attempt to stalk or circle; he strode straight forward toward Gulka.

The black man who faced him and the white man who watched could not know the brutish love, the brutish hate that had driven the monster down from the low, forestcovered hills of the north to follow for leagues the trail of him who was the scourge of his kind—the slayer of his mate, whose body now hung (Continued on page 284)

Travel on “UNCLE SAM’S” PAYROLL

RAILWAY POSTAL CLERKS

$158 to $225 MONTH

Mall Gonpon Before You Lose It



(Continued from page 283)

from the roof-pole of the negro vil¬ lage.

The end came swiftly, almost like a sudden gesture. They were close, now, beast and beast-man; and sud¬ denly, with an earth-shaking roar, the gorilla charged. A great hairy arm smote aside the thrusting spear, and the ape closed with the negro. There was a shattering sound as of many branches breaking simultane¬ ously, and Gulka slumped silently to the earth, to lie with arms, legs and body flung in strange, unnatural positions. The ape towered an in¬ stant above him, like a statue of the primordial triumphant.

Far away Kane heard the drums murmur. The soul of the jungle, the soul of the jungle: this phrase surged through his mind with monotonous reiteration.

The three who had stood in power before the Black God that night, where were they? Back in the vil¬ lage where the drums rustled lay Songa—King Songa, once lord of life and death, now a shriveled corpse with a face set in a mask of horror. Stretched on his back in the middle of the glade lay he whom Kane had followed many a league by land and sea. And Gulka the gorilla-slayer lay at the feet of his killer, broken at last by the savagery which had made him a true son of this grim land which had at last overwhelmed him.

Yet the Black God still reigned, thought Kane dizzily, brooding back in the shadows of this dark country, bestial, blood-lusting, caring naught who lived or died, so that he drank.

Kane watched the mighty ape, wondering how long it would be be¬ fore the huge simian spied and

charged him. But the gorilla gave no evidence of having even seen him. Some dim impulse of vengeance yet unglutted prompting him, he bent and raised the negro. Then he slouched toward the jungle, Gulka’s limbs trailing limply and grotesque¬ ly. As he reached the trees, the ape halted, whirling the giant form high in the air with seemingly no effort, and dashed the dead man up among the branches. There was a rending sound as a broken projecting limb tore through the body hurled so powerfully against it, and the dead gorilla-slayer dangled there hid¬ eously.

A moment the clear moon limned the great ape in its glimmer, as he stood silently gazing up at his vic¬ tim ; then like a dark shadow he melted noiselessly into the jungle.

Kane walked slowly to the middle of the glade and took up his rapier. The blood had ceased to flow from his wounds, and some of his strength was returning, enough, at least, for him to reach the coast where his ship awaited him. He halted at the edge of the glade for a backward glance at Le Loup’s upturned face and still form, white in the moonlight, and at the dark shadow among the trees that was Gulka, left by some bestial whim, hanging as the she-gorilla hung in the village.

Afar the drums muttered: “The wisdom of our land is ancient; the wisdom of our land is dark; whom we serve, we destroy. Flee if you would live, but you will never forget our chant. Never, never,” sang the drums.

Kane turned to the trail which led to the beach and the ship waiting there.


Vulture Crag

(Continued from page 186)

her. “Can you wait alone here for just a little while?”

The girl nodded. Her eyes seemed full of a strange dream, but they were clear and calm.

Donald rushed through the door which, after all, Zolani had not thought it necessary to lock, and up a winding stairway. As he burst into the entrance hall of the building, he heard the crackling of flames: the building had been fired by a thrown torch, so that the upper portion was burning before the lower part took fire. And now those eery screeches were no longer mystery, but horrible fact. Around the gloomy mansion the vultures were wheeling; in and out through broken window-panes they flew, and one bore in his talons something at which Donald could not look. . . .

H e flung open the outer door and faced the mob. A shower of missiles seemed about to descend around him; the mob, after the man¬ ner of mobs, had gone berserk, and the light in the eyes of its leaders was not the light of reason. And yet, by some miracle of perils escaped and vital need, Donald made them listen—made them believe.

“The man you came to find is dead,” he shouted above the din, and they heard him. “The man who re¬ built this house—the man who filled it with corpses, as you think. Men! That man was about to murder me— I escaped death at his hands because you came. Now there is barely time to avert—to try to avert—a horrible tragedy. I can explain later, not now. The bodies you thought were dead bodies are about to be burnt here, as though this whole house were a funeral pyre. Worse still,

these horrible birds-”

(Continued on page 286)

k PERFECT LOOKING NOSE

Life’s Secrets!

^Foreign Work!

< tunities {or young men. American el \ ployers. Fare and expenses furnished. BIG PAY. Write for Free List. »

; SOUTH AMERICAN SERVICE BUREAU

__ _ _nd Mystic „—

I Friends—It’s essy I Send 10c today. Lyle Douglas, Station A- 6, Dallas, T -

' paid tor hun¬ dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Mon¬ ey. it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaran¬ teed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash. CLARKE COIN CO.. W. T. Dept., LeRey, N. Y.

WEIKD TALES

(Continued from page 285)

Donald felt a responsive shudder run through the crowd.

“It is worse than you think. These men-”

He stopped suddenly. He had been about to tell them that these men were not dead, but sleeping. But to say such a thing to these farmers and small shopkeepers would be to brand himself as a madman. Moreover, even if Count Zolani’s apparatus could yet be saved from the flames, he was not sure that he knew how to operate it. And if it could not be operated, the sleepers would sleep on. He wondered, miserably, just when that sleep would become grim, literal death. And, even as he won¬ dered, he flung out his hands in a gesture of entreaty. He dared not identify himself with the count’s great experiment, if he were to pre¬ serve a hope of attempting to com¬ plete it.

“Carry out the bodies! Save them!” he begged.

He rushed back, then, to rescue Dorothy. There were enough of those others to carry the eighteen helpless bodies of men out of the lockers of the “dormuary,” which had become more sinister than its name, borrowed from the name of an abode of death. There were enough, and they were responding to his ap¬ peal. Would there be time? And could the basement laboratory be saved?

When he fought his way back through suffocating fumes to the open -air, one of the leaders of the mob whose face bore the recent mark of an angry bum, sought him humbly.

“We have added horror to hor¬ ror,” he confessed, sadly. “We made our way inside—we found that dreadful locker room, like the locker room of a morgue. What has been going on here? Well, though the foreigner we heard of who conducted this establishment is dead, we may

solve that problem later. But—I can not tell you of the condition in which we found those bodies. Before the flames drove them away, the vul¬ tures-”

He covered his face with his hands. And in that moment, the very air seemed shattered, and a burst of flame and smoke belched from the broken, yawning windows. Already the structure was falling.

On the grass there lay the body of one man. Donald had caught sight of it—it seemed the only one the men had carried out.

“The flames were getting to them, and it seemed better to leave them,” the man beside him said then with a shudder. “ This one was in much better condition than any of the others.”

Looking, Donald saw that vultures first attack the eyes of an uncon¬ scious victim. Even though they had not finished their work, never, as long as he should live, would he be able to look upon a vulture without the dreadful feeling of nausea creep¬ ing over him which overcame him now. In that moment, he abandoned all hope of saving the laboratory. Even knowing what he knew, he agreed with the villager who had said “better to leave them.”

D orothy and Donald were cared for in the village. There was an investigation, and later another, for all of the eighteen had been impor¬ tant men. The story the two surviv¬ ors had finally to tell was converted by scientists who walk in beaten paths, into other terms. Zolani had been making hypnotic experiments, and most of his victims, or dupes, had died. That was the version which was accepted.

Terrors outlived together bind closer the ties of love and affection, and Donald and Dorothy were mar¬ ried before they left the village. And not until then did Donald question



Dorothy ag to the things which had befallen her absent spirit, during the brief hour of its wandering.

“I had thought that I, like the others, was to be left without my body for two weeks,” she said mus¬ ingly. “And it was such a little while—only an hour you say, Don¬ ald. Well! Perhaps that is why I have so little to tell, because the time was so short—and yet that hour, though empty, seemed an eternity. It seemed as though there is no time to a disembodied spirit—as though in one instant there is eternity. Be¬ sides that feeling, there was another —of great emptiness, of space, I sup¬ pose, and a feeling of being alone there, as a star is alone in space. And really, Donald—that is all. I think there will be more than that, in the life that comes after death. God has given me a body here on earth, and eyes to see with, and ears to hear with. Since my spirit is in¬ destructible, I think some day He will give me another, perhaps not like this one which we know, you and I, but still a way of expressing that which I am, of comprehending in a greater or a less degree those things which are about me.

“As to the count’s experiment— well, as I said, it was only an hour. But it left me with two feelings—one that of my indestructibility, and the other, a consciousness of eternity. And it left me with a conviction that though men should learn to synthe¬ size both body and soul, only God can make them live, as He sees fit. ’ ’

The

Rays of the Moon

By EVERIL WORRELL An Eery Qraveyard Story Watch for this in WEIRD TALES

New Secret Book Loaned to You

Reveals Rosicrucian Laws and Secret Teachings

_s Made Thousands Happy, -,

and Mighty in the Control of Natural Laws.

Because this new book is so remarkable and difficult to secure, the Supreme Council of the Rosicrucians has decided to loan SEALED COPIES of it to sincere and worthy seekers who will promise to study it and help in the great work of promoting success and health in life. It is called “Rosicrucian Illumination" and isf issued by the oldest mystical fraternity in the world. Just write and say that you will read it, study the wonderful laws and return It. Enclose two cents for actual postage, and it will be mailed. Address:

LIBRARIAN NO. 888, AMORC Rosicrucian Park San Jose, California

(Not connected with “Rosicrucian Fellow_ ship”) _

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

“Clouds Dispelled**

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Aet today! Write NOW!!

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT

Dept. O, Box 1535, Los Angeles, Calif.

X D A V KATHOSCOFE. Pocket Detector. Every¬ body wants it. See your best

girl and all she’s doing. No _

knows; you see everything Periscope operates

j lifetime; ready f

ir this wonderful instru-

$1.00 c...

- _nd 8 astonishing French pictures.

K ATHOS CO., P. 0. Bos 8302, City Hall Post Office, NewYorkCity

tja#%|#%Dlce,$5.00; Cards, $1.25; Inks.$1.50; M |1 la 11. Magic Fluid for Transparents, $3.00; •itruwiiw 81ick Ace Cards J125 . Pac tory Readers, 81.00. Sales Boards; etc. Catalog 10c. CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY,

740 W. Madison St., Chicago, Ill.

T0BACCC»cu;?d'or t NoP b J5

MEN—BIG PAY WORKING ROMANTIC,

wealthy South America. Fare, Expenses paid. South American Service Bureau. 14,600 Alma, Detroit, Mich.

INVENTIONS COMMERCIALIZED. PATented or Unpatented. Write Adam Fisher Mfg. Co.. 651 Enright. St. LouiB. Mo.

SONG POEM WRITERS WRITE HIBBELEB.

D-156, 2104 N. Keystone Ave.. Chicago.


Next Month

The

DEVIL-PLANT

By

JOHN MURRAY REYNOLDS

I n the tangled jungles of the upper Amazon River, far from the haunts of men, a great botanist had built his strange laboratory, and there he created his garden of horrors—weird monstrosities, eery giants, nightmare plants and hor¬ rible man-eating flowers. Into this terrible garden came a beautiful Portuguese girl, bearing food for that blood-chilling plant-horror whose foul breath tainted the eve¬ ning breeze, and then—but that is the story.

A weird-scientific tale of power¬ ful interest, about a plant that was more animal than it was plant —a vegetable thing that left the place where it was grow and went stalking forth into the night in search of human food. This story will be printed complete in the

September issue of


On Sale August 1

CJi£ ^aJJJailjhis Coupon^ TodayJ_

WEIRD TAI.ES «tO East Ohio St.,

Chicago, Ill.

Enclosed find {1 for special five months subscription to “Weird Tales” to begin with the September Issue ($1.25 in Canada). Spe¬ cial offer void unless remittance is ac¬ companied by coupon.

City

The Vengeance of Nitocris

(Continued from page 260)

revelers and all had been killed. However, this theory was speedily dispelled when a voyager from down the river reported having passed the temple in a perfectly firm condition but declared that he had seen no signs of life about the place—only the brightly canopied boats, drifting at their moorings.

Uneasiness steadily increased throughout the day. Sage persons recalled the great devotion of the queen toward her dead brother;, and noted that the guests at the banquet of last night had been composed almost entirely of those who had participated in his slaying.

When in the evening the queen ar¬ rived in the city, pale, silent, and obviously nervous, threatening crowds blocked the path of her chariot, de¬ manding roughly an explanation of the disappearance of her guests. Haughtily she ignored them and lashed forward the horses of her chariot, pushing aside the tight mass of people. Well she knew, however, that her life would be doomed as soon as they confirmed their suspicions. She resolved to meet her inevitable death in a way that befitted one of her rank, not at the filthy hands of a mob.

Therefore upon her entrance into the palace she ordered her slaves to fill instantly her boudoir with hot and smoking ashes. When this had been done, she went to the room, entered it, closed the door and locked it securely, and then flung herself down upon a couch in the center of the room. In a short time the scorching heat and the suffocating thick fumes of the smoke overpow¬ ered her. Only her beautiful dead body remained for the hands of the mob.

Don’t make a monkey of yourself ”

I sat down at the pian

cried Bob as

WAS spending my vacation with Bob when I met his 1MI

cousin, Helen. It was love ; ; jfl

first sight with me. But un- A, -=TtW. 1

Innately she didn’t seem to JmtkjiBtJP \

I

at first sight fortunately s

feel the same way aoout it.

“You’ve got nothing to worry about,” Bob insisted when 1 told him my tale of woe. “Just leave it to me. All you need is a little publicity . . .”

The very next day he an¬ nounced that he’d just had a long talk with Helen.

iSF& &

[THE END]
