============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: October 1928
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Conradi Affair,.August W. Derleth & Carl W" by Ganzlin
  2. "Dregs" by Joseph Upper
============================================================
============================================================
THE CONRADI AFFAIR,.AUGUST W. DERLETH & CARL W
by Ganzlin
============================================================
giving in marriage where you have gone, may your restless souls find peace and rest eternal—together.”

Bizarre tf^as the Fate of the Physician

The Conradi Affair

By AUGUST W. DERLETH and CARL W. GANZLIN

Excerpts from the diary of Professor E. H. Conradi, M. D., F. R. 8., found in his room on the morning of October 30:

OCTOBER 17... There can be no doubt that I have at last isolated the Bacillus leprae. According to the theory I have advanced to a selected number of my colleagues, it will now be possible for me to develop this germ and cause its mass propagation. I suppose I shall encounter difficulty in feeding it at first, but after I have overcome this difficulty, I shall feed it in proportion to its growth.

Dr. Herrick has loaned me his large glass vat for the purpose of keeping the germ in its various stages.

October 19... My success is imminent. The germ has multiplied, as I anticipated. It—or perhaps I

should say they, for it is no longer one, but a spongelike mass of millions of cells that threaten to outgrow the capacity of the vat—has increased to the diameter of one inch.

On the eighteenth I fed the germ a half-pound of beef and bone. The meat was consumed by this morning. There was nothing visible save a slimy coating at the bottom of the container, which I watched during the entire day. Toward evening the slimy coating had drawn together to form a globular mass of about one inch in diameter.

October 20... Last night I threw five pounds of raw beef to the germ mass. This morning the meat was gone, and in its place I found a slimy layer with a bulbous center, which again drew together during the day. Tonight it is ten inches in diameter.



I am going to try fasting the germs, to watch their reaction.

October 21... Today the diameter of the germ mass has decreased to five inches, and it is obvious that the individual germs have resorted to attacking one another for sustenance. I shall feed the germ mass ten pounds of beef and bone at once; there is no telling how swiftly these germs may annihilate themselves.

The mass immediately surrounded the food and devoured it. Tonight its diameter is twenty inches.

October 23... For the past two days I have fed the germ mass; it has grown to approximately forty inches in diameter. I am very well satisfied with this result, and I am taking accurate observations, recording every available fact that may be useful in the ultimate extermination of the germ.

October 24... Yesterday I fed the germs twenty pounds of meat. It was consumed with remarkable rapidity. This is quite natural, however; the rapid consumption I should say is due to the maturing of the individual germs.

The diameter of the germ mass has reached sixty inches. The vat will hold little more; consequently, I shall have to fast the germs for twenty-four hours.

October 25... This morning there is a very perceptible movement within the germ mass itself. It is a sort of undulation prevalent in the entire mass. I watched it carefully, and it seemed almost as if the mass were making an effort to slither upward and out of the vat. There is a strong suggestion of an upward surge. At the same time the germ mass is decreasing; because of their period of fasting they (the individual germs) have again turned on themselves for sustenance.

The mass has reduced itself to thirty-five inches in diameter.

October 26... Twenty pounds of meat today! It will not be long before they reach their former diameter, when I shall begin my experiments on the life of the individual mature germ.

Later... I am elated! The food has greatly rejuvenated my germs. There is again that undulating movement, but this time it is certainly not an individual germ movement but a mass movement. It is again sixty inches in diameter. I am certain that by tomorrow I shall be able to experiment with my new-found serum.

I am just a little nervous, worrying about the hugeness of the germ mass and the success of my experiment.

October 27... Only a few hours until I can bring my experimentation to an end. What will Herriek say? The work is very tiring, but not monotonous.

I am horribly nervous. What if something should happen? If the germ mass should get out?

The following is an excerpt from the Chicago Times dated the thirtieth of October:

Disappearance of Professor Conradi

This morning at about 8 o’clock, two officers, led by Dr. E. C. Herrick, a neighbor, broke into the apartments and laboratory of Dr. R. H. Conradi at the Windermere Apartments here.

Dr. Herrick had expressed considerable anxiety during the past few days, when his friend and colleague, Dr. Conradi, failed to leave his room. Dr. Conradi, it seems, was engaged upon some research work, the secret of which he was carefully withholding from the public.

Nothing of Dr. Conradi was discovered. His effects were apparently all in hi? room. A thorough search was made, but no clue was found. A diary found open on the table was at once appropriated by Dr. Herrick, who refused police officers and reporters a sight of it. It is > remarkable to note that on the floor of the room, near a large, broken glass vat, were found some of Dr. Conradi’s personal belongings: his watch, his ring, and his belt buckle.

1. The Dwarf Rider

SILENCE, the intense, brooding silence of desolation, hung a somber cloak over the desert as mournful twilight stole down from the country of Khost. Silvered moon with a star at its crescent tip cruised from behind a feathery tumble of cloud to drift in boundless night sky; emblem of the Moslim world it watched, long-awaited signal to terminate the month of Ramadan and end the torturing daily fasts endured by Islam’s fanatic sons. Moonlight straying on the sands was ghostly and unreal—ghostly as the distant Suleiman peaks; unreal as the fantasies in the minds of the c/iaras-smoking

cameleers who puffed in soporific meditation beside their drowsy charges.

Captain Hague of the British Frontier Police watched a pool of moonbeams creep toward the tent door, and grunted.

‘ ‘ Was a time, ’ ’ he grumbled, ‘ ‘ when a night like this would o’ 'Sent me off the deep end. Sighin’, an’ thinkin’ of girls an’ roses an’ God. But no more!” He shot a beady glance at Sim Edwards, the American who squatted beside him. ‘ ‘ I tell you, lad, this bleedin’ land has burnt an’ bit th’ last parcel of romance outa my skin. Only thing I ever got outa Indian Service was fleas an’ colic.




This ain’t God’s country, lad. He never made it. Any Moslim will tell you Allah had a grudge when this desert was built. Why a blighter comes out here beats me. Romancehuntin’, I wager. Most folks that never smelt it think the East is romantic.”

Sim Edwards watched a wisp of smoke spiral out of his cheery pipebowl.

! “I didn’t come out here huntin’ romance,” he confided grimly. “I came out here to get away from it.”

“You’ve got away from it, all right, ’ ’ the captain murmured. ‘ ‘ But take my advice, Sim. Your time is almost served. Sign out when we get back”—his smile was a bit wry— “that is, if we get back.”

The American looked up in surprize. “If we get back, ’ ’ he returned. “Why shouldn’t we get back?”

Captain Hague chuckled mirthlessly.

“A Yankee does beat hell. I just been tellin’ you we gotta go through that rotten border town, run a gantlet of Wazir pot-shots—those natives will be wild as the devil durin’ this Ramadan festival—and monkey with that mysterious castle up there. You’re a shirty devil, Sim. Lucky, too. Way you got outa that riot on the Kurram River with four bulletholes in your helmet was a crime. But you’re gonna need all your nerve an’ luck this trip. All of it. When th’ commissioner in Dera Ismaeel Khan handed me this job, an’ told me to take ‘that Yankee sergeant of yours, who’s such a plucky bounder,’ I asked him why he didn’t murder us outright. Crossin’ Waziristan an’ goin’ through a border town with a few bullets in our pants is plain monotony. But this castle business oughta rate a mystery-merchant from Scotland Yard, not a policeman. When I have to chase down Oriental hoodoos I get scared.”

There was no fear, however, in the captain’s speech. Fear was not in the

vocabulary of that sun-burnt handful who battled to police the far-flung British outposts in the hottest corner of the Empire—a land where knives waited in every sash, where rifles lurked behind every mud-heap. Captain Hague could speak of death in the tone with which he might address a Peshawar egg-vender. There was irony in his tone, but no fear, as he continued:

“I got what Americans call a hunch. A premonition, Sim. There’s plenty trouble up ahead. It isn’t just a lot of scared tourists marooned in a haunted castle. It’s a mighty queer affair. From th’ first I’ve had a funny feelin’ I won’t.pull through this time-”

Sim Edwards said nothing, but stared at the moonlit sands, at the tinted shadows, at the camels kneeling with their cameleers in the nearby wash. Removing his pith helmet he ran slim fingers through his bleached hair; his eyes, cobalt-blue against the bronze of desert-leathered cheeks, studied the horizon.

“Well,” he inquired finally, “what’s up, Captain? I had an idea from what you first told me that this was something different. ”

T he older man shifted his campstool and sighed smoke through his mustache. A febrile breath of heat whispered out of the night, dusting the men with fine white sand.

“You know that old ruined castle on the hill north of Jelaladore?” he began. “The castle of Addadud Khan? A hell of a place. Spooky as a graveyard. Of course there’s a legend about it. Natives rig up legends about everything, but that’s a jolly good place for one, believe me. It seems that this ancient blighter Addadud Khan was a bandit like these princes been ever since. He robbed the caravans on their way up to Gomal Pass, an’ did a first-class business. An’ he hid the treasures he looted in th’ castle. Legend says this



Addadud was an ugly little dwarf, and a killer. Well, one night he was stagin’ a wild party, an’ during this hullabaloo a peri sent by Allah started dancin’ with him. She kept him dancin’ like the devil until the old boy just couldn’t stop, an’ he danced himself to death—disappeared dancing, see? That’s the story. Then the legend goes on to say that the old dwarf haunts his castle, an’ anybody who goes near there gets under the spell, an’ dances himself to death. You can bet the natives around here hate that place like a sore eye.”

“I’ve heard the yam,” Sim Edwards admitted.

“Sure. They all tell it. And nobody goes within a mile of that castle if they can help it. But last month a Yankee archeologist an’ his party got permission to go camp up there lookin’ for nomadic records or somethin’. The commissioner didn’t want to let ’em through, but they insisted. A girl with ’em, too. So yesterday a Shinwari rides like a bat outa hell up to headquarters with a wild story an’ a message that was mighty strange. The party is marooned up in that damned castle, an’ some queer business called the ‘dancing death’ warned them away, an’ then killed off three of ’em. The natives in the town are scared mad, thinkin’ the feringhis are charmed, and won’t let ’em out. What we gotta do is get ’em out of there—also find out what this ‘dancing death’ is all about. That Shinwari who brought the message was so scared he lied a blue streak. But listen, Sim. Three of that party were killed—murdered; the one who scribbled the note couldn’t tell how. An’ here’s the best part of it. It said there was a dwarf hidin’ in there. Now look”—the captain pointed into the night—“Jelaladore lies straight down that trail about six miles. I’d go on tonight if it wasn’t for the festival riot in the town. Those Moslims are worked up fit to kill. Just let ’em catch a feringhi in there at midnight!

So I figure we’ll best stay camped here until dawn. Then we’ll bust through Jelaladore an’ tear up to the castle an’ get those folks out of there. There’ll be lots of action, I’m' thinkin’, an’ as for this mystery business, only God knows what it’s about. How do you like that, Sim?”

It was characteristic of Sim Edwards’ blue eyes and whittled jaw that he should answer: “I like it. And look there! Where you’ve been pointing. Isn’t that a horseman on the desert out there? See? On the ridge there? Heading this way-’ ’

“Sure enough.” The captain rose to his feet. “Making for our camp, all right. Looks like he was coming from Jelaladore. Kick up that campfire, Sam. It may be word for

Automatics in hand they waited the horseman’s arrival. A fleeting shadow in the moonlight, the desert-rider approached, now lost to view in a wash, now flitting along a ridge. Captain Hague’s surmise proved accurate, for the rider galloped straight toward their camp, pulling up his pony a short distance from the tent. The sweating animal reared to a halt. From the fluttering folds of his burnoose the rider raised a hand.

“Salaam aleikowm!” he chanted.

Captain Hague returned the salutation.

“ Wa ’ aleikoum,! ’ ’

The rider wrenched his reins and pulled the pony closer to the tent. Hunched over the saddle, he peered at the two policemen, and the policemen stared in return. Captain Hague stared; and Sim Edwards stared. This desertman who had ridden out of the night was something to stare at, too. Crippled and bent as a stunted juniper he was, a veritable dwarf squatting like a grotesque toad astride the pony. Shielding his deformity, a sheepskin cloak hung from his stooped shoulders. From the bandages wound about his face, his eyes glittered like pools of ink in the moonlight. The in510


evitable long-barreled Afghan rifle was slung from his waist, and a withered, twisty-fingered hand caressed the jeweled gun-stock. For a brief second the American thought the newcomer was going to shoot, and his hand sweat on his automatic. Then a sepulchral voice issued from the bandaged jaw in a torrent of Pushtu. Plunging the malformed hand beneath the sheepskin cloak, the rider withdrew a folded missive, and handed it to Captain Hague. Then sliding from saddle, he crouched beside the American. Captain Hague read the note.

“From the party in the castle,” he informed Edwards. ‘ ‘ This fellow was on his way for help. We're to follow him through Jelaladore at once. Go beat those cameleers awake, Sim. I’ll give this bloke a spot of wine to fix him up. We’ll move as soon as he’s rested. Saddle the camels, an’ I’ll be with you in a moment. ’ ’

Saluting, Edwards hurried for the wash. From the comer of his eye he saw the captain, followed by the hobbling cripple, duck into the tent. The young American shuddered despite himself. What a ghastly cripple the little rider was! Curious coincidence after all the captain’s talk about dwarfs and haunted castles. This was the strangest commission Edwards had ever found himself on. He had never heard Captain Hague talk so uneasily. And all this “dancing death” and mysterious murder stuff sounded like drama he had seen in the old days back in the States. But if there was any scrapping to be done, Edwards, like Captain Hague, would have preferred to fight something tangible and out in the open. Well, he would soon find out what it was all about. A glance at his wrist-watch showed an hour lacking midnight. Bah, he snarled at himself, the moonlight had gotten on his nerves. He cursed at the cameleers, and kicked at the sniffling mounts. And he damned

himself for a nervous fool when his fingers fumbled at the camel-straps.

2. The Haunted Castle

J elaladore is a huddle of hutches and wriggling lanes scribbled down the bottom of a narrow valley and blistered by the fiercest sun that ever bleached the bones of man. The commissioner in Dera Ismaeel Khan said of the town of Jelaladore that it boasted more villains per square foot than flees on a Pathan’s goat. Not a wall in the town unpeppered with little bullet-holes. Not a man of its sun-scorched citizenry untutored in the delicate art of sinning. To stroll in the ovenlike mosque of Alam Gul with shoes on is heinous crime. To drop a cousin with a bullet in the eye is honorable accomplishment.

On the hot slope sweeping north of the town rise the crumbly walls of the ancient Castle of Addadud Khan, black against night sky, grim in sunlight, always forbidding. The natives who joy in gunfire and chuckle at knife-play will walk ten miles out of their way to avoid the castle. They know the legend of the “dancing death,” and they believe. The East has faith.

On the evening of the Ramadan festival when Jelaladore prepared to discard religion and take on the happier mien of dopes and drinks, bullets and blood, four men and a girl stood frozen-still in a gloomy arcade of the castle behind the town. They stood frozen-still and waited, in murk made dismal by two fluttering lanterns, for death to enter the gloomy hall. They waited for death to enter and snatch the life flickering so horribly in the man spraddled on the cot before them. Marble-white, his good English countenance was screwed into the grin of a false-face. He was shivering in every limb, muscles jerking spasmodically. His fingers clawed. His lips curled. His boot-heels rattled together. Eyes



blank, he did not see the terror in the faces of those watching him.

“God!” cried the little man with the Cockney chin, dropping to the cotside. ‘ ‘ I say, Harry! What is it, old chap? Isay!”

The eyes in the twitching face were expressionless as stone.

“Harry!” The little man’s voice was a wail of despair. “Gawd! Can’t none of us do nothin’ for him?”

The girl, her cheeks like wet marble, buried her face in the shoulder of the gaunt man at her side. He patted her arm with a leathery hand, and dazedly brushed his droopy mustache.

“Come away, Laurie,” he urged her. “I’m afraid he’s going the way the others did.”

The third man, tall, stooped, bearded with thick brown bush, coughed nervously and turned to the girl and her father.

“I tell you, Merrick Scott, there was no warning of this. None. Clark had gotten himself a drink of wine before going to search the lower passageways with his brother, here.”

“But Brown-Rogers!” the gaunt Merrick Scott protested. “You were a doctor. Haven’t you any idea what’s wrong?”

“None. It seems to be a fit. I’ve done all I can. He fell over and lost consciousness exactly as did the others. In a fit. Now he dies. My God! If we could only get out of here!”

The fourth man now bent over the cot to inspect the prone figure. He was a man of peculiarly long countenance and loose carriage. Dusky tinge to his cheek betrayed trace of native blood, Afghan perhaps, though he claimed himself Russian-Turkoman. Clad in the same trim drill as his companions, he might have been taken for a European but for the gleam of his teeth and the gloss of his black eyes. His voice was guilty of no accent, and as he talked he always gestured a lean, brown hand. This

was Stepan Stepanovitch, geologist from Samarkand.

“He dies,” was his comment. “There seems no way of stopping it. This is dreadful, my friends. The fourth to die. Who will be next? ’ ’

Brown-Rogers, the tall English scientist, gave a baffled groan, and tugged his beard.

“We must get away. If we only had our rifles! ’ ’

Merrick Scott, the American, swore softly. “To think they were filched right out from under our noses!”

The Turkoman gave him a mystified smile. “Do not wonder at that, Dr. Scott. These Afghans steal the guns from the very belts of the Tommies. The Tommies are forced to chain them down at night. What I wonder at is the ghastly death of our comrade. He is dying. Who has done it? Who has sent those strange warnings? What does it all mean?”

Merrick Scott snarled. ‘ ‘ No time to ponder, Stepanovitch. I’ve got to get my daughter away from here. ’ ’

“But those two Moslims still guard the outer gate. To try a dash through would be fatal,” objected BrownRogers. “We must wait for the arrival of the police. It is our only hope.” He glanced at his watch. “Eight o’clock, Merrick. If Mardo won his way through to Dera Ismaeel Khan and our rescuers set out at once they ought to reach Jelaladore late tonight. ’ ’

“Do you think they will come tonight?” sobbed the girl.

“No,” said Brown-Rogers bluntly. “They’d be shot to pieces in Jelaladore if they did. The festival will have the natives insane. Tomorrow they can get here.”

“When you sent for help,” interpolated the Turkoman, “why didn’t you let me know? I could have aided with the message. It may not have gotten through. If they are not here tomorrow I will try myself. And come, my friends, let us not stand idle. For Clark we can do nothing. Let us



leave him with his brother. Perhaps if we search the passages further we can find some rear way of escape. There must be another exit from this place. Are the tribesmen still watching on the hill? ’ ’

Laurie nodded hopelessly. “I’ve kept an eye on them and they've been stationed there all day, ’ ’ she declared.

Leaving her father’s side she darted to a narrow slit of window that opened on barren compound. The compound was overrun with weed, acacia, and ragged rhododendron,- and shaded by a venerable peepul-tree brilliant with scarlet blossoms. “It’s getting too dark to see,” she called. “But I think they’re still on watch.”

“Better not go too close to the windows,” warned the Turkoman. “These Afghans are the world’s best shots, Miss Scott. Now as long as we stay in here, we’re safe. They’ll never dare come near here-”

“Safe from the natives,” growled Brown-Rogers; “but how about this murderer that’s on us?”

“We won’t find out anything standing here,” protested Stepanovitch. ‘ ‘ I suggest that Miss Scott try to rest. We can leave Mr. Clark with his brother, and we can make a further survey of the cellars below. That is my humble advice, my friends. If you gentlemen will search the forward dungeons I will examine those in the rear. Let us conduct our hunt, then.”

The geologist’s quiet assurance calmed the panic about to descend on that shadowy chamber where death had stalked its fourth victim in as many days. Clark sat speechless beside his dying and now motionless brother. Laurie allowed herself led to the room where she had taken up her quarters and where she had spent her nights in exhaustive vigil with her father.

“Stay here,” he enjoined her, “and try to rest, Laurie. Stepanovitch is right. We want to work fast and try to run down any way of escape. This place is honeycombed with passage-

ways, and there must be one leading outside. I hate to leave you here, little daughter, but Clark is near and we won’t be long. ’ ’

Terrifying prospect, waiting there in that shadow-hung, tomblike room darkening with the nightfall while a man died without and bats flitted across the ceiling. But Laurie Scott took her father’s hand, and pressed it firmly.

“I’ll be all right. The police will soon be here. I’ll keep watch over the compound and perhaps the guards will leave. And—and—Father, please be careful.”

He kissed her and hurried to join Brown-Rogers and Stepanovitch. Picking up a lantern, the tall Englishman led the way to a staircase that wound down to the dungeons deep in the fore-part of the castle. The Turkoman vanished in the shadows of a rear corridor.

Silvered moon with a star at its crescent tip cruised from behind a feathery tumble of cloud. A white pool of light fell across the stone floor of Laurie’s room. In an agony of fear she sat alone and listened to the wind soughing through the casements high overhead, to the fluttering of bats, to the labored breathing of the man, alive and dying, in the darkened hall. She sat there, breathless, for half an hour before she. realized that something was at her window. She shrieked when she saw.

A crippled, twiglike hand, a withered tangle of bony, twisted fingers reached up over the sill; rattled the stone grating; gestured. A brown sheet of paper dropped from the knotty talons and fell into the room.

Laurie’s screams echoed and reechoed in the cavernous corridors. Clark came bounding from the hall. Brown-Rogers and Merrick Scott raced up from the passageways beneath.

‘ ‘ A dried-up thing—an awful hand —dropped that paper through the window-”



The archeologist snatched it. Written in precise and clearly penned English it bore the words:

Again you are warned to replace the jewels one of you has taken, or tomorrow another will die. The police you expect will not arrive. The Dancing Death.

Laurie coughed and faited. Brown-Rogers sprang to the window. In the compound—nothing, save moonbeams sprinkling through the blossoming foliage of the peepultree.

3. Hie Dancing Death

T he two cameleers were prodded into activity; the three camels were saddled and loaded; Sim Edwards had inspected the water-bags, and sat on the sand going over his guns. From the wash where the camels had been hobbled the captain’s tent could not be seen. The young American sergeant waited, impatient for the start. He looked at his watch. Eleventhirty. Captain Hague was taking his time. Edwards was about to start for the tent when he was surprized to see the crippled desertman appear on the ridge, go bobbing over to his pony, mount and ride away. The pony swept past the camels. The desertman waved. Then pony and rider vanished among the moon-thrown shadows of the dunes.

“That’s funny!” muttered Edwards. “I thought that bird was going to guide us through the town. Wonder why the captain sent him off. Hell of a looking guy, anyway.”

Lighting a cigarette he sat down again. Captain Hague failed to come. Edwards barked at the cameleers to wait ready, and scrambled out of the wash.

Even as he sighted the little tent he knew something was wrong. Heaving shadows danced against the Canvas walls; heaving shadows flung by the lantern on the table within; shadows that waved and ducked and bowed. With a curse on his lips Edwards ran to the tent and whipped aside the flap.

The sweat crawled down his face at what he saw.

Sprawling on his camp-stool, the big police captain was jerking and twitching and kicking like a giant marionette of which every string was being yanked at once. The captain’s body writhed in the grip of spasm. His hands quivered and curled in his lap. His feet rapped the sand and tinkled the pieces of his dropped ginglass. His face was white as paste, eyes staring, lips opening and shutting in voiceless oration.

Sim Edwards’ cry clattered out in the night.

“Cap!” he shrieked, rushing into the tent and clasping the officer’s shoulders. ‘ ‘ Cap! What is it, Cap? ’ ’

The shuddering shoulders stilled under his grip. The twitching features chilled to a set grimace. The mouth snapped shut. The whole body seemed to quiet and collapse. Sim Edwards worked with the sweat streaming down his cheeks. He chafed the officer’s cold hands. He snatched the gin-flask from the camp-table and forced a drink through the captain’s teeth. He tore open the drill tunic and clapped a hand over the captain’s heart. With a horrified start he let the body fall from his clasp. The captain’s heart was not beating. The captain’s hunch had proved correct.

“Dead! What in God’s name will I do now? Died of a stroke—a fit-”

Nonplussed, the American rose from his knees, stared about him, strove to think. Incredible that Captain Hague was dead—had died in the twinkling of a moment—died in the ghastly throes of a convulsive fit. There were the fragments of his drinkipg-glass smashed from his shaking fingers. There was his flask on the camptable. There was the empty cup drained by the little desertman....

Edwards jumped. Pinned to the wall of the tent, just behind the lantern, a ragged sheet of paper was rustling in the breeze. Edwards tore



it from the canvas; held it in the light. Amazement, fear, rage, played successively over his face as he read the words scrawled in English:

Keep away from the forbidden castle. Do not push on. Beware the Dancing Death.

And that was all Sim Edwards, American sergeant of the British Frontier Police, needed to know. A human hand had. dealt death to Captain Hague—a malignant human hand that struck in diabolic fashion and dropped its victim with horrible malady—the withered hand of that malformed dwarf who had fled in the night. Suddenly Edwards remembered the mission to Jelaladore, the legend of the haunted castle where the white party was imprisoned. That was where the dwarf was heading!

Darting from the tent, Edwards fled for the wash. Yelling at his cameleers to wait right there for him until he returned, and on pain of death to keep away from the captain sahib’s tent, he snatched a halter and mounted one of the gaunt beasts. With a shout and a whack at his camel he was rocking off across the desert on the trail to Jelaladore.

4. Vanished!

S im Edwards was no novice at camel-riding. Otherwise he could never have endured the pace he held, for it takes no little experience to stay aboard a fast-galloping camel. Fortunately no recent simoom had obliterated the desert trail, and the ungainly beast raced over the beaten path. Moreover, a moonlight revealed fresh pony-tracks in the sand. Clinging to his jutting saddle-horn, Edwards snarled with delight as he saw the betraying hoof-prints. Automatic in fist, he urged his mount to a frenzied gait.

Past looming sandbanks fantastic in shadow, down smooth slopes, across breeze-swept ridges the trail led. Topping a hilly dune, Edwards caught his first sight of Jelaladore, a twink-

ling huddle of lights clustered at the foot of a line of hills that stood like a motionless caravan against the night sky. And Edwards saw something else—a pony dashing down the trail far ahead.

At the same time the rider ahead sighted him. Edwards saw the flame of the gun stab out in the darkness, heard the moan of a bullet winging past his head and the crackle of the echoing shot. Walloping the shabby rump of his camel, he sent the animal bounding. Fire spouted from the automatic under his fingers. Flametongues streaked the night as, shooting from the saddle, Edwards chased the desertman toward the town. A wild race. The American was gaining slowly, but that creature on the pony could ride. He could shoot, too. Edwards could see him clearly in the moonlight, his sheepskin cloak flagging from his hunched shoulders, his turban streaming. He would swing in his saddle, there would be a flash, and a bullet would croon close to Edwards’ helmet.

Over the sands the riders fled, the low walls of the town drawing ever nearer. Edwards’ gun heated in his hand. But he could not hit the desertman, and the pony gained an archway in the town wall several rods ahead of the camel. Edwards did not halt his chase. Hard on the flying pony-hoofs he held his mount, straight into the seething town. Through a scuttering bazar the mad race wove its way. Natives yowled and scattered like leaves whirling in wind. The American fired with abandon, hoping to drop the fleet pony. The froglike desertman returned shot for shot. Up one lane and down another. Across a crowded marketplace.

A mighty racket rose in the town. Bullets hummed like darting bees. Rioting tribesmen joined battle. In brilliant patches of light and shadow Edwards glimpsed a rolling sea of ducking turbans, the glint of gunbarrels and knives. Squawks, shots,



howls rang in his ears. Dust eddied like smoke under scurrying sandals. Through the milling, frantic mobs Edwards charged his camel, never losing sight of the man he chased. How he ever followed that dwarf through the town was a miracle. Across a maze of alleyways evil with water-holes and stench, down lanes jammed with animals and men, dodging across the town and through the northern gate the dwarf rider fled. And Sim Edwards fled after him. Both had exhausted their ammunition.

The moon rode clear and its wan glow transformed the sandy slope behind the town to a silvered mound and cast strange shadows from the walls of the castle squatting on the hill. Drawing rein at the foot of the slope, the dwarf leapt from the saddle and ran fast as a deer, making for the ruin. Edwards cursed in surprize at the fleetness of the crippled fugitive; dropped from his camel, and followed, running hard. Sand flew from his heels and breath whined from his lungs as he pounded up the slope. The dwarf, bent in grotesque posture, was legging it along the castle wall. Edwards sprinted. He was just in time to see the stooped figure scoot around a comer of the wall, dart across a weedy compound, and plunge into a clump of rhododendrons at the base of a spreading peepul-tree. Recklessly the American followed, scrambling into the thicket. So great was his haste that he flopped headlong into a yawning tunnel-mouth that opened at the roots of the tree.

Sound of footsteps beating a retreat down the Stygian passageway that dropped into the earth brought Edwards leaping to his feet and jumping down a crumbled flight of stone steps to follow. The tunnel was very narrow, low, fusty and choked with dust. Edwards hurried along with outstretched hands blindly feeling over the walls. In the inky darkness he stumbled over roots and slipped on

loose stones. A blow on the head from a jutting point of rock tore off his helmet and warned him to go slowly. Twice he paused to listen. Each time he heard the fugitive just ahead of him, and ran on. It was no fun hustling down that winding, pitch-black hole, but Sim Edwards was driven by fierce desire to get his hands on the throat of the dwarf. Panting, he redoubled his speed. The dwarf could not be far away.

S uddenly the passage took a sharp turn and opened abruptly on a wide, rock-walled cavern mistily lighted by tallow burning in a dish suspended from the low ceiling.- So abruptly did the passage end that Edwards crashed into the wall on the turn, and reeled blindly into the center of the cave. Rubbing his eyes and gasping, he stared about him. At one end of the cavern a deep, circular pit was scooped out of the floor, and in this pit a huge cauldron—a great iron kettle some five feet in diameter and four feet deep—simmered over firecoals and emitted a bilious odor. At the side of the cauldron stood a little wicker basket. But it was not big enough to hold the dwarfed desertman. And the dwarf was nowhere to be seen.

Edwards swore, and rushed about the cavern. In a far corner he found a stack of rifles—two Enfields, a Winchester, an old LePage. Snatching up an Enfield, he continued his hunt— a useless search, for there was absolutely no place where the fugitive could have hidden. He was not in thepit. He was not in the bare cavern. With a cry of surprize Edwards dis- •v covered the sheepskin cloak the dwarf had worn lying against the wall in a shadowy nook.

‘ 1 Thrown off his cloak. So he came

in here after all! Where the-”

Stooping to pick up the cloak, Edwards discovered the crack in the floor.



“Trap-door! So here’s where he escaped! ’ ’

A hand-niche was cut in the stone. Edwards tugged, pulled up a square flag and disclosed a steep flight of steps dropping into the abysmal darkness of a still deeper subterranean tunnel. And someone was down there. Wavering light revealed the approach of someone bearing a lantern.

Drawing away from the trap-door, Edwards crouched in shadow, gun ready, nerves taut. And then, to his complete bafflement, no hunchbacked, ragged dwarf, but a tall, drill-clad man clambered from the hole and stood, lantern in hand, blinking uncertainly in the dusk. When he saw Edwards his jaw dropped, and he sprang back in surprize.

“An Englishman!” he exclaimed. “What? Who-?”

“Hands high!” snapped Edwards. “Put down that lantern, and stand over there against the wall. Where’s the dwarf?”

“Dwarf! What the devil! Who are youf”

“Where’s the dwarf who.escaped down that tunnel? Come on! I followed him in here. That’s the only place he could have gone. Where is he?”

“Why, this is all very astounding! Dwarf? I—why—it must be the same creature who has terrorized the natives and—you are of the police? Thank God! Thank Allah!” The man lapsed into Russian profanity.

Edwards lowered his gun.

“You! Are you one of the party marooned in this castle? Are you one of the men who sent for help?”

“But, yes! Stepan Stepanovitch is my name. The others are in the castle above. I—I have been wandering about in these underground passages for four hours, hunting means of escape. This ground is honeycombed. I—I found this passageway and was just searching it when I saw the light from this door you have opened. I came up the steps. Find this cavern.

Find you here.” He looked about him. “Why! Name of Allah, but there are the guns stolen from us! In that distant eomer, there! What is that pit, and that kettle? How did you get in here? Does that tunnel, there, lead from the town?”

“Listen to me!” interrupted Edwards. “I chased an old hunchback into this cavern. He must have gone down that door. Here’s the cloak he dropped, right here.”

“But no one was down there! I saw no one at all! I was just coming toward those steps as you opened the door-”

“Well, damn me!” Edwards snarled. “This is th’ craziest affair!” He clenched his fist. “I tell you there’s a crippled-up devil came in here, an ’ I chased him right on his heels. A murderin’ little desertman all runted up like a demon. He came in here, an ’ I’m goin ’ to get him! There must be another door leadin’ out of here!’ ’

There was no other door. Search high and low, inspect floor, walls, ceiling, the pit where the cauldron simmered, search as they might, they could find nothing to betray means of escape.

“Someone keeps that fire alive under that stinkin’ kettle,” growled Edwards. “That devil is around here somewheres. ’ ’

Lowering himself into the pit, he peered into the kettle. Nobody eould have hidden in that steaming, bubbling brew. Edwards sickened at the smell of it. Reaching down, he unhooked the eover of the little wicker basket, and hastily shut it again. Spiders! The basket was filled with a writhing, moving mass of hairy legs, black, brown, nauseating. Swearing and ill, Edwards climbed from the pit, and faced the man holding the lantern. Suddenly he was hot, tired, suffocated by the thick air of the cavern.

“You say there are others in the castle above? All right. And those



guns in the comer belong to them? Good enough. I’ll carry them. Everybody in this place is under arrest and going to help hunt for that dwarf. Lead me to your friends. Let’s get out of here.”

As he picked up the rifles and slung them under his arm, he gave a final glance about the cavern. And he had to admit himself utterly confounded. The malformed desertman whom he had chased from the camp south of Jelaladore, on whose heels he had clung through the night-black passage, had disappeared—vanished as easily as did the ghosts of legendry—vanished, and left behind nothing but a ragged sheepskin mantle. Edwards picked up the cloak, studied it. He would hardly have been surprized had it faded from sight. With a baffled oath he flung the cloak from him, and started after the tall man who called himself Stepan Stepanovitch. The ragged garment fell into the pit where the cauldron simmered—an incident worthy of mention; for among the startling events to follow, that ragged sheepskin cloak was to play an important part.

5. An Incredible Story

I n the eery gloom of the eastle arcade they stood, a strange company lined back to the wall. Wavering lantern-flame painted bizarre shadows down the floor. A shaft of moonlight filtered through a casement high in the tower overhead. From the purlieus of the town in the valley rose the banshee wail of wild dogs chorusing. Sim Edwards stood facing the others, talking. His first move, on being led up from the dungeon passages by the Turkoman, had been to call the party together.

“I want to talk with all of you at the same time,” he began grimly, “and see where we start. I’m Sergeant Edwards, British Frontier Police. Which one of you is head of this party?”

The tall, elderly man at the end of

the line stepped forward, and spoke in a quavering voice.

“I am. Merrick Scott of Baltimore. This girl is my daughter Laurie. The gentleman next her is Professor Brown-Rogers of London. Then Curtis Clark, our excavating engineer, and Stepan Stepanovitch

whom you have already met-”

“Good. If the young lady is tired she is free to go.”

Laurie Scott shook her head. “I should like to stay. ’ ’

Edwards nodded. “All right. Now listen. Two days ago your message reached Dera Ismaeel Khan. I did not see it. But Captain Hague, who ordered me out on this trip with him, told me about it.” Edwards explained briefly how they had set out, deciding to camp that night outside of Jelaladore and push on to the castle in the morning. He told of the strange rider who had brought the spurious message for help; of the horrible and inexplicable death of Captain Hague; of the warning written in English and left by the dwarf; of the chase through Jelaladore, the pursuit into the tunnel, the disappearance • of the dwarf, the meeting with Stepanovitch. “That the dwarf was responsible for my captain’s awful death I know. And I know he is hiding somewhere within this castle.” Edwards smacked a fist to a palm. “I’m going to get to the bottom of this murdering business, and you must help me. You’re heading this party, Scott. Will you try to outline your

experience here-”

“We have had a terrible time!” Merrick Scott’s voice was strained with anxiety. Edwards noted that they all looked as if worn by fearful nervous tension. “We have had a frightful five days. Unable to get out of here; harassed and murdered by that—that ghastly thing; waiting here in the heat, in the awful quiet at night....” The old scientist glared about nervously. “ I ’ll tell you. We started from Baltimore,



Laurie and I, to meet Brown-Rogers in London. Our intention was to get up a party to explore this region, hunt records of the lost nomad Ouigur tribes. We knew this region was particularly rich in such lore, and desired mightily to explore this castle. I’m backed by a Baltimore society, and Brown-Rogers is of the London Survey. In London we acquired the services of Curtis Clark and his brother Harry as excavating engineers. Both had worked before in the Egyptian Sudan. In Bombay we were met by Austin Yard, Frank Rossiter, and

Mark Van Lue-’ ’ Merrick Scott’s

voice broke. ‘ ‘ They—they were to come with us. We journeyed across India into the Northwest Province, and obtained governmental permission to enter Afghan territory. We were in Dera Ismaeel Khan for several weeks, then set out for Jelaladore. We arrived at Jelaladore at night and put up at a caravanserai. We were warned by the innkeeper there that it was no time to be in the city, as the Moslims were stirred to fever heat by religious ceremonies. When he found out we were going to the Castle of Addadud Khan he was even more horrified. An old Mohammedan mullah warned us strenuously to go back. I— I thought it was all foolishness. This —Stepan Stepanovitch, here, happened to be in the serai that evening. Overhearing our discussions, he begged the liberty to urge us to depart at once. He told us the legend of the dancing death, and we laughed. Then he volunteered to come with us. As a geologist he would be of great value. We were glad he came. ”

“What were you doing in Jelaladore?’’ interrupted Edwards, turning on the Turkoman.

“I had been there for a month,” Stepanovitch replied. “Came but recently from Samarkand. I know the country well, and the natives. I have been studying rock strata throughout the region.”

“And you warned these people to stay away?”

‘ ‘ Indeed, I entreated them. The legend of the castle is on every tongue. Many natives swear to having seen the ghost of Addadud Khan, and the week before these people arrived at the serai the whole town was terrified by the story of an Afridi tribesman who claimed he had seen the dwarf in the castle compound that night— undoubtedly the same creature you pursued here. It is because of their fear of this place that the tribesmen in the town did not follow you. We have been safe from them as long as we remained within the castle.”

“He warned us, and we thought it was just the usual Oriental voodoo stuff,” admitted Brown-Rogers, wiping his face.

“Nor was I actually convinced,” explained the Turkoman. “Would to Allah I had been! But then I offered to come with them, not a little interested in their project. ’ ’

A bat flitted down from the whispery shadows of the tower, and they all started uneasily. Weird bay of the wild dogs chilled the turbid gloom. Clark sniffled audibly. Edwards brushed drops of sweat from his upper lip, and the rifles slung under his arm felt reassuring.

“We came into the castle next morning,” Merrick Scott went on, “and found it a comfortable place to camp. Our native bearers refused to come with us, all except BrownRogers’ Shinwari boy, Mardo. That day we spent exploring the old place. We found many things of interest. Clark and his brother were to excavate portions of the ruined dungeon. I spent the day with Laurie making notes. Brown-Rogers, Van Lue, Rossiter and Yard and Stepan were exploring the underground passages. Suddenly I discovered that our rifles had disappeared. I was about to step outside the arch opening on the compound when a bullet clipped past me,



and I saw a pair of riflemen on a hill shooting at me. Frightened, I called the party together. Nobody knew what had become of the guns, and we realized they had been stolen. We also realized that we were hemmed in, as there was no other means of exit from the castle than the one guarded. Thank God we had enough food and a supply of wine to drink. We decided to wait the night out, and in the morning try to find out the intention of the Moslim enemy.

"That night the—the first message came. It was almost ridiculous. We —we thought it was a joke. That’s what we thought. Frank Rossiter, one of the students from Bombay, found it near our packs.” The old scientist fumbled in a pocket, drew some crumpled papers, and held them in the lamplight. “There’s the first warning that came.”

Sim Edwards took the extended slip, and frowned as he read it:

Keplace the jewels one of you has found, or tonight one of your party will die. Beware. The Dancing Death.

‘ ‘ That’s the first warning that came, and we thought it was a prank. Each of us accused the other, and then because of Laurie I thought the joke had gone far enough. But nobody would admit it. And not an hour later Mark Van Lue died!” Merrick Scott’s voice fell to a hoarse undertone. “Van Lue died a ghastly death—I swear to God he did. I happened to be at his side before the others. He was jiggling—seemed to have lost muscular control—eyes wide—he—it —it was like Saint Vitus’ dance—a dance, I tell you. Horrible! Terrible! ’ ’

“I had once studied and practised a bit of medicine,” declared BrownRogers, ‘ ‘ and never in my experience had I encountered anything like it. Nor had the rest of us. Poor Van Lue was stricken down and dead inside of ten minutes.”

“And in what manner we could hot tell,” Merrick Scott continued.

“That first night was a frightful night. We were all too much terrified to think. But we could do nothing except wait, and daylight showed the Moslims still watching on the hill. When we appeared in the archway they fired at us again. We were trapped. We—and then came another warning. Here it is. The same as the first. And it caught Frank Rossiter. Rossiter died that second afternoon; and that night, after a third warning, Austin Yard was killed. All in the same manner. You can imagine how terrible it has been! Just sitting here, waiting. The third afternoon I scribbled a message for help, and we prevailed on BrownRogers’ boy to take it. Perhaps the Moslims would let a Shinwari through. The Shinwari made a dash for the gate, signaled, and his fellow tribesmen let him go. I knew the note would fetch police. Another night of waiting. Then this morning a fourth warning came, and about 7 o’clock this evening Harry Clark was struck by the—the dance. All day we have hunted in the underground passages, hoping to find means of escape or trace of the dwarf. Laurie saw the creature the second evening— a mere shadow crossing the compound. But, while we were in the forward dungeons searching—we have buried the victims there—we heard screams. Running up, we found Laurie with another warning. Not five hours ago! An awful hand had dropped it in her window. The last three hours have been frightful. We could not find Stepanovitch—it was necessary to place the last murdered beside the others—and—and thank God you have come! Thank God you found

the rifles! Thank God-’ ’

Exhausted by the long recital, Merrick Scott slipped to his knees. Laurie ran for a bottle of wine. Clark, Brown-Rogers and Stepanovitch crowded about the fainting man. Edwards grabbed up a lantern, and studied the paper slips the old scien520


tist had handed him. All five bore the same message, were scribbled in English by the same hand. Edwards glared at Clark, the excavation engineer; at Brown-Rogers of the London Survey; at Stepanovitch, geologist from Samarkand; at the white face of Merrick Scott.

“My oath on it that someone is playing hand in glove with that old dwarf,” he murmured to himself. “Someone who knows the inside dope. One of this gang found a treasure in here. The bird who’s done all this is making a big play for it. And that dwarf-”

Laurie Scott was crying out. Edwards was at her side in a bound. She had been unpacking a fresh winebottle from the provision kit, and had found the message slipped under a strap. It had been scrawled in haste, and read:

Send the girl to the cavern and the rest of you can go unmolested. Send her at once, or it will mean death to all. Last warning. The Dancing Death.

A breath of oppressive heat sighed out of the desert. Bats streaked in crazy flight across the ceiling of the arcade. From the precincts of the town came the dismal lament of wild dogs mourning at the moon.

6. Ensnared!

L aurie Scott spoke in a low voice. “I’ll go.”

Edwards could not clearly see her face, but he knew from her tone that she was terrified and that she would go.

“No you don’t,” he hushed her. “And don’t let your father hear of this. ’ ’

“I mean it,” she insisted. “We haven’t a chance against this—this death. For the sake of all the others— for the sake of my father I will follow the demand-”

“No!” Edwards dropped a hand on her wrist. It was like ice. “Of course we couldn’t let you.” He

swung around on Brown-Rogers.

‘ ‘ That note was placed there while we were at the other end of the hall. It must have been. The dwarf must have crept out of this back passage. Quick! Do as I say and nothing can hurt you. You, Clark, and you, Brown-Rogers, take a rifle. Miss Scott, you take this one. I’ll keep the LePage. Now you three stay up here with Miss Scott’s father. Don’t leave this hall. Stepanovitch, can you lead me back through those passages to the cavern? Good. I’ll follow you. You take the lantern. We must hurry. We’ll nab that devil this time!”

“Can’t we come?” begged Clark, fingering the rifle.

“I want you two to stay with the girl and her father. He’s done out, and they mustn’t stay alone. If anything comes up, don’t hesitate to shoot. We’ll get out of here as soon as I come back. Come on, Stepanovitch. Make it quick!”

Ducking down the rear corridor, Edwards followed the Turkoman. Down twisty passageways, rank with foul air; along low tunnels where cobwebs hung in veils; through dank dungeons thick with mist and carpeted with century-lain dust. The Turkoman in the lead did not hesitate, and Edwards, trailing with rifle in taut fingers, urged his guide to greater speed.

“We’ll catch that beggar, now. And if he isn’t in the cavern it won’t matter. I want to look into that pit, again.”

Out of breath and sweating when the steps below the trap-door were finally reached, Edwards panted to Stepanovitch: “Wait. I’ll go first. You follow with the lantern.”

His heart was pounding as he slowly shoved up the stone flag. The cavern was dark as a whale-hole, for the tallow in the dish had apparently burned out. Streaks of light from the lantern dropped yellow strips on the cavern ceiling, misted the thick darkness. Edwards poked his rifle into the



gloom as he cautiously crept up the steps. Then he saw the cavern was empty, and he motioned the Turkoman to come up.

The air in the cavern was oppressive, and the lantern flame wavered. Edwards blinked and glared about uncertainly.

“Nothing here,” muttered the Turkoman.

“Wait by the steps,” commanded Edwards. “I want to take a look at what’s in that pit.”

The fire-coals were still burning beneath the big kettle, and as Edwards approached he could hear the gurgle of the bubbling brew, smell the evil aroma of the simmering mess. He was kneeling on the edge of that mysterious pit, bending down to see.

‘ ‘ Stepanovitch, ’ ’ he called. * ‘ Bring the light. ’ ’

Crash! To the clinkle of shattering glass the cavern was plunged into night.

“Help! Allah!” The Turkoman’s cry choked out in the blackness. Edwards heard the shuffle of scuffling boots, the whine of gasping breath. As the lantern smashed he had flung about and to one side. Now he crouched low in that infernal dark, groped his way to the wall, and started crawling toward the racket at the other end of the cave. His hand grew wet on his gun, and sweat wriggled down his cheeks. Something was bumping and banging along the wall. He dared not fire. Tense as strung wire, he waited.

Crack! Slugging out of the pitchblack murk an unseen missile caught Edwards on the forehead, and he crumpled.

A choking gag bound his jaw, and thongs cut flesh where they lashed wrists and ankles. There was no light, and he could not see what he could hear and feel moving near him. For a minute he wondered whether he was blind. Desperately he tried to spit the gag from his teeth, and he was

squirming fiercely when a hand fastened a grip on his collar.

“Lie still,” a whispery voice commanded; and the next minute he was being dragged across the floor.

The hand released him and he sank back on his shoulders. A dull ache surged across his forehead, but his reviving senses were keen. A faint bubbling sound reached his ears; a nauseating aroma drifted to his nostrils, told him he was lying on the edge of the pit. Pain seared his neck as he tried to raise his head, and he could only succeed in turning it to one side. He had guessed aright. He was lying on the rim of the pit. He could just see the coals smoldering beneath the great cauldron, a cluster of hot cinders glowing, throwing a faint, crimson phantom-light on the floor of the pit.

The hidden voice breathed out of the darkness. ‘ 1 So you are conscious. ’ ’

Edwards spat in the gag and fought to loosen the thong binding his wrists.

“Do not struggle,” the voice whispered. “Die peacefully, as befits a sergeant of the British Frontier Police.” The tone was ironic. “Yes, die nicely. The Turkoman is already dead. The others will die. The dancing death claims all who come within the shadow of my castle. All except the girl.”

A maniac, thought Edwards, working at his bonds. Or was it one of those he had left in the castle hall, disguising his voice?

The whispering continued: “I tell you this to make you suffer the more. What a fool you are—American no doubt—who so rashly defies the powers of the East! Ah—to defy the dancing death! The dancing death that hides in that cauldron below you!” A mocking laugh, chill as clinking metal, sent a shudder down Edwards ’ spine. “ Oh ho! A drop, a single drop of that brew in one’s drink—pah!—and that one is waltzing and dancing like a madman. Oh ho!” Edwards felt the hair prickle



on the nape of his neck. “That is the dancing death! Tarantula wine! You had guessed, eh? And now the others all will taste it—all except the girl— and you.”

Edwards was jerked to a sitting posture, slung like a sack of meal over the edge of the pit, let fall to the bottom. Lying there groaning on his back, the bulging side of the hissing cauldron not a yard from his face, heat from the glowing coals smarting his eyes, he was assailed by a horrible thought. He could hear his unseen captor scrambling down beside him and chuckling as he did so. Was the monster going to boil him alive?

“I could drop you into the brew,” the voice whispered on, “but that might spoil it. Might spoil my wine. But I have something better, and slower, than drowning.”

Cold hands fumbled over Edwards’ face, and he was tugged about so that he was farther from the cauldron.

“Good. The better you can see. And the better they can see you, my friend; the better they can see you. ’ ’

There followed a curious rattling sound like the undoing of a hasp. And a hairy black spider scuttled across that square patch of stone lit by fire-glow, circled, darted back into shadow.

“Tarantulas!” hissed the voice. “A nice basket of them. They have not been fed of late. No doubt they will enjoy the company of the police as soon as they find it palatable. And now I go to take a flask of my wine and add it to the drinks of those above. Good-bye, my friend. ’ ’

A match flickered, sheltered by a cupped hand. The shaded flame revealed the wicker basket tipped on its side, cover off, releasing a horde of venomous, black tarantulas. It was not at those lethal spiders that Edwards stared. He stared at the hand holding that flickering match. A gnarled, twisty-fingered, crippled hand it was—the withered hand of the dwarf!

__ The match glimmered out. Edwards could hear his captor clambering from the pit. An appalling silence, broken only by the insidious burbling of the steaming brew, settled in the cavern. Turning on his side, Edwards saw a score of the deadly spiders, like the scattered advance guard of an army, moving with measured, slow insistence toward him, crossing the strip of pit-bottom lit by the phantom-light of the coals glowing beneath the kettle.

7. The Cloak

Plight to the last, that was what he would do—what he had always done. Fight to the last! He stifled the wild grip of panic, the frigid terror that threatened to freeze reason. Instinctively he rolled as far as he could from the oncoming mass of spiders; rolled and writhed and shoved himself across pit-bottom until he brought up against the farther end. And lying there in the pitchdark with a thousand deaths crawling toward him he started a terrific struggle to get loose. His shoulders ached; ankles and wrists went numb; sweat stung his eyes; the gag was choking. He fought until all but exhausted; then lay quiet, thinking. If he could only get near the cauldron and bum the thongs on the smoldering coals! But the floor between him and the dying fire was alive with tarantulas. For a moment he contemplated a wild lunge, an attempt to crush the horrid pack. Impossible—some would be certain to bite him. He shivered violently, and wrenched at his bonds. The swarming horde erept nearer; soon they would be crawling up his boots, over his legs. Edwards lurched to a sitting posture; kicked out with his bound feet. What was that his boots encountered? Flinging himself about, he groped as best he could with his trussed hands. Something soft_ and hairy touched his fingers. He shrieked in his throat as he jerked himself to one side. And then he could have



yelled. He knew what it was he had found. The sheepskin cloak! The ragged cape the dwarf had left behind, that he had found and thrown away.

With a lunge, he pitched himself on to the outspread garment, braced his baek against the pit wall, and shoved himself to his knees. He could take his time now. He could take his time and push that cloak before him across the floor and kneel on that cloak as he burnt the thongs from his wrists. He knew. Every desertman on the border, every caravaneer from the plains of Turkestan to the reaches of Nepal knew. Every nomad knew that the loathsome, black tarantula, dreaded denizen of the steppes, would not come near a sheep or approach a sheepskin. Edwards was saved!

rown-kogers hurried to Merrick Scott’s side. The old scientist was sitting on the floor, head on fists, gaspy moans shuddering beneath his drooping mustache. The lantern-light falling on his face drew deep lines of misery down his cheeks. His hands gestured as he looked up; his voice echoed despair..

“Laurie! Laurie!” was his choked cry. “Laurie! My daughter! Laurie!”

The engineer Clark knelt at the old man’s side. Clark’s face was livid, terrified to mottled pallor.

“Easy,” he groaned. “We’ll find her! I promise it!”

‘ ‘ She’s gone! Laurie’s gone! Oh, my God! ’ ’

Brown-Rogers held a crumpled note to the light.

“Look! I just found this in Laurie’s aleove! See! It had just been dropped through her window from the outside. She found it, and— and-”

Merrick Scott snatched the paper. Clark bent to see, and together they read the scrawl:

The policeman is dead, and so is the Turkoman. The dancing death has failed recovering its treasure, but it will not fail

now. Does the girl want to save her father and the lives of two others? Then she must follow the rear passages to the cavern.

Scott’s bloodless face screwed up in agony. He could utter no word.

“She’s gone,” stammered BrownRogers. “She read it—and has gone —to save us-”

Clark snatched up his rifle.

“ No, by God! She can’t! Listen! I—my brother Harry found those jewels that first day. He hid them. My God! I was afraid to tell—and then—then he died, and-”

Groaning, Merrick Scott covered his face with his hands. Brown-Rogers turned a sweat-glazed countenance on the engineer, snarling: “You dog! You bloody cur! You knew what those warnings meant all the time-”

“No! I was afraid. Harry only told me he had found a treasure here. He did not say where he had hidden it. And after Van Lue was killed we didn’t dare admit! Didn’t dare!” Clark’s voice was shrill.

“Shut up!” barked Brown-Rogers. “Here! Scott’s passed in a faint. Run, you rotter, and fetch some of that wine.”

Dropping his rifle, Clark darted away, returning with a half-filled flask of wine. Brown-Rogers grabbed the bottle, and held it to the colorless lips of the old scientist.

Pang! Smash! Roar of a shot tore the dusk of the arcade, and the bottle in Brown-Rogers’ hand flew to pieces. Crying out, the Englishman whirled around. Framed in the archway that led to the rear corridor, a tall, stooped figure with yellow hair hanging over smoke-blackened face stood with rifle aimed. The rifle was slowly lowered.

“The policeman!” gasped Clark.

The apparition stepped aside, and a girl fled from the gloom; fled to clasp Merrick Scott in her arms.

“Father! Father!”

Edwards—a ghost of the man they had seen before—ran up, panting.



“I had to shoot! Had to! Another second and he’d have had some of that stuff in his mouth! Deadly poison! Tarantula wine! That’s what the others were given. Quick! I was running up from the cavern and bumped into the girl in the passageway below. She was going to the cavern to meet the dwarf! Bring your guns! We ’re goin ’ back to that hole! We’ll get him now!”

8. The Dwarf

I N the impermeable blackness of the cavern they crouched waiting, hands itching on guns, senses alert. Black as coal-tar it was, the hot air fetid with the odor seeping from the pit. All had heard and stiffened to the sound of soft footfalls advancing in the tunnel that led from the compound into the cave. Scarce daring to draw breath, they waited. The sly footfalls sounded nearer, and finally they knew this unseen visitor had reached the cavern.

“Is the girl here?” a voice hissed out of the dark.

Edwards nudged Laurie, and she spoke in low tone: “Yes.”

A match flared and the tallow in the dish hung from the low ceiling sputtered. Dim light flooded the cavern, and the one who had ignited the tallow turned around. The light revealed four men and a girl crouching, guns leveled, in the comer near the trap-door. And the light glowed on the shocked countenance of Stepan Stepanovitch!

Sim Edwards was on the Turkoman with a bound.

_ “So!” he snarled, fastening a traplike hold about Stepanovitch’s wrist. “You! Hand in glove with the dwarf, eh? Where’s the dwarf! ’ ’ Stepanovitch wrenched away. His black eyes flickered. His face turned the color of grass. Words rasped from his teeth.

“What lie is this, you-”

Dynamite might have driven Ed-

wards’ fist. Whipping up from his hip, it caught that tall Turkoman squarely on the point of the jaw. That blow rang! Rang like a hatchet on wood. And an amazing thing happened. The Turkoman reeled back, sagged as if his knees had been cut from under him, staggered. A violent paroxysm sent his hands clawing at the air, face twitching to an incredible grimace. As if his mainspring of muscular control had been snapped by Edwards’ furious blow he tottered backward, arms writhing, legs buckling strangely. Edwards, Laurie, Brown-Rogers, Clark and Scott watched aghast, as the lean Turkoman seemed to collapse and contract and fold up like a trick doll. A mad contortion bent his shoulders out of joint, drew his head down, snapped his arms •to distortion, jerked his legs into crippled malformation. Struggling and weaving about he fell as if stricken by magic into the hideous posture of the dwarf. The next second he had lost balance, tottered to the edge of the pit, rocked on his heels and flopped from sight. His shocking cry was muffled by a splash.

Rushing to the edge of the pit, Sim Edwards was just in time to see the simmering brew in the cauldron close over the twiglike fingers of the contortionist’s knotted hand.

9. Sim Up

r jpiNTED glow of dawn bathed the -dome of the mosque of Alam Gul with warm color, dissolved the evil shadows in the lanes near the Gate of Mohamet Yar Khan, glinted on the gun-barrels of the strange party of white men who had journeyed down from the hill at daybreak and crossed the town. Abdesalam Daood, the mangy dragoman who trailed the white party across town, vowed in truth that the feringhis and their woman would never have gotten that far at night, or had they not carried such powerful rifles. The dragoman also told how the white party had purTHE DANCING DEATH


chased mounts to carry them at the serai, and how pale they were, and how silent: ‘ ‘ Like a vision of corpses —Allah spit on their bones! ’ ’

They were pale and they were silent as they rode that morning out of Jelaladore, protected by the majesty of the British Raj as vested in the military khaki of Sim Edwards’ tunic and the sheen of their guns. Clearly all suffered from the strain of their ghastly experience. Edwards thought Laurie Scott had held up marvelously well for a woman. He

had thought a lot about the girl as she rode along beside him; covertly watched her effort at self-possession, then noticed more banal things like the sunbeams sprinkling through her dark hair. Yes, Sim Edwards had thought a lot about the girl. And he had begun to think, as they turned their mounts to the south where, washed lapis lazuli by the sunrise, the Suleimans marched down the horizon, about how he had come to the Orient to escape romance, and what a fool he had been.

WARNING

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

Hast heard the voices of the fen,

That softly sing a lethal rune

Where reeds have caught the fallen moon—

A song more sweet than conium is,

Or honey-blended cannabis,

To draw the dreaming feet of men On ways where none goes forth again?

Beneath the closely woven grass,

The coiling syrt, more soft and deep Than some divan where lovers sleep,

Is fain of all that wander there;

And arms that glimmer, vague and bare, Beckon within the lone morass Where only dead things dwell and pass.

Beware! the voices float and fall Half-heard, and haply sweet to thee As are the runes of memory And murmurs of a voice foreknown In days when love dwelt not alone:

Beware! for where the voices call,

Slow waters weave thy filthy pall.

THE train, snaking its way through the snowdrifts of the Colorado plains, seemed to Jack Kenshaw to be entirely unheated. He was frozen through. Back a short distance, while the train was stalled, his glow of anticipation at being so near his friends had dulled. He wished he had a drink of whisky. But that would soon he supplied, he mused—trust the old gang for that! He’d been a fool not to send word he was coming. What a rousing welcome there would have been for him! Ten years he’d waited to return, ten years of grinding toil in the mines of Arizona, before he’d struck it rich. It would be great sport surprizing all of them, the Terrible Thirteen, as they’d called themselves in the old days.

They’d be at Pryor’s, or down at Nell’s. He knew their haunts. Queer, how sure one -could feel of certain people, even after a lapse of ten years, even after ten years of silence on both sides. “Wish I were as sure of heaven!” he thought.

There’d be Dan, roaring and funny as ever, booming out poetry in his strong, ringing voice, and lighting cigarettes with twenty-dollar bills in honor of Jack’s homecoming, in honor of their friendship restored. For they had quarreled, Dan and Jack, over Nell, the scarlet woman of the town. “What difference does it make - what she’s done?” Dan had boomed. “It’s what she is that counts. And look at me. I’m not such a prize!” But the quarrel wouldn’t matter now;



Jack knew he’d been right, and Dan would have found it out long ago. How Dan, the superior one in the group, could have taken a woman of that sort seriously, Jack could not understand.

In the midst of these musings, irrelevant pictures, too, flashed into his mind. That time in the saloon in the back of Pryor’s Hotel, when they’d got the German farmer Giesling to tight with his neighbor—what a fight that had been! Curious, that he should remember this now; he hadn’t thought of it in years. Other pictures, quick-flaming, quick-receding, came and went, gay, carefree, full of the spirit of the West, vivid with life and color.

Renshaw was roused from his thoughts by the conductor stopping at his seat. “You—get off here?”-he asked hesitatingly.

“Sure do—it’s my old town!” brightened Jack. Then, as the man did not seem inclined to bestow the praise Jack had expected, he added, *‘Some town, too, believe me!”

The conductor looked at him narrowly. “ Yeh, some town, ’ ’ he agreed, a sardonic glinting look in his eyes.

Jack felt insulted by the tone and manner. ‘ ‘ I ought to know! ” he snapped.

The train was slacking down. He lifted his overcoat from the red plush seat, and slipped it on.

Jack was surprized that no one else was getting off. Instead of the blaze of lights he had somehow expected to see, a heavier darkness descended upon the outside world.

The conductor leaned forward, looking furtively out the window. ‘ 1 Lights off again! ” he muttered. He glanced up at Jack. “How long since you been here?”

“Ten years,” answered Jack coldly. “But it’s the same town, I’ll wager. Nothing could ever change the spirit of this place!”

He snatched his suitcase and made for the door.

“Good luck to you!” remarked the conductor. “Pity you chose this night to come back. ’ ’

Jack did not answer. He was cold with fury and the fact that, in spite of himself, the man’s words roused in him a distinct feeling of apprehension. As he stepped down, the conductor gave the information, “The next train through is the Midnight Flyer. It doesn’t stop here ordinarily, but you can flag it. ’ ’

T he train puffed on, as if in a hurry to leave. It left Renshaw in a darkness that was sinister in its heaviness. It seeped into his veins, chilling him still more. A sickly yellow light flickered from the window of the station house. As he turned at the end of the platform, the wind rushed, shrieking, around the telephone pole that rose like a pale ghost in the blackness.

He pulled the collar up more closely about his neck. He was grateful that in a few minutes he’d reach his friends. Wh^l; an awful thing it would be, left desolate, on a night like this! He set off down the street. He’d stop at Pryor’s, first. A clear vision of his friend Pryor rose before him, warming him. Pryor, the dispenser of joy. Past hilarity in Pryor’s back room cheered him momentarily.

All of a sudden, as if unprepared for, unpremeditated, snow began to fall. There was something uncanny about it. This was too cold a night for snow. It was almost as if the elements were playing a trick on him. It whirled about Jack, and the suddenness of the stinging flakes blinded him. The wind tore at the ends of his long coat, whipping it about his legs. There was a tone of anger in it, a high note of defiance.

The houses he passed were completely black, no sign of light anywhere. But now the sn^w began lighting the way a little, so that he could see. Or was it the snow, giving out this queer half-twilight, this spec528


tral yellowish glow? The trees along the street, though bare of outline, had about them now gray-white veils that draped them into ghostly shapes, from which at the sides protruded angry black arms. A feeling of utter desolation descended upon Jack Renshaw. He resented that there were no lights, wondering, savagely, why the residents did not resort to candles, or lamps. Ten-thirty, and the whole town seemed dead, buried in narcotic sleep. And for Jack’s company, the shrieking wind, which he had always hated. It did things to him, with its skirling claws, and its tearing voice.

A weird, unearthly noise startled him. The air was suddenly surcharged with an insidious, potent atmosphere of lust and brutality. He was brought up rigid, the blood running cold in his veins. The noise grew louder, more insistent. It was like nothing he had ever heard. Rather like the sound one might hear in a nightmare, like the demoniacal screaming of lost souls. He peered down the street, numb with cold and an indefinable terror.

The flakes of snow were coming more thickly now, in fine, stinging sprays. He wiped away clusters of them on his glasses. He peered again, straining his eyesight to see.

A white procession was coming up the street, figures made white from their coat of snow, terrifying in their grotesqueness. Jack bent forward, leaning against a tree, shaken and weak. Who, in the name of the Lord, were these creatures, rising as from a bottomless pit of blackness, to invade the world on some mission of destruction?

There was about the men a distorted dignity; their bodies were knit for action, emanations of lust and brutality issued from them like a heavy fetor. Their eyes were shrouded, their heads lowered, like gnus. Swirling about them, and over them, and clinging tenaciously to them, were veils that gave the impression of windingsheets. Ghoulish, unyielding, bent toward some hideous and awful deed, they aproaehed him.

He tried to call to them, but either they did not hear, or no strength was left in his voice, for they heeded him not. He struggled to continue on his way, but he remained rooted, powerless to move. As they came nearer, he made out guns, belligerently drawn, that the figures were carrying. Their faces, what he could see of them with their shrouded eyes in the sickening yellowish light, were ghastly. With a wild throb at his heart, he recognized something familiar about them. The shape of a head here, a gesture there. Surely—surely that was—Steffins!

He peered eloser, throwing out his hand in an entreating movement. “Steffins!” he cried. But his voice was lost in the unearthly noise issuing from the procession, and his hand fell back limp against him. Steffins passed on, unknowing, his body set toward some determined goal.

T he wind blew *a cloud of white over Jack’s eyes, and as he wiped it off he made out other familiar figures, several of the old devil-may-care gang to which he had belonged, the gang that had been the terror and pride of the city before he left. He called to them, loudly, he thought. There was no answer. He stood, leaning against the tree, held by an intangible, menacing fear. Had the cold numbed his mind as well as his body, he wondered?

How swiftly they sped, almost as if they did not touch the ground! They seemed to expand, to fill all space, then be blotted out again. His eyes hurt from the strain. How long had he stood there, and would he ever again be able to move? Then, as he looked, he was startled out of his benumbed state. For there was Dan, bringing up the rear of the procession, stumbling after the rest with



halting, clumsy, bewildered steps. Jack made a last desperate effort.

“Dan!” he called, using all his voice, and found himself surprized when Dan stopped. ‘ ‘ Dan! ” he cried again, with more assurance, his heart pounding madly.

Dan approached him, still in that uncertain way, one hand brushing his face as if to wipe away a terrible sight.

“What on earth, Dan, what on earth are they doing!” asked Jack, clutching at the arm of his old friend, his eyes fixed on the moving procession.

“Then —you see them, too?” asked Dan, in a hopeless, dead voice, a voice that Jack would never have recognized.

“See them? Good God, Dan, why shouldn’t I see them? What’s wrong with you!”

Under his hand he felt Dan’s arm tremble violently, as if a spasm had passed over his whole body. He looked down, and saw how stooped Dan was, how broken and aged he looked. Pity stabbed through him. He flung one arm about Dan’s shoulders, and turned him away from the fleeing figures.

“Come, old scout, let’s get to the hotel. ’ ’

Jack supported him as they walked on. At the corner near the hotel he spoke, raspingly, “No, not over there, Jack. Let’s go-”

“But I wanted to see Pryor tonight.”

“No, not now. We—we better go down to Nell’s. ” His voice was cut off by a violent fit of coughing.

“But-”

“That’s all right,” said Dan, unsteadily. ‘ ‘ Nell doesn’t hold any grudge.”

“She won out, evidently.” Jack could not repress the words.

“Yes, she won out,” Dan answered.

They walked in silence through the main section of the city, out to the far edge of town, where Nell’s bungalow

w. T_3

stood. Jack remembered it as cleanly painted, with green, cool shutters, and always at night merry voices ringing from behind closed doors.... At Dan’s knock, a disheveled, wearylooking woman, the shadow of the former Nell, opened the door. All her attention was instantly centered on Dan.

“You came back!” she cried, putting her hands up to his shoulders. “How are you, Dan? How do you

feel?”

“Here’s Jack Renshaw,” he answered.

She looked at Jack as though her mind were not on him. Her face assumed an expression of apathy. She started to withdraw.

“Won’t—won’t you shake hands with me, Nell?” Jack asked.

“Sure.” She held out a thin, blueveined hand. “What did you come back for?” she asked then, suspiciously-

“Why, to see all of you, but from-”

‘ ‘ Bring us a whisky, ’ ’ Dan choked, sinking into a dilapidated chair, staring out from empty eyes at the bleak room.

Jack looked quickly at him, and saw how warped 5 and yellow his face was, how withered and sunken the eyes that had been so gay.

Nell moved about eagerly waiting on him, getting glasses, pouring out whisky with hands that trembled.

“You should have stayed where you were—you shouldn’t have come back,” she said to Jack, sullenly, as she handed him the drink.

“Nell, what’s the matter? What’s come over you two? What’s come over the whole—dam town?” he asked, quivering with foreboding.

She started to reply, and Dan said, quickly, “You go to your room, Nell. I want to talk—to Jack.”

“You—you’re not going to—to tell him?” Her voice, cracked, falsetto, quavered.

“Go on out,” said Dan.



Her skirts trailed over the bare floor as she made for her room. She turned at the door - with a last beseeching look at Dan. Her hair stuck out, wispy and tousled, about her forehead. Then her eyes lighted with a look of eloquent devotion, suffusing her whole face. At that instant she reminded Jack of the old Nell, only that the loveliness which now touched her was softened, less arrogant, more of the spirit. The bleak room brightened momentarily.

“You’ll call me—if you need me, Dan?” she asked humbly.

“All right, Nell,” he answered.

Something in the quality of his voice caused Jack to look up, searchingly, and it seemed to him that Dan had responded to her.

“Good Lord,” he thought, “he’s still in love with— that.”

When the door had closed behind her, Jack turned. “Now then, whatever it is, tell me quickly! I can’t stand this much longer.”

D an put his hands to his throat as if choking, half pulled the kerchief from his neck. The flickering gaslight fell over him, and Jack felt, with an inner divination,, the terrific struggle he was going through. Dan fumblingly adjusted the kerchief again, his shoulders hunched over with the fit of coughing that shook him.

“You’re sick, Dan. You’re all in. Here, drink this whisky. ’ ’

Dan gulped down the whisky that Jack handed him.

“Don’t tell it, Dan—if-”

“It’s got to be told,” Dan answered, and with a violent effort began his story.

“You remember, Jack, how we were—in the old days. How we used to run things. The Terrible Thirteen. Went about like knights of old, righting wrongs, and all that sort of thing. Caroused about, but when anything struck us as wrong, we took things—into our own hands. Re-

member how I used to joke about the slogan, ‘Live clean, right wrong, follow the Christ, the King’? Only I thought myself the king to be followed! That’s what—I really meant by it-”

“Rats!” said Jack. “You were always-”

“You remember Giesling, the German farmer two miles north of town? ’ ’ Dan spoke thickly, the words coming out in mumbled syllables. Jack had a fleeting vision of the arrogant Dan he’d known, lighting cigarettes with twenty-dollar bills, hating anything underhanded, gambling cleanly, running the others. This was but the caricature of the man he had been.

“Giesling? Why, yes, I thought tonight of that fight we staged between him and Sharpner. He was always fussing with his neighbor over the water rights-”

“That’s the one,” Dan interrupted. “Ten years ago tonight is—when it happened. You’d been gone—only a short time. It was a stormy night like this—with a stiff norther blowing across the plains. Enough to chill your bones. Giesling and his wife were getting ready for bed. There was a queer sound at the door. They thought at first it was a rat gnawing somewhere. It kept on, scratching— fumbling. Giesling went to the door —opened it. There stood a stranger. He was—chilled through—had been wandering about for days. His clothing was thin and frayed. His eyes were wild, peculiar-”

Dan stopped, drank more whisky, went on in a stronger voice.

“He asked for food and shelter. Giesling, you remember, wouldn’t take a sick dog in—didn’t believe in feeding tramps. Not much like Nell, eh? Remember her gathering in- the stray cats, and feeding them? Oh, well. ’ ’ He stared ahead for a moment, a softened expression passing over his face. ‘ ‘ Giesling told the tramp to get out. The man got down on his knees,



tried to worm his way into the house. ‘Hungry—hungry—hungry,’ he kept saying. He begged, in the name of Christ, to come in. A starved, shivering animal he was, with barely enough on—to cover him. He cried, and the tears froze on his face. Giesling’s wife fought for him; she wanted to take him in—and feed him. He wouldn’t let her, but finally—he said the stranger could sleep in the stable. They went to bed, and he kept nagging at her, saying that if anything happened she’d be to blame. He kept on worrying for fear the tramp would set set fire to the bam. ‘I ought to’ve sent him over to Sharpner’s,’ he said. ‘As if he would do anything for him!’ his wife answered. There was a flare of light—on their window, and he jumped out of bed. The haystack was on fire. Giesling cursed, got into his clothes. He was so furious, his wife thought he would leap at her. He rushed down to the fire. She waited.... He didn’t come back-”

There was a pause, and as Jack leaned forward, he noticed Dan’s face contorted out of all semblance to his former self.

“Go on,’’ he urged. “He didn’t come back?’’

“She waited for some time, more afraid of her husband than of the stranger. Then she put some clothes on—and went down-’ ’

“Well?” questioned Jack, breathless.

“Giesling lay sprawled on the ground, the stranger over him—his face at Giesling’s throat.... She screamed, and the tramp got up— blood around his mouth. ‘Warm,’he said, smiling at her, ‘warm.’ ”

‘ ‘ Good God! ’ ’ breathed Jack. ‘ ‘ He —he-”

‘ ‘ He held a pocket-knife, dripping, in his hand. Giesling—was dead. His wife ran back to the house. She tried to reach town—by telephone, but the storm had played the devil with the wires. She ran all the way in, through that blizzard. The news

spread like wildfire through the city. Some of the gang—were at Pryor’s— some at their homes-”

“You mean —our gang?”

“It was work for them, don’t you see? All the more because they’d always hated Giesling. I was down here —at Nell’s. The boys came here-”

He struggled with his breath, his face like crumpled dusty paper. Desperately he seized the bottle on the table and drank great drafts. Some color ran into his cheeks.

“You know how gay we were—how quick to settle things. The gang came for me-”

“Well? You went, I hope?”

“Nell begged for the man. ‘Give him a chance,’ she said. ‘You’ve got to give him a chance! You’re in no condition to judge anybody! ’ she told us.”

“You mean you let her interfere? You let her tell you what to do? 1 ” Jack’s voice was full of contempt.

Dan did not answer the question, but went on:

“'"pHE mob got to Giesling’s too late.

A The sheriff had beat them to it. He had put the prisoner in the ramshackle jail here, until he could get him out to the next town. You can imagine how wild the boys were, how hell-bent that he should not be smuggled out. Here was their kind of a case! There were no two ways about an affair like this!”

“I should think not!” Jack flared.

“You can imagine how their lust grew as they marched back to town, and through the street to the jail. They overpowered the sheriff and deputies. The lights were out, and they lit matches to see. The prisoner blew them out. He talked some strange jargon they didn’t understand. He laughed at them as they were breaking the bars of his cell— laughed in a queer, demented way, as though he had a good joke on them. They lost their reason, or what was left of it. They dragged him over to



the telephone pole at the depot, twelve men against one, and the storm beating around them—beating and shrieking and swirling around them— twelve beasts, out for blood....”

'‘Good for them!” Jack broke forth. “They weren't cowards!” he added, his voice like brittle glass.

“Pryor was close to the stranger, - and he noticed the stain—around his mouth He struck him on the mouth —you remember Pryor's fists? Huge, iron fists. The stranger fell b&ek against Steffins; Steffins caught him and set him on his feet. His lips were bleeding. ‘ Have you no heart?' he cried, with tears rolling out of his eyes. And Steffins answered, 'I’ll eut yours out of your miserable body.’ Would have done it, too, only the mob wasn't going to be cheated. The stranger started to laugh again, this time softly—a purring sound that made your brain reel. The ringleader grabbed him and shook him. ‘ Have you anything to say?' he asked, and the prisoner answered, ‘ The Lord will reward you men. ’ The wild look was gone from his eyes. The ringleader gave the order for the noose to be slipped over his head. Then the man began, in the quietest voice—to say— the Lord’s prayer. ‘Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name; Thy kingdom come-’ The ring-

leader pulled the rope- and up he swung. They might have let him finish the prayer—might have let him

finish-” Dan’s voice droned on,

over and over.

“As though that made any difference!” cried Jack. “He deserved what he got, if anyone ever did. I’m glad they didn’t weaken—I'm proud of them. Wish to God I'd been there. He was just clever, thinking to play-”

“The next day the sheriff cut him down, and found a number inside Ms vest,” Dan went on, regardless of the interruption. He was an escaped lunatic-”

“My God!” whispered Jack. A

palpable silence fell, while Jack saw, vividly before him, the lonely, demented creature driven by the storm, driven to his death by the angry mob. “Not—not responsible for his deed. Hungry—to the point of drinking —no clothing, no food—wandering for days.... And who is to know what deviltry that bull-headed German played on Mm before he finally killed-”

“He didn’t kill Giesling,” Dan eut in, in a throttled voice. “Sharpner, dying, confessed two years later. He had turned the stranger out, himself, before he’d sent Mm over to Giesling’s. Then he followed him, and carried out Ms diabolical seheme. He set fire to the haystack, and when the German rushed out, as he expected him to, Sharpner killed him. He gave the knife to the stranger, and said, ‘You’re hungry. Well, drink thisf’ The stranger did as he was told. Then Sharpner sneaked back to his home.”

Jack sat immovable, immersed in the tragedy as it poured from Dan’s lips.

“The gang never confessed,” he continued, each word an effort. ‘ ‘ The officers eould get nothing on them. You see they had covered their eyes.... No, they never confessed.... And though people suspected, they didn’t know definitely, at least not at first. As time went on, things got from bad to worse. Pryor was the first to go.... Something happened to his mouth—his teeth fell out —he couldn’t speak for months before he died-”

A low moan of pain escaped from Jack. The clock on the mantel above his head ticked on, as though it were taking him toward some definite, relentless end.

*' Steffins—was the next. A traingot him. I never could see—how his heart—could be wrenched— from-”

“Oh God!” cried Jack, shuddering away from the picture.



“You can guess what it did to the rest,” Dan’s voice, thickening, strangling, went on. “They slunk about, expecting the worst—more

dead than alive. It got them all-”

“All, Dan, every one of them?” It was a cry, twisted fearfully from Jack.

“And they never confessed—none ever confessed. A sort of pledge among them, a flimsy garment of bravado worn by each. The ringleader is left—the one who pulled the rope—left him dangling with his

breath cut off-”

Jack jerked himself back to a semblance of normalcy by a violent effort of his will. “What really got them,” he said, trying to speak evenly, “was fear. And it’s got you, Dan, brooding over their fate. We can’t help them by that; but you—we’ve got to think of you! Thank God Nell did keep you from going that night! Thank God for that!”

Dan seemed not to hear. He glanced fearfully up at the clock. It was fifteen minutes of 12. “What hurts the most} Jack, is what we did to the town. If we had only stopped to think! We should have known he was—demented. Anybody would have known it, from what he’d done. Gloom hanging over the whole city now. Throughout the valley we’re called the City of Lost Souls. Every —anniversary of that night they gather—a few more each year, as you saw them tonight. At midnight— they gather around the telephone pole. They adjust the rope, but the man who swung is—missing. I’ve seen it every year. No rest... no rest for them... no rest for the town. I

thought by confessing-”

Jack leaned forward, clutching at Dan’s shoulder. ‘' Then—you did go? You were with them?”

Dan looked again at the clock. “I? Why, yes, I-”

Jack stifled the cry that rose to his lips. He found his voice, but it did not seem to be his voice at all.

“You’re—sick with brooding, Dan. We’ll go to Arizona. We’ll get out at once-”

Dan did not notice, but went on, “You see this room, stripped? Remember how it used to look? Everything rich and fine, with the gifts the boys gave Nell. She’s been taking care of me—the whole town’s shunned us—guessed it, after a while. She never went back on me-”

“No, she wouldn’t,” said Jack soberly.

‘ ‘ I thought by confessing-”

“You’ll have to buck up,” Jack spoke sharply. “You’re killing yourself with this superstition, Dan. It’s —not like you. There’s still time. You come with me tonight on the Midnight Flyer-”

Dan started to laugh. Hideous, strangled laughing. “The Midnight Flyer!” He choked over the words. Then he glanced up at Jack out of his faded, dead eyes. He pulled off the kerchief that bound his neck, bared his throat for Jack to see. Jack shrank away, appalled and unbelieving, before the sight.

“You see, I pulled the rope.”

He stood up, and in a queer, strangled voice began mumbling something unintelligible. It filled Jack with a sense of impending doom. What was it—a prayer? Was Dan praying? Then, suddenly, as if the breath were jerked out of him, he doubled over and fell with a muffled, gasping cry, to the floor.

Jack leaped up, but before he could reach him, Nell entered and rushed to Dan’s side. She lifted his head. It sagged against her breast. Over her desolate face passed a look of utter peace.

She looked up at Jack for an instant, and then flamed passionately, “Don’t ever tell—what he said, tonight. I’ll not have it known. Leave me—with my ”

The last word was lost to Jack, as she bent crooning over the inert body, cradling it to her heart.



T he Midnight Flyer slowed down at Jack’s signal. He boarded it. The conductor was leaning against a window. He looked up, curiously inspecting the passenger.

“See anything?” he asked. “Out there—around the telephone pole? ’ ’ Jack bent forward to look. The

wind had died down. Snow was falling quietly, clean and white, coming down softly in gteat white wings, as if to cleanse the town forever from even the memory of scars.

‘ ‘ Queer, ’ ’ said the conductor, as the train ground on, “I could have sworn this was the night. ’ ’

2 HARLOW THE PHCENIX

THE earliest description we have of that wonderful bird which has given its name to insurance companies and other business, to clubs and what not, which has bequeathed to orators and writers that time-worn expression, “arising, phcenixlike, from its ashes,” is in Herodotus (484-424 B. C.). He says that every 500 years the bird appeared, coming from Arabia to Heliopolis, Egypt, bringing its father embalmed in a ball of myrrh, and buried him in the Temple of the Sun. The phcenix was described to Herodotus as having red and golden plumage and closely resembling an eagle in size and shape. It is this conception of it which is generally used in emblematic designs.

Pliny says that there is only one phoenix at a time, and that at the end of his long life he builds a nest of cassia and frankincense, in which he dies; from the body comes a worm which grows into the young phoenix. Tacitus claims that the young bird lays its father on the altar in Heliopolis and burns him there.

The commonest conception is that of the Physiologus, a collection of early Christian legends, in which the phcenix is said to be an Indian bird subsisting on air, who, at the end of 500 years, loads himself with spices, flies to Heliopolis, enters the Temple and is burned to ashes on the altar. From the ashes arises' the young phcenix, which by the next day is feathered. On the third day, fully grown, he salutes the priest and flies back toward India. The period at which he appears is usually given as 500 years, though other writers go as high as 1,461 or even 7,006 years.

Taeitus says the bird first appeared under Sesostris (a legendary Egyptian king), then about 550 B. C., then about 225 B. C., and then in 34 A. D„ though many questioned whether this last one was a real phce-.nix, as it came too soon. The phcenix shown in Rome in 47 A. D. was generally admitted to be an imposture. Ezechiel, a Jewish writer, and others speak of the sweet song of the phcenix, which was said to accompany the rising of the sun.

the

“The best and ultimate test of the ability of man to live long beyond his present allotted score of years would be to have a man, from his babyhood up, live in what practically would be a sterilized test-tube. He would breathe sterilized air. He would eat sterilized food. He would drink sterilized liquids. He would thus be placed as far as humanly possible beyond the range of the myriad microbes that in many ways are the enemies of man and that bring about many of his ailments. Such a man, growing and living under special conditions, might live to be 200.” —Sir Ronald Ross.

SIR RONALD ROSS, great scientist though yon were, and dead though you have been these hundred and twenty-five years, I lay a curse upon you for those words.

I, Columbus Norton, the Incubator

Man, am that creature Sir Ronald foretold, and I have lived a life of blackest hell that humanity might view me dispassionately through the gigantic glass test-tube wherein I have existed for one hundred and fifty years, and learn how to increase the length of life of the worthless race thereby.

My father, Dr. Philip Norton, lived in what was then Newark, New Jersey, and enjoyed a nation-wide reputation as a specialist in germ diseases. He loved germs. He dreamed of germs. His whole life was filled with germ culture and the new and strange diseases he had discovered or had



learned to check. In fact, he had almost ceased to be human.

Then, in 1927 A. D., as time was reckoned in those days, he read an interview which Sir Ronald Ross, discoverer of the malaria microbe, had given to a newspaper reporter in what must have been an unguarded moment. This interview suggested to my father the idea of growing a man under glass, so to speak—I am the result!

The idea of growing a man in an absolutely healthful environment fastened upon the mind of my father like one of the diseases whose master he was. It made him give up all his other work so that he might devote his time to that one plan. It made him send me, his as yet unborn son, into the most pitiful slavery man has ever suffered.

I have read how it all was done. Dr. Norton constructed an air-tight glass chamber approximately three hundred feet square and twenty feet high. He equipped it with heating and cooling devices of the latest type, and fitted it with gymnastie apparatus, comfortable lodgings, a magnificent library and a swimming-pool.

The glass used was of the then new type which permitted the passage of ultra-violet rays. By the use of temperature-regulating devices an ideal outdoor climate of exactly even temperature was assured, winter and summer. He installed filtration plants for the air and water to be used, and an air-tight chamber by which food and other necessary articles could be passed into the enclosure without the slightest danger of any germ life entering with it.

When I was bom, I was whisked immediately into this prison. While I was an infant a white-clad nurse cared for me. She wore rubber gloves and a respirator so that her touch could not contaminate me nor her breath mingle with mine.

I have often wondered what sort of wotnan my mother must have been to

allow her son to be snatched from her so easily. According to the books I have read (which, by the way, have given me almost my only knowledge of the outside world), mother love is not expressed so. Perhaps she also had given her life to science, or did not realize what she had done. I never found out. She died before I learned to talk.

During my childhood the imprisonment wasn’t so bad. I knew nothing else. As I became able to care for myself, the nurse withdrew. After that I had contact with the outer world only through loud-speaking telephones which my father had installed and through the books and cinema films slipped through the fumigation chamber into my cell.

The best teachers were procured for me; the best of books and apparatus provided. The most perfect care was taken of my health. Living under such ideal conditions, I progressed in my studies with amazing rapidity, soon outstripping my teachers. At the age of twelve I passed the Harvard University entrance examinations, and in my sixteenth year was granted a Ph. D. degree. Yes, Dr. Norton had cause to be proud of his experiment.

I remember him well—a man with a stem, handsome face, who sat outside my cage, day after day, taking endless notes and talking pleasantly with me, yet watching my every reaction as though I were a guinea-pig.

He induced me to study medicine, and I made rapid progress, until we ran into the difficulty that live animal tissues could not be introduced into the chamber for fear of bringing disease germs with them. So, to this day, my knowledge of medical science is purely academic.

Oh, don’t think I never rebelled! I did, bitterly; but my sense of duty, which had been fostered by my father in his many talks with me, conquered my rebellion. Dr. Norton continually pointed out the great service I was



doing to humanity—that through me and through him the world was learning to control itself, and to live sanely and keep healthy and live long.

The only time I ever saw my father angry was when, in a fit of boyish rage, I threatened to smash the glass and escape. His face turned white as marble. He stood, trembling with passion, hands clenched above his head, like some prophet of old about to hurl imprecations upon sinners.

“Boy,” he thundered, “you hold the future of humanity in that club which you have in your hands. Mankind must live longer to become wise enough to conquer his environment. Shatter that glass, and man’s future collapses into the dust with it. Aye, and if there is a hell, your soul will be consigned to the deepest pit.”

What could a mere child do against the force of such a personality? I crept away trembling and never after that dared oppose his wishes.

His prophecy soon proved itself correct. The human race entered a new cycle' as the result of dietary truths which I exemplified. Dr. Norton proved that a purely vegetable diet was more healthful for the human animal; that certain combinations of foods were poisonous while others were beneficial; that toxic substances in the blood will kill a man as surely as strychnin; that under right conditions of living, human machinery is little subject to breakage or deterioration—in short, during the first thirty years of my life, preventive medicine was advanced to such an extent that the average expectancy of human life jumped from 55.3 to 68 years.

O ne thing my father had not counted upon was the fact that I would become a man, with a man’s dreams of love and fair women. And by the time I reached maturity there was no help for the matter. He regretted again and again that he had not also placed a girl baby in the chamber.

It was too late for that by the time he realized the desirability of such an experiment. I believe I hastened the day of his death by refusing to allow him to place a newly bom girl in the chamber, even then, so that she might grow to maturity under the same ideal conditions, and perhaps, years later, become my mate. He must have been a soulless monster, even to think of such a scheme—and yet—and yet I loved him and while he lived did not greatly mind my confinement.

I slept eight hours daily, studied eight hours and played eight hqurs. The best books, cinemas and apparatus were provided for my research work. By the time I was fifty I can unhesitatingly say that I knew more than any one man in the world.

I was well developed physically also, in spite of the restricted space in which I lived, for my father had always impressed upon me the fact that a healthy body makes a healthy mind. I know that I must have been, even then, a splendid specimen of manhood, for I could not help but hear, through my loud speakers, the comments of the people who by this time were flocking from the ends of the earth to see me.

It was a strange thing to see my father and the other members of his establishment growing old, while I remained at the peak of my vitality. It has become a common thing to me since then, but the knowledge that death was stalking those outside, while I escaped unscathed, was at the time inexpressibly sad.

My father died when I was near fifty years old. With my consent he willed his laboratories and my glass cubicle to the government, with the understanding that I was to be carefully guarded and tended. His last ■words to me were: “Carry on, boy. Some day, through you, this silly thing that I am about to do won’t be necessary. ’ ’

With his passing my last real contact with the outside world was broWEIRD TALES

ken. I never could grow attached to the vapid guards and caretakers who took his place, or the obsequious officials w r ho periodically came to refresh their shallow minds with my learning and advice.

For this reason the thing I am about to do no longer seems wrong to me. I have spent my life in the service of humanity. Men live longer and are, perhaps, somewhat wiser, but I often wonder, now, whether the sacrifice was worth while. At least, in a few hours I shall know whether the world is worth saving. My only wonder is that I have waited thus long.

But to return to my story. As the years passed I confined myself more and more to my studies, and ignored the crowds that gathered outside the walls of my cage to look and admire. I can truthfully say that my scientific treatises, written here, have been the wonder of the world. It was I who first explained the true time and space equation, and showed that Einstein, handicaped as he was by lack of equipment and the faulty work of his predecessors, had only half glimpsed the truth in his theory that space is subject to curvature. But enough of such nonsense.

It was when I was seventy-three years old, in the year 2000 A. D., or the year One, Free Time, that the Ruskinite rebellion broke out in the United Americas. There must have been some atavistic streak in me, for I sympathized heartily with those poor, benighted Ruskinites who dreamed of a breakdown of the gigantic monster of Science that mankind, like a Frankenstein, is building up about him, and who tried to smash it and return to the simple agricultural life of their forefathers.

Of course the outbreak was doomed to failure from the start, though streets of the country ran blood for a few bitter weeks. The very science which they hated subdued them. How could disciples of Ruskin stoop to heat rays, poison gases and atomic

bombs? They perished fighting to the last, but I know that for weeks government troops guarded my chamber as though it were a precious jewel. Sad would have been my lot, I am sure, could the Ruskinites have eaptured my cubicle. I know that I, who was at heart their best friend, was hated by them as the heart and soul of the scientific system.

I will skip over the next seventyfive years of my life with but a few words. Strange—three-quarters of a century—time enough for most men to live a full life and die content. For me they passed in a dreary succession, enlightened only by my studies and my dreams. As I look back, I conceive myself as a being almost in a state of hibernation, waiting for the vital spark which would awaken me.

In me metabolism and catabolism seemed exactly balanced. After my thirty-fifth year, I grew no older physically. I never was sick. I was amply confirming that prediction of Sir Ronald, made so long ago. My only regret was that my father could not have lived to appreciate his triumph—a triumph which had turned dust in my mouth ages ago, and which seemed no more remarkable than those silly experiments by which early Twentieth Century doctors were able to keep chicken hearts alive indefinitely in a sterile medium.

I devoted myself to study as before, until I conceived that I had in my one head the whole sum of human knowledge. I gave out that knowledge to the world until it drew so far ahead of present understanding that scientists could no longer comprehend it. Oh, the silly fools! With so much to do, man dawdles by the way like a lazy schoolboy. Well, soon now they must begin working out their own salvation.

A nd now I draw near the end of my story. As I said, I had conceived that on my one hundred and fiftieth birthday I held in my brain



the sum of human knowledge, together with much that was beyond the comprehension of any but myself. Savants from all the world consulted me regarding knotty problems of science and government. I might add, also, that the present expectancy of life is eighty years.

Yet how little we know, poor things that humans are! My complacency lies in ruins about me. A whole new set of complexes and speculations has been released within me. Three days ago, while resting on the lawn outside my quarters, I was struck by something totally outside my experience. As I lay there a shadow fell on the grass and I looked up at a girl who stood not ten feet away from me on the other side of the glass barrier.

“Good morning,” I said inanely, knowing that the telephones would make me perfectly audible outside the enclosure.

She nodded slightly and continued to look at me with wide, luminous eyes, in which.there was, I somehow felt, an infinite sadness.

She was a beautiful thing—beautiful with the glory which perfect health and well-being give to our modem girls. Her eyes were dark and soft, with that slightly oblong slant which is giving more and more of an Oriental appearance to the people of America.

Her body was a thing, to dream of as it was revealed by the short kilt and embroidered band across the breasts, which is the fashion of today. Her feet, in little, gold-tipped sandals, were high-arched and sentient. Her hair was the color of gold taken from Inca mines—but I perceive I grow ridiculous.

“Did you wish to consult me?” I asked foolishly, growing uncomfortable under that steady gaze.

Again she shook her head, but added, in a voice that tinkled silver music: “Why should I wish to consult you?”

And strangely, I could think of no

reply. What could I tell that radiant being that she did not already know?

“Your name?” I ventured.

“Why,” she answered, as though surprized that it could be of the slightest interest to me, “I’m Lilith Hughes, 3684.”

“Of the National Theater,” I exclaimed, interpreting the last two figures. ‘ ‘ Of course you would be. ’ ’

She smiled faintly. “Thank you.” A pause followed. “I must be going,” she said at last. “Performance in San Francisco, you know'.”

And then I said a strange thing. The words seemed to form themselves without my volition. ‘ ‘ Can’t you stay and talk with me a little longer?” I pleaded. “ It’s lonely here. ’ ’

Again she smiled that slow, enchanting smile of hers. “Can’t. I’m sorry. The Torpedo doesn’t wait, you know. And then you have your work to do.” Her voice sank to the faintest murmur, which she did not realize I could hear plainly through the amplifiers. “You have your work to do—poor thing!”

When I looked up, she was gone.

The hell of one hundred and fifty years of loneliness has been nothing to the hell of the last three days!

Last night I made up my mind to leave all this. Humanity must take care of itself. To be perfectly frank: to hell with humanity; I want out of this.

I am a man, sound and strong and well-favored. I look and feel and think like one of thirty-five and I—am in love. Strange that such a primal urge, which I had considered merely a trick of nature’s to prolong the race, should sweep me away at last!

I am going to seal this statement of my case in an envelope, so that if anything happens to me in this strange world I am about to explore, people will understand why I have done this. Tonight I’ll smash this cursed glass and go in search of Lilith. Pretty name—Lilith.



THE foregoing manuscript, carefully typed and sealed, was found on the body of Columbus Norton, the Incubator Man, who died of an almost unknown disease—the measles—two days after he broke out of his sealed chamber.

Attendants at B. Hospital, where he was taken, say that because of his long stay in an absolutely germless atmosphere he had failed to develop any resistance to disease and was 100

per cent susceptible to the first microbe which found lodgment in his body. He died a very few hours after being brought to the hospital.

Evidently he had spent his time, until the disease struck him, in becoming acquainted with a world whose ways he knew only by hearsay. At least there is no evidence that he ever took the San Francisco Torpedo, as the manuscript implies was his purpose.

Or Black Sarah

By BERNARD AUSTIN DWYER

01 ’ Black Sarah come up outen de groun ’—

Go ’way, Black Sarah! go ’way!

Don’ yo’ heah de yelp o’ dat oP black houn’t Ooh! go ’way! Black Sarah, go ’way!

Fotch in de chilluns—shet de do’—

Go ’way, Black Sarah! go ’way!

Snack up de shutters—Ah heah her fo’ sho’—

Ooh! go ’way! Black Sarah, go 'way!

De screech-owl screech—de moon am dim—

Go ’way, Black Sarah! go ’way!

De bat fly ovah de hick’ry limb—

Ooh! go ’way! Black Sarah, go ’way!

Her teef am sharp—her lips blood-red—

Go ’way, Black Sarah! go ’way!

Her eyes am white, turn back in her head!

Ooh! go ’way! Black Sarah, go ’way!

OP Sarah was a voodoo—long ago!—

Go ’way, Black Sarah! go ’way!

De pickaninny’s bone an’ de mistletoe—

Ooh! go ’way! Black Sarah, go ’way!

When de ol’ houn’ bark—de moon jus’ gleams—

Go ’way! Black Sarah, go ’way!

OP Sarah’s face fill de darkies’ dreams—

Ooh! go ’way! Black Sarah, go ’way!

INVIJ1

THREAD

kyARTHURJ BURKf

"Epiphane crumpled up with a gurgling moan.”

The Story Thus Far

Abbott, answering a want ad, enters the serviee “■ of Epiph»m5, who employs two young men, Hoffman and Dietz, as agents to redress wrongs. While they sleep, he sends their sonls out to bring retribution. The visitation of Dietz’s spirit to the iron magnate. Shaman, brings about Shuman’s confession that he had murdered his daughter Corah and Shuman then commits suicide. Abbott, visiting the courtroom where the millionaire Goetsche is trying to divorce his wife by perjured testimony, sees Goetsche brought ta his senses by the visitation of Hoffman’s spirit.


PIPHANE had promised me another step that would be taken this very night. I was anxious to take this step. His work had seized my imagination, and I gasped as I tried to visualize the limits to what might be accomplished through the medium of what Epiphane called his new science. The limits were only outermost fringes of

the vast world of written and unwritten crime—crimes that had been docketed for years in the brains of criminals who were known to the world as pillars of the church and society and who would go to the grave with their secrets locked tight within their breasts. Would Epiphane turn his attention to these? Or would he let sleeping dogs lie? We are all criminals at one time or another, with varying differences in degree, and there are few of us who do not feel stirrings of conscience when a person faces judgment for doing something that causes us to recall certain closed chapters in our own lives. Who may assign the boundary line between these two classes, the known and the unknown? Who may say of this one, “Get thee from me, raca, and give <541

This story begun in WEIRD TALES for September



thyself to the hangman!” or to this one, “Go thou and sin no more, for who am I to judge thee! ’ ’

Judge not that ye be not judged.

But I digress. At this time I was concerned only with the activities of Epiphane, taking no thought as to his right to judge his neighbor. Time will tell whether he possessed that right and whether, possessing it, he exercised it properly. I am, in this instance, but an humble recorder of the facts.

This evening when we took our several places in the room of the billowy draperies, Epiphane placed a lighted candle on the table, midway between the heads of Hoffman and Dietz. I knew not at this time upon what missions these two were to be engaged during the night to come, since I had not read the papers and Epiphane had made no reference to them. If the taking of newspaper clippings comprised all I was required to do, then my work was certainly light enough to please the most indolent. But I had been told that I was to learn the workings of Epiphane’s great scheme. Did he mean that I was to become his first disciple? That I was destined to follow in his footsteps should he be found out and the switchboard broken? I could think of no other explanation, since his story of newspaper clippings was manifestly a mere excuse. If my final conclusions were correct, when would he see fit to draw aside the veil in order that my eyes might see? I was a bit impatient.

“You have promised me another step tonight, Epiphane,” I said. “What is it to be?”

“You are to watch the candle,” he replied enigmatically.

And we took the positions w r e had held the night before. We talked a bit, as we had done that other time, and I knew that those two mummies on the table still housed their alter egos. I can not say how I knew this. It was rather an impression than cer-

tain knowledge. I knew, however, that Hoffman and Dietz were still present in flesh and in spirit, and that the latter awaited the touch of the mental hand on the switchboard to go forth upon the missions assigned them by Epiphane.

“Now!”

The single word came from Epiphane in a soft murmur that I barely heard. It filled me with a feeling of expectancy such as I have never before experienced. Unconsciously I drew deeply upon my cigarette and looked at the face of Epiphane. From him my eyes went to the dark folds of the hanging draperies and noted that the hangings, always billowing heretofore, hung downward as though weighted at the bottom with heavy bits of metal. There seemed to be not a single bit of air in the chamber that moved; for this second of time tho room was dead space, as though the draperies, the men on the table, Epiphane and myself had taken a deep breath at one and the same time, and held it, keyed to the highest pitch of expectancy.

I watched the candle.

There was only a moment of the waiting, yet it was pregnant with a vast and awesome meaning. For the flame of the candle flickered and seemed to incline toward Hoffman, as though a breath of air had come from the mouth of Dietz and played for a moment upon the flame. Just a flash, so swift as to be almost unnoticeable; then the little column of flame bent back the other way as though it were a yellow, inverted pendulum, completing its arc, or as though Hoffman himself had blown against it.

I glanced at the sensitive draperies which, heretofore, had registered even the slightest air currents with the delicacy of a seismograph registering a disturbance on the earth’s surface thousands of miles away. They hung, dead weights of lifeless material, straight toward the floor. But as I watched, the extreme end of the long



curtain flipped back, twice, as though pulled by unseen hands to allow for the passage of invisible bodies. You have pulled a silk handkerchief from beneath a brim-filled glass of water, without moving the glass? It was like that. Just two flashes, lightningswift, so deftly executed that the motion imparted to the hanging draperies was local only, dying as soon as it was bom, leaving the rest of the black curtain motionless.

This was my impression then: that, at and after this instant, Epiphane and I were alone in the room; that the two figures on the table were the corporeal forms of men, but lacking the divine essence. Whither had this essence flown?

'‘Teach me, Epiphane! Teach me!” I cried, hardly realizing that I had spoken, until I found myself upon the table and lying down beside those other two.

“You are entirely ready, Abbott?” asked Epiphane, quietly.

“I ask but one thing,” I replied: “that you give me leave to recall all that happens to me.”

He nodded and came to stand over me, his eyes gazing stedfastly into mine.

‘ ‘ Yours is another murder case, ’ ’ he said. “An old man was killed this afternoon on the Rathdale Road outside the city, his body, literally cut to ribbons, being placed in a trunk afterward and hurled over an embankment along the road, presumably from a fast-moving automobile, as marks on the embankment showed that the trunk bounced a great number of times before it came to rest in the spot where the police found it. Go to that place and trace the murderer! The police haven’t a single clue upon which to build up a case. The old man has not been identified. This is your last command: you will receive the impressions caused by horror and fear of punishment. ’ ’

He paused, and his eyes seemed to glow as they rested on my face. They

became twin balls of yellow fire and, before the room with the billowing draperies faded from my view, I heard his last words: “You will remember all that occurs.”

A flash of oblivion, then a new being. It was I. I knew that at once. Yet it was a vastly more volatile I, filled with the ecstasy of a new being, new life. I knew myself, yet I was without substance or shadow. I was conscious of no form that I recognized as my corporeal self. I was alive and tingling with a vast feeling of power, a power that recognized no limitations. I could move with the speed of thought itself, and solid bodies hindered me not at all. I was as full of exuberance as though a nectar of the gods had been taken into my being, filling me with its heady vigor. I was like a schoolboy when the school day is finished and he turns wild handsprings to relieve his bubbling emotions. I was moving, I knew that, yet there was no impression of moving, really. I can not explain it. There was but a flash, as of a bright light flaring up for an instant in a well of gloom, and I found myself above an embankment on the Rathdale Road.

“Receive the impressions of horror and fear of punishment,” came the command of the mental switchboard.

I was above the scene of the recent murder. My whole being pulsated with ghastly horror, and I who claimed that I had never known fear was trembling with a fear that consumed me as though I were afire. I was the murderer, looking down upon the scene of my crime! And the fear I felt was the fear of the noose or the electric chair! The atmosphere was vibrant with the feelings that obsessed me. The impressions impinged upon my consciousness as though they were living, breathing waves of feeling, recording themselves upon the most sensitive instrument known to man. I knew that these impressions



Were the result of the invisible aura given off by the murderer, but so vivid were they that they seized upon me and made -me their own. I, and not the unknown, was the actual murderer! Such was the power of those impressions.

I fled from them with the speed of the wind. Yet they remained with me and I could not escape them. I found myself upon the road and moving at a great rate of speed. I had the impression of riding in a highpowered car; but beneath me there w r as no car, nor shadow of a car— only the ribbon of the night-shadowed road leading into the city, which unwound beneath me as though it were a broad ribbon thrown out to unroll with uncanny swiftness. My movement was caused by no conscious effort of my own. I moved because I must—because an unseen power propelled me—because I strove to escape that aura of horror and of fear.

Before me now, in the heart of the city, I saw the black lines of a system of street-car tracks. Not a car was visible, though I looked wildly in eaeh direction. The city was silent with the silence of late nighttime. Yet, when I reached those two tracks, the car which I could not see was no longer under me. I followed the streetcar tracks and, so vivid -was the impression, my body—I call it that for the sake of clarity—swayed from side to side with the motion of the car. There was no car—only the impression. And that other impression of a fear that I could not escape. I was fleeing from my peace of mind, and from that terrible thing that I had left beneath the embankment on the Rathdale Road! I could smell the odor of burning flesh as it arose on the air in a closed and terrible chamber—from a heavy chair with ghastly trappings on arms and legs and headrest! God! God! God!

Anything is better than facing that terrible chair! I rise to my feet and hurry to the front of the swaying car.

Though I see nothing, I feel that the front window of that car is open. In the grip of horror and despair I feel myself lifted and hurled headlong through that open window. There is a sensation of falling. Heavy wheels pass over me and the impressions fade as though instantly blotted out. I am in the midst of nothingness, feeling nothing, hearing nothing.

I open my eyes to see Epiphane bending over me. I recall everything, just as I have written it here, yet the feeling of horror has passed as completely as though it had never been. I have a feeling of tiredness, and that is all—as though I had worked myself to the point of exhaustion.

Epiphane smiles as he tenders me the morning' paper, for I have been absent from this room the entire night. I open the paper and read:


The first clue, which puzzled the police when first discovered yesterday, was a badly smashed car found just beyond the intersection of the Rathdale Road with the interurban street-car line. The car had driven full speed against a brick building at the edge of the city.

The driver has been found, who told a tale of a wild ride from Dorrisdale, far out on the Rathdale Road, where, he said, he was hired by a wild-eyed man who demanded that he (the driver) take him and his trunk to this place with all possible speed. Above the embankment where the murder trunk was found, says the driver, his fare had suddenly hurled the trunk out of the ear, yelling to the driver at the same time to get all the speed but of the car of which it was capable. He emphasized the need of haste by pressing the cold muzzle of a revolver against the back of the driver’s neck.

At the street-car crossing the man had leaped from the car and landed running. Fearing that a horrible crime had been committed in which he might be implicated, the driver had lost his head for a moment. He leaped from his car without slacking speed, and came to his senses only after the car had half buried itself in the side of the brick house.

By this time his strange fare, and the street-car which he had caught,. had vanished. The driver hid himself away and watched the newspapers for account of a crime that woula fit the queer oircumINVISIBLE THREADS


stances in his own case. When he realized that the very worst had happened he gave himself up to the police and told his story.

The street-cars which run on the line in question are those affairs where the motorman and the conductor are often one and the same person. It is easy to understand how one man, however good a memory he might possess, might never miss one passenger out of the great crowd which patronized his car. There is no record anywhere along the line of such a person as that described by the driver of the death car having left the street-car.

This left but one conclusion, providing the driver spoke the truth—that the strange man had left the car while it was in motion. Just how he did this may never be known, but an early search this morning, from the junction where the automobile crash took place, to the car stop, resulted in the finding of the mangled body of a man, stretched across the rails, cut almost to ribbons by the passage of many cars across his body.

The driver identified this man positively by the clothes'he wore. Neither he nor the murdered man has been identified by name, but the police have found something at last upon which to build a case. There remains but the necessary identification, when the affair will be docketed. The driver of the death car has been exonerated and released.


I was satisfied now that Epiphane attained his results through a kind of hypnotism of which only he was master. He had learned the secret of taking the living subject to the very brink of the grave, where, hypnotists tell us, the subjective mind reaches perfection. This would explain the fact that, when I first saw Hoffman and Dietz in their trancelike state upon the table in the room of the billowing draperies, I had thought them to be, indeed, dead. Yet they had come back. But there was still something about the thing that puzzled me: did the divine essence, the inner I, of the subject, remain away from the body until called back by the tremendous will of Epiphane? If he did not call it back, would it ever be able to return of its own volition? When this thought occurred to

me I went straightway to Epiphang and put the question.

For the first time I saw a startled expression on his face. Fear was written there in large and easily readable capitals.

“That,” he explained slowly, “is why I sought for someone to share my secret. Suppose that something should happen to me while Hoffman and Dietz were on a mission of some kind? As soon as you have learned both to stand upright and to take steps by yourself, I wish to give the secret into your keeping! I can not bear to think of those two manly boys becoming what they would certainly become should the switchboard be broken in their absence.”

“It would merely mean that they would die, would it not?” I questioned.

“That is just the difficulty: they would not die!”

“You speak as though death might be the very least of their difficulties. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Which it would. Death would be far, far better for them both.”

“But if their souls were absent from their bodies they would be dead, would they not?”

“When I speak of the soul,” answered Epiphane, “I mean the astral being, the subjective ego. They would waken instantly, were anything to happen to me. But the divine essence would be absent! Do you hear me, Abbott? They would be living men— without souls. No memories, no language, no reason beyond the reason exercised by the lowest brutes of the field! That is what would happen.”

This was horrid in the extreme, even to contemplate; yet neither of us could foresee just how soon this very thing was to happen, or know that I alone, of the three agents, would win back to my corporeal abode in the flash of an eyelash before the smashing of the switchboard; that Epiphane, whole-souled benefactor of mankind, was to be the undoing of his two agents, his two very best



friends, who trusted him implicitly— all because of a boundless brotherly love which even the great ideals of Epiphane could not cause him to overlook.

But to my story. Catastrophes come fast enough, unbidden, without bringing them before they are due.

Days and weeks went by. Hoffman, Dietz and I spent as much time on that table as we spent in wakefulness. Epiphane, as though driven by a great invisible whip, worked us without mercy. It was well indeed that we three were possessed of constitutions that were virtually cast iron. Yet had we been the veriest weaklings, we must still have hewed to the line, our necks bowed at the inspiration of Epiphane himself. Even we could realize that, while to us the terrible strain of almost constant mental activity was exhausting in the extreme, Epiphane, since he controlled us entirely, must have been veritably bowed beneath the weight of his responsibility.

His burden was tenfold as great as our own. We appreciated it and strove all the harder to please him.

Then came the day.

T he newspapers had been full for days of the usual gory incidents of a crime-laden civilization. These had kept us busy enough. Yet our work had become almost routine. Each of us three was now so accustomed to sloughing off our corporeal bodies for hurried plunges into the Land Beyond the Shadows that it had become habit with us. We almost felt that we could have taken the step ourselves, without the mediation of Epiphane. We had but to ponder upon this, however, to realize the impossibility of it. To go forth without an invisible thread to guide us was to become willo’-the-wisps upon the face of the earth. There must needs be a hand to pull upon the thread when the time came for the return. Several times had criminals, driven by our efforts to con-

fess, published descriptions of one or another of us three. Even the slowwitted police had at last summoned their wits to compare accounts. Even they could see where the accounts coincided in many instances. Yet, as long as we were not ferreted out, Epiphane felt that this would help, rather than hinder us. It would fill the newspapers with speculations, which, in turn, might act as deterrents to those who felt the urge to overstep the welldefined boundary of the written law.

He reckoned, however, without the medical mind of another man whose knowledge of the human brain was only less vast than was that of Epiphane himself. This man must have been inspired. Just how near he came to guessing the whole secret may never be known, yet that he partly guessed it is almost a certainty, for he seized upon the ideal moment, when the city was in the throes of superstitious fear, to turn his own powerful mind into the rough and rocky road of criminality—right when the papers were full of the mysterious visitations which had caused the confessions of so many criminals.

This man’s approach was far less subtle; it was more material, but none the less forcible. I have stated that we are all criminals to a certain extent, the difference being merely of degree. Perhaps this unknown man knew this, or was psychologist enough to guess at it, even, perhaps, taking his own life as an example. Who knows? I only know that the papers suddenly turned out scareheads two inches high, telling of half a score of mysterious letters which had been addressed to as many wealthy men of the city, letters which were almost word for word the same. The gist of them is given below:

IAM THE INVISIBLE POWER BEHIND THE VISITATIONS WHICH HAVE FILLED PEACE-LOVING PEOPLE OF THIS CITY WITH NAMELESS DREAD! UNLESS YOU LEAVE $100,000.00, IN UNTRACEABLE BILLS, BENEATH THE CORNER OF THE OLD WOODEN SIDEWALK AT-AND-STREETS,



AT 9 O'CLOCK EXACTLY, TOMORROW WIGHT, I SHALL GO TO THE POLICE AND TELL ALE I KNOW f I SEND ONE WARNING ONLY1

As it developed later, five men, of the ten addressed, carried out these strange orders to the very letter, after which they went home and covered their fear-trembling heads with their bed-clothes. Three of them left lesser amounts, together with notes saying that they could raise no more on such short notice but that, given sufficient time, they would find the full amount and finish carrying out the order. One of the men fled the eity after receiving the note. The other man, gifted with a lawyer’s bent for the technicalities of things, calmly sat him down and went over his life in retrospect. Perhaps he recalled things that would not bear the light of day, did they become known, but, regarding them earefully, he decided! that so much time had elapsed since the deeds in question, that no tribunal in the land could prove him guilty. Whatever his motive, he calmly went to the police and turned over the note. When pressed by them for details of the dangerous knowledge in the hands of the unknown writer of the note, he merely shrugged expressive shoulders.

The poliee published the note in the next issue of the city’s newspapers, together with the request that, were there others in the city who had received like commands, they should communicate with the poliee at once. Some of the men were diffident but, after several days had passed and but nine of the notes were forthcoming, the police decided that this had been the total number written. They shrewdly guessed that there might be another, basing their guess on the effieaey of the even number as against the odd, but if they connected the possible missing note with the hurried business trip of one of the city’s lights of finance, they said nothing

There was not a single clue. Those who had paid over the blackmail had

lost their money, for when the poliee visited the place mentioned in tine note they found nothing at alL

I was given this mission. I shall regret it as long as I live.

I took my place on the table and was sent into the outer ether with orders to proceed to the spot where the blackmail was deposited, and to receive the impressions of greed.

The impressions were almost tangible, so strong were they. I was a being filled to bursting with the lust for power: not for the power that comes with fame or the opportunity to command others, but for the weird power which comes from the possession of great wealth. I had the impression of lifting great bundles of beautiful green currency from the hiding-place, and of walking down the street with it securely hidden in my clothes, looking to right and left as though I feared that someone might smite mg and take away my riches. The impressions were easy to follow. I found myself at length before a small bungalow of a place on the very outskirts of the city. I mitered the place by that strange necromancy of which Epiphane was the only living master.

I found myself face to face with Epiphane himself!

Bewilderment, "horror—a feeling of helplessness 1

Then I looked more closely, feeling glad indeed that I eould see and not be seen, unless Epiphane willed it. For I saw almost at once that the man was not really Epiphane. There was Epiphane’s great breadth of brow, the same hair, the same bulk of body. But there was a great scar across the right cheek of this man that would mark the difference at once. And the expression on the face was different, too. The face of the real Epiphane was the noble face of the man with a great and overmastering ideal—as great and overmastering as it was unselfish. This man’s face was a battleground of greed and innate malignancy.



I came to myself on the table and looked up into the face of the real Epiphane. This was the second time I had seen him shaken with uncontrollable emotion.

“Do not tell me, Abbott,” he moaned. “I know! I know! God in heaven! The man is my own brother! ’ ’

Then Epiphane was much as other men, having brothers and sisters, perhaps, and somewhere a father and a mother who loved him. Up to now I had thought of him as a being apart.

“My God, Abbott!” cried Epiphane; “I can’t treat him as I have treated the others. I have thought all along that, were such a thing to befall me, I would lead my own kin to justice as quickly as I would lead a stranger. But I can’t! I can’t! Ties of blood are too strong, even for me! ”

All that night, with Hoffman and Dietz out on their never-ending missions, whither he had sent them in order that they might not witness his sufferings, Epiphane fought his great fight. And he lost. For when morning came he gave Hoffman and Dietz holidays and sent for his brother.

There was no mistaking the great brute of a man who entered the very room where I had first seen Epiphane. He was enough like Epiphane to be his twin; although, prior to his coming, Epiphane assured me that this was not a. fact, that they were maternal brothers only, having the same mother but different, and legitimate, fathers. I saw at once that, though the newcomer held his half-brother in awe, he hated him, too.

In as few words as possible Epiphane told the fellow that he knew everything. The man’s fear of exposure was pitiful—or a marvelous piece of acting. Epiphane made him promise to return every cent he had blackmailed from the men of wealth, telling him in return that nothing would be said about the matter, if he would carry out his side of the bargain.

The big fellow agreed and sneaked

out of the place like a whipped cur.

Epiphane spent a day that was pregnant with melancholy. Was that melancholy a future event that cast its weird shadow before?

In the evening Hoffman and Dietz came back and were assigned regular missions. After they had gone Epiphane looked sorrowfully at me for many moments. Then he made a gesture of resolute decision.

“Come, Abbott,” he said; “I wish to make sure that my half-brother intends to carry out his promise. I know him of old. He is wofully weak where money is concerned. ’ ’

T took my place on the table and A was sent forth.

Instantly I was in the bungalow of Epiphane’s brother. I received the impression of fear, and another impression, weirdly terrible and horrorinspiring, that made me will with all my strength, to be back in that drapery-bordered room with Epiphane. For Epiphane’s brother was not in the bungalow! In a flash I knew where he had gone. Did that queer current travel back over the invisible thread to a contact with the brain of Epiphane? I do not know. But I opened my eyes, there on that table, just in time to see an arm reach in from behind those draperies—and a hand that held a slender stiletto poised to strike.

Before I could cry out, the hand descended. Epiphane crumpled up with a gurgling moan. That hand with the stiletto had been at such a height as only one other man possessed besides Epiphane! In those last moments did Epiphane recall those other two, Hoffman and Dietz, as they lay there on the table? I know that his face was set in an expression of iron resolve—I saw his indomitable will straining to hold his spirit this side the curtain for the necessary iota of time. But to no avail. He died there in his chair, within a brace of heartbeats.



And Hoffman and Dietz still lay on the table like marble statues!

Epiphane had gone without telling me the essential secret!

Even as his spirit must have been leaving his body, those two statues stirred and sat up, slithered sidewise with queer, animal-like motions, and stood upright beside the table.

God in heaven! Their eyes were absolutely devoid of expression, set in the inscrutability of two carven Buddhas! Weird noises came from their lips, grunting noises devoid of meaning. They started around the table in opposite directions and came together with a crash that almost threw them off their feet. There was a blue bruise on the forehead of Hoffman, and red blood sprang from the nose of Dietz; yet their masklike faces did not change expression. I knew that, had not the crash thrown them slightly out of line with each other, they would have collided again. Their bodies felt the pain, of that I was certain; yet there was no memory that could warn them against a repetition of the collision. Their limbs twitched oddly, and their arms flapped here and there as though they were the lifeless arms of animate scarecrows.

I was alone with two corporeal substances which lacked the essential essence of the soul! They had no memory, no language—they were mechanical automatons, nothing more. They were not idiots, for idiots possess brains of a sort. These Things had nothing!

I had no fear. Perhaps you do not believe me, but I state the truth. I tried to recall all I had ever read about hypnotism. Could I recall the essential essence of these two— Things? I seized Hoffman by the arms and tried to place him on the table. He seemed not to know that I was there. I could not budge him. He walked—stumbled rather—toward me, brushing me out of the way as easily as though I had been a babe in arms. And he never knew I was there! In

life Hoffman had been the weaker of the two men. What could I do with Dietz? Nothing, I realized at once.

These two men began an aimless circling of the room, bumping their heads against each other and against the walls, senseless as bluebottle flies that butt their heads against the window-pane. Dietz brushed against the drapery and walked through it. I hurried on ahead of him and locked the door which led out of the house. I made fast the windows, and drew back the drapery so that the two Things would not tear it down.

Who shall realize what I went through to get these two Things into the room with the pallets, and how I kept them there long enough to allow the police to remove the body of Epiphane and to start their investigations which might, in the end, discover the murderer? I told them his name, but I knew that he must have left the city at once. They had but to broadcast a picture of Epiphane himself to have the police throughout the continent on the trail.of the killer.

How I ever persuaded them to allow me to go free I do not remember. I only know that they went away, finally, and left me. What did they think, I wonder, when those two Things in that other room knocked over chairs in their aimless and senseless gropings? Perhaps they never heard them. Perhaps, keyed up as I was, my ears were keener than theirs. But they went away and left me alone with the soulless ones.

Who shall visualize the week that followed? Neither Hoffman nor Dietz could be induced to take his place on the table. I tried to send forth my will to recall their alter egos, but I knew not whither Epiphane had sent them. I felt like a blind man groping among the shadows—feeling my way with senseless hands—threading my way through the universe for two beings that were without substance or shadow — groping, groping, always groping, but lacking the all-powerful



secret that Epiphane may have been trying to give me at the last.

And ever the stumbling about of the two Things—ever those expressionless eyes upon me.

I could not tell the police. I could, in my mind’s eye, see the huge headlines in the papers. Perhaps their bungling might somehow place the alter egos of Hoffman and Dietz forever beyond the reach of mortal hands or living minds. There lacked a man with the vast mentality of Epiphane himself, yet I could not go forth in the highways and the byways to seek him.

At last I have hit upon this way to find him: the medium of the press— keeping the name of the city and the house number a secret imtil the man I seek shall see what I have written here. If his mind is the mind I am seeking he will know how to communicate with me.

Read and hurry! Hurry! Hurry!

For while you hesitate I grow weak with the mental exhaustion engendered by the constant groping—groping—groping....

#######

Tt was after writing the above ac- *• count that I received notification of the capture of the murderer of Epiphane. There was all the evidence in the world to convict him, especially after he brazenly admitted that his hand had struck the blow. All this appeared in the newspaper account telling of the capture. But what struck me like a blow between the eyes was the fact that the fellow made public the fact that he knew all the facts in the case of the two soulless ones. He had leered knowingly at the reporters when he told his story, further stating that he possessed almost the same power as the man he had killed—that he could actually bring back the two to normality. But he demanded his freedom and full exoneration as the price. The police had

refused his demand, leaving me in a greater quandary than before. Here was the answer to my questioning, and I couldn’t make use of it!

But the papers had the story, and reporters came to interview me—and to gaze in horror at the two Things which I kept confined in the quarters recently occupied by the great Epiphane. Their stories, under the pens of imaginative reporters, blazed across a thousand papers in great black scareheads.

They brought the answer to my question! For readers, championing Dietz and Hoffman, whose pictures, wherein could be easily read the great calamity which had befallen them, had been used in the write-ups—fairly drowned the police in written words of protest. Let the murderer go free, they demanded, and bring back to life and understanding the two who were far more valuable to humanity—Dietz and Hoffman. The police mulled the matter over and finally came to me, bringing the murderer with them, securely handcuffed to the wrists of two officers. He sneered at us all when the police promised to free him if he could recall the souls of the two agents.

He sat in the chair so often occupied by Epiphane, still fastened to the officers. Soothing Dietz and Hoffman as though they had been babies, I induced them to take their places on the table.

And the murderer was successful!

The police struck his shackles from him, thus returning to society the most dangerous criminal unhung. I was terribly bitter against this man, and even to feel the hearty slaps on my back administered by Dietz and Hoffman could not entirely compensate me for the loss of my great teacher.

“Here, you fratricide,” I cried, tendering him the knife with which he had done the deed and which I had found beyond the curtain after he had fled, “take this with you as a



memento! I hope that it will aid you to keep always in mind the ghastliness of your deed! That it will aid you to remember for always, waking or sleeping! Further, I hope that you will one day go out as your brother went, and by that knife.”

The fellow grinned, flipped the knife into the air and caught it deftly by the point. He turned and left the room, still twirling the knife and grinning back at me over his shoulder, with a mocking light in his eyes which I would fain have brushed away with my bare hands at his throat, had I dared.

He slammed the door behind him with a force that rattled the windowpanes. I heal’d his step on the stairs, then a scream that I shall remember always, and the thudding of a heavy body falling down the stairs.

The police hurried out. They returned in a few moments, awe in their faces, and they looked at me queerly.

“It was the darkness in the stairwell that caused him to miss his footing, ’ ’ said one of the officers, ‘ ‘ and he must still have been carrying the knife by its point; for you, young man, have had your wish! Epiphane has been avenged!”

The Specter of Tappington

By RICHARD HARRIS BARHAM

“T T IS very odd, though; what

I can have become of them?”

A said Charles Seaforth, as he peeped under the valance of an oldfashioned bedstead, in an old-fashioned apartment of a still more oldfashioned manor-house; “ ’tis confoundedly odd, and I can’t make it out at all. Why, Barney, where are they?—and where the devil are you?”

No answer was returned to this appeal; and the lieutenant, who was, in the main, a reasonable person—

* From The Ingoldsby Legends.

at least as reasonable a person as any young gentleman of twenty-two in “the service”'can fairly be expected to be—cooled when he reflected that his servant could scarcely reply extempore to a summons which it was impossible he should hear.

An application to the bell was the considerate result; and the footsteps of as tight a lad as ever put pipeclay to belt sounded along the gallery.

“Come in!” said his master. An ineffectual attempt upon the door reminded Mr. Seaforth that he had



locked himself in. * ‘ By heaven! this is the oddest thing of all,” said he, as he turned the key fcnd admitted Mr. Maguire into his dormitory.

“Barney, where are my pantaloons?”

“Is it the breeches?” asked the valet, casting an inquiring eye round the apartment;—“is it the breeches, sir?”

“Yes; what have you done with them?”

-“Sure then your honor had them on when you went to bed, and it’s hereabout they’ll be, I’ll be bail;” and Barney lifted a fashionable tunic from a cane-backed armchair, proceeding in his examination. But the search was vain: there was the tunic aforesaid; there was a smart-looking kerseymere 'waistcoat; but the most important article of all in a gentleman’s wardrobe was still wanting.

“Where can they be?” asked the master, with a strong accent on the auxiliary verb.

“Sorrow a know I knows,” said the man.

“It must have been the devil, then, after all, who has been here and carried them off!” cried Seaforth, staring full into Barney’s face.

Mr. Maguire was not devoid of the superstition of his countrymen; still he looked as if he did not quite subscribe to the sequitur.

His master read incredulity in his countenance. “Why, I tell you, Barney, I put them there, on that armchair, when I got into bed; and, by heaven! I distinctly saw the ghost of the old fellow they told me of, come in at midnight, put on my pantaloons, and walk away with them.”

“Maybe so,” was the cautious reply.

“I thought, of course, it was a dream; but then—where the devil are the breeches? ’ ’

The question was more easily asked than answered. Barney renewed his search, while the lieutenant folded

his arms, and, leaning against the toilet, sunk into a revery.

‘ ‘ After all, it must be some trick of my laughter-loving cousins,” said Seaforth.

“Ah! then, the ladies!” chimed in Mr. Maguire, though the observation was not addressed to him; “and will it be Miss Caroline, or Miss Fanny, that’s stole your honor’s things? ’ ’

“I hardly know what to think of it,” pursued the bereaved lieutenant, still speaking in soliloquy, with his eye resting dubiously on the chamberdoor. “I locked myself in, that’s certain; and—but there must be some other entrance to the room—pooh! I remember—the private staircase; how could I be such a fool?” and he crossed the chamber to where a low oaken doorcase was dimly visible in a distant corner. He paused before it. Nothing now interfered to screen it from observation; but it bore tokens of having been at some earlier period concealed by tapestry, remains of which yet clothed the walls mi either side the portal.

“This way they must have come,” said Seaforth; “I wish with all my heart I had caught them! ’ ’

“Och! the kittens!” sighed Mr. Barney Maguire.

But the mystery was yet as far from being solved as before. True, there was the “other door”; but then that, too, on examination, was feven more firmly secured than the one which opened on the gallery—two heavy bolts on the inside effectually prevented any coup de main on the lieutenant’s bivouac from that quarter. He was more puzzled than ever; nor did the minutest inspection of the walls and floor throw any light upon the subject: one thing only was clear—the breeches were gone! “It is very singular,” said the lieutenant.

'"pAPPiNGTON (generally called Tapton) Everard is an antiquated but commodious manor-house in the eastern division of the county of Kent.



A former proprietor had been highsheriff in the days of Elizabeth, and many a dark and dismal tradition was yet extant of the licentiousness of his life, and the enormity of his offenses. The Glen, which the keeper’s daughter was seen to enter, but never known to quit, still frowns darkly as of yore; while an ineradicable bloodstain on the oaken stair yet bids defiance to the united energies of soap and sand. But it is with one particular apartment that a deed of more especial atrocity is said to be connected. A stranger guest—so runs the legend—arrived unexpectedly at the mansion of the “Bad Sir Giles.” They met in apparent friendship; but the ill-concealed scowl on their master’s brow told the domestics that the visit was not a welcome one; the banquet, however, was not spared; the winecup circulated freely—too freely, perhaps—for sounds of discord at length reached the ears of even the excluded serving-men, as they were doing their best to imitate their betters in the lower halL Alarmed, some of them ventured to approach the parlor; one, an old and favored retainer of the house, went so far as to break in upon his master’s privacy. Sir Giles, already high in oath, fiercely enjoined his absence, and he retired; not, however, before he had distinctly heard from the stranger’s lips a menace that “There was that within his pocket which would disprove the knight’s right to issue that or any other command within the walls of Tapton.”

The intrusion, though momentary, seemed to have produced a beneficial effect; the voices of the disputants fell, and the conversation was carried on thenceforth in a more subdued tone, till, as evening closed in, the domestics, when summoned to attend with lights, found not only cordiality restored, but that a still deeper carouse was meditated. Fresh stoups, and from the choicest bins, were pro-

duced; nor was it till at a late, or rather early hour, that the revelers sought their chambers.

The one allotted to the stranger occupied the first floor of the eastern angle of the building, and had once been the favorite apartment of Sir Giles himself. Scandal ascribed this preference to the facility which a private staircase, communicating with the grounds, had afforded him, in the old knight’s time, of following his wicked courses unchecked by parental observation; a consideration which ceased to be of weight when the death of his father left him uncontrolled master of his estate and actions. From that period Sir Giles had established himself in what were called the “state apartments,” and the “oaken chamber” was rarely tenanted, save on occasions of extraordinary festivity, or when the yule log drew an unusually large accession of guests around the Christmas hearth.

On this eventful night it was prepared for the unknown visitor, who sought his couch heated and inflamed from his midnight orgies, and in the morning was found in his bed a swollen and blackened corpse. No marks of violence appeared upon the body; but the livid hue of the lips, and certain dark-colored spots visible on the skin, aroused suspicions which those who entertained them were too timid to express. Apoplexy, induced by the excesses of the preceding night, Sir Giles’s confidential leech pronounced to be the cause of his sudden dissolution. The body was buried in peace; and though some shook their heads as they witnessed the haste with which the funeral rites were hurried on, none ventured to murmur. Other events arose to distract the attention of the retainers; men’s minds became occupied by the stirring politics of the day; while the near approach of that formidable armada, so vainly arrogating to itself a title which the very elements joined with human valor to disprove, soon interfered to weaken,



if not obliterate, all remembrance of the nameless stranger who had died within the walls of Tapton Everard.

Years rolled on: the “Bad Sir Giles” had himself long since gone to his account, the last, as it was believed, of his immediate line; though a few of the older tenants were sometimes heard to speak of an elder brother, who had disappeared in early life, and never inherited the estate. Rumors, too, of his having left a son in foreign lands were at one time rife; but they died away, nothing occurring to support them: the property passed unchallenged to a collateral branch of the family, and the secret, if secret there were, was buried in Denton churchyard, in the lonely grave of the mysterious stranger. One circumstance alone occurred, after a long intervening period, to revive the memory of these transactions. Some workmen employed in grubbing an old plantation, for the purpose of raising on its site a modem shrubbery, dug up, in the execution of their task, the mildewed remnants of what seemed to have been once a garment. On more minute inspection enough remained of silken slashes and a coarse embroidery to identify the relics as having once formed part of a pair of trunk hose; while a few papers which fell from them, altogether illegible from damp and age, were by the unlearned rustics conveyed to the then owner of the estate.

Whether the squire was more successful in deciphering them was never known; he certainly never alluded to their contents; and little would have been thought of the matter but for the inconvenient memory of one old woman, who declared she heard her grandfather say that when the “stranger guest” was poisoned, though all the rest of his clothes were there, his breeches, the supposed repository of the supposed documents, could never be found. The master of Tapton Everard smiled when he heard Dame Jones’s hint of deeds

which might impeach the validity of his own title in favor of some unknown descendant of some unknown heir; and the story was rarely alluded to, save by one or two miracle-mongers, who had heard that others had seen the ghost of old Sir Giles, in his night-cap, issue from the postern, enter the adjoining copse, and wring his shadowy hands in agony, as he seemed to search vainly for something hidden among the evergreens. The stranger’s deathroom had, of course, been occasionally haunted from the time of his decease; but the periods of visitation had latterly become very rare—even Mrs. Botherby, the housekeeper, being forced to admit that, during her long sojourn at the manor, she had never “met with anything worse than herself”; though, as the old lady afterward added upon more mature reflection, ‘ ‘ I must say I think I saw the devil once.”

Such was the legend attached to Tapton Everard, and such the story which the lively Caroline Ingoldsby detailed to her equally mercurial cousin, Charles Seaforth, lieutenant in the East India Company’s second regiment of Bombay Fencibles, as arm-in-arm they promenaded a gallery decked with some dozen grim-looking ancestral portraits, and, among others, with that of the redoubted Sir Giles himself. The gallant commander had that very morning paid his first visit to the house of his maternal uncle, after an absence of several years passed with his regiment on the arid plains of Hindostan, whence he was now returned on a three years’ furlough. He had gone out a boy—he returned a man; but the impression made upon his youthful fancy by his favorite cousin remained unimpaired, and to Tapton he directed his steps, even before he sought the home of his widowed mother—comforting himself in this breach of filial decorum by the reflection that, as the manor was so little out of his way, it would be unTHE SPECTER OF TAPPINGTON


kind to pass, as it were, the door of his relatives without just looking in for a few hours.

But he found his uncle as hospitable, and his cousin more charming than ever; and the looks of one, and the requests of the other, soon precluded the possibility of refusing to lengthen the “few hours" into a few days, though the house was at the moment full of visitors.

The Peterses were there from Ramsgate; and Mr., Mrs., and the two Miss Simpkinsons, from Bath, had come to pass a month with the family; and Tom Ingoldsby had brought down his college friend the Honorable Augustus Sucklethumbkin, with his groom and pointers, to take a fortnight’s shooting. And then there was Mrs. Ogleton, the rich young widow, with her large black eyes, who, people did say, was setting her cap at the young squire, though Mrs. Botherby did not believe it; and, above all, there was Mademoiselle Pauline, her femme de chambre, who “mon-Dieu’d” everything and everybody, and cried “Quel horreur!” at Mrs. Botherby’s cap. In short, to use the last-named and much-respeeted lady’s own expression, the house was “choke-full’’ to the very attics—all save the “oaken chamber,’’ which, as the lieutenant expressed a most magnanimous disregard of ghosts, was forthwith appropriated to his particular accommodation. Mr. Maguire meanwhile was fain to share the apartment of Oliver Dobbs, the squire’s own man: a jocular proposal of joint occupancy having been first indignantly rejected by “Mademoiselle,” though preferred with the “laste taste in life” of Mr. Barney’s most insinuating brogue.

Charles, the urn is abso-

^ lutely getting cold; your breakfast will be quite spoiled: what can have made you so idle?” Such was the morning salutation of Miss Ingoldsby to the militaire as he entered

the breakfast-room half an hour after the latest of the party.

“A pretty gentleman, truly, to make an appointment with,” chimed in Miss Frances. “What is become of our ramble to the rocks before breakfast?”

“Oh! the young men never think of keeping a promise now,” said Mrs. Peters, a little ferret-faced woman with underdone eyes.

“When I was a young man,” said Mr. Peters, “I remember I dlways made a point of-”

“Pray how long ago was that?” asked Mr. Simpkinson from Bath.

“Why, sir, when I married Mrs. Peters, I was — let me see — I was- 1 —”

“Do pray hold your tongue, P., and eat your breakfast!” interrupted his better half, who had a mortal horror of chronological references; “it’s very rude to tease people with your family affairs. ’ ’

The lieutenant had by this time taken his seat in silence—a goodhumored nod, and a glance, halfsmiling, half-inquisitive, being the extent of his salutation. Smitten as he was, and in the immediate presence of her who had made so large a hole in his heart, his manner was evidently distrait, which the fair Caroline in her secret soul attributed to his being solely occupied by her agrimens: how would she have bridled had she known that they only shared his meditations with a pair of breeches!

Charles drank his coffee and spiked some half-dozen eggs, darting occasionally a penetrating glance at the ladies, in hope of detecting the supposed waggery by the evidence of some furtive smile or conscious look. But in vain; not a dimple moved indicative of roguery, nor did the slightest elevation of eyebrow rise confirmative of his suspicions. Hints and insinuations passed unheeded— more particular inquiries were out of the question:—the subject was unapproachable.



In the meantime, “patent cords” were just the thing for a morning’s ride; and, breakfast ended, away cantered the party over the downs, till, every faculty absorbed by the beauties, animate and inanimate, which surrounded him, Lieutenant Seaforth of the Bombay Fencibles bestowed no more thought upon his breeches than if he had been born on the top of Ben Lomond.

A nother night had passed away;

the sun rose brilliantly, forming with his level beams a splendid rainbow in the far-off west, whither the heavy cloud, which for the last two hours had been pouring its waters on the earth, was now flying before him.

“Ah! then, and it’s little good it’ll be the claning of ye,” apostrophized Mr. Barney Maguire, as he deposited, in front of his master’s toilet, a pair of “bran’ new” jockey boots, one of Hoby’s primest fits, which the lieutenant had purchased on his way through town. On that very morning had they come for the first time under the valet’s _ depurating hand, so little soiled, indeed, from the turfy ride of the preceding day, that a less scrupulous. domestic might, perhaps, have considered the application of “Warren’s Matchless,” or oxalic acid, altogether superfluous. Not so Barney: with the nicest care had he removed the slightest impurity from each polished surface, and there they stood, rejoicing in their sable radiance. No wonder a pang shot across Mr. Maguire’s breast, as he thought on the work now cut out for them, so different from the light labors of the day before; no wonder he murmured with a sigh, as the scarce-dried windowpanes disclosed a road now inch-deep in mud, “Ah! then, it’s little good the claning of ye!”—for well had he learned in the hall below that eight miles of a stiff clay soil lay between the manor and Bolsover Abbey, whose picturesque ruins,

"Like ancient Rome, majestic in decay,”

the party had determined to explore. The master had already commenced dressing, and the man was fitting straps upon a light pair of cranenecked spurs, when his hand was arrested by the old question, “Barney, where are the breeches?”

They were nowhere to be found!

M r. seaforth descended that morning, whip in hand, and equipped in a handsome green ridingfrock, but no “breeches and boots to match” were there: loose jean trousers, surmounting a pair of diminutive Wellingtons, embraced, somewhat incongruously, his nether man, vice the “patent cords,” returned, like yesterday’s pantaloons, absent without leave. The “top-boots” had a holiday.

“A fine morning after the rain,” said Mr. Simpkinson from Bath.

“Just the thing for the ’ops,” said Mr. Peters. “I remember when I was a boy-”

“Do hold your tongue, P.,” said Mrs. Peters—advice which that exemplary matron was in the constant habit of administering to “her P.,” as she called him, whenever he prepared to vent his reminiscences. Her precise reason for this it would be difficult to determine, unless, indeed, the story be true which a little bird had whispered into Mrs. Botherby’s ear—Mr. Peters, though now a wealthy man, had received a liberal education at a charity-school, and was apt to recur to the days of his muffincap and leathers. As usual, he took his wife’s hint in good part, and “paused in his reply.”

“A glorious day for the ruins!” said young Ingoldsby. “But, Charles, what the deuce are you about? you don’t mean to ride through our lanes in such toggery as that?”

‘‘Lassy me!” said Miss Julia Simpkinson, “won’t you be very wet?”

“You had better take Tom’s cab,” quoth the squire.



But this proposition was at once overruled; Mrs. Ogleton had already nailed the cab, a vehicle of all others the best adapted for a snug flirtation.

“Or drive Miss Julia in the phaeton?” No; that was the post of Mr. Peters, who, indifferent as an equestrian, had acquired some fame as a whip, while traveling through the midland counties for the firm of Bagshaw, Snivelby & Ghrimes.

“Thank you, I shall ride with my cousins,” said Charles, with as much nonchalance as he could assume—and he did so; Mr. Ingoldsby, Mrs. Peters, Mr. Simpkinson from Bath, and his eldest daughter with her album, following in the family coach. The gentleman-commoner “voted the

affair d-d slow” and declined the

party altogether in favor of the gamekeeper and a cigar. * ‘ There was no fun in looking at old houses! ’ ’ Mrs. Simpkinson preferred a short sejour in the still-room with Mrs. Botherby, who had promised to initiate her in that grand arcanum, the transmutation of gooseberry jam into guava jelly.

“ TAro you ever see an old abbey

A-' before, Mr. Peters?”

“Yes, miss, a French one; we have got one at Ramsgate; he teaches the Miss Joneses to parley-voo, and is turned of sixty.”

Miss Simpkinson closed her album with an air of ineffable disdain.

Mr. Simpkinson from Bath was a professed antiquary, and one of the first water; he was master of Gwillim’s Heraldry, and Milles’s History of the Crusades; knew every plate in the Monasticon; had written an essay on the origin and dignity of the office of overseer, and settled the date of a Queen Anne’s farthing. An influential member of the Antiquarian Society, to whose Beauties of Bagnigge Wells he had been a liberal subscriber, procured him a seat at the board of that learned body, since which happy epoch Sylvanus Urban

had not a more indefatigible correspondent. His inaugural essay on the president’s cocked hat was considered a miracle of erudition: and his account of the earliest application of gilding to gingerbread, a masterpiece of antiquarian research. His eldest daughter was of a kindred spirit: if her father’s mantle had not fallen upon her, it was only because he had not thrown it off himself; she had caught hold of its tail, however, while it yet hung upon his honored shoulders. To souls so congenial, what a sight was the magnificent ruin of Bolsover! its broken arches, its moldering pinnacles, and the airy tracery of its half-demolished windows. The party were in raptures; Mr. Simpkinson began to meditate an essay, and his daughter an ode: even Seaforth, as he gazed on these lonely relics of the olden time, was betrayed into a momentary forgetfulness of his love and losses: the widow’s eye-glass turned from her cicisheo’s whiskers to the mantling ivy: Mrs. Peters wiped her spectacles; and “her P.” supposed the eentral tower “had once been the county jail.” The squire was a philosopher, and had been there often before, so he. ordered out the cold tongue and chickens.

“Bolsover Priory,” said Mr. Simpkinson, with the air of a connoisseur —“Bolsover Priory was founded in the reign of Henry the Sixth, about the beginning of the Eleventh Century. Hugh de Bolsover had accompanied that monarch to the Holy Land, in the expedition undertaken by way of penance for the murder of his young nephews in the Tower. Upon the dissolution of the monasteries, the veteran was enfeoffed in the lands and manor, to which he gave his own name of Bowlsover, or Beeowls-over (by corruption Bolsover), —a Bee in chief, over three Owls, all proper, being the armorial ensigns borne by this distinguished crusader at the siege of Acre.”



“Ah! that was Sir Sidney Smith/’ said Mr. Peters; “I’ve heard tell of him, and all about Mrs. Partington, and--”

“P., be quiet, and don’t expose yourself!” sharply interrupted his lady. P. was silenced, and betook himself to the bottled stout.

“These lands,” continued the antiquary/’ were held in grand sergeantry by the presentation of three white owls and a pot of honey-”

“Lassy me! how nice!” said Miss Julia. Mr. Peters lieked his lips.

“Pray give me leave, my dear— owls and honey, whenever the king should come a rat-eatehing into this part of the country.”

“Rat-catching!” ejaculated the squire, pausing abruptly in the mastieation of a drumstick.

“To be sure, my dear sir: don’t you remember the rats once came under the forest laws—a minor species of venison? ‘Rats and mice, and such small deer/ eh?—Shakespeare, you know. Our ancestors ate rats/’. (“The nasty fellows!” shuddered Miss Julia in a parenthesis) “and owls, you know, are capital mousers.- 7 7

“I’ve seen a howl,” said Mr. Peters; ‘‘there’s one in the Sohologieal Gardens—a little hook-nosed chap in a wig—only its feathers and-”

Poor P. was destined never to finish a speech.

“Do be quiet!” cried the authoritative voice; and the would-be naturalist shrank into his shell, like a snail in the “Sohological Gardens.”

“You should read Blount’s Jocular Tenures, Mr. Ingoldsby,” pursued Simpkinson. “A learned man was Blount! Why, sir, His Royal Highness the Duke of York once paid a silver horseshoe to Lord Ferrers-”

“I’ve heard of him,” broke in the incorrigible Peters; “he was hanged

at the Old Bailey in a silk rope for shooting Dr. Johnson.”

The antiquary vouchsafed no notice of the interruption; but, taking a pinch of snuff, continued his harangue.

“A silver horseshoe, sir, which is due from every scion of royalty who rides across one of his manors; and if you look into the penny county histories, now publishing by an eminent friend of mine, you will find that Langhale in Go. Norf. was held by one Baldwin per saltum, sufflatum, et pettum; that is, he was to come every Christmas into Westminster Hall, there to take a leap, cry hem! and-”

“Mr. Simpkinson, a glass of sherry?” eried Tom Ingoldsby, hastily.

“Not any, thank yon, sir. This Baldwin, sumamed Le -”

“Mrs. Ogletan challenged you, sir; she insists upon it,” said Tom still more rapidly, at the same time filling a glass, and forcing it on the smvant, who, thus arrested in the very crisis of his narrative, received and swallowed the potation as if it had been physic.

‘ ‘ What on earth has Miss Simpkinson discovered there?” continued Tom; “something of interest. See how fast she is writing. ”

The diversion was effectual; everyone looked toward Miss Simpkinson, who, far too ethereal for “creature comforts,” was seated apart on the dilapidated remains of an altar-tomb, committing eagerly to paper something that had strongly impressed her; the air—the eye “in a fine frenzy roiling”—ail betokened that the divine afflatus was come. Her father rose, and stole silently toward her.

“What an old boar!” muttered young Ingoldsby; alluding, perhaps, to a slice of brawn which he had just begun to operate upon, but which, from the eelerity with which it disappeared, did not seem so very difficult of mastication.



But what had become of Seaforth and his fair Caroline all this while? Why, it so happened that they had been simultaneously stricken with the picturesque appearance of one of those high and pointed arches, which that eminent antiquary, Mr. Harseley Curties, has described in his Ancient Records as “a Gothic window of the Saxon order;” and then the ivy clustered so thickly and' so beautifully on the other side, that they went round to look at that; and then their proximity deprived it of half its effect, and so they walked across to a little knoll, a hundred yards off, and in crossing a small ravine they came to what in Ireland they call “a bad step,” and Charles had to carry his cousin over it; and then, when they had to come back, she would not give him the trouble again for the world, so they followed a better but more circuitous route, and there were hedges and ditches in the way, and stiles to get over and gates to get through, so that an hour or more had" elapsed before they were able to rejoin the party.

“Lassy me!” said Miss Julia Simpkinson, “how long you have been gone!”

And so they had. The remark was a very just as well as a very natural one. They were gone a long while, and a nice cozy chat they had; and what do you think it was all about, my dear miss?

“0, lassy me! love, no doubt, and the moon, and eyes, and nightingales, and-”

Stay, stay, my sweet young lady; do not let the fervor of your feelings run away with you! I do not pretend to say, indeed, that one or more of these pretty subjects might not have been introduced; but the most important and leading topic of the conference was—Lieutenant Seaforth’s breeches.

“Caroline,” said Charles, “I have

had some very odd dreams since I have been at Tappington.”

“Dreams, have you?” smiled the young lady, arching her taper neck like a swan in pluming. “Dreams, have you?”

“Aye, dreams—or dream, perhaps, I should say; for, though repeated, it was still the same. And what do you imagine was its subject?”

‘ * It is impossible for me to divine,” said the tongue;—“I have not the least difficulty in guessing, ’ ’ said the eye, as plainly as ever eye spoke.

“I dreamt—of your great-grandfather!”

There was a change in the glance— “My great-grandfather?”

“Yes, the old Sir Giles, or Sir John, you told me about the other day: he walked into my bedroom in his short cloak of murrey-colored velvet, his long rapier, and his Raleigh-looking hat and feather, just as the picture represents him; but with one exception.”

“And what-was that?”

“Why, his lower extremities, which were visible, were—those of a skeleton.”

“Well?”

“Well, after taking a turn or two about the room, and looking round him with a wistful air, he came to the bed’s foot, stared at me in a manner impossible to describe—and then he —he laid hold of my pantaloons; whipped his long bony legs into them in a twinkling; and strutting up to the glass, seemed to view himself in it with great complacency. I tried to speak, but in vain. The effort, however, seemed to excite his attention; for, wheeling about, he showed me the grimmest-looking death’s head you can well imagine, and with an indescribable grin strutted out of the room.”

“Absurd! Charles. How can you talk such nonsense?”

“But, Caroline—the breeches are really gone.”



the following morning, contrary to his usual custom, Seaforth was the first person in the breakfast parlor. As no one else was present, he did precisely what nine young men out x>f ten so situated would have done; he walked up to the mantel-piece, established himself upon the rug, and subducting his coat-tails one under each arm, turned toward the fire that portion of the human frame which it is considered equally indecorous to present to a friend or an enemy. A serious, not to say anxious, expression was visible upon his good-humored countenance, and his mouth was fast buttoning itself up for an incipient whistle, when little Flo, a tiny spaniel of the Blenheim breed—the pet object of Miss Julia Simpkinson’s affection — bounced out from beneath a sofa, and began to bark at—his pantaloons.

They were cleverly ‘‘built,” of a light gray mixture, a broad stripe of the most vivid scarlet traversing each seam in a perpendicular direction from hip to ankle—in short, the regimental costume of the Royal Bombay Fencibles. The animal, educated in the country, had never seen such a pair of breeches in her life —Omne ignotum pro magnifico! The scarlet streak, inflamed as it was by the reflection of the fire, seemed to act on Flora’s nerves as the same color does on those of bulls and turkeys; she advanced at the pas de charge, and her vociferation, like her amazement, was unbounded. A sound kick from the disgusted officer changed its character, and induced a retreat at the very moment when the mistress of the pugnacious quadruped entered to the rescue.

“Lassy me! Flo, what is the matter?” cried the sympathizing lady, with a scrutinizing glance leveled at the gentleman.

It might as well have lighted on a feather bed. His air of imperturbable unconsciousness defied examination; and as he would not, and Flora could

not, expound, that injured individual was compelled to pocket up her wrongs. Others of the household soon dropped in, and clustered round the board dedicated to the most sociable of meals; the urn was paraded “hissing hot,” and the cups which “cheer, but not inebriate,” steamed redolent of hyson and pekoe; muffins and marmalade, newspapers and Finnan haddies, left little room for observation on the character of Charles’s warlike “turn-out.” At length a look from Caroline, followed by a smile that nearly ripened to a titter, caused him,to turn abruptly and address his neighbor. It was Simpkinson, who, deeply engaged in sipping her tea and turning over her album, seemed, like a female Chrononotonthologos, ‘ ‘ immersed in cogibuntidy of cognition. ’ ’ An interrogatory on the subject of her studies drew from her the confession that she was at that moment employed in putting the finishing touches to a poem inspired by the romantic shades of Bolsover. The entreaties of the company were of course urgent. Mr. Peters, “who liked verses,” was especially persevering, and Sappho at length compliant. After a preparatory hem! and a glance at the mirror to ascertain that her look was sufficiently sentimental, the poetess began:

“There is a calm, a holy feeling,

Vulgar minds can never know.

O’er the bosom softly stealing— Chasten’d grief, delicious wo!

Oh! how sweet at eve regaining Yon lone tower’s sequester’d shade— Sadly mute and uncomplaining-”

—Yow!—yeough!—yeough!—yow!— yow! yelled a hapless sufferer from beneath the table. It was an unlucky hour for quadrupeds; and if “every dog will have his day,” he could not have selected a more unpropitious one than this. Mrs. Ogleton, too, had a pet—a favorite pug—whose squab figure, black muzzle, and tortuosity of tail, that curled like a head of celery in a salad-bowl, bespoke his Dutch



extraction. Yow! vow! yow! continued the brute—a chorus in which Flo instantly joined. Sooth to say, pug had more reason to express his dissatisfaction than was given him by the muse of Simpkinson; the other only barked for company. Scarcely had the poetess got through her first stanza when Tom Ingoldsby, in the enthusiasm of the moment, became so lost in the material world, that, in his abstraction, he unwarily laid his hand on the cock of the urn. Quivering with emotion he gave it such an unlucky twist that the full stream of its scalding contents descended on the gingerbread hide of the unlueky Cupid. The confusion was complete; —the whole economy of the table disarranged;—the company broke up in most admired disorder;—and “vulgar minds will never know” anything more of Miss Simpkinson’s ode till they peruse it in some forthcoming Annual.

Seaforth profited by the confusion to take the delinquent who had caused this “stramash” by the arm, and to lead him to the lawn, where he had a word or two for his private ear. The conference between the young gentlemen was neither brief in its duration nor unimportant in its result. The subject was what the lawyers call tripartite, embracing the information that Charles Seaforth was over head and ears in love with Tom Ingoldsby’s sister; secondly, that the lady had referred him to “papa” for his sanction; thirdly and lastly, his nightly visitations, and consequent bereavement. At the two first items Tom smiled auspiciously;—at the last he burst out into an absolute guffaw.

‘ ‘ Steal your breeches! Miss Bailey over again, by Jove,” shouted Ingoldsby. “But a gentleman, you say —and Sir Giles too. I am not sure, Charles, whether I ought not to call you out for aspersing the honor of the family.”

“Laugh as you will, Tom—be as incredulous as you please. One fact

is incontestable—the breeches are gone! Look here—I am reduced to my regimentals; and if these go, tomorrow I must borrow of you! ’ ’ Rochefoucault says, there is something in the misfortunes of our very best friends that does not displease us; assuredly we can, most of us, laugh at their petty inconveniences, till called upon to supply them. Tom composed his features on the instant, and replied with more gravity, as well as with an expletive, which, if my Lord Mayor had been within hearing, might have cost him five shillings.

“There is something very queer in this, after all. The clothes, you say, have positively disappeared. Somebody is playing you a trick; and, ten to one, your servant has a hand in it. By the way, I heard something yesterday of his kicking a bobbery in the kitchen, and seeing a ghost, or something of that kind, himself. Depend upon it, Barney is in the plot. ’ *

It now 7 struck the lieutenant at once that the usually buoyant spirits of his attendant had of late been materially sobered down, his loquacity obviously circumscribed, and that he, the said lieutenant, had actually rung his bell three several times that very morning before he could procure his attendance. Mr. Maguire was forthwith summoned, and underwent a close examination. The “bobbery” was easily explained. Mr. Oliver Dobbs had hinted his disapprobation of a flirtation carrying on between the gentleman from Munster and the lady from the Rue St. Honore. Mademoiselle had boxed Mr. Maguire’s ears, and Mr. Maguire had pulled Mademoiselle upon his knee, and the lady had not cried “Mon Dieu!” And Mr. Oliver Dobbs said it was very wrong; and Mrs. Botherby said it was scandalous, and what ought not to be done in any moral kitchen; and Mr. Maguire had got hold of the Honorable Augustus Sucklethumbkin’s powder-flask, and had put large pinches of the best



Double Dartford into Mr. Dobbs’s tobacco-box; and Mr. Dobbs’s pipe had exploded, and set fire to Mrs. Botherby’s Sunday cap; and Mr. Maguire had put it out with the slopbasin, “barring the wig;” and then they were all so “cantankerous,” that Barney had gone to take a walk in the garden; and then—then Mr. Barney had seen a ghost!

“A what? you blockhead!” asked Tom Ingoldsby.

“Sure then, and it’s meself will tell your honor the rights of it,” said the ghost-seer. “Meself and Miss Pauline, sir—or Miss Pauline and meself, for the ladies comes first anyhow —we got tired of the hobstroppylous scrimmaging among the ould servants, that didn’t know a joke when they seen one: and we went out to look at the comet—that’s the rorybory-alehouse, they calls him in this country—and we walked upon the lawn—and divil of any alehouse there was there at all; and Miss Pauline said it was becase of the shrubbery maybe, and why wouldn’t we see it better beyondst the trees? and so we went to the trees, but sorrow a comet did meself see there, barring a bigghost instead of it.”

“A ghost? And what sort of a ghost, Barney?”

“Och, then, divil a lie I’ll tell your honor. A tall ould gentleman he was, all in white, with a shovel on the shoulder of him, and a big torch in his fist—though what he wanted with that it’s meself can’t tell, for his eyes were like gig-lamps, let alone the moon and the comet, which wasn’t there at all:—and ‘Barney,’ says he to me—’cause why he knew me— ‘Barney,’ says he, ‘what is it you’re doing with the colleen there, Barney?’ —Divil a word did I say. Miss Pauline screeched, and cried ‘murther’ in French, and ran off with herself; and of course meself was in a mighty hurry after the lady, and had no time to stop palavering with him anyway:

so I dispersed at once, and the ghost vanished in a flame of fire!”

Mr. Maguire’s account was received with avowed incredulity by both gentlemen; but Barney stuck to his text with unflinching pertinacity. A reference to Mademoiselle was suggested, but abandoned, as neither party had a taste for delicate investigations.

“I’ll tell you what, Seaforth,” said Ingoldsby, after Barney had received his dismissal, “that there is a trick here, is evident; and Barney’s vision may possibly be a part of it. Whether he is most knave or fool, you best know. At all events, I will sit up with you tonight, and see if I can convert my ancestor into a visiting acquaintance. Meanwhile your finger on your lip!”

“ ’'"pWAS now the very witching time of night,

When churchyards yawn, and graves

give up their dead.”

Gladly would I grace my tale with decent horror, and therefore I do beseech the “gentle reader” to believe that if all the succedanea to this mysterious narrative are not in strict keeping, he will ascribe it only to the disgraceful innovations of modem degeneracy upon the sober and dignified habits of our ancestors. I can introduce him, it is true, into an old and high-roofed chamber, its walls covered on three sides with black oak wainscotting, adorned with carvings of fruit and flowers long anterior to those of Grinling Gibbons; the fourth side is clothed with a curious remnant of dingy tapestry, once elucidatory of some Scriptural history, but of which not even Mrs. Botherby could determine. Mr. Simpkinson, who had examined it carefully, inclined to believe the principal figure to be either Bathsheba, or Daniel in the lions’ den; while Tom Ingoldsby decided in favor of the King of Bashan. All, however, was conjecture, tradition being silent on the subject. A lofty



arched portal led into, and a little arched portal led out of, this apartment; they were opposite each other, and each possessed the security of massy bolts on its interior. The bedstead, too, was not one of yesterday, but manifestly coeval with days ere Seddons was, and when a good fourpost “article” was deemed worthy of being a royal bequest. The bed itself, with all the appurtenances and palliasse, mattresses, etc., was of far later date, and looked most incongruously comfortable; the casements, too, with their little diamond-shaped panes and iron binding, had given way to the modem heterodoxy of the sash-window. Nor was this all that conspired to ruin the costume, and render the room a meet haunt for such “mixed spirits” only as could condescend to don at the same time an Elizabethan doublet and Bond Street inexpressibles.

With their green morocco slippers on a modern fender, in front of a disgracefully modern grate, sat two young gentlemen, clad in “shawlpattern” dressing-gowns and Black silk stocks, much at variance with the high cane-backed chairs which supported them. A bunch of abomination, called a cigar, reeked in the left-hand comer of the mouth of one, and in the right-hand comer of the mouth of the other;—an arrangement happily adapted for the escape of the noxious fumes up the chimney, without that unmerciful “funking” odor which a less scientific disposition of the weed would have induced. A small Pembroke table filled up the intervening space between them, sustaining, at each extremity, an elbow and a glass of toddy;—thus in “lonely pensive contemplation” were the two worthies occupied, when the “iron tongue of midnight had tolled twelve.”

“Ghost-time’s come!” said Ingoldsby, taking from his waistcoat pocket a watch like a gold half-crown, and consulting it as though he suspected

the turret-clock over the stables of mendacity.

“Hush!” said Charles; “did I not hear a footstep?”

There was a pause:—there was a footstep—it sounded distinctly—it reached the door — it hesitated, stopped, and—passed on.

Tom darted across the room, threw open the door, and became aware of Mrs. Botherby toddling to her chamber, at the other end of the gallery, after dosing one of the housemaids with an approved julep from the Countess of Kent’s Choice Manual.

“Good night, sir!” said Mrs. Botherby.

“Go to the devil!” said the disappointed ghost-hunter.

An hour—two—rolled on, and still no spectral visitation; nor did aught intervene to make night hideous; and when the turret-clock sounded at length the hour of three, Ingoldsby, whose patience and grog were alike exhausted, sprang from his chair, saying:

“This is all infernal nonsense, my good fellow. Deuce of any ghost shall we see tonight; it’s long past the canonical hour. I’m off to bed; and as to your breeches, I’ll insure them for the next twenty-four hours at least, at the price of the buckram. ’ ’

“Certainly.—Oh! thank’ee;—to be sure!” stammered Charles, rousing himself from a revery, which had degenerated into an absolute snooze.

“Good night, my boy! Bolt the door behind me; and defy the Pope, the Devil, and the Pretender!”

Seaforth followed his friend’s advice, and the next morning came down to breakfast dressed in the habiliments of the preceding day. The charm was broken, the demon defeated; the light grays with the red stripe down the seams were yet in rerum natura, and adorned the person of their lawful proprietor.

Tom felicitated himself and his partner of the watch on the result of their vigilance; but there is a rustic



adage, which warns us against selfgratulation before we are quite “out of the woods.”—Seaforth was yet within its verge.

A bap at Tom Ingoldsby’s door the following morning startled him as he was shaving;—he cut his chin.

“Come in, and be d-d to you!”

said the martyr, pressing his thumb on the scarified epidermis. The door opened, and exhibited Mr. Barney Maguire.

“Well, Barney, what is it?” quoth the sufferer, adopting the vernacular of his visitant.

“The master, sir-”

“Well, what does he want?”

“The loanst of a breeches, plase your honor.”

“Why, you don’t mean to tell me —by heaven, this is too good!” shouted Tom, bursting into a fit of uncontrollable laughter. “Why, Barney, you don’t mean to say the ghost has got them again?”

Mr. Maguire did not respond to the young squire’s risibility; the cast of his countenance was decidedly serious.

“Faith, then, it’s gone they are, sure enough! Hasn’t meself been looking over the bed, and under the bed, and in the bed, for the matter of that, and divil a ha’p’orth of breeches is there to the fore at all:— I’m bothered entirely!”

“Hark’ee! Mr. Barney,” said Tom, incautiously removing his thumb, and letting a crimson stream “incarnadine the multitudinous” lather that plastered his throat,—“this may be all very well with your master, but you don’t humbug me, sir:—tell me instantly what have you done with the clothes?”

This abrupt transition from “lively to severe” certainly took Maguire by surprize, and he seemed for an instant as much disconcerted as it is possible to disconcert an Irish gentleman's gentleman.

“Me? is it meself, then, that’s the

ghost to your honor’s thinking?” said he, after a moment’s pause, and with a slight shade of indignation in his tones: “is it I would stale the master’s things,—and what would I do with them?”

‘ ‘ That you best know:—what your purpose is I can’t guess, for I don’t think you mean to ‘stale’ them, as you call it; but that you are concerned in their disappearance, I am satisfied. Confound this blood!—give me a towel, Barney!”

Maguire acquitted himself of the commission. “As I’ve a sowl, your honor,” said he solemnly, “little it is meself knows of the matter: and

after what I seen-”

“What you’ve seen! Why, what have you seen?—Barney, I don’t want to inquire into your flirtations; but don’t suppose you can palm off your saucer eyes and gig-lamps upon me!”

“Then, as sure as your honor’s standing there I saw him: and why wouldn’t I, when Miss Pauline was

to the fore as well as meself, and-’ ’

“Get along with your nonsense— leave the room, sir!”

‘ ‘ But the master, ’ ’ said Barney, imploringly; “and without breeches?—

sure he’ll be catching cowld!-”

“Take that, rascal!” replied Ingoldsby, throwing a pair of pantaloons at, rather than to, him; “but don’t suppose, sir, you shall carry on your tricks here with impunity; recollect there is such a thing as a treadmill, and that my father is a county magistrate.”

Barney’s eye flashed fire,—he stood erect, and was about to speak; but, mastering himself, not without an effort, he took up the garment, and left the room as perpendicular as a Quaker.

*' T ngoldsby, ” said Charles Seaforth, A after breakfast, “this is now past a joke; today is the last of my stay; for, notwithstanding the ties which detain me, common decency obliges me to visit home after so long an



absence. I shall come to an immediate explanation with your father on the subject nearest my heart, and depart while I have a change of dress left. On his answer will my return depend! In the meantime tell me candidly—I ask it in all seriousness, and as a friend—am I not a dupe in your well-known propensity to hoaxing? have you not a hand in-”

“No, by heaven, Seaforth; I see what you mean: on my honor, I am as mueh mystified as yourself; and if

your servant-’ ’

“Not he:—if there be a trick, he at least is not privy to it. ’ ’

“If there be a trick? why, Charles,

do you think-”

“I know not what to think, Tom. As surely as you are a living man, so surely di4 that spectral anatomy visit my room again last night, grin in my face, and walk away with my trousers; nor was I able to spring from my bed, or break the chain which seemed to bind me to my pillow. ’ ’ “Seaforth!” said Ingoldsby, after a short pause, “I will—but hush! here are the girls and my father.—I will carry off the females, and leave you a clear field with the governor: carry your point with him, and we will talk about your breeches afterward. ’ ’

Tom’s diversion was successful: he carried off the ladies en masse to look at a remarkable specimen of the class Dodecandria Monogynia,—which they could not find;—while Seaforth marched boldly up to the encounter, and carried “the governor’s” outworks by a coup de main. I shall not stop to describe the progress of the attack; suffice it that it was as successful as could have been wished, and that Seaforth was referred back again to the tady. The happy lover was off at a tangent; the botanical party was soon overtaken; and the arm of Caroline, whom a vain endeavor to spell out the Linnaean name of a daffy-down-dilly had detained a little

in the rear of the others, was soon firmly locked in his own.

“What was the world to them,

Its noise, its nonsense, and its breeches all?”

Seaforth was in the seventh heaven; he retired to his room that night as happy as if no such thing as a goblin had ever been heard of, and personal chattels were as well fenced in by law as real property. Not so Tom Ingoldsby: the mystery—for mystery there evidently was—had not only piqued his curiosity, but ruffled his temper. The watch of the previous night had been unsuccessful, probably because it was undisguised. Tonight he would “ensconce himself”—not indeed “behind the arras”—for the little that remained was, as we have seen, nailed to the wall—but in a small closet which opened from one comer of the room, and, by leaving the door ajar, would give to its occupant a view of all that might pass in the apartment. Here did the young ghost-hunter take up a position, with a good stout sapling under his arm, a full half-hour before Seaforth retired for the night. Not even his friend did he let into his confidence, fully determined that if his plan did not succeed, the failure should be attributed to himself alone.

At the usual hour of separation for the night, Tom saw, from his concealment, the lieutenant enter his room, and, after taking a few turns in it, with an expression so joyous as to betoken that his thoughts were mainly occupied by his approaching happiness, proceed slowly to disrobe himself. The coat, the waistcoat, the black silk stock, were gradually discarded; the green morocco slippers were kicked off, and then—ay, and then—his countenance grew grave; it seemed to occur to him all at once that this was his last stake—nay, that the very breeches he had on were not his own—that tomorrow morning was

his last, and that if he lost them -

A glance showed that, his mind was made up; he replaced the single but566


ton he had just subducted, and threw himself upon the bed in a state of transition—half chrysalis, half grub.

Wearily did Tom Ingoldsby watch the sleeper by the flickering light of the night-lamp, till the clock striking one, induced him to increase the narrow opening which he had left for the purpose of observation. The motion, slight as it was, seemed to attract Charles’s attention; for he raised himself suddenly to a sitting posture, listened for a moment, and then stood upright upon the floor. Ingoldsby was on the point of discovering himself, when, tjie light flashing full upon his friend’s countenance, he perceived that, though his eyes were open, “their sense was shut”—that he was yet under the influence of sleep. Seaforth advanced slowly to the toilet, lit his candle at the lamp that stood on it, then, going back to the bed’s foot, appeared to search eagerly for something which he could not find. For a few moments he seemed restless and uneasy, walking round the apartment and examining the chairs, till, coming fully in front of a large swingglass that flanked the dressing-table, he paused, as if contemplating his figure in it. He now returned toward the bed; put on his slippers, and, with cautious and stealthy steps, proceeded towards the little arched doorway that opened on the private staircase.

As he drew the bolt, Tom Ingoldsby emerged from his hiding-place; but the sleep-walker heard him not; he proceeded softly downstairs, followed at a due distance by his friend; opened the door which led out upon the gardens; and stood at once among the thickest of the shrubs, which there clustered round the base of a corner turret, and screened the postern from common observation. At this moment Ingoldsby had nearly spoiled all by making a false step: the sound attracted Seaforth’s attention —he paused and turned; and, as the full moon shed her light directly upon

his pale and troubled features, Tom marked, almost with dismay, the fixed and rayless appearance of his eyes:—

“There was no speculation in those orbs That he did glare withal.”

The perfect stillness preserved by his follower seemed to reassure him; he turned aside; and from the midst of a thickset laurustinus, drew forth a gardener’s spade, shouldering which he proceeded with greater rapidity into the midst of the shrubbery. Arrived at a certain point where the earth seemed to have been recently disturbed, he set himself heartily to the task of digging, till, having thrown up several shovelfuls of mold, he stopped, flung down his tool, and very composedly began to disencumber himself of his pantaloons.

Up to this moment Tom had watched him with a wary eye: he now advanced cautiously, and, as his friend was busily engaged in disentangling himself from his garment, made himself master of the spade. Seaforth, meanwhile, had accomplished his purpose: he stood for a moment with

“His streamers waving in the wind,” occupied in carefully rolling up the small-clothes into as compact a form as possible, and all heedless of the breath of heaven, which might certainly be supposed at such a moment, and in such a plight, to “visit his frame too roughly.”

He was in the act of stooping low to deposit the pantaloons in the grave which he had been digging for them, when Tom Ingoldsby came close behind him, and with the flat side of the spadeT he shock was effectual;—never again was Lieutenant Seaforth known to act the part of a somnambulist. One by one, his breeches—his trousers—his pantaloons—his silk-net tights—his patent cords—his showy grays with the broad red stripe of the Bombay Fencibles were brought to



light—rescued from the grave in which they had been buried, like the strata of a Christmas pie; and, after having been well aired by Mrs. Botherby, became once again effective.

The family, the ladies especially, laughed;—the Peterses laughed;— the Simpkinsons laughed;—Barney Maguire cried “Botheration!” and Ma’mselle Pauline, “Mon Dieu!”

Charles Seafortli, unable to face the quizzing which awaited him on all sides, started off two hours earlier than he had proposed:—he soon returned, however; and having at his father-in-law’s request given up the occupation of rajah-hunting and shooting nabobs, led his blushing bride to the altar.

Mr. Simpkinson from Bath did not attend the ceremony, being engaged at the Grand Junction Meeting of Sgavans, then congregating from all parts of the known world in the city of Dublin. His essay, demonstrating that the globe is a great custard, whipped into coagulation by whirlwinds, and cooked by electricity—a

little too much baked in the Isle of Portland, and a thought underdone about the Bog of Allen—was highly spoken of, and narrowly escaped obtaining a Bridgewater prize.

Miss Simpkinson and her sister acted as bridesmaids on the occasion; the former wrote an epithalamium, and the latter cried “Lassy me!” at the clergyman’s wig. Some years have since rolled on; the union has been crowned with two or three tidy little offshoots from the family tree, of whom Master Neddy is ‘ ‘ grandpapa’s darling,” and Mary Anne mamma’s particular ‘ * Sock. ’ ’ I shall only add, that Mr. and Mrs. Seaforth are living together quite as happily as two goodhearted, good-tempered bodies, very fond of each other, can possibly do: and that since the day of his marriage Charles has shown no disposition to jump out of bed, or ramble out of doors o’ nights—though, from

[THE END]

============================================================
DREGS
by Joseph Upper
============================================================
his entire devotion to every wish and whim of his young wife, Tom insinuates that the fair Caroline does still occasionally take advantage of it so far as to “slip on the breeches.”

DREGS

By JOSEPH UPPER

There have been dreams that poisoned all our sleep With visions of the thing that might not be,

And filled the measureless immensity Of night with gliding griefs that could not weep,

And dared not speak, and would not die. The deep, Implacable, uncomprehending sea Of thought was choked with their foul progeny,

A plague of scaly things that swim and creep.

My soul is like that slow congealing sea Where loathsome creatures breed and chum the wave Into an oozing flat, a black morass.

Serpents sleep there, and all the seasons pass Unnumbered, and the crystal love I gave Away lies there and hugs futility.


The Eyrie

(Continued from page 436)

soon he was turning out such stories as Spider-Bite and Whispers for your delectation. Just nineteen now, he is already the author of a best seller, and hailed by newspaper critics as the apostle of flaming youth.

Edmond Hamilton sent his first story to this magazine—a colorful thing called Beyond the Unseen Wall. We had never heard of Edmond Hamilton, and neither had the world as yet; but the story was colorfully written and contained an extremely good weird plot. However, it sagged in the middle, and contained a number of faults which kept it below the standard we sought to maintain in Weird Tales; so we wrote Hamilton a three-page, closely typed letter, pointing out its defects, suggesting improvements in handling the story, and also asking to see more of his work. A year later the story came back to the editorial desk, completely rewritten into an excellent weird story, and retitled The Monster-God of Mamurth. Weird Tales bought the story, and since then Edmond Hamilton has not had a story rejected by any magazine. He has taken rank as one of the giants of weird-scientific fiction, though he is still in his early twenties. Weird Tales, which published his first story, will continue to print the cream of his stories.

Then there is E. Hoffmann Price, swordsman, Orientalist, and former soldier of fortune, whose unique genius was first recognized by this magazine. His total output is only two or three stories a year, but when they leave his hands they are finished works of literary craftsmanship. It was in Weird Tales, also, that Lieutenants Arthur J. Burks and W. J. Stamper first sawpublication, with their thrilling tales of Santo Domingo and Haiti, for which their many months in the Black Island with the Marine Corps had given them the background. Weird Tales can not claim the credit for discovering the literary genius of H. P. Lovecraft (would that we could!), but it is this magazine in which his uncanny imagination and descriptive ability have found their full flower and perfect expression. And that trio of original young geniuses and friends of Lovecraft who look to him as their literary fatherconfessor (much as Goldsmith and his fellows sat at the feet of Samuel Johnson in the coffee-shops of London) were the unique discovery of this magazine—Frank Belknap Long, Jr., author of The Space-Eaters; H. Warner Munn, author of The Werewolf of Ponkert; and Donald Wandrei, author of The Red Brain. Any magazine in the world could be proud to have such varied and imaginative masterpieces as these within its covers, but it remained for Weird Tales to recognize their unusual artistic merit, and give them to the world. This magazine seeks originality and expert literary craftsmanship, whether from well-known authors or from writers we never heard of before. Therein lies the opportunity of the young writers—if they can touch our standard. In brief, we want good stories, original stories, (Continued on page 570)



P



A wealth of fascinating stories is scheduled for early publication in Weird Tales, the unique magazine. The brilliant success of Weird Tales has been founded on its unrivaled, superb stories of the strange, the grotesque and the terrible—gripping stories that stimulate the imagination and send shivers of apprehension up the spine—tales that take the reader from the humdrum world about us into a deathless realm of fancy—marvelous tales so thrillingly told that they seem very real. Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. If Poe were alive he would undoubtedly be a contributor. In addition to creepy mystery stories, ghost-tales, stories of devil-worship, witchcraft, vampires and strange monsters, this magazine also prints the cream of the weird-scientific fiction that is written today— tales of the spaces between the worlds, surgical stories, and stories that scan the future with the eye of prophecy. Among the amazing tales in the next few issues will be:

THE CHAPEL OF MYSTIC HORROR, by Seabury Quinn

A startling tale of Jules tie Grandin, the little French scientist and ghostbreaker—a story of a Cyprian castle, and the Knights of the Temple, and sinister ritek and human sacrifice.

THE ISLE OF MISSING SOULS, by Joel Martin Nichols, Jr.

The author of "The City of Glass" in this fascinating serial projects Ids characters into the Fourth Dimension, and paints a vivid narrative picture of buried treasure, and thrilling battle on Bakelief Island, where the treasure of the murdered Russian Tsar lies buried.

SKULLS IN THE STARS, by Robert E. Howard

As strange and unusual a ghost-story as was ever penned is this eery tale by the author of "Red Shadows”—a story of Solomon Kane and a wild adventure on a moonlit moor—an eldritch tale of shuddery horror.

THE LAST TEST, by Adolphe de Castro

Dr. de Castro, who was author with Ambrose Bierce of "The Monk and the Hangman’s Daughter,” has written for WEIRD TALES a superb novelette, through which, like a cold breeze from the tomb, sweep suggestions of unthinkable horrors from the elder world.

THE FLYING DEATH, by B. Wallis

A strange, unearthly monster comes from the sky, and the horror of Its coming robs maiikiiid of its age-old feeling of security, and brings stark

THE POLAR DOOM, by Edmond Hamilton

Hidden away for centuries under the arctic tee was a strange city—a breathtaking narrative of the horror that burst upon the world when that frozen city was brought again into the sunlight.

THE COPPER BOWL, by Captain G. F. Eliot

A gripping torture-story of China—a powerful horror-tale that will make the blood run cold.

THESE are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weird Tales. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

WEIRD TALES,

450 E. Ohio St.,

Chicago, III.

Enclosed find $2.50 for 1 year’s subscription November issue. ($3.00 in Canada.)

"Weird Tales,” to begin v

Address City_

ui

i



(Continued from page 568)

thrilling tales fascinatingly told; and we don’t care whether they come from a world-famous author or an unknown, so long as they are good.

Here is an interesting letter from Mrs. K. Quarles of Hamburg, Germany: “We have quite a'circle here in this German city to read the fascinating stories in Weird Tales, and the members of our reading-society are always impatiently awaiting the next issue. We particularly enjoy to read The Eyrie and find out what other readers think about the stories, and we always vote amongst ourselves for the best three stories in every issue. Afterwards we compare notes with the votes of the other readers, and we sometimes think that the pseudo-scientific stories are unduly preferred, though stories as The Bird of Space and Cattle of Furos were very interesting. We also liked Mr. E. Hamilton’s story The Monster-God of Mamurth immensely, and this is a story we always like to read again. Really weird tales like Whispers by Robert S. Carr, Gray Ghouls by Bassett Morgan, Leonora by E. Worrell and all the Jumbee-stories are our favorites. Also H. Warner Munn, Greye La Spina, Seabury Quinn (The Curse of Everard Maundy) and lots of others write splendid and highly satisfactory stories. We have kept all the magazines since 1927, and after selecting all the stories we liked unanimously we had them bound as books.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Your favorite in the August issue, as shown by your votes, was Eli Colter’s unusual ghost-story, The Man in the Green Coat; your second and third choices were the first part of Crashing Suns, by Edmond Hamilton, and Robert E. Howard’s novelette of, weird adventure and black magic, Red Shadows.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE OCTOBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story

Remarks

m_

(2t_

(3) _

I do not like the

following stories:

(1) -

Why? _

(2)__

It will help us to know what kind of stories yon want in Weird Tales if yon will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St.,

1 Reader’s name and address:

Chicago, Ill.



The Werewolf’s Daughter

(Continued from page 460)

Oh, my brother, my brother, we will avenge you soon; but how much longer do we wait?”

The men shifted on uneasy feet; neighbor looked furtively at neighbor and quickly turned his glance away, for each read the other’s thought and found him willing for desperate and unholy deeds as the boy raved on:

“Owned are we by this devilchick, this werewolf’s daughter! Are we slaves or men? I say to you all, that if you do not help to end this menace to our happiness and lives, then I kill this witch myself!”

From the crowd, one pressed forward, the idiot tanner.

‘ ‘ I will help, ’ ’ he chuckled. * ‘ Give me old Helgar and I will help. He struck me once! ’ *

“I will help, too,” came a second voice as another was encouraged by this example and stepped to the front.

“And I!” “I also!” the men chorused, only a few hanging back.

‘ ‘ Why do you wait? ’ ’ the boy cried. “Come! Did you ever see wolf tracks as large as this?” He pointed to the signs in the rich loam.

Many had indeed seen larger tracks, but so distorted at this moment were their imaginations, and the majority of opinion was so great, that those who might have spoken for the girl felt the words die in their throats, for after all they were not quite sure.

Perhaps the tracks were those of a werewolf, although they were exactly like those of a real wolf! Then they would be making a hideous mistake in attempting to save the girl. And so against their weak judgment they joined the others in the cry for the innocent blood.

So shifting is the mood of men that before the mourners reached Ponkert they were more rabid and vicious than the young lad, who had suffered most.

Spurred on by the news he bore, a

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

“Clouds Dispelled 1 *

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Aft today! Write NOW!!


Dept. O. Box 1525, Los Angeles, Calif.

Foreign Work!

\ ployers. Fare andl expen*

BIG PAY. Write for Free list. -

[ SOUTH AMERICAN SERVICE BUREAU

FRANK B. LONG, Jr. H. P. LOVECRAFT

Critical and advisory service for writers of prose and verse: literary revision in all degrees of extensiveness. Address: Frank B. Long, Jr., 230 West 97th SL, New York City.

id A Dice, *5.00: Cards, 51.25: Inks,*1.60;

Mil I* 1Magic Fluid for Transparent*. J3.06:

TOSAccoaaw K;;

I 5W0Wusdsim&BAal. SW e.* I

4 The

'rffiSS,,

8 really '* 1 -

»hile. y *°rtb,



runner had gasped out the story, and as they entered the village, a rabble met them already armed and waiting only for confirmation of the story. Like a revolutionary mob, they filled the street from side to side as all poured on, out of Ponkert to the country road.

Ivga had just taken away Dmitri’s breakft^t dish, when gravel crunched in the path and the door crashed open and back against the wall. The room was filled with noise and uproar in a second. A dozen hands seized her and buffeted her about as one pulled her from another, striking and bruising her cruelly.

“Please! What is it? What have I done?” stammered the frightened girl.

So many told her at once, that she did not understand a word and fell silent, giving them stare for stare. Proud, defiant, unbroken, she stood and heard Dmitri bellowing curses against them all.

Loud he lamented his crippled legs, breathing terrible threats against the people if Ivga were hurt and calling for a friend, if one was there, to give him his sword that she might have a defender.

They did not wish to hurt Dmitri. They respected him still, if they had no fear of him now, and well they knew what would befall them if his soldiers should know he had been injured. So it was to silence him as much as any other thought, that a man reached to the wall and flung Gate-Opener down to the floor, near by, but where he could not reach it from his chair.

And all were talking at once, so that, fortunately, Ivga could not understand what they meant to do. They commenced to drag her out. But Dmitri, hearing the words “Fire!” and “Square!” was certain of their plans and raved impotently against them.

And while he, noisy in his frantic wrath, shrieked damnation against

them, there came to a listener in the crowd the memory of a long-unavenged wrong, which now would be satisfied as men had promised in the forest that it should be.

6. While the Master Watched

T he idiot tanner lurched forward through the crowd, his eyes shining with a mad, fanatical light, the words “He struck me once!” hissing through his yellow fangs. Men gave him room because of his fierce aspect and the ax which he bore upon his shoulder.

With a sweep of his arm he hurled the cripple from his chair, so that Dmitri lay face down, half-stunned and twitching in his helplessness, close beside his sword that was so impotent to aid him now.

But as the maniac howled in horrible glee, “I have you now!” and swung up his ax to strike, the girl, weak and suffering from her blows, could bear no more and her slight form sagged limp in her captor’s arms, as mercifully she fainted.

So it was that she did not see the hands that seized the ax as it began the downward sweep and halted the blow, nor did she hear the men that reasoned with the maniac, counseling patience and a long-drawn-out punishment later for Helgar, secretly fearing the anger of the soldiers. For though they would not interfere in the execution of a witch, the soldiers would most assuredly avenge the cowardly murder of their old and crippled captain.

Neither did she hear the ravings of the maniac, disappointed in his revenge, as he struggled to reach the cripple; ravings that continued until the poor mad brain was soothed by a promise that after the torture of the girl upon the morrow, Dmitri should be given to the mercies of the former tanner—a promise which was never intended or destined to be kept.

Nor did she feel herself being carried roughly out of doors, jostled and



bruised in the press, while the tanner lagged far enough behind to deal one savage kick to the prostrate cripple and was then hustled away by his watchful comrades. All these things she never knew, and to the day of her death, many years after in a strange land, she believed that Dmitri, her foster-father, had met his end beneath the tanner's ax.

As the last of the raiders quitted the house, a somewhat darker shadow than the rest hovered near the cripple where he lay hopelessly sobbing in his pain and anger and fear for the girl. For a little space it hovered as though watching, and then, contrary to the habits of shadows, it moved with no one near and followed the path the crowd had taken.

At the village they were met by another crowd, informed of the capture by those who had run on ahead. These would have taken the girl and tom her piecemeal, had not the raiders advanced a better plan.

So to the square they hustled the fainting girl, and bound her fast with iron chains to the stone post upon the log platform there, an old scaffold built for public punishment, with steps leading up from the ground, and upon it a gallows, a wheel where bones were broken, and this post with an iron floor about it, erected for death by fire. Upon this structure the martyrdom of the innocent now began.

All that sultry afternoon die hung in her chains, the fieree sun beating down upon her unprotected head, a little hammer beating in each temple and strange humming noises in her ears as the day wore to a close. And in all that incredibly long afternoon she had not one moment’s rest from torment.

At first she answered the gibes and taunts that were flung at her by the tormentors, but it only exeited them to fresh efforts and gained her nothing.

Then they began to throw other things, words alone failing to give

Rosicrucian New Secret Book Loaned to You

Reveals Rosicrucian Lams and Secret Teachings

Has Made 'Thousands Happy, Successful, and Mighty in the Control of Natural Laws.

Because this new hook is so remarkable and difficult to secure, the Supreme Council of the Rosicrucians has decided to loan SEALED COPIES of it to sincere and worthy seekers who will promise to study it and help in the great work of promoting success and health in life. It is called the most remarkable book of occult revelation, and is issued by the oldest mystical fraternity In the world. Just write and say that you will read it. study tho wonderful laws and return It. Enclose two cents for actual postage, and It will be mailed.

LIBRARIAN B».1., AMORC Rosicrucian Park San Jose, California

(The Rosicrucian Order has no connection with organizations using the terms “ Fellowship “ or “SocietyThere is only one international Rosicrucian Order known only as AMORC.)


The world-famous fortune teller Madame Le Normand’s own secret system and deck RH of cards in colors, now so arranged that anyjaEm one knowing the key may read them at a glance. "Tell Fortunes" at parties, bazaars.

Send cheek 6, e^^ar^e^lL Vb^*|LM (or pay postman (1.15 on dellyory).


For those interested in the purchase of back issues of WEIRD TALES— Write us and we will tell you what copies we have and at what price.

WEIRD TALES 450 E. OHIO ST. CHICAGO, ILL.



enough amusement. Mud flew, small sods, stones, offal, sticks, and once a dead cat, but her spirit was not to be broken by missiles, though her body was near to that point.

Many times she searched the howling sea of faces for Hugo, but although she noticed several of the gipsy band who gave her pitying glances, but turned away when she caught their eyes, knowing that they could not help, she never saw him and began to fear three things:

“He was ashamed of her.

“He was afraid to speak in her defense, which would prove him a coward.

“He had already spoken rashly and they had killed him as they had Dmitri for being her friend."

But none of these reasons was responsible for Hugo’s non-appearance. At that moment he was jogging homeward on a fat and lazy nag and leading by their tethers three horses, the fruits of a little private venture in horse-trading to the west of Ponkert.

Hugo was well pleased with himself, singing merrily as he came. And in the village, others were making merry, but to a different tune.

Still, for all the abuses which they heaped upon her, they could not break her sullen indifference to their torments, until some witty soul was struck by a''tremendous idea. Into the church ran several men, pried loose the staple which held the book to the underground wall, and ran back with it to the scaffold. Here they fastened it to a beam, so that it hung beside her, and set it swinging.

The rusty chain squeaked and complained as the book swung, and to her delirious fancy it seemed as though it was the voice of a man, her father, who cried beneath the torturer’s knife. Father and daughter together at last, upon the same scaffold—one dead, the other near to dying!

She bowed l^er head to hide two big tears that formed in her sad eyes, but there were many who saw the evidence

that she was hurt at last, and there was no pity in Ponkert.

How they howled then! More than a mile away, Dmitri heard the shout and cursed them, knowing that something new and dreadful had been done to his loved one.

But curses do little harm, and so with fresh and ingenious methods, cunning to bring pain, the people enjoyed themselves in a sadistic happiness until night fell.

This was their day! Who could deny them? The church?

The priest pronounced an exorcism designed to dispel the evil spirit from her and left her to the tender mercies of the mob.

The soldiers? They kept out of the disturbance, neither applauding the mob nor hindering them, for secretly they were in sympathy with the villagers and many looked askance at Helgar’s audacity in sheltering the werewolf’s daughter. As yet they knew nothing of the indignities that had been inflicted upon their former captain, and the few soldiers that were present looked calmly on the scene.

Cruel as the people were, they were careful not to kill, for a greater entertainment was set for morning, and a pile of wood and brush rose near the scaffold in readiness for the final sport.

The delay was for two purposes. One was to torture by the night chill, which would pain her bruised and stiffened muscles like dull knives before morning. And the second was an even more refined form of torture.

The agony and suspense and waiting would make the dark hours seem like years to her, as she waited for sunrise, which would mean the stake and the flaming death. Well they knew that no one could find ease or sleep while hanging in those iron chains that bound her wrists.

Twilight came and three things happened:

The people left the square, leaving


5*6

only a few that were not yet satisfied, and after those had gone, a sentry remained to watch the girl all night, so that she might call no help or vanish away by her diabolical arts.

A small procession of horses turned into the road that followed'the river to Ponkert.

And last but most important of the three: A large bird, a carrion-eater, tiptoed through the open door of Dmitri’s cottage and inspected the motionless body with a speculative leer.

This story rises in a crescendo of pathos and horror in next month’s chapters.

The Temple of Serpents

(Continued from, page 468)

surely stealing over him again. His arms! If he could only wrench them loose from his sides he might spring on the demon that was transforming him into a scaly, crawling thing!

He fought and lashed out with his

Life’s Secrets!

Amarine new book. “Safe Counsel,"V

Send No Money

IR4NCEBS

Men, get Forest Ranger job; $125-$200 f month and home furnished; hunt, fish, trap, etc. For further details, write S~ NORTON I NT ST.

*C 1562 Temple Court, Denver,Colo.



dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Money, It may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaranteed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash. CLARKE COIN CO„ W. T. Dept., LeRay, N. T.

arms.

“Steady, steady,” said a voice.

Slowly the great, blue-lighted hall, the grinning stone idol that was half human, half bird, the hair-covered mask of a face with its glaring red eyes—all faded from his sight. But his arms were still helplessly bound to his sides. He flapped them feebly.

“Easy, Wayne. You’re all right now,” said the voice.

O pening his eyes he saw Wells Beyerlein bending anxiously over him and holding his thrashing arms. There was another man with him, a spectacled, professional-looking man who was at the moment engaged in shutting a small black bag. Wayne felt the sting in his shoulder of a recent hypodermic injection.

Flooded by a vast, overwhelming content and a sense that somehow

BIG PAY: SOUTH AMERICAN WORK. AMERican firms pay fare, expenses. South American Service Bureau, 14,600 Alma, Detroit, Mich.

SONG POEM WRITERS—“REAL” PROPOSItion. Hibbeler, D-156, 2104 N. Keystone.

TOBACCO OR SNUFF HABIT CURED OR NO pay! 21.50 if cured. Sent on trial! Willard Company, Box 796, Los Angeles, Calif.



Next Month

The


By

RACHAEL MARSHALL and MAVERICK TERRELL

I T happened in Acatlan, that peculiar village where anything is possible, and the uncanny horror of it drove the American to seek forgetfulness in strange drugs. A terrible place is Acatlan, enormous, savage, half a million years behind the rest of the world; and above the village towers the frowning vastness of such,mountains as Dunsany must have had in mind when he wrote about “the gods who dwell in the folds of the hills”— a brutal, cataclysmic region of tremendous ravines and mist-curtained valleys.

H ebe is a bizarre story, somewhat off the beaten trail—about an American engineer, and a brutal Mexican bully, and a wistfully beautiful Mexican girl— a romantic and pathetic love-tale. By night she came to the American, cooked his meals, mended his clothes, slaved for ■him, asking only that he should not drive her away but should let her remain near him. By day she was nowhere to be seen. And when at last Larrison had grown to love her and sought to marry her, then occurred the weird and incredible thing that shattered his love-idyl and clouded his dreams. This story will be printed complete in the

November issue of


On Sale October 1

Clipond Mad this Coupon, Today _

SSF*-

everything was all right, he closed his eyes and relaxed. He heard the door open and close, and felt that the spectacled man had gone out with his little black bag and left him alone with his friend.

“I’ve had such a ghastly night mare, Wells,” he whispered weakly

“Yes, yes,” soothed Wells. “And now let me have this infernal thing.” Coaxing fingers opened the clenched left hand and removed the stone snake-head.

“Such an awful nightmare!” repeated Wayne drowsily.

“But you’re all right now. Every, thing is all right now. It was only a mirage. Go to sleep and rest your nerves.”

With a puzzled frown Wells tried to explain the phenomenon to Wayne after his friend had rested and come to himself again.

“The snake-head was probably sat urated, drenched with some one of the devil’s brews that those witeh doctors can make with their jungle herbs Then it dried, leaving only a residue in the pores of the stone. And the heat of the fire, and the warmth of your hand as you clenched it served to release a vapor that drugged your nerves and produced the hallucination you went through. ’ ’

“You’re sure that’s the explanation?” asked Wayne.

“No, I’m not sure. But it’s the only thing I can think of.”

Wayne turned the stone snake-head over and over in his hand.

“Your theory doesn’t explain the change of color,” he remarked. “When you gave it to me it was green. Now it’s brown!”

“No,” admitted Wells uneasily, “my theory doesn’t explain the change of color.”

And together they stared with somber eyes at the enigmatie bit of stone that had once been a shimmering green and that was now a dull, usedup brown.

Missing page

Through popular demand we have published a clothbound edition of THE MOON TERROR by A. G. Birch to make this startling story available to those who were not fortunate enough to read it when it appeared serially in the early issues of WEIRD TALES.

Here is a book that you will treasure highly. It is beautifully bound in rich bine eloth with attractive orange and black jacket. The paper is excellent, made to order for this edition.

The type is a style that makes the reading easy and restful to the eyes.

Order your copy today!

Price $1.50 postpaid.

WEIRD TALES, Dept. M-8

450 E. Ohio St., Chicago

[THE END]
