============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 35, Number 1
Date: January 1940
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "A Million Years in the Future (Part I)" by Thomas P. Kelly
  2. "The Unveiling Alfred I" by Tooke
============================================================
============================================================
A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE (PART I)
by Thomas P. Kelly
============================================================
He’d carried her request out to the letter.

Million Years in the Future

By THOMAS P. KELLY

The weirdest and most exciting interplanetary story ever printed — a tale of the Wolves of Won a and the Nine Terrible Sisters, and the fearsome Black Raiders


1. fan of the Purple City

T HIS is a story of triumph and failure, a story of what happened when the Black Raiders came from the stars with their vapors of death; the strange tale that I, Jan, Prince of the Purple City and last man of my world, the planet Earth, tell of the year 1,001,940.

Nor will there ever be a sequel to this story. Never again will the ebon hordes bring terror from the skies. Never again will their space-ships come to bear our maids to the orgies of their temples, or carry fettered slaves and warriors to the

sands of their arenas. No more will the eternal Tara flaunt her blinding beauty, or laugh while all around her are the cries and screams of the dying. The terrible Secret of the Bells was at last told to an Earthman, and mine are the hands that blew a world to a hundred trillion atoms.

And now I am alone, alone in the gathering dusk of my own planet to begin the writing of this strange narrative — Earth’s last and final story. All around me are the dreary plains and moss-covered hills of what was once the bottom of a mighty ocean. Overhead the stars are growing brighter and more numerous. Soon they


n


will appear in the great number that will encompass the heavens. Then will come the moons — those three tiny, jagged bodies — to brighten the bleak landscape with their weird and ghostly light.

And yet in the terrible silence of a lifeless world I write on and on, writing of a planet , and a civilization that is no more, writing words that can never know the eyes of other than myself.

Why, then, should I continue this story, or insist on telling that which must forever remain a secret? Perhaps it is the memories of the wild adventures that were mine upon that distant world, Capara. Perhaps it is the thoughts of how I so well held my own against the swordsmen of tire Eternal One, or the warriors of the Fire King who'- reigned on a distant sun; how I found the golden Ball of Life, beheld the great god. Time, or slew the Nine Terrible Sisters who had known a million years!

But no. In these final hours I believe it is for another purpose — that I take a pride in telling of the bravery of my race, of that white-skinned, dark-haired people who are no more. For I am a Prince of the Bardonians, that proud and fearless race who were last to fall before the Migs when the terrible little brown men came to our world with their incalculable numbers, to raze our homes and steal our women.

That, of course, was eons ago. Since then our world has known many invasions from the sky — the yellow-skinned Trulls — the Saurian, men of Sura — the weird, insect-like creatures with their wands of light, who came from the lost planetoid — the beautiful, warrior-women from a star so distant as to be invisible to the naked eye.

And then at last the ones whose very name brought terror to our world, that shouting and barbaric horde who swept down all before them — the Black Raiders!

Through the ages, at irregular intervals.

the invasions had continued, while the inhabitants of our ravaged planet slowly dwindled in numbers, in power, in intellect itself. The elders of the twenty or more still remaining tribes who inhabited the ruined -cities of the ancients were ever loud In telling of that fact, talking always of the great civilization and the billions our world had known as far back in the dawning as a million years ago.

And amid the crumbling grandeur of a once mighty metropolis that my people knew only as the Purple City, I, Jan, Prince of the Bardonians and the world’s last man, was born a score and some four years before the death of my planet.

My father, Thargo the Just, had long been King and sole ruler of the thousand or more barbaric, almost naked people who were his subjects. It was this same monarch who had fought so bitterly against the black hordes, years ago, when last the Raiders came to loot and terrorize our world. It was this beloved ruler also, who for so long had been trying to bring about a semblance of peace between the still remaining tribes.

It is needless to mention those early years that passed so swiftly and pleasantly, while I was blissfully unaware of the wild life before me. Suffice it to say they were spent in learning the wisdom of the elders, and those who were my tutors; of the little known lands beyond our borders; of what would be expected of one of my royal lineage, as well as the strange history of the mighty ruins around me.

Nor was my physical welfare neglected. From the first it was evident nature had endowed me with an almost superhuman strength, and the sword-arm of a master. Not that powerful men were uncommon in our clean-limbed, six-foot race, but even in my teens I excelled in wrestling and all feats of endurance, and on entering into manhood found their stoutest warriors unable to withstand me in the sham

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


duels and athletic contests that were the delight and diversion of the warrior-like Bardonian tribe.

Strength and a skilled sword-arm were ever quick to win applause with the populace of the Purple City, and to that little community I was not only their future King but an acclaimed hero as well. Even now I can recall the proud face of my sire at the shouting of my name; but far more vivid is the memory of that last night when I was summoned to his presence, where, alone amid the towering pillars of ' his great throne room, he spoke to me in a soft tone, for I was his only heir.

1 1HARGO, my father, was a tall, powererful man, of almost my own height — and I am six feet four inches. Naked, except for the leather trappings and soft sandals that were the universal apparel of our planet, the terrible fate of the woman he loved, years before, had so embittered him as to make habitually stern the features of a once handsome face. And yet there was an approving light in his eyes as they met mine. He looked at me before he spoke.

"You are fortunate in more ways than one, my boy,” he began, "fortunate in being endowed not only with a royal lineage, but the muscles of a Titan as well. That in itself is good. Used wisely, strength becomes a blessing, and an aid to those around you.

“But there is another side that must be considered,” he added in warning, “a dangerous side as well, Jan. Used wrongly, it becomes a curse, and brands you a tyrant. Remember always those words when that brawn is called upon.”

His strong fingers gripped my shoulder in a half-caress. "But I have little fear that your actions will ever bring me other than honor.

"There are only too few of us left, Jan. We cannot afford to war with the tribes

that still remain. At best, our planet holds no more than fifty thousand humans, who inhabit the ruins of the once great cities that dot its dreary, war-scarred surface. Ah, but the many invasions from the other worlds have indeed taken their frightful toll, have reduced to a mockery of a once great number, a wild and war-like people — an almost naked and comparatively primitive people, when one thinks of the great space-ships and terrible weapons of the Black Raiders.”

"The Black Raiders,” I echoed, uttering the three most terrifying words in our universe — words young mothers frequently used to silence an unruly child.

My father nodded.

"You have never seen them, Jan. It is my prayer you never will. When last they came I was but a young man, scarcely much older than yourself. I had your lovely mother then. You were a tiny baby. I had my life before me. For thirty years no alien foot had touched our planet, and we were beginning to hope that at last the great curse had lifted, and our ravaged little universe had been forgotten by its terrible conquerors.

"And then one day they came again. Out from the great void that lies between us and their distant planet came the Black Raiders, and once more our world ran red with blood. Oh, the memories of those awful hours! Battles by day — fires by night — death and pillage all the time. Why they did not seek our total extinction is strange, for it -was well within their power. It was as though they but used us for sport, and permitted the survival of a few thousand for further invasions.

For two long weeks stark terror reigned, and when at last the ebon hordes departed in their great space-ships, sated with blood and weary of slaughter, they took our greatest treasures with them — our hardiest warriors for the sands of their arenas, our fairest daughters for the


H

harems of their nobles. Yes; they indeed took our loved ones, and — among them was ”

Here his voice trailed off to silence, but no words were needed to complete that sentence. Well I knew what had happened. When the Black Raiders finally left tlrey had taken the loveliest maids of the Purple City with them, among them was the beautiful girl who was the Queen herself — my mother!

There was nothing I could say, and so in silence I followed my sire to the tiny alcove at the far end of the room that led to a lofty gallery and a starlit summer night. Below us lay the crumbling grandeur of the Purple City, wrapped in slumber, for the hour was late. A night wind whistled in die ivy-covered ruins, while high overhead a million stars flashed green, blue and bright crimson.

The Bardonian King pointed to a distant, brilliant star, somewhat apart from the others, whose silvery light shone cold and unblinking.

"That is Capara — the home of the Black Raiders. That is the terrible world to which your unhappy mother w r as taken, long years ago. That is the awful star from which she may be looking down upon us at this very moment— sad-eyed, longing, hoping.

"So remember what I have told you this night, Jan,” he concluded. "Remember that a wise King seeks not war, but peace; that a good ruler will go to any length to protect the welfare of his people. But should the Black Raiders ever again come to our world, remember what was stolen from both you and me when last they were upon us.”

I HAD, of course, expected many other nights in the company of my royal sire, but fate, which even then was spinning the impenetrable webs of the future, ordained I should see him no more, nor

was I ever again to know the plains and valleys of my homeland.

Early the following morning I and four Bardonian warriors rode far to the north, and toward the distant mountains that marked the boundary of our country, in the annual inspection of its long unguarded borders. It was a barbaric-looking picture we presented in that early light. The leather trappings and soft sandals were our only raiment, while strapped to the waist of each of us was a longsword, a shortsword, a keen slender dagger — weapons whose use we had been acquainted with since childhood. The weird, fleet-footed kangs we rode but helped to complete that picture.

It was these speedy, timid beasts, kangs, which were the universal mounts of our world; and while their exact origin was not known for a certainty, it was generally supposed they had descended from a small herd the Black Raiders had brought with them on their first invasions to our planet, fourteen centuries earlier. Though possessed of an almost unbelievable speed — a kang in flight has been known to clear a twelve-foot-high obstacle with a rider on its back — their tiny pink eyes, black fur-like hair and slender legs, together with the long, solitary horn protruding from the center of the head, tended to substantiate this hypothesis and render them most unearthly in appearance.

High noon found us within a few miles of the mountain range that was our objective. We were rapidly nearing its rocky base when one of the warriors suddenly called my attention to a thin column of smoke rising upward, directly ahead. Almost at the same instant shrill cries reached us, and a moment later we were pulling up beside a little scene both grim and tragic.

There crawling slowly toward us was a grimy, blood-covered figure. Only when I had dismounted did recognition come.

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE

In our little community of some ten hundred people there was scarcely a face that was not at least slightly familiar, and the gray-haired old woman before me I knew as one who, with her son, eked out an existence in the raising and selling of young kangs which they brought to the markets of the Purple City at regular intervals. Near by the smoldering ruins of a tiny hut were black and desolate.

The glazing eyes went wide as I knelt beside her.

"Prince Jan!” she gasped. "It — it is you?”

"Yes, mother, it is I,” I nodded. "But tell me, what has happened? Who has dared to do this to you?”

I bent low to catch her words, for I could see the end was near.

"They came yesterday — the Thovians,” she answered. "There were three of them. They rushed in on us and slew my son as we sat at our morning meal. Their bearded leader buried his knife in my body. Then with terrible shouts and curses they set fire to our hut, and drove off with our little herd of kangs. I was only half conscious, but dared not move, for they thought me dead and would have surely killed me had I made a sound. I waited and — and— — ”

She gave a little sob as she spoke, then sank back into my arms.

The Thovians! Ah, but I might have known it! That cowardly, treacherous, thieving tribe, whose crumbling city lay a hundred miles or so beyond our mountainous borders. For years we had attempted to live in concord with this neighboring people — my father willing to overlook their petty thefts and misdemeanors. This, however, was more than thievery. They had not only dared to enter our country, but had murdered its subjects as well!

My blood boiled as I wheeled to my followers.

"Look after this woman,” I ordered two


of them. "Give her every possible aid, and if she rallies, try taking her back to the Purple City.”

"And you, Prince Jan?” asked one, a grizzled old warrior I had known since childhood.

"I am going to find the men responsible for this,” I answered, vaulting to the back of my mount. "I am going to follow them to the Thovian capital if need be, and drag them back to the Hall of Justice for trial.”

"But you dare not!” he cried. "No; you dare not. It’s the command of your father to avoid bloodshed. He would be furious, oh Prince. We must use tact and ”

"Too late for that,” I shouted, motioning the two others to follow me. "This is beyond tact. This is murder. If we allow those men to go unpunished, they will be entering the Purple City next, and slitting our throats while we sleep. Tell my father I will either return with those murderers or renounce my lineage!”

The next instant my charger had sprung forward, and behind me came the others.

I could still hear the shouts of the old warrior in protest, but I took no notice of them or did other than to urge my kang on faster. I heard his shouts long after I lost sight of him, but on we went at a mad gallop, and a few minutes later were beyond the border of our own land and into a strange country where I never before had been.

J UST at dusk we came to a vast and desolate landscape, a dreary, mosscovered waste that stretched away to the sky, which I knew was once the bottom of a mighty ocean.

Our ancients tell us that far back in the fogs of antiquity our planet knew many great seas; that as the ages passed


they had slowly dried and. vanished, till there remained but the few shallow lakes and streams we now know- — adding that in a not distant day even these would evaporate, to leave an arid, waterless world.

But at the moment there was more of immediate importance than prophecies. Somewhere out on that desolate waste three murderers were hurrying with their loot to the Thovian capital. As Prince and Protector of my people, it was a duty I owed them to bring that trio to justice, and so, despite the protests of the others, I could but motion them on, and resume our tiring journey.

All that night we continued as fast as our jaded mounts would go. The stars came out and the three jagged moons sailed slowly across the sky, but still we pursued our weary way. Our age-old legends tell us that eons past those three small moons were one great satellite; that when the Migs first came to our planet, five hundred thousand years ago, there were mighty cities and millions of Earth folk living on the vast plains of its interior.

The legends have it also, that these same people refused to pay tribute to the little brown men, and that In their rage the Migs turned their terrible rays of light upon the moon — bringing instant death to its inhabitants, and rending it to the three tiny bodies we now know.

Through the night we rode. Tire first streaks of gray were paling the eastern sky, and it was evident the waning strength of our kangs would soon force a halt, when on topping a small hill I saw that which brought an exclamation from my lips, and sent a thrill surging through me.

There, directly below us in a little valley, was a tiny campfire; and stretched around its flickering flames, their weapons glittering in the firelight, three Thovian warriors lay in slumber.

2, Thovian Pursuit

HTHERE could be no doubt as to their --- identity. They were indeed the three we sought. Even from the hilltop I could make out the powerful frame and bearded features of one of them — features that readily tallied with the old woman’s description of her attacker. The evil faces of the others were those of habitual thieves and murderers.

And if additional proof were needed, it was quickly given in the dozen or more black forms huddled together just beyond the firelight — fettered kangs, each of whose left front and hind legs were strapped together to prevent them from wandering away in the dark.

It was this that gave cause for an immediate worry. Kangs are notoriously timid creatures, and when frightened give the piercing little barks so familiar to our world. It was these I feared. Their sharp ears were sure to hear the slightest tread, and this would result in the shrill barks that could easily awaken the sleepers. Caution, then, was all-important. I had dismounted, and now motioned the others to do likewise and approach me.

"We will divide here,” I spoke in a whisper. "It is our best plan. You two can encircle them from the left, while I close in from the right. Stay just beyond the firelight until you hear my signal, then draw your weapons and rush them.”

"If they resist us, Prince?” came the answering whisper of one. "If they should show -fight?”

"Then show fight also and — and ”

But I suddenly remembered the many warnings of my father to avoid bloodshed.

I could almost feel his presence, as if he were beside me awaiting my words.

"Well, try talcing them alive, of course,”

I continued. "But remember you are to guard yourselves at all times, and be sure you take them. Be careful also, for the

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


love of your ancestors. The slightest sound or misstep is sure to awaken the kangs, and that will mean discovery.”

I waited till they had crept into the gloom, then turned to the task before me. A silent descent of the little hill was not hard. The soft, moss-like vegetation that covered the entire surface of this vast, once submerged land, made stealth an easy matter. It was not till I had come within a dozen paces of the sleepers that there was cause for alarm. Numerous dry twigs and small pieces of firewood had been strewn around, that could easily result in a loud crackling sound, were I to step upon them.

Softly I drew nearer. I could hear the rhythmical breathing of the trio, which tended to lessen the sound of my approach. I had already singled out the bearded man for my first victim. Could I gag and bind him, the capture of the others would be in order. I was within two paces of him now. Another minute and the soft stripping I carried would be thrust into his half-opened mouth and stifle any cry.

On tiptoe I came beside him and was sinking to my knees, when the man, as though warned by some subtle sense, suddenly opened his eyes and sat up!

For an instant we both stared at each other, the bearded face showing an amazement almost comical. So great was his surprise that for a second he forgot to cry out, and then it was too late. My hands flew to his throat even as his mouth opened, and the next instant I sprang upward, giving the powerful jerk that shot the startled Thovian up to and upon his feet as though he were a child.

There was but a single mishap, and yet it was enough. As the man flew upward his legs swung in the wide circle that sent them crashing against a heavy cooking-pot. In an instant it had awakened the others, who sprang to their feet, and then, simultaneously, several things happened. The bearded one sought to grapple with me.

My right fist shot to his jaw with a force that dropped him, unconscious, in his tracks. Another sprang toward me with an uplifted knife. An instant later and he too was on the ground, disarmed and screaming from a broken wrist.

Even at the first sounds of the struggle several barks had risen from the nearby kangs — barks that were quickly taken up by the entire herd as the nervous creatures woke from their slumbers. And now these, together with the cries of the man at my feet, rose up in a frightful din to split that ghostly pre-dawn light.

As the remaining warrior saw the last of his comrades go down his hand flew to his sword, and I whipped out my own weapon. For a moment he stood thus, as though uncertain whether to engage with me or not, then, with a little cry, wheeled and dashed away at the same instant that my two companions appeared in the firelight.

"After him!” I shouted to them. "Don’t let him get away!” In the cold spectral light, I could see their hurrying forms for a moment, and just ahead of them the running Thovian. Then the whiteness enveloped the three of them.

I turned to the two men at my feet. The one with the broken wrist was still groaning, but it was his companion with whom I wished to speak. Presently the bearded one came to himself, and at a word from me rose slowly to his feet, a hand nursing his swollen jaw.

"You are a Thovian?” I began.

He glared at me defiantly.

"Answer me!” I snapped.

"I am a Thovian.” His reply was in a surly tone. "A Thovian and an honest man, as is my companion here. We have done nothing. Why did you attack us?”

"Who owns those kangs?” I went on, ignoring his question as I pointed to the little herd that had gradually quieted and were now watching our every move.


fg

"I do,” he retorted, "and what of it? I was taking them to the markets at the Thovian capital, and we camped here for the night. Nothing wrong in that, is there?”

"Not if they’re yours. But' entering another country and killing to get them throws a different light on the matter.”

I HAD expected a vigorous denial, but his answering words were both incriminating and a surprise.

"Well,” he growled with a shrug, "I cannot see what you are going to do about it, even if I did. If the Bardonians are fools enough to leave their borders unguarded, and are unable to protect what is theirs, they must expect such things. But enough of that. What I want to know is who are you, and what do you intend doing with us?”

"I am taking you back to the Purple City for trial,” I told him. "You will be given a fair one, I promise you — much fairer than a Bardonian could hope for, were he on trial for a similar offense in your own capital.

"But I can also promise you will be under a close scrutiny,” I added, for the eyes of the two men had met in a quick glance, "and that at the first attempt to escape I will complete the beating I have so well begun. Remember,” I concluded, "that I am just waiting for some excuse.” As I spoke, my two companions appeared, breathing heavily. There was no sign of the third.

"He escaped us, Prince,” cried one. "The fellow had the speed of a young kang. Pie dashed away as though a hundred devils were at his heels, and is doubtlessly making for the near-by Thovian capital at this very minute, to bring the help that will release his comrades and capture us.”

Plainly there was not a minute to be lost. The tales we had heard of Thovian

torture were enough to make us realize what to expect, were we to be taken by them. Tying the prisoners, we lashed them securely to the backs of two of the kangs, and transferred our own ridingequipment to fresh mounts. A meager meal was then hastily swallowed, the fetters of the kangs untied, and we had begun that ill-fated journey homeward.

All that day we pushed on as fast as the herding of the young kangs would allow. The nervous, wiry creatures seemed to go in every direction but the right one, and tire constant riding back and forth, made necessary to head them off, was not only tiring to the mounts we rode, but to ourselves as well.

Night found us still several miles from the borders of our own country, and almost ready to drop from fatigue; so it was a tired little party that finally went into camp— a hungry little party as well, for by this time our scanty supplies had been consumed. I volunteered to remain on guard, and a few minutes later the others were in a deep slumber.

The hours passed slowly; then along toward dawn one of the warriors arose to relieve me while I sought a few precious moments of sleep. It was a rest I had long looked forward to, as many hours had passed since I had known slumber, but even then it was to be denied me. It seemed I had scarcely closed my eyes before I felt the hand of the warrior on my shoulder, and heard his voice in my ear.

"Arise, Prince Jan,” he was saying. "A great party of mounted men are in the distance, and riding swiftly toward us.”

I sprang to my feet. It was early morning, and in that clear light the moss-covered waste was visible for miles. Ahead of us rose the great mountain range we sought to reach — our borders. A twohour journey should see us in our own country once more. But far away on the horizon behind was that which at once

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE

$9

centered my attention, a great company of mounted men whose identity needed no two guesses: Thovian warriors seeking to aid their comrades and capture us!

There was but one course, and I took it.

"Release the kangs and ride!” I shouted. "We must try to reach the mountains before they are upon us. It is our only chance. Once there we can find a hundred hiding-places among the hills that lie within the cliffs.”

"If you can reach them, Bardonian,” taunted the bearded captive from where he lay, for already he had seen the distant warriors, and guessed their meaning. "If you can reach them. And I’ll wager my life against a dead kang’s hoof that high noon finds our positions changed, with you the prisoner and me the captor.”

He turned to the other. "It means rescue, comrade! It means our rescue!” he cried.

"Perhaps,” I answered, raising the bound man to his feet, and lifting him to the back of his mount. "But I promise it will be one you will never live to know.”

A NOTHER moment and we were all in out saddles. Then with the little herd galloping before us we set off toward the mountain range which, could we reach it in time, might prove to be our haven. Of course we could not hope to equal the speed of our pursuers, handicapped as we were with the herding of the young kangs, but the pace we set was certainly a fast one, and at the end of an hour’s time we rode out of that great waste to the dusty, boulder-strewn ground that was the last stretch between us and our goal.

Away on the horizon to the south was a far-flung mass of crumbling grandeur that had been a mighty city, thousands upon thousands of years ago — a city similar to the countless other ruins that dotted the

invasion-scarred surface of our ravaged world. It was these that told of the many millions, and the wonderful civilizations our planet had once known; these and the hoary legends of the ancients that gave us our only knowledge of the past; though later, on a distant world, I was to see the history of my planet slowly unfolded on a glittering, magical mirror, while beside me the glorious Queen of the Stars interpreted the various scenes.

All this while the Thovian horde had been steadily gaining, till at length we could plainly hear the clanking of their weapons and equipment. The many hours of travel were beginning to show on the beasts we rode, and now as their speed continued to lessen and the warriors came nearer, a roar of triumph arose from the ranks behind as they realized our mounts were weakening.

By this time I had given up all hope of finding safety in the mountains ahead. Even if we were able to reach them, there would be no time to hide ourselves and our little herd before the Thovians would be upon us. Another ten minutes was all they needed. That this was realized by the two who rode beside me was evident by their continuous glances backward, and their half - unsheathed weapons.

For my own part I had decided not to go into the hereafter alone. I would at least see how many of those shouting fiends I could take with me. I knew that my end would be a blow to my royal sire, but I felt that his grief would be somewhat tinged with pride upon learning of how I had attempted to avenge his subjects.

And so, as that howling horde came closer and the drumming hoof-beats told the nearness of death, I hardened my heart, and drawing my longsword, set myself for the supreme struggle. For an



instant it had. come to me that by holding the bearded one at my sword’s end I might force the Thovians to at least a temporary halt.

But this was just as quickly abandoned as I realized that my captive was of no special importance, and that it was our herd, our mounts and our own lives that the warriors sought, rather than the succor of their comrades.

And then occurred that startling interruption. The leading Thovians were within twenty yards of us when there came the thunderous roar that caused the very air to tremble and sent a dozen kangs and riders tumbling to the earth, while the survivors of that sudden onslaught forgot all else as their eyes shot skyward, to seek its terrible meaning.

There, floating lightly in the cloudless blue, a hundred feet or so above us, was a gigantic, black, cylindrical mass of metal that I kn ew to be a space-ship, though I never before had seen one. Behind it came another, and then another — some seven in all. There was no visible sign of life on either the foremost ship or any of the others, yet I felt that at that very instant, from the metal depths of each of those mighty monsters, thousands of unseen, cruel eyes were glaring down upon us.

There was no time for a closer observation. Even as we watched, another roar of flame and smoke burst from the leading ship, to bring swift and terrible death to that barbaric horde below, and sent me reeling, bleeding and unconscious, backward from my mount.

Yet in that fleeting instant I had guessed the identity of the newcomers, had realized who it was that manned those mighty metal monsters. And even as I sank to earth and all grew dim and hazy, I knew that once again the Black Raiders had returned to our planet!

And then a pain shot through my head.

the world spun crazily around, -and I sank to a dark oblivion.

3. The Black Raiders

TT WAS the heat of the noonday sun upon my upturned face that aroused me some three hours later. At first I was conscious of only the throbbing pain in my head that temporarily obliterated all else, but presently became aware of the heavy form across my legs — the luckless kang that had been my mount when the Raiders fired upon us.

Gingerly my hand went to my head. The wound it felt proved to be but a slight, though painful gash that had furrowed the flesh across the temple. It had stopped bleeding, but the dried and clotted blood smeared my hands and face to present the gory appearance that doubtlessly convinced the Raiders I had been killed outright if, indeed, the ebon ones had bothered to land and inspect their victims.

Pushing the dead kang from me, I rose slowly to my feet, hardly knowing where I was or what I should do next. All around me the ground was strewn with the lifeless forms of men and kangs in every conceivable position, the first of the many thousands who were so soon destined to know death. Near by lay the two Bardonian warriors who had been my companions, slain along with the others before they could as much as strike a blow in their defense.

For a while I searched among the bodies in the hope that there might be others who still lived, but it was evident I had been the lone survivor. So terrible had been that deadly fusillade that many of its victims were mutilated beyond recognition.

But what of those who had caused their destruction? Doubtlessly they were repeating the slaughter on a much larger scale at this very moment. It was that which aroused me to immediate action. I

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


had no mount, of course, nor any means of transportation other than my own two legs, and it was a journey that would require many hours on foot. But there seemed to be no other way and every minute counted; so tightening my sword-belt and securing my weapons around me, I set off at a rapid trot towards the nownear-by mountains.

Would I be in time to aid my people? I hoped against hope. The primitive arms of the Bardonians, as well as those of the other tribes of our planet, could hardly be expected to cope with the terrible weapons of the Black Raiders that spat fire and death from a distance, nor would the inhabitants of the Purple City be prepared for any such attack. At least I would be in time to avenge them, and in my rage it seemed I was equal to the task of slaying a hundred of the invaders.

Finally, after what seemed endless ages, I topped the mountain, and at a fast run began to descend the long, lumpy slope on its farther side, toward the distant bushes that arose at its base. My sandals of skin gave a firm foothold everywhere, and at length I had reached the bushes and was about to break through their thick growth, when my eyes suddenly caught that which brought me to a sharp halt and caused me to bless the leafy screen that stood between.

There, lying on the dusty, boulderstrewn ground not a hundred yards from the mountain’s base, was one of the great space-ships I had seen earlier that morning. Even at that first glimpse I had been amazed by their huge size, but it was not till now that I realized their almost unbelievable magnitude.

Although at that moment it was all a mystery to me, I was later to become familiar enough with these mighty rocketships to learn they were equipped with wings, propellers, a tail skid, landingwheels and other conventional parts. In

space these same parts were so designed as to disappear into the ship, while instead of being driven by the propellers, the great metal monster was shot along at a terrible velocity by jets of gasses streaming from the numerous nozzles in its tail.

But standing before the great spaceship was that which was of even more immediate interest — four Black Raiders laughing and talking in a carefree manner. Their closely croppped hair and beardless faces made it easy to distinguish their strong, aquiline features.

Though I loathed the very name of them, I must admit that almost without exception they were perfect physical specimens of manhood. Standing well over six feet, each wore, the gold-encrusted leather trappings that barely concealed their sleek ebon hides beneath, shimmering with a blackness almost blue. Around the waist of each was strapped a longsword, a shortsword, as well as a slender, glittering implement, the like of which I never before had seen; while their proud, intelligent faces and defiant, haughty bearing showed they realized their importance, and what, in truth, they really were — conquerors of planets and of space!

As I stood watching them, two of the Raiders began to saunter toward the nearby mountain, and in my direction, in the slow aimless manner of idle men who have no definite goal. Presently they were within earshot. Of course, I was well able to understand them, as their language is now ours. When the Black Raiders first came to our world, ages ago, they had compelled the conquered Earth folk to adopt their own speech, till in time it supplanted the mother tongues, and we present descendants knew no other.

The taller of the two was speaking:

"This is supposed to be our last stop between here and home. Let us hope so. An uninterrupted flight and we should arrive in time for the Great Games."



The other gave a laugh. "Only the Games?" he asked. "How about the three captive girls that will be yours on our arrival? Surely they are of as much interest as the Great Games?”

T HE taller one smiled, then gazed around him. "It’s a dreary little world, this one,” he commented, "so unlike the warm fields and valleys of our own beloved planet.”

"What else could you expect of these primitive Earth folk?” asked the other; "an uncouth, fast-dwindling race of barbarians, fighting constantly among themselves, who have not even a written language of their own. And yet I suppose we are as much to blame as any of the other worlds who invaded it in the past,” he went on, "for our history shows that Earth once boasted a mighty civilization, and was well able to hold its own with any planet in warfare.”

"Yes, yes,” admitted the other impatiently. "I know all that, but it was ages ago. Surely they would have made some progress since then, had they not sunk to the mental level of the beasts they ride. No; I have no patience with them, nor are they numerous enough to give us an interesting fight. The sooner we release the Vapors of Vengeance and kill the lot of them, the better.”

"Till then let us hope no wandering tribe comes this way,” added his companion. "The fleet may not return for several hours, and there are only the four of us to guard the ship. In the meantime,

perhaps it would be just as well if ”

That was all I wanted to know. For a time at least but four men guarded the ship, and at that very moment that same force was divided. Now was my chance.

I had decided to gain an entrance to the space-ship, that I might behold the many wonders within, nor did I particularly relish the terms applied to my world by the

Black Raiders. And so it was that the words of the speaker had scarcely left his lips before I whipped out both my longsword and shortsword, and leaping through the leafy vines shot out into the open and before them.

For an instant they both stared at me; then their hands flew to their weapons. But mine was the advantage of a surprise attack, and before the taller of the pair could set himself to meet me, my shortsword had been plunged into his throat to the hilt. In a flash I wheeled upon the other before he could escape, though to do him justice, he made no effort to flee. The man paused only to shout an alarm to the others, and then with an oath sprang fearlessly toward me.

The fellow was a splendid swordsman, and seemed to know every thrust and parry. But he was soon to find that there was still the occasional Earthman who had an even greater knowledge of the blade, for scarcely had our swords crossed before I nicked him, and a moment later he was being forced steadily backward — wideeyed in fear, fighting desperately for his life, and wholly on the defensive.

From the tail of my eye I could see the others hurrying to his aid. It was this that spurred me to greater efforts. If I did not finish him within the next few seconds, it would indeed go hard with me, and I leaped forward to send the shower of cuts and stabs that terminated in the lightninglike thrust which found his heart, just as the other two flung themselves upon me.

And yet their mad rush was to prove more helpful than dangerous, for one of the Raiders ran full upon my sword at the first onset. Now we were even. The remaining warrior fought with all the bravery of despair, and our clashing blades rang out loudly. But I met his every thrust and stab with a faster parry and return. Then suddenly feinting the downward stroke that lowered his guard for a fleetA MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


ing instant, I whirled my blade in the vicious back-hand slash that decapitated the unfortunate black, and toppled him backward in a grotesque heap.

From the beginning of the encounter till the last of the Raiders fell lifeless before me, I doubt if three full minutes had elapsed.

Pausing only to sheathe my swords, I hurried toward the great space-ship, whose five open doorways were set at regular intervals in its thick metallic side. The words of the warriors had been enough to show their own uncertainty as to when the fleet would return, and at any moment those massive black ships might be appearing in the sky.

The huge bow of the space-flyer was toward me, and a dozen paces beyond it an open doorway led to a low-ceilinged chamber of innumerable glittering levers and instruments, of which I knew nothing, encircled by a score or more of tiny glass windows of an amazing thickness. This was the all-important pilot-room, and though I was later to become familiar enough with its many devices for a more detailed description, for a time at least it all was but a wonderful mystery to me.

Through this I passed at length, to come upon a room of such enormous size and weird construction as almost to defy description. At that first glimpse its great interior seemingly consisted of nothing but countless shelves, so designed as to rise in tiers from the floor to the ceiling, and running in numerous rows along its broad expanse. It was not till I drew nearer that I realized each was a narrow sleeping-cot. And then the next instant I had made the discovery that sent my hand flying to my sword-hilt, and snapped my eyes wide in surprise.

A thousand Black Raiders were slumbering on the little cots around me!

Yes, at least a third of the berths were occupied, and every sleeper lay in that

same strange, death-like position, with arms enfolded on his chest. But what could it mean? Running from one side of the cots to the other, a stout strap securely held each occupant in place, and his ready weapons hung from the little ceiling a foot above him, that was the bottom of the berth overhead. Yet no one challenged my none too silent entry, nor did a single warrior arouse himself from slumber.

Then as I continued to stare at them, I became conscious of another inexplicable fact. No sound of breathing arose from the hundreds around me, nor was there the slightest noise to break that almost tomb-like silence.

A MINUTE passed, another followed while I stood there, uncertain as to whether I should retreat or continue. Was it possible they were all dead? Gingerly I stepped closer to one of the sleepers.

There was no sign of any wound or violence on his person; yet on the other hand those ebon features were as devoid of life as the metallic floor I trod, nor did the tapping of my fingers above his head bring about the slightest change.

But at length curiosity overcame good judgment, and with drawn shortsword I began a soft advance to the far end of the room, though to tell the truth my stealth could be attributed to amazement rather than caution. On past the rows of slumbering blacks I continued, and through a second hall of sleepers equally as large as the first, then past the tiny storeroom that seemed so wofully inadequate to supplying the sleeping thousands, and through numerous other, larger rooms of various purposes, till at last I came to the little red door at the far end of the ship.

There I paused for a moment. What lay beyond I could not guess, and yet it was that wish to know the unknown that urged me on. Placing my ear against the frail barrier, I listened for some sound



"No sound cf breathing arose from the hundreds around him, nor was there the slightest noise to

break that tomb-like silence.”

that might warn of the presence of others. But no noise came from beyond its panels, so taking courage and with ready shortsword, I gave the door the sudden kick that sent it flying backward, and sprang into the room before me.

It was a low-ceilinged chamber, at one end of which an open doorway let in the warmth and sunlight without. In the center of the room were a dozen or more metallic slabs that rose some three feet from the floor. And lying across the surface of several of these were five human forms, clothed in the flowing white robes that barely revealed their yellow-hued features.

But directly before me, seated at a table strewn with flasks and vials, was that which at once centered my attention — a thick-set little black dwarf, scarcely four feet in height, with a head so large as to be a deformity. His jewel-encrusted trappings clearly revealed the tiny arms and legs, while his full, repulsively ugly face was

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE

6 ?

seared and marked by low passions and vices.

At my sudden appearance he half rose, then sat down again, his mouth open and his hand on the back of his chair.

"A hundred devils!” he kept on repeating. "A hundred devils!”

Then before I could answer him:

"The guards!” he shouted, leaping to his tiny feet. "Where are the guards? Where are the guards?”

The next instant he had broken into a mad dash for the doorway, his short legs striving frantically for speed. But a leap put me between him and the opening, and he ended his rush with a suddenness that equaled its beginning, halting but a pace or two before me.

"It is useless to call the guards,” I told him quietly. "They are dead. I have killed them.”

His eyes went wide. "All of them?” he gasped.

I nodded an affirmation.

“But what — what do you want?” he went on. "What are you going to do to me?”

"Nothing,” I answered, "but you can do something for me. You can tell me where the fleet has gone and whom it will attack.”

"I don’t know,” he replied promptly, and there was a truthful ring in his voice. "The fleet has no set destination. It will cruise around for a time, killing the Barbarians and shelling their ruined cities; then presently it will return with the captives we will take with us to our own world.”

"And what becomes of the captives then?” I asked him.

He looked at me for a moment before he spoke.

"It is hard to say,” he answered at last, adding almost immediately: "But about yourself. Who are you who single-handed kills four of our best swordsmen, then

boldly enters where none other than my

own people have dared ”

"But the warriors,” I interrupted. "The warriors in the other rooms, and these strange people here” — I motioned to the five figures on the near-by slabs — "they are all dead.”

.The little black man had been watching me as I spoke, as though still uncertain as to my intentions. Now, however, at my answering words, a faint smile appeared at the corners of his mouth.

"Dead?” he repeated, then he laughed. "No,” he answered; "they are not dead. They have lain thus for days, and some of them for years, but they are not' dead!”

4. Vapors of Vengeance

<*7vTOT dead, yet some of them have lain thus for years!”

As the tiny black spoke those words, my features must have shown incredulity and surprise.

“They are not dead?”

"By no means,” he went on softly. "Why should they be? These five here — yellow people — were kings and queens on a world of ice. We captured them some months back when we destroyed their distant star, but we did not kill them. That would have been stupid. Instead, they will be taken to our own mighty planet and forced to grace the great triumphal procession, along with the other royal captives we have captured on the many stars, in the march that will mark the return of the fleet — to be later sold as slaves and to serve the nobles of our world; though now, heavily drugged, they are unmindful of that future.

"And so it is with the -warriors you saw in the other rooms — they too are but sleeping. It would take enormous quantities of food to feed the thousands of hardy fighters each space-ship carries. But what is far more important is the prevention of



the enforced idleness to so many warriors during the months of flight from planet to planet. It might lead to terrible things. To safeguard against this, they are each injected with a serum that whisks them into a trance-like state till we arrive at our destination and they are needed. A counteracting serum then immediately awakens them to life once more.

“The same applies on our return journey. They are aroused when we arrive at Capara. Those you saw in the other rooms were not needed to subdue this primitive little world; so to awaken them would be useless. Indeed, often expeditions requiring from three to five years carry thousands of warriors who are never used, and remain in a death-like slumber till the fleet returns to its own planet.

“We of this expedition have already been gone two years from the mother world,” he added as an after-thought.

"But who are you?” I asked. “How does it come that you are so familiar with all this?”

"I am Vaxarus,” he answered solemnly. “Vaxarus the phrenologist, stunted in growth, but mighty in intellect, physician to the royal captives and the warriors whose privilege it is to fight and die for her wondrous Majesty, Tara the Glorious, Queen of the Stars, Goddess of Goddesses, Ruler of Capara, of space and of planets!”

He pointed to a jewel-encrusted pendant hanging around his neck.

“This priceless gem,” he went on, "denotes my high station- — physician and phrenologist. It is I who guard the welfare of the Princesses and the other royal maidens, who, if they can meet with the high standards of beauty and intellect demanded, and be virgins and unsullied, are selected for that greatest of honors — to serve, in her palace of glittering gold, the blinding beauty who is our Queen — our white Queen!

“And surely it is only right that all

others should serve us. Ours, the greatest of all the planets, was old when your own tiny 'world, as well as a hundred million others, was but a bubbling, molten mass. It is said that time itself began with the birth of the glorious Tara, and that that same great God — Time — mated with the coldness of outer space to produce the divine pair who were the parents of our race.

“This, then, was the beginning of the holy lineage that today is the heritage of every human of our noble race, whose supremacy is maintained, and can only be lasting, in the conquest and submission of such creatures as yourself, and the continuous victories over the many worlds around us.

“Not always, however, did we demand the submission of others. Once in the dawn of time my people were a loving, peaceful race, who dressed in flowing white robes, and thronged the great temples of prayer with smiling faces and happy hearts; gentle people who lived on a lovely world of sky-blue lakes and deep valleys, of irrigated, picturesque fields, of marble halls and cool green meadows and fragrant, waving orchards. It was a golden age of simplicity and contentment, one, perhaps, that neither pur world nor any other will ever know again.

"But as the ages passed they brought great space-ships and strange, savage people from the other planets, seeking our destruction and death, till at last in righteous anger. Queen Tara ordered our billions to arm themselves and repel the invasions, and our learned ones to devise weapons of such terrible power that nothing could withstand them.

"With these the Black Raiders at first sought only to protect themselves and what was theirs. But with their many victories arose their avarice, and with the passing generations their dissipations and degeneracy as well. Then, encouraged by

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


their weapons, their space-ships and great numbers, they began sending out expeditions to the other worlds, to wrest whatever gold or riches the many planets might have, and bring their captured people to slave and serve our pleasures.

"From the first the invasions •were successful, and swiftly won by our hardy warriors, who swept down all before them. Then as they continued, the many raids rewarded us with such an unbelievable wealth and power, that today ours is the mighty world that rules ten thousand planets; ours the ever-conquering world that brings such terror to the stars, and though with the passing centuries we have become drunk with power and careless, our victories but continue, and our riches and strength increase.”

W HILE the w'ords of the little phrenologist held me in an almost breathless interest, I could not but wonder why he was talcing such pains to explain all this to me — me, an almost naked barbarian whom his own kind looked upon with such contempt and scorn. It was the faintest wandering of his eyes that warned me. Those tiny orbs had suddenly left my own to flash a glimpse through the doorway behind me, and as I wheeled at that ominous signal I beheld the sight which brought an involuntary gasp from my lips — a great space-ship settling quietly to the ground not a hundred yards away, from "whose numerous doorways a thousand ebon warriors were streaming toward us!

In a flash I realized the ruse with which the wily black had tricked me. For long he had expected the return of the fleet, and cunningly managed to hold my attention till its arrival. And now with that awaited succor hurrying toward him, the short limb s of the phrenologist shot him into prompt and vigorous action.

Only for an instant did I stand there, staring at the oncoming blacks. But it was

time enough. The stunted Vaxarus had sprung for the table even as I wheeled away from him. And now as my hand flew to my sword, and I sought to reach and bar the door to the charging warriors without, it was to hear him scream a command to halt, then enforce it in both a swift and painful manner.

The phrenologist had secured a slender, glittering, wand-like device, similar to those I had seen hanging from the belts of the four warriors earlier in the day, and was pointing it at me. The next instant, with a soft, whirring sound, a beam of green light shot toward me, and I felt that every muscle in my body was being rent asunder as I was brought to the sharp, agonizing halt, stopped in my tracks, unable to flick a finger.

"Don’t touch him! Don’t touch him!” Vaxarus was crying the words to the warriors pouring through the doorway. "The paralyzing ray is upon him, and to come in contact with his person is to share his agony. Bring fetters to secure the Barbarian when I release him from the po-wer of the green beam.”

Each instant was adding to the number of blacks within the room, as well as increasing my terrible torture; yet strive as I would I could not move, nor bring my muscles to obey my will. It was as though I had been suddenly turned into stone — my hand halfway to my sword-hilt, my left foot raised slightly in a statue-like rigidity — the same posture that had been mine when the green ray first fell upon me.

From all around came the laughs and taunts of the blacks, jeers that told they knew and enjoyed my agony. Half crazed with pain, through hazy eyes I could see several of them hurrying forward with lengths of rope and other fetters; though why they should wish to bind me in my present helpless condition I could not understand. Yet even as I wondered, there came the shouts of Vaxarus to take me



alive. Then came the sudden snap that vanished the green ray and returned me to normal once more. The next instant a wave of warriors sprang upon me, and I was borne backward to the hard, floor of the space-ship.

And so it was that I became a captive of the Black Raiders, though lashing out in a savage fury, I sent the lusty, smashing blows that brought a crimson trickle to the chin of more than one ebon warrior, and caused several others to howl in pain. But though the account I gave of myself was surely a most worthy one, there were always fresh hands to take the place of those I fought off, and at last they overcame me by the mere weight of their numbers. Then they bound me-— -my hands behind my back and my feet trussed up to meet them.

Presently they raised me from the floor, and half dragging, half pushing, hurried me from the ship and into the open, and the wild din and confusion that prevailed there. All around us the space-ships had landed, and from their great interiors thousands of Black Raiders and their bound white-skinned captives — Earth folk! — were streaming into the open.

Pushing and shoving, wild-eyed and disheveled, they were hurried along. Only the youthful, the healthy and strong had been chosen by the invaders. The whips of the blacks were constantly falling on the backs of their prisoners, and the screams of young girls and women arose with the shouts of the conquerors.

Among the captives were hundreds of fettered warriors and chieftains— -some from tribes so distant that their trappings were unknown to me. It was evident that even during the ten or more hours since they had landed, the blacks had been raiding and ravaging in the four comers of our planet. Many of the captives, grimy and bleeding, gave mute evidence to the fury of their resistance, but nowhere could

I see a Bardonian, or the trappings of my own people.

Near by the tiny Vaxarus was talking excitedly to a trio of Black Raiders whose jewel-encrusted trappings and proud features plainly stamped their importance. At a gesture from the dwarf my captors hurried me toward them.

"This is he. This is he,” the little phrenologist was saying. "He came to the ship and slew the four guards as though they were paper men. His mind was as an open book to me, and the impression of the struggle easily read.”

The eyes of the three Raiders turned toward me.

"By the Beauty of Tara!” exclaimed one. "He is indeed a powerful fellow. And a great swordsman as well, you say? Then he should make rare sport for us at the Great Games. Who knows?” he added, turning to the others; "perhaps we have at last found a match for the mighty Metak himself.”

"Another victim, you mean,” said the second. "And it’s an ill-will you must bear this poor Barbarian to suggest such a match. Why, the Commander would butcher him with the same ease as you conquer a captive maid.”

"We might try putting him In the arena with a wild taggot,” spoke the third, "or even a hairy man of Manator for that matter. But against our champion — ah, it would be a pity to kill one so young.”

They all laughed.

"Lie is a Prince, as well,” went on Vaxarus, "a Prince of some wild tribe known as the Bardonians. I read it all quite plainly. But we will wait till the Commander returns before deciding his fate. In the meantime,” he spoke to the guards who held me, "confine him to the Ship of the Condemned till his presence Is needed.”

That was all. The fetters that bound my legs were then untied, and with my

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


arms still lashed behind me I was ordered .to follow my guards, who led the way through the thousands assembled within the great circle that the landing spaceships had formed.

Around us were scenes that appeared as the wild creations of a nightmare. Amid shouts and curses the Black Raiders were forcing their terrorized captives into long lines, for the purpose of inspection, with a brutality that was horrifying. Up and down the ranks black officers were scrutinizing tire prisoners with a speed and skill that told of long practise, pausing occasionally to throw a taunt at some warrior, or a gloating, meaning glance at an unusually comely maid.

Night was falling. Numerous torches had been lit, and the flashing weapons and jewel-encrusted trappings of the invaders, glittering in the torchlight, together with tire long golden rays shooting from the many windows of the surrounding spaceships in the backgrounds, but further tended to add a w 7 eird, unearthly aspect to the wild din and confusion, occasionally punctuated by feminine shrieks and terrible laughter.

S OMEWHAT apart from the others was a tiny, black space-ship that seemed hardly capable of holding more than a score of people. Through its solitary doorway I was taken, handed over to the black warrior within, and the lock sprung behind me. The only light came from a slender glass-encased beam that ran the entire length of the low ceiling, to show six or more tiny cots similar to those I had seen in the great space-ship, as well as a narrow doorway leading to a room on the right.

At sword’s point the warrior forced me before him to the far end of the room, where several iron rings protruded from the wall. One of these was snapped around the bonds that held my arms; then the

black sheathed his blade and sat down on a cot near by.

"And what ill fate brings you to the Ship of the Condemned?” he asked presently. "Usually it is only out own warriors who know its interior.”

“What kind fate will get me out of it is more important,” I answered from where I stood, secured to the wall, "though my capture can be attributed to my own lack of vigilance, as well as the smooth tongue of Vaxarus.”

The black gave a laugh. “Ah, he’s a cunning little runt, the royal phrenologist. And it is that same slyness, perhaps, which has raised him high in the favor of Queen Tara, and made him one of the richest and most powerful men of our great world, as well as the owner of a harem of a hundred chosen beauties.

"As to your own future, I can at least tell you some of it. You will be held here till the return of Metak, our Commander, which should not be very long. It is he who will decide your fate, which, judging from your size and what the guards have told me, will doubtless mean being sent to the arena for the Great Games. But again, one can never be certain of the Commander, and he might order your immediate death.”

"His word is, I take it, your sole law,” I put in.

“On our expeditions from planet to planet, yes — for he is our greatest general, as well as our mightiest swordsman, and stands high in the Queen’s council. It is Metak who, on rare occasions, even enters the arena to meet some hardy warrior who has distinguished himself, whom he soon dispatches with his invincible sword-play and skill.

“And it is the sure way to win the plaudits of our world — physical strength and bravery. Indeed it is that same lust to fight which causes us to lay aside our great rays and other weapons of destruction, and

*70


meet the warriors of the other worlds on the fields of battle, armed with only swords and daggers like our foes. The paralysis-wand we each carry is used only when we are hopelessly outnumbered, or in the gravest danger. It is considered an act of cowardice for one of our race to use it otherwise.”

I looked around the interior of the space-ship. The door at its far end, I reasoned, led to the pilot-room. Strapped to two of the cots were the silent forms of two Black Raiders.

"But this ship,” I asked after a pause. "Why is it so small? It cannot possibly hold more than a score of captives.”

"It is not meant to hold captives,” informed the guard. "This, the Ship of the Condemned, is the dread of every warrior of our race. I am its pilot. A similar ship goes with every expedition that leaves Capara. In the months they spend on the different worlds away from home, any war-, rior found guilty of cowardice in battle, or some other grave offense, is sentenced to the Ship of the Condemned. That means he is never to know his homeland again, for when the fleet finally heads for the mother planet, the Ship of the Condemned makes for the moon of Capara, the tiny prison satellite but some fifty thousand miles from the homeland, which is known as the Moon of Lost Souls.

"There the poor unfortunates are compelled to toil on the great prison farms. There they are forced to labor in the dry, dusty fields as beasts of burden, till a merciful fate comes at last to release them from their sufferings.

"These two here” — he pointed to the two silent figures — -"some months ago on a distant star they were found guilty of conduct unbecoming a Black Raider, once for cowardice in battle; the other time for treason. We have drugged them till the ship arrives at the prison colony, where they will begin their life of exile. Only

the cowards and the traitors are sent to the Moon of Lost Souls; those and the most hardened of slaves who have become too unmanageable on Capara. They too are sent to toil on that Satellite of the Damned, till their spirits have been broken and they cry aloud for death.

"So no matter what sentence the great Metak passes upon you. Barbarian,” he concluded, “remember that the arena, or even immediate death, is a thousand times better than a sentence to the tortures on the Moon of Lost Souls.”

A S THE black ceased speaking a roar of voices suddenly sounded above the din without. To the right a window of thick glass revealed the numerous fires and torchlights of the near-by encampment. The next moment the cause of the shouting was evident. Descending from the "blackness overhead was a glittering outline of lights, which I knew to be some great space-ship.

The black, whose gaze had followed mine, recognized it at once.

"It’s the Vastus!” he exclaimed. "It’s the flagship bearing our Commander. Let us hope it is laden with prisoners and plunder. At best Metak is none too patient, and doubly quick to find fault with anything if a trip has proven fruitless.

"You should soon know your fate, Barbarian,” he added, turning toward me.

But the statement was to prove untrue, for hour after hour dragged slowly along with no sound other than the gradually subsiding din without. It must have been well past midnight when footsteps suddenly sounded, and the next moment Vaxarus, followed by four others, entered the doorway.

"To your station, pilot, to your station,” he ordered. "You are to put off immediately for the Moon of Lost Souls.”

The half-dozing pilot sprang to his feet.

"At once. Worthy One,” he answered

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


promptly, and then: “But the fleet,” he asked, "does it leave with us also?”

"At dawn,” came the answer, while the others, hurrying to and fro, began making preparations for the departure. "This primitive world holds nothing of further value to us, nor is it worth any more of our time. Metak has ordered it destroyed. At dawn, then, the fleet will encircle it before turning homeward, releasing the Vapors of Vengeance as, it does so; turning loose the poisonous red gasses that will penetrate to all corners of the planet, bringing a slow and agonizing death to every living thing upon it.”

As he spoke, two of the Raiders had released me from the wall, and with arms still lashed behind me, carried and secured me to one of the cots with the strong straps encircling it. The black pilot noticed this.

"But the Barbarian?” he asked. "Surely he is not going with us. I thought he would be sent to the Arena.”

“So did I,” answered Vaxarus, "and looked forward to seeing him in battle. The Commander, too, at first approved of it, but when I mentioned that he was a Prince of some wild tribe known as the Bardonians, for some reason Metak’s attitude suddenly changed, and he ordered his immediate exile to the Moon of Lost Souls.

"So that is to be your fate, Earthman,” went on Vaxarus with a mocking smile, walking slowly toward me as his hands produced a glittering instrument with a needle-like point. “An exile for life on the prison farms. Say a farewell then to your own world, for in another thirty hours it will be as devoid of life as a burntout sun, and when next you open your eyes it will be upon the tiny Moon of Lost Souls, many hundred million miles away!”

Behind him the small crew of the Ship of the Condemned was watching us intently. With a wild surge I sought to break the bonds and straps that held me,

but they were strong, and the next instant I felt a sharp twinge in my forearm, like the bite of a small insect.

That is ail I can clearly remember. Almost instantly everything around me grew hazy. As in a dream, I heard Vaxarus laugh: "Farewell, Prince Jan of the Bardonians!” And then I knew no more.

5. The Prison Farms of Capara

TT WAS, as I afterward learned, the I equivalent of a hundred and fifty days of Earthly time, when I came to myself on the Moon of Lost Souls, that terrible satellite of sorrow, hundreds of million miles away from the bright green star that was my own beloved planet.

During the many hours the serum of Vaxarus held me in a death-like coma, I had been as unmindful of my surroundings as one in a deep slumber, unmindful that every living thing had passed away upon the Earth, and that the green star was now as devoid of life as it had been at its creation. Nor did I realize that while I lay there the tiny ship that was my prison had been plunging through the awful void with the speed of a falling meteor.

I opened my eyes to gaze into the features of a burly Black who held a flashing instrument with a needle-like point, similar to the one I had seen in the hands of Vaxarus. Behind him were two others. As I came to myself the Black gave a grunt of satisfaction, then motioned the others toward me. These in turn slipped past him, and lifting me to my feet — for the straps that held me to the cot had been removed, though my arms were still secured— hurried me out of the ship and into the open and the amazing world around me.

As far as the eye could see, on all sides, was nought but a great plain that stretched away to the sky, a dry and dusty plain on which thousands of humans



toiled and strained under the flicking whips and watching eyes of black soldiery. Huge dust-clouds, constantly rising, marked the labors of the near-by toilers, as well as those on the far horizon, who appeared as tiny dots against the blueness of the sky. Later I was to find that almost the entire surface of the Moon of Lost Souls, with the exception of two great seas, was one vast unbroken plain, studded by the small white huts and barracks that housed the overseers and guards of this satellite of exile.

Even as we emerged into the sunlight I became aware of the winged forms shooting to and fro in the blueness overhead. At that first glimpse I thought they were huge birds, though a moment later I knew them for what they really were — winged, flying humans! These were the Tors, a timid, browbeaten race of bird-like men from a far-off planet, who served as both mounts and messengers to their captors, the Black Raiders.

The two Blacks who held me directed their steps toward a near-by white structure, with solid pillars on either side and an inscription across the lintel. This was the house of the Kamma, or Great Guard, the only voluntary exile on the Moon of Lost Souls. The Black overseers and guards, as well as the thousands of prisoners, were all exiles from Capara, though the Black officials took care that those of their own race were made guards and the superiors over the unfortunates who toiled in the fields.

As we neared the doorway, a stout Black with an air of authority appeared in the opening, frowning at our approach.

"Who is this one, who is this one?” he broke out in an irate tone. "Gods of my ancestors, will they never cease coming?”

“An Earthman, oh Kamma,” explained one of my captors as we halted before him. "The last of the three the great Metaksent us from his expedition. The other two, fellow countrymen, have been put in the ranks with the other guards who watch the slaves beyond the Sea of Tears. This one here ”

"Oh yes,” interrupted the other. "I remember now; I read the report. He killed four guards, then threatened the royal phrenologist himself.” The Kamma turned an angry glare upon me. "Well, I can promise you will never kill another. We have a way here of taking care of just such as you, and I intend to make use of it. What I cannot understand is why the Commander did not have you dispatched immediately upon your capture.”

"Metak has recommended hard labor,” put in the guard.

“The words of Metak shall be obeyed to the fullest,” went on the Kamma, his voice rising slightly, for all this time I had been meeting his glare with an unwavering gaze. "To the plows with him then — Calabar’s plow — and you may tell the Terrible One that it is the order of his Kamma to use his whip often on this fellow, and to lay on with a will!”

That was all. With the guards clutching me on either side I was hustled out onto the hot, dusty plains, where a million prisoners from a thousand planets lived and died and labored, humans of every conceivable shape and color who were to be my associates in the following days; sturdy, thick-set little men of a standard thirty inches, who were the dwarfs of Panthra; frail and timid twenty-foot giants from an unnamed world of mist; the dogmen of Zaxona, whose speech consisted of various gestures, barks and whines; the beast-men of Yat; the skull people of Canaxis; weird and serpent-like men from a distant star who hissed and wiggled their rapid ways up and down the fields; all those and a thousand others, some so grotesque that even a description would be revoking.

Hanging in the heavens but some fifty

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


thousand miles away was the gigantic mother planet, Capara, whose great size made it appear so near one felt he should be able to hear the thunderous din of the ten billion power-crazed inhabitants, who laughed and debauched on its broad expanse. Despite the intervening void, the black outlines of mighty continents stood out upon the lighter hues that were its vast lakes and oceans. A second tiny satellite — it had two — and again as far from Capara as the Moon of Lost Souls, showed little better than a small black dot against the blueness of the sky.

Everywhere strange shapes and forms were pursuing their arduous labors under the eyes of brutal guards. Indeed, the entire Moon of Lost Souls was but one gigantic farm that supplied the mother planet, and countless air transports and freighters were constantly coming to and from Capara, whose own fair fields had been deemed too lovely for toil and agriculture. Many fields therefore on the Moon of Lost Souls knew the harvester, while a thousand miles away others were knowing the plow; and it was to slave with a crew that was one of the many that drew those heavy implements that destiny had chosen as my lot.

P RESENTLY five almost naked humans, begrimed and straining, came slowly toward us, struggling against the leashes attached to a heavy plow, on whose seat a huge Black forced them on with loud oaths and a long-lashed whip. This was Calabar, the Terrible One— a burly brute of a man, whose cruelties had distinguished him, even among that heartless clique who were the guards on the Moon of Lost Souls.

As he came abreast of the guards who held me, he roared a halt to the poor devils he drove, and as the exhausted men dropped to the ground, glad of a brief respite, turned two inquiring eyes upon us.

"Another one for you. Calabar,” called out the guard. "A big powerful fellow this time, and the Kamma says you need not spare the whip.”

The gaze of the huge Black went to mine. "I can use him,” he answered in a deep voice. "My front slave, a yellow man, gave out on me this morning. Put this one in the foremost place, then, and I will soon teach him the rest,” and he tossed a thick leather collar toward us.

Before leaving the Ship of the Condemned my trappings and sandals had been taken from me, and I was given a scanty loin-cloth to hide my nakedness — the apparel of the slaves who worked the farms. The five before me were chained neck to neck on a long slave-chain secured to the heavy plow. A few more links were now pulled through the ring of each collar, the end of the chain attached to the one around my own throat, and the ancient padlock sprung shut. The bonds that held my arms were then untied, and with the huge Black shouting at us the plowing was resumed once more, and I had begun my sentence on the Moon of Lost Souls.

All that long day I and the five who were my companions in toil pulled the great plow through the hard, dusty soil, that stretched away to the far horizon. All that day we endured the heat and the grime of the field, as well as the falling lash of our driver, with neither food nor drink.

Several times Calabar left his seat the better to punish one he fancied was not giving his best to his work, and once he approached me with uplifted whip. But there was something in my eyes that kept it from falling, and so in silence and misery the little plow crew toiled on with the many others who worked the seemingly endless fields of that terrible satellite.

At dusk Calabar roared a halt and swung from his seat. I looked around me in the gathering twilight. As far as the



eye could see, the thousands of toilers had ceased their work and were lying on the hard ground, while the Black overseers -were gathering together in little groups, laughing and talking; nor was it much later till a hundred of the flying men — - Tors — came winging overhead, and dividing into pairs, brought the evening meal to the hungry wretched awaiting them.

The two that alighted and came forward to serve us were typical specimens of their race. Dressed in the leather trappings of the Black Raiders, their dull, lemon-colored skins, their frail arms and legs and hairless heads, together with their trembling, high-pitched voices, presented an outstanding contrast to their burly, domineering captors. The huge, membranous, bat-like wings gave the weird, bird-like appearance, made but the more pronounced by their sharp aquiline features.

Each carried the two pails that contained our food and water — the former a thick, stew-like substance, not unpleasant to the taste — while from their waists hung numerous copper bowds.

As we were being served, one of the winged men whispered to me: "You are the Earthman?” he asked in a low tone, looking fearfully toward the near-by Calabar who was talking with the others.

I nodded from where I sat, looking up into the large eyes that were watching me with the frightened, puzzled stare of a trapped animal.

"Yes,” I began. "But how does ”

"Sh — ” he cautioned, making a pretense at refilling my bowl. "We must be silent till Calabar leaves.”

Just what he meant by that I was not certain, but presently the huge Black gave the sharp whistle that sent the second birdman winging toward him, while from all around a score of others began flying toward the guards. A moment later Calabar had climbed upon the back of the Tor, while the guards mounted the others; then

with their huge wings flapping loudly, the bird-men rose into the air, and toward the distant barracks that were the quarters of the guards.

As they disappeared a murmur ran through the men behind me, and their eyes turned to the remaining bird-man.

“Refill the bowls, Tor!” growled one. "Refill the bowls!” In an instant the words were taken up by the others, while the timid bird-man, coming forward, worked feverishly to meet their demands.

"He will be punished for this, perhaps, but we must eat,” explained the one behind me. "The Tors are expected to use but a certain amount of food for each feeding, and he can only explain the shortage by saying he fell and spilled our rations. It will doubtless mean five lashes for him, but better that than a broken neck at the hands of the prisoners.”

Presently the bird-man reached me.

"You wish your bowls refilled, Prince Jan?” he asked.

I stared at him.

"How is it you know my name?” I answered.

"Do not be angry with me, Prince Jan,” he went on; though I had neither raised my voice nor given the slightest indication of anger, "but I was arranging the reports in the office of the Kamma a sun’s width ago, and read the one that was sent in by Vaxarus. It mentioned you, and said you had killed four of the Raiders.”

"And by that I have earned your hatred?” I asked.

"By that you have earned my respect. Prince Jan. You have done what I wished a thousand times that I could do. But we are not a race of fighters, we Tors. Ours was a planet of peace and kindness, whose people lived only to help each other, and to whom war was but a hideous, terrible word. So when the Black Raiders came to our world it was easily subdued, our cities burned, and most of my people taken to

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE

Capara, to serve as the mounts and slaves of our conquerors, while I and a hundred more were sent here. So it is no wonder that the heart of Abel is bitter against the Black Raiders, and diat he rejoices when any ill befalls them?

"But the bowls,” he went on after a pause; "you will want them filled, Prince Tan?”

"No,” I smiled. "No, Abel; I do not want you to be punished on my account. But why is it you have not escaped? You are not chained, and you have your great wings.”

"Where could I hope to go, Prince Jan? The entire moon is but one great farm that supplies the mother planet, and Black guards are everywhere. That is why the prisoners are not watched at night. There would be no place they could flee to if they did try an escape, and they could only hope to gain some terrible torture for such an act.

"Why, if the Blacks thought I ever contemplated -flight, they would have my wings severed.”

< */'YUITE right, Tor,” spoke one of the men who had been an attentive listener. "And you had better banish all thoughts of escape, Earthman. Neither here nor on any other world can one be safe from the Black Raiders.”

"Except the Moon of Madness,” put in another.

"The Moon of Madness?” I asked.

"Capara’s second satellite,” explained Abel, pointing to a tiny moon in the void overhead, for night had now fallen. "For some strange reason the Black Raiders fear that moon and will not go near it, though they have conquered all the near-by stars, and worlds five hundred million miles beyond it. Why, I do not know, but it must be something ghostly and terrible, for though indifferent to danger, and even death itself, the Black Raiders tremble


when the name, the Moon of Madness, is mentioned.”

"I can tell more,” put in one of the others, for by now the little plow crew had gathered close, "something that is known to only a few, other than our captors. It is said that many years ago a space-ship of the Black Raiders was caught in a terrible space-storm, and forced to land upon the Moon of Madness. Years passed, during which it was all but forgotten. Then one day one of the Black fleets came upon it again, far out in the trackless void — a lonely drifting derelict. But the Commander of the fleet ordered its destruction, and the great ray-guns turned upon it, for it is an ancient law of the Black Raiders that any ship or person that has known the Moon of Madness be immediately destroyed.

"But it was not destroyed before three brave young officers swung the flyer they commanded alongside the space-ship, and entered it through a small door in its bow, while without, the others waited. Then suddenly, amid terrible screams, the three staggered back through the doorway and into their own ship, wild-eyed, mouths contorted, and gibbering like idiots. Whatever terrible horror they had seen, they were never able to tell, for it had robbed them of their reason.”

His voice sank to a whisper.

"The story has it also that from within the ship there came chuckling laughter and a terrible tapping sound, like the tread of one who was neither man nor beast!”

"Do — do you believe it?” asked one after a pause.

The other shrugged. "I hardly know, but it is said to be a true story, and whatever evil thing it was, it could have been spawned nowhere else but upon the Moon of Madness.”

Soon after that Abel gathered up the bowls and empty food-pails and fled toward the great kitchens that were also the



quarters of the Tors, while the little plow crew stretched themselves upon the ground and sought slumber; for there were no huts or sleeping-quarters for the prisoners who worked the farms on the Moon of Lost Souls, only the great Helds in which they labored through the long hours of. light, that knew them also in the darkness that accompanied their slumber-tossed dreams.

Nor was it much later till the poor exhausted devils were all in a deep sleep, and for a time at least unmindful of their sufferings. But sleep did not come so easily to me, nor did I court it. For hours I lay there, with the rhythmical breathing of the others around me, looking upward at a million stars, and the near-by giant mother planet, Capara, that covered half the heavens — already planning escape and vengeance on the conquering Black hordes.

And despite the awful odds against it, an escape from the Moon of Lost Souls was soon to be mine. Yet I dare say, that could I have foreseen the wild future before me, I would have considered the prison farms of the Black Raiders as nought other than a safe and friendly paradise.

6. A Break for Liberty

A T DAWN the Tors came flying into the fields with the morning meal, nor was it much later till the guards themselves appeared. With them came Calabar, who ordered us to our feet. Again we rose to throw ourselves against the sturdy leashes, and with the huge Black shouting at us the plowing was resumed, and that inhuman labor taken up once more.

For ten days I toiled in the great fields on the Moon of Lost Souls. For ten days, along with a million captives from a thousand planets, I endured the heat and horror of that terrible prison satellite. I could tell of the many grotesque creatures the Black Raiders had captured on the various

stars and forced into a life of slavery. I could tell of the many brutalities of the guards in general, and of Calabar in particular, that transformed brave and spirited men into weak and whimpering cowards — but enough! Even now they come in dreams to haunt me.

At nights I would lie in my chains on the great fields of exile, hearing the groans and the troubled dreams of those around me.

Again and again I asked myself that seemingly inexplicable question: "Why had the Commander of the fleet, Metak, ordered me sentenced to the Moon of Lost Souls, rather than to the Great Games and the arenas of Capara? There could have been no personal enmity, as the Black leader had never even seen me; nor did it seem possible that my existence before my capture could have been known to him.

But for that matter, why to a score of other questions? Why should any of us be here at all? Why had it been decreed that the Black Raiders should conquer a thousand planets? Why should that gigantic world, hanging so dose above us as to obliterate half the heavens, be the unchallenged master of all others? Ever since my arrival on the Moon of Lost Souls, in the forbidden whispers of the prisoners and loud banter of the guards, I had heard of nothing but the wonders of the great mother planet, Capara; of the luxuries and pleasures to be had upon its broad expanse, and of the glorious Queen who was its supreme ruler.

While I could not be certain as to the truth of all the tales I heard, they were enough to confirm that it was indeed a planet of uncensored vice and pleasure — the Eden for the debauchee. A world of ten billion people, drunk with power, with wine and riches given over to a life of continuous dissipations, and ruled by a white Queen who reigned in a palace of glittering gold! A Queen of such indeA MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE

1 7

sctibable blinding beauty, as to be almost terrifying! A Queen who was said to have been present at the birth of time itself!

And then one dusk there occurred that which changed everything. It was the evening of the tenth day, after long hours at the plow, when there happened the first of a series of incidents that were to lead to such a startling climax.

All this time, despite its apparent hopelessness, I had not relinquished any thoughts of escape, and I was sure that others could be relied upon at the first opportune moment. The five who worked with me — yellow men from a distant world of ice — -were all seasoned warriors and powerful fellows, as indeed they had to be, to stand the hardships of those who drew the plow of Calabar.

I might add here that all prisoners on the Moon of Lost Souls spoke the language of the Blade Raiders. When the ebon ones conquered a world it was their custom to compel the inhabitants to adopt their tongue, as they had done to my own planet ages ago; so that while some of the captives were from stars so distant as to be invisible to the naked eye, their speech ■was readily understood.

And then on the evening of the tenth day, as Calabar passed me on his way to a waiting Tor and the distant barracks, chance sent the key that unlocked our slave collars tumbling from his belt and directly before me. The Black continued on, unaware of the loss, nor did any of the others notice the incident. The next moment the key had been concealed within my loincloth.

D URING our hours of steady plowing we covered a considerable area that took us to the various sections of the different fields, and when we halted that evening it could not have been more than half a mile from one of the great barns that dotted the Moon of Lost Souls. It was

in these massive storehouses that the harvests of the field were baled and kept, awaiting transportation to Capara. It was before them also that the huge spacefreighters landed to take on the mighty cargoes they would carry to the mother planet.

I had noticed that most of the ships, especially those arriving late in the afternoon (one had recently landed, and its crew were busily loading its huge interior in tire waning sun rays) would invariably delay their departure till the following dawn, and it was this that prompted me to the course I had been planning for several days.

Twilight had been hurried into darkness by the appearance of black clouds. There, together with the gradually rising wind, the angry rumbling and occasional flashes in the void overhead, told of an oncoming storm, but I felt that it could be to our advantage.

I made no immediate mention of the key, but shortly after, as Abel served the nightly rations, I beckoned him and the five others around me. The guards had departed to the barracks, and only tire prisoners remained in the fields — they and a few of the Tors who were busy gathering up the bowls, preparatory to leaving — but I spoke in a low tone, for several other plow crews were near by, among whom might well be one eager to hurry to the guards with any information.

"Another of the freighters,” I began, pointing to the outline of lights in the distance. "It has been loaded, but will doubtless remain till dawn, while its crew drink and revel with the guards in the barracks. That means the ship will be ill guarded this night. What is to stop us from taking it over?”

There were a few gasps and a brief pause, then: "The guards, for one thing,” spoke one.

"These, for another,” said a second.



pointing to the collars that held us to the slave-chain.

"But suppose you were freed from them?” I went on. "Suppose I could promise to unlock your collars? How many of you would follow me to the ship? How many of you, if you had the chance, would bear arms against the guards; would cut down those who watch the ship, and attempt that which has yet to be accomplished — an escape from the Moon of Lost Souls?”

And I withdrew the key I had secreted in my loin-cloth, and held it up before them.

As my voice died away, a death-like stillness settled over those around me, for the thing I suggested was almost unheard of. True, several times in the past daring captives had attempted to escape from the Moon of Lost Souls, but they had always been speedily captured and their punishment was so terrible that by now even a mention of the word, flight, brought a shudder from the prisoners.

The five yellow men sat as though turned to stone, the eyes of each roving from one to another. Despite the many tales of torture, however, there was no sign of fear among them; I was quick to realize that. A moment passed. They were but waiting for one of their number to take the initiative. It was the one beside me who spoke first; a grim and grizzled old warrior I felt I could rely upon.

"You can count on me, Earthman,” came his low tone. "You can count on me to the last. They will probably get us before we have gone a mile, and it is more than likely that we shall never even see the inside of the ship. But at least we can try, and anything is better than the slow living death here.”

It v/as enough. The next minute, all of them, together with Abel, the bird-man, were voicing their willingness to follow me and share in the rash venture — raising

such a clamor in fact, that I half feared the sudden din would attract the other inmates of the field.

"But how do you propose to go about it, Earthman?” one of them was asking presently.

"In a way that will require the help of every one of you,” I answered, then turned to the bird-man beside me. I knew that the others weren’t over-pleased that he was to be one of us, for the Tors are a notoriously timid race, and in truth we had need for only fighting-men. But I could not find it in my heart to leave poor Abel, no matter how much of a burden he might prove to be.

"You have said that you Tors are allowed to come and go from your quarters whenever you please,” I asked him, "and also that when a freighter puts in for the night most of the crew spend the hours in drinking at the barracks with the guards?”

The other nodded.

"You should not find it hard then, to slip from your quarters and let us know when they are well filled, and vigilance is lax.”

"I can do it. Prince Jan, I can do it!” cried Abel, eager and thrilled that his services were needed. "I can wait till they have become fuddled with wine, then hurry to you. It will not be hard.”

"Good,” I answered. “Once we are sure of the guards, it will be a simple matter to free ourselves.”

I T WAS then agreed to wait till we had heard from Abel, and with a few parting instructions to him, we watched the bird-man rise into the night and fly toward the glittering lights in the distance. Once he returned to tell us all was well, it was my plan to make for the great freighter, and with a sudden rush surprise and overpower its guards, then piloting the ship ourselves (two of the yellow men had

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


said they could handle her), put off for any destination that would place many miles between us and the Moon of Lost Souls.

An hour passed — a second, then a third. The wind that had been gradually rising was now whistling wildly over the fields, while the poor toil-worn wretches below huddled together, some for warmth, others in terror, for volleys of thunder were constantly rumbling, with lightning flashes splitting the sky, and to many of the prisoners a storm of such violence was almost unknown.

Then came the rain, loud, sweeping gusts, a veritable deluge, bent on drowning all before it, and obliterating vision with the fury of its downpour.

But it was neither the rain, the lightning nor the wind that was foremost in my mind that night. Why did not Abel return as he had promised? I had the utmost faith in the loyalty of the bird-man, and was certain that his absence was no fault of his own. At length, after another hour had dragged its course, I could stand it no longer, and turned to the wet and dripping men beside me.

“Something has happened. Something had gone wrong,” I told them, shouting so tli at my words could be heard above the fury of the storm. "The Tor should have been here an hour ago.”

“He might have become frightened,” cried one of them, shielding his eyes and blinking at me through the rain. "He might have decided the risk was too great, and left us to get along without him.”

I shook my head. "No,” I answered, "it is not that; it is something else. He would be here if he could.”

"But what about us? What had we better do?” asked the other.

I unlocked the collar that held me to the slave-chain, then handed the key to the speaker.

“Stay here,” I told him. "The guards

may be aware of the plan and waiting for us. If so, there is no need why you should all suffer. I will go and see what has happened to the bird-man. If I do not return within an hour, you will know' I have been taken, and the venture best dismissed as useless.”

Then before a protest could be voiced, I had wheeled and was off.

At a fast trot I started toward my goal, my bare feet sinking ankle-deep into the ooze of the storm-swept field at nearly every step, my almost naked body a target for the wind and rain. The greatest danger, of course, lay in the unknown darkness that might send me running into some waiting guards, or toppling over another plow crew, whose outcries could easily mean discovery. Several times I heard the rattling chains of some crew near by, and once, faintly, a sound of voices to the left. But no shout or challenge came to halt me, and I gradually drew nearer to the great structure ahead.

At length a golden twinkle shone through the rain, and a moment later I was halting beside the huge storehouse that held the products of the fields, its massive outlines occasionally illuminated by flashes of lightning. The constant thunder and whistling winds deadened any sound of my approach, nor did it seem probable that a sentry would be abroad on such a night.

Pausing to regain my breath, I rested, then continued on to round the corner of the building, and stepped directly into the path of an oncoming Black guard — Calabar!

I T IS a question which was the most surprised. For a moment we stared at each other; then: "Blood of a Thousand

Beasts!” he roared — "you?”

The next instant his hand went to his sword-hilt, while his mouth flew open to shout an alarm.

so


It was never uttered. My hands shot out and were around his throat even as he attempted it. Together we fell to the ground. Calabar was a huge and powerful man, but my own strength had long been the boast of my people. Wildly he sought to free himself from my death-grip. Stubbornly I clung to it. The Black fought furiously but futilely. My fingers tightened. Swiftly and silently the life was choked from him. His dark eyes bulged, his tongue protruded to dislodge me, and a moment later there came a convulsive tremor of his stiffening muscles, and the Terrible One lay quite still.

Quickly I looked around, but none had witnessed that little tragedy. Raising the dead Calabar, I threw his limp form upon my shoulder, then hurried into the doorway of the great storehouse. Among the bales of its dark interior I had soon stripped the body and donned the handsome leather trappings and sandals, after first discarding the filthy loin-cloth that had been my only apparel. Then with the longsword and shortsword of my victim buckled around my waist, I crept toward the doorway to resume my search for the bird-man.

Directly ahead was that which claimed my attention — the freighter I had seen loading earlier in the day. A faint glow glittered from its open doorway, but there was no sound to betray any occupancy, and I was on the verge of leaving my shelter and gliding toward it, when my gaze suddenly raised to behold that which snapped my eyes wide in surprise and sent me leaping back into the darkness of the storehouse.

Shooting downward from the blackness overhead was a gigantic space-ship, its massive outlines agleam with lights, cutting swiftly through the storm with a wellarmed crew of thousands, and preparing to land upon the ground not twenty paces from me!

7. Vonna

I DOUBT if twenty seconds could have passed from the time I first saw the ship until the great space-flyer had landed — halting its mad rush at the last minute, to right itself, then settle noiselessly upon the storm-swept ground.

But that fleeting interval had not found me idle. Despite the blackness within the storehouse it was not hard to find my way. The whole interior was piled high with huge bales running in rows the entire length of the vast structure, between which were numerous narrow passageways. Into the nearest of these I hurried, and with the wall on one side of me continued on for a dozen paces or so, to halt before a slight chink in the wood that gave an unobstructed view to the night without, and the new landed space-ship.

It was evident the descent of the latter had not gone unnoticed. Even as I halted, several shouts sounded from the barracks, and forms came hurrying through the rain. The next instant the doors of the spaceship rvere flung open to send long vistas of light streaming into the darkness, and dislodge a thousand black warriors who came swarming into the open. Loud laughs and greetings passed between them and the guards.

And there I stood, wondering what I had best do next and how I could find Abel, while scarcely twenty paces from me hundreds of guards and warriors were streaming past. It was all-important that I see the bird-man, and yet I could not show my nose without being taken prisoner. It came to me also, that Abel might not have been discovered, but was unable to leave the barracks, and that any mistake on my part would not only cost me my life, but his own as well.

Yet I must do something. Crouched in the shadow of a grain bale, I made a thousand plans, each more dangerous than the

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


last, and was balancing one against the other when a hurrying of footsteps sounded above the din without. In an instant I was at the chink to behold the warriors stiffening to attention. A tall figure wdiose glittering, jewel-encmsted trappings and proud features stamped his importance, appeared in the open doorway of the ship and looked frowningly into the storm.

A guard came running through the rain to halt, panting, and with an arm held out before him in salute.

"The Kamma sends a thousand welcomes, noble Magog, and asks that the son of Metak follow me to his quarters, where the questioning of a Tor detains him ”

The other nodded. "I come, I come,” he broke in. He turned and flung a few unintelligible words over his shoulder, then at a fast run followed the guard through die rain toward the Kamma’s quarters, while behind him the rest of the ship’s crew hurried into the open, making for the barracks.

A thrill shot through me at the words of the guard. I felt certain that the Tor he mentioned was Abel, nor had the identity of the ship’s Commander been uninteresting. This then was the son of Metak — Metak who alone was responsible for my being on the Moon of Lost Souls — Metak the cruel, and champion swordsman of the Black Raiders. And now the son of the man who had caused the death of every living human upon my planet, as well as my own exile, was scarcely a hundred paces away. My hand crept to my sword and toyed with its heavy hilt.

The many lights streaming from the space-ship prevented my leaving the front of the storehouse, but the rear of the great structure seemed temporarily deserted and every minute counted; so turning into a passageway I hurried through its sinister gloom, and a few minutes later found myself at the far end of the building, directly before a small door secured by wooden

bars upon the side of my approach. I opened it and stepped out into the storm.

As I had expected, the back of the storehouse was deserted, but directly ahead was an outline of lights, surrounded by a low wall that I knew to be the office and quarters of the Kamma; while on its far side, and some distance beyond, rose a much larger structure that was the barracks itself. In a half-crouch I hurried forward, and a moment later found myself beside the white wall that encircled the building — a barrier some seven feet in height.

This, however, was no great obstacle. With a running leap I sprang upward and grasped a secured hold on its top; then, observing no one in the surrounding darkness, I dropped lightly to the ground within.

Once within the walls there was no immediate danger of discovery, yet to remain hiding among tire bushes into which I had landed would gain me nothing. Still holding my shortsword, I sped across the wet terrace toward the rear of the building before me, wondering how I could gain an entrance, as all its doors were certain to be either barred or guarded. My eyes fell upon a balcony above me, beside which grew a slender tree. It was the work of but a few minutes till I stood on that deserted little gallery. It led to a dim-lit hallway.

Down this I made a silent advance. In the distance a slender glass-encased beam of light glowed in the niche of an intersecting passage, a somewhat wider hallway from which came the murmur of voices. Here a small circular balcony was mounted by a railing, while at the far end of the passage a stairway led downward. A quick scrutiny showed the hall to be deserted, so on tiptoe I advanced to the railing and looked down into the room below.

I T WAS a good-sized chamber, well lit and well furnished. At the tables in its center sat two men — one the Kamma I had



first seen on my arrival on the Moon of Lost Souls. The other was a tall and much younger man of about my own age, whose well-chiseled features might have been handsome were it not for the too thin lips and close-set eyes. But what was far more noticeable -was the lightness of his skin — an outstanding contrast to the blue-black hue of his companion. Plainly there was a strong dash of white blood in him. His jewel-encrusted weapons and trappings flashed and sparkled. This then was Magog, son of Metak.

Seated on a chair in a far corner of the room, gagged and bound and looking at the others with frightened eyes, was he for whom I had been searching— -Abel the bird-man.

The Kamma was speaking:

"But what you ask is madness, Worthy One,” he was saying. "Stealing is one thing, but to murder a royal captive — and one expected by the Queen at that ”

"Don’t be'a fool,” broke in Magog. "It is neck or nothing now. My father’s influence put me in command of one of the ships that collect the ransom and tributes demanded of the various worlds our armies have conquered, but even he would be unable to save me were the Queen to ever learn the truth; that four times during the past year I have landed here and left as many ransoms in your care, then proceeded on to Capara with the report that certain worlds were unable to meet our demands.”

"This Princess you speak of?” asked the Kamma.

"Vonna of Penelope,” went on the other. "It is her world for one whose ransom we have taken. Twice within the past year I have been sent to tire tiny blue star to collect its semi-annual tribute. On both occasions I have brought the treasure to you, then returned and reported the failure of the Penelopians to pay. I expected nothing to arise over it, for Penelope is a tiny little world containing nothing of any

great value, and its payments ridiculously small compared to the huge tributes of some of tlie larger planets. But for some reason my report displeased die Queen, and she ordered one of her fleets to return with me, to release the Vapors of Vengeance on Penelope and destroy it; also for me to bring the Princess of Penelope to her. That means discovery, for the Princess Vonna is certain to tell that the ransoms have been paid.”

The Kamma gave a gasp- half rose from his chair, then sat down again.

"I knew it. I knew that we would be found out sooner or later,” he sobbed. "But I am not the one to blame. It was

you. It was you who ”

Magog’s laugh was short and harsh. "Too late for that. You are in it with me up to die neck, and if discovered I will not go tumbling into die Pit of Blackness alone. Any time mine or any odier ransom ship returns to Capara it is officially seardied, and its contents taken to the royal treasury. But when your own small flyer lands it is never inspected, for how could one possibly be bringing gold and jewels from the Moon of Lost Souls?

"What if I were to tell that every time you landed for those innocent, over-night visits, your ship contained a king’s ransom? That you and I have later met and divided four treasures which rightfully belong to Queen Tara?”

"But this girl — this Princess Vonna?” asked die other. "If we murder her they are bound to suspect us and wonder why. It will only mean discovery.”

"Not with me running things,” answered Magog, and it was only by straining my ears that I could hear him at all, for continuous thunder volleys were crashing across the heavens, and a furious downpour splashing against the windows. “Luckily a storm has arisen — good. I can say it forced me to land here for the night. I have given orders for the crew to stay in

A MILLION YEARS IN THE FUTURE


the barracks with your guards. That means the ship is unguarded at this moment save for the pilot, a stout fellow in my service, and one we can trust. The Princess Vonna is tied in the entrance cabin. Fortune has further favored us by the timely misbehavior of this Tor.”

His eyes signalled to the bound Abel. "By the way,” he asked, "what did he do, anyhow?”

"He?” said the Kamma absently. "Oh, he was caught by one of the guards sneaking out of the barracks tonight, acting in a suspicious manner, and he refused to tell where he was going. I was questioning him when you arrived. But — but how can he be of any use to us?” demanded the Kamma.

"By relieving us of any suspicion that might arise over the murder of the Princess Vonna,” answered Magog. Then as the other looked quizzical:

"Let us take this Tor to the ship with us at once. No one is without, and we shall not be seen. There we can release him and dispatch him, along with the Princess Vonna, then raise the cry that the Tor escaped us and ran to the ship; that he murdered the Princess, then attempted to put off into space; that we arrived in time to prevent his escape, and though too late to save the royal captive, we were at least able to avenge her.”

I WAITED to hear no more. The words of Magog made clear his intentions. I now knew the ship -was unguarded. Could I rescue Abel and reach it, there might still be a chance for us both. And so, before any of them dreamed of the nearness of my presence, I had vaulted over the low railing, and with drawn shortsword dropped lightly to the floor ten feet below me, and directly before the seated pair.

What a surprise! The Kamma and Abel both knew my identity, of course, but to the startled eyes of Magog I must have appeared as the figment of a dream. There was a moment’s silence; then: "Blood of my Ancestors!” gasped the son of Metak. "Who are you and where did you come from?”

I motioned them to remain in their seats, my glittering blade waving from the breast of one to the other.

"Don’t move,” I told them quietly. "It just so happens that at this minute an Earthman has the upper hand.”

With my left arm I made the gesture that brought Abel from his chair and beside me, for though his arms were bound, his legs were free. Then without taking my eyes off the seated pair, I had soon released the bird-man, whose thongs dropped to his feet. This done, I ordered him to disarm both men, then gag and bind the Kamma to his chair. The latter was loud in his protest of this, but a painful jab of my swordpoint quickly silenced him, and a moment later he was but a mute and helpless witness to what was to follow.

I turned to Magog. All this while he had risen and was watching me with a surprised, puzzled expression that was gradually changing to one of fear.

“What do you want?” he whispered as our eyes met. “What are you going to do?”

"Witness the end of a Black Raider,” I answered him. "I want to see if the son of Metak can meet death as readily as his sire sentenced my own world to it.”

He looked- wildly about him. "But I am unarmed!” he cried. "You would not kill a defenseless man!”

"Why not?” I answered grimly. "Surely that’s what your own kind have been doing for centuries. Turning those terrible Vapors of Vengeance upon a thousand worlds, and killing untold billions without giving them the slightest chance for their lives. It would be no more than fair were I to run you through where you stand. But I am no Black Raider, nor wall



I kill a defenseless man. Here — I give you the chance your own would not give mine,” and I tossed his unsheathed longsword to him, the handle of which he deftly caught.

"On guard, Caparian,” I warned, and fell into position.

His reply was a quick thrust at my heart which I side-stepped and the next instant our blades clashed together as they met in a fast exchange of thrusts and parries.

I had no fear of the noise attracting the warriors in the barracks. The great building was scarcely a stone’s throw away it is true, but it was a strongly built structure that deadened vibration, and again the wild din of the storm obliterated all else. Our two sole witnesses were the excited Abel, and the bound and gagged Kamma — the eyes of the latter glaring hate and horror — ■ the dark orbs of the bird-man wide and gleaming.

Not that there was any great doubt as to the outcome. From the first it was evident that the duel would be of short duration.

A fast counter-thrust had laid bare the cheekbone of Magog at the first onset, and a moment later he was in a steady retreat — stepping between and aroimd the various pieces of furniture with an accuracy that showed a thorough knowledge of the room, while I pressed ever forward, as I realized the possibility of a chance entrance of some guard.

At length a sudden maneuver backed him into a corner from which there was no escape. That Magog realized the end was near was evident as, wide-eyed and desperate, he frantically sought to parry the thrusts of the dazzling blade before him. His mouth half opened as though to appeal for mercy, but shut again as he realized its futility. That merciless steel whirred ever closer. Then, doomed, crazed with fear, the doors of death opening to claim him, the Black Raider did that which

branded him as the lowest of cowards, even among his own.

In desperation he lashed out with a wicked slash that halted me for an instant. Then as the rat was met and parried, his free hand brought up the paralysis-w T and from his belt. But before its green rays could be turned upon me, an upward sweep of my blade sent it flying from his hand. The next instant three feet of steel went tearing through his heart.

"With a groan half bestial the son of Metak sank lifeless to the floor.

Pausing only to wipe my blade on a hanging I motioned for Abel to follow me. Then in a deathly silence we hurried from the room and out into the raging night, where numerous lightning flashes showed a narrow, stone-flagged walk that led through an open gateway, above which hung a huge alarm gong. The raindrenched courtyard between us and the ship was deserted, but I now felt that the moments till discovery were rapidly drawing to a close, for already the first evidence of dawn was stealing across the thundering sky. Soon would come the light of day, and then the awakened warriors from the barracks.

The open doorway of the ship was soon before us, and with a nod to the bird-man I crept forward, hearing his faint tread as he followed.

The interior of the huge ship was brilliantly lighted. A narrow passageway stretched through several large rooms to terminate in the exit chamber at its far end. But there was no need for further exploration, for there on a chair, her shapely arms bound behind her, was a lovely young golden-haired girl of my own color that I intuitively knew to be Vonna, the captured Princess of Penelope.

You win not want to miss next month’s thrilling chapters of this story, which tell of the Moon of Madness, the Nine Terrible Sisters, and the Wolves of Worra. We suggest that you reserve your copy at your magazine dealer’s now.

— Y

\Jw

wister

By MARY ELIZABETH COUNSELMAN

Ghostly was the village where the newly wedded couple stopped for gasoline, and weird was their experience there

OB CLAYTON turned his head left and right to relax the tense muscles of his neck. He flexed fingers cramped from gripping the steering-wheel, glanced sidewise at his wife

huddled wearily in the car seat beside him. Slowing the small coupe to a standstill, he glanced at his wrist-watch, then ahead at the darkening ribbon of highway.

"I knew we should have stopped at that

m



last town,” he growled irritably. "What was it — Saltersburg? Now it’s beginning to drizzle, the windshield wiper has quit on us, and we have only one headlight — miles, from nowhere! Well, this honeymoon jaunt was your idea, not mine!”

Switching on the overhead light, he pored over the rumpled road map, scowling. Beside him, his young bride stretched, yawned, and ran a caressive hand over the Scotty in her lap. Being a wise wife, she risked no reply but continued to gaze sleepily at the fireflies lighting the dark fields on either side of the highway.

Clayton frowned as he squinted at the marked route. Tossing the map aside, he trod viciously on the starter and drove on again with a jerk. Myra Clayton, tactfully, pretended not to hear his muttered profanity.

"Thirty miles at least to Evansboro, the next town,” her husband lashed out disgustedly. "Myra — darling, I hate the

thought of spending our wedding night in a cheap tourist camp.” His frown cleared slightly, and he smiled at his wife, reached over to pat the terrier in her lap. "Oh, well,” he shrugged, "you take a nap, dear, and I’ll just keep driving until we reach a decent hotel.”

He sat back with a yawn, eyes fixed on the highway ahead. At the pressure of his foot the coupe leaped forward, spearing the gathering dusk with its single headlight. Myra snuggled closer and rested her head on a tweed shoulder. Humming a popular song in duet, they drove on as night settled softly over the countryside.

The highway was singularly deserted. There was no sound except the purr of the motor and the whisper of tires on wet cement. A fine rain misted the windshield. Vapor rose from the hot pavement, giving everything an eery unreal quality. Bullfrogs croaked dismally from the roadside ditches as though warning them of a nameless peril that followed

close behind or lurked just around the next curve. Myra Clayton closed her eyes. . . .

She opened them again with a start, feeling a difference in the motion of the coupe. Blinking at her husband, she saw that he was squinting through the windshield intently at something ahead. An unreasoning apprehension chilled her blood. She pressed closer to the solid figure of the man beside her; found herself shivering, though the night was unpleasantly warm.

"Bob, wh-what is it?” she whispered. "A crack-up?”

But his cheery grin by the dashlight reassured her at once.

"It’s a town,” he announced, relief in his tone. "Must be Evansboro — though I don’t see how it could be, this soon. By the map, it’s a good thirty miles from Saltersburg.”

Hie Scotty stirred, sniffed nervously. Myra Clayton sat erect, patting at her hair.

"Good!” she sighed. "I’m so terribly tired of driving, and I know you are, poor darling! Hope we can smuggle MacTavish up to the room — he howls if I leave him alone.”

She peered out the car window as the coupe slowed down. Against the dark skyline, darker shapes of houses loomed. But there was no light in any of them, no street lights, no illumination at all. A devil’s-fork of lightning, stabbing the sky at intervals, revealed a small "whistlestop” town of perhaps two thousand population.

"Huh!” Clayton muttered. "They certainly roll up the sidewalks early. It’s only ten-thirty, but everybody seems to have gone to bed.”

He cruised along at a snail’s pace, squinting out through the misted windowglass. Presently the car light picked out a weather-beaten sign, unlighted, hanging close to the roadside. GUESTS, it invited

TWISTER


briefly, and Clayton braked the coupe, trying to make out the dark house beyond. Its vague bulk could be seen but dimly against the sky, Victorian in architecture, set far back from the highway.

Leaping out, head down in the drizzle, he strode up a grass-grown walk and knocked at the door with growing disfavor.

The place was extremely ill-kept. Wind whistled through a broken-out place in the colored glass of the door, and leaves and debris littered the rotting veranda.

\T O ONE answered Clayton’s first

^ knock. He was about to turn away, when a woman’s figure appeared abruptly, coming around from the side porch, her footsteps making no sound, Clayton noticed, as did his own. Lightning picked out her ample form, clad in a dark dress of some kind, and her round white face framed by untidy gray hair. She did not offer any greeting; merely stood there, part of the darkness.

"We’d like a room for the night,” Clayton began. "My wife and myself. I noticed your sign — -you do take tourists, don’t you?”

There was a long silence. The woman simply stood there, regarding him gravely. She turned her head, taking in the parked coupe, then looked slowly back at Clayton.

"No.” Her voice startled him with its odd quality: high, vibrant, like the sound of wind blowing through a crack, and as toneless as that of a deaf-mute. "No,” she repeated. "I don’t take tourists any more. Not any more, no.” She peered closer at him, eyes only dark holes in that white moon-face. "You’re not — like us, are you?” she asked softly.

Clayton laughed, shook his head. "My Yankee accent, you mean? No, I’m from Chicago. We’re just passing through. . . . Well — you say you don’t take guests. I wonder if you’d direct me to the best

hotel? We’ve been traveling since daybreak.”

The woman continued to regard him silently. Then she shook her head.

"You won’t like it at the hotel,” she spoke, still in that hollow toneless voice. "No accommodations anywhere in town, if you’re — not used to things, like us. We don’t take no strangers much here, anyhow.”

Clayton stiffened, compressed his lips. "Indeed?” he snapped. "If it’s a question of money, of course I intended paying in advance.”

Wind stirred his hair, chilly with blown rain. Somewhere a shutter creaked and banged against the house. At the sound of it, the woman shivered and pressed against the wall.

"Pay in advance?” she echoed dully. "Oh — that! We don’t worry about that around here any more.” She laughed, a hollow mirthless sound. "You can stay here if you like, sure. But I’d drive on to the next town if I was you.”

She stopped short, cringing like a whipped animal as another gust of wind shook the eaves. Sidling over to the porch rail, she peered anxiously up at the sky, clinging to a rotting pillar as if for support.

"Yes, yes!” she mumbled. "You’d better drive on, pretty fast! The wind is rising. Toward dawn it’ll be roaring like a freight train. . . . Hear it? Hear it roaring in the distance?”

Clayton frowned, looking up at a forked display of lightning. "The wind?” he echoed, and laughed. "You’ve got keener ears than I have. All I can hear is rain on the roof.”

The woman shook her head gravely. "You can hear it,” she whispered dully, "if you reaMy listen. You and your wife better be driving on before it’s too late.”

Clayton eyed her, quizzical. He shrugged, grinned. "Well' — -good night,

8S


then. Sorry to H&ve disturbed you so late. I suppose well have to drive on anyway, if the accommodations here are so poor.” He frowned at the sky, clearing now toward the west. “You really think there’s a wind storm coming up? Those clouds don’t look so very ”

The woman turned on him swiftly, shaking a gnarled finger. "You can’t tell!” she whispered sharply. “That’s just it! You can’t ever tell what wind is liable to do. ... I must close the shutters,” her voice lowered to a mumble, and she scuttled around the side porch again. “Close the shutters, and put the garden chairs inside. . .

She was gone. Clayton took a step after her, then grinned, shrugged, and returned to his sleepy wife in the coupe.

"No dice, darling,” he reported ruefully. “This Evansboro seems to be the jumping-off place. The old lady here advised me to drive on. Says there’s a bad wind storm coming up — and us with no windshield wiper and only one headlamp! Better get that fixed if there’s an all-night sendee station.”

Elis wife sighed. "Well — whatever you say. . . . Oh, do sit still, MacTavish!”

The dog was pressing close to her now, shivering and whining nervously. All at once he lifted his muzzle and gave vent to a mournful howl. Clayton and his wife laughed, trying to quiet him.

"My sentiments exactly, pup!” Myra laughed wearily. "Well — -better get some gas, too, darling. Looks like we’re doomed to drive all night!”

T HEY inched along between dark canyons of buildings half seen whenever the lightning flared. But the streets, on closer inspection, were not so deserted as they first appeared. Shadows moved here and there — dim human shapes. Faces looked out at them from the storefronts. "Hmm,” Clayton commented, "a few

folks are still up and about after all, though I don’t see how they find dieir way around. Confound these dark streets! Guess something must have happened to the electric current. Probably cut it off as a storm warning.”

He leaned out the window, scanning the dark storefronts until at last the white shape of a filling-station slid into the radius of car light. Turning in, he pulled up beside a rusty gas pump, sounding his horn. Its raucous blare shattered the silence into a thousand eery echoes, and abruptly, a lean sallow-faced youth appeared out of the darkness.

“Five gallons of twenty-cent gas,” Clayton ordered. "And fix that headlight, will you?”

The man stared at him without speech, made no move to obey.

Clayton scowled at him. "Hurry up!” he snapped. "Five gallons.”

The filling-station attendant blinked at him, nodded dully, and moved to the rear of the car. Something clanked and Clayton thought he could hear liquid gushing into the gas tank. Presently the lanky youth came around to the front again, shielding his : eyes from the headlight’s glare.

He stood there stupidly for a moment, poking at the lamp. Then:

"Mister, you got a short — I don’t think I could fix it.” His voice, like that of the old woman, was high, tremulous, and devoid of tone.

A gust of wind whistled through the car just then, rustling the road map in Clayton’s hand. The filling-station attendant shuddered as it did so, staring up at the sky.

The rain had stopped, and a few stars were peeping out between the thinning clouds. But there was terror and apprehension. on the youth’s sallow face as he scanned the northwest horizon. His mouth jerked, Clayton saw, and his dull

TWISTER


eyes were like the eyes of a drowning horse.

"Mister,” he whispered, "you better get going! There’s a twister blowing up. Hear it roaring through Logan’s Pass? One minute you don’t suspect a thing — - and the next minute, it’s on you! Just sweeps everything flat, and then it’s gone again. . . . Hear it? Listen! It’s coming!”

Clayton frowned, listening intently. There was a roaring sound in the distance, but it was accompanied by the wail of a train whistle. The night sky was clearing rapidly, and the remaining wispy clouds moved not at all as though winddriven.

But Myra, straining her ears, was growing nervous. Animals, she recalled, are sensitive to weather-signs, and the dog in her lap was shivering violently. It bared its teeth at the service man in a way most unusual to its friendly disposition. Suddenly it gave vent to another howl, and dived for cover under their feet.

Bob Clayton fumbled for his billfold rather hurriedly, and extracted a dollar; held it out. The youth took it, hardly glancing at him, cavernous eyes fixed on the horizon. His face in the headlight’s glow was pasty-white and distorted with terror, blind animal-terror that made Clayton’s flesh crawl.

"Coming through Logan’s Pass!” the youth mumbled. "It’s headed this way; we’re right in the path of it. . . . Mister, you better drive like the devil! Maybe you can outrun it — and maybe not.”

Myra clutched at her husband’s arm, trembling.

"Bob!” she whimpered. "This is tornado country! I — I’m scared! Hadn’t we better leave the car and hunt a cyclone cellar?”

Clayton shook his head, stamped on the starter. "No, no, darling — we’d better run for it! Didn’t you hear what this fellow said? This cursed town is directly in the

path of a twister coming through Logan’s Pass. . . . But what are you folks going to do?” he demanded, facing the terrified youth again. "Have you got cyclone cellars? Why don’t you just evacuate the town?”

The thin-faced attendant stared at him dazedly, like a child in the path of an oncoming truck. "We can’t do that — this is our home,” he said dully. "And running away won’t help, anyhow. A twister moves too fast. If it — if it wants you, it gets you, and that’s all there is to it. There’s no escape — no escape for anybody.”

Clayton snorted. Under his hand, the gears clashed and the coupe swung into the highway again. Sweat beaded his forehead, but he smiled reassurance at his young bride.

"Don’t worry, darling,” he laughed. "We’ll be miles away before any wind storm blows up around here. Even if — if it catches us, we can drive the car into a deep ditch and have perfect protection.”

Stepping hard on the gas, he drove off with a haste that belied his calm exterior. The shapes of buildings straggled out, then merged swiftly into treetops as they left the little town behind.

C LAYTON crouched over the steeringwheel, gas feed jammed to the floor. The coupe lunged, skidded, rocked crazily, held to the road only by the skill of its driver.

Myra Clayton huddled in her seat corner, wide-eyed and hugging the terrier in her arms. Now and then she glanced fearfully at the sky, almost clear now and studded with stars. Her ears ached from listening for an ominous roaring above the purr of the engine. But no such terrifying sound broke the peaceful stillness of the countryside.

Her husband was listening for it, too, neck muscles tense with apprehension. De90


struction, doom, from out of the sky! Flattening everything in its path. If they could not outrun it. . . .

The coupe sputtered without warning. Clayton pulled at the choke, stared at the gas gage in horror. It measured "Empty.” With a second cough die car jerked to a halt, and die engine died.

“Out of gas!” Clayton exploded. "Why, we can’t be! I just got five gallons back there in Evansboro. Oh, Lord!” he groaned. "Miles from nowhere, a tornado coming — and this had to happen! Darling, we’ll have to push it. into diat ditch, and — just pray.”

He leaped out, cursing. Myra Clayton, clinging to the Scotty, climbed out after him.

"Oh, Bob,” she whimpered, "what are we going to — oh!”

She screamed suddenly, flinging herself into her husband’s arms as, unheralded, a tall gaunt figure looked out of the darkness, blinding them with a powerful flashlight.

Clayton’s blood froze. He cursed himself for leaving his gun in the glove compartment; wondered wildly if he dared make a dive for it, when:

"Elowdy, folks,” the man with the torch greeted pleasantly, in the mountain twang of the area. "Y’all know you only got one light?”

Clayton breathed out in a gusty laugh of relief as the man came closer, revealing the glint of a deputy sheriff’s badge on his overall front.

"Thank heavens!” he burst out. "Listen, sheriff — you’ve got to help us get away from here! There’s a twister headed this way! They just told us about it when we drove through Evansboro.”

The lawman leaned against the car deliberately, unshaved face calm and humorous in the reflected light.

"Young feller,” he drawled, “I got my orders to run in every drunk driver I

come acrost. I smell liquor on your breath — and you’re sure talking wild enough. Evansboro is fourteen mile on up the road from here. And if there’d been any stomi warnin’ in this county, I’d a-been the first to hear of it.”

Clayton’s jaw dropped, then shut with a snap.

"Now, see here,” he clipped out "I had one drink — yes, one! — right after dinner in Silver City four hours ago. As for the twister, two people in Evansboro — or whatever town we just came through — warned us it was coming through Logan’s Pass.”

The sheriff chuckled, jerking a thumb at the stars. "Out o’ that clear sky?” He snorted. "Young feller, the last bad wind we had through here was in ’34. And February and March is the months for ’em, not July. If you ain’t drunk, you’re crazy — because the last town you strike before you get to Evansboro on this highway is Saltersburg, twenty-odd mile back where you come from.”

Myra moved close to her husband, mouth open in indignation.

"That’s ridiculous!” she exploded. "We stopped in Saltersburg for cigarettes almost an hour ago. Don’t you stand there and try to tell us we didn’t come through another little town just a few miles back! I ”

The deputy eyed her and spat carefully. He looked over his glasses at Clayton, then rather sadly shook his head.

"I got to lock you bo tli up,” he announced apologetically. “The way you was hellin’ . . . pardon, Ma’m . . . cornin’ down the highway! Then you stop right sudden and start gabbin’ about a twister and a town that don’t exist. Y’all ain’t in no fit state for night-drivin', Ma’m, for a fact.”

Clayton was bristling now. Weariness and die harrowing events just past had frayed his temper to the snapping-point.

TWISTER


He took a step forward, fist clenched. But his wife caught his arm.

"Wait, dear,” she said evenly. "This gentleman seems to doubt our word, but I’m sure we can convince him. Officer, if you’ll let us have some gas, we’ll be glad to drive you back and show you the town we went through. But — tomorrow, please, after the tornado strikes. I have no desire to be blown through a tree tonight — even if we were drunk, which we’re not.”

The deputy stood erect again, sweeping off his greasy hat with some embarrassment. Clayton grinned. The fellow was evidently a moron of the lowest order, and Myra was handling him the only way possible. Now he gave her an apologetic bob of contrition.

"Sorry, Ma’m; you can’t alluz tell, you know.” He coughed. "As to the gas. I’ll sell you some, right enough; there’s a can up at the house. But — honest, there ain’t no town between Saltersburg and Evansboro. Not even a tourist camp. You look on your road map whilst I go after your gas.”

H E TURNED and vanished into the' night again. Clayton glowered after him, then deliberately pulled a stack of road maps from the glove compartment. There was among them, he recalled, a special state map. Almost every ant-hill along the highway was marked on it, and a town as big as the one they had just left would surely be included.

But, frowning over the local map a moment later, he shook his head, puzzled and chagrined. There was no sign of a town marked along the route between the two cities.

"This beats me,” he murmured, then scanned the sky apprehensively. "No wind storm yet. They couldn’t have been kidding us, could they? No, no, two separate people — and they both looked terrified, saying they could hear the wind

roaring in the distance. But look at that sky; there’s certainly no sign of a twister around here.”

A few minutes later, when the mountain sheriff had filled their tank with gas. Clayton faced him sheepishly.

"Look,” he said. "I paid a dollar for gas at that town back there; I’ll prove it to you if you’ll ride back with us. It can’t have been more than five miles. Besides, I have a few words to say to that fillingstation attendant. They’ll gyp you a gallon or two sometimes if you don’t watch — but we wouldn’t have given out of gas if he’d put in any at all! Probably some vagrant pulling a fast one on me with a locked pump.” He grinned. "Maybe you’ll make your arrest tonight after all, Sheriff.”

The deputy spat again, and rested one foot on the running-board.

"Won’t tomorrow do?” he drawled. "Your wife here looks mighty sleepy; and we got a extry room. You can sleep there tonight, and well drive back and nab your gas-chiseling feller right after breakfast.”

Clayton smiled, and nodded at once.

"Sounds wonderful,” he laughed. "I’m so tired, I don’t know my own name, and my wife is worn out, I know. Mind our having the pup with us?”

"Nope, not a bit,” their benefactor assured them. "House is up the hill a piece; I’ll show you. But say, young feller; that stuff about a twister coming through Logan’s Pass — why, who’d a-told you that? Must have been an old-timer funnin’ with you. Since the Government blasted for water-power ten years ago, one side of the Pass has been leveled out flat. Don’t hardly anybody remember it was ever there.”

He climbed into the car, shaking his head, and pointed the way up a narrow byroad off the highway, at the end of which a white clapboard farmhouse perched on the hilltop.



After breakfast next morning they piled into tire coupe again and headed back down the highway. The fresh green of the vegetation looked innocent and peaceful A clear blue sky brightened as the sun rose, cloudless and serene after the rain.

"Twister!” the sheriff snorted, grinning in good-natured derision at Clayton and his wife as they rolled along. Somebody sure is a practical joker in this town of yours, selling you fake gas and what-all!

Clayton said nothing, but his eyes met those of his wife curiously. Half the night they had lain awake, puzzling about the town that was not on any road map and the wind storm that had not materialized.

W ATCHING the milometer, Clayton looked ahead, and suddenly pointed in triumph.

"There! Here’s our town! I knew we couldn’t have imagined He broke

off, staring, a little pulse beginning to throb at his temple.

"Good Lord!” he breathed. I cant believe it!”

For the rows of buildings along the highway as he slowed down could hardly be called buildings at all. Crumbling shells of moss-covered brick loomed against the sky, desolate and inhabited only by nesting birds. The shattered hulks of old houses, sometimes no more than one rotting wall or a vine-hidden chimney, reared from foundations overgrown with grass and weeds.

In front of one swung a battered sign Clayton remembered. GUESTS, it read — but the house beyond had no top story. It was torn off as if by the hand of an angry giant. No one could have lived inside— no one but kindred of the spider and the bat. There was no sign of an old woman with a white round face, scraggly gray hair and terror-dilated eyes. Dust lay undisturbed on the rotting porch, save

where a man’s footprints had mounted the steps and come down again.

"That’s” — Clayton’s voice was strangled, his face blank with unbelief — "that’s where I — it can’t be!”

His dazed eyes swept the one-street town where not a house, not a building stood which was not smashed beyond reasonable repair. The giant s-hand had swept across the entire village, battering, smashing, destroying as if in one brutal gesture.

Parts of other buildings lay in frontyards. One small outhouse hung half in, half out of a gaping hole in the wall of a crumbling Colonial mansion. A great oak, jerked out of the earth like a blade of grass, lay through the center of a crushed bungalow'.

The sheriff’s guffaw startled Clayton from his trance.

"Oh! This is your town, eh? Why, it’s been deserted for years, ever since the twister in ’22.”

"Twister?” Clayton swallowed with a dry mouth, and felt his wife’s cold hand slide shakily into his own. "Did— did

you say ?”

"Sure!” The deputy chortled. "But it wasn’t last night, young feller — it was seventeen year ago! Worst we ever had, I recollect. Wiped out near about everybody in the town here. The rest moved away, they couldn’t afford to rebuild, and there wasn’t much to hold ’em here, anyhow'. Why, I just never thought about this place when y’all spoke about stopping at a town nearer than Evansboro! Nobody stops here, not even hoboes. Some dangfool story about it being haunted. . .

Myra Clayton edged closer to her husband in the car seat, wide-eyed and silent. The dog in her lap whined softly.

"It’s natural folks’d cook up some such tale,” the sheriff was rambling on cheerfully. "When the twister struck here, nobody had received any storm warnin’, beTWISTER


cause the weather bureau didn’t dream it’d be such a bad one. Freak wind in July, it was. Nobody was prepared for it, so of course hundreds was killed. Some of the unidentified bodies was buried on the spot. Too tore-up to ship . . . July the 12, 1922, that was,” he drawled, then grunted. "Say, that was exactly seventeen years ago yestiddy! Funny coincidence. . . .”

But Bob Clayton was not listening. He had turned the coupe and was cruising back down the highway to where a white stucco filling-station squatted forlornly between the wreckage of two stores. Slowly he braked the car and climbed out. Slowly, not daring to look at his wife, he walked

up the drive-in and paused beside a rusty gas pump — empty and hoseless by daylight. He knew, somehow, what he would find there. Bending down, he picked it up with an unsteady hand. . . .

A dollar bill. The dollar bill he had laid in the palm of a pale youth with a deathless terror in his hollow eyes: terror beyond the peace of the grave, terror that had let neither him, nor hundreds of others in that lost town, rest since a yellowish cloud had roared down upon them from the sky almost a score of years before. Waiting, all of them, in a terrible bondage of dread, for the twister to strike again.

By HARRY WARNER, JR.

I had been told that I should shun the place,

By fishermen of that bleak wind-swept coast.

There had been whispers of some unknown ghost — And something worse, that none dare even face.

Laughingly, I only mocked their fears;

Called them old maids who feared the black of night. They signed the cross and went. I came in sight Of this chalet that wore the dust of years.

But soon I flew in terror from the site That I had thought but legend-filled before.

The place was dank; shades of eternal night Hung o’er: and there within the door Were signs I knew: no mirrors; and there lay Upon the stairs (too far below) dank day.

Jd \

ortrait of a Bride

By EARLE PEIRCE, Jr.

An utterly strange tale of a painter who fell in love with a make-believe -wife, or so his friends thought — but did he merely imagine her, after all?

W ITH a hollow rattle in its exhaust the ancient bus started down the road and left me standing in the darkness. It was a warm spring evening, and the rain of a few hours before had made perfume in the air as it filtered through the trees. I inhaled the fragrance hungrily. It was like coming home again.

The shabby bus terminal was closed for the night; but a bench stood outside the door beneath an eave, and I sat down to smoke my pipe while awaiting Richman’s arrival. It would be a few minutes before he came. Oddly enough, the old Ford bus had. been ahead of time.

After the lapse of a year I was keen to see Richman again. We had been together so mudi in the old days that I looked upon him as a brother; at times an older, wiser brother, and at other times a much younger one who needed looking after. And now he was married.

I couldn’t quite adapt myself to the realization that he had a wife. Perhaps I was jealous of her, but God knows he needed a capable woman to look after him. Artists and scientists are alike in that respect.

But it was love and not a desire for domestic orderliness which had finally made a married man of him. After all his years of celibate scorn he had at last fallen, hard. She- must be quite a woman.

Of course I couldn’t rely completely upon the descriptions of her in his letters.

94 '

Maudlin devotion there. The man was blind; he could see nothing but the shining side of her. However, the' opposite side is for the , best man to see, and to keep his counsel about. I suspected that Elizabeth must mother him frightfully.

To end these reflections a car drove up the road and stopped beside the terminal. A man climbed out. It was Stephan, whom I had not seen since Richman left New York a year ago. As he came under the illumination of a street lamp I saw that he hadn’t changed a hair; servants rarely do.

"Welcome to Vermont again, sir,” he greeted as we shook hands. "Mr. Richman will be delighted that you are here.” "He’s expecting me tonight?”

"Oh yes, sir! He requested me to come to the depot. He has a slight catarrh. The doctor keeps him indoors.”

Stephan carried my bag to the car. It was the same antiquated Buick, but miraculously clean. I saw Elizabeth’s Victorian hand in that.

"You feel the difference already, sir?” Stephan was buoyant with enthusiasm as we climbed into the car. "It’s something in the air. You can’t help but notice it — a sort of rarefied, invigorating quality. It’s made a new man of Mr. Richman, sir.” "He’s well, then — other than the catarrh?”

Through the corners of my eyes I perceived the negative shake of Stephan’s head.

"Not exactly well, as you would say, sir. His lungs are still a bit crusty, and the doctor can’t give him much of a margin on that account. But he’s happy! He’s working and he’s happy. I never expected to see him like this again.”

This was good news, but not unexpected. Richman’s many letters spoke well of his new lease on life. I relaxed in the automobile seat with a feeling of complacency.

"I take it,” I murmured, "that married life is good to him.”

There was a short silence which, at that time, I did not construe as ominous. Indifferent to it, I went on:

“After all those years we nearly lost

hope of his ever marrying, didn’t we?” “Yes, sir, we nearly did.”

Again there was a brief silence as the car rolled smoothly over the dirt highway. I became aware of a slight tension between us.

“Fond of your new mistress, aren’t you, Stephan?” I inquired.

F OR the moment Stephan did not answer me. He seemed deliberately preoccupied with his driving. I repeated my question.

With a grim cast to his face, Stephan let up on the accelerator and steered the car to one side of the road. He pulled




back the brake and brought the machine to a jarring stop.

"I’ve got to tell you, sir,” he cried suddenly. "It — it’s about Mrs. Richman. She is a myth.”

"A myth?” I reiterated. "What do you mean?”

Stephan ran a hand distraughtly through his graying hair. His lips twisted in an attempt to find words.

"I realize what a shock it must be to you, sir. And I sincerely wish that I had written you about it before you came up here. Mrs. Richman doesn’t exist except in his imagination. It’s an obsession, the doctor says. He calls it the fixation of an idea in his conscious mind.”

I stared at him incredulously.

"Do you mean to tell me that his wife is not real — that she’s imaginary?”

"Yes, sir. She’s imaginary. Ever since the beginning she has been a part of his mind. It’s uncanny, but he believes in her reality as — as a saint believes in Christ. It frightens me at times. I fear he might suddenly awaken and find her only a dream. It would kill him, sir.”

For a moment I was speechless.

"Let me get this straight, Stephan. You mean to tell me that Richman’s wife does not exist in reality? There is no such person as Elizabeth?”

I stopped. Belatedly I realized that Richman had never told me his wife’s maiden name.

Stephan seemed to understand my hesitation. He spoke as one at a high requiem.

"I wish I had written to you, sir. It would have prevented a great deal of embarrassment. I really don’t know what I can say now.”

I shook my hand to stop his abject chatter. There w r as no need for him to explain further. I saw it clearly now: Richman, the idealist — the artist in search of beauty. . . . His mind rebelled against harsh realities. His sensitive soul did the rest.

To any psychiatrist it was an old story. But Elizabeth a myth!

"I tried to orient him several months ago,” Stephan went on, "but the idea had already taken possession of him. Now it is too late. The doctor says he is hopelessly insane.”

It was a brutal word even in Stephan’s quiet voice, and I winced at it.

"Please, sir! He isn’t in any discomfort. On the contrary, he seems sublimely happy, and his work is better than ever before. He is doing her portrait in oils. A work of genius, even though it is inspired by insanity. The two are not remote, you know.”

"Her portrait? As he sees her?”

"A beautiful painting, sir. You will see it for yourself.”

"But how do you deal with him?” I demanded. "With Elizabeth a — — ”

"It’s quite simple, sir. One might call it a sort of game we play. The madam has a room of her own next to his. I never go in there, except to take a meal tray to the door. He does all the rest — sweeps it, sir, and does the cleaning, and brings down her dishes. He is worried because she doesn’t touch any of the food, but not even that can shake his faith in her reality. At night they — seem to slip out into the garden together.”

"Good God!” I muttered. "How long has this been going on, Stephan?”

"For three months, sir, ever since the marriage.”

"Marriage! D’you mean to tell me he actually had a ceremony?”

"The Reverend Mr. Blanding himself performed it, sir. You see, we are all his friends, and anything we can do to make him happy — even though it be in this mad dream of his — we shall do it to the end. It’s little enough for the man who’s been so kind to us.”

With defensive deliberation Stephan released the brake and started the car ahead.

PORTRAIT OF A BRIDE


T HE drive to the house was too brief for my peace of mind. I wanted some time in which to think this over. The suddenness of Stephan’s revelation shattered my fondest visions, and I sat there with the wreck of them, in my hands.

The ancestral home of the Richmans came out of the night to meet us. Huge frame windows spilled rectangles of light out onto the drive. The black outline of the house stood soberly against the blueblack sky with all the durability of a mountain.

Stephan stopped the car to let me out before he drove on to the garage.

“Try to act normally, sir,” he cautioned. "And speak to her once in a while. He will imagine that he hears her respond.” Stephan drove off before I could question him on this point, and for a moment —as the car vanished around the comer — I felt a sting of panic. I was tempted to await his return before venturing into the house; then I realized that he would enter by the back way. I knocked on the door.

Richman himself answered the summons. He was less emaciated, although still thin and consumptive-looking. I was impressed by the singular brightness of his eyes.

“Welcome, John!” He pumped my arm vigorously. “By all the gods, you’re welcome! Sorry I didn’t get down to the depot, but Doc’s been dosing me with all kinds of nostrums. How’ve you been? You’re looking fit.”

He was feverishly cordial, and I knew that his cordiality was sincere. We went into a shabby old living-room for drinks.

"Elizabeth’s dressing,” he said. “Dinner in a few moments. She’s dined already, but I think she’ll come down. She doesn’t take cocktails, so it’s you and me on these.” He lifted a glass to his lips. “We’ll drink to her.”

The initial surprise of Stephan’s confession had not worn off. I studied Richman

shamelessly as I sipped the martini. It was shocking to think of him as mad — shocking and a little horrible.

"You will adore her,” he went on. "Everyone does. A woman as rare as genius. Did I tell you how we met? I was walking in the garden at midnight, and there she stood, all radiant and storybookish in the moonlight. She’d been out walking too, and had lost her way. . . . She never went back, John. I often think that some kind of fate sent her to me. I dreamed of her, you know, long before she came. . .

Richman looked recklessly handsome as he spoke. His skin was pale and taut across his facial bones, but the eyes imparted to him a vitality I have seldom seen in any man. His jet-black hair was heedlessly mussed; a ringlet of it dangled over his forehead.

"D’you remember how we used to philosophize on women, John? I the Victorian, you the cynic. How we were to put women in their places. Remember how I was to paint nothing but pastorals? And you to write nothing but Cabellian novels? Oh those years! I often tell Elizabeth about them. We spend hours in reminiscence. It’s odd how she seems to know all that history that you and I lived together. It’s telepathy, I’m certain. We intrude on each other’s most private musings as if we shared a single mind. Poetic, eh?” He laughed shortly, and, I thought, in slight embarrassment.

He swept a hand through his hair and dropped into a chair, but immediately he rose and began to pace back and forth.

"Can you name any celibates in history who have reached creative genius?” he demanded suddenly. "Your monastic saints, perhaps, and Spinoza. Yet women stood behind these men — women of dreams and revery, women like visions leading them onward. . .

He walked to a table and filled his glass.


•WEIRD TALES

Another ringlet of hair fell over his brow. I used to determine his mood by these ringlets. In moments of intense passion, a condition generally provoked by his failure to paint exactly what he saw, his forehead was completely blackened by disheveled hair. His brow was rarely bare.

As I watched him I felt myself to be a detached, an almost clinical observer. Stephan’s word insanity was responsible for that. I would never have considered it otherwise, never have erected that inviolate barrier between him and me.

He put down his glass and turned toward the door. “Here she comes,” he said. "She’s always on time.”

He walked to the entrance and vanished. A moment later he returned, frowning, sweeping the hair from his eyes.

"I must have been imagining things,” he muttered. "Her tread is so light that sometimes I confuse it with the tapping of trees on the roof.”

He picked up his glass.

"I remember that when I first saw her I couldn’t be certain whether she was there or not. At first I saw only a vague outline of a woman’s body, with the moon shining through it from behind. Then gradually a mist seemed to collect and fill in the outline. It grew denser, and suddenly — there she was! A peculiar illusion, due probably to my overwrought mind. I’d been in an absolute hell of despondency just before I decided on that turn in the garden. Fortunate decision!”

His eyes met mine directly as he smiled at me over the top of the glass.

S O FAR I had avoided his eyes out of a fear of embarrassment, but now I saw that my fears were groundless. Richman’s eyes were so frank and sincere that I had a momentary impression that there was no subterfuge between us. I smiled back at him.

Unexpectedly he turned again toward

the entrance. His brows lifted in surprise.

"Beth!” he cried. "I didn’t hear you come down.”

Considering the extra weight I seemed to have acquired in the space of those few seconds, I climbed to my feet with commendable alacrity. I was at a complete loss for anything to do; nevertheless I turned expectantly toward the door and waited. Richman, having crossed the room, stood with his back toward me and his arms lifted curiously in the air. His fingers were clasped, as if about a pair of shoulders.

Richman gave me no time in which to adjust myself to this situation. He turned on his heel, dropped one hand to his side but retained the other in its same position, as if holding a person’s arm, and accosted me with complete disregard of my plight.

"This is she, John. Beth, you’ve heard me speak of John Kenyon.”

It was a frightful moment. The room fell into an abrupt silence. None of us moved. Then I realized that my eyes were affixed, not upon this imaginary woman, but upon Richman himself. Even to a madman this was unexplainable conduct!

I averted my eyes jerkily and made a grotesque bow.

"I — I’m happy to meet you,” I stammered.

That silence fell again. Richman was immobile. He stood staring at me, his face strangely set.

Stephan appeared behind him, too quietly to have not been listening.

"Dinner is ready, sir,” he announced. His eyes shifted from me to Richman, whose back faced him. "Good evening, madam,” he said clearly.

Richman closed his eyes and opened them as if to break a trance. He turned, brushing back his hair.

"Very well, Stephan. Thank you.”

I took advantage of this intrusion to overcome my inertia. Primarily, I cracked

PORTRAIT OF A BRIDE


the nervous rigidity which had settled upon me and managed to throw my mind into neutral gear, as it were, to permit a relaxation of the muscles in my face. I broadened my wan smile by deliberately prdling back my lips. Even so, I could not trust myself to address a non-existing woman. I spoke to Richman instead.

"An ideal servant, Stephan. Men like that are rare today. You’re lucky.”

"Yes, we are,” said Richman abstractedly. "Very lucky. — Hungry, Beth? Oh! You’ve dined already, of course. But come along anyway; we want your company.”

For the next few minutes, fortunately, Richman broke into one of his long monologs which prevented a silence that might have been unendurable. We seated ourselves about the table, he at one end, I in the middle at his left, and an empty space, with a vacant chair drawn to it, at the opposite end.

"We have a lot to talk about,” he continued, his eyes at rest upon the empty chair. "You’ll see, Beth, that all I’ve told you is true. Those days! They fill me with disconsolate pity!”

Stephan entered with a tureen of soup. He went directly to the vacant space, where he paused for a moment before serving me and then Richman.

I T WAS the most unpleasant half-hour I have ever lived through. Richman lapsed into a brooding silence. Stephan came and went, hesitating each time he passed her place as if to make an obeisance. The food, to me, was tasteless. The wine was like water.

No longer did Richman gaze at his “Beth.” He was sunk in introspection. It was an old mood with him; one which I knew too well. The silence persisted until coffee took us back into the livingroom.

Stephan caught my eye as he deposited the tray, but I was unable to decipher his

expression. He seemed to be warning me of something. But before I could follow him from the room Richman pinned me to my chair with a cup and saucer.

There were only two cups; we each had one. I surmised that "Beth” forwent coffee as she did cocktails.

The silence became unbearable. I set my cup aside and leaned forward, gripping my knees.

"You — you are native to Vermont, aren’t you Mrs. Richman?” I inquired.

Richman’s head jerked up.

"Mrs. Richman! What’s the matter with you, John? Beth went upstairs two minutes ago!”


I T WAS a three-story house. Richman had torn away part of the roof and replaced it with a skylight facing the east. As we climbed the attic stairs I detected the characteristic odor of resin and oils.

He turned on the light. At once I saw the portrait of Elizabeth.

Stephan was right; this was Richman’s most inspired work. She was a tall woman, with deeply tanned skin, and a wholesome fullness to her face. Her eyes and hair were as black as Richman’s own. She wore a billowing white tea-gown that rose high on her chest and puffed at the shoulders. There was a faint smile on her lips — a child’s smile. The whole impression was that of a child: the simple gown, the guileless dark eyes, the faintly bluish handkerchief that floated from her fingertips. . . .

"It’s my best work,” Richman said, "but it’s inadequate. It’s only a caricature of what she’s truly like.”

"There’s a spirit to it,” I told him. Richman made a deprecating motion. "A man can’t do it as he wants. No man can. I’ll destroy this before I’m through.”



"Don’t do that.”

"I shall! I shall! How futile it is even to try!”

These were odd words.

"They say our minds are mirrors reflecting nature. That’s all I want — to reflect her perfection. But some place the image is distorted. Some flaw— — ■”

He walked closer to the portrait. Standing there, he studied his work with an air of dejection.

"You can’t improve on the original,” I pointed out matter-of-factly. “This is a duplication, not a reflection. I mean, it’s not as if your canvas were a mirror.”

“You always say that,” he cried. "As long as I’ve known you, you’ve used that same trite simile. A mirror reflects. The mind does more than that; the mind creates, interprets. . . . There is creative art as there is creative literature. Fundamentally, all true art is creative.”

"That depends on your definition of the word creation,” I said. "In sculpture you can only change form. In music it’s composition. In art — painting — it’s part shape and part color. True creation, to my mind, is impossible, since all things have already been created. You can only duplicate.”

Richman whirled on me, his hair swishing across his eyes.

"D’you think I’ll argue this with you! Come along. Let’s go downstairs!”

H E GAVE me a room in the back of the house. Stephan had laid out my things; he said good-night to me and left. I got into bed, thinking that Richman deserved less of my pity and more of my material aid. But how could I aid him? My mere presence here seemed to be a source of irritation.

The sound of painful coughing awakened me shortly after eleven o’clock. Richman was in the garden below, hatless, without his coat. I was tempted to call

him from, my window, but I decided to risk no chance that he would evade me. Donning my robe and slippers I went down to the garden.

He was sitting alone on a stone bench when I tiptoed from the porch. Something about his attitude forbade me to approach any farther. He was as if listening to a voice from beside him.

I listened too, but heard nothing save the occasional rain-drops that slithered earthward through the trees. Unexpectedly Richman spoke.

"If we leave in April we can be there in time for the festival. You’ll adore the folk dances, Beth. . .

He was interrupted by a coughing spell that seized and shook him brutally. Alarmed by the rawness of his voice I started toward him. I took three steps; a voice hailed me in a shrill whisper.

"Mr. Kenyon, sir!”

A shadow detached itself from a dump of shrubs. Stephan’s face appeared, framed beneath derby and muffler.

"Please, sir, let him be,” he begged. "No good can come of stopping him. And he suffers intolerably when these moments are intruded upon.”

"But that cough! This night air!”

"I know, sir. It aggravates his lungs; it hastens the end. But he lives for these nights. He spends hours here, planning the future, building air-castles. I know, sir. I never let him out of my sight.”

"Do you want him to die?” I demanded.

"His death would pain me more than anyone. But since he must die soon I want his last weeks to be happy ones. Just listen to him, sir. Have you ever seen him happier?”

I looked at Richman. I saw a shivering man, a sick man, a man frenziedly chattering to himself.

“It’s rather horrible,” I grunted.

"Is madness ever without its horror? But is love ever without its beauty? All

PORTRAIT OF A BRIDE


his life he has been a lonely and unhappy man. Now his life draws to its finish, and for the first time he knows happiness. There is something— something rather beautiful about it.”

"Rot!” I said. "He can commune with Elizabeth indoors as well as out. Come along! We’ll get him back into the house.”

R ICHMAN overheard these words, but whether he understood their meaning or not I never knew. He rose and searched the garden with his eyes until he saw us. Idis lean face, etched in shadows, was a mask of pain. He blinked rapidly several times. Suddenly he turned and walked swiftly toward the side door of the house. Halfway he stopped and turned around. Again he blinked. He started to come back, hesitated uncertainly, then turned and proceeded into the house.

"What do you make of that?” I asked. "He left her sitting there. That is — well, I imagine she was there! Damn it, Stephan. This is fantastic!”

"That’s because you’re burdened with preconceived images of her,” said the servant. "Had you, as I did, watched the gradual growth of her in his mind you would not find it fantastic. I think you’d find it beautiful.”

I shook my head.

"Perhaps,” I said dryly. "But this is no time for such speculation. We must safeguard his health, not conspire in these adolescent fantasies. They should have been stopped months ago. Along to tire house, Stephan. We’ll give him a rubdown and pack him in bed where he belongs.”

Stephan followed me silently into the house. We found Richman sitting in his room in the darkness. He coughed raggedly as I turned on the light.

"It’s after midnight,” I said. "Hadn’t you better get to bed? We’ll give you a

massage. You’ll sleep better for it.”

He shook his head as if it were too much of an effort to speak. He looked utterly exhausted.

"Come, come, Richman! You’re tired. You need a good rest. Let me help you out of those damp tilings.”

He looked up into my eyes.

"Have you seen Beth?” he asked. "We were talking a while ago. Now I can’t find her.”

"She’s in her room asleep,” I said shortly. “Just where you belong.”

I slipped my hand under his arm and pulled him gently.

"Stephan,” I summoned, "take his other arm.”

Richman came up easily, but he would not move toward the bed. It was all Stephan and I could do to keep him from walking to the door leading to the empty room where "Beth” was supposed to be lying.

"I must see Beth,” he insisted.

“Easy, Richman. Beth’s asleep. You can’t see her tonight. You must get some rest.”

A coughing spell attacked him and he slumped into my arms. Stephan and I took advantage of this to drag him to his bed. We stripped him and clad him in his woolen pajamas.

"I’ll sit with him a while,” said Stephan. “You’d better get some rest yourself, Mr. Kenyon. You’ve had a long day.”

“Do you think he’ll be all right? I’d hate to go to bed if anything were — to happen.”

Stephan tucked the blankets about Richman’s throat. The coughing had subsided.

"I’ll read to him, sir,” whispered the servant. “It’s an unfailing soporific with him.”

There was a slight evidence of resentment in Stephan’s voice. Obviously he held me responsible for Richman’s present agitation.



I gripped the lower bedpost.

"Call me if anything happens. I ”

I broke off as Bachman coughed. His face grew congested with blood; his voice was raw and hoarse. Spasmodically his eyes encircled the room, but he seemed to see nothing familiar. Stephan stroked back his hair until the seizure passed.

"I — I’m sorry about this,” I blurted out. Turning, I strode quickly from the room and closed the door behind me.

I FOUND it difficult to get back to sleep. For one thing the incident in the garden had chilled me. For another I tried half-heartedly, as one will do on the brink of sleep, to follow the muted drone of Stephan’s voice. Twice within an hour I got out of bed and paced the floor while I smoked a cigarette. The second time I ventured into the hall, the better to hear Stephan’s words. He was reading from Peter Ibbetsen.

Richman coughed intermittently throughout the early hours of the morning. It was after three before I fell asleep, and Stephan was still reading to him.

It was a short night. Stephan awakened me at six o’clock. He was greatly excited, and apparently had had no sleep at all. I went at once with him to Richman’s room, where we found the invalid in delirium.

"I’m afraid it’s the end, sir. He fell asleep about four, then awoke a few moments ago as you see him now. I’ve already sent word to Doctor Bronson.”

I sat on the bed and felt Richman’s brow. It was feverishly warm. He breathed strenuously, the short, shallow gasps of a bronchial patient. His eyes were wide open, but they were hopelessly wild.

"Beth,” he groaned, "Beth, Beth. . .

I combed back his hair, tidied the covers about his neck. There was nothing to be done for him until the doctor came. I

said as much to Stephan, but the old servant faithfully persisted in every trifling ministration of comfort.

Doctor Bronson arrived half an hour later. He was a short, brisk-mannered man of middle fifties; a New Yorker.

"It’s serious,” he admitted gravely, "but just what that means I can’t say. I advise immediate hospitalization. He needs expert nursing.

"You know I can’t send him to a hospital,” said Stephan. "Not him!”

"Poor devil,” murmured Bronson with a shake of his head. "I wonder if Beth would follow him to a hospital.”

So Bronson was a conspirator too!

That fatal name impinged upon Richman’s delicate mind. He choked on, and swallowed, some matter from his mouth. "Beth? Beth!”

Stephan moved apprehensively closer. "Does he feel pain, Doctor?” "Discomfort more or less,” said Bronson abstractedly. "That doesn’t worry me. I worry about a lucid spell. Mental cases often have them just before fhe end. All the ”

"The end?” repeated Stephan in a hushed voice. "Does it really mean he’s going — to die?”

The physician nodded. "I’m afraid so, Stephan. He’s hung on a long time, considering his condition. Remember I gave him only six months to live. That was a year ago.”

Stephan’s voice broke out passionately: "That was before he met her!”

"Yes, and I’m afraid he’ll lose her now. That lucid spell I mentioned — it’ll expose his Beth for the unreal creature that she is. It’ll be a damned bad moment for him.”

I spoke then: "You mean he’ll know

the truth about her?”

"It’s probable.”

"We can’t let it happen,” Stephan cried. "I’d rather see him dead than ever know!” "We can scarcely intervene,” put in

PORTRAIT OF A BRIDE


Bronson sharply. "Of course, I may be wrong. He may pass on still believing in her.”

"Is it likely?” I asked.

"No. I’m sorry.” Bronson stood up. "If worst comes to worst we’ll tell him she’s gone on a trip, or something.”

"But suppose this lucid spell lasts days, weeks even?”

Bronson was silent.

"No!” cried Stephan. "We can’t let this happen to Mr. Richman. It would be better to give him an injection now than ever let him know the truth.” "There’s a limit to what we can do for him,” remarked the physician. "We’ll do all we can, naturally. An opiate might help as a last extremity.”

Richman suddenly sat up in bed and propped himself on his elbows. He blinked his eyes several times before getting his focus.

"Is that you, Beth?” he asked.

He was looking at Bronson.

B RONSON stepped to the bedside and put his hand on Richman’s shoulder. "It’s I,” he said. "Bronson. Beth is— is on her way to you,”

Richman fell back. "I’m glad,” he whispered through dry lips. "She can help me — breathe — better.” His head rolled disconsolately on the pillow.

Bronson removed his stethoscope from his pocket and applied it to Richman’s chest. He was as intent as if listening to a far-off voice.

"That,” he muttered, "was a bit too exciting for him.”

Richman’s head stopped rolling. He lifted it, looked into Bronson’s eyes. A rueful smile touched his mouth.

" ’Scoping again, Doc? No good. Send Beth instead. Tell her to please hurry.” Bronson lifted his brows; he was evidently surprised by the coherence of Richman’s voice. Was this the lucid spell?

"Beth is coming,” he said hastily. He glanced over his shoulder at me. "Tell Mrs. Richman to hurry, Kenyon. I don’t believe she heard us the first time.”

This was to assuage Richman’s anxiety, of course; but it left me holding the bag. I would have remained rooted to the spot if his eyes had not told me to leave the room — to pretend at least.

I went out as he bade, and stopped the moment I was in the hall. Bronson followed me by half a minute.

"We’ve got to do something,” he cried. “I was a fool to say that, I suppose, but damn the man’s eyes! Have you ever seen a pleading dog, Kenyon?”

' 'This complex should have been nipped in the bud,” I retorted. "You should have

known that some day ”

"Fine talk now! He’s in there waiting for her. What are we going to do?”

"I believe you mentioned an opiate?” "I’m afraid you’re right.” Bronson cast a meditative glance at the sickroom door. "Damn! I left my bag in the car. Come down with me, Kenyon.”

We were on the front porch when Stephan joined us. He was at his wit’s end.

“Please do something,” he begged. "He’s demanding to know why she doesn’t come. What can I tell him? Suppose he gets up and looks for her?”

It was a new peril to consider. Bronson and I exchanged glances.

"I’ve an idea,” he said suddenly. "My office nurse — you remember her, Stephan — has a faint resemblance to his portrait of Elizabeth. With the curtains drawn and the light down low — — ”

He left off under Stephan’s steady scrutiny.

"Of course,” he went on after a moment, "it may seem rather a brutal trick, but considering the circumstances he could not detect the difference. I mean, it’s not as if his Elizabeth were a real person. She can’t be as vivid to him as all that.”



"No?” I inquired. "What of that portrait?”

"Well, after all, we’ve nothing to lose bp it.”

"Nothing to lose!” repeated Stephan. “Think of him when you say that. Suppose we did get your nurse? And suppose he detected the difference? Which one of us would explain that to him?”

"It seems to me,” I remarked, "that we’re making entirely too much of this. Let’s get your nurse, Bronson. For a few dollars she would be willing to sit on his bed and hold his hand until the end. You said it might not be long.”

Neither Bronson nor Stephan responded to this suggestion. The uneasy silence was at last broken by Richman’s impatient "Beth” from upstairs.

"I’ll stay with him,” I continued. "Stephan had better go to town with you and instruct your nurse in the essential details.”

"Very well. It’s better than nothing.” Bronson seemed to be a trifle short-tempered. "Keep your eye on Richman. "Don’t let him get out of bed. And keep him well covered. We’ll be as quick as we can.”

I WATCHED the car until it carried them out of sight; then I went upstairs to my own room and dressed. As I was shaving I heard a sigh from Richman’s room. I felt a little ashamed that I had not looked at him sooner. After drying my face I went through the communicating doors of the bathroom and found Richman motionless on the bed.

He was dead.

Death, apparently, had come only a few moments before I entered the room. His body was extended its full length on the bed; both hands were crossed on his chest; his eyes were closed. The lingering phase of a smile rested on his lips.

Something about him struck me as being odd; the smile for one thing — it did not become a man who had died in suspense and agony.

I walked closer and studied his face. His muscles were relaxed. He looked happy — happier than he had ever looked in life.

A vague irritation stirred my mind. I walked slowly around the bed to examine him from another angle. When I reached his far side I imagined I smelled a weak perfume.

This brought me up alertly. I turned toward the hall door and listened. There was no immediate sound, although I had the impression that some sound had just escaped my notice.

Walking into the hall I looked to the right and left. The door to the attic was slightly ajar. I reached it in four strides and stood still to listen. A faint swishing sound reached my ears. It might have been anything, from the moving of a dress to the dropping of leaves on the roof.

I ran up the steps and stopped at the open studio door. Tire perfume was stronger now; it seemed to come from a vase of white roses on a table near by.

The studio was aglow with morning sunlight. Motes of dust scintillated in the air.

The life-size portrait of Elizabeth, bathed in the warm light, was like a living thing. Her eyes shone; her white teeth glistened. For a moment, transfixed by her gaze, I was awed. Then suddenly I noticed that her left hand, which yesterday had held a pale blue handkerchief, was now empty.

I could not trust my senses. Perhaps the shadows of last night had deceived me; there may not have been a handkerchief. I did not know. Nor did I know for certain a moment later when I walked into the studio; but lying on the floor beneath the easel, as if dropped in flight, was a pale blue handkerchief.

“She fell back, her face all goae frostily dry.”

/orbidden Cupboard

By FRANCES GARFIELD

What was that shape of horror that lifted its tenuous arms out of the dark cupboard?

W HEN I had panted up the two flights of stairs and set down my suitcase, I saw that Father O’Neil was standing at the open door of my new flat. He was the very picture of chubby, priestly embarrassment.

"The place isn’t ready yet, Miss Colt,” he protested. "We didn’t expect you until tomorrow, you know.”

"Yes, but I took an earlier train,” I

replied, "and the expressman’s bringing up my trunk.”

The good father looked at me thoughtfully. With his round belly, his black garments and comfortable warmth of nature, he reminded me of an old-fashioned depot stove. Even though his face was solemn just now, its rosy cheer was like a glow of friendly flame.

"Well, come in,” he said at last. "I




don’t see how I can keep you on your own doorstep,” and he managed a smile. "I promised to look after you, and I shall. I’m in charge here. Probably you think the arrangement odd.”

"Oh, not at all,” I made haste to say, though I burned with curiosity to know why a priest doubled as landlord. It was all because of Lola Knesbec, my old professor of boarding-school English, that I was taking the flat. She knew that I hoped to live and write in New York, and that I wanted the cheapest of comfortable lodgings.

Her old friend, Father O’Neil, was renting flats in an ancient house on the border of Greenwich Village. There was an exchange of letters, careful consideration of my financial and character references . . . and here I was, at once delighted and mystified by the situation.

I entered, and almost squealed in delight.

"You like it, Miss Hampton?” asked Father O’Neil.

"Tremendously!” I assured him, and I did. No tawdry stage-set this, simulating a crass dream of a Village studio with cushioned divans, batik hangings and conflicting colors; no, nor was it imitation Park Avenue, with mock-oriental rugs and plush over-stuffings. The huge livingroom was papered in fawn brown up to the lofty ceiling, with heavy carved molding, and the open fireplace — a real one, not a portable sham — had a white marble slab for mantel. The furniture, of massy wood with leather cushioning, bespoke unmodish comfort. A full-length mirror hung opposite the front door. The windows, set high in the front wall, had varnished maple shutters inside. To such a room might Washington Irving once have come to tea, talking of headless horsemen to his crinolined hostess; while, outside the half-open shutters, might have paced and shivered a beautiful, wretched man in unseasonable nankeen, hungry for the lunch he could not buy — Edgar Allan Poe.

"Miss Knesbec was sure you’d like it,” smiled the priest. Standing close to a highsilled window, he was bathed from the knees up in gray light from the autumn sky. His shanks were darker and more indistinct, literally wading in floor shadows. He drew out a stubby briar pipe, already filled.

"May I smoke?” he asked.

"Please do.”

And I remembered that I had something else to say, concerning a fascinating tale that Lola Knesbec had hinted.

UNDERSTAND that this house once

■A belonged to Guilford Golt,” I offered, and waited for a response. It came, and it was more intriguing than I had dared hope. Father O’Neil’s face lost some of its pinkness, and the hand that held the pipe seemed to quiver.

"What do you know about Guilford Golt?” he demanded.

"Only that he was an eccentric scholar of the middle Nineteenth Century,” I replied. "Miss Knesbec told our class that his character had been used by Fitz- James O’Brien in that story about the wizard who brought evil little toys to life, and by Nathaniel Hawthorne for the alchemical genius in The Birthmark ”

"Miss Knesbec was right,” said Father O’Neil; "only those tales did not do Guilford Golt grim enough justice.”

"And didn’t this house once belong to him?” I pursued.

"It did,” the priest nodded. "Golt conducted many experiments in it — experiments that escaped legal notice because legal men scorn to believe such things. But he and his works were baleful. A group of citizens visited him one night in a very vengeful mood — he had made himself too dreadful a figure, even for the strange and tolerant community that was New York

FORBIDDEN CUPBOARD


nearly a century ago. And in the morning he had vanished.

"I doubt if he was to be frightened,” continued Father O’Neil gravely. "He was the sort who had gone beyond fear. But — yes, he was driven away. And he had no heirs. And this house remained dosed until recently, when we of the church, as trustees, were asked to put it to some profitable use. And so we are renting flats in it — having taken certain precautions.”

As he spoke this last word, his eyes wandered, as if in spite of themselves, to a gray-painted door in the rear of the room. Then he spoke more brightly:

"I’ve laid a fire ready. Shall I light it?”

"Please,” I said, slipping off my coat. The gray door to which his involuntary glance had directed me must be a cloth escloset. I moved toward it and drew down the latch, but it would not open. A great chest of dark wood, that at first had seemed a bar of the low-fallen shadows, had been shoved against the bottom of the door.

"Wait, don’t open that door, my child,” called Father O’Neil suddenly. He had crouched down to light the fire, but now, moving quickly for so plump a little man, he was at my side. His pleasant face was anxious.

"Not if you say so,” I said, rather startled.

He smiled once more, in an obvious effort to reassure me. "The closet must never be opened. In fact it is to be plastered up — then it will be cut off permanently and can be forgotten.”

"I doubt if I could pull that chest away, in any case,” I smiled back.

"Don’t even try.”

I moved across the room, to the bedchamber, and laid my coat upon a stout old walnut bed.

"Now to get at my work,” I said, coming back into the parlor. "I’m a long jump behind, as usual.”

"Then I’ll go. I, too, have work.” Father O’Neil put his pipe into his mouth and took up his broad, black hat. "I’ll be bade later, if you don’t mind. I’m expecting some workmen. I hope they won’t bother you — interrupt your writing.”

"It’s quite all right,” I assured him. "Don’t give it a thought. Won’t you have tea with me, around four o’clock?” I asked him on impulse. "I feel that we’re destined to be friends.”

'Thank you, I’ll be delighted.” And he smiled himself out.

Almost immediately came the expressman with my trunk and suitcase. I began at once to arrange my few possessions and as soon as possible got to work.

It was no inspiring job — merely a panegyric of a business man, even titled by my employer, the doting widow — Truman Murdock, A Alan’s Alan. But I set out to do the best I could in a compromise between the canonizing taste of the man’s heirs and my own idea of what a biography should be.

I had planned a good first chapter, at least — a widely imaginary pedigree. His patronymic suggested the dashing follower of Roderick Dhu, and I might even quote a few lines of Walter Scott. His mother’s name had been Blake — perhaps this made him a connection of William Blake, perhaps even of that Sir Percy Blake who is supposed to have sat for Frans Hals as the Laughing Cavalier. All this could be whipped into good copy to get the book off to a readable start. Down I sat to the typewriter, drumming at it page after ambling page. "Each of us,” I paraphrased something I had seen in The Reader’s Digest, "is a great vehicle in which ride all the ghosts of his forefathers. . .

What was it that stirred behind me?

I SWUNG quickly around. No living thing was there; I saw only the room, the furniture, the fireplace in which the



blaze had died to a ruddy scattering of coals, the gray closet door spanned by the dark chest. There was the noise again — or was it?

I rose, crossed the floor, and stopped just beside the forbidden closet, listening with both my ears.

Silence now. I might have been mistaken, nervous in a new house, excited by Father O’Neil’s air of mystery. Who, and in what stodgy book, has said that an imaginative mind is bad for the nerves? Standing beside the closet, I wished that Father O’Neil had not been at once insistent and mysterious about my leaving it shut. My impulse to pry was natural and extreme, as with all women in such a situation, clear back to the wife of Bluebeard.

I examined the chest that did duty as obstacle. Heavy, dark, roughly carved, it looked at first like something out of the hold of a pirate ship; but undoubtedly it was only a modern imitation. The lock, for instance, was a new automatic one, and fast. I could not lift the lid. The closet door, by contrast, was not locked at all. Indeed, it had not even a keyhole — only a heavy iron latch, painted dull gray like the rest of the panel, and once before I had lifted it.

Looking closely now, I saw that there was a mark in the paint above that latch, a line undoubtedly scraped when the paint had been fresh. A cross; no, it was more than a cross. At the upper end of the vertical bar was attached a sickle-like curve. I had seen such a device before, in my childhood, and had heard an old Irish cook call it the ' 'God-have-mercy sign.” What was such a sign doing here?

My mind turned again to Guilford Golt. The legend, so skimmed over by Lola Knesbec and now by Father O’Neil, had credited him with belief, if not power, in black magic. Did this closet have something to do with the tale? If so, why did

not the priest bring such a knowledge into the light instead of plastering the door shut? The amateur- detective impulse, which surely makes up part of every human soul, became strong and insistent.

I bent, seized the handle at the side of the chest, and tried to drag it away. Who could have refrained from such an effort? But the weight momentarily baffled me. In the midst of my tugging, I let go and straightened up guiltily. A sharp ringing sound filled the room.

The telephone — I hadn’t even noticed that there was one. It rang again, and yet again, while I walked toward it. The raucous summons angered me for a moment, and I snatched up the instrument with a needlessly sharp "Hello!”

"Hello,” said a high, drawling voice, hard to classify as male or female, young or old. "I want to order a ton of coal.”

"You have the wrong number,” I replied.

"But I bought coal there last year,” protested the drawl. "Isn’t this Chelsea 3 - 0036 ?”

It was, as a glance at the instrument’s foot showed me; but I could only repeat that I had no coal for sale.

"You used to sell coal,” insisted the voice reproachfully.

"There’s some mistake,” I said, and somehow felt as if I were shirking my duty. "This is a private home.” And I hung up.

Just like a telephone, I thought savagely; interrupting my work — but I hadn’t been working. I had been about to investigate that closet.

I walked back to the chest. The problem, I felt, must be faced; Father O’Neil had not wanted me to open the door, but I must prove to myself that I did not fear that little scratching noise, if indeed there had been a noise. And I needed storage space.

Again I bent, seized the chest, and

FORBIDDEN CUPBOARD


this time succeeded in dragging it slantingly back from its position.

Again sound — shrill now, and tuneful. It flowed in and filled the room, but from outside.

Mystified and intrigued, I hurried to the window. It was open a crack, and I lifted it all the way and leaned out.

T HE musical shrilling came from a penny whistle, and the ragged old man who played it was getting real melody out of his tawdry instrument. He was playing Annie Laurie, from which, as I peered out at him, he shifted to Bonnie Do on. Then he saw me, and ceased to play at all. Taking the whistle from his mouth, he gazed up at my window.

"Please, kind lady!” he bawled winningly.

My purse lay on that very sill, and I quickly opened it and fumbled out six copper pennies. These I flung down to him. They fell in a little rain about my serenader who, stooping quickly, retrieved the coins with eagerly darting clutches. In thanks he doffed the filthiest tweed cap I ever saw, played me a little chirpy flourish on his whistle, and tramped away.

A more pleasant dissuasion, that, from my attempt on the closet’s secret. ... 1 frowned. Was Providence marshaling these telephones and whistles against me, to hold me back from flouting Father O’Neil’s wish? I toyed with the fancy for only a moment, then told myself that it sprang from a falsely guilty conscience. I went straight/ and purposefully to the chest, once more clutched its handle, and drew it away with a mighty heave. Straightening up, I pressed down the latch and opened the closet door.

I looked into absolute blackness, a formless and spacious cave of it; it was as though there were no sides or back to the little nook, as though it were, instead, a vast and lightless valley. But close to me.

so close that it must have dangled against the door when shut, hung something.

An old garment, was my first thought. I was about to step in and examine it, when my eyes were drawn to the inner side of the open door. It was covered with writing, crude, heavy writing as if it were done with a coarse instrument — even a human finger. I wondered what kind of ink could have turned such a rusty brown, and began to read:

They are shutting me up in here to die. They think they are rid of me — but I’ll live. Life, in some sort, will be mine forever. The rotting of my flesh and my bones will only make my spirit free.

I write this in my own blood. They left me nothing else. I’m not done with this world. Whenever this prison is opened . . .

I was intrigued, and amused. Was this the bizarre legend that Father O’Neil had known of the place, and had hesitated telling me because it was so dreadful? The very fact of its being written in human blood was enough to discredit it with me. Melodramatic stuff from the paper-backed thrillers. I must chide him for judging me a simple, credulous child. I moved back, smiling, and saw a fluttery movement in the fabric-like hanging in the dark closet.

I turned to look again. There was a filmy openwork about it, like lace or net. Not a garment, after all; more probably a grubby gray curtain, stowed away here and forgotten. . . .

But does a curtain hold itself erect, to the width and height of a human figure, without hook or rod to support it at the top? Does a curtain turn toward you an unshapen upper roundness like an illmodeled head, that shows two black caverns like a mockery of eyes, and does a curtain lift slowly a pair of ragged trails so that they seem to gesture and grope like skinny arms?



Does a curtain drift slowly from its place, and come toward you, as if it wanted to catch and grapple you?

I FELL back and away, my face gone all frostily dry and my legs suddenly bereft of stiffening bone, drained of living blood. The thing left its shadowed hiding, pausing for only an instant on the threshold. I had a good view of it. No, no curtain — no honest fabric at all. The cloudy mass of it, like a concentration of lint and dust and smoke, stirred in all its particles, yet clung to a filmy shape-travesty of a human being. The dull black eye-blotches narrowed themselves, as if the gray light were too strong. And then it drifted into the open, around the chest, and at me.

Its arms raised themselves to a level with the face. I saw, with an increase of disgusted horror, that its hands had no fingers — they flapped like dusty mittens, opening and extending, to take hold of me. My own hands drew up to fight back. My heart had become a giant fist, trying to batter free from my ribs. For by some fantastic telepathy, I knew what the creature wanted.

He intended to don me, as a human being puts on a garment, clothe himself in my flesh for his devil’s doings. This was the thing that had been shut away from the world for so long — was now visiting its wrath and will upon me — once Guilford Golt, the sorcerer, now a fiend made stronger and ghastlier by death’s change.

Something' was blocking my retreat. I tried to scream at the touch of it, but achieved only a sigh. The wall, beside my writing-table, was at my shoulder-blades. Within reach of my hand lay my dictionary, bought last week for a dollar in a second-hand bookstore. I clutched it, hurled it with all my force. It struck, square upon the cheek, or -where the cheek should be. The book did not make a noise.

did not stop its flight. It flew through and past — into the inky blackness of the closet.

Where it had struck was a ragged notch. I could see the wall through it. The shape did not pause or falter. It drifted closer, I felt, like a crushing weight, its purposeful menace.

Its arms spread now, horizontally, to pin me against the wall. I thought to dodge away. Too late! I was caught in the angle of the wall and the table. The torn, musty head seemed to crinkle up its surface below the eyes, as though it were smiling for all its lack of mouth.

The window — could I reach it, lift it, scream for help? Jump out? Too late for that, too. The dirt-fluff mittens were soaring up before my face, fumbling to touch my neck. An aura of dust thickened in my nose and throat. A wave of cold passed over me like a shaking buffet, dimness weighted my eyelids, my head lolled upon my shoulders as if it were imperfectly fastened there. The round head, the dull eye-patches, were within inches of my face. I could not cry out.

But suddenly the creature shrank back, as shaken as I had been. Something had started, dismayed it. There! A noise, coming again to my rescue.

A knock, loud and free, at the door. After a moment, a voice:

"Miss Hampton?”

Father O’Neil was outside. And the thing knew him. I had no doubt the thing had been outfaced by Father O’Neil, and feared him; so might a more forbidding creature fear what a priest could and would do. ... It retreated more swiftly, falling, almost, back on its trail through the room.

All at once I could breathe again, could hold myself erect without the help of the wall.

"Miss Hampton, may I come in?” asked Father O’Neil again.

FORBIDDEN CUPBOARD


The filmy grayness had gained the open door of the closet, drooping abjectly in its hurry to seek shelter there. It drew itself inside, making itself small and dark, to match the shadows. I managed to hurry after, to throw myself across the draggedaway chest, to fall against the panel, swinging it shut with my weight.

My fingers groped to the latch, lifted it, and let it fall info place.

"F — Father O’Neil!” I found my voice at last. "Yes. Come in.”

And my front door opened. Still sagging against the closet door, I turned to face that blessedly welcome visitor, all hearty girth and churchly blackness and rosy, beaming face.

"I’m afraid that I’m just a few minutes early for tea,” he began, and then broke off, staring at me. "Why, Miss Hampton. What are you doing at that door?” Quickly he hurried across to me.

I DREW away, came around the chest once more and faced him.

"You weren’t really going to open the closet?” he chided me earnestly.

I shook my head mutely and with absolute honesty. Not all the publisher’s gold, the critics’ acclaim, the reading public’s patronage, would ever tempt me to put my hand on that latch again.

Father O’Neil bent. With a quick, solid shove, he moved the chest back into its sentinel place against the bottom of the door.

"Once more, I urge you never to look into that closet, Miss Hampton,” he addressed me solmenly as he drew himself erect once more. "The plasterers will be here within an hour. Meanwhile I am forced to ask you for your promise.”

"I promise,” I assured him with husky eagerness.

The priest smiled approval, and helped me to set out the tea-things. My hands, deadened as though by injection of some drug, could not help but shake. And Father O’Neil noticed.

"I’m sorry if I frightened you, my child,” he apologized gently. "Yet it is important — extremely important — that the closet door remain shut forever.” He looked at me calculatingly. "I was tempted for a moment to tell you everything; but I doubt if you’d believe the story.”

I nodded. I had learned too much already, ever to have complete peace of mind again. I had known the breath and face of a danger more dire than anything that threatens only the flesh. That danger had been averted. Father O’Neil had saved me without himself knowing how close a call it had been.

I made a sudden decision. Just now I held the priest’s respect and friendship. He thought that he was protecting me by remaining silent. Why trouble him, worry him, by saying I knew the story of a horror that was now closed up again? Why shake his sturdy courage and mastery of the awful situation? And already the memory was becoming blessedly unreal, dreamlike. . . .


[THE END]

============================================================
THE UNVEILING ALFRED I
by Tooke
============================================================
“No,” I agreed, as brightly as I could manage. "I might not believe it.”

7he

^/nveilin

By ALFRED I. TOOKE

S

An uncanny tale about a great artist who painted emotions

ii fAAVENOFF’S studio," Parker H-rf* told the cabman. "Sorry ! & 'a,. kept you waiting, people."

"Don’t apologize,” Buchanan said. "1 don’t think any of us are in a hurry to view Ravenoff’s latest.”

"But please, I am!" Patricia Clark pro tested. "I’m really anxious to see one or what Ted calls Ravenoff’s 'diabolical’ paintings.”

"Ted should be shot at sunrise for bringing you,” Parker growled.

"I tried to dissuade her, but ” Ted

shrugged expressive shoulders.

“I can’t believe RavenofFs paintings are really so terrible,” Pat continued. "When I met him, he seemed such a pet rabbit of a man.”

Parker chuckled delightedly. "Ravenoff is an enigma. There’s Ravenoff the man; frail-looking, soft-spoken, kind, gentle, considerate. His wife and youngsters adore him. His friends swear by him. But Ravenoff the painter? He’s a madman! He seizes a brush, and voilal— he’s possessed of a devil! He slaps pigments on with wild, slathering strokes and vicious jabs. He doesn’t harmonize colors; he clashes them. He doesn’t paint human beings; he strips civilization and convention away and paints emotions, the base, cruel, terrible emotions. Tie paints stark fear and sheer terror and grisly horror and bestial cruelty only as one who has lived through them can paint them.”

"As one who has lived through them?” prompted Pat.

"Ravenoff w T as the child of aristocrats

when the Russian revolution broke. They let him live. To kill him would have been too easy, too kind. But his pitiful, starved body and cringing soul absorbed the fear and terror, the horror and cruelty, and survived. Now he paints those things with such vivid reality and intensity that pigment and canvas cannot hold them imprisoned. They leap out at you to fill your bloodstream and inflame your brain. You grind your teeth with rage or hate; you break out in a cold sweat of fear; or overpowering greed or cruelty possesses your soul — or should I say dispossesses it?” He turned to Buchanan. "Did you see his first great picture, Beelzebub?”

Buchanan shuddered. "And had nightmares for weeks. And Greed was even more repulsive. The bestial expressions on the faces of the rabble, the utter cruelty of their grasping, claw-like hands — ugh! Thank Heaven I was too late to see Hate.”

"I think nobody regretted the fate of that picture,” Parker said, then answered the question in Pat’s eyes. “A local millionaire bought it and presented it to the Public Museum. People would go and stare at it until hate burned in their eyes and distorted their features. Two people went away and committed murder under its influence before an attendant was stationed beside it to keep people moving. For three days he performed that duty. The fourth day he didn’t show up.”

"Why?” Pat asked.

"Your fiance covered the case for the paper.”

"And may I never cover another like


THE UNVEILING

ns

it!” Ted breathed. "He was a likable old chap, but his domestic life had evidently been anything but happy. He brought home the money. His wife and two grownup daughters squandered it for him, nagging constantly because there was not more. After three days with that picture he murdered the lot of them in the most brutal fashion imaginable. Next day someone slashed the painting to ribbons. Ravenolf’s next picture was War, but it was sold privately to a collector and has never been publicly exhibited.”

"What ghastly titles!” Pat said. "Beelzebub! Greed! Hate! War!”

"And now Death.”

Patricia shuddered. “I’d think Ravenoff would want to forget such things, or keep them hidden in his mind instead of perpetuating them on canvas.”

Buchanan shook his head. "To forget them he must first work them out of his system. People who bottle up things in their minds brood over them and go mad. The pressure becomes too great and the bottle bursts; then all their mind, instead of just part, is affected. Psychiatrists bring such things into the open to be dispelled, just as matter from a festering sore is got rid of so the injured part can heal cleanly. Perhaps when Ravenoff has rid his mind of the unpleasant emotions, his kinder, gentler self may gain dominance over his brush, and he may give us — but here we are.”

A LIGHTING, Parker eyed the cars parked solidly on both sides of the street. "Not a very exclusive unveiling. I’m afraid,” he apologized. "Even model-T Fords!”

"Sure! Didn’t you hear what the old geezer who bought the picture done yesterday?” the driver asked. “Chartered a cab for the afternoon.” Pie indicated Parker’s invitation, taken from his wallet with the fare. "He had a stack of them

things. Yeah, he filled ’em in that way, too: Admit So-and-so and friends, and he told ’em no limit to the number of friends, ’cause he wanted everyone to see this picture.”

“To whom did he give the invitations?” "Cripes, everybody, Mr. Parker! Workmen on buildings, folks in stores, truck drivers, shoppers, folks in the West End and the East End and the Ghetto and Chinatown, on the docks and — well, he covered the city. While I unloaded a gent here at two o’clock, along come a Kosher butcher I know, with forty-three relatives. I counted ’em! And a little Eyetalian bootblack brought all his relatives from his great-grandmothers down to the latest flock of bambinos. And three Chinese in tails and toppers — -say, they’ve had to let folks in in relays. Thank you, sir. Thanks!” Parker joined his guests. "Up this driveway,” he said.

"Look!” Patricia gestured. "The people coming out!”

"A motley crowd, certainly!” Parker said. "I understand Neville Walker went into the highways and byways to invite all and sundry, not to mention their friends and relatives. Rather perverted sense of

humor, if you could call ”

"No, no! I mean their expressions. Look at that woman’s face.”

Parker did. His gaze followed the woman after she had passed.

"They’re all like that,” Patricia said. "They don’t notice us. They all look as if they were seeing a vision.”

EpHEY followed Parker to the barn-like studio behind the house. Ravenoff’s secretary received them in an ante-room where a dozen people already waited.

"Monsieur Ravenoff was suddenly called away,” he said. "He left a note asking me to express his regret that he could not greet you personally and show you his painting.” He waved toward the studio



door. “The others are nearly all out now.”

And presently the last of the others emerged, and the secretary ushered the latest corners in. The only lighting in the studio was at the far end before a great drape that entirely hid the end wall.

"Monsieur Ravenoff wishes you to look at the painting as long as you wish,” the secretary said, "but he does not wish you to advance beyond the rail. The painting is so large, he says, that only from back here can you get the proper perspective.”

He vanished. Something whirred. The drapes slid aside and there was the painting. One or two gasped; then there was silence, utter and complete.

On the great canvas, as wide and as high as the studio wall itself, not one in that silent audience saw what had been expected. Only at one end did colors clash. There one saw the trenches and shattered buildings, the shell-torn trees and wrecked bridges of a battlefield, and people, infinitely weary people, coming away, staggering, . stumbling, some with improvised crutches, some crawling, some without arms or legs, some without sight.

And there was a great city of factories and foundries, docks and railroad yards, store and office buildings and traffic-congested streets. At a railroad crossing was a wrecked train and school bus. On a mountainside a great airplane had crashed. On a rocky coast a ship was pounding to pieces. Beyond, a village was being devastated by an earthquake. Everywhere, in some form or other, was Death, and people coming, some crippled, some whole, some with hopeless defeat in their bearing, some with a look of great questioning, but all

converging toward the path leading up the storm-swept hill, to meet and mingle and toil onward and upward.

And presently they passed out of the storm clouds to sunshine and flowers and singing birds, and then they did not look so tired or so defeated, but their eyes were alight with hope. And reaching the top of the hill none were crippled or deformed, for no longer did the discarded mortal body encumber them; and on each face was infinite peace and joy as they scattered, the children to play in flower-strewn fields, the elders to wander by twos and threes into the sunlit vistas beyond.

And the gaze of those in the studio came back, from time to time, to the words lettered along the bottom of the great canvas: "Death Is not fearsome or terrible. Death is a beautiful, shining adventure.”

I T WAS Buchanan who broke the silence at last. "Wonderful! Magnificent!” he said. "But Ravenoff slipped up on one tiny detail.”

"What might that be?” Ted asked. "The shadows cast by that figure down in the corner of the battlefield. See it, right down in the lower left-hand comer of the canvas; the figure of a man with the bullethole in his forehead and the blood running down his face onto the revolver clutched in his hand. The shadows are on the wrong side.”

"Merciful heaven!” There was horror in Ted’s voice. He leaped the rail and raced forward. He stooped. When he straightened, his face was a mask of horror. He moved between the figure and the canvas. "It — it’s Ravenoff!” he said.

Up from Earth’s Center through the Seventh Gate I rose, and on the Throne of Saturn sate.

And many a Knot unraveled by the Road;

But not the Master-knot of Human Fate.

— Omar Khayyam.


ips of the Dead

By W. J. STAMPER

£ £ OWN with Theodor! Death

I 1 to Black Oscar!”

Ji. — S It was the raucous, horrifying yell of the inevitable Haitian mob as it assembled in the historic Champs de Mars outside the palace in Port au Prince, the scene of hundreds of such meetings that had never meant less than murders and gutters flowing red with human blood. Ike rapacious rule of President Theodor and his favorite general, Black Oscar, was tottering to its fall. That day Theodor had violated a sacred session of the Senate and dissolved it at the point of the bayonet because it had, for the second time, refused to support him in a dastardly measure to filch more money from the already pauper citizenry.

As night came on, aged senators lay cringing in the filthy prison, in the courtyard of the palace, and double sentinels paced the flagstones outside.

In the domed council chamber of the palace sat Papillon, the favorite senator of the common people, bound hand and foot, subjected to the jeers and insults of the two human beasts. Theodor, lean and emaciated, his yellow, pock-marked face pinched with terror, fingered nervously some loose papers that lay on the table. Oscar, a giant in stature, with a waxed mustache curling up crescent-shaped till the two points almost met above his gaping, black nostrils, pounded his huge fist on the table and fixed his sinister gaze on Papillon.

"Do you think we sleep, idiot?” he stormed. "It is your tongue that has sown the seeds of unrest among the populace and stirred them to rebellion against our

authority. What have you to say to this — and this?” He thrust two papers into the face of Papillon, and his black face twitched with rage.

"I should think it would be unnecessary for le general to rob the mails for the same information he might easily obtain by listening to any group of citizens conversing on our street corners. It is the sentiment of all true Haitians. You have robbed the coffers of the treasury; you have murdered our best citizens; and now you seek the aid of the Senate in carrying out your cursed schemes,” sarcastically answered Papillon.

Stung by the truth of this remark, Oscar lifted his great fist and crashed it against the thin lips of the helpless prisoner. Blood streamed from the cracked lips, ran down the chin and stained the white bosom of the senator’s shirt. Papillon, still holding high his proud head, mumbled through his bleeding lips:

" ’Tis no better nor redder than that you spilled at Mole St. Nicholas when you shot down Vilbrun, or when you butchered the patriot, Celestin, at Jacmel. It is the blood of Haiti.”

As Papillon finished speaking, in through the window shone the baleful red glare of the torches of the mob, and through the casement came frenzied yells: "Down with Theodor! Death to Oscar!”

"Has not le general some plan? Something must be done,” he whined.

“If they become unruly we can toss — we can toss them a head,” answered the black brute as he curled his waxed mustache and shot a wicked glance at the bleeding Papillon.

LIPS OF THE DEAD


"I have ever been the first to draw my sword for Haiti — I have lived for her and her misguided people — and, mon general, I shall gladly offer my life and my blood for her,” came from the puffed lips of the prisoner.

"Cur! Worshipper of Voodoo!” shrieked Theodor as he confronted Papillon. "You shall speak to the vermin from yonder window— order them to return to their homes, or I swear by the great Capoix, your head shall roll at their feet.”

"Excellency, I am at your service. Such has been the course of liberty for a thousand years — blood, torture, death. Long live the common people! Long live liberty!”

Without another word Theodor seized him by the collar, lifted him from the chair, snatched the gleaming sword from the scabbard and plunged it through the body of the patriot. With a gurgling groan Papillon sank to the floor, while a crimson stream, gushing from a jagged wound in the breast, poured over the carpet of the room. Then with one horrible stroke Theodor severed the head from the trunk. The gory thing, rolling a few feet, stood upright on the bloody, slippery stub, then slid across the room to the wall. There it sat in the pale light of the lamp, and the hair, still unruffled, was smoothly parted in the middle. Then occurred the most singular awe-inspiring thing that ever greeted the eyes and ears of mortal man. What do men yet know of the mysteries of Voodoo — its powers — the miracles it may perform?

Two great tears oozed from the eyes and dropped to the floor. The dead lips moved and a voice issued from the crimson mouth.

“Tomorrow, Theodor, tomorrow!”

Slowly the quivering lids closed over the glazing eyeballs, then opened, and the eyes fixed in tire icy stare of death.

Theodor laughed a hoarse, bestial laugh,

wiped the thickening gore from his blade on the leg of his trousers and said: "Tomorrow, Theodor, tomorrow! A pretty speech indeed, General.”

13ICKING up the ghastly head by the -®- long black hair and holding it as far away as possible, Theodor walked to the window and deliberately hurled it out into the very face of the mob, yelling through the casement as he watched it catapult across the street: "Haitians, this is but the beginning! Depart at once, lest all the others meet the fate of Papillon.”

Screams of rage rent the night. Crash on crash of musketry raked the street below. The mob had rushed the gate and the troops had opened fire.

It was the terrified voice of Theodor. “We must flee, General! To the French legation for our lives!”

"My soldiers will defend the palace to the last man, Excellency. If we must go down, let us go down in a blaze of blood. To the prison!”

The helpless senators cringed beneath the covers as the sentinel passed. His clanking bayonet scabbard sent a hollow sound through the corridors, while his footfalls sounded like some weird echo in an empty tomb.

A key grated in the lock. Theodor and Oscar entered, and the murderous work began. Silently they went from man to man. There was a sickening slushing sound as the sharp points of their blades found the vitals of those dark masses beneath the ragged covers of the rickety bunks.

Now and then a stifled groan, a rattle in the throat, which was suddenly choked by a rush of blood. This ghastly work lasted but a few minutes, and a crime was consummated that will forever brand Haiti as an outlaw among nations. With his own hands, Oscar put out the one dim light, and following in the wake of the



butcher, left the room to darkness and the dead.

Their vile work finished, Theodor and Oscar fled through the night and sought shelter at the French legation.

Daylight revealed their absence from the palace. News of the massacre spread like wildfire to every nook and comer of the city. The troops defending the palace fled when they discovered their chiefs had deserted them. Papillon had been followed in death by all the other senators, and their souls cried aloud for vengeance.

Groups of cursing men and weeping women rushed from house to house, from hiding-place to hiding-place. Swift horsemen galloped over the roads leading to Gonaxves and Saint Marc in search of the fugitives.

The sun was low in the heavens, when at length came word that Theodor and Oscar had been found in hiding at the French legation. The bugles sounded the assembly, and the bloodthirsty mob, armed with axes, spades, and whatever other weapons could be procured, moved upon the legation. The streets were choked with a seething, writhing mass of humanity, undulating like some huge serpent as it approaches its prey.

The warning voice of the gray-haired consul, as he stood on the portico of the legation house, pleading with the bloodthirsty mob to remember the sacredness of an embassy, was drowned with rasping yells.

“Give us Theodor! Give us Black Oscar!”

There was a sudden irresistible surge of that black mass. The gate and fence went down with a crash. On, on, up to the very doors it went. There was a splintering of wood, a rattling of broken glass, screams and shrieks. Oscar was dragged out first, and his body riddled with bullets.

As his blade carcass lay in the gutter.

oozing red from a thousand punctures, and the thick tongue lolled out from between the yellow teeth, dieer after cheer went up from the multitude.

T HE exit of Theodor was more orderly.

With downcast eyes his lean figure shambled out of the building between three huge blacks, one of whom carried three stout ropes. The mob gave back to permit ample passage, and strangely enough the street looking westward was without a single soul. There was at last a peculiar system, even in its innate madness, in which this mob carried out its vengeance.

The prisoner arrived at the edge of the street amid deafening shouts: "Murderer, where is our Papillon?”

A buggy arrived, pulled by a strong Haitian mule.

Now, as if by mutual consent, the three blacks took charge of the situation. They proceeded to secure the end of one rope about the neck of Theodor, the other end to the axle of the buggy. The other two ropes were fastened above the ankles, leaving one end of each free. The ropes about the ankles were, however, much longer than the one about the neck. As certain ones of the mob grasped the intention of the three blacks they gave loud and orolonged cheers of approval.

At last all was ready. The buggy was in motion toward the west. Theodor, striving to keep on his feet, had his legs jerked from under him by the two men manning the loose ends of the ropes about the ankles. He was bruised beyond description. His neck was scarred and bleeding from the noose, his tongue swollen and covered with dust. Bloody froth oozed from his nose and mouth as he was jolted from one side of the street to the other.

Suddenly he ceased to struggle and strive to keep his feet. There was apparent a certain limpness of the body that gave

LIPS OF THE DEAD


evidence of unconsciousness. Two trails of red showed in the street behind where the body was being dragged. Sharp stones wearing through the clothing had bit into the bare flesh.

Onward this weird procession went, followed by the crowding, yelling, approving mob, onward toward the west. At length the buggy stopped beneath the shadow of the Sacred Arch. The mob, like hungry vultures encircling a piece of carrion, surged around in a great circle with eyes staring and necks craning lest one single detail of this noisome scene be missed.

There fell upon this vengeful multitude a solemn silence, as from somewhere came the measured beat of the tom-tom — a terrible sound, such a sound as is heard in the fastness of the northern mountains when the priests lead the death-march. One of the blacks was untying the ropes from the gory victim; another was removing the grime and dirt from the distorted face with a damp gunny-sack.

What could this mean? Could it be that the hearts of those two men were relenting? Low growls and sharp hisses escaped from the mob. A bottle of spirits, the powerful heathen rum, was held beneath the distended nostrils. A few drops were poured into the gaping, bruised mouth.

A convulsive shudder passed through the body. The chest heaved, rose and fell. Consciousness was returning.

The circle had narrowed and the mob was on the point of pouncing upon tire reviving victim, when one of the blacks, rising from where he knelt over the prostrate figure, extended his ham-like hand high above his head and shouted with such a stentorian voice that it could be heard by the most distant one of the crowd:

"Are you fools, Haitians? Would you have this beast who has glutted himself upon our reddest blood die before your vengeance has been appeased? Let him

writhe in agony; is that not good, countrymen?”

"Yes, yes!” came the answer from every mouth of that vast and blood-craving throng.

A ladder was placed against the face of the Sacred Arch. The last rays of the setting sun shed a purplish light over the city; the drums beat the measured march of the dead. Theodor opened his bleary eyes and shuddered.

Two long ropes were tied under the armpits. Two heavy stones, attached to the other ends, were hurled over the top of the arch. Slowly, but without much difficulty, two men hoisted upward the spare, bedraggled figure of Theodor; upward, till it dangled against the solid wall of the archway. Loud jeers rent the gathering dusk of approaching night: "Vive le President! Vive Theodor!’’

Now one of the blacks was mounting the ladder. He carried under his arm a small chest, such as carpenters use.

The mob, expectant, gloating, their hawk-like eyes on the cruel scene, stood breathless — waiting.

At last the top was reached. The black secured the peculiar chest to the topmost rung. The mob surged up about the foot of the ladder. A thousand eager, curious faces were upturned, as he seized the right arm of Theodor, extended it to full length along the wall and, without looking, scrambled among the contents of the chest. He drew out a small hand-ax and a long spike. With one powerful blow he drove the pointed nail through the bony hand, deep into the adobe of the wall.

Beads of black blood trickled down and spattered in the dust below. Mortal agony twisted and distorted the pock-marked face of Theodor, and sharp rasping cries issued from the swollen mouth. Another blow, in strange unison with the beat of the tomtom, pinioned the other arm. The legs dangled; the body writhed in the throes of



and fell upon tine distended leaders of the bare throat.

The mob slunk back as the gory head dropped to the street, rolled a few feet, stood upright on the bloody stub of the neck.

As the glazing eyeballs fixed in the cold stare of death, there issued from the purple lips a scarcely audible murmur: “Today, Papillon, today!”

Had Black Oscar been yet among the living, he alone, of all that multitude, would have noted how strangely these words from dead lips appeared an answer to the words from other dead lips, once sadly murmured at dead of night, in the domed council chamber of the palace.

IT HAPPENED TO ME

Attention , Readers!

H AVE you ever slept in a haunted house? Have you had a strange dream which afterward came true? Have you ever seen a ghost? Let the other readers of WEIRD TALES share your weird experience.

W LITE down your adventure in the occult and send it to "It Happened to Me”, WEIRD TALES, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y. Write it as briefly as you can, in less than 1,000 words if possible. The shorter the better. Your story should meet three requirements: 1st, it should tell an actual happening; 2d, it should deal with the supernatural; 3d, it should be interesting.

F OR each letter used, WEIRD TALES will pay ten dollars. So write down your chill-producing, spine-tingling experience with the supernatural and send it in. Manuscripts cannot be returned unless postage and return envelope are enclosed.

IT HAPPENED TO ME

approaching death. The skinny legs were drawn apart. Again, and yet again, rose and fell the fatal ax. There was a gritting sound, such as is made by the surgeon's saw, when the cruel spikes pierced the bones of the feet.

"Vive Theodor! Vive Theodor!" shrieked the demoniacal mob.

Mortal man could not long survive such torture. Slowly the head sank down upon the scrawny chest, the eyes bulged from their sockets. The cooling blood had ceased to flow and now merely oozed from around the nails.

Grasping the disheveled hair with his left hand, the black straightened up the bowed head, the ax ascended once more

M ANY of you have objected to our publishing serials, not because they are not good stories, but because a month is a long time to wait between parts of a story. So we are putting it up to you. Shall we continue, as in the past, to give you the best serials obtainable, or do you want us to use that space for more short stories or an additional novelette? Let us hear from you, pro and con.

Finished Game

Henry Hasse writes from Seattle: "If it isn’t too late I’d like to register one vote for Finished Game as the best story in the October issue. I realize that most of these shorter stories — I think you call them 'filler’ stories — never get the recognition they should, but every once in a while one of them pops up that is better than any of the longer pieces. Whoever Harry Butman may be, I’d like to see more by him. Second place to The Lady of the Bells — I like Quinn immensely when he isn’t writing about Jules de Grandin. And third place to In the Walls of Eryx — I’m glad that you include science-fiction stories when they really come under a weird classification. Glad to hear the news that you’re to use some Hannes Bok illustrations. I’ve admired his work for a long time, as have a lot of other fans here on the coast.”

The Vampire’s Mark Aranse, Count of Foruthun, writes from Crystal City, Missouri: "Five years ago and

a little more I came from Hungary, my native land, to live in the United States. Recently I have decided I know the English well enough to read American literature. I asked a friend of mine what fiction monthly he would recommend. He at once suggested that I peruse your September issue of Weird Tales magazine. I must confess I was astounded, stunned, thrilled, shocked, and horrified all in a single sensation. I am well qualified to judge such fiction as you publish, but before I do so, allow me to present my credentials. In my native country I am a nobleman, and to be so means to have a family of long-standing repute. To have such ancient family means to have family legends, and my line of ancestors bears a wealth of these legends, fiction or truth I am. not disposed to say. There is just one tiling which I will mention to you: My great ancestor, whose first name I now bear, was said to have been a vampire. I might also say that the family castle (as Americans would say, but which in truth is called a manor) is still reputed to be haunted by netherworldly demons. I do not wish to make a stand upon the logic of ghosts, but (do not scoff, readers) I have two small round incisions at the base of my neck which show no signs of healing! I bore them with me from Hungary. . . . G. G. Pendarves wins my vote for first place in the November issue with his utterly surprising and very shocking story The Withered Heart. The Hunch by Gene Lyle III gets second place, because of the way the full force of the story is flung upon the reader in - the surprisingly sudden finis.”




Fondest Reading Moments

Donald Jafelice writes from Toronto: "As a Weird Tales reader of long standing I have finally urged myself to write to you and express my hearty congratulations for sending me such interesting reading. I have not written before, due to my lack of expressionpower, but without the slightest doubt my fondest reading moments have been spent with your superlative unique artists. Lately I have been unable to afford these luxuries, but I did keep up with you through the many 'trade-in and exchange’ book stores. I know I have missed some grand stories. When I could not read the new ones I had to revert to my back numbers, which I don’t think can ever be surpassed, even among the many competitive authors of today. . . . Many hearty thanks to you and the host of authors which I have become acquainted with during my reading moments. I shall resume die habit of WT for as long as I am able. Thanks for the Eyrie, thanks for Lovecraft, whose great pen has now ceased writing, thanks for Colter, Smith, Quinn, Hamilton and the rest of that eery clan. But definitely, thanks for Weird Tales.”

He Likes ’em Wild

Robert Bloch, author of The Dark Isle, writes: “I was struck in this month’s Eyrie, by the letter of Mr. I. O. Evans, my British geography critic. I must plead guilty to revamping the topography of Anglesey — -but I feel that I cannot acknowledge his patriotic defense of the druids. My information in re druid customs and cruelties comes from one of Mr. Evans’ own fellow Britons — the eminent historian-novelist, Robert Graves. Mr. Graves, in his fine volume, I, Claudius, is responsible for the druidic information I used in The Dark Isle. Insofar as Mr. Graves is a scholar of unquestioned standing, I chose to adhere to his concept of druidism, including the wicker giants, blue paint, et d. Nor do the writings of most reputable anthropologists, the esteemed Sir James Frazer amongst them, serve to confute the general opinion as to the wickedness of the vates, bards, and ovates of Britain and Gaul. Druidism is, I

grant, a disputable religious tenet, and its workings are shrouded in mystery due to the fact that druid beliefs, customs, and lore were never committed to writing. Also, the druid culture, extending through the British Isles and the mainland of Europe, was subject to geographical divergency. Moreover, during the thousand years or so that druidism was in sway, certain definite changes are observable in its practise. The druids of 400 B.C., for example, lived differently than the druids of 50 A.D., approximately the time of my story. They in turn in nowise resembled the decadent druids of 600 A.D., which I believe is the setting of Muon’s fine serial. But rather than embark on a lengthy disquisition on the subject of conjectural druidic custom, I would submit to Mr. Evans that the real authorities — the druids — never had anything to say for themselves. And in consequence, following the guidance of a reputable historian, I permitted my imagination to fashion a story around certain of the facts he presented as such. If Mr. Evans likes his druids tame, I bow to his taste. Me, I like ’em wild.”

Rave On

Miss Ethel Tucker writes from Joplin, Missouri: "I can do nothing but rave about the November Issue of Weird Tales. To be different I should be critical, I suppose, but after having to do without reading your grand magazine for two months, due to a serious operation which affected my eyes, 1 provided myself with a pair of readingglasses and proceeded to go wild particularly over Uncanonized by my favorite author, Seabury Quinn. Now that is a real beautifully weird story; the thread of tragedy running through it along with the exquisite description of love undying, gives me a feeling of reading a really great story; of course werewolves always have been, to my way of thinking, a good subject to shape a story around. Although I liked most all of the stories, another one I liked especially is The Withered Heart. I think It’s a rather unusual story and it had me guessing all through it. Towers

THE EYRIE


of Death by that admirable writer Henry Kuttner is wonderful; he used plenty of imagination creating such a horrible character as old Simeon Gerard. There was something about the story of The Man Who Died Twice that reminded me of Towers of Death ; must be because of both old men being so thoroughly evil. I must admit though that one of your stories, The Web of Silence, failed to interest me; I could not find much if any weird element about it. . . . Well, here’s wishing Weird Tales a couple of million new readers and keep up the good work.”

New Readers

Knute Savary writes from Niles Center, Illinois: "I think it is a good idea to reduce the price of Weird Tales, not that I care about the price, but many new readers will be introduced to the world’s best purveyor of fantasy and weird fiction. For myself I would buy the mag if it cost fifty cents.”

A Great Writer

Harry Warner, Jr., writes from Hagerstown, Maryland: "Best in the November WT is undoubtedly Towers of Death. If only Kuttner could decide which to imitate, Lovecraft, Howard, or Poe, he could undoubtedly come very near reaching their heights. This time, though, I’m not just sure of whom the style resembles. . . . The Withered Heart seemed to me a fitting model for any weird yarn. We lost a great writer in the death of that author, and one too little appreciated today. Possibly five years hence she will have gained more recognition.”

HPL Reprints

George M. Aylesworth writes from Mackinaw City, Michigan: "Towers of Death took first place in the November issue. . . . Let’s have some more of Clark Ashton Smith’s bizarre tales with his own illustrations and more of those unbeatable HPL reprints. Seabuty Quinn was second with Uncanonized. An interesting yarn, like all of Quinn’s, even when he is relating the adventures of that mercurial little Frenchman, Jules de Grandin. One objection to this latter series, however: the stories often bear a marked similarity to

each other in plot, characters, and even dialog. Finlay’s cover and inside illustrations were excellent, as usual. His pictorial interpretations of famous poems are always good. Don’t discontinue this feature.”

King of the World’s Edge Misti Selkirk, antiquary, writes from La Oroya, Peru: "Despite the cavalier shuffling and reallocation of cultures, H. Warner Munn’s serial, King of the World’s Edge is absorbingly interesting to the speculative antiquarian. I was especially intrigued by his scientifically-correct account of the operationof trepanation. While reading that, I was constrained to take down eight specimens from my shelves and to reflect that they, too, underwent the ordeal he describes. That the use of the coca leaves to secure anesthesia may have been known to the tribes of North America is somewhat of a strain upon an archeologist’s imagination, but so, also, is the placement of Kukulcan, the Plumed Serpent, among the mound builders. Fantasy aside, have evidences of trepanation been found among the crania of the ancient North Americans? Let it be said, however, that there are few, given the difficulty of absolute proof, who can give the lie direct to Mr. Munn’s premises. Be the truth where it may, Mr. Munn gives much food for thought to those of us who pursue the fast-fading trails of ancient man into the dim past of the Western World. I hope that no one will construe my especial attention to Mr. Munn’s serial as implying disparagement of the other very excellent stories in the October issue of Weird Tales. It was a pleasure to meet again the legend of Bran Mak Morn, although a reprint was not needed to fix in your antiquary’s mind that master tale from the pen of the creator of Kull, Kane, and Conan. Let those who carp at the 'happy endings’ of the stories in Weird Tales be silent as they reflect upon the inarticualte heartbreak so skilfully implied in the perfect ending of The Lady of the Bells. Ended as it is, this tale is a worthy companion, piece to the same author’s Globe of Memories. The labyrinthine crystal trap in Sterling’s and Lovecraft’s In the Walls of Eryx gives to an



Next Month

TRAIN FOR FLUSHING

By Malcolm Jameson

T his is undoubtedly one of the strangest stories ever told — a story that begins in New York in the year 1939, and travels backward instead of forward, like a motion picture run in reverse.

I T is a weird tale of the Flying Dutchman, that legendary figure that has inspired so many literary geniuses; but nowhere has the legend called forth a stranger yarn than this one. This curious story will be published complete

in the February issue of


on sale January 1

To avoid missing your copy clip and mail this coupon today for

SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION || OFFER. (YOUi SAVE 20c)

WEIE1D TATES 9 Rockefeller Plaza New York. N. Y.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next eight issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the February issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name — —

Address - -

interplanetary yarn the added something which made a sensation of Shamhleau. However strong his objection to science-fiction, surely no one can criticize tales like these, which open up new vistas of the weird in spheres far removed from our own. For the degree of Doctor of Belles-lettres Outres let me propose Mr. Gans T. Field for the human (and feline) understanding displayed in his The Witch’s Cat. This tale but confirms my belief that Mr. Field is a writer whose tales appear all too seldom in our magazine. Hard, indeed, it is to choose among the tales in the October number, but King of the World’s Edge and The Witch’s Cat are outstanding, though the others come so close behind that further selection is impossible.”

A Howard Reprint

Dale H. Exum writes from Dallas: "At last we have a Howard reprint! Worms of the Earth is the best Howard story I ever read. In an old bookstore not long ago I found a story of Weird Tales, several years old, by Howard, called the Valley of the Worm. I think it worthy to be reprinted, too. I certainly hope you reprint many more of his stories. But please don’t reprint Poe, Hawthorne, etc. — anyone interested .in weird literature has read everything these authors ever wrote. I know I have.”

Esoteric Articles

Franklin Bristol writes from Mexico City: "I am in accord with the gentleman from England about devoting a page to some articles on esoteric subjects. You say your readers would resent the use of space which might be used for stories? Let’s have a show of hands. Why not use the page you ordinarily devote to a synopsis of the coming month’s feature story? Surely you can condense that greatly without losing circulation.”

On Top of the Heap

William Barrison writes from New York City: "The new low price, the good stories and authors will keep WT at the top of all fantasy fiction. I am now fifteen years old and I have been reading WT since I was eleven.”

THE EYRIE


Conan and Solomon Kane

Bernard E. Schiffmann writes from New York City: "Again I voice the plea as I have done in the past for some of Robert E. Howard’s Conan stories in the reprints, preferably some of the older ones, also Solomon Kane.

I welcomed his W arms of the Earth in your October issue, but would much rather have had Conan or Kane. Again I cry how about all Robert E. Howard’s works in book form? I’m sure not only I but thousands of your readers would grab these up. Now to continue, your stories have their usual excellence, which has kept me a steady- reader of Weird Tales for ten years. I have every issue in my library for the past seven years. Sorry I didn’t hold onto the earlier ones. How about C. L. Moore’s Northwest Smith, also more of jirel? Bring back Henry Kuttner’s Elakfrom whatever dark land he has roamed to, also Clifford Ball’s Raid. I believe the past success of Weird Tales was due to the familiarity of the readers with the heroes of the stories. It is a hundred times more interesting to read of a continued adventure of someone you know than that of a stranger.”

Fairy Stories

Leonard J. Fohn writes from Houston, Texas: "May I make a suggestion concerning stories appearing in Weird Tales ? Since they are, more or less, modernized fairystories, why are they lacking in beneficent genii or kindly-disposed sprites ? Without the seven dwarfs, Snow White would lose her popularity.”

Fight for First Place

Richard Kraft writes from New York City: "After a somewhat mediocre October issue, the November WT came as a distinct 'shot in the arm.’ In other words it was darn good. I didn’t like The Haunted Car or The Hunch, but ali the rest were top-notch. Gosh, what a fight for first place! After long moments of deliberation I give The Web of Silence -top rating with 1 Colter’s yarn second and Kuttner’s third. Quinn wrote a honey (g’bye Jules de Grandin) and Pendarves’ last tale was among her best. Awfully glad to see Eli Colter among those present; a real weird

GUARANTEES TIRES!

G00DYEAR-G00DR1CH FIRESTONE * U.S. and Other Standard Makes

FREE

iUMTERN

World’s E-o west f 2 tees ordered

TIREPRB6E8 8

TSr© users by the SEsousamls all over the U.S.A, voaeh for the i-cng Hard Sarv= ico of our Standard Brand tires reeondlf rradeatest

methods by oar tire .experts. Qar-SS years ©xperaenee

f makes It possible to

V offer tires at lowest prices* with legal agreement to replace at H price any tire that fails to give 3,2 M©s 0 Service.

EVERY T8 RE GUARANTEED!'

BALLOON TIRES REGULAR CORO TIKES SraSnn Tires lubes

29x4.40-21 $2. !5$1.05 2^4* $0-9p|33x4>5$3.45

29x4.50-20 2.35 1.05 30x4.50-21 2.40 l.lfi SS} S’ll

28x4.75-19 2.45 1.25 2??$ 5‘2f

29x475-20 2.50 1.25 r>t*Zl4 I'll

29x5.00-19 2.85 1.25 . MLJI

30x5.00-20 2.83 1.25 HEAVY DUTY TKUCfiS TIRES 5.25-17 2.90 1.35 ~

28x5.25-18 2.90 1.35

29x5.25-19 2.95 1.35 30x5

30x5.25-20 2.95 1.35 33x5

81x5.25-21 3.25 1.35 34x5 4.25 2.25fc„ _

5.50-17 3.35 1.40 32x0 7 .93 2.95|3 6 sS 11.45 4.95

28x5.50-18 3.35 1.40 36x5 9.95 4.46540x3 13.25 4.95

29x fiooli7 i’IS Hn TRUCK BALLOON TIRES

2 fhrfi no i 40 Tires TuhesSStze Tires Tubes

llrt MM? 3*40 HS S-00-20 $3.7S$1.6Sf7.5Q-20 $6.95 $3.75 i'ii 1.55 5-59-20 4.45 1.943.25-20 IS.SS 4.95

Complete with batteries and newest a reflector bulb, idy for instant use. Strong, steady light. Useful every-, twiere . Order now.

34x4>£ 3.45 1.45

30x5 3.65 1-65

33x5 3.75 1-75

35x5 3.95 1.75

*9-|S *}«34xr sso.as $4.65 *'‘f|3Sx? a 0.95 4.65

SEND ONLY $S.OO DEPOSIT oil each tire ordered. (§3.00 on each Truck Tire.) We ship balance C. O. D, Deduct S per cent if cash is sent infsii with order. To fill order promptly we may substitute brands if necessary. ALL TUBES BRAND NEW — GUARANTEED— : PERRY-FIELD TIRE &AUBB ER CO. 2328-30 S. Michigan Av, y Depts 6343, Chicago, lit.

WORK FOS THE

GOVERNMENT

START

$1260 to $2100 YEAR

3405T appointments in 1^38 government year. Many appointments every year.

MEN— WOMEN /~

Plle Clerks /

Pestoffice Clerks, Carriers '

Railway Postal Clerks /

Stenegrapfiers-Typisfs Meny Other Jobs

SET READY / IMMEDIATELY * Common Education ^ Usually Sufficient .>>

Mas! ® Coupon / TODAY /

/ Name

/

7 Address.

Franklin Institute

Dept. T-239 ROCHESTER, N. Y.

Gentlemen : Rush to me FREE of charge, list of . TI. S. Government big pay jobs. Send FREE 32-page book describing salaries, vacations, hours, work. Tell me how to qualify for one of these jobs.



SPECIAL OFFER

The Moon Terror

By A. 0. BIRCH

< X=X !

THE M©©N TERROR

by A, G. BIRCH

Is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.

ALSO — OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weird-scientific fiction:

OOZE

by Anthony M. Rad

Tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE

by Vincent Starrett

Is a fascinating tale of the star Pen* elope, and the fantastic thing thathappened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH DIMENSION

By Farnsworth Wright

Is an uproarious skit on the fourdimensional theories of the mathematicians and inter-planetary stories in general.

LISOTRB SUPPLY

Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50 cents.

(KZXI

NOTE: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

WEIRD TALES. Book Depf..

9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y., U. S. A.

Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

iv (i?7i-C5**<» , ** , »**»**»***»

City

«...

writer. I’ll never forget his The Last Horror, will you? Before I sign off I’d like to convey to you my appreciation of Virgil Finlay’s cover — one of his best, and it is weird!”

A Flittermouse Came Chirping

Caroline Ferber writes from Chicago: “Once again Gans T. Field scores a hit, with his The Witch’s Cat. The thought of kitty talking and thinking logically caused a smile — and didn’t I just think so much more of the feline ! Nice l’il cat. Nice Mr. Field. He is among my favorites. Right on the heels of it comes one of those beautiful dream romances — friend Quinn did himself proud with The Lady of the Bells. Well — can’t say I thought too much of In the Walls of Eryx. The horrible invisible labyrinth was awful enough, but I’d rather have had the narrator lost in the very midst of the maze, instead of the rescue party finding him just spittin' distance from an exit Mr. Munn pleases me more and more with some of the expressions he uses in King of the World’s Edge — 'a flittermouse came chirping.’ Such a phrase sounds more weird and less evil than 'a bat flew.’ The story is one of the most unusual I have read in some time. The short, Finished Game, proved somewhat refreshing, and a bit puzzling. The reprint ran right up my alley of historical adventure — with Bran Mak Morn going to some of the deeply horrendous extremes to accomplish a purpose — similar to those choking adventures that Jirei of Joiry employs. Robert Howard was all right in this yarn. Thus we come to the end of the October issue. Keep up the good work — the pages around 120 — less printing on the cover.”

Concise Comments

Gertrude Gordon writes from New York City: “Just finished this month’s copy of Weird Tales and feel I must make a comment on Towers of Death by Henry Kuttner. It is the perfect fantastic story, complete, logical, with the hero rewarded and the villain punished most aptly and with the tag line giving just the right fillip of horror. It is a masterpiece.”

Charles Hidley writes from New York

THE EYRIE

'127

City: "Thanks for bringing back Eli Colter after a considerable and noticeable absence. Best stories are: Towers of Death, The Withered. Heart, Uncanonized, and The Phantom Drug which was quite a pleasant surprise.”

J. Vernon Shea writes from Pittsburgh: "I should like to see more of the work of Mary Elizabeth Counselman. The Accursed Isle, The Three Marked Pennies, The Black Stone God and her latest all possess most unusual twists and show a high imagination and knowledge of people. In her current story the Fortean ending alone is a let-down.”

Clark Ashton Smith writes from Auburn, California: "Kuttner’s story. Towers of Death is a neat little horror. I’ve greatly enjoyed both of Price’s recent tales. Harry Ferman’s drawings merit mention. His style is certainly one that lends itself to the rendering of weird atmosphere.”

Edmond Hamilton writes from New Castle, Pennsylvania: "I have been much interested in H. Warner Munn’s serial. It’s a fine story and shows an extraordinary skill in dovetailing widely separated folklores. And Thomas Kelly’s yarn coming up sounds as though it would be something special.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, let us know what is your favorite story in this issue, and what you think about the magazine. We hope you like it well enough to recommend it to your friends. Send us a letter addressed to the Eyrie, Weird Tales, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City. Henry Kuttner’s strange tale of black magic and dual personality, Towers of Death, was an easy winner of first place in our November issue, as shown by your votes and letters.

Chills * Thrills • Shivers

Black Was the Night

By

Laurence Hour, Jr,

m

Watch for this in WEIRD TALES

KIDNEY TROUBLE

Stop Getting Up Nights

To harmlessly flush poisons and acid from Idd-> neys and relieve irritation of bladder so that you can stop “getting up nights” get a 35 cent package of Gold Medal Haarlem Oil Capsules and take as directed. Other symptoms of kidney and bladder weaknesses may be scant, burning or smartting passage — backache — - leg cramps — puffy eyes. Get the original GOLD MEDAL. Don’t accept a substitute.

BanisS the craving tor tobacco aa thousands have. Make yourself free and happy with Tobacco Redeemer. Not a substitute, not habit forming. Write for free booklet telling of injurious effect of tobacco and dependable, easy way to relieve the craving maaymen have.

Newell PharmacalCd.

Dept. 600, St. Louis, Mo.

Hiah School Course

at Home

Go as rapidly as youf time and abilities permit, course equivalent to resident school work — prepares you for entrance to college. Standard H. S. testa supplied—

Diploma. Credit for H. S. subjects already completed. Single subjects if desired. High school education is very important for advancement in business and industry and socially. Don’t be handicapped all your life. Be a High School graduate. Start your training now. Free Bulletin oa request. No obligation.

^American. School, Dpt. H-I39, Drexel at 58th, Chicago

STUDY AT HORfflE

Legally trained men win higher positions and bigger sue- , . cess in business and public

Gfe. Greater opportunities now thais ever before. Big corporations ara headed by men with legal training*

, More Ability: More Prestige: More Money

’ We guide you step by step. Yon can train at home during spare time. Degree of LI,. B. Successful graduates in ©very section of the H. S. We furoisa aJl text material, including 14- volume Law Library. Low cost, easy terms. Get our valuable 48-pags Law Trainin g for Leadership ana “Evidence” books FREE, Send for them NOW.

LaSalle Extension University, Dept. 175-L Chicago A Correspondence Institution

WEIRD BOOKS RENTED

Books by Lovecraft, Merritt, Quinn, etc., rented by mail 3c a day plus postage. Write for free list. WEREWOLF LENDING LIBRARY, 227-N, So. Atlantic Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Coming soon in

DRIFTING ATOMS

By

Mary Elizabeth Counselman

•

The story of a weird experiment that succeeded only too well

COMING NEXT MONTH

I SAT there by Lodi Dhu, looking at the gray hills around me and seeing the blood-red scars on the hillsides that would never dry again. For down these rocky slopes the blood of my father and mother and my six stalwart brothers, my uncle Iain and many more of my clan had poured. That was the night the MacGreggans came in the snow, wrapped up like ghosts, with daggers in their hands to kill my people.

On that night I had run from the shelter of our house, being young and small at the time, with the shrieks and screams of the dying in my ears, and driven to desperation and whipped by fear and trembling I had taken refuge in the hills.

Around me, in the pall of the night, I heard the chopping of Lochaber axes and the popping crunch of skulls and breastbones, and there would be a shrieking yell that would rise in a keening wail, like a banshee.

Through this I ran, hearing the gurgling screams and curses and the deep breathing of the silent butchers. Bodies were east at my feet, so horribly tom and severed that I turned from them with grief and horror.

Staggering amid this human wreckage I fell over the dead body of my uncle Iain, chief of the clan, his head split to the brisket by the downward stroke of a heavy broadsword.

“God help us!” I cried.

“The glen is full of devils,” a voice said from nowhere. “The blood of the Douglas flows down the hills in a scarlet stream and runs into the Dhu as the red fingers of the MacGreggans run into the hearts of your people; Avenge them, Malcolm ! Avenge them — or ye shall die for seven years and live in death forever after!”

Then it was that a great light came into my eyes and I turned to the valley and saw through the •walls of the houses and into the darkness of the cabins. And what I saw there no man has ever seen before nor will any man see again, I pray.

I could see into the black hearts of the MacGreggans and witness the devils and hobgoblins leaping in demoniac glee as the strong hairy arms of the murderers wielded dirk and claymore, skean dhu and Lochaber ax on their helpless victims. . . .

You cannot afford to miss this powerful tale of the murder of the Douglas clan, the terrible life-in-death of those brave unshriven souls until released from their purgatory by their strange kinsman Malcolm Dhu Glas, and the weird vengeance he brought upon the Clan MacGreggan with the aid of the “little people.” This unusual story will be printed complete in the February issue of Weird Tales :

The Horror in the Glen

By Clyde l^vltie

a brilliant assortment @1 mtkm weird stales

February Issue of Weird Tales . . . . Out January 1

OWN A FINE PAYING Neighborhood

FOOD ROUTE

Splendid Cash Profits

You owe it to yourself to write and see what wonderful success so many others have enjoyed with this timetested money-making Plan. Let me mail you full particulars — then you can judge whether you want to start right in making money at once.

RUSH COUPON for FREE OFFER

I Send Everything

If you want , to better yourself — if you want cash to spend — money to save — the means to live in comfort — let me show you your big chance ! To an honest, reliable man or woman in any open locality I will give — FREE — everything

needed to start a fine paying neighborhood Food Route, with profits your very first day and all year ’round. You don’t send me one penny! You must realize that I certainly would not offer this big expensive Outfit FREE unless I had complete confidence in the splendid money-making opportunities of my remarkable Plan !

You need absolutely no experience.

My simple, proven Plan offers you a wonderful opportunity to make good money right from the start in a

simple, dignified business of your own. I not only give you free the

You handle fast-selling, quick-repeat- Complete Outfit shown here, coning home necessities — things people taining a big assortment of full-sized

must buy, such as coffee, teas, delicious packages, but also give you a simple,

foods and over 100 other necessities — ■ sure-fire Plan. I give you advertisall guaranteed to satisfy or money ing material, trial-size samples to

back. Your home is your headquarters. give away, and everything else you

You have no investment for store rent, need to start earning money your _ .

light, fixtures or big stocks of goods. very first day. I Mn „ , _ . . .

You handle all the money and keep a I MR. E. J. MILLS, President

liberal share for yourself. In fact, your Cnf EVill ParfiMilare * 15,6 Monmouth Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio average gross profit is from 30 to 40 1 ” MI1 3 I .... , . , I

cents on every dollar yon take in. Once This is a sincere offer made by a big, re- I ,, 1 ™srTaiI th mI I1 {uir t DartiSlar5 abcmf your *

you start, under my liberal credit plan, liable, old-established company operating i offer of a complete Free Outfit, and how you I

you can operate on my capital. from Coast to Coast. Write at once for I w ni help me get started at once in a fine- |

full particulars. Unless you take advan- . paying neighborhood Food Route, tage of my remarkable Free Outfit Offer I now, you may be missing the very money- *

making opportunity you have been look- I Name I

ing for. Strike out for yourself! Be | I

independent! Make money ! Enjoy life ! ■ ...

Remember — you don’t send me a penny. I c )ess |

Just fill out and send the coupon and I will mail you full particulars. Do this

TPTIAYI I " ' I

v . (Please print or write plainly)

E. J. Mills, President, 1516 Monmouth Ave., Cincinnati, O. I . .1

your

Stop

and look

Rupture Younger!

worries

Wouldn’t it be a grand and glorious feeling to forget rupture worry completely and let peace of mind and new zest for living make you look younger? But you can’t if a gouging, uncomfortable truss nags you constantly, if you never know a moment’s security, if you feel your rupture is growing worse all the time, with not even hope of the opening closing up. Worry, worry, worry, day after day, for all your life . . . why, it’s bound to make any man or woman look old, haggard, and worn out beyond their years. Don’t, don’t, don’t submit to this terrible, needless tragedy of dragging, ageing worry. At this very moment, as you read these words you can

decide to enter upon a glorious new life. Not by some clap-trap, senseless “magic”; but by the thoroughly effective aid of the worldfamous BROOKS Patented AIR-CUSHION Rupture Support — that

— Pad which comes in contact with the body.

B — Light weight disc which holds pad. 0 — Shows the shape of soft rubber pad _ before it is pressed

D against body.

D— -Dotted line shows ^ how the pad flattens out under pressure, expelling air.

g — Orifice through which the pad figuratively breathes as it adjusts to conform to different body pressures. Brooks Rupture Cushions are made in over 7 5 Shapes and Sixes.

holds with a velvet touch; yet so securely that you practically forget rupture, banish worry, become normally active and again know the zest and joy of life that cannot help but make you look younger. Scores of thousands know this is true. Let the Brooks help you.

A BROOKS APPLIANCE WILL BE SENT ON TRIAL TO PROVE ITSELF ON YOUR OWN BODY

BROOKS asks no man or woman to buy a Brooks Appliance outright, on faith alone. Instead it will be sent you on a thorough trial. Wear it. Put it to every test for heavenly comfort and security. If you or your doctor are not satisfied, return the BROOKS and the trial will cost you nothing. So if you have reducible rupture send for a BROOKS Air-Cushion truss and let it prove it self on your own body. How doctors regard the BROOKS is shown by the fact that more than 9,000 have ordered, either for themselves or their patients.

LOW COST . . - AND THE AIR-CUSHION Support Gives Nature a Chance to Close the OPENING

Rich or poor— ANYONE can afford to buy a BROOKS. But look out for imitations and counterfeits. The Genuine BROOKS is never sold in stores or by agents. It is made up, after your order is received, to fit your particular case.

The Patented Air-Cushion Support does away completely with hard, gouging, painful pads.

There are no stiff, punishing springs. Inst ^J the yielding, clinging, secure AIR-CUSHION and velvet soft body band. Sanitary, lightweight. inconspicuous. No metal girdle to rust or corrode. And the Patented Automatic AIRCUSHION continually works to give Nature

» V.T1 jl. — — . — i.-

opening.

X— Where Is Your Rupture ? chance to close the

Learn How To Look YOUNGER — Send for FREE Rupture Book and TRIAL OFFER

No . . . don’t order a BROOKS now . FIRST get the complete, revealing explanation. How the BROOKS securely holds reducible rupture is made as clear to you as ABC. Why rupture worry ends is utterly plain. How the Patented AIRCUSHION Support gives perfect security with heavenly comfort is shown at a glance. Learn how you can be fitted individually for any kind of reducible rupture. THEN you 11- never rest until you wear a BROOKS, prove its advantages on your own body. And remember, if not satisfied, the TRIAL is at OUR risk, NOT yours. Don’t pass up an opportunity like this.

in continually wortcs to give i'khuic a

What a contrast to ordinary hard-pad uncomfortable trusses!

MAIL COUPON NOW!

Brooks Appliance Co.

452-B State St., Marshall, Mich.

In PLAIN ENVELOPE, please send your FREE BOOK on Rupture, PROOF of Results, and TRIAL OFFER. No cine is to call on me personally about my rupture.

Name

BROOKS APPLIANCE CO.

452-B STATE STREET MARSHALL, MICH.

City State

State whether for Man Q Woman Q or Child Q

[THE END]
