============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: January 1929
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Jelly-Fish___David H" by Keller
  2. "An Occurrence in an Antique Shop_August W" by Derleth
  3. "Old Ghosts____Maud E" by Uschold
============================================================
============================================================
THE JELLY-FISH___DAVID H
by Keller
============================================================
Par across the fen sounded a single shriek of terrible laughter.

In Stupefied Ho?~ror, They Saw Through the Microscope

The Jelly-Fish

By DAVID H. KELLER

“ /k LL space is relative. There is

A-% no such thing as size. The jL A. telescope and the microscope have produced a deadly leveling of great and small, far and near. The only little thing is sin, the only great thing is fear.”

For the hundredth time Professor Quierling repeated his statement, and for the hundredth time we listened to him in silence, afraid to enter into a controversy with him. It was not the fact that he knew more than we did that kept us quiet, but it was the haunting fear that filled us when we listened to him or watched him at his wbrk.

Working at an unsolved problem, he seemed a soul detached, a spirit separated from its earthly home, a being, living only in the realm of thought. Motionless, his body sat catatonic; his eyes stared, unwinking, till his mind, satisfied, condescended to return to its bone-bound cell. Then, in magnificent condescension, he woul4 talk in long, limpid language of the things that he liad considered and the conclusions that he had deduced. We, chosen scientists, university graduates, hailed him as our master and hated him for admitting the mastery.

We hoped that some evil would befall him, and yet we realized that the success of the expedition depended upon his continued leadership. It was necessary for our future fame: we were struggling young men with all of life ahead of us, and if we

failed in our first effort, there would be no other opportunities granted us.

In a specially constructed yacht, a floating laboratory, we were south of Borneo, making a detailed study of the microscopic sea life. In deepsea nets we gathered the tiny organisms, and then with microscope, photography, and the cinema we observed them for the future instruction of the human race. There were hundreds of species, thousands of varieties, each to be identified, classified, described, studied, and photographed. We gathered in the morning, studied till midnight and restlessly slept till morning. The only thing in which we agreed was ambition. Our solitary united emotion was a dreaded hatred of the professor.

He knew how we felt and enjoyed taunting us.

1 ‘ I am your leader because I willed it,” he would whisper to us. “The will to attain with me is synonymous with the accomplishment of my desire. I believe in myself, and through this belief I succeed. There is nothing that a strong man can not do if he wills to do it and believes in his strength. Our ideas of space, size and time are but the fanciful dreams of children. I am fifty-nine inches tall, and, with my clothes, weigh one hundred and ten pounds. If I desired, I could make myself a colossus and swallow the earth as a child swallows a pill. If I willed it, I could fly through space like a comet or



hang suspended in the ether like a morning star. My will is greater than any physical force, because I believe in it: I have confidence in my own ability to do whatever I wish. So far, I have conducted myself like an average man because of my desire and not on account of my limitations. Man has a soul, and that ethereal force is greater than any law of nature that he ever thought of, or of any that God ever created. He is purely and totally supreme—if he so desires.”

It was after such a challenge to us, and the universe, that our chemist, Bullard, gathered courage to challenge his power. He stated his opinion sharply and to the point:

“I do not believe you.”

“What is that to me?” answered the professor.

“Simply this. You make a statement of certain powers that you have. I say that it is not true. Of what good is it to boast if you know that we think you a liar? Can you do these things? If you can, do them for us, and I for one will call you greater than God. Fail to do them, and I brand you as a boasting liar.”

The professor looked at the chemist, and we, breathlessly, waited for the blow to fall. But he only laughed.

“You want a sign? A proof? I have thought of just such a thing, and I would have proposed it myself had one of you not asked for it. The thing must be visible to you all, something that I can demonstrate, a thing unheard of, a thing thought by all men to be impossible, and yet I will do it. Listen to me.

“You have all seen the jelly-fish, called the Bishop’s Miter. When it is magnified three hundred times under the microscope, it looks like a small balloon with a large opening at one end. It propels its way through the water by the flagellate movement of its cilia. The walls are translucent and transparent. At the top there are two specialized groups

of nerve cells which we believe may serve as eyes. The opening at the bottom serves as a mouth. Smaller cells enter there and are absorbed. I describe it to refresh your memory, though all of you have seen it. I will secure one in a hanging drop under the microscope, and then we will attach the camera and cinema to it. We will project the picture on our screen. You will see the Miter move and live; you will observe the cilia move.

“While we have the actual specimen under observation, I will look at it through the microscope. Then I will demonstrate to you that I am not the idle boaster that you think I am. I will perform an experiment that will win for me the name of the greatest scientist that has ever lived.”

When he had told us the nature of it we were too much astonished to reply. It seemed evident that the man had become insane. He smiled at us as though we were children. '

After waiting for an answer and seeing that we had none to give, he began to prepare the apparatus for the experiment. Finally all was to his satisfaction. After examining several drops of water from our specimen jar, he was able to imprison a Bishop’s Miter in the hanging drop under the microscope. He turned on the electricity, and we saw the jellyfish move upon the screen.

The professor carefully adjusted the apparatus till the organism appeared with more than usual distinctness. We saw the little animal that he had so carefully described to us. We even saw the little projections, which we believed were rudimentary visual organs.

Then Professor Quierling told the cinema operator what he wanted done. He was to take a picture, starting from the time the professor disappeared down the brass tube of the microscope and continuing till he reappeared. No matter what hap58


pened, he was to go on taking pictures.

“It is all well enough,” said our master, “for you children to see what is happening and to talk about it later, but who would believe you? We know' that the camera can not lie. That is why it is important to take a consecutive picture of what occurs. Otherwise, you might think that I have been able to hypnotize you. Now, I will look down this tube. I see at the bottom in the hanging drop a transparent balloon. It is a pretty sight. Watch me carefully as I will myself to shrink. I will go on talking as long as I can, and you must listen carefully, because the smaller I am the less audible will be my voice.

“Now r 1 am twelve inches high. I am standing near the microscope. I become still smaller and now I am only one inch tall and am standing on the eyepiece. No doubt, you can barely hear me. Now I am smaller yet and am ready to will myself through the glass of the eyepiece.”

npHE room was silent. We looked, shivering, at the microscope, and the professor was gone. The chemist staggered over to the instrument, looked into it, and silently staggered back to his seat.

On the screen in front of us the inhabitants of the drop of water lived and moved and had their being. Largest of all was the transparent jelly-fish, which w r as moving restlessly as though seeking a way of escape. The only sound in the room was the whir of the cinema and the harsh breathing of the chemist.

Then, on the screen, came a new figure, and we were able to identify the professor, swimming among the infusoria. Gaining his balance, he at last stood upright and waved his hand at us. It was easy to see his smile, that condescending smile that had so often driven us frantic. There

was no doubt from the expression on his face that he was highly pleased with his performance. None of us dared look at his fellow; not one of the audience thought for a second of taking his eyes off the silver screen. We were stunned, stupefied and filled with a wild terror, all the more horrible because of its silence.

The professor started to swim again and now approached the jellyfish. He tapped the crystal walls; then, as though seized with a sudden impulse, he went to the bottom, jumped up through the mouth and entered the translucent ball of protoplasm. He peered at us through the transparent walls. His arms made a series of peculiar movements and once again he smiled at us.

“My God!” exclaimed the artist. “He is wigwagging to us in the army code. He said, ‘I have done it, and now I will return to your world.’ ”

And, as though beginning to keep his promise, he started for the mouth of the jelly-fish; and then—and thenThe mouth closed.

The professor circled the glasslike ball, seeking a way of exit. Once he waved at us in a peculiar manner, and then suddenly he sought the wall and, with arms and legs, tried to break through. On his face was now the look of ghastly despair. The things on top of the jelly-fish began to glow—no doubt now that they were eyes, and bright ones.

Before us, the professor slowly disappeared into a globule of milky protoplasm. The jelly-fish not only had made him a prisoner, but had actually dissolved and digested him. With a shriek, the artist went over to the wall and turned on the electric lights. Trembling, the chemist looked down the tube of the microscope and told us that there was nothing in the hanging drop save the jelly-fish.

SATTYAMURTI the Saint, absorbed in contemplation of the Para-Brahma, the Infinite One, sat solitary on the edge of a bluff. With unseeing eyes he gazed across the sacred river gleaming under the blaze from a cloudless sky.

Upon his head, close-tonsured, save for a single lock, the sun’s rays beat pitilessly; yet he recked not of it. Heat and cold, hunger and thirst, had long since ceased to rank as penances voluntarily undergone. Yoga —profound meditation—was achieving what repression of the passions had begun. Whilst all around him his fellow-men toiled in pursuit of power

or wealth or love, there was naught that he craved except Nirvana, final deliverance, extinction.

His countenance was that of the true sannyasi, penitent, serene, devoid of guile, the skin drawn parchment-tight on the high cheek-bones. His eyes, deep-sunken, were those of a visionary. Naked to the middle, the lower portion of his tall figure, shrunken to extreme emaciation, was covered by a single garment of reddish-saffron cloth. From left shoulder to right hip depended the janeo — the triple Brahmanical cord. His staff and sandals lay on the ground beside him.



In front of him, beyond where a drowsy crocodile sunned itself on a mud-bank, a distant range of low. arid hills showed through the quivering heat-haze. Behind him, in the gloomy, thick-set shelter of the mangogroves, hocks of gaudy parrots chattered on the branches, and troops of monkeys squabbled and played. Yet he heeded them not: like an image carved from stone he sat, silent and motioidess, with Life and Death on either hand.

Downstream, to his right, blue-gray wreaths of smoke curled lazily upward. from the funeral pyres of the bumxng-ghats. Upstream, clustered like ants around the myriad conicalroofed temples, jostling one another on the long flights of steps leading to the margin of the river, dense crowds of men, women and children shouted and surged in the gay turmoil of a bathing-festival. The river itself was black with them, standing waist-deep for the barbers to l’id them of their beards and hair and eyebrows. It was the season when the Sun had entered the sign of the Ram, and it behooved all pious Hindoos to bathe in the waters of purification.

For many hours had the saint been seated thus, remote from the world. But though his expression was serene, there were questions that troubled him always.

Were Good and Evil mere figments of the imagination? Were the Universe and all its phenomena nothing better than Maya, Illusion? Like all Hindoos, he had learnt in childhood that, after nearly four million years, this world was now in Kali-yuga, the Iron Age, the Age of Misery. Virtue had ceased to rule; everyone and all things were under the domination of “The Man of Sin,” created by Vishnu to torment humanity. But what if there were no reality of existence, save that of the Para-Bralima alone? Sattyamurti nodded his head slowly. Some day the truth of the matter would be. revealed to him.

The shadows began to lengthen, and he roused himself from his trance. He picked up his staff and sandals, and bent his footsteps along the road, ankle-deep in powdery dust toward the city. From the great red-sandstone walls the turrets jutted out like monstrous heads of war-elephants advancing in line of battle. He drew nearer, and passed under the arched gateway.

The narrow bazar-lanes were packed with a brightly dressed, evermoving throng. There were groups slaking their thirst at the wooden stalls of the sharbat- sellers, chaffering with the vendors of cheap glass bangles. Pedlers of charms and amulets wrangled with the fortunetellers over clients. Stout Brahman priests, ever on the watch for gain, bustled about solicitous of offerings for the temples, guiding sight-seers down to the tanks to feed the sacred fish. Acrobats and snake-charmers were plying their trade. Ever and anon a drove of tiny donkeys, or a string of softly padding camels, part of the caravan of some grim-faced, bushy-bearded trader from the North, forced a way through the gaping holiday-crowd with little ceremony.

Here and there, in the shade of the booths, were men upon whom the eyes of the saint rested coldly—loathly fakirs, naked except for a loin-cloth, red-eyed from drafts of intoxicating bhang, their bodies gray -with ashes, and ashes hi their unkempt, matted hair. He knew them for what they were—charlatans, holy merely by favor of Oriental custom. Such an one had traveled for many a hundred miles toilsomely measuring his length along the highway, and now lay stretched upon a bed of spikes in a venial parade of holiness. Another, self-mutilated for a life of idleness, held aloft immovable his withered, stiffened arms. A third, slung from a bamboo pole head-downward, dike a great bat, poured forth a blessing or a curse, according as passers-by enTHE DEVIL’S FINGER


riched ox* ignored the begging-bowl rattled ceaselessly by his disciple.

Sattyamurti turned his glance from them to the bathers returning from the river carrying their bowls filled with sacred watei*. Purged of their sins, they were happy. And yet, he reflected son’owfully, it needed but a chance word from one of them to lead to a blow, a blow to lead to a quarrel, a quarrel to a riot—thus, from a trivial happening might result death and disaster!

He passed on, and at the comer close to the shop of Abdulla, the sweetmeat-seller, paused for a while beneath the spreading branches of a peepul-tree. On the opposite side of the lane towered the lofty enclosurewall of the palace gardens. From the open shop-front came the buzz of flies hovering over the pots of honey and sugar-coated cakes. Abdulla, his palm-leaf fan fallen from his hand, snored on his strip of matting.

And, of a sudden, it seemed to Sattyamurti as if the radiance had departed from the day. It was as though a dusky pall of cloud had been drawn across the sun, shrouding the streets in shadow. Down the center of the lane came twirling toward him a eolumn of dust, growing as it came; and before it di’ove a wind scorching as a blast from a hell-furnace in Naraka. And Sattyamxxrti knew that it heralded the approach of ‘ ‘ The Man of Sin.”

He felt no fear. Thrice before had he seen him; had spoken to him, plying him with questions. And thrice had “The Man of Sin” listened, smiling his malignant smile, but returning no answer.

The dust-cloud thinned, and there appeared, leaning against the mudwall of the shop, one elbow resting on the roof of it, the gigantic figure of him whom Hindoos call “The Executioner of Mankind.” Except for his belly, which was scarlet, his body was black as jet. His hair and beard were long and white. From

high above the lintel of the doorway his visage, distorted by rage, glared down upon the saint with wild, bright eyes.

Sattyamurti questioned him boldly.

“Oh, Man of Sin,” he demanded, “why dost thou range this beautiful Avorld seeking to bring misfortune upon men?”

For a space there was a silence; then came the*answer, with a crooked smile: “I do no such thing!”

“Verily, thou ai't rightly called the Father of Lies!” rejoined Sattyamurti, impatiently. “The justice of my saying is clear to me. For wheresoever thou goest there follow calamities—hatred and murder, rapine and war. But for thee, this earth might well be Paradise. Again I say, why dost thou do this wickedness?”

“The Man of Sin” answered him once more: “I do not!”

Thereat he broke into mocking laughter at the saint, and mocking stooped and dipped one huge black finger in a jar round which the flies wei*e buzzing. With his finger he daubed a glistening smear of honey along the lintel of the doorway. And he was gone.

For a few moments longer Sattyamurti lingered, wrapped in thought. And whilst he pondered, a fly hovered for an instant over that shining siqear of honey, then settled on it. Sattyamurti stood watching, and like a streak of emerald flashing through the sunlight a lizard dai’ted downward from the eaves, and gulped the fly.

The saint shook his head sorrowfully.

“The Devil’s Finger!” he muttered. “Behold, already three links in the chain of destruction! The honey, the fly and the lizard. What shall the last link be?”

I n her pavilion set high upon the walls, Aparajita the Princess reclined listlessly against her pile of silken cushions. Through the latticed



window in front of her drifted the hum of the busy streets below. From the palace pleasure-grounds a soft breeze wafted the heavy perfume of roses and orange-blossoms into that cool retreat. In the peaceful halflight of the pillared hall, whose alabaster columns reflected in the darkgreen marble floor seemed to her whimsical fancy a flock of giant swans dipping their nfccks in water, she could lie and watch through the open portico gay butterflies flitting in radiant sunshine from flower to flower of the scented gardens, poised for a second on the brink of a tinkling fountain.

In attendance on her were her handmaidens, Alipriya and Hasamurti, along with Bauna the Dwarf, one of the few men whom she was permitted to see.

Of the two girls Hasamurti was her favorite. She was smaller than her mistress, lovely, feather-brained, fond of intrigue—well named Laughter Incarnate. Alipriya was a graver beauty, conceited, sullen sometimes, but skilled in the singing of lovesongs to the lute-shaped vina. As for Bauna the Dwarf, grizzle-bearded, with the strength and valor of a lion in his squat body, yet with ever a humorous twinkle in his keen dark eyes, the princess knew that he would give his life for her. “Was she not Aparajita, the Peerlees One?” he would say to himself, as he sat by the window teaching some new tricks to Chor Khan, the monkey.

And, in truth, she was worthy of a man’s adoration. Her face was a pure oval, the chin a little pointed, like a peepul-lcaf. The crest-jewel of her charms was her mouth, drooped slightly at the comers, the soul of vermilion in her lips. Her eyes were lazy mirrors, long-lashed under the twin arches of her brow. A coil of dusky, jasmine-scented hair twined over one rounded hip curved like a breaking wave. Upon the silken bodice a shell-pink lotus nestled in the

hollow between her breasts. From the waist downward she was robed in silver tissue, which scarce concealed the graceful symmetry of dainty limbs. There were rings and jewels everywhere: pendent, from delicate nostrils, on slender throat and arms, on fingers and little feet rosy with henna.

But though she was made for love, and dreamed of it, love would never be hers. She knew that clearly. Parents she had.none; and Raja Nal Singh, her uncle, Chief of Kamber, bent on alliance with the neighboring state of Aundi, had framed her destiny. Though a princess, she was but a pawn in a game between two kings. The gem-studded coconut, symbol of a marriage offer, had been accepted. Before the year had died she would be consort of one old enough to be her father, drug-sodden, sated with life, wearied of other women! With a sigh she turned her head, and gazed down through the lattice at the freedom of the open street.

Standing under a peepul-tree, close to Abdulla’s shop, she saw a tall figure clothed in the garb of an ascetic. His face was upturned, and his lips were moving, as though in converse with himself.

“Who is yonder sannyasif” she inquired of Bauna the Dwarf.

Bauna rose, and with the two girls looked through the window.

“He is Sattyamurti the Saint,” he answered, promptly. “A holy man, indeed—not like the others. Even the raja listens when he speaks.”

“He has the face of one who would bring peace, ’ ’ the princess murmured. “But see!—he talks with someone, though there is none present! ’ ’

“All sannyasis are mad!” declared Hasamurti, giggling.

“Perhaps he is making a jap!” Alipriya suggested, with a shiver, fingering the charm at her neck. “It is well known that such men can

THE DEVIL’S FINGER

make powerful spells against their enemies.”

“Perhaps he communes with the Gods,” the princess hazarded, gravely. “I would that I might listen awhile to such an one as he!”

“ ’Twould be but time wasted,” Hasamurti interjected, pertly. “Doubtless he looks on all women as a peacock looks on snakes! ’ ’

“Nevertheless, some day I would have speech with him,” the princess said. “For I think there be many things that he could tell me. ’ ’

Alipriya simpered: “All that I desire to hear from a man is that I am beautiful!”

Bauna, who trusted her but little, eyed her askance.

“That I can believe!” he snapped. “The saint would have naught in common with thee! He cares nothing for the trifles of this world. But it is said that as a swan can separate milk from water, so can Sattyamurti distinguish truth from falsehood. Wherefore, be careful!”

Alipriya retorted angrily: “Thou hintest, then, that I-?”

“Thou mayest divine my meaning! There came lately to mine ears a tale-”

‘ ‘ Thine ears, forsooth!—which project from thy pumpkin head like the two arms of a pot, less for hearing than for handling-! ’ ’

Bauna only grinned. The insult fell on him like a leaf on the back of an elephant.

Chor Khan, the monkey, created a diversion. His small, gray head thrust through the lattice-work, he was staring at the lintel on the confectioner’s doorway. Then he scrambled through and swung down, clinging to the tufts of coarse grass in the wall-crevices.

Hasamurti clapped her hands gleefully.

“He goes to raid old fat Abdulla’s store! ’ ’ she cried. ‘ ‘ Aho!—rightly is he named Chor Khan, Prince of Thieves!”

“Nay, it is the lizard that he chases, ’ ’ Bauna said. ‘ ‘ Now watch! ’ ’

Chor Khan crept stealthily across the street, then sprang suddenly upward. A second later the dead body of the lizard fell into the roadway.

There was a smear of honey on the lintel. Chor Khan found it to his liking, and descended to where the jars on the wooden trestles promised ampler provision.

And whilst he gorged himself at leisure, darting ever and anon a wary glance at the snoring form of his unwitting host, those in the pavilion heard the distant murmur of a mob swarming along the narrow wards of the bazars. The sound drew nearer, and Bauna enlightened the women.

“ ’Tis but a crowd of sight-seers,” he explained, “gaping at Shaitan, the raja’s fighting blood-horse. His grooms lead him back to the stables. ’ ’

They could see Shaitan presently, a hu&e bay ramping beast, nostrils distended, ears cocked and eyeballs aglare, tearing at the cruel thorn-bit. in his jaws. To each cheek-piece of the bit had been welded rings of steel, through which ran ropes gripped by strong men. On his steaming, foamflecked coat were deep-cut talon-scars; for, once on a feast-day, as all the city-folk I’emembered, Shaitan had fought before the raja in the walled arena with Ali Sher, the tiger, and had trampled him to death. More than one man had died beneath those iron-shod hooves.

The noise awoke Abdulla. He sat up, saw the monkey robbing him, and with a bellow of wrath went blundering forward. A great brass tray of sweetmeats clattered into the street, and Chor Khan, scuttling to safety, sprang from the trestles under the forefeet of the furious horse. Shaitan, with a snort of mingled rage and terror, reared straight up, wrenching the ropes from the grasp of those who held them.

There followed pandemonium. Sensing his freedom, the mighty



brute wheeled and plunged murderously at the struggling throng behind him. A cry went up: “The ManSlaver! The Man-Slayer is loose!” One unlucky wretch, seized by the shoulder in a vicious grip, was whirled from his feet and hurled with a sickening thud against a pillar. The bazar emptied like magic, doors slamming as those fortunate enough to be near them bolted like rabbits into their holes.

Blit the bazar was not quite empty. In the center of it, forgotten in the general stampede, there stood bawling for his mother a tiny brown-skinned urchin. From behind the latticed window the princess, breathless with horror, saw the maddened beast glimpse his fresh quarry and bear down upon it open-mouthed. An instant later the small screaming bundle was snatched aloft, held by a strip of clothing.

And then, before worse could happen, there came rushing from a near-by alleyway a man armed with a brass-shod cudgel. Dauntlessly he tore the child from the reeking jaws, leaped sideways, dropped it behind him; then, turning swiftly, swung the cudgel up two-handed and brought it crashing down between the great brute’s eyes. Stunned by the blow, Shaitan staggered bewildered, and with a yell of triumph his panicstricken grooms dashed from their shelter and flung themselves upon the trailing guide-ropes. But as the thorn-bit racked his mouth afresh, his savage heels lashed out. Struck on the side, his vanquisher rolled over and lay still.

Aparajita the Princess, heedless of her sobbing maidens, stood by the window wide-eyed. She could see him lying there, a young, strong man, his calm, pale face turned skyward. And then—she saw him again, brave as the War God, fair as the God of Love, who carries a bow of flowers with a row of bees for his bowstring.. An arrow had pierced her heart!

Bauna the Dwarf spoke first.

‘ ‘ By the favor of Rama I have this day seen a Man! ” he burst out, exultantly. “And look!—he moves! Inquiry shall be made as to his name, so that he may receive the reward which is fitting.”

The yearning look passed from the princess’ face. She gave an imperious order.

“Go, now! Bring him within the walls, that his hurts be tended!”

Bauna hesitated. “It is scarce proper,” he dared to remonstrate. “His garb is that of a common fellow. Yet, there might be found for him employment ’ ’

The princess stamped an impatient foot.

“Am I a beggar, that a servant questions my bidding? Go, I say!” —she glanced wamingly at her maidens—“and let those who value my service refrain from babbling!”

So they brought Jai Singh, returned to his own country with a caravan from the North, within the walls of the palace.

TTasamurti was the first to guess her mistress’ secret. She could read the tokens—the listlessness, the sighings, the questions as to the young man’s welfare. Needless to say, the affair had her warm-hearted sympathy.

He was recovered from his hurts, she said; but if her mistress wished to hear from his own lips, there was her room; she could arrange a meeting. Alipriya should know nothing. Bauna would grumble, but be silent as the grave. What were her dear mistress’ orders?

The princess hid her face, but the color flushed like dawn over her throat and bosom.

“Hasamurti!—that it be soon!” she whispered.

So at night, when the palace was asleep, Jai Singh for the first time stood in the princess’ presence. The fragrance of her loveliness held him

THE DEVIL’S FINGER


spellbound. She seemed to him Lakshmi, born from the foam of the ocean; wonderful as moonlight streaming into a forest glade. For a time he remained speechless, worshiping her beauty.

But though she knew that she loved him, she remembered that she was Aparajita the Princess, and a frown spread over her countenance like a dark ripple over the surface of a pool.

“What, maimer of man art thou,” she questioned haughtily, “to stare so rudely? To stand before royalty without obeisance?”

Jai Singh regained his courage, and laughed softly.

“Lady,” he said, “must I be blamed if I marvel tongue-tied at the splendor of the lotus? As for who I am, Jai Singh is my name, of thine own race, a Rajput. As for the obeisance, it may be that I also am entitled to it. For verily, I believe that I, too, am a prince!”

It was her turn to regard him, wonder-struck.

“Thou!—a prince? Did a soothsayer tell thee this? ’ ’

Jai Singh laughed again.

“Nav, I have weightier proof than that! A horoscope and a seal worn round my neck since childhood.”

“Where wast thou born, then?”

“As I think, lady, within this very palace. So the woman told me who tended me from infancy. She was my nurse, and when disaster came she stole away by night and fled northward, taking me with her. Now that I am grown, I have returned to seek my fortune.”

From a pouch slung around his neck he drew the paper and the seal, and showed them to her. She was at once all eagerness. Her heart beat high; for though a princess has been known to love a common man, it is more seemly that she should have a prince for her lover.

“Let us take counsel with Bauna the Dwarf,” she advised. “He is

wise, and has great knowledge of such things. ’ ’

Bauna came sour-faced; but when he had seen the seal, and heard the young man’s story, he lifted his turban from his head, and placed it at Jai Singh’s feet.

“Maharaj!” he cried respectfully, “have I permission to speak? A certain matter is now plain to me. Know, then, that Raja Nal Singh, who rules today over lvamber, was the youngest of three brothers. Madhu Singh and Pritlii Singh were the names of the two elder. Both of them died within a year: there were those who spoke of poison. Raja Madhu Singh had an infant son: it was given out that the child had died also. Pritlii Singh had a daughter-”

The dwarf stopped speaking, and looked across at Aparajita the Princess listening with parted lips.

“And the seal?” Jai Singh questioned, impatiently.

“Maharaj! there is no mistaking it! It is the seal of Raja Madhu Singh— thy father!”

After a moment Jai Singh spoke ruefully:

“It seems, then, that I am a prince without a principality! A beggar prince!—with as little chance of fortune as a beggar!”

Bauna sought to hearten him.

“Who knows? There may yet come opportunity. As I read thy horoscope, at the time of thy birth the ‘lord of the first house’ was the Lucky Planet. Thy name, likewise, is of good omen—Jai Singh, Lion of Victory.”

Jai Singh smiled bitterly.

“A dangerous lion, indeed, with his claws cut!”

Bauna was thinking rapidly.

“They will grow again,”.he asserted. “Listen, Maharaj! The people wax daily more weary of Raja Nal Singh, his cruelties and his taxes. ’Twould take but little to rouse them. Moreover, there might come help from Aundi,” he hinted, craftily,



The princess exclaimed in amazement: ‘‘Now do I know that thou art mad, Bauna! How say you?—help from the Chief of Aundi? The state with which my uncle seeks alliance at the price of my maidenhood?”

The dwarf chuckled. “It was not of the chief that I thought, but of Dhola Rai, the leader of his army. It is known that Dhola Rai covets the throne of Aundi; and whither he goes his troops will follow him. It may well be that he would aid us, in the hope that some day we may render him assistance. If it be permitted, Maharaj, I will inquire further into the matter.”

A fter Bauna had withdrawn, Jai Singh turned once more to the princess. His breath came quickly, for he saw her leaning upon her cushions observing him with soft lips breaking into a smile. Youth was hot within him, and fervent worship of her beauty. He fell on his knees before her.

“Behold, I make obeisance, oh my princess!” he said.

Shyly she looked at him through silky lashes; then smiled again as his arms went round her.

“How long have I known thee,” she whispered, “oh, thou bold lover?”

He answered: “For a thousand years—or for an instant! I have lost count of time!”

Days passed, and while Bauna was busied with his plans, the lovers met often in Hasamurti’s chamber.

Aparajita found him a gallant wooer, and as she lay in his arms her glances entered his heart like diamond arrows tipped with fire. He devised love-names for her delight: Nilanalini, and Alichumbita, Kissed by the Bees.

And then one evening there came a hammering at the outer door. Hasamurti, bursting in, flung herself distraught at her mistress’ feet.

“We are lost!” she cried. “Alipriya has learnt our secret and be-

trayed us! There are soldiers waiting without to take him away!”

Grim-faced, there entered men of the raja’s guard. A great seal was set on the door. Jai Singh they dragged to the common prison, Aparajita’s farewell words still ringing in his ears: “Beloved! Death is strong: but Love is stronger!”

Under cover of the dusk Bauna the Dwarf slipped past the sentries at the city gates, and hastened to the lonely cave in the hills where Sattyamurti the Saint had his meager lodging.

\X7hen next the lovers met, it was * * in the audience chamber. This was a spacious hall, rich-carpeted, its lofty columns draped with brocades of scarlet and silver. At one end of it, on a marble dais, was a gemencrusted throne raised upon massive feet of solid gold. From the upper casements stray shafts of sunlight played on the jeweled peacocks flaunting on either arm, rubies and sapphires agleam in their spreading tails. To the base of it were affixed emblems of majesty: buckler and mace and bow glittering with precious stones.

Upon the throne, benea th a pearlfringed silken canopy, was seated Nal Singh, ruler of Kamber, a man of middle age, but old in vice, his gross body bulging from his vesture of cloth of gold. Under his turban, crowned with a snow-white heron’s plume clasped by a brooch of diamonds set round a lustrous topaz, his heavy-lidded eyes glowered sullenly at the scene before him.

Below the throne, ranged in a semicircle, were the nobles of the court. From behind the columns dancinggirls and servitors, huddled together, peered in eager anticipation.

There were those who pitied the princess, as she stood, a flush on her scornful face, shamefully unveiled before the eyes of men. But none dared voice his pity!

THE DEVIL’S FINGER


For Jai Singh, tail and unflinching beside her, there was, however, nothing of compassion. He was a nobody, a wastrel who had presumed to sully the honor of the state. Let the torturers deal with him!

Nal Singh, the Raja, spoke:

“Their guilt is known to all. They can not deny it. There remains only to decide the manner of their punishment. ’ ’

Jai Singh cried boldly:

“Oh, King!—grant me this one favor! Visit thy wrath only upon me! For myself I look for neither justice nor mercy at the hands of him who slew Raja Madhu Singh, my father!”

A murmur of amazement, quickly hushed, ran through the assembly. Raja Madhu Singh’s rule had been popular. There were many there who hated his successor. The eyes of all were fastened on that young man, dressed like a servant, hurling defiance at a monarch.

There was awed silence. Beside himself with rage and consternation, the tyrant was leaning forward, struggling to speak. His grasp tightened on his velvet-scabbarded sword, and then his voice thiuidered through the hall.

* ‘ Thou dog! Thou lying paramour of a profligate woman! For thy crime and for that false saying thou shalt surely die! As for thy wanton, she shall live scorned like a widow till she does my bidding! And on the day that the kneeling elephant crushes thy body to shapelessness, she shall watch from the balcony! Thou shalt go to thy death alone!”

As the guards turned to lead away their prisoner, the crowd fell apart, and a gaunt figure pressed its way to the center of the hall. The murmur broke out again:

“ ’Tis Sattyamurti! Sattyamurti the Saint!”

Sattyamurti stood motionless, the deep-sunken eyes in his serene face fixed on the man on the throne.

' * There is a request, oh King! ” he said, in a voice that all could hear.

“Is this a time for requests?” the raja scowlingly demanded. “For what dost thou ask, then?”

Sattyamurti answered simply:

“For the life of a man!”

The raja’s scowl deepened. “What is thy concern in this matter, oh Sattyamurti?” he demanded again. “Since when do holy men champion the cause of traitors? Is it not given to a king to punish his guilty subjects?”

“Verily, it is within the power of kings to punish their subjects,” the saint admitted, dryly. “But the Gods can punish kings! And in this affair I see clearly the trace of the Devil’s finger, the chain of calamity starting with a smear of honey upon a doorway-”

“What prating is this?” the raja began impatiently, but the saint would not he stayed.

“Nay, listen, oh King!” he cried. “For to the forging of three links of the chain I was myself a witness. It may be that this world and all things in it are but Maya, Illusion—I am not yet assured on the point—or it may be that there will some day come a reckoning. Beware, therefore, how thou addest a link to the chain! Even now thou mayest be thyself in the mouth of Death!”

The raja sat moodily frowning. He knew well that he had enemies; he knew in what veneration Sattyamurti was held by the people. To repeal the death sentence in response to the behest of such a holy man would be accounted an act of kingly clemency..Moreover, there might be an even choicer mode of satisfying his lust for vengeance!

At length he spoke. “Thy request is granted, oh Sattyamurti. Still, his t offense justly merits retribution. He s shall not die. He shall even be cherished—as a man cherishes a favorite bird, in a cage, with a little rice and water!”


The saint made no reply. He had done what he could.

As the raja finished speaking, there arose a hubbub at the back of the hall, and Bauna the Dwarf was thrust forward. He had been caught that morning, said his captors, hiding in a house in the city.

Before the tittering company, his grotesque countenance distorted by terror, his hands clipped tightly together in a cleft bamboo, he stumbled forward and fell groveling at the foot of the throne.

‘ ‘ Mercy! Great King! ’ ’ he wailed. “By the cow’s tail will I swear that I was ignorant of this misdoing!”

“Thou didst not know, forsooth?”

“I swear it! How could I play a part in such an infamy? I, who am the King’s most loyal slave! I, who dare not tread upon even the King’s shadow! ’ ’

Raja Nal Singh was growing weary* It was time for his morning draft of opium-water.

“ ’Twas thy duty to have known, and to have informed those in authority! ” he growled, irritably. ‘ ‘ I need no fools in my service! Thy goods are forfeit, and let this night find thee far beyond my territory!”

Blubbering his thanksgiving, the dwarf scrambled to his feet. As the court dispersed, the princess cast him a look bitterly reproachful. Even Bauna had forsaken her!

TDefore dawn, while she lay, dryeyed and sleepless, with sobbing Hasamurti in her chamber, she heard a tapping at the window.

Bauna crept in. “Lady,” he whispered, “the horses are ready, and the guards are bribed. But there is need for haste. ’ ’

The princess answered him proudly

“I deal not with cowards! How should I know that this is nob a trap set by thy master?”

Bauna replied, patiently: “I pray you, believe me, lady! There is little

time for explaining—but could a man who was himself a prisoner help others?”

Still she wavered. “While Jai Singh, the Prince, still lives, I leave not the palace!” she protested.

Bauna grinned. “Gold is a sure key to a prison-lock. He awaits us with the horses.”

She believed him, then—and before the morrow’s sun had mounted spearhigh they came in sight of the white tents of Dhola Rai’s encampment spreading across the plain.

the day and at the hour ^ declared propitious by the astrologers the army marched against Kamber.

At daybreak Jai Singh and Dhola Rai had pledged mutual fidelity, had exchanged turbans, dipping their hands in salt. The troops were in high fettle: the omen had been favorable, a partridge calling from the left.

It made a brave sight—that mighty host surging forward to the din of the monster kettle-drums, trumpets and cymbals. Jai Singh rode in the forefront, leading the horsemen armed with swords and lances. Round the great orange standard was a special escort. These were picked warriors clad in yellow, sprinkled with saffronwater, their faces stained with turmeric, vowed to the death. They were merry, for they said among themselves: “Ere nightfall we shall taste the cups of sparkling wine served by the lovely Apsaras in Surya-loka, the mansion of the Sun!”

Behind them, led by Dhola Rai, marched bowmen and pikemen in thick quilted corselets. Some of them carried sharp-edged metal disks and war-rockets to be launched against the enemy horse.

Then came the elephants, clanking in body armor, tolling their brazen bells, their howdahs packed with javelin-men. There would be work for the lumbering monsters in the last

THE DEVIL’S FINGER

assault, trampling over the heaps of slain to ram the city gates.

The rear was formed of a noisy, straggling mob—camels and baggagecarts and the riffraff of an army; soothsayers and astrologers, mendicants and dancers—a looting rabble.

On Moti, the huge war-elephant, rode Aparajita the Princess. Against her lover, minded to leave her in safety, she had turned rebellious. Facing him, splendid in. chain-mail blazoned with the sun-emblem, she had cried mockingly:

“Nay, but I come with thee! Am I the first woman of the Rajputs to follow her lord to battle?”

So she had prevailed, and climbed to the rocking howdah, where Bauna the Dwarf might shelter her with his leathern buckler.

A t noonday battle was joined upon the sun-parched plain before Kamber. Great was the slaughter, but from the first the fortune of the day was with Jai Singh. Word had gone forth of who had been his father, and Raja Nal Singh’s troops had little stomach for the fight.

For a time the battle swayed; swords clashed, and man ripped man with the dreaded “ tiger’s-claw,” while twanging war-bows clouded the sky with arrows. Then a rumor flew through the ranks that Raja Nal Singh, desperate of victory, lay dead within his citadel, slain by his own hand. Outflanked and driven in upon the fortifications, the enemy turned and fled, pursued by shouting horsemen.

The trumpets blared the call for the final onset. Jai Singh, sheathing his dripping blade, climbed to his lady’s side. Moti, the elephant, wallowed across the moat to a patch of firm, dry land before the fortress gate.

There arose, then, imminent danger to the princess. Arrows were raining from the battlements, rattling on leathern bucklers, bristling in the howdah -front like quills upon a

porcupine. Ahead was the massive, heavy-timbered gate, studded with iron spikes which Moti dared not face. In vam his driver strove to urge him forward, prodding behind the ear his steel-shod goad. Swinging his trunk, Moti searched this way and that, but nowhere could he find even a truss of grass to serve for a forehead-pad against those threatening barbs.

From the battlements the arrows still rained down.

“Bauna!” the princess called; “is there no way to force for us the gate? ’ ’

For a moment longer Bauna stayed pexplexed. Then, with the laugh of a brave man facing death, he gave her answer.

‘ ‘ There is a way, oh my Princess! ’ ’ he said.

They watched him leap from the howdah, shout to Moti an order; too late they understood his sacrifice! The slate-gray trunk shot out, coiled round that valiant body, heaved it aloft for a brow-pad, obtained a purchase! The soul of Bauna the Dwarf joined the souls of the warrior-heroes in Surya-loka—and the gate crashed open!

T he sun was setting when Sattyamurti reached the bluff above the sacred river. It was the hour for his evening meditation.

And whilst he stood there, scanning the distant hills, there slunk from the darkened mango-grove behind him one of the fleeing soldiery, a lowering giant, his garments stained with blood. He halted, and with opiumreddened eyeballs glared at the saint.

“A curse on thee!” he snarled, “thou meddlesome old crow! But for thine interference, Jai Singh, the upstart, had been dead ere now, and I not masterless! ’ ’ His hand whipped to his sword-hilt.

Sattyamurti turned to him, his arms flung wide.



“Behold, the last link in the chain!” he affirmed. “Strike, then! I fear not!’ ’

The sword-point flickered to its mark.

Before the eyes of the dying saint there passed a vision. He saw first illimitable space, through which a cold wind blew. He saw the planets wheeling on their courses, beyond them a great white light. Then these, too, vanished.

Gasping, he raised himself a little on one elbow.

“Lo, there is nothing!” he mur-

mured. “No Good!—No Evil!—Only Maya, Illusion! ”

And so he died.

Y et, had they known this, Jai Singh and Aparajita would have deemed him mistaken.

Often they mourned the death of Bauna the Dwarf; but they had other things to think of-—the cares and joys of ruling, children, and the pleasant government of a house.

For they were young, and in love

[THE END]

============================================================
AN OCCURRENCE IN AN ANTIQUE SHOP_AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
with each other, and the world seemed to them very good.

Strange Was the Death of the Antiquary


By AUGUST W. DERLETH

ELL, no, it’s not that.” “Then what is it?”

“There seems to be something wrong w r ith the thing, but I can’t tell you what it is, nor why I feel that there’s some difference about it.”

Morrison handed the carving to Clavering, who took it and examined it carefully. It was an antique wood of a pirate in the act of plunging his cutlas into a hapless sailor. The pirate’s left arm was extended straight out from his shoulder much in the attitude of a fencer; his right arm was crooked at the elbow, and in his hand he clutched a long knife which just touched the sailor’s bared breast. The expression on the pirate’s face was

positively fiendish; the face of the kneeling sailor was a picture of abject terror. The two stood on a block of wood cut to resemble the flooring of a ship. There was dust on the carving.

“Humph!”

“Well?”

“What a peculiar obsession, Morrison! There isn’t a thing different with this piece since I last saw it.”

“It isn’t an obsession, Clavering. Isn’t the pirate’s weapon nearer to the sailor’s breast?”

“Not a fraction of an inch!”

‘ * Clavering! You ’re not lying—just to ease me?”

“Nonsense! You’ve been reading again—reading some of that-”

“I have not!”



“But, my dear Morrison-”

“I tell you I’m just the same as ever. It’s just.—just—well, yon know. Tell me, didn’t you really notice any difference in the attitude of the figures?’’

“No, I didn’t.”

“I’m still dubious.’’

“Oh, I say, Morrison! Don’t let’s discuss it.”

“As you will, Clavering, but you have no idea how the thing affects me. It’s so strangely suggestive.”

“Suggestive? Of what?”

“Of—nothing. Won’t you have a whisky and soda before you go?”

“No, I must go, Morrison.”

Clavering stood up. He yawned, then reached for his hat and stick. The two men walked slowly through the shadowy antique shop to the street door. On the threshold they paused. Morrison sighed. Clavering struck a match and lit his cigarette.

“I wouldn’t let that carving bother me any more, if I were you, Morrison. It’s not exactly good for you, you know.”

“It’s not bothering me; I’m just wondering, that’s all.”

“You’re trying fairly hard to conceal your nervousness, Morrison, but you can’t deceive me. You’d better stop, old fellow, stop worrying. ’ ’

“It’s easy for you to say. By God! I know that carving is not the same as when I got it. ’ ’

Morrison shuffled back through the aisles in his shop to his rooms beyond. His bedroom slippers made a curious flapping noise.

npHE next night Clavering found Morrison waiting for him, the image grasped tightly in his hand.

“No doubt, about it, Clavering. The pirate’s cutlas is plainly sticking in the sailor’s breast.”

“You’re seeing things, Morrison.”

“Well, look at it; see for yourself.”

“.There’s absolutely nothing the matter with it! ”

‘ ‘ Then what’s the matter with me? ”

“You’re overworked; under a nervous strain, that’s all.”

‘ ‘ Absolute nonsense. ’ ’

“Oh, well!”

“That weapon is going to keep on entering the sailor’s body; when it’s passed through, something will happen. ’ ’

“To the wooden figure?”

‘ ‘ Perhaps; who knows? ’ ’

Morrison turned the image over in his hand, then placed it on the table within easy reach.

“Did you ever notice that their faces had changed?”

“Oh, come, Morrison! You’re overdoing it. ’ ’

“That’s your view, Clavering; I’ve got mine. ’ ’

“By the way, Morrison, where did you get the thing, if I may ask?”

“I don’t know.”

‘ ‘ Yon don’t know? ’ ’

“No. It was here in the shop one day; I swear I’d never seen it before. ’ ’

“Odd.”

“Yes, it is odd—too odd to please me.”

“Why don’t you burn the thing?”

‘ ‘ I can’t bring myself to do it. In some cursed way it reminds me of something. ’ ’

Clavering shot a quick glance at the clock. “Is that 9 o’clock, Morrison?”

“Yes. Why?”

“I’ve got to go; I’ve an engagement at 9:30.”

“Oh.”

“ If I were you I’d put that carving in storage.”

M r. so ames clavering made a belated appearance at his club three nights later. He had no sooner made his entrance than a young antiquary, James Herrick, rose and made his way over to him.

' ‘ I say, Clavering, I hear Morrison’s dead. ’ ’

“Yes, lie’s dead.”

“What happened to him? Why,


just a week ago I bought a rare Japanese print from him. ’ ’

• • He had rather a peculiar end.”

‘‘You saw him die?”

‘‘No. No one saw him die. He lay dead in his shop when I came there last night. In his hand he held this.” Clavering pulled the wooden image from his pocket and extended it to his friend. ‘ ‘ Examine the thing, will you, Herrick? See anything queer about it?”

“Well, it’s an odd subject to carve, I should say, but beyond that there’s nothing wrong. Had I the say, I should have had the cutlas in the body of the sailor; it would maintain a better proportion in the carving. ’ ’

‘ ‘ True. It’s being just touching the sailor makes it rather awkward. ’ ’

“You say Morrison was holding this?”

“Yes. Odd, eh? But wait until you hear all the story. He fotmd the image in liis shop one day, hadn't the least idea where it came from, so he says, and was confident that he had never seen it before. At once he told me that he had an uncanny feeling of fright when he looked at the thing. The next night he insisted that the point of the cutlas had entered the body of the sailor, and that the expressions of the faces had changed. Ho hinted that the thing suggested something; I gathered that it brought to mind something in his past life that was very similar. And he dreaded the movement of the weapon into the sailor’s body, going so far as to state that something would happen when the cutlas passed through the body.

“By the way, Clavering, have you ever noticed the peculiar resemblance that the face of the sailor has to Morrison?”

“I have, Herrick; I've wondered

about it. I’m told that Morrison was once a seaman, perhaps even a pirate of some sort.”

“Who knows?”

“No one. Nobody seems to knowmuch of Morrison.”

“Go on Avith the story.”

“Well, Morrison insisted that, night after night, the cutlas Avas being surely plunged into the sailor’s body, and I was fully as insistent in my ridicule of his strange obsession. Last night when I came to see him I found him dead, with the image in his hand, as I told you. As far as I know, the cause of death is unknoAvn, Avith heart trouble of an obscure sort plausible. But there was a queer burnt mark on Morrison’s breast; I’ll be damned if it didn’t call to mind some queer stories I’ve heard about witchcraft. Imagine that, in this enlightened age! I took the image from him. It Avas just the way it is now, but in a moment I ’ll show you something. ’ ’

“Perhaps Morrison was the Adctim of some subconscious obsession; perhaps at some time in his life he killed a sailor under similar conditions and his conscience conjured his past up before him?”

“It’s just plausible. As I said, no one seems to knoAV much about Morrison. At any rate, this morning I got to examining the figure. In the first place it isn’t antique. It resembles a great deal of the work done by a group of old sailors doAvn along the Thames, in Limehouse district.

“In the second place—bend closer, Herrick—four-fifths of this cutlas is entirely free of dust, from the point toward the hilt, and if you look closely at the point where the cutlas would naturally have entered the sailor’s breast, you will see a faint oval line of compressed dust! ’ ’

CI4-EMICAL

BRAIN

•FRAfKIS-fLASG

*9

WALTER PARSONS is dead. At the inquest the jury returned a verdict to the effect that the deceased came to his death by being accidentally crushed under a machine with which he was experimenting. But that is not true. It ignores several peculiar things which the panel of men could not understand and before which their matter-of-fact minds recoiled in horror. Now I do not wish to be misunderstood. Perhaps the verdict, as rendered, was the only sane one that could be returned. Nevertheless, if ever a man was murdered, that man was Walter Parsons." Let me put' the incredible facts on paper. I do not expect to be believed, and yet...

T ast February I was coming out ■*— 11 of an employment agency in Pasadena, California, when a vigorous-looking gentleman of about fifty years accosted me.

“Pardon me, but I overheard what you said to the lady inside. You are a machinist?’'

“Yes."

“And looking for work?"

“I am."

“Would you consider a hundred and fifty dollars a month and your board?’ ’

“ You’ve hired me.’’

He smiled briefly. “My name is Rowan, Captain Rowan. And yours?”

“Lester. John Lester."




He motioned me into the front, seat of a Cadillac touring-car.

“Where shall we call for your things?”

“I haven’t any.”

He raised his eyebrows.

“They’re pawned, sold, gone,” I explained. “I was down to my last thin dime when you hired me. ’ ’

He answered nothing to this but drove to a men’s furnishing-store on Colorado Boulevard.

“Here is fifty dollars, an advance on your wages. Buy what you think you’ll need.”

'When my purchases were placed in the rear of the car, we drove out South Fair Oaks, almost to South Pasadena, and turned into the driveway of a fairly large estate on the east side of the road. The grounds were quite extensive, I noticed, and surrounded by a low stone wall. Palm trees bordered the drive that led to the garage, and orange trees grew in serried rows to right and left. The house itself was an oldfashioned wooden residence with wide verandas on each side. In the rear of the house was a brick building.

“This,” said the captain, throwing open the door, “is the machineshop and laboratory. You will notice that the machine-shop is small but quite well equipped for ordinary work. Parts that can not be made here will, of course, be ordered from larger establishments. Your work will be mostly assembling those parts and turning out certain small devices according to plans and specifications I shall give you.”

He took me to my room on the second floor of the house and left me to bathe and shave.

At dinner that evening I met Walter Parsons. He was a cleverlooking man of middle age, a chemist, I gathered, with a private income —nothing particularly striking about him, unless it was the feeling he gave of being very meticulous,

very correct. The third person at the table was Captain Rowan’s sister, Genevieve, who was also the housekeeper and cook, as there were no servants. She was one of those women whom at first glance you dismiss as uninteresting. At second glance you decide they are actually plain. After that you pay them little attention, and are never certain when it was you discovered they were beautiful.

The captain sat at the head of his table and talked easily and naturally. “Have you ever read Lucian Larkin?” he asked me.

“No, never,” I confessed.

“You know to whom I refer?”

“I’m afraid not.”

He made a wry face. “Such is fame. Well, my boy, Lucian Larkin was an astronomer, the director until his death of Mount Lowe Observatory on the peak over there. But not only was he an astronomer; he was also a great mystic, the author of several wonderful books, not the least of which is The Matchless Altar of the Soul. You must read it, by all means.”

Parsons gave a little laugh. He looked slyly at Genevieve Rowan, and then as if guilty of an indiscretion glanced quickly away.

“Not that you’ll understand it,” he mocked. “It is doubtful whether Larkin himself understood half of what he wrote.”

The captain smiled tolerantly. “Walter is a materialist. He doesn’t believe in the theory of a great mind back of all manifestation.”

“Who could?” countered Parsons. He turned to me with the little sudden gesture that was characteristic of him. “It is so evident,” he said, “that the mind of man is nothing but the sum of his bodily organization. When that organization breaks down—puff!—where is your mind?”

“And I might observe,” replied the captain, “that when the dynamo



breaks down, ditto, where is your power? Your very argument defeats you, Walter. Man is a machine. Very well. When he functions properly he is medium for mind, thought. When he breaks down, his mind, thought, goes—where? Into oblivion? Yes, the same oblivion that engulfs electricity when the generator fails to work; the same nothingness that claims radio waves when the machine fails to send them or the receiving-set to pick them up. Don’t be absurd!”

I listened to them argue, rather puzzled as to what it was all about.

S everal days later Parsons and I were in the machine-shop together and I expressed my bewilderment to him. “You see, Lester,” he explained, “there are really two schools of thought. One school—the material school to which I belong— holds that our so-called mind is the result of bodily nerves and organs functioning a certain way. The other school—to which the captain subscribes—holds that mind is something exterior to our bodily organization, merely expressing itself through our brains and directing our activity.”

As I worked I pondered these two concepts. Never before had I given such things serious thought. Now they interested me. Why? Because I sensed that in some fashion they were connected with the work I was doing. The captain as an electrical engineer, Parsons as a chemist, were engaged in some profound' experiment. This much I gathered from their conversation. But what sort of an experiment? Now and then Captain Rowan talked to me freely. For days at a time he would work in his laboratory, hardly uttering a word; then for some reason he would open up and become almost loquacious.

“Consider this fact, Lester. Within the entire range of the telespectro-

scope and telecamera, where their range is so immense that one hundred million giant suns in space are now photographed, there is no entity able to add to itself but mind, thinking thoughts that have never been thought before.”

I tried to grasp his meaning. “Just what is your definition of mind, sir?”

“That of Larkin. Electrons are the first manifestation of mind. They alone have been created. All else have been formed by an incredible number of varying combinations of electrons.”

“I’m afraid I do not understand.”

“It is very simple. Back of all manifestation is a cosmic mind—call it creator, if you will; I prefer to call it director. This director creates electrons. Electrons combine to form all other kinds of matter—the molecule, the atom. Ninety kinds of atoms are now known to chemists. Do you know what determines the atom of an element?”

“No.”

“Well, what kind of an atom shall appear in space depends on four basic factors: number of electrons in revolution; specific speed of revolution; distance of orbits from the center; and directions of motion?.”

Parsons looked up from his chemical labors. “That is all true, Lester,” he said, “but don’t let the captain sweep you away by a statement of facts into an acceptance of a cosmic mind. Lucian Larkin was a ‘ great astronomer, and a scientist, but beyond a certain point—what we have verified with our instruments— he enters the realm of pure speculation. There is not one iota of proof that mind exists distinct from the body.”

Captain Rowan laughed. “No? Then tell me: What if the hand of a person begins suddenly to write words at a rate ten to twenty times faster than normal, in a handwriting other than his own, upon wise and



lofty subjects not heard of before; sometimes even in a language of which the owner of the hand is ignorant—tell me, what- guides that hand?”

“There is usually fraud back of this automatic writing, deceit of some sort,” replied Parsons. “In the few eases where it seems to be genuine, it is due, doubtless, to the subconscious mind of man.”

“But if the person doing the automatic writing has no knowledge, either conscious or subconscious, of Latin or Greek, or even of Sanskrit (for I assure you whole reams have been written in Sanskrit), and the writing should be in any one of those languages—what then? ’ ’

Parsons shrugged his shoulders. “Still there is no valid reason for assuming an overmind or director as does Larkin.” He turned to me. “Undoubtedly there are some mysterious things in connection with psychic phenomena which are baffling, but to use those mysterious things as a base from which to launch into wild and irrational speculations is not scientific. You will appreciate this better if you make an earnest study of the new psychology, behaviorism. Even James and Jung and Freud are being seriously challenged by John B. Watson. It begins to appear that our viscera are the directors of mind; that our memory, our socalled subconscious, is the result of habit, of conditioning. What you need to read, Lester, is Watson’s book, Behaviorism, and leave Larkin to the metaphysicians.”

That night I was permitted to see something curious. In coming through the hallway from the rear of the house to the front, I surprized Parsons and Genevieve Rowan in the front room. I was ahead of the captain and distinctly saw her in the arms of the chemist. Whether the captain saw the embrace, the quick springing apart, I do not know. The

room was but dimly lighted, twilight prevailing, and the electric lights not yet turned on. It is possible he did not. At any rate he made no comment. Beyond surmising that Miss Rowan and Parsons were secretly sweethearts, I should have given little thought to the occurrence, if it had not been for what followed. Coming down the back steps to the kitchen after bathing and changing clothes, I surprized another tableau, more startling by far than the first. This time it was the captain and his sister. He held her above both elbows, at arm’s length, shaking her furiously. I could not see her face, as her back was toward me, but his own was snarling, murderous.

“By God!” he growled, “I’ll kill him first! Do you understand? And you too!”

I retreated up the steps. What did it mean? That the captain had seen Parsons embrace his sister? But what of that? Weren’t Parsons and he friends, fellow experimenters? Then why the terrible anger I had witnessed, the seething rage? I could not understand it.

At the dinner table Genevieve Rowan was her usual quiet, wellpoised self; her brother’s face was placid. Had I imagined the scene in the kitchen, exaggerated it? No, that was impossible. But perhaps I was mistaken in linking it up with the earlier scene in the parlor.

Parsons seemed unaware of anything amiss. He baited the captain on his mysticism in his usual mocking manner. But as the days passed I became aware of something tense, something electric in the air. Two or three times I caught the captain watching Parsons when he thought himself unobserved. His face didn’t change expression at those times, no; nor his eyes; yet the fixity of his stare, something about its utter immobility, chilled the blood in my veins.



I told myself I was imagining things, developing a case of nerves; only at this time I became dynamically conscious of Genevieve Rowan herself. Her ashen hair was suddenly full of glints that caught the eye. Her rounded figure held an allure that was hard to resist. “Don’t be a fool,” I told myself. “The woman is gray-headed; she is fifty, if she is a day.” Yet in spite of such reasoning I knew her to be beautiful, desirable. And other things I knew—half suspicions, half certainties—gleaned from a word, a gesture, a step at midnight; the creak of a loose board, of an opening door. No, I won’t tell what those things were! They are too horrible to put on paper, too terrible; yes. and too sad. Now that the captain is in his grave, Parsons dead, and only Genevieve alive — Genevieve who looks and walks about like a forlorn ghost—it is well that such things should be forgotten. Only I know that a real cause, a real lust for murder existed—existed and was glutted with blood. But enough of that!

I n the workshop a strange machine grew under our hands as day succeeded day. Parts came from distant factories and I put them together. Other pieces of machinery I made myself according to plans furnished me by the captain and Parsons. The machine was mounted on wheels; incorporated in its body was an especially constructed electric dynamo. The captain wired the various parts, and in what he called the backbone of the ponderous, tapering mechanism he placed at intervals of three inches crystals derived from a saturated solution of Rochelle salt.

“Perhaps,” said Parsons to me, “you have heard of singing crystals?”

“No,” I replied, “I haven’t.” “Well,” he said, “it has long been known that lopsided crystals such as

these have a certain effect on a ray of light passing through them. If you squeeze or pinch them, positive electricity collects at one part of the crystal and negative electricity at another. Now if you connect these two points you get a current. The discoverer of this interesting idiosyncrasy on the part of crystals was Professor Curie of Paris, who, in conjunction with his wife, later discovered radium. Behold! ’ ’

He pressed one crystal between a thumb and forefinger and its neighbor shrieked as if in pain. He laughed at my astonishment.

“One of these little crystals is enough to run two hundred telephones.”

I could hardly credit it.

“Yes,” the captain assured me, “that is true. But in this case they are going to be the little bodies which receive and send messages up and down the vertebrae of our machine, and to various parts of its body.”

“Body!”

“Yes, body. For this is an iron creature we’re building, a metal man.”

I thought him joking. “It doesn’t look much like a human being,” I said.

“And has it to?”

“Lester,” said Parsons, “is under the impression—the quite common impression—that to build a machine which will function like a man one must duplicate the human body.”

“As in Mrs. Shelley’s Frankenstein,” commented the captain, “the artificial man complete from nerves, muscles, lungs, liver, to a fluid that circulated like blood.”

“Exactly,” agreed Parsons. “Only it had no soul and killed its inventor.”

Both men laughed briefly.

“The concept is a mediaeval one,” went on the captain. “For you must know, my boy, that the human body is not the perfect mechanism



the average person thinks it is. A skilled mechanic would be ashamed to turn out a machine as faulty in parts as is his own body.”

“Perhaps so,” I retorted, “but I notice that man is not able to improve on nature.”

“There you are mistaken. Wherever man has been able to compete with nature by means of his machines he has bettered her. Take, for instance, the process on which all life depends, the storing up of solar energy in the green leaf. The leaf is not able to catch and hold more than one per cent of the radiant energy that falls upon it from the sun. In that respect it is much less efficient than any of man’s machines. A steam engine can turn into mechanical work at least twelve per cent of the heat energy fed to it in the shape of coal, besting the natural process eleven to one.”

“And nature,” chimed in Parsons, “has never yet proved itself capable of producing a human being that could not make mistakes. Man has come pretty near doing that very thing. Have you ever read the play, R. V. RJ”

“No.”

“Well, a foreign playwright wrote a play called by those letters, which were an abbreviation for ‘Russum’s Universal Robots.’ ”

“Robots?” I interrupted. “I believe I do know what you mean now. I’ve heard that word before.”

“Of course you have. It’s become a part of the English language. Well, the playwright’s idea was quite fantastic and absurd. Who ever heard of Robots, mechanical men? Nobody. Yet at Washington, D. C., stands what is called the Brass Brain. Men step in front of it and ask questions. Talk of your ancient oracles! On the answers of this modern one men stake their lives and millions of dollars.”

“Good Lord,” I breathed, “what is it?”

“Nothing much. Only a machine that calculates how high and low tides will be in every port of the world today, tomorrow, and fourteen years from now.”

I gaped at him.

“But why continue? There are in existence machines which turn switches, dig ditches, answer telephones, steer ships, come and go at the command of the human voice, and perform numerous duties. Of course these machines are not all assembled in one piece or place. They are distinct inventions, such as the adding-machine, the electric crane, or that latest marvel of them all, the calculating-machine which works out in a few hours or weeks or months intricate problems that would take learned men ten, yes, and even twenty years to solve. And the machine makes no mistakes.”

“You mean,” I said, enthralled, “that in some sort of fashion those machines are Robots?”

“Isn’t it obvious? Consider, Lester: What would be the result if all those automatic brains, hands and feet were incorporated into one body!”

“My GodT”

“And the brains directed the hands and feet?”

“Impossible!”

“That is the retort the scientist and inventor has always met with. Now this machine-”

“This machine?”

“Why, yes, the one we’re building. It will demonstrate the correctness of the captain’s and my theory.”

I stared at him in a species of horror. “You mean,” I gasped, “that this thing here”—I waved at the ponderous mass—“is intended to be a Robot, a metal man?”

He adjusted a crystal before answering. “We hope so.”

“But, good Lord!” I exclaimed; “you’re making a big mistake!”

“Indeed; how so?”



“Because no matter how much you give your machine chemical brains it won’t be able to start its own thinking processes.”

“That is true. Man has not yet been able to build a machine that can think. The ones I referred to above all operate at a note of music, the push of a button, the sound of a voice. We recognize that fact. The problem engrossing the captain and me is this: Can we build a mechanical, a chemical brain delicate enough to respond to thought as it now does to sound or other stimuli? Can we give such a command as this to our chemical and mechanical brain: ‘Keep the motor running; every four hours feed it gas and oil’? Can we do more than that? Can we set our machine certain tasks to do, fixing those tasks in its ‘mind,’ and then going away and forgetting it? Don’t you see what that would mean? It would mean the creation of a genuine Robot, an independent metal creature that would work without supervision, eat its daily ration of fuel, and never get sick or go on strike.”

But I was not to be swept away altogether by mere oratory.

“You forget,” I said, “tfiat they would break down from time to time; that human beings would then have to build others.”

“At first, yes. But what if after awhile we created thousands of them whose specialty it was to repair their worn-out or broken-down brother Robots? They would not have to resemble each other in the least, you understand, save in their mental capacity to receive certain commands and keep on obeying them. Once you had your workers toiling at producing for humanity, your repair machines busy at repairing and building the workers, what more supervision would man have to exercise over them than the average boss does over workers now? Indeed it ought to be possible to create a

machine that will be all brain, vast, godlike in comparison to the ones that toil and repair, and imbue it with the thought of keeping the Robots working and the wheels of industry turning; and there you are!”

The idea was horrible to me. I couldn’t entertain it without protest.

“But if man started such a process going,” I whispered, horrified, “he might not be able to check it at will. What if the Robots grew out of hand, built themselves into great armies, turned on man and destroyed him?” I wiped the sweat from my brow. “Good God, Parsons!” I said; “such inventions fly in the face of nature. They can bring humanity no good. Better leave well enough alone.”

He shook me by the shoulder seoffingly. “All progress man has ever made, from tilling the ground to talking over radios, has been a flying in the face of nature.”

The captain, who had said nothing for some time, now broke in.

“There is no need to be alarmed, my boy. Those Robots which Parsons visualizes would be the product of mind, therefore obedient to it.”

T made no reply to him; but from A the day of the above conversation my interest in the work I was doing, in the amazing experiment that was being undertaken, became intensified.

The machine grew under our hands until it was six feet tall. It stood, as I have said before, on rollers, the rollers being encased in caterpillar belts. At the base it was about four feet around, tapering to twelve inches at the top. It was built, not in one piece but in segments, jointed ball-and-socket fashion, with various springs and rubber cushions separating the different parts. To describe it further is beyond me; only it had two armlike pistons, one on each side, possessed



a central electric dynamo, and was wired so profusely as to make the interior seem a tangled mass of cord.

Came the day when the brain of this monstrous mechanism was put in place. The part that fitted into what I must call the neck was made of aluminum, all except the cover, which was transparent glass and screwed into place. A small cylinder, which emitted an intense bluish light when brought into contact with electricity, was inside the aluminum howl. The captain connected the necessary wires. His face was very red. I watched breathlessly as Parsons filled the hollow globe with a glutinous mixture of opaque liquid. My hands unconsciously gripped each other until they hurt while I waited for something to happen, but nothing did. He screwed the glass cap into place and stepped down and back from the machine.

“It is finished,” he said quietly, looking at the captain; “finished— and ready. ’ *

As if his words were a knockout blow, the captain fell.

“Quick!” cried Parsons to me, kneeling beside him, “a glass of water! The excitement has been too much for him. He’s fainted!”

But he hadn’t fainted. When the doctor reached the house he was dead.

“That heart of his,” explained the physician. “I told him to be careful, to avoid any sudden strain or excitement.”

Genevieve Rowan was beside herself with grief. In front of us all Parsons put his arms around her.

“There, there, dearest. It is terrible, yes. But it may be for the best.”

Was it relief I saw on his face? I scorned myself for the thought, and yet, in spite of the fact that they had been absorbed in a kindred experiment, working together harmoniously enough in the laboratory, I was conscious of the fact that all

was not as it should be between the two men. How did I know this when I never heard a word of ill-feeling pass between them, never intercepted a glance that could be actually interpreted as inimical? 1 can’t say. But I knew it instinctively, as I knew other things on which their antagonism was based: things as to which my lips are forever sealed.

On the back porch I found a large notebQok. It had evidently dropped from the captain’s pocket as we carried him into the house. I slipped it into my pocket, intending to give it to Miss Rowan later, and continued on my way to the laboratory to lock things up. What I saw there drove all thought of the notebook from my mind. A strange, glow was radiating from the glass cap which topped the head of the machine. It was reddish-blue in color. Evidently the chemical solution contained in the aluminum bowl gave rise to this phenomenon.

Fascinated, I climbed the short stepladder and peered through the glass. The glutinous mixture was pulsing as if alive. It was now a gray, speckled mass shot through with red streamers. The sight startled me? The gooseflesh rose on my skin, and I had that familiar sensation of the scalp which people mean when they say their hair stands on end.

I left the laboratory abruptly, in my haste forgetting to fasten the door. It was my intention to tell Parsons of what I had seen, but he was still in the parlor comforting the captain’s sister; so I continued on my way upstairs.

I had just begun to strip when the deep purring of a motor came from the rear yard. This was strange, as I had heard no car entering the driveway. My room was in the rear of the house; so it was possible for me to glance out the open window to observe who it was. Darkness had fallen. The motor, by



the sound of it, was right under me, near the back door. I could hear it, but the thick foliage of a pepper tree prevented me from looking straight down. Baffled, I stepped back, and as I did so someone flung open the back door with considerable force.

“What’s the matter, Lester?” called Parsons’ voice.

“It isn’t I,” I shouted down; “I’m upstairs.”

“Then who the devil-”

A ponderous weight was dragging across the kitchen floor. My heart leapt suffocatingly in my throat. A floor board cracked like a pistol shot somewhere beneath me.

“I say,” came Parsons’ voice, “I say, what’s the matter here? What’s the—oh my God! ’ ’

His voice went up in a terrible crescendo; went up—and ceased. I snatched up the first thing beneath my hand—a large stilson wrench— and leapt down the stairs. Someone was screaming like mad, and the house was rocking under the impact of stamping blows. In the passageway I nearly trampled on a prone body—that of Genevieve Rowan— and had to hurdle it to reach the kitchen.

Parsons had evidently turned on the lights as he entered, for the room was well lighted. At the sight of what I saw strength nearly left me. I stood as if petrified. There before me—believe it or not, as you like— was lying the crushed and bleeding body of Walter Parsons, his features fixed in a set grimace of stark horror and agony, while crouching over him like some fearsome prehistoric monster was the metal man he had helped to.make, the hideous Robot, driving its short, armlike pistons into his still quivering flesh.

The sight sickened me. My bowels turned to water. The awful monstrosity was bent over like a bow, screaming as if in rage, and the pulsing matter under the glass cap

on the top of its head sent out its reddish-blue tinge and glared at me like an evil eye.

Insane with terror I showered blow after blow on it with my stilson wrench. The glass cap broke; the glutinous mass rolled out and pulsed on the floor like a living thing in its death throes. Even as it fell the whole body of the machine straightened up convulsively. Through all its sinuous wires and lengths ran a sighing sob. Then with a terrible crash it fell over on the already horribly mutilated body of its victim and was still.

I waited to see no more. I turned and ran. I remember that I screamed as I ran.

T hat is all. I told them everything at the inquest. Nay, more, I showed them what was written in Captain Rowan’s notebook, the one I had picked up, put in my pocket, forgotten, and then accidentally glanced at later—only two pages of writing in the captain’s almost illegible script. They read as follows:

Within the entire realm of the vast and intricate modern science of electricity, there is nothing more wonderful and awe-inspiring than induction, action at a distance without a conducting wire. This fact is the base of the wireless systems of telegraphy and telephony, and of all electrodynamic machinery as dynamos and motors, the bases of electric lights and electric railroads. But see this.... I am convinced that we actually think by induction.

And underneath this palpable quotation, which is credited to Lucian Larkin, was written these words:

If this be true, then man’s mind is more than the sum and total of his bodily organization. What if my heart can not hold out much longer? I know that my mind shall live on. It shall manifest itself through the brain of the machine. Parsons is mistaken about this. He is a fool. If he understood, if he knew.... Oh, Genevieve! If I thought that were true I would kill....

The writing stops here. But the question will not down. Did the



mind of Captain Rowan, as it was leaving its fleshly vehicle, glimpse his sister in the arms of Walter Parsons? Was it his intelligence that animated the chemical brain, put the ponderous mechanism into motion, drove it across the yard into the kitchen, and brutally killed the man he hated? The coroner and the jury may ignore the facts. They

may recoil from them in horror. They may attribute what I say to hysteria, an unbalanced mind; but the uncanny truth remains. Walter Parsons was not accidentally killed: he was murdered by a man already dead, and the weapon with which he was slain was the metal man and the chemical brain of his own partial creation!

■P HARLOW

The Resurrecting Snake

ONE of the most remarkable snake stories in history was told for sober truth by European travelers returning from South America in the Sixteenth Century, and sincerely believed, even by some of the narrators themselves. The wonderful species of snake referred to, which seemed to partake of the characteristics of the phoenix, is described twice in the old chronicles of Purchas his Pilgrimes.

One account is given by Master Thomas Turner, who calls it “the Serpent Cobrus, whereof he saw one almost as big as himself, twentie foote long, killed by their Indian boy. ’ ’ He goes on to tell how the snake, when it seizes a hog or deer, ‘ * preyeth on the same, devouring all, till it be not able for fulnesse to stirre, but rotteth as it lyeth, the flesh quite away, the head and bones remaining, in which the life continuing, recbvereth at last his former state. One was thus found in the rottennesse, and being bound for proofe with a withe to a tree by the Portugalls, on their return was found so repaired.”

Another account is given in “A

treatise of Brazill, written by a Portugall which had long lived there.” “The Snake Cucurijuba,” says he, “is the greatest or one of the greatest that are in Brazill, notable as well for greatenesse as for beautie. Some are taken of five and twentie or thirtie foote long, and a yard in compasse. It hath a chaine along the back of notable Pictures and verie faire, that beginneth at the head and endeth in the Taile. It hath Teeth like a Dogge, and laying hold on a man, Cow, Stagge or Hogge, winding it with certain turns of her Tail, it swalloweth the said thing whole. And after she hath it so in her belly, she lets her selfe rot and the Ravens and Crowes do eate her all, so that there remaineth nothing but the bones, and afterwards it breedeth new flesh againe, and reneweth as before it was. The reason whereof is (say the men of the Countrie) because while it putrifieth, it hath the head in the mire, and having life in the noddle, they live againe; and because this is knowne alreadie, when men find them putrified, they seeke out the head and kill it.”

COMMANDER CRAYNE interrupted the tale by a gesture of his hand.

“Do you mind, Captain Ek, if I call Lieutenant Murphy in and have him take down what you are telling me? I’d like to check up on a few historical dates.”

The old man nodded assent.

“It’s what I want. Shows you’re takin’ int’rest. I’ve told some of this to several people. They think I’m crazy like you do, only they never got as far as takin’ notes.”

“Captain Ek, this is my aide,

Lieutenant Murphy. Ho was with me on the polar flight. He is taking the brunt of this trip and I don’t mind telling you that I’d rather take a dozen trips like our northern one' than meet the crowds and dodge this publicity.—Murphy, Captain Ek is telling of a trip he made north. Please make a note of places he mentions and data.”

Lieutenant Murphy was one of those Americans who “don’t have to come from Ireland to be Irish.” Stormy black lashes “set in with a smutty finger” hid twinkling blue



eyes as he looked at Captain Ek, whose white hair and silvery beard were close-trimmed, whose leathery brown skin showed fine wrinkles, and whose general appearance gave the impression of a man prematurely white.

Commander Crayne, whose name still occupied newspaper headlines recounting columns of his achievement in circling the North Pole and remaining in its vicinity long enough to make valuable discoveries which no other polar explorer had done, sat near the window. His face was in shadow and did not. reveal the incredulity of his mind at the tale Captain Ek had been telling. He had first been impatient. So many visitors had called during his trip south, and since he arrived in San Francisco, that Murphy had instituted himself door dragon to keep them away. But even Murphy relented toward Captain Ek. The old seaman’s bearing was kindly and commanding. Then, too, he had given Murphy a brief outline of a proposition for Commander Crayne to consider.

“I was sayin’,” continued Captain Ek, “that we left Fort Chipewyan in the early spring, 1789, and to make a long story short, got to the Arctic Sea. I’ve gone over that trail again but I can’t get the water!ane we found. I left MacKenzie.. We’d had some words, and anyway he was crazier to reach the Pacific than to go north.”

“Murphy, you’ve got that date, 1789,” Commander Crayne interpolated. “Remember Chicago wasn’t born then; I’m not sure, but I don’t believe even Fort Dearborn -fras in existence on the site of Chicago. Seventeen-eighty-nine, ” he mused. “George the Third was reigning in England. Arkwright was making his spinningjenny and Watts working on his steam engine. Bums was busy with his poems. Lord Byron was a baby. The French Revolution-was at its height. America as a?tvfction was about

twelve years old. And Captain Ek says he was on his way north.”

“It’s jake with me,” commented Murphy; “he made a bigger noise than that when I was listening first. ’ ’

For an hour or more, Commander Crayne listened to the account of Captain Ek, fascinated by a story that was interlocked with data and detail, yet fantastic beyond belief. Then the old man took a checkbook from his pocket and unscrewed the cap of a fountain pen.

“You don’t believe this, young man,” he said, “and I don’t blame you none. But they’s a sayin’ in this country that money talks! What I told you for was to get you to take a trip north on my account. I want to git back to that big bowl in the earth. I can pay for the job and maybe make it worth your while. What will it take for flying-machines that’ll be able to stay there a couple or three months if necessary?”

“Offhand, I couldn’t tell you, Captain Ek. But I’ve great faith in a machine the English are making, and with a few improvements of my own, I think she’d do. It would cost a good deal.”

“You’ll go, then?” asked the old man.

“Certainly, if it can be managed.”

Captain Ek filled out a check, tore it loose and handed it to Crayne, who looked at it, then slowly smiled, and returned it.

“I’ll put this in the bank,” said the old man. “They’ll let you know it’s there for you to draw on. Now get busy, sir.”

He rose and held out his hand, which Crayne grasped. He felt a spontaneous liking for Captain Ek, and a vast pity. There was no doubt the old fellow was mad, but his tale had held both young men deeply interested, and he had surprized them by his exact knowledge of polar conditions, his figures and dates, his nautical bearings and astronomical observations. Crayne, a stickler for

BIMINI


detail and with a prodigious memory, found no flaw. The romantic stuff he discounted. That Captain Bk claimed to have been a young man of twenty-one in 1789, and on his way north with MacKenzie via the Canadian northwest, he viewed as the wanderings of an aged man’s mind.

He bade Captain Ek good-bye, and returned to sit on a comer of the table looking at Murphy.

“That check was drawn to my name, and for one and a half million dollars, on the First National Bank of San Francisco,” Crayne said, then threw back his head and laughed. “For a bone-dry day, I have a dissipated feeling. ’ ’

An hour later Commander Crayne was summoned to the telephone and heard a voice announce that the manager of the First National Bank was speaking. He informed Commander Crayne that Captain Christian Ek had placed one and a half million dollars to his credit, and the bank would honor drafts on sight, but requested three days’ notice if the drafts were over thirty thousand cash.

Crayne’s voice was husky as he thanked the manager and clicked the receiver on its hook.

“Bud,” he said to Murphy, “it’s true. Kick me, punch me, it’ll be your last chance. Nobody is going to lay hands on me if I’m worth that much, after this minute.”

“You gotta buy a plane, and get back here to enjoy it,” said the unromantic Murphy. ‘ ‘ How about sidesteppin’ a lotta dinners and celebrations in your honor, and geftin’ across after the plane? The sooner we find that bowl up north and the old man dips hisself in glory water, the sooner we come home and settle up. I owe a Post Street tailor for a pearl-gray suit.”

Which was one reason the triumphal trip of Commander Crayne was suddenly canceled, and he and Lieutenant Murphy left for England, while Captain Ek’s ship, a big

auxiliary schooner, started her cruise through the Panama and via New York, where she received word from Crayne that he would be ready to proceed north in a fortnight.

S even days later Crayne and Murphy watched Captain Ek’s ship, the Aurora, dock, and went aboard her for the first time. It was not the build of the schooner, two hundred feet long by forty beam, her oak hull and double oak and pine planking, her thousand-horsc-power engine, and canvas for her three masts, which interested Crayne so much as the charts and crude drawings spread on the cabin table. Over these he poured for a long time. Captain Ek had made many attempts to find the vast depression at the earth’s northern tip where he said he had found the source of that beautiful and strange illumination known as the Aurora Borealis.

The two weeks stretched into three before the thousand-horse-power Birmingham airplane was stowed safely on the Aurora, and during that interval Murphy had gathered considerable gossip at clubs and gatherings, which he detailed to Crayne over a good-night cigar.

“Course, they smile at him some, but lie’s certainly got the dough and the oldest sea-captains along the docks admit that their grandfathers knew about him and his story. It’s funny. He can’t be real. They ain’t nobody that old, and if they was, he couldn’t be that spry. What’s the name o’ this here guy that went to Florida after a fountain of youth?”

“Ponce de Leon,” supplied Crayne. “The island he searched for was said to lie in the Bahama group, and was called Bimini.”

“Well, this Captain Methusaleh that we’ve hooked up with must have been readin’ about this here Bimini and never woke up.”

Dodging bergs and floes along the Labrador coast and into the ice of


Baffin Bay, Commander Crayne had leisure to read the notes made by Captain Ek—one page in his native Norwegian, the translation in quaint English on the opposite page—and again he marveled as observations taken on their trip corresponded. The Aurora was equipped with the latest inventions of science for “finding” ice.

A sonic depth-finder interested Murphy and a Swedish scientist, Bjomsen, deeply, but Crayne learned that Captain Ek had a weird instinct which acted more quickly than the instruments. He was standing with the captain in the bridge one moonlight night when suddenly Captain Ek jerked the engine-room telegraph and jammed the wheel hard over. A few moments later Murphy rushed up and stood at the rail staring over the sea. It was several minutes before the gigantic ghostly mass of ice appeared faintly luminous against the stars.

“Lucky you felt her chill,” yelped Murphy. “We heard the engine telegraph before that berg made a sign on the jigger.”

“I need no such contraptions,” said the old man to Crayne.

“I’ve noticed that, sir,” Crayne aswered, “but how do you get warning?”

“They tell me—the children of light.”

Crayne was silent. Captain Ek had used that term in his story of the Sea of Light, beyond the magnetic pole. The cold air off the vast ice-cap of Greenland was crisp and electric. < 'rayne w r ondered if it affected the old man as the moon is said to affect animal life of the lower orders, and those whose wits are wandering. Even he began to feel the ‘ ‘ wingedness ’ ’ of his flesh in that electric-charged air of higt latitudes.

It was under the great hills of Meteorite Island that Crayne realized that Captain Ek’s story had a considerable foundation of truth, for the

ship was hailed by Eskimos on shore with undoubted welcome.

At Cape York, kayaks darted about the Aurora and shouts of “Nalegak” greeted them. They hailed Captain Ek as a great chieftain. Landing, the party was escorted enthusiastically to the village and a feast provided in a large communal igloo. The laughing, chattering Eskimos were instantly interested in Murphy, who had brought a banjo and regaled them with jazz, but, missing the Captain, Crayne went in search of him and found him on a gray point of rock in the starlight, his arms outstretched while he repeated in a sonorous voice Norwegian words, as of pleading and passion.

He turned casually to Crayne. “They know l am coming, my friend; the Children of Light are here. And She, who is keeper of my soul, awaits me yonder.”

Again Crayne kept silence. He felt the electric tingling of his skin and hair under fox furs, as if soft fingers caressed him. There was no wind stirring; it was a night of calm silence, and the black sea and the ghostly bergs were all that eye could see. Yet Crayne saw the pulsing of the aurora take strange forms, like radiant creatures of dream fantasy with streaming gossamers of green and roseate light. They swung over the heavens and dimmed the stars, and swept closer to earth. They floated in a ring of splendor, as if dancing about a circle in the center of which he and the captain stood.

“A marvelous night,” he murmured, his voice constricted and strange in his own ears. Captain Ek dropped a hand on Crayne’s arm for silence, and immediately sounded music fragile as tinkling glass, or violin bows drawn over crystal goblets.

Again Captain Ek spoke in his sonorous voice, and it seemed to draw the sweeping, swirling creatures of light nearer, until the radiance was

BIMINI


so dazzling that Crayne closed his eyes. He heard a sigh that was almost a moan, and opening his eyes again, he found that he stood alone outside the radiance, which enveloped Captain Ek like a flame. Then it was gone, and the night was bafflingly dark after the splendor which had flown like a wind-driven cloud due north.

Captain Ek walked without a word to the igloo, followed by Crayne, who was shaken by that baptism of light and the fantastic optical delusion it produced.

'C'OR two weeks there was constant work, hunting and providing caches of food, stocking the Aurora with fresh meat, and selecting native crews and dogs in case of emergency. Then, with decks almost awash and fuzzy with dogs and fur-clad natives, the Aurora headed between the bergs of Smith Sound and made for Grant Land. Bitter cold fought them with fangs and claws. There were cutting winds, blinding drifts, and ice, but miraculously the Aurora plowed through until she lay at last on the north shore of Grant Land, and it w r as time to unload the Birmingham plane which Crayne and Murphy had been getting in order for quick lightering.

She was to carry Captain Ek, Crayne, Murphy, Bjornsen, two mechanics and a negro cook; and none except the commander and his aide knew the story told by Captain Ek. It was a new route to Crayne, and he had only the stars, the compass, and the captain’s sketchy drawings to guide him. Yet, equipped with the last and best aids of science for protection and physical necessity, Crayne had no misgivings about the journey when they hopped off an ice-field with a comparatively smooth sweep and left the little Aurora and her crew, and the natives like motes on the vast frozen wilderness.

The Birmingham had a speed of

four hundred miles an hour, with a hundred and ninety to make before she reached the magnetic pole. Head winds cut her speed amazingly, yet in the gray twilight that breathes between morning and evening stars, they crossed that dot of no man’s land which is the magnetic north.

In the protected cabin cockpit of the Birmingham, with ear-tubes connecting them, Crayne called to Captain Ek and pointed below. But the old man’s eyes gazed beyond.

“See!” he cried. “The Bowl! The Bowl!”

Far off against the stars, light shone. It was like the reflection of a fire, the glow from a volcano crater. And as if disturbed by some upheaval from earth’s center, streamers of light puffed out and were blown in that gorgeous display that men call the northern lights. They pulsed over the bowl of night sky, and blew toward the Birmingham. Crayne felt his hair lifting his fur hood and his skin tingling as gossamers streamed toward the plane and circled it. Glancing at Murphy, he saw the boy’s face weirdly illumined, and his eyes staring.

“If you see what I see, you’re crazy, ’ ’ shouted Murphy, but although his lips were drawn from his strong white teeth, Murphy was not smiling. Commander Crayne was uneasy. It was enough that he saw those woman forms shaping from the mist, but when Murphy, matter-offact, hard-boiled youngster, saw them, Crayne could only marvel and control as best he might the flighty feeling of fear clutching him.

It was then that one of the mechanics reported water leaking from a cracked cylinder, and with a feeling of relief that he had an excuse other than his own apprehension, Crayne signaled to Murphy that they would land if possible to find fairly smooth grounding.

Murphy managed a smile instead of his grimace of tightly drawn lips, and the plane began to circle lower


as Crayne made out a comparatively level stretch of frozen sea, but they were still traveling at top speed, and the wind that had harassed them was gone.

The Bowl of Light came nearer, uncomfortably nearer, a vast sea of pale flame which bubbled to the black rims of the depression and spurted what appeared to be like colored steam of many hues.

Crayne felt that he dared not attempt to fly over it with a leaking cylinder. Yet as Captain Ek realized they were lowering, he leaned near Crayne and bellowed in a voice of rage, the first sign of temper he had shown in a voyage trying to the bestnatured:

“Go on! Why do you halt now? See, they wait to welcome us, the Children of Light! ’ ’

Crayne howled the information about the cylinder, adding that he would later circle the Bowl, and finishing sternly: “I am commander, Captain Ek. Please remember. ’ ’

The Birmingham circled lower until within five hundred yards, and Crayne saw that what appeared to be smooth ice was a crumpled, humped expanse, yet there was nothing to do but land cautiously. He nursed the big machine as best he could, felt her wheels bump, then heard an ominous crack, and she tilted and slid with one wing-tip touching. The propeller whirred more slowly, and stopped.

Murphy was out of the enclosed cockpit cabin immediately.

“Cracked axle as well,” he shouted. “But that ain’t what’s got my goat. Look at them lights! Do I see ’em, or am I just plain nuts? ”

Captain Ek showed the muscular grace and strength of a boy as he dropped from the open cabin door, then ran over the snow.

“Children of the Light,” he howled back at them, his arm pointing to the heavens. “Now do you believe the story I told you back there in San Francisco?”

“Not much children,” growled Murphy. “Flappers maybe, but nifty. Bathing-girl choruses ain’t got a thing on them babies. And if you see ’em, then I ain’t loco, Capt’n.”

Crayne stared from beside the plane. Bjornsen joined him, and the negro came toward them lifting his fur-clad feet high and treading carefully as if he feared to startle the lowering radiance that swung about the sky and trailed light in wheels and whorls over the ice, and were indubitably shaping to the figures of women, nude except for their gossamers of pulsing hues.

Nearer, closer they came. Crayne saw rosy arms stretch out to join hands, and their fairy feet tripped over the frozen hummocks which glittered under the luminance like jewels. There was sound like ice tinkling in glass, rising to bell chime, and wind of unearthly sweet voices. It took sequence and rhythm and became song. And such song! It chilled and warmed. It was ice and fire contending, whipping blood to flame, pulsihg over flesh through their furs, bathing them in exquisite rapturousness. It was as if stars danced and clashed together, the music of the spheres. Under that poignant and sensuous flood of light and sound, they stood dumb. Even the voluble Murphy was silent, and Crayne saw in his eyes the reflection of that light and on his face a weird unearthly expression.

He reached out to touch Murphy’s arm, then clutched it. The boy did not move, seemed unaware of his touch.

Spellbound, they gazed, until rapture became painful, the heart-searing ache that is bred of unutterable beauty in those rare moments when flesh seems to drop away and the spirit free itself.

I t was Captain Ek who broke the spell, to Crayne’s infinite relief. With outstretched arms he ran toward the dancing circle, which parted and

BIMINI

drew aside, and down silver luminance like a moon pathway from the flames of the Bowl walked a Titania of the North!

She seemed fashioned of ice tinted like human flesh, yet transparent. Her long fair hair swayed as on a gentle wind and swirled to her bare pink feet. Glittering light draped her from shoulder to ankle, blazing one moment like fabric sewn with diamonds, gleaming like fire the next. A smile of searing sweetness moved her lips, and a glitter like fallen stars scattered where she moved.

They saw Captain Ek run forward to meet her, saw his uplifted arms and realized that he stood at her feet and his great height reached scarcely above her arched instep. They saw her head bend and a marvelous smile change her face; then she swept one arm and covered him with her glittering mantle, and the song of the dancers rose like a vast wind between the worlds, then gradually grew softer until it was again the chime of bells, the tinkle of ice. As it diminished, the radiant figure merged into the fringes of the pulsing Aurora, and was swept away.

They stood mute and motionless. Crayne heard the negro's teeth chattering like castanets, felt the piercing cold, and motioned him toward the cabin.

Not a word was spoken as the men followed Mose. Crayne waited for Captain Ek, who had turned and came slowly, laboriously, toward the plane. He put out a hand to catch the old man, who was swaying on his feet. But he was amazed at the bitter cry that came:

“You have seen them. You have seen Her, who has waited for me this century or more. Now, for the love of your God, will you go forward? Grant me that one mercy, that I can bathe in the cold fire of that Light which vitalizes this puny earth, and join my Mate.”

Crayne did not answer then. He

got the old man into the cabin, and found the others still silent, except Murphy, who in low tones was hurrying the efforts of the badly shaken cook to serve hot soup and coffee.

Captain Ek lay on a narrow couch with closed eyes until Crayne touched him and proffered a steaming cup.

“Come, sir, you’re cold as we all are. Drink this.”

The old man opened eyes misted with dreams, stared about him, then shook his great body, and, reaching for the cup, swallowed it at a draft.

“How long,” he cried, “how long will it be?”

“A day, Captain Ek,” said Crayne quietly. “But I don’t want to promise the impossible. I am as anxious as you to approach nearer that crater. ’ ’

“You will fly over it. You will see the source of all life on this earth. You will land beside it where I can walk to the Bridge and bathe once more in the flame of life and death. Don’t quibble now, Crayne. I have paid for this; paid as never man paid before. You will, if you have the guts, go back with such wealth that you can buy this earth. There in that Bowl is the stuff men call radium. I’m not asking you to believe that. You wouldn’t believe. You didn’t believe when I told you of the Bowl and the Children of Light. Now that you’ve seen them, I’ll tell it all. These others have seen. They shall hear!

“I was born one hundred and sixty years ago,” said the old man, “seaborn, on my father’s fishing-boat in the North Sea.

“He had run away with my mother, the daughter of a wealthy thane, without time for a marriage ceremony; and because of her love for him she accepted his belief in the old gods of the Northland, Odin, Thor, and the reward of Valhalla. I was sixteen when we were wrecked off the north shores of Newfoundland when our vessel struck a berg in a fo£. I saw the Valkyries carry the souls of my par90


ents to that heaven of our belief. I heard the voice of my mother call down the wind, ‘Go north.’ I had seldom touched foot on shore, had never found a sweetheart, and in my great loneliness when a little French smack found and took me, half frozen, ashore, I had one purpose in life—to find the mother who had been the only loving sweetness I had known.

‘•No matter how I had happened to fall in with explorers. Much of it I have forgotten. But it was with MacKenzie I made the first trip to the Arctic Sea through the Canadas. ’ ’

Here Crayne interrupted the old man to say, “I have made inquiries and find Captain Ek’s story of MacKenzie’s outfitting at Fort Chipewyan is true. He started from there in 1789 for the Arctic. Here, also, Franklin outfitted for his two land journeys in 1820 and 1825. The name of Christian Ek is recorded on all three expeditions. Go on, Captain Ek. ’ ’

“There was a girl at that wilderness fort, a young thing with fair hair, sweet as the wild flowers, straight and strong as a young pine, always laughing until we were leaving. Then I missed her and could not say farewell.”

A shaking hand brushed across the old man’s eyes as if to clear the mists, and he continued: “I found her among the members of our company, dressed in buckskins, like a boy, taking her share of the work, suffering the hardships, with never a complaint nor shirking a task. It was not until we reached the booming breakers of the Arctic Sea that any but me learned there was a woman with us. Then the beast that lives in all men broke forth. Not crueller is this North than human brutes. She, who had taken her place as courageously as they, was hunted, and I alone stood between her and the wolf pack to which they had changed. That fight was of one against many, of knives and fists, and I went down, but not

before she was free, and I had seen the wraith of my mother flying under the stars, seen that dear Shade lift my sweetheart, and fly with her north.

“You will say it was a dream of the cold. But I say I saw the Valkyries, heard their cry, the ringing of steel in that music of the Shades. And as they swept away they beckoned me.

“Of that journey over the frozen North, the ice, the storms, the whirling snow, I have only the memory of their voices singing'. You have heard that song which I followed. Sometimes they swept about me in Light, warmed my chilled heart, strengthened my limbs. And I came at last to the Bowl, bridged with the Rainbow Arch, and I believed it was Valhalla. There they danced, as you have seen them dance, and I saw the face of my Woman who awaited me on that Bridge of Light. I had started across when the voice of her who was my mother called me back. Instantly the air was filled with cries, urging me forward, and She who was so new a Shade stood with downcast eyes and would not draw me by their lovelight when my Mother called me back.

“Who hesitates on the Arch of Valhalla is doomed. I had known only two loves—mother-love and love for a mate that was as yet new and strange and maddening, that birth of love that is yet of the flesh and not winged with spirit. And in that struggle between Her who had given me physical birth and Her who nurtured the soul of me, I went down.

“I turned back to where my Mother shade waited, turned again to the sweet Shade on the Arch. My faltering feet fumbled. The fear of the flesh caught me, and I fell, not into the white flame that would have wafted me to those Shades of Valhalla, but into the lesser Light which cleanses flesh of vulnerability but does not transmute it to Spirit. And the Shade that was my Mother drew me to the rim of the Bowl, wrapped

BIMINI


me in her arms, carried me over the ice-fields and left me lying on a sunwarmed valley far down the coast.

“'IX7’aking from sleep, I found

’ ' friends in the Eslrimos; and the Bowl and Bridge, the Shades of Mother and Mate, were like a dream. But in the southland to which I came in time, I learned the truth of that baptism of Light. I could not die. Years passed. One gift they had given me, for when I wakened my hand clutched a great lump of some substance that held strange gleams and power to revitalize flesh after exhaustion. I carried it with me as a symbol of that dream of mine. It never left my side, and when I had reached the three-score mark and it seemed as if death could not be far removed, I journeyed to my Mother’s home in Norway. Life was kind to me. Prosperity smiled always, and yet I was lonely, and had come home. I who had never known a home save the little ship on the ocean waves, had sought my Mother’s home to die.

“I was able to buy the old house and land. And there in a valley protected from the bitter winds by tall cliffs, I placed the stone I had brought from the Bowl of Light, as a monument for her I had lost, and for myself, when my time should come.

“But death had no gift for me, no power to free me from flesh. My hair, white from that hour near Valhalla, was the only sign of age. I reached a hundred years, the loneliest man on earth. Men I knew were dead. Their sons were old men, and still I lived, trying to fill the days, cursed with a Midas gift, for everything to which my hand turned brought gold.

‘ 1 It was then I sought death, wooed it as I had never wooed the Maid, and found that I could not die. There, in •my log. you will find the newspaper Clippings of times when death killed better men and passed me by.

“Meanwhile, seeking it, I went to

the valley in bitter winter cold stripped to an undergarment, and lay with my head on the snow that covered the fragment of the Bowl. Instead of the frozen corpse that morning should have found, I was like a youth, and I had dreamed of my Mother and Her. Their voices told me to carry the stone far away and uith it enrich man—a strange message and one I was many years interpreting. But I did buy a ship and set sail, and followed the path of the setting sun. Gales that wrecked that ship and drowned my crew, tossed me to land, and always I wakened to start, forth again with that dream of dear Shades urging me to make use of the fragment of the Bowl.

“But the night of the North goes on and I must make this story end. You would be as weary of an account of a century and a half of one man’s life as I should be in telling it. It is enough to say that in time my stubborn brain did fathom that command, and when I met a scientist of my own land, I asked him to accompany me to my home. It lies on a fiord of the north coast of Norway, a bleak place, cold even in the brief summer, but my valley was like the southland. Orange trees I had planted, scented the seawind; flowers grew as they do in Italy. The country people looked on me as a man of evil and the valley as accursed.”

As the old man halted and sighed, Bjomsen the scientist cleared his throat and spoke: “I found the valley as Captain Ek has stated, and found the reason. It was underlain with that, substance which is described by the word pitchblende, and rich in radium.”

Captain Ek nodded.

“Wealth? I had more than a man could need; then the valley yielded its treasure, vaster than South African diamond mines. That fragment, of the Bowl of Light had worked ceaselessly. I was i*icher than Aladdin, and lonelier than hell. No whimpering naked



soul yammering at the gates of the damned was so alone. If I made friends, I outlived them, and for me there was no earthly love. Then evil came. I wanted to die, tried to die. Poison affected me not at all, for I tried it. I endured the agony and lived. And in dreams the Shades warned me I must not die a coward. Yet I tried. A train in front of which I threw myself was derailed and passengers injured when they put on brakes. A speeding automobile before which I stepped was smashed, and I was uninjured.

‘ 4 1 had tried to reach the Bowl, not once but many times; but in vain. Then came the chance with Commander Crayne. The rest you know. And now, my friends, the Bowl is near and I have tried to expiate my sin of cowardice. The hour is near when I shall again set feet on the Rainbow Arch and know if I have attained to the merit required of those warrior souls who reach Valhalla.”

He ceased to speak and lay back on tyie couch. There was a long silence in which the deep breathing of the others was the only audible sound. It was broken by Murphy.

“Pitchblende and radium.” He looked at Professor Bjomsen. “No foolin ’? ” he whispered.

“The truth,” said the professor, “so far as the valley is concerned.”

“And you think he really did fin d a fountain of Youth?” asked Commander Crayne quietly, his eyes turning to the couch where Captain Ek lay apparently asleep, his bronzed skin fresh and youthful in spite of the deeply chiseled lines of life’s nailed scrawl.

“If he’s a hundred an’ fifty, I ain’t bom,” muttered Murphy. “Bimini, you said was the name of that place this here Ponce de Leon was after. Why didn’t he come here instead of the West Indies?”

“You must remember, Murphy, that science has pretty well established the fact that the tropics, at one

period of the earth’s existence, covered the poles. Remains of mammoths and mastodons have frequently been found in polar regions, even preserved in the ice. But Ponce de Leon came too late for that. No doubt the vast majority of legends and fables had a foundation of fact, and were handed down from tribe to tribe by word of mouth before sign-writing was in its crudest beginning. I have taken time and trouble to corroborate the log, a diary which Captain Ek kept through the years. It is an invaluable account of the world’s progress, and the books occupy shelves of one wall in his Norwegian home. He has graciously and generously walled them to me at his death. And I have faith enough in the truth of his strange story, that I have entailed them to my son and grandson, fearing' that I shall not be alive to give them to the world. ’ ’

“But pitchblende and radium!” said Murphy again. “If a guy broke off a chunk of that there Bimini Bowl stuff, he’d have a reg’lar diamond mine in his own back yard, huh? ’ ’

“Look here,” the voice of Commander Crayne was stem. “I want no risks taken by any of this company. You are tinder orders to obey me implicitly on this cruise. I am not questioning Captain Ek’s veracity, nor casting doubt upon his story, but I forbid any man to leave the vicinity of this plane, or the company of the rest of us for a single instant, until we again reach the Aurora at Grant’s Land. Professor Bjomsen, you realize as I do, that Captain Ek must not be allowed to endanger his life up here. My orders were to bring him north. My own duty is to return this company sound and uninjured, and I propose to do that to the best of my ability.”

The scientist nodded.

“Now boys,” the commander’s tone was lighter, “better get some sleep. We’ll repair this plane, circle the Bowl if possible, then start south,

BIMINI


every mail of us!” He emphasized his words by a thump of his fist on the tiny table.

A smile crossed the face of the sleeping patriarch toward whom their eyes had turned.

“Bimini,” breathed Murphy. “An’ radium. Boy, oh boy, with a chunk o’ that, and a dip around the brim, a man could sit pretty!”

TXTrapped in fur parkas, they lay * * tightly packed in the small cabin of the Birmingham, yet it was not sleep which held them motionless through nine hours of repose. Crayne had-scarcely closed his eyes than, like a fairy echo of that music of the Shades they had heard, came again the sound of song, poignantly sweet, so high-pitched that their nerves vibrated to music too acute for the eardrums to register. The aurora played between earth and the stars, but to Crayne there was the sensation of satin-smooth arms cradling his head, holding his body to the breast of some sweetness indescribable. And song coaxed him away. ~Hc could not translate those faint, fragile meanings of the music, but he understood. Nor could he shake off their unfolding caresses. Troubled by warnings of the flesh, he tided to free himself, in vain.

It was the negro who drew him back from an abyss, for a clutch on his arm and a powerful shake roused him when he had already opened the cabin door.

“Fo’ Lord’s sake, C’mander, shet dat do’. Whah you-all goin’ in de col’?”

Crayne slumped back, heard the door click shut, and brushed his eyes with the rough fur sleeve of his coat. He blinked at Mose, whose eyes showed their rolling whites in the starlight shining through the thick glass plate of the port-holes. Then he looked about him. Captain Ek was -still on the couch, Bjomsen and the

mechanics were huddled together, but Murphy was missing.

“Mose, where’s Bud?” cried Crayne, and the others stirred at his cry.

“He was gone when I woke up, C’mander. I was dreamin’ dat de lights had me, an’ dey was laughin’ dey heads off an’ dancin’ around, when somethin’ cold hit ma face; den de do’ shet. I guess dat was when he went.”

“Boys, wake up, Murphy’s gone!” yelled Crayne. He was already wrapping himself securely in his furs and tying his hood. “We’ve got to get him. The boy’s lost his head. ’’

A quick glance showed Murphy’s furs and gun-belt missing. Crayne did not wait for the others. He plunged from the cabin and was running over the snow, sure that they would follow, and as lie ran he saw against that Light of the Bowl reflected like flame from a forest fire on the vast vault of sky, a small dark form.

Crayne called. The night was 'deathly still, the vast fringes of the aurora wavering thinly in gold and rose and emerald tints. His voice carried a long way, for he saw the running figure of Murphy throw up an arm as a sign he had heard, and plunge on.

Crayne followed, leaving the othci’s far behind. He was aware of the increased radiance of the northern lights streaming from that crater of jagged upthrust brim which looked black on the snow. Running's lie had never run before, he was past the first heart-breaking sob and gasp of breath and settling into firmer stride when he was aware of his body’s warmth and realized that if he began to sweat it would mean frozen lungs, pneumonia and death. And the party were dependent on him for their return. Yet Murphy was close to the Light, a small black shape speeding, leaping, plunging on until it seemed



to Crayne lie might at any moment plunge over the top and down.

Already the glow of that strange cauldron was blinding. Crayne snatched goggles from a pocket of his coat and put them over his eyes. The eyeballs burned as if with snow blindness. The air was alive with the sound of rushing flame, hissing, spitting, whistling noises, and behind, the faint cries of the men who followed were lost in that sound from the Bowl. Crayne saw Murphy’s pace slacken and heaved a sigh of relief as it was momentarily lost in the darkness of the crater foot, then apparent again as the boy climbed upward until his head was above the serrated edge. There he waited, and in one mad dash Crayne reached the crater foot and began to climb.

“Murphy, you fool, come back!” he shouted, and as if his voice had called the Nymphs of Light from their abiding-place, the crimson steam from the Bowl shot to the stars and broke from a ruddy cloud into those woman forms that floated above, and they began their dance on the very brim of the crater.

Crayne reached Murphy’s side, and clutched his arm. The boy’s face was illumined by lurid light, his strong teeth flashing as he laughed joyously in the presence of that dreadful radiance.

‘ ‘ Maybe I’m dreamin ” he shouted “but I ain’t the only one asleep. They come right in that eockpit, I tell you. Boy, oh boy! They had me outa that door before I knew it. An’ now I’m here, I’m goin’ over the top!”

“But, Bud, don’t be a fool. They’re not real. It’s a trick of the eyes. It’s electric-charged air and too much nonsense from Captain Ek.”

“I don’t care a damn what it is, an’ women don’t git my goat, but I’m goin’t’ have a chunk o’ wealth an’ a swim in Bimini. An’ nobody’s goin’ t’ stop me now!”

Crayne clutched at Murphy, whose fists shot out, but the older, taller man swung his long arms from behind and pinioned Murphy’s arms. Then began a struggle of desperation on the slope of the outer rim, and above danced the Children of Light, nearer and nearer, their song of joy changing to one of sorrow. Crayne was aware of Grief filling the world, aware that the curse of Babel was gone in that center of earth and that he understood their song of mourning over dissent among men.

As if the Light disclosed the workings of human minds to their byes, the Nymphs sang of Love, pleading with these two humans to aspire to the spirit instead of lusting for wealth that would mock and betray.

Crayne realized a flash of shame as they read his own longing to possess such wealth, yet it was still controlled. His one desire was to save this boy from death, and Murphy was dragging him nearer and nearer that topmost brim. He realized the Children of Light kept at a distance. The visitation and wooing of the night was changed to aloofness as they darted to and fro, sweeping their gossamer drapes in maddening and dazzling glitter so close that it webbed the two struggling men like a gladiator’s net, and in those veils they were helpless. Then came a rustling as of gigantic wings unfolding, and locked in each other’s arms, powerless to move hand or foot, Crayne and Murphy stared at the swirling maelstrom of the Bowl and saw an arch curve upward, springing like a rainbow, and sweeping her gleaming robes about her came the royal figure they had seen on the silver path after their arrival.

A voice came, piercing and silverclear. It touched understanding, and without words they knew their punishment decreed. It was as if She commanded, ‘ ‘ Give them the desire of the eyes, my Maidens. ’ ’

BIMINI


C rayne felt the scream in his own throat but heard no sound as the Bowl brim crumbled beneath his feet and he fell with Murphy into an abyss of such terrific Light that sight was gone. He felt the lave and spray and caress of Light, piercing, dissolving flesh. They sank as in the sea and came up on tongues of crimson flame washed over the Bowl brim, at which both clutched spasmodically, then lay still, clutched in their combined grip, to stare at that rainbow ^rch which still quivered and pulsed over the Bowl.

They knew the others had arrived. They heard the clear sound of bell chime, the song of the spheres. They saw Captain Ek at the Bowl brim fighting the grasp of Bjomsen and the two mechanics, but he shook off their detaining hands as if they were the fingers of children. Then the queenly figure smiled and winged above the arch, remained poised between earth and stars, and from that circle of dancing Nymphs came a young figure, golden-haired, warm-tinted, straight and strong, with her eyes downcast. And up die gleaming Arch toward her Captain Ek went. They saw that his face was suddenly young, his body slender, and he wore the look of youth.

There was one moment he «tood clear against the glory, then her arms lifted, enfolded him, and the Arch was one arc of a wheel that revolved slowly as man and maid descended into the white central flame, and whirled faster and faster until human endurance broke before that vast and dreadful radiance.

Yet Crayne was not unconscious. He realized that the Light was gone except for the stars and soft aurora and that he was being carried over the hummocks and stretched on the couch of the Birmingham cabin. He was wakened in time by the sound of hammering as the mechanics repaired the broken wheel-axle and leaking cylinder. He felt Murphy sit on the side of the couch and clutch his wrist,

and when he opened his eyes, Murphy was grinning.

“We got it,” he said, “an’ we got it good. Little lump o’ rock it looks like. And we went for a swim in Bimini. Boy, oh boy, I’m only waitin’ to try out that there youthstuff back home! But ’ ’—his grin was sobered and his voice slightly hushed—“the old man got across. And Bjornsen’s gone.”

“Bjomsen?” cried Crayne, jerking upright.

“Yeah. Nobody thought of him goin’. The ol’ captain shook ’im off like a terrier shakes a rat, an’ went. An’ the wheel began to turn, they said, an’ Bjornsen ran out on one o’ the spokes an’ the dames caught him, an’ he was gone. They’s just the two mechs an ’ Mose, an ’ you an ’ me. An ’ the boat’ll be ready in an hour or so. An’ here’s all we got to show for that dip into glory water. ’ ’

Murphy rolled two objects that looked like fragments of black glass, flaked unevenly; and, touching them, Crayne felt a tingling as of a mild galvanic battery charge, which was not so much sensation to the fingers as of ceaselessly Avorking energy of the mass.

“Mose decided they was black diamonds an’ he’s bin cuddlin’ ’em considerable, an’ it’s a funny thing but his wool is white as ours and losin’ its marcel kink.”

“White—ours?” asked Crayne.

Murphy snatched a tiny shavingmirror from the wall and thrust it into Crayne’s hand; then pulled off his fur cap. The boy’s young face Avas framed in snow-white curls. Crayne looked in the mirror and saw his oavii ruddy thatch Avas the color of ivory. His arms went out, his hand touched Murphy, and suddenly the boy had clutched him in a tight grasp of young arms.

“Maybe it’s real, an’ it’s you an’ me alone some day. We’d better keep on speakin ’ terms. ’ ’ He tried to



laugh, then suddenly dashed from the cabin.

I n three hours the Birmingham was repaired and tested, and they set to work smoothing a stretch of ice where she could race for the take-off. In the galley cubby, Mose was singing jazz, and between preparations for a meal, darting to the mirror to stare at his white, straight hair. An excited but silent company took their last look at the reflection of that vast and awful source of the world’s atomic energy, the light of which men call the Aurora Borealis.

Then the flight began, and with it an eery moaning of winds that blow between the worlds. They stood at salute, faces toward the Bowl, a gesture of honor and farewell to Captain Ek and Bjomsen.

Then came the fight with gales that howled, drove frozen snow like flails in a constant tattoo on the wings and body of the Birmingham, until she was tossed like a bird. The weary mechanics slept. Crayne was at the throttle. Mose crouched in a heap with the fragments of rock in his arms, his teeth chattering as he saw the strain on the faces of Crayne and Murphy.

Suddenly Crayne cried out, and Murphy leaped to his side.

“The stick’s gone,” he yelled above the fury of elemental cataclysms about them.

The end came suddenly—a downward plunge, a crash, then flames leaping. Crayne was on his feet in a moment. The cabin of the Birmingham had burst like an eggshell, and from it rolled Mose still clutching the rock, and Murphy. Of the others— the two sleeping mechanics—they had not sight or sound. Flame soared and roared, the black smoke streaked through the storm, and what had been a steel-thewed bird of flight was a roaring inferno, the heat of which must have brought merciful death to

the poor wretches stunned by the crash.

Glowing framework was all that was left of her in but a few minutes. Crayne, Mose and Murphy faced the bitter blast without food, fire or shelter.

It was Crayne who roused the other two from stupefaction.

“We can’t be far from the ship. We die if we hesitate. Let’s go,”

And buffeting the storm they went, three puny forms, without compass or star; went until Mose staggered from exhaustion and plunged on his face in the snow. Then without a word they lifted him, drew his arms over their shoulders and pressed on.

“Bud,” said Crayne at the end of hours of torture, “it’s time, I think. We were due to slip out when she crashed. We’re due to go down now. Alan can’t live in this wind up here, and I’m not even tired. How about you?”

“Nope. Seems like it’s right, boy. Bimini stuff, maybe. An’ if that ain’t a ship’s mast-head light, I’m a liar. An ’ hear the dogs! We’ve come some distance, no rest, no grub, no anything. They was something in it. Bimini!”

Over the snow, dogs streaked with yelps and howls, and from a star of light hung low over the ice that had hemmed her in came men of the Aurora to meet them.

They had pulled the beard of death, seen visions, dreamed dreams. Yet when they met the men of their own race they were silent.

‘ ‘ /Commander crayne. Lieutenant ^ 4 Murphy and Mose the negro cook ware the only members of the Birmingham’s erew to return from the ill-fated flight to the magnetic pole,” was the news account flashed south by tfle Aurora’s “sparks”. “The plane crashed and burned. A particularly marvelous display of

BIMINI


northern lights was followed by the worst storm recorded in these latitudes, in which the plane crashed. ’ ’

A later report told of the loss of the Aurora off the Grand Banks:

4 ‘ The schooner Aurora is sunk, the last of a series of disasters of this illstarred cruise. In spite of berg-finding apparatus and modern appliances, the Aurora struck a low-lying berg which opened her from stem to stem. Her crew saved themselves in boats that were picked up by fishermen. Commander Crayne, Lieutenant Murphy and the negro cook, Mose Johnson, were on the bridge when the boats pulled away from the doomed vessel, having refused to go in the boats although there was room. The government cruiser Mohawk was dispatched to the scene of the disaster in hope that the three men had somehow survived. ’ ’

Later dispatches:

“After a miraculous escape, clinging for hours to a floating raft with bitterly cold seas washing over them, Commander Crayne, Lieutenant Murphy and Mose Johnson were picked up by the Mohawk, little the worse for their dreadful experiences. These three men of the Birmingham, lost

near the magnetic pole, seemingly bear charmed lives. The only statement Commander Crayne made was that he wanted a month’s quiet; then he would plan for another northern trip of discovery. The will of Captain Ek, lost in Crayne’s flight, has left his vast fortune to charity with only two individual bequests. His books are willed to Professor Bjomsen, who perished with him, and they will revert to his son, also a professor of sciences in Christiania. The other bequest is that of his estate in Norway to Commander Crayne, where Crayne and Murphy will go immediately.”

Reading the news accounts, Murphy crumpled the paper and looked at Crayne.

“Dare you to swim the Atlantic and try out that Bimini stuff!” he said.

“Bud,” replied Crayne, “standing in the Aurora’s wlieelroom with locked doors when she slipped from the berg and sank in God alone knows how

[THE END]

============================================================
OLD GHOSTS____MAUD E
by Uschold
============================================================
many fathoms, and us three coming up, catching a spar and living for two days and nights in berg-cold water, is proof enough for me. Bimini. Perhaps we have dipped in hell!”


By MAUD E. USCHOLD

Loudly the wind laments an ancient pain,

And stirs to flight old dreams like stars a-wing,

Until through shivered silence voices sing Sun melodies and threnodies of rain.

And then all long-forgotten ghosts return,

Armed with the grievous talons of old wo,

To seek the blossoms scattered long ago

On graves to which their wandering footsteps yearn.

The Story Thus Far

R alph hearne, riding in a New York subway in the year 2014, is recognized by Dr. Trask as the reincarnation of Boris Saranoff, who nearly a century before had helped bury the jewels of the imperial family of Russia in the sea at Bakeiief Island, Alaska. Dr. Trask is himself the reincarnation of Gregory Birsk, an unscrupulous Russian soldier of fortune who had tried to obtain the jewels for himself and was slain in a duel; and Dr. Trask’s loveiy wife is the reincarnation of the Grand Duchess Tatiana, the murdered Tsar’s daughter, who escaped when her family was slaughtered by the Bolsheviks at Ekaterinburg. Dr. Trask projects himself, his wife, Hearne, and Merwin (his assistant, who is the reincarnation of Metkanoff) back into the past in the Fourth Dimension, hoping that by their combined psychic power they can change the course of past events and discover the hiding-place of the Tsar’s jewels. He plans to betray his wife and Hearne, leaving them stranded in the Fourth Dimension nearly a century in the past, while he and Merwin return to their bodies in 2014 A. D. and organize an expedition to Bakeiief Island to recover the treasure for themselves. Projected backward into the year 1928, the four arrive at Bakeiief Island on board the Narcissus, commanded by ICarlak, a former admiral in the Tsar’s navy.

5. A Plot to Escape

KARLAK flipped his partly smoked cigarette into the ■ burbling stream at his feet, motioning Saranoff to do likewise. “Perhaps an unnecessary precaution, ’ ’ he said, pointing up toward the cliffs where a solitary figure paced slowly back and forth under the moon, “but one can never tell. I have a feeling that already Birsk suspects something. See, he has doubled the guard over the passage to the sea and there is always one of those blacklegs of his on the cliffs up there watching the basin. Should they see even so small a glow as this they might be inclined to investigate.”


This story began in WEIBD TALES for December


“What are your plans?” asked Saranoff.

“Iam satisfied that Birsk is not sincere in his desire for counter revolution,” answered Karlak. “In fact I am sure of it. Once he has the jewels in his possession, we fear he will cut every honest throat on the island and be off. That is one reason why I have kept you from his sight. He does not know that we have another hand to help us. I am only hoping, too, that in some way you may get back your memory in order that we may know exactly what happened in that hut on the Markinoff road. But hist, I hear voices down there. I believe Brillitz and Hillis are coming.”

Out of the thicket on the rocky terrace below them stepped two figures, bending low with the weight of some object carried between them.

“Heaven be praised!” growled Karlak. “They have found at least one of the chests. But there should be two. They have left the other behind for the time being, perhaps. ’ ’

A few moments later the two had dragged their burden to the pine copse in which Saranoff and Karlak stood. “We were expecting you later and from the other direction,” said Karlak. “We’ll go down with you and get the other chest.”

‘ ‘ There isn’t any other, ’ ’ said Hillis, wiping his brow. “I found this one at 248 fathoms with the sides of Shepard’s bell cracking under the strain. I could find nothing more. I worked the bell well over the whole floor of the basin but there was no other chest. They must have hidden the other somewhere else. ’ ’

“How did you manage to bring it up without Birsk finding it out?” asked Karlak.

‘ ‘ I found a shelving ledge near the surface of the basin. It’s about three feet under water at low tide. I left the chest there until Brillitz and I could go ‘down and get it. We were not seen; of that I am sure, and yet I am equally certain that Birsk sus-

pects me. When I came up today, empty-handed as before, he growled something about the length of time it was taking to find the chests and whether he couldn’t do as good a job himself in going down. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Once let him go down in it, ’ ’ murmured Karlak, clenching his fists, “and I’ll see to it he never comes to the surface again. It is plain, though, that we can delay no longer. We are outnumbered ten to one, but if we strike quickly the surprize may make up the difference. And there’s enough in the one chest to finance all our dearest hopes. There is another difficulty, however. That is the grand duchess. We may get the chest out of Bakelief without Birsk’s discovering us until too late, but to get her out of that cabin on the cliff through the sentries he keeps there is quite another thing. We must make the attempt— no later than tomorrow night.”

‘ ‘ There is no way out except through the passage, ’ ’ put in Brillitz. “And that is too well guarded. Over the cliffs is out of the question. So far as I can see, we’re trapped. ”

“There’s a second entrance,” said Hillis. “I explored it from the bell only yesterday while they thought I was on the bottom. Do you see that promontory over there? It’s just above the shelving ledge where I hid the chest. Well under it, with the mouth of it free of water at low tide, is a cavern. It’s more of a tunnel than a cavern because it leads directly through the mountain to the outer side. This island is of volcanic formation, and the walls are honeycombed with holes of this sort, though I know no others -which pierce it completely.

“Now my idea is this: if we throw some planks and other material over the cliff at the point where the cavern makes into the sea, we can doubtless find the material on the other side when we get through. To make a raft would be a simple matter; the sea is gentle at this season and we could



paddle to the next island, rest there for a time and then go on until we had reached a point where there is more chance of being picked up by some passing ship.”

“It sounds reasonable,” said Karlak. “ It’s a slim chance, but the onlyone that I can see now. I think we should proceed in this wise: I shall call to see Her Highness at the house on the cliff sometime tomorrow. If I see an opportunity I shall tell her of our plans and warn her to be ready at the ebb of tide, which is—which

“About 2 o’clock in the morning,” put in Hillis. “Start a little earlier, if possible, because if the tide is in too far on the other side we can’t get out, and so we’d have to remain there inside the mountain for twelve hours. ’ ’

“Good. Well, then I shall leave it to you and Brillitz to get the planking for the raft and supplies over the cliff sometime this very night. With the wind in the direction it is now, we should find them there tomorrow, ready to be used. Saranoff will come with me to the cabin on the cliff tomorrow night. No later than when the moon rests on the western cliffs we will be with you at the promontory. God be with you all! Should neither of us return, you will know that we, for our part, have failed. Do not wait for us longer. ’ ’

It was with a tremendous feeling of relief that Ralph Heame, in the body of Boris Saranoff, heard Karlak’s words. During the past week, since their arrival on Bakelief Island, he had been looking forward eagerly to the meeting between Saranoff and the grand duchess, Tatiana, for he knew that then would come the crucial moment when he and Mi’s. Trask, furnished with the pellets in the ring, could release their souls and return to their own world, leaving Merwin and Dr. Trask to whatever fate the situation might have in store for them. He had twice tried to

reach Mrs. Trask by projecting himself out of the body of Saranoff, as he had done in order to speak with the Spirit Karlak on board the Narcissus, but each time the tremendous mental strain attending the attempt had forced him to relax once more into Saranoff’s body without having reached her side. He had then consulted the Spirit Karlak, who reminded him that the physical distance between Saranoff and the grand duchess was so great that there was no hope of his (Heame’s) soul reaching that of Mrs. Trask before Saranoff and the grand duchess were in closer proximity to each other.

“Saranoff and the grand duchess will meet by the cabin on the cliff three nights from now,” the Spirit Karlak had said, “and then you can do what you will. As it is now, neither your psychic power nor hers is sufficiently developed to permit your projecting yourselves from their bodies over such a distance. Saranoff will met her on the cliff; he -will not recognize her; he is not yet to regain his memory, but that need not affect you. You have only to take the pellets and be off.”

Heame had been obliged to let it go at that, forgetting that there was one soul now on Bakelief Island whose psychic powers were developed far beyond his own.

6. The House on the Cliff

A gibbous moon threw its.pale light over the cliffs of Bakelief Island, dipping the wood-mantled hills in a shining pool of silver on the fringe of which the encircling crags stood out like gigantic gnomes motionless against the starry vaults above them. It was almost 2 o’clock in the morning, and the camp, save for the Russian sentries pacing their airy platforms, had long since steeped itself in slumber.

On the cliff to the south, partly buried in a bower of stunted pines,



stood a small cabin known to those on Bakelief Island simply as the ‘ ‘ House on the Cliff”. Few on the island ever went there, and then only if they had plausible errand; for Gregory Birsk Icnew the heat of the smoldering fires that burned in the blood of his band and was not yet ready for the kindling of them. There lived there the only women on Bakelief Island; one old and haggard, the other young and beautiful and sad.

On this night two figures crouched in the deep shadows of the adjacent pine thicket. They had been there since the first coming of darkness, and now the younger of the two twitched with ill-concealed impatience.

“Easily, my friend,” whispered Karlak. “The time is now arrived. Mark well the place where the two sentries lounge before the door. Yonder is Birsk’s hut, but he prefers the cabin of the Narcissus for the present, and so we need fear only his keen eyes from her decks down there in the basin. Now we will creep around the cabin from here, then cross the cliffs and drop upon those fellows near the door. There must be no more than two blows—yours and mine—and no cries. These two must not move again.”

Tense with the suspense of the moment, Saranoff, at Karlak’s side, wriggled gingerly out from his shelter. Slowly the two crept up the slope toward the east wall of the cabin. Another ten feet and they lay low, listening with bated breath, but to their ears came only the soughing of the night wind among the pines and the drowsy conversation of the guards near the door. Then Saranoff’s groping hand loosened a stone; it rattled ominously down the slope, seeming to awaken a thousand echoes in the stillness of the night. With thumping hearts they lay prone on the slopes. Would they be seen?

One of the sentries, with a sleepy oath, got up and peered down the hill toward the basin. Nothing. Satisfied,

he turned back to his place, and they heard him complaining to his companion of the useless vigil imposed upon them by their chief.

Karlak and Saranoff were moving again, rounding the cabin, foot by foot. Now at the rear they heard far below them the restless beat of the Pacific. They came presently to the western comer and then began worming their way down the short slope, fine more comer and another dozen yards of this snake’s crawling and they would be on the flat-topped boulder against which their quarry lounged in desultory conversation.

Where they had crept by yards before. now they crawled by inches. A single false move—the rattle of a pebble, or the crunch of knees against gravel—and all would end. They were flat on the rock now, clearly outlined against its silvered surface by the pallid orb in the heavens above. Karlak was groaning inwardly. Had there ever been so clear a night before? Another foot now. Even breathing must cease!

The two sentries talked on.

Two heavy pistol butts fell as one. Two figures leaning against the flattopped boulder staggered, stumbled, and sank slowly earthward. Two heavy earbines clattered down against the rock. No other sound—not even a groan!

Karlak waited but a moment. The falling rifles of the senseless guards had awakened no one. He approached the hut. There sounded three soft, double raps on the door. It opened— the fraction of an inch.

“All is well, Marta. Is Her Highness ready?”

The old woman at the door nodded and moved aside. Behind her now, stepping forward until she stood full in the doorway, was a young woman, lovely even in her male clothing. She paused on the threshold.

“I can not leave you thus, Marta,” she exclaimed, choking back a sob.



“But Your Highness must go; it is for the best. ’ ’

‘ ‘ They will kill you, Marta. ’ ’

“I am an old woman. What matters it whether it come today or tomorrow? But you must hurry. See, already the moon rests on the upper cliffs. You risk your own life and theirs if you remain longer. ’ ’

They embraced. ‘‘I will surely come back for you, Marta. God will protect you.”

She stepped out full in the moonlight.

Ralph Hearne had been awaiting this supreme moment when he should come face to face with Mrs. Trask. During these last few days since the arrival of the Narcissus in the basin of Bakelief, he had allowed himself to be absorbed more and moi" Into the body of Boris Saranoff; so that finally, though he did not feel the need of sleep, he had whiled aw r ay the hours sleeping when Saranoff slept, eating when Saranoff ate and in general lending himself to the bodily functions of the Russian, to a point where he almost feared that his own soul had disappeared altogether.

But now, when Tatiana Romanoff stepped into the full of the moonlight, he knew the supreme hour had come, and so he thrust himself loose from Saranoff’s body, calling out, “Mrs. Trask! Mrs. Trask! ’ ’ And then her soul stood before him, projected in the body of the Russian princess, though it was the soul of Gloria Trask which looked out of those eyes.

He saw her hand go to her throat, and she swayed a little like a sapling in the wind. “My God!” she whispered finally; “you came back to my ltusband that day! I told you not to. I warned you, and now—but why did you come?”

“I came gladly,” he murmured, “ for I wanted to see you again. And now all is well because my soul is in Saranoff’s body and Saranoff has the ring with the green pellets which will release us and bring us back to our

own world. See, I have the ring here. ”

He held up his hand. The ring was gone!

‘ ‘ Good God! ” he exclaimed. ‘ ‘ The ring! I’ve lost it! Or somebody has taken it! What has happened? Karlak, Karlak,” he cried, and in that instant the Spirit Karlak appeared at his side.

“It is quite as I feared,” said the Spirit Karlak. ‘ ‘ I would have warned you had I any way of knowing beforehand what you earthling souls are going to do. But what he was to do was concealed from me. It is Trask who now has the ring.”

“Trask! But I can see it on Saranoff ’s true body. ’ ’

“Ah yes, but I explained that to you. Trask could take your ring but not the ring on Saranoff’s true body. You sleep too soundly there with Saranoff. I could have warned you when the scheme appeared in Trask’s mind, but I am powerless to speak with you unless you will it first. He came and stole it in the night.”

“But how could Trask come to me over that distance if I could not go to Mrs. Trask until Saranoff and the grand duchess had brought us closer to each other?”

“Because of his superior psychic power, my friend. He has developed it far beyond the average mortal. It is also his superior knowledge of the space laws of the universe which gives him an advantage over you. You are lost unless something develops which I can not yet foresee. The hour of Saranoff’s doom approaches.”

“When is he to die?” demanded Heame.

“The day after tomorrow. You have forty-eight hours of what you call time. Act quickly when you can. And remember that when you earthling souls are all together your psychic power is pooled ready to the hand of him who uses it first. Your one chance now lies in the fact that ere long all of you earthlings are to be



together. It is ordained that certain events shall happen at that time, but with your pooled psychic power you may be able to swing them out and substitute events of your own making. But remember also, it is a dangerous business. The cosmic tendency is to throw the events back into line as it is ordained they shall be. Preserve Saranoff’s life as long as you can, for therein lies your only hope.”

Saranoff and the grand duchess were by this time well down the hill. The increasing distance between himself and Saranoff began to tell on Heame, and he knew that Mrs. Trask must be suffering in like manner as the grand duchess drew away from her, so he bade farewell to the Spirit Karlak and suggested to Mrs. Trask that they relax into the bodies of the Russians.

Once more in union with Saranoff, Hearne looked into the Russian’s mind and realized that he had not yet regained his memory.

“How long, oh Lord, how long?” Heame found himself murmuring.

7. The Sea

T he Narcissus lay below them, every spar, every ring, every boltrope clearly etched by the moon on the placid water of the basin. A turn here from the path brought them to a thicket on the edge of the promontory, and here they met Brillitz and Hillis.

“You are late,” whispered Hillis. “The tide is already rising. We’ll have to be quick about it. Brillitz and I have everything ready. The chest lies below, ready to be carried through the cavern to the other side.”

“Good,” said Karlak. “Let us be off.”

They tied a rope fast to one of the trees and then let themselves down, one by one, to the surface of the water. There they found foothold on a narrow ledge beneath the surface. The tide had already risen to a point where they found themselves sub-

merged to their waists. All was dense blackness here, shielded as it was from the moon. Pressing forward with Hillis in the lead they found themselves in a narrow, low-roofed cavern, the floor of which slanted gently upward. Hillis produced a flashlight, and by its aid they struggled forward, Brillitz and Saranoff bringing up the rear with the chest between them. Karlak was aiding the grand duchess.

Now and then Hillis paused to flash the light overhead on some jutting rock which threatened their passage, but after a time they were able to walk upright and their speed increased. Now again they were forced to crouch, and once Hillis paused to turn the light on the basalt roof of the cavern.

‘ ‘ The water from the Pacific comes in as far as here, ’ ’ he said. ‘ ‘ See how the erosion is eating into the walls. ’ ’ He touched a huge block of basalt with his hand, and it moved perceptibly, so that he took his hand away in haste. “We’re lucky to have made this trip no later than we do,” he continued. “That ledge is about ready to fall. Once it comes down the tunnel may be blocked.”

They were on a gentle down grade once more. Presently Saranoff’s nostrils, until now filled only with the dank odor of damp earth, sensed a breath of salt-tanged air. Hillis bade them pause, and they heard far ahead the restless moan of the Pacific.

“The tide’s well up in the outer cavern already,” he exclaimed. “Let’s hurry.”

Ralph Hearne, in Saranoff’s body, was viewing the apparent success of the attempted escape with great alarm. If the fugitives got away, bearing his own and Gloria Trask’s souls with them, then the soul-saving green pellets, in the ring would be lost to him forever. He knew that Saranoff and the grand duchess were to die with the coming of another day, but if they were to die at consider104


able distance from Birsk (and hence Trask) it meant that Heame would never get another chance at the ring which Trask had stolen from him— the only ring which was available to him in his own dimension. It meant, furthermore, that there would be no opportunity for a pooling of the psychic power of the four earthling souls, and without this pooling of the psychic power there would be no suspending of the space laws and hence no altering of events as fate had ordained them.

He would have carried this thought to a logical and perhaps more comforting conclusion, but at that moment a full salty breath swept in upon Saranoff’s face, and Hillis, in the lead, plunged to his ankles in sea-water. They were nearing the mouth of the cavern. It widened here so that they were able to hurry forward without fear of jutting rocks. Now they rounded a sudden turn, and the Pacific, pale silver from a waning moon, lay before them rising in gentle swells that broke against the reefs at the base of the island.

The gray of coming dawn was already upon them before they had gathered together the planking and the supplies which Hillis and Brillitz had dropped over the cliffs the night before. Brillitz then transferred his rifle to the grand duchess on the completed raft, and then they dragged the crazy craft out as far as the reefs offered foothold. Springing upon it here, they began pushing with crudely fashioned paddles. Luckily there was only a gentle ground swell, and so as soon as they found they were clear of the breakers they were able to push forward at a fair rate of speed.

“I wish it were foggy as it usually is here,” grumbled Karlak an hour later. ‘'We couldn’t have picked a worse day so far as the visibility is concerned. If one of that gang should happen to get up earlier than usual and climb the cliffs for a look at the sea—St. Michael! ’ ’ His voice dropped

with a half-muttered oath of consternation.

“St. Michael!” he growled again. “Our trip is to be of short duration, after all. We forgot the Narcissus’ launch—and here they come!”

With muttered exclamations of dismay they turned and looked back toward the island.

At that moment, poking her burnished nose out of Bakelief passage, with a curl of white water already under her prow, was the swift tender of the Narcissus!

It was the hare and tortoise once more. In less than half an hour they heard the whining purr of the first bullet high above their heads, plainly intended as a warning to halt.

“Who is the best shot?” asked Karlak. “You, Brillitz. Take the rifle and see if you can pick off the man at the tiller. Steady now, while he gets his aim.”

Brillitz fired on the upward swell when the raft was steadiest. Looking back they saw the man at the wheel of the launch throw up his hands and lurch backward. For a moment the pursuing craft shifted wildly in its course, but soon there was another guiding hand on her tiller.

“Good. Now another, Brillitz.”

But there was an answering report from the launch, and Brillitz, spinning sidewise, staggered once and then lurched into the sea. He carried their only weapon with him.

“Keep on paddling,” ordered Karlak. “Poor Brillitz!—right between the eyes.”

Paddling was a hopeless task and presently they gave it up altogether. In fifteen minutes the launch was alongside.

8. Captured

O N being brought back to the island, Saranoff and Hillis were imprisoned in separate log huts while Karlak and the grand duchess were brought up to face Birsk alone.



Ralph Heame, in Saranoff’s body, had not been sorry when the fugitives were captured. It meant that two possibilities were now open to him. Either he might find opportunity to get his own ring back from Trask, or in the presence of the 1 pooled psychic power when the four earthling souls came nearer to each other he might take advantage of the suspension of the laws of space, reach across the dimension which separated him from the ring on Saranoff’s true body and seize it.

Scarcely had this last possibility entered his mind, however, when all opportunity for such action was lost. Several of Birsk’s men, under Metkanoff’s command, came into the hut, roughly searched Saranoff, and after emptying his pockets of the trifles there, took the ring away from him. Before they left the hut Heame heard Metkanoff say that all this material was to be turned over to Birsk. Heame realized in the bitterness of despair that Trask now had control of the ring in both dimensions—his own and Birsk’s. And so in utter exhaustion he relaxed once more into the being of Boris Saranoff.

When Karlak came in, Saranoff could see that something strange was afoot. The old man was trembling visibly as he drew the young Russian into a corner where the guard outside the door could not hear.

“It is their love of a fight,” Karlak exclaimed. ‘ ‘ Some who have seen you now recognize Saranoff and they want to see the finish of that business on the Markinoff road. Birsk was for executing all of us, but Metkanoff had already put the idea into their heads that a fight was a possibility. The duel has been their one diversion here for years. They are like great children in that, but they are strong men in other things. Birsk dares not deny them this pleasure. He has not seen you, either, and Metkanoff keeps it from him who you are, fearing, I suppose, that Birsk will not dare the

duel. Now Birsk in the old days was the best saber in the imperial armies, but even he admitted you had given him a terrific fight in that hut along the Markinoff road.”

Heame, who had been listening intently to this conversation between Karlak and Saranoff, felt himself suddenly tom loose from Saranoff’s body. Astounded for the moment, since he had never found his spirit projected before without first willing it himself, he did not at first comprehend what had happened, but presently, when the throbbing ether had settled once more, he saw a burly figure standing before him—a figure, heavily bearded, dressed in coarse, dark clothing with leather boots almost to the knees. He knew from descriptions it must be Gregory Birsk, and for a moment he did not grasp the significance of the visit, but a second later he realized that this was the counterpart, of Birsk’s body. It was not Birsk’s soul which looked at him out of those eyes. It was Dr. Trask! Karlak and Saranoff talked on, oblivious of any other beings in that room.

Dr. Trask’s eyes were smiling in their usual grim, sardonic way. “I’ve come to bid you farewell,” said he, “and wish you a pleasant sojourn in what will soon be an island of the dead.”

“You blackguard! ’ ’ exclaimed Heame. “What had I ever done to you that you should have played this vile trick upon me?”

Trask shrugged his shoulders. “We are enemies throughout every dimension of space—throughout all the ages,” he replied. “In this ‘vile trick,’ as you call it, I shall be very cheaply rid of you. But further than that, I needed you in finding out the whereabouts of the Russian crown jewels. That knowledge will shortly be mine. After that I shall merely swallow one of the green pellets which you were so kindly keeping in that ring for me—and pouf!—I shall re106


turn to our own world—my own world, because it will be yours no longer. And my wife, on whom I am aware you already have—er—designs —she will go back there with me. I have further use for her. ’ ’

“There are but two pellets in the ring,” said Heame. “You can leave me here, but one of you three must stay also. If you take Mrs. Trask, what of Merwin?”

“Merwin? I have no intention of taking him back, my friend. I leave him to you—a choice companion for your wanderings. I trust you will enjoy his company better than I have done.”

Hearne was thinking rapidly. Would it not be possible for him to kill Trask now? And take the ring? He remembered the Spirit Karlak had told him that those who had been projected back into the Fourth Dimension, as he had been, were subject to the same space laws. Hence, while he could not have molested Birsk, or Karlak or any of the rest of them, Trask was none the less within reach of his hand.

Thinking thus, he poised for a rush at his enemy, but just as he hurled himself forward there came a wild ringing laughter and Trask disappeared! In his escape, Trask had merely to relax, finding himself once more back in Birsk’s true body. Hearne, remembering that, and having less psychic power, was unable to follow.

He realized all this -with a sinking of the heart, but a moment later there came to him the thought that, after all, Mrs. Trask would escape the terrible fate that seemed to be so irrevocably in store for him. Trask had said he should take her back to their own world, and so if that were true Hearne’s worst fears would not be realized. And yet, on the other hand, could her mental torture be any less when she came to realize that her soul was bound to Trask throughout time? Would she not prefer to be back there

with him, Heame, a soul to wander as his must wander—a soul to be lost as his would be lost? To these questions he could give no answer.

Relaxing back into Saranoff’s body he found the Russian in the midst of a conversation with Karlak concerning the chest which had been brought back with them when they were captured on the raft.

“Birsk opened it,” Karlak was sayin. “He has been trying to keep it from them, but the news has spread about among the men. That chest was full of scrap iron—bolts and nuts and the like. Somebody has fooled us all! I see, now, why there were two chests. It is doubtless the other which contains the treasure. Those who were charged with hiding the jewels probably hid the other chest somewhere about the island within easy reach when they should come for it. The first was sunk in the basin as a decoy to discourage any who might find out about it and try to raise it. I understand, now, why they let this chest go to such a depth when they must have known we would have the devil’s own job raising it.”

“And so the stealing of the Narcissus was quite unnecessary,” said Saranoff. “What a foolish thing to sink the worthless chest in the basin! ’ ’

“No, on the contrary, the wisdom of it is already proved. Had they not done so, Birsk would by now be in sole possession of the jewels.”

“Yes, yes, that is so,” said Saranoff.

Karlak got up. “It is not good policy for me to keep you awake any longer,” said he. “You must rest in order that you may have the strength to kill Birsk tomorrow. The one thing I fear is that with the loss of your memory went also your skill with the saber. If so, it will be mere slaughter. ’ ’

. “Who knows but that I may regain it then? If I lost it in fighting him, may it not be that I will regain



it when I find myself fighting him again? Is not that the way those things happen?”

“That is a thought which hadn’t occurred to me. We can only hope for the best.” Karlak pulled a flask out of his pocket and passed it over to Saranoff,' together with a small package. “Here is food and drink,” said he. “Touch nothing the guards have brought you. I trust no one here. Birsk would not hesitate to poison you if he discovered you were Saranoff. What a shock it will be for him tomorrow when he sees you! Perhaps the surprize will put him at a disadvantage. One would hope he might be afraid of you, thinking he was fighting a ghost. But that can not be. Birsk fears neither man nor devil. I must go now. Sleep well.”

9. The Duel on the Cliff

S aranoff had slept soundly through the night, but Heame had been impatient for the dawn. When it came at last there were hurried footsteps outside the door, and, a moment later, Karlak, pale and haggard, entered.

“I have something to tell you,” he whispered to Saranoff. “I have a plan—Hillis already knows about it.” He bent closer and whispered in Saranoff’s ear, “If, by chance, you should kill Birsk and we all act quickly, we may yet save ourselves. If you kill him, his band will turn on us in the flash of an eye as soon as they realize what has happened. But between the killing and their realization of it there may be a moment when we can act. They are most certain to be off their guard then. But it is most important that we act as with a single mind. The grand duchess, on my prompting, has expressed a desire to see the fight, and she will be there with her woman, Marta, on the southeast comer of the flat-topped rock where the duel will be fought. Hillis and I shall be near

by but they will probably be watching us very carefully. Do you, Saranoff, take care to make him fight near the outer side—on the edge if you can. Should you kill him—and God grant you may!—hesitate not so much as an instant, but run toward us at the southeast corner. There, in looking over the precipice, you will see about ten feet below you a jutting ledge of rock. Drop to it instantly, and in a few seconds, with God’s help, Hillis and I will break from our guard, knock down those nearest Her Highness, hurry her to the edge of the cliff and help her down to you. It must be done quickly, and yet with infinite care, for a single misstep means that you go over the cliff into the Pacific, two hundred feet below. It is one chance in a thousand, but. facing death as we do, we can not afford to ignore it.

‘ ‘ This ledge, on which you will find yourself, runs eastward for about twenty feet. At that point there is a fissure in the cliff through which we can make our way down into the valley and so to the basin. By the time they have scattered to head us off we shall be at the edge of the basin. There we can take the tender and make our way to the yacht. Birsk has had that machine-gun of theirs mounted on her, and with it we may hold them off indefinitely. In time we might attempt the passage. But now the guard is outside waiting; no more until we reach the cliff.”

Hillis joined them outside, and so with their guards walking ahead and behind them they marched around to the northern and more barren side of the island, where the sheer gray walls stood out in a straight precipice over the Pacific. As they climbed to this rocky eminence they saw that all the denizens of Bakelief Island were there before them. To one side, standing on the flat-topped rock which constituted the dueling-ground, was the grand duchess, her dark hair stream108


ing freely in the wind. Beside her stood her woman companion, Marta. Birsk was already there.

Ivarlak turned to Saranoff and with Hillis’ aid helped him with his coat; afterward, at Saranoff’s direction, stripping him down to his waist. Over on the other side of the rock they were doing the same for Birsk. Presently the two duellists stood facing the distant horizon, their skins whipped by the chill winds of dawn.

Metkan off'presented the sabers for their choosing, first to Birsk’s second and then to Karlak. The grizzled old Russian ran his finger along the edge of the steel and then struck the pommel smartly across the heel of his boot. There should be no loosened blade to undo them at the crucial moment. He handed the weapon to Saranoff with a murmured, “God be with you!” and then shook him by the hand, at the same time whispei*- ing in his ear, “All is prepared.”

The soul of Ralph Heame realized in that instant that the crucial moment had arrived. This was undoubtedly the point for which Dr. Trask had been waiting. The four earthling souls were all together now in close proximity—Trask’s, Gloria Trask’s, Merwin’si and his own. The psychic power accruing to each was pooled; it but awaited the hand of him who would use it first. The events which fate had written down to be enacted might now be changed. Trask had undoubtedly laid his plans for the changing of them, but how, God only knew. No, if it were something already completed Hearne knew that he might summon the Spirit Karlak, and the Spirit Karlak would tell him at least what Trask planned to do even if the Spirit Karlak had no way of foretelling what success would attend Trask’s plans.'

But if he, Hearne, knew that, would he be any better off? Fate had written that Saranoff should regain his memory and slay Birsk in the duel which was now to begin. One thing

was certain—Trask had planned to reverse this event by aid of the pooled psychic power. Trask would see to it that Birsk killed Saranoff. What should Heame do? What could he do? A dozen ideas, fears, conjectures, flashed through his mind. Just how was Trask most likely to go about this changing of events? Obviously it would be taking too much of a chance to try to increase Birsk’s fightingskill to the point where Birsk could overcome Saranoff. No, it must be some other way. Ah yes, Merwin! Hearne had forgotten Merwin. Metkanoff was over there with a pistol at his belt and Merwin’s soul was in Metkanoff’s body. That pistol at Metkanoff’s belt would be available to Merwin. But Merwin couldn’t shoot Saranoff; he could only shoot Heame and shooting Heame wouldn’t affect Saranoff. But, on the other hand, couldn’t Merwin shoot Saranoff now? Of course he could; the pooled psychic power again! Fate was loosened; the laws of the universe were in its presence, ready to be held in abeyance. Therefore it was very likely that Merwin could shoot across the -dimension and kill Saranoff—or at any rate disable him to the point where Birsk would kill him.

H earne, coming out of his revery, realized with a sudden shock that Saranoff was already in the midst of a terrific struggle. The two combatants had faced each other and Birsk had gasped at the first sight of the man before him, the man he thought he had killed in that little hut on the Markinoff road. For a moment he had faltered, and in that moment Saranoff had nearly killed him, so he had now thrown conjecture to the winds and entered into the battle of his life. Whatever were the other faults of Gregory Birsk, cowardice was not one of them. Treachery for him had been a tool wherewith to work on life; he had never thought of it as a shield and buckler against death. SaraTHE ISLE OF LOST SOULS


noff’s first onslaught had now ceased and Birsk’s heavy saber swooped up into a savage cross cut which Saranoff turned away with a quick forward thrust and a twist of his body. But Saranoff had been a trifle too slow. There was a smothered scream from the grand duchess. Birsk’s blade had bitten deep into his side. Saranoff was down—God!—but no, he was up again! It was only a flesh wound.

That blow did something to Boris Saranoff. Until now he had fought with a certain lethargy; this was to him a duel, a contest of skill in which life, to be sure, was the reward of victory. But he had not cared much about life, and the man who leaped before him meant nothing more than any other man who might have been there as well. Nor did the girl mean anything to him—the girl who stood behind him and screamed when he fell.

But that blow, the sting of pain, the gush of blood—something seemed to snap in his brain and all grew gray before him. He was fighting—fighting through a veil of thick grayness in which faces swirled and danced about him. Sometimes there were but two faces—the man with the saber opposite him and a girl standing high above him and holding a candle. Now the candle was gone and the sun was there. But it was always the same face—the man and the girl. The candle—she was holding the candle. No, she was holding the sun. The sun! Of course, the sun! And then with a rush the veil was snatched away and the vista of his past was laid before him. Ah, it came to him now—that fight in the hut on the Markinoff road. The man before bim —Gregory Birsk! The girl!

He shouted her name like a battle cry and hurled himself forward against his enemy. The blade in his hand now became a livid, hissing breath of flame. Up and down it whirled—in and out it weaved—

whistling slash and cut and clashing parry! A live thing it seemed, darting tongues of flame at the man who recoiled and backed and stumbled away before it. None of the old cunning was lost; he was Boris Saranoff again. In his mind now was only one desire, one intent, one purpose—to slay the grinning monster before him! Another drive—yes, his own blade was crimson now with the blood of Gregory Birsk, his mortal enemy!

“Good,” muttered Karlak. “He will carve his name on the breast of that beast ere long. Birsk, your hour of reckoning has come again. Back— back—not too far, Saranoff, lest he push you in among his henchmen. Ah, Birsk, he has put the sun in y$ur eyes once again. You back the other way? No, you can not go farther! That is not the path to victory! St. Michael, Birsk is a child in Saranoff’s hands. Once let Saranoff corner him —and all,is over!”

The muttered exclamations with which the crowd had watched the struggle had ceased, and there resounded now only the clash of steel on steel and the hoarse breathing of the fighters. The possibility that they might lose their chief had not yet occurred to the Kussians, absorbed as they were in the tense excitement of the conflict. Birsk was now purely on the defensive. His sole hope was to evade the lightninglike slashes of the man before him.

It was at this point, well rehearsed between Trask and Merwin, that Merwin was to do his part. Heame, in Saranoff’s body, watching for what he knew must be the crucial moment, saw Merwin project himself out of Metkanoff’s body; saw him walk to one side, pistol in hand; saw him raise the pistol; heard the crash of the report. This was the moment!

Saranoff whirled suddenly, his free hand going to his sword arm. He staggered and the point of his saber wavered and sank. Birsk, seizing the



opportunity, whirled his own saber upward. Came the resounding clash of steel on steel. There was a ringing clatter as Saranoff’s saber lay on the rock at his feet.

Trask had succeeded!

A shout arose from the crowd. Birsk whirled his weapon high above his head once more, the broad blade cutting a vivid ribbon of light under the yellow rays of the sun. Saranoff, disarmed, awaited the blow, his free hand still clasping his wounded shoulder. “This is the end,” thought Heame.

The grand duchess screamed. Birsk whirled his blade still higher and higher and stepped back for a better blow. But that foot, coming down, found no solid rock beneath it, for this was the edge of the cliff and the Pacific yawned below. Birsk, clutching at empty air, vanished over the side, his one hoarse scream of terror echoing and re-echoing among the cliffs, rooting each of them with horror to the spot.

Two hundred feet with the black points of jagged reefs waiting in assured silence for their prey!

The eery fate that befell Heame and Mrs. Trask in the bodies of Boris Saranoff and the Grand Duchess Tatiana 1 will be told in next month's chapters, which

will bring this story to its end.

10. The Red Specter

There was a red, raw dripping thing that mowed And tottered in a spreading pool of blood;

There was a shape, on which a scarlet flood Enwrapped it in a steaming blood-red shroud;

There was a sound, gigantically loud,,

That seemed to pour from where the horror stood; There was a crackle as of blazing wood,

And all the air was misty as a cloud.

And both my hands were covered with that red, And everything was red and strange end mad; I scarce could know the evil that I did;

The air from some vast stellar carnage bled And veiled the shrieking shape in haze that had Red phantoms in its bleeding mystery hid.

An Unusual Ghost-Tale Is


By ROBERT WATSON

PERHAPS you have never heard of Mad Laveen, who lived for years at the head of the gulch there and passed out last year. It is true that he didn’t cut much of a figure when alive, but his final going out was spectacular.

Laveen was apparently a Russian: big, bearded and taciturn. No one in Kalamalka Valley knew just where he came from. He simply arrived one day, took up his abode in the old shack that sat on the top of Ghost Ravine, and remained there for years, speaking to none, interesting himself in nobody, doing little or nothing outside, of squeezing enough from the hills and the river to feed and clothe him, and that was not difficult.

Once a month he would drop down to the settlement of Zore with an order, neatly written and in good English, for flour, tea, sugar and other plain necessaries. He never passed the time of day even with old Hank Jacques the storekeeper. He would place his order on the counter, stand aside, pick up his bill when Hank made it out, pay over the money, push his purchases into a sack, sling the sack on his back and trudge out along the back lanes into the bush and home.

The mothers of the kiddies playing in the roadway used to call their offspring indoors when they heard Mad Laveen was in the village. And the children needed no second warning, for the name had become a

synonym of bad, evil, devil; although why this should be no one seemed to know, for Laveen kept his own counsel and so far as common knowledge went had harmed no one directly. But the very dogs pulled in their tails and cowered away at the sight of him. Something sinister seemed to invade the atmosphere at his approach. The settlers in and about Zore always took the high trail when passing Laveen’s at the gulch, for they were afraid of him.

Once Sam Lethe’s boy, Roddy, had ventured down the low trail to the door of the shack. Laveen was not at home. Roddy admitted that, for he had seen him in the distance canoeing down the river. But Roddy had to hop home on one good leg that day, for a bullet had splintered the other, although Roddy swore he neither heard a shot nor could he admit that he had been hit from the direction in which Laveen had been.

One day. in the dead of winter, when it was twenty-five degrees below zero, Widow Fernie, in a kindly act of charity, had ventured to within a hundred yards of Laveen’s place, on the trail, and had laid a pot of warm soup, with a chicken in it, right in his way, and just shortly before the time she thought Laveen would be arriving home. At midnight, that same night, she was awakened by a crash of splintering glass and, on jumping out of bed, found that her pot, with the soup and fowl frozen and untouched, had



been crashed through her bedroom window.

It was little wonder that the folks called him Mad Laveen, and less wonder still that no one cared to have anything to do with him any more than he appeared to care for having anything to do with them.

If Laveen insisted on being alone and living alone, that was his business, and so long as he harmed no one, with no definite proof against him, there was nothing to do but to let him live his own life.

But the less that is known of a person, the more is likely to be conjectured of his past history.

A stranger came into the village one day and mentioned that he had watched Laveen bathing himself by the river’s edge. That statement alone created astonishment, for Laveen and water appeared to be as opposite in friendliness as the poles. But the stranger said Laveen was bathing an open sore on his great back, which was criss-crossed from neck to waist in a latticework pattern of great, raised, blood-red weals. Then it got about that Laveen was a Russian refugee, possibly escaped from the horrors of the Siberian mines, and that the dreaded knout and Laveen had been on familiar terms on many occasions, so much so that the poison had eaten into him and had kept his wounds open.

That he was devoutly religious in his own way was also common talk.

Daring lads had come back from bush excursions in the ravine with the tale that Laveen had a crucifix set up in a lonely place in the forest. On the top of the crucifix was the head of a mitered priest or saint. One boy, more venturesome than the others, had examined this closely when Laveen was absent. He said the head was made of wood, beautifully carved and ingrained with a delicate, humanlike coloring, showing the face of a suffering Christ, with sad eyes that seemed to bear

the burden of the sins of the world in them.

The lad in his bravado had intended tearing down the thing and bringing it into the village as a trophy, but the sad eyes of the image had sent him home with the sacrilege undone.

But enough of the living Laveen. Sufficient is it that he lived out his hermit existence and shunned his fellow men.

I was deputy sheriff of the district at this time, and in the forestry service as well. My jurisdiction took me over a large territory, and I had been absent from the little settlement of Zore for possibly three months, when I returned to set up a camp of a dozen men on some clearing that required to be done for observation work. I had no sooner got to town than I was assailed on every side with the same query, “Did you come across Mad Laveen on your travels?”

“No,” I answered. “What’s the bother? You folks seem suddenly to have developed a gi*eat interest in him.”

“Well, he hasn’t been seen for more than two months,” old Hank Jacques ventured. “We ain’t worryin*, nor we ain’t carin’, only it’s darned kind o’ queer.”

“Hasn’t anyone gone to his place to find oxxtV’ I asked. “The man might be sick and not able to get around. He might even be dead.”

“We ain’t been to see, an’ nobody’s got a mind to take any chances on a charge o’ buckshot for bein’ over-friendly.”

It was a cold-blooded way of talking of the case, but, after all, I could not blame the settlers. Laveen had brought this attitude of theirs on himself.

That night in camp I woke up several times, and as I looked down over the Kalamalka Valley, with the moon shining silverlike on the river away over beyond Ghost Ravine, I



could not help thinking of this poor devil of a foreigner and of the possibility of his being in a plight that might need a helping hand.

At breakfast next morning I mentioned it to some of the boys. I asked them if they were game to come along to investigate, and I had no trouble over volunteers. Late in the afternoon we took cautiously down the trail. As we neared the clearing by the shack, I got the boys to remain in hiding with their guns ready in case of trouble. I went quietly forward, alone.

The door of the shack was closed. There was a shutter on the only window. I battered on the door, but got no answer. Thinking it most probable that Laveen had flown the country, I beckoned the boys forward. Wc put our shoulders to the woodv/ork and the door gave way.

A rush of air of the vilest odor swept on us. We stepped back for a bit until we thought it was safe for us to venture in. It was dark. One of the boys tore down the shutter from the window, letting the sunlight stream in. Laveen’s bunk was empty. An object was lying on the floor. It was Mad Laveen, sprawled face downward. We turned him over. He had evidently been dead for weeks. A neat little bullet-hole showed on his left temple. By his side lay an empty rifle.

Laveen claimed credit for at least one good deed. He had left the world that he seemed merely to have encumbered.

As we looked about for the cause of the musty, pestiferous odor that, pervaded the place, a strange sight presented itself. Around the walls of the shack were nailed the heads of putrefied fish and dead animals’ rabbits’ feet and birds’ wings, all in the most horrible state of decay. They must have been there for ages. Below each were written religious quotations intermingled with vile blasphemies, and all in good English.

In a hurry to get away, I ordered the men to pack Laveen’s body outside, when my attention was drawn to a sheet of notepaper on the bench near the window. I picked this up and read it:

“The curse of God be on you if you bury me in the earth. Build a fire, saturate me with coal-oil and set me on top. Leave neither hide nor hair of Laveen.”

“Poof!” I remarked to the boys. “He’s quite finicky about the disposition of his remains. He didn’t do much good when he was alive; darned if we’re going to do any Hindoo stuff over him. Come on! Let’s dig a hole for him at the end of the clearing. That should be plenty good enough.”

And that is exactly what we did— a four-feet-deep hole and “Good-bye, old sport!” for his funeral service, a nice little mound with a few white stones on top, and we were through.

As the only way to get rid of the pest-house he had left behind him, I decided to burn it.

We set it alight, then stood back to watch it go up, for, after all, he is a queer codger, man or boy, who doesn’t like to watch a fire.

In the gathering dark, that shack went up like pitch and dynamite. It roared and seethed and hissed, with the flames hitting the roof of the sky till we had to back up to save our hair and eyelashes. The walls continued to stand up around what seemed to be a white-hot furnace.

It was an awesome sight, away out there in the clearing, backed by the dense forest, we standing by the river’s edge and every one of us staring, half-hypnotized, with not a word to bandy between us.

But suddenly Andy Slaven, my foreman, cried out hoarsely, “Great God! See—there’s Mad Laveen!”

Every one of us stiffened as if an electric shock had shot through us. Instinctively we looked in the direction Andy had indicated. And there, apparently as alive as any of us, was



Laveen—big, broad, bearded and grim—striding down from the place where we had buried him.

Not one of us could speak. A queer chill, that froze us where we stood, crept down our spines. I could feel the hair rise at the nape of my neck, and my tongue curl, dry, at the back of my mouth. If Laveen had had a mind to. he could have killed every man-jack of us where we stood and we wouldn’t have been able to raise a hand to save ourselves.

On came the big Russian, striding calmly toward the blazing shack, paying no heed to us at all. He came round the side of the house and made for the doorway. At the entrance he turned. His eyes opened wide and seemed to flash with exultation. Then he grinned at us in a good natured way, showing his great white teeth. He raised his hand in a motion of farewell, tumbled backward and disappeared in the blaze.

The moment he did so, the fire shot to the sky as if the very fiends of hell were at play inside. Then, as we stood gaping, the walls fell inward with a crash and a shower of sparks, and gradually the flames subsided

until nothing was left but smoldering ashes and black char.

We were a silent crowd that traveled back to camp that night, and it was not until next morning that the boys opened up.

‘‘ Hallucination!” “Hypnotism!’’ Most of them agreed on that. Yet every man there had seen the same thing.

“All right, boys,” I said at last, “let’s go down and dig him up; then we’ll be sure. No use leaving this thing unsettled in our minds for all time.”

And down we went with picks and shovels.

L aveen’s grave was slick and neat,.

just as we had left it the evening before. Even the little heap of stones that Andy had set on top was still sitting pretty.

As I told you, we had buried Laveen four feet deep. Well—we dug and shoveled for ten feet deep and in a ten-feet square, right on the spot where we had laid him, but devil a hide or hair did we find of Mad Laveen.

Let Night Have Sway

By LEAVENWORTH MACNAB

Sigh on, sad sea, thy sobbing sootheth me;

Wail on, wild wind, along thy winding way;

Fade, fade, ye flaming floodgates, in the' sea—

Let night have sway.

Life is a lonely labyrinth, and the light Mocketli my misery, and glam’rous day Smileth deriding on my shadowed sight—

Let night have sway.

When the Green Star Waned*

By NICTZ1N DYALHIS

RON TI is our greatest scientist. Which is to say that he is the greatest in our known universe, for we of the planet Venhez lead $11 the others in every attainment and accomplishment, our civilization being the oldest and most advanced.

He had called a meeting of seven of us in his ‘ * workshop, ” as he termed his experimental laboratory. There came Hul Jok, the gigantic Commander of the Forces of Planetary Defense; Mor Ag, who knew all there was to know about the types, languages and customs of the dwellers on every one of the major planets; Vir Dax, who could well-nigh bring the dead to life with his strange remedies, powders, and decoctions; Toj Qul, the soft-spoken, keen of brain— the one Venhezian who could “talk a bird off a bough,” as the saying goes —our Chief Diplomat of Interplanetary Affairs; and Lan Apo, whose gift was peculiar, in that he could unerringly tell, when listening to anyone, be that one Venhezian, Markhurian, or from far Ooranos—planet of the unexpected—Lan Apo could, I repeat, tell whether that one spoke pure truth or plain falsehood. Nay, he could even read the truth held back, while seemingly listening attentively

* From WEIRD TALES, April, 1925.

to the lie put forward! A valuable man—but uncomfortable to have about, at times!

Lastly, there was myself, whose sole distinction, and a very poor one, is that I am a maker of records, a writer of the deeds of others. Yet even such as I have names, and I am called Hak Iri.

Ron was excited. That was plain to be seen in the indifferent, casual manner he displayed. He is like that. The rest of us were frankly curious, all but that confounded Lan Apo. He wore a faintly superior smile, as who should say: “No mystery here, to me!” I love that boy like a brother, but there are times when I ardently desire to bite him!

Ron stood before a huge dial. Now this is not a record of his invention, but a statement of the strange adventure in which we seven figured because of the events called to our attention by means of that wonderful device, so I shall not attempt its full description, merely saying that it was dialformed, with the symbols of the major planets graven on its rim at regular intervals, and from its center there swung a long pointer, just then resting at a blank space.

“Listen,” commanded Ron, and swung the pointer to the symbol of our own world.




Instantly there broke forth in that quiet room all the sounds of diversified life with which we Venhezians are familiar. All six of us who listened nodded comprehension. Already our science knew the principle, for we had long had dials that surpassed this one, apparently; for ours, while but attuned to our planet alone, could, and did, record every event, sight, or sound thereon, at any distance, regardless of solid obstacles intervening. But this dial—it bore the symbols of all the inhabited worlds. Could it-?

Ron swung the indicator to the symbol of Markhuri, and the highpitched uproar that immediately assailed our ears was characteristic of that world of excitable, volatile-natured, yet kindly people.

Planet after planet, near and far, we contacted thus, regardless of space, until Ron swung the pointer to the symbol of Aerth.

And silence was the result!

D on’s look spoke volumes. We ^ looked into each other’s faces, and read reflected therein the same anxiety, the same apprehension which we each experienced.

That something was radically wrong with our neighbor, everybody already knew, for many years before the green light of Aerth had become perceptibly dimmer. Little attention, iiowever, had been paid at first, for, by interplanetary law, each planet’s dwellers remained at home, unless their presence was requested elsewhere. A wise idea, if one stops to consider. And no call had come to us nor to any other world from Aerth; so we had put it down to some purely natural cause with which, doubtless, the Aerthons were perfectly capable of coping without outside help or interference.

But year by year the green light waned in the night skies until finally it vanished utterly.

That might have been duq to at-

mospheric changes, perhaps. Life, even, might have become extinct upon Aerth, so that no one lived to hold communication with anyone on any of the other inhabited worlds of the Planetary Chain, but it was hardly likely, unless the catastrophe were instantaneous; and in that case it would needs be violent. Anything so stupendous as that would have been registered at once by instruments all over the universe.

But now—this invention of Ron Ti’s placed a remarkably serious aspect upon the question. For, if Aerth still occupied its own place—and we knew beyond doubt that it did—then what lay behind this double veil of silence and invisibility?

What terrible menace threatened the universe? For whatever had happened on one planet might well occur on another. And if Aerth should perchance be wrecked, the delicate balance of the universe would be seriously shaken, might even be thrown out completely, and Markhuri, so near the sun, go tumbling into blazing ruin. Then horror upon horror, until chaos and old night once more held sway, and the unguessed purposes of the Great Mind would beOh, biit such thoughts led to madness! What to do? That course alone held fast to sanity.

“Well?” demanded Hul Jok, the practical. “What are you going to do about it, Ron? ’ ’

That was Hul Jok all over! He was Ron’s best friend and ardent admirer. He knew Ron’s scientific ability, and firmly believed, should Venhez crack open, that inside of an hour Ron Ti would have the crevice closed tight and re-welded until inspection would fail to find any traces of the fracture! But at that, all Venhez thought the same way about Ron Ti’s abilities, so Hul Jok was, after all, no better than the rest.

“It is matter for the Supreme Council,” replied Ron gravely. “I propose that we seven obtain permisWHEN THE GREEN STAR WANED


sion to visit Aerth in one of the great Aethir-Torps, bearing credentials from the council explaining why we have trespassed, and, if it be possible, try to ascertain if this be a thing warranting interference or no.”

Why record the obvious? When such as Ron Ti and Hul Jok make request to the Supreme Council, it is from necessity, not for amusement.

The council saw it in that aspect, and granted them free hand. We started as promptly as might be.

T he great Aethir-Torp hurtled ■through space in smooth, even flight, Hul Jok in command. And who better fitted? Was he not our war prince, familiar with every device known for purposes of offense and defense? Surely he whose skilled brain could direct whole fleets and armies was the logical one to handle our single craft, guide her, steer her, and, if need arose, fight her!

With this in mind I asked him casually yet curiously:

“Hul Jok, if the Aerthons resent our inquiry, and bid us begone, what will you do?”

“Run!” grinned the giant, goodhumoredly.

“You will not fight, should we be attacked? ’ ’

“Hum!” he grunted. “That will be different! No race on any planet may boast that they have attacked an Aethir-Torp of Venhez with impunity. At least,” he added, decisively, “not while Hul Jok bears the emblem of the Looped Cross on his breast! ’ ’

“And if it be pestilence?” I persisted.

“Vir Dax would know more about that than I,” he returned, shortly.

“And if-” I recommenced; but

the giant released one hand from the controls, and clamped his great thick fingers on my shoulder, nearly crushing it.

“If,” he growled, “you do not cease chattering when I am on duty,

I shall most assuredly pitch you out through the opening of this conningtower into space, and there you may start, on an orbit of your own as a cunning little planet! Are you answered?”

I was. But I grinned at him, for I knew our giant; and he returned the grin. But he was quite right. After all, ^peculations are the attempts of fools to forestall the future. Better to wait, and see reality.

And as for surmises, no one could possibly have dreamed any such nightmare state of affairs as we found upon our arrival.

A faint, dull, but lurid reddish glow first apprised us that we were drawing near our destination. It was Aerth’s atmosphere, truly enough, but thick, murky, almost viscous, like a damp, soggy smoke.

So dense it was, in fact, that it became necessary to slow down the speed of our Aethir-Torp, lest the intense friction set up by our passage should melt the well-nigh infusible plates of Berulion metal of which our Aethir-Torp was built. And the closer we drew to Aerth’s surface, the slower were we obliged to proceed from the same cause.

But finally we were gliding along slowly, dose to the actual surface; and, oh, the picture of desolation which met our eyes! It happened that we had our first view where once had stood a great city. Had stood, I say, for now it was but tumbled heaps of ruins, save that here and there still loomed the shape of a huge building; but these, even, were in the last stages of dilapidation, ready to fall apart at any moment.

In fact, one such did collapse with a dull, crashing roar, merely from the vibrations set up by the passing of our Aethir-Torp—and we were a good half-mile distant when it fell!

In vain we sounded our discordant houtar; no sign of life could we discern, and we all were straining our



eyes in hopes. It was but a dead city. Was all Aerth thust

Leaving behind this relic of a great past, we came to open country. And here the same deadly desolation pre-. vailed. Nowhere was sign of habitation, nowhere was trace of animate life, neither bird, nor animal, nor man. Nor anywhere could we discern evidence of cultivation, and even of vegetation of wild sorts was but little to be seen. Nothing but dull, graybrown ground, and sad-colored rocks, with here and there a dingy, grayishgreen shrub, stunted, distorted, isolate.

\X7e came eventually to a low * ’ range of mountains, rocky, gloomy, and depressing to behold. It was while flying low over these that we for the first time saw water since we arrived on Aerth. In a rather wide valley we observed a narrow ribbon of sluggish, leaden-hued fluid meandering slowly along.

Ron Ti, who was then at the controls, brought our craft to a successful landing. This valley, especially near the stream banks, was the most fertile place we had thus far seen. There grew some fairly tall trees, and in places, clumps and thickets of pallidly green bushes as high as Hul Jok’s head, or even higher. But treetrunks and bushes alike were covered with dull red and livid purple and garish yellow fungi, which Yir Dax, after one look, pronounced poisonous to touch as well as to taste.

And here we found life, such as it was. I found it, and a wondrous start the ugly thing gave me! It was in semblance but a huge pulpy blob of a loathly blue color, in diameter over twice Hul Jok’s height, with a gaping, triangular-shaped orifice for mouth, in which were set scarlet fangs; and that maw was in the center of the bloated body. At each corner of this mouth there glared malignant an oval, opaque, silvery eye.

Well it vras for me that, in obedience to Hul Jok’s imperative command, I was holding my Blastor pointing ahead of me; for as I blundered full upon the monstrosity it upheaved its ugly bulk—liow, I do not know, for I saw no legs nor did it have wings—to one edge and would have flopped down upon me, but instinctively I slid forward the catch on the tiny Blastor, and the foul thing vanished—save for a few fragments of its edges—smitten into nothingness by the vibrations hurled forth from that powerful little disintegrator.

It was the first time I had ever used one of the terrific instruments, and I was appalled at the instantaneous thoroughness of its workings.

The Blastor made no noise—it never does, nor do the big Ak-Blastors which are the fighting weapons used on the Aetliir-Torps, when they are discharging annihilation — but that nauseous ugliness I had removed gave vent to a sort of bubbling hiss as it returned to its original atoms; and the others of the party hastened to where I stood shaking from excitement—Hul Jok was wrong when he said it was fear!—and they questioned me as to what I had encountered.

Shortly afterward, Hul Jok found another one and called us all to see it, threw a rock the size of his head at it, hit it fairly in the center of its mouth; and the rock vanished inside and was apparently appreciated, for the nightmare quivered slightly, rippled a bit, and lay still. Hul Jok tried it with another rock, but had the mischance to hit his little pet in the eye—and seven Blastors sent that livid horror to whatever limbo had first spawned it! And it was above our heads in the air, hurling downward upon us when we blew it apart! Lightning scarcely moves swifter! Even Hul Jok was satisfied thereafter, when encountering one, to confine his caresses to pointing his Blastor and pressing the release stud,



instead of trying to play games with it.

But that was, after all, the sole type of life we found in that valley, although what the things fed upon we could not then ascertain, unless they devoured their own species.

We found others like them in another place—blob-things that could not be destroyed by our Blastors; and we saw, too, what they were fed with. But that in its proper place!

We spent some time here in this valley, but then finding nothing new, we again took to our craft and passed over the encircling mountains, only to find other mountains beyond. Also, other valleys.

At length we came to a larger valley than any we had before seen. This was, rather, a plain between two ranges, or, to speak more accurately, a flat where the range divided and formed a huge oval, to re-unite and continue as an unbroken chain farther on.

And here we again landed where a grove of trees gave concealment for our Aethir-Torp in case of—we did not know—anything! But upon us all there lay a heavy certitude that we were in a country inimical to our very continuance of existence.

Why? We could not tell that, yet each of us felt it, knew it, and, to some extent, feared it—for the bravest may well fear the unknown.

T t was Mor Ag who had spoken the

words which guided our actions for some time past.

“Were Aerth inhabited as we un- •derstand the word,” he had said, sententiously, “the great city we saw would be no ruin, but teeming with life and activity, as was the custom of the Aerthons before the light of the Green Star waned. So, if any be still alive, it is in the wilderness we must seek them. Wherefore, one place is as another, until we learn differently.”

How utterly right he was, speedily became manifest.

The pit-black murk of night slowly gave place to the pallid, wan daylight wherein no actual sunlight ever shone, and as we gathered up our Blastors and other impedimenta, preparatory to setting forth, Toj Qul raised a hand in warning.

There was no need for speech. We all heard what he did. I think the dead must hear that infernal, discordant din every time it is sounded. Describe it? I can not. There are no words adequate!

When our ears had somewhat recovered from the shock, Yir Dax shook his head.

“O-o-o-f-f-f!” he exclaimed. “To hear that very often would produce madness! It is agony!”

“Perhaps,” growled IIul Jok. “But I have already gone mad because of it—gone mad with curiosity! Come along.”

He was commander. We went, leaving our Aethir-Torp to care for itself. But never again were we thus foolish.

We proceeded warily, spread out in a line, each keeping within sight of the next. The noise had come from the north side of the flat, and thither we directed our steps. Well for us that we were hidden by the trees and bushes!

As one we came to a sudden halt, drew together in a group, staring amazed, incredulous, horrified.

We were at the very edge of the high-bush, and before us was open space clear to the foot of the towering cliff-walls, which rose sheer to some ten times the height of a tall male.

Half-way up this there stuck out a broad shelf of rock, extending completely across the face of the cliff from the western end to the eastern, and at regular intervals we could perceive large, rectangular openings, covered, or closed, by doors of some dully glinting, leaden-hued metal.



And all the space between the edge of bush-growth and the foot of the cliff was occupied by the same sort of loathly monstrosities as we had previously encountered! There they lay, expectant, apparently, for their attentions were seemingly concentrated upon the shelf of rock high in air above them.

A door close to the western end opened and a procession emerged therefrom. At last we had found-

“Great Power of Life!” ejaculated Mor Ag profanely. “Those beings are no Aerthons!”

And he was right. Aerth never had produced any such type as we then beheld!

They had faces, and they had not faces! They had forms and they were formless! How may I describe that which baffles description? We are accustomed to concrete, cohesive, permanent types of form and faces, and these were inchoate! Never in any two moments were their aspects the same. They elongated, contracted, widened, expanded. At one moment the lower parts of one of these beings would apparently vanish while the upper parts remained visible, and again, conditions were reversed. Or a front aspect faded instantaneously, leaving but the rear section visible, only to promptly reverse the phenomenon. Or a left side disappeared, leaving the right side perceptible; then—but picture it for yourself! I have said enough!

It made me dizzy; it provoked Mor Ag because he could not name them; it enraged Hul Jok, inflamed him with desire to attack the whole throng, shatter them—he could not have told why, but looking at them made him feel that way.

Ron Ti was mildly curious; Vir Dax frantic with ambition to study such beings. Our Lady of Bliss deliver me from the curiosity of such as Vir Dax, his methods of study!

Only Toj Qul and Lan Apo remained unperturbed; Toj Qul be-

cause he is a diplomat, therefore in nowise startled or amazed at, or by, anything. And Lan Apo was contemptuous; for as he looked at them, any race thus shifting as to bodily aspect must inevitably be shifty as to minds, and he had naught but despisal for a liar of any sort. Strange argument, strange stimulus to courage, yet perhaps as good as any!

Only one permanency had these beings—and even that fluctuated. They were of a silvery color, and they were black, of that blackness which is blacker than black. Later, we learned what manner of beings these were, and whence they came to afflict Aerth with their presences.

They formed in a row well back from the shelf-edge, and then, from out the same door from which they had emerged, came another procession, or rather, a rout or rabble. These were, as Mor Ag at once asserted, unmistakably Aerthons. But how had that once wise and mighty race fallen! For these men were little better than brutes. Naked, roundshouldered, bowed of heads, cringing, shambling of gait, matted as to hair, and bearded—the males, at least— and utterly crushed, broken, dispirited!

It had long been a proverb on all the inhabited planets, “As beautiful as the Aerthon women;” but the females we were then beholding were, if anything, more abject, more deteriorate, than the males.

Many things became apparent to us who stared at these poor unfortunates. Very evidently, some things, from some ichere, had enslaved, debased that once mighty race who were, or had been, second to none in all the universe—and this, this, was the result!

H ul jok shifted his feet, stirred uneasily, growling venomously deep in his throat. Despite our giant’s ferocious appearance, his heart was as a little child’s, or like



that of a girl, gentle, tender, and sympathetic where wrong or oppression dared rear their ugly heads. And here, it was all too apparent, both those pit-bom demons had been busily at work.

The rabble of Aerthons halted at the very edge of the shelf, grouped together, about equidistant from each end of the long line of the Things we could not name. And as the Aerthons stood there, the animate abhorrences on the ground fixed their malignant eyes upon the v'retched creatures, the triangular mouths gaped wide, and from all that multitude of loathly blobs came beating against our shrinking, quivering, tormented ear-drums that same brainmaddening discordance we had previously heard, even before we left the Aethir-Torp.

Of a sudden the Things standing behind the Aerthons ceased flickering, became fixed as to forms, although the change was anything but improvement. For, although they became in shape like other living, sentient, intelligent beings, their faces bore all evil writ largely upon them.

Acquaint yourself with all depravity, debauchery, foul indecency ever known throughout the universe since the most ancient, forgotten times, multiply it even to Nth powers, limitless, and then you have not approximated their expressions!

Personally, even beholding such aspects made me feel as if, for eons uncountable, I had wallowed in vilest filth! And it affected the others the same way, and we knew, by our own experience, what had befallen the Aerthons.

Had such foul things once gained foothold on the great central sun, men the radiant purities of that abode of the perfected would have become tainted, polluted by a single glance at such unthinkable corruptiveness!

They, the Things, slowly raised

each an am, pointed at one Aerthon in the group. He, back to them as he was, quivered, shook, writhed; then, despite himself, he slowly rose in the air, moved out into space, hung above the blobs that waited, avid-mouthed. The Aerthon turned over in the air, head down, still upheld by the concentrated wills of the things that pointed....

Breathless, my eyes well-nigh starting from my head at sheer horror of what must, in another moment befall, I stared, wailing the withdrawal of the force upholding the wretched Aerthon.

Half consciously, I saw Hul Jok’s Blastor swing into line with the poor shrieking victim, and, just as he commenced dropping toward those triangular, gaping, hideous orifices which waited, slavering, saw him vanish—and silently blessed Hul Jok for his clemency and promptitude.

Then, momentarily, we all went mad! Our Blastors aimed, we pressed the releases, and swept that line of Things. And, to our aghast horror, nothing happened. Again and again we swept their line—and they were unconscious that aught was assailing them! The deadly Blastors were impotent!

Ron Ti first grasped the situation.

“These Things are not ‘beings’— they are but evil intelligences, of low order, crafty, vile, rather than wise! They are of too attenuate density— the vibrations of disintegration can not shatter, but pass unfelt through their atomic structures! We ean do naught save in mercy slay those poor Aerthons, and destroy those foul corruptions which wait to be fed.”

We did it! It was truest kindliness to the Aerthons. Yet, despite the seeming callousness of our deed, we knew it for the best. And one thing it proved to us—low as the Aerthons had sunk, they had not fallen so far from their divine estate but that in each the silver spark that distinguishes the soul-bearers from the



soulless was still present. For as each body resolved back to the primordial Aethir from whence it was formed, the silver spark, liberate at last, floated into the air until in distance it disappeared. Then we turned our attention to the blob-things.

But even as we smote the filthy Things, we noted that the strange beings on the rock-shelf had grasped the fact that a new phase of circumstance had entered into Aerth’s affairs. They stood, amazed, startled, bewildered for a space of perhaps a minute, then passed into activity with a promptitude well-nigh admirable.

Several of them calmly stepped from the rock-shelf into air and came hurtling toward us. In some way they had sensed our direction. In no time, they hovered above us, descended, and confronted us.

One, evidently of importance among his fellows, made articulate sounds, but we could not understand. Nor did we wisli to! For with such as those there can be but one common ground—unrelenting war!

And so, again and again we tried the effect of the Blasters, and, as previously, found them impotent. I caught Hul Jok’s eye. He was fairly frothing at the mouth with wrath.

T his Things, close by, seemed to emanate a vibration that was abhorrent, stultifying. Little by little I felt a silent but urgent command to start toward the foot of the rocky cliff. Unthinkingly, I took a step forward, and Hul Jok’s mighty arm Blammed me back.

“I can feel it, too,” he snarled at all six of us. “But,” he thundered sternly, “I command you by the Looped Cross itself, that you stand fast. ’Tis but their wills! Are we babes, that we should obey?”

Suddenly—I laughed! Obey the wills of such as these? It was ridiculous! Answering laughter came from the rest of our party. Hul Jok nodded approvingly at me.

“Well done, Hak Iri!” he commended. “The Looped Cross thanks you—the Supreme Council shall give you right to wear it, for high courage, for service rendered! ’ ’

And he had promised me our planet’s supremest gift, highest honor for—laughter! Yet, though I myself say it, perhaps the service was not so trivial after all. For there is, in final analysis, no weapon so thoroughly potent against evil as is laughter, ridicule! To take evil seriously is to magnify its importance; but ridicule renders its venom impotent, futile. Try it, you who doubt—try it in your hour of utmost need!

The Things became all black, no silvery tints remaining. One attempted to seize me, thrust me in the desired direction. Something—I had not known that it lay dormant within me—flamed into wrath. My hand closed, became a hard knot, my arm swung upward from my side with no volition on my part, and my fist drove full into the face of the Thing —left a horrible, blank orifice which slowly filled into semblance of a face again. The Thing emitted a strange, gasping squawk of pain.

“Aho!” shouted Hul Jok, gleefully. “They may not be shattered nor slain, but—they can be hurt!” And he swung his Blastor up as a truncheon and brought it down full on the head of the nearest. The stroke passed through the Thing as through soft filth, yet that Thing, evidently having enough, rose hurriedly into air and sped to safety, followed by the rest.

“Back to the Aethir-Torp!” commanded Hul Jok, and we retreated as swiftly as legs would take us. At that, we did not arrive there first.

To our dismay, we found it in possession of a horde of those Things. They were all over it, even inside; and worse still, all about it on the ground were Aerthons, a great crowd of them formed in solid masses, all facing outward, bearing in their



hands long, shimmering blades of brightly glinting metal, sharp as to points, with keen cutting edges.

“Swords,” gasped Mor Ag. “I had thought such weapons obsolete on Aerth ten thousands years ago! Ware point and edge!”

“Hue-kohl” shouted Hul Jok. “The Blastors, quick!”

Oh, the pity of it! I know that tears streamed from my eyes before it was finished. Ron Ti was equally affected. Hul Jok himself was swearing strange oaths, and, had it not been for Lan Apo, I doubt if we had had the necessary fortitude to go through with the ghastly affair. But as the silver sparks floated upward, a smile, almost beatific, came upon his set, white face.

“But they are rejoicing!” he cried out to us who grieved even while we.smote. “I can feel their gratitude flowing to us who give them release from a life which is worse than death. They are glad to depart thus painlessly! ’ ’

And thereafter we sorrowed no more.

T he Aerthons were almost all disposed of when Mor Ag shouted: ‘ ‘ Catch one or more of those slaves

—alive! I would question-”

Hul Jok leapt forward, caught one by the wrist, wrenched his blade from his hand, slammed him against the hull of the Aethir-Torp, knocking him limp, threw him to us; and dealt likewise with another.

Meanwhile, our Blastors played unrelentingly, and presently there were no more of the unfortunate Aerthons to be seen. Yet, the Things who, through sheer will-force alone, had compelled the Aerthons to face annihilation—for they could not fight; the Blastors slew from far beyond reach of sword-blade or hurled rock—those Things still held our Aethir-Torp. Surely, Our Lady of Venhez kept them from guessing that they had but to slide the stud atop

one of the great Ak-Blastors from the white space to the black one, and we—ugh! Well for us that there was no Lan Apo among them to catch our thoughts!

A long while afterward, we found out that they were acquainted with the principle of the Ak-Blastors— and I can only account for their not using those on us by the supposition that they wished to capture us alive in order to gratify their fiendish propensities, so refrained from slaying us, willing to go to any lengths rather than do so, for the dead can nowise be made to suffer!

We drew back, shaking from excitement and from the strain induced by their evil minds, or wills, beating upon us; for, though they could not make us obey, still that force they directed was almost solid in its impact. Our craft was still in their possession, and we were standing on open ground, and sorely perplexed as to how we were to regain possession of our Aethir-Torp.

Hul Jok, war prince, solved our dilemma. He grasped a young tree, thick as his wrist, tore it from the ground, broke it across his knee-

‘ ‘ Club! ” he grunted. “ Our millionyear-ago ancestors used such on Venhez. There are records of such in the Central War Castle!”

Hurriedly he prepared one for each of us, talking as he wrought.

“They can feel,” he growled, “for all that they may not be slain. Very ■well! We will beat them from the Aethir-Torp! ’ ’

And that is precisely what occurred. On Venhez I had, at times, worked with my hands, for sheer delight of muscle-movement. But never had I dreamed what actual hard work was rnitil that hour, during which, club in hand, we stormed our own craft, until at last we stood watching the last of the Things as they rapidly passed through the air toward their cliff-abode—ail but one, which we had finally cornered alone



in a compartment into which it had strayed from the rest. We hemmed it about, beat it with our clubs until it cringed from the pain. Then Ron Ti thrust his face close to its face....

We caught Ron’s idea, added our wills to liis, overbore that of our captive. It became feonfused, bewildered, shifted from silver to black, to silver again; the black became dull, smoky; the silver paled to leaden hue; the Thing crouched, palpitant with fear-waves, manifest in dim coloration.

“We have learned enough,” declared Ron Ti solemnly. “Back to Venhez! This is matter for the Supreme Council, as I feared even before we started. Here we can not cope with conditions; we seven are too small a force. Back to Venhez!”

“Nay,” Hul Jok demurred. “Let us remain and clean Aerth of this spawn!” And he indicated the captive Thing with a contemptuous gesture of his foot.

But Vir Dax added his voice to that of Ron Ti; and I—I was eager to go—to stay—I knew not which. The others felt as I did. Both courses had their attractions—also their drawbacks. For myself, I fear me very greatly that I, Hak Iri, who ever held myself aloof from all emotions of violence, desiring clear mind that I might better chronicle the deeds of others—I fear, I say, that in me still lives something of that old Hak Iri, my remote ancestor who, once in the Days of Wilderness of which our minstrels still sing, made for himself a name of terror on all Venhez for his love of strife.

But Mor Ag really settled the argument.

“We have this—Thing,” he declared. “It must be examined, if we would learn aught of its nature, and that must be done if we hope ever to cope with such as it has proved to be in structure”—here an unholy light shone transient in the keen, cold eyes of Vir Dax—“and we can, while on

the return to Venhez, learn what has actually happened to Aerth from the

two Aerthons-”

“One Aerthon!” interrupted Vir Dax. “The other died. Hul Jok knows not his own strength!”

He bent over, examined the living Aerthon and promptly brought him back to consciousness. Mor Ag spoke to him. The Aerthon brightened a trifle as he became assured we meant him no harm. He brightened still more when he observed that we held captive one of his former masters.

Then the Thing caught the Aerthon’s eye, and Lan Apo hastily turned to Hul Jok.

“It were well to confine this— where the Aerthon may not win to it,” he warned emphatically. “Otherwise the will of the Thing will compel the enslaved fool to assist it to escape or work us harm in some manner. ’ ’

We left the captive Thing in the little room, fastened the sole door, and Hul Jok retained the ward-strip which alone could unlock it again. The Aerthon said something to Mor Ag, who smiled and patted him on the shoulder, reassuringly.

“He thanked us for putting it beyond his power to obey-”

He broke off to ask the Aerthon another question, then gasped.

“Dear Mother of Life!” he ejaculated. ‘ ‘ The Things are from the dark side of the Moun, Aerth’s satellite!” The Aerthon nodded.

“Avitchi!” he exclaimed, and added another word: “Hell!”

We knew not his language—that is, none save Mor Ag—but we all caught his meaning. He referred to the abode of evil, as it was understood on Aerth.

T17e would have questioned the * ^ Aerthon further through the medium of Mor Ag, for we all were intensely curious, but just then that occurred which put an end to questioning, and served likewise to hasten



our departure from this sorely afflicted planet.

A crackling, sizzling hiss of lightning and a terrific crash of thunder —the world, so far as we were immediately concerned, all one blinding glare of violet-tinted light—and the great Aethir-Torp rocked under the impact.

‘‘Aho!” shouted Hul Jok. ‘‘What now? ’ ’ And he dashed to one of the lookout openings just as another levin-bolt struck.

We joined him, and one glance was enough. All about us and above us were swarming great iridescent globes, and it was from these that there now came incessant streaks and flashes of lightning—powerful electric currents.

Our commander leapt into the conning-tower, and the others of us sprang each to his station at one of the Ak-Blastors, of which our craft mounted six, and we promptly left the ground.

We had little to fear, for the metal Berulion, of which Aethir-Torps are built, could in nowise be harmed by lightning, nor could we who were inside be shocked thereby. But some part of the controlling mechanism might have been seriously disarranged by the jarring concussions, and, besides, it was not part of our natures to submit tamely to attacks from any source.

With a swoosh we shot into air and Hul Jok headed the sharp-pointed nose of our great fighting cylinder straight into the thick of the shining globes that swooped and floated and swirled about and above us. Their thin walls gave them no protection against our impact, and we shattered them as easily as breaking the shells of eggs.

With the Ak-Blastors we could and did shatter some of the globes which we failed to ram, but the vibrations of disintegration from these had no more effect upon the occupants of the globes than had the little hand

Blasters previously—and Hul Jok fairly stamped in rage.

“Ron Ti,” he exclaimed wrath - fully, “your science is but a fraudulent thing! We mount yo\ir improved model Blasters, purported to slay aught living, disintegrate anyone, and now-V

His anger well-nigh choked him.

“Content you,” soothed Ron. “If we come again to Aerth-”

“ If we come again to Aerth, ’' Hul Jok asserted grimly, “Aerth will be cleaned, or I return no more to Venhez! But,” he went on, imperatively, “you must find that which will destroy these Lunarions. We shattered and rammed their foolish globes, from which they play with the powers of thunder and lightning, but them we might not harm. They did but float, insolent, safely down to Aerth!”

“We have one Lunarion upon whom to experiment,” suggested Vir Dax meaningly.

“Ay,” snapped Hul Jok. “And I look to you and Ron Ti to produce results! See to it that you fail not! ’ *

I have known the giant commander since we were children together, but never had I seen him in such a mood. He seemed beside himself with what, in a lesser man, I should have classed as humiliation, but I realized, as did the others, that it was merely that in him the dignity of the Looped Cross had been proffered insult, amounting well-nigh to defeat, and that to him. the Looped Cross, emblem of our planet, was a sacred symbol, his sole object of adoration; and his high, fierce spirit was sore, smarting grievously, and could nowise be appeased until, as he himself had phrased it, “Aerth was clean!”

VWe had formally made report to the Supreme Council and had handed over to them, for disposal, both the Aerthon and the Lunarion we had brought back with us. And the Supreme Council, in their wisdom, had commanded Mor Ag and



Vir Dax to examine and question the Lunarion, with me to make records of aught he might say—but he would say naught, seemingly taking fiendish delight in baffling us.

The Aerthon, whose name was Jon, had told Mor Ag, while we were on our homeward flight, all that was to be known as to the conditions on Aerth. Here is no space to record it all, but briefly it was as follows:

Centuries ago, the Aerthons, divided into nations, warred. A mighty empire, hoping to dominate the planet, attacked a little country as a commencement. Another and larger nation hastened to the rescue of its tiny neighbor. A great island kingdom was drawn into the fray. A powerful republic overseas took hand in the matter; so, ended the strife.

But rather than ending warfare, it did but give fresh incentive to inventions of deadly devices. Somebody found that the element—metal—gold, had strange qualities, previously unguessed. Another discovered that gold could be produced by artificial means, synthetically, to use Aerthly terminology. But the producing was by drawing it from out the storehouse of the universe, the primordial Aethir, wherein, dormant, are all things objective and subjective. And the drain on the Aethir opened strange doors in space, which heretofore, by fiat of the Great Wisdom, had been fast sealed.

Scientists of a great race, Mongulions, made too free use of the Aethir, hoping in their turn to subjugate the races of the West. Because of the vibrations set up in their labors, they made easy passage from Aerth to Moun. And on the dark side of the Moun dwelt a race of fiends, soulless, beyond the pale of the Infinite Mercy, who moved about to keep the Moun’s bulk always between them and the hated light of the Sun. These had ever hated Aerth and its dwellers, for once they had inhabitated that fair planet, until

they became too wicked, and they, and the Moun, broken from its parent Aerth by Almighty wrath, had been set apart in the sea of space. The Moun, although circling ever about its parent planet, revolved never on an axis, so had one side turned ever toward Aerth; and these Lords of the Dark Face, in their eon-old hate, saw chance, at long last, to regain their lost world, upon which they looked with envy when the lunar phases brought them during the dark of the Moun to the side facing Aerth. In their Selenion globes they invaded Aerth, availing themselves of the openings the Mongulions had unwittingly established.

Aided by these unholy powers of evil, the Mongulions had dominated, even as they had planned, all other races, reduced them to conditions of abject servitude, and were, in turn, subjugated by the Lords of the Dark Face, through sheer will-energy alone.

So, reduced to conditions wherein they were less than beasts, the Aerthons had remained, prey to their fiendish conquerors, subjected to such treatments as even now, while I write, sicken my soul within me to think of, and are unfit to describe— for why afflict clean minds with unnecessary corruptions?

Only those who have heard that Aerthon’s story can conceive of what had, for ages, taken place in the ghastly orgier of the Lunarions—and we who did hear will never again be quite the same as we were before our ears were thus polluted.

So utterly abhorrent were conditions on Aerth that our Supreme Council decreed that such must be abolished at any cost. Not the planet, but the state of affairs prevailing. For they feared that the very Aethir would become putrescent, and moral degeneracy reach eventually to every planet of the Universal Chain!

But that, again, involved every planet in the matter. So they, the council, sent out invitation to all



other planets for conference. Then came delegates from them all. They talked, discussed, debated, consulted —and that was all.

Hul Jok, the practical, violated interplanetary etiquette, finally.

“Talk!” he shouted, rising from where he sat with the other Venhezians. “What does talk do? We be no nearer than when we started. Since none can offer helpful suggestion, hear me! I am War Prince of Venhez, not a sage, but I say that Ron Ti, if allowed sufficient time, can find that which will slay these Lunarions—all of their evil brood, and that is what is needed. Leave this matter to us of Venhez!”

A gravely genial delegate from Jopitar rose in his place.

“Oh, you of Venhez,” he said in his stately, courtly speech, “your War Prince has spoken well. Since Ron Ti is acknowledged greatest of inventors on any world, he has but to demand, and if we of Jopitar can place aught at his disposal to further his investigations, he has but to communicate with us, and what we have is at his disposal. ’ ’

One by one, delegates from all the planets confirmed the Jopitarian’s proffer, repeating it for those whom they represented. And one delegate, a huge, red-hued, blue-eyed being, went even farther, for, springing to his feet, he thundered:

“Biit if there is to be actual affray, we of Mharz demand that we participate! ’ ’

Hul Jok strode forward and slapped the Mharzion on the shoulder.

“Aho!” he laughed. “One after my own heart! Brother, it is in my mind that crafts and fighters from all the planets will be needed before this matter is ended!”

I t seems cruel, I know, but what else was there to do? From then on, that captive Lunarion was subjected to strange, some of them frightful, tests. Poisons and acids

Vir Dax found had no effect upon him. Cutting instruments hurt, but failed to injure him permanently. Already we knew that the Blastors —deadliest weapons known to any planet—were ineffective.

Ron Ti was at his wits’ end! Two of our Venhezian years passed, and all to no progress. Then a girl solved for him the one problem he was beginning to despair of ever solving for himself.

He had a love—who of all Venhez has not?—and she, entering fully into his ideals and ambitions with that sweetly sympathetic understanding none but a maid of Venhez can bestow, had free access at all times to his workshop, wherein he toiled and studied for planetary benefit.

And she one day seeing his distress at bafflement in his. researches, saying naught, withdrew, returning shortly bearing in her arms her cliiefest treasure, an instrument of many strings from which she proceeded to draw sweet strains of music, hoping thus to soothe his perturbed mind.

There came a wondrously sweet strain recurring in her melody, and the first time it sounded, the Lunarion winced. Repetition of that strain made him howl! And realization came to Ron Ti in one blinding flash of lightlike clarity.

“Harmony!” he shouted, rejoicing. “The blob-thing is discordant in its essential nature!”

Never a maid of all Venhez was so proud just then as that love-girl of Ron Ti’s. She had, at least, produced some sort of impression on the fiend, made it suffer grievously. So over and over she played that selfsame strain, and, ere many minutes had passed, the Lunarion fell prone, writhing in anguish, howling like a thing demented.

“Enough, Alu Rai,” Ron bade her after watching the captive’s misery for a space. “You have rendered the universe a service! Now depart, for I would think. Herein lies the



secret of the weapon which will purge an afflicted world of its wo!”

I t was a mighty fleet which started for Aerth on that never-to-be-forgotten expedition of rescue and reprisal. Practically speaking, all the craft were of similar appearance, for the Aetliir-Torps had long been conceded to be the most efficient type for inter-spatial voyaging. Even the Aerthons had used them before they were subjugated, and Jon the Aerthon stated that the Lunarions themselves had a large fleet of them housed away in readiness against the day when they might desire to win to other worlds. But, he likewise told us, until the Lunarions had exhausted Aerth’s resources, they would remain there, and for Aertlily voyaging in air their Selenion globes were more satisfactory to them, moved by willforce as they were, than the great Aethir-Torps which were managed by purely mechanical methods.

Naturally, the Aethir-Torps from the different planets varied slightly, as, for example, those of Venhez had the conning-towers cylindrical in shape, and placed midway from nose to stern; the noses sharply pointed, stems tapering to half the size of the greatest diameter—that of the waist of the craft; our Ak-Blastors were long, slender, copper-plated. The Aethir-Torps from Mharz were lurid led in color; blunt of nose; rounded as to stems; with short, thick AkBlastors; and their conning-towers were well forward of the middle; octagonal in shape. But why amplify? Surely the Aethir-Torps of each planet are familiar to the dwellers of all the other planets.

And, of course, each craft bore the symbol of its home-world. The Mharzions bore the Looped Dart in gold, even as we of Venhez painted upon the nose of ours the Looped Cross— but the symbols of the worlds are too well known to require description.

Ron Ti and Hul Jok had full authority over the entire squadron, although the war-commanders from all the wurlds fully understood the carefully laid plans of aggression. And all the Aethir-Torps, in addition to the Ak-Blastors, now mounted before their conning-towers a new device consisting of a large tube, much like an enormous houtar, terminating at the snout-end in five smaller tubes.

I t was black night when Aerth was reached. And it was not until the sickly, wan daylight broke that actual operations commenced.

Spreading out, we quartered the air until the great oval flat showed plain. It was our good hick that it was our own craft which was the first to come above it, and, as we identified it, Hul Jok’s eyes glowed in wrathful joy—if such emotion may be thus contradictorily described. He caught Ron Ti’s eye and nodded.

Ron Ti, obeying, threw over a lever. A most dreadful and terrific din shook the air with its uproar. From afar to the northward came a similar bellowing howl. Then from the eastward the same sound reached our ears, being replied to, a moment later, by the signal from the distant west. And from the southward came the answering racket, and we knew that all Aerth’s surface was under surveillance of one or more of the Aethir-Torps comprising the Expeditionary Fleet.

Slowly, deliberately, we began circling above that infernal ovoid valley. But after that one hideous, bellowing howl, the tubelike arrangements before the conning-towers changed their tones, and from them came the same wondrously ■ sweet, heart-thrilling, soul-shaking strain of melody as that which Alu Rai, the love-maid of Ron Ti, had produced to the exquisite torment of our captive Lunarion.



Over and over the strains were played, and still nothing happened. The idea was Ron Ti’s, and I began to wonder if in some manner he had miscalculated. Suppose it did not affect all the Lunarions alike? In that case not only would the expedition be doomed to failure, but the name of Ron Ti would become the subject for many a jest on many a world. And we of Venhez must, perforce, walk with bowed heads.

But Ron Ti was smiling, and Hul Jok’s fierce face bore an expression of confident, savage expectancy, and I—I waited, curious, hopeful still.

So swiftly that we could barely see it, an iridescent globe spun through the air, rising diagonally from the cliff-base, shooting straight at our Aethir-Torp. A touch of Ron’s hand, and the strain of music sounded even louder, clearer, sweeter.

The globe, when within a quarter of a mile, shot straight upward, discharged a terrific, blinding flash of chain-lightning against our craft, followed it by a second and even more intense discharge—and still the sweet strain of harmony was all our reply.

The globe swooped until it nearly touched us—and I slid forward the stud on the Ak-Blastor behind which I stood.

The Lunarion bubble was not more than a hundred feet away at that instant, and, like a bubble, it vanished incontinently. As ever, for all that we could shatter their Selenion Globes, those demoniacal Lunarions themselves we could not disintegrate, or so we deemed then, and I know that I said wrathful profanities in my impotent disappointment.

But Hul Jolc grinned, and Ron Ti nodded reassuringly to me, saying consolingly: “ Wait! ”

Well, I waited. What else could I do? But by this time the same game was going on all over the Aerth. Wherever the Lunarions had abode, the strains of melody were driving

them into a fi*enzy of madness, and they came swarming forth in their globes, hurling lightning-flashes at our Aethir-Torps, which might not thus be destroyed.

Yet, in a way, honors were even, for if they could not damage our Aethir-Torps, neither could we do aught but blow their globes into nothingness, while they themselves did but flee through the air back to their abodes, unharmed by the vibrations from the Ak-Blastors.

And in this manner, for three days and nights the futile warfare continued, and by morning of the fourth day I doubt if there was left to the Lunarions a single Selenion Globe. At least, for two days and nights, we continued playing that music over and over until all Aerth vibrated from the repetitional sound-waves.

But on the next morning following, we had clear proof that the Lunarions had had all that they could endure of suffering. An Aethir-Torp, of a far different model from any we were acquainted with, shot into air with incredible speed, and catching a craft of Satom unawares, rammed it in midair, completely wrecking it— only to be shattered into dust in its turn by the Ak-Blastors of a Markhurian Aethir-Torp. The crew of the ill-fated craft we could not save, but they were amply avenged ere long.

It happened that we witnessed this ramming, and Mor Ag shouted his surprize.

“But that Aethir-Torp, despite its speed, is of an age-old model,” he affirmed excitedly, and Hul Jok nodded agreement.

“Our Lady of Love grant that their Ak-Blastors be of equally antiquated model,” he chortled. “If they are, their vibrations are of too long and too slow wave-lengths to affect the modern Berulion metal of which we now build our fighting craft!”

And so it later proved to be.



W e could very easily have shattered their old-model crafts, taking our own good time therefor, but to what avail? It would leave us the same old problem. The Lunarions, with their levitational powers, would descend safely to the ground and would still inhabit Aerth, overrunning it like the evil vermin that they were.

But the far-thinking brains of Ron Ti and Hul Jok had laid out a carefully evolved plan, and aside from continuing to drive the Lunarions mad with the hated music and evading further collisions with their Aethir-Torps (no light task, either, considering their speed) we of the expedition refrained from using our Ak-Blastors until the Lunarions must have come to the very conclusion our master-strategists desired them to reach eventually—that in some manner we had exhausted our vibratory charges.

At last, one morning we were made the objects of a concerted attack. From all points came hurtling those old-style Aethir-Torps, and we—we fled from before them! Finding that their old-model Ak-Blastors had little or no effect upon us, protected as we were by the Berulion plates, they fell back on their levin-bolts, and these they hurled incessantly, until they, as well as we, were well out of Aerth’s atmosphere, and into the great Ocean of Aethireal Space.

But ever we played that same maddening music, and it acted as powerful incentive to hold them to the pursuit, for they had lost all caution in their rage. And ever, as we fled from before them, we laughed.

And at last, some five million miles from Aerth’s surface, we turned upon them!

Stretched out in a long, curved line, we awaited their coming, and as they came within our range, every Aethir-Torp commenced whirling about as if on a transverse axis, presenting one moment the nose, next a

side, then the stem, and again the other side, and once more the stem or prow, in this manner giving play to all six Ak-Blastors—the forward one, the two on each side, and the one pointing to rearward.

And the Lunarions, although heretofore we might not injure them, were soon without protection, their AethirTorps shattered, left exposed to the deadly chill of outer space, and their forms, loose though they were in structure, subjected to the awful pressure of the inelastic Aethir!

It compressed their bodies as if they had been density itself. And, having no defense, they instinctively drew close to each other — and Aethiric pressure did all that was necessary.

They were jammed into a single mass, and then we played upon that with the Ak-Blastors until tliat mass, too, became as nothing!

Only from that blank space where the fiends, the Lords of the Drfrk Face, had been, floated in all directions a shower or swarm of dull red sparks, which, even as we watched, slowly flickered and burned out in depths of Abysmal Night!

O on ti bowed his head in reverence to that great Power which had permitted us to be the instruments of its vengeance, signing in the air before him the Looped. Cross, symbol of Life.

“As I suspected,” he said, gravely, “they were soulless. They had naught but form and vitality, mind and will—life of the lower order, nonenduring. The red sparks proved that—and even those have burned out, resolved back into the Sea of Undifferentiated Energy. Our work is ended. Let Aerth work out its own rehabilitation. That wondrous race of Aerthons will soon rear the foundations of an even greater civilization than their world has ever before known.”

I N OUR November issue we asked you, the readers, whether you wanted us to use an occasional story from early issues of Weird Tales as our monthly “Weird Story Reprint.’' It was not our intention to reprint any of our own stories until ten years after their first publication in this magazine, which is only six years old; but so many readers had written asking us to reprint this, that and the other story that we put the decision squarely up to you.

Your answer has been given in a flood of letters to The Eyrie, asking us to give you some of the best-liked tales from earlier issues; and as the present issue goes to press, your decision is unanimous. So, as this month’s “Weird Story Reprint’’ we are giving you Nictzin Dyalhis’ story, When the Green Star Waned. This was published in Weird Tales four years ago, and it attained greater popularity than any other story we have ever printed. In three or four months we will give you another four-year-old story, probably Frank Owen’s ethereally beautiful Chinese tale, The Wind that Tramps the World; for you seem to have your hearts set on reading this story again. From time to time we shall give you others. Numbers of requests have been received for the reprint of The Phantom Farmhouse, by Seabury Quinn; The Stranger from Kurdistan, by E. Hoffmann Price; The Night Wire, by H. F. Arnold; The Woman of the Wood, by A. Merritt; and The Outsider, by II. P. Lovecraft. The three last-named are too recent for us to reprint them soon; but we will eventually reprint these also, in accordance with your wishes.

“By all means cut out the old uninteresting reprints and use nothing in that space but reprints from the back issues of Weird Tales,” writes C. Edward Christianson, of Brooklyn.

Writes F. J. Simmons, of Skowhegan, Maine: “I like W. T. because it is different. It takes me out of the rut, away from the inane affairs of life. This letter was prompted by the request of the editor for a vote as to reprinting tales from their own issues. I would vote yes, under certain conditions. First, that the yams be at least one year old. Second, that the most likely be submitted to a vote of the readers. Third, that the proportion of Weird Tales’ own tales to the classics be not less than one to five. There are some tales in the back files which your readers have not read—tales published




before they began reading the magazine. Others have been forgotten by them. It is only fair to suppose that the magazine is gaining new readers steadily. Give them a chance.”

Miss L. Selingson, of New York City, writes to The Eyrie: “Regarding the ‘Weird Tale Reprint’ I wish to say that I am sure those who did not read your magazine when The Wind That Tramps the World was printed would very much like to do so. I know that I would appreciate a reprint of same immensely. Your November reprint, The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, has been read by every boy and girl who ever attended grammar school, so the reason of it being unfair to the other readers who have already read this story is really no reason at all. The name fascinates me. It gives me a melancholy feeling, and makes me think of the wind howling down a chimney and rattling the windows and moaning through the tree tops. So please reprint this story.”

“The best criticism of your magazine,” writes LeRoy E. Fess, of Crittenden, New York, “is.that it contains good yams consistently. So many magazines keep their high quality until they have won their reputation and then seem to get careless and begin using inferior stuff. I hope the time will come when you can see your way clear to issuing the magazine twice a month, as it is rather tough on the fans to have to wait a whole month for their favorite reading.”

Lester Anderson, of Hayward, California, writes to The Eyrie: “I say yes, by all means, reprint the cream of your earlier stories. But, better still, I wish you would try an experiment. I am sure it will be a success. That is, to put out a ‘Weird Tales Supplement,’ the same size as the monthly, but having a black cover to distinguish it. In this supplement you could have a long novel (cover illustration), novelette, and short stories from the early issues of Weird Tales. And then you will have to publish that very short tale —the most mysterious thing I ever read—which appears in September, 1926: The Night Wire, by H. F. Arnold.”

“By all means, reprint some of your best stories,” writes J. Ernest Wagner, of Lock Haven, Pennsylvania. “The majority of your present readers can not get copies containing the first of your best.”

Writes Wilford Allen, from Santa Rosa, California: “I can’t overlook the chance to add my plea to the others for more stories from the author of The Night Wire. He must have a lot of other good yams in his system. When I read it I turned to the wife and said, ‘Here’s a story that ought to be brought to O’Brien’s notice. It belongs in his collection of the best stories of the year.’ ”

Norman H. Moore, of Vancouver, British Columbia, writes to The Eyrie: “Weird Tales is one of the very few publications that is worth the price asked. In fact, were a higher price demanded I would gladly pay it, because your publication is exactly what you term it: ‘ The Unique Magazine. ’ Don’t ever spoil it by diluting the quality of the stories printed, or by cutting down the magazine. As to the authors, in my mind Seabury Quinn stands on the (Continued on page 134)




A wealth of fascinating stories is scheduled for early publication in Weird Tales, the unique magazine. The brilliant success of Weird Tales has been founded on its unrivaled, superb stories of the strange, the grotesque and the terrible—gripping stories that stimulate the imagination and send shivers of apprehension uj> the spine—tales that take the reader from the humdrum world about us into a deathless realm of fancy—marvelous tales so thrillingly told that they seem very real. Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. If Poe were alive he would undoubtedly be a contributor. In addition to creepy mystery stories, ghost-tales, stories of devil-worship, witchcraft, vampires and strange monsters, this magazine also prints the cream of the weird-scientific fiction that is written today— tales of the spaces between the worlds, surgical stories, and stories that scan the future with the eye of prophecy. Among the amazing tales in the next few issues will be:

THE DUNWICH HORROR, by H. P. Lovecraft

The author of “The Call of Cthulhu’’ rises to new heights of terror and horror in this powerful story—a tale in which the horror creeps and grows, and Anally bursts full-blown upon the reader.

THE RAT, by S. Fowler Wright

The author of "The Deluge” has written for this magazine a fascinating weird tale about a physician who discovered the secret of revitalizing the body cells to give eternal life—a tale of a gruesome murder, and a perplexed coroner’s jury.

THE SEA HORROR, by Edmond Hamilton

Picture a flood of water, two miles wide, shooting up from the deeps of ocean, and the constantly rising sea threatening to cover the highest mountains. Panic terror overwhelmed the peoples of the world, until—but

THE DEVIL-PEOPLE, by Seabury Quinn

Jules de Grandin goes into action against a band of strange foes, who have trailed their victims from the Malay Archipelago to the United States, and strewn their paths with brutal murders.

THE SHADOW OF A NIGHTMARE, by Donald Wandrei

Tucked away in a corner of the Himalayas was a strange country, inhabited entirely by madmen; and from a manuscript that found its way to the outer world from this Country of the Mad stalked forth nightmare and horror.

THE BRASS KEY, by Hal K. Wells

Bull Partlow runs afoul of the Chinese, Poo Chong, who devises a hideous ordeal for the thug, yet gives him a chance for his life—a grim, tale of venomous spiders.

THE LAUGHING THING, by G. G. Pendarves

Eldred Werne signed away his estates to Jason Drewe, and then died, but the terrige manifestations at the manor showed that he wielded more power dead than alivQ—a powerful ghost-story.

THESE are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weird Tales. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

WEIRD TALES, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, HI.

’ “Weird Tales,” to begin with the



(Continued from page 132)

heights of Olympus, fit dweller with the gods. His stories can not be improved. ’ ’

“I thoroughly approve of P. S. Miller’s suggestion in the November Eyrie that you should occasionally print one of your own stories from early issues in the ‘Weird Story Reprint’ space,” writes Harold Jung from Milwaukee. “But an even better plan would be to reprint them in book form, as you have already done with The Moon Terror. What a thriller that was! I vote right now for a collection of Seabury Quinn’s de Grandin stories, and also a book of H. P. Lovecraft’s eldritch thrillers.”

“I have just finished reading the November Weird Tales and can truthfully say that I have enjoyed it more than any previous number,” writes E. M. Cleland, of Meaford, Ontario. “I am a new reader, having read only about six numbers of the magazine, but certainly this number beats them all. There wasn’t a story which I didn’t like. I was crazy about The Polar Doom. That’s the kind of tale that I like best. ’ ’

Writes Walter Weeden, of Mexico, New York: “I, for one of many, suggest, ask, beg, request and plead that you use old stories from back issues of Weird Tales in your ‘reprint.’ Stories with catchy titles as The People of the Comet and The Wind That Tramps the World would bring many new readers to the magazine.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? First choice in the November issue, as shown by your votes, is accorded to The Polar Doom, by Edmond Hamilton, which is closely pressed by Adolphe de Castro’s story, The Last Test.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE JANUARY WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 ).

( 2 ).

( 3 ).

I do not like the following stories:

(1) - Why? _

( 2 ) -

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, Ill.

Reader’s name and address:



The Black Master

(Continued from page 20)

Dr. Trowbridge knows my father, Fabian Warner.”

I nodded agreement, and she continued:

“Tonight I went to a Christmas Eve party at Mr. and Mrs. Partridge’s. It was a masquerade affair, but I just wore a domino over my evening dress, since we were to unmask at midnight, anyway, and I thought I’d feel more comfortable in ‘citizen’s clothes’ than I would dancing in some sort of elaborate costume.

“There wasn’t anything unusual about the party, or about, the first part of the evening, that I remember, except, of course, everyone was talking about the mysterious murder of those two poor women.

‘ ‘ They danced a German just before midnight, and I was pretty hot from the running around, so I stepped into the conservatory to slip out of my domino a moment and cool off.

“I’d just taken the gown off when I felt a touch on my arm, and turning round found a man staring into my face. I thought he must be one of the guests, of course, though I couldn ’t remember having seen him. He wore a jerkin of bright red leather with a wide black belt about his waist, a red fez with gold-and-black tassel, and loose trousers tucked into tall boots. His face was concealed with a black-silk handkerchief instead of a regular mask, and, somehow, there was something menacing and terrifying about him. I think it must have been his eyes, which glittered in the light like those of an animal at night.

“I started back from him, but he edged after me, extending his hand to stroke my arm, and almost fawning on me. He made queer, inarticulate sounds hi his throat, too.

“ ‘Go away,’ I told him. ‘I don’t

MASTER YOUR LIFE!

It Can Be Done the Rosicrucian W ay

New FREE Book Tells How You May Do It

The Rosicrncians know how! For ages they have demonstrated a greater knowledge and a superior power over all obstacles in life.

Let them help yon solve your problems. Their guidance will reveal psychic laws and Mystic principles which will make you mighty and successful in attaining health, prosperity and self mastership.

The new free book, “The Light of Egypt,” will tell you how to change the whole course of your life in a short time. Write a letter asking for it today.

Librarian A. B.


Rosicrucian Park


SECRETS M Y STE R°l E s

The world’s most amazing Encyclopedia of Curious Secrets or "The Silent Friend,

mysteries of Forbidden Qbala; oc_____

flea circus; hundreds of spell-binding secrets, fascinating pictures, etc., FOK ADULTS ONLY. Send No Money. Pay postman J1.79 and postage on delivery. Sent sealed. in plain wrapper. Money Back Offer.

EDUCATOR P RES S, 19 Par k Row, New York,_Oopt. A-10

FITS

-- -- Stops Epileptic

attacks at once. NO BROMIDES— NO LIQUID MEDICINE. Results guaranteed or first treatment costs nothlng^JVrito^at^once^ ^



know you and I don’t want to. Please leave me alone.’ By that time he’d managed to crowd me into a comer, so that my retreat into the house was cut off, and I was getting really frightened.

“‘If-you don’t let me go, I’ll scream,’ I threatened, and then, before I had a chance to say another word, out shot one of his hands—ugh, they were big and thin and long, like a gorilla’s!—and grasped me by the throat.

‘ ‘ I tried to fight him off, and even as I did so there flashed through my mind the description Miss Muller gave of her murderer. Then I knew. I was helpless in the grasp of the killer! That’s all I remember till I regained consciousness with Dr. Trowbridge’s housekeeper drying me after my bath and you gentlemen standing outside the door, ready to help me downstairs.

‘ ‘ Did they catch him—the murderer?” she added with true feminine curiosity.

“But of eoui'se, Mademoiselle,” de Grandin assured her gravely. “7 was on his trail. It was impossible he should escape.

“Attend me, my friends,” he ordered, slipping from his seat on the table and striding to the center of the room like a lecturer about to begin his discourse. “Last night, when we entered that accursed tomb, I had too many thoughts within my so small brain to give full attention to any one of them. In my hurry I did overlook many important matters. That root of mandrake, by example, I should have suspected its significance, but I did not. Instead, I tossed it away as an unconsidered trifle.

“Mandrake, or mandragora, my friends, was one of the most potent charm-drugs in the ancient pharmacopoeia. With it the barren might be rendered fecund; love forgotten might be reawakened; deep and lasting coma might be induced by it.

Does not that Monsieur Shakespeare make Cleopatra say:

‘Give me to drink of mandragora,

That I might sleep out this great gap of time

My Antony is away’?

Most certainly.

“Moreover, it had another, and less frequent use. Placed upon the grave of one guilty of manifold sins, it would serve to keep his earthhound spirit from walking. You perceive the connection.

“When we cast aside that root of mandragora, we did unseal a tomb which was much better left unopened, and did release upon the world a spirit capable of working monstrous evil. Yes. This ‘Black Master,’ I do know him, Friend Trowbridge.

“When we looked upon the poor relics of those slain women, I noticed at once the peculiarity of the bruises on their throats. ‘Parbleu,’ I say to me, ‘the skeleton which we saw last night, he had a hand so maimed as to leave a mark like this. Jules de Grandin, we must investigate.’

‘ ‘ ‘ Make it so, ’ I reply to me in that mental conversation, and so, Friend Trowbridge, when I left you I did repair instantly to that cursed tomb and look about. There, in his coffin of stone, lay the skeleton of the ‘Black Master’, but, as I have already been at pains to tell you, on his side, not as we left him lying the night before. ‘Mordieu, this are not good, this are most badly strange,’ I inform me. Then I look about and discover the bit of mandrake root, all shriveled and dried, and carelessly tossed to one side where we left it when Friend Trowbridge let fall his light. I-”

“By the way, de Grandin,” I put in. “ Something hit me a paralyzing blow on the knuckles before I let my flashlight fall; have you. any idea what it was?”

He favored me with a momentary frown, then: “But certainly,” he responded. “It were a bit of stone



from the ceiling. I saw it detach itself and cried a warning to you, even as it fell, but the loss of our light was of such importance that I talked no more about your injury. Now, to resume:

“ ‘Can we not now seal him in the tomb with the mandrake once more? ’ I ask me as I stand beside that coffin today, but better judgment tell me not to attempt it. This old-time seadevil, he have been able to clothe his bony frame with seeming habiliments of the flesh. He are, to all intents and purposes, once more alive, and twice as wicked as before on account of his long sleep. I shall kill his fantasmal body for good and all before I lock him once and forever in the tomb again.

“ ‘But how shall we slay him so that he be really-truly dead?’ I ask me.

“Then, standing beside the coffin of that old, wicked pirate, I think and think deeply. ‘How were the werewolves and witches, the wizards and the warlocks, the bugbears and goblins of ancient times slain in the olden days?’ I ask, and the answer comes back, ‘With bullets of silver.’ Attend me, my friends. ’ ’

Snatching a red leather volume from the near-by shelf he thumbed quickly through its pages. “Hear what your Monsieur Whittier say in one of his so lovely poems. In the olden times, the garrison of a New England fort was beset by

... a spectral host, defying stroke of steel and aim of gun;

Never yet was ball to slay them in 'the mold of mortals run!

Midnight came; from out the forest moved a dusky mass that soon Grew to warriors, plumed and painted, grimly marching iir the moon.

“Ghosts or witches,” said the captain, “thus I foil the Evil One!”

And he rammed a silver button from his doublet down his gun.

“Very good. I, too, will thus foil the Evil One and his servant who once

Electricity

—Easy at Last

Learn by Being— Not Books In 9© Bays

machinery. Prepare for jobsleadlng to salaries of $50, $60 and up a week. New, Easy, Sure Method. Not a correspondence School. You learn by working on great outlay of electrical apparatus! And Instructors help you every step of theway77 7oBX PKRllENCE OR ADVANCED EDUCATION NEEDED. It stands to reason that nothing can compare with practical. Personal Training.


IS°o * I* Id gives^youttn? proof MfyM*

&°you n nSSl°coSp a or m ° n ° y It,a abaolUtely


COYNE Electrical SCHOOL

Not a Correopondence School-II. C. Lewie, Pree.-Eet. IBM

§00 So. Paulina St. Dept. 19-96 Chicago, Ill.

SSSSrS--

CityWhat Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

“Clouds Dispelled 99

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. A$t today! Write NOW!!


Dept. O, Box 1685, Eos Angeles, Calif.

ECSTASY, by DONALD WANDREI

Order today! Only 100 copies are left. Enjoy tl strange, weird book of poems by the author of T ”-i Brain and Sonnet » of the Midnight Hours.

*— J ‘- ** “ 42nd r

postpaid. Address i Island City, N. Y.

MEN, GET FOREST RANGER JOB; $185-$200 mo. and home furnished: hunt, fish, trap. For details, write Norton Inst., 1561 Temple Court, Denver. Colo.

Howard St.. Detroit, Michigan.



more walks the earth. I have told yon how I had the bullets made to my order this day. I have recounted how I baptized them for the work they were to do this night. Yourselves saw how the counter-charm worked against that servitor of Satan, how it surprized him when it pierced his phantom breast, how it made of him a true corpse, and how the seeming-flesh he had assumed to clothe his bare bones while he worked his evil was made to melt away before the bullets of Jules de Grandin. Now, doubly dead, he lies sealed by the mandrake root within his tomb for evermore.

“Friend Balderson, you have been most courteously quiet this long time. Is there no question you would care to ask?”

“You told Dr. Trowbridge you knew the ‘Black Master’,” Eric replied. “Can you tell us something about him-”

“Ah, parbleu, but I can!” de Grandin interrupted. “This afternoon, while the excellent jeweler was turning out my bullets, I repaired to the public library and discovered much of that old villain’s life and deeds. Who lie was nobody seems to know. As to what he was, there is much fairly accurate conjecture.

“A Turk he was by birth, it is generally believed, and a most unsavory follower of the false Prophet. Even in sinful Stamboul his sins were so great that he was deprived of his tongue by way of punishment. Also, he was subjected to another operation not wholly unknown in Eastern countries. This latter, instead of rendering him docile, seemed to make a veritable demon of him. Never would he permit his crews to take prisoners, even for ransom. Sexless himself, he forbade the presence of women—even drabs from Maracaibo and Panama— aboard his ships, save for one purpose. That was torture. Whenever a ship was captured, he fetched the female

prisoners aboard, and after compelling them to witness the slaughter of their men folk, with his own hands he put them to death, often crushing life from their throats with his maimed right hand. Does not his history fit squarely with the things we have observed these last two nights? The accounts declare, ‘The time and place of his death are uncertain, but it is thought he died somewhere near the present city of Newark and was buried somewhere in Jersey. A vast treasure disappeared with him, and speculation concerning its hidingplace rivals that of the famous buried hoard of Captain Kidd.’

“Now, it is entirely probable that we might add something of great interest to that chronicle, but I do not think we shall, for-”

Absorbed in the Frenchman’s animated narrative, Erie Balderson had moved from his shadowed comer into the zone of light cast by the readinglamp, and as de Grandin was about to finish, Marian Warner interrupted him with a little ciy of incredulous delight. “Eric,” she called. “Eric Balderson! Oh, my dear, I’ve wondered and worried so much about you!”

A moment later she had flown across the room, shedding de Grandin’s purple lizardskin slippers as she ran, put both hands on the young man’s shoulders, and demanded, “Why did you go away, dear; didn’t you know-”

‘ ‘ Marian! ’ ’ Eric interrupted hoarsely. “I didn’t dare ask your father. I was so wretchedly poor, and there seemed no prospect of my ever getting anywhere—you’d been used to everything, and I thought it would be better for us both if I just faded out of the picture. But”—he laughed boyishly—“I’m rich, now, dear—one of the richest men in the country, and-”



“Rich or poor, Eric dear, I love you,” the girl interrupted as she slipped both arms about his neck and kissed him on the lips.

Jules de Grandin’s arms shot out like the blades of a pair of opening shears. With one hand he grasped Sergeant Costello’s arm; the other matched me by the elbow. “Come away, foolish ones,” he hissed. “What have we, who left our loves in Avalon long years ago, to do with such as they? Pardieu, to them we are a curse, a pest, an abomination; we do incumber the earth!

“Await me here,” he ordered as we concluded our march to the consulting-room. “I go, but I return immediately.”

In a moment he came tripping down the stairs, a magnificent glowing ruby, nearly as large as a robin’s egg, held daintily between his thumb and forefinger. “For their betrothal ring,” he announced proudly. 1 ‘ See, it is the finest in my collection.”

“Howly Mither, Dr. de Grandin, sor, are ye a jinny from th’ Arabeen Nights, to be passin’ out jools like that whenever a pair o’ young folks gits engaged?” demanded Sergeant Costello, his big blue eyes almost popping from his head in amazement.

“Ah, mon sergent,” the little Frenchman turned one of his quick, elfish smiles on the big Irishman, “you have as yet seen nothing. Before you leave this house tonight Friend Trowbridge and I shall fill every pocket of your clothes to overflowing with golden coin from old Spain; but e’er we do so, let us remember it is Christmas.”

With the certainty of one following a well-worn path, he marched to the medicine closet, extracted a bottle of peach brandy and three glasses, and filled them to the brim.

“To your very good and long-lasting health, my friend,” he pledged, raising his glass aloft. “Joyeux Noel!”

BIG PAT: SOUTH AMERICAN WORK. AMEBJcan Arms pay fare, expenses. South American Service Bureau. 14,000 Alma, Detroit, Mich.

Jh » GET ON „

Kg < U/nefie-&a/nva

^ Asf PAYROLL

$1260 to $3400 Year

Men—Women 18 to 50

Steady Work /TRANKLiNTiTsTiTuirl

JI.7 J “ / hop*. K-282

Paid • ROCHESTER, N. V.

/ Rush to mo, entirely free of charge.

Jr — --..

__ / Kush to mo. entirely free of charge.

Vacations / 33 page book with: (1) A full

> description of the position checked _ o below with sample questions: (2) A

Common A UstofU.3.0orernment Jobs obtainable.

S3B2T

V nil* Mail P.arr

(11700 to S?1M>



The Demon of Tlaxpam

(Continued from page 40)

of our race, we were transported to Yucatan, and there sold as slaves, mostly to the owners of the sisal hemp plantations. My mother died on the way—of grief, I think. My father succumbed, soon after our arrival, to the combination of hard work, cruel treatment and little food. Having the endurance of youth, my brother and I were able to keep body and soul together, though life was a constant horror. My chief consolation was derived from the good Padre who came to visit us, and who took quite an interest in me. It was in my talks with and observance of him that I gained a knowledge of priestly ways which has stood me in good stead since that time.

“But to go on. Although I have always been unusually quicktempered, my brother had this trait to a more marked degree than I. Many times I have seep him fly into a frenzy over a mere trifle. Small wonder then, that he should, one day, let his hatred overmaster his judgment when the overseer struck him with a whip. He seized it and lashed his tormentor across the face, but his triumph was short—his end bloody— for the overseer decapitated him with his machete.

“For me this was the last straw. My sister had undoubtedly been ravished and murdered, my mother had died of grief, my father from cruelty, and now my little brother, the only one left for me to love, had been slain. All this I charged, and still charge, to the rapacity of the Mexican government.

“I was ordered to bury the body of my brother where it lay, unshriven, and mourned only by me. Over his grave, with tears streaming down my cheeks, I took a solemn oath that if ever I should be able to escape from

that place alive I would take a thousand Mexican heads to pay the debt. I bided my time, and one day my opportunity came. When I left, I took with me the head of the overseer who had slain my brother.

“My first act on the open road was to rob a traveler of his mule, his pack, and his head. The pack, I found, contained a large store of cheap but gaudy jewelry which I hawked to advantage in the villages through which I passed. Whenever I saw the chance I would take a head, remove the flesh by boiling, and store the skull in my pack.

“Within a month my jewelry had all been sold and my money was exhausted. I obtained employment in the shop of a liorseshoer, and it was while there that I conceived and secretly manufactured my little degollador, as I call it. It is so designed that when it drops over a man’s head, the impact with his shoulders releases the razor-sharp blade, usually severing his head from his body. If the blade strikes a vertebra and sticks, then a sharp pull on the rope completes the job. But to go on with the story.

“I chanced to come here, and found that the place was admirably suited to my purpose. I did not live in the hut at first, but camped on the hillside not far from here. I succeeding in collecting many skulls from travelers riding beneath the cliffs, and of course I left no traces. One day while wandering on the hillside I came upon an opening that excited my curiosity. Seeing that it penetrated quite deeply I made a number of torches with dried grass and explored it. It led me to a small chamber behind the image of St. Anthony, and I found, to my amazement, that the slab which formed the



rear panel of the shrine was, in reality, a door, easily opened from the inside, and swinging on brass hinges which, though corroded, were still serviceable. The drop of blood which you found at the base of the shrine bears me out in this, as I used that door when obtaining Pedro’s head while you and Jose waited at the table for your chicken and tortillas.

“Exploring further, I found this room and its connection with the rear of the hut. The two rooms and the tunnels had evidently been used at some forgotten time by the keepers of the shrine, as a place of refuge during Indian attacks.

“That evening I took the head of Father Salvador while he was exploring the hillside for herbs. The next day, when a company of pilgrims came—they had already grown fearful of the neighborhood and came in numbers—I told them I had discovered the body near my camp. They swore he had been murdered by the devil, such being the popular superstition regarding the other deaths because I never left tracks, and it was not difficult for me to persuade them and the authorities who came later that I would be a suitable guardian for the shrine.

“One day I noticed the advertisement of a costumer in a paper from Mexico City which had been wrapped around a bottle of tequila given me by a pilgrim. I took a train down there and purchased three costumes from him like the one I now wear, giving, of course, a false name and address. The costume fitted well with the popular superstition regarding the place, and I felt that it would afford me considerable protection in case I was seen. Is there anything else that puzzles you?”

Leslie considered a moment.

“Yes. There are several things. For one, how does it happen that you can throw that thing with such uncanny accuracy

“In the same way that a vaquero

ft

rS

ms&mKt®?

Explains many

many mystifying trl •ds, handkerchiefs, i

can do. Also contains complete catalog of Magic Tricks, Jokes. Puzzles, Escapes, Curios, and Imported Novelties from many Foreign lands. Large assortment, lowest prices. You will amaze and mystify your friends I Send 10c today.

LYLE DOUCLAS,

IForeignWork!

Like to Travel—Does Romantic, Wealthy, South America call you? Unusual opporl tunities for young men. American em- \ ployers. Fare and expenses furnished. BIG PAY. Write for Free List.

\ SOUTH AMERICAN SERVICE BUREAU ‘ Detroit, Michigan

^ mo. 'and.——-—,-,—, —

etc.; vacations on full'pay. For details, write

NORTON INST*

OLD MONEY WANTED ”,£> *&! **22

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Money, it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaranteed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash. CLARKE COIN CO., W. T. Dept., LeRoy, N. Y.


pay! $2.00 if cured. Sent on trial! Georges Laboratories. Station C, Los Angeles, Calif.



can throw a riata with equal accuracy. By practise. 1 practised for weeks before I attempted to use it at all as a substitute for the machete. You are one of the very few live targets I have ever missed.” He took a skull from the pyramid and handed it to Leslie. “Here. Roll this across the floor as swiftly as you wish, and let me show you. ’ ’

Leslie waited for him to pick up the instrument of death and poise it aloft. Then he rolled the skull at the opposite wall. The Aneiano hurled the thing with catlike quickness, but it fell, not over the skull, but over the head of the American. With a cackle of diabolical glee, the hermit jerked the rope taut.


T eslie had bolstered his revolver when he rolled the skull, hence both his hands were free. As the infernal machine descended over his head he instinctively put up both hands to throw it off, but this was prevented by the Aneiano’s jerking the rope taut. The keen blade was beneath his chin, almost touching his throat, but the trigger bars had not yet touched his shoulders. Had they done so his death would have been instaneous. Still tugging at the rope, the hermit quickly shortened the distance between them. Then, grasping the ring with one hand, he dropped the rope and suddenly pressed down on the machine from the top with the other. The trigger bars struck Leslie’s shoulders, but quick as the hermit had been, the American was again a shade quicker. Shifting his own hold, he had grasped the two bars that moved the blade, using the pressure on the back of his neck to keep it from his throat. The springs were tremendously powerful and he had all he could do to keep the keen blade away, the Aneiano meanwhile keeping the thing pressed down on his head and jerking at the ring behind.

The struggle that ensued was the most fearful in Leslie’s experience. The Aneiano, he found, was a powerful athlete, notwithstanding his previous pretended feebleness. Twice his chin was cut to the bone by the razor-edged blade as the hermit jerked him about. The thing that galled him the most was the fact that he could not fight back. Although his six-shooters were belted about him he dared not let go with either hand to reach for a gun. His sole consolation was that his enemy was in like case so far as his hands were concerned, though a long way from being in such desperate peril.

Struggling intensely, bleeding profusely from the two cuts in his chin, Leslie soon found his strength ebbing at an alarming rate. He lashed out blindly with his feet and sometimes succeeded in kicking the enemy’s shins, but the softness of the moccasins rendered this ineffective.

Knowing that the unequal struggle could not last much longer, Leslie at length resolved on a desperate plan. First relaxing, to make it appear that his strength was gone, he suddenly bent double and, at the same time, pushed upward with both hands. The hermit, taken completely by surprize, was first jerked forward, then catapulted over the head of the American. Although the movement jerked the machine from his head, Leslie received a severe cut on his forehead. The blood trickled down in his eyes, half blinding him, so that he could but dimly see the hermit lying on his back where he had fallen. Whipping out his knife, Leslie cut a piece from the riata and pounced on his prostrate foe, who appeared partly stunned from his fall. It was but the work of a moment to turn him over and bind his hands behind him. Another piece, cut from the same riata, served to secure his feet.

“There, damn you!” he snarled, rising unsteadily and wiping the



blood from his eyes. “I guess you won’t try any more tricks.”

The hermit made no answer, but there came a sound that instantly put Leslie on his guard—the clatter of boots and the jingle of spurs in the passageway through which the Anciano had come. Instantly supicious, Leslie drew both sixshooters and crouched behind the pyramid of skulls, convinced that no one but an enemy could have come from that direction. He lowered both guns with a nervous laugh a moment later, as Jose stepped through the doorway. Behind him came a dapper caballero whom Leslie instantly recognized.

‘ ‘ Hernandez! ” he cried in surprize. “How the devil did you get here?”

“Ees ver’ simple, amigo,” Hernandez replied, warmly shaking the proffered hand. “I get desperate an’ use the hot iron on that damn’ peon today. Then he’s talk plenty. Ees tal me Tio Luis gave heem the order to get your head, promising heem many blessing een return. He’s tal heem that he who cuts a heretic gets eight years’ absolution.

“Right away, I smell the mouse, and ride out here weeth two men. Jose, I find cooking breakfast, an’ he’s tal me you’re in the hut. I go there, but find no one, so return to Jose. He’s say maybe you ’ave gone to look for the trail where you shoot at the devil last night. We go there and find trail ourselves. It leads to a hole in the hillside an’ a passageway which we follow to this place. I see you ’ave those devil, all right, but where ees the Anciano? You must get heem also to win those twenty thousand pesos, for both are guilty.”

‘ ‘ Fair enough, ’ ’ replied Leslie. ‘ ‘ I call you. Take a look at this man’s face.”

Hernandez bent and turned the Anciano on his back, then straightened up with a cry of amazement.

“Tio Luis! Son of wan guu! You win, amigo.”

In 3 Days! With German Method!

On Any Part of Face,Neck or Body

How to Obtain

A Perfect Looking Nose

_ -,Jd nosea quickly, painlessly, permanently and comfortably at

plianco of precise adjustment and P a safe and Kuaranteed patent device that will actually give you a perfect looking nose. Write for free booklet which tells you how to obtain a perfect looking nose. M. Triloty. Pioneer Noseshaping Specialist. Dept, 3191, Binghamton, N. Y.

LOVE EXPLAINED!

Ttio Klystery Revealed Startling unashamed advice. Dr. Cowan's

BOOK—"THE SCIENCE OF A HE W LIFE”

mis MOOT: Sea Appeal, Choosing a Mate, Blissful Marriage. How Babies Are Conceived and Born, Birth Control. Sex Diseases 320 final? illustrated pages. Frees 2 Margaret Sanger books. Weed He Money. Par postman $2.45 pins posture on delivery ot 3 books. OQILVie PUB. CO., 57 Rose St., Now York, Dept. 1«3

XPAV KATHOSCOPE. Focket Detector. Everybody wants it. See your best girl and all she’s doing. No

_ knows; you see everything. Periscope operates In all

climates; lasts lifetime; ready for use. Made of hard —‘■her. $1.00 cash with order for this wonderful lnstru_.t and 8 astonishing French pictures.

KATHOS CO., P. 0. Box8302, City Hall Post Office. NewYorkCity

ASTHMA

Hay fever and chronic Bronchial coughs yield Immediately in many 1 Instances to Dr. Johnson's “Garden Oils." Send stamp for particulars. Dr. Johnson, Bench St., West Haven, Conn.

■ I a Dice, $6.00; Cards. $1.25; Inlts.$1.60;

§nAUll» Ma * ic Fluld f°r Trans parents, $3.or




The


By EDMOND HAMILTON

P rom outside the bounds of our universe comes a dread menace. The Earth, and the solar system containing it, are threatened with' the prospect of being torn from the universe and dragged out into the abyss of space, beyond even the reach of starlight, there to become the prey of ghastly octopuslike creatures whose uncanny knowledge of science has enabled them to reach out for our sun and the habitable planets surrounding it.

T his fascinating tale, probably the finest interplanetary story ever written, describes events one million years in the future, when travel between the worlds, and between the suns, has become a commonplace. You can not afford to miss this vivid, thrilling and powerful story of a tremendous doom reaching for us from outside the universe, and the attempt of a picked band of heroes to turn aside the finger of destiny. The story will be printed complete in the

February issue of


On Sale January 1

Clip and Mail this coupon todayt

450 K. Ohio St., Chicago, III.

Enclosed find $1 for special 6 months subscription to "Weird Tales” to begin with the. February Issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special - ' offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Mama.

Address CityThe Silver Key

(Contin ued from page 48)

chief found among the forest rocks on the hillside beyond can net be identified as belonging to the missing man.

There is talk of apportioning Randolph Carter’s estate among his heirs, but I shall stand firmly against this course because I do not believe he is dead. There are twists of time and space, of vision and reality, which only a dreamer can divine; and from what I know of Carter I think he has merely found a way to traverse these mazes. Whether or not he will ever come back, I can not say. He wanted the lands of dreams he had lost, and yearned for the days of his childhood. Then he found a key, and I somehow believe he was able to use it to strange advantage.

I shall ask him when I see him, for I expect to meet him shortly in a certain dream-city we both used to haunt. It is rumored in Ulthar, beyond the River Skai, that a new king reigns on the opal throne of llek-Vad, that fabulous town of turrets atop the hollow cliffs of glass overlooking the twilight sea wherein the bearded and finny Gnorri build their singular labyrinths, and I believe I know how to interpret this rumor. Certainly, I look forward impatiently to the sight of that great silver key, for in its cryptical arabesques there may stand symbolized all the aims, and mysteries, of a blindly impersonal cosmos.

Coming Soon—

The Vengeance of the Dead

A Gripping Serial by ELI COLTER

Watch for It

It Was the Greatest Shock

of My Life to Hear Her

—how had she found time to practice?

iR&sacsz sgsss^

l d o fwhen dfd yU’Zd Sme

[THE END]
