============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 13, Number 4
Date: April 1929
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "A Dinner at Imola August W" by Derleth
  2. "taken of such material v/hile in their possession" by The contents of this magazine are
  3. "The Damsel and Her Cat David H" by Keller
  4. "Moon Mockery Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
by Derleth
============================================================
community, and his clothing, general build, and other details made recc^- ( Confirmed on x>age 573)

A T’ale of Cesare Borgia

A Dinner at Imola

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

M essee niccolo machiAVELLI had just signed

his name to a letter to the

Ten, when the flap of his tent swung wide in the hand of a lackey, permitting His Highness, the Prince

Cesare Borgia, to enter.

“Ah! Excellency.” Machiavelli half turned.

“Another letter to the Ten, Messer Machiavelli?” Cesare Borgia shrugged his shoulders. “You keep them well informed as to my movements. ’ ’

Niccolo Machiavelli made a deprecating gesture. The Borgia prince smiled.

“You had best warn them against guile in their dealings with me, Messer Machiavelli. Florence holds no interest for me — but let them once deceive me, and the IMedici rule no longer.”

Messer Machiavelli bowed his head. “Florence has no intention. Highness, of going against yoxir wishes. Indeed, she is most anxious to preserve your friendship.”

“That will remain as it is, Messer Machiavelli. For the present I have come to ask you to dine with my company on the third night hence. The dinner is in honor of the young Duke Paolo di Colonna.”

Messer Machiavelli started. He looked at his host with raised eyebrows. Only yesterday his trusted lackey had informed him of the rumor of a plot against the Borgias, the headquarters of which were in Rome, at the palaces of the Cardinals

Orsini and della Rovere. It was rumored, too, that the young Paolo di Colonna was in alliance with this secret revolt, and that he was furthering the cause by sowing the seeds of revolt among the troops in camp at Imola, wdiile at the same time the Duke Giovanni di Orsini was seeking to stir up the Borgia soldiers at Forli. As yet Machiavelli had no knowledge that the prince knew of the affair.

Messer Machiavelli nodded his head. “You honor me,” he murmured.

“You will come?”

“With pleasure.”

“Very well. We will meet at table, if not before. ’ ’

The prince signaled to his lackey, who raised the tent flap for his master to take leave of the Florentine envoy. But hardly had the Borgia prince left the tent than Machiavelli gave a quick, short call.

“Giulio!”

From somewhere in the rear of the tent a small, stooped figure arose and stood before Niccolo Machiavelli.

“You called me, Messer Machiavelli?”

“You heard the Borgia?” The figure nodded. “It is well. You w’ill follow him continually until the thii’d night hence.” The lackey laughed silently. He nodded. “At the third night, report here before dinner. ’ ’

The lackey nodded quickly again, and without a word vanished into the interior of the tent, to emerge in the gathering darkness at its back within the minute. Messer Niccolo MachiA DINNEK AT IMOLA


avelli yawned, and gazed speculatively at the hour-glass on his table.

A t the hour before dinner ^ on the third night, Messer Maehiavelli was startled out of his revery by the sudden appearance of his lackey, Giulio.

“He visited at Luigi Reni’s,” said Giulio abruptly.

'^‘And this Reni?” queried Machiaveili with arched brows.

“Is a magician,” answered Giulio suggestively.

■ f- Ah! And what did the Borgia there? ’ ’

'^si'^He brought with him and left at Reni’s a small portrait of the Duke Paolo di Colonna. That was yesterday; Today he went again, and the portrait was returned to him, together with a large package. This package contained, I have made certain, numerous curiously wrought candles for the table tonight.”

That is all?”

“Other than that is of no account. The' Borgia prince attended to the usual matters of his troops. ’ ’

Messer Maehiavelli toyed with a quill on his table. “What make you of the candles, Giulio?” he asked.

The lackey smiled suggestively. He hunched his shoulders and spread his hands in an empty gesture.

“Who knows?” he said. “The Borgia takes a portrait of his enemy to a magician, and receives at its return a packet of wax candles. It is said that if one burns a wax effigy of one’s foe, made according to certain secret formulas, or if one pierces it to the heart, the model dies. ’ ’

Jlesser Maehiavelli pondered a space. “How many figures are needed? How many must be burned to rid oneself of an enemy?”

“But one. Excellency. But Cesare is a true Borgia. His resources know no end. ’ ’

Messer Maehiavelli nodded. “It is good work, Giulio; I shall not forget it.”

The lackey bowed and vanished in the shadows at the rear of the tent. Messer Maehiavelli rose and donned a great cloak. He raised the flap of his tent and looked out at the cloudless sky. Far away, on the horizon toward the east, the full moon was just rising above the hills, and from the marshlands to the west thin wisps of vapor were moving toward the camp. Messer Maehiavelli glanced dubiously at the hour-glass on the table, saw that the sand had passed the halfhour, and slipped out of his tent.

A t the banquet hall the young Paolo di Colonna was the center of a boisterous crowd. Cesare Borgia stood some distance away from him, and was the first to greet the Florentine envoy at his arrival. Messer Maehiavelli sought vainly for some trace, some premonition on the inscrutable face of his host; there was naught save a sardonic smile. Messer Maehiavelli was uneasy; he bethought himself of the pending alliance between the Council of Ten and di Colonna. He resolved to keep a watchful eye on the Borgia ring, which he knew served as a container for the white powder that Cesare had once shown him. He had often been told that for the Borgia prince to open this ring meant instant death for someone.

Messer Maehiavelli moved somewhat closer to the table, the better to observe wFat Cesare Borgia was occupied with. He gave an involuntary start when he noticed that the prince himself was distributing before the places at table the earven candles that he had received from the magician, Reni. He sought out the place reserved for the prince, and found it quickly by the banner of the Bull draped over the back of the chair. Directly opposite this chair stood one marked with the arms of di Colonna. Messer Maehiavelli ’s eyes strayed unconsciously to the wax figure before his own plate, set at the



arms of the Medici. The figure was merely a replica of a trooper, and so, Messer Machiavelli saw, were many of the others. Some were copies of kings or princes, others of dukes or barons. As his eyes stole down the line of figures, Messer Machiavelli found himself curiously attracted by one, slightly larger than the rest, that bore a suspicious resemblance to someone he knew. He looked at the chair; it was the chair of Paolo di Colonna, and the figure was an exact replica of the yoiing duke.

The strident voice of Cesare Borgia interrupted Messer Machiavelli ’s thoughts, calling him to table. Some of the young officers were already seated. Smiling inwardly, Machiavelli noticed that the Duke Paolo di Colonna had brought his taster with him; so, he saw, had several of the noblemen who were known to be in sympathy with Borgia enemies.

The dinner progressed smoothly — much too smoothly, Messer Maehiavelli thought. Cesare Borgia, as host, discoursed volubly on many subjects, and he did not lack those to argue with him.

During the entire meal the prince had not once touched his ring. Now, toward the end of the meal, the prince indicated by example that his guests were to light the candles at their plates with tapers that had been furnished. Hardly had this been done, than, to the amazement of all present, Cesare Borgia abruptly changed the conversation.

“It is generally faiowm, I believe, that there is a conspiracy now stirring in Rome.” The prince looked casually over at the Duke Paolo di Colonna; the duke paled. “Its leaders have been determined, and iinless all plans are immediately surrendered to the papal government, they and their estates will be seized and confiscated by His Holiness, Alexander VI. The Cardinals Orsini and della Rovere are heading this move, and there is talk of allying the rebellious

Colonna faction ”

The prince was interrupted by a hoarse scream from the Duke Paolo di Colonna, who had half risen from his chair and was clawing at his collar.

“I am burning,” he shrieked, and fell toward the table.

A lackey hastily ran to aid him, and in a loud voice Cesare Borgia summoned his physician. Then he crossed aro\md the table and supported the young duke until the doctor came. When at last he entered, the prince gave an order for the duke’s removal to his own chamber, aiding the physician and two lackeys to earrv the duke to the door of the hall.

Cesare Borgia returned to the table outwardly calm; all about him hummed excited whispers. Many of the soldiers looked questioningly gt the duke’s taster standing unharmed behind the empty chair. The prince reopened the convei'sation, and continued to speak until he saw that the flame of di Colonna ’s candle had burned out. Then he stopped abruptly, and Messer Machiavelli caiight him glancing toward the door. At the same moment the curtains at the end of the hall w'ere tlirust aside, and the prince’s physician ran into the room. He bowed and spoke.

“Highness,” he said simply, “the Duke Paolo di Colonna is dead of an unknown illness.”

The prince nodded his head and opened his lips. “It is unfortunate; but as God wills, so shall it be. ’ ’ Without ftirther comment he again opened the subject of the Orsini conspiracy.

“Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras — dire stories of Celajno and the Harpies — may reproduce tliemselves in the brain of superstition — hut they were there before. They are transcripts, types — the archetypes are in us, and eternal. How else should the recital of that which we know in a waking sense to be false come to affect us at all? Is it that we naturally conceive terror from such objects, considered in their capacity of being able to inflict upon us bodily injury? Oh, least of all! These terrors are of older standing. They date beyond body — or without the body, they would have been the same.... That the kind of fear here treated is purely spiritual — that it is strong in proportion as it is objectless on earth, that it predominates in the period of our sinless infancy — are difficulties the solution of which might afford some probable insight into our ante-mundane condition, and a peep at least into the shadowland of preexistence.” — Charles Lamb: Witches and Other Night-Fears.

W. T.— 2


WHEN a traveler in north central Massachusetts takes the wrong fork at the junction of the Aylesbury pike just beyond Dean ’s Corners he comes upon a lonely and curious country. The ground gets higher, and the brier-bordered stone walls press closer and closer against the ruts of the dusty, curving road. The trees of the frequent forest belts seem too large, and the wild weeds, brambles, and grasses attain a luxuriance not often found in settled regions. At the same time the planted fields appear singularly few and barren; while the sparsely scattered houses wear a surprizing uniform aspect of age, squalor, and dilapidation. Without knowing why, one hesitates




1o ask directions from the gnarled, solidary figures spied now and then on crii milling doorsteps or in the sloping, rocirstrown meadows. Those figaires are so silent. and furtive that one feels somehow confronted by forbidden things, with which it would be bettor to have nothing to do. When a rise in the road brings the mountaiii.i in view above the deep woods, the reeling of strange uneasiness is increased. The summits are too rounded and symmetrical to give a sense of com fort and naturalness, and sometimes the sky silhouettes with especial clearness the queer circles of tall stone pillars with which most of them are crowned.

(lorges and ravines of problematical depth intersect the way, and the crude wooden bridges always seem of dubious safety. When the road dips again there are stretches of marshland that one instinctively dislikes, and indeed almost fears at evening when unseen whippoorwills chatter and the fireflies come out in abnonnal profusion to dance to the raucous, creepily insistent rhythms of stridently piping bullfrogs. The thin, shining line of the Miskatonic’s upper reaches has an oddly serpentlike suggestion as it winds close to the feet of the domed liills among which it ri.ses.

As the hills draw nearer, one heeds their wooded sides more than their stone-crowned tops. Those sides loom up so darkly and precipitously that one wi.shcs they would keep their distance, but there is no road by which to escape them. Aero.ss a covered bridge one sees a small village huddled between the stream and the vertical slope of Round Mountain, and wonders at the cluster of rotting gambrel roofs bespeaking an earlier architectural period than that of the neighboring region. It is not reassuring to see, on a closer glance, that most of the hoiises are deserted and falling to ruin, and that the broken-.steepled church now harbors the one slovenly mercantile establishment of the hamlet. One dreads to tnist the tenebrous tunnel of the bridge, yet there is no way to avoid it. Once across, it is hard to prevent the impression of a faint, malign odor about the village street, as of the massed mold and decay of centuries. It is always a relief to get clear of the place, and to follow the narrow road around the base of the hills and aero.ss the level country beyond till it rejoins the Aylesbury pike. Afterward one sometimes learns that one has been through Dunwich.

Outsiders visit Dimwich as seldom as possible, and since a certain season of horror all the signboards pointing toward it have been taken down. The scenery, judged by any ordinary esthetic canon, is more than commonly beautiful; yet there is no influx of artists or summer tourists. Two centuries ago, when talk of witch-blood, Satan -v/orship, and strange forest presences was not laughed at, it was the custom to give reasons for avoiding the locality. In our sensible age — since the Dunwich horror of 1928 was hushed up by those who had the town’s and the world’s welfare at heart — people shun it without knowing exactly why. Perhaps one reason — though it can not apply to iiniuformed strangers — is that the natives are now repellently decadent, having gone far along that path of retrogression so common in many New England backwaters. They have come to form a race by themselves, with the well-defined mental and physical stigmata of degeneracy and inbreeding. The average of their intelligence is wofullj'’ low, whilst their annals reek of overt vieiousness and of half-hidden murders, incests, and deeds of almost unnamable violence and perversity. The old gentry, representing the two or three armigerous families which came from Salem in 1692, have kept somewhat above the general level of decay; though many branches are sunk into the sordid ])opulace so deeply that only their names remain as a key to the origin they disgrace. Some



of the Whateleys and Bishops still send their eldest sons to Harvard and Sliskatonie, though those sons seldom return to the moldering gambrel roofs under which they and their ancestors were born.

No one, even those who have the facts concerning the recent horror, can say just what is the matter with Dunwieh; though old legends speak of unhallowed rites and conclaves of the Indians, amidst which they called forbidden shapes of shadow out of the great rounded hills, and made wild orgiastic prayers that were answered by loud crackings and rumblings from the ground below. In 1747 the Reverend Abijah Hoadley, newly come to the Congregational Church at Dunwich Village, preached a memorable sennon on the close presence of Satan and his imps, in which he said:

It must be allow’d that these Blasphemies of an infeniall Train of Damons are Matters of too common Knowledge to be deny’d; the cursed Voices of Azamel and Buzrael, of Beelzebub and Belial, being heard from under Ground by above a Score of credible Witnesses now living. I myself did not more than a Fortnight ago catch a very plain Discourse of evill Powers in the Hill behind my House; wherein there were a Rattling and Rolling, Groaning, Screeching, and Hissing, such as no Things of this Earth cou’d raise up, and which must needs have come from those Caves that only black Magick can discover, and only the Divell unlock.

Mr. Hoadley disappeared soon after delivering this sermon; but the text, printed in Springfield, is still extant. Noises in the hills continued to be reported from year to year, and still form a puzzle to geologists and physiographers.

Other traditions tell of foul odors near the hill-crowning circles of stone pillars, and of rushing airy presences to be heard faintly at certain hours from stated points at the bottom of the great ravines; while still others try to explain the Devil’s Hop Yard — a bleak, blasted hillside where no tree, shrub, or grass-blade will grow. Then, too, the natives are mortally afraid of

the numerous whippoorwills which grow vocal on warm nights. It is vowed that the birds are psychopomps lying in wait for the souls of the dying, and that they time their eery cries in unison with the sufferer’s struggling breath. If they can catch the fleeing soul when it leaves the body, they instantly flutter away chittering in demoniac laughter; but if they fail, they subside gradually into a disappointed silence.

These tales, of course, are obsolete and ridiculous; because they come down from very old times. Dunwieh is indeed ridiculously old — older by far than any of the communities within thirty miles of it. South of the village one may.still spy the cellar walls and chimney of the ancient Bishop house, which was built before 1700; whilst the ruins of the mill at the falls, built in 1806, form the most modem piece of architecture to be seen. Industry did not flourish here, and the Nineteenth Century factory movement proved short-lived. Oldest of all are the great rings of roughhewn stone columns on the hilltops, but these are more generally attributed to the Indians than to the settlers. Deposits of skulls and bones, found within these circles and around the sizable table-like rock on Sentinel Hill, sustain the popular belief that siich spots were once the burial-place's of the Pocumtucks; even tho^igh many ethnologists, disregarding the absurd improbability of such a theory, persist in believing the remains Caucasian.


T T WAS in the township of Dunwieh, in a large and partly inhabited farmhouse set against a hillside four miles from the village and a mile and a half from any other dwelling, that Wilbur Whateley was born at 5 a. ra. on Sunday, the second of February, 1913. This date was recalled because it was Candlemas, which people in Dunwieh curiously obseiwe under an484


oilier name; and because the noises in the hills had sounded, and all the dogs of the countryside had barked persistently, throughout the night before. Less worthy of notice was the fact that the mother was one of the decadent Wliateleys, a somewhat deformed, unattractive albino woman of 35, living with an aged and halfinsane father about whom the most frightful tales of wizardry had been whispered in his youth. Lavinia Whateley had no known husband, but according to the custom of the region made no attempt to disavow the child; concerning the other side of whose ancestry the country folk might — and did — speculate as widely as they chose. On the contrary, she seemed strangely proud of the dark, goatish-looking infant who formed such a contrast to her own sickly and pink-eyed albinism, and was heard to mutter many curious prophecies about its unusual powers and tremendous future.

Lavinia was one who would be apt to mutter such things,^ for she was a lone creature given to wandering amidst thunderstorms in the hills and trying to read the great odorous books which her father had inherited through two centuries of Whateleys, and which were fast falling to pieces with age and worm-holes. She had never been to school, but was filled with disjointed scraps of ancient lore that Old Whateley had taught her. The remote farmhouse had always Ijeen feared because of Old Whateley ’s reputation for black magic, and the unexplained death by violence of ]\Irs. Wliateley when Lavinia was twelve years old had not helped to make the place popular. Isolated among strange influences, Lavinia was fond of wild and grandiose daydreams and singular occupations; nor was her leisure much taken up by household cares in a home from which all standards of order and cleanliness had long since disappeared.

There was a hideous screaming

which echoed above even the hill noises and the dogs’ barking on the night Wilbur was born, but no known doctor or midwife presided at his coming. Neighboi's knew nothing of him till a week afterward, when Old Whateley drove his sleigh through the snow into Dunwich Village and discoursed incoherently to the group of loungers at Osborn’s general store. There seemed to be a change in the old man — an added element of furtiveness in the clouded brain which subtly transformed him fi-om an object to a subject of fear — though he was not one to be perturbed by any common family event. Amidst it all he showed some trace of the pride later noticed in his daughter, and what he said of the child’s paternity was remembered by many of his hearers years afterward.

‘ ‘ I dun ’t keer what folks think — ef Lavinny’s boy looked like his pa, he wouldn’t look like nothin’ ye expeek. Ye needn’t think the only folks is the folks hereabouts. Lavinny’s read some, an’ has seed some things the most 0 ’ ye only tell abaout. I calc ’late her man is as good a husban’ as ye kin find this side of Aylesbury; an' ef ye Imowed as much abaout the hills as I dew, ye wouldn’t ast no better church weddin’ nor her’n. Let me tell ye suthin’ — some day yew folks’ll hear a child o’ Lavinny’s a-callin’ its father’s name on the top o’ Sentinel Hill!”

The only pei*sons who saw Wilbur during the first month of his life were old Zechariah Whateley, of the undecaj^ed Whateleys, and Earl Sawyer’s common-law wife, Mamie Bishop. Mamie’s visit was frankly one of curiosity, and her subsequent tales did justice to her observ'ations; but Zechariah came to lead a pair of Alderney cows which Old Whateley had bought of his son Curtis. This marked the beginning of a course of cattle-buying on the part of small Wilbur’s family which ended only in 1928, when the Dunwich horror came



and went; yet at no time did the ramshackle Whateley bam seem overcrowded with livestock. There came a period when people were curious enough to steal up and count the herd that grazed precariously on the steep hillside above the old farmhouse, and they could never find more than ten or twelve anemic, bloodless-looking specimens. Evidently some blight or distemper, perhai^s sprung from the unwholesome pasturage or the diseased fungi and timbers of the filthj'- barn, caused a heavy mortality amongst the Whateley animals. Odd wounds or sores, having something of the aspect of incisions, seemed to afflict the visible cattle; and once or twice during the earlier months certain callers fancied thej^ could discern.similar sores about the throats of the gray, unshaven old man and his slatternly, crinkly-haired albino daughter.

In the spring after Wilbur’s birth Lavinia resumed her customary rambles in the hills, bearing in her misproportioned arms the swarthy child. Public interest in the Whateleys subsided after most of the countrj' folk had seen the baby, and no one, bothered to comment on the swift development which that newcomer seemed every day to exliibit. Wilbur’s growth was indeed phenomenal, for within three months of his birth he had attained a size and muscular power not usually found in infants under a full year of age. His motions and even his vocal sounds showed a restraint and deliberateness highly peculiar in an infant, and no one was really unprepared when, at seven months, he began to walk unassisted, with falterings which another month was sufficient to remove.

It was somewhat after this time — on Hallowe’en — that a great blaze was seen at midnight on the top of Sentinel Hill where the old table-like stone stands amidst its tumulus of ancient bones. Considerable talk Avas started Avhen Silas Bishop — of the undecayed Bishops — mentioned having seen the

boy running sturdily up that hill ahead of his mother about an hour before the blaze was remarked. Silas was rounding uj) a stray heifer, but he nearly forgot his mission when he fleetingly spied the two figures in the dim light of his lantern. They darted almost noiselessly through the underbrush, and the astonished watcher seemed to think they Avere entirely lAiiclothed. AfterAvard he could not be sure about the boy, avIio may have had some kind of a fringed belt and a pair, of dark blue trunlcs or trousers on. Wilbur Avas never subsequently seen alive and conscious Avithout complete and tightly buttoned attire, the disarrangement or threatened disarrangement of which alAA-ays seemed to fill him Avith anger and alarm. His contrast Avith his squalid mother and grandfather in this respect Avas thought very notable until the horror of 1928 suggested the most valid of reasons.

The next January gossips Avere mildly interested in the fact that “LaA’imiy’s black brat” had commenced to talk, and at the age of only eleA'en months. His speech was someAAiiat remarkable both because of its difference from the ordinary accents of the region, and because it displayed a freedom from infantile lisping of Avhich many children of three or four might AA^ell be proud. The boy Avas not talkative, yet Avhen he spoke he seemed to reflect some elusive element wholly unpossessed by DunAvieh and its denizens. The strangeness did not reside in AA'hat he said, or even in the simple idioms he used; but seemed A'aguely linked Avith his intonation or Avith the internal organs that produced the spoken sounds. His facial aspect, too, was remarkable for its maturit}^; for though he shared his mother’s and grandfather’s ehinlessness, his firm and precociously shaped nose united with the expression on his large, dark, almost Latin eyes to give him an air of quasi-adulthood and well-nigh preternatural intelligence.



He was, however, exceedingly ugly despite his appearance of brilliancy; there being something almost goatish or animalistic about his thick lips, large-pored, yellowish skin, coarse crinkly hair, and oddly elongated ears. He was soon disliked even more decidedly than his mother and grandsire, and all conjectures about him were spiced -vWth references to the bygone magic of Old Whateley, and hoAv the hills once shook when he shrieked the dreadful name of Yog-Sothoth in the midst of a circle of stones with a great book open in his arms before him. Dogs abhorred the boy, and he was always obliged to take various defensive measures against their barking menace.


IV/fEANWHiLE Old Whateley continned to bxiy cattle without measurably increasing the size of his herd. He also cut timber and began to repair the unused parts of his house — a spacious, peaked-roofed affair whose rear end was buried entirely in the rocky hillside, and whose three least-ruined ground-floor rooms had always been sufficient for himself and his daughter. There must have been prodigious reserves of strength in the old man to enable him to accomplish so much hal’d labor; and though he still babbled dementedly at times, his earpentiy seemed to show the effects of sound calculation. It had really begun as soon as Wilbur was born, when one of the many tool sheds had been put suddenly in order, clapboarded, and fitted with a stout fresh lock. Now, in restoring the abandoned upper story of the house, he was a no less thorough craftsman. His mania showed itself only in his tight boarding-up of all the windows in the reclaimed section — ^though many declared that it was a crazy thing to bother with the reclamation at all. Less inexplicable was his fitting-up of another downstairs room for his new grandson — ^a room which

sevei-al callers saw, though no one was ever admitted to the closely-boarded upper story. This chamber he lined with tall, firm shelving; along w'hieh he began gradually to arrange, in apparently careful order, all the rotting ancient books and parts of books which during his own day had been heaped promiscuously in odd corners of the various rooms.

"I made some use of ’em,” he would say as he tried to mend a torn black-letter page with paste prepared on the rusty kitchen stove, “but the boy’s fitten to make better xise of ’em. He’d orter hev ’em as well sot as he kin, for they’re goin’ to be all of his lamin’.”

When Wilbur was a year and seven months old — in September of 1914 — his size and accomplishments were almost alarming. He had grown as large as a child of four, and was a fluent and inei'edibly intelligent talker. He ran freely about the fields and hills, and accompanied his mother on all her wanderings. At home he would pore diligently over the queer pictures and charts in his grandfather’s books, while Old Whateley would instruct and catechize him through long, hushed afternoons. By this time the restoration of the house was finished, and those who watched it wondered why one of the upper windows had been made into a solid plank door. It was a window in the rear of the east gable end, close against the hill; and no one could imagine why a cleated wooden runway was built up to it from the ground. About the period of this work’s completion people noticed that the old tool-house, tightly locked and Avindowlessly clapboarded since Wilbixr’s birth, had been abandoned again. The door suiing listlessly open, and when Earl Saxvyer once stepped xvithin after a cattle-selling call on Old Whateley he was quite discomposed by the singular odor he encountered — such a stench, he averred, as he had never before smelt in all his



life except near the Indian circles on the hills, and which could not come from anything sane or of this earth. But then, the homes and sheds of Dunwich folk have never been remarkable for olfactory immaculateness.

The following months were void of visible events, save that everyone swore to a slow but steady increase in the mysterious hill noises. On May Eve of 1915 there were tremors which even the Aylesbury people felt, whilst the following Hallowe’en produced an underground rumbling queerly synchronized with bursts of flame — “them witch Whateleys’ doin’s’’ — from the summit of Sentinel Hill. Wilbur was growing up uncannily, so that he looked like a boy of ten as he entered his fouilh year. He read avidly by himself now; but talked much less than formerly. A settled taciturnity was absorbing him, and for the first time people began to speak specifically of the dawning look of evil in his goatish face. He would sometimes mutter an unfamiliar jargon, and chant in bizarre rhythms which chilled the listener with a sense of unexplainable terror. The aversion displayed toward him by dogs had now become a matter of wide remark, and he was obliged to carry a pistol in order to traverse the countrj^side in safety. His occasional use of the weapon did not enhance his popiflarity amongst the o^vners of canine guardians.

The few callers at the house would often find Lavinia alone on the ground floor, while odd cries and footsteps resounded in the boarded-up second story. She would never tell what her father and the boy were doing up there, though once she turned pale and displayed an abnormal degree of fear when a jocose fishpeddler tried the locked door leading to the stairway. That peddler told the store loungers at Dunwich Village that he thought he heard a horse stamping on that floor above. The

loungers reflected, thinking of the door and runway, and of the cattle that so swiftly disappeared. Then they shuddered as they recalled tales of Old Whateley’s youth, and of the strange things that are called out of the earth \yhen a bullock is sacrificed at the proper time to certain heathen gods. It had for some time been noticed that dogs had begun to hate and fear the whole Whateley place as violently as they hated and feared young Wilbur personally.

In 1917 the war came, and Squire Sawyer Whateley, as chairman of the local draft board, had hard work finding a quota of young Dunwich men fit even to be sent to a development camp. The government, alarmed at such signs of wholesale regional decadence, sent several officers and medical experts to investigate; conducting a survey which New England newspaper readers maj’ still recall. It was the publicity attending this investigation which set reporters on the track of the Whateleys, and caused the Boston Globe and Arkham Advertiser to print flamboyant Sunday stories of young Wilbur’s precociousness. Old Whateley’s black magic, the shelves of strange books, the sealed second story of the ancient farmhouse, and the weirdness of the whole region and its hill noises. Wilbur was four and a half then, and looked like a lad of fifteen. His lip and cheek were fuzzy with a coarse dark down, and his voice had begun to break. Earl Sawyer went out to the Whateley place vuth both sets of reporters and camera men, and called their attention to the queer stench which now seemed to trickle down from the sealed upper spaces. It was, he said, exactly like a smell he had found in the tool-shed abandoned when the house was finally repaired, and like the faint odors which he sometimes thought he caught near the stone circles on the mountains. Dunwich folk read the.stories when they appeared, and grinned over the obvious



mistakes. They wondered, too, why the writers made so much of the fact that Old Whatelej' always paid for his cattle in gold pieces of extremely ancient date. The Whateleys had received their visitors with ill-concealed distaste, though they did not dare court further publicity by a violent resistance or refusal to talk.


F or a decade the annals of the Whateleys sink indistinguishably into the general life of a morbid community used to their queer wa 5 ’'s and hardened to their May Eve and AllHallow orgies. TAvice a year they would light fires on the top of Sentinel Hill, at Avhich times the mountain rumblings would recur with greater and greater violence; while at all seasons there were strange and portentous doings at the lonely farmhouse. In the course of time callers professed to hear sounds in the sealed upper story even when all the family were downstairs, and they wondered how swiftly or how lingeringly a cow or bullock was usually sacrificed. There was talk of a complaint to the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; but nothing ever came of it, since Dunwich folk are never anxious to call the outside world’s attention to themselves.

About 1923, when Wilbur was a boy of ten whose mind, voice, stature, and bearded face gave all the impressions of maturity, a second great siege of carpentry went on at the old house. It was all inside the sealed upper part, and from bits of discarded lumber people concluded that the youth and his grandfather had knocked out all the partitions and even removed the attic floor, leaving only one vast open void between the ground story and the peaked roof. They had torn down the great central chimney, too, and fitted the rusty range with a flimsy outside tin stovepipe.

In the spring after this event Old Whateley noticed the growing number of whippoorwills that would come out of Cold Spring Glen to chirp luider his window at night. He seemed to regard the circumstance as one of great significance, and told the loungers at Osborn ’s that he thought his time had almost come.

“They whistle jest in tune with my breathin’ naow,” he said, “an’ I guess they’re gittin’ ready to ketch my soul. They know it’s a-goin'’ aout, an’ dun’t calc ’late to miss it. Yew’ll know, boys, arter I’m gone, whether they git me er not. Ef they dew, they’ll keep up a-siugin’ an’ laffin’ till break o’ day. Ef they dun’t, they’ll kinder quiet daown like. I expeck them an’ the souls they hunts fer hev some pi’etty tough tussles sometimes. ’ ’

On Lammas Night, 1924, Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury was hastily summoned by Wilbur Whateley, who had lashed his one remaining horse through the darkiress and telephoned from Osborn’s in the village. He found Old Whateley in a very grave state, with a cardiac action and stertorous breatlfing that told of an end not far off. The shapeless albino daughter and oddly bearded grandson stood by the bedside, whilst from the vacant abyss overhead there came a disquieting suggestion of rhythmical surging or lapping, as of the waves on some level beach. The doctor, though, was chiefly disturbed by the chattering night birds outside; a seemingly limitless legion of whippoorwills that cried their endless message in repetitions timed diabolically to the wheezing gasps of the dying man. It was iincanny and unnatural — too much, thought Dr. Houghton, like the whole of the region he had entered so reluctantly in response to the urgent call.

Toward 1 o’clock Old Whateley gained consciousness, and interrupted his wheezing to choke out a few words to his grandson.



“More space, Willy, more, space soon. Yew grows — an’ that grows faster. It’ll be ready to sarve ye soon, boy. Open up the gates to YogSothoth with the long chant that ye ’ll find on page 751 of the complete edition, an’ then' put a match to the prison. Fire from airth can’t burn it nohaow! ’ ’

He was obviously quite mad. After a pause, during which the flock of whippoorwills outside adjusted their cries to the altered tempo while some indications of the strange hill noises came from afar off, he added another sentence or two.

“Feed it reg’lar, Willy, an’ mind the quantity; but dun’t let it grow too fast fer the place, fer ef it busts quarters or gits aout afore ye opens to Yog-Sothoth, it’s all over an’ no use. Only them from beyont kin make it multiply an’ work.... Only them, the old uns as wants to come back....”

But speech gave place to gasps again, and Lavinia screamed at the way the whippoorwills followed the change. It was the same for more than an hour, when the final throaty rattle came. Dr. Houghton drew shrunken lids over the glazing gray eyes as the tumult of birds faded imperceptibly to silence. Lavinia sobbed, but Wilbur only chuckled whilst the hill noises rumbled faintly.

‘ ‘ They didn ’t git him, ’ ’ he muttered in his heavy bass voice.

Wilbur was by this time a scholar of reallj^ tremendous eriidition in his one-sided way, and was quietly knovm by correspondence to many librarians in distant places where rare and forbidden books of old days are kept. He was more and more hated and dreaded around Dunwich because of certain youthful disappearances which suspicion laid vaguely at his door; but was always able to silence inquiry through fear or through use of that fund of old-time gold which still, as in his grandfather’s time, went forth regularly and increasingly for cattlebuying. He was now tremendously mature of aspect, and his height, having reached the normal adult limit, seemed inclined to wax beyond that figure. In 1925, when a scholarly correspondent from Miskatonie University called upon him one day and departed pale and puzzled, he was fully six and three-quarters feet tall.

Through all the years Wilbur had treated his half-deformed albino mother with a growing contempt, finally forbidding her to go to the hills with him on May Eve and Hallowmass; and in 1926 the poor ci’eature complained to Mamie Bishop of being afraid of him.

“They’s more abaout him as I knows than I kin tell ye, IMamie, ’ ’ she said, “an’ naowadays they’s mbre nor what I know myself. I vaow afur Gawd, I dun’t know what he wants nor what he’s a-tryin’ to dew.”

That Hallowe’en the hill noises sounded louder than ever, and fire burned on Sentinel Hill as usual, but people paid more attention to the rhythmical screaming of vast flocks of unnaturally belated whippoorwills which seemed to be assembled near the unlighted Whateley farmliousc. After midnight their shrill notes burst into a kind of pandemoniae caehinnation which filled all the countrjmde, and not until dawn did they finally quiet down. Then they vanished, hurrying southward wheio they wei’e fully a month overdue. What this meant, no one could quite be certain till later. None of the countryfolk seemed to have died — but poor Lavinia Whatelej', the twisted albino, was never seen again.

In the summer of 1927 Wilbur repaired two sheds in the farmyard and began moving his books and effects out to them. Soon afterward Earl Sawyer told the loungers at Osborn ’s that more carpentry was going on in the Whateley farmhouse. Wilbur was closing all the doors and windows on the ground floor, and seemed to be taking out partitions as



he and his grandfather had done upstairs four years before. He was living in one of the sheds, and Sawyer thought he seemed unusually worried and tremulous. People generally suspected him of knowing something about his mother’s disappearance, and very few ever approached his neighborhood now. His height had increased to more than seven feet, and showed no signs of ceasing its development.


T he following winter brought an event no less strange than Wilbur’s first trip outside the Dunwich region. Correspondence with the Widener Library at Harvard, the Bibliotheque National e in Paris, the British Museum, the University of Buenos Aires, and the Library of Miskatonic University at Arkham had failed to get him the loan of a book he desperately wanted; so at length he set out in person, shabby, dirty, bearded, and uncouth of dialect, to consult the copy at Miskatonic, which was the nearest to him geographically. Almost eight feet tall, and carrying a cheap new valise from Osborn’s general store, this dark and goatish gargoyle appeared one day in Arkham in quest of the dreaded volume kept lender lock and key at the college library — the hideous N ecronomicon of the mad Arab Alhazred in Dlaus Wormius’ Latin version, as printed in Spain in the Seventeenth Century. He had never seen a city before, but had no thought save to find his way to the university grounds; where, indeed, he passed heedlessly by the great white-fanged watchdog that barked with unnatural fury and enmity, and tugged frantically at its stout chain.

Wilbur had with him the priceless but imperfect copy of Dr. Dee’s English version which his grandfather had bequeathed him, and upon receiving access to the Latin copy he at once began to collate the two texts

with the aim of discovering a certain passage which would have come on the 751st page of his own defective volume. This much he could not civilly refrain from telling the librarian — the same erudite Henry Annitage (A. M. Miskatonic, Ph. D. Princeton, Litt. D. Johns Hopkins) who had once called at the farm, and who now politely plied him with questions. He was looking, he had to admit, for a kind of formula or incantation containing the frightful name YogSothoth, and it puzzled him to find discrepancies, duplications, and ambiguities which made the matter of determination far from easy. As he copied the formula he finally chose. Dr. Armitage looked involuntarily over his shoulder at the open pages; the left-hand one of which, in the Latin version, contained such monstrous threats to the peace and sanity of the world.

Nor is it to be thought [ran the text as Armitage mentally translated it] that man is either the- oldest or the last of earth’s masters, or that the common bulk of life and substance walks alone. The Old Ones were, the Old Ones are, and the Old Ones shall be. Not in the spaces we know, but heUveen them. They walk serene and primal, undimensioned and to tis unseen. Yog-Sothoth knows the gate. Yog-Sothoth is the gate. Yog-Sothoth is the key and guardian of the gate. Past, present, future, all are one in Yog-Sothoth. He knows where the Old Ones broke through of old, and where They shall break through again. He knows where They have trod earth’s fields, and where They still tread them, and why no one can behold Them as They tread. By Their smell can men sometimes know Them near, but of Their semblance can no man know, saving only in the features of those They have begotten on manhind; and of those are there many sorts, differing in likeness from man’s truest eidolon to that shape without sight or substance which is They. They walk unseen and foul in lonely places where the Words have been spoken and the Kites howled through at their Seasons. The wind gibbers with Their voices, and the earth mutters with Their consciousness. They bend the forest and crush the city, yet may not forest or city behold the hand that smites. Kadath in the cold waste hath known Them, and what man knows Kadath? The ice desert of the South and the sunken isles of Ocean hold stones



w-liereon Their seal is engraven, but who hath seen the deep frozen city or the sealed tower long garlanded with seaweed and barnacles? Great Cthulhu is Their cousin, yet can he spy Them only dimly. 7d ShubNiggnrath! As a foulness shall ye know Them. Their hand is at your throats, yet ye see Them not; and Their habitation is even one with your guarded threshold. YogSothoth is the key to the gate, whereby the spheres meet. Man rules now where They ruled once; They shall soon rule where man rules now. After summer is winter, and after winter summer. They wait patient and potent, for here shall They reign again.

Dr. Armitage, associating what he was reading with what he had heard of Dunwich and its brooding presences, and of Wilbur Whatelej^ and his dim, hideous aura that stretched from a dubious birth to a cloud of probable matricide, felt a wave of fright as tangible as a draft of the tomb’s cold clamminess. The bent, goatish giant before him seemed like the spawn of another planet or dimension; like something only partly of mankind, and linked to black gulfs of essence and entity that stretch like titan fantasms beyond all spheres of force and matter, sjjace and time.

Presently Wilbur raised his head and began speaking in that strange, resonant fashion which hinted at sound-producing organs unlike the run of mankind ’s.

“Mr. Armitage,” he said, “I calc’- late I’ve got to take that book home. They’s things in it I’ve got to try under sarten conditions that I can’t git here, an’ it ’ud be a mortal sin to let a red-tape rule hold me up. Let me take it along, sir, an’ I’ll swar they wun’t nobody know the difference. I dun ’t need to tell ye I ’ll take good keer of it. It wa’n’t me that put this Dee copy in the shape it is.... ”

He.stopped as he saw firm denial on the librarian’s face, and his own goatish features grew crafty. Armitage, half ready to tell him he might make a copy of what parts he needed, thought suddenly of the possible consequences and checked himself. There was too much responsibility in giving

such a being the key to such blasphemous outer spheres. Whateley saw hoAv things.stood, and tried to answer lightly.

“Wal, all right, ef ye feel that way abaout it. Maybe Ilaiward wun’t be so fussy as yew be.” And without saying more he rose and strode out of the building, stooping at each doorway.

Armitage heard the savage yelping of the great watchdog, and studied Whateley’s gorilla-like lope as he crossed the bit of campus visible from the window. He thought of the wild tales he had heaixl, and recalled the old Sunday.stories in the Advertiser; these things, and the lore he had picked up from Dunwich ru.stics and villagers during his one visit there. Unseen things not of earth — or at least not of tri-dimensional earth — rushed fetid and horrible through New England’s glens, and brooded obscenely on the mountain tops. Of this he had long felt certain. Now he seemed to sense the close presence of some terrible part- of the intruding horror, and to glimpse a hellish advance in the black dominion of the ancient and once passive nightmare. He locked away the N ecronomicon with a shudder of disgust, but the room still reeked with an unholy and unidentifiable stench. “As a foidness shall ye know them,” he quoted. Yes — the odor was the same as that which had sickened him at the Whateley farmhouse less than three years befoi'e. He thought of Wilbur, goatish and ominous, once again, and laughed mockingly at the village rumors of his parentage.

“Inbreeding?” Armitage muttered half aloud to himself. “Great God, what simpletons! Show them Arthur lilaehen’s Great God Pan and they’ll think it a common Dunwich scandal! But what thing — what cursed shapeless influence on or off this three-dimensioned earth — was Wilbur Whateley’s father? Bom on Candlemas — nine months after May Eve of 1912,



when the talk about the queer earth noises reached clear to Arkham — what walked on the mountains that May Night? What Roodmas horror fastened itself on the world in halfhuman flesh and blood?”

During the ensuing weeks Dr. Armitage set about to collect all possible data on Wilbur Whateley and the formless presences around Dunwich. He got in communication with Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury, who had attended Old Whateley in his last illness, and found much to ponder over in the grandfather’s last words as quoted by the physician. A visit to Dunwich Village failed to bring out much that was new; but a close survey of the N ecronomicon, in those parts which Wilbxir had sought so avidly, seemed to supply new and terrible clues to the nature, methods, and desires of the strange evil so vaguely threatening this planet. Talks with several students of archaic lore in Boston, and letters to many others elsewhere, gave him a growing amazement which passed slowly through varied degrees of alarm to a state of really acute spiritual fear. As the summer drew on he felt dimly that something ought to be done about the lurking terrors of the upper Miskatonic valley, and about the monstrous being known to the human world as Wilbur Whateley.


T he Dunwich horror itself came between Lammas and the equinox in 1928, and Dr. Armitage was among those who witnessed its monstrous prologue. He had heard, meanwhile, of Whateley ’s grotesque trip to Cambridge, and of his frantic efforts to borrow or copy from the N ecronomicon at the Widener Library. Those efforts had been in vain, since Armitage had issued warnings of the keenest intensity to all librarians having charge of the dreaded vohime. Wilbur had been shockingly nervous at Cambridge; anxious for the book, yet

almost equally anxious to get home again, as if he feared the results of being away long.

Early in August the half-expected outcome developed, and in the small hours of the third Dr. Armitage was awakened suddenly by the wild, fierce cries of the savage watchdog on the college campus. Deep and terrible, the snarling, half-mad growls and barks continued; always in mounting volume, but with hideously significant pauses. Then there rang out a scream from a wholly different throat — such a scream as roused half the sleepers of Arkham and haunted their dreams ever afterward — such a scream as could come from no being born of earth, or wholly of earth.

Armitage hastened into some clothing and rushed across the street and lawn to the college buildings, saw that others were ahead of him; and heard the echoes of a burglar-alarm still shrilling from the library. An open window showed black and gaping in the moonlight. What had come had indeed completed its entrance; for the barking and the screaming, now fast fading into a mixed low growling and moaning, proceeded unmistakably from within. Some instinct warned Armitage that what was taking place was not a thing for unfortified eyes to see, so he brushed back the crowd with authority as he unlocked the vestibule door. Among the others he saw Professor Warren Rice and Dr. Francis Morgan, men to whom he had told some of his conjectures and misgivings; and these two he motioned to accompany him inside. The inward sounds, except for a watchful, droning whine from the dog, had by this time quite subsided; but Armitage now perceived with a sudden start that a loud chorus of whippoorwills among the shrubbery had commenced a damnably rhythmical piping, as if in unison with the last breath of a dying man.

The building was full of a fx’ightful stench which Dr. Armitage knew too



well, and the three men rushed across the hall to the small genealogical reading-room whence the low whining came. For a second nobody dai’ed to turn on the light; then Armitage summoned up his courage and snapped the switch. One of the three — it is not certain which — shrieked aloiid at what sprawled before them among disordered tables and overturned chairs. Professor Rice declares that he wholly lost consciousness for an instant, though he did not stumble or fall.

The thing that lay half-bent on its side in a fetid pool of greenish-yellow ichor and tarry stickiness was almost nine feet tall, and the dog had torn off all the clothing and some of the skin. It was not quite dead, but twitched silently and spasmodically while its chest heaved in monstrous unison with the mad piping of the expectant whippoorwills outside. Bits of shoe-leather and fragments of apparel were scattei'ed about the room, and just inside the window an empty canvas sack lay where it had evidently been thro^vn. Near the central desk a revolver had fallen, a dented but undischarged cartridge later explaining why it had not been fired. The thing itself, however, crowded out all other images at the time. It would be trite and not wholly accurate to say that no human pen could describe it, but one may properly say that it could not be vividly visualized by anyone whose ideas of aspect and contour are too closely bound up with the common life-forms of this planet and of the three known dimensions. It was partly human, beyond a doubt, with very manlike hands and head, and the goatish, chinless face had the stamp of the Whateleys upon it. But the torso and lower parts of the body were teratologically fabulous, so that only generous clothing coiild ever have enabled it to walk on earth unchallenged or uneradicated.

Above the waist it was semianthropomorphic; though its chest, where the dog’s rending paws still rested w^atchfully, had the leathery, reticulated hide of a crocodile or alligator. The back was piebald with yellow and black, and dimly suggested the squamous covering of certain snakes. Below the waist, though, it was the worst; for here all human resemblance left off and sheer fantasy began. The skin was thickly covered with coarse black fur, and from the abdomen a score of long greenishgray tentacles with red sucking mouths protruded limply. Their arrangement was odd, and seemed to follow the symmetries of some cosmic geometry unknown to earth or the solar system. On each of the hips, deep set in a kind of pinkish, ciliated orbit, was what seemed to be a rudimentary eye; whilst in lieu of a tail there depended a kind of trunk or feeler with purple annular markings, and with many evidences of being an undeveloped mouth or throat. The limbs, save for their black fur, roughly resembled the huid legs of prehistoric earth’s giant saurians; and terminated in ridgy-veined j)ads that were neither hooves nor claws. When the thing breathed, its tail and tentacles rhythmically changed color, as if from some circulatory cause normal to the non-human side of its ancestry. In the tentacles this was observable as a deepening of the greenish tinge, whilst in the tail it was manifest as a yellowish appearance which alternated with a sickly grayish-white in the spaces between the purple rings. Of genuine blood there was none; only the fetid greenish-yellow ichor which trickled along the painted floor beyond the radius of the stickiness, and left a curious discoloration behind it.

As the presence of the three men seemed to rouse the dying thing, it began to mumble without turning or raising its head. Dr. Armitage made no written record of its mouthings, but asserts confidently that nothing in



English was uttered. At first the syllables defied all cori’elatioii with any speech of earth, but toward the last there came some disjointed fragments evidently taken from the iVecronomicon, that monstrous blasphemy in quest of which the thing had perished. Those fragments, as Armitage recalls them, ran something like n’gha’ghaa, bugg-shoggog, y’hah; Yog-SothotJi, Yog-Sothoth.. They trailed off into nothingness as the whippoorwills shrieked in rhythmical crescendoes of imholy anticipation.

Then came a halt in the gasping, and the dog raised his head in a long, lugubrious howl. A change came over the yellow, goatish face of the prostrate thing, and the great black eyes fell in appallingly. Outside the window the shrilling of the whippoorwills had suddenly ceased, and above the murmiirs of the gathering crowd there came the sound of a panic-struck whirring and fluttering. Against the moon vast clouds of feathery watchers rose and raced from sight, frantic at that which they had sought for prey.

All at once the dog started up abruptly, gave a frightened bark, and leaped nervously out the window by which it had entered. A cry rose from the crowd, and Dr. Armitage shouted to the men outside that no one must be admitted till the police or medical examiner came. He was thankful that the windows were just too high to permit of peering in, and drew the dark curtains carefully down over each one. By this time two policemen had arrived; and Dr. Morgan, meeting them in the vestibule, was urging them for their own sakes to postpone entrance to the stench-filled readingroom till the examiner came and the prostrate thing could be covered up.

Meanwhile frightful changes were taking place on the floor. One need not describe the kind and rate of shrinkage and disintegration that occurred before the eyes of Dr. Armitage and Professor Rice; but it is. permissible to say that, aside from the external appearance of face and hands, the really human elements in Wilbur Whateley must have been very small. When the medical examiner came, there was only a sticky whitish mass on the painted boards, and the monstrous odor had nearly disappeared. Apparently Whateley had had no skull or bony skeleton; at least, in any true or stable sense. He had taken somewhat after his unknown father.


Y et all this was only the prologue of the actual Dunwich horror. Formalities were gone through by bewildered officials, abnormal details were duly kept from press and public, and men were sent to Dunwich and Aylesbury to look up property and notify any who might be heirs of the late Wilbur Whateley. They found the countryside in great agitation, both because of the growing rumblings beneath the domed hills, and because of the unwonted stench and the surging, lapping sounds which came increasingly from the great empty shell formed by Whateley ’s boarded-up farmhouse. Earl Sawyer, who tended the horse and cattle during Wilbur’s absence, had developed a wofully acute ease of nerves. The officials devised excuses not to enter the noisome boarded place; and were glad to confine their survey of the deceased’s living quarters, the newly mended sheds, to a single visit. They filed a ponderous report at the courthouse in Aylesbury, and litigations concerning heirship are said to be still in progress amongst the innumerable Whateleys, decayed and undecayed, of the upj)er Miskatonic valley.

An almost interminable manuscript in strange characters, written in a huge ledger and adjudged a sort of diary because of the spacing and the variations in ink and penmanship, presented a baffling puzzle to those who found it on the old bureau which



served as its owaier’s desk. After a week of debate it was sent to IMiskatonic University, together with the deceased’s collection of strange books, for study and possible translation; but even the best linguists soon saw that it was not likely to be unriddled with case. No trace of the ancient gold with which Wilbur and Old Whateley always paid their debts has yet been discovered.

It was in the dark of September ninth that the horror broke loose. The hill noises had been very pronounced dui-ing the evening, and dogs barked frantically all night. Early risers on the tenth noticed a peculiar stench in the air. About 7 o’clock Luther Brown, the hired boy at George Corey’s, between Cold Spring Glen and the village, rushed frenziedly back from his morning trip to Ten-Acre Meadow with the cows. He was almost convulsed wdth fright as he stumbled into the kitchen; and in the yard outside the no less frightened herd wei'e pawing and lowing pitifully, having followed the boy back in the panic they shared with him. Between gasps Luther tried to stammer o\Tt his tale to Mrs. Corey.

“Up thar in the rud beyont the glen, Mis’ Corey — thej^’s suthin’ ben thar! It smells like thunder, an’ all the bushes an’ little trees is pushed back from the rud like they’d a haouse ben moved along of it. An’ that ain’t the w'ust, nuther. They’s prints in the rud. Mis’ Corey — great raound prints as big as barrel-heads, all sunk daown deep like a elephant had ben along, only they’s a sight more nor four feet could make. I looked at one or two afore I run, an’ I see every one was covered with lines spreadin’ aout from one place, like as if big palm-leaf fans — twiet or three times as big as any they is — hed of ben paounded daown into the rud. An ’ the smell was awful, like w’hat it is araound Wizard Wliateley’s ol’ haouse....”

Here he faltered, and seemed to

shiver afresh with the fright that had sent him flying home. iirs. Corey, unable to extract more information, began telephoning the neighboi’S; thus starting on its rounds the overture of panic that heralded the major terrors. When she got Sally Sawyer, housekeeper at Seth Bishop’s, the nearest place to Whateley ’s, it became her turn to listen instead of transmit; for Sally’s boy Chauneey, who slept poorly, had been up on the hill toward Whateley ’s, and had dashed back in terror after one look at the place, and at the pasturage where IMr. Bishop’s COW'S had been left out all night.

“Yes, Mis’ Corey,” came Sally’s tremulous voice over the party wire, “Cha’ncey he just come back a-postin’, and couldn’t half talk fer bein’ scairt! He says 01’ Whateley ’s haoiise is all blowcd up, wdth the timbers scattered raound like they ’d ben djmamite inside; only the bottom floor ain’t through, but is all covered with a kind o’ tarlike stuff that smells aw'ful an’ drips daown olfen the aidges onto the graoun ’ w'har the side timWs is blow'ed aw'ay. An’ they’s awful kinder marks in the yard, tew — great raound marks bigger raound than a hogshead, an’ all sticky with stuff like is on the blowed-up haouse. Cha’ncey he saj's they leads olf into the medders, w'har a great swath wider ’n a bam is matted dao-wn, an’ all the stun walls tumbled every which way wherever it goes.

“An’ he says, says he. Mis’ Corey, as haow he sot to look fer Seth’s caows, frighted ez he was; an ’ faound ’em in the upper pasture nigh the Devil’s Hop Yard in an awful shape. Ilaff on ’em’s clean gone, an’ nigh haff 0 ’ them that ’s left is sucked most dry o’ blood, with sores on ’em like they’s ben on Whateley ’s cattle ever senct Lavinny’s black brat was born. Seth he’s gone aout naow to look at ’em, thoirgh I’ll vaow' he wun’t keer ter git very nigh Wizard Whateley ’s! Cha’ncey didn’t look keerful ter see



whar the big matted-daown swath led arter it lefif: the pasturage, but he says he thinks it p’inted towards the glen rud to the village.

“I tell ye, Mis’ Corey, they’s suthin’ abroad as hadn’t orter be abroad, an ’ I fer one think that black Wilbur Whateley, as come to the bad eend he desarved, is at the bottom of the breedin’ of it. He wa’n’t all human hisself, I alius says to everybody; an’ I think he an’ 01’ Whateley must a raised suthin’ in that there nailed-up haouse as ain’t even so human as he was. They’s alius ben unseen things araound Dunwich — livin’ things — as ain’t human an’ ain’t good fer human folks.

“The graoun’ was a ’talkin’ lass night, an’ towards morhin’ Cha’ncey he heerd the whippoorwills so laoud in Col’ Spring Glen he couldn’t sleep none. Then he thought he heerd another faintlike saound over towards Wizard Whateley ’s — a kinder rippin’ or tearin’ o’ wood, like some big box cr crate was bein’ opened fur off. What with this an’ that, he didn’t git to sleep at all till sunup, an’ no sooner was he up this mornin’, but he’s got to go over to Whateley ’s an’ see what’s the matter. He see enough, I tell ye. Mis’ Corey! This dun’t mean no good, an’ I think as all the menfolks ought to git up a party an’ do suthin’. I know suthin’ awful’s abaout, an’ feel my time is nigh, though only Gawd knows jest what it is.

“Did your Luther take aeeaount o’ whar them big tracks led tew? No? Wal, Mis’ Corey, ef they was on the glen rud this side o’ the glen, an’ ain’t got to your haouse yet, I calc’- late they must go into the glen itself. The 3 ' would do that. I alius says Col ’ Spring Glen ain’t no healthy nor decent place. The whippoorwills an’ fireflies there never did act like they Avas ereaters o’ Gawd, an’ they’s them as says j’e kin hear strange things a-rushin’ an’ a-talkin’ in the air daown thar ef ye stand in the right

place, atweeii the rock falls an’ Bear’s Den.”

B y that noon fully three-quarters of the men and boj's of Dunwich were trooping over the roads and meadows between the new-made Whateley ruins and Cold Spring Glen; examining in horror the vast, monstrous prints, the maimed Bishop cattle, the strange, noisome Avreck of the farmhouse, and the bruised, matted vegetation of the fields and roadsides. Whatever had burst loose upon the Avorld had assuredly gone down into the great sinister ravine; for all the trees on the banks Avere bent and broken, and a great avenue had been gouged in the precipice-hanging underbrush. It Avas as though a house, launched by an avalanche, had slid down through the tangled growths of the almost vertical slope. From beloAv no sound came, but only a distant, undefinable fetor; and it is not to be Avondered at that the men preferred to stay on the edge and argue, rather than descend and beard the unknoAvn Cyclopean horror in its lair. Three dogs that Avere with the party had barked furiously at first, but seemed coAved and reluctant when near the glen. Someone telephoned the news to the Aylesbury Transcript; but the editor, accustomed to w'ild tales from DuiiAvich, did no more than concoct a humorous paragraph about it; an item soon afterA’ ard reproduced by the Associated Press.

That night everyone went home, and every house and bam w'as barricaded as stoutly as possible. Needless to say, no cattle Avere allowed to remain in open pasturage. About 2 in the morning a frightful stench and the savage barking of the dogs awakended the household at Elmer Frj'e’s, on the eastern edge of Cold Spring Glen, and all agreed that they could hear a sort of muffled SAvishing or lapping sound from somcAvhere outside. Mrs. Frye proposed telephoning the neighbors, and Elmer Avas about to



agree when the noise of splintering wood bnrst in upon their deliberations. It came, apparently, from the barn; and was quickly followed by a hideous screaming and stamping amongst the cattle. The dogs slavered and ci’ouched close to the feet of the fear-numbed iamily. Frye lit a lantern through force of habit, but knew it would be death to go out into that black farmyard. The children and the womenfolk whimpered, kept from screaming by some obscure, vestigial instinct of defense which told them their lives depended on.silence. At last the noise of the cattle subsided to a pitiful moaning, and a great snapping, crashing, and crackling ensued. The Fryes, huddled together in the sittingroom, did not dare to move until the last echoes died away far down in Cold Spring Glen. Then, amidst the dismal moans from the stable and the demoniac, piping of late whippoorwills in the glen, Selina Frye tottered to the telephone and spread what news she could of the second phase of the horror.

The next day all the countryside was in a panic; and cowed, uncommunicative groups came and went where the fiendish thing had occurred. Two titan swaths of destruction.stretched from the glen to the Frye farmyard, monstrous prints covered the bar,e patches of ground, and one side of the old red barn had completely caved in. Of the cattle, only about a quarter could be found and identified. Some of these were in curious fragments, and all that survived had to be shot. Earl Sawyer suggested that help be asked from Aylesbury or Arkham, but others maintained it would be of no u.se. Old Zebulon Whateley, of a branch that hovered about half-way between so^nidness and decadence, made darkly wild suggestions about rites that ought to be practised on the hilltops. He came of a line where tradition ran strong, and his memories of chantings in the great stone circles were not altogether connected with Wilbur and his grandfather.

Darkness fell upon a stricken countryside too passive to organize for real defen.se. In a few cases closely related families would band together and watch in the gloom under one roof; but in general there was only a repetition of the barricading of the night before, and a futile, ineffective gesture of loading muskets and setting pitchforks handily about. Nothing, however, occurred except some hill noises; and when the day came there were many who hoped that the new horror had gone as swiftly as it had come. There were even bold souls who ])roi)oscd an offensive expedition down in the glen, though they did not venture to set an actual example to the.still reluctant majority.

AVhen night came again the barricading was repeated, though there Avas loss huddling together of families. In the morning both the Frye and the Seth Bishop households reported excitement among the dogs and vague sounds and stenches from afar, wdiilc early explorers noted with horror a fresh set of the monstrous tracks in the road skirting Sentinel Hill. As before, the sides, of the road shoAved a bniising indicative of the blasphemously stupendous bulk of the horror; whilst the conformation of the tracks seemed to argue a passage in tAvo directions, as if the moving mountain had come from Cold Spring Glen and returned to it along the same path. At the base of the hill a thirty-foot swath of crushed shrubbery and saplings led steeply upAvard, and the seekers gasped Avhen they saAV that even the most perpendicular places did not deflect the inexorable trail. Whatever the horror Avas, it could scale a sheer stony cliff of almo,st complete verticality; and as the investigators climbed ai'ound to the hill’s summit by safer routes they saAv that the trail ended — or rather, reversed — there.



It was here that the Whateleys used to build their hellish fires and chant their hellish rituals by the table-like stone on May Eve and Hallowmass. Now that very stone formed the center of a vast space thrashed aroupd by the mountainous horror, whilst lapon its slightly concave surface w'as a thick fetid deposit of the same tarrj' stickiness observed on the floor of the ruined Whateley fai*mhouse when the horror escaped. Men looked at one another and muttered. Then they looked down the hill. Apparently the liorror had descended by a route much the same as that of its ascent. To speculate was futile. Reason, logic, and normal ideas of motivation stood confounded. Only old Zebulon, who was not with the group, could have done justice to the situation or suggested a plausible explanation.

Thursday night began much like the others, but it ended less happily. The whippoorwills in the glen had screamed with such unusual persistence that many could not sleep, and about 3 a. m. all the party telephones rang tremulously. Those who took down their receivers heard a frightmad voice shriek out, “Help, oh, my Gawd!...” and some thought a crashing sound followed the breaking off of the exclamation. There w’as nothing more. No one dared do anything, and no one knew till morning whence the call came. Then those who had heard it called everyone on the line, and found that only the Fryes did not reply. The truth appeared an hour later, when a hastily assembled group of armed men trudged out to the Frye place at the head of the glen. It was horrible, yet hardly a surprize. There were more swaths and monstrous prints, but there was no longer any house. It had caved in like an egg-shell, and amongst the ruins nothing living or dead could be discovered — only a stench and a tarry stickiness. The Elmer Fiyes had been erased from Dunwich.


T N THE meantime a quieter yet even

more spiritually poignant phase of the horror had been blackly unwinding itself behind the closed door of a shelf-lined room in Arkham. The curious manuscript record or diary of Wilbur Whateley, delivered to Miskatonic University for translation, had caused much worry and bafflement among the experts in languages both ancient and modern; its very alphabet, notwithstanding a general resemblance to the heavily shaded Arabic used in Mesopotamia, being absolutely unknown to any available authority. The final conclusion of the linguists was that the text represented an artificial alphabet, giving the effect of a cipher; though none of the usual methods of cryptographic solution seemed to furnish any clue, even when applied on the basis of every tongue the writer might conceivably have used. The ancient books taken from Whateley ’s quarters, while absorbingly interesting and in several cases promising to open up new and terrible lines of research among philosophers and men of science, were of no assistance whatever in this matter. One of them, a heavy tome with an iron clasp, was in another unknowTi alphabet — this one of a very different cast, and resembling Sanskrit more than anything else. The old ledger was at length given wholly into the charge of Dr. Armitage, both because of his peculiar interest in the Whateley matter, and because of his wide linguistic learning and skill in the mystical formulse of antiquity and the Middle Ages.

Armitage had an idea that the alphabet might be something esoterically used by certain forbidden cults which have come down from old times, and which have inherited many forms and traditions from the wizards of the Saracenic world. That question, however, he did not deem vital; since



it would be unnecessary to know the origin of the symbols if, as he suspected, they were used as a cipher in a modem language. It was his belief that, considering the great amount of text involved, the writer would scarcely have wished the trouble of using another speech than his own, save perhaps in certain special formute and incantations. Accordingly he attacked the manuscript with the preliminary assumption that the bulk of it was in English.

Dr. Armitage knew, from the repeated failures of his colleagues, that the riddle was a deep and complex one, and that no simple mode of solution could merit even a trial. All through late August he fortified himself with the massed lore of cryptography, drawing upon the fullest resources of his own library, and wading night after night amidst the arcana of Trithemius’ Poligraphia, Giambattista Porta ’s De Furtivis Litergrum Notis, De Vigenere’s Traite des Chiffres, Falconer’s Cryptomenysis Patefacta, Davys’ and Thicknesse’s Eighteenth Century treatises, and such fairly modern authorities as Blair, von Marten, and Kliiber’s Kryptograpliik. He interspersed his study of the books with attacks on the manuscript itself, and in time became convinced that he had to deal with one of those subtlest and most ingenious of cryptograms, in which many separate lists of corresponding letters are ai’ranged like the multiplication table, and the message built up with arbitrary key-words Imown only to the initiated. The older authorities seemed rather more helpful than the newer ones, and Armitage concluded that the code of the manuscript was one of great antiquity, no doubt handed dovm through a long line of mystical experimenters. Several times he seemed near daylight, only to be set back by some unforeseen obstacle. Then, as September approached, the clouds began to clear. Certain letters, as used in certain parts of the manuscript, emerged definitely and unmistakably; and it became obvious that the text was indeed in English.

On the evening of September second the last major barrier gave way, and Dr. Armitage read for the first time a continuous passage of Wilbur Whateley ’s annals. It was in truth a diary, as all had thought; and it was couched in a style clearly showing the mixed occult erudition and general illiteracy of the strange being who wrote it. Almost the first long passage that Armitage deciphered, an entry dated November 26, 1916, proved highly startling and disquieting. It was written, he remembered, by a child of three and a half who looked like a lad of twelve or thirteen.

Today learned the Aklo for the Sabaoth, [it ran] which did not like, it being answerable from the hill and not from the air. That upstairs more ahead of me than I had thought it would be, and is not like to have mirch earth brain. Shot Elam Hutchins’s collie.Tack when he went to bite me, and Elam says he would kill me if he dast. I guess he won’t. Grandfather kept me saying the Dlio formula last night, and I think I saw the inner city at the 2 magnetic poles. I shall go to those poles when the earth is cleared off, if I can’t break through with the Dho-Hna formula when I commit it. They from the air told me at Sabbat that it will be years before I can clear off the earth, and I guess Grandfather will be dead then, so I shall have to learn all the angles of the planes and all the formulas between the Yr and the Nhhngr. They from outside will help, but they can not take body without hmnan blood. That upstairs looks it will have the right cast. I can see it a little when I make the Yoorish sign or blow the power of Ibn Ghazi at it, and it is near like them at May Eve on the Hill. The other face may wear off some. I wonder how I shall look when the earth is cleared and there are no earth beings on it. He that came with the Aklo Sabaoth said I may be transfigured, there being much of outside to work on.

Morning found Dr. Armitage in a cold sweat of terror and a frenzy of wakeful concentration. He had not left the manuscript all night, but sat at his table under the electric light turning page after page with shaking hands as fast as he could decipher the



cryptic text. He had nervously telephoned his wife he would not be home, and when she brought him a breakfast from the house he could scarcely dispose of a mouthful. All that day he read on, now and then halted maddeningly as a reapplication of the complex key became necessary. Lunch and dinner were brought him, but he ate only the smallest fraction of either. Toward the middle of the next night he drowsed off in his chair, but soon woke out of a tangle of nightmares almost as hideous as the truths and menaces to man’s existence that he had uncovered.

On the morning of September fourth Professor Rice and Dr. Morgan insisted on seeing him for a while, and departed trembling and ashengray. That evening he went to bed, but slept only fitfully. Wednesday — the next day — he was back at the manuscript, and began to take copious notes both from the current sections and from those he had already deciphered. In the small horn’s of that night he slept a little in an easy-chair in his office, but was at the manuscript again before dawn. Some time before noon his physician. Dr. Hartwell, called to see him and insisted that he cease work. He refused, intimating that it was of the most vital importance for him to complete the reading of the diary, and promising an explanation in due course of time.

That evening, just as twilight fell, he finished his terrible perusal and sank back exhausted. His wife, bringing his dinner, found him in a halfcomatose state; but he was conscious enough to warn her off with a sharp cry when he saw her eyes wander toward the notes he had taken. Weakly rising, he gathered up the scribbled papers and sealed them all in a great envelope, which he immediately placed in his inside coat pocket. He had sufficient strength to get home, but was so clearly in need of medical aid that Dr. Hartwell was siimmoned at once. As the doctor put him to bed

he could only mutter over and over again, “But what, in God’s name, can we do?”

Dr. Armitage slept, but was partly delirious the next day. He made no explanations to Hartwell, but in his calmer moments spoke of the imperative need, of a long conference with Rice and Morgan. His wilder wanderings were very startling indeed, including frantic appeals that something in a boarded-up farmhouse be destroyed, and fantastic references to some plan for the extirpation of the entire human race and all animal and vegetable life from the earth by some terrible elder race of beings from another dimension. He would shout that the.world was in danger, since the Elder Things wished to strip it and drag it away from the solar system and cosmos of matter into some other plane or phase of entity from which it had once fallen, vigintillions of eons ago. At other times he would call for the dreaded Necronomicon and the Dcemonolatreia of Reraigius, in which he seemed hopeful of finding some formula to check the peril he conjured up.

‘ ‘ Stop them, stop them! ” he would shout. “Those Whateleys meant to let them in, and the worst of all is left! Tell Rice and Morgan we must do something — it’s a blind business, but I know how to make the powder.... It hasn’t been fed since the second of August, when Wilbur came here to his death, and at that rate...”

But Armitage had a sound physique despite his seventy-three years, and slept off his disorder that night without developing any real fever. He woke late Friday, clear of head, though sober, with a gnawing fear and tremendous sense of responsibility. Saturday afternoon he felt able to go over to the library and summon Rice and Morgan for a conference, and the rest of that day and evening the three men tortured their brains in the wildest speculation and the most desperate



debate. Strange and terrible books were drawn voluminously from the stack shelves and from secure places of storage, and diagrams and formul® were copied with feverish haste and in bewildering abundance. Of skepticism there was none. All three had seen the body of Wilbur Whateley as it lay on the floor in a room of that very building, and after that not one of them could feel even slightly inclined to treat the diary as a madman’s raving.

Ox>inions were divided as to notifying the ^tassachusetts State Police, and the negative finally won. There were things involved which simi^ly could not be believed by those who had not seen a sami:)le, as indeed was made clear during certain subse((uent investigations. Late at night the conference disbanded without having develoijed a definite plan, but all day Sundaj^ Armitage was busy comparing formulas and mixing chemicals obtained from the college laboratory. The more he reflected on the hellish diary, the more he was inclined to doubt the efficacy of any material agent in stamping out the entity which Wilbur Whateley had left behind him — the earth-threatening entity which, unknown to him, was to burst forth in a few hours and become the memorable Dunwieh horror.


[THE END]

============================================================
TAKEN OF SUCH MATERIAL V/HILE IN THEIR POSSESSION
by The contents of this magazine are
============================================================
j\Ionday was a repetition of Sunday with Dr. Armitage, for the task in hand required an infinity of research and experiment. Further consultations of the monstrous diary brought about various changes of plan, and he knew that even in the end a large amount of uncertainty must remain. By Tuesday he had a definite line of action mapped out, and believed he would try a trip to Dunwieh within a week. Then, on Wednesday, the great shock came. Tucked obscurely away in a comer of the ArkJwm Advertiser was a facetious little item from the Associated Press, telling what a record-breaking monster the bootleg whisky of Dunwieh had

raised up. Armitage, half stunned, could only teleijhone for Rice and IMorgan. Far into the night they discussed, and the next day was a whirlwind of preiiaration on the part of them all. Annitage knew he would be meddling with terril)le powei’s, yet saw that there was no other way to annul the deeijer and more malign meddling which others had done before him.


P^RiDAY morning Armitage, Rice and ^ jMorgan set out by motor for Dunwieh, arriving at the village about 1 in the afternoon. The day was pleasant, but even in the brightest sunlight a kind of quiet dread and portent seemed to hover about the strangely domed hills and the deep, shadoAvy ravines of the stricken I’egion. Now and then on some mountain top a gaunt circle of stones could be glimpsed against the sky. From the air of hushed fright at Osborn’s store they Imew something hideous had hai>i>ened, and soon learned of the annihilation of the Elmer Frye house and family. Throughout that aflernoon they rode around DunAvich, questioning the natives concerning all that had occurred, and seeing for themselves with rising iiangs of horror the drear bb’ye mins with their lingering traces of the tari’y stickiness, the blasphemous tracks in the Frye yard, the rvounded Seth Bishop cattle, and the enormous swaths of disturbed vegetation in various places. The trail up and down Sentinel Hill seemed to Armitage of almost cataclysmic significance, and he looked long at the sinister altarlike stone on the summit.

At length the visitors, apprised of a i>arty of State Police rvhich had come from ' Aylesbury that morning in response to the first telephone reports of the Frye tragedy, decided to seek out the officers and compare notes as far as practicable. This, however, they found more easily planned



than performed; since no sign of the party could be found in any direction. There had been five of them in a ear, but now the car stood empty near the ruins in the Frye yard. The natives, all of whom had talked with the policemen, seemed at first as perplexed as Armitage and his companions. Then old Sam Hutchins thought of something and turned pale, nudging Fred Farr and pointing to the dank, deep hollow that yawned close bj’’.

“Gawd,” he gasped, “I telled ’em not ter go daown into the glen, an’ I never thought nobody ’d dew it with them tracks an’ that smell an’ the whippoorwills a-screeehin ’ daown

thar in the dark o’ noonday....”

A cold shudder ran through natives and visitors alike, and every ear seemed strained in a kind of instinctive, unconscious listening. Armitage, now that he had actually come upon the horror and its monstrous work, trembled with the responsibility he felt to be his. Night would soon fall, and it was then that the mountainous blasphemy lumbered upon its eldritch course. Negotmm peramhulans in tenebris.... The old librarian rehearsed the formulae he had memorized, and clutched the paper containing the alternative ones he had not memorized. He saw that his electric flashlight was in working order. Rice, beside him, took from a valise a metal sprayer of the sort used in combating insects; whilst Morgan uncased the big-game rifle on which he relied despite his colleague’s warnings that no material weapon would be of help.

Armitage, having read the hideous diary, knew painfully well what kind of a manifestation to expect, but he did not add to the fright of the Dunwich people by giving any hints or clues. He hoped that it might be conquered without any revelation to the world of the monstrous thing it had escaped. As the shadows gathered, the natives commenced to disperse

homeward, anxious to bar themselves indoors despite the present evidence that all human locks and bolts were useless before a force that could bend trees and crush houses when it chose. They shook their heads at the visitors ’ plan to stand guard at the Frye ruins near the glen; and as they left, had little expectancy of ever seeing the watchers again.

There were rumblings under the hills that night, and the whippoorwills piped threateningly. Once in a while a wind, sweeping up out of Cold Spring Glen, would bring a touch of ineffable fetor to the heavy night air; sucli a fetor as all three of the watchers had smelled once before, when they stood above a dying thing that had passed for fifteen years and a half as a hiaman being. But the looked-for terror did not appear. Whatever was down there in the glen was biding its time, and Armitage told his colleagues it would be suicidal to try to attack it in the dark.

Morning came wanly, and the night-sounds ceased. It was a gray, bleak day, with now and then a drizzle of rain; and heavier and heavier clouds seemed to be piling themselves up beyond the hills to the northwest. The men from Arkham were undecided what to do. Seeking shelter from the increasing rainfall beneath one of the few undesti’oyed Frye outbuildings, they debated the wisdom of waiting, or of taking the aggressive and going dowm into the glen in quest of their nameless, monstrous quarry. The downpour waxed in heaviness, and distant peals of thunder sounded from far horizons. Sheet lightning shimmered, and then a forky bolt flashed near at hand, as if descending into the accursed glen itself. The sky grew very dark, and the watchers hoped that the storm would prove a short, sharp one followed by clear weather.

It -w'as still gruesomely dark when, not much over an hour later, a confused babel of voices soixnded dowm



the road. Another moment brought to view a frightened group of more than a dozen men, running, shouting, and even wliimpering hysterically. Someone in the lead began sobbing out words, and the Arldiam men started violently when those words developed a coherent form.

“Oh, my Gawd, my Gawd!” the voice choked out; “it’s a-goin’ agin, an’ this time hij day! It’s aout — it’s aout an’ a-movin’ this vei'y minute, an’ only the Lord knows when it’ll be on;is all! ”

The speaker panted into silence, but another took up his message.

“Nigh on a haour ago Zeb Wliateley here heerd the ’phone a-ringin’, an’ it was IMis’ Corey, George’s Avife, that lives daown by the junction. She says the hired boy Luther was aout drivin’ in the eaows from the storm arter the big bolt, Avhen he see all the trees a-bcndin’ at the maouth o’ the glen- — oppo.site side ter this — an’ smelt the same aAvful smell like he smelt when he faound the big tracks las’ Alonday mornin’. An’.she says he says they was a swishin’, lappin’ saound, moi'e nor what the bendin’ trees an’ bushes could make, an’ all on a suddent the trees along the rud begun ter git pushed one side, an’ they Avas a aAvful stompin’ an’ splashin’ in the mud. But mind ye, Luther he didn’t see nothin’ at all, only jest the bendin’ trees an’ underbrush.

“Then fur ahead AAdiere Bishop’s Brook goes under the I'ud he heerd a awful creakin’ an’.strainin’ on the bridge, an’ says he could tell the saound o’ Avood a-startin’ to crack an’ split. An’ all the Avhiles he ne\mr.see a thing, only them trees an’ bushes a-bendin’. An’ AA'hen the SAvishin’ saound got Amry fur off — on the rud toAvai’ds Wizard Whateley’s an’ Sentinel Hill — Luther he had the guts ter ste]) up Avhar he’d heei’d it fust an’ look at the graound. It Avas all mud ail’ water, an’ the sky Avas dark, an’ the rain was Avipin’ aout all

tracks abaout as fast as could be; but begimiin’ at the glen maouth, AA’har the trees bed moved, they Avas still.some o’ them awful i)rints big as bar ’Is like he seen Monday.”

At this point the first excited speaker interrupted.

“But that ain’t the trouble naoAA" — that Avas only the.start. Zeb here Avas callin’ folks up an’ eAmrybody Avas a-li.stenin’ in Avhen a call from Seth Bishop’s cut in. His haousekeeper Sally Avas carryin’ on fit ter kill — she’d jest.seed the trees a-bendin’ beside the rud, an’ says they was a kind o’ mivshy saound, like a elephant pAiffin’ an’ treadin’, a-hcadin’ fer the haouse. Then she up an’ spoke suddent of a fearful.smell, an’ says her boy Cha’ncey Avas a-sereamin’ as haow it Avas jest like Avhat he smelt up to the Whateley rcAvins Monday mornin’. An’ the dogs Avas all barkin’ an’ AA'liinin’ aAvful.

“An’ then she let aout a turrible yell, an’ says the.shed daoAAm the rud hed jest caved in like the.storm hed bloAved it over, only the Avind Ava’n’t strong enough to dew that. Everybody Avas a-li.stenin’, an’ ye could hear lots o’ folks on the wire agaspin’. All to onct Sally she yelled agin, an’ says the front yard picket fence hed jest crumpled up, thopgh they Ava’n’t no sign o’ Avhat done it. Then everybody on the line could hear Cha’ncey an’ ol’ Seth Bishop a-yellin’, tcAv, an’ Sally Avas shriekin’ aout that suthin ’ heavy hed struck the haouse — not lightnin’ nor nothin’, but suthin’ heavy agin’ the front, that kep’ a-launchin’ itself agin an’ agin, though ye couldn’t see nuthin’ aout the front Avinders. An’ then... an’ then...”

Lines of fright deepened on every face; and Armitage, shaken as he Avas, had barely poise enough to prompt the speaker.

“An’ then... Sally she yelled aout, ‘0 help, the haouse is a-cavin’ in’... an’ on the Avire we could hear a tui'rible crashin’, an’ a hull



flock o’ screamin’... jest like when Elmer Frye’s place was took, only wuss....”

The man paused, and another of the crowd spoke.

“That’s all — not a saound nor squeak over the ’phone arter that. Jest still-like. We. that heerd it got aout Fords an’ wagons an’ raounded up as many able-bodied men-folks as we could get, at Corey’s place, an’ come up here ter see what yew thought best ter dew. Not but what I think it’s the Lord’s judgment fer our iniquities, that no mortal kin ever set aside.”

Armitage saw that the time for positive action had come, and spoke decisively to the faltering group of frightened rustics.

“We must follow it, boys.” He made his voice as reassuring as possible. “I believe there’s a chance of putting it out of business. You men know that those Whateleys were wizards — well, this thing is a thing of wizardry, and must be put down by the same means. I’ve seen Wilbur Whateley’s diary and read some of the strange old books he used to read, and I think I know the right kind of a spell to recite to make the thing fade away. Of course, one can’t be sure, but we can always take a chance. It’s invisible — I knew it would be — but there’s a powder in this long-distance sprayer that might make it show up for a second. Later on we’ll try it. It’s a frightful thing to have alive, but it isn’t as bad as what Wilbur would have let in if he’d lived longei’. You’ll never know what the world has escaped. Now we’ve only this one thing to fight, and it can’t multiply. It can, though, do a lot of harm; so we mustn’t hesitate to rid the community of it.

“We must follow it — and the way to begin is to go to the place that has just been wrecked. Let somebody lead the W'ay — I don’t know' your roads very well, but I’ve an idea there

might be a shorter cut across lots. How about it?”

The men shuffled about a moment, and then Earl Sawyer spoke softlj’’, pointing wuth a grimy finger through the.steadily lessening rain.

‘ ‘ I guess ye kin git to Seth Bishop ’s quickest by cuttin’ aerost the lower medder here, wadin’ the brook at the low place, an’ climbin’ through Carrier’s mowin’ an’ the timber-lot beyont. That comes aout on the upper rud mighty nigh Seth’s — a leetle t’other side.”

Armitage, with Rice and Morgan, started to walk in the direction indicated; and most of the natives followed slowly. The sky was growing lighter, and there were signs that the storm had worn itself away. When Armitage inadvertently took a wrong direction, Joe Osborn warned him and walked ahead to show the right one. Courage and confidence were mounting; though the twilight of the almost perpendicular wooded hill which lay toward the end of their short cut, and among whose fantastic ancient trees they had to scramble as if up a ladder, put these qualities to a severe test.

At length they emerged on a muddy road to find the sun coming out. They were a little beyond the Seth Bishop place, but bent trees and hideously unmistakable tracks showed what had passed by. Only a few moments w'ere consumed in sinweying the ruins just around the bend. It was the Frye incident all over again, and nothing dead or living was found in either of the collapsed shells which had been the Bishop house and bam. No one eared to remain there amidst the stench and the tarry stickiness, but all turned instinctively to the line of horrible prints leading on toward the wrecked Whateley farmhouse and the altar-crowned slopes of Sentinel Hill.

As the men passed the site of Wilbur Whateley’s abode they shudTHE DUNWICH HORROR


dered visibly, and seemed again to mix hesitancy with their zeal. It was no joke tracking down something as big as a house that one could not see, but that had all the vicious malevolence of a demon. Opposite the base of Sentinel Hill the tracks left the road, and there was a fresh bending and matting visible along the broad swath marking the monster’s former route to and from the summit.

Armitage produced a pocket telescope of considerable power and scanned the steep green side of the hill. Then he handed the instrument to Morgan, whose sight was keener. After a moment of gazing Morgan cried out sharply, passing the glass to Earl Sawyer and indicating a certain spot on the slope with his finger. Sawyer, as clumsy as most' non-users of optical devices are, fumbled a while; but eventually focused the lenses with Armitage ’s aid. When he did so his cry was less restrained than Morgan’s had been.

“Gawd almighty, the grass an’ bushes is a-movin ’! It ’s a-goin ’ up — slow-like — creepin ’ up ter the top this minute, heaven only knows what fer! ’ ’

Then the gei’m of panic seemed to spread among the seekers. It was one thing to chase the nameless entity, but quite another to find it. Spells might be all right — but suppose they weren’t? Voices began questioning Armitage about what he knew of the thing, and no reply seemed quite to satisfy. Everyone seemed to feel himself in close proximity to phases of nature and of being utterly forbidden, and wholly outside the sane experience of mankind.


I N THE end the three men from Arldiam — old, white-bearded Dr. Armitage, stocky, iron-gray Professor Rice, and lean, youngish Dr. Morgan — ascended the mountain alone. After much patient instruction regarding

its focusing and use, they left the telescope with the frightened group that remained, in the road; and as they climbed they were watched closely by those among whom the glass was passed around. It was hard going, and Armitage had to be helped more than once. High above the toiling group the great swath trembled as its hellish maker repassed with snail-like deliberateness. Then it was obvious that the pursuers were gaining.

Curtis Whateley — of the undecayed branch — was holding the telescope when the Arkham party detoured radically from the swath. He told the crowd that the men were evidently trying to get to a subordinate peak which overlooked the swath at a point considerably ahead of where the shrubbery was now bending. This, indeed, proved to be true; and the party were seen to gain the minor elevation only a short time after the invisible blasphemy had passed it.

Then Wesley Corey, who had taken the glass, cried out that Armitage was adjusting the sprayer w’hieh Rice held, and that something must be about to happen. The crowd stirred uneasily, recalling that this sprayer was expected to give the unseen horror a moment of visibility. Two or three men shut their eyes, biit Curtis Whateley snatched back the telescope and strained his vision to the utmost. He saw that Rice, from the party’s point of vantage above and behind the entity, had an excellent chance of spreading the potent powder with marvelous effect.

Those without the telescope saw only an instant’s fiash of gray cloud — a cloud about the size of a moderately large building — near the top of the mountain. Curtis, who had held the instrument, dropped it with a piercing shriek into the ankle-deep mud of the road. He reeled, and would have crumpled to the ground had not two or three others seized and steadied him. All he could do was moan half-inaudibly:



“Oh, oh, gi’eat Gawd... that... that...”

Thei’e was a pandemonimn of fpiestioning, and only Henry Wheeler thought to rescue the fallen telescope and wipe it clean of mud. Curtis Avas past all coherence, and even isolated replies were almost too much for him.

“ Bigger ’n a barn... all made o’ squirmin’ ropes... hull thing sort o’ shaped like a hen’s egg bigger ’n anything, with dozens o’ legs like hogsheads that haff shut up when they step... nothin’ solid abaout it — all like jelly, an’ made o’ sep’rit wrigglin’ ropes pushed dost together... great bixlgin’ eyes all over it... ten or twenty maouths or trunks a-stickin’ aout all along the sides, big as stovepipes, an’ all a-tossin’ an’ openin’ an’ shuttin’... all gray, with kinder blue or purjxle rings... an’ Gawd in Heaven — that haff face on top!...”

This final memory, whatever it was, proved too much for poor Curtis, and he collapsed completely before he could say more. Fred Parr and Will Hutchins carried him to the roadside and laid him on the damp grass. Henry Wheeler, trembling, turned the rescued telescope on the mountain to see what he might. Through the lenses were discernible three tiny figures, apparently running toward the summit as fast as the steep incline allowed. Only these — nothing more. Then everyone noticed a strangely unseasonable noise in the deep valley behind, and even in the xxnderbrush of Seixtiixel Hill itself. It was the piping of xxnnxxmbered whippoorwills, and in their shifill chorxxs thex’e seemed to Ixxi'k a note of tense and evil expectancy.

Earl Sawyer now took the telescope and reported the thi’ee figures as standing on the topmost ridge, virtxxally level xvith the altar-stone bxxt at a considerable distance from it. One figxxre, he said, seemed to be I'aising its hands above its head at rhythmic intervals; and as Sawyer

mentioxxed the circxxmstaixce the croxvd seemed to hear a faint, halfmxxsical soxxnd from the distance, as if a loxxd chaxxt were accompanying the gestures. The xveird silhoxxette on that remote peak mxxst have been a spectacle of infiixite gi'otesqxxeness aixd impre.ssiveness, bxxt no observer was in a nxooxl for e.s1hetic appreciatioix. “I gxxess he’s sayin’ the spell,” xvhisperod Wheeler as he snatched back the telescope. The whippoorwills A^'ere pipiixg wildly, and in a siixgxxlai-ly curioxxs irregxxlar rhythm (ixxite uixlike that of the visible ritual.

Sxxddeixly the sxxnshine seemed to lessen xvithoxxt the interveixtion of any discernible eloxxd. It was a veiy peculiar pheixomenon, aixd was jxlainly marked by all. A I’xxmblixxg soxxnd seemed bx'ewing beneath the hills, nxixed strangely with a concordant i-xxmbling xvliiclx clearly came from the sky. Lightxxing flashed aloft, and the woix dering cx-owd looked ixx vain for the porteixts of storm. The chantixxg of the men fx’om Ax’kham now became xxnmistakable, aixd Wheeler saw thx’oxxgh the glass that they wex’e all x'aising their ai’ms in the rhythmic incantation. Prom some farmhoxxse far axvay came the frantic bax-king of dogs.

The change in the quality of the daylight increased, and the crowd gazed about the hox’izon ixx wonder. A purplish darkness, born of nothing more than a spectral deepening of the skj’’s blue, pressed down upon the x’xxmbling liills. Then the lightning flashed again, somewhat brighter than befox’e, and the cx’owd fancied that it had showed a certain mistiness around the altar-stone on the distant height. No one, hoxvever, had been using the telescope at that instant. The whippoorwills continued their irregxxlar pxxlsation, and the men of Dxxnwich braced themselves tensely against some imponderable menace with which the atmosphere seemed surcharged.

Without warning came those deep,



cracked, raucous vocal sounds which will never leave the memory of the stricken group who heard them. Not from any human throat were they born, for the organs of man can jdeld no such acoustic pen'ersions. Rather would one have said they came from the pit itself, had not their source been so unmistakably the altar-stone on the peak. It is almost erroneous to call them, sounds at all, since so much of their ghastly, infra-bass timbre spoke to dim seats of consciousness and terror far subtler than the ear; yet one must do so, since their form was mdisputably though vaguely that of half-articulate toords. They were loud — loud as the rumblings and the thunder above which they echoed — yet did they come from no visible being. And because imagination might suggest a conjectural source in the world of non-visible beings, the huddled crowd at the mountain’s base huddled still closer, and evinced as if in expectation of a blow.

“Ygnaiih... ygnaiih...

tliflthkh^ngha... Yog-Sothoth.. rang the hideous croaking out of space. “Y’bthnk... h’ehye... n’grkdVlh...”

The speaking impulse seemed to falter here, as if some frightful psychic struggle were going on. Henry Wheeler strained his eye at the telescope, but saw only the three grotesquely silhouetted human figures on the peak, all moving their arms furiously in strange gestures as their incantation drew near its culmination. Prom what black wells of Acherontie fear or feeling, from what unplumbed gulfs of extra-cosmic consciousness or obscure, long-latent lieredity, were those half-articulate thunder-croakings drawn? Presentlj^ thej' began to gather renewed force and coherence as they grew in stark, utter, ultimate frenzy.

“ Eh-ya-ya-ya-yahaah... e’yayayayaaaa... ngh’auaa... ngh’aaaa

... h’yuli... h’yuh.,. HELP! HELP!... //—//—//—FATHER! FATHER! YOG-SOTHOTH!...”

But that was all. The pallid group in the road, still reeling at the indisputably English syllables that had poured thickly and thunderously down from the frantic vacancy beside that shocking altar-stone, were never to hear such sjdlables again. Instead, thej’' jumped violently at the terrific report which seemed to rend the hills; the deafening, cataclysmic peal whose source, be it inner earth or sky, no hearer was ever able to place. A single lightning bolt shot from the purple zenith to the altar-stone, and a great tidal wave of viewless force and indescribable stench swept down from the hill to all the countryside. Trees, grass, and underbrush were whipped into a fury; and the frightened crowd at the mountain’s base, weakened by the lethal fetor that seemed about to asphyxiate them, were almost hurled off their feet. Dogs howled from the distance, green grass and foliage wilted to a curious, sickly yellow-gray, and over field and forest were scattered the bodies of dead whippoorwills.

The stench left quickly, but the vegetation never came right again. To this day there is something queer and unholy about the growths on and around that fearsome hill. Curtis Whateley was only just regaining consciousness when the Arkham men came slowly down the mountain in the beams of a sunlight once more brilliant and untainted. They were grave and quiet, and seemed shaken by memories and reflections even more terrible than those which had reduced the group of natives to a state of cowed quivering. In reply to a jumble of questions they only shook their heads and reaffirmed one vital fact.

“The thing has gone for evex’,” Armitage said. “It has been split up into what it xvas originally made of.



and can never exist again. It was an impossibility in a normal world. Only the least fraction was really matter in any sense we know. It was like its father — and most of it has gone back to him in some vague realm or dimension outside our material universe; some vague abyss out of w'hich only the most accursed rites of luiman blasphemy could ever have called him for a moment on the hills. ”

There was a brief silence, and in that paxise the scattered senses of poor Curtis Whateley began to knit back into a sort of continuity; so that he put his hands to his head wutli a moan. IMemory seemed to pick itself up where it had left off, and the horror of the sight that had prostrated him burst in upon him again.

“OJi, oh, my Gawd, ihat haff face... that iiaff face on top of it... that face ivith the red eyes an’ crinkly albino hair, an’ no chin, like Ihe Whateleys... It was a octopus, centipede, spider kind o’ thing, but they u'as a haff -shaped man’s face on top of it, an’ it looked like Wizard Whateley’ s, only it teas yards an’ yards acrost....”

He paused exhausted, as the Avhole group of natives stared in a bewilderment not quite crystallized into fresh terror. Only old Zebulon Whateley, who wanderingly remembered ancient things but who had been silent heretofore, spoke aloud.

“Fifteen year’ gone,” he rambled, “I heerd 01’ Whateley say as haow some day we’d hear a child o’ Lavinny’s a-callin’ its father’s name on the top 0 ’ Sentinel Hill.... ”

But Joe Osborn interrupted him to question the Arkham men anew’.

“What was it, anyhaow, an’ haowever did young Wizard Whateley call it aout o’ the air it come from?”

Armitage chose his words carefully.

‘ ‘ It was — well, it was mostly a kind of force that doesn’t belong in our part of space; a kind of force that acts and grows and shapes itself by other laws than those of our sort of Nature. We have no business calling in such things from outside, and only very wicked people and very wicked cults ever try to. There was some of it in Wilbur Whateley himself — enough to make a devil and a precocious monster of him, and to make his passing out a pretty terrible sight. I’m going to burn his accursed diary, and if you men are wdse you’ll dynamite that altar-stone up there, and pull down all the rings of standing stones on the other hills. Things like that brouglit down the beings those Whateleys were so fond of — the beings they were going to let in tangibly to wipe out the human race and drag the earth off to some nameless place for some nameless purpose.

“But as to this thing we’ve just sent back — the Whateleys raised it for a terrible part in the doings that were to come. It grew’ fast and' big from the same reason that Wilbur grew fast and big — but it beat liim because it had a greater share of the out sideness in it. You needn’t ask how Wilbur called it out of the air. He didn’t call it out. It ivas his tivin brother, but it looked more like the father than he did.”

The Story Thus Far

SEVEN huge black iron cubes have fallen on a certain plateau in Peru, at intervals of four years. Dr. Frelinghusen, the earthquake specialist, and his friend Dana, investigate the mysterious objects from outer space, and find in one of them a beautiful girl, named Aien, and the corpse of her father. Dr. Frelinghusen deciphers the diary of her father and finds that he had been a scientist on a dying world, who had invented the iron cubes to transport his people to Earth to save them from death. The first cubes had been shot out to learn whether they could be landed successfully on Eax*th. During a riot when the seventh cube was to staii; out with a picked crew, the old man and his daughter set out alone, the inventor dying en route. A large scouting party arrives in the eighth cube, and Aien's brother is strangled in sight of Aien, Dana and the doctor. The three hide from the gray-clad invaders from the cube, but Dana, pinned in the wreckage of the cabin during an earthquake, is being slowly strangled by one of the invaders, when he hears an explosion and lapses into unconsciousness.

WHEN I recovered my senses, I became aware that someone was bathing my forehead with water. It splashed in my eyes and ran down into my nostrils, choking me so that I gasped and sputtered.

‘ ‘ That ’s enoiigh water: he is coming out of it,” said a voice. I recognized

it as that of the doctor and wondered idly where he had come from. With an effort I fought off my drowsiness and attempted to sit up. A soft hand slipped behind my neck and aided me. It was Aien; a sorry -looking and troubled Aien with tear furrows showing through the caked diist on her face.

Her tears had been for me!

The realization acted more swiftly than any tonic, and in a few minutes I was sitting up. They had relie\ ed me of the burden of debris which pinned me down.

“It was a close call, old bo5%” said the doctor, and then added grimly, “but it was a closer call for someone else. ’ ’

He nodded significantly at a heap of rubbish beside the spot where I had been imprisoned. Prom a few scraps of curiously colored cloth, I identified the heap as the body of my


XUis story began in WBIKD XAJLES for March



late antagonist. The corpse had been bunied and nearly dissolved into nothing-ness by some unknown weapon. I looked questioningly at the doctor. He shook his head.

‘ ‘ No, it wasn ’t I. I fancy you can thank Aien for your life, Dana.”

With his help I rose to my feet and walked over to where our visitor was standing. She was regarding the body of the shadow-man with seared, fascinated eyes. At my approach she looked up quickly, and then, burying her face in her hands, ran into the adjoining room. Behind her on the ground was the long, tubelike weapon which I remembered the scout had leaned against the wall as he started toward me.

“Where were you, Doctor?” I asked.

“I’ve been busy, Dana, ’ ’ he replied, “and just arrived above ground in time to see her aim the tube. There was a flash as of a condensed lightning bolt and then all was over. But tell me quickly what has happened here. ’ ’

In a few words I related the happenings of the last few hours. When I had finished, he looked unusually grave and questioned me briefly about the apparatus which the invaders had been constructing. I told him as well as I could, and we moved. over to where a gap in the wreckage gave us a clear view of the open space surrounding the cubes. Although it was now nearing dusk, the efforts of the workers were continuing with undiminished ardor. I dovibted if even the temblor had distracted their attention for more than a few minutes.

In the interval since I had observed them last they had accpmplished a seemingly incredible amount of work. In the open space before the cube an immense stracture was now rearing itself into the sky. Steel cranes operating from doors half-way up the side of the cube swung huge masses of metal into place even as we

watched. As nearly as I can describe it, the edifice resembled nothing so much as a huge cylinder with one end open to the sky. It had a bowl some sixty feet in diameter and had reached a height already greater than that.

The doctor looked it over and whistled softly under his breath. “They’re not losing any time, are they?” he queried. “It will soon be up to us to do something or it will be too late.”

“What can we do?” I demanded. ‘ ‘ In what way can we act? Three of us against at least a thousand, and we don’t even know what they are trying to do.”

“But I have a very good suspicion,” said Dr. Frelinghusen. “Let us get something to eat first and then we will plan out a course of — I repeat it — a course of action.”

We went into what had been the adjoining room before the temblor and there found Aien awaiting us. Although her eyes were dry I noticed that her lips quivered as we entered, and I judged it better not to say anything at the time about the events of the afternoon. Not daring to light a fire, we squatted in the ruins of our dwelling and consiimed such food as could be eaten uncooked. While we satisfied our hunger I explained and enlarged on what we had seen early in the day.

“You say the prisoner acted grieved and sorrowful when he saw the body of the old man?” demanded the doctor when I reached that point in my narrative.

I answered in the affirmative.

“Then I believe that I can throw some light on that particular portion of the happenings of today, at least,” he said. “The prisoner was excited because he saw the body of his own father. The man you saw murdered was undoubtedly Aien’s own brother. No wonder she wanted to go to his rescue. ’ ’

He reached over and patted her



shoulder as she sat beside us bravely attempting to choke down a few morsels of food, although she must have felt that every bite would strangle her.

“And how do you Imow that?” I demanded.

“From the diary again. In it the inventor often mentioned his son and assistant. I have been puzzled to account for his whereabouts, but the ‘shadow-men,’ as you call them, of course forced him to help in the construction of another cube and then made him come along to aid them in landing.”

“And what else does your precious diary tell you?” I asked. “Does it tell you the purpose of all that?” And I waved my hand at the swift and never-ending activity on the plain before us.

“It does, indeed,” he replied, “although I believe I would have guessed it even though it had not. But come, let us see how they are progressing and I will tell you about it.”

N ight had descended upon the plateau even as we ate. Night but not darkness. From a score of vantage-points, powerful lights similar to those we had observed in the interior of the cube were focused upon the structure in the plain. A soft but penetrating glow bathed the whole area in the center of the ring of cubes.

“Do I need to enlighten you, Dana?” inquired the old man as we Avatched the work. “Doesn’t the very shape and structure of the machinery suggest something to you?” “It might be a big gun emplacement,” I hazarded, “except that there is nothing to shoot at. It might be a telescope or a huge searchlight or almost anything.”

“But the direction in which it is pointing! Man, can’t you see that it is aimed at the sky?”

Intuition suggested to me a purpose. “You mean it is ”

“Precisely! Imagine, Dana, that you are back in the days of the World War. You are intending to seize enemy territory. What would you do first?”

“I would send out a scouting party, of course.”

“Of course you would. You see before you a scouting party dispatched from a dying world. Now suppose that this party entered the enemy’s territory and found conditions suitable for a grand attack; in this case suppose the}' discovered that the earth was habitable and free from fierce inhabitants. What is the next thing to do?”

‘ ‘ Obviously to send a messenger back to tell the forces to come on and consolidate the territory.”

“But suppose a messenger isn’t practicable. Let us say that the scouting party has traveled 100,000,- 000 miles at a speed greater than that of a falling body. What then?” “Then I would u.se some other means of communication. Say wire less or a rocket or a flare.” “Precisely. My boy, your intelligence is rapidly becoming more and more acute. That is just what our friends, the enemy, are doing. You see before you a giant searchlight or flare which at the proper moment will be touched off, signaling to skilled observers with a battery of telescopes on another terrestrial body that our planet is ripe and ready for the picking. Can you imagine what will result? ”

The probability was appalling. I visioned scores and hundreds of such cubes descending at random upon an unsuspecting world. I saw cities leveled as by a stroke of lightning. I saiv armies wiped out over night by strange and unknown weapons. I dreamed of a Avorld writhing in agony as it attempted vainly to fight off an overwhelming and implacable foe.

‘ ‘ Are you beginning to comprehend what we are up against?” asked the doctor. ‘ ‘ Can you imagine the terror



and ruin and desolation facing our earth if these men succeed in their enterprise, gallant and adventurous as it may seem? ’ ’

I nodded, feeling of my sore and torn throat as I did so. I felt small sympathy for our “gallant” adversaries.

“Our eai'th is ah’eady becoming overcrowded,” eontinued the doctor. “Can yorr imagine it filled with the teeming millions of a desperate and alien race — a race that is facing extinction at home and is fighting with its back to the wall? Do you understand what we are combating, Dana? ’ ’

I did indeed iinderstand, but the situation appeared hopeless. What could we do? How could we interfere with destiny?

I started to voice my query when Aien’s hand clamped down across my lips. Uninterested in and not understanding our conversation, she had been devoting more attention to her surroundings than had the rest of us. Now, in the darkness, I knew that she had heard or seen something. What?

I touched the professor on the arm and felt that he understood. We three sat motionless with our eyes and ears strained to catch the slightest movement or sound.

After a long time, I heard a slight click as tho;igh metal had rasped against stone. Our senses strained to the utmost, we sat peering into the darkness. Then a shadow flitted past us and paused to peer at the wreck of our hut. I raised my rifle and covered it but was conscious of the restraining hand of the doctor against my arm.

“For God’s sake, Dana, don’t shoot,” he caiitioned. “You will ruin everything if you do.”

Motionless we waited, and after an endless interval of breathless silence the shadow moved on.

“He will be back sooner or later,” whispered the doctor, “and there will be others with him. They are searching for their lost companion and I believe they are suspicious of the cabin. It means that we must act tonight. ’ ’

“Act?” I repeated in exasperation. “How can we act? We are three against a thousand. The most we can hope for is to escape with our lives.”

“We may not accomplish even that much,” he said, “but at least we can try. AVait for me here. I am going into the cave iinder the cabin. While you are waiting, get together such provisions as we three can carry. Get rifles and canteens for the three of us. AVhatev'er you do, make no noise.”

Halting my question with a wave of his arm, he hauled up the trapdoor and disappeared into the darkness, leaving me nothing to do but obey his commands. Luckily, our supplies were grouped closely together and had escaped the fall of the roof, so that I bad little difficulty in assembling the three packs. Water was not plentiful, but I succeeded in filling three canteens from the pail we had brought in only that morning.

Sensing my preparations, Aien aided me, and after a few minutes of united efforts we foiuid oux’selves outfitted as well as we could be for the unknown perils which lay before us.

Unable to do anything further, we sat down on the floor within arm’s reach of the trap and waited for the return of the doctor. He was absent for an interminable period. The hour grew later and later. Three times the thi’eatening shadows of the enemy approached our hiding-place so closely that I feared we were discovered. I was confident that oxit in the night a silent but persistent watch was being kept over the rixins of the cabin.

Aien, beside me, fairly quivered ivith excitement, and despite the almost constant strain of the past few days — a strain which would have crushed any earth woman — I felt sure she would play her part bravely during what was to come. She was a true



comrade, uncomplaining and unafraid, despite the myriad dangers which encompassed us. I wondered if, cast adi’ift on a strange and fierce world in the midst of enemies who had slain my father and brother, I myself would have behaved as bravely.

She was a good soldier. Impulsively I felt through the darkness and possessed myself of her hand. She made no resistance and for a time her fingers relaxed passively in my palm. Between us, as always when she was near, I felt pulsing the vital current, the current of life and hope and happiness, the current of love. For I loved her and had from the very first, when her white and suffering face seen through the transparent doors of her cube prison had incited me to rashness in an effort to relieve her distress. I felt that between us words were unnecessary and that she understood my feelings perhaps better than if I had voiced them. Yet she made no resistance!

With a passion that I was wholly unable to withstand, I reached through the night for her other hand and caught her close to me. I felt her muscles tense as she lay in my arms. Then, despite the darkness, our lips met in a first kiss.

The sweetness of her sxirrender dazzled me. Alone in the wreck of the shattered cabin and surromided by the gray shadows of enemies, we knew a love such as falls to the lot of but few men and women. After a moment I released her and bent over as might anyUover, to kiss my lady’s hand.

ABLACK shape looming beside us recalled us to our senses. Automatically I reached for my rifle and then realized that the shadow was Dr. Frelinghusen coming through the trap.

“Dana,” he whispered, “I’ve done it. The scouting party is cut off from their main body. The star signal shall never be sent. We have won.”

“How?” I gasped.

“Because nature is helping us,” he replied. “But hurry. We must leave this place instantly. Where are the packs? ’ ’

Hidden in the shadows, it was some minutes before we found them. The doctor was fuming with an impatience so unusual that I was in some doubt as to his sanity — especially so in the light of his last statement.

At last we got imder way, and clinging hand to hand made our way through the underbrush directly behind the cabin. Familiar as he was with the terrain, the doctor guided us in a straight line directly away from the city of cubes and toward the rim of the plateau. Despite his plea of the urgent necessity for haste, I forced him to move slowly and carefully.

The going was rough and highly dangerous. Stumbling through the darkness, we escaped outposts of the shadow-men only by miracles. Time after time, I feared that all was lost and that we were discovered. Then at the last possible moment, fate would intervene and save us by a hair’s breadth from being captured.

It was the doctor’s fearful impatience which continually threatened us with disaster. Again and again Avhen prudence dictated that we wait and reconnoiter, he pushed boldly ahead. A tiny knight-errant with his cocked rifle in his hand and his white shirt gleaming like a torch, he violated all the rules of careful campaigning and yet escaped discovery.

As we climbed higher and approached the rim of the plateau we came into the circle of reflection from the huge lights in the circle of cubes and our dangers increased a thousandfold.

Once I paused to look behind us in amazement at what wms taking place. The immense cylinder had reached a height of at least a hundred feet and was obviously nearing completion. A crew of the dark-clad worlonen



swarmed to and fi’o, manipulating the giant cranes which swimg load after load of materials from the-cube to the cylinder. They worked with the

frenzy of desperation. A hum as of a hive of giant bees came up to us from the circle. The prodigious lights, directed a score of attendants, swung ceaselessly back and forth across the open space. Furnishing a background for the excitement were the cubes themselves, gigantic monsters crouched, it seemed, in readiness to spring. It was a veritable city — a city of steel and iron, of potential desolation and death.

“Hurry, Dana! Hurry!” The unguarded voice of the doctor sounded from ahead of me. Obeying his command, I turned and made my way up the slope after him, occasionally lending a hand to help Aien over or around a fallen tree or a giant boulder. As the brush cleared away, we ran forward recklessly to keep up with the doctor, who hurried as if endowed with the strength and speed of twenty men.

In front of us, from the rim of the plateau, I heard a shout. We had nearly reached the edge. Disdaining further pretense of taking cover, Ave pushed boldly throiigh the last line of trees and faced the open expanse of ground which led to the rim.

But the Avay was barred!

Ahead of us, at intervals along the crest, were placed searchlights, miniature duplicates of the ones in use beloAv. Their rays covered every inch of the edge of the plateau, preventing either entrance or exit, unseen.

Abruptly the doctor paused to drag out his Avatch and light a match.

“Dana,” he said quietly, “avc have just about three minutes. Shoot at their lights, and when they go out, run for it.”

Sensing at last that our danger was immediate, I dropped on one knee and opened fire on the nearest light. My firet shot scored a direct hit and with a splutter the light went out.

Reversing our fire, the doctor and I concentrated our rifle fire on the light apparatus on the other side. It seemed an eternity before Ave landed a hit and saAv the glare vanish. There Avas noAV a dark spot some two hundred yards Avide along the crest directly in front of us.

Snatching Aien in my arms, I ran as I hain never run before in my life. At the same instant, the shadow-men opened fire and I saAv the effects of their strange, noiseless Aveapons.

They were shooting what appeared to be condensed electric current; blue flame lightning bolts that burned, destroyed, obliterated eA’erjdhing Avith Avhich they came in contact. The discharge Avas constant, more like machine-guns than rifle fire. They played the bolts across our path as firemen direct a hose.

For a fcAV seconds Ave dodged back and forth between the flashes of death, playing hide and seek Avith the rays. It Avas a hopeless battle.

“It’s come!” screamed the doctor suddenly and stopped in his tracks. “Lie down in this holloAV, we may have a chance.”

Tossing the girl doAAm beside him, I covered her with my body. Behind us, ill the valley, I heard a roar more immense and more threatening than anything I had ever heard before. It seemed that the end of the Avorld Avas come upon us.

I turned and looked tOAvard the cubes. Where our cabin had stood Avas now a sheet of solid flame reaching high into the heavens. Then the burst of the explosion reached us.

“Pray God that it AA'orks, Dana,” begged the doctor. “Pray for the future of the earth. Pray for the men of our 0A\m race.”

It, Avhatever it was, Avorked. I felt beneath my feet the stirring of the earth. SloAvly it mo\’’ed at first as a tired demon awakens, then more rapidly, magnificently, resistlessly.

I Avatched the little plain occupied by the cubes. Beneath them the earth



was cracking and crumbling, twisting their iron frames and upending them as toy blocks are shifted upon their corners. Around the toy cylinder in the center, the workmen were grouped, struck motionless by the frenzy of a world gone insane.

Beneath their very feet the soil was opening, cracking in immense slits that widened into colossal valleys. Deep down in their depths I saw liquid fire, the fires of hell come suddenly to earth. Then the entire plateau tipped crazily, crumpling towai'd the center. I saw a gigantic funnel formed by swiftly revolving mountains of earth. The funnel became a maelstrom of dirt and rock and metal down which was pouring in a continuous stream the countryside we had known.

Silhouetted sharply for an instant against the background of subterranean fires were the toy men of the cubes and their puny contrivances, one instant visible and then vanished forever as they slid in a crumpled mass into the volcanic fires below.

I heard no noise. We were deafened, all of us, by the initial crash of the doctor’s weapon, whatever it was.

The curve of the funnel rim was broadening, reaching up toward us with gigantic, tentacle-like fingers. I felt the earth slide beneath me. I was gripped with the sensation of nausea. Trees and bushes uprooted themselves and fell to earth, or else poised sickeningly with their roots in the air. Down toward the maelstrom we slid onward to the inevitable end.

And then, for perhaps no reason at all, the particular plot of ground some two acres in extent on which we found ourselves remained poised on the very verge of the precipice.

Too much exhausted to think or reason, we somehow staggered to our feet, and, dodging the chunks of metal which yet fell all around us from the skies, we climbed the few hundred yards to the rim of the plateau and half fell down the slope

of the mountain toward the green woods, the rivers and the calm safety below. I never remembered when we stopped sliding, to collapse in a tiny glen through which, untroubled by the catastrophe, a stream of clear water trickled quietly.

The last that I recall was a sensation of tumbling and falling down the moimtainside accompanied, as I Imew vaguely, by my two companions.

CONFUSEDLY, I realized that it was morning, but my muscles, torn and racked by the experiences of the last few days, refused to function immediately. After a long interval of half-awakening, I sat up wearily and commenced to take stock of the ravages of the night. IMy clothes were torn almost to shreds and they were covered with blood — ^my own blood, as I well knew after looking at my ripped and torn flesh. I had cut myself in a dozen places as I forced a way through the dense foliage for us in that last mad scramble.

My two companions were in scarcely better condition. The doctor, worn to but a shadow of his former self, muttered and tossed as he slept the sleep of complete exhaustion. I found it difficult to realize that this was the man who a few short hours ago had destroyed a thousand men and saved a world from war.

Of the three of us, Aien, who had gone through the most, had apparently suffered the least. True, her clothes were tom and covered with volcanic dust but her sleep was deep and healthful. I noticed that the dark hair was drawn back carefully to form a frame for her flnely chiseled features and that her hands and face were clean. I knew that she must have awakened before the rest of us and bathed herself in the icy waters of the brook.

As I watched her, a queer exotic butterfly fluttered up from the waters to perch for a moment upon one of her tiny relaxed little hands. In the



clear gay sunlight the insect distended and stretched its wings until, alarmed at last by some vagrant breeze, it fluttered away.

The insect to me typified all that the future held for both of us. We had escaped. We were free. Life was good and the earth, was young again. I realized that I had never really expected to escape from the city of the cubes. With me, as probably with my companions, it had been a mad gamble in which the cards were stacked before we began.

However, we were not yet completely in the clear. At any moment the remnant of the guards of the rim might discover our hiding-place. I wondered that they had not done so before. Already the sun was high overhead. It was time we were moving.

Aien woke lightly as my hand touched her shoulder. Dr. Frelinghusen was more difficult due to his greater exhaustion. I started to speak to him, and to my surprize found that I was unable to hear my own voice. The immense volume of that last earsplitting crash had virtually deafened me. I must have made a queer picture as I stood there before them struggling to express my thoughts. However, my companions were too near exhaustion themselves to wonder at my plight. The events of the past night and our subsequent relaxation from the strain had left us all near the breaking-point.

During our hurried descent of the mountain we had, of course, lost our packs and retained only our rifles. Preparation for our journey then was a mere matter of a hurried wash in the brook, and w'e were ready to start. Personally I had no idea of the directions, but the doctor started off without hesitation and followed the creek bed downstream.

Shortly after noon we entered the Indian village from which a few days before a vaquero had departed to meet me in Lima. The natives were terrorstricken at our approach. No doubt

they had reason to be frightened, considering their proximity to the plateau and taking into consideration the fact that they must have witnessed some small part of the night ’s terrors.

After we had convinced them that we were living and not dead, the old chief welcomed us in great delight. The doctor and he were apparently old friends; in fact, I am not sure that he did not regard our companion as one of the immortals. Few men could have spent the past night on the plateau of Tahunjero and lived to tell the story.

After they had tendered us the customary obeisances, the best that the village afforded was immediately placed at our disposal. Although we were eager to escape at once from the region of our terrible experiences, we decided to put off the start until the next day because of our fagged condition.

We rested, therefore, and on the next morning, with our fatigue partly overcome and with our voices and our hearing rapidly returning to normal, we set out on our long trip to the coast.

D uring the journey. Dr. Frelinghusen was evidently reluctant to speak of the happenings of that last night on the plateau. Again and again when I endeavored to question him as to precisely what had happened, he changed the subject so obviously that I could not but take the hint. I came at last to believe that the virtual execution of so many human beings had preyed on his consciousness and that he would never discuss the subject again.

I was really too much engrossed in my own happiness to wish to open up any subject bringing with it unpleasant memories. For the first time in my life I was learning what the companionship and affection of an ideal woman could mean. Aien and I dwelt in Paradise, and if sometimes she grew sad and her gray eyes would fill



with tears, I understood that even Paradise must have its sorrows and that her thoughts were far away with the loved ones whom she had left forever.

She learned English with amazing rapidity. Before we had left the shelter of the mountains she was able to converse in simple phrases and I knew that before we reached Lima she would pass, except for her soft intonations, as a modern English or American girl.

On the last night in the desert-,- as we grouped ourselves around the campfire, I determined that we must decide at last on the story which we were to tell the world. Falling in with my plans, the doctor, for the first time, seemed to have forgotten his melancholy and chafed Aien with almost his old jovial manner. The omens were propitious and I decided to begin.

“Doctor,” I said, “I suppose you have guessed that Aien and I are to be married as soon as we reach Lima. ’ ’

“My boy,” he replied, “I did indeed guess it. Although I had hoped to adopt her as my ward, I know of no man to whom I would rather trust her. You have my heartiest congratulations.”

“Doctor,” I asked, “don’t you think that it is about time that we decided on what explanation, if any, we are to give? How are you going to relate this marvelous adventure and how will you account for her?” And I gestured at Aien, who was silently watching us.

“Dana, for the past two weeks I have been thinking of that very problem. I don’t know. Every time I recall the happenings of that terrible last night, I shudder and long to forget it. I don’t know what to say or do. ’ ’

Now was my opportuirity.

“Just precisely what did happen?” I demanded. “It was never quite clear to me. First there was a gigantic

explosion and then the earth caved in. What caused it?”

“Enough trinitrotoluol to wreck half New York,” he replied. “I suppose you may as well have the complete story.

“When I first saw the plateau nearly four years ago, I had a suspicion that the cubes were hollow. I don’t know just what I expected to find in them — a message perhaps from some other earth. I did not expect to find anything like this.” He waved his hand toward Aien. ‘ ‘ I sent out to the States for some high explosive, expecting to blast the cubes apart atom by atom if it was necessary in order to learn their secret. The TNT I packed in by horseback. It was a hair-raising experience, I assure you.

“I stored the stuff in the cave beneath the cabin. The earth beneath our plateau was a veritable network of tunnels, and I had no difficulty in packing the explosive quite a way down. By the way, Dana, did you ever notice any peculiarity about our plateau? ’ ’

I nodded. “Of course I did. As I climbed the mountain for the first time I decided that the whole structure was volcanic in origin. ’ ’

“You are right. The entire plateau was a roofed-over volcano. It had been roofed over for thousands of yeai's. But the molten lava and volcanic substances were still there, alive and powerful, deep down under the earth.”

“So when you exploded your mine the roof caved in, did it?”

“Something like that, although there was another contributing factor as well.” He picked up a specimen of tropical fruit shaped and formed somewhat like an orange, and tapped lightly on it with the hilt end of his knife.

“The action was much like this,” he explained. “When I hit this fruit a single blow with the hilt, nothing happens. But if I hit it again and



again, repeating my blows always with the same force, the roof structure finally weakens, and at last it all caves in — so.” And he tossed the pulpy remnants of the fruit aside.

“In similar manner was the action of our cubes. They were giant hammers striking time after time at the breast of old Mother Earth. At last she weakened under the attacks — the earthquake on the last day was an indication of that — and when I help a little with my comparatively tiny mine, behold! the hammer head is buried, absorbed in the breast of the mighty one. Do you see how it occurred, Dana?”

I nodded slowly. It was all very simple now.

‘ ‘ But what are you going to tell the world?” I asked.

He shook his head. “We will tell them nothing,” he said. “Those foolish ones would never understand. I am too old to waste my last days explaining to idiots. And besides — there is the little one. Would you wish to have her regarded as a freak, a sideshow attraction for the delectation of an interested and amused civilization? No, we will say nothing and go our ways in silence and be happy. Is it not better so?”

He rose to his feet and started to his tent.

“One question more. Doctor,” I called. “Answer it if you will, and then we need never mention the mystery again.”

“What is it?”

“Tell me how you could interpret the log of the old inventor? What methods did you use?”

He shook his head. “Dana,” he said, “that is one of the questions whose answers I would wish to know myself. I did not interpret the book. It would be more exact to say that I read it. Dana, the log of the old inventor was written in archaic Sanskrit. ’ ’

‘ ‘ What? ” I stared at him in amazed wonder.

“Yes, Dana. I repeat it, the diary was in Sanskrit. Why, I do not know. Perhaps Aien does. Some day we must ask her.”

And he left us to go to his rest.

L ong afterward I did ask her and this is what she said:

“My father was a gi'eat inventor, yet he worked from the ancient plans of someone who had lived long before. He copied his plans and wrote down his diary in that dead and vanished language of his predecessor, so that none but he might read it.

“The first inventor was a genius who has long been forgotten. The legend relates that he became disgusted with his people and built the first cube — built it and then vanished into space accompanied only by a woman.

“The name of the inventor,”.she said, “was Edam, and the woman was called Ev. ’ ’

[THE END]

“Too late! There was a soft thud as the idol into place.”

swung

I T HAD all been a tremendous mistake. From the time we had left Singapore on what was to prove such a terrible chase, I had felt that it was a colossal blunder. But the others had overruled my halfhearted protests, inflamed as they were by money madness and treasure lust. But one thing could they think of — that tremendous heap of rubies, of wealth incalculable, the secret of whose whereabouts was at last in their hands.

What did it matter to them that this was the treasure-house of a god? They didn’t believe in heathen gods — not they! Nor in the supernatural. Trickery — ^that’s what it was, nothing else, and this talk of a god of

destruction whose very name the natives feared to utter was rot; while the tales about the many who had gone to seek this hidden loot never to return — that was nothing but ignorant superstition — native fancy with no basis in fact. Stuff and nonsense!

What did it matter that as far as they knew its devious trail, their information had come a blood-spattered deadly way? That but gave added proof of its genuineness. Men have ever killed for far less than this dazzling pile — history was full of such cases; and it would be so again.

They were positive of the truth and reliability of their map with its ugly brown stains. They were just




as sure of the information that had been gasped out by that native priest as his life slowly welled from his body, so terribly mutilated by native vengeance just when he had almost won clear away. And that information had fired them with a madness there was no staying, even while it chilled me with grim foreboding. Perhaps I had been in the Orient too long, had seen too much that could not be explained aAvay; perhaps too much sun and raw native liquor.

I was overruled, browbeaten, bulldogged, until I gave in against my better judgment.

The trip up-river had been — well, not exactly a pleasure, but then, not so bad, either. I had done worse many times. Things had gone smoothly — ^too smoothly, I could see now. We had been led on like rats into a trap.

Step by step we had followed the trail as shown on that gruesome map, and as each item proved correct the hopes of my comrades had risen the higher while, oddly enough, my own spirits had sunk the lower; for I was scared — I, who had shot my way out of some mighty tight places and through some pretty rash adventures — I, who was never so cool as when the odds looked hopeless — here I shivered Avith dread while things Avent so smoothly — too smoothly.

We had cut our way throAigh the jungle after leaving the last outpost of civilization, so called, the six of us: Avhite men all; as brave and fearless a crew as you ever saw — and as unprincipled. We had come upon the ruined temple, almost swalloAved up by the ever-encroaching jungle, with little or no ti’ouble. It lay just Avherc Ihe map had indicated. And while the rest had jubilated OA'^er the easy conquest, I had knoAvn nothing but sick di’ead, a vague terror that Avas none the less real, oppressive, impending.

Our campfire gleaming redly over the ruined moldering idols ranged

round that great room, and on the red-lacquered beams above, seemed to me oddly symbolic. That greatest stone monstrosity of all, seated above us in its niche, seemed a live and sentient thing. It leered at me through the flickering shadoAvs, its one eye folloAving me wherever I moved until I was almost mad.

I begged and pleaded with my comrades to get out while there Avas yet time, but they only jeered and shouted ribald comments. Forego the loot they had come so far to get? With success just around the corner? Never! To my entreaties that we push on then at once, rifle the cache and go Avhile the night was with us, they turned a deaf ear. Tomorrow AA'as time enough, they argued. No hurry now. It was much the best to Avait until daylight before descending below ground in this venerable relic.

At last Ave lay doAvn, the six of us, and their snores soon proclaimed the others asleep, but the longer I lay the more Avide awake I became. Restlessly I tossed and tumbled; then in desperation I got up and crouched above the dying embers. Malevolently that eAul image glared down upon us. So sinister it was that I shuddered. When I could stand it no longer I picked up a brand, SAvung it vigorously overhead until it blazed, and with this torch I clambered into the niche.

What I intended to do up there, I had not the remotest idea: perhaps there Avas a wild desire to hurl that stone image into the dust — I don’t know. What I did instead, Avas to thrust the blazing brand into the corners and crannies, seeking eA^eryAvhere for I know not what.

Aero.ss the face of the idol T SAVung the smoking flames, illuminating eA’^ery holloAV above, but saAV nothing saA'e the dust of centuries, patched and discolored by the. mold of tropic damp. Then, my sanity returning in some measure, Avith a muttered curse



I turned and was about to throw the brand back to the hard-packed earthen floor, but instead, thought better of it and thrust the torch, with a sardonic humor, into the figure’s clasped hands, into a hollow made for the burning of incense.

There! Let him sit once more as he had sat in the heyday of his popularity, with the smoke curling about his Satanic features. But now no devout throng of worshipers groveled on the ground before him. Instead lay five hard-bitten adventurers sleeping the sleep of the just until the morrow, when they would wrest from him his treasures, gathered through the centuries and left behind wdien his might had declined into obscurity.

\ BLOOD-CURDLING sci’cam bi’oke through my musings. One of those five figures raised with a convulsive start and fell back writhing in agony, while the others came to frenzied life with a bound and gathered about him. I came tumbling from the niche in a hurry.

“Wot’s th’ matter, hi sye?” growled Jeremy Sykes, while the others babbled in excitement not unmixed with fear. The sufferer, however, was beyond answering. A bloody froth flecked his lips, drawn back from his teeth in an animallike snarl; his limbs threshed wildly as those horrible agonizing tremors passed over him; his face turned a mottled, livid hue.

One glance I took and knew the worst. Of all venomous snakes — and they are myriad in that land — the smallest of them all is the most deadIjL Scarce six inches long and red as hell-fire, his bite is the agony of centuries of the pit compressed into a short half-hour: agony so great that sufferers have been known to choose the merciful quickness of the steel in preference, though too often they had no such chance, but bent and writhed in tortures unutterable

until the slow, dreadful end came. And, stop! did not the natives give him the same name as this fearsome image above us?

But Jack’s paroxysms were growing more violent and his entire body was tuniing an ugly mottled purple. His eyeballs seemed straining from their sockets and his back bowed as if it must break, while from his lips burst the noise of a soul in torment unutterable. The cold sweat of horror stood damply on my brow and I was sick within.

Another unearthly scream, broken short by a harsh grunted oath as Jeremy Sykes dropped beside him: a flash of.steel shone redly up, then down in a shining are and cheated that dreadful grinning monster behind us of his last full measure of payment.

“God!” breathed Bill Callaghan, passing a shaking hand before his eyes -while he drew a shuddering breath. ‘ ‘ What hit him? ’ ’

I pointed at that grinning image above.

“Hell’s bells!” growled Jeremy Sykes. “Nowthin’ of the sort. Snake-bite. A little red devil. No cure for it; but an hour or so of what you saw Jack going thi'ough. Often enow I’ve seen it, and twice it was Gord’s mercy to pass th’ steel between the ribs to end it. Ugh!” And he tiumed unsteadily away while the others looked at me.

“It’s the truth,” I affirmed. “Steel is quick and merciful and no less sure. I’d thank anyone for that choice if it ever came to me. Jeremy did the best possible thing. ’ ’

There was no more sleep for us that night. We sat instead about another blaze which we had built at the other end of the room, furtively eyeing every moving shadoAV and studiously avoiding the dreadful figure that lay in the half-gloom staring sightlessly up into the niche.

One gone, I ruminated. One. So soon and so terribly. Who would be



next? For that more would follow him I was sure. Deep within me I felt that as surely as I knew that I was still alive. And those deaths, I felt, would be just as terrible as this first one, whatever form they might take.

The others laughed at my forebodings. It was an accident, such as might occur to anyone, anywhere. These old ruins, they pointed out, were overrun with vermin. This land saw frequent violent deaths in.strange guises. Why, one in every ten died from the bite of poisonous snakes! I was an old granny, a superstitious fool.

'^HE quick dawn put an end to our A arguing, and as the details stood out more and more plainly in the grayness of that dim interior, the night seemed more and more like a fantastic dream — except for that horrible thing that lay, putrescent already, offensive and swelling, at the far end of the idol room. With the light came the first bit of the day’s humid heat and in contrast our trip underground promised relief. We got out the map again and studied it carefully. Above all things we must not get lost in the labyrinth beneath us. How extensive it was we could not tell, nor did we want to know, save as it led us to the treasure we all felt was there.

“Le’see: we go down back of that big idol,” said Peter Drew, his stubby forefinger on the map. ‘‘We must. They’s no other place in this room that fits the plan,” he argued as we objected.

‘‘There’s no opening there,” I protested. “I was up there when — when ”

“Yeah, I know. But it was dark then. You couldn’t see nothin’. The mouth of that underground passage just must be there. ’ ’

To settle the argument I led the way into the niche, and after looking and prodding everywhere, they

agreed with me that save for a little grille leading upward toward a dim light no other opening existed.

“Damme, it must be here,” Peter insisted.

“Where?” I began. “We have tried everywhere.”

“Maybe in the ceiling,” he began, and jumped up on the idol’s.spacious lap to investigate.

‘ ‘ Oh, nonsense! ” I began.

“Hey, look out!” shouted Jeremy as the huge stone idol tilted slowly foramrd.

Peter dropped off to one side, catlike, on all fours, and the idol.swung slowly back again.

“You’ve found it,” I shouted in triumph. *

“Pound what, you fool?” growled Jeremy.

“The opening of the labyrinth. It’s under the idol, of course. That big stone god tilts on a balance, and under it is the month of the treasurehouse. I saw the steps leading down. ’ ’

“Aw, what bally rot!” from Jeremy again.

“Not at all. It had to be hidden, you know. What better hiding-place than under several tons of stone?”

“But how ”

“You saw how it worked. A man’s weight out on the knees of the idol opens the way ”

“And its own weight shuts it again, eh?”

“Certainly it does. One of us has to stay outside to work it while the rest go below. Or perhaps there is some way to move it from the inside. Here, Peter, open it again and I ’ll go down and try to find out. ’ ’

Obediently Peter climbed up on his perch again, and slowly the idol tilted forward once more. Down, down, till Peter could stand upon the fioor and hold his weight about the figure’s neck, leaving a yawning hole through which we might easily enter.

Three times we tried the rocking stone to make sure it would work



without sticking before my companions let me go down gingerly into the darkness. I counted fourteen steps before I reached the bottom, and the matches I lit showed me the corridor sloping slightly downward before me. By their feeble flicker I saw something else — something that made me shout aloud.

“What is ut, Jock?” and Jeremy’s shaggy head was thrust into the patch of light that marked the entrance.

“Two skeletons, Jeremy,” I returned. “The poor devils must have come into this place and the idol closed behind them, shutting them in to a miserable death,” I called as I bent over them. “And wait ”

Into my voice crept such a note of excitement that all but Peter Drew came scrambling down to me. No doubt he, too, would have been there had it not meant the closing of that massive door.

By the flickering light of a candle or two that they had brought with them, my comrades saw the proof that the treasure we had come so far to find was still there.

How long those two had lain there could not be told; a hundred years perhaps, maybe three times that long — long enough to rot away almost eveiy vestige of clothing. Yet one of those two had brought with him from those treasure rooms below indubitable proof that what we sought was still there. Tucked into his girdle perhaps, or in a purse long since gone to dust, he had brought a dozen or so of splendid rubies that now gleamed redly from about the pelvis bones where they had fallen. Each of them was worth a Iring’s ransom. No wonder we shouted and scrambled for the precious bits of living flame.

A hoarse shout broke on our ears — that was Peter Drew! It brought us up those steps in a panicky run, sent us scrambling into the idol room around the base of the idol that even

now was settling slowly into place. I felt its cold rough edge graze my shoulders as I scrambled out with Jeremy close behind me.

A muffled curse, and in my swift backward glance I saw that Jeremy had dropped one of his rubies. He swept it up again almost without pausing and was scrambling over the edge. But that momentary pause was fatal. The huge block of stone was swinging downward now at a terrific rate.

“Hurry, Jeremy,” I shouted, and grasped his shoulders to drag him from beneath that impending doom. Too late! There was a soft thud as the idol swung into place. A spasm crossed Jeremy’s face. I looked in dazed horror at the swift red spot that grew and grew from about his waist where he protruded from between the stones.

Whei’e Avas Peter Drew, and why had he not held the stone god down away from the opening? I wondered even as I heard the sharp crack of Bill’s heavy revolver and something flashed past my shoulder in a A’ivid streak of light. My swift glance showed Bill lying flat on the floor of the niche as cool as though he were at tiffin, the while he pumped an occasional shot into the light-shot gloom of the big room beyond.

And Peter’s failure to keep the idol in place out of the opening was explained by the same glance, for I saw him lying on his face before that grim deity in an attitude of.si;pplieation, arms outspread. Poor Peter! His last act in this life! From his back protruded the handles of two of those terrible throwing-knives of which I had seen a few specimens down river.

Poor, poor Peter! Semper Fidelis was the motto tattooed upon his massive chest, and that he had been. Always faithful, yes, faithful unto death! With his last breath as his dying grip had loosened he had uttered the warning shout that had



enabled us all to escape from that death-trap.

All? No, not all. There was Jeremy Sykes pinned under that loathsome stone, still alive, still conscious, as I was surprized to discover.

Too well I knew what had happened when that stone settled into place with Jeremy only partly through the opening. How long can a man live when he is mashed into two pieces, I wondered? I had thought perhaps a few moments — surely not as many minutes. Yet Jeremy seemed almost normal in spite of that terrible thing, in spite of that gruesome spreading red flood about him.

“I’m done,” he muttered thickly as he caught my eye. “Get these stones — ^to my wife — you know — address. ’ ’

I nodded. “If I get out of this alive I’ll do it, Jeremy,” I promised. The filming eyes lit up joyfully.

“Thanks, old top,” he whispered.

A deathly grayness was creeping over his features and consciousness was fast departing. Death was coming almost like sleep.

“Get down, you fool,” shouted Bill as another streak flashed past me, and once more Bill’s service revolver spoke. It was followed by a blood-curdling scream.

“Gutted him. That’s two,” Bill grunted in satisfaction. “I wish I knew how many more are out there, ’ ’ he added as I crawled up beside him.

“Mois?” I questioned.

“No. We’re too far north for their range. Bandit looters from beyond the northern border most likely. Damme, I missed him, ’ ’ as he pumped another shot at a half-seen figure.

A sibilant hiss drew my attention to our rear. Fergus was there beckoning to me and I crawled swiftly backward.

“I think we can get out through here,” he whispered, pointing at the

little grille to which I had paid such scant attention on our first inspection.

Fergus had thrust it partly aside and he now crawled through it into the gloom. I hesitated to follow into that dimly glowing opening that had swallowed him and now reflected the dim light as he crawled forward, lighting matches as he went, or a candle perhaps. Then the light faded out entirely for a few moments, reappeared once more, and then grew brighter as Fergus’ head came into view, disheveled and dirty.

“It leads beyond the temple wall into a thicket,” he grinned. “I don’t think there is a soul about outside, either. They must all be in here. Tell Bill about it and we’ll get going.”

“And leave all our outfit?” I began.

“We get away with our lives, perhaps,” he pointed out. “Our outfit isn’t much good to us if we are all dead, is it? ”

He crawled out to Bill’s side and they conferred earnestly together for a moment. Then he was back again.

“Come on,” he whispered. “Bill will hold them off for a few moments before he follows us.”

As I edged around the idol again I bethought me of my promise to Jeremy and took from his stiffening dead hands the jewels that had cost him his life, slipping them into one of the pockets of my shorts.

H ow silent was the festering jungle, as we crawled out into the light once more! Behind us we heard the muffled reports of two shots, sullen and hollow, and a few moments later Bill rose beside us.

“Got another,” he commented briefly. “Now let ’s get out of here. ’ ’ We moved as silently and as swiftly as possible toward the river, but we had gone only a few hundred feet when we heard a yell of baffled rage.

“They rushed the niche and found us gone, I guess,” said Bill as he inUP IRRIWADDY WAY


creased his pace. “And in mighty scant time those devils will be swarming after us. The trail is plain. ’ ’

Five minutes passed — five long eternities while we made our way as swiftly and silently as might be toward where Ave hoped the river lay. Behind us the jungle lay quiet and empty.

“They must have missed us,” Avhispered Fergus.

“Don’t ever think it,” I retorted. “Those fiends are on our trail, never fear. They’re slipping along as silently as shadows and not far away right now. Perhaps they’ve even got ahead of us, some of them, trymg to ring us in.” I cast an apprehensive glance through the sun-splashed gloom. We stepped abruptly through a leafy tangle into a path or animal run.

‘ ‘ Thank God! ’ ’ muttei’ed Bill as he quickened his pace. Fergus and I followed closely on his heels. “We might get away now, ’ ’ he continued.

“ If it ’s an animal trail, yes, ’ ’ I began. “If this leads to a village, no. For it might be that the villagers are the ones Avho attacked us.”

“Speed is what counts now,” snapped Fergus, “not talk,” and he pushed past Bill.

“Something else counts most of all — something that neither of you has got,” I growled as I jerked Fergus back and took the lead myself.

Ais. swiftly as possible I moved forward, yet cautiously, too. Our attackers might be ahead of us and it Avould be an ideal trick to ambush us, slipping the steel into our defenseless bodies as we brushed past some leafy covert. Not a pleasant thought, that.

Yet, somehow, I didn’t think they had passed us. Something within me warned me of danger, yet I was sure that any danger from them was in our rear. But if this path led indeed to a village, there was before us a silent danger more to be dreaded even than that other. So as I slipped along, my eyes were darting CA’^erywhere. I stopped at last, so abruptly that Fergus and Bill, crowding me closely, bumped into each other.

“What’s the matter?” groAvled Bill, his voice a mere Avhisper.

I pointed at the trail before us.

“I don’t see a thing but a leaf or tAvo,” he added and tried to push by.

Roughly I pulled him back and, stooping, I carefully lifted a large leaf from the path Avhile they eyed me intently. Carefully I picked up the thorn concealed beneath it, AAUth its gummy message of violent death. Carefully I searched the ground for more. There were no more. It was alone.

Bill’s face was Avhite, his eyes incredulous. ‘ ‘ God! Suppose we had stepped on it,” he Avhispered through stiff lips.

“Death, eh?” Fergus’ voice was steady but a glance at his eyes show'ed that he thoroughly understood the situation.

I nodded none too cheerfully as I Avent on again more cautiou.sly than ever. Soon the path forked.

“Which way?” asked Bill.

Almost without a pause I turned to to the left. ‘ ‘ The other path goes to a village,” I whispered. “And it isn’t friendly. They Avant no visitors. ’ ’

‘ ‘ How do you knoAv 1 ’ ’ Fergus Avas frankly curious.

“You saAV that little bamboo lying across the path, didn’t you?” I asked, never turning my head. “That is a plain Avarning. The path is closed to strangers. Beyond it ”

“More poisoned thorns, eh?” he finished quietly.

“Yes, or worse,” I promised.

“This path, now,” began Bill.

“Probably runs to the river,” I cut in. ‘ ‘ And if it ’s not a game trail there may be a boat. If not ”



“If not,” Bill interrupted bruskly, “I’ve got four more clips of ammunition. How many have you? ’ ’

“Six.” My eyes never left the trail ahead.

We crossed a glade, and as we entered the jungle again Bill stopped.

“Go on,” he directed. “I’ll join you in a few minutes. I’ve had a feeling we were being followed. ’ ’

“So have I. It’s been getting stronger and stronger, ’ ’ said Fergus.

The place was ideal to stop those we were confident were so hot on our trail should they cross the glade openly. Should they skirt it, however — but I did not let my mind dwell on that. Bill was a sharpshooter, and in any event he would not go on the long trail alone.

The path was leading downwai'd into a valley. We must be almost to the river. Our hick was still holding. If there were a boat, now — I heard the crack of Bill’s pistol — once — twice — three times — then silence. Fergus stopped.

“I’m going back,” he snapped. I laid my hand on his arm.

“No nse, lad,” I soothed. “Bill’s all right. He stopped them, at any rate, whether he got any or not. And they haven’t got him. I’m sure. He will be streaking it to us now. If he doesn’t ”

I didn’t finish, but Fergus’ face grew grim as he nodded.

“You’re right, Jock. It wouldn’t

do any good. But if he ” And

then Bill was with us again.

“Got another,” he jubilated. “Eight between the eyes. And pinked another, I think. They’re Mongols, just as I thought — raiders from the North.”

My face lighted. “Fine,” I exclaimed. “And they have a hostile village behind them.”

“By Jove, that’s right,” Fergus grinned. “And this racket is more than likely to bring the villagers out, too.”

I nodded as I swiftly took the trail again.

P>ERHAPS our good luck made us -*• careless; certainly there was little excuse for otir running into that ambush. The first I knew of it was seeing one of those flashing throwingknives streak past me. I ducked instinctively and so escaped the withering shower of slugs and scrapiron discharged by an old smoothbore muzzle-loader that let go almost at the same instant. Fergus, just behind, was not so fortunate. His hissing indrawn breath told me he was hit, no less than his stagger. Bill’s gun and mine exploded at the same instant, and a shriek answered their reports, but whether it was a death cry or not we couldn’t tell.

Fergus sank slowly to the side of the trail and a red tide dyed his tattered shirt. Quickly I stooped and got his arm about my neck, then lifted him bodily the while I swung my gun in my left hand in wide arcs covering the jungle before me.

Bill’s eager glances stabbed the green gloom about us, but the jungle Avas still as death. He moved forAvard close beside the trail like a shadoAV, taking advantage of every bit of cover Avhile I followed with my burden as well as I could. Fergus’ breath came in painful gasps, but he gritted his teeth and doggedly kept on.

It was utter foolhardiness for us to advance so, but with enemies ahead and behind, desperate measures were necessary. And such a desperate play might succeed through its sheer unexpectedness.

So it proved. Bill got in one more shot at a half-seen figure that was gone again in a flash, and, though we craAvled along at a snail’s pace, we saw ho others. Perhaps we had been ambushed by so few that they had no chance in the face of our bold move. Perhaps our one hit had destroyed their desire for combat at close

UP IPRIWADDY \YAY


quarters; at any rate we saw no more of them just then.

The ground beneath our feet was becoming a quivering jelly, a swampy quagmire that betrayed the river’s proximity. The gloom was even more pronounced, with an oppressive quiet in the air, a sullen foreboding. Despite the heat I shivered.

On such treacherous footing I was hard put to go on with Fergus, and after several hundred feet of it I was almost exhausted. But the gloom was lightening; the jungle was changing; we must be almost to the river.

I could go no faTther. Re.st I must; my breath came in whistling gasps; I streamed perspiration. Chase or no chase, I could go no farther.

Close beside the path was a round rock about waist-high, and a short distance away a number of others ofered an ideal resting-place as well as shelter should we be attacked. Bill stopped on the path, his glance darting incessantly about, every sense on the alert, and I carefully eased Fergus onto the nearest rock — not a rock after all, but some kind of spongy vegetable growth such as I had never seen before. Warily I rocked on my feet, too spent to take the few steps that separated this growth from the others.. Bill dropped back to us and the lines in his face smoothed themselves momentarily as he smiled.

“We’ll make it, old things,” he encouraged. ‘ ‘ It can ’t be far now. ’ ’

Fergus’ chin slumped forward onto his chest; his body sagged slowly toward us as I jumped for him. He was perilously close to a collapse, though the Lord knows he had gone through enough to try even a well man. His face was gray, his eyes closed. My arm about his shoulders, I strove to raise him, but he seemed made of lead. Again I heaved — no result. Bill stepped to the other side

and Ave tried together AA'ith no better luck.

Then the terrible truth struck home to both of us. Fergus was held fast by that strange vegetable groAvth on which he sat. His legs seemed half embedded in its rubbeiy substance. But that was not the worst. All about him, through those plant tissues was a red stain, deepest close to him and fading gradually away.

I think I Avas the first to understand. Some fcAV carnivorous plants I had seen before, but not of such a size or shape; my experience having been confined to Venus fly-traps and pitchei'-plants back in the dim days of my youth.

“We’A'c got to free him from this thing. Bill,” I said rapidly. “It’s not only holding him fast but it’s draAving every drop of blood out of him,” and I pointed to that darkening stain.

“God!” gasped Bill as his nimble mind took it all in at a flash. He heaved and tugged till his mighty thcAvs and sineAvs cracked. As Avell have tried to pull doAvn a vine-entangled jungle giant bare-handed as to pull that yielding form from the plant’s tenacious grip.

“Cut him free AAdth your knife. Bill,” I suggested.

“I can’t,” he groaned. “I lost it craAvling out of the temple through the passage.”

“I lost mine, too,” I admitted hopelessly. Oh, for one of those throAving-knives that had flashed past me not so long ago!

But Bill Avas heaA'ing and tugging again in a frenzy. In desperation he jumped upon that spongy mass, stooped, and then lifted Fergus AAuth a firm gi’ip under his arms. Just such a heave had I seen him make in Singapore one day AA'hen he had lifted the end of a great tealcAvood timber so they could take the crushed body of a coolie laborer from beneath it. But all in vain: though he



heaved and tugged till I feared for Fergus’ body, he never raised him an inch; he merely sank his own feet into the spongy mass to his anldes. And Fergus’ legs, I noticed, were now almost buried in that frightful plant, while the red stain had spread through its entire bulk. And Fergus’ face and arms "were turning a sinister bluish color.

Oppressed by a sudden fear, I thrust my hand within his tattered shirt. I groaned. Fergus was dead. Not the slightest tremor rewarded my exploring fingers pressed over his heart. It was stilled forever.

“He’s dead. Bill,’’ I shuddered. “One of those slugs must have got him worse than we thought and he

bled internally, or ”

“Or this devilish plant killed him,” and then Bill’s face became a tragic mask of terror. “ It ’s got me, too,” he screamed, while he struggled wildly to free himself from that deadly grip about his anldes. But each violent struggle only sent him the deeper into that yielding mass.

Fergus’ legs had vanished entirely into that horrid thing. He was engulfed almost to the waist and sinking slowly ever deeper. Bill had sunk ankle-deep before he discovered he was trapped, and his struggles to free himself speedily sank him almost to his knees.

H elplessly, sick at heart, I watched the hopeless struggle, unable to help in any way. There was nothing I could do bare-handed; no one to whom I could appeal for help. The brigands behind us, the natives behind them — all hostile, all seeking our death.

Bill was the first to recover his nerve. Face to face with a terrible and certain death that had already taken his brother and was about to claim him, he nevertheless refused to yield after his first momentary lapse.

“Go on, Jock,” he urged. “You

can make the river, perhaps. Take Fergus’ gun and ammunition and his rubies. Here ’s mine. ’ ’ He tossed me three flashing bits of flame. “They’re yours, and welcome. I’ll hold those de\ils back when they come as long as I ”

He shuddered. I knew what he meant by that unfinished sentence.

I shook my head in negation.

“Go on, you fool!” he raged. “There’s none to mourn me. Good riddance to bad rubbish. The world’s the better for me leaving it,” and he grinned wryly. “Perhaps I can do a little bit of good now to offset all the bad. Go on, old top, and good luck.” So in the end I was persuaded.

Heavy-hearted I went foi’ward, carrying with me the loot of two dead men and that of another who faced horrible death and hopeless odds as I may some day hope to face them, unafraid and smiling.

A gun in each hand, I crept slowly along that shaking, sucking path that threatened each moment to dissolve into abysmal ooze beneath my feet — onward to I knew not what, I knew not where. Death, certain and terrible, was behind me where it had already overtaken all of my comrades in most horrible forms. Would it get me too, I wondered? Would the powerful long arm of that longforgotten, long-neglected god of destruction reach out even to me? In my heart was a sick dread, and a determination to do my best, whatever the odds.

I made my way through the gloom, my eyes ever ahead, my ears turned backward to where that grim, terrible thing was happening — or was it all over? What a cowardly fool I had been to leave! Yet, perhaps I would have been a greater one to have stayed.

No, it was not all over yet. I heard Bill’s pistol cracking spitefully — half a dozen times; then after a pause, another string of shots.

UP lEKIWADDY WAY


Good old Bill! A man at the last, whateA^er his faults. Going doAvn like a hero, game to the very last, never giving up, even though the odds were overwhelming.

My mind was engrossed over what Avas behind me when it should have been most concerned Avith what lay ahead. That is my only excuse for Avhat happened. The path dissolved suddenly into nothingness; I.scrambled madly for another precarious foot-hold; half turned, and began sinking sloAvly into that deadly muck — sinking to a death no less terrible, no less certain than those others had been.

I felt the muck creeping.slowly and steadily upAvard. Already ray tlioughts pictui’ed its constricting Hutch about my chest, its deadly entry into my throat and lungs. Ugh! What a Avay to die — unseen, unheeded!

But Avait! Perhaps there was a more merciful death even noAv creep- ■ ing along that path behind me. I strained my eyes through the semigloom, hoping to see the.skulking forms of the bandits. Better the merciful crash of a destroying bullet or the stabbing pain of one of thos^ deadly kniA'es than this slow, sucking horror about me.

Knee-deep already, I made no useless moves that might drive me down the faster. Though death seemed certain, I Avould not give up hope until the last. My guns in my hands, I Avould go doAvn shooting if the enemy came. Tf not — well, I Avould go down anyAvay, perhaps Avith a last mercy bullet from my OAvn hand.

What Avas that movement back there along the trail? Had they caught up so soon? Yet, it couldn’t be. It might be monkeys, perhaps, in the trees above the trail; humans Avere hardly likely to come so.

Dimly thi’OAigh the oppressive gloom I made out a round, brilliant blue globe SAvaying at the end of a slender stalk and gathering to itself W, T.— 3

the faint light of that dense growth until it seemed to gloAv like a monster jewel. While I Avatched, several more of them appeared, rising above the lu.sh jungle groAvth and bobbing gracefully above the path I had come. Odd hoAV such trivial things should register on my mind in this extremity.

SloAvly I sank into the slime — waist-deep — then more sloAvly yet until that filthy mess was up about my chest. But so sloAvly now was I ■sinking that 1 could scarce tell it. The minutes dragged endlessly by; each seemed like an eternity.

Would they never come, I Avondered, after Avhat seemed years of waiting? Had Bill’s last fusillade beaten them off for good? I think I really hoped for the bandits’ coming; anything was better than this sloAv, horrible approach of death, alone and unheeded.

Again and again I twisted my head around to vieAvthat path along Avhieh I had come, but it Avas utterl3'- Avithout movement.save for the.swaying and bobbing of those lustrous blue globes above the rank, steaming jungle groAvth.

'’T^EN more minutes passed — or perhaps it Avas an hour — T don’t know. The ooze had risen no higher. Though I felt nothing solid beneath my feet, I had failed to sink any deeper; I mu.st be floating in that semi-fluid mess. My heart rose at the discovery, yet my reason told me that it meant nothing: I Avas

helpless unless assistance of some sort arrived. Though I might not suffocate under that filthy ooze, I Avas doomed no less.surely.

I felt, rather than saAV, a movement beside the path; my quickened senses warned me that my pursuers had arrived. By straining to the utmost I could swing my arm around so that my gun commanded the path. Carefully I sighted into the thick of that dense growth; blindly I pressed

-V



the triggei’, and the spiteful crack of my revolver broke through that brooding oppressive silence, to echo and re-echo against the thick leafy growth that hemmed me in.

I saw the bullet shatter one of those bobbing blue globes; saw the shattered shards drop, followed by a blue smokelike cloud of dust that settled slowly. Again I fired, aiming blindly, and yet a third time, but the onlj^ tangible result was the shattering of yet more of those odd things, followed by other clouds of that blue dust that sank slowly out of sight behind that luxuriant jungle growth, spreading as it dropped.

Had I imagined the presence of an enemy? W ere my senses giving way under the strain of this terrible ordeal? It would seem so. The jungle was as motionless as ever. Not a sound, not a movement betrayed the proximity of man. Ah, I had it! They hadn ’t seen me yet; they were trying to locate me.

A scream rang out — wild, inarticulate with fear, with agony. And hard on its echoes the jungle wmke to life with a chorus of them; the doathstill growth sprang to motion as half a score of frenzied figures broke out into the path.

It was the end, I told myself grimly, the last desperate charge that must surely overwhelm me. Very well. Let them come. It was at least a relief after all these horrors. I was ready to die. But I would not go alone. I would hold my bullets until I could make them all count. There would be plenty to join me as I took that last long trail.

But it was not the rush of an attack after all. These terror-stricken Chinese half-castes were too utterly demoralized to think of anything but blind flight — flight in any direction in their frenzied efforts to get away from that accursed spot. "While I watched I saw two of them pushed headlong from the path into that morass that hedged it so closely, to

sink into its depths still struggling madly and screaming eerily at the top of their singsong voices.

In God’s name, what had happened there? Another dropped across the path, writhing in agony, aiad yet anothei’. In all directions they sprang, colliding blindly with the jungle growths, slipping heedlessly off the path to sink into that deadly.slime, or dropping in their tracks to lie threshing with pain. One huge, halfnaked fiend sprang directly toward me, dropping into the ooze only a few feet away, where he twisted and clawed blindly.

As I w'atched his death agonies my dazed mind dimly grasped its stupendous horror. My bullets had not gone so wild as I had expected after all. True, I had hit no human body, but I had loosed upon these cutthroats something more deadly for them than mere bullets. Those slowly sinking, spreading blue clouds had dropped upon their naked bodies, unnoticed perhaps, but only so for a few moments.

Dustlike spores they must have been, of some gigantic fungi unknown to science, growing in that almost unknown land; another of those terrible carnivorous plants such as had laid hold of Bill and his brother a short while before — or was it ages ago?

The gleaming yellow body so close to me was stilled now; its struggles Avere over. Even as I Avatched, a terrible change was going on — a change that my mind refused almost to believe. SAviftly its color Avas changing from yelloAv to blue. Its outlines grew indistinct. The upper part of the torso seemed dissolving into a mass of little tentacles that grew rapidly and stretched upAvard in a compact group. Higher and higher they rose until they stood a foot above the level of the morass —

two feet — three. And now from

among them were pu.shing up colorless spikes that gleamed Avhitely as



they rose swiftly. Up, up, up, until only by straining my head backward with all my might could I see their tips.

Their upward growth was stopped, yet they seemed still in motion. The rods Ayere becoming more slender, the tips were thickening rapidly. Now the whiteness of them was changing to a deep glistening blue and the thickened tips were becoming those glistening blue globes I had seen rising above the jungle growth, while the compact mass of tentacles at their base was assuming a wilted, shidveled appearance, to fall over at last, a putrescent mass, upon what had once been a human body vibrant Avith life. Only upon the path I saw the leg lying of what had so short a time before been a man.

Dimly in the back of my mind some memory Avas struggling toward the surface of its consciousness. In my school days, in my youth I had watched slimes and molds under the high-powered microscope and had seen those tiny infinitesimal growths complete their life cycle so. But they had been tiny growths, fractional parts of an inch in height — never such monstrosities as these. And their similar upthrust sporangia held in their shells the dustlike spores of another such life circle, even as these bhte globes that bobbed about in the air above me.

So far I reasoned, when like a flash, my own danger came to me. These spore-eases bobbing above me so lazily held another such cycle within their gleaming shells. In the fullness of time they would open, dropping another sloAV-floating, blue, dustlike cloud to settle doAvn, down, down upon me held fast by the ooze beneath them.

In that moment I think I went stark, raving mad, screaming curses at the top of my voice, beating wildly at the viscous unresisting filth that held me there, until at last reason fled.

''IXThat happened after that I » ^ could dimly reconstruct Avhen,

I knoAV not hoAV long after, I woke once more to reason Avithin the high latticework hut of a native village. So weak that the slightest move took prodigious effort, I opened my eyes to the blazing sunlight and stupidly Avatched a native Avoman busy at her mud hearth preparing a meal. She turned and smiled as she saAv my eyes upon her, calling in her musical A'oice while the hut shook as someone climbed the ladder without and a man entered; a golden-hued native like the many I haA'e met in that upland country.

For many days I dwelt Avith them, slowly regaining strength under their ministrations, until at last I could travel again. From that hut, one of the pitiful feAv that formed the village, under the guidance of the native, I made my way back to the Irriwaddy and the trader’s landing.

Of the scene on that jungle path or the ruined temple with its forgotten treasure they could not or would not tell me. Nor Avould they talk of my rescue. I surmised that the man had come along that path of sucking, treacherous death and had plucked my unconscious body from its slimy embrace, bringing me to the village. Of my giins or the rubies there was no sign; they must have been sucked down into the ooze.

Back once more at the river ’s edge^ ■ I loaded my guide with what was to him a veritable treasiu*e of brass rings and armlets, smiling a return to his thanks while my eyes traveled over the breast of that taAvny strejim that Avould carry me away foreyer from that still powerful though forgotten god Avhose arm had so nearly taken me.

M ilton was sweltci'ing on the baked mud roof of a Ilopi pueblo; one of those pyramid cities lost in the shimmering heat of the Painted Desert. The snake dance was on. The painted priests were chanting and circling upon the roof below, and he watched the mottled and white bellies of the squirming serpents as they dangled sulkily or whipped savagely about to free themselves from the sharp teeth of the dancers. The white bellies flashed their flag of death — rattlesnakes, big fellows most of them. And Milton watched for them among the mottled bellies of the harmless

prairie snakes. They were on the south roof of the ground floor and he was safe enough on the roof of the second floor above them, with only a rude pole ladder fi’om roof to roof. But the sight sickened him, sent chills of revulsion through him, though he had seen their snake dance many times before.

A gild’s head came cautiously over the north wall. She was creeping up carefully between the poles of a ladder which projected a few feet above the roof. She Avas a Avoman Avith green eyes and yelloAv hair and fair cheeks AA^hich flamed under the raAv sun. He stared as though she



was a mirage or a vision. The last thing he expected to see climbing that wall was a white woman. As she saw him perched upon the parapet of mud bricks she stopped, astonished. She frowned as though disappointed, abandoned her caution and mounted the roof. Both thought themselves pioneers here, one hundred and fifty miles from the iron arteries of the world.

She spoke in a low tone which barely reached him above the pulsing chant beyond the wall.

“Will they let one watch?” she asked, reassuming her movement of caution and crouching below the parapet.

He grinned at her. “Arc you afraid? You crept up like a shy ghost.”

“I didn’t want them to know I was here. I suppose it won’t make any dilferenee, now.” She glanced at him meaningly.

“Oh, they don’t care,” he answered carelessly. “I’ve watched them a good many times. They do have some rites, though, which it would pay to creep up on, if one watched at all. ”

“I wanted to watch them without their knowing. ’ ’ She was still frowning. “I’m afraid they won’t put on the whole show. ’ ’

“You’ll see enough,” he affirmed Avith another grin, “You ’fraid of snakes?”

“No. I’m interested in them. ’ ’

“Well, there are plenty of them down there,” Milton said with a shrug of his gaunt frame. “I never did care much for this kind of a show, yet I always manage to be here each year. Guess I’m queer that way, looking at Avhat I don’t like to see. I always took in the snake shows back home. The girl in the glass case, and the big python crawling over her, ugh. ’ ’ He shrugged his.shoulders again.

She Avinced. He studied her keenly.

“Yes, I’m that girl,” she admitted, and bit the flesh of her lower lip. “That is why I am here. To find something ncAv. I’m with the circus. ’ ’

“You?” the question escaped him as an exclamation.

She still crouched under the parapet, peering over at the half-naked snake priests circling Avith the stamp of feet and the throb of drums. He talked on to make her forget his remark.

“Tell me, I’ve heard a lot about pythons — can they swallow a man Avhole, or is that a fable?”

“I don’t know,” she answered absently, looking with interest on the scene below. “T.shouldn’t wonder, though; I ’ve seen common prairie.snakes no bigger than that one” — she pointed to a snake — “swalloAV eggs. I saAV one with a china egg in its throat one time; it gagged trying to crush it, and then kept SAvallowing it though its neck swelled out like a toothache.”

“There are lots of things about snakes I don’t knoAv,” he spoke to her again; but she did not hear. She Avas AA’atching the weird scene beloAv. The drone of the chant vibrated into their ears, the.singing of the rattlers whined into their flesh, the glare of the AAffiite sun smote their brains, and the white teeth of the broAvn, naked dancers gleamed whiter clamped upon the scaly throats of the.snakes.

Milton Avas nauseated. The girl did not seem so, but under some unholy spell. Her green eyes followed one large, sinuous serpent as it dangled from the brutelike mouth of a hairy but scrawny priest. Milton, torn between his disgusted abhorrence of snakes and his attraction to this Avoman who was interested in them, moved nearer her as she peered down upon the door of an open Kiva.

“Say, tell me,” he drawled, “am I seeing things? Am I dreaming or awake?”



She thought he "was speaking of the snake dance, but his eyes were on her. She did not look up from her downward gaze at the writhing length of that enormous snake in the mouth of the snake priest, but answered him with dreamy lassitude, as though she were only half awake or in a semi-delirium.

“It does seem unreal. See those fangs in his arm. He only shakes it off! He is unharmed! If I could only flo that? I can handle them, but I must charm them. If I could only handle them like that!”

Milton recoiled involuntarily. She sensed it and turned a smile upon him — a strange, pensive smile which begged that she be not misunderstood. He felt an impulse whieh was primal, and which the ci%'ilized man fought to conquer. He stammered an apology; not exactly an apology, more an explanation.

“I just can't think — of you touching them.” He shrugged his shoulders in a slight intimation of his thoughts.

Her eyes softened. She understood, and understanding him she seemed to find something which for the moment fascinated her even more than the twisting snake in the mouth of the priest, yet with a different kind of an influence, not mesmerism, just his awakening concern for her.

“Snakes aren’t so bad as you think, when you know them. I felt much as jmu do, for a while, but they saved the life of one I love, and they have provided means for me when I thought there were no means, so why should I not like them?”

She was defending herself more than the snakes. He did not answer her, but sat in a moody silence listening to the hiss and whir below, his only movement being to change about so that the sun could not strike the same side of his body for long at a time. She was interested in him,

and after a while tried to renew her defense.

“Don’t you think it’s our traditions which take hold of us like that?” she asked.

“Maybe,” he answered, “but I believe one would loathe snakes if he had never seen them before.”

“Not always,” she said, raising a bare arm toward the exotic dancers. “Those men down there worship them!”

He was silent, and they listened to the wail and chant of the priests.

After a while she spoke again. “I wish I could see that huge rattler a little closer. I wish I dared go down close to them.”

“Why don’t you?” he asked with a quizzical smile.

“I would. But those priests! They look at each other so queerly from their black eyes. I’m afraid of them.”

Milton stretched his legs upon the baked roof and then got up.

“Come. I’ll go down with you.”

T hey walked to the crude pole ladder whieh led from the roof above to the roof below. She did not tell him her name, nor he tell her his. He was thinking of the marvel that such a woman should exist at all, and wondered not at the lesser marvel that she should be in this particular place. And she was thinking of the snakes, wondering if they who had saved her in one crisis would crush her in the next, would draw a line between her and the man beside her.

He went over the wall first, stepping upon the ancient, sun-cracked rungs of the pole ladder, looking back at her with a smile, and she waited on top until he should step upon the hard clay of the roof below. With his eyes upon her he did not see the nest of snakes which crawled at the foot of the ladder, and looking at him sh5 did not see them either until it was almost too late; and the



priests with their sacred dance and the attendants with their sticks and sacred meal were too devout to let their eyes wander from the back of the man ahead of them. There were dozens of snakes at the base of the ladder, harmless prairie snakes with tapering tails and slim heads, but one of the larger sullen ones had Iddney-shaped splotches of brown upon its scaly flesh, and it coiled and lifted the thick wedge-shaped head which, denoted the poisonous rattler, and darted its forked tongue and whirred its vibrant rattlers.

The chant was shrill and loud. She leaned over the wall and extended both her hands. She doubted if she could make him understand, and her veiy fear caught her voice and stifled it to a whisper as she motioned to him.

“Wait! Stop!”

The chant of the dance went on. The priests had not seen nor heard, but Milton had. He turned about upon his narrow perch and saw the wicked, lidless green eyes below him, eyes which held the concentrated venom of a thousand years’ enmity with man, not soft, deep green eyes like hers above him. Milton swore under his breath, shivered a little, and climbed back to the roof above. Beside her again he tried to laugh easily, but could not hide his abhorrence of the insidious death he had escaped.

“I’ll go first,” she said, and was already upon the ladder.

“No you don’t,” he commanded, looking about the bare roof for a weapon. “That devil has its fangs!”

But she was going down, calmly smiling at him with a pleased assurance of her power.

‘ ‘ Stop! ” he cried, leaning over and grasping her hand, his eyes on hers, and said hoarsely, “I’m not a coward. Come on back. I’ll go first.”

The low walls of the house were not longer than the length of her

arm above her head, and by now her feet were very close to the head of the big serpent, but she left her hand in his and descended another rung.

“It’s all right,” she said, her eyes still holding him. “Let me loose, please. It will strike if I can not see it.”

Milton released her hand and stared with a perplexed fear, chilled to his soul. She stepped slowly and sinuously, lithe as the serpents themselves, picked up the big fellow and laid him upon her bare white shoulder, let him circle her white arms and coil about her whiter throat. Twice about her white throat she wound him and let his long brown body fall like a necklace of rusty gold down across her rounded breast and over the glistening sheen of her white dress, its tail weaving back and forth, its ugly head curved forward, sullen and stiff, like carved bronze. There was no hint of bravado in her actions. Every movement was the careless, yet trained action of long custom. She seemed hardly aware she was doing anything out of the ordinary, and she turned her green eyes invitingly to the man upon the roof, with the faint trace of a smile about the comers of her mouth. The bright Arizona sun caught the coils of her yellow hair, and the dry breath of the desert breeze vrrapped her skirt close about her knees, and there was something about her which caught the imagination of the white man above and the copper men below.

A vibrant calm fell upon the worshipers, a calm more violent than the stamp of their feet or the throb of their drums, or the undertone of hissing snakes. And then priest and attendants, slowly, with upstretched arms and adoring faces, sank to their shaking knees, and prostrated themselves among the serpents.

“Akkii! Akkiii!” they groaned, bare bronze backs toward the white noon sun.



Something had happened for which they had long waited and prayed. That bright American girl with the great snake about her neck and the white silk of her dress shimmering in the sunshine, appeared to them as some angel manifest from heaven, a fair goddess of the snakes, their messengers to those who reign above.

M ilton looked down in astonished, frozen amazement, half believing he had witnessed some marvel conjured by the priests below. There was something about this hot, dazzling sunshine which gave credence to the unreal. It wrought great lakes which vanished at approach, it built cities of walls and towers upon the bare and vacant table-lands, it mixed myster5^ with reality, and here was this girl, fair under a sun which withered and burn^ the flesh, coiled about with the snake-angels of the demon-worshipers below. So he stood there very much as spellbound as the priests, who were prostrate upon the lower roof with great snakes writhing and whipping about upon the hot, baked floor, whipping and coiling about, trying to release themselves from the clenched teeth of the priest and the outstretched hands of attendants, the whir of their rattlers high-pitched and shrill. Yet not a brown face raised from the floor and not an outstretched hand upon that blistering roof so much as twitched as fangs sank into lean, muscular arms.

The grizzled old priest who had led the ceremonies rose slowlj'' with his head low toward the ground, as though not daring a second look at the vision. She stood like some goddess of fine marble, with hair of spun gold and arms and face of alabaster. Even then not one moved other than the majestic old priest. The girl was transfixed more with amazement than any idea of having struck an attitude of proud superiority, while

he, bowing low, spread wide his hands in a gesture of abjection and worship, all the other bare copper backs prostrate under the burning sun.

With slow, august grace the old man retreated, one brown leg thnist back, the other bent in genuflection, the grace and precision of long-accustomed ceremonies, but also with an added touch of fear, Avonder, Avorship! Backward, baekAvard, step upon sloAv adoring step, until he reached the mouth of a rounded Kiva with a panel of fine polished granite before its door.

With a cry of high-pitched Availing, sad, yet AAuth a tone of final, culminating triumph, a cry more wild and unforgettable in that unartieulated Hopi tongue, he swept back the Kiva door, and there tumbled into the sunlight such a hoard of dull, gleaming, yellow gold as caught the goddess’ breath and left Milton gaping upon the roof.

And there Avere jcAvels, blue turquoises and red rubies, and sapphires and opals which sparkled and ran fire under the sharp sunlight; hand-wrought Navajo bracelets, and lieaA'^y crude necklaces of turquoise, great silver earrings and armlets, and golden anklets and bracelets of a curious antique Spanish pattern, bracelets with great blood imbies and scintillating diamonds; and there Avcrc long ropes of matched pearls, and old coins, and gold nuggets and dull heavy yellow dust; the long accumulation of long years of Avar and barter and search; several hundredAveight of sparkling, gleaming, flaming treasure!

Milton and the girl Avere too astonished to take in its meaning. Some hazy, dull idea that she was being worshiped had OA'erpowered her, some idea that all this was intended for her, though it seemed more the Avild delirium of the intolerable glaring sun than reality. E\'en then it never occurred to her what it might mean —

THE C40DDESS OF THE PAINTED PRIESTS


that it threatened her — that an influence was at work which might enslave her and destroy the man upon the roof.

The old priest, singing his wild chant, was now being echoed by the prostrate men. His brown, withered hands dived into the hoarded treasure and scattered basket after basket full at her feet in slow unison wdth his weird song. Gleaming, sparkling, glowing under the naked sun the various treasures fell about her, heaping upon her slippered feet and mounting her silken legs, and formed a pedestal of jewels and fine gold.

Something touched her now, something she could not explain. Realizing she was the central actor of a tremendous drama, she lifted her face toward heaven and smiled, a quaint, charming little smile, her eyes bright and her cheeks all aflame. And still the hoarded treasure rained at her feet, and Milton upon the wall became uneasy, for he knew this could not last. He knew, too, he had seen something the Hopi would never let be known beyond the walls of their pueblo. She was safe enough at present, but when she failed to vanish and take their offering with her would they allow her to leave as flesh and blood? Would they? He knew that they would not. He knew when she did not vanish into heaven with their gifts they would begin to be troubled, and to doubt, and like all men to destroy that which they had worshiped. As for himself — but he did not think of himself. She was down there, she who was so lovely, coiled about with snakes and half buried in gold. And then his eyes took in the significance of that treasure. No more long pilgrimages across the hostile desert; she would no longer have to feel the crawl of snakes across her silky shoulders. She could leave the snakes to the heathen priest. They could live! They? That brought back the

hint she had dropped him. At least it had seemed a hint to him, a barrier she had raised that he might govern his heart. ‘ ‘ Snakes saved the life of one I love.” That sentence! It had stung him before she was in this danger, and danger had roused something long peaceful years never arouse.

T he old priest had now prostrated himself upon the roof again and she was extricating herself from the heap of treasure, gently uncoiling the big snake from her white throat and placing him, a tawny coil, upon the yellow gold and the blue turquoise and the white silver. Then with a lithe grace she went quickly up the ladder and took refuge behind Milton iipon the higher roof. She was afraid of those bare, whitetoothed snake priests. She did not trust the power she had exerted over these heathen men.

“Oh!” she cried and sank limply behind Milton. “Wasn’t it terrible?”

“It was very beairtiful — and unreal,” he said as he gazed at the tumbled treasure with its goddess gone.

“Yes, unreal,” she assented. “That stuff down there! That!” He pointed below. “It must bo worth almost anything. I had no idea they had gold! So much gold! ’ ’ Then he thought of her and forgot the treasure.

“You’d better go now. Hurry. If they find vou’re flesh and blood they’ll kill you.”

She made an odd little gesture of compliance which caught at Milton’s heart, but she said, “Come on, let’s go together. I believe I need an escort.”

There was something in his cj’es she did not understand.

“I can’t go just yet,” he said, knowing full well the Hopi v/ould never let him go while their treasure was left rejected upon the roof. Then,



as she looked at him puzzled, he added, “I haven’t finished my tradmg.”

“You practical man,” she laughed, “to finish trading when a goddess demands your service. Very well, is it good-bye then?”

“Yes, good-bye,” he said hastily, afraid she might wait too long.

“Good-bye,” and then as she started over the wail she blew him a kiss and said softly, “I shall remember you, always.”

She waved him a farewell as she descended the ladder and left him her smile as a last picture, just over the parapet of the roof.

He struggled with an impulse to follow her, and conquered. There was no way but for him to remain. They would not let him go to tell the clans to the east and the west and the south of their trea.sure and its shame. He must stay; for if he left with her, their runners Avould hunt him down and find her also, and find she was no goddess after all, and he would fight but that could not save her. There was only one way to save her and that was by surrendering himself. So he sat thinking, waiting for the storm to break below and the painted priest to leap upon him and kill him. He thought of her alone out there on the thir.sty desert, slowly taking her way across the miles back to the circus for which she had risked the little known Hopi lands. He wondered if she would think of him as she said she would, always!

And then, he saw her face again, there above the parapet. At first he thought it the heat that had wrought that face there, her face, which he had never expected to see again. She smiled and then drew a puzzled frown between her eyes.

“I forgot,” she whispered.

“Where is the well? I have no water.”

“You haven’t water?” he exclaimed alarmed.

“Only about a gallon,” she answered. “Is it that bad? You look positively seared. ”

He sat thinking hard.

“The trader told me there was plenty of Avater at the pueblo,” she said, defending her lack of foresight.

“There is. But not for you.”

“Not for me?”

“They must not know you need water. Goddesses do not come with Avater kegs for the return trip. I can’t get it for you, either. They might think I Avas trying to get aAvay. ’ ’

He bit his lip hastily, but it was out, he had told her. She undei’- stood instantly why he had not gone. Her act had made him prisonei;. She came back quickly upon the roof, fear in her own eyes noAv. She caught hold of his arm, whispering tensely: “What is it? What are you hiding? They will kill you! They’ll kill you because of what you saAV doAvn there! I know it! You can’t fool me, man. Tell me the truth! I’ll not go until you tell me the truth!”

He only shook his head and said, “I’m only afraid for you. They must not find you. You must go.”

“Then you come, too,” she insisted. “What am I saying? We can’t go, either of us. We should die of thirst.”

“Look!” he pointed tOAA^ard the southeast. “See that gully in the red sand, just beyond the soapweed clump? ’ ’

She shaded her eyes from the glare of the sun.

“Yes.”

“Up that gulch tAvo miles yoix Avill find my burros loaded Avith water and food. Take them and go quickly. I Avill follow with your burros and meet you at Tres Piedras AAuthin a week. This is your only chance. Hurry! They won’t look for you. If I am here they will suspect nothing.”

“But you?” she questioned lookTHE GODDESS OF THE PAINTED PKIESTS


ing at him closely, her eyes telling what her lips would not say.

“Me?” he said as though he had just thought of himself. “Oh, I know these hombres — I trade with them.”

“But you said they would not let you go! ”

“I’ll fool them.”

“How?”

“I have a plan,” he lied.

“Why did you hide }mur burros?” she asked with new suspicion.

“I didn’t hide them. There’s a little shinery brush up that gulch. I left the burros there to save feed.”

He drew her back quickly from where she was standing near the wall. “Keep low!” he whispered a caution to her.

The grizzled old priest had ventured to raise his head from the blistering mud bricks, and hesitated with his head poised in air as though listening for a flutter of angel’s wings, and then he guardedly risked a glance toward the heaped treasure and then a full gaze of astonishment. She had vanished as she had come, but his old face gathered wrinkles of worry into its seams. He began a chant of wailing, waking the seemingly dead acolytes, swaying his old head toward the mass of treasure as he chanted. Milton understood what it meant. They were wailing because their treasure «had been refused. Hardly knowing he was thinking aloud he said, more to himself than the girl, “If we only had some way to get rid of that stuff! If we only had some way!”

“I’ve gotten you into trouble,” breathed the girl as she crouched beside him. “I never dreamed of such a climax. You get away. It was my fault. See if you can’t escape. If they come up here I can startle them for a while.”

“Escape? Say!” He laughed with a bold fearlessness. “Do I look that kind?”

She was repentant now. “Please

go!” She begged. “It was my fault. Go! Leave me to undo it.”

“If we only had some way of getting rid of that stuff, we could go together. If we only had some means of lugging it off, all of that blasted stuff, carry it off in such a way as to make them think it was sucked up into heaven or taken by their angels. You could go and I would follow you. They would want me to go then so that I might tell the unbelievers to the soutli and east of what I had seen, but if we can’t get rid of that stuff they will never let us go. They would kill you if I went with you, for they would hunt me down. You will have to go on alone, and let me have my chance when you are gone.”

“Listen! Listen!” she exclaimed, her words drowned by the clamor below. “They’re going crazy. Listen!”

mysterious appearance and disappearance of the girl, her strange power over the snakes, had set the dancers on fire. The crisis for which they had waited for centuries was upon them. The great daj" long looked for had come. Prophecy was fulfilled, legend was verified. Their music grew fevered and wild, their dance waxed violent and fierce. Throbbing, pulsing sobbed their drums; pleading, beseeching wailed their chant; calling, calling back the angel who had given them a visitation; praying with their dance for her return; praying with their most furious and fervid dance for her to return and accept their gifts, their long-accumulated treasure against this time; and then they prostrated themselves, hoping when they arose to find their treasure gone.

“I must go back,” she whispered.

“What?”- he exclaimed, not trying to hide his fear for her.

“I must go back. I have a plan.” That was all she would say.



“You must not.” Ho was firm, but he asked, “What is your plan?”

She did not tell him. He might not consent. If she failed and they killed her, he would l>e fi’ee. She would not have his blood upon her hands. She had a plan, a bold, foolish plan. It might make away with the gold and jewels — those dear, terrible jewels, and that gold. Yet, there was many hundredweight of it. Gold is so very heavy. She could not carry it away; that would be impossible, but she had a plan, a plan that had come to her as she spoke of angels.

Every head there below was close against the ground, and again she descended the ladder. Milton protested, but she went ahead and he dared not call out or try to detain her, but he stood where she had left him like an image of stone, watching her as she picked up the stupefied serpent where it lay hot and blinded by the sun, still coiled upon the heap of treasure. She put the snake carefully to one side and stooping down lifted necklace after necldace and bracelet after bracelet; cheap silver ones from the Navajo tribes to the ea.st, and costly fabulous ones from rich caravans which had journeyed from the west coast; hea^y gold ones from the defeated Conquistadores who had become lost upon this Painted Desert; strings of matched pearls and hea'v’y turquoise and beads of pure gold. She covered her arms and ankles and slipped them about her neck until there remained not one bracelet or necklace left. Then she stretched down her arms and lifted the big snake and placed him upon her shoulders.

Milton still stood pei’plexed and petrified. He thought her purpose was to take the neeldaces and bracelets and leave the heavy gold and the heaps of rare jewels. He knew that Avould not do. They Avould find her upon the painted sands weighted with her ornaments, and they would

never let him go as long as the gold and jewels were left, for the vision had refused their greatest gifts, their own gold and blood rubies picked from their sacred mountains, and she had taken the handiwork of the hated Navajo and the spoils of the more hated Spaniard. No. they Avould not let him go. But that mattered little. He would have thrown himself in the midst of those vile, poisonous snakes if it would free her.

Still she stood waiting. Why did she not go quickly to the ladder on the other side of the wall which led to the ground below? Why did she not hurry to get across the great burning sand and reach the gulch he had shown her? He was of half a mind to call to her, to urge her to run, though he knew that would not do. They would hear him and kill her before she could get aAvay. Tensely he leaned over and wondered what she had in mind.

And then he heard the long rise of a queer sound, rising in a thin weird key, throbbing like the beat of drums, quivering like a cry; louder it grew, rising and rising, sobbing and wailing in the same thin key. The prostrate worshipers heard it and their rigid muscles grew stiffer until they seemed like petrified images of stone. The snakes of the big Kiva heard it, "too, and poked puzzled heads from its door as the staccato plaint kept on.

Milton looked at the girl in astonishment. In her mouth was some kind of a reed pipe and she gazed steadily ahead of her toward the door of the snake Ki^m with the same dazed look he had seen upon her face as she had watched the.snakes from over the Avail. Milton began to feel somewhat hypnotized himself as the queer sound went on.

T^rom out the Kiva door one mammoth snake drcAv its seemingly interminable coil, and after it came



another, and they glided toward the girl upon the pile of precious stones and metal; another and another, dozens of them, hundreds of them, and still they came from the Kiva, more and more of them, and on they glided with that sinuous, sidewise sweep, crawling over the prostrate men, on and on to the foot of her golden throne.

Milton stared in wonder, fear, horror! What could she do? What could she do, against that oncoming reptilian army? But even as he despaired, he saw her do a peculiar thing. She passed her hand before her very much as a hypnotist would do, and the big prairie snake ahead stopped with a puzzled stupor, raised its head from the earth in a rigid metallic-seeming arch, and then opened its yellow mouth and hissed, darting its tongue in and out with lightninglike rapidity. She reached down and lifted it with one hand, and with the other lifted a nugget of gold the size of a marble; then, grasping the sides of its mouth, she forced the nugget into the snake’s throat and with her fingers outside its neck gently massaged the bulge lentil the snake had swallowed it. And this she did again and again in the hushed silence which fell upon that lone pueblo in the vacancy of desert and clear sky, a silence that was broken only by the creepy rasp of snake bellies over the hard baked roof. The white-bellied rattlers she charmed but laid in a stupefied heap to one side, grasping the harmless prairie snakes to make the cache for her gold.

When one snake’s sides were distorted with gold and rubies and pearls and sapphires and turquoise, she laid it in a heap and picked another of the larger prairie snakes and repeated her methods. She did not hurry, for she was handling death. Rattlers were coiled or crawling all about her, and yet the pile diminished very slowly. If those

priests looked up! If they found her feeding their treasure to the snakes! What would they do? Would they rise and kill her? Milton had no idea and he fretted as time dragged.on.

The old priest began to grow uneasy, too, with grim silenee about him. He stirred, he poised his head in air again, he was about to rise. The girl saw him. She dropped the big snake in a twisting heap at her feet. Milton clenched his teeth. She ought not to have done that. She ought to • have placed the snake about her. That is what had startled them before. Milton gripped the ladder as the grizzled head of the priest slowly turned toward the treasure heap. She must do something at once. And she did. She placed the reed pipe in her mouth and blew a note, long, wild, high. The old man di*opped as though liit by a bolt from heaven.

“ ATiMi! Akkiii!” he groaned and flattened his face to the roof.

She lifted her snake again and went unhuiTiedly on, yet with the swiftness of precision. Her eyes fell upon a pigeon-blood ruby. It was larger than any Milton had ever seen, and he knew that she coveted it, for she reached down and placed it to one side and kept on with her labor until there was left but a handful of yellow dust, which she swept up carefully and placed in one of those tough, round, waterproof baskets the Hopi weaves from the strong fiber of the yucca leaf, and into the basket she dropped the great ruby, and picked up the basket and took the snake from her shoulders and w'ent swiftly down the ladder to the ground, beckoning Milton to follow her where she had gone on the trail to the gulch. Prom his perch above, Milton saw her vanish beliind a large drift of maroon sand, and then he went below.

The big snakes were heaped upon one another, sluggish with their

g42


weight of precious stones and much heavier gold.

“My brothers,” Milton said.

The prostrate men arose, looking quickly toward the heap of snakes and where had lain the heap of treasure. There was a shout, a scream of ti’iumph, a babble of dancing joy, an ecstasy of religious exultation. It was some time before they would listen to him, circling in their frenzied dance, flinging handfuls of sacred meal toward the heap of snakes, dancing, dancing, round and round, but Anally he made them hear him and commanded their attention. Then he began in slow, solemn speech.

“My brothers,” he spoke in the Hopi tongue, and they settled upon their tucked-under legs as in a daze, or dream, or weary exhaustion. “I have seen. And now I go to tell the Navajo and the Laguna and the Acoma that there is a true people with a true worship. And that I have seen with my own eyes that she has come and accepted of your gifts, and such as she has not taken with her she has left in the belly of the

snakes, her angels, so that when they carry your messages for rain and long life she may know that they come from your pueblo and not from another. And when your name is heard among the Eagle clan to the east, or the Water clan to the south, or the Bear clan to the north, they shall have my witness. And now, my brothers, I go, and may peace be unto you.”

And when Milton overtook her below the sand dune and had smiled at her triumphantly and tenderly he said: “And now the snakes have saved the life of one you love, and the life of one who loves you; but what can the one do who loves you, without your love? ’ ’

And she laughed a little happy laugh and said to him, “The one I love, sir, is you.”

And he looked at her bewildered and said:

“But you told me they had saved one you love even before they had saved me?”

And she laughed more happily and said, “The other one, you goose, was myself.”

SONNET

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

Empress with eyes more sad and aureate Than sunset ebbing on a summer coast.

What gold chimera lovest thou the most —

What gryphon, with emblazoned wings elate.

Or dragon straying from the dim estate Of kings that sway the continents uttermost Of old Satumus? Or what god, or ghost.

Or spatial daemon, for thy spirit’s mate

Art fain to choose?... Howbeit, in thy heart.

Though void as now to vision and desire

The days and years deny thee, shall abide

The passion of the impossible, the pride

Of lust immortal for the monstrous ire


[THE END]

============================================================
by Keller
============================================================
And pain of love in scarlet worlds apart.

A Short and Eery Sto?y Is


By DAVID H. KELLER

TALL happened in the fall of 1270.

The Damsel Susanne had developed a sickness that frightened her parents and drove Friar Sinistrari to extra hours of devotion. She would retire as usual in the evening, and, after some hours had passed, there would come a cry from her as though she had suffered from a nightmare in her sleep. Going to her daughter’s room, the mother would find her in a deep sleep and very white, with little beads of perspiration on her face. Moisture gathered on a mirror held before her mouth but she could not be seen to breathe. This way she would stay for hours, often till the first dawn of day, and then she would sigh deeply, grow roses in her cheeks and fall into a natural sleep from which she would awake by noon. These periods of deep unconsciousness, hours of stupor, came at first a week apart, then twice a week, and finally every night. During the daytime the damsel lost her buoj’-aney and light heart and became listless.

The duke, her father, was poor. Fortunately for him the forests were full of deer and the rivers abundant with fish. Grain was raised by the vassals, and firewood was plenty. Everyone contributed toward the welfare of the little community. There was but little gold, and few jewels, some dresses that had been worn for three generations, plenty of armor, and at least some degree of

security. The very poverty of the duke and the isolated position of his castle kept at a distance the robber bands that roamed over France during those lawless centuries.

The duke and his Lady Arabella, however, considered themselves rich in one respect, and that was in the possession of their daughter. She was not onlj' a well-behaved young lady, but she had some degree of beauty and in addition was intelligent enough to learn to read and write, a most unusual accomplishment in those days for a woman. The old friar Avas proud of her, as she was the only pupil of his old age. He was almost enthusiastic over her scholastic attainments and frequently spoke of her Avisdom.

In 1270 Susanne was seventeeen years old. Life must have seemed A^ery quiet to her during those years, and no doubt she took long breaths and sighed deeply Avhen the friar told her tales of Paris and the French court. I presume that she thought nothing ever happened in Aragon — and just AA^hen the child Avas ready to die from the very sameness of her life, the cat had come to the castle.

There is no doubt that this was a ATiy unusAial eat in every way. She Avas much larger than the average cat, and striped like a tiger. The eyes^were yelloAv and at night shone like large stars. During the entire time the cat was at the castle she Avas never seen to eat; AAdiile she often




sat on the table at mealtime, not even the choicest titbit was fine enough to tempt her appetite. As soon as this cat came to the castle all the other cats left, at once, and their absence was not a cause for concern, for all the rats and mice left at the same time.

The cat came and went according to no rule or reason and seemed to have no troiible in going anj’Tvhere she wished to, even thoiigh the doors were closed and the windows locked. She was never seen in the small chapel. Her favorite room was that occupied by the Damsel Susanne, and she seemed fonder of that child than of any other person in the castle. She would lie for hours at a time on the floor, watching Susanne, her eyes first narrow slits in the yellow and then deep pits of a peculiar green.

The damsel liked the cat, and for that reason the animal was tolerated. Friar Sinistrari protested from the first and said that it would end in some horrible disaster, but the damsol cried and the Lady Arabella looked concerned and the duke said tiiat he saw nothing of harm in a cat; so it ended in the cat’s staying. Yet in the fall of the year the damsel was ill more often than ever.

To add to the worries of Duke Jacobus Hubelaire, strange tales began to come to the castle. First a goose was found dead with blood coming from little punctate holes in the neck; then little lambs were somehow killed during the night and their bodies sucked dry of blood; and finally a child was taken from its crib and the torn and lifeless body left in a thicket near the griefstricken parents’ hut.

The common folk were dependent on the duke for protection, so it was natural that they send a delegation to him telling him what they feared and asking him for help. They were no coAvards though they were serfs, and the tale they told to the duke,

his lady and the friar was no story to tell to little children.

To put it briefly, their tale was this — ^that several of them had seen a woman wandering through the woods on the nights Avhen the lambs and the baby had been slain. It was the opinion of those Avho had seen her most clearly in the moonlight that the woman had the dress and general appearance of the Damsel Susanne. At this statement the duke SAvore, the Lady Arabella fainted, and the friar crossed himself. The nobility in the castle assured the serfs that they must be mistaken, as they Avere sure that on these nights the damsel had been asleep in her bed — not only asleep, but so deeply asleep that she could not be aroused.

For a Avonder the simple folk believed the duke and his lady. They left the castle convinced that their eyes had betrayed them. The friar went at once to his room, AA'here he spent long hours in study and prayer, nor did he neglect to fast, to purge, and to drink large amounts of water mingled Avith the juice of limes. Then the secret Avas rcA^ealed to him by merciful Saint Anthony.

What he realized was this:

When the cat AAms in the room with the damsel, she Avas alAAmys aAvake or sleeping peacefully. On occasions when the damsel Avas in her deep and deathlike stupor the cat Avas ncA^er to be seen. When she roiAsed from this deep sleep the cat Avas alAA'ays in the room, crouched in one corner or hidden back of a chest. In some way the cat was associated Avuth the strange sickness of the girl. Another fact Avas evident. The child had been perfectly well before the cat came. Also the killing of the animals and the child had all happened since the coming of the cat.

If the oat could be killed, then the AA'hole trouble Avould stop. At least Friar Sinistrari hoped so. Unfortunatelj’, the thinking about killing the animal and the actual killTHE DAMSEL AND HER CAT


ing of it were two separate things. There was no doubt about its having nine lives; perhaps it had ninety. Secretly the duke offered a gold piece as a reward for the killing of the cat; everyone wanted the money and tried to earn it, but when they saw the eat they were weaponless, and Avhen they had their weapons ready the cat was never to be seen.

Then another lamb was killed, and the very next night an attempt was made to take a baby out of the cradle. This time the mother was watching and when her baby cried she sprang forward in its defense. She saw a woman in white picking the baby up. There was a struggle, and finally the intruder fled. The mother was sure that it was another woman who had tried to rob her. She had scratched the thief’s neck and, the next morning, while telling the story to the duke and the friar, showed them the blood, still under her fingernails.

The duke tried to comfort her, but all the time he and the friar were looking sidewise at each other, and as soon as they could do so they went to the room of the damsel. She had ^passed through another hard night, one that was worse than usual, but when they saw her she was sleeping naturally. There was a red spot on the sheet, and when the}’’ turned her head they saw several long red scratches on her neck.

The eat sat as usual up on the window-sill, leisurely washing her face.

The duke was not a coward but at the sight of the scratches he turned pale and started to gnaw upon his fingers. The friar thought harder than ever, but all he could say was to repeat the statement that they should kill the eat, at which statement the animal disappeared through the window and was seen no more that day.

But the Damsel Susanne was

whiter than her usiial wont that dinner-time, and against the pallor of her face her red lips blushed. Friar Sini.strari had something on his mind, it seemed, something that he dared not speak to the damsel’s father. None the less, he made two suggestions: first, that from then on the damsel be watched constantly, and second, that a lamb be tied as a decoy and a bait in the grass circle of the dark wood in back of the castle. He advised that all the people hide themselves in a great circle around this lamb and watch in the full of the moon for whatever might come to kill the lamb and suck its blood.

His advice and argument were so good that the duke promised him that no matter who came for the lamb, they would kill him in any manner the friar considered best. The friar went to the blacksmith and had a long talk with him, and all that day the smith toiled at his forge.

T hat night the lamb was tied in the middle of the bare circle. No tree or shrub grew there — only a small green grass — and all around the edge were mushrooms. The simple peasants, shivering but at the same time determined to do what they could to rid the place of this horrid pest, hid in the thick wood some distance away. They were told to come to the circle when they heard the screech of the great horned owl.

The Damsel Susanne complained of being tired and went went to bed earlier than usual. In the next room, looking through holes bored in the wooden partition, watched the duke and the friar. The window was open and the night was still; there was no breeze, and the candle by the bed burned without a flicker. Just as they were growing tired, the moon came above the trees and shone into the room. There was now


WEIRD TALE&

light from three sources — the moon, the candle, and the fire on the hearth. They had no trouble in seeing the cat come through the open window and jump up on the bed. They had no trouble at all in seeing the gi’eat green globes of the cat’s eyes as it leaned over the damsel and seemed to suck the breath of life from her. Friar Sinistrari had to hold the duke to keep him from rushing into the room. Then, with one jump, the eat disappeared through the window. When they reached the room, Susanne seemed as though touched by the hand of death. Leaving her in the care of her mother and the aged nurse, the duke ran out of the castle, followed as rapidly as possible by the old friar. A few men-at-arms joined them in their hurried walk to the, bare circle. There they joined the blacksmith and the others who were waiting.

The full moon, just above the tree-tops, was like a harvest moon, yellow like an orange, round as a ball and largo as a bushel ba.sket. It seemed to rest on the top of- the pines, flooding the circle with light. In the middle of the spot the white lamb baaed uneasily.

Then the woman appeared.

The duke gasped. The friar prayed. Every peasant who saw what was to be seen crossed himself, for the woman was the Damsel Susanne, but her eyes- Avere yellow globes in the moonlight. She glided over to the lamb and.struck it with her left hand. A feline erjr echoed through the wood, and then, without further pause, the woman seized the lamb, bit it in the neck and. started to suck the blood. Once she raised her head to listen, and her lips were red in the moonlight.

Out of the.stillness- came the hooting of an owl!

From evei’y side the. peasants gathered to form a complete circle, greatly afraid but determined to do

the thing they had been asked to do. They carried axes and hoes and sharpened stakes, and a few had.spears and swords. The circle filially was three deep with determined men.

Too late the woman realized that she was surrounded. She glided away from the dead lamb, and her face was covered with blood and hate. Several times she jumped savagely at different portions of the encircling ring only to be met by the threatening hedge of weapons. Then the friar whispered to the.smith, and he shouted an order to close upon the woman.

To the duke’s credit he kept silent; he had promised to keep silent and not interfere, but his face disclosed the feeling in his heart to find that this woman, this fiend from hell, was his daughter. Closer and closer the threatening ring of peasants pressed, and finally a few of the bravest jumped and bore the woman to the ground under their weight. The blacksmith had her by the throat, but not before she had drawn blood from his arm.

Tlie friar called for the brazier of glowing charcoal. In it, white-hot, was a brand in the shape of a cro.ss. Shaking with excitement, the old man managed to control him.self long enough to say earnestly, “In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost;” then he took the handle- of the brand in his hands and pressed at against the skull of the woman, just above and between the eyes — pressed it with all his strength....

The woman writhed beneath the weight of tho.se above her. All the powerful strength of the smith was- barely enough to hold her head to the ground. Shriek after shriek filled the air as the hot crucifix burned its way into her brain and into her soul, soaring and destroying the very centers of her life.

And to the horror of all, to the



sarprizc and amazement of those who held her, she changed suddenly hi shape, and when she died, it was not the Damsel Susanne they held, but a twisted cat.

Tlie duke was brave, but for all his bravely he fainted.

When he came to his senses, he found that a large fire had heen built and the eat was searing amid the flames. There was nothing to do but to stumble back to the castle.

The Lady Arabella told her husband that she had sat by the side of her daughter holding a golden cross in her hands and praying. At a certain time the damsel "had screamed, sat up in bed, and then

dropped backward. The mother and the old nurse thought she was dead, but her regular breathing soon showed the return of life. The rest of the night they spent in the bedroom, one on each side of their beloved daughter, holding her hands.

The morning dawned, a lovely rose.

The damsel, waking, called for food. When milk was brought to her she drank it eagerly but complained that it hurt her to swallow. Then she fell asleep.

In the daylight they saw a red cross on her forehead.

■On her neck were the livid marks of fingertips. •

The Diamond Lens*

By FITZ-JAMES O’BRIEN

1, The Bending of the Twig

F rom a very early period of my life the entire bent of my inclinations had been towards microscopic investigations. When I was not more than ten years old, a distant relative of our family, hoping.to astonish my inexperience, constructed a simple microscope for me, by drilling in a disk of coppei* a small hole,

♦ This Story, poblished in the Atlantic Mon'fhly in 3858, was the first of ereat weird-scientific stories. Tt won immediate i)opularity for the authror — -a popniarity which contiiraea unbroken until his death in the Civil War.

in which a drop of pure water was sustained by capillary attraction. This verj’ primitive apparatus, magnifying some fifty diameters, presented, it is true, only indistinct and imperfect forms, but still sufficiently wonderful to work up my imagination to a preternatural state of exeit^ement.

Seeing me so interested in this rude instrument, my cousin explained to me all that he knew about the principles of the microscope, related to me a few of the wonders which had been accomplished through its agency.



and ended by promising to send me one regularly constructed, immediately on his return to the city. I counted the days, the hours, the minutes, that intervened between that promise and his departure.

Meantime I was not idle. Every transparent substance that bore the remotest resemblance to a lens I eagerly seized upon, and employed in vain attempts to realize that instrument, the theory of whose construction I as yet only vaguely comprehended. All panes of glass containing those oblate spheroidal knots familiarly known as “ bull’s eyes” were ruthlessly destroyed, in the hope of obtaining lenses of marvelous power. I even went so far as to extract the crystalline humor from the eyes of fishes and animals, and endeavored to press it into the microscopic service. I plead guilty to having stolen the glasses from my Aunt Agatha’s spectacles, with a dim idea of grinding them into lenses of wondrous magnifying properties — in which attempt it is scarcely necessary to saj*^ that I totally failed.

At last the promised instrument came. It was of that order known as Field’s simple microscope, and had cost perhaps about fifteen dollars. As far as educational purposes went, a better apparatus could not have been selected. Accompanying it was a small treatise on the microscope — its history, uses, and discoveries. I comprehended then for the first time the Arabian Nights Entertainments. The dull veil of ordinary existence that hung across the world seemed suddenly to roll away, and to lay bare a land of enchantments. I felt towards my companions as the seer might feel towards the ordinary masses of men. I held conversations with nature in a tongue which they could not understand. I was in daily communication with living wonders, such as they never imagined in their wildest visions. I penetrated beyond the external portal of things, and I’oamed

through the sanctuaries. Where they beheld only a drop of rain slowly rolling down the window-glass, I saw a universe of beings animated with all the passions common to physical life, and convulsing their minute sphere with struggles as fierce and protracted as those of men. In the common spots of mold, which my mother, good housekeeper that she was, fiercely scooped away fi’om her jam pots, there abode for me, under the name of mildew, enchanted gardens, filled with dells and avenues of the densest foliage and most astonishing verdure, while from the fantastic boughs of these microscopic forests hung strange fruits glittering with green, and silver and gold.

It was no scientific thirst that at this time filled my mind. It was the pure enjoyment of a poet to whom a w'orld of wonders has been disclosed. I talked of my solitary pleasures to none. Alone with my microscope, I dimmed my sight, day after day and night after night, poring over the marvels which it unfolded to me. I was like one who, having discovered the ancient Eden still existing in all its primitive glor:', should resolve to enjoy it in soliti.do, and never betray to mortal the secret of its locality. The rod of my life was bent at this moment. I destined myself to be a microscopist.

Of course, like every novice, I fancied myself a discoverer. I was ignorant at the time of the thousands of acute intellects engaged in the same pursuit as myself, and with the advantage of instruments a thousand times more powerful than mine. The names of Leeuwenhoek, Williamson, Spencer, Ehrenberg, Schultz, Dujardin, Schaeht and Schleiden were then entirely unltnown to me, or if Imown, I was ignorant of their patient and wonderful researches. In every fresh specimen of cryptogamia which I placed beneath my instrument I believed that I discovered wonders of which the world was as yet ignorant.



I remember well the thrill of delight and admiration that shot through me the first time that I discovered the common wheel animalcule (Rotifera vulgaris) expanding and contracting its flexible spokes, and seemingly rotating through the water. Alas! as I grew older, and obtained some works treating of my favorite study, I found that I was only on the threshold of a science to the investigation of w'hich some of the greatest men of the age were devoting their lives and intellects.

As I grew up, my parents, who saw but little likelihood of anything practical resulting from the examination of bits of moss and drops of water through a brass tube and a piece of glass, were anxious that I should choose a profession. It was their desire that I should enter the countinghouse of my uncle, Ethan Blake, a prosperous merchant, who carried on business in New York. This suggestion I decisively combated. I had no taste for trade; I should only make a failure; in short, I refused to become a merchant.

But it was necessary for me to select some pursuit. My parents were staid New England people, who insisted on the necessity of labor; and therefore, although, thanks to the bequest of my poor Aunt Agatha, I should, on coming of age, inherit a small fortune sufficient to place me above want, it was decided that, instead of waiting for this, I should act the nobler part, and employ the intervening j'ears in rendering myself independent.

After much cogitation I complied with the wishes of my family, and selected a profession. I determined to study medicine at the New York Academy. This disposition of my future suited me. A removal from my relatives would enable me to dispose of my time as I pleased without fear of detection. As long as I paid my Academy fees, I might shirk attending the lectures if I chose; and.

as I never had the remotest intention of standing an examination, there was no danger of my being “plucked.” Besides, a metropolis was the place for me. There I could obtain excellent instruments, the newest publications, intimacy witli men of pursuits kindred with my own — in short, all things necessary to insure a profitable devotion of my life to my beloved science. I had an abundance of money, few desires that were not bounded by my illuminating mirror on one side and mj^ object-glass on the other; what, therefore, was to prevent my becoming an illustrious investigator of the veiled worlds? It was with the most buoyant hope that I left my New England home and established myself in New York.

2. The Longing of a Man of Science

M y i’lKST step, of course, was to find suitable apartments. These I obtained, after a couple of days’ search, in Fourth Avenue; a very pretty second-floor unfurnished, containing sitting-room, bedroom, and a smaller apartment which I intended to fit up as a laboratory. I furnished my lodgings simply, but rather elegantly, and then devoted all my energies to the adornment of the temple of my worship. I visited Pike, the celebrated optician, and passed in review his splendid collection of microscopes — Field’s Compound, Hingham’s, Spencer’s, Naehet’s Binocular (that founded on the principles of the stereoscope), and at length fixed upon that form Imown as Spencer’s Trunnion Microscope, as combining the greatest number of improvements with an almost perfect freedom from tremor. Along with this I purchased every possible accessory — draw-tubes, micrometers, a camera-lucida, leverstage, achromatic condensei’s, white cloud illuminators, prisms, parabolic condensers, polarizing apparatus, forceps, aquatic boxes, fishing-tubes, with a host of other articles, all of which



would have been useful in the hands of an experienced microscopist, but, as I aftei’wards discovered, were not of the slightest present value to me. It takes years of practise to know how to use a complicated microscope. The optician looked suspiciously at me as I made these wholesale purchases. He evidently was uncertain whether to set me down as some scientific celebrity or a madman. I think he inclined to the latter belief. I suppose I was mad. Every great genius is mad upon the subject in Avhieh he is greatest. The unsuccessful madman is disgraced and called a lunatic.

Mad or not, I set myself to work with a zeal which few scientific students have ever equaled. I had everj"- thing to leam relative to the delicate study upon which I had embarked — a study involving the most earnest patience, the most rigid analytic powers, the steadiest hand, the most untiring eye, the most refined and subtile manipulation.

For a long time half my apparatus lay inactively on the shelves of my laboratory, which was now most amplj^ furnished with every possible contrivance for facilitating my investigations. The fact was that I did not know how to use some of my scientific implements — never ha\ing been taught microscopies — and those ^vhose use I luiderstood theoretically were of little avail, until by practise I could attain the neecssarv^ delicacy of handling. Still, such was the fury of my ambition, such the untiring ])erseveranee of my experiments, that, difficult of credit as it may be, in the course of one year I became theoretically and practically an accomplished microscopist.

During this period of my labors, in which I submitted specimens of every substance that came under mj^ observation to the action of my lenses, I became a discoverer — in a small way, it is true, for I was very young, but still a discoverer. It was I who destroyed Ehrenberg’s theory that

the Volvox ghhator was an animal, and proved that his “monads” with stomachs and eyes were merely phases of the formation of a vegetable cell, and were, when they reached their mature state, incapable of the act of conjugation, or any true generative act, without which no organism rising to any stage of life higher than vegetable can be said to be complete. It was I who resolved the singular problem of rotation in the cells and hairs of plants into ciliarj"- attraction, in spite of the assertions of ]\Ir. Wenham and others, that my explanation was the result of an optical illusion.

But notwithstanding these discoveries, laboriously and painfully made as they were, I felt horribly dissatisfied. At every step I found myself stopped by the imperfections of my instruments. Like all active mieroscopists, I gave my imagination full play. Indeed, it is a common complaint against many such, that they supply the defects of their instniments with the creations of their brains. I imagined depths beyond depths in natiire which the limited power of my lenses prohibited me from exploring. I lay awake at night constructing imaginary microscopes of immeasurable power, with which I seemed to pierce through all the envelopes of matter doAvn to its original atom. How I cursed those imperfect mediums which necessity through ignorance compelled me to use! How I longed to discover the secret of some perfect lens, whose magnifying power should be limited only by the resolvability of the object, and which at the same time should be free from spherical and chromatic aberrations, in short from all the obstacles over which the poor microscopist finds himself continually stumbling! I felt convinced that the simple microscope, composed of a single lens of such vast yet perfect power, was possible of construction. To attempt to bring the compound microscope up to such a pitch would have been commencing at the wrong



end; this latter being simply a partially successful endeavor to remedy those very defects of the simple instrument, which, if conquered, would leave nothing to be desired.

It was in this mood of mind that I became a constructive microscopist. After another year passed in this new pursuit, experimenting on every imaginable substance — glass, gems, flints, crystals, artificial crystals formed of the alloy of various vitreous materials — in short, having constructed as many varieties of lenses as Argus had eyes, I found myself precisely where I started, with nothing gained save an extensive knowledge of glass-making. I was almost dead with despair. My parents were surprized at my apparent want of progress in my medical studies ( I had not attended one lecture since my arrival in the city), and the expenses of my mad pursuit had been so great as to embarrass me very seriously.

I was in this frame of mind one day, experimenting in my laboratory on a small diamond — that stone, from its great refracting power, having always occupied my attention more than any other — when a young Frenchman, who lived on the floor above me, and who was in the habit of occasionally visiting me, entered the room.

I think that Jules Simon was a Jew. He had many traits of the Hebrew character: a love of jewelry, of dress, and of good living. There was something mysterious about him. He always had something to sell, and yet went into excellent society. When I say sell, I should perhaps have said peddle; for his operations were generally confined to the disposal of single articles — a picture, for instance, or a rare carving in ivory, or a pair of duelling-pistols, or the dress of a Mexican cahallero. When I was first furnishing my rooms, he paid me a visit, which ended in my purchasing an antique silver lamp, which he assured me was a Cellini — it was handsome enough even for that — and some other knickknaeks for my sitting-room. Why Simon should pursue this petty trade I never could imagine. He apparently had plenty of money, and had the entree of the best houses in the city — taking care, however, I suppose, to drive no bargains within the enchanted circle of the Upper Ten. I came at length to the conclusion that this peddling was but a mask to cover some greater object, and even went so far as to believe my young acquaintance to be implicated in the slave-trade. That, however, was none of my affair.

On the present occasion, Simon entered my i-oom in a state of considerable excitement.

“Ah! mon ami!” he cried, before I could even offer him the ordinaiy salutation, “it has occurred to me to be the witness of the most astonishing things in the world. I promenade myself to the house of Madame — how does the little animal — le renard — name himself in the Latin? ’ ’ “Vulpes,” I answered.

“Ah! yes — Vulpes. I promenade myself to the house of Madame Vulpes.”

“The spirit medium?”

“Yes, the great medium. Great heavens! what a woman! I write on a slip of paper many of questions concerning affairs the most secret — affairs that conceal themselves in the abysses of my heart the most profound; and behold! by example! what occurs? This devil of a woman makes me replies the most truthful to all of them. She talks to me of things that I do not love to talk of to myself. What am I to think? I am fixed to the earth!”

“Am I to understand you. Monsieur Simon, that this Mrs. Vulpes replied to questions secretly written by you, which questions related to events known only to yourself?”

“Ah! more than that, more than that,” he answered, with an air of some alarm. “She related to me



things But,” he added, after a

pause, and suddenly changing his manner, “why occupy ourselves with these follies? It was all the biology, without doubt. It goes without saying that it has not my credence. — But why are we here, mon mni? It has occurred to me to discover the most beautiful thing as you can imagine — a vase with green lizards on it, composed by the great Bernard Palissy. It is in my apartment; let us mount. I go to show it to you.”

I followed Simon mechanically; but my thoughts were far from Palissy and his enameled wmre, although I, like him, was seeking in the dark a great discovery. This casual mention of the spiritualist, Madame Vulpes, set me on a new^ track. What if tliis spiritualism should be really a great fact? What if, through communication with more sirbtile organisms than my own, 1 could reach at a single bound the goal, which perhaps a life of agonizing mental toil would never enable me to attain?

While purchasing the Palissy vase from my friend Simon, I was mentally arranging a visit to hladame Vulpes.

3. The Spirit of Leeuwenhoeh

T wo evenings after this, thanks to an arrangement bj’ letter and the promise of an ample fee, I found JIadame Vulpes awaiting me at her residence alone. She was a coarsefeatured woman, with keen and rather cruel dark eyes, and an exceedingly sensual expression about her mouth and mider jaw. She received me in perfect silence, in an apartment on the ground floor, very sparely furnished. In the center of the room, close to where Mrs. Vulpes sat, thei’e was a common round mahogany table. If I had come for the purpose of sweeping her chimney, the w'oman could not have looked more indifferent to my appearance. There was no attempt to inspix’e the visitor with

awe. Everything bore a simple and practical asi>eet. This intercourse with the spiritual world was evidently as familiar an occupation with Mi’s. Vulpes as eating her dinner or riding in an omnibus.

“You come for a communication, Mr. Linley?” said the medium, in a dry, businesslike tone of voice.

‘ ‘ By appointment — yes. ’ ’

“What sort of communication do you want? — a written one? ’ ’

“Yes — I wish for a written one.” “Prom any particular spirit?” “Yes.”

“Have you ever knowm this spirit on this earth?”

“Never. lie died long before I was born. I wish merely to obtain from him some information which he ought to be able to give better than any other. ’ ’

“Will you seat yourself at the table, Mr. Linley,” said the medium, “and place your hands upon it?”

I obeyed — IMrs. Vulpes being seated opposite to me, with her hands also on the table. We remained thus for about a mmute and a half, when a violent succession of raps came on the table, on the back of my chair, on the floor immediately under my feet, and even on the window-panes. Mi’s. Vulpes smiled composedly.

“They are very strong tonight,” she remarked. “You are fortunate.” She then continued, “Will the.spirits communicate with this gentleman?” Vigorous affirmative.

“Will the particular spirit he desires to speak with communicate?”

A very confused rapping followed this question.

“I know what they mean,” said Mrs. Vulpes, addressing hei’self to me; “they wsli you to write down the name of the particular spirit that you desire to converse with. Is that so?” she added, speaking to her invisible guests.

That it was so was evident from the numerous affiimatory I’esponses. While this was going on, I tore a slip



from my pocket-book, and scribbled a name, under the table.

“Will this spirit communicate in writing with this gentleman?” asked the medium once more.

After a moment’s pause, her hand seemed to be seized nith a violent tremor, shaking so forcibly that the table vibrated. She said that a spirit had seized her hand and would write. I handed her some sheets of paper that were on the table, and a pencil. The latter she held loosely in her hand, which presently began to moA'e over the paper with a singular and seemingly involuntary motion. After a few moments had elapsed, she handed me the paper, on which I found written, in a large, uncultivated hand, the words:

He is not here, but has been sent for.

A pause of a minute or so now' ensued, during w’hich Mk;. Vulpes remained perfectly silent, but the raps continued at regular intenmls. When the short period I mention had elaixsed, the hand of the medium was again seized with its convulsive tremor, and she wrote, under this strange influence, a few wnrds on the paper, which she handed to me. They wore as follows:

I am here. Question me.

Leeuwenhoek.

I w'as astounded. The name was identical with that I had written beneath the table, and carefully kept concealed. Neither was it at all probable that an micultivated woman like Mrs. Vulpes should know even the name of the great father of microscopies. It may have been biology; but this theory was soon doomed to be destroyed. I wrote on my slip — still concealing it from Mi’s. Vulpes — a series of questions, which, to avoid tediousness, I shall place wdth the responses, in the order in wdiich they occurred;

I. — Can the microscope be brought to perfection?

Spirit. — Yes.

I. — Am I destined to accomplish this great task?

Spirit. — You are.

I. — I wish to know how’ to px'oceed to attain this end. For the love which you bear to science, help me!

Spirit. — A diamond of one hundred and forty carats, submitted to electromagnetic currents for a long peiiod, will experience a rearrangement of its atoms inter se, and from that stone you will form the universal lens.

I. — Will great discoveries result from the use of such a lens!

Spirit. — So great that all that has gone before is as nothing.

I. — But the refractive pow'er of the diamond is so immense, that the image will be formed within the lens. How' is that difficulty to be surmounted?

Spirit. — Pierce the lens through its axis, and the difficulty is obviated. The image will be formed in the pierced space, which will itself ser\'e as a tube to look through. Now I am calle<j. Good-night.

I can not at all describe the effect that these extraordinary communications had ui)on me. I felt completely bewildered. No biological theory could aeeoimt for the discovery of the lens. The medium might, by means of biological rapport with my mind, have gone so far as to read my questions, and reply to them coherently. But biology could not enable her to discover that magnetic currents would so alter the crystals of the diamond as to remedy its previous defects, and admit of its being polished into a perfect lens. Some such theory may have passed through my head, it is true; but if so, I had forgotten it. In my excited condition of mind there was no course left but to become a convert, and it w'as in a state of the most painful nervous exaltation that I left the medium’s house that evening. She accompanied me to the door, hoping that I w'as satisfied. The raps fol554


lowed us as we went through the hall, Rounding on the balusters, the flooring, and even the lintels of the door. I hastily expressed my satisfaction, and escaped hurriedly into the cool night air. I walked home with but one thought possessing me — how to obtain a diamond of the immense size required. My entire means multiplied a hundred times over would have been inadequate to its purchase. Besides, such stones are rare, and become historical. I could find such only in the regalia of Eastern or European monarchs.

4. The Eye of Morning

T here was a light in Simon’s room as I entered my house. A vague impulse urged me to visit him. As I opened the door of his sitting-room unannounced, he was bending, with his back toward me, over a carcel lamp, apparently engaged in minuteIj' examining some object which he held in his hands. As I entered, he started suddenly, thrust his hand into his breast pocket, and tuimed to me with a face crimson with confusion.

“What!” I cried, “poring over the miniature of some fair lady? Well, don’t blush so much; I won’t ask to see it. ’ ’

Simon laughed awlcnmrdly enough, but made none of the negative protestations usual on such occasions. He asked me to take a seat.

“Simon,” said I, “I have just come from Madame Vulpes.”

This time Simon turned as white as a sheet, and seemed stupefied, as if a sudden electric shock had smitten him. He babbled some incoherent words, and went hastily to a small closet where he usually kept his liquors. Although astonished at his emotion, I was too preoccupied with my own idea to pay much attention to anything else.

“You say truly when you call Madame Vulpes a devil of a woman,”

I continued. “Simon, she told me wonderful things tonight, or rather Avas the means of telling me wonderful things. Ah! if I could only get a diamond that weighed one hundred and forty carats! ’ ’

Scarcely had the sigh with which I uttered this desire died upon my lips, when Simon, with the aspect of a wild beast, glared at me savagely, and, rushing to the mantelpiece, where some foreign Aveapons hung on the wall, caught up a Malay creese, and brandished it furiously before him.

“No!” he cried in French, into which he ahvays broke when excited. “No! you shall not have it! You are perfidious! You have consulted with that demon, and desire my treasure! But I shall die first! Me! I am brave! You can not make me fear! ’ ’

All this, uttered in a loud voice trembling with excitement, astounded me. I saw at a glance that I had accidentally trodden upon the edges of Simon’s secret, whatever it was. It was necessary to reassure him.

“My dear Simon,” I said, “I am entirely at a loss to know what you mean. I went to Madame Vulpes to consult her on a scientific problem, to the solution of which I discovered that a diamond of the size I just mentioned was necessary. You were never alluded to during the evening, nor, so far as I was concerned, even thought of. What can be the meaning of this outburst? If you happen to have a set of valuable diamonds in your possession, you need fear nothing from me. The diamond Avhich I require you could not possess; or, if you did possess it, you would not be living here. ’ ’

Something in my tone must have completely reassured him; for his expression immediately changed to a sort of constrained merriment, combined, however, Avith a certain suspicious attention to my movements. He laughed, and said that I must bear with him; that he was at certain moTHE DIAMOND LENS


ments subject to a species of vertigo, which betrayed itself in incoherent speeches, and that the attacks passed off as rapidly as they came. He put his weapon aside while making this explanation, and endeavored, with some success, to assume a more cheerful air.

All this did not impose on me in the least. I was too much accustomed to analytical labors to be baffled by so flimsy a veil. I determined to probe the mystery to the bottom.

“Simon,” I said, gayly, “let us forget all this over a bottle of Burgundy. I have a case of Lausseure’s Clos Vougeot downstairs, fragrant with the odors and ruddy mth the sunlight of the Cote d’Or. Let us have up a couple of bottles. What say you?”

“With all my heart,” answered Simon, smilingly.

1 produced the wine and we seated ourselves to drink. It was of a famous vintage, that of 1848, a year when Avar and Avine throve together — and its pure but powerful juice seemed to impart renewed vitality to the system. By the time Ave had half finished the second bottle, Simon ’s head, Avhich I knew Avas a AA'cak one, had begun to yield, Avhile I remained calm as e\'er, only that CA'erj' draft seemed to send a flush of vigor through my limbs. Simon’s utterance became more and more indistinct. He took to singing French chansons of a not A'erj' moral tendency. I rose suddenly from the table just at the conclusion of one of those incoherent verses, and, fixing my eyes on him Avith a quiet smile, said: “Simon, I haAm deeeh'ed you. I learned your secret this CA’-ening. You may as Avell be frank Avith me. Mrs. Vulpes, or rather one of her spirits, told me all.”

He started with horror. His intoxication seemed for the moment to fade aAvay, and he made a movement tOAvards the weapon that he had a short time before laid doAsm. I stopped him with my hand.

“Monster,” he cried, passionately, “I am ruined! What shall I do? You shall never have it! I SAvear by my mother!”

“I don’t want it,” I said; “rest secure, but be frank Avith me. Tell me all about it.”

The drunkenness began to return. He protested with maudlin earnestness that I Avas entirely mistaken — that I was intoxicated; then asked me to SAvear eternal seci’ecy, and promised to disclose the mystexy to me. I pledged myself, of course, to all. With an uneasy look in his eyes, and hands unsteady Avith drink and nerAmusness, he drew a small case from his breast and opened it. HeaAmns! Hoav the mild lamplight Avas shivered into a thousand prismatic arroAvs, as it fell upon a vast rose-diamond that glittered in the case! I Avas no judge of diamonds, but I saAv at a glance that this Avas a gem of rare size and purity. I looked at Simon Avith Avonder, and — must I confess it? — Avith enAy. Hoav could he have obtaiixed this treasure? In reply to my questions, I could just gather from his drmiken statements (of Avhich, I fancy, half the incoherence Avas affected) that he had been superintendiixg a gang of slaves engaged in diamond-washing in Brazil; that he had seen one of them secrete a diamond, but, instead of informing his employers, had quietly Avatched the negro until he saw him bury his treasure; that he had dug it up and fledVith it, but that as yet he Avas afraid to attempt to dispose of it i)ublicly — so A’aluable a gem being almost certain to attract too much attention to its OAAmer’s antecedents — and he had not been able to diseoA'er anj' of those obscure channels by Avhieh such matters are conveyed aAvay safely. He added, that, in accordance with the Oi'iental practise, he had named his diamond with the fanciful title of “The Eye of Morning. ’ ’

While Simon Avas relating this to me, I regarded the great diamond at556


tentively. Never had I beheld anything so beautiful. All the glories of light, ever imagined or described, seemed to pulsate in its crystalline chambers. Its weight, as I learned from Simon, was exactly one hundred and forty carats. Here was an amazing coincidence. The hand of destiny seemed in it. On the very evening when the spirit of Leeuwenhoek communicates to me the great secret of the microscope, the priceless means which he directs me to employ start up within my easy reach! I determined, with the most perfect deliberation, to possess myself of Simon’s diamond.

I sat opposite to him while he nodded over his glass, and calmly revolved the whole affair. I did not for an instant contemplate so foolish an act as a common theft, which would of course be discovered, or at least necessitate flight and concealment, all of which must interfere with my scientific plans. There was but one step to be taken — to kill Simon. After all, what was the life of a little peddling Jew, in comparison with the interests of science? Human beings are taken every day from the condemned prisons to be experimented on by surgeons. This man, Simon, was by his own confession a criminal, a robber, and I believed on my soul a murderer. He deserved death quite as much as any felon condemned by the laws: why should I not, like government, contrive that his punishment should contribute to the progress of human knowledge?

The means for accomplishing everything I desired lay within my reach. There stood upon the mantelpiece a bottle half full of French laudanum. Simon was so occupied with his diamond, which I had just restored to him, that it was an affair of no difficulty to drug his glass. In a quarter of an hour he was in a profound sleep.

I now opened his waistcoat, took the diamond from the inner pocket in which he had placed it, and i*emoved him to the bed, on which I laid him so that his feet hung down over the edge. I had possessed myself of the Malay creese, which I held in my right hand, while with the other I discovered as accurately as I could by pulsation the exact locality of the heart. It was essential that all the aspects of his death should lead to the surmise of self-murder. I calculated the exact angle at which it was probable that the weapon, if leveled by Simon’s own hand, would enter his breast; then with one powerful blow I thrust it up to the hilt in the very spot which I desired to penetrate. A convulsive thrill ran through Simon’s limbs. I heard a smothered sound issue from his throat, precisely like the bursting of a large air-bubble, sent up by a diver, when it reaches the surface of the water; he turned half round on his side, and, as if to assist my plans more effectually, his right hand, moved by some mere spasmodic impulse, clasped the handle of the creese, which it remained holding with extraordinary muscular tenacity. Beyond this there was no apparent struggle. The laudanum, I presume, paralyzed the usual nervous action. He must have died instantly.

There was yet something to be done. To make it certain that all suspicion of the act should be diverted from any inhabitant of the house to Simon himself, it was necessary that the door should be found in the morning locked on the inside. How to do this, and afterwards escape myself? Not by the window; that was a physical impossibility. Besides, I was determined that the windows also should be found bolted. The solution was simple enoiigh. I descended softly to my own room for a peculiar instrument which I had used for holding small slippery substances, such as minute spheres of glass, etc. This instrument was nothing more than a long slender handvise, with a very powerful grip, and a considerable leverage, which last was accidentally owing to the shape



of the handle. Nothing was simpler than, when the key was in the lock, to seize the end of its stem in this vise, through the keyhole, from the outside, and so lock the door. Previously, however, to doing this, I burned a number of papers on Simon’s hearth. Suicides almost always burn papers before they destroy themselves. I also emptied some more laudanum into Simon’s glass — having first removed from it all traces of wine — cleaned the other wine-glass, and brought the bottles away with me. If traces of two persons drinking had been found in the room, the question naturally would have arisen. Who was the second? Besides, the wine-bottles might have been identified as belonging to me. The laudanum I poured out to account for its presence in his stomach, in case of a post-mortem examination. The theory naturally would be, that he first intended to poison himself, but, after sAvallowing a little of the drug, was either disgusted with its taste, or changed his mind from other motives, and chose the dagger. These arrangements made, I w'alked out, leaving the gas burning, locked the door with my vise, and went to bed.

Simon’s death was not discovered until nearly 3 in the afternoon. The servant, astonished at seeing the gas burning — the light streaming on the dark landing from under the door — peeped through the keyhole and saw Simon on the bed. She gave the alarm. The door was burst open, and the neighborhood was in a fever of excitement.

Everyone in the house was arrested, myself included. There was an inquest; but no clue to his death beyond that of suicide could be obtained. Curiously enough, he had made several speeches to his friends the preceding week, that seemed to point to self-destruction. One gentleman swore that Simon had said in his presence that “he was tired of life.” His landlord affirmed that

Simon, when paying him his last month’s rent, remarked that “he should not pay him rent much longer.” All the other evidence corresponded — the door locked inside, the position of the corpse, the burnt papers. As I anticipated, no one knew of the possession of the diamond by Simon, so that no motive was suggested for his murder. The jury, after a prolonged examination, brought in the usual verdict, and the neighborhood once more settled do^vn into its accustomed quiet.

5. Animula

T he three months succeeding Simon’s catastrophe I devoted night and day to my diamond lens. I had constructed a vast galvanic battery, composed of nearly two thousand pairs of plates — a higher power I dared not use, lest the diamond should be calcined. By means of this enormous engine I was enabled to send a powerful current of electricity continually through my great diamond, which it seemed to me gained in luster every day. At the expiration of a month I commenced the grinding and polishing of the lens, a work of intense toil and exquisite delicacy. The great density of the stone, and the care required to be taken with the curvatures of the surfaces of the lens, rendered the labor the severest and most harassing that I had yet undergone.

At last the eventful moment came; the lens was completed. I stood trembling on the threshold of new worlds. I had the realization of Alexander’s famous wish before me. The lens lay on the table, ready to be placed upon its platform. My hand fairly shook as I enveloped a drop of water with a thin coating of oil of turpentine, preparatory to its examination — a process necessary in order to prevent the rapid evaporation of the water. I now placed the drop on a thin slip of glass under the lens.



and throwing upon it, by the combined aid of a prism and a mirror, a powerful stream of light, I approached my eye to the minute hole drilled through the axis of the lens. For an instant I saw nothing save what seemed to be an illuminated chaos, a vast luminous abyss. A pure white light, cloudless and serene, and seemingly limitless as space itself, was my first impression. Gently, and with tire greatest care, I depressed the lens a few hair ’s-breadths. The wondrous ilhimination still continued, but as the lens approached the object a scene of indescribable beauty was unfolded to my view.

I seemed to gaze upon a vast space, the limits of which extended far beyond my vision. An atmosphere of magical luminousness permeated the entire field of view. I was amazed to see no trace of animalculous life. Not a living thing, apparently, inhabited that dazzling expanse. I comprehended instantly that, by the wondrous power of my lens, I had penetrated beyond the grosser particles of aqueous matter, beyond the realms of infusoria and protozoa, down to the original gaseous globule, into w'hose lumi7ious interior I was gazing, as into an almost boundless dome filled with a supernatural radiance.

It was, however, no brilliant void into which I Looked. On every side I beheld beautiful inorganic forms, of unknown texture, and colored with the most enchanting hues. These forms presented the appearance of what might be called, for want of a more specific definition, foliated clouds of the highest rarity; that is, thej^ undulated and broke into vegetable formations, and were tinged with splendors compared with which the gilding of our autumn w'oodlands is as dross compared with gold. Par away into the illimitable distance stretched long avenues of these gaseous forests, dimly transparent, and painted with prismatic hues of unimaginable brilliancy. The pendent

branches wa\'ed along the fluid glades until every vista seemed to break through half-lucent ranks of manycolored drooping silken pennons. What seemed to be either fruits or flowers, pied with a thousand hues, lustrous and ever vaiying, bubbled from the crowns of this fairy foliage. No hills, no lakes, no rivers, no forms animate or inanimate, were to be seen, save those vast auroral copses that floated serenely in the luminous stillness, with leaves and fruits and flowers gleaming with unknown fires, unrealizable by mere imagination.

How strange, 1 thought, that this sphere should be thus condemned to solitude! I had hoped, at least to discover some new form of animal life — perhaps of a lower class than any with which we arc at present acquainted, but still, some living organism. I foimd my newly discovered world, if I may so speak, a beautiful chromatic desert.

While I was speculating on the singular arrangements of the internal economy of Nature, with which she so frequently splinters into atoms our most compact theories, I thought I belield a form moving slowly through the glades of one of the prismatic forests. I looked more attentively, and found that I was not mistaken.

Words can not depict the anxiety with which I awaited the nearer approach of this mysterious object. Was it merely some inanimate substance, held in sus]>ense in the attenuated atmosphere of the globule? or was it an animal endowed with vitality and motion? It approached, flitting behind the gauzy, colored veils of eioud-foliage, for seconds dimly revealed, then vanished. At last the violet ]>ennons that trailed nearest to me vibrated; they w'ere gently pushed aside, and the form floated out into the iDroadlighL

It was a female human shape. When I say human, I mean it possessed the outlines of humanity — but there the analogy ends. Its adorable



beauty lifted it illimitable heights beyond the loveliest daughter of Adam.

I can not, I dare not, attempt to inventory the charms of this divine revelation of perfect beauty. Those eyes of mystic violet, dewy and serene, evade my words. Her long, lustrous hair following her glorious head in a golden wake, like the track sown in heaven by a falling star, seems to quench my most burning phrases with its splendors. If all the bees of Hybla nestled upon my Lips, they would still smg but hoarsely the wondrous harmonies of outline that enclosed her form.

She swept out from between the rainbow-curtains of the cloud-trees into the broad sea of light that lay beyond. Her motions %'ere those of some graceful naiad, cleaving, by a mere effort of her will, the eleai’, unruffled waters that fill the chambers of the sea. She floated forth with the serene grace of a frail bubble ascending througli the still atmosphere of a June day. The perfect roundness of her limbs formed suave and enchanting curves-. It w'as Like listening to the most spiritual symphony of Beethoven the divine, to watch the harmonious flow of lines. This, indeed, was a pleasure, cheaply purchased at any price. What cared I, if I had waded to the portal of this wonder through another’s blood? I w'ould have given ray own to enjoy one such moment of intoxication and delight.

Breathless with gazing on this lovely wonder, and forgetful for an instant of everything save her presence, I withdrew ray eye from the mid'oseope eagerly — alas! As my gaze fell on the thin slide that lay beneath my instrument, the bright light from mirror and from i)rism sparkled on a colorless drop of water! There, in that tiny bead of dew, this beautiful being was forever imprisoned. The planet Neptune was not more distant from me than she. I hastened once more to apply mj" eye to the microscope.

Animula (let me now call her by that dear name which I subsequently bestowed on her) had changed her position. She had again approached the wondrous forest, and was gazing earnestly upwards. Presently one of the trees — as I must call them — uafolded 'a long ciliary process, with which it. seized one of the gleaming fruits that glittered on its sximmit, and, sweeping slowly down, held it wdthin reach of Animula. The sylph took it in her delicate hand and began to eat. My attention was so entirely absorlsed by her, that I could not apply myself to the task of determining whether this singular plant was or was not instinct with volition.

I watched her, as she made her repast, wth the most profound attention. The suppleness of her motions sent a thrill of delight through my frame; my heart beat madly as she turned her beautiful eyes in the direction of the spot in which I stood. What would I not have given to have had the power to precipitate myself into that luminous ocean, and float with her through those groves of purple and gold! While I was thus breathlessly following her everj^ movement, she suddenly started, seemed to listen for a moment, and then cleaving the brilliant ether in which she was floating, like a flash of light, pierced through the opaline forest, and disappeared.

Instantly a series of the most singular sensations attacked me. It seemed as if I had suddenly gone blind. The luminous sphere was still before me, but my daylight had vani,shed. What caused this sudden disappearance? Had she a lover or a husband? Yes, that was the sohition! Some.signal from a happy fellow-being had vibrated through the avenues of the forest, and she had obeyed the summons.

The agony of my sensations, as I arrived at this conclusion, startled me. I tried to reject the conviction that my reason forced iipon me. I



battled against the fatal conclusion — but in vain. It was so. I had no escape from it. I loved an animalcule!

It is true that, thanks to the marvelous power of my microscope, she appeared of human proportions. Instead of presenting the revolting aspect of the coarser creatures, that live and struggle and die, in the more easily resolvable portions of the water-drop, she was fair and delicate and of surpassing beauty. But of what account was all that? Every time that my eye was Avithdrami from the instrument, it fell on a miserable drop of water, within which, I must be content to Imow, dwelt all that could make my life lovely.

Could she but see me once! Could I for one moment pierce the mystical walls that so inexorably rose to separate us, and whisper all that filled my soul, I might consent to be satisfied for the rest of my life with the kjiowledge of her remote sympathy. It would be something to have established even the faintest personal link to bind us together — to know that at times, when roaming through those enchanted glades, she might think of the wonderful stranger, who had broken the monotony of her life 'with his presence, and left a gentle memory in her heart!

But it could not be. No invention of which human intellect ■w'as capable could break down the barriers that nature had erected. I might feast my soul upon her wondrous beauty, yet she must always remain ignorant of the adoring eyes that day and night gazed upon her, and, even when closed, beheld her in dreams. With a bitter cry of anguish I fled from the room, and, flinging myself on my bed, sobbed myself to sleep like a child.

6. The Spilling of the Cup

IAROSE the next morning almost at daybreak, and rushed to my microscope. I trembled as I sought the luminous world in miniature that contained my all. Animula was there. I had left the gas-lamp, surrounded by its moderators, burning, when I went to bed the night before. I found the sylph bathing, as it were, with an expression of pleasure animating her features, in the brilliant light which surrounded her. She tossed her lustrous golden hair over her shoulders with innocent coquetry. She lay at full length in the transparent medium, in -ft'hich she supported herself with ease, and gamboled with the enchanting grace that the nymph Salmacis might have exhibited when she sought to conquer the modest Hermaphroditus. I tried an experiment to satisfy myself if her i^owers of reflection Avere developed. I lessened the lamplight considerably. By the dim light that remained, I could see an expression of pain flit across her face. She looked upward suddenly, and her brows contracted. I flooded the stage of the microscope again with a full stream of light, and her w’hole expression ehaiiged. She sprang forward like some substance deprived of all weight. Her eyes sparkled and her lips moved. Ah! if science had only the means of conducting and reduplicating sounds, as it does the rays of light, w'hat carols of happiness would then have entranced my ears! what jubilant hymns to Adonis would have thrilled the illumined air!

I now comprehended how it was that the Count de Gabalis peopled his mystic world with sylphs — beautiful beings wdiose breath of life was lambent fire, and who sported forever in regions of purest ether and purest light. The Rosicrueian had anticipated the wonder that I had practically realized.

How long this worship of ray strange divinity went on thus I scarcely Imow. I lost all note of time. All day from early dawn, and far into the night, I was to be found peering through that wonderful lens. I saw no one, went nowhere, and scarce allowed myself sufficient time for mj



meals. My whole life was absorbed in contemplation as rapt as that of any of the Eomish saints. Every hour that I gazed upon the divine form strengthened my passion — a passion that was always overshadowed by the maddening conviction, that, although I could gaze on her at will, she never, never could behold me!

At length, I grew so pale and emaciated, from want of rest and continual brooding over my insane love and its cruel conditions, that I determined to make some elEort to wean myself from it. “Come,” I said, “this is at best but a fantasy. Your imagination has bestowed on Animula charms which in reality she does not possess. Seclusion from female society has produced this morbid condition of mind. Compare her with the beautiful women of your own world, and tills false enchantment will vanish.”

I looked over the newspapers by chance. There I beheld the advertisement of a celebrated danseme ivho appeared nightlj’’ at Niblo’s. The Signorina Caradolce had the reputation of being the most beautiful as well as the most graceful woman in the world. I instantly dressed and went to the theater.

The curtain drew up. The usual semicircle of fairies in white muslin were standing on the right toe around the enameled flower-bank, of green canvas, on which the belated prince was sleeping. Suddenly a flute is heard. The fairies start. The trees open, the fairies all stand on the left toe, and the queen enters. It was the Signorina. She bounded forward amid thunders of applause, and, lighting on one foot, remained poised in air! Heavens! was this the great enchantress that had dravui monarchs at her chariot-wheels? Those heavy muscular limbs, those thick ankles, those cavemoxTs eyes, that stereotyped smile, those crxxdely painted cheeks! Whei’e were the vermeil blooms, the

liquid expressive eyes, the harmonious limbs of Animxxla?

The Signorina danced. What gross, discordant movements! The play of her limbs xvas all false and artificial. Her bounds were painful athletic efforts; her poses xvere angular and distressed the eye. I could bear it no longer; with an exclamation of disgust that drew every eye upon me, I rose from my seat in the verj’' middle of the Signorina ’s pas-de-fasination, and abruptly quitted the house.

I hastened home to feast my eyes once more on the lovely form of my sylph. I felt that henceforth to combat this passion would be impossible. I applied my eye to the lens. Animula was there — ^but what could have happened? Some terrible change seemed to have taken place during my absence. Some secret grief seemed to cloud the lovely features of her I gazed upon. Her face had grown thin and haggard; her limbs trailed heavily; the wondrous luster of her golder hair had faded. She was ill! — ill, and I could not assist her! I believe at that moment I would have gladly forfeited all claims to my human birthright, if I could only have been dwarfed to the size of an animalcule, and permitted to console her from whom fate had forever divided me.

I racked my brain for the solution of this myster>^ What xvas it that afflicted the sjdph? She seemed to suffer intense pain. Her features contracted, and she even writhed, as if with some internal agony. The vx>-ondrous forests appeared also to have lost half their beauty. Their hues were dim and in some places faded away altogether. I xvatched Animula for hours with a breaking heart, and she seemed absolutely to wither away under my very eye. Suddenh^ I remembered that I had not looked at the water-drop for several days. In



fact, I hated to see it; for it remindec^ me of the natural barrier between Animula and myself. I hurriedly looked do\vn on the stage of the microscope. The slide was still there — but, great heavens! the water-drop had vanished 1 The awful trutli burst upon me; it had evaporated, imtil it had become so minute as to be invisible to the naked eye; I had been gazing on its last atom, the one that contained Animula — and she was dying!

I rushed again to the front of the lens, and looked through. Alas! the last agony had seized her. The rainbow-hued forests had all melted away, and Animula lay struggling feebly in what seemed to be a spot of dim light. Ah! the sight was horrible: the limbs once so round and lovely shriveling up into iiothings; the eyes — those eyes that shone like heaven — being quenched into black dust; the lustrous golden hair now

lank and discolored. The last throe came. I beheld that final struggle of the blackening form — and I fainted.

When I awoke out of a trance of many hours, I found myself lying amid the wreck of my instrument, myself as shattered in mind and body as it. I crawled feebly to my bed, from which I did not rise for months.

They say now that I am mad; but they are mistaken. I am poor, for I have neither the heart nor the will to work; all my money is spent, and I live on charity. Young men’s associations that love a joke invite me to lecture on optics before them, for which they pay me, and laugh at me w'hile I lecture. “Linley, the mad microscopist, ’ ’ is the name I go by. I suppose that I talk incoherently while I

[THE END]

============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
lecture. Who could talk sense w'hen his brain is haunted by such ghastly memories, while ever and anon among the shapes of death I behold the radiant form of my lost Animula!


By ROBERT E. HOWARD

I walked in Tara’s Wood one summer night,

And saw, amid the still, star-haunted skies,

A slender moon in silver mist arise.

And hover on the hill as if in fright.

Burning, I seized her veil and held her tight:

An instant all her glow was in my eyes;

Then she was gone, swift as a w^hite bird flies,

And I went down the hill in opal light.

And soon I was aware, as down I came.

That all wms strange and new on every side;

Strange people went about me to and fro.

And when I spoke with trembling mJne ow name They turned away, but one man said: “He died In Tara Wood, a hundred years ago.”

“T T IS with pleasure,” writes C. M. B. S., from Havre, France, ‘‘that I I note you have included Ooze, Penelope, and An Adventure in the Fourth Dimension in your book-publication of A. G. Birch’s novel. The Moon Terrar. I read these ‘yams’ in the early issues of Weird Tales, and have not forgotten them — who in the name of ‘homed toads’ could? When I read Rud’s yam (Ooze) I was on board a ship bound for Vera Cruz, Mexico, loaded with djmamite and gunpowder for use in a ‘forthcoming’ presidential inauguration down there, and a pair of gun-boats had been a trifle too industrious in our vicinity. To top off all that, one of the crew went ‘ cuckoo ’ and tried to blow up the ship. We also had some very heavy weather at the time. In the midst of it all I read Mr. Rud’s yam and got the thrill of my life. I also experienced a really thrilling nightmare shortly after. If there is anything I like better than a really weird yarn, it is a nightmare of the first order. Why I like it is something that I can not explain. It is nature, I suppose, for me to like anything that is adventurous. I have been that way all my life, and am now close to sixty years of age. Prior to my twelfth year nightmares frightened me, but since that time I have always enjoyed them. I get a most pleasing ‘kick’ out of my struggle with them. ‘Riding’ nightmares and reading weird tales really helped me practise self-control in a practical manner. In all my reading of such stories as The Bloon Terror and the other three, I have never encountered anjflhing that ever beat them in their particular line. Rud is great in creating monsters. Starrett’s Penelope can, to my idea, be given a dual interpretation. I do not know whether others see it that way or viot, but to me it seems a story within a story — one side of it humor and the other side satire, yet both sides fantastic. It is clever, and, alone, easily worth the price of the book.... Wright, with ten thousand husky citizens of Jupiter imprisoned within a soap-bubble, etc., came darned near wrecking a ship — the whole crew laughed for two weeks over it! A man with an imagination like his should sui’ely enjoy life — provided someone does not crown him in selfdefense. His yam is enough to give one apoplexy from laughing.... Birch




is good reading for one's enemy at bedtime; that is, if one does not really love his enemy, for chances of frightening him to death are extremely good. ’ ’ Writes Henry Kuttner, Jr., of San Francisco: “Although only in high school, yet I am a regular reader of your magazine, and whenever our ‘gang’ gets together to tell ghost stories. Weird Tales always comes in handy. I consider The Brass Key, by Hal K. Wells, the best story in your latbst issue (February). Is he any relation to H. G. Wells? My second choice is A Witch’s Curse, by Paul Ernst. That kept me on pins and needles throughout. When our cat entered the room and jumped on my lap, I was nearly frightened out of my wits. Edmond Hamilton and Seabury Quinn are my favorite authors.”

“A few lines to express my appreciation of your magazine. Weird Tales,” writes W. F. Macleod, of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. “I have been a constant reader of it for nearly four years and read every number from cover to cover. I think Lovecraft and Seabury Quinn are hard to beat anywhere, both for style of English and general treatment of subjects. The former’s command of English and descriptive powers are truly remarkable.”

Arlin C. Jones, of St. Louis, writes to the Eyrie: “Anyone should be given due credit when serving a purpose in this world. And beyond the semblance of a doubt you are. You are, in your way, enabling the tired business man to relinquish his care and thoughts of this world of reality, and to drift into the world of the so-called unreal. It’s just like having a soothing ointment applied when your finger is cut. I have read Weird Tales about three years, and during that time have brought quite a few new converts. I hope you keep up the splendid work. Weird Tales is a radical departure from any magazine on the stands. It has science filtered through it, and its stories are so put together that they seem plausible. I surely did enjoy The Brass Key; I particularly admired the manly attitude of Foo-Chong. It was an unpleasant way of seeking revenge, but he had such a businesslike way of going about it.”

“I love best the really imird stories,” writes Mrs. Z. P. Gustafson, of Miami, Florida, “witches, werewolves, vampires, incubi, specters and cadavers. I want my horrors to be strictly supernatural. I advise Seabury Quinn to make Jules de Grandin a little less sure of himself — it spoils the story to have him so flippant and matter of fact, and.so confident. Otherwise his stories are excellent. Please have more poetry by Robert E. Howard.”

Writes William D. Bain, of Indianapolis: “I Imow of no other publication that compares with your magazine for clean, fascinating stories, and can recommend no better antidote for brain fag than an hour with Weird Tales.” “I was surprized that nobody commented in the Eyrie on The Mystery in Acatlan,” writes J. C. C., of Chicago. “I consider it one of the best stories I have ever read in W. T. My favorite authors are Quinn and Price. Saladin’s

(Continued on page 566)




AWEALTH of fascinating stories is scheduled for early publication in Weibd Tales, the unique magazine. The brilliant success of Weibd Tales has been founded on its imrivaled, superb stories of the strange, the grotesque and the terrible — gripping stories that stimulate the imagination and send shivers of apprehension up the spine — tales that take the reader from the humdrum world about us into a deathless realm of fancy — marvelous tales so vividly told that they seem very real. Weibd Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. If Poe were alive he would undoubtedly be a contributor. In addition to creepy mystery stories, ghost-tales, stories of devil-worship, witchcraft, vampires and strange monsters, this magazine also prints the cream of the weird-scientific fiction that is written today — tales of the spaces between the worlds, surgical stories, and stories that scan the future with the eye of prophecy. Among the amazing tales in the next few issues will be:

THE HOUSE OF GOLDEN MASKS, by Seabury Quinn

Wolrd and terrible were the tortures meted out to the masked maidens in that sinister House of the Golden Masks — a daring adventure of the little French scientist. Jules de Grandin.

THE DEATH TOUCH, by Chester L. Saxby

Frozen in the ice they found Yardley. there in the southern wastes, and his coid, clutching lingers sapped the vital magnetism from the bodies of the crew, leaving them white as leprosy.

DEMON DOOM OF N’YENG SEN, by Bassett Morgan

The author of ‘‘The Devils of Po Sung” returns again to the South Seas for another gripping tale of brain-transplantation and horrors unspeakable.

THE THING IN THE HOUSE, by H. F. Scotten

A combination of de Maupassant's "Horla,” Bierce’s ‘‘Damned Thing" and Crawford’s invisible creature in "The Upper Berth,” this fearsome monster wrought dreadful havoc before it was brought to bay.

WITHIN THE NEBULA, by Edmond Hamilton

Three beings from different corners of the Galaxy — an Earth-man from our own solar system, a plant-man from Capella, and a tentaclc-man from Arcturus — start out on the strangest expedition In all literature as the great nebula expands and menaces the universe with Aery destruction.

THE SHADOW OF A NIGHTMARE, by Donald Wandrei

Tucked away in a corner of the Himalayas was a strange country, inhabited entirely by madmen; and from a manuscript that found its way to the outer world from this Country of the Mad stalked forth nightmare and horror.

THE LAUGHING THING, by G. G. Pendarves

Bidred Werne signed away his estates to Jason Drewe, and then died, but the terrlflc manifestations at the manor showed that he wielded more power dead than alive — a powerful ghost-story.

T hese are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weibd Tales. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

WlilRB TALKS,

840 North Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, HI.

Enclosed find $2.50 for 1 year’s subscription to May issue. ($3.00 in Canada.)

‘Weird Tales,” to begin with the

Address

City State



(Continued from page 564)

Throne-Rug was a, beautiful stoiy. I wish you would reprint The Wind That Tramps the World — I have heard so much about it.”

Lewis D. Taylor, of Guntersville, Alabama, writes to the Eyrie: “Our 'gang’ are all lovers of the unusual and we always look forward to Weird Tales. After we read it, Ave gather and discuss the stories. We are very fond of those that tell of battles betiveen inhabitants of the earth and other planets, using weapons of a far-advanced science. We eagerly devour the stories of experiments in science and would like to see some stories featuring radio and signals to other planets. There is only one feature of the magazine that we do not like, and that is: the occasional stories dealing Avith torture. We get no pleasure at all from reading stories of deliberate punishment and torture such as The Justice of the Czar and The Copper Bowl.”

“I have read two or three issues of Weird Tales and would not do without this extraordinary^ publication,” Avrites Alfred Oelfke, of Fort Wayne, Indiana. “In the few copies I have read some of the best stories I have seen printed. The tale by Eli Colter, The Vengeance of the Dead, is indeed a great story. Friends have told me that you once published the Chinese story. The Wind That Tramps the World. As I have heard a great deal about this wonderful story, I sincerely ask you, if at all possible, to reprint it. ’ ’

Readers, which story do you like best in this issue? Your favorite story in the February issue, as shoAvn by your votes, was Hal K. Wells’ grim story of spiders and Chinese retribution, The Brass Key. The Devil-People, by Seabury Quinn, and The Star-Stealers, by Edmond Hamilton, Avere your second and third choice.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE APRIL WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the

( 1 )

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

following stories: AVhy?

Reader’s name and address:



The Devil’s Rosary

(Continued from page 454)

Perche il sangue e la vita — how you say? Da blood, he are da life; I not lika for carry heem aroun’.”

"Howly Mither, is it blood ye’re afther givin’ me ter hold onto?” exclaimed Nora in rising horror. “Ye murtherin’ dago, come back ’ere an’

take yer divilish ”

But P. Grasso, dealer in live poultry, had cranked his decrepit fliv\’er into a state of agitated life and set off down the street, oblivious of the choice insults which Mrs. IMcGinnis sent in pursuit of him.

“Sure, Dr. Trowbridge, sor,” she confided as she entered the consultingroom, the lard tin held at arm’s length, “ ’tis th’ fine gintleman Dr. de Grandin is entirelj’; but he do be afther doin’ some crazy things at times. Wud ye be afther takin ’ charge o’ this mess o’ blood fer him? ’Tis meself as wouldn’t touch it wid a fifthy-foot pole, so I wouldn’t, once I’ve got it out o’ me hands!” “Well,” I laughed as I espied a trim little figure turning into my front yard, “here he comes now. You can tell him your opinion of his practises if you want.”

“Ah, Docthor, darlin’, ye know I’d niver have th’ heart to scold ’im,” she confessed with a shamefaced grin.

“Sure, he’s th’ ”

The sudden hysterical caehinuation of the office telephone bell cut through her words, and I turned to the shrilling instrument.

For a moment there was no response to my rather impatient “Hello?”; then dimly, as one entering a darkened room slowly begins to descry objects about him, I made out the hoarse, ralelike rasp of deep-dravm, irregular breathing.

“Hello?” I repeated, more sharply. “Dr. Trowbridge,” a low, almost breathless feminine voice whispered


ARemarkable Book LOANED To All Seekers For Power

Whatever you imasrine the power of Black Majric may be. remember there is a pure WHITE MAGIO which is as potent for sood.

S With the higher occult laws and secrets of mystical power you can change the course of your life and atti'oct success, health, happiness and a development of mental foresight that will astound you and surprise your friends.

The Roslcrucians were the Master Mystics in all ages and today they are organized in Lodges, groups and colleges in all parts of the world. In their teachings they secretly preserve the ancient wisdom that made the Pyramid in Egypt the marvel of today and the mystery temples of Greece the most alluring places of strange achievements.

You may share in this great knowledge if you are more than a mere seeker for mystery and magic. If you really desire to

I master the arcane, occult knowledge of the Masters, step by step, and become a true Adept of the Roslcrucian Fraternity, you may have the doorway opened to you.

The Roslcrucian teachings containing the true knowledge of the mystics are never published in books. But you may borrow a book called "The Light of Egypt,’’ in which the strange story of the Roslcrucians Is told and an explanation of how you may have the private teachings of the Roslcrucian Fraternity in America. Address in confidence, giving name and address in a letter (not on a postcard):

Librarian N. B.


B Roslcrucian Park

ISAN JOSE, OAUP.

I (Not sponsoring Rosicrncian

I "Fellowships” or “Societies”)

ATTRACT MONEY, HEALTH, LOVE, Wisdom, business, strength, peace, harmony, ~and happiness. My practical method.— Complete — $1. Dr. Lonk, T-2945 North Ridgeway. Chicago.

FOR 1929 NFMEBOLOGICAL FORECAST send 20c and birth date. Martha Sanchez,. 829 Howard St.. Detroit, Michigan.



ovei- the wire, “this is Haroldine Arkright. Can yon come right over with Dr. de Grandin? Right away? Please. It — it’s here!”

“Right away!” I called back, and w'heeled about, almost colliding with the little Frenchman, who had been listening over my shoulder.

“Quick, speed, haste!” he cried, as I related her message. “We must rush, we must hurry, we must fly, my friend! There is not a second to lose! ’ ’

As I charged down the hall and across the porch to my waiting ear he stopped long enough to seize the lard tin from beside my desk and two bulky paper parcels from a hall chair, then almost trod on my heels in his haste to enter the motor.


“l^OT here. Monsieur, if you please,” de Grandin ordered as he surveyed the living-room where Arkright and his daugliter awaited us. “Is there no room without furniture, where we can meet the foeman face to face? I would fight over a flat terrain, if possible.”

“There’s a vacant bedroom on the next floor,” Arkright replied, “but ”

“No buts, if you please; let us ascend at once, immediately, right away!” the Frenchman interrupted. “Oh, make haste, my friends! Year lives depend upon it, I do assure you! ’ ’

About the floor of the empty room de Grandin traced a circle of chicken’s blood, painting a tw'o-ineh-Avide ruddy border on the bare boards, and inside the outer circle he drew another, forcing Haroldine and her father within it. Then, with a bit of rag, he wiped a break in the outside line, and opening one of his paper parcels proceeded to scatter a thin layer of soft, w'hite wood-ashes over the boards between the two circles.

“Now, mon vieux, if you will assist,” he turned to me, ripping open the second package and bringing to

light a tin squirt-gun of the sort used to spray insecticide about a room infested with mosquitoes.

Dipping the nozzle of the syringe into the blood-filled lard tin, he worked the pliTiiger back and forth a moment, then handed the contrivance to me. ‘ ‘ Do you stand at my left, ’ ’ he commanded, “and should you see footprints in the ashes, spray the fowl’s blood through the air above them. Remember, my friend, it is most important that you act with speed. ’ ’

“Footprints in the ashes ” I

began incredulously, wondeinng if he had lost his senses, but a sudden current of glacial air sweeping through the room chilled me into silence.

“Ah! of the beautiful form is Mademoiselle, and who was I to Imow that cold wind of Tibetan devils would display it even more than this exquisite rohe d’Orient?” said de Grandin.

Clad in a wondrous something, she explained fright had so numbed her that dressing had been impossible.

“When did you first know they were here?” de Grandin whispered, turning his head momentarily toward the trembling couple inside the inner circle, then darting a wmtchful glance about the room as though he looked for an invisible enemy to materialize from the air.

“I found the horrible red ball in my bath, ’ ’ Haroldine replied in a low, trembling whisper. ‘ ‘ I screamed when I saw it, and Daddy got up to come to me, and there was one of them under his ash-tray; so I telephoned your house right away, and ”

“S-s-st!” the Frenchman’s sibilant warning cut her short. “Garde d vous. Friend Trow^bridge! Fixe!” As though drawing a saber from its scabbard he whipped the keen steel sword blade from his walking-stick and swished it whiplike through the air. “The cry is still ‘On ne passe pas!’ my friends!”

There w'as the fluttering of the



tiny breeze along the bedroom floor, not like a breeze from outside, but an eery, tentative sort of wind, a wind which trickled lightly over the doorsill, rose to a blast, paused a moment in reconnaissance, then crept forward experimentally, as though testing the strength of our defenses.

A light, pit-pattering noise, as though an invisible mouse were circling the room, sounded from the shadows; then, to my horrified amazement, there appeared the print of a broad, naked foot in the film of ashes de Grandin had spread upon the floor!

Wave on wave of goose-flesh rose on my arms and along rn'/ ’•f'rh as I watched the first print j M ■ • d by a second, for there was ii. above

them, no sign nor trace of any alien presence in the place; only, as the keys of a mechanical piano are depressed as the strings respond to the notes of the reeling record, the smooth coating of ashes gave token of the onward march of some invisible thing.

“Quick, my friend, shoot where you see the prints J” de Grandin cried in a shrill, excited voice, and I thrust the plunger of my pump home, sending out a shower of ruddy spray.

As invisible ink takes form when the paper is held before a flame, there was suddenly outlined in the empty air before us the visage of

“Sapristi! ’Tis Yama himself. King of Hell! God of Death! Hola, mon brave,” de Grandin called almost jocularly as the vision took form wherever the I'ain of fowl ’s blood struck, ‘ ‘ it seems we meet face to face, though you expected it not. Nom d’un pore, is this the courtesy of your country? You seem not overjoyed to meet me.

“Lower, Friend Trowbridge,” he called from the corner of his mouth, keeping w'ary eyes fixed upon the visitant, “aim for his legs; there is a trick I wish to show him.”

Obediently, I aimed the syringe at

Learn Electricity

In 12 Weeka — In the Great Shops of Coyne

The whole world of electricity is open to the Coynetrained man because the COYNE big, newly enlarged course is complete and trains you BY ACTUAL WORK onavast ou tlayof electrical equiraient. No Books-^No Classes^Start Any Time* Mot a Correspondence School

We don’t make you a mere ’’paper” electrician. Too become a reai EXPERT through actual work at COYNE.

You Oon*C Nee4 Advanced Education

or experience! Any man who is ambitious and willing can learn at Coyne.

Earn $200 to $300 a Month

No books or useless theory. Touarctrainedon everything from door bells to power plants, everything to make yoo a $50 to $200 a week COY^E-trained EXPERT.

Vdhdlcmv Send for bla free book, epecial FREB AVtUiy R.R. far# offer, detailo of Mfd Memberahip and two FREE coorBos. including Radio. W rite today.

COYNE EIJBCTRICAli SCHOOli

500 S. PauUoa St., Dept. 29-96. Chicago, III.

COYNE ELECTRICAL SCHOOL. H. C. Lawls. Pr#g.

500 S. Paulina St., O^t. Chicago. 111.

Please send me poor Free, lliuatrated Book on Eieetrieity and Coyne. No obligation. Give details of special offer too.

Address.. City

An Art Education At Home

Earn $50 or more a week. OIL PAINT PHOTOS, PORTRAITS, LANDSCAPES, MINIATURES, etc.

Eleven clearly written lessons, easy to understand, teach you Art Work, and a thorough lesson on Business Management trains you in the Art Business.

Professional Oil Painting Outfit— 15 tubes of Oil Colors, Brush, Medium andall accessories, including Portraits and Landscapes, FREE, with Art Course.

Learn this Fascinating Profession

Become distinguished. Enroll now. Send check or money order for course today.

Flctori&lArtStadios, Inc., 2926 Broadway, Dept. W.T.,Chlcngo Ship at once Art Course, including Professional Outfit. $7.50 enclos^.

Name

Addreee

Thrills! Mystery! Excitement! ‘‘THE MOON TERROR”



the footless footprints in the ashes, and a pair of broad, naked feet sprang suddenly into view.

“Bien,” the Frenehman commended, then with a sudden forward thrust of his foot engaged the masked Mongolian’s ankle in a grapevine twist and sent the fellow sprawling to the floor. The blue and gold horror that was the face of Yama came off, disclosing a leering, slant-eyed lama.

“Now, Monsieur,” de Grandin I’emarked, placing his sword-point against the other’s throat directly above the palpitating jugular vein, “I damn think perhaps you will listen to reason, heinf”

The felled man gazed malignantly into his conqueror’s face, but neither terror nor surrender showed in his sullen eyes.

“Morhleu, he is a brave savage, this one,” de Grandin muttered, then lapsed into a wailing, singsong speech the like of which I had never heard.

A look of incredulous disbelief, then of interest, finally of amazed delight, spread over the copper-colored features of the fallen man sis the little Frenchman progressed. Finally he answered with one or two coughing ejaculations, and at a sign from de Grandin rose to his feet and stood with his hands lifted above his head.

“Monsieur Arkright,” the Frenchman called without taking his eyes from his captive, “have the goodness to fetch the Pi Yu Stone without delay. I have made a treaty with this emissary of the lamas. If you return his treasure to him at once he will repair forthwith to his lamasery and trouble you and yours no more. ’ ’

“But what about my wife, and my children these fiends killed?” Arkright expostulated. “Are they to go seotfree? How do I know they’ll keep their woi’d? I’m damned if I’ll return the Pi Yu!”

“You wDl most certainly be killed if you do not,” de Grandin returned coolly. “ As to your damnation, I am a sinful man, and do not presume to

pronounce judgment on you, though I fear the worst unless you mend your morals. Come, will you return this man his property, or do I release him and bid him do his worst?”

Muttering imprecations, Arkright stepped across the barrier of blood, left the room and returned in a few minutes rvith a small parcel wrapped in what appeared to be thin plates of gold.

De Grandin took it from his hand and presented it to the Tibetan with a ceremonious bow,

“Ki lao yeh ksieh ti to lo,” the yellow man pressed his clasped hands to his breast and bowed nearly double to the Frenehman.

“Parhlcu, yes, and Dr. Trowbridge, too,” my little friend returned, indicating me with a wave of his hand.

The Tibetan bent ceremoniously toward me as de Grandin added, “Ch’i kan.”

“What did he say?” I demanded, returning the Asiatic’s salute.

‘ ‘ He says, ‘ The honorable, illustrious sir has my heartfelt thanks, ’ or words to that effect, and I insist that he say the same of you, my friend,” de Grandin returned. “Name of a small green pig, I do desire that he rmderstand there are two honorable men in the room besides himself.

“Fa avanf, mon brave,” he motioned the Tibetan toward the door with his sword, then lowered his point Avith a flourish, saluting the Arkrights with military punctilio.

‘ ‘ Mademoiselle Haroldine, ’ ’ he said, “it is a great pleasure to have served you. May your approaching marriage be a most happy one.

“Monsieur Arkright, I have saved your life, and, though against your \vill, restored your honor. It is true you have lost your gold, but self-respect is a more precious thing. Next time jmu desire to steal, permit that I suggest you select a less vengeful victim than a Tibetan brotherhood. Parbleii, those savages they have no sense of humor at all! When a man robs



them, they take it with the worst i>ossible grace.”

d’un cJiameau ” — Jules de Jl Grandin brushed an imaginar>^ fleck of dust from the sleeve of his dinner jacket and refilled his liqueur glass — “it has been a most satisfactory day, Friend Trowbridge. Our experiment was one gi’and, unqualified success; we have restored stolen property to its rightful o^^■nel’S, and I have told that Monsieur Arkright what 1 think of him.”

“U’m,” I murmured. “I suppose it’s all perfectly clear to you, but I’m still in the dark about it all.”

“Perfectly,” he agi'eed with one of his quick, elfin smiles. “Howeverly, that can be remedied. Attend me, if you please:

“When first we inteiwiewed Mademoiselle Haroldine and her father, I smelt the odor of Tibet in this so strange business. Those red beads, they could have come from but one bit of jewelry, and that was the rosary of a Buddhist monk of Tibet. Yes. Now, in the course of my travels in that devil-infested land, I had seen those old lamas do their devil-dances and command the elements to obey their summons and wreak vengeance on their enemies. ‘Very well,’ I tell me, ‘if this be a ease of lamas’ magic, we must devise magic which will counteract it.’

“ ‘Of course,’ I agree with me. ‘For every ill there is a I’emedy. Men living in the lowlands know eiires for malaria; those who inhabit the peaks know the cure for mountain fever. They must do so, or they die. Very well, is it not highlj^ probable that the Mongolian people have their own safeguards against these mountain devils? If it were not so, would not Tibet completely dominate all China?’

“ ‘You have right,’ I compliment me, ‘but whom shall we call on for aid?’

“Thereupon I remember that my old friend. Dr. Feng Yuin-han, whom

TOBACCO HABIT " STOPPED or

Money,

DK>rett^^9|

50 years Th^,

Kcelw Treatment has been sue- ^ cessful... in thousands and thotisands of cases. has been tried

Bureet way on earth of stopping the useoi tobacco without Inconvenience unpleasant effects.

^ousands Praise Keeley Treatment

Heavy, inveterate tobacco users areamaz^ at toeease'*^ with which tills wonderful treatment enables them to sto» iffiingtobMco. Itlsthesafe. reliable method— known to ana endorsed by the medical sn’ofesslon lor half n century^

Take Treatment At Our Risk

If, after you have taken this treatment, you are not satisned. it will not cost you a cent. The Keeley Treatment seldom falls: thatlswhy wo can makesuch anuoquallded guarantee. You are Judge and Jury* This Booklet FREK Every tobacco usersbould read theamazing facts in this booklet. It tells you|wba& ' lana have found out about the

ul effect of tobacco; what insurancestatlstlcs reveal, and many other interesting facts. It Is free. Send today* THCKEELSY INSTITUTE Dept. e*701 Dwight. Ilflnofe

i^eignWmrild

Like to Travel— does Romantic,

, Wealthy South America call you? Unneual Opportunities for youngr men. American Umployersjpay fare and expenses. Bie pay ^'pmtefor Free Information and Instmenons. '*How to Apply forPoeitiou.*' No obUgadona. SOUTH AMERICAN SCRVICS DUREAU S4600 Alma Avaaue* Oetroit* Mleh*

TMshOOKiQf

Explains many mystifying tricks with coins, cards, handkerchiefs, etc., you can do. Also contains complete catalc^ of Magic Tricks, Jokes. Puzzles. Escapes. Curios, and Imported Novelties from many Foreign lands. Large assortment, lowest prices. You will amaze and mystify your friends! Send 10c today.

LYLE DOUGLAS,

Station A-a Dailaa, Texas

ToAnySuifI

I Double the life of your ^coat and vest with perfectly matched pants.100t000 pattarns*

Every pair nand tailc»red to year measure; *'readymadee.** Our match sent FREE for yoor O. K. before pants are made. Fit sTuaraoteed.

Send pleee of cloth or vest today.

- >'87 SUPERIOR MATCH PANTS COMPANY lis So. 0«arJ>orn Street* Dept. 194 CMcago

FOR SALE

Complete sets (12 issues) of 1927 and 1928 issues of “Weird Tales” — $3.60 per set, or 30c per single copy for any issue in either 1927 or 1928. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.



I have Imown at the Sorbonne, is at present residing in New York, and it is to him I send my message for assistance. Parbleu, when he comes he is as full of -wisdom as a college professor attempts to appear! He tells me much in our nighttime interview before you arrive from your work of increasing the population. I learn from him, for instance, that -when these old magicians of the mountains practise their devil’s art, they automatically limit their powers. Invisible they may become, yes; but while invisible, they may not overstep a pool, puddle or drop of chicken blood. For some strange reason, such blood makes a barrier w'hich they can not pass and across which they can not hurl a missile nor send their destroying winds or devastating lightningflashes. Further, if chicken blood be east upon them their invisibility at once melts away, and -vv'hile thej" are in the process of becoming visible in such circumstances theiy physical strength is greatly reduced. One man of normal lustiness would be a match for fifty of them half visible, half unseen because of fresh fowl’s blood splashed on them.

“Yoila, I have my grand strategy' of defense already mapped out for me. From the excellent Pierre Grasso I buy much fresh chicken blood, and fi'ora Dr. Feng I obtain the ashes of the mj^stie camphor tree. The blood I spread around in an almost-eircle, that our enemy may attack us from one side only, and inside the outer stockade of gore I scatter camphor wood ashes that his footprints may become visible and betray his position to us. Then, inside our outer ramparts, I draw a second complete circle of blood which the enemy can not penetrate at all, so that Monsieur Arkright, but most of all his so charming daughter, may be safe. Then I wait.

“Presently comes the foe. He circles our first line of defenses, finds the break I have purposely left, and -walks into our trap. In the camphor wood ashes his all-invisible feet leave visible footprints to warn of his approach.

“With your aid, then, I do spray him wdth the blood as soon as his footprints betray him, and make him visible so that I may slay him at my good convenience. But he are no match for me. Non, Jules de Grandin -would not call it the sport to kill such as he; it would not be fair. Besides, is there not much to be said on his side? I think so.

“It wms the cupidity of Monsieur Arkright and no other thmg which brought death upon his wife and children. We have no way of telling that the identical man whom I have overthrown murdered those unfortunate ones, and it is not just to take his life for his fellows’ crimes. As for legal justice, what court would listen believingly to our story? Cordieu, to relate what we have seen these last few days to the ordinary lawyer would be little better than confessing ourselves mad or infatuated with too much of the so execrable liquor which your prosperous bootleggers supply. Me, I have no wish to be thought a fool.

‘ ‘ Therefoi’e, I say to me, ‘ It is best that we call this battle a draw. Let us give back to the men of the mountains that which is theirs and take their promise that they will no longer jiursue Monsieur Arkright and Mademoiselle Haroldine. Let there be no more beads from the Devil’s rosary scattered across their path. ’

“Very good. I make the equal bargain with the Tibetan; his property is returned to him and

“My friend, I suffer!’’

“Eh?” I exclaimed, shocked at the tragic face he turned to me.

“Nom d'un canon, yes; my glass is empty again!”

Don't fail to read the next adventure of Jules de Grandin: ‘^The House of Golden Masks f by Seabury ^uinn



The Hermit of Chemeketa Mountain

( Continued from page 477)

nition a simple matter in. spite of the terrible condition of the body.

The big stranger, taking mysterious articles from his pockets, knelt down beside the body, and in a minute arose with prints of the victim’s fingers, which he compared with papers in his possession, after which he announced that the man was a desperate criminal, for whom a considerable reward was offered, “dead or alive.” He intimated that Borlitz w'ould be entitled to a share in the reward, but Matt crossed himself fervently, and vowed he would have none of it.

But regardless of whether or not the man was a criminal with a price on his head, and may have richly deserved his fate, one serious feature could not be overlooked. This was that the hermit’s dogs had suddenly become a serious menace to the community, and something would have to be done about it.

The committee wiiich w'as formed to call on the hermit that afternoon included the big detective, the town doctor, the postmaster, several of the older and more influential men of the village, and last, but by no means least, the priest. Indeed, several of those on the committee vow'ed they would not so much as enter the forest unless he were with them, and even then it is said that ehanns, warranted to counteract the effects of the evil eye if judiciously employed, w^ere secretly carried by several members of the committee.

But, at any rate, they started, bravely enough at first; the big detective, w^ho scoffed at their fears, led the way, with the priest walking beside him to show him the trail. As they advanced up the mountain the conversation became quieter; a noise ill the thicket, or the sudden rustle of

Now You Can Have A New Skin-3 Days Blemishes Vanish!


— and learn that what was considered impossible before the banishing of pimples, blackheads, freckles, large pores, tan, oily skin, wrinkles and other defects — can now be done by any person at home in 3 days’ time, harmlessly and economically.

It is all explained in a new treatise call^ “BEAUTIFUL NEW SKIN IN 3 DAYS.” which is being mailed absolutely free to readers of this maj.?azine. So, worry no more over your humiliating skin and complexion or signs of aging. Simply send your name and address to MARVO BEAUTY LABORATORIES. Dept. 324-G, No. 1700 Broadway, New York, N. Y., and you will receive it by return mail, without charge or obligation. If pleased, tell your friends abwt it.

What Do You Want?

TVTiatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

** Clouds Dispelled**

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. A't today! Write NOW!!


Dept. O, Box 1585, Los Angeles, Cnllf.

or DRUG HABIT

CimSD rORCVCR or NO PAV

uU treotment dent on trial. Cao ber _ _ 'Ivea ■ocretly to privacy o< home. Guaniuteetf to btnisE forever ell deaire (or whiskey. Sin. wine, borne *brew, nmt^sblne, opltun, morphine, heroin, pereftoric nA llaudnum. Costs ^.00 u core*, nothing i| falls. STAI^ArD r LA£OHATORl£S Sta.NPs3 BALTIMORE. WO.

OLD MONEY WANTED Hfi

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Money, it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaranteed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash. CLARKE COIN CO.. TT. T. Dept., LeRay, N. Y.

A^/*A HABITl

II CURED OR NO BfiYI

chewing. Full treatcoent DOthiDg if it foils. OvSTa

■ Any fbm, dgan, cignrettes, snuff. pip.,(

Son trial Ha^eaa. Costa tlX-O if cuiud, notrung n n laus. trvurH

■ 600,000 treatments used. SUPERSA CO. KT-i 7. Baltiniore, Md. ■

■ > a #ai#at>lce, $5.00; Cards, $1.25; Inks, $1.50; MAIs|||_ Magic Fluid for Transparents, $3.00;

Slick Ace Cards, $1.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c. CENTRAL NOVKLTY COMPANT,

740 W. Madison St., Chicago, ni.

WmSKET OR DRUG HABIT CURED OR NO

pay! Secret Treatment. $2.00 it cured, sent on trial! Laboratories, Sta. C. Box 99, Los Angeles. Calif.



a bird overhead, would result in an effort on the part of the group to keep more closely together, and the man of God at the head of the band was called on more frequently for spiritual reassurance. This he gave, willingly enough; but it was noted that on one or two occasions, as they drew near the hermit’s place, his voice may have trembled a little, and he was observed to cross himself quite frequently, and with possibly a little more fervor than usual.

Nearing the cabin one of the group picked up a revolver, with six empty shells in the chambers. This was passed from hand to hand, and at least one of the group claimed to have seen it in the dead man’s possession.

They at last came out on the little clearing, and paused at the dilapidated fence. The detective had volunteered to do the talking, since he claimed to be undismayed l3y the prospect of facing the hermit’s evil eye, and also since he was especially interested in the death of the man he had come to the village to seek. There was no protest at his taking the lead in the negotiations.

There was no one in sight in the little cleared space surrounding the cabin, and the thing that impressed itself almost immediately on the minds of all present was the absence of the dogs. Invariably on the approach of strangers they had always charged up to the fence, threatening annihilation to trespassers, but now there was no sign of them whatever. Nor of the hermit himself.

The detective called a couple of times from where they stood at the fence, and receiving no answer, announced that he was going in. He climbed the fence, walked across the field, and disappeared behind the shack. A moment later he reappeared and motioned to the group to come to him, and, after some hesitation, with two or three of the bolder ones leading the way, the committee crossed the field.

As they arrived at the cabin the detective silently pointed to the ground, and there, cold in death, lay the bodies of the hermit and his two dogs. They were not a pretty sight; the birds had discovered them.

The doctor, after an examination of the bodies, said that they had all three been shot; the hermit apparently at close range, as the bullet had passed clear through the body and was found in his clothing. He showed it to them, and the detective, who knew about such things, said that it had undoubtedly been fired from the revolver they had found on the trail. And the doctor said that from the condition of the bodies they had been dead at least three or four days!

WHEN he retiumed to the big city by the sea the detective reported to his superiors that the man he sought had been killed on Chemeketa Mountain by timber wolves which had harassed the community for a few days previously. But if you go to Matt Borlitz, or Stanislaus Mathewzewiski, or even Gorgas Pichutzki, when he is sober, they will tell you that it had been fifteen years since a timber wolf had been seen in the country, and that there never has been one seen there since. And besides, timber wolves leave tracks, and howl, and there never was a track left or a sound made by the three phantom beasts who terrorized the village until they killed the murderer of the hermit and his two dogs.

The three phantoms have never been seen since. That was insured, however, when they buried the hermit and his two dogs. There is one sure way of keeping in its grave the body of a dead man who takes the form of a beast and roams the woods at night, or of a vicious wolf-dog which will not stay dead, and this' was done. You will not be able to learn who did it, but before the graves were filled there was driven through the heart of each of them and deep into the groimd beneath a long wooden stake.



The WorldWrecker

(Continued from page 464)

witli a movable dome. It makes an ideal place for observation. You must come up and see it one day. ’ ’ “Daytime is my busy time, unfortunately,” said he; “besides, the stars don’t twinkle then. Can not I come tonight — ^now? ’ ’

‘ ‘ Now? ’ ’ She appeared stax’tled by the cool suggestion.

“Why not? It’s a perfect night for star-gazing. I’m simply longing for a close-up of Venus.”

‘ ■ if you had the merest smattering of the science in which you profess to bo so interested, ’ ’ she told him severely, “you would know that Venus is not on view except just before sunrise or just after sunset.”

“ No? ” was his imperturbable comment. “Then Jupiter will do. Good old Jupiter — ‘Twinkle, twinkle little Jupe.’ I’m just crazy to see him do it! Come now, just let me have one little peep. You’ve already told me that Professor Merrivale is away in the Midlands, and I’m sure he will not object, considering that I saved him from his own gas-attack. Please say ‘yes’.”

Half serious, half bantering, he stuck to his point while the ear whirled them eastward, but it was not until they had mounted Blackheath Hill and w^ere crossing the dark stretch of moor that she signified a reluctant assent.

Avoiding the main entrance of Tudor Towers, Terry drew up before a narrow postern door at the base of one of the corner turrets, whose sham battlements wex’e crowned with a bulbous dome. Alma opened the door with her pass-key, but it was Terry who led the way up the winding staircase, guided by a mere pinpoint of light from his electric torch.

“What’s that?” She clutched his wrist as she breathed the startled

I

_ PRICES ON STANDARD TIRES

Goodrich, Goodyear, Firestone, and other used tipes, reconstructed by our special process. Many miles of extra service.

Great saving Order now

Sza Tlrea Tubes Size Tires Tabes 30x3 $2.3B $1.25 33xB $4.3B $2.60 " 3BxB 4.4B 2 75

29x4.40 2.70 1.50

30XB.2B 4.00 2.50

31XB.2B 4.2B 2.60

30x6.77 4.3B 2.75

32x6.20 4.7B 2.75

33x6.00 4.9B 2.75

30x3</s 2.4B 31x4 2.9B

32x4 3.00

33x4 3.4B

32x 4'/2 3.7B 33x4'/: 3.8B 30xB 4.2B

1.35 1.76 1.80 1.85 2.25 2.30 2.15!

FREE

Repair Kit

with2Iire0rder

Send SI. 00 Deposit on Each Tiro

ualance 0. O. I)., plus delivery charges. SATISFACTION OITARANTEED.

CHICAGO TIRE & RUBBER COMPANV

1354S. WABASH AVE., DEPT. 120 GHICADO, lU.

nnn PAST 40

m m m All inf Weak? Lack vigor? Then send at

^ • once for 777 FOItMULA, the amazing now

tonic discovery. Pep and energy come back quick. Feel like a now man, full of redblooded vim and vigor. Nothing like 777 FOUMULA — that's why so many are finding this tonic so superior. Satisfaction guaranteed or money back. Send?2.00 for double-strength package. SPECIAL 2-PACKAGE OFFER, $3.00. Also C. O. D.

CKUKS COi, Dept. WT,

616 Victory Bldg:. Pliila, Pa.


you that I will teach you, by moll, in one lesson, the simplest, shortest method all for $1.00. Not telepathy. You can read one's mind to a dot, by only looking In the eyes of partner, chum, sweetheart, etc. Praised by New York. Boston, Montreal Police chiefs; colleges; Thurston;. Blackatone; etc. If fake, let them arrest me. A.HONiQMAN,51 16 Clarke SI., Dept. WT-3, Montreal, Can

XPAV KATHOSCOPE. PockI Detector. Everybody wants it. See your best girl and all she's doing. No one knows; you see everything. Periscope operates In all climates; lasts lifetime; ready for use. Made of hard rubber. $1.00 cash with order for this wonderful instrument and 8 astonishing French pictures.

KATHOS CO., P.O. Box 8302, City HaH Pott Office, NewTorkCity

Fits Stopped! New Remedy

Wonderfu results, most stubborn cases of fits stopped — Harmless, non-habit forming. Frco booklet explains this new guaranteed treatment. Send. "Name to: Nurosol Laboratories, 509 Fifth Avenue, Dept. 492, New York City.

/or DRUG HABIT

feURED FOREVER or NO PAY

, _ _ ^'ult treatment «cot on trial. Can be

g iven secretly in privacy of home. Guaranteed forever all desire for whhkejr, gin. wine, home

^ f brew, moonshine, opium, morphine, heroin, paregoric and

laudnum. Costs $2.00 if cures, nothing if fails. Save him from Poisoo. STANDARD LABORATORIES Sta. N-33 8ALT1MORB..MD,

BIG PAY: SOUTH.YMKKICAN WOKK. AMKKican firms pay fare, expenses. South American Service Bureau. 14.000 Alma. Detroit. Mich.

INVENTIONS WANTKD — PATKNTKD, UNpatented. If you have an idea for sale, write Hartley. Box 928. Bangor. Maine.

SONG rOKM WRITEKS— “KKAIi” PROPOSItion. Hibbeler, D-156, 2104 N. Keystone.

Chicago.

What Would You Do


I F you had received thousands of letters requesting you to reprint a certain story whicli was too long to be republished in the magazine, what would you do? THE MOON TERROR, by A. G. Birch, winch appeared as a serial in Weird Tales in 1923, is too long to republish in our magazine consistent with our policy. As a matter of service to the multitude of readers who have requested us to reprint this story, we have had i1 printed in cloth -bound book form to sell at the publishers’ price of $1.50 per copy.

This fascinating book will be sent to you direct; we pay the postage.

Tremendously Popular

THE MOON TERROR was such a thrilling story that the entire reserve stock of the issue containing the first part was sold out on special orders to those who were not fortunate enough to start the story from the beginning, but began to read it with the second installment. It narrates the sensational attempt of a group of Chinese scientists to obtain rulership of the

WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. M-14

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois

world by a tremendous threat against the very existence of the earth. The diabolical methods bj' which they put their scheme into execution, the frantic race across the ocean to circumvent them, the weird and exciting adventures that befell, make one of the most gripping and fascinating novels ever written.

For Your Library

This book will make a valuable addition to your library collection. It is beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orangecolored jacket.

Don’t Pass This Up

Your life is not complete until you have read this book of thrills. It is full of breath-taking adventures and eery crime.

Xote: If >'Our bookdoaler doesn’t carry this

book in stork, have him order it for you. or, mail the coupon to u.s and we will send the book direct to you itostag’o prepaid.

j Weird Tales. Book Dept. iI-14.

I 810 X..Michigim Ave.. Chicago. Tllinoi.s.

I Enclosed find $1.50 for cloth-bonnd copy I of TTTK MOOX TERROR.

! Xame _

I Address

I City..

State.

10.000 Free Miles of Gasoline/

On a 3, 000-mile trip, J. R. Wood reports that his Oldsmobile ran 30 miles per gallon due to an amazing device now used by over three million car owners! At this rate, when his car runs 23,000 miles he will get 10,000 free miles of gasoline. Write the inventor now to test the device on your car at his risk.

$75 to $200 in a Week

Thousands Report Sensational Records

ir. H. Cumminj?s writes that he has driven his 1922 --T^'ord 50,000 miles and increased his,t?as mileage to 28 miles per gallon of gas. 36 Miles on 1 }^ Gallons ‘•Yesterday I made a trip of 36 miles and used only 1^/4 gallons.” — L. L. Robinson.

43 Miles on a Gallon

‘‘We have tried them out. Chevrolet got 43 miles.” — F. S. Carroll. Rex Dean, another Chevrolet owner, reports he got. 25 miles a gallon.

Almost Double

J. R. Wood writes he increased mileage on his Oldsmobile from 17 miles a gallon by actual count on 3,000 miles.

International Truck Saves 41%

*‘I find it better than you recommend it. On the International truck we use, we are saving by positive test 41 % in gas and our engine uses less oil.” — Geo. Bell.

OVER three million Stranskys have been installed on practically every make of automobile, also on trucks, tractors, stationary en.gines. marine engines and aeroplane. Many of them after three to ci.ght years of constant practical tests repoi-t increased miU.-a.ge, more power, and reduced carbon. Seldom has such an invention so taken America by storm. No wonder Williams made.$48 in three hours and Foster $137.50 in a week!

$48 IN 3 HOURS


J. A. Stransky, former candidate for Governor of South Dakota, is the inventor of this device. It is a simple little l)iece not much larger than a dollar coin and a 12-year-okl boy can install it. It is automatic and self regulating. It operates on a universally-recognized engineering principle that has been approved, after exhaustive tests, by experienced auto drivers, automobile dealers, and expert mechanics.

Official tests have proved that most cars waste 30% of the gasoline power through improper combustion, and we have thousands of unsolicited testimonials like the following: Ford. 20 to 40 miles on a gallon. Star, 25 to 42, Chevrolet. 30 to 42. Hudson. 19 to 21. Overland, 19 to 31. Nash. 19 to 22. Hupmobile. 32 to 37. Buick. 18 to.32. Studebaker, 23 to 27. Cadillac. 12 to 18 —


D-1550 Stransky Block, PUKWANA, S. OAK.

Resoorcet $500,000.00

My gas bill has been cut in half. Since I in.stalled it. my engine runs as good as new. starts easier and quicker. I went out Saturday about three hours and secured 16 orders. J. A. Williams.

and so on. Are you getting that many miles per gallon now?


Not the least remarkable news from car owners is tliat this amazin:? device has reduced carbon. Xaturally nlien kus is more tliurniurlily vapoidzed raw, wcl jjasoline cannot cntei' the cylinders to burn and i>it — a constant menace t<* every motorist, furthermore, tliis device permits an easy way to remove catlion alrea'ly formed; the same cleansin,',; principle as used on the famous Diesel eniiim'.


Mail the coupon now for free test offer. ■'’Pile inventor will pay a casli fmfeit if the test fails to save ga.s. Ambitijius men — speak up! -irr) to?2i»n in a week is a fair expectation as our distributor. Otlier men have earned.it tliis rate, full and spare time. Kvery car owner wants to see this nationally advertised proposition: we Kive you exact plan to follow that can net you ¥75 to.S2 00 in a week. Tlie coupon hiiiurs you full details without ohlig£tion. Act now.

FREE COUPON l■i■■■■l■ll|

I L. G. Stransky, General Manager, I I J. A. Stransky Mfg. Co., R

* D-1550 Stransky BIk., Pukwana, So. Dakota. I

I Yes, tell me liow.1 can test this way to save my | ■ gasoline at your risk. A l.so send me your money j g making distriliutor's iilan. This reijuest does not ■ g obligate me to order anything at any time. ■ N Name..!

Street (orniralroute)- nty(P. O.)

State576



The SCOURGE of B’MOTH

By BERTRAM RUSSELL

T he author of “The Bat-Men of Thorium” paints in this story a vivid picture of an invasion from the sea and the jungles that threatens to wipe out civilization, enslave the human race, and re-establish the supremacy of the ■wilderness,

ATALE of strange madness, of ■weird rites and human sacrifice, of fantastic and thrilling horror, of a world'-wide and sinister conspiracy, and finally, in wave on wave of frightful menace, the concerted uprising of the whole animal kingdom against their master, Man. This utterly strange and fascinating story vdll be printed complete in the

May issue of


On Sale April 1 Clip and Mail thi» coupon today/

WKIRD TALKS 840 AUchigan Ave.,

Chioaco, Dl.

Enclosed And tl for special 6 months subscription to "Weird Tales" to begin with the May issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance Is accompanied by coupon.

Name,

AAdrass ■

City Stata

question. From' the darloiess above there came a faint, irregular clicking noise.

With a whispered order for her to remain where she was, Terry kicked off his shoes and crept up the remaining stairs to where an oblong of gray among the velvety blackness told of an open door. Terry pocketed his torch and peered cautiously in.

It was a large, circular room, filled with strange machines and chemical apparatus. A shaded lamp burnt at the farther end, its pool of light falling like a halo on the high, bald head of Professor Merrivale as he sat working at a small typewriter.

Warily, his stocking feet making no sound, Terry approached the crouching figure and looked over its shoulder, reading the words that were forming beneath the clicking keys. And what he saw caused a gasp of amazement to escape his lips.

Like a flash the professor spun round and leapt toward him, his skinny hands fastening upon his throat.

“So, you sneaking spy, I’ve got you!” the old man hissed.

Terry, without apparent effort, released himself and stepped back a pace. The light glinte<i along a revolver barrel as he raised his hand level with the other’s breast.

“And I’ve got you — at last — Autocrat of the World! Up with ’em — lively I ’ ’

Hard on his w'ords there came a flash of violet fire leaping across the room, blinding, dazing in its intensity. Terry staggered, and the weapon was wrenched from his grasp as though by the hand of an invisible giant.

What happened to Terry, and the startling way in ivhich the Autocrat proceeded to make good his threat against the world, will he narrated in next month’s WEIRD TALES.

[THE END]
