============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: July 1938
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Mother of Toads . . . . ... =... =~. ~- ~~ ~~" by ClatkAshton Smith
============================================================
============================================================
MOTHER OF TOADS . . . . ... =... =~. ~- ~~ ~~
by ClatkAshton Smith
============================================================
In this strange thing we hold so dear, This flesh that crumbles into dust, Are souls of idiot and seer, The dead years’ podliness and lust.

other of Toads

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

Weird and powerful was the effect on the young apprentice of the potion given him by Mére Antoinette, known by the villagers as “the Mother of Toads”

ef HY must you always hurry away, my little one?” The voice of Mére Antoinette, the witch, was an amorous croaking. She ogled Pierre, the apothecary’s young apprentice, with eyes full-orbed and unblinking as those of a toad. The folds beneath her chin swelled like the throat of some great batrachian. Her short flat fingers, outspread on her soiled apron, revealed an appearance as of narrow webs between their first flanges. _ Pierre Baudin, as usual, gave no answer

but turned his eyes from Mére Antotnette with an air of impatience. Her voice, raucously coaxing, persisted:

“Stay awhile tonight, my pretty orphan. No one will miss you in the village. And your master will not mind.”

Pierre tossed his head with the disdain of a young Adonis. The witch was more than twice his age, and her charms were too uncouth and unsavory to tempt him for an instant. She was repellently fat and lumpish, and her skin possessed an unwholesome pallor. Also, her repute was such as to have nullified the attractions of a younger and fairer sorceress. Her witchcraft had made her feared among the peasantry of that remote province, where belief in spells and philtres was still common. The people of Averoigne called her La Mére des Crapauds, Mother of Toads, a name given for more than one reason. Toads swarmed


innumerably about her hut; they were said to be her familiars, and dark tales were told concerning their relationship to the sorceress, and the duties they performed at her bidding. Such tales were all the more readily believed because of those batrachian features that had always been remarked in her aspect.

The youth disliked her, even as he disliked the sluggish, abnormally large toads on which he had sometimes trodden in the dusk, upon the path between her hut and the village of Les Hiboux. He could hear some of these creatures croaking now; and it seemed, weirdly, that they uttered half-articulate echoes of the witch’s words.

It would be dark soon, he reflected. The path along the marshes was not pleasant by night, and he felt doubly anxious to depart. Still without replying to Mére Antoinette’s invitation, he reached for the black triangular vial she had set before him on her greasy table. The vial contained a philtre of curious potency which his master, Alain le Dindon, had sent him to procure. Le Dindon, the village apothecary, was wont to deal surreptitiously in certain dubious medicaments supplied by the witch; and Pierre had often gone on such errands to her osier-hidden hut.

The old apothecary, whose humor was rough and ribald, had sometimes rallied Pierre concerning Mére Antoinette’s prefMOTHER OF TOADS 87,

erence for him. Remembering certain admonitory gibes, more witty than decent, the boy flushed angrily as he turned to go.

“Stay,” insisted Mére Antoinette, ‘“The _ fog is cold on the marshes; and it thickens apace. I knew that you were coming, and I have mulled for you a goodly measure of the red wine of Ximes.”

She removed the lid from an earthen pitcher and poured its steaming contents into a large cup. The purplish-red wine creamed delectably, and an odor of hot, delicious spices filled the hut, overpowering the less agreeable odors from the simmering cauldron, the half-dried newts, vipers, bat-wings and evil, nauseous herbs hanging on the walls, and the reek of the black candles of pitch and corpse-tallow that burned always, by noon or night, in that murky interior.

“Tl drink it,’ said Pierre, a little grudgingly; “that is, if it contains nothing of your own concoction,”

“Tis naught but sound wine, four seasons old, with spices of Arabia,” the sorceress croaked ingratiatingly. “ ’Twill warm your stomach .. . and . . .” she added something inaudible as Pierre accepted the cup.

Before drinking, he inhaled the fumes of the beverage with some caution but was reassured by its pleasant smell. Surely it was innocent of any drug, any philtre brewed by the witch: for, to his knowledge, her preparations were all evilsmelling.

Still, as if warned by some premonition, he hesitated. Then he remembered that the sunset air was indeed chill; that mists had gathered furtively behind him as he came to Mére Antoinette’s dwelling. The wine would fortify him for the dismal return walk to Les Hiboux. He quaffed it quickly and set down the cup.

“Truly, it is good wine,” he declared. “But I mut go now.”

Even as he spoke, he felt in his stomach and veins the spreading warmth of the alcohol, of the spices . . . of something more ardent than these, It seemed that his voice was unreal and strange, falling — as if from a height above him. The warmth grew, mounting within him like a golden flame fed by magic oils. His blood, a seething torrent, poured tumultuously and more tumultuously through his members.

There was a deep soft thundering in his ears, a rosy dazzlement in his eyes. Somehow the hut appeared to expand, to change luminously about him. He hardly recognized its squalid furnishings, its litter of baleful oddments, on which a torrid splendor was shed by the black candies, tipped with ruddy fire, that towered and swelled gigantically into the soft gloom. His blood burned as with the throbbing flame of the candles.

It came to him, for an instant, that all this was a questionable enchantment, a glamor wrought by the witch’s wine. Fear was upon him and he wished to flee. Then, close beside him, he saw Mére Antoinette. :

Briefly he wondered why he had thought her old and gross and repulsive: for it seemed that he looked upon Lilith, the first witch, . . . The lumpish limbs and body had grown voluptuous; the pale, thick-lipped mouth enticed him with a promise of ampler kisses than other mouths could yield. He knew why the magic warmth mounted ever higher and hotter within him. . . .

“Do you like me now, my little one?” she questioned. . . .

P= awoke in the ashy dawn, when the tall black tapers had dwindled down and had melted limply in their sockets. Sick and confused, he sought vainly to remember where he was or

88 WEIRD TALES

what he had done. Then, turning a little, he saw beside him on the couch a thing that was like some impossible monster of ill dreams: a toad-like form, large as a fat woman. Its limbs were somehow like a woman’s arms and legs. Its pale, warty body pressed and bulged against him, and he felt the rounded softness of something that resembled a breast.

Nausea rose within him as memory of that delirious night returned. Most foully “he had been beguiled by the witch, and had succumbed to her evil enchantments. It seemed that an incubus smothered him, weighing upon all his limbs and body. He shut his eyes, that he might no longer behold the loathsome thing that was Mére Antoinette in her true semblance.. Slowly, with prodigious effort, he drew himself away from the crushing nightmare shape. It did not stir or appear to waken; and he slid quickly from the couch.

Again, compelled by a noisome fas- :

cination, he peered at the thing on the couch—and saw only the gross form of Mére Antoinette. Perhaps his impression of a great toad beside-him had been but an illusion, a half-dream that lingered after slumber. He lost something of his nightmarish horror; but his gorge still rose in a sick disgust, remembering the lewdness to which he had yielded.

Fearing that the witch might awaken at any moment and seek to detain him, he stole noiselessly from the hut. It was broad daylight, but a cold, hueless mist lay everywhere, shrouding the reedy marshes, and hanging like a ghostly curtain on the path he. must. follow to Les Hiboux. Moving and seething always, the mist seemed to reach toward him with intercepting fingers as he started homeward. He shivered at its touch, he bowed his head and drew his cloak closer around him.

Thicker and thicker the mist swirled, coiling, writhing endlessly, as if to bar Pierre's progress. He could discern the twisting, narrow path for only a few paces in advance. It was hard to find the familiar landmarks, hard to recognize the osiers and willows that loomed suddenly before him like gray phantoms and faded again into the white nothingness as he went onward. Never had he seen such fog: it was like the blinding, stifling fumes of a thousand witch-stirred cauldrons.

Though he was not altogether sure of his surroundings, Pierre thought that he had covered half the distance to the village. Then, all at once, he began to meet the toads. They were hidden by the mist till he came close upon them. Misshapen, unnaturally big and bloated, they squat- — ted in his way on the little footpath or hopped sluggishly before him from the pallid gioom on either hand.

Several struck against his feet with a horrible and heavy flopping. He stepped unaware upon one of them, and slipped in the squashy noisomeness it had made, barely saving himself from a headlong fall on the bog’s rim. Black, miry water gloomed close beside him as he staggered there.

Turning to regain his path, he crushed others of the toads to an abhorrent pulp under his feet. The marshy soil was alive with them. They flopped against him from the mist, striking his legs, his bosom, his very face with their clammy bodies. They rose up by scores like a devil-driven legion. It seemed that there was a malignance, an evil purpose in their movements, in the buffeting of their violent impact. He could make no progress on the swarming path, but lurched to and fro, slipping blindly, and shielding © his face with lifted hands. He felt an eery consternation, an eldritch horror. It

MOTHER OF TOADS 89

was as if the nightmare of his awakening in the witch’s hut had somehow returned upon him.

The toads came always from the direction of Les Hiboux, as if to drive him back toward Mére Antoinette’s dwelling. They bounded against him like a monstrous hail, like missiles flung by unseen . demons. The ground was covered by

them, the air was filled with their hurtling bodies. Once, he nearly went down beneath them.

Their number seemed to increase, they pelted him in a noxious storm. He gave way before them, his courage broke, and he started to run at random, without knowing that he had left the safe path. Losing all thought of direction, in his frantic desire to escape from those impossible myriads, he plunged on amid the dim reeds and sedges, over ground that quivered gelatinously beneath him. Always at his heels he heard the soft, heavy flopping of the toads; and sometimes they rose up like a sudden wall to bar his way and turn him aside. More than once, they drove him back from the verge of hidden quagmires into which he would otherwise have fallen. It was as if they were herding him deliberately and concertedly to a destined goal.

in bad like the lifting of a dense curtain, the mist rolled away, and Pierre saw before him in a golden dazzle of morning sunshine the green, thickgrowing osiers that surrounded Mére Antoinette’s hut. The toads had all disappeared, though he could have sworn that hundreds of them were hopping close about him an instant previously. With a feeling of helpless fright and panic, he knew-that he was still within the witch’s toils; that the toads were indeed her familiars, as so many people believed them to be, They had prevented

his escape, and had brought him back to the foul creature . . . whether woman, batrachian, or both . . . who was known as the Mother of Toads. :

Pierre’s sensations were those of one who sinks momently deeper into some black and bottomless quicksand. He saw the witch emerge from the hut and come toward him. Her thick fingers, with pale folds of skin between them like the beginnings of a web, were stretched and flattened on the steaming cup that she carried. A sudden gust of wind arose as if from nowhere, and bore to Pierre’s nostrils the hot, familiar spices of the drugged wine.

“Why did you leave so hastily, my little one?” There was an amorous wheedling in the very tone of the witch’s question. “I should not have let you go without another cup of the good red wine, mulled and spiced for the warming of your stomach. ... See, I have prepared it for you . .. knowing that you would return.”

She came very close to him as she spoke, leering and sidling, and held the cup toward his lips. Pierre grew dizzy with the strange fumes and turned his head away. It seemed that a paralyzing spell had seized his muscles, for the simple movement required an immense effort.

His mind, however, was still clear, and the sick revulsion of that nightmare dawn returned upon him. He saw again the great toad that had lain at his side when he awakened.

“I will not drink your wine,” he said firmly. “You are a foul witch, and I loathe you. Let me go.”

“Why do you loathe me?” croaked Mére Antoinette. “I can give you all that other women give . . . and more.”

-- “You are not a woman,” said Pierre. “You are a big toad. I saw you in your

90 WEIRD TALES

true shape this morning. I’d rather drown in the marsh-waters than stay with you again.”

An indescribable change came upon the sorceress before Pierre had finished speaking. The leer slid from her thick and pallid features, leaving them blankly inhuman for an instant. Then her eyes bulged and goggled horribly, and her whole body appeared to swell as if inflated with venom.

“Go, then!” she spat with a guttural virulence. ‘“‘But you will soon wish that you had stayed.”

The queer paralysis had lifted from Pierre’s muscles. It was as if the injunction of the angry witch had served to revoke an insidious, half-woven spell. With no parting glance or word, Pierre turned from her and fled with long, hasty steps, almost running, on the path to Les Hiboux.

H E HAD gone little more than a hundred paces when the fog began to return. It coiled shoreward in vast volumes from the marshes, it poured like smoke from the very ground at his feet. Almost instantly, the sun dimmed to a wan silver disk and disappeared. The blue heavens were lost in the pale and seething yoidness overhead. The path before Pierre was‘ blotted out till he seemed to walk on the sheer rim of a white abyss, that moved with him as he went.

Like the clammy arms of specters, with death-chill fingers that clutched and caressed, the weird mists drew closer still about Pierre. They thickened in his nostrils and throat, they dripped in a heavy dew from his garments. They choked him with the fetor of rank waters and putrescent ooze , , , and a stench as of

liquefying corpses that had risen somewhere to the surface amid the fen.

Then, from the blank whiteness, the toads assailed Pierre in a surging, solid: wave that towered above his head and swept him from the dim path with the force of falling seas as it descended. He went down, splashing and floundering, into water that swarmed with the numberless batrachians. Foul slime was in his mouth and nose as he struggled to regain his footing. The water, however, was only knee-deep, and the bottom, though slippery and oozy, supported him with little yielding when he stood erect.

He discerned indistinctly through the mist the near-by margin from which he had fallen. But his steps were weirdly and horribly hampered by the toad-seething waters when he strove to reach it. Inch by inch, with a hopeless panic deepening upon him, he fought toward the solid shore. The toads leaped and tumbled about him with a dizzying eddy-like motion. They swirled like a viscid undertow around his feet and shins. They swept and swirled in great loathsome undulations against his retarded knees.

However, he made slow and painful progress, till his outstretched fingers could almost grasp the wiry sedges that trailed from the low bank. Then, from that mist-bound shore, there fell and broke upon him a second deluge of these demoniac toads; and Pierre was borne helplessly backward into the filthy waters.

Held down by the piling and crawling masses, and drowning in nauseous darkness at the thick-oozed bottom, he clawed feebly at his assailants. For a moment,

‘ere oblivion came, his fingers found

among them the outlines of a monstrous form that was somehow toad-like .., but large and heavy as a fat woman,

scape

-By PAUL ERNST

A brief weird tale about the escape of a madman

E HAD the craziest form of craziH ness I've ever seen.

Of course, I hasten to add, I hadn't seen much. I'd been through an asylum once before, as now, to get a story for my paper on treatment and conditions of State inmates, and that was all. On that former trip I'd witnessed nothing like this; nor had I, till now, on this trip.

The man didn’t look crazy. So often -they don’t. He was a medium-sized chap with gray in his hair and a look of sadness on his thin, mild face. A look of sadness-——and determination. Neatly dressed, precise of movement, he was very busy in his cell. He paid no attention for a while as the guard and I stood at the barred door and watched him.

He was building something. He would pick up a tool, adjust it carefully, work with all the delicacy of a watchmaker for a moment. Then he would lay the tool down and pick up a gage and check his work. All very accurate and careful.

The only thing was that you couldn't see what he was building. And you couldn’t see any tools, nor gages nor work-bench. There was nothing in the cell but the man, and a bolted-down cot and chair.

Nevertheless, the fellow was extraordinarily industrious. He would seize a nonexistent tool, examine it with a frown, and then use it on thin air, after which would come the inevitable measuring movements.

“It certainly looks,” I said in a low tone to the attendant, “as though there should be something there.”

The attendant grinned and nodded. And I continued to watch, fascinated.

You could follow the man through his whole box of tools, from his rational movements. Now he was boring a hole, obviously a very small hole, with a tiny metal-drill equipped with an egg-beater handle. Now he was just touching a surface with a file. Now he was sawing something else, after which he took the sawed part from an imaginary workbench and tried it in its ples eee and wherever that was.

I got still another glimpse of unity of effort as I watched him. Each little period of accurate workmanship ended with a trip four steps to his left, to a corner of his cell which was bright with sunlight. There, his motions said, was the thing he was working on. There was the object, slowly growing bit by accurate bit, which he was making and assembling.

It was uncanny. There simply ought to have been something there —a cabinet, chair, whatnot—and there wasn’t.

The man slowly screwed an imaginary part to an imaginary whole, then laid down his imaginary screw-driver and walked to the door, for the first time acknowledging our presence there.

“Hello, Nick,” he said to the attendant. His voice was as mild and as sad and as oddly determined as the rest of him.

“Hello,” said the attendant affably. His good-natured, broad face turned from the man in the cell toward me.

“Meet Mr. Freer, Mr. Gannet. Mr. Freet’s with a newspaper.”


92 WEIRD TALES

“Oh?” said Gannet, politely. He put out his hand so that I could shake it if I reached through the bars of his door a little. I hesitated, then grasped it, He didn’t look dangerous.

“How're you doing with your what-isit, Gannet?” the attendant said, nodding solemnly toward the bright corner where lay the object of the man’s attentions.

“Pretty well,” said Gannet. “This damned floor isn’t quite level. It's three thirty-seconds of an inch to the foot off. I have to allow for that in every line and angle, and it makes it needlessly difficult.”

“What is it you're building?” asked Nick wheedlingly. ‘You won’t tell any of us, but won’t you tell Mr. Freer, for his newspaper story?”

“There it is,” shrugged Gannet, pointing to the corner. “See for yourself.”

I stared involuntarily at the corner, then, feeling like a fool, back at his mild, sad face. Was there a ghost of a twinkle in his gray eyes? Or was it my imagination? I couldn’t tell. I was beginning to feel a little crazy myself.

W: WALKED away. The big library and lounging-room where the almost-cured could sit and read was left for me to see. But I looked around without much interest as we passed through. I kept thinking of Gannet.

“Has he been going through that set of motions very long?” I asked the attendant.

“He started right after he got here,” said Nick. ‘That was a year ago. He came here raving, trying to fight free and get back to the house where he'd lived with his son and daughter-in-law. There was something in his room he had to get, he said. Then he calmed down, and next day began going through the routine you saw. Some days he ‘works’ only a few

hours, sometimes all day long and up until lights-out at night.”

“The way he puttered around that corner made me think I was off myself, for not seeing something there,” I said. “It was amazingly realistic. As though you could surely feel what he was working on, even if you couldn't see it. Has anybody ever felt around that corner where he spends his time?”

“Hey, boy,’ said Nick, “easy, now. Pretty soon we'll be sending a wagon for you.” ”

“But smiling.

“No. That’s the one thing that brings out Gannet’s kink: If anyone gets too close to that corner he gets quite violent. So we don’t even clean there. We're trying to cure these folks, not upset “em needlessly.”

We went out the massive door of the main building, where a stalwart attendant eyed us sharply. There were nicely kept grounds, and then a high fence with inward-slanting barbs on its top.

“You don’t want anybody to escape from here, do you?” I said, nodding toward the heavy door and the high fence.

Nick grinned. “Nope. And nobody ever has. Or ever will, I reckon. See you in church.”

But he saw me sooner than that.

I kept thinking of the spare, mildmannered man with the sad, determined eyes all evening, after I'd handed my story in to the paper. I kept thinking about him next morning. And next afternoon saw me at the asylum again, standing in front of Gannet’s barred door.

He was as busy as he had been yesterday. But his activity seemed more mental than physical today. He would stand in the center of his cell, hand rubbing jaw, while he stared at the sunny corner. Then he would walk to the corner and touch a spot in midair with an inquisitive forehas anybody?” JI _ persisted,

ESCAPE 93

finger. Then he would step back and survey the atmosphere again, eyes running slowly up and down as though over the lines of a quite tangible thing.

Finally he took something out of his pocket and walked with a more decisive air to the corner. I saw his hands move close together, for all the world as though he were adjusting a micrometer or other delicate measuring-device. He applied his hands to the questionable point in nothingness.

As he had done yesterday, he paid no attention to observers at his door, at first. But finally he spoke, without looking up from his task.

“Hello, Freer.”

“Hello,” I said. Gannet had an unimpaired memory, at any rate.

“Come for another story?”

“In a way,” I evaded.

He shook his head, meanwhile stepping a foot to the right and staring critically at nothing.

“I don’t see how you stand it.”

“Stand what?”

“Your work. The madness and despair of humanity—that’s your stock in trade. You deal in war and famine and flood, in social injustice and political and civil brutalities. They’re the intimate facts of your life. I don’t see how you can live among such things. I can’t even read about them.”

I stared at him. I'd never met a man who seemed less crazy.

“Whether you face the facts intimately or detachedly,” I said, “they are still facts and they're still there. You can’t avoid them.”

“But you can. At least J can. And I’m going to. I'm getting out of all this.”

He squatted on his haunches, and began running his hands slowly over space, up and down, then horizontally. He _straightened and repeated the process.

T'll swear I could make out what he had

in his mind. It was a sort of chair, with a very high back and unusually high arms,

Just as I had decided this—he sat in it.

You've seen stage tricksters sit in chairs with arms folded, when there are no chairs there to sit in? Well, this was the same. I gaped at Gannet, sitting in thin air. Not an impossible stunt, but always an arresting one.

He got up and came to the door.

“I can’t take life as it’s lived today, Gannet. A weakness, no doubt, but there you are.”

“So you're getting out of it,” I nodded.

“So I'm getting out of it. It’s not for nothing that I am a mathematician and an inventor.”

What a shame! I almost said it aloud, but didn’t. I’d conceived a positive fancy for the sad-faced Mr. Gannet.

He stared at me quizzically.

“You needn’t hunt up Nick,” he said. “I’m not hinting at suicide. It’s a more literal escape, I mean.”

“Escape? With these barred doors, the high wall outside?”

“Oh, walls! Bars!” hand, dismissing them.

He walked back to his sunny corner and resumed his critical ocular and manual examinations of—nothing.

“You may have another story tomorrow, Freer,” he said mildly. And then he turned his back, thereby dismissing me as he had the walls and bolts of his confinement.

He waved his

| Sees up Nick on the way out. I felt like a traitor, but I knew it was for my new friend’s own good. “Gannet’s talking of an escape,” I said. Nick’s customary grin appeared on his broad face. “Forget it. He’s handed out that line before. Nobody could get out of here.” He walked to the high gate in the

94 WEIRD TALES

fence with me, and waved as I got into my car.

I wasn’t coming back any more. I didn’t want to see Gannet again. He was such a nice little guy. But next noon saw me knocking for admittance a third time, summoned by a call from Nick.

“Got an exclusive for you, if you want it,” he said. “An escape. I don’t know that it’s very important to you, but we've never had one before. That might make it worth a couple of inches.”

“Escape?”’ I said.

“Yeah. Your man, Gannet.”

“So he did it! But how?”

Nick grunted. “Suppose you tell me.”

“In the night?” I asked.

He shook his head. “A little while ago, in broad daylight. He was seen in his cell at ten. An hour later the room was empty. He was gone.”

“But he couldn’t have simply walked out of the place in broad daylight.”

“No,” said Nick, “he couldn't.”

“Was his door unlocked?”

“Tt was not. It was locked, from theoutside, when we came to investigate the report that he was gone. His window bars are all right, too.”

“You've searched the grounds?”

“Of course. He isn’t in them. He isn’t in any of the buildings. Nobody saw him after eleven o'clock. He’s just gone, with his cell still locked so even a monkey couldn't slip out,”

aA SF

“You must have some idea how he got

away.”

“No idea. Because it can’t be done. Only, it was.” .

“How am I going to get a story out of that?” I asked.

“How in thunder would I know? That's your worty.”

I put a cigarette between my lips unlit because smoking wasn't permitted here.

“What in the world do you suppose he . . . thought he was building?” J mused.

Nick snorted. “I don’t suppose anything about it. If I did, I'd be as crazy as he was. Well, there's your exclusive, if you know what to do with it.”

I didn’t know what to do with it, so I finally handed it in as it stands now. This very story, in fact. And the little man with the big vizor at the editor's desk promptly handed it back. Not that I blame him.

Nobody ever saw Gannet again. Nobody ever thought of him again, I guess. Except me. I had a rush of curiosity to the head a few days later, and went to his cell armed with a level and a steel rule.

The floor of the barred cubicle Gannet once occupied 7s three thirty-seconds of an inch off level. Now how do you suppose he could have determined ‘that without tools of any kind to aid the naked eye?

eturn to the Sabbath

By ROBERT BLOCH

‘A shuddery weird tale of Hollywood and the film indusiry—a story of the gruesome thing that emerged from the burial crypt

-T’S NOT the kind of story that the if columnists like to print; it’s not the

yarn press-agents love to tell. When I was still in the Public Relations Department at the studio, they wouldn’t let me break it. I knew better than to try, for no paper would print such a tale.

We publicity men must present Hollywood as a gay place; a world of glamor and star-dust. We capture only the light, but underneath the light there must always be shadows. I’ve always known that —it’s been my job to gloss over those shadows for years—but the events of which I speak form a disturbing pattern too strange to be withheld. The shadow of these incidents is not human.

It's been the cursed weight of the whole affair that has proved my own mental undoing. That’s why I resigned from the studio post, I guess. I wanted to forget, if I could. And now I know that the only way to relieve my mind is to tell the story. I must break the yarn, come what may. Then perhaps I can forget Karl Jorla’s eyes. .

The affair dates back to one September evening almost three years ago. Les Kincaid and I were slumming down on Main Street in Los. Angeles that night. Les is an assistant producer up at the studio, and there was some purpose in his visit; he was looking for authentic types to fill minor rdles in a gangster film he was doing. Les was peculiar that way; he preferred the real article, rather than the Casting Bureau's ready-made imitations.

We'd been wandering around for some

time, as I recall, past the great stone Chows that guard the narrow alleys of Chinatown, over through the tourist-trap that is Olvera Street, and back along the flop-houses of lower Main. We walked by the cheap burlesque houses, eyeing the insolent Filipinos that sauntered past, and jostling our way through the usual Saturday night slumming parties.

We were both rather weary of it all. That's why, I suppose, the dingy little theatre appealed to us.

“Let's go in and sit down for a while,” Les suggested. “I’m tired.”

Even a Main Street burlesque show has seats in it, and I felt ready for a nap. The callipygy of the stage-attraction did not appeal to me, but I acceded to the suggestion and purchased our tickets.

We entered, sat down, suffered through two strip-tease dances, an incredibly ancient black-out sketch, and a “Grand Finale.” Then, as is the custom in such places, the stage darkened and the screen flickered into life.

We got ready for our doze, then. The pictures shown in these houses are usually ancient specimens of the ‘‘quickie’’ variety; fillers provided to clear the house. As the first blaring notes of the soundtrack heralded the title of the opus, I closed my eyes, slouched lower in my seat, and mentally beckoned to Morpheus.

I was jerked back-to reality by a sharp dig in the ribs. Les was nudging me and whispering. “Look at this,” he murmured, prod95

96 WEIRD TALES

ding my reluctant body into wakefulness. “Ever see anything like it?”

I glanced up at the screen. What I expected to find I do not know, but I saw—horror.

There was a country graveyard, shadowed by ancient trees through which flickered rays of mildewed moonlight. It was an old graveyard, with rotting headstones set in grotesque angles as they leered up at the midnight sky.

The camera cut down on one grave, a fresh one. The music on the soundtrack grew louder, in cursed climax. But I forgot camera and film as I watched. That grave was reality—hideous reality.

The grave was moving!

The earth beside the headstone was heaving and churning, as though it were being dug out. Not from above, but from below. It quaked upward ever so slowly; terribly. Little clods fell. The sod pulsed out in a steady stream and little rills of earth kept falling in. the moonlight as though there were something clawing the dirt away . . . something clawing from beneath.

That something—it would soon ap-

“pear. And I began to be afraid. I—I didn’t want to see what it was. The clawing from below was not natural; it held a purpose not altogether aman.

Yet I had to look. I had to see him

- —it—emerge. The sod cascaded in a mound, and then I was staring at the edge of the grave, looking down at the black hole that gaped like a corpse-mouth in the moonlight. Something was coming out.

Something slithered through that fissure, fumbled at the side of the opening. It clutched the ground above the grave, and in the baleful beams of that demon’s moon I knew it to be a human hand. A thin, white human hand that held but half its flesh. The hand of a lich, a skeleton claw. ...

A second talon gripped the other side of the excavation top. And now, slowly, insidiously, arms emerged. Naked, fleshless arms.

They crawled across the earth-sides like leprous white serpents. The arms of a cadaver, a rising cadaver. It was pulling itself up. And as /t emerged, a cloud fell across the moon-path. The light faded to shadows as the bulky head and shoulders came into view. One could see nothing, and one was thankful.

But the cloud was falling away from the moon now. In a second the face would be revealed. The face of the thing from the grave, the resurrected visage of that which should be rotted in death— what would it be?

The shadows fell back. A figure rose out of the grave, and'the face turned toward me. I looked and saw

Well, you’ve been to “horror pictures.” You know what one usually sees. The “ape-man,” or the “maniac” or the “death’s-head.” The papier-maché grotesquerie of the make-up artist. The “skull” of the dead.

I saw none of that. Instead, there was horror. It was the face of a child, I thought, at first; no, not a child, but a man with a child’s soul. The face of a poet, perhaps, unwrinkled and calm. Long hair framed a high forehead; crescent eyebrows tilted over closed lids. The nose and mouth were thin and finely chiseled. Over the entire countenance was written an unearthly peace. It was as though the man were in a sleep of somnambulism or catalepsy. And then the face grew larger, the moonlight brighter, and I saw—more.

The sharper light disclosed tiny touches of evil. The thin lips were fretted, maggot-kissed. The nose had crumbled at the nostrils. The forehead was flaked with putrefaction, and the dark hair was dead, encrusted with slime. There were shadW. T.—6

RETURN TO THE SABBATH 97

ows in the bony ridges beneath the closed eyes. Even now, the skeletal arms were up, and bony fingers brushed at those dead pits as the rotted lids fluttered apart. The eyes opened.

* They wete wide, staring, flaming— and in them was the grave. They were eyes that had closed in death and opened in the coffin under earth. They were eyes that had seen the body rot and the soul depart to mingle in worm-ravened darkness below. They were eyes that held an alien life, a life so dreadful as to animate the cadaver’s body and force it to daw its way back to outer earth. They were hungry eyes—triumphant, now, as they gazed in graveyard moonlight on a world they had never known before. They hungered for the world as only Death can hunger for Life. And they blazed out of the corpse-pallid face in icy joy.

Then the cadaver began to walk. It lurched between the graves, lumbered before ancient tombs. It shambled through the forest night until it reached a road. Then it turned up that road slowly ... slowly.

And the hunger in those eyes flamed again as the lights of a city flared below. Death was preparing to mingle with men.


I SAT through all this entranced. Only a few minutes had elapsed, but I felt as though uncounted ages had passed unheeded. The film went on. Les and I didn’t exchange a word, but we watched.

The plot was rather routine after that. The dead man was a scientist whose wife had been stolen from him by a young doctor. The doctor had tended him in his last illness and unwittingly administered

a powerful narcotic with cataleptic effects.

The dialog was foreign and I could not place it. All of the actors were unfamiliar to me, and the setting and phoW.T.—7

tography was quite unusual; unorthodox treatment as in The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari and other psychological films.

There was one scene where the livingdead man became enthroned as arch-priest at a Black Mass ceremonial, and there was a little child. ... His eyes as he plunged the -knife-. 3;

He kept — decaying throughout the film . . . the Black Mass worshippers knew him as an emissary of Satan, and they kidnapped the wife as sacrifice for his own resurrection .-. . the scene with the hysterical woman when she saw and recognized her husband for the first time, and the deep, evil whispering voice in which he revealed his secret to her... the final pursuit of the devil-worshippers to the great altar-stone in the mountains .. . the death of the resurrected one.

Almost a skeleton in fact now, riddled by bullets and shot from the weapons of the doctor and his neighbors, the dead one crumbled and fell from his seat on the altar-stone. And as those eyes glazed in second death the deep voice boomed out in a prayer to Sathanas. The lich crawled across the ground to the ritual fire, drew painfully erect, and tottered into the flames. And as it stood weaving for a moment in the blaze the lips moved again in infernal prayer, and the eyes implored not the skies, but the earth. The ground opened in a final flash of fire, and the charred corpse fell through. The Master claimed his own. .

It was grotesque, almost a fairy-tale in its triteness. When the film had flickered off and the orchestra blared the opening for the next “flesh-show” we rose in our seats, conscious once more of our surroundings. The rest of the mongrel audience seemed to be in a stupor almost equal to our own. Wide-eyed Japanese sat staring in the darkness; Filipinos muttered covertly to one another; even the drunken laborers seemed incap98 WEIRD TALES

able of greeting the “Grand Opening” with their usual ribald hoots.

Trite and grotesque the plot of the film may have been, but the actor who played the lead had instilled it with ghastly reality. He had been dead; his eyes knew. And the voice was the voice of Lazarus awakened.

Les and I had no need to exchange _ words. We both felt it. I followed him silently as he went up the stairs to the manager's office.

Edward Relch was glowering over the desk. He showed no pleasure at seeing us barge in. When Les asked him where he had procured the film for this evening and what its name was, he opened his mouth and emitted a cascade of curses.

We learned that Return to the Sabbath had been sent over by a cheap agency from out Inglewood way, that a Western had been expected, and the “damned foreign junk” substituted by mistake. A hell of a picture this was, for a girl-show! Gave the audience the lousy creeps, and it wasn't even in English! Stinking imported films!

It was some time before we managed to extract the name of the agency from the manager’s profane lips. But five minutes after that, Les Kincaid was on the phone speaking to the head of the agency; an hour later we were out at the office. The next morning Kincaid went in to see the big boss, and the following day I was told to announce for publication that Karl Jorla, the Austrian horror-star, had been signed by cable to our studio; and he was leaving at once for the United States.


iB WAs a stroke of genius on Kincaid’s part. We all felt that way about the matter. Horror pictures were on the way in; Karloff and Lugosi were turning out their early numbers over at Universal,

and grossing big. Lionel Atwill was doing his usual villainy on several lots, and profitably so. Peter Lorre, the peer of them all, had just been signed for American films after his sensational performances as the psychopathic murderer in M and his gruesome spy-portrayal in The Man Who Knew Too Much.

And we knew that Karl Jorla topped them all. If the fans were really sincere in their liking for the macabre, they were going to get the genuine article. Not since Lon Chaney had I seen such consummate artistry; certainly this man was Chaney’s superior in that he had a sincerity which out-distanced the horror of mere make-up tricks.

I printed these items, gave all the build-up I could. But after the initial announcements I was stopped dead. Everything had happened too swiftly; we knew nothing about this man Jorla, really. Subsequent cables to Austrian and German studios failed to disclose any information about the fellow’s private life. He had evidently never played in any film prior to Return to the Sabbath. He was utterly unknown. The film had never been shown greatly abroad, and it was only by mistake that the Inglewood agency has obtained a copy and run it here in the United States. Audience reaction could not be learned, and the film was not scheduled for general release unless English titles could be dubbed in.

I was up a stump. Here we had the “find” of the year, and I couldn’t get enough material out to make it known!

We expected Karl Jorla to arrive in two weeks, however. I was told to get to work on him as soon as he got in, then flood the news agencies with stories. Three of our best writers were working on a special production for him already; the Big Boss meant to handle it himself. It would be similar to the foreign film,

RETURN TO THE SABBATH 99

for that “return from the dead” sequence must be included.

ORLA arrived on October seventh. He

put up at a hotel; the studio sent down its usual welcoming committee, took him out to the lot for formal testing, then turned him over to me.

I met the man for the first time in the little dressing-room they had assigned him. Fll never forget that afternoon of our first meeting, or my first sight of him as I entered the door.

What I expected to see I don’t know. But what I did see amazed me. For Karl Jorla was the dead-alive man of the screen 72 life!

The features were not fretted, of course. But he was tall, and almost as cadaverously thin as in his rdle; his face was pallid, and his eyes blue-circled. And the eyes were the dead eyes of the movie; the deep, knowing eyes!

The booming voice greeted me in hesitant English. Jorla smiled with his lips at my obvious discomfiture, but the expression of the eyes never varied in their alien strangeness.

Somewhat hesitantly I explained my office and my errand. ‘No pub-leecity,” Jorla intoned. ‘I do not weesh to make known what is affairs of mine own doeeng.”’

I gave him the usual arguments. How much he understood I cannot say, but he was adamant. I learned only a little; that he had been born in Prague, lived in wealth until the upheavals of the European depression, and entered film work only to please a director friend of his. This director had made the picture in which Jorla played; for private showings only. By mischance a print had been released and copied for general circulation. It had all been a mistake. However, the American film offer had come opportunely, since Jorla wanted to leave Austria at once.

“After the feelm app-ear, I am in bad lights weeth my—friends,” he explained,

slowly. “They do not weesh it to be

shown, that cere-monee.”

“The Black Mass?” I asked. friends?”

“Yes. The wor-ship of Lucifer. It was real, you know.”

Was he joking? No—I couldn’t doubt the man’s sincerity. There was no room for mirth in those alien eyes. And then I knew what he meant, what he so casually revealed. He had been a devil-worshipper himself—he and that director. They had made the film and meant it for private display in their own occult circles. No wonder he sought escape abroad!

“Your

It was incredible, save that J knew Europe, and the dark Northern mind. The worship of Evil continues today in Budapest, Prague, Berlin. And he, Karl Jorla the horror-actor, admitted to: being one of them!

“What a story!” I thought. And then I realized that it could, of course, never be printed. A horror-star admitting belief in the parts he played? Absurd!

All the features about Boris Karloff played up the fact that he was a gentle man who found true peace in raising a garden. Lugosi was pictured as a sensitive neurotic, tortured by the rdles he played in the films. Atwill was a socialite and a stage star. And Peter Lorre was always written up as being gentle as a lamb, a quiet student whose ambition was to play comedy parts.

No, it would never do to break the story of Jorla’s devil-worship. And he was so damnably reticent about his private affairs!

I sought out Kincaid after the termination of our unsatisfactory interview. I


told him what I had encountered and asked for advice. He gave it.

“The old Lon Chaney line,” he counseled. “Mystery man. We say nothing about him until the picture is released. After that I have a hunch things will work out for themselves. The fellow is

a marvel. So don’t bother about stories —

until the film is canned.”

Consequently I abandoned publicity efforts in Karl Jorla’s direction. Now I am vety glad I did so, for there is no one to remember his name, or suspect the horror that was soon to follow.


ce script was finished. The front office approved. Stage Four was under construction; the casting director got busy. Jorla was at the studio every day; Kincaid himself was teaching him English. The part was one in which very few words were needed, and Jorla proved a brilliant pupil, according to Les.

But Les was not as pleased as he should have been about it all. He came to me one day about a week before production and unburdened himself. He strove to speak lightly about the affair, but I could tell that he felt worried.

The gist of his. story was very simple. Jorla was behaving strangely. He had had trouble with the front office; he refused to give the studio his living address, and it was known that he had checked out from his hotel several days after first arriving in Hollywood.

Nor was that all. He wouldn’t talk about his part, or volunteer any information about interpretation. He seemed to be quite uninterested—admitting frankly to Kincaid that his only reason for signing a contract was to leave Europe.

He told Kincaid what he had told me —about the devil-worshippers. And he hinted at more. He spoke of being folWEIRD TALES

lowed, muttered about ‘‘avengers” and “hunters who waited.’’ He seemed to feel that the witch-cult was angry at him for the violation of secrets, and held him responsible for the release of Return to the Sabbath, That, he explained, was why he would not give his address, nor speak of his past life for publication. That is why he must use very heavy make-up in his film debut here. He felt at times — as though he were being watched, or followed. There were many foreigners here +. . t00 many.

“What the devil can I do with a man like that?”’ Kincaid exploded, after he had explained this to me. “‘He’s insane, or a fool. And I confess that he’s too much like his screen character to please me. The damned casual way in which he professes to have dabbled in devil-worship and. sorcery! He believes all this, and—well, I’ll tell you the truth. I came here today because of the last thing he spoke of to me this morning.

“He came down to the office, and at first when he walked in I didn’t know. him. The dark glasses and muffler helped, of course, but he himself had changed. He was trembling, and walked with ‘a stoop. And when he spoke his

- voice was like a groan. He showed me—

this.”

Kincaid handed me the clipping. It was from the London Times, through European press dispatches. A short paragraph, giving an account of the death of Fritz Ohmmen, the Austrian film director. He had been found strangled in a Paris garret, and his body had been frightfully mutilated; it mentioned an inverted cross branded on his stomach above the ripped entrails. Police were seeking the murderer. ...

I handed the clipping back in silence. “So what?” I asked, But I had already guessed his answer. oe

“Fritz Ohmmen,” Kincaid said, slowRETURN TO THE SABBATH

ly, “was the director of the picture in which Karl Jorla played; the director, who with Jorla, knew the devil-worshippers. Jorla says that he fled to Paris, and that they sought him out.”

I was silent.

“Mess,” grunted Kincaid. “I’ve offered Jorla police protection, and he’s refused. I can’t coerce him under the terms of our contract. As long as he plays the part, he’s secure with us. But he has the jitters. And I'm getting them.”

He stormed out. I couldn’t help him. I sat thinking of Karl Jorla, who believed in devil-gods, worshipped, and betrayed them. And I could have smiled at the absurdity of it all if I hadn’t seen the man on the screen and watched his evil eyes. He knew! It was then that I began to feel thankful we had not given Jorla any publicity. I had a hunch.

During the next few days I saw Jorla but seldom. The rumors, however, began to trickle in. There had been an influx of foreign “sight-seers” at the studio gates. Someone had attempted to crash through the barriers in a racing-car. An extra in a mob scene over on Lot Six had been found carrying an automatic beneath his vest; when apprehended he had been lurking under the executive office windows. They had taken him down to headquarters, and so far the man had refused to talk. He was a German... .

Jorla came to the studios every day in a shuttered car. He was bundled up to the eyes. He trembled constantly. His English lessons went badly. He spoke to no one. He had hired two men to ride with him in his car. They were armed.

A few days Jater news came that the German extra had talked. He was evidently a pathological case . . . he babbled wildly of a “Black Cult of Lucifer” known to some of the foreigners around town. It was a secret society purporting to worship the Devil, with vague connections in

the mother countries. He had been “chosen” to avenge a wrong. More than that he dared not say, but he did give an address where the police might find cult headquarters. The place, a dingy house in Glendale, was quite deserted, of course. It was a queer old house with a secret cellar beneath the basement, but everything seemed to have been abandoned; The man was being held for ex: - amination by an alienist.

| eg this report with deep misgivings. I knew something of Los Angeles’ and Hollywood’s heterogeneous foreign population; God knows, Southern California has attracted mystics and occultists from all over the world. I’ve even heard rumors about stars being mixed up in unsavory secret societies, things one would never dare to admit in print. And Jorla was afraid.

That afternoon I tried to trail his black caf as it left the studio for his mysterious home, but I lost the track in the winding reaches of Topanga Canyon. It had disappeared into the secret twilight of the purple hills, and I knew then that there was nothing I could do. Jorla had his own defenses, and if they failed, we at the studio could not help.

That was the evening he disappeared. At least he did not show up the next morning at the studio, and production was to start in two days. We heard about it. The boss and Kincaid were frantic. The police were called in, and I did my best to hush things up. When Jorla did not appear the following morning I went to Kincaid and told him about my following the car to Topanga Canyon. The police went to work. Next morning was production.

We spent a sleepless night of fruitless vigil, There was no word, Morning came, and there was unspoken dread in Kincaid’s eyes as he faced me across the


office table. Eight o'clock. We got up and walked silently across the lot to the studio cafeteria. Black coffee was badly needed; we hadn’t had a police report for hours. We passed Stage Four, where the Jorla crew was at work. The noise of hammers was mockery. Jorla, we felt, would never face a camera today, if ever.

Bleskind, the director of the untitled horror opus, came out of the Stage office as we passed,

His paunchy ‘body quivered as he grasped Kincaid’s lapels and piped, ‘“‘Any news?”

Kincaid shook his head slowly. Bleskind thrust a cigar into his tense mouth.

“We're shooting ahead,’ he snapped. “We'll shoot around Jorla. If he doesn’t show up. when we finish the scenes in which he won’t appear, we'll get another actor. But we can’t wait.’ The squat director bustled back to the Stage.

Moved by a sudden impulse, Kincaid grasped my arm and propelled me after Bleskind’s waddling form.

“Let's see the opening shots,” he suggested. “I want to see what kind of a story they’ve given him.”

We entered Stage Four.

A Gothic Castle, the ancestral home of Baron Ulmo. A dark, gloomy stone crypt of spidery horror. Cobwebbed, dust-shrouded, deserted by men and given over to the rats by day and the unearthly _ horrors that crept by night. An altar stood by the crypt, an altar of evil, the great black stone on which the ancient Baron Ulmo and his devil-cult had held their sacrifices. Now, in the pit beneath the altar, the Baron lay buried. Such was the legend.

According to the first shot scheduled, Sylvia Channing, the heroine, was exploring the castle. She had inherited the place and taken it over with her young husband. In this scene she was to see the altar for the first time, read the inscripWEIRD TALES

tion on its base. This inscription was to prove an unwitting invocation, opening up the crypt beneath the altar and awakening Jorla, as Baron Ulmo, from the dead. He was to rise from the crypt then, and walk. It was at this point that the scene would terminate, due to Jorla’s strange absence.

The setting was magnificently handled. Kincaid and I took our places beside Director Bleskind as the shot opened. Sylvia Channing walked out on the set; the signals were given, lights flashed, and the action began.

It was pantomimic. Sylvia walked across the cobwebbed floor, noticed the altar, examined it. She stooped to read the inscription, then whispered it aloud. There was a drone, as the opening of the altar-ctypt was mechanically begun. The altar swung aside, and the black gaping pit was revealed. The upper cameras swung to Sylvia’s face. She was to stare at the crypt in horror, and she did it most magnificently. In the picture she would | be watching Jorla emerge.

Bleskind prepared to give the signal to cut action. Then—

Something emerged from the crypt!

It was dead, that thing—that horror with a mask of faceless flesh. Its lean body was clothed in rotting rags, and on its chest was a bloody crucifix, inverted— carved out of dead flesh. The eyes blazed loathsomely. It was Baron Ulmo, rising from the dead. And it was Karl Jorlal!

The make-up was perfect. His eyes were dead, just as in the other film. The lips seemed shredded again, the mouth even more ghastly in its slitted blackness. And the touch of the bloody crucifix was immense.

Bleskind nearly swallowed his cigar when Jorla appeared. Quickly he controlled himself, silently signaled the men to proceed with the shooting. We strained forward, watching every move,

RETURN TO THE SABBATH

but Les Kincaid’s eyes held a wonder -akin to my own.

Jorla was acting as never before, He moved slowly, as a corpse must move. - As he raised himself from the crypt, each tiny effort seemed to cause him utter agony. The scene was soundless; Sylvia had fainted. But Jorla’s lips moved, and we heard a faint whispering murmur which heightened the horror. Now the grisly cadaver was almost half out of the ctypt. It strained upward, still murmuring. The bloody crucifix of flesh gleamed redly on the chest... . I thought of the one found on the body of the murdered foreign director, Fritz Ohmmen, and realized where Jorla had gotten the idea.

The corpse strained up . . . it was to tise now... up... and then, with a sudden rictus, the body stiffened and slid back into the crypt.

Who screamed first I do not know. But the screaming continued after the prop-boys had rushed to the crypt and looked down at what lay within.

When I reached the brink of the pit I screamed, too.

For it was utterly empty.


I WiIsH there*were nothing mote to tell. The papers never knew. The police hushed things up. The studio is silent, and the production was dropped immediately. But matters did not stop there. There was .a sequel to that hideous horror on Stage Four.

Kincaid and“ I cornered Bleskind. There was no need of any explanation; how could what we had just seen be explained in any sane way?

Jorla had disappeared; no one had let him into the studio; no make-up man had given him his attention. Nobody had seen him enter the crypt. He had ap103

peared in the scene, then disappeared. The crypt was empty.

These were the facts. Kincaid told Bleskind what to do. The film was developed immediately, though two of the technicians fainted. We three sat in the projection booth and watched the morning’s rushes flicker across the screen. The sound-track was specially dubbed in,

That scene—Sylvia walking and read- . ing the incantation—the pit opening— and God, when nothing emerged!

Nothing but that great red scar suspended in midair—that great inverted crucifix cut in bleeding flesh; no Jorla visible at all! That bleeding cross in the air, and then the mumbling. .. .

. Jorla—the thing—whatever it was— had mumbled a few syllables on emerging from the crypt. The sound-track had picked them up. And we couldn't see anything but that scar; yet we heard Jorla’s voice now coming from nothingness. We heard what he kept repeating, as he fell back into the crypt.

It was an address in Topanga Canyon.

The lights flickered on, and it was good to see them. Kincaid phoned the police and directed them to the address given on the sound-track.

We waited, the three of us, in Kincaid’s office, waited for the police call. We drank, but did not speak. Each of us was thinking of Karl Jorla the devilworshipper who had betrayed his faith; of his fear of vengeance. We thought of the director’s death, and the bloody crucifix on his chest; remembered Jorla’s disappearance. And then that ghastly ghost-thing on the screen, the bloody thing that hung in midair as Jorla’s voice groaned the address... .

The phone rang.

I picked it up. It was the police department. They gave their report. I fainted.


It was several minutes before I came to. It was several more minutes before I opened my mouth and spoke.

“They've found -Karl Jorla’s body at the address given on the screen,” I whispered. “He was lying dead in an old shack up in the hills. He had been— murdered. There was a bloody cross, inWEIRD TALES

verted on his chest. They think it was the work of some fanatics, because the place was filled with books on sorcery and Black Magic. They sa Ks

I paused. Kincaid’s eyes commanded. “Go on.” - “They say,” I murmured, “that Jorla had been dead for at least three days.”

hips

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

There’s a far, lone island in the dim, red west,

Where the sea-waves are crimson with the red of burnished gold (Sapphire in the billows, gold upon the crest),

An island that is older than the continents are old.

Sailing-ships are anchored about that ancient isle,

Ships that sailed the oceans in the dim dawn days, Coracles from Britain, triremes from the Nile. Anchored round the harbors, anchored mile on mile, Ships and ships and shades of ships fading in the haze.

And there’s a Roman galley with its seven banks of oars, And there’s a golden bargeboat that knew the Czsar’s hand, And there’s a somber pirate craft with shattered cabin doors, And there’s a sturdy bireme that sailed to Holy Land.

Main-trees lifting like a forest of the south,

Beaked prows looming, and the wide courses furled, Dim decks heel-marked, marked by rain and drouth, Spindrift in the cross-trees, drift of southern seas, Dim ships, strong ships from all about the world.

High ships, proud ships, towering at their poops, Galleons flaunting their pinnacles of pride, Schooners and merchantmen, and long, lean sloops, Kings’ ships riding with galleys on the tide.

WEIRD STO

REPRINT

aladin’s Throne-Rug’

By E. HOFFMANN PRICE

= WOULD cheerfully have commitI ted murder for that rug; but as it ee

Morgan Revell smiled at the memory of his exceeding cleverness, and regarded the throne-rug of Saladin with that fanatic affection comprehensible only to a collector . . _ The savage jest of it is that he did commit murder. Only he doesn’t know it. Nor, for that matter, do I absolutely know. But, piecing it all together, and taking into account the emotions that take possession of a rug collector, I can draw but one inevitable conclusion. And that is

“But to approach the matter at all, some explaining is necessary. First of all, you who regard a rug as something to hide the nakedness of a floor must revise your conception of things. It is all very true that the machine-made atrocities of this country, as well as the precious weaves of the Orient, are indeed used as floor coverings; something on which to walk, something to give the vacuum cleaner its excuse for existing. But that is only a part of it: Oriental rugs are works of art, the

* From WEIRD TALES for October, 1927.

peer of any of the numerous products of man’s instinct to create unbelievable and imperishable beauty. And just as there are those who collect the works of ancient silversmiths, armorers, cabinetmakers, and bookbinders, so likewise are there those whose consuming passion and sole aim in life is the accumulating of antique specimens of Oriental weaving: rugs from Boukhara and silken Samarcand, from Shiraz, and Herat of the Hundred Gardens; prayer rugs, palace carpets, or the priceless fabric that graced the floor of a nomad’s tent in Turkestan. Rugs are many, and their enumeration lengthy; and the study of their personality and traits is the pursuit of a lifetime. Some are prized for their beauty and matchless craftsmanship; others for their exceeding rarity; and some for the sake of all those qualities.

Once one has succumbed to the sorcery of a Bijar that covered the dirt floor of a Kurdish hovel, or a silken Kashan that hung suspended by silver rings, on the walls of a king’s palace, one is beyond redemption, or the desire of redemption. It is even as though one had become addicted to.the smoke of the poppy, or to



the grain of hasheesh dissolved in wine. One’s house becomes a place designed for the sheltering and storing of rare rugs; though, of course, the collector himself has no morak scruples about utilizing a bit of that same shelter for himself.

One may wear last year’s overcoat, and have last year’s shoes half-soled; but one can always raise the price, however exorbitant, of a threadbare Ladik, a battlescarred Ghiordes, or a moth-eaten Feraghan.

Thus, though Morgan Revell was exaggerating when he smiled in a way reminiscent of a cat who has just had a pleasant téte-a-téte with a canary, and remarked, “I’d cheerfully have committed murder for that rug,” he was well within the limits of poetic license. Not that he would actually consider going as far as rope, pistol, or poison; in fact, I think he would stop short of breaking and entering. But the fact remains that trifles can not stand in one’s way when a really rare rug is in sight. And very often a jest is the essence of truth.

Well, and that is that: either you still maintain that a rug is but something to put on the floor, or else you have grasped some conception of the fanaticism that consumes the confirmed collector of antique rugs. If the former, well and

- good: de gustibus non disputandum est.

But if the latter, if you have grasped the idea, then perhaps you will understand why I crave a bit of fresh air and a change of scene whenever I catch a whiff of attar of roses, or a glimpse of a fine, hard-spun silken cord.

1” making one of my customary reconnaissances, prowling tours in search of the perfect rug, the wondrous prize; though what I'd have done with it is a bit beyond me, unless I’d have tacked it to the ceiling. All other space is occupied. Furthermore, I am at times hereti-

* - Pe.


cal enough to fancy that it is better to know that the rent, due on the morrow, will be in cash available for payment to the landlord instead of being draped over a lounge, or parked on the last bit of vacant wall or floor space.

A chubby, oily little fellow from somewhere in Asia Minor, with features that combined Mephisto with Kewpie, approached and offered his services, assuting me that some rare bargains would be auctioned off that afternoon. I assured him that I] was merely prowling about.

“A fine Kirman. Worth seven hundred dollars,” he began, just from force of habit. “Perhaps you will bid on it? Get it for two-three hundred.”

I didn’t bother to tell him that I'd not use it for a bath mat; that it was a sickly-looking mess, -with its flabby texture, its aniline dyes, bleached to unnatural softness, and its fearful, glassy luster gained from glycerin and hot

- rollers, and that it would hardly be a fit

companion for a Kirman rose-rug of the old school. So he left me to my own devices, to tear down several piles, shoulder-high, of rugs of varying quality; mainly atrocities recently woven to satisfy the ever-increasing demand for Oriental rugs: wretched rags which the auctioneer would later exhibit, glassily agleam under a powerful floodlight, and describe as “Royal” Bijar, “Royal” Sarouk, or “Royal’’ Kashan, or ‘“‘Royal’’ whatever travesty it was on some ancient, honorable weave.

Weariness and more weariness. I worked my way through the second pile, and with like result. An old Feraghan tempted me, but I decided that though ~ honest and ancient, it would cost too much to have the worn spots rewoven. Nor did the third pile bring forth anything of interest. Then, poking about in a dark corner, I found behind a baled, room-sized carpet, a scrap of something

SALADIN’S THRONE-RUG

which even in that dim light had the look of antiquity, the stamp of personality possessed only by one of the old guard. And it had the feel of ancient weaving.

I dragged it out. Through all its coating of dust and dirt, the unbelievable richness of the dyes, the ‘‘bald-headedness’ of the back and subdued luster of the face were apparent. Then—horrible sight!—TI saw that I had but a portion of a rug, between half and two-thirds of one, the remnant of something which if complete would be priceless. Judging from the fragment, the complete piece would be about five feet wide and twelve feet long, or thereabout. Some barbarian had sliced it in two, crosswise, with a clean, sweeping cut that left in this fragment about half of the medallion which had been the central design of the complete piece.

What fool would commit such a wanton infamy, such an uncalled-for blasphemy? And then I recalled that classic incident of early Moslem history, wherein one of the Prophet's fanatic generals, in apportioning the loot of a Persian palace, had dismembered a gold-threaded carpet, giving each of his captains a portion, saying that it would have been unfair to let any one individual retain the entire rug; and offering the equally good reason that such a pagan vanity deserved mutilation!

Under stronger light, I saw that my instinct for a rarity had indeed been true. The weave was incredibly fine, at least six or seven hundred knots to the square inch; the pile, worn to the warp, was of silk; and the ground inside the main border, and surrounding the central medallion, was of silver bullion thread, woven tapestrywise about the warp threads instead of being tied and clipped so as to make a nap, as is the practise when weaving with silk or wool. Here,


certes, was the adornment of a palace, the gift of one prince to another! Fortunately for my chances of buying the fragment, the silver bullion ground was so tarnished and caked with dirt that its true nature would scarcely be noticed: for if some collector with a bottomless wallet would see, recognize, and bid against my poverty, I’d surely lose out. But the chances were that even a keen observer, unless he had examined the

relic closely, would pass it up as a mere

scrap unworthy of consideration.

But then I had to take the auctioneer into account. If in handling that fragment, displaying it to the assembled bidders, he ever noticed that its ground was of silver thread, I'd be strictly out of luck. However, there was little chance he’d notice the pile was of silk; for it was worn to the warp; and since all ancient rugs, either of silk or wool, have a greasy, slick surface, his sense of touch might not enlighten him.

I had to buy that ancient fragment; and I had to get it without the auctioneer's realizing what was going on.

Just what device would minimize his chances of noticing the true nature of what was passing through his hands? And then came the solution.

“Boy, come here a minute!”

One of the uniformed porters approached, I gave him his instructions, also a couple of dollar bills, and the promise of as much more if the ruse worked; also the promise that I'd hunt him up and down the earth with a sawed-off shotgun if he failed me.

It was now 1:30, and the auction was to begin at 2. Prospective bidders were already taking seats before the auctioneet’s rostrum. The average bargain hunter has such sublime confidence in his or her ability to pick a rug or other precious article at first glance that few bother to examine the treasures before bidding;


and thus no one intruded on my final study of the fragment I had unearthed.

I contrived to decipher the inscription in the remaining half of the central medallion I’d stumbled across. And although I’m no scholar, I can in a pinch hammer out a few words of Arabic, and get enough to supply at least the context of an inscription.

at the feet of my Lord I fall; I have bowed me down seven times with breast and back; and all that the King said to me, well, well do I hear! Abimilki, a servant of the King am I, and the dust of thy two feet!

This much I could gather; the upper half of the inscription, in the missing upper half of the medallion, doubtless contained the preliminary honorifics, and perhaps even the name of the prince to whom the rug had been presented. Presented where? At Trebizond, Damascus, Isphahan, Baghdad? What king? Shah Abbas? Nadir Shah? Who had received the servile protestations of this princeling, Abimilki?

HE opening of the daily auction

broke into my reflections. I caught the eye of the porter I had bribed, and then found a seat. “Royal” Bijars and “Royal” Sarouks were extolled and lauded with all the dramatic art and perjury at the command of auctioneers hailing from the Near East. And under the floodlights, those pseudo-royal rugs did have a magnificent appearance.

“How much am I offered for this Royal Sarouk? This magnificent, lustrous carpet! It is worth a thousand dollars! Am I offered seven hundred? Seven hundred? They are getting scarcer every day! A genuine, Royal Sarouk! Do I hear five hundred? Is there no one here who really knows rugs? This is not a floor covering, this is—four hundred? Thank you. I am offered four hundred dollars, That


shouldn't even buy the fringe! Will — someone give me five hundred? Did I hear four fifty? Seventy-five. . . . Eighty? Thank you. Who offers five hundred? . . .”

And thus through the heap of rugs. Then came some Boukhara saddle-bags, one at a time; then more “Royal” Bijars, and Kashans, and Kirmans. Valiantly the plump Mephisto, pleading, groaning, holding out for just one more dollar, perjured his way through the stacks beside the rostrum. And all the while the porter paraded up and down the aisle, giving the bidders a glimpse of the articles in question.

Finally, after an hour's exhorting, after the perspiration was trickling down his cheeks and glistening on his brow, after fatigue had left its marks on the chubby auctioneer, the porter handed him the fragment I had discovered.

Under that powerful light, its suave magnificence glowed forth through the coating of dust and dirt. Devil take that light! But thanks to the nap’s being worn so Close, the now weary auctioneer, somewhat dulled by fatigue, did not sense that he held the remains of a silken rug in his hands; nor did the silver bullion ground below the medallion betray itself. The porter had handed him the end nearest the original center, where the medallion reached from border to border, and where consequently there was no silver ground to meet his fingertips. Then, scarcely had the orator opened his harangue, porter snatched the precious fabric and was dashing down the aisle, holding it as well knotted up as he could contrive without seeming to do so.

Noble African! Nevertheless, it was a ticklish moment.

“How much am I offered for this antique rug?’”’ he had begun, flashing it beneath the flaring floodlight, before yielding it to the eager porter. “Yes, sir,

the —

SALADIN’S THRONE-RUG

I know it is half of a rug, but it is old and very rare. It is an antique Tabriz... .”

___ Which proved that he'd never seen it before I’d exhumed it from that dark, - dusty corner! That he'd not noticed the silver ground! ‘Tabriz... pure and simple improvisation on his part.

“Sixty dollars? Thank you. I am offered sixty. It is worth several hundred. A rare old Tabriz, Seventy? Thank you, madam!”

Damn that school-teacher! What made her think it was worth seventy? Though she might be a decoy to raise the bids.

So I came up five.

“Will anyone offer a hundred? Ninety? Give me ninety for this rare old—I am offered ninety! Will someone make it a hundred?”

- I rather fancied that my ninety-five would land it.

“Ninety-five .. Es 2 eet

The porter was already thrusting another piece into the auctioneer’s weary fingers.

But drop——

“El hamdu li-llah!’ gasped someone at my right. ‘One hundred!”

A lean foreigner with a nose like the beak of a bird of prey took the seat next to me; a Turk, perhaps, or a Kurd whom civilization had not robbed of his alert, predatory air and desert gauntness.

“And ten!” I snapped back.

- _ “One-fifty,”” enunciated the newcomer.

Hell’s hinges! Who was that fool? And who ever heard of an Oriental, unless he were a dealer, caring a happy hoot about ‘the threadbare, worn fragment of an antique ring.

“And seventy-five!”

That ought to stop him. But it didn’t. Not for a moment.

“Two hundred,” he pronounced.

. once . . . ninety-five

before the hammer could


And when I raised him twenty-five, he did as much for me, and without batting an eyelash. I prayed that some angel would slip me the handle of a meat-ax, and then offered fifty more.

The auctioneer beamed and _gloated and rubbed his hands, and praised heaven for connoisseurs who appreciated antiques. The porter, from force of habit, once more began to deploy the precious piece to egg on the bidders, but, catching my eye, he desisted; though it could have done no harm, for that relentless heathen at my right was out for that rug. That “El-hamdu li-llab!”’ was the incredulous gasp of one who has stumbled around a corner and met fate face to face; it would be my roll against his.

“Three-fifty!” he announced, scarcely - giving the overjoyed auctioneer a chance to acknowledge my last bid.

“Five hundred!” was my last despairing effort.

And “‘five-fifty” came like the crack of doom.

The stranger rose from his seat, peeled a wad of bills from a roll that would have choked a rhinoceros, and claimed his prize. Have it delivered? Absolutely not! And when I saw the look in his eye, and the gesture with which he draped that scrap over his arm, I knew that all the wealth of the Indies could not separate him from one thread of that ancient relic.

co to my feet and strode down the aisle, talking to myself in nonapostolic tongues. But as I reached the paving, my meditations were interrupted.

“Allow me to thank you, effendi.”

It was the foreigner, still caressing the nap of the precious fragment he had draped over his arm.

“I owe you a great deal for having discovered this piece. Though I was almost too late.”

I couldn’t resist that courtly manner,

110 +

that cordial good-fellowship. The bird of prey had laid aside his predatory manner and seemed really overjoyed about something; happiness, exaltation were mingled with his triumph.

“Don’t thank me; thank my slim bank roll,” I laughed, and swallowed the remnants of my disappointment.

“I have been hunting that piece for years,” continued the stranger. “In Stamboul, ‘Sultanabad, Tabriz . . . New York ... London . . . wherever rugs are sold. And now I, or rather you, have found it. I regret your disappointment. But I had to have that rug,” he concluded, speaking his last phrase in the tone of a bigoted Moslem announcing his belief in the unity of Allah.

“So I noted,” was my reply; though it wasn’t as ill-natured as it may sound.

“If you can spare the time, I shall tell you the story. And show you the other half of the rug. You knew, of course, that there was another half.”

This was becoming interesting.

“I suspected as much; though who, and where——”

“I am Ilderim Shirkuh bin Ayyub,” announced the stranger, and bowed in response to my acknowledgment of the introduction.

Ilderim Shirkuh bin Ayyub. Very impressive. But what of it?—though there

“was something familiar about that resonant handle.

He led the way to a car parked at the curbing. is Dp™ our drive north, bin Ayyub

maintained a reflective silence that gave me a bit of time for my own thoughts. And as the long, aristocratic car purred its way toward the Gold Coast, I began to sense that I had indeed fallen into something. True, I had lost the prize I had sought to capture; but had I made the grade, I'd probably have


remained in ignorance of its entire significance. _

A few blocks past the Edgewater Beach Hotel we drew up before an ancient, bulky mansion set back of an acre of lawn; a great house, its dignity still overshadowing its approaching decrepitude; an outlaw, a rebel that still withstood the encroachment of apartments and apartment hotels.

A negro, arrayed in a striped kuftan and wearing a massive, spirally twisted turban, ushered us into a dimly lit salon which, though almost bare of furniture, was magnificently carpeted and tapestried with ancient, lustrous Persian rugs. Clusters of arms and armor placed at intervals along the walls gleamed icily in the dull light of several great, brazen floor-lamps. It seemed almost sacrilege to tread-on that magnificent palace carpet whose exquisite loveliness, framed by a border of hardwood floor, reminded me of a diamond set off by its background of onyx.

Bin Ayyub finally broke the silence he had maintained; for as we entered, he had with a gesture invited me to be seated, he himself remaining on his feet, preoccupied, regarding the precious fragment he had captured, looking at it as though all the splendor about him was cheap and tawdry in comparison to that threadbare, eroded scrap he held in his hands.

“Unintentionally — and involuntarily also—you have done me a great service,” he at last began, as he seated himself. “As I told you, I am Ilderim Shirkuh binAyyub.”

Again he paused, as if to let that impressive title sink home. And as I saw him against that background of lustrous rugs and damascened simitars and armor, I wondered whether I had been wrong in having omitted a salaam.

Bin Ayyub turned to the negro and—

|

SALADIN’S THRONE-RUG

I can in no other way describe his mannet—published an order. Then, to me, “You have heard of Salah ad Din Yusuf bin Ayyub? In your language, Saladin?”

“Certainly. ‘Who has not?”

“I am descended in direct line from Saladin; that fragment is part of the throne-tug of my ancestor, the nephew of Shirkuh of Tekrit, and sultan of Syria and Egypt. Now do you begin to see why I value that scrap?”

“Do you mean to say that that rug covered the throne of Saladin?”

“Exactly. And I shall prove it.”

Even as bin: Ayyub spoke, the African returned, carrying a small chest of dark wood, elaborately carved, and bound in bands of discolored metal, bluish black, like age-old silver.

“Look how the pieces match!”’ exulted bin Ayyub, as he took from the chest that which I saw at a glance was the other part of the relic I had discovered. The pieces did indeed match perfectly; though the last-acquired fragment was somewhat the more worn and eroded by the rough use of those who had possessed it, ignorant of its worth.

“Read, effendi! Surely you can tread, else you would never have bid this afternoon.”

But I insisted that bin Ayyub read and translate into English. I felt rather foolish about strutting my halting Arabic before this polished Oriental whose very English was better than my own.

In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate! To my Lord Salah ad Din Yusuf bin Ayyub, the Sun of Heaven, thus hath spoken Abimilki, the groom of thy horse: I am the dust under the sandals of my Lord the King; seven and seven times at the feet of my Lord I fall; I have bowed me down seven times with breast and back; and-all that the King said to me, well, well do I hear! Abimilki, a servant of the King am I, and the dust of thy two feet!

And here it was, threadbare and

TEE

eroded by the passing of eight centuries, the throne-rug of Saladin, that great prince who elevated himself from the castle of Tekrit, in Kurdistan, to the throne of Syria and Egypt, and reigned as Defender of the Faith and Sword of Islam... .

Had the auctioneer’s hammer fallen just an instant earlier.

“Allahu akbar!” ejaculated bin Ayyub,

_ sensing my thoughts. ‘To think of how

close a race it was! A second later, and I might now be bargaining with you for your prize, offering you all my posses- - sions for that one fragment of carpet. And you would have refused. . . . I would go barefooted through the tall flames of Gehennem for what -I took from you an hour ago.” Then, to the negro: “Saoud! Prepare some coffee!

“I wonder,” he resumed, “if you have any truly rare rugs in your collection? Like that Isphahan, for example?”

Bin Ayyub plucked from the wall what even in that dim light I recognized as an ancient Isphahan: that deep wine-red and solemn green, that classically perfect rendition of the Shah Abbas border and field were unmistakable. It was indeed an old Isphahan, that final, supreme prize of the collector; that rarest and most costly of all rugs.

I admitted that I had not attained, and probably never should attain, to such a fabulously scarce piece of weaving.

“You are wrong, quite wrong. For since I need that wall space for Saladin’s throne-rug, I shall give you that Isphahan with my thanks and apologies ——”

“Apologies?”

“Yes. For what I am giving you is a worthless rag compared with what I took from you this afternoon.”

Such generosity is dizzying. That small, perfect Isphahan would be worth several thousand dollars even had it been ragged


as a last year’s bird’s nest. I was stumped, stopped dead.

Soa entering with coffee, interrupted my thanks. After having

served the steaming, night-black, deathly

bitter beverage, the negro took his post at the farther end of the salon, in front of a pair of heavy curtains that I fancied must conceal an alcove.

“In El-Kahireh it is the custom to perfume one’s coffee with a tiny bit of ambergris,” remarked bin Ayyub. “But I have devised a more subtle combination.”

In response to the master’s nod, Saoud parted the silver-embroidered curtains and caught them on the hilts of the simitars that hung at each side of the alcove. _A great jar, fully as tall as the negro, and gracefully curved as a Grecian amphora, glowed in the level, sunset rays like a monstrous, rosy-amber bead.

He lifted the cover of the jar: and from it rolled a wave of overwhelming sweetness, an unearthly fragrance so curiously blended that I could not pick the dominant odor. Jasmine, or the rose of Naishapur, or all the mingled spices of Cebu and Saigon . . . with undertones of sandalwood and patchouli. . . . A dizzying madness, a surge of intoxicating warmth and richness poured resistlessly from the glowing, pulsating, almost transparent depths of that great urn.

I wondered how Saoud could endure it at such close range. And then, drinking fully of the potent wave that swept past me, I lost all physical sensation save ’ that of floating in a sea of torrid, confusing sweetness. And then the African replaced the cover of the jar. I fancied that he reeled ever so slightly as he withdrew from that throbbing luminous fountain of unbelievable fragrance, and wondered that he did not collapse.

Bin Ayyub had apparently forgotten my presence. He sipped his coffee, and


with half-closed eyes stared into the depths of the urn. The unfathomable, perfect peace which Moslems wish each other with their “Es-Salaam Aleika”’ had descended upon him: key, the placid enjoyment of wakefulness that is half sleep.

The silence, the utter repose was contagious. I found myself gazing, eyes half out of focus, at the throne-rug. . ..

And then I sensed that eyes were staring at me from some place of concealment. I turned and caught a glimpse of a dainty armful, shapely and elegantly contoured: a girl with smoldering, saracenic eyes, pools of dusky, enchantment. Just for an instant I held her level, unabashed gaze which lingered long enough to let me fully sense her imperious calm and composure. It was just a glimpse, barely enough to let me recognize the transparent, olive complexion and faintly aquiline features of a Transcaucasian, a Gurjestani, the most flawlessly lovely of all Oriental women. And then the portiéres closed on the vision.

What a mad afternoon! The thronerug of Saladin . . . and then the descendant of that great prince . . . and that girl, with her smoldering, kohl-darkened eyes ... the familiar spirit of the urn whose Byzantine curves imprisoned that glowing, rosy-amber sea of sweetness . . . wild thought! . . . but she was small and dainty enough to have emerged from that great jar, and then vanished back into its shimmering, pulsating depths. .. .

“The contents of that jar,” began bin Ayyub, emerging from the silence, “would make a rich perfume of all the seas of the world. It would be folly to try to imagine the countless myriads of blossoms and herbs, spices and gums that are imprisoned in that essence. A drop, a thousand-fold diluted, and a drop of that dilution, equally diluted, would be more potent than the strongest scents known to your Feringhi perfumers.”

W.T.—7


“Tt seems you took a fearful risk in shipping such a fragile and precious article into this country,’ I suggested.

“Tt was risky. Still, I would rather have had it shattered en route than fall into the hands of the spoilers who looted my house in Stamboul. But as luck would have it, there was a babbler among my enemies, so that I had warning. I packed my treasures, and smuggled them out, one at a time. And the night before the bowstring was to grace my throat, my family and I left in disguise.”

Bin Ayyub paused to reflect a moment, wondering, perhaps, whether to carry on or change the subject. And then the darkness of his deep-set eyes flared fiercely.

“Do. you see that cord?” He indicated a fine strand of hard-braided silk which hung from the peg that supported the simitar at the right of the alcove containing the Byzantine urn. “My enemy


was so careless as to walk by moonlight the evening before a doom was to settle on my house. And as a souvenir of the promenade, I brought with me that fine, stout cord which, for all he cared, I might

have left there to chafe his throat,” concluded bin Ayyub, as he stroked his black nnustache.

And then he showed me how the bowstring is employed; that flickering, swift gesture of his long, lean hands was gruesomely convincing. Bin Ayyub was indeed a versatile man.

“Swift and probably painless?” I volunteered.

“Yes. But if I had my choice of deaths,” mused bin Ayyub, “I would elect to be drowned in a pool of that perfume, with my breath so rich with its fragrance that my senses would entirely forsake me... .”

A_tinkle of bracelets interrupted his

GOING FAST!

If you have not read the April, 1934, issue of “Weird Tales” we are giving you this last opportunity to procure a copy.

A few of the superb stories in this issue are: SATAN’S GARDEN, by E. Hoffmann Price. The story of a terrific adventure

in Bayonne, two ravishingly beautiful girls, occult evil and sudden death in the lair of the hasheesh-eaters.

BLACK THIRST, by C. L. Moore. A fascinating story about a weird character called the Alendar, whose every move is cloaked in mystery.

SHADOWS IN THE MOONLIGHT, by Robert E. Howard. A colossal tale about gigantic iron statues that stood in a ghastly row in the moonlight.

THE DEATH OF MALYGRIS, by Clark Ashton Smith. Even in death, the mighty wizard proved himself greater than his peers—a story of weird sorcery.

BEHIND THE SCREEN, by Dale Clark. The tale of a doomed man who experienced a terrible awakening in a curious shop in Chinatown.

Because of the limited supply, we urge you to send in yeur order at once, if you desire to obtain a copy. ice 25 cents.

WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois


musings. The portiéres parted, and the lady from Gurjestan reappeared. In that strange atmosphere, it never occurred to me to commit the faux pas of rising as she entered. This was doubtless bin Ayyub’s “family’’; and, though the United States were on the street, they had not quite penetrated to this dim salon, so that I felt it would be tactful not to seem to take any notice of the girl. Upon more intimate acquaintance with bin Ayyub, I might be presented to her; but not at present.

Bin Ayyub replied to her purring, rippling syllables, speaking some language unknown to me; and then the tapestried portiéres closed and hid her from sight.

“You will surely pardon me, effendi. Though Djénane Hanoum speaks English, she prefers her native language,” he remarked, then clapped his hands to summon Saoud.

Fresh coffee was served. And then, as my cigarette smoldered to its finish, bin Ayyub rose, rolled up the precious Isphahan and again offered it to me.

“And in ten days or two weeks the throne-rug of Saladin will be spliced by skilled weavers. I would be very glad to have you return and see it after it is restored.”

The clicking of the latch behind me reminded me that I was again in the city of Chicago; and the Isphahan did not let me forget that I had actually been awake the past few hours.

ENEVER there has been a killing,

the vultures assemble. I had marveled that Morgan Revell had not stumbled across the throne-rug of Saladin before I did. Thus it was that I was not

surprized to have him call at my apartment that very evening.

“Well . . . most extraordinary, that.

Where did you get it?” he demanded,


as he paused in the doorway, stripping off his gloves in preparation for the inspection of the Isphahan that bin Ayyub had so generously given me. “Shades of Shah .Abbas! Strike me blind, but it seems genuine. And perfect.”

He then parked his bulk in my favorite chair, and poured himself a drink, and proceeded to extract the story. And naturally I was not at all averse to enlightening him; for this would about even up for his eternal boasting of the mosque carpet of Eski Shehr: a remarkable tale, but one which eventually wears on one’s nerves.

“On the level now, did anyone actually make you a present of this Isphahan?”’ he inquired as I concluded my account of the day’s doings.

“Idiot,” said I, ‘‘do you think I could have bought it?”

“Well, no. But still ”* His features parted in a reminiscent grin. ‘Perhaps you remember the mosque carpet of Eski Shehr?”’

“Lay off that mosque carpet! No, I got this honestly and without any of your clever devices.”

“Score one for you! But really now, old egg, don’t you know, this is a most unusual tale you're telling. Quite preposterous, quite! First of all, this bin Ayyub person is a rara avis, and all that, if at all. Who ever heard of one of those beggars who had any appreciation of an antique rug?”’

“What about——?”

“Rot! Whoever you were going to cite is probably a dealer. It's simply preposterous, this bin Ayyub who collects ancient rugs. And that descendant of Saladin; why really, old fruit, that doesn’t hold water at all.”

I insisted that there were Orientals who did appreciate the beauty of the wondrous rugs which they wove.

“Quite so, quite so. But just consider,”


countered Revell, “that this Isphahan which you treasure as an antique was painfully new in the days when good old Shah Abbas was so partial to fine weaving and inventing new designs. That jolly prince had nothing but antiques on his hands, and he craved new ones; also new patterns. So much so that he sent artists to Italy to study design.”

“But, damn it, I tell you

“Ah yes, surely. Nevertheless, I insist that the appreciation of antiques is an Occidental taste, and one which is jolly well artificial, Remember that little Armenian in Ashjian’s showrooms and how much he felt that we were upset above the ears for preferring a threadbare Kabistan to a new Sarouk?”

I remembered,

“Well, now go to Ashjian’s and lect that same lad catch you admiring a Kirman rose-rug. Hear him sigh with much ecstasy; see him caper about; get the gallons of praise he pours on the heads of those fine old eggs who really knew how to weave a rug. He knows his litany now; but he wasn’t born that way.”

Revell scored.

“But bin Ayyub is a cultured gentleman. I'll take you out to his house, and then you'll be convinced about it all, including his being a descendant of Saladin.” -

“Very well, have it your own way. You know, it really may be quite possible. Only, it’s just a bit unusual, if you know what I mean,” Revell finally conceded as I completed my repetition of the story, and added bits of color I had omitted the first time. “Not that I doubted your word. But in all honesty, old onion, can you blame me for being a shade skeptical? When even the Shah's palace in Teheran is cluttered with gilt bric-a-brac, and modern Sultanieh rugs, and all that sort” of atrocious thing. Beastly taste these beggars show. But this


BACK COPIES

A RIVAL FROM THE GRAVE, Bice irc Quinn (January 1936)—A tale of creepy rror that

to a climax of sheer terror. Also fascinating stories by August W. Derleth, Paul Ernst, C. L. Moore, ‘Robert E. Howard, Richard H. Hart, J. Wésley Rosen- © quest, Robert Barbour Johnson, and H. P. Lovecraft.

i

YVALA, by C. L.

marbes Parkhill, Frank Owen, Robert E. Howard, Lireve Monet, Loretta Burrough, Theodore Tinsley, Andrew Daw, and H. P. Lovecraft. |

THE ALBINO DEATHS, by Ronal Kayser (March 1936)—A grim weird story of .torture on the Wheel of Death in a fantastic dungeon. Also, Eando Binder, Paul Ernst, Clark Ashton Smith, Robert E. Howard, Edmond Hamilton, A. J. Mordtmann, Henry Kuttner, Jay Wilmer Benjamin, and Jean Richepin.

THE. RULER OF FATE, by Jack Williamson (April 1936)—-A romantic story about a weird being that rules Earth from a cavern of horror on the Moon. Also, Carl Jacobi, Ariton Eadie, August W. Derleth,

ple, Ronal Kayser, and E. Hoffmann Price.

THE ROOM OF SHADOWS, by Arthur J. Burks (May 1936)—This story will send icy fingers up your spine, as the ghastly horror unfolds itself. Also, Paul Ernst; Jack Williamson, Robert Bloch, Seabury Quinn, Edmond Hamilton, Manly Wade Wellman, Renier Wyers, August W. Derleth, and Donald Wandrei.

LOOT OF THE VAMPIRE, by Thorp Eber t4 (June 1936)—An eery, spine-freezing story that will hold your fascinated interest. Also, Robert E., HowA. V. Milyer, Shane, M. J. Bardine, Norman E. Hammerstrom, and Richard F. Searight.

RED NAILS, by Robert E. Howard (July 1936)— A fascinating tale of a weird roofed city, the black lotus, and the queerest people ever spawned. Also, Clark Ashton Smith, Edmond Hamilton, Ronal Kayser, :

Renier Wyers, Manly Wade Wellman, Bobo Wildberg, and A. Conan Doyle.

packed with thrills, danger and startling events. Paul Ernst, G. G. Pendarves, Pearl Norton Swet, Robert E, Howard, August W. Derleth, Paul Compton, Ronal Kayser, and Victor Rowan.

ISLE OF THE UNPEAD, by Lloyd Arthur Eshbach (October 1936)—An uncanny tale of the fate that befell a yachting party on the awful island of liv: dead men. Also, Robert Bloch, Dorothy Quick, Peirce, Jr., C.'L. Moore, Robert E. Howard, Arthur Henry Kuttner, and Arthur Conan

WITCH-HOUSE, by Seabury Quinn 1936)—An intriguing and thrilling story about Jules de Grandin, master of the supernatural. Also, Robert E. Howard, Thorp McClusky, Paul Ernst, Robert Bloch, Bassett Morgan, R. B. Johnson, Gordon Philip Engiand, Chandler H. Whipple, and H. P. Lovecraft.

THE FIRE OF ASSHURBANIPAL, by Robert E. Howard (December 1936)—A tale about a skeleton that sat upon a throne, and a gem that shone with living fire. Also, Granville S: Hoss, H. P. Lovecraft, John Russell Fearn, Robert Bioch, August W. Derleth, Amelia Reynolds Long, Manly Wade Wellman, Henry Kuttner, Otis Adelbert Kline and E. Hoffmann Price.

THE PRICE ON ALL BACK ISSUES IS 25 CENTS A COPY, ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD, MAIE ALL ORDERS TO: WEIRD TALES, 840 N. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO, ILL., U. S. A.


bin Ayyub fellow may be the exception; though I contend that whatever the art the Orient provides is the result of instinct and not, intent.”

I granted most of his contentions. And then we discussed the great jar of attar, and the surpassing loveliness of bin Ayyub’s “family.”

“Most fascinating, really. This sounds like what people think the Orient ought to be, but never actually is. Houris, and incense, and all that sort of thing.”

Then, just as he left: “By the way, did you ever read the quaint little tale of Aladdin’s lamp?”

“Sure. What of it?”

“Nothing, really nothing at all. Merely curious, you know.”

Now what had that buzzard meant by that remark? A subtle way of calling me an out-and-out romancer? Or did he mean that in getting my Isphahan I had stumbled into something Aladdin-like?

And then I carefully examined the Isphahan. No, Revell had not palmed it and left a replica in its place. Strangely enough, he had not even tried to trade or bargain for it.

[; was fully two weeks before I could find time to call on bin Ayyub to inect the restoration of the throne-rug. But finally I did contrive to find some spare time, and just to convince Revell that I had not been releasing an Arabian fantasy, I decided to take him along. ‘ “Cheers, old bean!” greeted Revell. “T was just thinking. .. . But how do you like it?”

It, the throne-rug of Saladin, stared me in the face: rich, lustrous, magnificent, now that it had been cleaned, and the pieces spliced together.

“Where in me

Revell laughed at my amazement.

“Most amazing, what? But don’t rub your eyes. It is exactly what it looks like:


the rug of the justly popular Saladin. I was just thinking of asking you to translate the inscription. Couldn’t remember the exact wording you gave me several nights ago.”

“Devil take inscriptions! How did you get it? Unless he suddenly needed the money.”

“You could have done the same thing,’”’ Revell began, as he poured himself a drink, then painstakingly selected a cigar. “Especially after I told you in so many words how to go about it.”

“How come, told me how to go about it?”

This was too much for me. He’d been up to dirty work of some kind. It was unbelievable that he had purchased that rug; and I doubted that he was clever enough to have outwitted bin Ayyub. Then what? Breaking and _ entering? Well, not very likely.

“The last thing I said the other night was something about Aladdin’s lamp. I fancy you recollect. But I was jolly well certain you'd not follow my train of thought. Well . . . the magician from El Moghreb paraded up and down in front of Aladdin’s palace, offering to exchange old lamps for new ones. And the princess—Mrs. Aladdin—was tickled pink to take an unfair advantage of an old man’s foolishness. So she joyously swapped the greasy, tarnished old magic lamp for @ nice, new one. Never occurred to Aladdin to tell the young person his wife that the rather crude old lamp was of some value. Simple, really.”

“Do you mean to say. be

“Oh, yes, quite. Exactly, in fact. Mrs. bin Ayyub greatly fancied a lovely Anatolian silk rug about the same size as the revered Saladin’s throne-rug, which, by the way, she thought was a bit passé. Liked my silk rug; bright colors, and not at all worn, and all that sort of thing. So

_we swapped; and I fancy I noted a gleam


of triumph or something like that in her most fascinating eyes. Charming creature, er

And then I exploded.

“You ought to be shot! He'll beat the tar out of her. He'll flay her aliv Z

“Regrets, and all that, surely. But caveat emptor still holds good. She had no business messing around with the master’s trinkets. After all, a bit of de ceit 2

“And that girl will surely smell hell——”

“Much regret, certainly. But really, would you have me pass up such an opportunity? I’d cheerfully have committed murder for that rug. As it is——”

Revell smiled at the memory of his exceeding cleverness, and gazed at the throne-rug of Saladin with that fanatic affection comprehensible only to a collector.

LIMITED

117,

And that smile drove me mad. Thanks to my babbling, Revell had turned a very clever trick; and thanks also to me, that dainty girl’s shoulders . . . no, bin Ayyub wouldn’t beat her himself; he'd have black Saoud lay aside his duties of footman, pipe-bearer and coffee-grinder, and peel every inch of skin off her shoulders. The noble Turk is a man of few words and short temper when dealing with his family. All of which went to my head, seeing that it was mainly my fault for having set Revell on the trail.

“Listen, you damned coyote!”

I gripped Revell by the shoulder by way of emphasis. He blinked in amazement.

“Listen and get me straight: you're going to return that rug here and now, Bin Ayyub treated me like a gentleman. And moreover, it’s my fault if that girl

SUPPLY!

If you have not read the September, 1934, issue of “Weird Tales” we are offering you this final chance to obtain a copy.

A few of the excellent stories in this issue are:

THE JEST OF WARBURG TANTAVUL, by Seabury Quinn. A ghost story of vivid power and gripping humon appeal—a story of Jules de Grandin.

NAKED LADY, by Mindret Lord. A tale of voodoo and a millionaire’s strange scheme for vengeance on his wife.

THE SINISTER PAINTING, by Greye La Spina. An eery story of a fiendish murder ond a midget psychic investigator.

THE PALE MAN, by Julius Long. A queer little tale about the eccentric behavior of a strange guest in a country hotel.

A CLOAK FROM MESSER LANDO, by August W. Derleth. A short story about Cesare Borgia and the magic of a mediaeval sorcerer.

As these copies will go fast, we urge you to order immediately, if you desire to procure a copy. Price 25 cents.

WEIRD TALES,

840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, Hlinois


gets the daylights hammered out of her; my fault, and yours.”

“Come now, tty and act. naturally,” mocked Revell, who had mastered his amazement at my outburst. “I return that tug? Absurd. Really preposterous. Why, as I said, I'd have committed. es

And then Revell stared as I leaped to the arm of a davenport, reached up, and

yanked Saladin’s throne-rug from its ~

place on the wall. “Wait a minute. This is jpalisttg a bit thick. I say

By this time I was seeing red and also other colors.

“One more word out of you and I'll knock your head off! I'm taking this rug back to its owner. Get me?”

Revell is far from yellow. But somehow, I convinced him. The last glimpse I had of him, he was the color of an old saddle, and choking for breath.

“Really now, but this is a bit thick,” he contrived, as I slammed the door. I missed the rest, but I am sure that for the next fifteen minutes it was a bit thick in the Revell apartment.

Throne-rug trailing over my shoulder, I hopped a taxi and proceeded to bin Ayyub’s house.

IN AYYUB himself admitted me. I recognized him simply because no mask could disguise those lean, aquiline features; but this which faced me was but a simulacrum of the vital personality I had met two weeks ago. His face was unshaven; his eyes were cavernous and dull, lifeless; gone was all save the shell of Saladin’s descendant. The change was so startling, so dismaying, that for the moment I forgot the throne-rug I carried, rolled up under my arm. In view of the denunciation and wrath I expected, accusations of having played a part in the trickery of Revell, this listWEIRD TALES

lessness of bin Ayyub left me dazed and wondering.

“I am glad to see you, effendi,” he murmured, as he conducted me into the salon. He had not offered to take my hat and coat; had not noticed the bundle I carried,

“The throne-rug,” I began, offering him the precious roll. “I regret——’

“Spare your regrets. It was my fault. -I should have told Djcaane Hanoum of its value.”

He took the rug witha listlessness that amazed me, and, moving as one suddenly aroused from sound sleep, spread it actoss a couch.

“I feared.

“That I suspected you?” interrupted bin Ayyub. “No. I knew you were not guilty. You know who is guilty; but since he must be one who has eaten your bread and salt, I can not ask you to betray him.”

Bin Ayyub seemed to forget that I was not bound by the Moslem’s belief in the sanctity of bread and salt. But now that I had returned the rug, why bother about the trickster, Revell?

“Nor have I time to hunt him,” continued bin Ayyub. “I have been waiting for you to return Saladin’s throne-rug. And now that that is done, I have little time for hunting him.”

“But now there’s no need of hunting him,” I suggested. ““You have your rug.”

Which I fancied was a sensible answer. But the look that flitted across bin Ayyub’s face and took form in his eyes told me that my remark had been the thrust of incandescent iron.

Bin Ayyub rose. I wondered if this was to terminate the interview. It seemed that he might at least have thanked me, despite my having been the cause of his annoyance.

“I have dismissed Saoud for the day.


But I myself will prepare coffee. One moment, please.”

The aura of unbounded misery and corroding despair remained, lingering after the portiéres had hidden bin Ayyub from sight. Not even the clanging of the brazen pestle wherewith he pulverized the freshly roasted coffee could infuse a trace of life into the somber magnificence of that rich salon. The order of nature had ‘ been upset: this was the house of one whose spirit had died a thousand deaths without having deprived the body of life. Not even the return of the throne-rug had aroused a sparkle of the vital, predatory spirit of that fierce Kurd whose eyes had but two weeks ago flamed exultantly as he told of the enemy who had unwisely walked by moonlight.

Bin Ayyub’s entry with a tray intertupted my reflections.

One of the tiny eggshell cups was white, the other, deep blue.

“No, effendi, blue is the color of mourning; take the white one.”

A light began to dawn on me, The color of mourning . . . he had taken this tactful way of letting me know that my presence was an intrusion on his sorrow. But, if there had been a death in the family, why that flash of abysmal despair when a few moments ago I had suggested that since he once more had the thronetug, he need not bother to hunt whoever it was that had tricked Djénane Hanoum?

“Bismillahi!” murmured bin Ayyub, then tasted his coffee. After a moment's silence, he continued, “I bear you no ill will for what has happened. Naturally you would speak to your friends of the Isphahan I gave you, and of the thronerug. It was my fault; I should have told her.”

Worse and worse! That rug again. Hadn’t I returned it? Wasn’t he sitting on it even as he spoke? Well then... .

: south, until finally it} shines continuously in the north. z For 1,500 years mer f laughed at the “gullibil- ‘¥ ity” of the ancients, until, SS S.. by sailing past the Equator , . Euro of the Middle DISCOVERED what the Egyptians KNEW thousands of years before. : Suppressed Knowledge of Ancient Sages) —lost to the world for 3,000 years, but preserved by the FE W) who could appreciate and use it — is available to you, throughs association with the Rosicrucians. Their unique and success ful methods of mastering life’s problems and developing Personal Power are even more effective today. Try their fors mulas on your own personal and practical problems., Successful? — Happy?

Have you realized the highest possibilities of which you até} capable? Are you going through life with your greatest assets —social, business, intellectual—locked in a chest, without looking for the key?

Send for a Free Copy of “The Secret Heritage.” It may open up a new world of personal satisfaction and practical achievement; it might have a startling effect upon your own, future. It is sent free to the serious, Address Scribe O.W.X3

“Oh ROSICRUCIANS AMORC San Jose California, (Not a religious organization)

A new thriller by

SEABURY QUINN appears in WEIRD TALES

every month


“It was my fault. I should have told her,” he repeated.

He drained his cup.

The brooding silence forbade even an attempt at making conversation. My nerves were rapidly getting on edge; and I hoped bin Ayyub would end the interview.

“I am leaving very soon, effendi,” he ~

finally resumed. “Saoud will pack up my goods. ‘I have been waiting for you to return the throne-rug; and I was right in waiting. For the sake of my illustrious ancestor, I treasure it. But much has happened in the last few days. I do not care to have it in my house any longer. My brother’s son in Tekrit will take it.”

I could think of no appropriate comment.

“Here is the piece which was exchanged for the throne-rug. Take it with you when you leave, and return it to its owner.”

Which was also fair enough; though Revell deserved no such fortune after his shabby trick. The loss might be a lesson to him.

“May I ask you to be so kind as to lift the cover of the jar of attar?” requested bin Ayyub, as he set aside his empty cup.

I could see that he was momentarily becoming paler. There was nota drop of blood beneath his bronzed skin. The corners of his mouth and the muscles of his cheeks twitched perceptibly; so that his request did not seem at all out of order. Though if I myself felt as he looked, the last thing in the world I'd want would be a whiff of that overpowering perfume. @&

“Certainly,” I replied.

Poor devil! He seemed to be having a chill, shivering noticeably. No wonder he wanted me to take Saoud’s place in the ritual of the perfume jar.


As I adyanced across the wondrously carpeted floor, I heard him mutter to himself, “One is at times hasty... .”

I parted the curtains that veiled the great urn of Byzantine glass, and lifted the heavy cover; then, dizzied by the overwhelming surge of sweetness, recoiled a pace.

And then I dropped the cover.

Christ in heaven! But why deny my own eyes? In the throbbing, glowing rosyamber jar was the shapely ‘form of Djénane Hanoum! Faintly distorted by the refraction of the curved surfaces of the urn and the attar, but nevertheless and beyond any mistake, that was the Gurjestani girl. I stared, fascinated, then looked behind the jar, hoping . . . ridiculous hope! . . . to find that she was standing on the other side, and that I had seen her through, and not in, the urn.

It is strange how in such a moment one notices trifles.

“La illah illa allah... wa Muhammad rasul allahi. . .” came the murmuring accents of bin Ayyub, very low, but distinct.

Even in the grip of that horribly lovely sight, I had distinctly caught the Moslem’s ‘There is no God but Allah... .” And then, scarcely perceptible, “Djéngees =

My movements must have been those of a mechanical toy. :

As I caught the curtains on the hilts of the simitars hanging at each side of the alcove, I noted that the fine, hard-woven cord of silk was missing. And then I found myself wondering what poison the blue cup of mourning had contained.

Not until fully a minute later did it dawn on me why bin Ayyub’s eyes had flamed with immeasurable despair when I had reminded him that since I had returned the throne-rug of Saladin, he had


no cause to concern himself about the thief.

That awful sweetness was rolling from the uncovered jar, strangling me with its richness.. 1 wondered how a girl in the ~ heart of an ocean of perfume could endure its fragrance . . . and whether the silken cord was chafing her throat.

Bin Ayyub’s ‘drawn features were now overlaid with a shadow of a smile.

“If it were given me to elect the manner of my death, I would choose to be drowned in that perfume .. .” he had once said. So instead of covering the jar, ¥ left Ilderim Shirkuh bin Ayyub enthroned on the rug of Saladin, and facing the loveliness which he had imprisoned in attar.

| > eae was still frothing when I returned and tossed his Anatolian silk rug on the floor.

“Td have committed murder for that throne-rug,” he growled. “And now: ig

Some day I’m going to tie an anvil to Revell’s ankles and then kick him into Lake Michigan.

Coming soon—

THE MAGIC MIRROR

By ALGERNON BLACKWooD @

A new story about a strange man from Tibet who knew how to win infallibly at Monte Carlo.

Watch for this WEIRD TALES.

story

strange

rare

BACK COPIES

APRIL 1934—Stories by: E. Hoffmann Price, C. L. Moore, Edmond Hamilton, Robert E. Howard, Clark ean Set Dale Clark, Carl Jacobi, and Arthur urks.

be

MAY 1934—Stories by: Robert E. Bernal, C. L, Moore, Carl Jacobi, E. Anthony Rud, Clark Ashton Smith, Sugarman.

Howard, A. W. Hoffmann Price, and Loual B.

JULY 1934—Stories by: Ariton Eadie, Harold Ward, Paul Ernst, August W. , Jay Wilmer

Benjamin, Willard E. Hawkins, H. P. Lovecraft, and E. Hoffmann Price.

SS rd Pr a ee SEPTEMBER 1934—Stories by: Robert E. Howard, Seabury Quinn, Mindret Lord, Greye La Spina, Howard Wandrei, Julius Long, Bram Stoker, and August W. Derleth.

OCTOBER 1934—Stories by: C. L. Moore, Clark Ashton Smith, Paul Ernst, H. Bedford-Jones, S. Gordon Gurwit, Julius Long, Manly Wade Wellman, and Ronal Kayser.

NOVEMBER 1934—Storles by: E. Hoffmann Price, S. Gordon Gurwit,. Paul Ernst, Kirk Mashburn, August W. Derleth, John Flanders, and H. P. Lovecraft.

DECEMBER 1934—Stories by: Robert E. Howard, Bassett Morgan, C. L. Moore, John Flanders, Clark

MARCH 1935—Stories by: Otis Adelbert Kline, Harold Ward, Robert E. Howard, C, L. Moore, Paul Ernst, Loretta Burrough, Richard F.  Searight, Bram’ Stoker.

APRIL 1935—Stories by: “Arthur William Bernal,

Howard Wandrei, Eando Binder, Clark Ashton Smith,

Spd + ihe John Flanders, L. E. Frailey, and Everil forrell.

MAY 1935—Stories by: Arthur B. Reeve, Robert Leitfred, Richard@¢H. Hart, Robert E. Howard, Clark Ashton Smith, August W. Derleth, Robert Bloch, and H. P. Lovecraft.

JUNE 1935—Stories by: Dorothy Quick, Arthur William Bernal, Amelia Reynolds Long, Donald Wandrei, John Scott Douglas, Robert Bloch, Walker Gu. Everett, Ida M. Kier, and Otis Adelbert Kline.

JULY 1935—Stories by: Edmond Hamilton, Ernst, C. L. Moore, Captain S. P. Meek, Aalla Zaata, | Roy Temple House, Wallace J. Knapp, Gustav Meyrink, and Fitz-James O’Brien.

AUGUST 1935—Stories by: Paul Ernst, John Scott Douglas, Seabury Quinn, L. M. Montgomery, Frances Bragg Middleton, Clark Ashton Smith, Claude Farrere, and John Martin Leahy.

SEPTEMBER 1935—Stories by: John Scott Douglas, Ariton Eadie, Paul Ernst, Clark Ashton Smith, Robert Bloch, Ethel Helene Coen, Kirk Mashburn, Edmond Hamilton, and Kenneth P. Wood.

:

‘a

Ernst, C. L. Moore, Seabury Quinn, John Flanders, ae Binder, Robert Leonard Russell, and Arthur achen.

NOVEMBER 1935—Stories by: Robert E. Howard, Paul Ernst, E. Hoffmann Price, Pgul Frederick Stern, ragle F. Stone, Tarleton Collier, August W. Dere

DECEMBER 1935—Stories by: Robert E. Howard, Paul Ernst, Clark Ashton Smith, Edmond Hamilton, Harold Ward, Alfred I. Tooke, Robert Barbour Johnson, and Edward Lucas White. :

TALES, 840 U.S. A.

N, Michigan Ave., Chicago,

Paul .

ANY of our readers object to our occasional use of weird stories from the classics of the past, and would have us confine our monthly Weird Story Reprint entirely to old tales from this magazine, Others want serials in the reprint section. Still others ask for translations of weird tales in other languages. We would like to hear from you, the readers, regarding this matter, for it is your likes and dislikes that govern us in the preparation of each issue.

Thunder in the Dawn

John Agnew writes from Philadelphia: “The May issue contained some excellent stories, the best of which was Kuttner’s Thunder in the Dawn. 1 am anxiously awaiting the concluding chapters of this story, and, if it is as good as the first installment, I will be perfectly satisfied. Another darn good story is The Isle of the Sleeper, by Edmond Hamilton. The plot was very ingenious, and the story was well written. Jack Williamson, who, incidentally, is one of my favorites, concluded Dreadful Sleep in fine style. I am looking forward to Eando Bindet’s From the Beginning.”

Smooth Edges

Seymour Kapetansky writes from Detroit: “Finlay deserves orchids for his careful work on the April issue, and for his garishly overwhelming cover. The Devil Deals has a grand start—loathsome, unusual, unworldly—and ends on such a hacky note I could scream. Clark Ashton Smith’s tale is up to his exquisite and usual standard. He creates a gem of a word pattern, and a truly weird pattern. Feathertop is not uncommon enough for WT. Reprints should come from sources that can’t be tapped by most readers, not from the public repositories of literature.


... The House of Ecstasy—sex rears its unugly head here, but for a laudable purpose —a new idea in WT. I’m racking my brain for that address all my waking hours now. Max Brod, in translation, reads cleverly diabolic. As I read each WT I bless its continual use of smooth edges. Inherent merit is emphasized, although there is a dictum: Don’t judge a book from its cover. If Finlay does all the covers like the one he did for the April issue, I’d be pretty proud to judge Wr by its cover. But I suppose lots of nice, full-length nudes are saediied for coming months.”

A Letter from Chicago

G. H. writes from Chicago: “Hm—hm— m—m—mM! Seems that Henry K. has got something to suit my taste just fine— Atlantis—tall blond men—magic—and the overwhelming sense of the immense palm that lifts Elak and Solonala, the faun-girl, Boy oboy—am I ever anxious for the next installment! Sompin else new again—liv’n’ learn! This time the late Howard gives zuvembie in Pigeons From Hell. The pigeon theory is still vague to me but the goshawfulness of the whole tale is too shuddery —one of those things that makes some folks have nitemares. Now Goetterdaemmerung has me up a tree somewhat—it’s thoroughly exciting—very unusual—but why, oh, why —must writers, in their tales of the future, have a Mongol horde conquer and ruthlessly destroy this land of outs? Why not give a pleasant tale of the future—a work that is odd, entertaining, weird and yet not have some malignant monster lurking in a corner, waiting to play cat and mouse with the hero and his shero? Edmond Hamilton’s Isle of the Sleeper was rather amusing. How often in dreams does one walk in delight and suddenly see that which is wholly unconWEIRD TALES

nected with the dream—e. g., the elephants —and the lake and those horrible ‘missing links.’ Of course, sleeping on a barren rock under the hot Pacific sun is enough to give anyone such délusions. When it comes to worms and squidging out life-cores of jellylike substances, I don’t enjoy myself any more. The previous installments of Dreadful Sleep were so absorbing, and I was enthused over it. With the exception of the grub and the mud cocoon, this installment was acceptable. I particularly enjoyed Ron’s travels from the Antarctic over solid ocean, and the terrified sea-captain. I wonder if the poor fellow drowned when he ran from his ship, over the glass-like waves—after the world had been redeemed from its rigid state. Yup—I remember reading Medusa, and although fascinating, the woman repelled me just as a snake does. “Nother one of those pussons is Marian Shortess in the Eyrie, who seems to have read only praise letters—I disagree with you quite emphatically! 1 wonder if you’ve ever read some of those debates that sprang up, and with very little encouragement would have become


heated arguments. Read more carefully, m’dear, and you will learn that most everyone becomes critical at times. . . . If Clifton Hall will re-read the opening paragraphs of The Teakwood Box, he will note the sentence reads ‘smelly L. A. suburb’—not ‘stinking.’ There is a world of difference between the two words. Most any place is likely to become ‘smelly’ in the broiling hot summer weather. Don’t get so technical, m’boy! Thankee to the lad from England who finds my letters refreshing. I may add that I like onions and orchids. . . . And so once more we have methodically covered the issue, giving comments. Somehow it’s fun. Auf wiedersehen.”

Request Denied

Gene Risher writes from Johnstown, Pennsylvania: “Have been a constant reader of WT since its first appearance on the

_ stands. After reading the present issue (May

°38) I decided to send in my two-cents worth to the Eyrie for the first time, so here goes. I have few complaints with the authors. I read all the stories. Some I do not


*

is 25¢ per copy. Mail all orders to:

840 N. Michigan Ave.

BACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of WemrD TALEs, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues


If you are interested in obtaining

Chicago, Illinois, U. 5. A.


like, but I don’t expect the authors to please everyone. The loss of Howard and ae. craft is irreparable... . To my mind Howard was tops and I hope you will honor Mr. Robert J. Hoyer’s request for reprints or a book of Mr. Howard’s stories, especially the Conan series. I also propose that one of your other authors study Mr. Howard’s style and characters and continue the Conan series. I don’t think any Howard fan would be too harsh with criticism. After all, Conan was a strong character, and many weaker ones have outlived their creators. So let’s make Conan a monument to his creator. Let’s hear what some of the others think Of this proposal. . . . As to Quinn, let me say I heartily disagree with Marian Shortess. I think Roads was a truly wonderful story. I read it to my children and I am sure it was more acceptable than the age-worn lies told to children down through the centuries. I would like to suggest that our friend Marian look up the real history of our so-called Christian holidays, Then she will find that Mr. Quinn really knew whereof he spoke. As to mentioning Christ and the Virgin Mary in a magazine filled with witchcraft, ghosts, werewolves and vampires, etc.: I would suggest that she borrow someone’s Holy Bible and read it. Bat I am afraid that if she did, she might like the horrible and gruesome, as well as the witchcraft stories contained therein, so well she would forget to buy the next issue.” [Sorry to deny your request for some other author to carry on the Conan stories of the late Robert E. Howard. His work was touched with genius, and he had a distinctive style of writing that put the stamp of his personality on every story he wrote. It would hardly be fair to his memory if we allowed Conan to be recreated by another hand, no matter how skilfully—TueE Eprror.}

A Lone Cry

Donald V. Allgeier writes from Licking, Missouri: “Congratulations on the fine May issue. . . . I give first place to Dreadful Sleep. Williamson has done it again. I agree with those who compare his style to Merritt’s. They are similar, but Williamson is a splendid author in his own right. This seems to me to be as great a story as the now almost legendary Golden Blood. Pigeons from Hell gets my vote for second place. It certainly makes one long for Howard to be back


again. There’s a story that really caused the goose-pimples. Horrible and frightening are the words—a real weird tale. Perhaps it’s my preference for serials, but even without that Thunder in the Dawn would rank high. I rate it third. It has all the elements of a true weird tale—mystery, black magic, fantastic setting—plus action. That makes it comparable to the Conan saga. Congratulations to Kuttner, a writer who has certainly developed recently. I’m sorry this story is only in two parts. Quinn’s latest yarn is so close behind that it’s practically a tie. Goetterdaemmerung struck me as an experimental type of story—to test readers’ reactions. Personally, I prefer a story that I can understand, but, as usual, Quinn delivers a fine job of writing. The Secret of the Vault was quite good. I wonder if the style reminded others of Poe. It seemed to me quite like some of E, A.’s masterpieces. Hamilton’s latest is little but a clever idea, but is worth reading. The reprint was fair, but the writing seemed strained. Why wait so long to reprint early stories by Howard? The Eyrie is demanding them. . . . In recent issues I particularly liked The House of Ecstasy. With Farley’s Abductor Minimi Digit and Vallisneria Madness it completes a trilogy of delightfully unique short tales. I voice a lone cry for less lurid covers.”

Reprint from Old Issues

Edith Mulder writes from Lindenhurst, Long Island: “I like the new serial, Dreadful Sleep, immensely. I’m eagerly awaiting the finish. I wish you would reprint stories in WT that other readers keep talking about —like Shambleau, Once in a Thousand Years, and, oh, so many others that readers write about. They make me long so for all the WTs that were ever printed, so I could read them all! Couldn’t you reprint serials that were acclaimed, also? I agree with others that say they would rather have a serial reprint than a lot of new stories.”

Where Once Poe Walked

T. Gelbert writes from Niagara Falls, New York: “Features of the April issue are The Temple Dancer, The Garden of Adompha and the very charming Hawthorne tale, Feathertop, Mediocre and very much so are Dreadful Sleep and Forest of Evil. 1 am glad to see Seabury Quinn’s tales featuring others besides Jules de Grandin and the



stupid Trowbridge. In the May issue Thunder in the Dawn, Pigeons from Hell and The Secret of the Vault, in the order named, pleased yours truly best. Honorable mention goes to the poem, Where Once Poe Walked. In closing I will say that anyone who derides Poe and his work is not and cannot possibly be a lover of weird tales as exemplified by Lovecraft, C. A. Smith, Kuttner and others in our own Unique Magazine.”

The Easter Island Images

John H. Green writes from Washington, D. C.: “No use to tell you how much 1 enjoy WT, because if I didn’t I wouldn’t read it and keep on reading it. Roads by Seabury Quinn was about the only story I ever read three times and probably will read it again. . . . Current novel by Jack Williamson is great. The Eyrie is as interesting as the stories. Might add to E. Hoffmann Price’s statement concerning the Stanzas of Dzyan that there and there only is the explanation of the Easter Island images.”

Pride of Place

Francis G. Howes writes from Rugby, England: “I am writing to congratulate you on WT. There is nothing ltke them in England and they are the only stories that I get a real kick from. I am a research worker and a folk-lore expert who possesses a femarkable library dealing with the occult and the weird, but in the fiction line your magazines take pride of place. I put some of your Stories, especially those not overburdened with a superfluity of adjectives, on a par with those of Bram Stoker, M. R. James, and Algernon Blackwood. ... I have traveled through middle Europe collecting folkJore and legends and I was astounded at the amount of superstition and credence in the supernatural which abounds among quite civilized people. There are grounds for these beliefs, as I have discovered, especially in the Carpathians and the Black Forest, but to all but my most intimate friends I have remained silent for fear of ridicule. I can assure your readers that some of your magnificent yarns touch alarmingly near to the truth. I was grieved at the passing of H. P. LE. Will he ever have a successor? Of recent issues I enjoyed The Last Pharaoh most of all. Let us have more of Thomas P. Kelley. Virgil’s illustrations are. the goods.


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WORTH WATCHING

Authors’ Service '

MANUSCRIPTS WANTED. Books, Stories, Plays an€ Articles for placement in U. S. and foreign countries; Motion picture rights placed. Circular T-738 describing UNIFIED SALES PLAN free on request. OTIS ADELBERT KLINE, Authors’. and Publishers’ Representative, 347 Fifth Ave., New York City.

Books

A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM—Illustrated by Virgil Finlay. Containing twenty-five exquisite illus trations. A- beautiful edition you will be proud te own. Price 35 cents. WRIGHT’S SHAKESPEARE LIBRARY, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago.

THE MOON TERROR—A stupendous weird-scientifie novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world} Cloth-bound with handsome colored jacket—50 centa Pos peld. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Avew

Business Opportunities

NEWSPAPER clippings pay. Instructions 25¢c, Good+ all Agency, 742 Market, San Francisco.

Indian Relics

Beadwork. Coins. Stamps. Mins Books. Old West Photos. Weapons. Curios; Temple Mound Birdpoint 15c. Knife, ancient, 15c3 Catalogue 5c. Indian Museum, Northbranch, Kansasy

Magazines {

a a ce a WEIRD, Scientifiction- magazines. Bought, sold, ex changed. Price list free. POIS, 2101 W. Grand Con< course, New York.

ORIENTAL STO< RIES MAGAZINE, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago,

“> ae)

Song Poems Wanted

——— WANTED—Original poems, songs, for immediate con sideration. Send poems to COLUMBIAN. MUSIC PUBLISHERS, Ltd:, Dept. K-69, Toronto, Canada,

Miscellaneous

PEOPLE having lost hope or whose doctor has given up, who desire absent metaphysical help, write toz ABSENT METAPHYSICAL HELP, Box 441, San Diego, California.

WHO IS THE MYSTERIOUS “KWO”? The solution to this baffling mystery is thrillingly told in one of the most. startling stories ever written — THE MOON TERROR, in book form. Price 50c. WEIRD TALES, 840 North Michigan, Chicago, Illinois. t

WEIRD BOOKS

Rented by mail, ghost stories, tales of terror, etc. 3¢ a day, plus postage. Write for details. Werewolf Lending Library, 227 S. Atlantic Ave., Pittsburgh, Pag.

Subscribe to Weird Tales


His drawing to the last episode of the foregoing, very reminiscent of The Faceless God, was superb.”

Just Too Seary!

Margaret Warren writes from Columbus, Ohio: “Pigeons from Hell was just too scary, and me alone in a big house when I read it, and it raining too. I walked every stair with Griswell, and all night I heard steps in the hall and on the stairs—me that is not afraid of anything, or I always said I wasn’t, but I should have read it on a bright sunshiny day. Virgil’s drawing for it! Those three awful things hanging! And that awful old crone sitting there breathing evil as old as the world. I wonder what a person would do if confronted with something like that. I'll tell the world I wouldn’t ever go back in that house. But men are supposed to have more courage than we weaker females, ha! While I think of it I must not forget Roads. Ah! Quinn, you have indeed given us a masterpiece. That was the loveliest thing I ever read. That's all I can say. Imagine some people saying it shouldn’t have been in WeEirpD TaLEs. One is so fortunate to be able to read that story anywhere, any place. It in a way reminds me of Child of the Winds—it had that same tender love and genius; a man only writes one such story in his life, and Quinn, bless your heart, you gave us Roads. But then he always has been my favorite. May he live for ever !—well, anyway, as long as I do.”

A Gifted Writer

Hazel Portelli writes from Detroit: “This present issue of WeIRD TALEs is up to its usual standard, which is the peak of perfection. So long as Seabury Quinn is a regular contributor I will keep on reading, and

his story, The Temple Dancer, is grand. The.

Devil Deals by Carl Jacobi is unique, and almost possible. However, the story that remained in my mind is Roads by Seabury Quinn in the January issue. My sincerest congratulations and thanks to that gifted writer.”

Really Swell

Clifton Hall writes from Los Angeles: “Congratulations on the best number since December. The April WT was really swell. In an issue like this one it’s always difficult to pick the best stories, but after some reWEIRD TALES

- flection I'll select the second installment of’ “that magnificent serial by Jack Williamson,. Dreadful Sleep. It's totally different from anything I recall having read before in. our magazine. It takes a master to. make the dreary ice-wastes of the south pole seem weird. Next comes Forest of Evil, by John Murray Reynolds, who should be heard from more often. Although not so weird as some others, this was an enthralling adventure yarn. Bloch’s The Eyes of the Mummy is third best. Bloch combines something of Lovecraft’s studied horror with a touch of color that H. P. did not possess. These three lead the pack, but The Garden of Adompha, The Temple Dancer, The House of Ecstasy and Feathertop aren’t far behind. The last mentioned, by Hawthorne, was so fine that I am pie to suggest that we have more reprints from sources other than old copies of WED TALES, There are many short classics that could be printed.”

A Reader in France

Juanita Lawrence writes from Paris: “TI have been a reader of WEIRD TALEs for the last three years, and often I have wanted to write a letter, but somehow JI never did. But now, after a three months’ stay in Egypt where I couldn’t get WT, I just feel like telling you how much f like your magazine, which is really ‘unique,’ as they say over here in France, And now for some personal opinions: I like Seabury Quinn and Henry Kuttner best of all your authors, and immediately next Robert Bloch. But please don’t give too many serials! They always make me feel a bit irritated; just when I am dying to know what’s going to happen I have to wait another month! Also, I would like to see some more werewolf and vampire stories. ... Almost all my American friends here read WT, since I ‘found’ it, and do they love it! Please reprint some more poems by the late master, H. P. Lovecraft.”

About Reprints

Norman W. Siringer writes from Lakewood, Ohio: “The May issue of WT is certainly the best issue so far this year, with the first installment of Henry Kuttner’s Thunder in the Dawn topping the issue. This may be sacrilege, but the first half of the Elak of Atlantis novelette tops all of the Conan stories, and I was a rabid Conan fan. Thunder in the Dawn can be favorably

WEIRD TALES _ 127,

compared with Merritt’s works. By all means, H, K., write more about Elak and his friends. In an ordinary issue Jack Williamson’s great novel would easily have taken first place, but Dreadful Sleep, Williamson’s best since Golden Blood, must: be content with second. Goetterdaemmerung, Seabury Quinn’s novelette, took third place. The rest of the stories were all good. . . I don’t like short short-stories and I seriously condemn you for reprinting the classics. Short short-stories are nearly always based on the ghost or spirit entity plot and they are usually very poorly developed. My main objection to stories by Hawthorne or Poe being used is that nearly everyone has read them before. I might add that there are scores of good stories from old issues of WT that are now eligible for reprinting (Bimini, The Skeleton Under the Lamp, The Copper Bowl, The Cult of the Skull, The Tinkle of the Camel's Bell, The Silver Key, etc.) Weirp Ta.es is showing constant improvement. Keep it up!”

Jam-up

H. Sivia writes from Palestine, Texas: “Thanks for a swell May issue. Everything in it is jam-up. Only one complaint: the lack of short-shorts. We must have variety, you know. My vote for first place is split between Quinn’s Goetterdaemmerung and Hamilton’s The Isle of the Sleeper. Especially do I like the idea back of the latter. Always glad to see one of Howard’s yarns in print. The background for his piny woods stories is always authentic.”

Finlay’s Mlustrations

Henry Kuttner writes from Beverly Hills, California: “Virgil Finlay’s grease-pencil work, in the current WT, is as excellent as his pen-and-ink sketches, and seems to reproduce somewhat better on pulp paper. I was particularly struck, in the April issue, with Starrett’s Cordelia's Song, which succeeded admirably in capturing the outré insane horror of The King in Yellow. Why not reprint that classic yarn, and Chambers’ even more ghastly The Yellow Sign? Clark Ashton Smith’s tale, The Garden of Adompha, was swell, and Virgil’s pictorial interNEXT MONTH

The | Fire Princess

By EDMOND HAMILTON

HE author of ‘The Lake of Life”

outdoes himself in this new story of intrigue and adventures in the weird Valley of Koom and the eery mountains of fire that surrounded it. This fascinating and compelling thrill-tale will hold your absorbed interest from first to last.

Fo spies from four different nations—Japan, Russia, England and the United States—enter the forbidden valley, and the saga of their adventures makes a tale to look forward to—a tale of the Place of Power that was the tomb of the Ancient Ones—a tale of the terrible doom that menaced the world with destruction. This powerful novel will begin

in the August issue of


on sale July 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION

OFFER. — (You Save 25c) =

840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Il,

Enclosed find $1.00, for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the August issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

28 WEIRD TALES

pretations most effective. I read Adompha first in manuscript form, up at Smith’s place, surrounded by his grotesque statuary and his bizarre pictures, with a Satanic cat—no doubt one of Klarkash-Ton’s familiars— eyeing me wickedly from the corner. Lastly, a wreath of mandragores for that ol’ davil Bloch, anent his Sebek story, with its really unusual climax.”

Concise Comments

George C. Bowring writes from Los Angeles, California: “Allow me to voice my approval of the series of full-page interpretations by Virgil Finlay. They are truly remarkable. The April drawing was done with a restraint which was most admirable. I’m glad to see that he can be so. true to the mood of whatever he is interpreting.”

R. J. Fugate writes from Hansonville, Virginia: “Permit me to compliment you on your splendid magazine. It is, to my knowledge, the only pulp magazine of actual literary merit. I have frequently taught in my college classes from stories published in Weirp TALEs—classes in American literature.”

Benjamin Rafkin writes from Washington, D. C.: “In the May issue of WEIRD Tares, Henry Kuttner’s Thunder in the Dawn seems to me the story best suited to your type of magazine and mo&t acceptable to an intelligent audience which reads for recreation. Even though visibly an attempt at the Conanesque, it is a fine story

and I hope there are more like it in the ~

future.”

Nils H. Frome writes from Fraser Mills, B. C., Canada: “Of the short-shorts in the April number, Farley's was the best, and good. Brod’s I did not like.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? If you haye any comments to make, please address them to the Eyrie, WEIRD Taves, 840 N. Michigan Avenue, Chicago. Your favorite story in the May issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was the first part of Henry Kuttner’s story of the dawn age, Thunder in the Dawn,

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE JULY WEIRD TALES ARE:

Address coupon to the Eyrie, WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Il. ze

COMING NEXT MONTH

FELT my breath catch in my throat as we came face to face in the moonlight.

I The general standard of beauty among the natives of Brittany is high indeed, but in the girl who stood before me the very pinnacle of flawless perfection seemed to have been reached.

Her features—but how can I describe that which transcends all description? Mere words seem futile and meaningless when applied to that radiant creature who confronted us out of the mystery of the night. Her loveliness seemed more than human —and most assuredly none of it was due to the “‘art which conceals art’’ in the estimation of the feminine mind. Her dark hair waved in a profuse disorder of natural curls over her brow and neck. Her smooth skin was deeply tanned by exposure to the wind and sun. Her cheap cotton frock would have seemed but a mere rag but for the superb lines of the figure beneath. Her shapely legs were bare to the knees; her feet innocent of even the wooden sabots which the poorest of peasants usually wear. She seemed more like some dryad of the woods than a mundane peasant-girl.

For some reason—possibly it was the memory of my own recent fears—her very calmness irritated me.

“What are you doing here?” I cried as sharply as my halting Breton would allow. “Don’t you know that there are wolves about?”

To my surprize she answered in the purest French:

“Assuredly, m’siex, there are wolves. Have I not just now’’—she hesitated— “have I not heard them howling? And you—you did not climb the Devil's Tombstone just to admire the view?” . . .

You will be fascinated with this posthumous thrill-tale by a late English master of weird fiction. It is an engrossing novelette of the Ghoul Pack, the Barking Women of Josselin, and the struggle between a mother’s love and an ancient curse. It will be printed complete in the August issue of WEIRD TALEs:

The Wolf-Girl of Josselin By Arlton Eadie

—Also—— THE VENOMED BREATH OF VENGEANCE GREEN HORROR By SEABURY QUINN By H. THOMPSON RICH

A curious story about Jules de Grandin, occult des What was that hideous apparition that lured Joan tective and scientist, and an East Indian whose very to the greenhouse and swayed beside her father as breath was lethal to those upon whom he blew. he worked? A tale of horror. THE FIRE PRINCESS By EDMOND HAMILTON A thrill-tale of intrigue and weird horror in the terrible Valley of Koom, the hidden city. A story of the dreadful Place of Power that was the tomb of the Ancient Ones, and a strange doom that menaced the world.

thrills---mystery---excitement August Issue WEIRD TALES - - - Out July 1

Special Bargain Offer

YOURS

While They Last

At Reduced Price

Only Fifty Cents

HE MOON TERROR, by A. G.

Birch, is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.

ALSO—OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weirdscientific fiction:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an ameba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH

Beautifully

bound in rich blue

cloth with attractive orangecolored cover jacket.

DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.

LIMITED SUPPLY

Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

Norte: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store. I

WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill., U. 8S. A.

Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy of THE | MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

[THE END]
