============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: September 1933
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The  Return  of  Andrew  Bentley _ August  W" by Derleth  and  Mark  Schorer
  2. "By  ROBERT  E" by HOWARD
============================================================
============================================================
THE RETURN OF ANDREW BENTLEY _ AUGUST W
by Derleth and Mark Schorer
============================================================

eturn

of Andrew

Bentley

By AUGUST W. DERLETH and MARK SCHORER

A weird shape with fiaffing black cape strove to drag the body of Amos Wilder from the vault in which it had been laid

IT IS with considerable hesitation that I here chronicle the strange incidents which marked my short stay at the old Wilder homestead on the banks of the Wisconsin River not far from the rustic village of Sac Prairie. My reluctance is not entirely dispelled by the conviction that some record of these events should

emphatically be made, if only to stop the circulation of unfounded rumors which have come into being since my departure from the vicinity.

The singular chain of events began with a peremptory letter from my aging uncle, Amos Wilder, ordering me to appear at the homestead, where he was then



living with a housekeeper and a caretaker. Communications from my Uncle Amos were not only exceedingly rare, but usually tinged with biting and withering comments about my profession of letters, which he held in great scorn. Previous to this note, we had not seen each other for over four years. His curt note hinted that there was something of vital importance to both of us which he wished to take up with me, and though I had no inkling of what this might be, I did not hesitate to go.

The old house was not large. It stood well back in the rambling grounds, its white surface mottled by the shadows of leafy branches in the warm sunlight of the day on which I arrived. Green shutters crowded upon the windows, and the door was tightly closed, despite the day's somnolent warmth. The river was cerulean and silver in the immediate background, and farther beyond, the bluffs on the other side of the river rose from behind the trees and were lost in the blue haze of distance to the north and south.

My uncle had grown incredibly old, and now hobbled about with the aid of a cane. On the morning of my arrival he was dressed in a long, ragged black robe that trailed along the floor; beneath this garment he wore a threadbare black jersey and a pair of shabby trousers. His hair was unkempt, and on his chin was a rough beard, masking his thin, sardonic mouth. His eyes, however, had lost none of their fire, and I felt his disapproval of me as clearly as ever. His expression was that of a man who is faced with an unpleasant but necessary task.

At last, after a rude scrutiny, he began to speak, having first made certain that no one lurked within earshot.

"It’s hardly necessary for me to say I’m not too certain I’ve done a wise thing in choosing you,” he began. 'Tve always

considered you somewhat of a milksop, and you’ve done nothing to change my opinion.”

He watched my face closely as he spoke, to detect any resentment that I might feel; but I had heard this kind of speech from him too often before to feel any active anger. He sensed this, apparently, for he went on abruptly.

"I’m going to leave everything I’ve got to you, but there’ll be a condition. You’ll have to spend most of your time here, make this your home, of course, and there are one or two other small things you’ll have to see to. Mind, I’m not putting anything in my will; I want only your word. Do you think you can give it? Think you can say ’Yes’ to my terms?”

He paused, and I said, "I see no reason why I shouldn’t — if you can guarantee that your terms won’t interfere with my writing.”

My uncle smiled and shook his head as if in exasperation. "Nothing is easier,” he replied curtly. "Your time for writing will be virtually unlimited.”

"What do you want me to do?” I asked.

"Spend most of your time here, as I said before. Let no day go by during which you do not examine the vault behind the house. My body will lie there, and the vault will be sealed; I want to know that I can depend upon you to prevent anything from entering that vault. If at any time you discover that some one has been tampering, you will find written instructions for your further procedure in my library desk. Will you promise me to attend to these things without too much curiosity concerning them?”

I promised without the slightest hesitation, though there were perplexing thoughts crowding upon my mind.

Amos Wilder turned away, his eyes glittering. Then he looked through the W. T.— 4



window directly opposite me and began to chuckle in a curiously guttural tone. At last he said, his eyes fixed upon a patch of blue sky beyond the tree near the window, "Good. I’ll block him yet! Amos Wilder is still a match for you — do you hear, Andrew?”

What his words might portend I had no means of knowing, for he turned abruptly to me and said in his clipped, curt way, "You must go now, Ellis. I shall not see you again.” With that, he left the room, and as if by magic, old Jacob Kinney, the caretaker, appeared to show me from the grounds, his lugubrious face regarding me with apologetic eyes from the doorway through which his master had so abruptly vanished but a moment before.

My uncle’s strange words puzzled me, and it occurred to me that the old man was losing his mind. That I then did him an injustice I subsequently learned, but at the time all evidence pointed to mental derangement. I finally contented myself with this explanation, though it did not account for the old man’s obvious rationality during most of the conversation. Two points struck me: my uncle had put particular stress upon the suggestion that something might enter his vault. And secondly, what was the meaning of his last words, and to whom was my uncle referring when he said, "I’ll block him yet!” and "Amos Wilder is still a match for you — do you hear, Andrew?” Conjecture, however, was futile; for, since I knew very little of my uncle’s personal affairs, any guesses I might have made as to his obscure references, if indeed he was not losing his mind, would be fruitless.

I left the old homestead that day in May only to find myself back there again within forty-eight hours, summoned by W. T— 5

Thomas Weatherbee of Sac Prairie, my uncle’s solicitor, whose short telegram apprising me of Amos Wilder’s death reached me within three hours of my return to the St. Louis apartment which served me as my temporary home. My shock at the news of his sudden death was heightened when I learned that the circumstances surrounding his decease indicated suicide.

Weatherbee told me the circumstances of my uncle’s singular death. It appeared that Jacob Kinney had found the old man in the very room in which he and I had discussed his wishes only a day before. He was seated at the table, apparently asleep. One hand still grasped a pen, and before him lay a sheet of note-paper upon which he had written my name and address, nothing more. It was presumed at first that he had had a heart attack, but a medical examination had brought forth tire suspicion that the old man had made away with himself by taking an overdose of veronal. There was, however, considerable reluctance to presume suicide, for an overdose of veronal might just as likely be accident as suicide. Eventually a coroner’s jury decided that my uncle had met his death by accident, but from the first I was convinced that Amos Wilder had killed himself. In the light of subsequent events and of his own cryptic words to me, "I shall not see you again,” my suspicion was, I feel, justified, though no definite and conclusive evidence emerged,

My uncle was buried, as he had wished, in the long-disused family vault behind the house, and the vault was sealed from the outside with due ceremony and in the presence of witnesses. The reading of the will was a short affair, for excepting bequests made to the housekeeper and caretaker, I inherited everything. My living was thus assured,



and as my uncle had said, I found the future holding many hours of leisure in which to pursue letters.

And yet, despite the apparent rosiness of the outlook, there was from the first a peculiar restraint upon my living in the old homestead. It was indefinable and strange, and numerous small incidents occurred to supplement this odd impression. First old Jacob Kinney wanted to leave. With great effort I persuaded him to stay, and dragged from him his reason for wanting to go.

"There’ ve been mighty strange things a-goin’ on about this house, Mr. Wilder, all the time your uncle was alive — and I’m afraid things’ll be goin’ on again after a bit.”

More than that cryptic utterance I could not get out of him. I took the liberty shortly after to repeat Kinney’s words to the housekeeper, Mrs. Seldon. The startled expression that passed over her countenance did not escape me, and her immediate assurance that Jake Kinney was in his dotage did not entirely reassure me.

Then there was the daily function of examining the seal on the vault. The absurdity of my uncle’s request began to grow on me, and my task, trivial as it was, became daily more irritating. Yet, having given my promise, I could do no more than fulfill it.

ON THE third night following my uncle’s interment, my sleep was troubled by a recurrent dream which gave me no little thought when I remembered its persistence on the following day. I dreamed that my Uncle Amos stood before me, clad as I had last seen him on the visit just preceding his strange death. He regarded me with his beady eyes, and then abruptly said in a mournful and yet urgent voice, "You must bring Burkhardt back here. He forgot to protect me against

them. You must get him to do so. If he will not, then see those books on the second shelf of the seventh compartment of my library.”

This dream was repeated several times, and it had a perfectly logical basis, which was briefly this: My uncle was buried by Father Burkhardt, the Sac Prairie parish priest, who was not satisfied with the findings of the coroner’s jury, and consequently, in the belief that Amos Wilder had killed himself, had refused to bless the grave of a suicide. Yet, what the dream-shape of the night before had obviously meant when he spoke of what Father Burkhardt had forgotten to do, was the blessing of the grave.

I spent some time mulling over this solution of the dream, and at length went to see the priest. My efforts, however, were futile. The old man explained his attitude with great patience, and I was forced to agree with him.

On the following night the dream recurred, and in consequence, since a visit to Father Burkhardt had already failed to achieve the desired effect, I turned, impelled largely by curiosity, to the books on the second shelf of the seventh compartment indicated by the dream-figure of my uncle. From the moment that I opened the first of those books, the entire complexion of the occurrences at the homestead changed inexplicably, and I found myself involved in a chain of incidents, the singularity of which continues to impress me even as I write at this late date. For the books on the second shelf of the seventh compartment in my dead uncle’s library were books on black magic — books long out of print, and apparently centuries old, for in many of them the print had faded almost to illegibility.

The Latin in which most of the books were written was not easily translated, but fortunately it was not necessary for



me to search long for the portions indicated by my uncle, for in each book paragraphs were marked for my attention. The subjects of the marked portions were strangely similar. After some difficulty I succeeded in translating the first indicated paragraph to catch my eye. "For Protection from Things That Walk in the Night,” it read. "There are many things stalking abroad by darkness, perhaps ghouls, perhaps evil demons lured from outer space by man’s own ignorance, perhaps souls isolated in space, havenless and alone, and yet strongly attached to the things of this earth. Let no bodies be exposed to their evil wrath. Let there be all manner of protection for vaults and graves, for the dead as well as the living; for ghouls, incubi, and succubi haunt the near places as well as the far, and seek always to quench the fire of their unholy desire.... Take blessed water from a church and mix it with the blood of a young babe, be it ever so small a measure, and with this cross the grave or the door of the vault thrice at the full of the moon.”

If this was what my Uncle Amos desired me to do, I knew at once that the task had devolved upon the wrong man; for I could certainly not see myself going about collecting holy water and the blood of a young child and then performing ridiculous rites over the vault with an odious mixture of the two. I put the books aside and returned to my work, which seemed suddenly more inviting than it had ever been before.

Yet what I had read disturbed me, and the suggestion that my uncle had come to believe in the power of black magic — perhaps even more than this, for all I knew — was extremely distasteful to me. In consequence, my writing suffered, and immediately after my supper that evening, I went for a long walk on the river bank.

A half-moon high in the sky made the countryside bright and clear, and since the night was balmy and made doubly inviting by the sweet mystery of -night sounds — the gasping and gurgling of the water, the splashing of distant fish, the muted cries of night-birds, particularly the peet, peet of the nighthawk and the eery call of the whippoorwill, and the countless mysterious sounds from the underbrush in the river bottoms — I extended my walk much farther than I had originally intended; so that it was shortly after midnight when I approached the house again, and the moon was close upon the western horizon.

As I came quietly along in the now still night, my eye caught a movement in the shadowy distance. The movement had come from the region of the large old elm which pressed close upon the house near the library window, and it was upon this tree that I now fixed my eyes. I had not long to wait, for presently a shadow detached itself from the giant bole and went slowly around the house toward the darkness behind. I could see the figure quite clearly, though I did not once catch sight of its face, despite the fact that the man, for man it was, wore no hat. He walked with a slight limp, and wore a long black cape. He was near medium height, but quite bent, so that his back was unnaturally hunched. His hands were strikingly white in the fading light of the moon, and he walked with a peculiar flaffing motion, despite his obvious limp. He passed beyond the house with me at his heels, for I was determined to ascertain if possible what design had brought him to the old house.

I lost sight of him for a few moments while I gained the shelter of the house, but in a minute I saw him again, and with a gasp of astonishment realized that he was making directly for the vault in



which my Uncle Amos lay buried. I stifled an impulse to shout at him, and made my way cautiously in the shadow of a row of lilac bushes toward the vault, before which he was now standing. The darkness here was intense, owing to the fact that the trees from the surrounding copse pressed close upon this corner of the estate; yet I could see from my crouching position that the mysterious intruder was fumbling with the seals of the vault. My purpose in following him so closely was to collar him while he was engaged with the seals, but this design was now for the moment thwarted by his stepping back to survey the surface of the vault door. He remained standing in silence for some while, and I had almost decided that it might be just as easy to capture him in this position, when he moved forward once more. But this time he did not fumble with the seals. Instead, he seemed to flatten himself against the door of the vault. Then, incredible as it may seem, his figure began to grow smaller, to shrink, save for his gaunt and gleaming white fingers and arms!

With a strangled gasp, I sprang forward.

My memory at this point is not quite clear. I remember seizing the outstretched fingers of the man at the vault door, feeling something within my grasp. Then something struck me at the same moment that the intruder whirled and leaped away. I had the fleeting impression that a second person had leaped upon me from behind. I went down like a log.

I came to my senses not quite an hour later, and lay for a moment recalling what had happened. I remembered having made a snatch at the intruder’s fingers, and being struck. There was an appreciable soreness of the head, and a sensitive bruise on my forehead when

finally I felt for it. But what most drew my attention was the thing that I held tightly in my left hand, the hand which had grasped at the strangely white fingers of the creature pressed against the door of the Wilder vault. I had felt it within my grasp from the first moment of consciousness, but from its roughness, I had taken it for a small twig caught up from the lawn. In consequence, it was not until I reached the security of the house that I looked at it. I threw it upon the table in the dim glow of the table lamp — and almost fell in my utter amazement; for the thing I had held in my hand was a fragment of human bone — the unmistakable first two joints of the little finger!

This discovery loosed a flood of futile conjectures. Was it after all a man I had surprized at the vault, or was it — something else?... That my uncle was in some way vitally concerned now became apparent, if it had not been entirely so before. The fact that Amos Wilder had looked for some such interruption of his repose in the old vault led me to believe that whatever he feared derived from some source in the past. Accordingly, I gave up all conjecture for the time, and promised myself that in the morning I would set on foot inquiries designed to make me familiar with my secluded uncle’s past life.

I was destined to receive a shock in the morning. Determined to prosecute my curiosity concerning my uncle without loss of time, I summoned Jacob Kinney, whose surliness had noticeably increased during the few days I had been at the old Wilder house. Instead of asking directly about my uncle, I began with a short account of the figure I had seen outside the preceding night.

"I was out quite late last night, Jake,”1



I began, "and when I came home I noticed a stranger on the grounds.”

Kinney’s eyebrows shot up in undisguised curiosity, but he said nothing, though he began to exhibit signs of uneasiness which did not escape my notice.

"He was about five feet tall, I should say, and wore no hat,” I went on. "He wore a long black cape, and walked with a slight limp.”

Abruptly Kinney came to his feet, his eyes wide with fear. "What’s that you say?” he demanded hoarsely. "Walked with a limp — wore a cape?”

I nodded, and would have continued my narrative, had not Kinney cut in.

"My God!” he exclaimed. "Andrew Bentley’s back!”

"Who’s Andrew Bentley?” I asked.

But Kinney did not hear. He had whirled abruptly and run from the room as fast as his feeble legs would allow him to go. My astonishment knew no bounds, nor did subsequent events in any way lessen it; for Jacob Kinney ran not only from the house, but from the grounds, and his flight was climaxed shortly after by the appearance of a begrimed youth representing himself as the old man’s nephew, who came for "Uncle Jake’s things.” From him. I learned that Kinney was leaving his position at once, and would forfeit any wages due him, plus any amount I thought fit to recompense me for his precipitate flight.

Kinney's unaccountable action served only to sharpen my already keen interest, and I descended upon Mrs. Seldon post-haste. But the information which she was able to offer me was meager indeed. Andrew Bentley had arrived in the neighborhood only a few years back. He and my uncle had immediately become friends, and the friendship, despite an appearance of strain, had ended only

when Bentley mysteriously disappeared about a year ago. She confirmed my description of the figure I had seen as that of Bentley. Mrs. Seldon, too, was inexplicably agitated, and when I sought to probe for the source of this agitation she said only that there were some very strange stories extant about Bentley, and about my uncle as well, and that most of the people in the neighborhood had been relieved of a great fear when Bentley disappeared from the farm adjoining the Wilder estate. This farm, which he had inhabited for the years of his residence, but had not worked, and had yet always managed to exist without trouble, was now uninhabited. This, together with a passing hint that Thomas Weatherbee might be able to add something, was the sum of what Mrs. Seldon knew.

I lost no time in telephoning Weatherbee and making an appointment for that afternoon. On the way to the attorney’s office I had ample time to think over the events of the last ten days. That it was Andrew Bentley whom my Uncle Amos had referred to when he spoke so cryptically with me before his death, I had no longer any doubt. Evidently then, he, too, feared his strange neighbor, but how he hoped to thwart any attempt that Bentley might make to get the body — for what reason he might want it I could not guess — with black magic, was beyond my comprehension.

Thomas weatherbee was a short and rather insignificant man, but his attitude was conducive to business, and he made clear to me that he had only a limited time at my disposal. I came directly to the matter of Andrew Bentley.

"Andrew Bentley,” began Weatherbee with some reluctance, "was a man with whom I had no dealings, with whom I cared to have none. I have seldom met



any one whose mere presence was so innately evil. Your uncle took up with him, it is true, but I believe he regretted it to the end of his days.”

"What exactly was wrong with Bentley?” I cut in.

Weatherbee smiled grimly, regarded me speculatively for a moment or two, and said, "Bentley was an avowed sorcerer.”

"Oh, come,” I said; "that sort of thing isn’t believed in any more.” But a horrible suspicion began to grow in my mind.

"Perhaps not generally,” replied Weatherbee at once. "But I can assure you that most of us around here believe in the power of black magic after even so short an acquaintance as ours with Andrew Bentley. Consider for a moment that you have spent the greater part of your life in a modern city, away from the countrysides where such beliefs flourish, Wilder.”

He stopped with an abrupt gesture, and took a portfolio from a cabinet. From this he took a photograph, looked at it with a slight curl of disgust on his lips, and passed it over to me.

It was a snapshot, apparently made surreptitiously, of Andrew Bentley, and it had been taken evidently at considerable risk after sunset, for the general appearance of the picture led me to assume that its vagueness was caused by the haziness of dusk — a supposition which Weatherbee confirmed. The figure, however, was quite clear, save for blurred arms, which had evidently been moving during the exposure, and for the head. The view had been taken from the side, and showed Andrew Bentley, certainly identified for me by the long cape he wore, standing as if in conversation with some one. Yet it struck me as strange that Bentley could have stood quietly during the exposure with no incentive to do so, and I commented upon it at once.

Weatherbee looked at me queerly. "Wilder,” he said, "there was another person there — or should I say thing? And this thing was directly in line with the lens, for he was standing very close to Bentley — and yet, there is nothing on the snapshot, nor is there any evidence on the exposed negative itself that any one stood there; for, as you can see, the landscape is unbroken.”

It was as he said.

"But this other person,” I put in. "He was seen, and yet does not appear. Apparently the camera was out of focus, or the film was defective.”

"On the contrary. There are logical explanations for the non-appearance of something on a film. You can’t photograph a dream. And you can’t photograph something that has no material form — I say material advisedly — even though our own eyes give that thing a physical being.”

"What do you mean?”

"Father Burkhardt would call it a familiar,” he said, clipping his words. "A familiar, in case you don’t know, is an evil spirit summoned by a sorcerer to wait upon his desires. That tall, gaunt man was never seen by day — always by night, and never without Bentley. I can give you no more of my time now, but if you can bring yourself to accept what I have to say at face value, I’ll be glad to see you again.”

My interview with Thomas Weatherbee left me considerably shaken, and I found myself discarding all my previously formed beliefs regarding black magic. I went immediately to my late uncle’s store of books, and began to read through them for further information, in the hope that something I might learn would enable me to meet Andrew Bentley on more equal footing, should he choose to call.



IREAD until far into the night, and what inconceivable knowledge I assimilated lingers clearly in my mind as I write. I read of age-old horror summoned from the abyss by the ignorance of men, of cosmic ghouls that roamed the ether in search of prey, and of countless things that walk by night. There were many legends of familiars, ghastly demons called forth from the depths at the whims of long-dead sorcerers; and it was significant that each legend had been heavily scored along the margins, and in one case the name "Andrew Bentley” was. written in my uncle’s hand. In another place my uncle had written, "We are fools to play with powers of whose scope even the wisest of us has no knowledge!”

It was at this point that it occurred to me that my uncle had left a letter of sealed instructions for me in case the vault was tampered with. This letter was to be in the library desk, where I found it with little trouble, a long, legal-looking envelope with my name inscribed very formally. The handwriting was undoubtedly my uncle’s, and the letter within was the thing that finally dispelled all doubt from my mind as to the reality of the sorcery that had been and was still being practised near the Wilder homestead; for it made clear what had happened between my uncle and Andrew Bentley — and that other.

"My dear Ellis:

"If indeed they have come for me, as they must have if you read this, there is but one thing you can do. Bentley’s body must be found and utterly destroyed; surely there can not be much left of it now. Perhaps you have seen him in the night when he walks — as I have. He is not alive. I know, because I killed him a year ago — stabbed him with your grandfather’s hunting-knife — which must yet lie in his black skeleton.

"I think both Burkhardt and Weatherbee suspected that I aided Bentley in his black rites, but that was long before I dreamed of what depths of evil lurked in his soul. And when he began to hound me so, when he brought forward that other, that hellish thing he had conjured up from the nethermost places of evil — could I do otherwise than rid myself of his evil presence? My mind was at stake — and yes, my body. When you read this, only my body is at stake. For they want it — conceive if you can the ghastly irony of my lifeless body given an awful new existence by being inhabited by Bentley’s familiar!

"The body — Bentley’s body — I put it in the vault, but that other removed it and hid it somewhere on the grounds. I have not been able to find it, and this past year has been a living hell for me — they have hounded me nightly, and though I can protect myself from them, I can not stop them from appearing to taunt me. And when I am dead, my protection must come from you. But I hope that Burkhardt will have closed his eyes and blessed the vault, for this I think will be strong enough to keep them away — and yet, I can not tell.

"And perhaps even this is being read too late — for if once they have my body, destroy me, too, with Bentley’s remains — by fire.

"Amos Wilder.”

I put down this letter and sat for a moment in silence. But what thoughts crowded upon my mind were interrupted by an odd sound from outside the window, a sound that was unnaturally striking in the still night. I glanced at my watch; it was one o’clock in the morning. Then I turned out the small reading-lamp and moved quietly toward the window, immediately beyond which stood the giant elm beneath which on the previous night



I had first seen the ghostly figure of Andrew Bentley — for since he had been killed a year before, what I had seen could have been tione other than his specter.

Then a thought struck me that paralyzed me with horror. Suppose I had been struck by that other? It seemed to me that the blow which had knocked me out had been struck from behind. At the same instant my eyes caught sight of the faintest movement beyond the window. The moon hung in a hazy sky and threw a faint illumination about the tree, despite the fairly heavy shadow of its overhanging limbs. There was a man pressed close to the bole of the tree, and even as I looked another seemed to rise up out of the ground at his side. And the second man was Andrew Bentley! I looked again at the first, and saw a tall, gaunt figure with malevolent red eyes, through whom I could see the line of moonlight and shadow on the lawn beyond the tree. They stood there together for only a moment, and then went quickly around the house — toward the vault!

From that instant events moved rapidly to a climax.

My eyes fixed themselves upon that place in the ground from which the figure of Andrew Bentley had sprung, and saw there an opening in the trunk of the old tree — for the elm was hollow, and its bole held the remains of Andrew Bentley! Small wonder that my uncle had been haunted by the presence of the man he had killed, when his remains were hidden in the tree near the library window!

But I stood there only for a fraction of a minute. Then I went quickly to the telephone, and after an agonizing delay got Weatherbee on the wire and asked him to come out at once, hinting enough of what was happening to gain his assent.

I suggested also that he bring Father Burkhardt along, and this he promised to do.

Then I slipped silently from the house into the shadowy garden. I think the sight of those two unholy figures hovering about the door of the vault was too much for me, for I launched myself at them, heedless of my danger. But realization came almost instantly, for Andrew Bentley did not even turn at my appearance. Instead, the other looked abruptly around, fixed me with his red and fiery eyes, smiled wickedly so that his leathery face was weirdly creased, and leisurely watched my approach. Instinct, I believe, whirled me about and sent me flying from the garden.

The thing was somewhat surprized at my abrupt bolt, and this momentary hesitation on its part I continue to believe is responsible for my being alive to write this. For I knew that I was flying for my life, and I ran with the utmost speed of which I was capable. A fleeting glance showed me that the thing loped after me, a weirdly flailing shape seeming to come with the wind in the moonlight night, and struck shuddery horror into my heart.

I made for the river, because I remembered reading in one of my uncle’s old books that certain familiars could not cross water unless accompanied by those whose sorcery had summoned them to earth. I leaped into the cold water, tense with the hope that the thing behind could not follow.

It could not.

I saw it raging up and down along the river bank, impotent and furious at my fortunate escape, while I kept myself afloat in mid-current. The current carried me rapidly downstream, and I kept my eyes fixed upon the thing I had eluded until it turned and sped back toward the vault. Only when I was completely out



of its sight did I make for the bank once more.

I ran madly down the road along which Weatherbee and the priest must come, flinging off some of my wet clothes as I went. What was happening at the vault I did not know — at the moment my only thought was temporary safety from the thing whose power I had so thoughtlessly challenged.

Ihad gone perhaps a half-mile beyond the estate when the headlights of Weatherbee’ s car swept around a curve and outlined me in the road. The car ground to an emergency stop, and Weathbee’s voice called out. I jumped into the car, and explained as rapidly as I could what had happened.

Father Burkhardt regarded me quizzically, half smiling.

"You’ve had a narrow escape, my boy,” he said, "a very narrow escape. Now if only we can get to the vault before they succeed in their evil design. Such a fate is too harsh a punishment even for the sins of Amos Wilder.”

He shuddered as he spoke, and Weatherbee’s face was grim.

None of us wasted a moment when the car came to a stop near the house. Father Burkhardt, despite his age, led the way, marshaling us behind him, for he went ahead with a crucifix extended.

But even he faltered at the horrifying sight that met our eyes when we rounded the house and came into the garden. For the vault was open, and from it emerged the skeletal Bentley and his familiar, and between them they dragged the lifeless body of my Uncle Amos! Burkhardt’s hesitation, however, was only momentary, for he ran forward immediately; nor were Weatherbee and I far behind.

At the same moment the two at the vault caught sight of us. With a shrill

scream, the tall, gaunt thing loosed his hold of the corpse and launched himself forward. But the crucifix served us well, for the thing fell shuddering away from it. Father Burkhardt immediately pressed his advantage, and following his sharp command, Weatherbee and I rushed at Bentley, who had up to this moment remained beside the corpse, still keeping hold of one dead arm.

But at our advance, Bentley wavered a moment, and then turned and took flight, dodging nimbly past us and running for the house. We were at his heels, and saw him when he vanished in the deep shadows of the tree near the library window.

Father Burkhardt presently made his appearance, walking warily, for the thing was still at bay but eager to attack.

"Find the bones,” directed the priest. "They’re in the tree, I suspect.”

I bent obediently, and presently my searching hand encountered a scoopedout hollow in the trunk just above the opening at the base of the tree. In this lay the skeleton of Andrew Bentley, together with the weapon by which he had met his death, and here it had lain ever since the thing Bentley had summoned from the depths had removed the sorcerer’s body from the old vault. Small wonder that it had never been discovered!

Father Burkhardt stood protectingly close while Weatherbee and I prepared a pyre to consume the remains of the sorcerer.

"But what can we do about that?” I asked once, pointing to the familiar that now raged in baffled fury just beyond us.

"We need not bother about that,” said the priest. "He is held to earth only by the body of the man who summoned him from below. When once that body is destroyed, he must return. That’s why they were after your uncle’s body. If the fa346


miliar could inhabit a body fresh from a new grave, he could walk by day as well as by night, and need have no fear of having to return.”

Once or twice the thing did rush at us — but each time its charge was arrested by the power of that crucifix held unfalteringly aloft by Father Burkhardt, and each time the thing shrank away, wailing.

It was over at last, but not without a short period of ghastly doubt. The remains of Andrew Bentley were reduced to ashes, utterly destroyed, and yet the thing Bentley had called from outside lingered beyond us, strangely quiet now, regarding us malevolently.

"I don’t understand,” admitted Father Burkhardt at last. "Now that Bentley’s ashes alone remain, the thing should go back into the depths.”

But if the priest did not understand, I

did. Abruptly I ran to the library window, raised it as far as it would go, and scrambled into the room. In a moment I emerged, bearing the fragment of Bentley’s little finger which I had snatched from the skeletal hand the night before. I threw it into the flames already dying down in the shadow of the tree.

In a moment if had caught fire, and at the same instant the thing hovering near gave a chilling scream of pain and fury, pushed madly toward us, and then abruptly shot into space and vanished like the last fragment of an unholy, ghastly nightmare.

"Requiescat in pace,” said Father Burkhardt softly, looking at the ashes at our feet. But the dubious expression in his eyes conveyed his belief that for the now released spirit of Andrew Bentley a greater and longer torture had just begun.

By JACK WILLIAMSON

A novel of weird adventures in the hidden land of Arabia, and a golden folk that ride upon a golden-yellow tiger and worship a golden snake

The Story Thus Far

YNAMITING their schooner behind them upon the south coast of Arabia, a little band of desperate adventurers plunged into the hostile mystery of the Rub’ A1 Khali, crudest and least-known desert of the earth. Their leaders were Price Durand, wealthy American soldier of fortune, Jacob Garth, enigmatic Englishman, and Joao de Castro, unsavory Macanese.

This story began in W

Equipped with an army tank, machineguns, mountain artillery, and airplanes, and accompanied by the sheikh Fouad el Akmet and his renegade Bedouins, the}' are raiding the forbidden "golden land,” which is guarded by the uncanny scientific powers of its weird rulers, the "golden folk” — a man, an exotic woman, a huge, domesticated tiger, and a gigantic snake, all four of which have been transformed, by breathing yellow vapors risIKD TALES for April



ing from a volcanic fissure in a mountain where they dwell, into eternal yellow metal, immortally alive.

Price fell in love with Aysa, a strange, lovely fugitive, and fought de Castro for her. She was abducted by Malikar, the golden man; and Price, venturing into the mountain in quest of her, found her sleeping in the yellow vapor, being herself turned to gold! He learned that the insidious Malikar was planning to make her his consort, in place of Vekyra, the golden woman.

Captured, Price was thought to be the reincarnation of Iru, a long-dead king, because he carried the golden weapons of that ruler, which he had found in an old tomb. Vekyra told him that Iru was once her lover, begged him to help her destroy Malikar and Aysa, to become himself a man of gold, and reign for ever with her.

Price refused. Escaping from her palace with Fouad el Akmet, who was also a prisoner there, he discovered that Ve-

kyra was following them, to avenge her wounded vanity, riding upon the gigantic golden tiger.

27. The Camp in the Wadi

rice and the old Bedouin both ran when the golden tiger screamed. In the thin, uncanny ululation was some quality that shattered the nerves and woke blind, atavistic terrors. They were no longer reasoning beings. That squalling cry, with all that it meant, made them mere frightened animals.

Together they ran across the livid, moon-washed lava flows, nerved by fear to almost superhuman exertions. When Price came to himself, red pain seared his laboring lungs; every breath had become a sobbing gasp. Hot sweat drenched him; the night was suddenly oppressive; his limbs were stiff and leaden.

He made himself stop. The oasis was a dozen miles away; to reach it ahead of the tiger was an obvious impossibility.



The mad flight was gaining him nothing; it was serving only to increase Vekyra’s pleasure in her diabolically planned revenge.

Price dropped, panting, on his stomach behind a jagged knob of black lava. Fouad ran on, howling out at every leap a frantic appeal to Allah and his prophet.

From the shadow of the rock, Price looked back across the dark, barren, argent-lit plain, toward the mountain, watched the vague yellow form, appearing and dissolving in the ghostly mantle of the moonlight. Zor, the golden tiger; Vekyra riding on his trail.

He lay quiet, fondling the helve of the golden ax. It was madness, of course, to think of battling the elephantine tiger, but no more suicidal than flight; and he always felt better fighting than running.

He watched the tiger running with smooth, effortless strength, as if it floated upon the waves of white moonlight. It came straight toward him, then turned a little. He heard Vekyra’s triumphant view-halloo, a pealing silver shout.

She had seen him. No. It must be Fouad. In the shadow of the rock, he must be yet invisible to her. But she would certainly discover him as she came nearer. And the great yellow cat, if it trailed by scent -

His thought was broken off by a sudden rattle of rifle-fire, from the direction Fouad had taken. Bullets hummed and whined above his head, singing toward the tiger.

The running beast stopped suddenly, stood motionless. It was not five hundred yards away. Price could see the howdah, and Vekyra sitting in it. She stood up, looked for a moment after Fouad, with the bullets whistling about her.

Then she crouched low; the tiger turned and fled. The yellow bulk of it paused for an instant upon a distant ridge;

then it seemed to melt away in the moonlight.

Price got to his feet, swearing in astonished relief. The abrupt reaction to his extreme nervous tension of a few moments before made him feel curiously weak and shaken. He had an odd desire to laugh.

Cunning as Vekyra’s plot had been, to raise the hopes of her victims by allowing them to make that miraculous escape, then to run them down upon the tiger, she had bungled it. She had actually given them the freedom with which she had planned to tantalize them.

Walking in the direction Fouad had fled, Price came soon in view of half a dozen men, rifles in hand, standing about the old Arab. One of them challenged him; he shouted out his name, and old Sam Sorrows, the rangy, long-faced Kansan, came hastening to meet him.

"Howdy, Mr. Durand,” he called, surprized. And when he was nearer: "What’s it all about, anyhow?”

"The lady on the tiger was out for a bit of sport. Hunting, with Fouad and me for the game. Lucky we ran into you.”

"Maybe.” Sam Sorrows lowered his voice to a whisper. "Better keep an eye peeled for that half-breed de Castro, Mr. Durand. The skunk hasn’t actually loved you, ever since you took that girl out of his yellow hands. Say, have you found out anything — ”

"Yes, Sam, I saw her. Down in the mountain. That golden devil, Malikar — he’s turning her to gold. But about de Castro?”

"Well, he doesn’t worship the ground you walk on. And the men are pretty well with him. And — well, you see — that is to say - ”

The old man paused, doubtful, fumbling his Lebel in the moonlight.

"What is it, Sam?”



"Well, Mr. Durand, you see — anyhow, we saw you yesterday, in the mirage.”

"Oh!” Price recalled his weird experience in the hall of illusion. "What of it?”

"Well, sir, I don’t like to say it. But it was plain to see you and the yellow woman were spying on us. Looked like she was on pretty good terms with you. The men were saying - ”

"Saying what?” Price prompted him again.

"Of course 1 don’t doubt you, Mr. Durand.” Price was shocked to note the faintest uncertainty in the old man’s tones, as if he were not quite convinced. "But the men think you’ve sold us out. De Castro was making some unpleasant remarks about what would happen if we got hold of you again. Thought I’d put you on guard.”

"Thanks, Sam.” Price squeezed his gnarled hand.

"You’ll have to talk, sir. It looks queer, you happening to run into us this way, with the woman making out to chase you. The men will think you planned the thing, to get back in camp, and find out what we’re planning.”

"But Fouad was with me, too.”

"What does he amount to?” The old Kansan turned back toward the others. "Good luck, sir. Remember, I’m for you.”

IN A shallow wddi beyond the ridge Price found a small, fireless camp. There were no tents. The white men, an even score of them, were mostly sprawled or squatting about the camel packs. Fouad’s Arabs, now numbering a little over thirty, were gathered in a clamoring group about their new-returned sheikh. Close about were the dromedaries, kneeling or awkwardly

sprawling. And the gray, silent bulk of the tank.

Jacob Garth came to meet Price, as Sam Sorrows walked with him past the little group of sentinels on the ridge. A huge, gross man, his fat head bared to the night breeze, his topi slung about his neck.

"Don’t trust him too far,” the lanky Kansan whispered again. "He’ll do anything to humor de Castro and the men — till he gets the gold in his own fat hands!”

The man was near; Price did not reply.

"So you’re back again, Durand?” boomed Garth’s voice, sonorous and emotionless as ever.

"Yes.”

"Doesn’t it occur to you that you have been deserting and appearing again rather too often to be convincing?”

"I think not. I can explain.”

"You can explain why we saw you in the mirage yesterday morning? And on evidently intimate terms with the golden woman — whom you now pretend to be running away from?”

"Yes.”

"Go ahead.”

"Listen, Garth. You may think me a traitor. I admit that I did have a chance — or rather two chances — to double-cross you. I was running from that tiger because I didn’t do it. Garth, I’ve been pretty well through the mountain. I know a good deal, I imagine, that might be useful, if you are planning another attack on the mountain — I suppose you are?”

"So it’s both ends against the middle^ eh?”

Price flushed, struggled to control his voice.

"Garth, I have given you no reason to doubt my honor. I’ll tell you honestly what I have learned about our enemies. But first I must have assurance that you



— and your men — will respect my life and freedom.”

Pale and icy in the moonlight, the man’s eyes glittered at Price from the broad white mask of his pouchy face.

"Very well, Durand,” he said at length. "I’ll tell you this much: We are striking about sunrise. In a few minutes Sam Sorrows is riding back to El Yermin with orders for the planes. They’re to bomb the castle. That will finish that accursed mirage?”

"If they can hit the machine. A complicated lot of mirrors and such in the dome of the highest tower.”

"Good. Your information may be worth while, after all. With the planes, the tank, and the guns, we can smash any other opposition. We are going to dynamite our way into the mountain. You tell me what you know. Go over the plan with me. I’ll promise you safety. But I’ll want to keep you under guard until after the battle.”

"One other thing - ” began Price.

"You thinking about that girl? Well, Mr. Durand, you had better understand right now that I’ve promised her to de Castro, if we happen to come across her. You’ll have to forget her.”

"The injustice of the thing - ”

"Justice isn’t worrying me, Durand. Gold is what I’m after. Tell me your story, if you like, and I’ll give you protection from the men. If you don’t like it, I’ll turn you over to de Castro. He’d like well enough to twist a knife in you. He’s asleep. Shall I call him?”

Argument was in vain; Price at last submitted. He was still relating the tale of his adventures, and describing the interior passages of the mountain, when there was a sudden stir among the sentries on the ridge above the camp. A warning shot, a shouted challenge.

"Jacob Garth! Jacob Garth! Jacob Garth!”

A silver voice was pealing through the moonlight. Vekyra’s voice. Price’s heart thudded. What did this mean?

"Come along.” Garth took his arm. They went back to the crest. Two hundred yards across the moon-bathed lava stood Vekyra, a vague figure, almost spectral in the argent light. She was on foot; the tiger was not visible.

"Is that she?” Garth asked Price.

"Yes. The golden woman. Name’s Vekyra.”

"What do you want?” Garth bellowed in Arabic.

The liquid voice floated bade, "Jacob Garth! Jacob Garth!”

The big man hesitated. He looked back at the camp, and then peered around over the tawny, white-lit desert. His voice rolled out suddenly, calm, serene as always:

"I’m going out to talk to her. If anything goes wrong, shoot. And keep him here.” He nodded at Price. "Take good care of him; he may be useful.”

Jacob Garth strode out across the desert. The sentries stood ready on the hill, Price among them. They saw Garth stop as he came near the woman; heard a faint murmur of voices. The two presently moved a little farther away, and sat down on the ground, face to face.

It was nearly an hour later that they rose. The woman’s ghostly form ran fleetly away, until it dissolved in the moonlight, reappeared, arid was gone. Jacob Garth stalked deliberately back to the sentries. Though all of them must have been bursting with curiosity, none dared address him.

"Did you satisfy yourself about my status with the woman?” asked Price.

Garth looked at him, rumbled slowly.



"Yes, Durand. You must have played the fool with her. Come here.”

The man led him a little away from the sentries, lowered his voice:

"Durand, we won’t be needing you any further. And I’m convinced, from what the woman tells me, that you won’t — can’t — do us any harm. You can go.”

"Go?” asked Price, blankly.

"Get out of camp, as you came. And the quicker the better. Joao de Castro doesn’t like you. And the woman doesn’t. Better get out while you can.”

He turned to the sentries, and boomed:

"Mr. Durand is leaving us, men. Give him ten minutes to get out of bullet range.”

28. The Sentinel Serpent

“CJORRY it’s happening this way, Mr.

Durand,” grinned Sam Sorrows. "But it might have been worse.”

He had gone down to his kneeling camel. He brought Price a small metal canteen full of water, stuffed his pockets with dates, dried camel-flesh, and hardtack.

"That will see you back to the oasis, sir. And good luck.”

Tears were almost in Price’s eyes as he gripped the old Kansan’s hand, and walked away beneath the menacing rifles of the sentries.

Half a mile away, a lava ridge intervened, shut him from sight of camp and sentries. He strode moodily along, through the swarthy and hostile loneliness of the moonlit lava-desert. He had fumbled everything; his last chance was gone.

But it was not in Price’s nature to quit. He never seriously intended to go meekly back to the oasis, as the others had supposed he would. And the desperate plan flashed suddenly into his mind.

He knew a way into the mountain — •

the way along which the unwilling snakeman, Kreor, had once guided him. He remembered it well enough to follow it alone. It might be guarded, now, but he could take the risk. And he still had the golden ax.

Within the mountain were perils that he did not like to contemplate. The fanatic acolytes of Malikar. The insidious golden man himself. The yellow snake, that he would have to pass to reach Aysa — he shuddered again at memory of the cold, ancient evil that burned hypnotic in the serpent’s eyes.

Most of all, he dreaded the aureate mist. The sinister sleep of the golden vapor had overwhelmed him on the other occasion. Even if he escaped all the other dangers, he would not have time to reach Aysa and carry her above it before it overcame him.

But perhaps he could devise some sort of protection! A rude gas mask. He ransacked his knowledge of such things. The masks used against first German attacks, at Ypres, he recalled, were mere dampened cloths. A wet cloth would be worth trying, at any rate. If the yellow gas united with or replaced the water in the human body, it must have a special affinity for it.

Filled with new hope that ignored the overwhelming chances against the success of this newest enterprise, he hastened westward, circled around the west side of the mountain. Weary after a strenuous night, he flung himself down when he reached the point where Kreor and he had begun the climb up the sheer north precipice, and rested the hour until dawn, though he dared not sleep.

Sunrise found him toiling painfully and perilously up the cliff. Droning of airplane motors reached his ears, then thuds of heavy explosions that seemed to


.WEIRD TALES

come to him through the very rode of the mountain.

Garth, then, had attacked; with Vekyra, probably, as an ally. Price’s heart sank at a vision of what would happen, in that case, if they reached the place of the snake ahead of him. Aysa, hated as she was by Vekyra, might meet a fate worse than Joao’s embrace.

At last he reached the fissure, slipped through into the dark, winding caverns of the mountain. Soon he was beyond all light, with nothing to guide him save memory. Many times he stumbled painfully against rugged, sharp-edged stone. But at last he came into the larger cavern, and through it, into the first hewn passage.

Onward, he found his way with comparative ease, counting his paces, and turning as he and Kreor had turned. He came finally into the sloping, spiral way, and hastened downward, still through utter darkness.

Again the mass of the mountain quivered to an explosion. Then, for a few moments, he heard confused shouting, and the distant rattle of small arms, borne to him down some corridor.

He had expected to meet watchmen. But perhaps the entire forces of Malikar had been drawn to some other part of the passage, to oppose the entrance of Jacob Garth and Vekyra. And, as he was to discover, Malikar had left a sentinel more terrible than any human.

Sounds of fighting ceased, and he came finally into air that was suffused with the faintest possible yellow light. Steadily it grew brighter as he descended, until he passed the end of the passage leading to the gallery from which he first had seen the lair of the snake.

There the light of sparkling, dancing golden atoms was strong in the air, the

walls of the passage all a-glitter with rime of yellow crystals, elfin tracery of xanthic frost.

The passage flattened, straightened, and he came once more into the vast temple hall. The wonder of it smote him again. Circular, high-domed room, thick with shimmering yellow vapor, its black stone walls crusted with glittering gold.

A furious hissing roar greeted him as he ran out upon the vast, xanthic-frosted floor that lay between the entrance and the narrow bridge that spanned the giddy, green-golden abyss.

Leaping back in alarm, he saw the golden snake, coiled between him and the bridge that was the way to Aysa.

The reptile’s thick coils were gathered in a conical heap. Every scale shone xanthic yellow, glittering, metallic. The tapering gold column of its neck was lifted. Ten feet above the floor, its vast flat head swayed back and forth as it hissed.

Price stared for a moment, fascinated again by those terrible eyes. The ugly head was gold-hooded, triangular. The vast, yellow-fanged mouth yawned wide as it hissed with such startling volume of sound.

The eyes transfixed him. Dreadful eyes. Purple-black, glowing with strange fire of age-old, evil wisdom. Hard and fascinating as giant gems. Price found himself unconsciously responding with his own body to the swaying of the eyes, felt the chill of them stealing into his body, freezing his limbs, choking him, oppressing his breathing, slowing his heart.

Desperately he fought against the power of the snake. Once, when the reptile appeared in the mirage, he had broken free. He could again! And he had seen Malikar overcome the snake, W. T.— 5



whip it into submission. The serpent itself was not immune to fear.

Calling upon every atom of his will to lift each foot, Price walked stiffly, unsteadily, like a mechanical doll, directly toward the snake. Awkwardly, he raised the yellow ax, with numb and nerveless hands. Malikar, he remembered suddenly, had shouted at the snake.

Price found his throat dry, his voice a hoarse croaking. But he began gasping out the ax-song of Iru, in short, harsh phrases.

The undulatory motion of the flat head ceased. It drew back, and, still hissing, struck at him. Price called upon flagging muscles to fling up the oval buckler to guard his face.

But the yellow head did not quite reach him. The snake was afraid. It drew back again, its movement doubtful, frightened.

The chill of strange fascination thawed from Price’s body. Shouting the ax-song louder, he continued his deliberate advance.

The wedge-shaped head drew back. It sank upon xanthic coils, lay motionless. Purple-black eyes glittered at Price, alien, hostile — yet afraid.

Still he moved forward, fighting down, striving to conceal the naked terror of his revolting soul.

His legs came against the cold, smooth scales of its outermost coil. The flat head, yellow-hooded, was sunk down before him, strange eyes watching him with glittering intentness, evilly aflame with supernormal intelligence, terrible with wisdom older than men.

Shuddering, Price slapped the frightful head, as he had seen Malikar do, with his open hand. He was sick with fear, weak, trembling. Every fiber of his body shrank trembling from contact with the snake. But he was afraid not to strike it.

The thick body against his legs shook

W. T.— 6

a little, but the great head, the sinister, glittering eyes, did not move.

With open hand he struck the cold, metal-scaled head a dozen times, so hard that his fingers stung, still shouting out the ax-song.

Then he turned away, forcing himself to move deliberately, not daring to look back. He walked to the end of the narrow bridge, and set foot upon the giddy way across the cavernous abyss of goldengreen radiance, to the niche where he had found Aysa, sleeping.

29. Golden Blood

Oddly, Price felt no vertigo, nor any fear of falling, as he started once more across that dizzy span, through thick, shimmering mist of gold. A single arch of black, gold-crusted rock, springing sheer across the yellow-green, infinite void, its unrailed path not two feet wide. In his concern for the sleeping girl, he was unconscious of any danger.

In the exigencies of his uncanny struggle with the serpent, he had even forgotten the soporific influence of the yellow vapor. He was midway across the abyss before it was recalled to him by sudden and overpowering lassitude, by a dullness of brain and a heaviness of eyes.

He held his breath to run the remaining hundred feet to the great niche, with its four slabs of gold-rimmed rock, for he dared not stop above the abyss. Safely upon the shelf, he fumbled for his handkerchief, wet it from the canteen old Sam Sorrows had so generously provided, and knotted it about his head, so that it covered his nose and mouth.

Aysa still lay upon the slab. Again he saw her lovely face, a-glitter with powder of gold. Still she was sunk in deepest sleep, breathing regularly, very slowly. Fearfully he brushed her cheeks and forehead, her small hands— and voiced a



shout of pure joy! Beneath yellow dust, her hands and face were softly pliant, naturally white. The dread change had not yet taken place. It must require months, perhaps even years.

He tried to wake the girl. Utterly limp, completely relaxed, she did not rouse when he shook her, nor respond to his calling of her name.

Then a rushing sibilance roared through the temple. The snake, coiled before the entrance to the Cyclopean hall, was hissing angrily again. And Vekyra was riding toward it, upon the golden tiger.

Hissing savagely, the gigantic yellow reptile threw itself toward the invaders. Vekyra flung herself nimbly from the hoivdah and ran to meet it, while the tiger crouched, snarling ferally.

The rich voice of the golden woman pealed out in strange, melodious syllables. Fearlessly she approached the hissing snake. It did not strike, but coiled again before her, lowering its lifted head.

She stood a while before it, her voice still ringing out, and at last it thrust its head toward her. She advanced again, caressed it, slipped her yellow arms around the great column of the neck. Her voice sank to a whisper.

Abruptly she turned, left the reptile coiled quietly. The tiger was still snarling uneasily; she silenced it with a shouted word. It sank back upon its haunches, watching the motionless snake.

Drawing from her tunic a flashing golden blade, narrow and keen as a stiletto, she ran past the snake and started swiftly across the narrow bridge. Then Price knew that she had come to murder Aysa, the sleeping girl who had innocently won her jealous hatred.

Snatching up the golden ax, Price hastened out upon the bridge to meet her. He knew that her passion for him had

turned to hatred. He would have to fight for his own life, as well as Aysa’s.

The gloating triumph upon Vekyra' s painted yellow face gave way to stunned surprize. And surprize became sinister elation.

They met a hundred feet out upon the gold-frosted bridge. Vekyra stopped a dozen feet in front of him, greeted him with a mocking smile, her tawny-green, oblique eyes flashing maliciously.

"Peace upon you, Iru,” she greeted him, her silky voice taunting. "Peace — if you wish it!”

"And on you, peace,” Price replied solemnly, "if you will depart.”

"Lah! But Iru, have you yet changed your mind?” She spoke mockingly. "You know that I talked with Jacob Garth last night. I promised him all that I promised you. He accepted; together we entered the mountain. He is even now fighting Malikar, in the halls above. I broke past, and came here to cut this wretched slave-girl into pieces and throw her into the abyss, where she can make no more trouble.”

Price cursed her, sputtering with anger.

She smiled at him, enigmatically. "Yet, Iru, have you changed your mind? Will you forget the slave, and accept the crown of Anz?”

“Nothing doing!” snapped Price. "Get out — or fight!”

Vekyra laughed. With her rapier-like golden blade she pointed at the shining chasm below. Involuntarily, Price looked down into the illimitable gulf of goldengreen; his head swam with the sheer vastness of the pit beneath the giddy bridge.

"Then you and your precious slave-girl shall be for ever together,” she taunted, " — there!”

Lightly she darted forward, yellow blade hissing.

Price met her point with the golden



buckler, and swung the ancient ax. Vekyra leapt backward easily; and the force of his swing with the heavy ax almost toppled Price from the bridge.

As he struggled desperately to regain his balance, the yellow woman leapt forward again, her sword flashing at his throat. Price had to give ground to save himself, and one foot went half off the bridge.

Vekyra laughed at the sudden despair he could not keep from his face.

"Remember, Iru, the golden folk can not die!” she mocked. "And you are a mortal— though you may be born again for me to slay!”

Once more she slipped in, thrust, and repeated, with baffling swiftness. The ancient mail turned her stroke. But it was becoming evident to Price that he had met a very formidable opponent.

His shirt of mail and oval buckler gave him an advantage that was apparent only, for their weight slowed him, made it more difficult to keep his balance. And he could not swing the great ax effectively, lest the force of his own blow carry him off the bridge.

Vekyra, seemingly gifted with a perfect sense of balance, danced back and forth upon the gold-rimmed rock, thrusting, lightning-swift, with her narrow blade, easily avoiding his own awkward blows.

Again and again Price was forced to step perilously backward along the narrow way. He half regretted the impulse that had carried him out upon the dizzy arch; yet he dared not have Vekyra with him upon the ledge beyond, lest she slip past him and stab the sleeping girl.

He determined to try to reach the end of the bridge, where he would have ample footing, and might still keep Vekyra tipon the narrow path.

Fending off a score of lightning strokes, as he precariously retreated, he found himself at last upon the edge of the shelf.

A golden witch, Vekyra still danced upon the bridge. And here he could swing the massive ax without fear of its weight carrying him off into the awesome, yellow-green chasm.

Vekyra thrust once more, her yellow blade reaching for his throat. Tightening his grip upon the ax-helve, Price swung furiously.

The ax bit into her shoulder. Her sword-arm went limp. The blade fell from it, clattered on the lip of the abyss, and fell silently into the green-gold flame.

With a choking cry of rage and hatred, Vekyra leapt backward on the narrow path, pressing a pale hand to her wound. It was not deep, but blood sprang from it, fell in little glistening gouts upon the bridge. Golden blood. It was yellow and it gleamed like molten metal.

She stood a few moments there on the bridge, glaring at Price with baleful flames in her oblique, tawny eyes. Then, springing with the silent ferocity of a tigress, she leapt forward to attack him with naked golden hands.

Price stood grimly guarding the end of the bridge, with Iru’s ax uplifted. He tried to strike at Vekyra, as she lunged at him, and he found that he could not. Some deep, blind force in him rebelled at hewing down an unarmed woman — even such a woman as Vekyra.

Dropping the ax behind him, he drove his fist at the golden witch. With incredible agility she avoided the blow, and flung herself upon him. She had recovered the use of the arm momentarily paralyzed by the wound.

Price instantly regretted the blind, instinctive chivalry that had made him discard the ax. She was no woman, this



golden witch! Like a tigress she hurled herself upon him, clawing at him with yellow talons, slashing at him with her teeth.

Beneath her rush he stumbled, and they fell together on the gold frost at the lip of the abyss.

For a few' moments they rolled and twisted in furious struggling on the floor. The golden woman was supernormally strong; she fought with savage, demoniac energy. Then they staggered back to their feet, still locked in a straining embrace.

Price knew a little of wrestling, but not enough to cope with her maniacal strength. He was wet with sweat; his panting breath hissed through the rag tied over his face, and he felt that the thing was smothering him. His body ached with intolerable weariness.

Vekyra was panting, too, her swift breath puffing upon him. Her hot body was slippery with her own golden blood. But again and yet again she eluded his holds, while her own yellow arms held him in an unbreakable grasp.

Slowly, inexorably, she forced him toward the brink of the abyss. Then he tripped her, and they fell again. The sharp lip of the pit bit into his shoulder. His head was over the edge. He had a momentary glimpse of shining, goldengreen depths.

Instinctively his grasp upon the golden body tightened. If he went into the abyss, it would not be alone.

The yellow woman screamed, struggled desperately to free herself. Together, they toppled slowly over the chasm’s lip. Vekyra released him, made a last, frantic effort to save herself.

Certain she could reach no support, Price freed his own hands and snatched desperately at the edge of the precipice. His fingers closed upon the sharp edge of the rock, and an instant later his weight

came upon them, straining weary muscles until they cracked.

The golden woman fell free of him. A single shriek of agonized terror floated upward, as she was swallowed in the golden-green vapor of the pit.

Mutely thankful that he, and not Vekyra, had been next the lip of rock, and hence able to grasp it in that last frantic instant, Price hung precariously by his arms. Slowly, with infinite effort, he inched his way up, flung his body over the edge of the black rock, and drew himself shakily to safety.

As he stood up, panting and trembling, he heard the crashing of guns and the clatter and roar of the tank. Peering through the golden mist above the abyss, he saw a little group of blue-robed snakemen, making a stubbornly fought retreat into the great hall, before blazing rifles.

30. Gold and Iron

With a sick heart, Price watched the battle across the abyss. The result of it meant little to him. If the snakemen won, he and Aysa would be again at the mercy of Malikar. If the invaders should be the victors, they would share no better at the hands of joao de Castro and the others.

No more than a dwindling handful, the blue priests stood just at the entrance, savagely contesting the advance with pike and spear. Then the gray bulk of the tank roared through them, its guns beating their march of death.

The snake-men — the few that survived — scattered wildly across the broad, goldfrosted floor. But the invaders were not yet victorious. The giant snake, hissing again, flung forward from where Vekyra had left it.

The tank stopped abruptly, and the little group of white men behind it. Price



saw the yellow reptile’s head swaying back and forth, knew that the men must be experiencing the deadly fascination of its terrible eyes.

Tearing his gaze away from the battle, Price turned to Aysa, tried again to wake her. His improvised gas mask was evidently protecting him from the somniferous influence of the golden vapor. Perhaps the girl would recover, if he fixed one for her. They might at least have a few minutes together, before the finish.

He removed her kufiyeh, shook the yellow, metallic powder from it, drenched it with water and spread it over her quiet face. He was wetting his own handkerchief again when a startling chorus of furious growls and hisses drew his attention back across the pit.

The golden tiger had attacked the snake. The two monstrous beings thrashed about the xanthic-frosted floor in colossal combat. The tiger, bulky as an elephant, and stronger, still carrying the black howdah, was slashing ferociously at the reptile with claw and fang.

It found the snake no mean opponent. As Price watched, the serpent whipped a gleaming yellow coil about the tiger’s thick body, then another, and a third, constricting with crushing force. Still hissing, it struck with yellow fangs, again and again.

A Titan conflict of semi-metal giants, each preternaturally strong and powerful, each centuries old. The puny men beyond, dwarfed by this spectacle, stopped for a time to stare at the battle royal.

Then the tank came to lumbering life again. It clattered out upon the vast floor. Stuttering machine-guns moved back and forth, and the last of the snakemen, staring dazedly at this gigantic battle of their gods, fell upon xanthic frost.

Beast and reptile seemed evenly matched; Price’s former allies, for the

moment, were masters of the situation. He saw them gathered about the tank — but pigmies in this colossal place. Thick, gross Jacob Garth. Joao de Castro, small, alert, active. Huge, ape-like PaSic, the Montenegrin. A dozen others.

Sam Sorrows, Price’s staunch friend, who might have aided him again, was not with them. Sam, he recalled, had returned to the oasis with orders for the planes. Muller was now driver of the tank.

Garth and Joao de Castro appeared to be arguing with Muller, who was looking through the manhole. The man shrugged, and retired into the machine. The motor roared again, and the tank lumbered on through the thick yellow mist.

The Cyclopean battle was still at issue. The coils of the snake were constricting ever tighter about the tiger’s body. The reptile had ceased to hiss; but golden fangs still flashed.

The tiger, far from conquered, was tumbling upon the gold-powdered floor, tearing desperately at the serpent’s coils with yellow, savage claws. The glistening, metal-scaled body of the snake was ripped in many places, oozing bright, golden blood.

The tiger, evidently alarmed as the tank roared at them, staggered to its feet, lifting the squeezing snake clear of the floor. But the tank struck before it could leap aside. The force of the collision sent it reeling and staggering toward the abyss. It fell again, the inexorable coils of the serpent constricting ever tighter.

Perilously near the brink of the abyss the tiger had fallen. And seemingly it realized the danger, for, abandoning its attempts to rid itself of the snake, it struggled laboriously to its feet again.



already half dead from the pressure of golden coils.

The tank’s motor had stalled. For a little time the gray fighting-machine was motionless; then it roared into life again. The snake-burdened tiger was just heaving to its feet when the tank struck it. The impact sent it staggering once more toward the chasm’s lip. The tank paused, roared after it.

It may be that the driver momentarily lost control of the tank, or perhaps he had not seen the abyss. At any rate, tank, tiger and snake went over the brink as one mass. Price watched them, falling free into the green-gold void, turning slowly about, the tiger still squeezed in an embrace of death. Yellow vapor hid them....

The roar of the madly racing motor died away below, and Price looked back across the abyss.

His former allies were victorious,.masters at last of the treasure for which they had struggled so long. He faintly heard their feverish, excited voices, saw them falling upon their knees, scraping up the thick encrustation of golden crystals from the floor with bare hands.

He watched Joao de Castro and Pasictoil madly to fill a little cloth sack, in which they had carried food, with the yellow dust. When it was full, both laid hands upon it. Pasic snatched it easily away; the Eurasian flung himself upon him, knife flashing. They struggled, and the gold spilled unnoticed on the yellow floor. Deliberately Jacob Garth drew out, his automatic and shot them down in cold brutality.

Insane with the gold-lust, the others paid no heed. They remained scraping at the xanthic dust, until the sinister sleep of the golden vapor fell upon them. Jacob Garth took alarm at last, staggered

toward the entrance with a hoarse cry of warning. But too late....

No, the men had not won mastery of the gold — it had conquered them. They lay sprawled where they had fallen, motionless in the sleep that would endure until they were men of gold.

When Price realized all this meant, his heart skipped a beat with incredulous relief. The way was cleared, now, for him to carry Aysa out. When she was safe, he could return and give these men what aid he could. But the hope of his glorious moment was rudely shattered.

Malikar came striding into the enormous room, grim, diabolical giant in his crimson robes, a spiked golden mace upon his shoulder. With a caution worthy of his antiquity, he had kept clear of his enemies until they were helplessly sleeping.

One by one, he visited the inert men. Ruthlessly, methodically, he changed their slumber into one that would not end. He stood among them, then, for a little time, leaning upon the great mace — it was now no longer yellow, but encrimsoned with blood and brains — a golden Nemesis, red-robed.

Then, shouldering the reddened mace, he started across the bridge.

31. Kismet

IT had been a tactical error to meet Vekyra upon the bridge. Price realized, because she had been quicker and more agile than himself. But, in Malikar’ s case, the same arguments did not apply. Vekyra had proved amazingly strong; Malikar’s far bulkier body was doubtless far stronger. In a contest merely of strength, Price could be certain of defeat; he must make it a battle of skill. And skill, quickness, would count for far more upon the giddy span.



Black premonition of doom was in his heart. Three times before he had encountered Malikar; three times he had been bested.

He bent, brushed the golden frost from Aysa’s lips with his own. A few moments before he had seen himself carrying the girl into sunlight and the open air, where she would surely wake. Now his brief cup of joy was shattered. Malikar, his other enemies gone, was more dangerous than ever.

A roar of startled rage told Price that Malikar had seen him through the mist. Brandishing the bloody mace, the yellow giant came at a run. Replacing the damp cloth over the girl’s face, Price snatched up the ancient ax and ran out to meet the priest.

Upon recognizing him, Malikar stopped. Resting the great club carelessly upon the narrow path, he laughed with a bellow of triumphant evil.

"Iru, again?” he shouted. "Fool, know you not that I am a god who can never die?”

"No, I don’t,” retorted Price, still advancing.

"You can never conquer kismet!” The yellow priest chuckled thickly, with leering evil in his shallow, tawny eyes. "Three times we have met. And three times has fate struck you down.

"In the catacombs of Anz, kismet willed that your ax-helve should break. When we fought in the wadi, fate placed a loose stone beneath your foot. Again we met here, and kismet sent sleep upon you.

"You fight not me alone. Kismet is against you!”

Realizing that Malikar meant the boast merely as an attack upon his morale, Price ran forward to begin the battle, but the priest’s mocking words had already served their purpose. They had filled him with the baseless but disturbing idea that all

this adventure had been but a play of unseen forces, of sporting gods handling puppet strings, the idea that he was but a toy of cruelly jesting fate.

At his approach Malikar lifted the bloody mace, whirled it aloft and down. Oval buckler lifted, Price took the blow. It drove the shield down upon his head with stunning force, numbed his arms and shoulder.

An instant he reeled. The green-golden depths beneath the narrow bridge whirled confusingly. He made a desperate effort to clear his brain.

Korlu, the ancient ax, was lifted. And Malikar had not yet recovered the mace from his terrific blow. Price put every atom of his strength into a swing for the priest’s red skull-cap.

Malikar ducked, but the hewing blade caught his shoulder.

The blow went true; it would have split an ordinary man to the abdomen. But Malikar was semi-metal. His skin was gashed, and bright yellow blood oozed out, but the wound was insignificant.

The violence of his own blow sent Price half off the bridge. He staggered awkwardly to regain his balance, as Malikar swung up the spiked club for another blow.

Price regained his balance, stepped backward and let the mace go past. As the force of his swing swayed Malikar toward the edge of the bridge, Price struck swiftly with the ax, in the hope of upsetting his balance. Malikar recovered easily, and evaded the ax.

Price struggled against grim despair. Human muscle and bone could not endure many such terrific blows as he had received; and the ax, swung true with his full strength behind it, had not seriously wounded the golden man. In any mere exchange of blows, Price knew, he was doomed. He had but a single chance of



victory — to catch Malikar in a critical position, knock him off the bridge into the yawning abyss. And the priest appeared to possess caution and a cat-like sense of equilibrium.

Perforce, Price changed his tactics. No more did he come to close quarters. He kept his distance, tempting Malikar to strike, avoiding — when he could — the smashing mace, waiting for the moment when a quick blow might send the priest into the abyss.

The yellow giant pressed forward continually, so that Price was forced to give ground before each blow, retreating at grave risk of missing his footing on the dizzy way. Moreover, each step back brought Price nearer the niche where Aysa lay, lessening his chance of victory. For, once Malikar gained the platform, the battle would be lost.

Twice again the ax went home. It was splashed with golden blood; but Malikar seemed not inconvenienced by his wounds.

Price was reeling. Again and again the mace had fallen upon his buckler, despite his efforts to avoid it. His left arm and shoulder ached from the terrific shocks. His head rang from concussion, oppressed with red mists of pain.

Exhaustion was near. The accumulated fatigue of many hours descended upon him. His present exertions were anything but light — lunging forward to draw the bloody mace, darting back to avoid it, swinging the yellow ax when opportunity presented.

Price dared not look back to see how much of the bridge remained behind him. But presently he glimpsed beneath his feet the glittering gouts of golden blood Vekyra had shed. Then he knew it was only a few feet to the platform, where he would be at Malikar’ s mercy. Desperately he stood his ground, as

the mace rose and fell again. It drove the lifted buckler down upon his head with staggering force. The ancient ax went out again, at Malikar’s thick neck, all Price’s strength behind it.

Fatigue and the faintness of concussion slowed his arm. Malikar swayed back. The yellow blade flashed futilely in front of his throajt.

Half dazed as he was, Price staggered toward the edge of the bridge, drawn by the weight of his ax. He swayed for a moment over the side of the narrow span, while the green-golden void beneath spun crazily.

Before he could recover his balance, Malikar struck again with the spiked golden club. Though his blow was hasty and relatively weak, its impact was staggering.

It struck Price’s right shoulder. Painful numbness ran along his arm. His fingers, paralyzed, relaxed their grip upon the helve of the outflung ax. The golden weapon spun away from him, whirled silently, into yellow-green mist.

Price’s dazed mind reeled under the impact of the disaster as if from a second blow. Once more fate had stepped in, to defeat him.

"Kismet!” shouted Malikar, leering triumphantly.

He lumbered forward, his spiked mace lifted. Helpless, Price tottered uncertainly back, fighting to keep his head clear enough to stand upon the narrow way.

The bright pool of Vekyra’s blood was just before Malikar, gleaming like a gout of molten gold. As he sprang forward, kismet once more entered the battle.

He stepped into the golden woman’s blood. As if Vekyra’s own malicious hand had seized his ankle, his foot slipped. He lurched forward awkwardly, shifting his heavy mace aside to maintain his balance.



Thus was provided the opening Price had been hopelessly fighting for. His whole body numb with fatigue and pain, he braced himself, swung his fist at the golden priest’s head.

Into that blow went the last, convulsive effort of his tortured body. As he felt his fist meet solid flesh and bone, bright, glittering lights flashed up through the green-gold void, and darkness drowned them.

He fell flat upon the narrow bridge, flinging out his hands to clutch the xanthic-frosted rock.

32. The Ancient Aysa

’ALME! M’alme!”

The sweet, familiar voice came to Price’s ears upon silver wings, through dull clouds of pain. Delicate hands were plastering a cold wet cloth upon his brow. Memory was gone; his mind, like his body, was bruised, stiff, inert.

"Master! Master!’’ the urgent voice kept pleading, in Arabic.

With a vague, dim impression that grave emergency, disaster, had been looming over him. Price forced open his eyes.

He lay upon a broad, smooth ledge of stone, frosted queerly with bright yellow crystals. He was propped against a huge slab of basalt. Before him was a bottomless pit of green-golden light, spanned with a bridge fantastically narrow. The world was thickly filled with dancing aureate mist — that mist, he remembered faintly, was somehow threatening.

Kneeling beside him was a girl. He turned his head painfully and looked at her. A lovely girl. Her hair was brown and waving, her skin a smooth, warm olive. Full, delicate, her mouth was pomegranate-red.

Wonderful, her eyes were. Somehow,

they made him feel that he knew them. They were violet-blue, deep, mysterious, beneath long lashes. Keen pity was now in their shadowed depths, and distress.

Like the rocks about them, the girl’s clothing glittered with xanthic frost. Smudges of yellow powder sparkled on her face and arms.

And she had been urgently calling to him in Arabic, addressing him as "master.” Surely he could have no claim upon a being so lovely! But if he did, the circumstance was singularly fortunate.

He closed his eyes, racking his memory. This weird place of golden vapors, outrageously fantastic as it might be, was vaguely familiar. And he was certain he had known the girl Before, somewhere. Sight of her filled him with a warming glow of pleasure.

He knew her name. It was — he probed dull mists of weary pain — it was Aysa!

Aysa! His lips had muttered it aloud. At the sound, the girl uttered a glad cry. She dropped beside him; her arms went round him. Queer how pleasant her embrace was! A delightful girl. He liked to have her near him; he mustn’t let her leave him, ever again. The nearness of her filled him with quick, tingling joy.

It was good to lie here with her arms around him. But he mustn’t do that. There was some danger.... The yellow mist..,. He struggled with the idea: golden mist... that was it; the mist turned people to gold. It would turn him and Aysa into golden things. And he didn’t want that to happen.

He fumbled for the wet cloth the girl had been applying to his forehead, made her tie it over her face. She understood quickly, fixed another for him. His arms ached when he moved... he must have been fighting, to feel so bruised and groggy.... Yes, he remembered hitting a yellow man.


.WEIRD TALES

He inhaled through the damp rag and closed his eyes and pondered the memory of the yellow man... a golden giant of a man, in scarlet.... He must remember his name... Malikar! He would ask the girl about him; she spoke Arabic.

"Where is Malikar?” he whispered.

She pointed into the shining chasm.

"I woke, m’alme, with a wet cloth upon my face, and saw you fighting. Malikar struck you with his club. Then you hit him with your hand, and he stumbled off into the pit. You fell upon the bridge, and I carried you back here.”

His head was clearing now, since he was breathing through the cloth.

"But how did you come here so soon, m’alme from Anz? It was just last night that Malikar locked you in the tomb of Iru, and told me you were dead.”

Strange wonder was in the violet eyes.

Understanding swept through his brain, drove back the dull mists of oblivion. Everything was clear, now. And Aysa was with him, awake and free. Darling Aysa, for whom he had fought so long. It was not last night he had been locked in the catacombs of Anz, but many nights ago. But no need to tell her now.

He slipped one aching arm around her shoulders. She snuggled up contentedly against him, lifted violet eyes, shining with gladness....

They must not stay here. The sleep of the golden vapor might steal upon them, unawares, with its strange transmutation. Aysa was not yet changed. But they must go, while they could....

“'\T ou are tired, Mlalme,” Aysa whisX. pered. "Let us rest here.”

The sun was low, and the black, basaltic mass of Hajar Jehannum was three miles behind them, across smooth lava flows, the gold and alabaster of the palace of Verl glowing luridly in red sunset.

Two hours ago they had come through' the explosion-twisted yellow gates, where Jacob Garth had entered, and begun the long trek to the oasis.

"You must not call me master,” Price told her, as they sat munching the hardtack and dried meat and dates old Sam Sorrows had given him.

"Why not? Am I not yours? And did you not once buy me for half my weight in gold?” She laughed. "And do I want anything save to be yours?”

“What do you mean, darling? Buying you?”

"You don’t remember? The story of Aysa and Iru in old Anz? But you never heard it! I must tell you.”

"Then there was a woman named Aysa in Anz, when Iru was king?”

"Of course, m’alme. I am named for her, because my eyes are blue, as hers were. Few, you know, among the Beni Anz, have blue eyes. The ancient Aysa was a slave; Iru bought her from the north country.”

Price felt oddly disturbed. Was Vekyra’s strange tale, after all, true? Was Aysa — his lovely, innocent Aysa — the namesake, if not the avatar, of a murderess?

"Well, don’t worry about it, sweetheart!” Price told her. He put a bruised, stiff arm about her slender shoulders and drew her firmly to him. She laughed, a little, childish, happy laugh, and her violet eyes looked shining up at him.

He wasn’t going to let anything take her away from him, ever. No part of her. He was going to forget that silly story of Vekyra’s. He didn’t believe in this reincarnation business, anyhow... not too much....

"I’ll tell you the story, m’alme,’’ Aysa whispered, in his arms.

"No, let’s forget it. Nothing to it.



anyhow. And happy as we are, we can’t let anything - ”

"But, m’dme, this story can not ruin our happiness.”

"Then tell me, of course.”

"Since he was a child, Iru the king was betrothed, by the wishes of his mother, to Vekyra, who was the daughter of a powerful prince — and not golden, then.

"Iru, by the legend, loved the slavegirl, Aysa. And Vekyra was jealous. One night she made the king drunk, and won the slave from him in a game of chance.”

"I understand how she might have done that,” said Price, recalling his own adventure in the castle of Verl.

"When Iru was sober, he demanded that Vekyra trade him back the slave. She dared not deny him. But she set the greatest price she could think of. She told Iru she would exchange him the girl for a tiger tame enough to ride.

"So Iru rode into the mountains, and caught- a live tiger cub, and tamed it. When it was grown, he gave it to Vekyra, and she had to surrender the slave — but still she hated Aysa.”

Price’s disquiet was returning. This was the same story Vekyra had told, of the pampered and adored slave — who was to murder her adorer. He resisted an impulse to stop the girl. After all, what happened twenty centuries ago could not come between them now.

"Iru did not like the cruel worship of the snake. He destroyed the snake’s temple, slew its priests in battle. But Malikar, when all thought him dead, came back, a man of gold, to avenge the desecration of the temple. In vain he made war on Iru, and at last he disguised himself and slipped into Anz, to slay Iru by stealth.

"He found a woman to do murder for him.”

Price’s heart sank. This was the same evil tale.

"I know not what he told Vekyra. He must have offered her the immortal golden life he afterward gave her, and the power with him over Anz. And Vekyra must have hated Iru, because of the slave.

"So Vekyra poisoned Iru’s wine - ”

A paean of joy rose in Price’s heart. He drew Aysa abruptly to him, smothered her words with kisses.

"Why are you so glad,” she inquired innocently, "that Vekyra poisoned the wine?”

"Never mind, darling. Go on with the story.”

"Vekyra herself handed Iru the bowl. The slave-girl was near. She saw the look on Vekyra’s face, and cried out, and told Iru not to drink.

"Then Vekyra, to save herself, pretended to be very angry. She cursed the slave-girl. She said she herself would drink the wine, if Iru would give back the girl to her.

"But Iru refused. He was too brave to understand how another could do a cowardly thing. In the haste of his anger, he put the bowl to his own lips. Aysa tried to strike it from his hand; he held her back.

"Aysa then implored the king to let her drink it, rather than he. But he drained the bowl himself. Instantly he fell. His last breath was a promise that he would return to destroy Vekyra.

"The slave-girl threw herself down upon his body. Vekyra pinned the two together with a dagger she had ready in her clothing, to use if the poison failed. Leaving them so, she escaped from the palace to Malikar, who gave her reward for the thing.”

Price did not speak.

The story had removed his last unwilling doubt, the final barrier between them.



Now they were one. It seemed to Price as if a vast purpose had come to pass. A unity, an ultimate completeness, emerged from the confused, painful conflict of his life. He knew that every incident in his years of discontented roving had been but a step toward this moment with Aysa in the desert.

The sun descended, reddened. A purple sea, the vast shadow of Hajar fehannum flowed over the rugged basalt plain behind them. Cooler air breathed against their blistered faces; the savage violence of the day surrendered to the mystic peace of twilight.

Aysa moved a little, sighing happily, and relaxed against him. His arm pillowed her fair head. The still desert wrapped them with a peace deeper than Price had ever known, with a quiet happiness that became changeless and enduring as the very desert.

That new peace was not broken when Aysa tensed abruptly in his arms, listening, and asked:

“What is that, humming like a great bee?”

Price heard the distant droning. He pointed out the gray mote wheeling up against the deepening azure of the south- £ THE

ward sky. He knew that it was one of the fighting-planes that had been called by Jacob Garth’s radio.

It came northward, following the trail. Price and Aysa stood up as it came near; Price took off his shirt and waved it. The gray ship found them, roared low over them. Price saw Sam Sorrows, the old Kansan, bareheaded, leaning recklessly from the cockpit, gesturing with his arms. He waved in return, and the plane flew back toward the oasis.

"That is a flying-ship of my own people,” he told Aysa. "We may ride in it back to my land, if you wish. The man who waved is my friend. The rocks are so rough that he could not come down here. But he will come for us tomorrow.”

Wide-eyed with wonder, she asked many questions as the droning of the plane died in purple twilight. Price answered them, while the ancient stillness of the rode desert came back and the broad gold disk of the moon broke above a rugged horizon.

Aysa was eager, excited. But Price’s new, joyous peace lived on in a world of silver light and purple shadow, at one with silence and mystery that had endured a million years. She sat by him in the moonlight, and he was content.

END ]

THE plump, stumpy man in the double-breasted gray coat was quite obviously drunk. He walked with an exaggerated shuffle which carried him perilously close to the edge of the high curbing, whereupon he stopped short, drew his fat hands from their respective pockets, and gravely regarded the drooling gutter beneath him. Proceeding sluggishly in this manner, he successfully navigated three blocks of gleam-

ing sidewalk, turned left into Peterboro Street, and arrived before a red-brick apartment building whose square front frowned down upon him with disapproving solemnity.

He stood staring, apparently unaware that the hour was midnight and that the rain which had fallen steadily since early evening had made of him a drenched, dishevelled street-walker. Before him, as he stood thus contemplating the wide en36i



trance, the door opened and a man and a woman descended the stone steps. They gazed at him queerly. The man spoke.

"Drunk again, Kolitt?”

"Still,” the drunken one replied, grinning.

"You’d better let Frank help you,” the woman advised. "You’ll be invading the wrong apartment again.”

The plump man raised one hand up and out in a clumsy salute.

"A camel,” he said, "never forgets.”

The man and woman hesitated. In an undertone the man muttered:

"Poor devil! It’s too bad. I suppose it’s the easiest way to forget.”

The drunken one did not hear. He grinned idiotically as the man and woman went their way, leaving him to ascend the steps alone. In the lobby he groped in the pockets of his coat and produced a key-ring. Mechanically he thrust two fingers into the brass mail-box marked ANTHONY KOLITT. Then, opening the heavy inner door with a key proportionately large, he marched down the corridor, climbed two flights of rubber-carpeted stairs, and let himself into apartment number thirty-one.

"Five days gone,” he mumbled, closing the door behind him. "If they haven’t found out by now, they never will.”

The thought sobered him, but he was still drunk enough to fumble awkwardly for the light-switch. The bright light blinded him. Blinking, he groped down the short hall to the living-room and lowered himself heavily, coat and all, into an overstuffed chair close to the radio. Reaching out, he lit the lamp on the end-table beside him; then he stretched himself, relaxed, and gazed intently at a large gray photograph which stared at him serenely from atop the radio.

The photograph was of a woman — attractive, straight-haired, somber-eyed, per-

haps thirty years of age. It stood formally in a square silver frame, bare of ornamentation or inscription. The plump man studied it without emotion, as if he had studied it precisely the same way a great many times before. Presently he rose, removed his wet garments and shoes, and walked near-naked into the adjoining room. When he returned, he held a bottle and glass in his hands. He filled the glass, raised it toward the photograph, and said quietly:

"Pleasant dreams.”

Then he turned out the light and paced unsteadily into the bedroom.

The bedroom was small and square, boasting a wooden three-quarter bed, a squat table, a massive old-fashioned bureau, and a single yellow-curtained window. The plump man sat on the bed and removed his socks. He stared at the bureau, grinned cruelly, and said:

"Too big, eh? Old style, is it? Well, it’s a good thing it was big; otherwise you'd be kind of cramped for room, sweetheart. For once you won’t complain, eh?”

The bed was unmade. He climbed into it and shaped the pillow with his fists, then lay on his back and gazed at the ceiling. The room was not quite dark. Its single window was high above the street outside and level with the roof of a building across the way. The wet windowpane exuded a green glow, reflecting the pale glare of a neon sign on the near-by roof. The glow was pleasant; the plump man enjoyed looking at it. It made fantastic, green-edged shapes on the walls of the room and transformed the huge bureau in the corner into a monstrous four-legged beast. He liked the beast. It was something to talk to.

"So you got her at last, eh?” he said drunkenly. "Ate her right up and swallowed her.” His laugh was a low gurgle. "Serves her right, that does, for getting



silly notions. She’d have found fault with anything, she would! I'm glad you got her — glad your insides were big enough to hold her. Yes, sir, that’s poetic justice.”

The bureau was half in shadow. Even the visible portions of it were shadowed, ill-defined, so that no separate details were distinct. It was more massive than usual tonight, because the green light was dimmed by the drizzling rain. Last night, when there had been no rain, the hulk had been a huge, staring hound. The night before that it had been a fantastic horse with many malformed heads. Well, there was nothing strange about that. Almost any object of furniture could assume changing shapes in semidarkness. The extent of the shapes depended entirely on the strength of the observer’s imagination.

The plump man chuckled to himself. He had a good enough imagination. It had come in handy, too, not so very long ago. And right now it was a blessing. It kept him from thinking too much about certain unpleasant things which had occurred recently.

He studied the bureau lazily. It had assumed a different shape tonight, probably because of the rain. It had eyes, several of them — they were the protruding knobs on the drawers. It had thick, misshapen legs, too, and a bloated torso. What would Bellini, the goggle-eyed chap downstairs, say to that? Most likely he’d look with wide eyes, and shudder, and whisper warnings in his thin, womanish voice. Bellini was like a lot of other superstitious fools; he made too much out of nothing. Sentimental idiot! If he knew what that bureau contained, he’d run screaming back to his stuffy apartment at the back of the building, and hide himself there!

'Well, he won’t know,” the plump man said indifferently. "That’s our secret, eh, old boy? When we move out of

here in a few days more, we’ll take it with us. Then let ’em learn the truth, if they can!”

Still drunk, he saluted the bulging shape in the corner. Then he dragged the bedclothes around him and hunched his knees into his stomach, and went to sleep.

Pale sunlight was streaking the walls of the room when he woke. He lay motionless many minutes, aware that his mouth was dry and swollen and his head aching. Some day, he reflected wearily, somebody would discover a way to take the hangover out of hard liquor.

He put both hands to his forehead and pressed hard, then rubbed his eyes with the heels of his palms. What time was it? About ten o’clock, probably; it was hard to tell, because the sunlight in the room was so feeble.

Stiffly he climbed out of bed and groped for a pair of slippers, then scuffed noisily into the kitchenette and opened the ice-box door. While he was thumbing the cork out of a gin bottle, the door at the end of the hall rattled. Scowling, he paced back along the corridor and fumbled with the knob.

"Who is it?”

"Me. Welks,” said the man outside. The plump man opened the door slowly and stood there with the gin bottle dangling in his fist. The other man — the same who had offered to assist him last night — said hesitantly:

"Thought I’d see if everything was all right, Kolitt. You were in pretty bad shape last night.”

"I was drunk, eh?”

"You weren’t exactly sober.”

The plump one scowled, then stepped aside, grinning.

"Come in. Have a drink,” he said. " ’Scuse the attire. I just got up.”

He closed the door and led his visitor



down the hall, then motioned the man to a chair and went into the kitchen for two glasses. Returning, he said:

"I guess your wife was shocked, eh?”

"Not at all.” The other man accepted the full glass and turned it idly in his fingers. He seemed unsure of himself. "She knows what you’re going through. We all do. Can't blame a chap for hitting the bottle under such circumstances.” He hesitated, stared at the plump man’s bleary eyes. "But aren’t you overdoing it, Kolitt? What’ll your wife say when she does come back?”

"She won’t come back.”

"Why so sure?”

"I’m no fool.” He upended the glass in his mouth and swallowed noisily. "When a man’s wife walks out on him, Welks, there’s a reason. She doesn’t just go for a hike.”

"You mean there’s another man?”

"If there is, good luck to him.”

"You’re taking it hard, old boy.”

"I’m no fool,” Anthony Kolitt repeated. "When a man comes home and finds his wife’s clothes and her bags gone, and the house empty, and a good-bye note on the bureau... You asked me yesterday why I didn’t notify the police and have them find her. That’s why.”

The man named Welks put down his glass and stood erect.

"Sorry, old man,” he said. "I didn’t know.”

He paced into the hall, stopped, turned again.

"Anything I can do - ” he mumbled.

He closed the hall door after him.

Anthony Kolitt poured himself another drink. A little while later he put on a lavender dressing-gown and paced to the door. Stooping, he picked up the morning paper, then returned to the livingroom, sat n the overstuffed chair, placed the gin bottle, a glass, and a pack of cig-

arettes within reach on the smoke-stand, and leisurely began to read the sporting pages.

He was quite drunk again when Mr.

Cesare Bellini, from downstairs, called upon him two hours later; so drunk, in fact, that he shook Bellini’s hand warmly and said with a large grin: "Well, well! Come right in!”

Mr. Bellini was not usually welcome. He was a tall, painfully slender young man with ascetic features and untrimmed raven hair. He was a student — though what particular kind of student he was, Anthony Kolitt had never troubled to find out. Mr. Bellini was one of those "queer, artistic” chaps. It was believed that he gave readings, or something of the sort, to people who came professionally to see him.

"I have come to see if there is anything, no matter how insignificant, I can do for you,” he said jerkily.

He sat stiffly in a straight-backed chair, leaning forward toward Anthony Kolitt with his lean hands flat upon his Jcnees. His trousers needed pressing, Mr. Kolitt observed. He also needed instructions on how to knot a necktie. The one acceptable thing about him was the pale blue silk handkerchief protruding from his breast pocket; it gave him an almost feminine air of daintiness.

"What do you mean?” Mr. Kolitt shrugged. "You think you can find her for me?”

"If I could,” Bellini murmured, "I would.”

"Well, why can’t you? You’re a spiritualist or something, aren’t you?”

"A spiritualist? No, no. I am not that, Mr. Kolitt.”

"Well, what about the people who come to see you? They come to get readW. T.— 6



ings, and that sort of business, don't they?”

"No. You are mistaken. They come for advice. They come with troubles in their hearts. Me, I look in their minds and tell them what they should do.”

"Oh. You’re a psychologist, eh?” Mr. Kolitt grinned.

"Psychopathist, rather, Mr. Kolitt.”

"Well,” Mr. Kolitt said drunkenly, "go ahead. Do your stuff. I’m drunk; I ought to be easy.”

"It is a strange thing, drink,” Bellini murmured, moving his head sideways over its protruding Adam’s apple. "Some men, they drink to celebrate. They are happy; they wish to be happier. Others drink like you, to forget a sadness. You are lonely, no?”

"Oh, I got a pal,” Mr. Kolitt declared warmly.

"A pal? Here?"

"Right in the next room, young feller. Come along.” He stood up, swaying in an attempt to balance himself. "I’ll show you.”

Bellini did not understand. He frowned, and the frown darkened his already dark eyes and bunched his brows together over his hooked nose. He suspected, apparently, that Mr. Kolitt’s pal was an ephemeral being bom of gin fumes. Silently he followed Mr. Kolitt into the bedroom.

"There,” said Mr. Kolitt, pointing.

"But I see nothing.”

"Not now you don’t. Of course not. It’s only there at night.”

"At night?” Bellini frowned. "I am afraid I do not - ”

"Then le’ me explain, and you utill understand.”

Mr. Kolitt sat importantly on the unmade bed and hooked the heels of his slippers on the wooden bed-frame. Folding his arms around his upthrust knees, he grinned into his guest’s face and hicW. T— 7

cuped noisily. Then, without haste, he slyly proceeded to inform the thin young man of the nightly visitor which, created by a combination of green light, shadow, and applied imagination, emanated from the massive bureau in the corner. And, having finished this prolonged dissertation, he released his knees and sprawled back upon the bed, expecting to be amused no end by Bellini’s outburst of horror.

The outburst was not forthcoming. Bellini peered at him thoughtfully a moment, as if wondering how much of the speech could justly be attributed to a belly full of liquor. He then turned and studied the window, the bureau, and the respective arrangement of each to the other. Finally he said, frowning:

"That is a most dangerous game, my friend.”

Mr. Kolitt was disappointed. Obviously so. He sat up, blinking. He said petulantly:

"Eh? Dangerous?”

"You are — how do you say it? — flirting with fire,” Bellini declared.

"You mean I’ll be scaring myself?”

"Perhaps. But it is not so simple. This thing which you are making out of nothing — this monster which is one night a large dog, and another night a manyheaded horse, and another night a horrific portent unlike any named beast — it is, perhaps, only a thing of lights and shadows, as you have told me. But you are playing foolishly with profound metaphysics, my friend. With ontology. With the essence of all being. You are a blind man, walking treacherous ways of darkness.”

"Eh?” Mr. Kolitt said again. "I’m what?”

"You are a fool,” Bellini said simply. "You do not comprehend. The imagination, it is a powerful force. It is a pro370


ductive faculty, seeking everywhere for truth. If there is no truth, it creates truth. This thing you are creating for your amusement, it is unreal, perhaps. But if you are too persistent, you will make it real.”

"Sure,” Mr. Kolitt agreed pleasantly. "Then I could get it drunk, like me, eh? We’d be pals.”

"Very well. It is good to joke, my friend. It is good to be unafraid. That is because you do not understand. Yesterday a woman came to me and said: 'I had a dream, and in my dream my son came to me and bent over me and spoke to me. How is that? He is dead. Can the dead return?’ And I said to her: ’Yes, the dead do sometimes return. But the man who came to you was a real man. You created him by thinking of him. He spoke the words you, yourself, put into his mouth. If you had willed him to kiss you, he would have kissed you.’ That is what I told her, and it is true. The same is true with you. When you create this strange portent in your mind, it is a reality. It is what you make it. It does what you will it.”

"Suppose I willed it to get me a drink,” Mr. Kolitt murmured gently.

"Very well. You are making a fool of me. I will go. But you are the fool, my friend. You are toying with the very essence of life. I hope you are not so drunk one night that you mistake life for death.”

Apparently it was not difficult to anger Bellini’s Latin temperament. His dark eyes burned. He turned deliberately and stared at the huge bureau.

"If I were you,” he said bluntly, "I would move that where lights and shadows and your fertile imagination” — he spoke the word with significant emphasis — "would no longer transform it into something other than what it is. Good day, my friend.”

Mr. Kolitt swayed forward, protesting. "Now wait a minute. I didn’t mean to

poke fun at you. I - ”

"Good day,” Bellini repeated coldly. "I do not enjoy being made the idiot. To a man so drunk as you, all wisdom is a waste of time. I will come again, perhaps, when you are more sober.”

The hall door clicked shut behind him. Mr. Kolitt sat on the bed, blinked foolishly at the bureau a moment, and said gravely:

"Now see what you’ve done. You’ve scared the nice man away.”

Mr. kolitt was neither drunk nor quite sober when he let himself into his apartment that night. He had spent most of the evening at the theater around the corner, and the offering there had been unpleasantly sinister. The silver screen, reflected Mr. Kolitt, was a peril sadly in need of censorship. It should be against the law to show certain pictures to certain people. Tonight’s presentation had made him shudder.

He did not recall the name of the picture, but the majority of its scenes had been of a strikingly weird nature. One in particular was so vivid in his mind, even now, that it made him uneasy.

"Ugh!” he grunted. "I can see it yet, that damned thing!”

The thing which bothered him had been a monster; a manufactured monster, to be sure— created by experts out of immense sheets of rubberized cloth and animated by internal gears and levers — but horrible, nevertheless. He had visions of it advancing toward him, as it had advanced upon the unfortunate villain in the picture. Such things, he decided, should be outlawed.

The hour, now, was eleven o’clock. After leaving the theater, he had visited the Business Men’s Club and vainly atTHE WATCHER IN THE GREEN ROOM


tempted to drive away his morbidity by batting a small white ping-pong ball across a table in the game-room. Tiring of that, he had won seven dollars playing poker, and had spent the seven dollars on a quart of excellent rye whisky. He needed the whisky. It would steady his nerves. For the past several days his nerves had needed constant attention and lubrication.

He took the bottle from his pocket and placed it gently on the radio, beside his wife’s photograph. Methodically he removed his tie, shirt, trousers, and shoes, and went to the bedroom for his dressinggown. Then he turned on the radio and sat in the overstuffed chair, with a book in his lap.

He opened the book. It was a mystery story. He liked mystery stories. This one would take his mind off his own troubles and make him forget himself. He reached for the bottle and looked about for a glass. Finding none, he shrugged his hunched-up shoulders and upended the bottle in his mouth, drinking noisily. Then, grinning, he began to read.

Reading, he became aware presently that the dance music emanating from the radio had become something less pleasant. Voices rasped at him. He listened a moment, scowling, then leaned forward abruptly to turn the dial; but instead of turning it, he listened again. It was one of those things you just had to listen to. There was a sound of wind howling, and rain beating eerily against shut windows. There were voices whispering. The voices ceased. Into the strange silence came the ominous tread of slow footsteps: clump... clump... clump....

Mr. Kolitt grunted and turned the radio off. He leaned back in his chair, trembling. For a while he stared with wide eyes at the photograph of his wife; then, with an obvious effort, he focused his at-

tention on the book in his lap. Before he had read half a page more, he snapped the book shut and dropped it on the floor.

"Damnation!” he said. "Everywhere I turn there’s murder and horror! There ought to be a law against such things! It’s uncivilized!”

He stood up and drank deeply from the bottle. Snarling, he strode into the bedroom and switched on the light. His gaze wandered to the bureau in the corner. He said viciously:

"Blast him and his big talk! It’s his fault! He’s the one who started this business!”

He was thinking of Bellini. Bellini’s smoldering eyes and deliberate words plagued him.

The single window was again wet with rain, and its drooling glass winked with many green eyes, derisively. The glass was pretty, Mr. Kolitt thought. It was like a large, moving tray in a jeweler’s store. Each green-edged drop of water was a tiny precious emerald.

"And I suppose if I sat down and imagined ’em to be emeralds,” he grunted, "they’d be emeralds. Yes they would not!”

He smiled crookedly then, as if relieved at thus finding a flaw in Bellini’s reasoning. Quietly he removed the rest of his clothes and went to the bureau. Opening the top drawer, he took out clean pajamas; then he looked down at the lower drawers and tapped the bottom one with his naked foot.

"Comfortable?” he said quietly.

He unfolded the pajamas. They were green, with white stripes. Methodically he got into them and stood idly before the bureau, his elbows angling outward as he buttoned the green jacket-front. The room was warm. Frowning, he walked to the radiator and turned the small handle on the side of it. Then he stood at the window, looking out. Across the



way, the green neon sign was like giant handwriting in the drizzle.

"Tonight’s the last night I’ll be looking at you,” he said. "We’re moving out of here tomorrow — me and the hope chest here.” He turned his head drunkenly to peer at the bureau. "Yep. It’s safe enough for us to clear out now. The neighbors won’t be suspicious. They’ll think I’m just a poor lonely devil trying to forget.”

He was aware suddenly that the odor of his own breath, tainted with liquor fumes, was not the only odor in the room. There was another smell, less pleasant and more significant — a sour emanation suggesting decay, as of spoiled meat. Eyes narrowed and lips puckered slightly, he strode quickly to the bureau and stooped to bring his nostrils close to the lower drawers. When he straightened again he stood staring, his hands pressing hard against his hips.

"We’ll be leaving tomorrow, all right,” he muttered. "It won’t be too soon, at that. I’ll have to burn incense in here before the moving-men come.”

He went into the living-room, then, and took the bottle he had left there on the smoke-stand. Quietly he turned out the light, and the hall light, too, and paced back to the bedroom. He opened the window six inches at the bottom, to let out that offensive odor. Then he went to bed.

He did not sleep. The room was too warm, and that unpleasant smell of pollution was too much in evidence. He lay with his thoughts, and they were morbid thoughts, parading rapidly across the bed. First marched the memories of that night not so long ago, when he had knelt on the floor of this very room, with a keenedged kitchen-knife in one hand and a hack-saw... but it was better to forget those things. Then came the neighbors, finding him drunk, asking him questions, offering their sympathies. "Oh, but she’ll

come back, Mr. KolittJ Women are strange creatures. They do strange things, but they are just women after all. She’ll come back.” And again: "Don’t worry, old boy. She hasn’t walked out on you for good. We all have our little family troubles. You and she — well, you’ve been going it pretty hot and heavy for quite a while. We’ve all known it. But she’ll get over it.”

And then Bellini. Damn Bellini!

Mr. Kolitt drained the contents of his bottle and leaned over to place the empty container on the floor. He lay back, enjoying the pleasant sensation of warmth that crept through him as the liquor found its way into his internals. Bellini was a superstitious young idiot, nothing else! His ideas were soap-bubbles filled with hot air. How could you bring something to life just by imagining it?

He turned suddenly on his side and peered at the bureau. The room was darker than usual, because the rain outside was a cold rain, and the combination of cold outside and warmth inside had fogged the window-pane. The huge bureau in the corner was a mastodonic shape of gloom, cloaked at one end in a winding-sheet of changing green light. It was neither hound nor horse tonight, Mr. Kolitt reflected. It was merely a swollen hulk with protruding eyes. What would Bellini say to that?

"Well, I won’t look at the damned thing,” he thought drunkenly. "I’ll pack off to sleep and forget it.”

But he looked, because the thing was fixed firmly in his mind, and his eyes refused to remain closed. Again and again he cursed himself for looking; but when he was not looking he was wondering what new shape the thing in the comer had assumed, and then his eyes opened again to find out.

This was foolish, too, because the thing



had not changed shape since he had first peered at it. It was still a huge, bloated monstrosity with short, stumpy protuberances for legs, and a balloon-like excrescence for a head. "Like the thing in the movies tonight,” he thought suddenly, and shuddered.

The thing in the movies had been a gigantic abhorrence supposedly called into being by obscene incantations. In the end, it had deliberately and awfully devoured its creator. Recalling those things, Mr. Kolitt gazed with renewed interest at the similar monster in his own room; then he shut his eyes and mumbled aloud:

"Ugh! I’ll be giving myself D.T.s!”

For a while, this time, he succeeded in keeping his eyes closed, but he did not sleep. His thoughts were too vivid and his mind too alert to permit sleep. He wanted a drink, but was secretly glad that the bottle was empty. He had already drunk too much. The liquor was keeping him awake instead of making him drowsy. It was keeping alive the unpleasant parade of thoughts which persisted in marching through his mind. Especially was it keeping alive that annoying vision of Bellini, and the words that went with it.

Again Mr. Kolitt looked at the monster, and again shuddered violently.

"My God!” he muttered aloud. "I’d hate to bring you to life!”

The thought, expressed thus in blunt syllables, alarmed him infinitely more than when he had kept it to himself. He wanted all at once to recall it, lest the monster should take it seriously and heed the suggestion. He wanted, too, to get out of bed and turn on the light, thereby transforming the monster into its original form. But the light-switch was terrifyingly far away, and to reach it he would have to pass within a yard of the beast’s bloated head.

There were several other things he wanted to do, too. He wanted to shriek at the thing to stop glaring at him, and he wanted to go into the next room and look at the clock, to see how long it would be before daylight filtered through the green-glowing window. Fearfully he considered the wisdom of tiptoeing to the window and drawing the shade, to shut out that green glare; but if he did that, the room would be in total darkness, and the horror would still be there even though invisible.

He no longer thought about Bellini, or about the other thing which lay in the bureau’s lower drawers. He thought only of himself, and of his increasing terror. It was foolish terror, he knew. It was the result of going to the wrong kind of a movie, and listening to a mystery play on the radio, and reading a weird detective story, and guzzling too much liquor. But those things were done now, and could not be amended. And the monster was here, threatening him.

"But it’s only wood,” he mumbled. "It’s not real.”

If he got up and walked toward it, and touched it, his fear would be gone and he would be iaughing at himself for being a drunken fool. That would be the end of that, and he could turn on the light and go to sleep in security. But if the thing were real— if it were not made of wood — and he walked toward it -

Another thought came then, and caused him to cringe back into the wall. She had sent it. She had created it, just as the man in the movies had created his monster. The thing hated him for what he had done to her. It meant to kill him.

He lay rigid, staring at it. Yes, it was moving, and it was moving of its own accord — not because of the mist on the window-pane. Its hideous head was swaying from side to side, not much, but enough



to be noticeable. Its small eyes were glaring maliciously. It was getting ready to attack him.

The blood ebbed from Mr. Kolitt’s face. Slowly, with caution born of the fear which ate voraciously into him, he drew aside, inch by inch, the bed-clothes which covered him. Fearfully he wormed his legs toward the edge of the bed, and lowered them until his bare feet touched the floor. Not once did his wide eyes blink or his fixed gaze leave the greenish shape in the corner. If he could reach the threshold and slam the door shut behind him, there might be a possibility of escape. The hall door was but a few strides distant, and once in the hall he could run with all his might, shouting for help.

Warily he rose to a sitting position and put his hands behind him, pushing himself up. An eternity passed while his trembling body straightened and stood erect. Then he hesitated again, stifling the groan that welled to his lips.

The thing was eyeing him malevolently. It was not a creature of his imagination. It was real; he knew it was real. Its horrible head had stopped swaying; its bloated, swollen body was slowly expanding and contracting. It was waiting — waiting for him to make the first move. If he attempted to escape, if he took a single forward step, it would fall upon him.

Frantically he wrenched his gaze away from it and glanced toward the doorway. The door was open. His only chance lay in that direction. If he waited any longer— —

He hurled himself forward. Three steps he took, and on the fourth he stood rigid, paralyzed by the sucking, scraping sound which rose behind him. He turned, terrified, and the thing seized him as he recoiled from it. The impact flung him

to the floor. For a single horrific instant he stared up into the loathsome, undulating countenance above him. A scream jangled from his throat. Then his eyes and nose and mouth were smothered under an emanation of putrescent vileness, and that cavernous maw engulfed him.

Eight hours later the janitor discovered him there. The janitor, a red-faced, large-stomached Swede of more than middle age, shuffled past Mr. Kolitt’s door with a garbage pail in his one hand and a mound of newspapers in his other. He had reached the mid-point in his daily round of collections. He wondered why Mr. Kolitt had failed to put out a wastebasket. Then he became aware of a most unpleasant and nauseating odor which filled the corridor. And, because the stench seemed to emanate from Mr. Kolitt’s apartment, he knocked on Mr. Kolitt’s door.

A moment later he let himself in with his own key.

He found Mr. Kolitt in the bedroom, midway between bed and doorway. Mr. Kolitt was dead. His legs and torso lay in a pool of dark red blood, and the entire upper portion of his plump body had been devoured. Those parts of him which remained were shapeless and unrecognizable beneath a pall of viscous green slime; and this foul excrescence, whose unbearable stench had first attracted the janitor’s attention, extended from Mr. Kolitt’s mutilated body to the bedroom window, where the sill was likewise coated with it.

These things the janitor saw and at first failed to assimilate. Unable to comprehend such horror, he merely stood staring. Then, believing his eyes at last, he shouted incoherent words in a guttural voice and leaned back against the wall, retching.

Later, a sober-faced. Frenchwoman,



■who was a modiste, sat in Mr. Kolitt’s living-room and said to the policemen who were questioning her:

"I have told you all I know. There I was, sitting in my apartment across the court from this one, and I heard a man screaming. I put down my needle and thread and hurried to the window, and I saw the thing coming out of this man’s window. I do not know what it was. There was rain falling, and I saw only what the green light from the advertising sign showed me. It was large and it was greenish; that is all I am sure of. So large was it that it seemed to fold together as it flowed over his window-sill, and then stretched itself out like a big fat slug when it crawled over the edge of the roof up above. That is all I know.”

"But what in thunder was it?” one of the policemen demanded irritably.

Mr. Bellini, the ascetic-faced young man from downstairs, said quietly: "If you will come again into the bedroom, gentlemen, I will show you what it was.” And when they had followed him there, he pointed unemotionally to the huge bureau in the corner, and said: "It was a monster he made out of this. It destroyed him because he learned somehow to fear

it, and, fearing it, he willed it to do what it did.”

"Huh?” mumbled one policeman. "Feared it? Why?”

"That I do not know.”

"Well, we’ll damned soon find out,” the policeman snapped. "Give me a hand here, Jenkins.”

Beginning with the top drawer, the two policemen removed the bureau’s contents. They did so carefully, inspecting each item before dropping it to the floor. In the third drawer from the bottom they found, wedged far back and buried beneath heavy articles of wearingapparel, a woman’s arm, wrapped in an oblong of torn sheeting which was caked with congealed blood.

In the next drawer they found four more blood-caked packages, which they unwrapped with increasing horror. In the last drawer of all they found a single large bundle which contained a woman’s head.

Mr. Bellini, standing as near them as they would permit, gazed calmly into the woman’s rigid features and said without emotion:

"It is his wife.”

ead Mans Story

By JULIUS LONG

The unique experience of a man who could live through future events years before they happened in actuality

IAWOKE from a sound sleep. I lay deeply ensconced beneath the blankets of my ancient four-poster bed. Only the feeble rays of the moonlight penetrated through the tall, narrow windows of my bedchamber. They outlined four perpendicular triangles of soft light, which stood like buttresses within the walls. The high ceiling hung invisible above me. I had momentarily the sensation that I had been aroused from slumber in some large, old, decaying cathedral of Gothic design.

About my throat were clutched the bony fingers of a murderer. Through the nocturnal gloom I saw the satanic features of a man who seemed oddly familiar, yet uncannily unlike any human being I had ever known.

It was only slowly that it dawned upon my scarcely conscious mind that the face above me was that of Abner, my valet. I wondered why he looked so strange, why he was awakening me in the middle of the night. I began immediately to fear that some calamity had befallen Eloise, my not very loving wife. That she was out this night, I knew, for Eloise was always gone, enjoying herself with whoever would second her escape from the miserable invalid which I was. But I loved her, and feared without cessation for her well-being.

I summoned my somnolent energy in an effort to speak. My laryngeal muscles refused to obey. My voice remained captive in my throat.

With tremendous suddenness, as if to

make up for wasted seconds of semiconsciousness, I realized that Abner was strangling me. I can not say why 1 had not sooner appreciated the awfulness of his purpose.

Involuntarily, every muscle of my body contracted, almost shaking me from Abner’s grasp. As he reinforced his hold, my hands clutched wildly at his wrists. But I was feeble, stricken with a mortal, enervating disease. My efforts were pathetic. I knew with terrible certainty that I was doomed. I could only wait till the anesthesia of death palled upon me, robbing my body of life, at the same time freeing it of pain.

My pain was not that of suffocation. It was not feeling, but reason that told me how I was dying. I felt only the cruel nails of Abner’s long fingers, the brittle bones of his ghastly hands as they sank inexorably into my flesh. I struggled not for breath, but to end the pain inflicted by that relentless grip. In my agony the thought flashed upon me that never before had I witnessed a more appalling manifestation of the irony of fate. Here was I, dying by the hand of a strangler, my attention monopolized by the superficial suffering from the wounds upon my neck! I recall with astounding clarity the acute pain caused by the ring on Abner’s finger. It was turned inward, obviously to mutilate, and it was worn on his left hand. I had never before known him to wear a ring.

I rebelled against the unreasonableness of the situation. Such a thing could not

THE DEAD MAN’S STORY


be! The entire affair seemed a horrible joke. Was I dreaming? Why would Abner do this thing to me?

It had never occurred to me that he could have had a motive for this crime. I had always been a decent and considerate master. During the twenty years of our association, we had been more like cronies than master and man. It was Abner who had made life supportable to me when Eloise had deserted my bedside to caper with the light folk of her set. It was he who had ever soothed my troubled nerves with his kind solicitude. Had all this show of good feeling been only the sycophantic fawning of an envious servant?

The pain became more intense. It occurred to me that my agony was unnecessarily prolonged. Almost simultaneously, however, I realized that in such a fateful predicament I would be without sense of proportion. Sounds expanded into minutes, and what must have required but a brief and terrific interval seemed to me a leisurely and deliberate act.

Abner’s face disappeared beyond a motley of brightly flashing lights of unearthly colors. I became insensible to pain. I fell into oblivion.

Eventually I regained consciousness. But what a consciousness!

My very soul seemed to penetrate into every nook and cranny of that room. A spectator at my own tragedy, I saw myself lying supine in my bed. The murderous fingers of Abner still clutched my throat. He grunted as he tightened his grip in a last squeeze. He but wasted his strength, for I, his victim, was already dead.

For minutes he stood as if in a trance, benumbed by the terrific force of his suddenly released conscience. His murderous

passion spent, he lapsed into the powerless apathy of the exhausted debauchee.

At last his natural hypocrisy came to his rescue. His mind, fed both by impulses from his subconscious thought and cant phrases accumulated through association with mankind, set about to rationalize his conduct. For egoistic and purely inexcusable motives, he unctuously substituted motives of an unselfish, even benevolent nature.

Abner’s lips did not move, no sound issued from his throat. Nevertheless I heard the voice of his thought.

"Ah, Andrew Madison,” said he, "you are no longer a great financier, a great philanthropist who gives only for profit. Little good will your famous wealth avail you now. You are only a sallow lump of organic matter on the way to becoming dirt. Your soul has gone to hell, Devil take it! I have served God by ending your days. I have even served you, for the disease which has kept you here in your bed would soon have finished you. I have put you out of your misery, and I shall make a neat profit for myself.

"For years I have waited for this moment. Bit by bit I have learned the combination to your wall safe. Many months more I have waited for you to fill it with negotiable securities. At last you have played into my hands. My hour has come. In a moment I shall have two hundred thousand dollars, all in unregistered bonds. I shall hide them where no eyes will discover them. Who will think of searching the hollow duralumin furniture of your wife’s living-room? And if a discovery is made, I shall lose my fortune, but not my neck, for only your wife will be incriminated. I shall take this bloody ring and place it in a drawer of her dressing-table. It is her own ring, the engagement ring you yourself gave her, Andrew Madison! You



did not know that she removed it before she went out to her parties. She always has, Andrew Madison. She has always hated you. She married you only for your wealth. You should have known that, you ugly old fossil.

"She will be tried and convicted for your murder. Of this crime she is innocent, but she well deserves her fate — just as I, your faithful slave, deserve the wealth which will soon be mine. For years I have submitted to your overbearing will, endured the meanness of your petty ways. At last I shall have my reward. Thus is justice brought into the world!”

After this appalling speech (for though his lips did not move, I distinctly heard the voice of his thought), Abner stared idly upon my body. I, too, directed my gaze to the physical remnant of myself. I could not look upon the corpse with that detached indifference which I had so often felt in the presence of the dead. I seemed to retain in my corporeal self a very sympathetic and personal interest, the equity, as it were, of a retired senior partner.

Somewhere in the house there sounded with exaggerated clarity a loud creaking. The rising wind had probably strained a rafter of the roof. Abner started from his revery, and fear stirred within him. Appreciating his really precarious position, he hastily approached the wall safe and grasped the knob. He knew the combination well and was not long about the business. Greedily he removed the precious bonds which I had had my secretary insert there. He closed the little round door and retreated. After flinging one final, hateful look at my corpse, he left the room.

I felt an impulse to follow him, but found that I could not venture from that body to which I seemed inexplicably

attached. I remained in the shadows of my room, watching by my corpse.

Before very long I was constrained to admit that I was not a very lively companion. I became engrossed in sympathy for my poor carcass, much in the manner of any man who endures solitude for a very long while.

I wondered how soon I should be discovered. I felt very sorry for my neglect.

As daylight intruded into my room, I saw with horror the muscles of my limbs stiffen and tighten. I recognized the appearance of rigor mortis. I noted the lividness which had imperceptibly marred my throat. I turned in disgust from the clotted blood upon the wound made by the diamond ring Abner had worn for the purpose of incriminating Eloise.

Had a body now housed my soul, I would have shuddered, for the very thought of the fate which awaited my wife oppressed me with unendurable force.

All that which Abner had said of Eloise was true. Nevertheless I bore her no malice, but only a feeling of sympathy and understanding. When we were together, as was rarely the case, it was I who felt the guiltier. Though the girl had married me for my wealth and position, though I was repugnant to her sight, I was able to appreciate her dreams and ambitions. I knew that she hoped for my death. What disturbed me more at the moment was the knowledge that others were aware of her attitude. The servants, her friends and her relatives knew of her silent prayer that I should by death free her of my burdensome company. The stage was set for a great and unavoidable judicial error, and I trembled from sympathy for its victim.

Despite the judgment of more sober men, Eloise had brought me more of happiness than displeasure, more of light

THE DEAD MAN’S STORY


than darkness. She was one of those rare creatures whose mere existence is enough to awaken an unselfish delight. Her habitation of my home made life in it endurable. That she was indifferent to me seemed immaterial. She was like a beautiful work of art which does not displease us the less because of its impersonality.

Such was my emotion, my dread.

After what seemed an eternity, Abner himself appeared in the room. He was so thoroughly hypocritical that, despite the absence of witnesses, he simulated all the emotions fitting the occasion. He even managed to achieve a semblance of grief.

There was genuine horror in his voice as he summoned the police with the phone at my bedside. He rushed out of the room.

He reappeared soon afterward, Eloise at his side. Her grief was more sincere than I had any right to expect. An emotional reaction made itself felt within her. Hatred gave way to a sympathy which merged subtly into love. Repentance wrung tears from her eyes. Abner retreated with a delicacy of feeling that was a refinement of hypocrisy.

Alone, her bosom undulating rapidly beneath the soft caresses of her white silken lingerie, Eloise looked down upon my expressionless face and prayed silently for my forgiveness.

I would have given my eternity to have been able to speak to her, to have assured her that I bore her no malice, but only the kindliest of understanding.

Eloise was standing there when the police arrived. They prodded her with idiotic questions, they tortured her with insolent innuendoes. Before very long, a detective appeared triumphantly with the ring Abner had planted. Eloise was boldly accused of my murder. She was too much overcome to defend herself, too

startled to comprehend the course of events which was tightening like a noose around her throat. She fell hysterically sobbing beside my bed. The photographers greedily recorded her misery.

An assistant district attorney came officiously into my chamber and made his importance unpleasantly felt by Eloise, over whom he leered like an omnipotent god.

A matron from the jail came and took Eloise away.

As she passed from my sight, out of my vision for ever, an overwhelming anguish, a spiritual pain such as no mortal man has ever suffered, seized me, and I — my spirit — writhed. I could not endure this final forced desertion of my beloved Eloise at the very moment when her heart was opened to me. I sought extinction. Blackness enveloped me.

You, my reader, will say that I have dreamed a dream, endured the torture of a nightmare. You may believe that I have been the victim of a frightful hallucination. But you err.

It has been my singular privilege to experience my own assassination in advance of the fact. By some strange circumstance, I have been permitted often to live twice the more significant episodes of my life. It has been as if the needle of a phonograph had slipped upon the record and played a few bars ahead of time, then returned to its original position to play in its proper sequence the melody recorded. Such, at least, is the nearest analogy I can find to describe the phenomenon of which I write.

I have pondered much upon my strange experiences without ever achieving a very satisfactory explanation of their being. Perhaps the mind of man is only a sort of phonograph for the reception of events in their proper order. Some machines



are improperly constructed, and the sequence is occasionally broken. If such be the case, such a machine am I.

I suppose there are some who would envy me my faculty to read into the future. They would like to live twice through the happiest moments of their lives, even at the cost of enduring its most agonizing misfortunes. But they are deluded. "Fortune,” says Machiavelli, "is a woman who to be kept under must be beaten and roughly handled.” Alas! to me Fortune is only a woman whose blandishments have become uncomfortably familiar. I taste of her favors long before she chooses to bestow them, and her pretty speeches have bored me years before they leave her lips. Far away, she is a beautiful ideal; close up, she is only a vixen with a reproach.

My motive for writing this account of my adventure into the supernatural is to save my beloved Eloise from the fate my ungrateful valet, Abner, has so maliciously planned for her.

You may wonder why I do not send Abner away. I marvel at my own inactivity.

My end is near. I am confined to my bed — my death-bed. I know not precisely when I shall awaken to discover the murderous Abner above me, but I am certain the day is not distantly removed. I feel powerless to alter my fate. "Against this mysterious force rebellion is in vain, for all history proves that men may second Fortune, but can not oppose her; may weave her webs, but can not break them.”

Thus I struggle not to alter fate, to postpone my death. I desire only to spare Eloise the legal execution Abner has planned for her. I shall deem myself rewarded if once again I can see love swell her sweet bosom and rout revulsion from her heart. Such is the price of love.

Note by Former District Attorney Wade

I have submitted the above document in the best of faith. It was given to me by Andrew Madison’s lawyers shortly after his murder. It was sealed in an envelope which bore the inscription: "To

the District Attorney of D - County,

to be opened by him after the discovery of my body.”

I would have dismissed this bizarre yarn as the pathetic drooling of a moribund old man had not the cold and stiffened corpse of Andrew Madison borne silent testimony to his prophetic truth.

After I had recovered the bonds from the hollow legs of the duralumin furniture, I was convinced that I dealt with an authentic description of what had occurred. The subsequent confession of Mr. Madison’s valet, Abner, confirmed every last detail of the manuscript.

In short, Andrew Madison did prelive, as it were, the episode of his death and the supernatural life immediately succeeding the event.

I have recently consulted with several eminent psychologists concerning this unusual case. A celebrated member of the fraternity has argued that if Mr. Madison really did live through his future, he would have called to mind his previous experience. When the man was finally murdered, he certainly remembered his previous view of the scene. Yet Mr. Madison, when writing of it, does not mention any such recollection.

The argument is not without weight. However, another psychologist, equally respected for his integrity, has advanced the opinion that Mr. Madison might have become amnesic to his former experience. Thus his story is acquitted of inconsistency.

Mr. Madison’s attorneys have promTHE DEAD MAN’S STORY,


ised to examine his papers to discover if possible the existence of other accounts of his most extraordinary experiences. It is

to be hoped that more light will eventually be thrown upon his excursions into the future.

allade of

Creatures Abroad by Night

By WILFRED BLANCH TALMAN

These are the creatures abroad by day:

Fauns and satyrs and elves and gnomes;

Naiads and dryads and centaurs play

As Great Pan pipes in their forest homes,

But soon after sundown the werewolf roams,

His eyes agleam in the witch-fire’s light;

The old crones’ brew in their cauldron foams —

These are the creatures abroad by night!

Drunken old Dutchmen Van Winkle knew Play at bowls with a thunder cloud;

Jovial phantoms by day, these few,

Till dusk brings ghouls with an earth-stained shroud And demons of dreadfulness, bloody-browed.

When doors and casements are fastened tight To keep out the spell of the ghostly crowd —

These are the creatures abroad by night!

High on the peak of a Kaatskill crag The Old Squaw drowses till evenglow;

Darkness awakens the fiendish hag And spirits marshalled by Manitou.

Pallid-tongued specters that whimper low, Astride the winds on a vampire-flight.

With slavering priests to the sabbat go — These are the creatures abroad by night!

Crown Prince of Darkness, Satanus, pray Pierce our eardrums and blind our sight;

Nor haunt us, lest we become as they — These are the creatures abroad by night!

By FRANK BELKNAP LONG, JR.

WE WERE seated in the pilot house of the Habakkuk, a queer little tug which carries daily passengers from New York steamers south along the coast of Honduras, from Trujillo to the Carataska lagoon. We were a chatty, odd group. Shabby promoters elbowed enthusiastic young naturalists (botanists from Olanchito, and entomologists from beyond Jamalteca) and tired, disillusioned surveyors from the Plateau. The air was thick with unwholesome bluish smoke from fantastic pipes, which formed curious nimbuses about the heads of the older men. No one had a reputation to lose, and conversation was genial and unaffected.

One of the veterans stood in the center of the cabin and pounded with his fists upon a small wooden table. His face was the color of ripe corn, and from time to time he nodded at his companion. His companion did not return his salutations. The face of his companion was covered, and he lay upon the floor in an oblong box six feet long. No word of complaint issued from the box, and yet, whenever the veteran brought his eyes to bear upon

* From WEIRD TALES for December, 1924.


the fastened lid, tears of pity ran rapidly down his cheeks and dampened his reddish beard. But he acknowledged to himself that the tears were blatantly sentimental, and not quite in good taste.

Every one else in the cabin ignored the existence of the man in the box — perhaps intentionally. A man’s popularity depends largely upon his attitude. The attitude of the man in the box was not pleasing, since he had been dead for precisely four days. The veteran choked out his words fiercely between ominous coughs.

"My dear friends, you must be sensible of my embarrassment. It is my opinion that I am not an orator, and it is impossible for me to make you understand. I can explain, but you will never understand. There were millions of them, and they came after him. They attacked me only when I defended him. But it was hard — to see him collapse and turn black. The skin on his face shriveled up before he could speak. He never left me a last word. It is very hard, when one is a devoted friend! And yet his perversity was absurd. He brought it upon himself. I warned him. 'The man has a warm temper,’ I said. 'You must be careful. You



must humor him. It is not good to provoke a man without taste.’ A little thing would have been sufficient, a small compromise — but Byrne lacked a sense of humor. He paid horribly. He died on his feet, with the nasty things stabbing him, and he never emitted a shriek — only a gurgling sob.”

The veteran looked reproachfully at the six-foot box, and the ceiling.

"I don’t blame you for thinking me queer — but how do you explain this? — and this?” he added, rolling up his sleeve and baring a scrawny brown arm.

We pressed forward and surrounded him. We were eager and amused, and a sleepy Indian in the corner ran his fingers through his fragile black beard, and tittered.

The veteran’s arm was covered with tiny yellow scars. The skin had evidently been punctured repeatedly by some pinlike instrument. Each scar was surrounded by a miniature halo of inflamed tissue.

"Can any of you explain ’em?” he asked.

He drummed on the taut skin. He was a tired, nervous little man, with faded blue eyes and eyebrows that met above the arch of his nose. He had an amusing habit of screwing up the corners of his mouth whenever he spoke.

One of the young men took him solemnly aside and whispered something into his ear.

The man with the punctured arm laughed. "Righto!” he said.

The young man closed his eyes and shuddered. "You — you shouldn’t be alive.” The youth had great difficulty in getting his lips to shape the words properly. "It isn’t a bit of all right, you know! One bite is nearly always fatal, and you — you have dozens of ’em.”

"Precisely!” Our man of the scars screwed up his lips and looked piercingly

at us all. Some faces fell or blanched before him, but most of the young men returned a questioning gaze. "You know that the culebra de sangre is more certain than the taboa, more deadly than the rattler, more vicious than the corali. Well, I’ve been bitten ten times by culebras, five times by rattlers and thrice by our innocent little friend, the boba.

"I took great pains to verify these facts by studying the wounds, for each snake inflicts a slightly different one. Then how is it that I am still alive? My dear friends, you must believe me when I say that I do not know. Perhaps the poisons neutralized each other. Perhaps the venom of culebra de sangre is an antidote for that of the rattler, or vice versa. But it is enough that I stand here and talk to you. It is enough that I find within me the strength of youth — but my heart is dead.”

His last comment seemed melodramatic and unnecessary, and we suddenly realized that the veteran was not an artist. He lacked a sense of dramatic values. We turned wearily aside, and puffed vigorously on our long pipes. It is difficult to forgive these little defects of technique.

The veteran seemed sufficiently conscious of our reproach. But he kept right on, and his voice was low and muffled, and it was difficult to follow the turnings and twistings of his disconcerting narrative. I remember distinctly that he bored us at first, and spoke at great length about things that did not interest us at all, but suddenly his voice became gritty, like the raucous blundering of an amateur with a viol, and we pressed closer about him.

“T would have you bear this constantly -I- in mind: We were alone in the center of that lake, with no human being except a huge black savage within a radius of ten miles. It was risky business, of course, but Byrne was devilishly set on



making a chemical analysis of the water just above the source of our spring.

"He was amazingly enthusiastic. I didn’t care to parade my emotions in the presence of the black man, and I longed to subdue tire glitter in Byrne’s eye. Enthusiasm grates upon a savage, and I could see that the black was decidedly piqued. Byrne stood up in the stern, and raved. I endeavored to make him sit down. From a tone of suppressed excitement his voice rose to a shout. 'It’s the finest water in Honduras. There’s a fortune in it — it means - ’

"I cut him short with a cold, reproachful look that must have hurt him. He winced under it, and sat down. I was level-headed enough to avoid unnecessary enthusiasms.

"Well, there we were, two old men who had come all the way from New York for the privilege of sitting in the sun in the center of a black, miasmal lake, and examining water that would have shocked a professional scavenger. But Byrne was unusually shrewd in a detestable, business-like way and he knew very well that the value of water doesn’t reside in its taste. He had carefully pointed out to me that whenever water is taken from the center of a lake directly over a well it can be bottled and sold under attractive labels without the slightest risk. I admired Byrne’s sagacity, but I didn’t like the way the cannibal in the front was looking at the sky. I don’t mean to suggest that he actually was a cannibal or anything monstrous or abnormal, but I distrusted his damnable mannerisms.

"He sat hunched in the bow, with his back toward me, with his hands on his knees and his eyes turned toward the shore. He was naked to the waist, and his dark, oily skin glistened with perspiration. There was something tremendously impressive about the rigidity of his an-

imal-like body, and I didn’t like the lethal growth of crisp black hair on his chest and arms. The upper portion of his body was hideously tattooed.

"I wish I could make you perceive the deadly horror of the man. I couldn’t look at him without an inevitable shudder, and I felt that I could never really know him, never break through his crust of reserve, never fathom the murky depths of his abominable soul. I knew that he had a soul, but every decent instinct in me revolted at the thought of coming into contact with it. And yet I realized with jubilation that the soul of the monster was buried very deep, and that it would scarcely show itself upon slight provocation. And we had done nothing to call it forth; we had acted reasonably decent.

"But Byrne lacked tact. He wasn’t properly schooled in flattery and the polite usages of rational society. He somehow got the queer notion into his head that the water should be tasted then and there. He was naturally averse to tasting it himself, and he knew that I couldn’t stomach spring water of any sort. But he had a weird idea that perhaps the water contained a septic poison, and he was determined to settle his doubts on the spot.

"He scooped up a cupful of the detestable stuff and carried it to his nose. Then he gave it to me to smell. I was properly horrified. The water was yellowish and alive with animalcules — but the horror of it did not reside in its appearance. Hot shame flushed scarlet over Byrne’s face. I was brought sharply and agonizingly to a sense of spiritual guilt. 'We can’t bottle that. It wouldn’t be sportsmanship; it wouldn’t be - ’

" 'Of course we can bottle it. People like that sort of thing. The smell will be a splendid advertising asset. Who ever heard of medicinal spring water without an excessive smell? It is a great W. T.— 7



feather in our cap. Didn’t you suppose that a smell was absolutely necessary?’

" 'But - ’

" 'Let us have no "buts.” That water has made our fortune. It is only necessary now to discover its taste.’

"He laughed and pointed to the black man in the bow. I shook my head. But what can you do when a man is determined? And, after all, why should I defend a savage? I simply sat and stared while Byrne handed the cup to our black companion. The black sat up very stiff and straight, and a puzzled, hurt expression crept into his dark eyes. He looked fixedly at Byrne and at the cup, and then he looked away toward the sky. The muscles in his face began to contract, horribly. I didn’t like it, and I motioned to Byrne to withdraw the cup.

"But Byrne was determined that the black should drink. The stubbornness of a northern man in equatorial latitudes is often shocking. I have always avoided that pose, but Byrne never failed to do the conventional thing under given circumstances.

"He virtually bifurcated the savage with his eyes, and did it without a trace of condescension. 'I’m not going to sit here and hold this! I want you to taste the water and tell me precisely what you think of it. Tell me whether you like the way it tastes, and after you have tasted it, if you feel somewhat out of sorts and a bit dizzy it is only necessary for you to describe your feelings. I don’t want to force it upon you, but you can’t sit there and refuse to take part in this — er — experiment!’

"The black removed his eyes from the sky and gazed scornfully into Byrne’s face. 'No. I don’t want this water. I didn’t come out here to drink water.’

"Perhaps you have never seen the dash of two racially different wills, each as set W. T — 8

and as primitive and as humorless as the other. A silent contest went on between Byrne and that black imp, and the latter’s face kept getting more sinister and hostile; and I watched the muscles contracting and the eyes narrowing, and I began to feel sorry for Byrne.

"But even I hadn’t fathomed Byrne’s power of will. He dominated that savage through sheer psychic superiority. The black man didn’t cower, but you could see that he knew he was fighting against fate.

"He knew that he had to drink the water; the fact had been settled when Byrne had first extended the cup, and his rebellion was pure resentment at the cruelty of Byrne in forcing the water upon him. I shall never forget the way he seized the cup and drained off the water. It was sickening to watch his teeth chatter and his eyes bulge as the water slid between his swollen lips. Great spasms seemed to run up and down his bade, and I fancied that I could discern a velvety play of rebellious muscles throughout the whole length of his perspiring torso. Then he handed the cup back without a word, and began to look again at the sky.

“F> yrne waited for a moment or two, -O and then he commenced to question the black in a way which I did not think very tactful. But Byrne imagined that his spiritual supremacy had been firmly established. I could have pointed out to him — but I cry over spilt milk. I can see Byrne now, knee-deep in questions, with his eyes red. 'I made you drink that water because I wanted to know. It is very important that I should know. Have you ever tasted a bad egg? Did it taste like that? Did it have a salty flavor, and did it burn you when you swallowed it?’

"The black sat immobile and refused to answer. There is no understanding



the psychology of a black man in the center of a black lake. I felt that the perversity of nature had entered into the wretch, and I urged Byrne to ease up. But Byrne kept right on, and finally — it happened.

"The black stood up in the boat and shrieked — and shrieked again. You can not imagine the unearthly bestiality of the cries that proceeded out of his revolting throat. They were not human cries at all, and they might have come from a gorilla under torture. I could only sit and stare and listen, and I became as flabby as an arachnid on stilts. I felt at that moment nothing but unutterable fright, mixed with contempt for Byrne and his deliberate tempting of — well, not fate exactly, but the inexcusable phenomenon of cannibalistic hysteria. I longed to get up and shriek louder than the savage, in order to humiliate and shame him into silence.

"I thought at first, as the screams went echoing across the lake, that the black would upset the canoe. He was standing in the bow, and swaying from side to side, and with every lurch the canoe would ship some water. One cry followed another in maddening succession, and each cry was more sinister and virulent and unnatural, and I observed that the devil’s body was drawn up as taut as an electric wire.

"Then Byrne began to tug at his shoulders in a frantic effort to make him sit down. It was a hideous sight to see them struggling and swaying in the bow, and I even began to pity the black. Byrne hung on viciously, and I suddenly became aware that he was pummeling his antagonist fiercely on the back and under the arms. 'Sit down, or you’ll wreck us! Good heavens! To create such a rumpus — and for a triviality!’

"The canoe was filling rapidly, and I

expected her to capsize at any moment. I didn’t relish the thought of swimming through a noisome cesspool, and I glared incontinently at Byrne. Poor chap! Had I known, I should have been more tolerant. Byrne deserved censure, but he paid — paid horribly.

"The black devil sat down quite suddenly and looked at the sky. All of his rebellion seemed to leave him. There was a genial, almost enthusiastic expression on his loathsome face. He leered beneficently and patted Byrne on the shoulder. His familiarity shocked me, and I could see that it annoyed Byrne. The black’s voice was peculiarly calm.

“ 'I didn’t mean anything, now. It’s just the weather, I guess. I liked the water. I can’t see why you shouldn’t bottle it, and sell it. It’s good water. I have often wondered why no one ever thought of bottling it before. The people who come out here are rather stupid, I guess.’

"Byrne looked at me rather sheepishly. The savage possessed intelligence and taste. His English was reasonably correct, and his manners were those of a gentleman. He had indeed acted outlandishly, and given us good reason to distrust him; but Byrne’s tactics had been scurrilous!, and deserving of rebuke.

"Byrne had sense enough to acknowledge his error. He grumbled a bit, but in conciliatory mood, and he asked the black to row to shore with a geniality that I thought admirable.

“T> yrne put his hand over the side and 13 let it trail in the water. I lit a cigarette and watched the greenish tide swirl and eddy beneath us. It was some time before I glimpsed the first of the little obscenities.

"I tried to warn Byme, but he suddenly drew his hand up with a shriek and I



knew that he would understand. 'Something bit me!’ he said.

"I fancied that the black scowled and bent lower over his oars.

" 'Look at the water,’ I replied.

"Byrne dropped his eyes, rather reluctantly, I thought. Then he blanched. 'Snakes — water snakes. Good Lord! Water snakes!’ He repeated it again and again. 'Water snakes. There are thousands! Water snakes!’

" 'These are quite harmless. But I never saw anything like this before!’ And I was indeed shocked. Imagine an unexpected upheaving of a million nasty little pink river snakes, from dank depths, and without rime or reason. They swam about the boat, and struck their ugly little heads in the air, and hissed and shot out hideous tongues. I leaned over the boat and looked down into the greenish water. The river was alive with myriads of swaying pink bodies, which writhed in volatile contortions, and made the water foam and bubble. Then I saw that several had coiled themselves over the side of the canoe and were dropping down inside. I felt instinctively that the black devil had something to do with it.

"Such indignities were unthinkable. I stood up in the boat, and stormed. The black lifted his sleepy eyes and grinned broadly. But I saw that he was making directly for the shore. The snakes were crawling all about the boat, and they were attacking Byrne’s legs, and their hissing sickened me. But I knew the species — a harmless and pretentious one. Still, the thought of taking them up by the tails and throwing them overboard was repugnant to me. And yet I knew that the noisome things horrified Byrne. He shrieked with the pain of their aggressive little bites and swore immoderately. When I assured him that they were innocuous he eyed me reproachfully and continued to

mash them with the heels of his boots. He ground their loathsome heads into a pulp, and blood ran out of their tiny mouths and fairly flooded the bottom of the boat. But more kept dropping over the sides and Byrne had his hands full. And the black rowed fiercely toward the shore, and said nothing. But he smiled, which made me long to strangle him. But I didn’t care to offend him, for his methods of retaliation were apt to be unsavory.

"We finally reached the shore. Byrne jumped out with a shout and waded through several feet of black, sluggish mud. Then he turned about on the shore and looked back over the water. The whole surface was covered with swimming pink bodies, and they crisscrossed, and interlaced on the top of the tides, and when the lurid sunlight fell upon them they resembled unctuous charnel worms seething and boiling in some colossal vat.

“I got out somehow and joined Byrne.

We were furious when we saw the black push off and make for the opposite shore. Byrne was upset and nearly delirious, and he assured me that the snakes were poisonous.

" 'Don’t be a fool,’ I said. 'None of the water snakes hereabouts are poisonous. If you had any sense - ’

" 'But why should they have attacked me? They crawled up and bit me. Why should they have done that? They were scions of Satan. That black enscorceled them! He called them, and they came!’

"I knew that Byrne was developing a monomania, and I sought to divert him. 'You have nothing to fear. Had we rattlers or culebras de sangre to deal with, but water snakes — bah!’

"Then I saw that the black was standing up in the canoe and waving his arms and shrieking exultantly. I turned about and looked up toward the crest of the hill



in back of us. It was a savage hill and it rose wild and bleak before us, and over the crest of it there poured an army of slithering things — and it is impossible for me to describe them in detail.

“I didn’t want Byrne to turn about. I sought to keep him interested in the lake, and in the black devil who was standing up in the canoe and shouting. I pointed out to him that the black had made himself ridiculous, and I slapped him soundly on the back and we congratulated each other on our superiority.

"But eventually I had to face them — the things that were crawling upon us from over the somber gray crest of the hill. I turned and I looked at the deep blue sky and the great clouds rolling over the summit, and then my eyes went a little lower, and I saw them again, and knew that they were crawling slowly toward us and that there was no avoiding them.

"And I gently took Byrne by the arm, and turned him about and pointed silently. There were tears in my eyes, and a curious heaviness in my legs and arms. But Byrne bore it like a gentleman. He didn’t even express surprize, although I could clearly perceive that his soul had been mortally wounded, and was sick unto death. And I saw shame and a monstrous fear staring at me out of Byrne’s bloodshot eyes. And I pitied Byrne, but I knew what we had to do.

'The day was drawing to a close, amidst lovely earth-mists, which hung over the hill; and blue veils made the water gorgeous and hid the canoe and the gesticulating savage. I longed to sit calmly down there by the water, and to dream, but I knew that we had something to do. Near the edge of the water we found a gleaming yellow growth of shrubs and of stout vegetation, and we made stout clubs and strong cutting whips. And the army of reptiles contin-

ued to advance, and they filled me with a sense of infinite sadness, and regret and pity for Byrne.

"We stood very still and waited; and the mass of seething corruption rolled down the hill until it reached the level rocky lake shore, and then it oozed obnoxiously toward us. And we cried out when we counted the number of rattlers and culebras and bobas, but when we saw the other snakes we did not cry at all, for the centers of speech froze up in us, and we were very unhappy.

"My dear friends, you can not imagine, you can not conceive of our unhappiness. There were charnel reptiles with green, flattened heads and glazed eyes, which I did not attempt to identify, and there were legions of horned lizards, with blistered black tongues, and little venomous toads that hopped nervously about and made odd, weird noises in their throats; and we knew that they were lethal, and to be avoided.

"But we met them face to face, and Byrne fought with genuine nobility. But the odds were overwhelming, and I saw him go down, panting, suffocated, annihilated. They crawled up his legs, and they bit him in the back and sides, and on the face, and I saw his face blacken before my eyes. I saw his lips writhe back from his teeth, and his eyes glaze, and the skin on his face pucker and shrivel.

"And I fought to keep them from him, and my club was never idle. I flattened innumerable heads that were round, and I rounded heads that were flat, and I made sickening crimson pellets out of quivering gelatinous tissue.

“]\ K y dear friends, they went away at IV A last, and left him there. And the blue calm of the hills seemed inexplicable under the circumstances, but I was thankDEATH-WATERS


ful for the coolness and quiet, and the deepening shadows. I sat down with peace in my soul, and waited. I looked at the tiny punctures on my arms, and I smiled. I was reasonably happy.

"But my dear friends, I did not die. The realization that I was not to die amazed me. It was several hours before I could be certain, and then I did a shocking thing. I took my beard firmly between my two hands and pulled out the hair in great tufts. The pain sobered me.

"I tramped for two days with the body. It was the decent, the proper thing to do. I waited in Trujillo for the fashioning of

the coffin, and I personally supervised its construction. I wanted everything done properly, in the grand manner. I have very few regrets — but my soul is dead!”

There was an infinite misery in the veteran’s eye. His voice grew raucous, and he stopped talking. We noticed that he shivered a little as he turned up his collar and went out through the cabin door into a night of stars. We pressed our faces against the glass of the one window and saw him standing before the rail, with the rain and moonlight glistening upon his beard, and the salt spray striking against his incredibly chastened face.

serted

House

By MARION DOYLE

I thought:

Here are but echoing emptiness and dust,

Silence and mystery, dead dreams of old desires; But over the foot-marred threshold shadows thrust Their fingers, groping for the phantom fires Of a pale moon’s light that lies like sunlight spent Upon the tangled grasses of the lawn;

Here are faint, half-heard whispers, eloquent Of vanished voices; the phenomenon Of printless footfalls; on the rotted rafter,

Perched like storm-driven and bewildered birds. Flutter the shades of long-lost tears and laughter, Of ruffled, smooth, of gray and irised words:

Hearing the echoed cries of birth and death, Hearing the muted whisper of old vows,

There is a Something catches at the breath; Something defies the name — Deserted House.

LETTER from Duane W. Rinnel, of Asotin, Washington, makes a suggestion

which we have received with more and more frequency lately. He writes to

"*■ the Eyrie: "Why not have an 'author’s page’ in Weird Tales? This could cover a sketch of the chosen writer’s life and literary career, with perhaps a photograph. I am sure other readers would join me in such a plea. We do not really know who your contributors are, in a broad sense — how old are they? where do they live? etc. For me this would enhance Weird Tales immensely.”

How about it, readers? Shall we publish an author’s page as a feature of this magazine? Or shall we include information about the authors in the Eyrie?

E. L. Mengshoel, of Minneapolis, writes to the Eyrie: "It is with great pleasure that I acknowledge the excellence of your July issue. Being entirely free from that would-be 'scientific’ crazy space-stuff, that issue contained nothing to evoke my aversion. On the other hand, almost every one of the stories gave me a thrill such as hardly could be surpassed- even by 'notre cher monsieur’ Jules de Grandin’s 'cognacs et champagnes exquis’. Apropos — that delightful gentleman’s performance in Seabury Quinn’s The Hand of Glory impressed me as one of the chief entertainments on the July program. However, I am tempted to give Hazel Heald’s The Horror in the Museum the very first place in my estimation, excepting the wonderful serial. Jack Williamson’s Golden Blood, which is a story worthy of a Rider Haggard.”

"A word of praise for your July issue, the best in over a year,” writes B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts. "Jack Williamson’s fine novel, Golden Blood, is one of the greatest tales of fantasy I have ever had the pleasure of reading. Let’s have another by him in the near future. H. P. Lovecraft’s tale of witchcraft and the elder gods, The Dreams in the Witch-House, was superb; while not far behind was Hazel Heald’s The Horror in the Museum — a particularly exceptional tale for a woman to write, in that she built up the horror sequence as few women writers have ever been capable of doing. Sometime soon, please reprint your best story, E. Hoffmann Price’s exquisite fantasy of moonbeams on an Oriental carpet: The Girl from Samarcand.”

A letter from John W. Bennett, of Milwaukee, says: “I have just finished reading H. P. Lovecraft’s The Dreams in the Witch-House in your July issue. I’m still shivering. Allow me to say it is a masterpiece of weird fiction. Lovecraft very, very closely approaches the ultimate, shuddery horror of Poe or Blackwood.”

Writes H. M. Jacobson, of Rochester, New York: "I enjoy, above all others, those delightfully fantastic stories by Clark Ashton Smith, and by another gentleman whose name I do not recall, whose short pastel, The Weird of Avoosl W uthoqquan,




appeared in a recent issue. My notions of weird stories tend rather to the fine and utterly fantastic, even the grotesque. I enjoy especially those tales which deal with impossible cities and civilizations, and forgotten, unheard-of gods.” [The Weird of Avoosl Wuthoqquan was also by Clark Ashton Smith. — The Editors.]

A reader, who signs himself "A Cover Connoisseur,” sends to the Eyrie a post card from Los Angeles: "I am delighted with your attractive blue Weird Tales cover for July. Or should I say, amused? — for it is of great interest to watch how your artist monthly contrives to keep the charms of unclad girls just concealed by a wisp of smoke or some tenuous bit of material. It’s lucky the villains usually make it hot for them.”

"I was very glad to greet our old friend Jules de Grandin again after an absence of four months,” writes J. D. Arden, of Detroit. "Please don’t let him stay away so long the next time he decides to take a ’vacation’. Another old acquaintance I was much pleased to see was H. P. Lovecraft. You don’t see Lovecraft very often, but when you do it sort of makes up for his long absences. Will you kindly tell us readers your reason for not reprinting A, Merritt’s story. The Woman of the Wood? You have continuously evaded this question, but I am trying again,” [Requests that we reprint Mr. Merritt’s story have become so numerous that we have decided to publish it as our regular Weird Story Reprint in one of the next few issues.- — The Editors.]

Paul Ernst, of Chicago, writes: "I just bought a current Weird Tales this morning, and had to drop you a line of congratulation. I think it has the most striking cover in a progression of covers that have grown more and more striking over the last year. It’s a peach.”

Jade Darrow, of Chicago, writes in praise of Jack Williamson’s remarkable serial. "The fourth part of Golden Blood should easily take first place in the July issue of Weird Tales,” writes Mr. Darrow. "I especially liked the description of the room of the golden mist. This marvelous novel should be put in book form with the best of paper and binding. Another fine tale in an entirely different vein is H. P. Lovecraft’s latest masterpiece, The Dreams in the Witch-House. Where does Mr. Lovecraft obtain his material for such tales anyway?”

Here is a brickbat from F. W. Lawrence, of Enfield, England: ”1 have just finished the May issue of WT, and I think the best tale in this issue is H. Warner Munn’s The Wheel. But The Girl with the Green Eyes was, in my opinion, very poor. If Doctor Jemison is a typical American doctor, all I can say is that I’m very sorry for you. I’d rather doctor myself than call him in. His stupid questions quite made me feel cross. And why, oh why, Mr. Editor, must some of your authors have to wave a leaf of a holy book in his eyes to thwart the machinations of an 'evil being’? It seems in these days of scientific methods a terribly weak way of overcoming a difficulty. Might I ask: would a leaf from the Koran or the Zend Avesta or other holy work prove as efficacious as our own Bible? I wish one of your authors would invent some sort of electrical pistol to pump about 100,000 volts into a vampire or other such obnoxious spirit. I think that probably even an 'evil being’ might feel rather uncomfortable at such treatment. Bring forth the weird, horrible and creepy tales, Mr. Editor, and I shall be yours for always.”

"Compliments on your June Black Colossus cover!” writes Henry Kuttner, of Hollywood, California. "It embodies the spirit of the magazine excellently; and the



conventional jade background of the statue against the vibrant nude, together with the black backing, is mighty effective. Don’t be afraid of originality — you may at times fall short of the mark, but the motive is there.”

Writes Orlaf Polege, of Tomahawk, Wisconsin: "Just a few lines to tell you how I enjoyed the June issue of Weird Tales. It is absolutely the best fiction magazine in the market. Robert E. Howard is my favorite author, and next to him I like Carl Jacobi. I also greatly enjoy reading Seabury Quinn’s stories and admire his character, Jules de Grandin. You can’t give me too many vampire tales.”

E. Brown, of Newport, Kentucky, writes to the Eyrie: "Golden Blood is so unusual, and excellent in all ways. And as for your reprint story, Green Tea, I like the restrained type of writing in this, which yet builds up sustained suspense — and the beautifully done touches of atmosphere like the dark trees and sunset light. I hate your naked women covers. They look like a filthy sort of ’sex’ magazine and don’t fit the general tone of your magazine.”

In a letter to the Eyrie, Robert Bloch, of Milwaukee, says in part: "Your new issue is superb — the best in some time. Lovecraft scores heavily. Yessir, Grandpa Cthulhu’s new story takes the cake — real writing, real background, real horror. Second place goes, of course, to the second-best writer, Clark Ashton Smith. His infusion of color into prosaic plots is true literary achievement. Outside of Quinn’s and Hamilton’s stuff, WT is, as ever, O. K., as long as Lovecraft, Smith, Howard, Long, Wandrei and Price continue to provide you with thrilling, unearthly stories to jolt the jaded reader out of commonplace monotonies.”

Readers, what story do you like best in this issue? And if there are any stories that you do not like, please let us know which ones, and why you don’t like them. The most popular story in our July issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was H. P. Lovecraft’s fantastic tale of horror. The Dreams in the Witch-House.

My favorite stories in the September WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

(1) - -

(2) - -

(3) - -

I do not like the following stories:

(1) -.. _ _ _ Why?

(2) - -

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

I Reader’s name and address:

I

! -

Coming Next Month

CONAN’S manner of fighting was unorthodox, but instinctive and natural as that of a timber wolf. The intricacies of the sword were as useless against his primitive fury as a human boxer’s skill against the onslaughts of a panther.

Fighting as he had never fought before, straining every last ounce of effort to parry Conan’s blade that flickered like lightning about his head, the pirate captain in desperation caught a full stroke near his hilt, and felt his whole arm go numb beneath the terrific impact. That stroke was instantly followed by a thrust with such tecrible drive behind it that the sharp point ripped through chain-mail and ribs like paper, to transfix the heart beneath. The buccaneer’s lips writhed in brief agony, but, grim to the last, he made no sound. He was dead before his body relaxed on the trampled grass, where blood drops glittered like split rubies in the sun.

Conan shook the red drops from his sword, grinned with unaffected pleasure, stretched like a huge cat — and abruptly stiffened, the expression of satisfaction on his face being replaced by a stare of bewilderment. He stood like a statue, his sword trailing in his hand.

As he lifted his eyes from his vanquished foe, they had absently rested on the surrounding trees, and the vistas seen beyond. And he had seen a fantastic thing — a thing incredible and inexplicable. Over the soft rounded green shoulder of a distant slope had loped a tall black naked figure, bearing on its shoulder an equally naked white form. The apparition vanished as suddenly as it had appeared, leaving- the watcher gasping in surprize.

Conan stared about him, glanced uncertainly back the way he had come, and swore. In the midst of realistic, if exotic surroundings, a vagrant image of fantasy and nightmare had been introduced. Conan doubted neither his eyesight nor his sanity. He had seen something alien and uncanny, he knew; the mere fact of a black figure racing across the landscape carrying a white captive was bizarre enough; but this black figure had been unnaturally tall,...

You can not afford to miss this tale, which is one of the strangest stories ever told — a tale of naked black giants, a barbarian adventurer, and the blood-freezing horror that awaited a pirate crew at the jade-green pool. This powerful story will be printed

[THE END]

============================================================
by HOWARD
============================================================
complete in the October Weird Tales:


By ROBERT E. HOWARD

— ALSO—


By Seabury Quinn By Mearle Prout

An eery tale, with chills, thrills and shudders A powerful story of a hideous blight that spread a-plenty, about a brilliant exploit of the daunt- from an unholy forest and menaced mankind less little French scientist, Jules de Grandin. with destruction.

THE PLUTONIAN TERROR By Jack Williamson

A grim story of the planet Pluto, and a dread power that swept our Earth clear of human beings — a fascinating tale of interplanetary adventures and horrible death.


By Hugh Davidson By Clark Ashton Smith

A thrilling novel of corpses that would not stay A horror-tale of the Venezuelan jungles, and a dead, and a gruesome horror in the hills of diabolical plant that lived on human life.

New York.

Oct. WEIRD- TALES Out Oct. 1


JK

intage From Atlantis

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

A fantastic story of a jar of wine, mellowed through many centuries, that was washed ashore on a pirateinfested isle in the West Indies

1 THANK you, friend, but I am no drinker of wine, not even if it be the rarest Canary or the oldest Amontillado. Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging... and more than others, I have reason to know the truth that was writ by Solomon the Jewish king. Give ear, if ye will, and I shall tell you a story such as would halt the half-drained cup on the lips of the hardiest bibber.

We were seven-and-thirty buccaneers, who raked the Spanish Main under Barnaby Dwale, he that was called Red Barnaby for the spilling of blood that attended him everywhere. Our ship, the Black Falcon, could outfly and outstrike all other craft that flew the Jolly Roger. Full often. Captain Dwale was wont to seek a remote isle on the eastward verge of the West Indies, and lighten the vessel of its weight of ingots and doubloons.

The isle was far from the common course of maritime traffic, and was not known to maps or other mariners; so it suited our purpose well. It was a place of palms and sand and cliffs, with a small harbor sheltered by the curving outstretched arms of rugged reefs, on which the dark ocean climbed and gnashed its fangs of white foam without troubling the tranquil waters beyond. I know not how many times we had visited the isle; but the soil beneath many a coco-tree was heavy with our hidden trove. There we had stored the loot of bullion-laden ships, the massy plate and jewels of cathedral towns.


Even as to all mortal things, an ending came at last, to our visits. We had gathered a goodly cargo, but might have stayed longer on the open main where the Spaniards passed, if a tempest had not impended. We were near the secret isle, as it chanced, when the skies began to blacken; and wallowing heavily in the rising seas we fled to our placid harbor, reaching it by nightfall. Before dawn the hurricane had blown by; and the sun came up in cloudless amber and blue. We proceeded with the landing and burying of our chests of coin and gems and ingots, which was a task of some length; and afterward we re-filled our water-casks at a cool sweet spring that ran from beneath the palmy hill not far inland.

It was now midaftemoon. Captain Dwale was planning to weigh anchor shortly and follow the westering sun toward the Caribbees. There were nine of us, loading the last barrels into the boats, with Red Barnaby looking on and cursing us for being slower than mud-turtles; and we were bending knee-deep in the tepid, lazy water, when suddenly the captain ceased to swear, and we saw that he was no longer watching us. He had turned his back and was stooping over a strange object that must have drifted in with the tide, after the storm: a huge and barnacle-laden thing that lay on the sand, half in and half out of the shoaling water. Somehow, none of us had perceived it heretofore.

Red Barnaby was not silent long.



"Come here, ye chancre-eaten coistreis,” he called to us. We obeyed willingly enough, and gathered around the beached object, which our captain was examining with much perplexity. We too were greatly be-wondered when we saw the thing more closely; and none of us could name it offhand or with certainty.

The object had the form of a great jar, with a tapering neck and a deep, round, abdominous body. It was wholly encrusted with shells and corals that had gathered upon it as if through many ages in the ocean deeps, and was festooned with weeds and sea-flowers such as we had never before beheld; so that we could not determine the substance of which it was made.

At the order of Captain Dwale, we - rolled it out of the water and beyond reach of the tide, into the shade of near-by palms; though it required the efforts of four men to move the unwieldy thing, which was strangely ponderous. We found that it would stand easily on end, with its top reaching almost to the shoulders of a tall man. While we were handling the great jar, we heard a swishing noise from within, as if it were filled with some sort of liquor.

Our captain, as it chanced, was a learned

"By the communion cup of Satan!” he swore. "If this thing is not an antique wine- jar, then I am a Bedlamite. Such vessels — though mayhap they were not so huge — were employed by the Romans to store the goodly vintages of Falernus and Cecuba. Indeed, there is today a Spanish wine — that of Valdepenas — which is kept in earthen jars. But this, if I mistake not, is neither from Spain nor olden Rome. It is ancient enough, by its look, to have come from that long-sunken isle, the Atlantis whereof Plato speaks. Truly,

Genuine Autographed First Edition Copies of OTIS ADELBERT KLINE’S


EXCITING, SWIFT -MOVING ACTION

"The Prince of Peril” is a fantastical yam which gives new evidence of the marvelous powers of Otis Adelbert Kline's vivid imagination and writing skill. Another outstanding characteristic is the terrific action — a startling new adventure on every page, each one more electrifying and stimulating than the last!

Through the fabric of this violent adventure is woven a bright thread of romance which makes the entire fantasy, with all its tumult and turbulence, seem realistic and probable to even the most skeptical.

Read the weird adventures of Zinlo, man of three worlds, upon the mysterious planet of

Act Now!

While they last, you can get a copy of this special first edition autographed by the author, at the regular price of an ordinary edition. Bound in rich linen cloth with attractive three colored jacket. Remember, first editions grow more valuable with the years, and when autographed become doubly valuable. Order today!

WEIRD TAMS, BOOK DEPT. KPP 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.

I enclose $2. Send at once, postage prepaid, an autographed copy of “The Prince of Peril’* as per your offer.

Address -

City _ _ State396


there should be a rare vintage within, a wine that was mellowed in the youth of the world, before the founding of Rome and Athens; and which, perchance, has gathered fire and strength with the centuries. Ho! my rascal sea-bullies! We sail not from this harbor till the jar is broached. And if the liquor within be sound and potable, we shall make holiday this evening on the sands.”

"Belike, ’tis a funeral urn, full of plaguey cinders and ashes,” said the mate, Roger Aglone, who had a gloomy turn of thought.

Red Barnaby had drawn his cutlas and was busily prying away the crust of barnacles and quaint fantastic coral-growths from the top of the jar. Layer on layer of them he removed, and swore mightily at this increment of forgotten years. At last a great stopper of earthenware, sealed with a clear wax that had grown harder than amber, was revealed by his prying. The stopper was graven with queer letters of an unknown language, plainly to be seen; but the wax refused the cutlaspoint. So, losing all patience, the captain seized a mighty fragment of stone, which a lesser man could scarce have lifted, and broke therewith the neck of the jar.

Now even in those days, I, Stephen Magbane, the onePuritan amidthatChristless crew, was no bibber of wine or spirituous liquors, but a staunch Rechabite on all occasions. Therefore I held back, feeling little concern other than that of reprobation, while the others pressed about the jar and sniffed greedily at the contents. But, almost immediately with its opening, my nostrils were assailed by an odor of heathen spices, heavy and strange; and the very inhalation thereof caused me to feel a sort of giddiness, so that I thought it well to retreat still further. But the others were eager as midges around a fermenting-vat in autumn.

" ’Sblood! ’Tis a royal vintage!” roared the captain, after he had dipped a forefinger in the jar and sucked the purple drops that dripped from it. "Avast, ye slumgullions! Stow the water-casks on board, and summon all hands ashore, leaving only a watch there to ward the vessel. We’ll have a gala night before we sack any more Spaniards.”

We obeyed his order; and there was much rejoicing amid the crew of the Black Falcon at the news of our find and the postponement of the voyage. Three men, grumbling sorely at their absence from the revels, were left on board; though, in that tranquil harbor, such vigilance was virtually needless. We others returned to the shore, bringing a supply of pannikins in which to serve the wine, and provisions for a feast. Then we gathered pieces of drift with which to build a great fire, and caught several huge tortoises along the sands, and unearthed their hidden eggs, so that we might have an abundance and variety of victuals.

In these preparations I took part with no special ardor. Knowing my habit of abstention, and being of a somewhat malicious and tormenting humor, Captain Dwale had expressly commanded my presence at the feast. However, I anticipated nothing more than a little ribaldry at my expense, as was customary at such times; and being partial to fresh tortoisemeat, I was not wholly unresigned to my lot as a witness of the Babylonian inebrieties of the others.

At nightfall, the feasting and drinking began; and the fire of driftwood, with eery witch-colors of blue and green and white amid the flame, leapt high in the dusk while the sunset died to a handful of red embers far on purpling seas.



IT WAS a strange wine that the crew and captain swilled from their pannikins. I saw that the stuff was thick and dark, as if it had been mingled with blood; and the air was filled with the reek of those pagan spices, hot and rich and unholy, that might have poured from a broken tomb of antique emperors. And stranger still was the intoxication of that wine; for those who drank it became still and thoughtful and sullen; and there was no singing of lewd songs, no playing of apish antics.

Red Bamaby had been drinking longer than the others, having begun to sample the vintage while the crew were making ready for their revel. To our wonderment, he ceased to swear at us after the first cupful, and no longer ordered us about or paid us any heed, but sat peering into the sunset with eyes that held the dazzlement of unknown dreams. And one by one, as they began to drink, the others were likewise affected, so that I marvelled much at the unwonted power of the wine. I had never before beheld an intoxication of such nature; for they spoke not nor ate, and moved only to refill their cups from the mighty jar.

The night had grown dark as indigo beyond the flickering fire, and there was no moon; and the firelight blinded the stars. But one by one, after an interval, the drinkers rose from their places and stood staring into the darkness toward the sea. Unquietly they stood, and strained forward, peering intently as men who behold some marvelous thing; and queerly they muttered to one another, with unintelligible words. I knew not why they stared and muttered thus, unless it were because of some madness that had come upon them from the wine; for naught was visible in the dark, and I heard nothing, save the low murmur of wavelets lapping on the sand.

Just a block or two from every where— one and one' half blocks from Union Station and two blocks from Traction Terminal

AH Outside Rooms and each with bath

RADIO


Single

$2-00 $2-50

Double

$3.00 $3.50


121 SOUTH ILLINOIS STREET




Louder grew the muttering; and some raised their hands and pointed seaward, babbling wildly as if in delirium. Noting their demeanor, and doubtful as to what further turn their madness might take, I bethought me to withdraw along the shore. But when I began to move away, those who were nearest me appeared to waken from their dream, and restrained me with rough hands. Then, with drunken, gibbering words, of which I could make no sense, they held me helpless while one of their number forced me to drink from a pannikin filled with the purple wine.

T fought against them, doubly unwill- -fi- ing to quaff that nameless vintage, and much of it was spilled. The stuff was sweet as liquid honey to the taste, but burned like hell-fire in my throat. I turned giddy; and a sort of dark confusion possessed my senses by degrees; and I seemed to hear and see and feel as in the mounting fever of calenture.

The air about me seemed to brighten, with a redness of ghostly blood that was everywhere; a light that came not from the fire nor from the nocturnal heavens. I beheld the faces and forms of the drinkers, standing without shadow, as if mantled with a rosy phosphorescence. And beyond them, where they stared in troubled and restless wonder, the darkness was illumed with the strange light.

Mad and unholy was the vision that I saw: for the harbor waves no longer lapped on the sand, and the sea had wholly vanished. The Black Falcon was gone, and where the reefs had been, great marble walls ascended, flushed as if with the ruby of lost sunsets. Above them were haughty domes of heathen temples, and spires of pagan palaces; and beneath were mighty streets and causeys where people passed in a never-ending throng. I

thought that I gazed upon some immemorial city, such as had flourished in Earth's prime; and I saw the trees of its terraced gardens, fairer than the palms of Eden. Listening, I heard the sound of dulcimers that were sweet as the moaning of women; and the cry of horns that told forgotten glorious things; and the wild sweet singing of people who passed to some hidden, sacred festival within the walls.

I saw that the light poured upward from the city, and was born of its streets and buildings. It blinded the heavens above; and the horizon beyond was lost in a shining mist. One building there was, a high fane above the rest, from which the light streamed in a ruddier flood; and from its open portals music came, sorcerous and beguiling as the far voices of bygone years. And the revellers passed gayl y into its portals, but none came forth. The weird music seemed to calle me and entice me; and I longed to tread the streets of the alien city, and a deep desire was upon me to mingle with its people and pass into the glowing fane.

Verily I knew why the drinkers had stared at the darkness and had muttered among themselves in wonder. I knew that they also longed to descend into the city. And I saw that a great causey, built of marble and gleaming with the red luster, ran downward from their very feet over meadows of unknown blossoms to the foremost buildings.

Then, as I watched and listened, the singing grew sweeter, the music stranger, and the rosy luster brightened. Then, with no backward glance, no word or gesture of injunction to his men. Captain Dwale went slowly forward, treading the marble causey like a dreamer who walks in his dream. And after him, one by one, Roger Aglone and the crew followed in the same manner, going toward the city.

Haply I too should have followed.



drawn by the witching music. For truly it seemed that I had trod the ways of that city in former time, and had known the things whereof the music told and the voices sang. Well did I remember why the people passed eternally into the fane, and why they came not forth; and there, it seemed, I should meet familiar and beloved faces, and take part in mysteries recalled from the foundered years.

All this, which the wine had remembered through its sleep in the ocean depths, was mine to behold and conceive for a moment. And well it was that I had drunk less of that evil and pagan vintage than the others, and was less besotted than they with its luring vision. For, even as Captain Dwale and his crew went toward the city, it appeared to me that the rosy glow began to fade a little. The walls took on a wavering thinness, and the domes grew insubstantial. The rose departed, the light was pale as a phosphor of the tomb; and the people went to and fro like phantoms, with a thin crying of ghostly horns and a ghostly singing. Dimly above the sunken causey the harbor waves returned; and Red Bamaby and his men walked down beneath them. Slowly the waters darkened above the fading spires and walls; and the midnight blackened upon the sea; and the city was lost like the vanished bubbles of wine.

A terror came upon me, knowing the fate of those others. I fled swiftly, stumbling in darkness toward the palmy hill that crowned the isle. No vestige remained of the rosy light; and the sky was filled with returning stars. And looking oceanward as I climbed the hill, I saw a lantern that burned on the Black Falcon in the harbor, and discerned the embers of our fire that smoldered on the sands. Then, praying with a fearful fervor, I waited for dawn.

SEE LIFE

AS IT is!

The poptilar teachings of schools and churches color your vision. The truth is concealed. Real possibilities for your advaneemeut in life are kept for the few. A power great enough to change your whole life is available if you find the key.

THE



Will give you the true picture of life and the mysterious forces that await your command. You will find a different key to your personal problems and a simple way to more abundant realizations of your desires. For many centuries the Rosicrucian' system has created a new life with new1 possibilities for multitudes who are now" happy and contented.


If you are sincerely anxious to know life — and know your own powers — write a letter and ask for this new, private book. It will be gladly loaned to you if you are really seeking to change the course of your life. Address:



grSKSSTFSwSS

° EDWARD W. EXOWDEN, Dept. W.


• •

For complete list and prices write to Wee® Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill,




The Vampire Master

By HUGH DAVIDSON

Oince Dracula there have been many ^ popular stories of vampires, but here is the most thrilling, fascinating and breath-taking vampire tale of them all. In Gerritt Geisert you have the supreme horror of the Undead — of those who died, yet walk again — polluting the good earth with his sinister presence, and making of others just

Rain

By HUNG LONG TOM

The Little Rain of China

Falls softly, gently,

Fragrantly,

Caressing the tree-tops. Whispering little songs

To the peonies,

Coloring drab desert towns

Until they are dream, cities

Like unto those

The Little Rain of China

Gently falling

Tells about.

►-B-IHis goose-flesh novel of a gruesome horror in the hills of New York state, of corpses that would not stay dead, and of Gerritt Geisert, the master vampire, will begin

in the October issue of


On sale October 1st

QUIT f%

TOBACCO |r I

No man or woman can escape the ar** ' A

harmful effects of tebaoeo. Don’t try v£ *:■ J

to banish unaided the hold tobaoeo. J&rW' M

has upon you. Join the thousands ot -A 'W

Inveterate tobaeco users that have M. 2m

r. j jd it raid1 to oult tilth too aid ol tho liidle? Triiiotot

|

!

SSHFthru the mmm glass

ArfrirP^

by A. MEBKITT,

«, _ State- _

W. T.— 8

THE PHANTOM \ OF THE ETHER ^

The first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

This Book Given Free

The inside story of a tremendous threat engineered by a phantom from the ether — a threat to gain control of the world — is thrillingly told in "The Moon Terror,” the most enthralling fantastic mystery of the age. The gigantic powers and clever plans behind this super-dream will hold you spellbound.

Here Is How You Can Get This Amazing Book FREE For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours without further cost. You receive

the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


840 N. Michigan Ave., Dept. S-37, Chicago, III.

[ WEIKD TALES, Dept. S-37,

I 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

I I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid, I the book “The Moon Terror,” and enter my subI scription to WEIRD TALES for six months to j begin with the October issue. It is understood this

I Name -

I Address _

I City _ State -

[THE END]
