============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: November 1935
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Ghost of the Lava" by Katharine Buoy
  2. "The Carnival of Death (part 3)" by Arlton Eadie
  3. "When the Flame-Flowers Blossomed" by Leslie F. Stone
  4. "Top of the World" by Tarleton Collier
  5. "William Wilson" by Edgar Allan Poe
  6. "Shadows in Zamboula" by Robert E. Howard
  7. "The Consuming Flame" by Paul Ernst
  8. "In Thessaly" by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
============================================================
by Katharine Buoy
============================================================
wrath and reach from the shadows for vengeance. For it made little difference what that old hermit told him in that mountain cave, so that the will were strong and the wrath enduring: and thus spake my grandfather's father, who told me of Zahireddin Mahmud.”

By KATHARINE BUOY

Where burnt-out lava forms a deep crevasse Comes echoing an eery, wailing moan From blackened crypts of scoriaceous stone.

A keening wind sweeps down the mountain pass, Up-flinging powdered ashes from a mass Of gruesome, pulverized and calcined bone— Bleached human fragments—in the cinders strown ’Midst lava shards like inky isinglass.

A restless ghost patrols the haunted ground Of scabrous heaps of adamantine flint Where ruthless Death stalks like a hungry hound Whose prowling feet leave never trace, or print— Naught, save a sinister, despairing sound That permeates this land’s weird monotint.

'An unusual weird story about a man who found himself walking down a city street at night, in the pouring rain, drenched to the skin, his memory gone, with blind terror seizing on every person he met

I T IS still raining. Raining as though It is not a stormy rain. There is no all the water of all the oceans had wind..Now and then distant lightning been sucked up into the heavens, and flares, but the flares are soft and no crack would all have to pour steadily down of thunder accompanies them. There is again before the rain stops. just the rain, pounding steadily down,




transilluminated now and then by the diffused sheets of lightning.

The rain is trying to tell me something as I sit here at two o’clock in the morning in this telegraph office. The way the drops sift against the broad plate-glass window, the way they trickle down the pane to converge near the bottom in many small rivers—they are trying to whisper something to me.

But I can’t make out what it is.

I don’t know what the message can be. In fact, I don’t seem to know anything. About myself, I mean, and my place in the world.

All I know is that I, an unidentified human being, sit here scribbling on the backs of telegraph blanks in the black of early morning and try to learn something about myself.

Amnesia, I suppose. I’ve always rather doubted the statement that a man can completely lose his identity, due to illness, or accident, or overwork. But now I seem to be going through the same experience, and I am learning at first hand just how completely memory can leave a person.

As far as I can remember, I am only two hours old. And I wouldn’t even know the time had I not chanced to see a clock in a barber-shop window at about the moment when I began to look around and observe—and remember.

Only two hours old, in actual consciousness!

It was raining two hours ago as it is now. I was on a country road, just passing a cluster of houses with a store and a barber shop among them. There was a sign at the side of the road. The sign said City Limits.

I don’t know where I’d been, where I came from. Accident, illness, something, took my memory.

I’m inclined to think an accident is re-

sponsible, for I am bare-headed, and I was disheveled and dirty when I waked to memory.

Dirty? Good heavens! I was clogged with dirt, filthy with it! Not dirt, exactly, but earth. As though I’d been tossed from a wrecked car into a rainSoaked, newly plowed field.

Yet I don’t remember driving or riding in any car. I remember nothing— save suddenly walking past the City Limits sign, bare-headed, with the rain gradually washing me clean.

I have been walking since then, aimlessly, trying to remember who and what I am.

The name, Justin Crowe, keeps swimming through my mind. I believe that is my name, though I am not sure. That, and my two hours in the rain, are all I know.

T hose two hours were rather nightmarish.

I kept walking because I thought that if I did my feet might automatically take me to wherever it is I live. But they didn’t. At least, if they did, I was unable to recognize the address when I passed it.

During the walk I avoided as much as possible what few people I saw abroad in the rain so late at night. Without a hat in the steady downpour, with my clothes as soaked as if I’d fallen into the lake with them on, wandering aimlessly—I knew I’d attract a lot of attention.

But it seems to me I attracted more than I should have.

That policeman I passed shortly after getting into the city proper! I thought for a moment I was going to be arrested, there.

He saw me before I saw him, I guess. Anyhow, I looked up to see him standing



in the rays of a street light half a block ahead of me, watching me intently.

I started to cross the street. But that would have looked suspicious, of course. So, after a pause, I went on toward him.

How he stared at me! He kept his head lowered a little, with his eyes peering out from under the vizor of his slicker-protected uniform cap. When I kept my head down too, I could see him stoop a bit to try to look up more squarely at my face.

He didn’t try to stop me, though I was sure I would feel his hand on my shoulder. But he looked at me till I was out of sight in the steady rain. I glanced back twice to see, and I know.

It was that way with the few others I passed in the rain-drenched darkness. Without exception they seemed very much excited by the sight of me. One woman screamed a little, and turned and ran from me. Two men, of the dozen or so I walked past, exclaimed something or other aloud, and hastily crossed the street.

I suppose they thought I was drunk. That would be the natural thought when you see a bare-headed man wandering with soaked garments in the pouring rain. But would a drunken man affect passersby quite so much?

One other theory has occurred to me. I don’t like it a bit. But I am forced to consider.it because of the way my presence appears to disturb people. That is, that I am some notorious bandit.

Am I, in my real, conscious life, some widely photographed public enemy? Is my face known, and feared, by all in the city? That would account for the excitement the mere sight of me has aroused in most of the people I’ve encountered. But—if that is true, wouldn’t the patrolman have arrested me?

Certainly it is impossible for a man to be in a more miserable position than I.

I am cold.

The rain is not a particularly cold rain, nor is it the pelting, penetrating kind. Still, with no protection from it, I am cold. My fingers feel like numb sticks as I write.

I am literally soaked.

My clothes stream water in a pool on the tiled floor of the telegraph office as I sit here with the rain making a temporary wall of water on the glass between me and the chilly dawn. Soon I’ll be out in it again....

I am shelterless.

I don’t know where I live, and I can’t seek lodgings for the night because I have no money with me. In fact, I have nothing with me. Not one thing is in my pocket! Isn’t that odd? Ill or well, with mind conscious or a blank, a man of forty or so, as I judge myself to be, should have something in his pockets. But in mine there is not one thing. Not a handkerchief, not a knife, not a coin or a key or a pencil.

I could try to beg enough for a bed, I suppose. But I shrink from the thought after the way people have acted at the sight of me. If I approached a person for a quarter, bare-headed, drenched, at this hour of the morning, that person might knock me down or run.

No, there seems nothing to do but keep on trying to find out who and what I am and where I live. Perhaps it will come in a flash at any moment.

This writing, in fact, is being done in the hope that I can identify myself.

Outside in the storm I paused before the big window of this all-night telegraph office. The sight of the piled telegraph blanks, and the pencils on their little chains, and the chairs and desks for writing, gave me the idea.

There is nothing like writing for recapturing a lost idea. Sit down com590


posedly, scrawl on paper anything that comes into your mind—and eventually you may trace your lost idea from the scraps.

That was my notion. So I came in here and seated myself and started to scribble....

But I must say I have learned nothing so far. I still know only that two hours ago I was passing the City Limits sign, disheveled, dirty, bare-headed, with empty pockets. I still have no idea of my identity save that I think my name is Justin Crowe....

I believe I’m going to have to get out of here pretty soon.

Since I entered, the girl and the man in charge of the place have kept looking at me suspiciously. Now they are standing together behind the breast-high counter a few feet from the line of desks where I sit. They are whispering to each other and looking at me.

I have kept my head down as I write, because the way the people on the streets acted at sight of me has persisted in my mind. The two behind the counter are trying to see my face more clearly. But for a little while longer I can probably stay here, filling one telegraph blank after another with my scrawls, trying to locate myself.

Fishing for memory! Catching at straws!

One straw is the rain, drumming on the deserted sidewalk outside, trickling in dreary rivulets down the plate-glass. I’ve heard that, and seen that, somewhere before. It has been recently, and it was during a crucial time in my life.

The rain! Trying to tell me something! But what?

The two at the counter are going to put an end to this. The girl, a slight, rather pretty blond, has cleared her

throat nervously. The man, a darkhaired youngster with black cloth guards on his sleeves, is peering at me more intently.

I am keeping my head stubbornly close to the paper I write on, so that all they can see is the top of my head. But I can’t sit this way all night....

"Would you like to send a telegram?”

The girl has just asked me that. And I see the man’s hand moving a little at the counter as though he were reaching for a gun.

"Would you like to send a telegram, sir?”

Well, I must either pretend business in here, or get out. And I can’t pretend business because there is no money in my pockets. I’ll simply tell my predicament and ask to stay in here till dawn and the end of the rain....

I am a. notorious criminal! An escaped killer, or a nationally known bandit, or something of the kind! It is no longer possible to doubt it.

I have just lifted my head to stare at the two and speak to them. And they acted even more bewilderingly than those I passed on the dark streets.

The girl has fainted. Fainted dead away! I heard her body thump on the floor behind the counter. And the man, with a thin, high scream, has fled. He ran toward the back of the place. I heard a rear door slam.

What in God’s name am I? Public Enemy Number 1?

I could certainly loot this place, if I wished! They have turned it over to me utterly. If I am a notorious criminal, I should have a desire to loot it. But I haven’t....

However, a little money from their cash-drawer would come in handy. I could get a hotel room for the rest of the



night. Also, I will take more blanks and one of these pencils. I still have hopes that writing will ultimately turn the key of memory....

The cash-drawer was locked. And I couldn’t get it open. Shouldn’t I have been able to break open a cash-drawer if I were a criminal?

Anyhow, I couldn’t, and now I am out in the night again, sheltered from the rain in a store doorway. I am writing this against the glass panel of the door. I left the telegraph office hurriedly, afraid that the clerk would be back with the police at any moment.

I suppose arrest would be one solution of my immediate problem. In a jail I would at least have shelter for the night.

But if I am a sought-after criminal, I may get more than a night’s shelter! I may get life imprisonment or the chair!

But this type of writing is doing nothing for me. It is not my intention to write of the present. I want to write of the past—what scraps I can remember— and try to place myself. However—I can’t even remember scraps. What a hell I’m in!

That rain! Drumming down! Beating down! Striking in straight, windless lances, streaming over the glass of windows!

What is if trying to tell me? Where, recently, and under what significant circumstances, did I see rain streaming drearily over a window like that, and hear it drum in the hard streets? Did I have an automobile accident and skid in the rain, that it is so deeply impressed in my mind?

But I am forced to discard the accident theory entirely. As far as I can tell by feeling over myself with my miserable Cold fingers, there isn’t a bruise on me. I am quite thin, almost emaciated, but I am undeniably whole.

The rain... trying to tell me something....

1 am going to have to move again. A watchman, with a raincoat glistening like burnished ebony, is coming along this row of stores trying each door in turn. He mustn’t see me here, hatless, dripping. I’d be turned over to the police at once. Then—what? Relief from my homelessness for the night, and quick identification with the morning? Or a desperado’s death in the chair?

If I only knew! But I can’t even guess. Another half-hour has passed. I seem to have been walking toward the outskirts of the city. (I wonder what city it is?) For the buildings now are lower, with more vacant lots between them. Behind me the rain-soaked sky is a faint bowl of light—the reflection of the many lights burning in a city even in the dawn hours. Before me is no light in the sky.

I have made no attempt to guide my steps. I have still let my feet alone, in the hope that they would follow some rut of habit buried from my conscious mind, and take me to where I belong. For the first time I have had a faint feeling that perhaps they were doing just that.

I have been walking a pretty straight path in the last half-hour—wandering in this easterly direction from the telegraph office with only a few digressions north or south. Do my legs know where they are taking me? Have I a home here in the suburbs? Will I recognize it if my feet, remembering more than my brain, take me to it?

During my walk I have passed no persons this time save two patrolmen. One of these stopped and stared after me as I tramped along in the drumming rain. The other came up as if to hail me, then let me go without a word after he’d got



within a few yards of me. Both acted oddly, but neither made any effort to arrest me. And wouldn’t you think, if I were a wanted criminal, I would be taken to a cell at once?

It is very confusing....

1 am in a restaurant now. Not an allnight one. The restaurant is dark and no one is in it but myself. I broke into it through the glass front door, risking arrest. I had to get in out of the maddeningly monotonous rain. I am so wet and cold and desperate.

Above all, I am cold. So cold!

I am writing on a table beside the front window now, on more of the purloined telegraph blanks, with a street lamp outside giving me a fair amount of light.

There is something of frenzy in,my resolve to write till I force an unwilling clue to my identity out of my reluctant memory. I’m getting desperate now. I must unlock my mind—and do it soon. For a new factor has entered my maddening situation.

I’m getting sleepy. But it’s not exactly sleepiness that recurrently locks my muscles and makes my eyes blank. It seems to be Something deeper than mere drowsiness. It is almost as though I were drugged.

Whatever it is, I have an intuitive feeling that I won’t be able to fight it off indefinitely. And I’m clutching to the hope that my scribbling will yet find a way out for me. Hence—I scribble, although every atom of me urges me to drop the worn pencil and give up the attempt.

Again, however, I note that I am futilely writing nothing but my present experiences. Not once has a word come through that lights up a bit of my past.

Just one contains some slight meaning that stirs my mind sluggishly.

Rain.

Rain, rain, rain....

Thrumming in the streets like skeleton fingers on a mighty muted drum. Transilluminated by the infrequent, distant lightning. Crawling greasily down the window-glass. Softening the earth... * What is the rain trying to tell me? Who are you, Justin Crowe, Justin Crowe?...

I am so sleepy. And so cold....

I have been walking again. Walking through the drumming, somber rain. I am far from the restaurant. Where? I don’t know. But nearer still to the outskirts of the city. I am sitting on the running-board of a muddy touring-car in a small garage and repair shop, with a raw electric globe lighting the place—and a small, glassed-in office at one side.

A man sits at a scarred desk in the office, leaning back in a swivel chair with his feet up. He is asleep, with his mouth open. Evidently I saw that he was asleep and took the opportunity to get a few more minutes of shelter from the rain.

I say "evidently”, for I have no recollection of coming into this small, unkempt-looking all-night place. My mind has been playing tricks again, this time in the present. I am beginning to forget, now, the things I have just done!

I remember feeling drowsy—almost drugged—back in the restaurant. I have a dim recollection of getting up from the table with my scribbled telegraph blanks tightly clutched in my stick-like fingers.

Then a blank, with only a few threads woven through it.

A few threads. Hazy pictures half held by memory. I heard a scream once, seeming to come from far away although I was sure it was from the lips of someW. T.—4



one near at hand. I recall thinking several times that surely I was going in a remembered direction because my feet were carrying me ever more swiftly and surely....

Where? Well, I still can’t guess.

I also remember noting that the rain showed n'o signs of slackening. Its steady tattoo still sounds, in fact, as though never in the rest of time would it stop.

The rain. Crawling down the windowpane. Softening the earth. Softening the earth....

Now where did that thought spring from? Why does the perfectly obvious and ordinary fact that a drenching rain softens earth seem to have such meaning for me? And what is the meaning?

The man in the little office has stirred in his chair. His mouth is no longer open. I think he is coming out of his doze.

No matter. Surely he will not deny me shelter. Surely he will let me spend the few remaining hours of night in here —let me lie in a corner while I give in to the terrific drowsiness that sweeps over me in waves.

I believe my legs have carried me back toward the same road out of the city by which I entered it. There is a house across the street that looks rather familiar. It is a bungalow, with a slate roof. Very familiar....

Wait, now! Wait! Can it be... is it my house, by any chance? Is that why it seems familiar?...

No, I remember now. I passed it over three hours ago when I found myself entering the city limits with the dirt of some open field on my clothes. That is the only reason it strikes a faint note in my memory.

I came in by this street. I seem to be going out again by this street.

W. T.—5

The drowsiness. It is sweeping over me again....

I am broad awake now!

T he man in the office just woke up.

He blinked at me through the glass of the office, took his feet down from the desk and started to get up. I could read his thought and his intention.

He thought I was a customer who had just driven in, and was coming to see what I wanted.

Then a most amazing expression came into his face. Sleep left it with a terrifying rapidity. His eyes went wide as he stared at me, and I saw his mouth open. He shouted something, turned and ran. But there was no way to run, behind him. There was nothing but the office wall. He bumped into it, turned, ran dazedly toward the door which opens just before me, then shouted again. He looked around for all the world like an animal mad with fear, running back and forth in insane little steps.

Then he picked up the chair, smashed through the big glass street window of the office, and leaped out.

Good God!

Am I an infamous murderer of little children? Have I been a Jack the Ripper, terrorizing this city, known to all in it? Have I a fiend’s face, or a horribly disfiguring scar?

I must see myself! Among the other blankness that makes up that part of my brain which is called memory, there is a blank in the remembrance of what I look like. I may be some Sort of horrible freak, normally hiding from public view, now wandering unaccustomedly abroad.

There should be a mirror in one of the cars parked in here, or over a washstand at the rear of the garage. I’ll hunt one, if I can overcome this damned drowsiness which is again attacking me....



T he drowsiness, it appears, conquered me. Also the persistent affliction of my amnesia.

I am again in a far place, with no knowledge of how I got here. Again I have walked in my sleep—if the profound, drugged drowsiness into which I dropped can be called by the trivial name of sleep.

And again my legs automatically bore me away from the heart of the city.

I am in the doorway of the very barber shop in which I saw the clock hours ago —my first conscious memory. It was five minutes past midnight then. It is twenty minutes of four in the morning now.

It is still raining, raining, raining!

As on all other window-panes, the rain drops roll bleakly down the window of this barber shop. As on all other windowpanes.

As on the window-pane of that place... that other place....

Where? And what happened to me there?

I hardly dare even think it to myself, but it seems to me that memory is stirring at last. A faint stirring, as yet telling me nothing, but beginning to whisper, to hint.

Perhaps my dogged persistence in writing whatever I think, whenever I get the chance, is beginning to bear fruit. I shall continue it as long as my cold fingers can hold this pencil stub, and as long as my sheaf of blanks holds out.. '..

I am sure, now, that my body knows where it is supposed to go, even if my brain does not. Yes, my feet know the way home. I am sure that if I trust to them, as a sleepy rider trusts his horse to find the way in the night, I shall be all right.

I have a compelling impulse to keep on walking out into the rain, into the

blackness that comes before dawn—toward the open country.

That impulse fights with the increasingly frequent spells of drowsiness. Yet, does it fight with it? With my mind locked in blankness, I have come this far along a direction I instinctively feel is right. That would indicate that it does not matter whether I sleep or stay awake: I will still find my way home.

But I don’t want to succumb to the drowsiness! Some dim alarm sounds in me when the drowsiness begins to descend. I feel that I must not give in to it! Why? I don’t know....

Once more I am writing only of present things. I don’t want to. do that. I want to write of the past. The past, and what happened to cause me to be wandering in the rain-beaten night, bareheaded, drenched, and numb with cold.

Rain, beating down. Trickling down a window-pane seen over white-enameled bars....

There!

For an instant memory really cried out. But already the small voice is stilled. And the sleepiness descends....

A quarter of four. Dawn will come soon, in spite of the black rain clouds blanketing the May sky....

Again! Another stirring!

It is May! I know the month, at least! And my name—yes, it must be Justin Crowe!

Now three things have come to me. The month of the year, the conviction that my name is what I first thought it, and the tantalizing small remembrance of seeing, over white-enameled metal bars, a window-pane with rain trickling monotonously down it.

The imperious urge to walk on, farther from the city.... The overwhelming drowsiness....

I can no longer resist....



I T is with wild excitement stirring under the thickening lethargy that chains me, that I write these words!

I am out of the city now. Far from the bather shop. The mud on my feet and legs shows that I have walked for some distance along an open road.

I am standing under a great tree, now, scrawling in the darkness, thinking on paper, with an occasional lightning flash to keep it from being entirely illegible. That is important. I must be able to read what I have written, in the morning, if my maddening amnesia still claims me.

But I am almost too stirred to write, for many faint glimmerings are coming back to me.

The rain-drenched window seen over the white-enameled bars! I am seeing more than that, now. I am seeing a man, near the bars, with a watch in his hand. A man—he is gray-haired, with a little goatee.,..

I am stopped there, but it is the farthest I have yet gone. And in another direction I am progressing.

I know this great tree I’m standing under! I know this road!

The road goes to a summer colony called Gray’s Lake. This big tree marks the half-way spot between Gray’s Lake and the city. The lake is less than two miles ahead, down this straight road, past Rosehill Cemetery and an abandoned church....

The name of the cemetery, the clear memory of the abandoned church— aren’t these things sure proof that my memory is really returning?

I believe I know where I have been heading for. Gray’s Lake. The summer colony there. I must have a cottage on the shore, toward which I have mechanically been traveling since leaving the telegraph office.

But I’m so drowsy! Can I get as far as the lake without dropping in my tracks? I must. Drenched and chilled as I am, the continued exposure might prove fatal.

Home! I’m on my way home now! I know it! I must reach there, and in the morning, with the aid of my scrawling and the familiar things around me, I’ll be able to place myself and my station in life.

But this horrible sleepiness. „ ( „

T he rain is slackening at last. And its slow stopping, like its previous thrumming beat, is trying to tell me something.

The rain—stopping. Something happened that other time, with its stopping. I must do something now, with its cessation. Something.... What?

Drowsy.... Rain stopping.,..

I am sluggishly awake again. Awake —and once more in a black sea of despair and confusion. For my feet, and the compelling drive I thought to be so true, have betrayed me.

I am no longer on the road leading to the lake. I am in a graveyard. Rosehill Cemetery, of course. There is no other along here.

It is so dark that I can barely see the headstones, save when the distant lightning flares. And my eyes are so heavy with the mysterious sleepiness that I see the few remaining blanks I am still stubbornly scribbling on as only vague square blotches. God knows if I’ll ever be able to read the scrawl.

And God knows if the reading will do any good, after all. I am afraid at the moment that it won’t. For I have been betrayed by the subconscious senses I counted on to hasten me home.

Why am I in here, instead of hurrying, a dazed sleepwalker, to the lake?



The drowsiness! I suppose that is the answer. I hope it is. I hope my legs automatically turned me in here, instead of following their former path, because my body has at last rebelled and simply will have the exhausted slumber so long denied it. I would rather believe that than believe my feet do not know the road after all. For if I don’t live at the lake, God knows where I live, and I am lost again....

Only for a few minutes at a time can I stay awake now.

I have been asleep again, and have moved a little farther. But I have not moved out of the cemetery. I am still in that. I am farther from the gate, that is all.

The headstone at my elbow is very white and new-looking. Or perhaps it is white marble, and the drenching rain has washed it to give it that fresh look....

No, it is new. The earth in front of it has no grass on it. It is a new grave.

I must stop this recording of the present. The past! That is the goal.

The past. Rain crawling down a window. Rain stopping. Something that happened when the rain stopped, as it is stopping now. Something I must do now, as it ceases.

A window seen over white-enameled bars. A gray-haired man with a goatee, looking at a watch. Voices....

The past stirs....

Voices!

"How long will it be, doctor?”

Some woman said that. Some woman dear to me!

The lips of the gray-haired man move.

"... matter of minutes.,..”

The voices fade. But no matter. The past is stirring at last. If only my terrific drowsiness will recede for a moment.

New earth before this new headstone. New earth softened by the diminishing rain. Earth scattered and disrupted as though upheaved by a force from underneath. Odd....

But the voices break through again!

I must record this for the morrow:

"The rain is stopping. It will be over in a few minutes.”

The man speaks, snapping shut his watch. "So will his life.”

Now what does that mean? Rain stopping... something happening with the stopping of the rain... something I must do now as the rain stops....

My legs are impelling me toward the broken earth of the new grave. They have betrayed me. My whole struggle has been a failure. I am not going home after all.

I am so drowsy... so cold....

T he above message, scrawled in pencil on sodden telegraph blanks, was found on the morning of May tenth by the watchman at Rosehill Cemetery. It

[THE END]

============================================================
THE CARNIVAL OF DEATH (PART 3)
by Arlton Eadie
============================================================
was found beside a new headstone with the epitaph: Justin B. Crowe, bom March fourth 1895, died May seventh 1935.

Uhe

(Carnival of Death

By ARLTON EADIE

A thrilling mystery story of the present day—an eery adventure with a Golden Mummy, and strange death that walked at night

The Story Thus Far

W [LMER DENTON, a young American archeologist acting for Lord Mounthead, finds a hidden Egyptian tomb containing rich treasures. The Egyptian Government permits Lord

This story began in WKIIU)

Mounthead to keep one of the mummies, which is that of a priest of Anubis, wearing the priest’s high regalia of solid gold.

Denton had found the secret crypt by observing the actions of a mysterious Egyptian, named Kareef, whose groping

TAXES for September 597



fingers touched a secret spring that opened a trap-door from the tomb into the hidden mummy chamber. With fanatic zeal, Kareef warns Denton against despoiling the tomb. And after the Golden Mummy is taken to England, Kareef sends Lord Mounthead a message threat-, ening him with death unless the mummy is returned to Egypt.

At dead of night, Lord Mounthead and Denton capture a marauder in the house, who proves to be a Russian named Boris Matrikoff. Matrikoff is obsessed with the belief that Denton’s discovery of the Golden Mummy was made possible by a tip from him to Lord Mounthead, and that the mummy therefore is rightfully his.

Meanwhile Denton and Lord Mounthead’s daughter Celia have fallen in love. Her stepmother, Lady Thelma (a former actress), tries to break up this affair, prompted by Lord Mounthead’s secretary, Edwin Lorimer, an unscrupulous scoundrel who wants to marry Celia himself and thus gain possession of her fortune. Lorimer holds over Lady Thelma the threat to let Lord Mounthead know that she has never been divorced from her first husband, an actor named Claude Delorme, whom she had believed to be dead when she married Lord Mounthead. But Claude Delorme is alive.

To discredit Denton, Lady Thelma tells Lord Mounthead that Denton has been making love to her; and Lorimer hires an actor to imitate Denton’s voice in a violent love scene with Lady Thelma. Completely fooled, Lord Mounthead orders the young American from the house. But Lorimer has made a bad mistake in his choice of actor, for unwittingly he has picked Claude Delorme, Lady Thelma’s first husband!

Kareef has followed Lord Mounthead to England, and he promises Denton to clear him of his troubles if he will steal

the Golden Mummy for Kareef. Denton refuses. Meanwhile still another claimant of the Golden Mummy appears, in the person of Professor Artemus Figg, who believes he has found the means to restore the mummy to life when it is embalmed with its insides intact, as the Golden Mummy has been.

Lady Thelma’s husband confronts her and demands £5,000 as the price of his silence.

The story continues:

12. Thelma Plans to Pay HE ensuing three days were anxious ones for Lady Thelma. Although she was desperately eager to put into operation the plan suggested to her by the scheming secretary, the absence of Lord Mounthead made it impossible for her to do so. To her intense disappointment, he had been called away that same night to Manchester, where negotiations in connection with a proposed newspaper merger required his personal attention.

Little did the less fortunate people who watched her with envious eyes as she lolled negligently on the cushions of her magnificent limousine — exquisitely gowned, radiantly beautiful, and seemingly without a care in the world—little did they suspect the grisly specter which lurked unseen at her side. Every minute —every hour—brought nearer the time when the silence of Claude Delorme, her legal husband, must be bought or enforced; and as the precious moments slipped by without her being able to make even the first move in Lorimer’s risky game, her fears almost reached the pitch of desperation. If Lord Mounthead did not return in time for her to get possession of a considerable sum of ready money before Delorme made his appearance, nothing short of absolute ruin lay before her.



"What is keeping him so long in the Midlands?” She had asked the question a hundred times of Edwin Lorimer.

"Important business,” had been his invariable reply. "He will be back in time for the costume ball.”

The night of the costume ball was the night on which Claude Delorme would have to be paid. Would she have time to put her plan into execution before the blow fell?

It was Celia who at length set her doubts at rest. Little as she loved her stepdaughter, Thelma could almost have hugged the girl in her delight when she came into her bedroom on the morning of the same day on which the carnival was to be held.

"Surprize, Thelma,” Celia gayly cried, waving a telegram over her head. "Daddy’s coming home!”

"When?” asked the other quickly.

"Why, today, of course.”

"What time, girl—what time?” Thelma demanded with an impatience which she did not endeavor to conceal.

"He will be home in time for lunch. Why, what’s the matter?” Celia said, as her stepmother sank back on her pillow with a gasping sob of relief. "Aren’t you feeling well?”

"A—a sudden faintness—don’t mind me—I’ll be better presently,” she smiled as she gave the assurance, and for once her smile was genuine. "I suppose it was the sudden joy of hearing of your dear father’s return.”

C elia’s air was very thoughtful as she made her way downstairs. In her wildest dreams she had never credited the butterfly-like Lady Thelma with such a depth of affection for her elderly husband. But she noticed, however, that her stepmother seemed to have quite recovered her customary dictatorial air long before Lord Mounthead actually arrived.

Luncheon over, the newspaper magnate immediately made his way to his study, where he was joined shortly afterward by Thelma.

He looked up from the pile of documents before him as she entered; his first casual glance deepened into a look of concern as he noted for the first time the pallor of her drawn features and her feverishly glittering eyes.

"You are not looking well, Thelma,” he said gently, patting her hand as it lay on the arm of his chair.

"Well, I have been a little bit worried while you’ve been away. I’ve been thinking of all that money that you have in the safe behind the bookcase. You really should not let me into your secrets, you know.” She pinched his shaven cheek with an air of playful remonstrance.

Lord Mounthead laughed easily.

"No fear of anyone stealing that! Why, the money is as safe there as in the Bank of England vaults.”

"I know, I know,” she hastened to say. "But last night I had a terrible dream-”

"Dream!” He uttered the word in a tone of good-natured ridicule. "What did you have for your supper—lobster mayonnaise?”

She pursed up her lips in a petulant moue.

"Now you’re laughing at me!” she cried reproachfully. Then she came closer to him, and laid her hand on his shoulder. "But really, John, I had a most awful dream. I thought that someone had found out the combination of that lock and had stolen all dear Celia’s money! It was a positive nightmare—I woke all trembling with fright. What if it should be real?”

He shook his head. 'Nonsense,” he said decisively.

"Well, it has made me quite nervous, anyway,” she went on. "I feel I shall



never be at ease until you have opened the safe and I have felt the money with my own hands. Otherwise I shan’t enjoy myself one little bit at the ball tonight.”

"But the money is safe enough,” he assured her with a smile.

"How do you know unless you look? I must satisfy myself that it is really there. I must see it—I must feel it widi my own hands.” She brushed her warm red lips on his cheek. "Surely you would not have me a nervous wreck, tonight of all nights, just for the sake of a moment’s work in opening the safe?”

With a tolerant shrug he rose to his feet and unlocked the secret door. She stood like a statue—her white teeth gripping her under-lip, her dark eyes watching the tiny figures on the dials come and go under die practised touch of her husband’s fingers. The door swung open.

"There!” laughed Mounthead, pointing to the piles of packages on the greenpainted shelves. "Are you satisfied now, you silly little dear?”

She gave a low cry of pretended relief.

"So it was only a dream after all!” she breathed. "Oh, I am so pleased to think that dear girl’s fortune is quite safe!”

She drew near to the great open door, and, reaching her slender white arm within, ran her fingers over the top layer of the precious wads; taking them up and fingering the seals as though to satisfy herself that they were really intact.

"Yes, it was only a stupid dream after all,” she murmured as she began to replace the wads one by one. "But I was so frightened, John dear—so frightened —ah!...”

She placed her hand to her head and staggered slightly. In an instant he caught her swaying figure in his arms. But she waved him away as she supported herself by holding the door of the safe.

"It is nothing,” she told him quickly, “A glass of water-”

"Here’s something that will meet the case better than water.” He turned his back as he spoke and took a decanter and siphon from a cupboard in the lower part of his desk. Splashing a generous dose of the spirit into a tumbler, he filled it up with soda-water.

But before he could turn again, she had raised the hand in which she had retained a single packet of notes and had thrust the money into the bosom of her loosely fitting wrapper.

"Drink this,” said Mounthead, offering die glass.

She took the merest sip and then put it aside.

"I feel better now—a mere passing dizziness—anxiety, I suppose,” she told him with a smile. "But I’m all right now —quite all right. Now let me see you lock up your funny old safe, with all its money and things. Then I never wish to see the horrid thing again.”

He obeyed with the air of one who humors a wayward child. Then, passing his hands fondly over her dark curls, he led her to the door.

"A strange girl, Thelma,” he muttered to himself as he returned to his desk after she had gone. "Innocent as a child—but a darling child all the same.”

He might have found reason to revise his opinion had he seen the expression on the face of the "innocent child” as she made her way to the upper floor. The smile on Thelma’s face was a curious blending of triumph and contempt—triumph at her own cleverness— contempt for the old fool she had outwitted. She felt not the slightest compunction or remorse either for the girl whom she had robbed or for the man whose blind trust she had abused. All she thought of was the security that the stolen money would bring. For her past experience of Claude Delorme’s uncontrollable temper told her that he would



not spare her if she failed to satisfy his demands. She would hand him the notes tonight, and would be rid of him for ever.

R eaching her own room, she carefully ■ locked the door, then crossed to her writing-table and drew out the packet and read the superscription on the envelope:

The Honorable Celia Mounthead, it ran, and in the comer, enclosed in brackets, was the amount that the packet contained: [£5,000].

"Just the right sum that I require,” she laughed to herself as she broke the seals and extracted the crisp squares of engraved paper. Seating herself, she drew a sheet of scented notepaper toward her and quickly wrote a few words:

The enclosed is more than full value for your "play.” Take it, and never trouble me again.

Without troubling to sign the abrupt missive, she placed it with the wad of notes and thrust them together into a large envelope, which she addressed to Delorme by name. Then she struck a match, lit the taper which stood in a silver candlestick on her desk, and took up a stick of delicately tinted sealing-wax and held it in the flame.

At that moment there came a knock at the door.

With an exclamation of impatience, Thelma laid the sealing-wax aside and crossed to the door.

"Why do you interrupt me now, Annette?” she cried fretfully, as she saw her maid. "Don’t you know that I’m not to be disturbed unless I ring?”

The maid spread her hands with an apologetic gesture which alone would have betrayed her nationality.

"Alois certainement, madame,” she answered. "But you asked me to inform you the moment your carnival dress arriyed,”

Thelma gave a little cry of delight.

"It has come at last?” she cried eagerly.

"In madame’s boudoir.”

"I must try it on at once. Come with me, Annette.”

A minute after mistress and maid had disappeared in the direction of the boudoir, Celia Mounthead entered the room. Seeing it empty, she was about to go, when her eyes chanced to fall upon the envelope from which the notes had been abstracted. To her amazement she saw it was addressed to herself, and that the seals were broken.

"Strange!” she murmured. Her wonder deepened as she caught sight of the amount written in the corner. "Who on earth lias been presenting me with £5,000?”

The wonder in her eyes changed to suspicion as she noticed the second envelope, the lighted taper, and the stick of half-melted wax.

"Claude Delorme she read slowly. "I was not aware that Thelma had a brother.”

She rapidly counted the crisp banknotes. £5,000—the very sum written on the envelope addressed to herself! A hard look came into Celia’s fine eyes as the horrible significance of her discovery rushed upon her. The beautiful girl whom her father had married was a thief!

For a minute she stood undecided how to act, her mind busy with the many aspects of this new problem. Worthless though she might be, her father loved his young wife with a love that was as deep as it was sincere; to accuse her of the theft would be to break his heart. At the same time Celia had no intention of alLady Thelma



lowing the unknown Claude Delorme to take money which, she was sure, rightfully belonged to her. But she must act, and act quickly, for Thelma might return at any moment.

Urged by a sudden, unthinking impulse, she tore out two advertisement pages from a periodical lying near by and quickly substituted them for the notes in the envelope intended—as she assumed—for Thelma’s brother. The money she placed in her own pocket and quickly quitted the room.

Only just in time, however. In the corridor she encountered Thelma, dressed in a gorgeous robe reminiscent of ancient Egypt.

"What do you think of my dress for tonight, Celia?” cried Thelma, with a laugh.

It required a strong effort of will for the other girl to steady her voice as she asked:

"Whom is it supposed to represent?”

“Cleopatra,” was the gay reply.

For a moment Celia looked at the glittering figure before her, and as she looked an expression of cold contempt came into her eyes.

"A fitting character—for you!” she said, and walked along the corridor to her own room, to wrestle with the new problem which confronted her.

Lady Thelma watched her disappearing figure with narrowed eyes, biting her red lips in puzzled thought. Did this seemingly unsophisticated girl suspect her secret?

She dismissed the idea with a laughing shrug, then turned and entered her room. The envelopes still lay on the table where she had left them, and, little dreaming of their having been interfered with, she quickly sealed the one for Delorme and locked it away in a drawer.

There was a radiant smile on her lips as she replaced the keys.

"This night will see the end,” she murmured to her reflection in the long glass. "In a few hours my troubles and difficulties will be past.”

She breathed the words in light-hearted triumph. Little did she dream of the manner in which they were to be fulfilled.

13. The Costume Ball

T was a large and merry party of revelers who began to foregather in the huge ballroom of Mounthead Chase at nine o’clock that night. To say that the head of a huge newspaper group is "a power in the land” is but to repeat a superfluous truism; yet few people realize how great and how widespread that power is. Many people had likened Lord Mounthead to a colossus "bestriding this narrow world,” but the simile, though apt enough, was scarcely complete. He was a colossus with three feet; one foot in the financial world, one in the political arena, and the third no less firmly planted in society—and not on the fringe of it, either. The list of guests that night read something like a miniature Who’s Who, and many of the names they bore were only a shade less famous than those of the historical personages of bygone ages, whose habiliments and identities they had assumed for the time being.

Each guest had been requested to appear in the guise of the character in history whom he or she most admired, and the result in some instances was rather quaint; in others, the assumed character seemed to fit like the proverbial glove.

For instance, the personality of a famous Chancellor of the Exchequer was scarcely disguised at all by the cocked hat, gray overcoat and top-boots of Napoleon; while as Robespierre, a wellknown Labor leader looked quite as sinister, and may have been as incorruptible, as the original. A celebrated



playwright and novelist affected the character of William Shakespeare, whom he strongly resembled—in features; another man of letters, noted for his brilliant epigrams, had insinuated his by no means lissom figure into pink fleshings in order to appear as a very jovial Bacchus. It was less obvious why Christopher Columbus should have been the choice of a prominent theatrical producer, although mature reflection might bring the suspicion that the connection between the English stage and the man who discovered America was not so remote, after all. A new-fledged R.A. of Futuristic leanings very modestly had attired himself as Rembrandt; while much amusement was caused when an exPremier appeared as a Welsh bard, bearing a lyre which gave the punsters of the opposite party plenty of scope for their wit.

Appropriately enough, Lord Mounthead had chosen to represent William Caxton, the first English printer. The rich costume of Egypt’s Queen of Many Lovers displayed Lady Thelma’s dark, imperious charms in full measure—too much so, in fact, to meet with her husband’s entire approval. He surveyed the filmy draperies dubiously when she appeared before him previous to entering the ballroom.

"Very pretty, Thelma, very pretty indeed. But—ah—I hope you won’t think me old-fashioned, but was it really necessary to keep so closely to historical accuracy in your—ah—costume?”

She patted him playfully with her ostrich-feather fan.

"Don’t be silly, John. The costume is quite all right. Do you want me to go in full armor as Joan of Arc, and feel like a tinned sardine all the evening? This costume is an exact copy of Alexandre Cabanel’s famous picture of Cleo- ^ patra poisoning her slaves.”

"Maybe, my dear, maybe.” It was clear that Lord Mounthead was far from convinced. "But you must understand that the climate and—ah—public opinion were very different in ancient Egypt. Do you not think that your dress might be— ah—eked out, as it were, by the addition of—ah—a jumper or something?”

"Jumpers weren’t invented in those days, you silly man! I tell you there’s nothing wrong with the costume—besides, I shall wear the golden breastplate and the rest of the jewels.”

"What jewels?” he asked quickly.

"The ornaments of the Golden Mummy, of course. They will give the finishing touch.”

Lord Mounthead shook his head slowly, his gray brows knitted in a frown.

"I don’t like the idea, Thelma,” he said in a tone unusually gruff.

Her dark eyes widened as she turned them on him.

"What idea?”

"The idea of your dancing decked in the trappings of the sacred mummy. I’m far from superstitious, but I don’t like it, nevertheless, and I hope you will find some other ornaments for tonight.”

Lady Thelma pouted like a spoilt child.

"But you don’t understand, John. I had counted on wearing those jewels, and I told the costumers that they need not trouble to send paste ones to go with the costume. I shall look simply absurd if you will not let me wear the ornaments of the mummy. Who ever heard of Cleopatra without her diadem bearing the sacred asp?—and without a single jewel?” She stamped her tiny sandaled foot on the floor. "Surely you’re not going to spoil my enjoyment for the sake of a mere whim? Haven’t I more right to them than that wretched, deadand-gone mummy?”

He shook his head slightly as he put out his hand toward the ’phone.



"I’ll ask the costumers to send ornaments suitable for the character at once, Thelma,” he told her gently. "They should arrive in less than an hour.”

She snatched the receiver from him in a sudden blaze of fury.

"I’m not going to appear before my guests wearing a lot of cheap paste jewels!” she cried. "If I cannot wear the real ones I shall not enter the ballroom tonight!”

"But, Thelma-”

Her eyes were flaming as she evaded his outstretched arms.

"Don’t talk to me—don’t touch me! You don’t love me—no, not one little bit! I believe you think more of your moldy old mummy than you do of me!”

She threw herself into a chair and burst into a flood of tears. Lord Mounthead gave a resigned shrug as he took out his bunch of keys and walked toward the door of his private museum.

"Very well, Thelma. As you insist on wearing them, so let it be.”

"Oh, you darling!” she jumped to her feet, her eyes suspiciously dry in an instant, and threw her slender white arms round the old man’s neck as she kissed him rapturously. Then, slipping her arm in his, she passed through the door to the room where the Golden Mummy lay.

I N sharp contrast with the hum and bustle of the rest of the house, the museum was very still and silent. Their footsteps echoed hollowly as they made their way across the polished floor. In the dim light the painted figures of the ancient gods upon the walls seemed to look down threateningly on the mortals who dared to thrust themselves into theif august presence. The pair of sphinxes which crouched, as though on guard, on either side of the huge sarcophagus seemed to defy them with their stony stare.

But Thelma had no thought for anything save the jewels; no eyes for anything save the pool of leaping, manyhued fires which flashed back, from a thousand glittering facets, the single electric globe suspended above the mummy.

"How beautiful!” She clasped her hands in ecstasy at the sight. "And you were going to deny them to me! Come, give them quickly, and let me put them on. Our guests will be waiting.”

The man made a motion to obey; then paused and looked at her fixedly.

"You still wish it, Thelma?” he asked slowly.

"Of course,” she cried impatiently. "Hurry!”

Something very like a sigh escaped his lips.

"Then you do so at your own risk.”

Thelma uttered a long, contemptuous laugh.

"Risk?” she mocked. "What risk is there? Really, John, you make me tired with your silly superstitions!”

Without another word Mounthead stepped up to the granite sarcophagus, lifted the jeweled diadem from the head of the mummy and placed it on the head of his wife. At the same moment that it touched her raven curls a deep-throated, booming growl sounded in the distance.

'What’s that?” cried Mounthead, starting.

"Only a storm coming up,” laughed the girl lightly. "Nothing very wonderful in that, at this time of the year. The weather reports said we should have local thunder. Really, John,” she looked at him with smiling contempt, "your nerves seem all-”

He silenced her with a quick, fierce gesture. His face was pale and drawn; his eyes held a look of anticipatory dread.

"There is another sound besides the thunder. Listen!”



In the deep silence which followed, a long-drawn howling floated to their straining ears.

"Jackals!” breathed the man in a hoarse whisper.

"More likely some wretched dog that has strayed into the grounds,” she flung back impatiently. "For heaven’s sake hurry up and give me the rest of the jewels. If I stay here much longer I shall get as jumpy as you are.”

"Take them yourself,” he muttered sullenly. "I will have nothing more to do with the rifling of that corpse.”

For a moment she looked at him in surprize. Then, seeing that he was in earnest, she quickly unfastened the jeweled breast ornament and placed it on her own bosom. She did the same with the bracelets and anklets. Lastly she unbuckled the massive belt from the mummy, and, with the ruby-hilted dagger attached, deftly fastened it around her own slender waist.

And all the while the distant howling continued like the wail of a lost soul wind-driven through the night.

"There!” she cried triumphantly, standing up and twisting her sinuous body so that the jewels sparkled like living flames. "What was there to be afraid of? See, I have taken them myself.”

"Then take this also!” said Lord Mounthead grimly.

She glanced down at the object which he had thrust into her hand. Her lips parted in a gasp of fear; her slender body shivered as though enveloped by a chilly draft.

"What is this for?” she demanded hoarsely.

"You may need it before long,” was the quiet answer.

It was a small silver-plated revolver, loaded in every chamber.

14. Denton Pays a Visit uring his visit to a celebrated firm of theatrical costumers that afternoon, Wilmer Denton had been much exercised in his mind to decide on the historical character in which he should sink his own identity for the purpose of visiting the fancy dress ball that night. There had been a puzzled frown on his rather good-looking features as he had turned over the leaves of the large album of photographs which they brought out for his inspection.

It was necessary that the character he chose should admit of sufficient facial disguise to render him unrecognizable to Lord Mounthead and Lady Thelma when they came face to face with him, as they certainly would do in the course of the evening.

"I reckon this is the guy who never told a lie, isn’t it?” he asked, pointing to a photograph of a man in a white wig and square-cut coat.

"Yes, sir. That’s George Washington,” the man had answered. "A very suitable character for an American, if I may venture an opinion.”

Wilmer shook his head.

"Couldn’t live up to the character,” he confessed sadly. "Besides, I must go as a character who wears whiskers or something. As a matter of fact, I don’t want people to know who I am.”

The man turned the leaves rapidly.

"Why not Henry V? If you keep the vizor of the helmet closed-”

"Guess I don’t require a muzzle as yet.” Wilmer looked with disfavor on the steelclad figure. "Besides, I’d want a tin-opener every Wilmer Denton



time I wanted to get at my cigarette-case. No, I don’t think I’ll hire out that onepiece tin suit to go prancing around in. Show me something easier. Here—who’s this guy?”

He pointed to a romantic-looking gentleman, the most prominent features of whose costume were a voluminous cloak, boots which reached to the thigh, a threecornered hat and a black mask which covered most of his face.

"That is Claude Duval, the dashing highwayman,” said the man.

"He’s a sure-fire real historical character?”

"Oh, quite, sir—quite. He was hanged at Tyburn.”

"That’s good enough for me. I don’t much fancy dancing in a pair of spurs like that—it kinda makes you unpopular with the ladies. But I guess that mask is just the eel’s eyebrows. It's Claude Duval for mine.”

The man very obligingly removed the offending articles from the top-boots, and Wilmer, realizing that he was cutting things rather fine with regard to time, decided to allow himself to be arrayed as the notorious Knight of the Road there and then.

"Will you wear the wig and make-up now?” asked the man as he slipped the sword-belt over Wilmer’s shoulder and thrust a brace of long-barreled pistols into his sash.

"May as well have the full issue,” said the amused American. "Anyone who catches sight of me on the way down will only think I’ve escaped from a circus.”

When he looked in the glass ten minutes later he gave an exclamation of satisfaction. His own fresh complexion had been darkened to a swarthy tint; a mass of coal-black ringlets fell over his shoulders; a debonair upcurled mustache

and imperial decorated his upper lip and chin; a pair of haughtily frowning, heavy eyebrows completely altered the expression of his eyes.

"Why, mammy wouldn’t know her darling boy if she saw him now,” he declared. "I reckon that mask won’t be needed most of the time. I look a real, blown-in-the-glass, dyed-in-the-wool bad man from the back blocks. The butler’ll sure put the silver into safe deposit when he sees me around!”

T hanks to the invitation-card which Celia had procured for him, he entered Mounthead Chase unquestioned. He felt his heart beating fast as he approached the dais where the hostess was receiving the guests.

"Whom have we here?” smiled Lady Thelma, as she looked at the masked figure with, he thought, some suspicion.

"Claude Duval, may it please your ladyship,” he answered in a deep, assumed voice. As he raised his eyes to hers he saw, with a start that he was unable to suppress, that she was wearing the jewels of the Golden Mummy.

"A rare filcher of purses—and hearts!” she said lightly.

"Thou art right, gadzooks,” he laughed as he bent and raised her extended hand to his lips with the gallantry which his assumed character seemed to demand. "By my halidom! Claude was some boy!”

He thought he saw her start as he uttered the word "Claude,” and it seemed as if a new and more intense interest came into her eyes. But the next moment she had dismissed him with a smiling nod and was welcoming a truly gigantic "Bluff King Hal,” who had followed him in.

He had not the slightest difficulty in recognizing Celia in the guise of the hapTHE CARNIVAL OF DEATH


less Lady Jane Grey, but he thought it best to wait until some time had passed before accosting her with a playful "Stand and deliver!”

"So it’s you?” she said, her somewhat troubled expression giving place to a smile of relief. "I should never have recognized you.”

"All the better. I was just speculating whether your stepmammy did, though; she gave me a pretty cute look as I paid my respects to her.” He looked at her anxiously. "But you’re looking worried.”

"I am worried,” she whispered back, with a hasty glance round the crowded room. "But there are too many eyes on us here. I will see you in the conservatory—you know it?”

"I’m not likely to forget it!” Wilmer muttered grimly, as he moved away.

He was eagerly awaiting her at the appointed time, and presently he saw her figure flitting down the fern-shaded aisle.

"I made such a terrible discovery this afternoon,” were her first words. "Lady Thelma is a crook!”

To her surprize the American took the news quite unmoved.

"I’ve suspected that for a long while —ever since she swore I’d kissed her when I hadn’t,” he said calmly. "But tell me what makes you think so.”

Quickly she told him the bare outline of her discovery of the stolen notes in the envelope addressed to Claude Delorme. At the conclusion Wilmer stroked his false mustache thoughtfully.

"Looks to me like a reg’lar frameup,” was his comment. "Have you ever heard of this Claude Delorme before?”

She shook her head.

"Was there any address on the envelope?”

"No—just the name.”

"Then it’s evident that she didn’t intend to mail it to him. In that case he

may be among the guests tonight, and she’s going to hand it to him on the quiet. I think I’ll keep a watchful optic glued on the doings of Queen Cleopatra.”

"Of course you know that 'Delorme’ was Thelma’s name before she married,” the girl explained. "This Claude may be her brother.”

"Or someone even dearer than a brother,” said Wilmer, with a baffling smile.

He was about to go when she called him back and handed him the wad of banknotes which she had taken from the envelope when she had substituted the sheets of newspaper.

"Will you take care of this for me?” she asked. "I feel nervous carrying such a large sum about with me.”

"Sure,” he agreed readily, as he placed the money in one of his capacious pockets. "I’ll return it to you when we have our last dance together. So good-bye for the present, Celia. I’ll probably have some news to tell you when I see you again. I’ve a hunch that some things are going to happen soon that’ll knock the movies sick.”

The next moment he was gone.

1. 5. The Mummy’s Jewels

F rom the first moment that her guests began to arrive Lady Thelma had eagerly scanned each face, trying to distinguish among them the well-known features of her actor-husband. But she soon gave up the task as hopeless; for, remembering Delorme’s skill at "making up” his face, she realized it was scarcely likely that he would present himself in such a guise as to be recognizable. It was not until the ball had been in progress



for some time that a tall man wearing the flowing scarlet robes of the famous French churchman and diplomat, Cardinal Richelieu, approached her with a dignified request for the next dance. Almost in the same breath he asked in a whisper:

"Have you got the money, Thelma?"

She looked at him searchingly for a moment before replying. His height and build were about the same as Claude Delorme; but she looked in vain for the slightest resemblance in his face. The likeness to the scheming cardinal was indeed amazing. There were the same pallid, aquiline features; the same neat, gray mustache and short beard; from beneath his scarlet biretta there escaped a mass of silvery locks. Accustomed as Thelma was to the transformation which may be effected by the aid of false hair and grease-paint, she was amazed. Even after he had spoken she could hardly persuade herself that it was indeed her husband who stood before her.

"Who are you?” she asked dubiously.

The man gave a slow, crafty smile not unsuited to the character he represented.

"Scared of a trick, eh? Well, I don’t blame you for being careful. Come with me and I’ll soon convince you of my identity.”

Only one pair of eyes noticed their departure as they slipped away from the merry throng. It was the very thing that Wilmer Denton had been waiting for, and he lost no time in following.

But he was not quick enough to see what took place. Once outside the ballroom, Thelma laid her hand on the arm of the man in the scarlet robe.

"No need to go farther,” she whispered. “Our absence may be noticed. Here is the money,” and she thrust the sealed packet into his hand.

"And here is the play,” said the man,

handing her a bulky envelope in return.

"You mean the farce!” Her eyes curled contemptuously as she made to hand it back. "Here, take it. Of course I know the idea of putting your information into dramatic form was a mere blind to protect yourself.”

Delorme refused it with an impatient gesture.

"Exactly. And, it being such, you must accept it. I suppose the money is all right?” he said, fingering the bulky package she had given him.

"It’s all you’re likely to squeeze out of me!” she returned, eyeing him defiantly.

The man made no reply as he thrust the sealed envelope beneath his red robe and disappeared down the corridor, leaving the girl staring after him, her eyes clouded with uneasy speculation.

W hen Wilmer Denton saw her standing thus alone he knew that he was too late. He turned to retrace his steps, only to start back as he saw a tall, burly man in the costume of Henry VIII standing directly behind him. A startled exclamation burst from the bearded lips of the bluff monarch as Wilmer seized him and turned his face to the light.

"I thought so,” commented the American in a grim whisper. "You are Boris Matrikoff!”

The Russian showed his teeth in a silent grin.

"And you, my friend, are Wilmer Denton. Come, come,” he slipped his arm through that of the younger man and began to walk toward the crowded ballroom. "It seems that we are both uninvited guests. It will be to our mutual interest to respect each other’s incognito.”

Wilmer thought for a moment, then nodded in agreement.

"I guess you’ve said it, Henry. But I should like to know what your little game is, all the same.”

W. T,—5



Matrikoff laughed again.

"No need to seek far for the attraction that brought you here.” And he jerked his head toward the spot where Celia was floating amid the dancers to the hit of the latest dance tune.

Lord Mounthead, as he was accustomed to confess with a smile, was no dancer. He had quitted the crowded room at the earliest moment that was consistent with his duties of host, and now he was in deep consultation with a financier whose fame and activities were worldwide.

Israel Appenheim was a short, rotund man whose strongly marked Hebraic features no amount of art could disguise. It may have been for this reason that he had come in the character of Sennacherib, and very quaint he looked as he sat in one of the leather armchairs in the study, his plump figure encased in the brazen armor of the Assyrian monarch, puffing contentedly at one of his host’s excellent cigars. The matter under discussion having been satisfactorily disposed of:

"By the way. Sir John,” said Appen heim, rising to his feet. "Would it be possible for me to have a look at that wonderful Golden Mummy of yours? I’ve heard and read such a lot about it that I should like to see what it is really like.”

"Certainly,” Mounthead agreed readily, and produced his key and inserted it in the door which led to the museum. [Before he could open it there came a knock on the study door. Leaving the key in the lock, he crossed to the other door and pulled back the catch, revealing the yellow visage and goatee beard of Professor Artemus Figg.

"Might I trouble you for a moment?” said the professor, rubbing his lean hands together.

Mounthead hesitated.

"I’m busy just at present,” he de-

murred. "I was about to show Mr. Appenheim the Golden Mummy.”

The professor coughed nervously and began to explain. He wished, he said, to have another look at the mummy, but he had hesitated to intrude at such a time. If, however, Lord Mounthead was about to unlock the museum, it would be a good opportunity for him to do so. If it would not be too much trouble-

"No trouble whatever,” Mounthead assured him. "Come right in.”

As the door was being unlocked Israel Appenheim glanced at the lock with an approving eye.

"I see you keep your treasures well guarded,” he said carelessly. "I presume that you retain the only key?”

His host paused as though struck by a sudden recollection.

"By Jove! Now you remind me, that young American, Wilmer Denton, has never surrendered the key he used when his duties took him here. I must write and ask him for it tonight.”

They passed through the two rooms and presently stood before the granite sarcophagus containing the celebrated mummy. Israel Appenheim made an exclamation of guttural disappointment as he surveyed the motionless figure.

"I thought the mummy was decorated with jewels,” he said.

"Usually it is; but tonight my wife is wearing them in her character of Cleopatra.”

There was a very curious expression in the Jew’s beady eyes as he turned them on his host.

"The jewels that Lady Thelma is wearing are the ones belonging to this ancient mummy?” he asked in a puzzled voice.

"Yes. She borrowed them for the occasion,” returned Mounthead; then, struck by the other’s expression, he went



on. "You seem surprized, Mr. Appenheim?”

"I am surprized—very much so,” admitted Appenheim. "I may say I am more than surprized to learn that the jewels Lady Thelma is wearing are the same as were discovered in that old Egyptian tomb.”

Lord Mounthead was staring at his guest in undisguised amazement.

"Whatever do you mean?” he demanded. "Why should you be so surprized to hear that my wife is wearing the ancient jewels?”

Israel Appenheim laid his hand on Mounthead’s arm with a friendly gesture.

"Pray do not be offended with me, Sir John, when I tell you that those jewels are nothing more than fakes.”

"Fakes!” echoed the startled hearer. "Impossible—I took them from the ancient tomb with my own hands.”

The Jew shrugged.

"Nevertheless they are paste, and when I say that, you can make up your mind that you’re getting an expert opinion,” said Appenheim decisively. "I particularly noticed Lady Thelma’s jewelry, as well as that of the other guests. Not out of mere curiosity, but it sometimes pays in my line of business to know who owns real gems and who does not. Not that I thought your wife was in the habit of wearing false jewels,” he added hastily. "Seeing that she was wearing a theatrical costume, I thought she had hired the decorations and ornaments from the same firm. But you may take my word for it that they are not genuine stones.”

"What you say is inconceivable!” gasped Mounthead. "You are mistaken.”

Appenheim thought for a moment; then looked up with a smile.

"It is quite possible to put the matter to a test which will settle the question beyond a possibility of error. I have

heard that you have had an X-ray photograph taken of the mummy?”

Mounthead nodded, and the other went on.

"Have you it handy? I should like to examine it.”

"It’s in the next room. Come with me and I will show it to you.”

T he two men passed through the door, leaving Professor Figg alone with the mummy. No sooner had they quitted the room than he whipped from his pocket a small hypodermic syringe, already filled with a greenish solution. Bending over the mummy, he thrust the point through the thin golden covering and in jetted its contents into the body beneath. Then, concealing the instrument, he quickly joined the other two men, a smile of satisfaction on his saturnine features.

Both of his companions were too engrossed to notice his momentary absence. Appenheim was staring at the X-ray photo, a look of concentration on his fleshy face. Lord Mounthead was shifting nervously from foot to foot as he watched him.

At last the Jew looked up.

"It is as I thought,” he announced. "The stones are false.”

Mounthead threw out his hands with a gesture of disagreement.

"Absurd! The ancient Egyptians were not in the habit of using paste gems to decorate their dead.”

Israel Appenheim lifted his fat shoulders in a shrug.

"If that is the case, the only explanation is that the gems are not ancient. This photograph,” he tapped the card as he spoke, "admits of no other explanation.”

"I fail to follow your train of reasoning,” said Mounthead testily.



"It is simple enough,” smiled Appenheim. "Under the X-rays a diamond is perfectly transparent, whereas an imitation stone is never so. This is due to the well-known fact that in order to give a high index of reflection and dispersive power to the imitation gem, the paste from which it is manufactured must contain a considerable amount of lead. The real gem, being pure carbon, allows the X-rays to pass through it unhindered; but the metal in the artificial gem obstructs the rays, and casts a shadow whose opacity varies with the amount of lead present. The X-ray is, in fact, a wellknown method of testing precious stones, both to ascertain their genuineness and to reveal hidden flaws—I have used it thousands of times when I was in the business. If you will examine this radiograph you will see that every gem has come out perfectly black, instead of quite transparent, as would have been the case had they been genuine.”

Lord Mounthead took the photograph and stared at it like a man in a dream.

"You’re right,” he said at last. "If the jewels are a modern fake, how about the mummy itself?”

Israel Appenheim took the photo again and examined it even closer.

"Well, there certainly seems to be a human body inside, for there are the bones. That part of it, at least, is genuine, for—hullo!” He uttered a sudden exclamation and bent closer, his beady eyes snapping with excitement. A moment later he jerked his head up with an abrupt question. "Who took this X-ray photograph of the mummy?”

"It was Doctor Cumbrey,” Mounthead informed him.

"The doctor that was murdered at Deptford, some months ago?”

"Yes. One of his last acts must have been to post that photo to me, for I received it by the first post on the morning after his death. Here, where are you going?”

Israel Appenheim had laid down the photo and was making for the door. At Mounthead’s question he glanced back.

"To ’phone to Scotland Yard,” Appenheim jerked out over his shoulder. "That photograph holds the key to the Deptford crime—and to many other things besides.”

Wondering and amazed, Professor Figg and Lord Mounthead followed the ex-diamond merchant from the room. So perturbed was the latter by the unexpected revelation that for the first time he neglected to lock the door of the room which contained the mummy of so much mystery.

16. Celia Accuses Thelma

WILMER DENTON, when he had recognized Boris Matrikoff beneath his disguise as Henry VIII, had at once jumped to the conclusion that the Russian was, like himself, an uninvited guest. If he had known the real character of the man he would have denounced him on the spot, even though his act would mean his own ignominious expulsion from Mounthead Chase and the abandoning of his plan to capture Kareef.

He had closely scrutinized the face of every masquerader in the hope of detecting the sinister Egyptian, But Lord Mounthead

Artemus Figg



the task seemed impossible of fulfilment; there were at least a score of men present who resembled Kareef in figure, any one of whom might have been he, and it was scarcely likely that he would make his appearance without an effective disguise. That the man was present he did not for a moment doubt. The trouble was to find him.

His mind was filled with these thoughts as he stood in a little alcove that was slightly raised above the level of the dancing-floor, his eyes searching among the mazy throng below. A light touch on his elbow caused him to glance round. It was Celia, her fine eyes clouded with troubled thought.

She made a little warning gesture, then beckoned him to follow, with a motion of her head.

"What is it?” he said in a low tone when they stood in the deserted lounge. "Have you seen the man we are seeking?”

She passed her hand across her forehead with a weary air, then shook her head.

"No,” she answered, with a curious hesitation. "I have not seen him—yet I feel that he is very near.”

"You feel it?” His tone seemed to convey a mildly amused surprize.

"Yes. I feel his presence—or the presence of something evil and menacing

*—in the very air around me. Oh!-”

she broke off with a wan smile as she fluttered her hands in a gesture of helplessness. "I know that I can never make you understand what I feel—you will laugh at me when I say that a premonition of coming tragedy hangs like a weight on my heart. Something is going to happen—something terrible—I know it—I feel it. Oh! I am afraid... afraid!”

She ended with a sob and swayed as if about to fall in a heap at his feet. In an

instant he had caught her in his arms and drawn her to him.

"Why, you are shaking like a leaf and your hands are deathly cold!” he cried with tender solicitude. "You are getting altogether too nervous over this wretched half-breed. One would almost think that you credited him with possessing supernatural powers.”

"You remember that night—in the museum?” There was a tremor in her voice. "Then the Golden Mummy— spoke!”

The American threw back his head and burst into a hearty laugh.

"Yes—you dear little goose—he spoke in English! That fact in itself is enough to prove that it was Kareef, indulging in a little ventriloquism. It’s hardly likely that a man who lived something like a couple of thousand years ago would understand a language that wasn’t invented at that time!”

The dread slowly died in her eyes as she smiled a little shamefacedly.

"Of course. It never struck me in that light before.”

He took her hands and gazed into her eyes.

"And now that I’ve laid that little spook that was troubling you, you’ll be quite merry and bright?”

"Yes, yes,” she smiled up at him. "But, Wilmer, I wish this night were over, all the same. You should not have come here. I feel you are in danger— danger of-”

A peal of mocking laughter, coming from the direction of the doorway, interrupted her. It was Lady Thelma, and her first words showed that she had been listening.

"Have no fear, my dearest Celia,” she said harshly. "The only peril Wilmer Denton stands in is the danger of being thrown out of this house for the second



time!” She turned to the American and looked him up and down from between narrowed eyes. "So it was you after all? I thought your voice seemed strangely familiar when you were presented to me. It will be interesting to know where you obtained the invitation card with which you gained entry.”

"I gave it to him,” said Celia, stepping forward and throwing back her head defiantly. "He has come with the intention of clearing himself of the false accusation which you made against him.”

Thelma lifted her white shoulders in a contemptuous shrug.

"Really?” she drawled. "A somewhat difficult task!”

"But one which I hope to tackle successfully,” said Wilmer quietly. "Listen to me, Lady Thelma.” He caught her by the wrist as she turned to go. "I don’t profess to know how you and Edwin Lorimer managed to fool Lord Mounthead so as to make him believe that I was making love to you. I only know that the whole thing was a black conspiracy framed up to disgrace me in his eyes.”

Thelma drew herself up, her whole body quivering with rage.

"You mean that I am a liar?” she burst out.

Wilmer Denton made her an elaborate bow.

"I mean that you are a very clever woman, Lady Thelma, and one not likely to let any overwhelming love for the truth stand in the way of your accomplishing what you set out to do.”

A derisive smile twisted her painted lips.

"A most elaborate insult, Mr. Denton, and one which you shall have the pleasure of repeating before Lord Mounthead.”

She turned and hurried toward the door. Before she could reach it:

"And you, Lady Thelma, will have the pleasure of explaining to Lord Mounthead what you have done with my £5,000,” said Celia.

T helma stopped dead in her stride and her body stiffened as though under the impact of a sudden blow. She swung round with a stammering question.

"What—what do you mean?”

"Where did you get the money that you sent to Claude Delorme?” Celia demanded unflinchingly.

The face of Lady Thelma went gray beneath its coating of powder and paint. She stood rigid, her dark eyes flashing with baffled fury, her hand clenching the ivory handle of her fan until her rings bit into the skin.

Twice she essayed to speak, but her shaking lips failed her. Then she turned on her heel and passed unsteadily from the room.

"I’ll say you gave her a smack on her vanity that time,” said Wilmer, gazing after her retreating figure. "But what is all this about the missing money?”

"It is in the packet I gave you,” said Celia.

Wilmer Denton gave a long whistle of surprize.

"But where could she have stolen it from?” he asked.

Celia silenced him with a warning gesture. "Somebody is listening,” she whispered.

It was a strangely attired figure that stood leaning against one of the pillars which flanked the doorway. Round his neck he wore a huge Elizabethan ruff; purple trunk-hose hung in folds and wrinkles on his thin legs; his body was encased in a gayly slashed doublet, while



a plumed hat was set at a rakish angle over one eye.

Celia Mounthead stared for a moment, then burst into a laugh.

"Why, it’s Professor Figg!” she cried.

The man relinquished his hold on the pillar and came forward with unsteady dignity. It seemed very evident that he had visited the refreshment bar more than once in the course of the evening.

"Not so, young lady,” he said, with a shake of his head which nearly unsettled his headgear. "For the nonce I have sunk my own identity in one of the Great Ones of the Past.”

"Are you supposed to be Shakespeare?” Wilmer inquired, repressing a desire to laugh.

"Bacon,” was the grave reply.

"Sorry—my mistake,” said Wilmer politely.

Professor Figg acknowledged his apology with a wave of his hand.

"Your error was perhaps natural. Wiser men than you have confused the two before now. I have chosen to represent the character of Francis Bacon, Lord Verulam, Viscount St. Albans, because he was the father of inductive philosophy. In my humble opinion he was the founder of experimental science, and as such I honor him—the brightest star in the Elizabethan galaxy —'Hesperus that led the starry host, rode brightest - - ”

At this juncture the professor tripped over the long rapier which dangled between his legs. Wilmer caught him as he fell and heaved him to his feet.

"Hold up, Lord Bacon,” he grinned. "It strikes me that the father of experiment has been experimenting in the properties of liquids!”

"Experiment brings knowledge,” said Figg, in a tone of rebuke.

"Yes—so long as you don’t mix your

experiments. Then they’re apt to bring a fat head the next morning.”

The disciple of Bacon appeared to disregard the ribald comment.

"I have made an experiment this night that will mark an epoch in medical science,” he declared gravely. "Less than an hour ago I injected a drug which will bring the Golden Mummy to life.”

"The Golden Mummy... to life?” gasped Celia.

The old professor nodded. "The drug will take some time to work,” he went on, stalking to the door and facing about as he raised his hand with a solemn gesture. "But soon you will see the High Priest of Anubis walking the earth with life once more coursing through his veins!”

"He’s crazy!” cried Wilmer, watching the scientist as he departed with unsteady steps in the direction of the buffet.

"I wonder if he is?” said Celia slowly.

17. The Golden-Mummy Walks

T he mental shock experienced by Lady Thelma at her stepdaughter’s abrupt and unexpected question, "Where did you get the money that you sent to Claude Delorme?” was so intense as to deaden her faculties for the time* being. She had quitted the room like a woman in a dream, and it was more by instinct than by conscious action that she made her way upstairs to her boudoir. There, throwing herself on the settee in all her glittering finery, she clutched her throbbing head between her hands and tried to force herself to think.

The manner in which Celia had uttered the accusing question showed that it was no mere chance shot on the girl’s part. She knew of the theft of the £5,000. How had she come by her knowledge? Had Lord Mounthead detected her well-planned sleight-of-hand when she had retained the wad of bankTHE CARNIVAL OF DEATH

notes after replacing the rest of the money in the safe? She shook her head slightly as she dismissed that possibility. Why, then, did the girl suspect her?

She started to her feet as the explanation rushed upon her. Of course, just as she was about to seal the packet she had been called away by the arrival of her Cleopatra costume! She had left the room vacant, and on her return had encountered Celia in the corridor outside.

"The sly cat must have crept in then and examined my belongings!” she muttered fiercely, conveniently ignoring the fact that the "belongings” in question rightly belonged to the girl herself.

And now—what? Any moment Celia might inform her father of what she had seen; a search of the safe would follow, the loss of the money would be discovered, and maybe Delorme would be arrested with it still in his possession. Loving and indulgent as Lord Mounthead was, she knew him well enough to picture his rage when he knew the truth. His wife a bigamist and a thief! Justice she might expect from him—mercy never.

Tired out at last by her ceaseless pacing, she came to a halt opposite the dressing-table. A glint of polished metal showed among the litter of dainty trifles. It was the revolver which Lord Mounthead had handed her earlier in the evening.

She slowly put out her hand and picked it up, examining it with a detached air as she slowly clicked the cylinder round, noting that each chamber contained its cartridge. Like a voice heard in a dream she recalled his words when he had given it to her.

"You may need it before long,” he had said.

She placed her finger on the safetycatch and pushed it forward until it obscured the word "safe” engraved on the

silver plate. Then she slowly raised the weapon until the shining barrel was level with her temple.

In the breathless pause that followed, the faint strains of music floated to her ears from the ballroom below. Down there was music, light, laughter—life! Must she leave all behind? Should she give up without a struggle? No, by heaven, no! If the weapon be used at all, why not use it on~Claude Delorme? Then she might regain possession of the money—replace it—explain it was a silly joke.

She lowered the revolver and thrust it into the bosom of her dress.

“Death may come and welcome when I am old and feeble,” she cried aloud. "Tonight I want to live!”

"Do you?” said a voice like edged steel.

With a smothered scream she faced about—to meet the lowering gaze of Claude Delorme.

F or a moment she stood mutely staring at the unexpected apparition, her eyes widely dilated, her breath coming in quick gasps.

"I thought you would be miles away by now,” she said. "Why have you stayed here?”

"To see you,” was the stern answer. She continued to stare at him, and as she looked her first feeling of surprize gave place to another emotion. He was not acting now, and his voice and manner struck terror to Thelma’s heart.

"But I have given you what you demanded,” she cried. "Why do you wish to see me, then?”


Claude Delorme



"That I may thank you for what you gave me!” he said with menacing deliberation.

"But—but I gave you what you asked —£5,000—in banknotes,” she faltered.

"You lying Jezebel!” he cried in a voice thick with fury. "You gave me that!”

She took up the packet that he tossed contemptuously at her feet, and opened it with shaking fingers. Inside were some folded sheets of newspaper.

"You thought to fool me with a dummy packet—but you will find that I’m not so easily got rid of!”

"I swear I never put those sheets of newspaper there!” she declared, staring at them as though unable to believe her eyes.

"Another lie!” He crossed to the table, snatched up a periodical and pointed to where some leaves had been hastily torn out. "Why, here is the very book they came out of. But enough of spilling fool talk.”

He tossed the paper away and advanced toward her threateningly. "Hand over the cash, and be quick about it!”

She recoiled from him, wild-eyed.

"I swear by all I hold sacred-”

"And that’s nothing!” he interrupted with a savage oath. "Come on—the money!”

"I haven’t got it—I placed it in that

envelope with my own hands and-”

She stopped abruptly at a sudden recollection. "I see it all now!” she went on eagerly. "I was about to seal the envelope when I was called away to see my new dress. While I was out of the room Celia must have entered, taken the money and substituted that paper.”

"Then ask her to give it back—she’s not far away.”

Thelma made a gesture of despair. "I—I can’t,” she stammered.

"Of course you can’t—for the simple reason that she has not taken it,” he sneered. "For the last time: Are you going to hand over the money you promised?”

"I have none. But—here-” She

unbuckled the glittering belt from about her waist and held it toward him. "Take these jewels—take all I have-”

He took the belt and glanced at it. Then he gripped the handle of the Egyptian dagger and drew it from its sheath.

"This may be real,” he said, feeling its razor-like edge. "As for the rest, well, it seems too good to be true.”

He tossed the belt contemptuously aside, but he retained his grip on the hilt of the dagger. "I bargained for ready money—£5,000 was the price-”

"Be silent,” she begged. "Someone will overhear.”

"Let them!” he shouted recklessly. "What does it matter if they hear now or later? If I quit this room without the money it will be to go straight to Lord Mounthead, to tell him that his wife is no better than-”

With a lightning-like movement her hand flashed to her breast and drew out the revolver. Like a ray of blinding sunlight entering a dark cavern, the solution of her problem came to her. Who could condemn her for slaying a man who held a weapon in his hand?

She clenched her teeth as she raised the revolver level with his breast.

"You will be silent”—she hissed— ’’for ever!”

Her finger tightened on the trigger. Already the hammer was rising preparatory to crashing down and impinging on the detonator that would send the bullet



speeding on its deadly errand, when a faint noise in the corridor outside the door made her pause, rigid and unmoving, with terror hammering at her heart.

Delorme heard it, too, and his heart leapt with thankfulness. It meant to him a respite from the deadly peril into which he had thrust himself, for the girl would not dare to fire with a witness so near. Turning, he gained the door with a single bound, and as he tore it open a simultaneous cry burst from him and Thelma.

The corridor was lighted by electric wall-sconces placed at intervals along its length. By their light they saw a tall, sinister figure slowly advancing toward them from the direction of the study—a figure clad from head to foot in gold and wearing an expressionless, sphinxlike mask of the same gleaming metal.

"The Golden Mummy!” screamed Thelma in a voice of mortal fear.

"It’s a trick—a practical joke,” Delorme cried. "For God’s sake keep your nerve.”

W hen first they had caught sight of it the figure was half-way down the long gallery, but every second brought it nearer.

Great beads of sweat started from Delorme’s forehead as he watched the steady approach of that grotesque caricature of the human form. Six paces nearer it came before he could throw off the lethargy which seemed to bind his limbs. Another pace nearer it came, and with an effort he roused himself to action.

"It’s a trick!” he cried again as he turned to the girl. "I’ll fix the joker. Give me that gun!”

He snatched the weapon from her nerveless grasp, took careful aim, and fired thrice straight into the golden face.

Then he lowered the smoking revolver and stood waiting for the thing to fall headlong.

He knew it was impossible for him to have missed at that short range. The bullets had plowed through the mummy’s forehead, leaving three neat holes to testify to the accuracy of his aim. Yet the Golden Mummy neither faltered nor paused in its steady advance. Not by so much as a single tremor or stagger did it indicate that it had received three wounds, any one of which would have brought instant death to a mortal man.

A burst of dreadful laughter came from Thelma’s lips.

"You can’t kill the dead!” she shrieked hysterically. "It is the High Priest of Anubis—alive again—alive and thirsting for vengeance!”

She stood like a woman turned to stone, her beautiful face twisted into a mask of frantic terror. Through a mist of death-like faintness she watched the approaching apparition. She would have fled, but her feet seemed rooted to the ground. She tried to scream, but only a hoarse rattle issued from her palsied lips.

Delorme raised his revolver again, but now it pointed at the fuse-box which controlled the electric lights of that part of the great house. He pressed the trigger and a spurt of flame licked from the muzzle, followed by a crashing report. Followed a brighter flash of violet fire from the shattered fuse-box, and the room and the gallery outside were plunged into darkness.

A few moments later a dreadful cry rang out. Fear and agony were in it as it rose and swelled out of the inky darkness like the wailing of a lost soul from the bottomless pit of torment. Abruptly it changed to a choking, liquid gurgle... then silence—a silence as deep and



unbroken as the black obscurity which shrouded that room of impenetrable night.

It was the death scream of Lady Thelma, cut short by the icy hand of the King

of Shadows, the grim reaper who swings his remorseless scythe without distinction of rank or wealth, cutting short the mortal thread of rich and poor alike at the appointed hour.

The weird solution of the mystery will be revealed

[THE END]

============================================================
by Leslie F. Stone
============================================================
in the thrilling chapters that bring this story to a close in next month’s WEIRD TALES. Order your copy now at your news dealer’s.

the Flame-Flowers Blossomed

By LESLIE F. STONE

A bizarre fantasy of strange life on the planet Venus, and the dangerous adventure of two men from our own planet

ONE moment the forest was serenely quiet, somnolent; the next it was in an uproar. For it was not every day that a space-ship dropped out of the swirling mists that topped the waving fern-crown of the tallest and most ancient of the great Ancadus tree-ferns, furrowing the rich dark loam of the clearing floor.

Not that the Ancadus guessed the long black cylinder to be a space-ship. Their conception of the universe was limited to that space beneath the gray cloud-masses that enfolded their world. Nor could they conceive of a vehicle of transporta-

tion. For their life began in an overlarge, hard-cased seed-spore that grew into a free-moving young tree-fern that made the best of its god-given activity until the urge to root itself came; then one stood ever upright, living and dreaming, conversing with one’s neighbors, ever ready to flip forth a tentacle to ensnare one of the silly, unthinkable animals that foolishly accepted the lure of the fleshy, false fruits that the Ancadus dangled as bait for just that purpose.

Nevertheless, they were stirred, curious. From amid the stationary boles of their elders came the young ferns, balWHEN THE FLAME-FLOWERS BLOSSOMED


andng themselves upon their five walking-roots, eager to see what they could see, just as young Earthlings would have pushed themselves forward between the bodies of their elders had such a strange phenomenon taken place on their Main Street.

Unmolested by the cutting ax of Man, with no other enemy than the encroaching life-choking parasitic vines that the

Ancadus, by means of their long flexible tentacles, kept to the background, the great tree-ferns were truly the monarchs of all they surveyed. Since Mother Nature had failed to provide cross-pollination in the form of insects, and since their giant seed-spores were too heavy for the soft, gentle winds of Venus to bear aloft, they had developed perambulatory movement in the young so that all the



planet might know them, and that the young should not choke the old.

Early in their life history they had discovered a predilection for animal blood, and to satisfy this unnatural lust they had brought forth large flesh-flowers that the gurgura, the ruswan, the petrus and the bav could not resist. Wisely the great Ancadus tree-ferns did not kill outright, but took their toll of blood from each passing creature, leaving it to crawl away as best it could, knowing that as soon as it had replenished its lifefluid the silly little beast would come again and again to the bait.

Innocent-looking enough were these vampire trees with their pale, white trunks topped with snowy crowns of crackling fronds wherein nestled the furled tentacles, curled, like rosettes, just above the dead black band which was the eye-circle. But those selfsame tentacles, sometimes a hundred feet long, endowed with the twin senses of hearing and smelling, were as deadly as the cobra, and the eye-circle gave vision in every direction.

Now the Ancadus were filled with questions.

"What is it?”

"Is it animal or vegetable?”

"Whence did it come?”

"How did it get here?”

"Has anyone ever seen such life before?”

These were but a few of the questions coming from all sides, for during the long millenniums of their evolution the great Ancadus tree-ferns had evolved speech and thought. Not speech such as Man uses, nor voice tones like those of the lesser animals. No mechanism could have recorded the speech of the treeferns, since it possessed no sound as animal life knows sound. But it was there, within the consciousness of the trees themselves.

Suddenly there was an end to the questions. Old Gorn, the patriarch, standing on the edge of the clearing, was voicing his thoughts. And when he spoke, all else were silent.

"Children,” said he, "a strange visitant has come among us. Never in all my long centuries have I seen the like. None of us knows what this thing may portend for us. But only it can answer our questions. Therefore, let us commune with it, wait for it to break the silence. Only the foolish ask questions of the infinite.”

A S if his words were the thing the i- black cylinder awaited, the cylinder spawned, there before their eyes, two sixfeet high, free-moving creatures.

Never had the great Ancadus treeferns known such life. Tunnux and Nushu, two newly rooted tree-ferns, were too excited to heed the patriarch’s warning. Softly they conversed between themselves.

"What can they be? Certainly they are quite unlike any trees I ever saw in all my roving days,” whispered Tunnux.

"Adolescents, unquestionably,” murmured Nushu, "since they have freedom of movement and walk upright. No animal moves so. Only trees are thus gifted!”

"But how sparse grow their ferncrowns! Poor things, there is small beauty in their family if they are truly representative of their species.”

"Trees indeed! Look again, my friends,” an older tree was speaking. "Did ever you see trees with bark that grows as theirs grows, away from the bole? And look you to the shortness of the upper tentacles. Ugh, they’re clawed, clawed like the animals. And see—no eye-circle either, merely two ugly seeingballs set in pinkish bark. Then they possess but one sucker and those queer' smelling-appendages such as animals use to smell out our flowers! Trees indeed!



Soon they’ll come seekig our fruits to feast upon. Look you and see how like they are to that cacmu that I bled two days since, and from which I am still feeling indisposed.”

On all sides other discussions were carried on. Two camps were formed; •those that likened the spawn of the cylinder to themselves, and those that likened them to the animals. That they walked upright as no animal walked upright, and wore a fern-crown, sparse though it was, made them comparable to the tree-ferns. But on the other hand, who had ever heard of trees with seeingballs, single suckers, clawed tentacles and the like?

Too, if they were trees they had small intelligence (no one expected an animal to have intelligence), for they failed to grasp Gorn’s simplest communication. And now they were acting as no other tree, or animal either, for that matter, had ever acted.

Very rarely there occur on the planet great wind storms, storms strong enough to sway the great Ancadus tree-ferns from side to side. Once, a decade back, there had been a storm that had actually bent the boles of the younger, slenderer trees half-way to the ground. Thus, the Ancadus had thought they knew something of bending. Yet here were the spawn of the black cylinder doing more than that. They were bending themselves in two!

And no wonder! Some of the young trees had to snicker. To pluck something from the ground the poor creatures had to bend themselves double for the simple reason that their grasping tentacles could not reach the ground. To think of it!

So engrossed were the trees over this ridiculous predicament of the visitors they had not bothered to notice what the creatures were picking up from the ground, were gathering together into a heap not

far from the open mouth of the cylinder. When they did notice, it was something else to laugh over. The silly things, going to the trouble of collecting those things... twigs, sticks, desiccated remains of old fronds dropped by the Ancadus. Could one actually believe it? They must be related to the petrus that collects such trash upon which to lie down after tiring themselves by running here and there on their inadequate walking-roots.

But wait, what was this?

Before the very eye-circles of the trees they did it, bringing the old dead things to life once more. And such life!

Several young trees that had pushed close to the edge of the clearing all but lost their balance and toppled over in their surprize, and a great sigh went up from the whole watching forest. Who Would have believed that such beautiful flowers dwelt in that old dead cellulose? Not even Gorn was able to name those dancing convolutions. For to the great Ancadus, fire was as unknown as were the men that had brought it into being.

What could the Ancadus know of fire in their mist-clothed world where even lightning was so rare a thing that Gorn, older than the oldest civilization of Man, had had no experience with it?

Ohing and ahing, the forest stared at the new beauty, enthralled. It was for Elsel, one of the youngest free-moving fern-trees, to consider investigating it.

Carefully—oh so carefully!—so as to draw no attention to himself, he lowered his longest tentacle, unfurling it inch by inch, his eye-circlet upon those gorgeous flowers that bloomed and died as rapidly as do the flowers of the xmaur bush. And so fully were his senses trained upon those dancing efflorescences that he was not aware of the latest findings of his people concerning the intruders.

From downwind, across the clearing, Naxum, an old tree, was reporting. He



had the scent. And to the adult trees the brilliance of the saltant flames was paled, all else was as nothing to this new intelligence. Blood and flesh. Blood! Blood!

B y the forest right Gorn, the patriarch, should be first to taste the blood. As oldest of the clan it was his due when strange, new delicacies wandered thither. But the ancient tree-fern was wise. He had seen what had overtaken tree-ferns that had dined unwisely, for not all animal blood is beneficial to tree-life.

Not far from where he stood there leaned the remains of a tree-fern that had sipped the blood of a pocus, a creature tradition taught was poisonous. It had been at a time of famine, and Daxur, the rash tree, had not listened to Gom’s sage wisdom when that soft-fleshed beast came into the forest. In consequence, Daxur no longer answered when spoken to. Bark had scaled from his sides, leaving ugly raw wounds, and he could no longer stand upright, but leaned against his nearer neighbors that would gladly have allowed him to fall had they been capable of moving their own rooted boles.

Therefore, Gorn suggested caution. He asked that lots be drawn, that but one of their number taste the blood of the strangers. That one’s reward, in turn, would be that of a hero—or a martyr, as the case might be.

"Wherefrom come this pair, therefrom will come others. Bide your time, and when the black cylinder spawns again all shall dine; else leave the creatures strictly alone, according to the findings!”

But for the first time in his patriarchy his people had not wanted to listen to Gorn. One only to be chosen to the repast? Was Gorn in his dotage? Nay, here was blood, and according to Naxum its odor was savory. The pocus, they all knew, was poisonous. Was that reason

enough to condemn the new animals likewise? Nay, if Gorn refused his right, then the rest would adhere to the Law. The Law!

And the next instant the forest bloomed like a fairy glade as every Ancadus within a quarter of a mile of the clearing, excepting Gorn, blossomed with brilliantly tinted false fruits that they brought at will from an excrescence at the tip of the long grasping tentacles. Henceforth, everything depended upon the prey itself; they would choose that fruit most attractive, and to whomsoever selected went the spoils. That was the law of the forest.

Never in the history of the Ancadus had any red-blooded creature refused the lure, and certainly they had no expectation that the newcomers would ignore it. Such a thing was unheard of. Yet the men gave but a long, wondering glance at the floral display, turning back to the strange, shiny object they had in the meantime dragged from the cylinder, a queer affair of queerer angles.

How were the Ancadus to know this for a radio with which the men intended to contact their home planet, to advise it of their safe arrival? Space, time, radio —these were as nothing to the Ancadus. They knew only consternation at this untoward event. Such a happening was without precedent in their annals. It went against all tradition. An animal to disregard their lush, richly odorous fruit? Unthinkable! Unwilling to believe that the creatures would not rise to the bait Sooner or later, they waited, tense.

However, not all the Ancadus were thus aroused. Little Elsel, the young freemoving tree-fern, was not at all concerned in the blood of the cylinder’s spawn. Not until he had rooted himself would he bother himself about fleshy animals. It was the flowering flames of the campfire that intrigued him. By inching



his tentacle forward over the ground he had reached a point midway between the fire and himself without having been detected by either the fire-breeders or the tree-ferns.

The radio, which the pair were setting up, likewise meant nothing to him; its squareness was something outside his comprehension. Only in the infinitesimal does Nature produce cube shapes, and the object before him was as outre to him as a three-dimensional object would be to a two-dimensional creature. All the senses of the young tree-fern were concentrated upon the campfire with its ebullient blossoms rising and dying in one breath. So it happened that he did not notice that one of the pair had turned its seeing-balls in his direction.

Rising from the spot upon which he had folded himself, the creature shuffled across the clearing to where Elsel’s tentacle tip lay.

F rightened, the perambulatory treefern froze into immobility; his tentacle lay like a dead end of a creeper vine. It gave him shivers to see the beast bend down to inspect it with near-sighted eyeballs, and he sighed a great sigh of relief when the creature went back to the fire.

Waiting until he was settled once more, Elsel again took up his march to the flames. It was purely accidental that he brushed the stumpy walking-root of the second creature bending over that squarish object by the fire. Nor was he prepared for the wild yell the thing emitted, causing the pair of them to dash away in wild confusion. That, however, was to be expected; for did not all animals respect and fear the great Ancadus?

Only Elsel had not expected them to return so quickly, to pick up his offending tentacle. It made him cringe, that touch of warm, resilient animal flesh. Not until he had taken root could he

know excitement at such close proximity. But when the same creature thrust an exploring claw inside one of his rubbery sucking-cups that covered the underside of his tentacle, his reaction in closing over the claw was entirely involuntary. If the creature had not screamed in fear and shaken him loose, Elsel would have released him anyway. Still, he was wholly unprepared for the next moment, when the tentacular feeler fell into the fire.

To think that those lovely, dancing flowers could be so bitter, so cruel! The agony of Elsel’s cry resounded throughout all the forest. The pain was of a proportion the like of which he had never dreamed. No wonder he writhed, beating the air, the ground, in his wild anguish. Again he screamed. Gradually, as the shock died away, he regained sufficient composure to withdraw his wounded appendage. Nursing his pain he turned away, halting now and then to unfurl the bedeviled member and plunge it deep into the cool, rich loam of the forest floor wherein there seemed to be a slight balm.

One would think that the Ancadus would have taken warning from that direful experience of the young treefern. They had all seen, and they had heard. Yet the smell of the blood that Elsel had drawn was too intoxicating.

Simultaneously a dozen or more long tentacles shot across the clearing to the cylinder into which the men had darted to escape the flaying whip. They avoided the fire, but beyond that the tree-ferns were insensible to any danger that might arise from their action.

Having learned something of the flexibility of those long, questing arms, the men did not quit the protective shadow of their space-ship immediately, and at sight of those feelers lashing out toward them they ran again within the confines of the cylinder. Before they could bar624


ricade themselves, half the tentacles had followed them in, feeling with sensitive tip-ends for the pair, forbidding the shutting of the ship’s mouth by their bulk.

Instantly, three tentacles fastened themselves upon the fighting form of one of the men. Somehow the other managed to hide himself, and no matter how the remaining feelers searched they could not find him. Though they possessed scent, they were blind, depending upon the eye-circles set just below the fern-crown of the tree, and the animal smell of the two was thick inside the cylinder.

Even after the captive had been withdrawn inch by inch, battling every step of the way, those others failed to locate his Companion, concealed in some crevice. They withdrew at last, only to remain outside, waiting....

G eeb, Masur and Jadan argued among themselves over their victim, each claiming himself in rightful possession as they dragged the man across the clearing, lifted him screaming and struggling into the air. Then Masur fastened his suckers upon the pink bark of the creature’s arm and imbibed deeply of the rich life-fluid. That was too much for the others. Forgetting their quarrel, they realized that part of the feast is better than none at all. Here was one creature who would not be allowed to crawl away half dead, to return again on the morrow. They would suck him dry and toss the husk away.

But it had not entered the thoughts of the Ancadus that the second man would actually come to the rescue of his brother creature. The Ancadus were individualists, banding together only when concerned with the common weal of their species. They could not conceive of unselfishness in another. Therefore, those that guarded the cylinder mouth had

permitted their appendages to grow lax, and they were wholly unprepared to act instantly as the second man came hurtling into the open in answer to the pleas of his fellow.

Elsel had taught him how the Ancadus reacted to even a minor burn, and he had good reason to be glad that the campfire was ready at hand. Grasping a lighted brand, he flung it among the serpentine coils that held his friend aloft. And again the forest listened to the agony shriek of their kind in answer to the bite of the flame-blossoms. Unconsciously Masur and Jadan flinched, and in so doing loosed their hold upon their victim. Then as a second and third flaming brand came flying through the air they dropped the captive.

Weakened by loss of blood, and dazed by the twelve-foot fall, the man was slow in reorganizing his faculties, and before he succeeded in regaining his upright position, two more tentacles reached out and grasped him. In their gluttony the rest of the tree-ferns disregarded the menace of the flame-flowers.

Only no more brands came flying through the air as those tentacles in the clearing sought out the avenger. To each he was forced to give his baptism of fire before they were willing to leave him to his own devices.

But they served to reduce his ammunition, and to replenish it the man had to leave the fire, dash here and there to gather such sticks as lay close at hand. Twice a tentacle all but tripped him, but he danced safely away each time, and with the new supply of torches renewed the succor of his friend.

Reluctantly the constricting coils released the captive, who managed to climb to his walking-roots and stagger several steps before another blood-crazed treefern plucked him up.

Shaking a balled-up claw at the trees,

W. T.—6



the fire-breeder went farther afield to collect more fuel, taking a lighted torch for his own protection.

Now, all this while old Gorn had thoughtfully been considering the scene. It had come to him that without a replenishment of his campfire the firebreeder was powerless. Thereupon he transferred his surmise to his people, pointing out that if they but prevented the creature from gathering more faggots there could be no more fire-blossoms. Acting instantly upon the suggestion, a threatening circle was formed just out of reach of the fire itself.

But Gorn had not taken to account that inexplicable force driving the man to the aid of his companion. Finding his way barred on all sides he refused to acknowledge defeat. Turning upon himself he tore away part of what to the trees appeared to be his outer bark and threw it into the fire. Appalled, they saw him pluck it out flame-covered, and toss it into the air.

Taking the form of the fusim, the only flying thing of Venus, the coat slithered toward the captive man. Straightway Huj and Herul, his captors, dropped him just in time as the burn-thing enfolded him, falling flame-side out. That large chunk of burning life was too much for the horrified tree-ferns.

Had the great Ancadus tree-ferns but guessed the deadliness of those licking flame-tendrils they would have suffered the agonies of hell to stamp them out; but all they did was to gaze jealously, waiting for the fire-blossoms to fade away that they might again seize their prey. Those that had not been beset by the fire as yet were dubious, Only half believing that the golden-red flowers were as hurtful as the screams of those who had felt their scorching breath made them out to be. Still, because they half believed, they stood bade—waiting.

W. T.—7

M eanwhile their erstwhile victim was having his own troubles. Fire is at best a treacherous friend, and though he had tossed the burning cloak from him, curls of fire had already eased themselves into his hair, his clothing. Slapping them did not avail and he dropped to the ground to roll and twist in an effort to put them out, only to aggravate them in a bed of dry brush that lay in his path. True, as long as the fire wreathed him he was safe from the trees, but at the same time his condition was precarious, too weak as he was to fight the fire properly. Piteously he called to the other to save him.

But the fire-breeder was in bad straits himself. Threatened on every side by the enemy, unable to gather more fuel, he had already removed his boots, was coaxing them to burn, when suddenly he spied something he had not seen before, an old log lying in the shadow of the space-ship. Using one charred shoe, in which a flame teased, as a shield he forced several tentacles to give way until he could grasp the log end. Dragging it to the fire, he thrust one end into the fire. But the log refused to burn!

Gorn had forgotten that he had begged his people to let the visitors go unmolested. Now, in high glee he cried out: "He is defeated! And I, in my right, demand his blood. He is mine!" And as he spoke his tentacle shot across the clearing—only to dart away again in dismay. Even as he had spoken, the old log began to smoke; a feather of flame ran halfway up its length, died, only to be followed by a second tendril that bit deep into the butt.

Shouting his joy, the fire-breeder waited long enough for the fire to burn merrily; then like a flaming sword he used it to force the enemy to writhe away. One by one the menacing tentacles slithered to one side, opening up the path



that led to the side of the other mancreature who now lay as if dead, sootblackened.

Beating out the flames that still wreathed him, the fire-breeder picked his comrade up and flung him over one shoulder. Then, pausing long enough to take a better grip upon the torch, he advanced, jabbing savagely at those tentacles not quick enough to give way.

Powerless to halt him, the Ancadus groaned in unison as he reached the cylinder and disappeared within with his burden, sealing die opening. But even as they lamented their loss and nursed their wounds, the cylinder gaped again, and the figure of the fire-breeder stood poised before him.

Exulting, the tree-ferns stared, then in one accord dozens of long arms shot out. This time they would have him! But no, the man was wary enough. Before the opening was resealed for the last time something came arching through the air to land at the roots of old Gorn. It was the flaming torch!

Again the Ancadus turned to their leader for advice. Should they try their strength upon the cylinder, crush it and pluck the creatures like bav from their hole? For the first time in their existence the old patriarch had no advice to give. He was more concerned with the hungry flames at his feet, one of which had already tested the texture of an old gnarled root that had broken through the forest loam.

The next instant the cylinder was taking to the air, filling the forest with an ugly roar. Then it was level with the fern-crowns. For a moment it seemed to hang suspended between land and sky. And to the horror of the Ancadus its rear end seemed to ignite—in a great blast of withering fire.

The fire-breeder had his revenge as the long tongue of flame bit deeply into the

heart of the Ancadus grove. With his departure a new sound came into the forest, a deep throaty roar interspersed with strange unnamable creakings and cracklings wherein were intermingled the cries of the dying race, the loudest of which was the shriek of old Gorn.

Once inoculated with the virus of the fire, the whole world seemed ready to burn as immense flowers reared their angry, licking flames into the tallest perches of the forest, devouring everything in their path.

Elsel, the young free-moving tree-fern who had taken his hurt to the river, a good quarter of a mile from the clearing, there to lave his tentacle in the flood, saw the flame-flowers advance, apparently pushing the small band of perambulatory ferns that hurried ahead of them, toward the river.

All the world burns, the young ferns told Elsel; all are gone—Gorn, Naxum, Tunnux, Nushu, Geeb, Masur—all the great ones, all the middle-aged, all the newly rooted—all, all consumed by the ravenous flame-flowers that the intruders had loosed into their paradise. All were gone. All.

Standing on the river bank they waited, fearful, uncertain. They knew they could launch themselves upon the broad river, float upon its bosom into new lands; or they could cross the river to the salt barrens into which no self-respecting perambulatory tree-fern ever treads.

But their own hesitancy closed the first path as the florescent flames were seen to gather at the river’s edge, a few hundred feet below, hissing as their fiery tongues tasted that liquid flood, painting the overhead clouds in their lurid light.


[THE END]

============================================================
by Tarleton Collier
============================================================
Out in space the fire-breeder saw that same pyrotechnical glow, saw in his mind’s eye that calorific hell that he, a modern Prometheus, had engendered upon the bosom of Venus.

of the World

By TARLETON COLLIER

Would you like to be able to foresee the future? Then read this tale

I T HAPPENED in Miami, in Flagler Street. With the idea of asking somebody where he could find the transient bureau, Jones paused in front of one of those curio-souvenir shops with its glitter of gaudy wares fashioned from shells, its jewelry of coral, imitation jade, lapis lazuli; small bottles of orange blossom perfumery; horses, elephants, Scotties carved in bone; colored post-cards, ash-trays shaped like skulls, like dice, like cartoon characters; aquarium turtles with painted backs and all the other catch-penny plunder that is displayed for tourists. Next to the door sat a darkhaired girl, beside a cage in which sprawled striped reptiles and which bore a sign: "Baby Alligators, $1—We Ship Anywhere.” Jones asked the girl.

Without a sound or any other stir she fluttered olive fingers in a gesture that directed him to the interior of the shop, then continued to stare heavy-lidded past him into the bright sunlight of the street. Jones paused a moment, his face sharpened with irritation. His feet ached. He would have shuffled along the sidewalk, but some movement amid the clutter of the shop attracted him and he went inside.

An old man stood awaiting him behind a counter which held a row of grotesque masks carved in the fibrous husks of coconuts. He might have been himself one of the effigies conjured into life, so brown and wizened he appeared, his eyes as bright as the glistening counterfeits in the carven faces.

"Is there anything you want?” he inquired in a voice of deep music.

"I couldn’t buy a stamp,” said Jones. "I want to know where is the transient bureau.”

The amazing voice seemed to melt in a chuckle, to savor a pleasant dissent. "Ah! That is no wish at all. Your real desire lies in your reason for wanting to know. Why?”

”1 want something to eat,” said Jones. "I’m hungry. I want a bed. I’m tired.”

The unction of that voice was broken by a kind of scornful laughter. "Is that all?”

"Ain’t that enough?” asked Jones. "But since you ask me, I’d like to have two dollars to buy a ticket on Racketeer in the fifth race at Arlington Downs tomorrow.”

The other’s voice rose in a startling thunder. "What about your soul, man?”

"What about my belly?” asked Jones.

"You are a fool,” said the curio merchant.

"If you wasn’t so old,” said Jones, "I’d smack you one.”

"Ah!” The music dwindled in a sighing fall, as if by stratagem of softness to beguile an evil mood. "I may be your friend.”

"I haven’t got a friend,” said Jones. "I don’t want a friend.”

The booming of the old man’s voice may have been triumph, yet there was in it a vague bantering mockery. "Behold! The simple existence that should lead to contentment! Your wants are few,



you have no burdens because you love nobody.”

"I love my kid,” said Jones with an odd passion, "and don’t you forget it. I’d die for him.”

"Live for him,” said the old man. He peered past Jones with a sort of blind look. "Go back to him. He needs you.”

Jones laughed bitterly. "You’re telling me? Well, tell me how I can go, oldtimer. If the transient bureau-”

The little brown man leaned toward him with a quick eagerness. He raised a skinny finger. His voice was bated, and now a discord of excitement had entered to mar its melody. "I have something for you and your boy.” He strained farther forward. His eyes were bright, and narrowed as by some shrewd intent. "Not our best, but sufficient for one with your simple requirements.”

From the little finger of his left hand, the old man drew a ring of bronze. His hands were clammy, but there was strength of steel in their clutch upon Jones as he slipped the ring on the finger of the younger man. It was a strange thing, but the band which had come from his bony talon fitted snugly upon the stout hand of the other.

Jones looked at it with a sour eye, turning his hand. The ring was worn and grimy, with a sort of dim hieroglyph on its back. Not worth a cent.

"What’s the gag?” asked Jones.

"It is yours now,” said the old man with a deep sigh. He seemed to shrink, to lose life. "Its power is yours. Will it profit you to possess a sight of the future? You have it now—with that ring —one day ahead.”

"Hooey,” said Jones.

The old man smiled wearily. "Only one day. Tomorrow. But that is eternity. I have seen that I shall die tomorrow.”

"Nuts,” said Jones, and began pulling the ring from his finger.

The old man’s gesture stopped him. "What do you want to know? It will be only what you ask to know. Not everything. Nor can you change anything.”

Jones paused, seemed to droop expectantly. A blindish look came into his eyes. Then he gave a cry you could have heard from the street.

"God Almighty!” he said. "It’s Rose Marie in the fifth race!”

He turned, lunging, toward the door; turned back so sharply that he staggered.

"Thanks, pal,” he said, then was gone, trailed by the ghost of a chuckle.

J ones strode along Flagler Street to the hive of Second Avenue. He knew a place to make a bet, but when he reached it, he stopped short outside and cursed as his hands clapped his empty pockets. He stood brooding at the corner while the lights changed many times, red and green, then darted heedlessly into a red light and kept walking. It was pitch-dark when he paused in a quiet street, blinked away his daze in the incandescence of a shop window and sidled into a doorway at the tap of footsteps. A man approached, immaculate in light trousers and belted sport coat.

"I’ve got to have two dollars,” said Jones, stepping in front of him.

The man made a gesture of impatience. "Get out of-”

Jones smashed his fist upon the words and the man went down. His head struck the metal base of the plate glass and he fell in the inert loose sprawl of a dummy. For Jones, it was the matter of less than four seconds to lift his bill-fold.

Downtown, the book-maker was mildly sardonic on the point of Rose Marie, but took Jones' two dollars and gave him a ticket. There was still seven dollars in



the bill-fold, and Jones found a late barber shop and asked for the works. Afterward he ate, paid for a dollar room in a hotel, and sent a telegram to a town in West Virginia:

"Tell Grandma to get you ready for trip. Be good. Daddy.”

Rose Marie paid $109.60 at the track, but Jones collected only the bookie’s fifteen-dollar limit. He left six dollars on a parlay in the next day’s races, looked at the sport clothes in the windows along Flagler Street, bought a shirt and a threedollar necktie.

When he collected the next day, he bought shoes and a pearl-gray hat; the day after, a suit of clothes.

The sky was blue and the crowds thickened day by day... Yale to beat Princeton... Fisherman’s Luck at Tia Juana... Machine Gun at Pimlico... Alabama and fifteen points... The daily double... The right dog on the nose... U. S. Steel to buy... Nice over Ritchie...

T he boy came down early in December, and Jones, in splendor, met him and the grandmother at the station. Jones sobbed happily as the kid leaped into his arms.

"You little mutt! We’re sitting pretty! On top of the world, pal!”

The six-year-old treble was ecstasy. "Daddy! I hardly knew you!”

"How do you like the old man’s layout, you bozo? Look at the car! Wait till you see our shack!”

The ocean was green, with white lace as a fringe... October cotton for three-point rise... Sweetheart Mine at Epsom Downs... Guffey to beat Reed in Pennsylvania... Insull to be acquitted... Navy over Army... General Motors to sell... General Motors to buy... Londos five to one... Buy wheat... Notre Dame...

J ones swung the car southward from Coral Gables, swung across the canal into the twisting road to Tahiti Beach.

"You been here a month, bimbo. How’d you like to go to Monte Carlo?”

The kid squirmed cozily under his arm. "If you go too, daddy.”

Jones laughed, deep-throated and content. On top of the world.

Sparkling, the bay came upon them around a bend.

"Tomorrow-” Jones began. He

slowed the car. He leaned forward, seemed to peer, his thumb stroking the ring upon his little finger. Suddenly he screamed, jammed his foot upon the brake so sharply that the car quivered and the steering-wheel smashed into his chest.

"Daddy!”

"Bimbo! Kid!”

The mangroves moaned in the wind. The kid whimpered in fright and pain from Jones’ savage clutch.

"Don’t leave your old man, bimbo!”

"No, daddy. You hurt!”

The automobile careened, roaring, as Jones turned it around with a single wild sweep of the wheel. It rocked crazily as he drove it at eighty miles with one hand, the other holding the kid.

At the house in the oleanders he thrust the boy into the arms of the old woman, the grandmother.

"If you let him out of your sight—you let him in the street—I’ll kill you!” he panted.

He dashed away in the car. Sunlight and shadows were blurs. Time was a blur. The gift shop in Flagler Street was gone, a fruit-juice booth was in its place. A woman there, edging nervously away from Jones, said she had heard the shop was closed when somebody died.

Jones wailed, then collapsed, sobbing.

"Died!” he babbled. "Died! I can’t do nothing! I can’t do nothing for my kid!”



Suddenly snarling, he tore the ring from his finger and flung it into the street. He shouted: "Damn you, devil!”

Lurching into his automobile, he fumbled for jthe handle of the door, to close it, and his hand struck the pocket in its side. His fingers jerked, stiffened, upon the harsh outlines of the object it contained.

"Bimbo!” he cried wildly.

The woman in the tropical fruit booth, who had been watching him, called out as he raised the pistol to his head, but above everything was the sound of the shot. In an instant people were running along the street to peer into the bright new car, that splendid car, at the limp huddle of the man who for a little while had been on top of the world, where no man may stay.

Berbeck Had a

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

Dream

A strange little tale about an eery revenge

I F YOU had asked the neighbors about them, they would have agreed unanimously that the Berbecks were a bad lot, all three of them—the old lady, the son, and the daughter-in-law. Because of her one-time dubious association with the underworld, old Mrs. Berbeck was looked upon as a wicked old woman, her son a sniveling creature, and her daughter-inlaw shrewish, to put it mildly. And one or two of those neighbors, more astute than the rest, wondered occasionally how it was that the old lady, for all her association with the criminal classes, could not spot the crook in her own family circle; meaning Peter Berbeck.

The facts of the matter were these: old Mrs. Berbeck, once indeed qualifying as a very wicked woman, was now nothing more than a somewhat querulous and largely harmless old lady suffering from a number of diseases any one of which might take her off at any time. Her son Peter was an office clerk and would probably never be anything else, a colorless

man in his early forties, a definite type— wing collar, spectacles, strawy hair, small mustache and pouty mouth. His wife ran the house, though it belonged to the old lady. As a matter of fact, the two younger Berbecks were living on the old lady, even more than the elder Mrs. Berbeck suspected, and this was what the more astute of the neighbors hinted.

For Peter Berbeck, incapable as he looked, had some time before his mother’s imminent death yielded to his wife’s promptings that the old lady’s bank balance be drawn upon. A simple matter of two bank-books, one for the old lady’s eyes—a forgery, obviously; the other for use, forged orders, and in a few years the younger Berbecks had run through a comfortable inheritance with nothing to show for it. The old lady, of course, almost all this time assumed she had several thousands at her fingertips, and was happy until her death, which came about much sooner than she might have expected.



The plan went smoothly enough until the old lady began to look at her son and daughter-in-law with questions in her eyes. There were some uneasy moments when she sent her son to the bank for rather large sums of money. Fortunately, they had not been so unwise as to draw everything out. There were more uneasy moments when the old lady sent for a cab once or twice and came back late at night from mysterious trips with something she had bought—parts of some kind of machinery, which she lugged down into the cellar and stored there. And when, presently, an oddlooking machine began to take shape under her hands, the Peter Berbecks had no difficulty convincing themselves that the old lady was mad.

But the thing that finally upset the Peter Berbecks came about through the dirty, smudged letters that now occasionally came to the old lady. A burnt fragment of one of them one morning disclosed that old Mrs. Berbeck had paid what seemed to be a thousand dollars merely for the loan of some plates. This incensed her daughter-in-law, who thought that a stop ought to be put to such waste. Peter fluttered, mumbled something about duty, and shied clear.

Mrs. Peter Berbeck helped the old lady off this earthly plane by putting some arsenic in her coffee. A careless doctor obliged by pointing to two or three of the old lady’s illnesses as causing her death. The period of mourning, naturally, was short. Even hypocrites find hypocrisy very irksome at times.

W hat subsequently happened to Mr.

and Mrs. Peter Berbeck is still largely a matter of conjecture—the facts behind the obvious evidence, that is. Several nights after the old lady’s death, Peter Berbeck had a dream. He dreamed

that his mother appeared to him, beckoned him from his bed to the cellar below, and showed him how to complete the setting up of the machine there. He dreamed, further, that he began to work the machine, and that, later, he found himself rummaging in the closet of. his mother’s room. He dreamed this dream successively, on several nights, and one night woke up on the cellar stairs, very tired, his clothes oil-stained, to find his wife standing beside him. It developed that she, too, had had an identical dream, and, indeed, her night-clothing was stained as was his.

And then came that final catastrophic dream—that there was an old shoe-box in his mother’s closet filled to the brim with money that had never seen a bank. The following morning Peter told this dream in every detail to his wife, and she went directly to the closet and found the box with money in it, just as Peter had dreamed.

After that, there was a brief period of hilarious living, and then suddenly the bubble burst. Nothing seemed to go right, and when Mr. and Mrs. Peter Berbeck were finally haled into court and put up for trial their period of riotous living was definitely at an end. Peter told his story, and his wife told hers, but neither story seemed to be the right one, and Judge Mcllrath of the Federal Court in Chicago frowned sternly before pronouncing sentence, and said, "It is almost inconceivable that seemingly educated persons could postulate such nonsense. The facts in this matter are plain. The evidence is without question, the crime deliberate. These preposterous stories are an affront to the dignity of this court, an insult to the intelligence of the jury.”

Old Mrs. Berbeck would have enjoyed that, but she, poor lady, was quite dead,



unless we agree with those open-minded persons who believe that perhaps some of us never really die.

Trying blindly to seek a way out of the dilemma in which he found himself, Peter Berbeck claimed that things began to happen shortly after his mother’s death.

"What things?” demanded the prosecution.

"Well, I had a dream,” said Peter. "One night I dreamed that my mother appeared to me and took me by the hand and led me down into the cellar. The machine was there.”

"You admit that, then, do you?”

"Yes,” said Peter, not knowing why he should not. "My mother had friends among the—well, among criminals—and knew where she could get those things.”

"I’m afraid that can not be admitted as evidence,” said the prosecution. "Your mother is dead. We can hardly accept statements of this kind. The machine was there. Please go on with your dream, if you feel that it may help to explain the evidence against you.”

"Well,” resumed Peter. "I dreamed she led me down into the cellar and put my hands on the machine. I did as she told me. I put the machine together and seemed to work it. Then I was led back upstairs to bed. In the morning I saw that the machine had actually been put completely together.”

"You would have this court believe the machine was not then together before that morning? Have you any outside evidence to support that contention?”

Peter shook his head. "I found oil on my pajamas once or twice,” he added thoughtfully.

"You suggest to this court that this actually took place? That you did all this in your sleep?”

"Yes.”

"And you say you had this dream more than once?”

"Yes, I did.”

"But even if this court accepts such preposterous nonsense, can you think of any reason why your dead mother should be concerned in this matter?”

Peter Berbeck choked and said, "No.” Obviously he could not say that his mother had very likely suspected and then found out about the pilfering of her bank balance, had then determined to wreak some sort of vengeance, had gone out and got the machine piecemeal into the house, and then trusted to luck (or did dreams come under some other head? And were they after all dreams?) to bring about their punishment. Was it not Shakespeare who once said that the whirligig of time brings about its own revenge?

M rs. peter berbeck had told much the same kind of story. Nor could she explain by saying that perhaps the old lady had guessed about the arsenic in her coffee and tried to get through from another world. She had presence of mind enough to realize that the relation of the dreams had had a strongly prejudicial effect without the further suggestion of something unnatural, supernatural. Like her husband, she was forced to keep silence and watch helplessly while this amazing web of evidence appeared against them.

Even the defense counsel thought that it would be best to leave old Mrs. Berbeck among the dead, where she properly belonged, despite a taxi-driver who turned up to volunteer that he remembered having driven the old lady back and forth on one occasion and distinctly recalled her carrying large bundles that might have been pieces of a machine. And the tale of the burnt fragment of


6 33

letter about plates was discounted at once. Dreams might have a place, but the Federal Court of Chicago was not that place.

When Peter Berbeck went on to tell about finding the box in his mother’s closet also by the suggestion conveyed to him by his mother in a dream, the jury began to grow restless. Both defense and prosecution concentrated on the plates—where had the Berbecks hidden them? If they could be turned over to this court, it might not go so hard with the Berbecks. But both Peter and his wife denied any knowledge whatever of plates, and a thorough search of their house failed to reveal any sign of them. It was hardly to be expected that a certain smooth gentleman who had loaned the plates to old Mrs. Berbeck, and who had since retrieved them by the simple method of entering the Berbeck house by night through a cellar window and making off with them two nights before the Berbecks were placed under arrest, would come forward and tell his story. Certainly not. There is, after all, such a matter as preserving one’s own skin even at the expense of others.

From the point-of-view of any outsider, the case was ludicrous indeed, and it was even more astounding that any court could be bothered to listen to even a curtailed version of the Berbecks’ stories. But the Federal Court did—after all, it was a first offense—despite the clarity of the case against Peter Berbeck and his wife. The evidence was definite, imposing, and impregnable.

There was the payment on the car.

There was a payment to the grocer.

There was the payment to the milkman.

There were payments to the telephone and gas companies.

And finally that attempt to deposit the money at the bank.

There was nothing to be done. The court had never before listened to such preposterous explanations. These various payments now in evidence were conclusive. They had been made in counterfeit money, quite recently manufactured; there was a press for the printing of counterfeit money in the cellar, and the fingerprints of Mr. and Mrs. Peter Berbeck were all over it; and finally, there was the box of printed money still kept in what had been the old lady’s closet. The failure of the accused to turn over the counterfeit plates could only make their penalty the more severe.

It was inconceivable that the court should be expected to give even momentary credence to the absurd contention of the accused that they had gone to the press in their sleep, that they had found the counterfeit money in the old lady’s room after a dream, that they did not know it was counterfeit, that they did not now know and never had known where the plates were.

The court sentenced Peter Berbeck and his wife to ten years as guests of the Federal Government for counterfeiting and passing counterfeit currency of the nation. Judge Mcllrath’s gavel had absolutely no effect upon the convulsive chuckle that rang through the courtroom when sentence was pronounced. Nor could its source subsequently be traced;

[THE END]

============================================================
by Edgar Allan Poe
============================================================
there were no old women in the courtroom, and the laughter was indisputably that of an old woman.

Wm

illiam Wilson

By EDGAR ALLAN POE

What say of it? what say of conscience grim, That specter in ray path?

—Chamberlain’s Pharronida.

1 ET me call myself, for the present, William Wilson. The fair page ^ now lying before me need not be sullied with my real appellation. This has been already too much an object for the scorn—for the horror—for the detestation of my race. To the uttermost regions of the globe have not the indignant winds bruited its unparalleled infamy? Oh, outcast of all outcasts most abandoned!—to the earth art thou not for ever dead? to its honors, to its flowers, to its golden aspirations?—and a cloud, dense, dismal, and limitless, does it not hang eternally between thy hopes and heaven?

I would not, if I could, here or today, embody a record of my later years of unspeakable misery and unpardonable crime. This epoch—these later years— took unto themselves a sudden elevation in turpitude, whose origin alone it is my present purpose to assign. Men usually grow base by degrees. From me, in an instant, all virtue dropped bodily as a mantle. From comparatively trivial

wickedness I passed, with the stride of a giant, into more than the enormities of an Elah-Gabalus. What chance—what one event brought this evil thing to pass, bear with me while I relate. Death approaches; and the shadow which foreruns him has thrown a softening influence over my spirit. I long, in passing through the dim valley, for the sympathy—I had nearly said for the pity—of my fellow men. I would fain have them believe that I have been, in some measure, the slave of circumstances beyond human control. I would wish them to seek out for me, in the details I am about to give, some little oasis of fatality amid a wilderness of error. I would have them allow —what they cannot refrain from allowing—that, although temptation may have erewhile existed as great, man was never thus, at least, tempted before—certainly, never thus fell. And is it therefore that he has never thus suffered? Have I not indeed been living in a dream? And am I not now dying a victim to the horror and the mystery of the wildest of all sublunary visions?

I am the descendant of a race whose imaginative and easily excitable temperaWILLIAM WILSON


ment has at all times rendered them remarkable; and, in my earliest infancy, I gave evidence of having fully inherited the family character. As I advanced in years it was more strongly developed; becoming, for many reasons, a cause of serious disquietude to my friends, and of positive injury to myself. I grew selfwilled, addicted to the wildest caprices, and a prey to the most ungovernable passions. Weak-minded, and beset with constitutional infirmities akin to my own, my parents could do but little to check the evil propensities which distinguished me. Some feeble and ill-directed efforts resulted in complete failure on their part, and, of course, in total triumph on mine. Thenceforward my voice was a household law; and at an age when few children have abandoned their leadingstrings, I was left to the guidance of my own will, and became, in all but name, the master of my own actions.

My earliest recollections of a school life are connected with a large, rambling, Elizabethan house, in a misty-looking village of England, where were a vast number of gigantic and gnarled trees, and where all the houses were excessively ancient. In truth, it was a dream-like and spirit-soothing place, that venerable old town. At this moment, in fancy, I feel the refreshing chilliness of its deeplyshadowed avenues, inhale the fragrance of its thousand shrubberies, and thrill anew with undefinable delight at the deep hollow note of the church-bell, breaking, each hour, with sullen and sudden roar, upon the stillness of the dusky atmosphere in which the fretted Gothic steeple lay imbedded and asleep.

It gives me, perhaps, as much of pleasure as I can now in any manner experience, to dwell upon minute recollections of the school and its concerns. Steeped in misery as I am—misery, alas! only too

real—I shall be pardoned for seeking relief, however slight and temporary, in the weakness of a few rambling details. These, moreover, utterly trivial, and even ridiculous in themselves, assume, to my fancy, adventitious importance, as connected with a period and a locality when and where I recognize the first ambiguous monitions of the destiny which afterward so fully overshadowed me. Let me then remember.

T he house, I have said, was old and irregular. The grounds were extensive, and a high and solid brick wall, topped with a bed of mortar and broken glass, encompassed the whole. This prison-like rampart formed the limit of our domain; beyond it we saw but thrice a week—once every Saturday afternoon, when, attended by two ushers, we were permitted to take brief walks in a body through some of the neighboring fields —and twice during Sunday, when we were paraded in the same formal manner to the morning and evening service in the one church of the village. Of this church the principal of our school was pastor. With how deep a spirit of wonder and perplexity was I wont to regard him from our remote pew in the gallery, as, with step solemn and slow, he ascended the pulpit! This reverend man, with countenance so demurely benign, with robes so glossy and so clerically flowing, with wig so minutely powdered, so rigid and so vast,—could this be he who, of late, with sour visage, and in snuffy habiliments, administered, ferule in hand, the Draconian Laws of the academy? Oh, gigantic paradox, too utterly monstrous for solution!

At an angle of the ponderous wall frowned a more ponderous gate. It was riveted and studded with iron bolts, and surmounted with jagged iron spikes.



What impressions of deep awe did it inspire! It was never opened save for the three periodical egressions and ingressions already mentioned; then, in every creak of its mighty hinges, we found a plenitude of mystery—a world of matter for solemn remark, or for more solemn meditation.

The extensive enclosure was irregular in form, having many capacious recesses. Of these, three or four of the largest constituted the playground. It was level, and covered with fine hard gravel. I well remember it had no trees, nor benches, nor anything similar within it. Of course it was in the rear of the house. In front lay a small parterre, planted with box and other shrubs, but through this sacred division we passed only upon rare occasions indeed—such as a first advent to school or final departure thence, or perhaps, when we joyfully took our way home for the Christmas or midsummer holidays.

But the house!—how quaint an old building was this!—to me how veritable a palace of enchantment! There was really no end to its windings—to its incomprehensible subdivisions. It was difficult, at any given time, to say with certainty upon which of its two stories one happened to be. From each room to every other there were sure to be found three or four steps either in ascent or descent. Then the lateral branches were innumerable—inconceivable—and so returning in upon themselves, that our most exact ideas in regard to the whole mansion were not very far different from those with which we pondered upon infinity. During the five years of my residence here, I was never able to ascertain with precision, in what remote locality lay the little sleeping-apartment assigned to myself and some eighteen or twenty other scholars.

The schoolroom was the largest in the house—I could not help thinking, in the world. It was very long, narrow, and dismally low, with pointed Gothic windows and a ceiling of oak. In a remote and terror-inspiring angle was a square enclosure of eight or ten feet, comprising the sanctum, "during hours,” of our principal, the Reverend Doctor Bransby. It was a solid structure, with massy door, sooner than open which in the absence of the "Dominie,” we would all have willingly perished by the peine forte et dure. In other angles were two other similar boxes, far less reverenced, indeed, but still greatly matters of awe. One of these was the pulpit of the "classical” usher, one of the "English and mathematical.” Interspersed about the room, crossing and recrossing in endless irregularity, were innumerable benches and desks, black, ancient, and time-worn, piled desperately with much bethumbed books, and so beseamed with initial letters, names at full length, grotesque figures, and other multiplied efforts of the knife, as to have entirely lost what little of original form might have been their portion in days long departed. A huge bucket with water stood at one extremity of the room, and a clock of stupendous dimensions at the other.

E ncompassed by the massy walls of this venerable academy, I passed, yet not in tedium or disgust, the years of the third lustrum of my life. The teeming brain of childhood requires no external world of incident to occupy or amuse it; and the apparently dismal monotony of a school was replete with more intense excitement than my riper youth has derived from luxury, or my full manhood from crime. Yet I must believe that my first mental development had in it much of the uncommon—even much of the outre.



Upon mankind at large the events of very early existence rarely leave in mature age any definite impression. All is gray shadow—a weak and irregular remembrance —an indistinct regathering of feeble pleasures and fantasmagoric pains. With me this is not so. In childhood I must have felt with the energy of a man what I now find stamped upon memory in lines as vivid, as deep, and as durable as the exergues of the Carthaginian medals.

Yet in fact—in the fact of the world’s view—how little was there to remember! The morning’s awakening, the nightly summons to bed; the connings, the recitations; the periodical half-holidays, and perambulations; the playground, with its broils, its pastimes, its intrigues;—these, by a mental sorcery long forgotten, were made to involve a wilderness of sensation, a world of rich incident, an universe of varied emotion, of excitement, the most passionate and spirit-stirring. "Oh, le bon temps, que ce siecle de fer!”

In truth, the ardor, the enthusiasm, and the imperiousness of my disposition soon rendered me a marked character among my schoolmates, and by slow but natural gradations gave me an ascendancy over all not greatly older than myself;— over all with a single exception. This exception was found in the person of a scholar, who, although no relation, bore the same Christian and surname as myself;—a circumstance, in fact, little remarkable; for notwithstanding a noble descent, mine was one of those everyday appellations which seem, by prescriptive right, to have been, time out of mind, the common property of the mob. In this narrative I have therefore designated myself as William Wilson,—a fictitious title not very dissimilar to the real. My namesake alone, of those who in school phraseology constituted "our set,” pre-

sumed to compete with me in the studies of the class—in the sports and broils of the playground—to refuse implicit belief in my assertions, and submission to my will—indeed, to interfere with my arbitrary dictation in any respect whatsoever. If there is on earth a supreme and unqualified despotism, it is the despotism of a master-mind in boyhood over the less energetic spirits of its companions.

Wilson’s rebellion was to me a source of the greatest embarrassment; the more so as, in spite of the bravado with which in public I made a point of treating him and his pretensions, I secretly felt that I feared him, and could not help thinking the equality which he maintained so easily with myself, a proof of his true superiority; since not to be overcome cost me a perpetual struggle. Yet this superiority—even this equality—was in truth acknowledged by no one but myself; our associates, by some unaccountable blindness, seemed not even to suspect it. Indeed, his competition, his resistance, and especially his impertinent and dogged interference with my purposes, were not more pointed than private. He appeared to be destitute alike of the ambition which urged, and of the passionate energy of mind which enabled me to excel. In his rivalry he might have been supposed actuated solely by a whimsical desire to thwart, astonish, or mortify myself; although there were times when I could not help observing, with a feeling made up of wonder, abasement, and pique, that he mingled with his injuries, his in* suits, or his contradictions, a certain most* inappropriate, and assuredly most unwelcome, affectionateness of manner. I could only conceive this singular behavior to arise from a consummate self-conceit assuming the vulgar airs of patronage and protection.



Perhaps it was this latter trait in Wilson’s conduct, conjoined with our identity of name, and the mere accident of our having entered the school upon the same day, which set afloat the notion that we were brothers, among the senior classes in the academy. These do not usually inquire with such strictness into the affairs of their juniors. I have before said, or should have said, that Wilson was not, in a most remote degree, connected with my family. But assuredly if we had been brothers we must have been twins; for, after leaving Doctor Bransby’s, I casually learned that my namesake was born on the nineteenth of January, 1813—and this is a somewhat remarkable coincidence; for the day is precisely that of my own nativity.

It may seem strange that in spite of the continual anxiety occasioned me by the rivalry of Wilson, and his intolerable spirit of contradiction, I could not bring myself to hate him altogether. We had, to be sure, nearly every day a quarrel in which, yielding me publicly the palm of victory, he, in some manner, contrived to make me feel that it was he who had deserved it; yet a sense of pride on my part, and a veritable dignity on his own, kept us always upon what are called "speaking terms,” while there were many points of strong congeniality in our tempers, operating to awake in me a sentiment which our position alone, perhaps, prevented from ripening into friendship. It is difficult, indeed, to define, or even to describe, my real feelings toward him. They formed a motley and heterogeneous admixture;—some petulant animosity, which was not yet hatred, some esteem, more respect, much fear, with a world of uneasy curiosity. To the moralist it will be necessary to say, in addition, that Wilson and myself were the most inseparable of companions.

I T was no doubt the anomalous state of affairs existing between us which turned all my attacks upon him (and there were many, either open or covert) into the channel of banter or practical joke (giving pain while assuming the aspect of mere fun), rather than into a more serious and determined hostility. But my endeavors on this head were by no means uniformly successful, even when my plans were the most wittily concocted; for my namesake had much about him, in character, of that unassuming and quiet austerity which, while enjoying the poignancy of its own jokes, has no heel of Achilles in itself, and absolutely refuses to be laughed at. I could find, indeed, but one vulnerable point, and that, lying in a personal peculiarity, arising, perhaps, from constitutional disease, would have been spared by any antagonist less at his wit’s end than myself;—my rival had a weakness in the facial or guttural organs, which precluded him from raising his voice at any time above a very low whisper. Of this defect I did not fail to take what poor advantage lay in my power.

Wilson’s retaliations in kind were many; and there was one form of his practical wit that disturbed me beyond measure. How his sagacity first discovered at all that so petty a thing would vex me, is a question I never could solve; but having discovered, he habitually practised the annoyance. I had always felt aversion to my uncourtly patronymic, and its very common, if not plebeian, prsenomen. The words were venom in my ears; and when, upon the day of my arrival, a second William Wilson came also to the academy, I felt angry with him for bearing the name, and doubly disgusted with the name because a stranger bore it, who would be the cause of its twofold repetition, who would be conWILLIAM WILSON


stantly in my presence, and whose concerns, in the ordinary routine of the school business, must inevitably, on account of the detestable coincidence, be often confounded with my own.

The feeling of vexation thus engendered grew stronger with every circumstance tending to show resemblance, moral or physical, between my rival and myself. I had not then discovered the remarkable fact that we were of the same age; but I saw that we were of the same height, and I perceived that we were even singularly alike in general contour of person and outline of feature, I was galled, too, by the rumor touching a relationship, which had grown current in the upper forms. In a word, nothing could more seriously disturb me (although I scrupulously concealed such disturbance) than any allusion to a similarity of mind, person, or condition existing between us. But, in truth, I had no reason to believe that (with the exception of the matter of relationship, and in the case of Wilson himself) this similarity had ever been made a subject of comment, or even observed at all by our schoolfellows. That he observed it in all its bearings, and as fixedly as I, was apparent; but that he could discover in such circumstances so fruitful a field of annoyance, can only be attributed, as I said before, to his more than ordinary penetration.

His cue, which was to perfect an imitation of myself, lay both in words and in actions; and most admirably did he play his part. My dress it was an easy matter to copy; my gait and general manner were without difficulty appropriated; in spite of his constitutional defect, even my voice did not escape him. My louder tones were, of course, unattempted, but then the key,—it was identical; and his singular whisper, it grew the very echo of my own.

How greatly this most exquisite portraiture harassed me (for it could not justly be termed a caricature), I will not now venture to describe. I had but one consolation—in the fact that the imitation, apparently, was noticed by myself alone, and that I had to endure only the knowing and strangely sarcastic smiles of my namesake himself. Satisfied with having produced in my bosom the intended effect, he seemed to chuckle in secret over the sting he had inflicted, and was characteristically disregardful of the public applause which the success of his witty endeavors might have so easily elicited. That the school, indeed, did not feel his design, perceive its accomplishment, and participate in his sneer, was, for many anxious months, a riddle I could not resolve. Perhaps the gradation of his copy rendered it not readily perceptible; or, more possibly, I owed my security to the masterly air of the copyist, who, disdaining the letter (which in a painting is all the obtuse can see), gave but the full spirit of his original for my individual contemplation and chagrin.

I have already more than once spoken of the disgusting air of patronage which he assumed toward me, and of his frequent officious interference with my will. This interference often took the ungracious character of advice; advice not openly given, but hinted or insinuated. I received it with a repugnance which gained strength as I grew in years. Yet, at this distant day, let me do him the simple justice to acknowledge that I can recall no occasion when the suggestions of my rival were on the side of those errors or follies so usual to his immature age and seeming inexperience; that his moral sense, at least, if not his general talents and worldly wisdom, was far keener than my own; and that I might, today, have



been a better and thus a happier man, had I less frequently rejected the counsels embodied in those meaning whispers which I then but too cordially hated and too bitterly despised.

As it was I at length grew restive in the extreme under his distasteful supervision, and daily resented more and more openly what I considered his intolerable arrogance. I have said that, in the first years of our connection as schoolmates, my feelings in regard to him might have been easily ripened into friendship; but, in the latter months of my residence at the academy, although the intrusion of his ordinary manner had, beyond doubt, in some measure abated, my sentiments, in nearly similar proportion, partook very much of positive hatred. Upon one occasion he saw this, I think, and afterward avoided, or made a show of avoiding me.

It was about the same period, if I remember aright, that, in an altercation of violence with him, in which he was more than usually thrown off his guard, and spoke and acted with an openness of demeanor rather foreign to his nature, I discovered, or fancied I discovered, in his accent, in his air, and general appearance, a something which first startled, and then deeply interested me, by bringing to mind dim visions of my earliest infancy —wild, confused, and thronging memories of a time when memory herself was yet unborn. I cannot better describe the sensation which oppressed me, than by saying that I could with difficulty shake off the belief of my having been acquainted with the being who stood before me, at some epoch very long ago—some point of the past even infinitely remote. The delusion, however, faded as rapidly as it came; and I mention it at all but to define the day of the last conversation I there held with my singular namesake.

The huge old house, with its countless

subdivisions, had several large chambers communicating with each other, where slept the greater number of the students. There were, however (as must necessarily happen in a building so awkwardly planned), many little nooks or recesses, the odds and ends of the structure; and these the economic ingenuity of Doctor Bransby had also fitted up as dormitories; although, being the merest closets, they were capable of accommodating but a single individual. One of these small apartments was occupied by Wilson.

O ne night, about the close of my fifth year at the school, and immediately after the altercation just mentioned, finding everyone wrapped in sleep, I arose from bed, and, lamp in hand, stole through a wilderness of narrow passages, from my own bedroom to that of my rival. I had long been plotting one of those ill-natured pieces of practical wit at his expense in which I had hitherto been so uniformly unsuccessful. It was my intention, now, to put my scheme in operation, and I resolved to make him feel the whole extent of the malice with which I was imbued. Having reached his closet, I noiselessly entered, leaving the lamp, with a shade over it, on the outside. I advanced a step and listened to the sound of his tranquil breathing. Assured of his being asleep, I returned, took the light, and with it again approached the bed. Close curtains were around it, which, in the prosecution of my plan, I slowly and quietly withdrew, when the bright rays fell vividly upon the sleeper, and my eyes at the same moment upon his countenance.

I looked;—and a numbness, an iciness of feeling instantly pervaded my frame. My breast heaved, my knees tottered, my whole spirit became possessed with an objectless yet intolerable horror. Gasping W. T.—7



for breath, I lowered the lamp in still nearer proximity to the face. Were these —these the lineaments of William Wilson? I saw, indeed, that they were his, but I shook as if with a fit of the ague, in fancying they were not. What was there about them to confound me in this manner? I gazed;—while my brain reeled with a multitude of incoherent thoughts. Not thus he appeared, assuredly not thus —in the vivacity of his waking hours. The same name! the same contour of person! the same day of arrival at the academy! And then his dogged and meaningless imitation of my gait, my voice, my habits, and my manner! Was it, in truth, within the bounds of human possibility, that what I now saw was the result, merely, of the habitual practise of this sarcastic imitation? Awe-stricken, and with a creeping shudder, I extinguished the lamp, passed silently from the chamber, and left, at once, the halls of that old academy, never to enter them again.

After a lapse of some months, spent at home in mere idleness, I found myself a student at Eton. The brief interval had been sufficient to enfeeble my remembrance of the events at Doctor Bransby’s, or at least to effect a material change in the nature of the feelings with which I remembered them. The truth—the tragedy—of the drama was no more. I could now find room to doubt the evidence of my senses; and seldom called up the subject at all but with wonder at the extent of human credulity, and a smile at the vivid force of the imagination which I hereditarily possessed. Neither was this species of skepticism likely to be diminished by the character of the life I led at Eton. The vortex of thoughtless folly into which I there so immediately and so recklessly plunged, washed away all but the froth of my past hours, mgulfed at once every solid or serious impression, W. T.—8

and left to memory only the veriest levities of a former existence.

I do not wish, however, to trace the course of my miserable profligacy here— a profligacy which set at defiance the laws, while it eluded the vigilance, of the institution. Three years of folly, passed without profit, had but given me rooted habits of vice, and added, in a somewhat unusual degree, to my bodily stature, when, after a week of soulless dissipation, I invited a small party of the most dissolute students to a secret carousal in my chambers. We met at a late hour of the night; for our debaucheries were to be faithfully protracted until morning. The wine flowed freely, and there were not wanting other and perhaps more dangerous seductions; so that the gray dawn had already faintly appeared in the east while our delirious extravagance was at its height. Madly flushed with cards and intoxication, I was in the act of insisting upon a toast of more than wonted profanity, when my attention was suddenly diverted by the violent, although partial, unclosing of the door of the apartment, and by the eager voice of a servant from without. He said that some person, apparently in great haste, demanded to speak with me in the hall.

Wildly excited with wine, the unexpected interruption rather delighted than surprized me. I staggered forward at once, and a few steps brought me to the vestibule of the building. In this low and small room there hung no lamp; and now no light at all was admitted, save that of the exceedingly feeble dawn which made its way through the semicircular window. As I put my foot over the threshold, I became aware of the figure of a youth about my own height, and habited in a white kerseymere morning frock, cut in the novel fashion of the one I myself wore at the moment. This the



faint light enabled me to perceive; but the features of his face I could not distinguish. Upon my entering, he strode hurriedly up to me, and, seizing me by the arm with a gesture of petulant impatience, whispered the words "William Wilson” in my ear.

I grew perfectly sober in an instant.

There was that in the manner of the stranger, and in the tremulous shake of his uplifted finger, as he held it between my eyes and the light, which filled me with unqualified amazement; but it was not this which had so violently moved me. It was the pregnancy of solemn admonition in the singular, low, hissing utterance; and, above all, it was the character, the tone, the key, of those few, simple, and familiar, yet whispered syllables, which came with a thousand thronging memories of bygone days, and struck upon my soul with the shock of a galvanic battery. Ere I could recover the use of my senses he was gone.

A lthough this event failed not of a - vivid effect upon my disordered imagination, yet was it evanescent as vivid. For some weeks, indeed, I busied myself in earnest enquiry, or was wrapped in a cloud of morbid speculation. I did not pretend to disguise from my perception the identity of the singular individual who thus perseveringly interfered with my affairs, and harassed me with his insinuated counsel. But who and what was this Wilson? — and whence came he?—and what were his purposes? Upon neither of these points could I be satisfied—merely ascertaining, in regard to him, that a sudden accident in his family had caused his removal from Doctor Bransby’s academy on the afternoon of the day in which I myself had eloped. But in a brief period I ceased to think upon the subject, my attention being all

absorbed in a contemplated departure for Oxford. Thither I soon went, the uncalculating vanity of my parents furnishing me with an outfit and annual establishment, which would enable me to indulge at will in the luxury already so dear to my heart—to vie in profuseness of expenditure with the haughtiest heirs of the wealthiest earldoms in Great Britain.

Excited by such appliances to vice, my constitutional temperament broke forth with redoubled ardor, and I spurned even the common restraints of decency in the mad infatuation of my revels. But it were absurd to pause in the detail of my extravagance. Let it suffice, that among spendthrifts I out-Heroded Herod, and that, giving name to a multitude of novel follies, I added no brief appendix to the long catalogue of vices then usual in the most dissolute university of Europe.

It could hardly be credited, however, that I had, even here, so utterly fallen from the gentlemanly estate as to seek acquaintance with the vilest arts of the gambler by profession, and, having become an adept in his despicable science, to practise it habitually as a means of increasing my already enormous income at the expense of the weak-minded among my fellow-collegians. Such, nevertheless, was the fact. And the very enormity of this offense against all manly and honorable sentiment proved, beyond doubt, the main if not the sole reason of the impunity with which it was committed. Who, indeed, among my most abandoned associates, would not rather have disputed the clearest evidence of his senses, than have suspected of such courses, the gay, the frank, the generous William Wilson—the noblest and most liberal commoner at Oxford—him whose follies (said his parasites) were but the follies of youth and unbridled fancy—whose (Please turn to page 644)


I N ONE corner of the dungeon a cluster of rusty chains hung from a great iron ring set in the stone. In these chains a skeleton dangled. Conan glared at it with some curiosity, noticing the state of the bare bones, most of which were splintered and broken; the skull, which had fallen from the vertebrae, was crushed as if by some savage blow of tremendous force.

Stolidly one of the blacks removed the chains from the ring, using his key on the massive lock, and dragged the mass of rusty metal and shattered bones over to one side. Then they fastened Conan’s chains to that ring, and the third black turned his key in the lock of the further door, grunting when he had assured himself that it was properly fastened.

Then they regarded Conan cryptically, slit-eyed ebony giants, the torch striking highlights from their glossy skin.

He who held the key to the nearer door remarked, gutturally: "This is your palace now, white dog-king. You will live and die here, maybe. Like him!” He contemptuously kicked the shattered skull and sent it clattering across the stone floor.

Conan did not deign to reply to the taunt, and the black, galled by his prisoner’s silence, stooped and spat full in the king’s face. It was an unfortunate move for the black. Conan was seated on the floor, the chains about his waist; ankles and wrists locked to the ring in the wall. He could neither rise, nor move more than a yard out from the wall. But there was considerable slack in the chains that shackled his wrists, and before the bullet-shaped head could be withdrawn out of reach, Conan gathered this slack in his mighty hand and smote the black on the head. The man fell like a butchered ox, and his companions stared to see him lying with his scalp laid open and blood oozing from his nose and ears. But they attempted no reprisal....

Don’t miss this vivid story of a thousand thrills, the weirdest and most fascinating story that Robert E. Howard has yet written about the doughty adventurer and soldier of fortune, Conan the barbarian. This great story will begin in the De-

[THE END]

============================================================
by Robert E. Howard
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Paul Ernst
============================================================
cember Weird Tales:

The Hour of the Dragon

By Robert E. Howard

-AlsoDANCING FEET By Paul Ernst


[THE END]

============================================================
by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
A story of the Caid of Hamam Meknes in the Sahara desert, and the young white wife who displeased him—a grim tale, through which blows a breath of horror.


By Clark Ashton Smith _What strange obsession led John Milwarp to probe into his past lives? A striking and unforgettable tale.


By Edmond Hamilton

A superb tale of distant Kaldar, world of the great star Antares, and a vampiric monstrosity that fed on the brains of an entire race.


By Harold Ward

A grim story of a weird murder—a mystery story full of strange surprizes and vivid action.

December Weird Tales.... Out December 1




William Wilson

(Continued from page 642) errors but inimitable whim—whose darkest vice but a careless and dashing extravagance?

I had been now two years successfully busied in this way, when there came to the university a young parvenu nobleman, Glendenning—rich, said report, as Herodes Atticus—his riches, too, as easily acquired. I soon found him of weak intellect, and, of course, marked him as a fitting subject for my skill. I frequently engaged him in play, and contrived, with the gambler’s usual art, to let him win considerable sums, the more effectually to entangle him in my snares. At length, my schemes being ripe, I met him (with the full intention that this meeting should be final and decisive) at the chambers of a fellow-commoner (Mr. Preston), equally intimate with both, but who, to do him justice, entertained not even a remote suspicion of my design. To give to this a better coloring, I had contrived to have assembled a party of some eight or ten, and was solicitously careful that the introduction of cards should appear accidental, and originate in the proposal of my contemplated dupe himself. To be brief upon a vile topic, none of the low finesse was omitted, so customary upon similar occasions, that it is a just matter for wonder how any are still found so besotted as to fall its victim.

We had protracted our sitting far into the night, and I had at length effected the maneuver of getting Glendenning as my sole antagonist. The game, too, was my favorite ecarte. The rest of the company, interested in the extent of our play, had abandoned their own cards, and were standing around us as spectators. The parvenu, who had been induced by my artifices in the early part of the evening

to drink deeply, now shuffled, dealt, or played, with a wild nervousness of manner for which his intoxication, I thought, might partially, but could not altogether, account. In a very short period he had become my debtor to a large amount, when, having taken a long draft of port, he did precisely what I had been coolly anticipating—he proposed to double our already extravagant stakes. With a wellfeigned show of reluctance, and not until after my repeated refusal had seduced him into some angry words which gave a color of pique to my compliance, did I finally comply. The result, of course, did but prove how entirely the prey was in my toils: in less than an hour he had quadrupled his debt.

For some time his countenance had been losing the florid tinge lent it by the wine; but now, to my astonishment, I perceived that it had grown to a pallor truly fearful. I say, to my astonishment. Glendenning had been represented to my eager inquiries as immeasurably wealthy; and the sums which he had as yet lost, although in themselves vast, could not, I supposed, very seriously annoy, much less so violently affect him. That he was overcome by the wine just swallowed was the idea which most readily presented itself; and, rather with a view to the preservation of my own character in the eyes of my associates, than from any less interested motive, I was about to insist, peremptorily, upon a discontinuance of the play, when some expressions at my elbow from among the company, and an ejaculation evincing utter despair on the part of Glendenning, gave me to understand that I had effected his total ruin under circumstances which, rendering him an object for the pity of all, should have protected him from the ill offices even of a fiend.



W hat now might have been my conduct it is difficult to say. The pitiable condition of my dupe had thrown an air of embarrassed gloom over all; and, for some moments, a profound silence was maintained, during which I could not help feeling my cheeks tingle with the many burning glances of scorn or reproach cast upon me by the less abandoned of the party. I will even own that an intolerable weight of anxiety was for a brief instant lifted from my bosom by the sudden and extraordinary interruption which ensued. The wide, heavy folding-doors of the apartment were all at once thrown open, to their full extent, with a vigorous and rushing impetuosity that extinguished, as if by magic, every candle in the room. Their light, in dying, enabled us just to perceive that a stranger had entered, about my own height, and closely muffled in a cloak. The darkness, however, was not total; and we could only feel that he was standing in our midst. Before any one of us could recover from the extreme astonishment into which this rudeness had thrown all, we heard the voice of the intruder.

"Gentlemen,” he said, in a low, distinct, and never-to-be-forgotten whisper which thrilled to the very marrow of my bones, "gentlemen, I make no apology for this behavior, because in thus behaving, I am fulfilling a duty. You are, beyond doubt, uninformed of the true character of the person who has tonight won at ecarte a large sum of money from Lord Glendenning. I will therefore put you upon an expeditious and decisive plan of obtaining this very necessary information. Please to examine, at your leisure, the inner linings of the cuff of his left sleeve, and the several little packages which may be found in the somewhat capacious pockets of his embroidered morning wrapper.”

Did the Ancients Possess?

Are the stories of the great miracles of (the past legend or fact? Is it possible that once the forces of nature were at the com' mand of man? Whence came that power? Startling is the revelation that the strange wisdom they possessed has been preserved for centuries and today is available to aU, •who seek a Mastery op Life.

Send For Free Sealed Book

Those today who have acquired these’ Cosmic truths find them simple, forceful, and the instrument by which they fashion a new and abundant life. Write the Rosicrucians (not a religious organization).* who have carefully guarded these age-old principles, to send you the free Sealed Book which tells how YOU, too, may acquire this personal guidance. (The curious not, (invited). Address: Scribe A. J. H.

The ROSICRUCIANS

San Jose amorc, California

SKINNY

Try Thorax will be sur suits Wat.

* THORAXIUM CO. • 1229 Park Row Bid*.


Experience unnecessary. Pay weekly, part advanced. Contract and details, 10c and 3c stamp.

S. Y. MORSE, Dept. W.

1009 Oak Street, Elmira, N. Y.


Explore their mystery. Know when dreams are meaningless and when they convey warnings of sickness or danger. Learn how to overcome Insomnia, get most good from sleep. Writ© for interesting Information.

LIFE BUILDER FELLOWSHIP Commerce Station Minneapolis, Minnesota



While he spoke, so profound was the stillness that one might have heard a pin drop upon the floor. In ceasing, he departed at once, and as abruptly as he had entered. Can I—shall I describe my sensations? Must I say that I felt all the horrors of the damned? Most assuredly I had little time for reflection. Many hands roughly seized me upon the spot, and lights were immediately reproduced. A search ensued. In the lining of my sleeve were found all the court cards essential in ecarte, and, in the pockets of my wrapper, a number of packs, facsimiles of those used at our sittings, with the single exception that mine were of the species called, technically, arrondees; the honors being slightly convex at the sides. In this disposition, the dupe who cuts, as customary, at the length of the pack, will invariably find that he cuts his antagonist an honor; while the gambler, cutting at the breadth, will, as certainly, cut nothing for his victim which may count in the records Of the game.

Any burst of indignation upon this discovery would have affected me less than the silent contempt, or the sarcastic composure, with which it was received.

"Mr. Wilson,” said our host, stooping to remove from beneath his feet an exceedingly luxurious cloak of rare furs, "Mr. Wilson, this is your property.” (The weather was cold; and, upon quitting my own room, I had thrown a cloak over my dressing-wrapper, putting it off upon reaching the scene of play.) "I presume it is supererogatory to seek here (eyeing the folds of the garment with a bitter smile) for any farther evidence of your skill. Indeed, we have had enough. You will see the necessity, I hope, of quitting Oxford—at all events, of quitting instantly my chambers.”

Abased, humbled to the dust as I then was, it is probable that I should have re-

sented this galling language by immediate personal violence, had not my whole attention been at the moment arrested by a fact of the most startling character. The cloak which I had worn was of a rare description of fur; how rare, how extravagantly costly, I shall not venture to say. Its fashion, too, was of my own fantastic invention; for I was fastidious to an absurd degree of coxcombry, in matters of this frivolous nature. When, therefore, Mr. Preston reached me that which he had picked up upon the floor, and near the folding-doors of the apartment, it was with an astonishment nearly bordering upon terror, that I perceived my own already hanging on my arm (where I had no doubt unwittingly placed it), and that the one presented me was but its exact counterpart in even the minutest possible particular. The singular being who had so disastrously exposed me had been muffled, I remembered, in a cloak; and none had been worn at all by any of the members of our party, with the exception of myself. Retaining some presence of mind, I took the one offered me by Preston; placed it, unnoticed, over my own; left the apartment with a resolute scowl of defiance; and, next morning ere dawn of day, commenced a hurried journey from Oxford to the continent, in a perfect agony of horror and of shame.

I fled in vain. My evil destiny pursued me as if in exultation, and proved, indeed, that the exercise of its mysterious dominion had as yet only begun. Scarcely had I set foot in Paris, ere I had fresh evidence of the detestable interest taken by this Wilson in my concerns. Years flew, while I experienced no relief. Villain!—at Rome, with how untimely, yet with how spectral an officiousness, stepped he in between me and my amWEIRD TALES


bition! at Vienna, too—at Berlin—and at Moscow! Where, in truth, had I not bitter cause to curse him within my heart? From his inscrutable tyranny did I at length flee, panic-stricken, as from a pestilence; and to the very ends of the earth 1 fled in vain.

And again, and again, in secret communion with my own spirit, would I demand the questions, "Who is he?—whence came he?—and what are his objects?” But no answer was there found. And now I scrutinized, with a minute scrutiny, the forms, and the methods, and the leading traits of his impertinent supervision. But even here there was very little upon which to base a conjecture. It was noticeable, indeed, that, in no one of the multiplied instances in which he had of late crossed my path, had he so crossed it except to frustrate those schemes, or to disturb those actions, which, if fully carried out, might have resulted in bitter mischief. Poor justification this, in truth, for an authority so imperiously assumed! Poor indemnity for natural rights of selfagency so pertinaciously, so insultingly denied!

I had also been forced to notice that my tormenter, for a very long period of time (while scrupulously and with miraculous dexterity maintaining his whim of an identity of apparel with myself), had so contrived it, in the execution of his varied interference with my will, that I saw not, at any moment, the features of his face. Be Wilson what he might, this, at least, was but the veriest of affectation, or of folly. Could he, for an instant, have supposed that, in my admonisher at Eton,— in the destroyer of my honor at Oxford, —in him who thwarted my ambition at Rome, my revenge at Paris, my passionate love at Naples, or what he falsely termed my avarice in Egypt,—that in this, my arch-enemy and evil genius, I could


Security Is the problem of modern civilization. In solving this problem. governments are hampered by criminal powers and public indifference; Religion* fall because they deal with faith and tire immaterial; Selene* proves inadequate since it is subservient to big business and huge corporations. The only institution in the world which pledges

st other groups of people. By joining them, advanced trail of evolution. You learn how -In knowledge, you will aurc college graduate.

Attention, Ladies

YOU CAN BE BEAUTIFUL. START BEAUTY SHOP OF YOUR OWN.—This wonderful system shows you how to attain both wealth and beauty. Full instructions. Scores of valuable secrets. Beautify yourself, start a Beauty Shop, Manufacture Beauty specialties. Complete system 50c. Particulars Free.


Books, stories, plays and articles for submission in TJ. S. and foreign countries. Personal representation in leading literary centers of the world. Write for FREE details of UNIFIED SALES PLAN.


Dept. T-1135 4333 Gastello Aye., Chicago

LONESOME?

.... Let me arrange a —_—._

/ you. Find yourself a sweetheart thru America’s foremost select social correspondence club. A friendship letter society for lonely ladies and gentlemen, i everywhere; CONFIDENTIAL Introductions by letter:

_dignified and continuous service. I have made tbousanda of

lonely people happy—why not you? Write for FREE sealed particulars. EVAN MOORE P. 6. BOX 988 JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA

CONTROLS

Disease of Blood

An effective treatment against disease of blood. Used for 60 years. Home Treatment. Hundreds of Endorsements. Whatever the cause, however far advanced, write for FREE Book.

JOHN STERLING REMEDY CO. Kan °?^? Mo.

DIRECT from FRANCE: Rare and curious French books translated Into English. Ask for our new Illustrated catalogue just issued. Two sample books with our catalogue for $1.00 bill. Catalogue only 15c (stamps). NOUVEAUTES PROUVE, Bureau r estant, Pavlllons-sous-Bois (Seine), France. PEP—VIGOR—VITALITY—Victory over ageing, not by drugs, with our French VITALITY CREAM, giving immediate results. The tube $1.00. Three tubes $2.50. Information free. Luc Prouveskl, Boite 13, Llvry-Gargan (S.-et-O.), FRANCE.

WH BUY ALT, INDIAN HEAD PENNIES and old coins. Send 10c for our buying catalogue. Fairbanks, Dept. 101, 287 Broadway, New York.



fail to recognize the William Wilson of my schoolboy days,—the namesake, the companion, the rival,—the hated and dreaded rival at Doctor Bransby’s? Impossible!—But let me hasten to the last eventful scene of the drama.

Thus far I had succumbed supinely to this imperious domination. The sentiment of deep awe with which I habitually regarded the elevated character, the majestic wisdom, the apparent omnipresence and omnipotence of Wilson, added to a feeling of even terror with which certain other traits in his nature and assumptions inspired me, had operated, hitherto, to impress me with an idea of my own utter weakness and helplessness, and to suggest an implicit, although bitterly reluctant submission to his arbitrary will. But, of late days, I had given myself up entirely to wine; and its maddening influence upon my hereditary temper rendered me more and more impatient of control. I began to murmur,—to hesitate, —to resist. And was it only fancy which induced me to believe that, with the increase of my own firmness, that of my tormenter underwent a proportional diminution? Be this as it may, I now began to feel the inspiration of a burning hope, and at length nurtured in my secret thoughts a stern and desperate resolution that I would submit no longer to be enslaved.

I T was at Rome, during the Carnival of 18—, that I attended a masquerade in the palazzo of the Neapolitan Duke Di Broglio. I had indulged more freely than usual in the excesses of the wine-table; and now the suffocating atmosphere of the crowded rooms irritated me beyond endurance. The difficulty, too, of forcing my way through the mazes of the company contributed not a little to the ruffling of my temper; for I was anxious-

ly seeking (let me not say with what unworthy motive) the young, the gay, the beautiful wife of the aged and doting Di Broglio. With a too unscrupulous confidence she had previously communicated to me the secret of the costume in which she would be habited, and now, having caught a glimpse of her person, I was hurrying to make my way into her presence. At this moment I felt a light hand placed upon my shoulder, and that ever-remembered, low, damnable whisper within my ear.

In an absolute frenzy of wrath, I turned at once upon him who had thus interrupted me, and seized him violently by the collar. He was attired, as I had expected, in a costume altogether similar to my own; wearing a Spanish cloak of blue velvet, begirt about the waist with a crimson belt sustaining a rapier. A mask of black silk entirely covered his face.

"Scoundrel!” I said, in a voice husky with rage, while every syllable I uttered seemed as new fuel to my fury; "scoundrel! impostor! accursed villain! you shall not—you shall not dog me unto death! Follow me, or I stab you where you stand!”—and I broke my way from the ballroom into a small ante-chamber adjoining, dragging him unresistingly with me as I went.

Upon entering, I thrust him furiously from me. He staggered against the wall, while I closed the door with an oath, and commanded him to draw. He hesitated but for an instant; then, with a slight sigh, drew in silence, and put himself upon his defense.

The contest was brief indeed. I was frantic with every species of wild excitement, and felt within my single arm the energy and power of a multitude. In a few seconds I forced him by sheer strength against the wainscotting, and



thus, getting him at mercy, plunged my sword, with brute ferocity, repeatedly through and through his bosom.

At that instant some person tried the latch of the door. I hastened to prevent an intrusion, and then immediately returned to my dying antagonist. But what human language can adequately portray that astonishment, that horror which possessed me at the spectacle then presented to view? The brief moment in which I averted my eyes had been sufficient to produce, apparently, a material change in the arrangements at the upper or farther end of the room. A large mirror—so at first it seemed to me in my confusion—now stood where none had been perceptible before; and as I stepped up to it in extremity of terror, mine own image, but with features all pale and dabbled in blood, advanced to meet me with a feeble and tottering gait.

Thus it appeared, I say, but was not. It was my antagonist—it was Wilson, who then stood before me in the agonies of his dissolution. His mask and cloak lay, where he had thrown them, upon the floor. Not a thread in all his raiment— not a line in all the marked and singular lineaments of his face which was not, even in the most absolute identity, mine own!

It was Wilson; but he spoke no longer in a whisper, and I could have fancied that I myself was speaking while he said:

"You have conquered, and I yield. Yet ■henceforward art thou also dead — dead to the World, to Heaven, and to Hope! In me didst thou exist — and, in my death, see by this image, which is thine own, how utterly thou hast murdered thyself.”

Coming soon —

ARIVAL FROM THE GRAVE By Seabury Quinn


About your business, travel, changes, matrimony, love affairs, friends, enemies, lucky days and many other interesting and important affairs of your life as indicated by astrology. Send for your special Astral Reading. All work strictly scientific, individual and guaranteed satisfactory. FOR MANY YEARS PRIVATE ASTROLOGICAL ADVISER TO ROYALTY and the ELITE. Write name, address and date of birth plainly. No money required, but if you like send 15 cents (stamps;

No Coins), to help defray costs.

Address: PUNDIT TABORE, (Dept. 428-A), Upper Forjett Street, BOMBAY VII, BRITISH INDIA. Postage to India is 5c.


~ BIG Listing Hundreds ITTJTri? ” BOOK of Super-Values TvI-jI-j

No matter what you want in cameras or photographic materials for still or movie pictures, you'll find them described and illustrated in this great Bargain Book, at amazingly low prices. The finest merchandise on the market, guaranteed to satisfy in every particular, is offered at

Truly Sensational Savings

Also a complete line of Binoculars; other optical goods and Weather Instruments are listed at equally low prices. Write today for this great time and money saving book. It’s Free!

CENTRAL CAMERA CO. S&

230 S. Wabash Ave., Dept. Z-4, Chicago, Ill.

PATENTS

personal, tial repr

all your patent problems. Delays of even a few days in protecting your ideas, or the slightest carelessness in handling your patent papers, may easily be very costly. My personal service assures speedy action and strictest confidence. Send immediately for my free 72-page booklet, "How to Get Your Patent.”

1. F. BMDOLPM, 554 litter BM». WASHIHSTOM, B. «.

THE OUTSTANDING FANTASYARN OF THE DECADE: "The Challenge from Beyond." collaborated story written by A. Merritt, C. L. Moore, H. P. Lovecraft, Donald Wandrei, Robert E. Howard and 5 other top-notchers 1 Only 15c per copy! Address, FANTASY, 87-36—162nd Street, Jamaica, N. Y.

RECEIVE GIGANTIC MAILS, MAGAZINES, s pies. Your name in 1,000 mailing lists 10c. Barkley Post, 287 Broadway, New York.

YOU, the readers of Weird Tales, have stamped the seal of your approval on Paul Ernst’s series of stories about Doctor Satan, the world’s weirdest criminal. A few of you do not like the series, but the bulk of your letters voices hearty commendation of the tales about the weird malefactor, and many of you are enthusiastic about him. Some of you, while praising the series, adjure us to keep the Doctor Satan stories weird, and caution us against letting them deteriorate into ordinary detective stories. Mr. Ernst promises to keep the series weird, weirder, and weirdest. The following letters give a fair cross-section of the comments on Doctor Satan’s exploits.

Kind Words for Doctor Satan

Henry Kuttner writes from Beverly Hills, California: "The August issue is a good one. I was glad to see that old war-horse, Edgar Daniel Kramer, in it. Also the reprint was well chosen. Best story, L. M. Montgomery’s The House Party at Smoky Island. Very clever yarn. Doctor Satan, too, was engaging; I hope the series will continue. The worthy Doctor, I was glad to see, doesn’t go in for turgid melodrama and juvenile Fu Manchu stuff; moreover, Keane is as interesting as his antagonist, and not the usual damn fool detective. C. A. Smith managed to inject the right note of nightmare realism into his yarn about Quachil Uttaus.... In the September issue, Robert Bloch gets my vote for the best story. The chap has a masterly control'of adjectives.”

Against Doctor Satan Carl E. Woolard, of Flint, Michigan, writes: "Nothing else to do, so I’ll sit down and whack out a letter to good old WT. Probably by now you are receiving many a

protest about Doctor Satan, and I hereby add mine. Now I’m not objecting to it because it is a detective story, although many will, but because it is punk. Any series of stories in which a master crook and a master detective match wits is bound to be poor. No matter what happens, the readers always know that in the next story the crook (or the detective) will have escaped. When one finishes reading such a story, he merely says to himself, 'So what?’ I think that you will soon realize your mistake in inaugurating this series of stories. What has become of that master of fantasy, H. P. Lovecraft? There has been nothing new from him in Weird Tales for over a year. Let’s have a long novelette from him, or several short stories.”

That Satanic Doctor Again

J. J. O’Donnell, of New York City, writes: "Bearing in mind all the ballyhoo and press-agentry that preceded the publication of the series of stories about Doctor Satan, it was with many misgivings that I started to read the first story about this much-heralded character, 'the world’s weirdest criminal.’ It seemed to me that any series of stories must be pretty weak if it required so much advance publicity to put it across. My misgivings were increased by the fact that the tales were to be ’detective’ stories— odious word! But I had not read two pages before I was under the spell of the story, and when I finished reading it, it left me ’panting for more,’ as you phrased it so delicately in your ballyhoo in the Eyrie. This may sound like sarcasm, but I assure you it is not meant as such (except my use of the word 'delicately’). Honestly and frankly, I have not enjoyed any story so much in a long time as I enjoyed reading Doctor Satan,



even admitting that it is sheer melodrama. But what melodrama! Paul Ernst, its author, is to be congratulated. He wisely placed the emphasis on the criminal rather than on the detective; and by endowing both antagonists with powers and knowledge beyond the reach of any but the most highly developed mystics, he has succeeded in obtaining weird effects that would otherwise be impossible. The stories—if I may judge by the first two —are intrinsically weird, which other detective stories are not. Really, Ascott Keane is so far above all other detectives of fiction (including Sherlock Holmes and Monsieur Lecoq) in his mastery of weird powers and his knowledge of occult forces, that he should not even be called a ’detective,’ but a 'criminologist.’ And, just as Ascott Keane excels all other detectives of fiction, Doctor Satan himself surpasses Fu Manchu and all the other fictitious villains that I have ever encountered in my reading. I wish a long career to this pernicious criminal and his remarkable adversary.”

Death of a Poet

Once again it becomes our sad duty to record the death of a valued contributor. Robert Nelson died at his home in St. Charles, Illinois, after a two-weeks’ illness. Though he was a young man in his early twenties, he had developed a deep poetic feeling and a keen sensitivity to the overtones and undertones of words, which made his verse stand out boldly from among the average magazine poetry. He received his first encouragement from no less a poet than Clark Ashton Smith himself. His work gave clear promise that he would some day occupy an important place among the great poets; a promise that now—alas!—can never be fulfilled.

Jack Writes a Letter

Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes: "Once in a Thousand Years by Frances Bragg Middleton is my favorite in the August issue. I enjoyed it immensely. Good plot and nicely written.... Yes, the Doctor Satan stories are weird (at least the first). I am eagerly looking forward to the next. The House Party at Smoky Island was an enjoyable short. Well written, too. Napoli and Binder did well in illustrating this issue. If only you would have a variety of artists on the cover as you do inside.”

lo More

Whiskey Sitting

Home Treatment That Costs Nothing To Try

Odorless sndTasteleas —Any Lady Can Give It Secretly at Homein Tea, Coffee or Food.

If you have a hus-, band, son, brother.

..&• father or friend who We’re All Happy Now- is a victim of liquor. Bay8LlttleMaryLee.be- it should be just the cause Mother found how thing you Want. All DrlnkinaTand we want WW have to do IS to •very woman to know send your name and about it). address and we will

send absolutely FREE, in plain wrapper, a trial package of GOLDEN TREATMENT. You will be thankful as long as you live that you did it. Address Dr. J. W. Haines Co« 1430 Glenn Building, Cincinnati, Ohio. _


7 Fine d* | | A 84 Magazines «P 1 • A U Big Issues

"GOOD STORIES." "ILLUSTRATED MECHANICS," "WOMAN’S WORLD," "Farm Journal," "Ncedlecraft." "COUNTRY HOME," "Poultry Tribune." (Publishers’ rate *2.25.) All seren one year in U. S. A. SPECIAL— * 1.10. Send your order TODAY—NOW. This offer Is very limited. Don’t delay! SHINN’S MAGAZINE AGENCY

(Any Magazine on Earth, at Lowest Prices)

Twin Pine Bldg. (Since 1920) Bellflower, Col.

m LESSONS

~ Become Talented Artist with Big Income;

MfhM after EUa&ltSrjS

EDUCATIONA L SUPPLY CO.,

NEED MONEY?

Write for free booklet describing 107 Plans for Operating a Successful Business of Your Own”.

, Make from?20 to #100 a week starting in spare

_»■ home. No peddling or house-to-house selling.

Booklet sent free, and without obligation. Write for your copy today.

'v ELITE PUBLISHING CO. I tl >1 ai:

Dept. V 214 Grand St. New York, N. Y.

Save

75%

Buy your Drug Sundries, Specialties. Supplies, Novelties, etc., direct from manufacturer through our Mail-Order Dept. All personal items are mailed postpaid by us in plain sealed package. We have everything. Send for FREE, illustrated


Dept. H-20 Box 353 Hamilton, Ontario



New Novel by Jack Williamson

B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes, in part: "The Doctor Satan stories are a perfect example of the weirddetective tale. By all means continue with these, but please dispense with all others, never more than one of this type to an issue.... I thoroughly enjoyed reading Hamilton’s The Monster-God, of Mamurth over again. That was a real treat. Contrary to previous criticism, Robert Bloch deserves plenty of praise for The Shambler from the Stars. Now why doesn’t Mr. Lovecraft return the compliment, and dedicate a story to the author? I’m sure most of us would suggest anything to get a new story from him. Vulthoom by Clark Ashton Smith was his best this year. Smith’s work is always consistently good, whether his locale is the dim past, the far future, or interplanetary. Am still looking for a new novel by Jack Williamson on the type of Golden Blood.” [You will have the new novel by Jack Williamson soon. It is entitled The Ruler of Fate, and is a weird story that will surely fascinate you.— The Editor.}

Without a Flaw

C. B. H. writes from New York City: "I was so surprized and pleased at seeing your wonderful covers once more. Who ever thought of the name, 'The Unique Magazine,’ sure was right. As much as I look I can never find a flaw in Weird Tales, now that the perfect covers are back. I was pleased to find a second Doctor Satan story. I had often seen in the Eyrie letters asking for The Monster-God of Mamurth, and upon reading it was greatly pleased. The short stories were excellent, as usual.”

Out of the Eons

W. C. Levere, of West Haven, Connecticut, writes: "After reading Out of the Eons I looked through six years’ supply of Weird Tales, hoping to find its equal. It was a hard search; however, a few stories were found that surpassed it—thanks to Lovecraft and that extraordinary literary philosopher of the abnormal, Clark Ashton Smith. Congratulations are in order for a story like that one. Please retain Author Heald for a few more. Not the least of its many merits, the literary quality alone should make that story live to be remembered. The covers by

Brundage are a great improvement over many of 1933’s issues. I notice that Hamilton is writing better than a year or so ago— The Monster-God of Mamurth was very nearly his best. Jules de Grandin should appear more often. I hope that Weird Tales remains the same and doesn’t succumb to the prosaic plundering of universes that we can find elsewhere.”

In All Their Curvy Clarity

Forrest J. Ackerman writes from Hollywood, California: "Perhaps you would be interested in my comment on your covers, as a disinterested observer. As far back as I can remember, they have featured unclad heroines. Your contention seems to be, 'Clothes make the woman—ordinary!’ Yesteryear, your covers were not so controversial because, though nude, the hapless heroines were more vaguely, indistinctly illustrated. Then came the Brundage beauties, in all their curvy clarity! And I have followed, with amusement, the resultant endless argument. Reader Robson, in your September issue, sums up for the opposition in what I should hazard will become a famous phrase: 'After all, the thrill of viewing a nude isn’t exactly a weird one.’ Ponder that. Maddening as a Minga-maiden, the fascinating feminine form on the cover is truly tantalizing. Fortunately, I can appreciate such pulchritude, as I am not a fanatic about whether your covers are fantastic or not. I am principally interested in CLMoore and your science fiction. But were I a weird-art enthusiast, I suspect I should say the scene selected for the cover did not represent the spirit (or spirits) of Weird Tales’ contents. It shows, simply: Peeping Tom startling Miss America as she emerges from her suitless swim. The Blue Woman is a gorgeous girl—but she is not blue! She’s flesh-colored, not phosphorescent. So how is she weird? Surely Tom’s unbeautiful face alone doesn’t make the cover eery. Wouldn.’t an illustration from The Shambler from the Stars have been eminently more in the mood for Weird Tales?”

Robert Bloch’s Plots

Paul S. Smith, of Orange, New Jersey, writes: "For some time past I have found that the shorter stories—often by less familiar authors—which appear in your magazine are the most entertaining and original of all



you publish. In the September issue One Chance was, I think, a little gem of a story and decidedly the best in the issue.... Among your newer regular contributors I think that Robert Bloch is one of the best and most promising; but his latest story, The Shambler from the Stars, is far from satisfactory. A man conjures up a monster and the monster kills him. Well, what about it? The idea, it seems to me, is too fragmentary to form the plot of a good story. I think that Mr. Bloch’s one weakness lies in the fact that he tends to work with plots that are too simple. If he will keep his stories as weird as he has up to the present and try to devise plots which are more involved and complicated, I believe he will develop into a very fine writer. (All this is intended to be friendly and not fault-finding criticism.) The Monster-God of Mamurth made a good reprint, as it is undoubtedly one of Hamilton’s best. Since I have made a number of adverse criticisms, I will conclude my remarks by saying that ever since 1924 Weird Tales has probably given me more pleasure than any other magazine I have ever read—and it still does.”

Against The Blue Woman

L. A. Chapin, of Aberdeen, South Dakota, writes: ”1 wish to register my first kick. I do not think The Blue Woman belongs in Weird Tales. I have read better in the commonplace detective magazines.... As it is my policy to read serials only after I have all parts, I will not pass on Eadie’s tale. I know it will be good. The two tales by Smith and Ernst rank first with me in the September issue, with no preference. Reprint excellent.”

Those Brundage Nudes

Walter Scheible, of Monticello, New York, writes: "I have been reading Weird Tales for over a year now, and I have also read some of the old issues of several years back. The older issues cannot compare with the issues you are putting out at the present time. The modern stories are of a much higher literary quality than were the old ones. In the old days you had a very few authors who could equal Lovecraft, Moore and Howard. You had no such stories as the Conan series, or the stories of Jirel of Joiry. The old mags didn’t have as good covers as the present issues, either. Mrs.



6 54


Brundage's covers have never been surpassed. I also prefer the new-type contents page to the old double-page type. All in all, the mag can’t be beaten. It is truly the unique magazine. It is the only mag of its type on the news stands today. As far as the controversy over the covers goes, I am entirely in favor of having one of Mrs. Bondage's nudes every month, and not just once in a while."

Satan in Exile a Fine Yarn

James Kershaw, of New York City, writes: "I have been a reader of Weird Tales for about eight years, and consider it quite the most interesting of the various publications available. As to the type of stories I prefer, I must admit that I enjoy them all, with the exception of interplanetary tales. However, the current serial, Satan in Exile, is undeniably an excellent yarn, the August installment being my favorite in that issue. There has been quite a controversy raging in the Eyrie over the type of illustrations that should adorn the covers of Weird Tales. I am indifferent as to what sort of designs you use, being more influenced by the reading-matter between the pages than by usually unsuccessful weird portrayals on the cover.”

Can This Be Sarcasm?

Marshall Lewer, of New York City, writes: "For some time I have been meaning to write an extensive letter offering advice on how to run your magazine (which I am sure will be handsomely appreciated) and treat its allied problems. I feel sure that you will readily see that, although you have had the valuable experience of actually publishing an addition to the current literature of our times, an intelligent commentary on important details will help to relieve your problems. I am intensely interested in that happy carefree discussion of your policy that one finds so frequently in the Eyrie. We, the readers, sometimes have fears that Weird Tales will degenerate into just another detective magazine, and we are very glad to read your assurances to the contrary. And, to enter into a more personal degree of opinion, may I make a request for another of Quinn’s charming little stories? Although the incessant repetition of one plot, id est, a supple-limbed girl rescued from some eery

fate by the almost supermundane exertions of our little Frenchman, Jules de Grandin, almost wearies one, still the incomparable delight of turning the last page of the tale is well worth the trouble; it feels so good when it stops. Another character that is truly remarkable in his way is Conan—named the Chipmunk by that amiable young author of yours, Robert Bloch. Here also we are sure to have supple-limbed girls in profusion, one of whom is sure to make the cover, and an enthralling horror will give them a run for their money before the story closes. In my genuine desire to assist the development of the Eyrie I have decided to write a truly horrible tale. It will start: 'Despite the graven grins of the grotesque green gargoyles....’ Closing with that unique little morsel!”

Strong for Doctor Satan

Walter L. Reeve writes from a CCC camp in Massachusetts: "Just finished reading the September issue of WT. My favorite story is The Man Who Chained the Lightning, followed by The Carnival of Death and Vulthoom. I am strong for Doctor Satan. WT needs that type of story. The Blue Woman is good, but I knew the answer, so the weird effect was gone. The shorts were excellent too. I suppose The Carnival of Death is Arlton Eadie’s final story in WT. His death is a great loss to WT. Be sure and have Clark Ashton Smith write a sequel to Vulthoom, and also some more about Prince Satan by Bernal. The covers are very fine, though I think the August cover was better than the September one.”

Thirty-one Cents in Mexico

William T. Carnehan, of Torreon, Mexico, writes: "I have just finished reading your latest issue, and wish to congratulate you on what I consider easily the best story in it, Vulthoom by Clark Ashton Smith. It seems to me infinitely superior to any other tale I have ever read, even in your own magazine, of the so-called weird-scientific variety. The plot is only a fair one; but its exposition is most intelligent and workmanlike, and the finish is of a masterful simplicity that commands praise. The Man Who Chained the Lightning is consistently excellent; but I was sadly disappointed in Douglas’s Blue Woman.... The reprint was very good, as were at least two of the



so-called ’filler’ stories: One Chance, by E. H. Coen, and Bloch’s Shambler from the Stars. Kirk Mashburn’s notion, in The Toad Idol, of inexplicably appearing pebbles hurled through the back of one’s head by a stone toad and bruising one’s brain was not, to me, a particularly happy one. By the way, in the Eyrie of the July issue there appeared the statement that WT costs, in Mexico City, $1.10. While this is absolutely correct, you must realize that the sign $ stands for both dollars and pesos: in this particular case, Weird Tales costs there one peso and ten centavos, or some thirty-one cents.”

Too Much Science Fiction

Julius Hopkins, of Washington, D. C., writes: "Without a doubt the reprint, In Amundsen’s Tent, stands out as the very best story printed in the August WT—but inasmuch as we are choosing from the latest stories, I award first place to The Drome of the living Dead and second to Once in a Thousand Years. It seems to me that you are printing too many scientific stories of late. I wish you would slow up on these. Doctor Satan would be good if it wasn’t for the fact that the science in it weakens the stimulated imagination that the weird incidents have built up. I am really disappointed in Mr. Quinn’s latest de Grandin tale. He leads us to believe that there is a curse called down on Sorensen that will be fulfilled in a supernatural way, but, alas, he gives us just a scientific explanation. Please remember this: too much science diminishes the weird atmosphere.”

Concise Comments

Ernest H. Ormsbee, of Albany, New York, writes: "I predict that your readers are not going to accept Doctor Satan as particularly ’weird.’ Master magicians are not necessarily weird, though master magic may be the stuff that weirdness is made of.”

Russell Hogue, of St. Louis, writes: "Doctor Satan seems to be starting out good, and if he keeps it up should add many readers to the magazine.... I do not care one way or another about the covers, but I do think they should be made more spooky and mysterious.”

John J. Rosecrans, of Sioux City, Iowa, writes: "The types of stories you publish in WT are all good. Individual tastes differ.


The Great Brain of Kaldar

By Edmond Hamilton

I N this superb tale of distant Kaldar, a world of the gigantic blazing sun Antares, the author of "The Monster-God of Mamurth” returns to the type of story that first won him fame.

C an you imagine a huge vampiric brain, that feeds on the brains of every living creature, man included, absorbs their intellects and their thoughts, and makes of all creatures mere mindless puppets, living robots, whose entire lives are devoted to carrying out the will of the great brain? Edmond Hamilton’s fecund imagination builds up the titanic brain for you in a vivid and crashing narrative that you will long remember, for it is la veritable masterpiece of weird-scientific fiction. It will be printed complete

in the December issue of


on sale December 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFPER.

840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, Hi.

Enclosed A nd $ 1.00 for which send me the next five Issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the December issue. (Special offer void nnless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name Addref City _



I prefer the science-fiction type. My neighbor prefers pure fiction, regardless of basic possibilities. One cannot publish fiction which will please everyone. Your present policy is very satisfactory.”

Guy Detrick, of Big Prairie, Ohio, writes: "I believe your September cover is one of the most beautiful I’ve seen, although I do not believe my enthusiasm is shared by the fellow with his head sticking out of the bushes at the left of the picture. I do not believe he approves of nudes, to judge by his expression.”

Louis Perrine, of Boston, writes: "Thanks for a really weird detective story of many thrills. I refer to Paul Ernst’s fascinating story, Doctor Satan. I can hardly wait until the next issue brings more of his sinister adventures.”

Alvin V. Pershing, of Bloomington, Indiana, writes: "I have been saving Brundage’s covers. She is an asset to your magazine. I hope there is a beautiful young girl in each one. Nude girls are all right if Brundage makes them.... Please let us have more stories by Howard (about Conan), Northwest Smith stories by Moore, and the superb Clark Ashton Smith word pictures.”

Charles L. Andrews, of Lowell, Michigan, writes: "Have read your magazine eight years, but am stopping if you continue the Shambler from the Stars and Toad Idol sort of thing.”

A. Merritt, well-known author, writes from New York City: "Think the current number (September) one of the best you’ve put out. Glad also to see a naked lady again on the cover. I’ve been following that controversy with interest.”

Earl Peirce, of Washington, D.C., writes: "The September issue of WT was good, as usual, but I thought Hamilton’s reprint was its top piece.”

One who signs himself (or herself) P. D. K. writes from New Haven, Connecticut: "Keep Weird Tales weird. We want gruesome, supernatural stories in a modern setting (Jules de Grandin, for instance). H. P. Lovecraft is best. Detective stories and super-science are just bromides.”

Your Favorite Story

Readers, let us know which stories you like best in this issue. And if you dislike some of the stories, let us know which ones, and why you do not like them. Write a letter to the Eyrie, Weird Tales, or fill out the vote coupon on this page. As this issue goes to press, three stories are in a neck-andneck race for most popular story in our September issue, as shown by your votes and letters. These are the eery story about Doctor Satan, The Man Who Chained the Lightning, by Paul Ernst; Robert Bloch’s eldritch tale of horror, The Shambler from the Stars; and Vulthoom, by Clark Ashton Smith.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE NOVEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

( 1 )

( 2 )

(*)

( 1 )

I do not like the following stories:

_ Why?_

( 2 )-

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Wbird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

r -

Reader's name and address:

I

II-

I---

W. T.—8

The Phantom

of the Ether

•

T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

•


W E HAVE had many requests asking us to reprint THE MOON TERROR in the magazine. This popular story appeared as a serial in WEIRD TALES in 1923, and is too long to republish in the magazine consistent with our policy. To fulfill the wishes of many readers who have not had the opportunity to read this story, we have had it printed in book form and offer a copy free with each six months’ subscription to WEIRD TALES.

A Valuable Gift

This book is beautifully bound in rich cloth, with an attractive colored jacket. It will make an excellent gift to a friend or a valuable addition to your own library. For a limited time, the Publishers of WEIRD

TALES are giving this book away with each six months’ subscription to the magazine. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book will be sent to you without further cost. Limited supply, send today!

WKIKD TALKS, Dept. 1185,

1 810 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, lit.

[THE END]
