============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 16, Number 3
Date: September 1930
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Black  Chant  Imperial Robert  E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
die corpse, and the touch of those cold fingers? Perhaps; one’s imagination is apt to work overtime during such a vigil. Could the spirit of the dead daughter have really been in that room, and did it

Black Chant Imperial

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

Trumpets triumph in red disaster.

White skulls litter the broken sod.

And we who ride for the one Black Master Howl at the iron gates of God.

Temples rock and the singers falter.

Lights go out in the rushing gloom —

Slay the priest on his blackened altar,

Rip the babe from the woman’s womb!

Black be the night that locks around them,

'They who chant of the Good and Light,

Black be the pinions that shall confound them.

Breaking their brains with a deadly fright.

Praised be the Prince that reigns forever 'Throned in the shadows stark and grim.

Where cypress moans by the midnight river —

Lift your goblas and drink to him!

Virgins wail and a babe is whining Nailed like a fly on a gory lance;

White on the skulls the stars are shining.

Over them sweeps our demon’s dance.

Trumpets bray and the stars are riven!

Shatter the altar, blot the light!

From the bursting hells to the falling heaven We are kings of the world tonight!

first chase the rat and then clutch at my wrist in an effort to keep the mother from being resurrected? It sounds unbelievable.

The only faa that I can reiterate is that the leaf — in the midst of winter — was green. I saw it, held it in my hand. What would have happened had 1 touched it to the corpse? I don’t know, of course, but I think... I think....

His W^ild Dream Was Interwoven With Reality

The Phantom Bus

By W. ELWYN BACKUS

OUT of the vagueness of the halfdawn a dark bulk loomed to the accompaniment of a dull rumble. To Arthur Strite, waiting for his regular bus — the big, orange six-forty-five to the city — ^this nondescript contraption which usually preceded it by a minute or two seemed more like a ghostly coffin than a public conveyance. Its sweating black sides glistened oilily in the gray light as it passed him. A single dim incandescent lamp seen through the windows silhouetted stiffly nodding heads against the background of a dingy interior. Then the black bus was gone, swallowed up in the swirling December mist and fog.

As always, a feeling of odd disquiet possessed Strite with the passing of this conveyance — a fleeting impression of mystery, strangely repellent and defying description; of ill omen. What manner of passengers it carried or whence and whither it traveled, he did not know — and cared less. Yet, queerly enough, the affair had increasingly irritated and disturbed him ever since his moving to Emerymont three weeks before.

"Just an old junk-heap that loops out through Norwood and back over this direction,” a fellow commuter said in answer to his question. Until this morning Strite had refrained from what he deemed the weakness of a query about this thing. For he had hesitated to give definite shape to his senseless disquiet by admitting any curiosity, even to himself, "I believe a couple of death-traps like that one comprise the company’s entire rolling-stock,” his informant finished.

"Oh,” said Strite, mentally categorying the bus line with several that operated a sort of cross-country service between outlying sections of Cincinnati. Of course, he refleaed, some concern had to serve this need. But he was conscious of a feeling of relief that he did not have to use that service.

Arthur Strite was boarding in Emerymont with the Ransons, not because of any liking for the make-believes, the rabble of teurgeoisie and scandalmongers that peopled the little suburb, but because he did enjoy the shrubbery and lawns and the quaintly designed houses, despite the crazy butting of garbage-can-studded bade yards against living-room windows of adjoining homes. He minded his own business, displaying no curiosity in the neighbors or affairs of the place — ^which was one of the reasons why he had not discovered sooner the purpose of the bus line mentioned.

The night of the same day he had asked about the bus, he found himself pondering, with some intentness in the midst of an absent-minded perusal of the evening comic sheet, on the dingy conveyance that passed him each morning. Why should that silly bus thus intrude itself into his mind? He smiled self-indulgently and turned over to the sports page. The thing actually was becoming a nuisance! And for no logical reason. What should it matter to him how uninviting, how disagreeable a box on wheels those people rode in every morning?

Nevertheless, he dropped off to sleep thinking about the ghostly bus.

40]



The same diing began to be the rule on the nights that followed. Always that ridiculous feeling of indefinable dread would come over him, would cling tenaciously to his thoughts from the moment he happened to think of having seen the shadowy bus that morning. He had half a notion to hail the confounded contraption some morning and see where it took him, just to dispel all this absurd air of mystery about it which had so unaccountably fastened upon him. Though perhaps there was some reason for his strange obsession after all. Not quite one year before, his fianc^, Doris Tway, had been killed in a terrible bus crash. He remembered the crumpled remains of the fatal bus, vdiich he had seen afterward, vividly. It, too, had been black and shabby. An odd girl — she had always said chat if she left first, she would return for him. Her idea of a joke, of course, but unusual.

In spite of his notion about hailing the ocher bus, Strite did not ride it — not for several weeks anyway, although its daily rumbling and jangling iq}ptoach, made more eery by the shortening of die days, had driven ^at impression of weird mystery deeper than ever into his waking thoughts. Waking, because, so far, the datk bus had troubled him only during the evenings before he retired.

However, diere came a night when he dreamed that he obeyed an impulse and boarded the strange bus!

He was conscious of a sickly odor as he entered the rickety door, which had slid back widi a softness in strange contrast to the outward datter of the conveyance. The viaor of the operator’s caq> was pulled wdl down over his face as he leaned over his levers. Strite felt the bus begin to move. Oddly, there was no vibration, none of the jarring rattle smd bang he had eiqiected. He mig^t have been on a river barge, for all the motion he could

feel. Startled more by this unnatural quiet than he could have been by the loudest of banging or jolting, he raised his eyes toward the occupants of the bus. Perhaps it was the strange effort this aa seemed to impose upon him; at any rate, he awoke in that instant, seized by unreasoning, incomprehensible terror!

It was an hour before his taut nerves had relaxed enough to let him drop off to sleep — and not before he had vowed to ride that bus in faa the next morning.


STRITE did not ride the black bus the next morning. It was nearly seven o’dock when he opened his eyes from a troubled sleep. This meant that he would be late to the office where he worked, on the other side of the dty. Of course he missed his regular bus, and, with it, the other. Too, the daylight put a different aspect upon things. It would have been ridiculous, after all, to board a bus bound for another part of the dty merely to humor a crazy impulse.

Yet, when that night came, Strite hesitated to go to bed. He told himself that he was hopeless, a fool and a coward. Then he undressed and resolutely turned out the li^t.

His hesitancy had not been unfounded. Again he found himself boarding the mysterious, sweating conveyance with its leaning operator and strange, illusive odor. And again a sudden, agonized awakening.

But this time he saw the other occupants before he awoke. They all — there were six of them — ^had their eyes closed as they sat nodding slightly with the almost imperceptible swaying of the bus. There was a repellent something about those faces, other than their dosed eyelids, diat struck a chill into Strite's heart. He wondered whedier they were just weary, like him, or



A cold finger touched his wrist. He managed to turn and face the operator. The latter, his face still hidden, was pointing to the fare box. Of course, these illbuilt, ill-kept buses would reverse things by demanding their fare when one entered. He reached into his pocket for a dime, and in that moment caugjit sight of a seventh passenger, seated in front on the other side. The operator's head and shoulders had partly hidden her from him before, despite her slender tallness.

As his fingers found and automatically brought forth a dime, he observed that this passenger’s eyes were not closed like the test — djat they were pale gray and staring at him. They were like — oh, God, it couldn’t be — Doris! But it was — ^it was! How could he have failed to recognize her sooner, despite her position on the other side of the operator.^ Now he could tmderstand why this bus had drawn him so strangely, irresistibly.

As he stated back at her, speechless with amazement, her eyes left his face, turned toward the windshield. Her pale lips twitched oddly, as if, mute with fear at what she saw there, she sought vainly to screana.

*nien abruptly the spell was broken. She leaped to her feet, throwing one arm across her face in a gesture of one warding ofiF some fearful harm. A shrill, hysterical scream pierced the quiet of that dosed space like the stab of a knife!

'That cry jarred Strife back to consdousness with a suddenness that jerked him upri^t in bed.

As he sat there trembling widi the realism of his dream and th« agonized scream, he became aware that he held something tightly in one dosed hand. A fresh chill passed through his body at the familiar feel of that something. He needed no li^t to tell him that it was a

dime he dutched — the dime he had been ready to drop in the fare box o£ bis dream!


OF cotTRSE he found that die <x>in evidently had fallen out of his vest vdien he sat on the bed while undressing. In fact, he usually kept some change in his vest pocket so as to have it handy for tips, newspapers, and such. Perhaps the acddental finding and touching of that coin in his slumbers had even started the train of thought that had made him dream of the fare box — and the other things. But there was no more sleep for Strife. After tossing about for the rest of the night, he got up about five o' clock.

This morning he was determined upon one thing. He would ride the blade bus — "the phantom bus,’* as he had come to term it privately — this morning, and kill for once and all this persistent stdiconscious illusion that had taken root In his mind from the seed of his first absurd impression of the rickety conveyance in the eery light of half-dawn.

Once more his intention was to be defeated, however. The blade bus failed to appear before the six-forty-five, though had arrived at its stop more than a quarter-hour before it was due. He even waited for it ten minutes after his regular bus had gone — only to learn later ditt the other line finally had been discontimied.

His first reaction to diis information was an overwhelming relief. No ItMiger would he be reminded by this shadowy rumbling hulk each morning, of thingr he wanted to forget.

But on the he^ of this thou^ came the realization that die very disoondnuance of the line had removed all diascc of his ever killing the illusion if the latter continued to troid>le him.



That day at noon as he walked along a downtown street a peculiar odor halted him. There was an illusive, dread familiarity about it. He was before a florist’s open shop, and a great bowl of tuberoses, those once choice flowers for all those departed, was set out in front. He knew now where he had smelled their scent before — on the phantom bus of his dream.


ONCE again Strife was in the phantom bus — in his subconscious mind. This time he knew exaaly what was coming. He seemed powerless to change a single detail of it all. The pause just inside the doorway as he forced his gaze up to where the six passengers sat in plain view, their eyes closed, in death-like weariness or worse. The icy touch of a finger on his wrist, the reaching for a coin, and the discovery of the slender, tall girl up front. Doris!

At this point the sequence of events suddenly galvanized him into a feverish alertness for the next thing. As Doris’ hysterical scream rang in his ears, he was abruptly released from the grip of immobility. He turned quickly and looked out of the front of the bus.

What he saw there made him throw up his hands in an involuntary gesture similar to her own instinaive gesture of terror. He heard the brakes squealing shrilly — felt the bus skid on the sleetcovered road even as he caught a side glimpse of the operator’s face — saw with sudden added horror that half the face was missing. Beyond that fleeting glimpse, he had time for no further examination; for just ahead a heavily loaded truck was emerging from a narrow bridge-end, blocking their way. 'Then a terrific, rending crash....

The six-forty-five bus was four minutes late on accoimt of the icy condition of the roads; they had been that way for two days. A little group of commuters on the roadside were talking in subdued tones, for once unmindful of the delay as they waited.

"Personally,” a pompous, red-faced man was saying, "I believe Ranson killed and — mauled — ^him for attentions to Mrs. Ranson.”

"But Strite didn’t appear to be that type,” objeaed a young member of the group. "Nor is Mrs. Ranson the sort who would encourage him. Besides, consider the condition of the body. Why, Ranson or no one else could have so mangled another— ^to say nothing of leaving it in bed and persistently claiming that he didn’t know how it happened, except that he and his wife were awakened in the middle of the night by a frightful cry — and found him that way! No, I say there is some deeper mystery about the affair, the nature of which we haven’t suspected.”

'The big, orange-colored bus hove into view at this jimcture, interrupting the discussion for the time. Presently they all had boarded it and foimd seats at various vantage-points. A little distance along the road one of them pointed out to his neighbor a twisted and splintered mass of wreckage at the foot of an embankment of the narrow bridge they were just then crossing.

"Lucky it jumped off when it struck — didn’t even delay us yesterday when we followed a few minutes after it was discovered.”

"Queer thing about how it got there,” said the other. "Nobody witnessed the accident, and the defima bus company’s ofiSicials swear that the last they saw of their 'death trap’ was when it was locked



away in an old garage on the other side of Norwood. Can you imagine any one swiping a can like that for a ride? But the present-day young cc4ce-head will grab anything for a joy-ride.*’

‘■No queerer dian that — that mess inside the wreck — as if some one had been crushed like — ^well, like poor Strite, for instance. Yet they could find no trace of a body!"

Beyond the Door

By PAUL SUTER

“'^^OU haven’t told me yet how it haj^)ened,’* I said to Mrs. Malkin.

She set her lips and eyed me, sharply.

"Didn’t you talk with die coroner, sir?”

"Yes, of course,’’ I admitted; “but as I understand you found my uncle, I thought ’’

"Well, I wouldn’t care to say anything about it,” she interrupted, with decision.

’This housekeeper of my uncle’s was somewhat taller than I, and much heavier — ^two physical preponderances which afford any woman possessing them an advantage over the inferior male. She appeared a subjea for diplomacy rather than argument.

Noting her ample jaw, her breadth of cheek, the unsentimental glint of her eye, I decided on conciliaticm. I placed a chair for her, there in my Uncle Godfrey’s study, and dropped into another, myself.

“At least, before we go over the other

parts of the house, suppose we rest a little,” I suggested, in my most unctuous manner. “The place rather gets on one’s nerves — don’t you think so?”

It was sheer luck — I claim no credit for it. My chance refleaion found the weak spot in her fortifications. She replied to it with an undoubted smack of satisfaaion:

"It’s more than seven years that I’ve been doing for Mr, Sarston, sir: bringing him his meals regular as clockwork, keeping the house clean — ^as clean as he’d let me — and sleeping at my own home o’ nights; and in all that time I’ve said, over and over, there ain’t a house in New York the equal of this for queemess.”

“Nor anywhere else,” I encouraged her, with a laugh;^ and her confidences opened another notch:

“You’re likely right in that, too, sir. As I’ve said to poor Mr. Sarston, many a time, 'It’s all well enough,’ says I, 'to have bugs for a hobby. You can afford it; and being a bachelor and by your-

•BYom WEIRD TAX.E3. April, 1923.



self, you don’t have to consider other people’s likes and dislikes. And it’s all well enough if you want to,’ says I, 'to keep thousands and thousands o’ them in cabinets, all over the place, the way you do. But when it comes to pinnin’ them on the walls in regular armies,’ I says, ’and on the ceiling of your own study; and even on difFerent parts of the furnitme, so that a body don’t know what awful thing she’s a-goin’ to find imder her hand of a sudden when she does the dusting; why, then,’ I says to him, 'it’s drivin’ a decent woman too far.’ ”

"And did he never try to reform his ways when you told him that?’’ 1 asked, smiling.

"To be frank with you, Mr. Robinson, when I talked like that to him, he generally raised my pay. And what was a body to do then?’’

"I can’t see how Lucy Lawton stood the place as long as she did,’’ I observed, watting Mrs. Malkin’s red face very closely.

She swallowed the bait, and leaned forward, hands on knees.

"Poor girl, it got on her nerves. But she was the quiet kind. You never saw her, sir?’’

I shook my head.,

"One of Aem, slim, faded girls, with light hair, and hardly a word to say for herself. I don’t believe she got to know the next-door neighbor in the whole year she lived with your uncle. She was an orphan, wasn’t she, sir?’’

"Yes,’’ I said. "Godfrey Sarston and I were her only living relatives. That was why she came from Australia to stay with him, after her father’s death.’’

Mrs. Malkin nodded. I was hoping that, by putting a check on my eagerness, I could lead her on to a number of things I greatly desired to know. Up to the time I had induced the housekeeper to show me through this strange house of my

Uncle Godfrey’s, the whole affair had been a mystery of lips which closed and faces which were averted at my approach. Even the coroner seemed unwilling to tell me just how my luicle had died.

ID you understand she was going to live with him, sir?’’ asked Mrs. Malkin, looking hard at me.

I confined myself to a nod.

"Well, so did 1. Yet, after a year, back she went.”

"She went suddenly?” I suggested.

"So suddenly that I never knew a thing about it till after she was gone. I came to do my chores one day, and she was here. I came the next, and she had started back to Australia. 'That’s how sudden she went.”

'"They must have had a falling-out,” I conjectured. "I suppose it was because of the house.”

"Maybe it was and maybe it wasn’t.”

"You know of other reasons?”

"I have eyes in my head,” she said. "But I’m not going to talk about it. Shall we be getting on now, sir?”

I tried another lead:

"I hadn’t seen my uncle in five years, you know. He seemed terribly changed. He was not an old man, by any means,

yet when I saw him at the funeral ”

I paused, expeaantly.

To my relief, she responded readily:

' "He looked that way for the last few months, especially the last week. I spoke to him about it, two days before — before it happened, sir — and told him he’d do well to see the doaot) again. But he cut me off short. My sister took sick the same day, and I was called out of town. 'The next time I saw him, he was ”

She paused, and then went on, sobbing: "To think of him lyin’ there in that awful place, and callin’ and callin’ for me, as I know he must, and me not around to hear him!”



.. As she stopped again, suddenly, and threw a suspicious glance at me, I hastened to insert a matter-of-faa question:

"Did he appear ill on that last day?”

"Not so much ill, as ”

"Yes?” I prompted.

She was silent a long time, while I waited, afraid that some word of mine had brought back her former attitude of hostility. Then she seemed to make up her mind.

"I oughtn’t to say another word. I’ve said too much, already. But you’ve been liberal with me, sir, and I know somethin’ you’ve a right to be told, which I’m thinkin’ no one else is a-goin’ to tell you. Look at the bottom of his study door a minute, sir.”

I followed her direction. What I saw led jme to drop to. my hands and knees, the better to examine it.

"Why should he put a rubber strip on the bottom of his door?” I asked, getting

“PShe replied with another enigmatical suggestion: "Look at these, if you will, sir. You’ll remember that he slept in this study. That was his bed, over there in the alcove.”

"Bolts!” I exclaimed. And I reinforced sight with touch by shooting one of them back and forth a few times. "Double bolts on the inside of his bedroom door! An upstairs room, at that. What was the idea?”

Mrs. Malkin portentously shook her head and sighed, as one unburdening her mind.

"Only this can I say, sir: He was afraid of something — terribly afraid, sir. Something that came in the night.”

"What was it?” I demanded.

"I don’t know, sir.”

"It was in the night that — it happened?” I asked.

She nodded; then, as if the prologue

were over, as if she had prepared my mind sufficiently, she produced something from under her apron. She must have been holding it there all the time.

"It’s his diary, sir. It was lying here on the floor. I saved it for you, before the police could get their hands on it.”

I opened the little book. One of the sheets near the back was crumpled, and I glanced at it, idly. What I read there impelled me to slap the covers shut again.

"Did you read this?” I demanded.

She met my gaze, frankly.

"I looked into it, sir,, just as you did — only just looked into it. Not for worlds would I do even that again!”

"I noticed some reference here to a slab in the cellar. What slab is that?”

"It covers an old, dried-up well, sir.”

"Will you show it to me?”

"You can find it for yourself, sir, if you wish. I’m not goin’ down there,” she said, decidedly.

"Ah, well. I’ve seen enough for today,” I told her. "I’ll take the diary bade to my hotel and read it.”

IDID not return to my hotel, however.

In my one brief glance into the linle book, I had seen something which had bitten into my soul; only a few words, but they had brought me very near to that queer, solitary man who had been my unde.

I dismissed Mrs. Malkin, and remained in the study. There was the fitting place to read the diary he had left behind him.

His personality lingered like a vapor in that study. I settled into his deep morris chair, and turned it to catch the light from the single, narrow window — the light, doubtless, by which he had written much of his work on entomology.

That same struggling illumination played shadowy tricks with hosts of wallcrucified insects, which seemed engaged



in a united effort to crawl upward in sinuous lines. Some of Aeir number, impaled to the ceiling itself, peered qurveringly down on the aspiring multitude. The whole house, with its crisp dead, rustling in any vagrant breeze, brought back to my mind the hand that had pinned them, one by one, on wall and ceiling and furniture. A kindly hand, I refleaed, though eccentric; one not to be turned aside from its single hobby.

When quiet, peering Uncle Godfrey went, there passed out another of those scientific enthusiasts, whose passion for exaa truth in some one direaion has extended the bounds of human knowledge. Could not his unquestioned merits have been balanced against his sin? Was it necessary to even-handed justice that he die face-to-face with Horror, struggling with the thing he most feared? I ponder the question still, thbu^ his body — strangely bruised — has been long at rest.

The entries in the little book began with the fifteenth of June. Everything before that date had t^en torn out. There; in the room where it had been written, I read nqr Unde Godfrey's diary:

"It is done. I am trembling so that the words will hardly form under my pen, but my mind is collected. My course was for Ae best. Suppose I had married her? She would have been unwilling to live in this house. At the outset, her wishes would have come between me and my woik, and Aat would have been only Ae beginning.

"As a married man, I could not have concentrated properly,! o>uld not have surrounded mysdf wiA Ac atmosphere indispensable to Ae writing of book. My scientific message would never have bera delivered. As it is, Aough my heart is sore, I shall sdfle Aese memories in work.

"I wish I had been more gentle with her, especially when she sank to her knees before me, tonight. She kissed my hand. I should not have repulsed her so roughly. In particular, my words could have been better chosen. I said to her, bitterly: *Get up, and don't nuzzle my hand like a dog.* She rose, wiAout a word, and left me. How was I to know

Aat, wiAin an hour

"I am largely to blame. Yet had I taken any oAer course afterward Aan‘ Ae one I did, the auAorities would have misunderstood."

Again, Acre followed a space from L which Ae sheets had been tom; but from Ae sixteenA of July, all Ae pages were intact. SomeAing had come over Ae writing, too. It was still precise andclear — my Uncle Godfrey’s dtaracteristic hand — but Ac letters were less firm. As the entries approaAed the end, Ais difference became still more marked.

Here follows, Aen, Ae whole of his story; or as much of it as will ever be known. 1 shall let his words speak for him, wiAout furAer intermptioa:

"My nerves are becoming more seriously aff^ed. If certain annoyances do not shortly cease, I Aali be obliged to procure medk^ advke. To be more specific, I find myself, at times, obsessed by an aimost unconttollable desire to descend to Ae cellar and lift Ae slab over Ae old well.

"1 never have yidded to Ae impulse, but it has persisted for minutes togeAer wlA such intensity Aat 1 have had to put woik aside, and literally hold mysdf down in my chair. This insane desire comes only in Ae dead of nigbt, when its disquieting effea is heightened by Ae various noises peculiar to Ae house.

"For instance, there often is a draft of air along Ae hallways, which causes a



rustling among the specimens impaled on the wails. Lately, too, there have been other nocturnal sounds, strongly suggestive of the busy clamor of rats and mice. This calls for investigation. I have been at considerable expense to make the house proof against rodents, which might destroy some of my best specimens. If some structural defea has opened a way for them, the situation must be correaed at once.

"July 17th. The foimdations and cellar were examined today by a workman. He states positively that there is no place of ingress for rodents. He contented himself with looking at the slab over the old well, without lifting it.

"July 19th. While I was sitting in this chair, late last night, writing, the impulse to- descend to the cellar suddenly came upon me with tremendous insistence. I yielded — which, perhaps, was as well. For at least I satisfied myself that the disquiet which possessed me has no external catise.

"The long journey through the hallways was difl5.cult. Several times, I was keenly aware of the same sounds (perhaps I should say, the same impressions of sounds) that I had erroneously laid to rats. I am convinced now that they are mere symptoms of my nervous condition. Further indications of this came in the faa that, as I opened the cellar door, the small noises abruptly ceased. There was no final scamper of tiny footfalls to suggest rats disturbed at their occupations.

"Indeed, I was conscious of a certain impression of expeaant silence — as if the thing behind the noises, whatever it was, had paused to watch me enter its dominion. Throughout my time in the cellar, I seemed surrounded by this same atmosphere. Sheer 'nerves,’ of course.

"In the main, I held myself well under control. As I was about to leave the cellar, however, I unguardedly glanced back

over my shoulder at the stone slab covering the old well. At that, a violent uemor came over me, and, losing dl command, I rushed back up the cellar stairs, thence to this study. My nerves are playing me sorry tricks.

"July 30th. For more than a week, all has been well. The tone of my nerves seems distinaly better. Mrs. Malkin, who has remarked several times lately upon my paleness, expressed the conviction this afternoon that I am nearly my old self again. This is encouraging. I was beginning to fear that the severe strain of the past few months had left an indelible mark upon me. With continued health, I shall be able to finish my book by spring.

"July 31st. Mrs. Malkin remained rather late tonight in connection with some item of housework, and it was quite dark when I returned to my study from bolting the street door after her. The blackness of the upper hall, which the former owner of the house inexplicably failed to wire for elearicity, was profound. As I came to the top of the second flight of stairs, something clutched at my foot, and, for an instant, almost pulled me back. I freed myself and ran to the study.

"August 3rd. Again the awful insistence. I sat here, with this diary upon my knee, and it seems that fingers of iron are tearing at me. I will not go! My nerves may be utterly imstrung again (I fear they are), but I am still their master.

"August 4th. I did not yield, last night. After a bitter struggle, which must have lasted nearly an hour, the desire to go to the cellar suddenly departed. I must not give in at any time.

"August 5th. Tonight, the rat noises (I shall call them that for want of a more appropriate term) are very noticeable. I went to the length of unbolting my door and stepping into the hallway to listen.

4t6


After a few ininutes, I seemed to be aware of something large and gtaj watdi* ing me from the daricness at the end of the passage. This is a bizarre statement, of course, but it exaaly describes my impression. I withdrew hastily into the study, and bolted the door.

“Now that my nervous condition is so palpably affecting the c^tic nerve, I must not much longer delay seeing a specialist. But — ^how much shall I tell him.^

“August 8th. Several times, tonight, while sitting here at my work, I have seemed to hear soft footsteps in the passage. 'Nerves’ again, of course, or else some new trick of the wind among die specimens on the walls.

"August 9th. By my watdi it is four o’clock in the morning. My mind is made up to record the experience 1 have passed through. Calmness may come diat way.

“Feeling rather fatigued last ni^t, from the strain of a weary day of research, I retired early. My sleep was more refreshing than usual, as it is likely to be when one is genuinely tired. I awakened, however (it must have been about an hour ago), with a start of tremendous violence.

“There was moonlight in the room. My nerves were 'on edge,’ but, for a moment, I saw nothing unusual. Then, glancing toward die door, I perceived what appeared to be thin, white fingers, thrust under it — exaaly as if some one outside the door were trying to attraa my attenrion in that manner. I rose and turned on the light, but the fingers were gone.

“Needless to say, I did not open the door. I write the occurrence down, just as it took place, or as it seemed; but I can not trust myself to comment upon it.

“August 10th. Have fastened heavy rubber strips on the bottom of my door.

“August l^h. All quiet, for several nights. I am hoping that the rubber

strips, being something definite and tangible, have had a salutary effea upcm my nerves. Perhaps I shall not need to see a doaor.

"August 17di. Once more I have been aroused from sleep. The interruptions seem to come always at the same hour — about three o’clock in the morning. I had been dreaming of the well in the cellar — the same dream, over and over — everything black except the slab, and a figure with bowed head and averted face sitting there. Ako, I had vague dreams about a dog. Can it be that my last words to her have impressed that on my mind.’ I must pull myself together. In panicular, I must not, under any pressure, yield, and visit the cellar after nightfalL

"August 18th. Am feeling much more hc^>eful. Mrs. Malkin remarked on it, while serving dinner. 'This improvement is due largely to a consultation I have had widi Dr. Sartwell, the distinguished specialist in nervous diseases. I went into full details with him, excepting certain reservations. He scouted die idea that my experiences could be other than purely menul.

“When he reoimmended a change of scene (which I had been expecting), I told him positively that it was out of the quesdon. He said then that, with the aid of a tonic and an occasioiul sleepingdraft, I am likely to progress well enough at home. This is distinaly encouraging. I erred in not going to him at the surt. Without doubt, most, if not all, of my hallucinations could have been averted.

“I have been suffering a needless penalty from my nerves for an action I took solely in the interests of science. I have no disposition to tolerate it furdier. From today I shall report regularly to Dr. Sartwell.

“August lS>th. Used the sleeping-draft last night, with gratifying results. The doaor says I must repeat the dose for

W.T,— 8



several nights, until tnjr nerves are well under control again.

“August 21$t. Ail well. It seems that I have found the way out — a very simple and prosaic way. I might have avoided much needless annoyance by seeking expert advice at the beginning. Before retiring, last night, I unbolted my study door and took a turn up and down the passage. I felt no trepidation. The place was as it used to be, before these fancies assailed me. A visit to the cellar after nightfall will be the test for my complete recovery, but I am not yet <juite ready for that. Patience!

"August 22nd. I have just read yesterday's entry, thinking to steady myself. It is cheerful — almost gay; and there are other entries like it in preceding pages.

am a mouse, in the grip of a cat. Let me have freedom for ever so short a time, and I begin to rejoice at my escape. Then the paw descends again.

"It is four in the morning — ^the usual hour. I retired rather late, last night, after administering the draft. Instead of the dreamless sleep, which heretofore has followed the use of the drug, the slumber into which I fell was punctuated by recurrent visions of the slab, with the bowed figure upon it Also, I had one poignant dream in which the dog was involved.

"At length, I awakened, and reached mechanically for the light switdi beside my bed. When my hand encountered nothing, I suddenly realized the truth. I was standing in my study, with my other hand upon the doorknob. It required only a moment, of course, to find the light and switdi it on. I saw then that the bolt had been drawn bade.

"The door was quite unlocked. My awakening must have interrupted me in the very aa of opening it. I could hear something moving restlessly in the passage outside the door.

"August 23rd. I must beware of sleepW.T.— 9

ing at night. Without confiding the fact to Dr. Sartweil, I have begun to take the drug in the daytime. At first, Mrs. Malkin’s views on the subjea were pronounced, but my explanation of ‘doaor's orders’ has silenced her. I am awake for breakfast and supper, and sleep in the hours between, ^e is leaving me, each evening, a cold lunch to be eaten at midnight.

"August 26th. Several times I have caught myself nodding in my chair. The last time, I am sure that, on arousing, 1 perceived the rubber strip under the door bent inward, as if someAing were pushing it from the other side. I must not, under any circumstances, permit myself to fall asleep.

"September 2nd. Mrs. Malkin is to be away, because of her sister’s illness. I can not help dreading her absence. Though she is here only in the daytime, even that companionship is very welcome.

"September 3rd. Let me put this into writing. The mere labor of composition has a soothing influence upon me. God knows, I need such an influence now, as never before!

"In spite of all my watchfulness, I fell asleep, tonight — across my bed. I must have been utterly exhaust^. The dream I had was the one about the dog. I was patting the creature’s head, over and over.

"I awoke, at last, to find myself in darkness, and in a standing position. There was a suggestion of chill and earthiness in the air. While I was drowsily trying to get my bearings, I became aware that something was nuzzling my hand, as a dog might do.

"Still saturated with my dream, I was not greatly astonished. I extended my hand, to pat the dog’s head. That brou^t me to my senses. I was standing in the cellar.

"The thing before me was not a dog!

"I can not tell how I fled back up the



cellar stairs. I know, however, that, as I turned, the slab was visible, in spite of the darkness, with something sitting upon it. All the way up the stairs, hands snatched at my feet.”

This entry seemed to finish the diary, for blank pages followed it; but I remembered the crumpled sheet, near the back of the book. It was partly torn out, as if a hand had clutched it, convulsively. The writing on it, too, was markedly in contrast to the precise, albeit nervous penmanship of even the last entry I had perused. I was forced to hold the scrawl up to the light to decipher it. This is what I read:

"My hand keeps on writing, in spite of myself. What is this? I do not wish to write, but it compels me. Yes, yes, I will tell the truth, I will tell the truth.”

A heavy blot followed, partly covering the writing. With difficulty, I made it out:

"The guilt is mine — mine only. I loved her too well, yet I was unwilling to marry, though she entreated me on her knees — though she kissed my hand. I told her my scientific work came first. She did it, herself. I was not expeaing that — I swear I was not expeaing it. But I was afraid the authorities would misunderstand. So I took what seemed the best course. She had no friends here who would inquire.

"It is waiting outside my door. I feel it. It compels me, through my thoughts. My hand keeps on writing. I must not fall asleep. I must think only of what I

am writing. I must ”

Then came the words I had seen when Mrs. Malkin had handed me the book. They were written very large. In places, the pen had dug through the paper. Though they were scrawled, I read them at a glance:

"Not the slab in the cellar! Not that!

Oh, my God, anything but that! Anything ”

By what strange compulsion was the hand forced to write down what was in the brain; even to the ultimate thoughts; even to those final words?

The gray light from outside, slanting down through two dull little windows, sank into the sodden hole near the inner wall. The coroner and I stood in the cellar, but not too near the hole.

A small, demonstrative, dark man — the chief of daeaives — stood a little apart from us, his eyes intent, his natural animation suppressed. We were watching the stooped shoulders of a police constable, who was angling in the well.

"See anything, Walters?” inquired the deteaive, raspingly.

The policeman shook his head.

The little man turned his questioning to me.

"You’re quite sure?” he demanded. "Ask the coroner. He saw the diary,” I told him.

"I’m afraid there can be no doubt,” the coroner confirmed, in his heavy, tired voice.

He was an old man, with lack-luster eyes. It had seemed best to me, on the whole, that he should read my imcle’s diary. His position entitled him to all the available faas. What we were seeking in the well might especially concern him.

He looked at me opaquely now, while the policeman bent double again. 'Then he spoke — like one who reluaantly and at last does his duty. He nodded toward the slab of gray stone, which lay in the shadow to the left of the well.

"It doesn’t seem very heavy, does it?” he suggested, in an imdertone.

I shook my head. "Still, it’s stone,” I



demurred. "A man would have to be rather strong to lift it."

"To lift it — yes.” He glanced about the cellar. "Ah, I forgpt," he said, abruptly. "It is in my office, as part of the evidence." He went on, half to himself: "A man — even thougji not very strong — could take a stick — for instance, the stick that is now in my office — and prop up the slab, if he wished to look into the well," he whispered.

The policeman interrupted, straightening again with a groan, and laying his electric torch beside the well.

"It's breaking my back,” he complained. "There’s dirt down there. It seems loose, but I can’t get through it. Somebody'll have to go down.”

The detective cut in, "I’m lifter than you, Walters.”

“I’m not afraid, sir.”

“I didn’t say you were,” die little man snapped. “There’s nothing down there, anyway — though we’ll have to prove that, I suppose.” He glanced truculently at me, but went on talking to the constable: "Rig the rope around me, and don’t bungle the knot. I’ve no intention of falling into the place.”

"There is something there,” whispered the coroner, slowly, to me. His eyes left the little deteaive and the policeman, carefully tying and testing knots, and turned again to the square slab of stone.

"Suppose — while a man was looking into that hole — with the stone propped up — he should accidentally knock the prop away.?” He was still whispering.

"A stone so light that he could prop it up wouldn’t be heavy enough to kill him,” I objeaed.

"No.” He laid a hand on my shoulder. “Not to kill him — ^to paralyze him — if it struck the spine in a certain way. To render him helpless, but not unccwiscious. The post mortem would disclose that, through the bruises on the body.”

The policeman and the detective had adjusted the knots to their satisfaction. They were bickering now as to the details of the descent.

"Would that cause death?” I whispered.

"You must remember diat the housekeeper was absent for two days. In two days, even that pressure” — ^he stared at me hard, to make sure that I understood — "with the head down ”

Again the policeman interrupted: "I’ll stand at the well, if you gentlemen will grab die rope behind me. It won’t be much of a pull. I’ll take the brunt of it.”

We let the little man down, with the electric torch strapped to his waist, and some sort of implement — a trowel or a small spade — in his hand. It seemed a long time before his voice, ciuiously hollow, directed us to stop. The hole must have been deep.

We braced ourselves. I was second, the coroner last. The policeman relieved his strain somewhat by snagging the rope against the edge of the well, but I marveled, nevertheless, at the ease with which he held the weight. Very little of it came to me.

A noise like muffled scratching reached us from below. Occasionally the rope shook and shifted slighdy at the edge of the hole. At last the detective’s hollow voice spoke.

"What does he say?” the coroner demanded.

The policeman turned his square, dogged face toward us.

"I think he’s found something,” he explained.

The rope jerked and shifted again. Some sort of struggle seemed to be going on below. The weight suddenly increased, and as suddenly lessened, as if something had been grasped, then had managed to elude the grasp and slip away. I could catch the deteaive’s rapid'



breathing now, also the sound of inarticulate speech in his hollow voice.

The next words I caught came more clearly. They were a command to pull up. At the same moment, the weight on the rope grew heavier, and remained so.

The policeman’s big shoulders began straining, rhythmically.

"All together,” he direaed. "Take it easy. Pull when I do.”

Slowly, the rope passed through our hands. With each fresh grip that we took, a small seaion of it dropped to the floor behind us. I began to feel the strain. I could tell from the coroner’s labored breathing that he felt it more, being an old man. The policeman, however, seemed untiring.

'The rope tightened, suddenly, and there was an ejaculation from below — just below. Still holding fast, the policeman contrived to stoop over and look. He translated the ejaculation for us.

"Let down a little. He’s smck with it against the side.”

We slackened the rope, until the deteaive’s voice gave us the word again.

The rhythmic mgging continued. Something dark appeared, quite abruptly, at the top of the hole. My nerves leapt in spite of me, but it was merely the top of the detective’s head — his dark hair. Something white came next — his pale face, with staring eyes. 'Then his shoulders, bowed forward, the better to support what was in his arms. Tlien

I looked away; but, as he laid his burden down at the side of the well, the deteaive whispered to xis:

"He had her covered up with dirt — covered up....”

He began to laugh — a little, high

cackle, like a child’s — until the coroner took him by the shoulders and deliberately shook him. Then the policeman led him out of the cellar.

IT WAS not then, but afterward, that I put my question to the coroner.

"Tell me,” I demanded. "People pass there at all hours. Why didn’t my uncle call for help?”

"I have thought of that,” he replied. "I believe he did call. I think, probably, he screamed. But his head was down, and he couldn’t raise it. His screams must have been swallowed up in the well.”

"You are sure he didn’t murder her?” He had given me that assurance before, but I wished it again.

"Almost sure,” he declared, "though it was on his account, undoubtedly, that she killed herself. Few of us are punished as accurately for oiur sins as he was.”

One should be thankful, even for crumbs of comfort. I am thankful.

But there are times when my uncle’s face rises before me. After all, we were the same blood; our sympathies had much in common; under any given circumstances, our thoughts and feelings must have been largely the same. I seem to see him in that flnal death march along the luilighted passageway — obeying an imperative summons — going on, step by step — down the stairway to the first floor, down the cellar stairs — at last, lifting the slab.

I tty not to think of the final expiation. Yet was it final? I wonder. Did the last Door of all, when it opened, find him willing to pass through? Or was Something waiting beyond theU Door?

The stories of Clark Ashton Smith have aroused tremendous enthusiasm in our readers. Mr. Smith, whose poetry has been one of the brightest features of Weird Tales, is now hailed by many as a new find in the fiaion world because of the high literary quality and compelling fantasy of his short tales in this maga2ine.

V. P. Miner, of Sacramento, California, writes to the Eyrie: "Just a note of appreciation, nothing more; a man and his work — no matter how great his tasks — must occasionally be compelled to pause now and then and listen for echoes. Lately I have come upon a story now and then by Clark Ashton Smith. I believe you have recognized an artist and put him to work. His stories have care; there are beauty and art in every line. His imagination is distina; the mystery of his backgrour’d is amazing. And within it all there exists a philosophy. I believe you have reached out among the thousands of present-day writers and placed your hands on a real 'find’. I desire to express the kind sentiments of this household for the rich hours of entertainment that the stories in Weird Tales have given us.”

A letter from Frank L. Pollock, of Shedden, Ontario, says: "In looking over a copy of your magazine I came upon quite an extraordinary story called The Last Incantation, by Clark Ashton Smith. I have reread it several times', and can not refrain from writing you to remark upon its very unusual literary quality. It has, in faa, the very quality of Poe at his best — ^with perhaps a touch of Lord Dunsany.”

"The 'hot seat’ wraith story in the June issue was well done,” writes H. G. Rowell of New York City. "Evidently the author had been there or talked with some one who had. The autopsy incision clinched the truth of the thing. I judge Sing Sing was meant.”

Writes Brush Hatcher of Honolulu, in a letter to the Eyrie: "Permit me to pen a word of compliment for Seabury Quinn on his clever, amusing Jules de Grandin stories. He presented a well-handled theme in The Brain-Thief. He manages dialogue dexterously. You ask your readers to report on the story they preferred in the last issue. The End of the Story by Clark Ashton Smith struck me as deserving the medal of honor in the May edition. Smith writes easily, compaaly and without affectation. He has a nice seleaion of detail, a neat logical plot, and a delightful manner of exposition. I shall be pleased to read more of his stories.”

"I have eagerly secured every issue of Weird Tales since I was first introduced to it about a year ago by a friend,” writes H. E. Nenzel, of Dundalk, Maryland. "Hav421



ing seen many readers request reprints of H. P. Lovecraft’s worics, I was all excited when I saw that you had reprinted The Rats in the Walls. For sheer weirdness and horror this story is hard to beat. Lovecraft is die best of them all, and I would like to see more reprints of his earlier worics, as I missed most of them when first published. The scientific stories by Edmond Hamilton are by far the best I have read anywhere, especially his stories alx>ut the adventures of the Interstellar Patrol. Your magazine satisfies me in every way as I have always been an avid reader of uncommon stories."

Ron H. Donachy, of Kane, Pennsylvania, rushes to the defense of the cover designs, which have been severely criticized in the Eyrie in recent issues. "While reading in the Eyrie of the June issue the excellent letter of Bernard Austin Dwyer of Kingston," he writes, "I hit upon one portion thereof in which I do in no way agree with the gentleman named. This is in regard to the cover designs, so unjustly termed raw, rank sex appeal by Mr. Dwyer. Why should not the public mind run along the above named channels, when we know that we are so beautifully and wonderfully made; and who has become so unseeing that he can not behold beauty and charm in the symmetry of the human form en nude? Does it not portray weird temptation, allurement and mystery of itself.^ Or perhaps does Mr. Dwyer expea you to portray as a cover design the loathsome horror of Mr. Lovecraft’s Dunwich Horror or his Silver Key, or perhaps the terrible phantoms of The Planet of Horror in the June issue, and have the public turn sick with revulsion from the very sight thereof.^ No! no! a thousand times no! For my part I am perfealy satisfied with the cover designs, and can conceive of no way where any change would be an improvement in the least. I will agree with H. P. Stiller of New York, that H. P. Lovecraft’s Dunwich Horror is truly a classic, worthy of being preserved for posterity, as likewise is his Silver Key, of which much of the subjea matter therein I deem a true history of die mental processes of the present race and age; and I believe that next or equal to these two great works of Loveaaft is The Hounds of Tindalos by Frank Belknap Long, Jr., published about a year ago. I have read these three stories over at least half a dozen times, and I assure you that when I desire to read something with a thrill and a deep mystery that I can find nowhere else, I again turn to one of these works; for with each reading I always find something there that I hadn’t seen before.”

R. Gage, of Vancouver, British Columbia, writes to the Eyrie: "I am not going to read any more of your magazines if I find any more of those queer French names like in The Brain-Thief by S. Quinn. If I liked to hear French names I’d live in France. Also, I think your stories are not so much weird as they are crazy.”

'"The June issue was certainly fine, probably because it contained a de Grandin story,” writes Edwin Beard, of St. Louis. “VjTien will I cease to rave over that mythical man? And I do not, as a certain gentleman suggested in the Eyrie, rave over him because others do. I think for myself, now and always. I would like to read more for Weird Tales. My personal opinion, and all my professors count it worthy of consideration, is that your magazine has more literary merit for the price than any magazine printed which is devoted chiefly to fiction.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? The most popular story in the July number, as shown by your votes, was the last installment of The Moon of Skulls, the Solomon Kane story by Robert E. Howard. The Bride of Dewer, by Seabury Quinn, was a close second to Mr. Howard’s story.



stories of the Overlord of G)rnwall by Doaor Keller. I enjoyed them immensely, especially No Other Man. The Planet of Horror fell flat for me. It strove to reach the blood-freezing heights attained in The Space-Eaters but failed utterly. I like my horrors concrete most of the time, abstraa only once in a while. The Rats in the Walls was certainly chilling, especially the last two columns. Please reprint The Infidel’s Daughter ot The Woman of the Wood. They are nothing less than classics. I am simply wild over stories like The Girl Pram Samarcand. I hope more are printed. And what has become of Greye La Spina? I never see his (or is it her?) stories any more.” [A new serial by Greye La Spina will begin in our Oaober issue — The Editors.]

"I thought the last issue of Weird Tales a particularly strong one,” writes Clark Ashton Smith. "The gruesome stories, such as In the Borderland and The Frog, were especially good. But of course the real event was the reprint of Lovecraft’s The Rats in the Walls. I was pleased to see a story by Long annoimced for the next issue. Long has a rare imaginative gift and a distinaive style that is beholden to nobody.”

"Do you ever get letters from bona fide English teachers?” writes Don C. Hilsinger, of St. Louis, Michigan. "I am one myself, but I am not o*e of those teachers who believe that no literature was written before or after Shakespeare. Neither do I avow Browning to have been the last real poet. In fact, my favorite poets and authors are not all dead and what is more I defend them against the inveaives of my professors. On several occasions I have mentioned Weird Tales only to have it scorned as only a Ph. D. in English can scorn a magazine. Then one day I saw the list of stories that this Ph. D. was teaching in his short-story class. Ha ha ha! I had read several of them in Weird Tales and I told him so. He registered a very operatic expression of surprize and said, Ts that so?’ Then he proceeded to ponder on the subjea for a while and finally gave his decision to the effea that if you published in your monthly reprint section such stories as the ones I mentioned, the rest of your stories would have to be good too, or your readers would objea to them by comparison. Score six

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE SEPTEMBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

(1)

(3):

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

(2)

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, 111.

r

I Reader’s name and address:

I

I...

I



Another Dracula

{ Continued from page 336f

they stopped directly under my window — I could have hit tfiem with a shoe.”

"Why didn’t you?”

"Because I preferred to sit and watch them. Didn’t want to scare them away.”

"But why didn’t you shoot them?”

'"The farmer for whom I worked didn't let any of the farmhands keep guns. So the two lions finally trotted oS again into the woods.”

"But that wasn’t the adventure you were going to tell me about, was k?” asked Mary, a bit disappointedly.

"No,” replied Crane. "The advenmre happened the following night. Again I was lying awake listening to the cries of the pair, as they called to each other from range to range. And again the two animak met between the farm and the ltdce. But this time their cries then ceased. What silent devilment were they up to, I ¥«)ndered? And then I heard the pump stop. It was my turn to go down to the lake and fix it.”

"You poor dear,” murmured Mary. "How old were you?”

"Only eleven. Naturally I was scared to death, but I had to go, for it was my turn. I begged each of the other farmhands, one by one, to go with me, but they all tefus^; so I lit a lantern and set off alone through the woods. Not a sound from the mountain lions. If only they would howl, so that I could tell where they were, and what they were up to! But they kept absolutely silent. Somehow I reached the lake shore, got die pump going again, and started bade up the road toward home. I was just beginning to recover from my stupor of abjea terror, when upon rounding a curve of the path, I saw in front of me rwp green spots of phosphorescent light. Instantly

I st(^»ped dead in my tracks, absolutdy petrifi^.”

“I can well believe it,” interjeaed the girl. "You poor little kid!”

E^. Crane continued: "And dien the beast came towwd me. At least I judged that he was coming toward me, for the two phosphorescent eyes seemed to get wider and wider apart. In an attempt at friglitening him, I swimg my lantern widely — ^and the lantern went out. I was alone in die darkness with that thing up die road. Yet still the two spots of light glowed, even thou^ there was now no lantern for them to reflea. Instinctively I felt that this was strange, but I was too scared to do any real thinking c«i the subjea. Wider and wider apart got die two eyes. 'What a huge beast this must be!’ I thou^t. From a distant ridge there came the blood-curdling saeam of a lion. Fascinated, I waited for the beast in front of me to answer its mate. But die answer came from an entirely different quarter, far away. 'Can there be tjbree of them.^’ I wondered. And then, with a flash of inspiration, I stepped fearlessly forward, right between the two eyes which were facing me. They were nothing but two glow-worms crawling on the dirt of the road.”

'Well of all the yarns!” exclaimed Mary, a bit exasperated. "Here I have been getting up a lot of sympathy for you, and you weren’t any more in danger of being eaten alive than I am right now.”

"But I really was frightened, terribly so,” protested the young doaor, a bit apologaically.

There was a pause, while the two sat and watched the moonlight on the gently swaying treaops of the moumainside.



Then Mary asked, "You have spoken of the terrifying scream of the mountain lions. What was it like? Can you describe it to me?”

"That’s a pretty big order,” laughed the young doaor, "for a lion’s scream is different from anything ebe I have ever heard. It’s just simply horrible — makes the hairs stand up on the back of your neck, and brings out goose-pimples all over your body. ’The nearest thing to it that I ever heard was a little child once, shrieking with pain in a hospital. It’s — it’s ”

As he paused, groping in hb mind for a simile, the calm night air was split by one single ghostly shriek, coming from the woods just below them on the mountainside.

Mary* s pale face turned even paler, as she sat suddenly erea in her chair and convubively gripped the doaor’s arm.

"What — what was that, Ralph?” she gasped.

"That,” replied he, "was a mountain lion.”

Tensely the two of them awaited a repetition of the sound. But it never came. That single fearsome howl was the only one.

Gradually they relaxed again.

"What will you do?” asked the girl solicitously. "I can’t bear to have you go home through the woods, now that thb has happened. You might meet that — that awful thing. And I’m scared to be left here alone with only the Fosses. You must stay with me, Ralph. Spend the night. Please do. Mrs. Foss can fix you up a cot somehow.”

So Dr. Crane spent the nigjht in Mary Morton’s little mountain cabin.

6. Bats and Other Things

OF COURSE, when Herman Fulton learned that the attraaive young doaor had spent the night in Mary MorIX Novels for $f.00

These are copyright novels well known writers. Printed on good paper with iUuBtrated covers.

Thrilling Mysteiy Fiction

Each of these books is an exciting mystery or detective story. Guaranteed to hold your interest.

And you get the entire set of twelve novels for only one dollar! There is no other charge.

Bat — you most aet immediately! The supply ia limited. Right now, while you think of it. tear out this adverUsement. fill in the coupon below, and return to us with $1.00 (coin, stamps or money order). The complete set of twelve novels will be mailed to 3^u promptly, postage prepaid.


Dept. 69, $40 N*. Michigan Ave..

Chicago. III.

I Mcktee $1.00. Send me the twelve noveta postage prepaid, at once. This $1.00 is payment in full.

Address — -

City State — —



ton’s cabin, he was furious. Even the faa of the presence of Mr. and Mrs. Foss in the cabin, as chaperones, did not in the least mitigate his anger.

His fiancee had been compromised! He himself had been made ridiculous! To a banker or businessman there is nothing worse than ridicule. Many a man would let his business go to smash rather than run the risk of ridicule to save it; and here was ridicule to no praaical end. Why, it might even result in a run on the bank!

The only way to save his face was to take some drastic action at once. Accordingly he did. He asked Dr. Crane to withdraw from the case; and when the doaor refused to withdraw, Herman fired him. Herman was in a position to do this, as he was paying the bills. Old Dr. Porter was placed in charge, instead.

The reason for the change, as given out to such persons as had any right to ask, was that Dr. Crane had unduly terrified his patient by getting her off in a lonely shack in the mountains and then telling her ghost stories. Indeed, Mary was so frightened by that single unexplained piercing scream of a mountain lion, that she insisted on being moved back to civilization the very next day. Altogether, everything fitted in to make Herman’s explanation sound most plausible. And really Dr. Crane was open to considerable censure for telling Mary the lion story in her condition and location.

He accepted his removal gracefully, and conferred lengthily with his successor, who brought a new viewpoint to the situation.

Old Dr. Porter, after a rather cursory examination of Mary Morton and a study of the case-history, announced, '"This acute anemia appears to me to be due to some cause which we haven’t yet fathomed. You were probably taught at Harvard Medical that anemia is a disease,

but the more modem theory seems to be that it is a mere symptom, the result of one of a large number of varying causes, many of which have been run to earth, but many more of which still remain unexplained.”

The younger doaor agreed.

"I’ll admit,” said he, "that you older men are apt to be more progressive than our generation. We accept as gospel truth what we were taught at the school, whereas you have been out in praaise long enough to realize how little is really known of the human body. Hence you are more open-minded to new ideas than we. Have you any theory as to the underlying cause of Miss Morton’s symptoms?”

"Not yet,” replied Dr. Porter judiciously, "but I believe that I have at least discerned the group in which her ailment falls. Her bloodlessness seems to me to be due to some organism, some creature that is sapping her strength. I shouldn’t wonder ”

He paused with a bit of embarrassment, and then went on, "You know, years ago when I was a young man just out of college, I made a trip to the Argentine. One 'of the horses, on a ranch where I was visiting, was taken ill. It grew weak and emaciated. During the da)^ime it would eat ravenously and seem to pick up strength. But every morning it would be weak again. I was frankly puzzled, and was interested in the case from a medical viewpoint, although I had never felt any leanings toward veterinary praaise. But my host merely shrugged his shoulders, and accepted the situation with Spanish fatalism. Also he did not seem to care to discuss the case. Whenever I broached the subjea, he would avoid it with a bit of a shudder, and would make the sign of the cross. Most of the ranch-hands aaed the same way about the matter. Finally one of the cowboys, not quite so



supersdcious as die ochefs, led me to the horse one evening, and pointed out a huge bat — 'vampire-bats' they call them — clinging to the horse's neck, sucking its life-blood."

"There has been such a bat around Yankton all summer," interrupted young Crane. “Caii it be-

"Let me go on with my story,” persisted Dr. Porter. "The bat fled before I could get my hands on it. I at once inquired why they didn’t keep the bat away, but the cowboy replied, Tt is not possible, senor, for once a vampire marks its victim, the victim is doomed.’ But I myself am not a fatalist. I insisted on putting the poor horse at once into a carefully screened died. Nevertheless the bat got in and out, and the horse continued to fail. We blocked every hole, but we could not cope with the fiendish ingenuity of that vampire. So, as a last resort, I persuaded my friend the cowboy — by means of ’mucho dinero’ — to sit up with the horse and guard it at ni^t; to try and shoot the bat, if he got a chance."

"Did that work.^”

"Yes, it did for a vdiile. The cowboy didn’t even see the bat again. The horse rapidly gained in strength, and I was just about to taunt the Argentinos that the vampire was not as omnipotent as they seemed to think, when one morning I found the cowboy asleep, and the horse dead, drained nearly bloodless!”

"But, doaor," objeaed Crane, "if anything like that were happening to Mary, she would know it, and there would be marks on her throat."

"Are you sure that there aren’t marks on her throat?” demanded the older man, pointedly.

"N-n-no!” admitted Crane. "Have you observed any?”

"I haven’t looked,” Dr. Porter replied. "Tliis idea hadn’t occurred to me when I first examined her. And now, frankly, I

mxr MONTH

The

DRUID’S SHADOW

By SEABURY QUINN

AGRIPPING, powerful story of Druid sacrifice, and the mystic rites when the grim, bearded priests tcx>k the lives of beautiful maidens on dieir stone akars.

JULES DE GRANDIN, ghost-breaker, phantom - fighter, scientist and occultist, never appeared to better advantage than in this thrilling tale. If you have not yet made the acquaintance of this most fascinating charaaer in modern fiction, then you have a thrill in store for you when you meet him in '"The Druid’s Shadow.” TTiis story will be published complete in the

October Issue of


Oft Sale September 1st

Clip and Mail this coupon today I

WKIRD TAl^KS 840 N. ]!^lichisran Are.*

Chicago, in.

Enclosed Ond $1 for special S months subscrip* tion to "Weird Tales" to begin with the October issue In Canada). Special offer void un*

less remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name ^

AddrcKs-, —...........

City State



don’t care to disturb her, in her present nervous condition. Nor, for the same reason, have I mentioned bats to her. But we shall keep a careful watch, from now on.”

"Well, to be equally frank with you, sir,” asserted young Crane, "I don’t place much stock in your bat theory. But there have been a great many strange carryingson in Yankton this summer, and nothing would surprize me very much. Certainly we don’t yet know what is the underlying cause of Miss Morton’s illness.”

So Dr. Porter, following out his hunch, next interviewed Mary’s father on the subjea.

"You haven’t seen any vampire-bats aroiuid the house, have you?” he asked abruptly.

Pop Morton’s jaw dropped, for he suddenly remembered Herman’s weird theories.

"Vamp — vampire what?” he gasped.

It was Dr. Porter’s turn to become surprized, for Pop’s confusion was clearly indicative of something.

"Why, what do you mean?” asked the doaor.

"Nothing. Nothing,” asserted Pop, much embarrassed. "No, I haven’t seen any bats at all.”

And nothing more could Dr. Porter pump out of hinr, except the repeated assertion that he hadn’t seen any bats. Nor did Pop mention the conversation to Herman Fulton until much later.

Mary continued to waste away, recovering a bit sometimes for a week or so at a stretch, only to fall still lower the next time that a relapse set in.

Meanwhile Dr. Crane’s patients steadily deserted him, one by one. It soon became evident to the young doaor that Herman Fulton, not content with removing him from the Morton case, was insidiously and persistently bringing to bear

the bank’s influence to drive him out of town, until at last the day came when the young doaor was unable to mea a payment on the mortgage on his own establishment, and was refused an extension by the banker.

Fulton then placed his cards on the table by offering a handsome settlement for the equity, if Dr. Crane would move out of town; and so Dr. Crane moved.

For some time past, one of the New York hospitals had been angling for Dr. Crane’s services, and now he accepted the offer.

Herman magnanimously permitted him to say good-bye to Mary. The farewell was touching, though brief. Not a word was said to let the girl know that Crane was the viaim of her fiance’s jealousy.

"I’ve a splendid opening in New York,” reported the young doaor, "and so I am reluaantly leaving Yankton to take it. But the real impelling reason is that New York will give me an opportunity to read up on anemia, and I hope to find out some way of curing you. If I succeed, I shall be very glad that I left. In any event, please remember that I shall always be your devoted friend. Please, please call on me, if you ever need help.”

Seizing her hand, he held it tightly for a moment, and then left abruptly. There were tears in the eyes of both of them.

IMMEDIATELY On his arrival at his new job. Dr. Crane hunted up the member of the hospital staff who was supposed to know the most about anemia; and through his suggestions, plunged into a line of evening reading in the medical alcove of the New York Public Library.

He wrote Mary Morton once — ^merely a brief note, giving her his address, and expressing a hope that she was better.

It was not long before a solution of Mary’s case began to dawn on him. He found that, as old Dr. Porter had stated,



the modem trend of opinion is that anemia is always secondary. He found, to his surprize, that even more of the primary causes of that disease had been worked out and pinned down than Dr. Porter had intimated.

The enthusiastic young researcher compared each of the known features of the girl’s case-history with the ear-marks of each of these various primary causes, one by one, until at last he hit upon what seemed to him to be luiquestionably the uniquely correa solution.

Dr. Porter had been very nearly right in his surmise. There was now a chance to save Mary. So Ralph Crane rushed off the following letter by special delivery:

Dr. Jeremiah Poner,

Yankton, Pa.

My dear old friend,

1 believe that I have at last hit upon the underlying cause of Miss Morton’s condition. Her symptoms, her case-history, and the situation at Yankton seem to fit the specifications exactly. You were quite right in your hunch that she is the victim of a parasitic organism, but I do riot believe that it is a vampire-bat.

The books describe a form of anemia, very similar to hers, and often found in mining communities. It is due to a parasitic worm, the ankylostomum duodenale, which inhabits damp places, especially underground mines.

The symptoms are very similar to those of pernicious anemia, for which we have been treating her; that is to say, successive remissions and relapses, with the nervous symptoms very marked.

May I suggest santonin for a time, in place of blaud?

Let me know how the dear girl is.

Respeafully,

Ralph Crane, M. D.

ShhKhhlift

Shhhhhh

Shhhh

What was the weird cry that made Gloria tremble? What phantom sought to lead the supposed Van Mortimer, king of Wall Street, to a weird coffin?

A mystery story that defies im^- ination in its unusual treat of being truly unusual.

Mall $2 to WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. L. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, and this book will be mailed to you postpaid.

stop tobacco?

Banish the eravinff for tobSMO aa 5. M^e

thousands have.

ke yourself free

and happy with Tobacco Redeemer. Mota8ubitltate» not habit formtngr. Write for free booklet tellinff of iniuriooeeffectoftobaecoand depend* able, easy way to **^^*"'*1 the eravius many men have, Newell Pharmacat Co. Dnnv Dept 917. Cllyton,


If you are lonely and sincere I can arrange a romantic correspondence that will help you to find your ideal in a CONFIDENTIAL and dignified manner. Just the opportunity you have been awaiting. F*ull particulars for stamp. -Mra. F. Willard. 3004 N. aark 8t., Chicago. 111.

Then anxiously he awaited an answer. It came back two days later by wire:

Diagnosis too late. Mary died Moriday. Fuueral three o’clock tomorrow.

J. Porter.

7. Haunted

IT WAS already "tomorrow” when the telegram arrived, announcing Mary Morton’s death. Crane, stunned and heartbroken by the news, hailed a taxicab and rushed to the Pennsylvania station,

LONELY? WANTS NEW FRIENDS OR A LIFB Partner? We can help you. Reliable, confidential Introductory service for ladies and gentlemen. Write. Get-Acquainted Correspondence Club, B-1261, Denver. Colo.

POSITIONS— ABOARD OCEAN LINERS; SEE THE world. Experience unnecessary; Details free. Mr, Arculus, Box 292, Mount Vernon. N. Y.

Founders TEMPLE OF TRUTH (INC.)

Prof. Carl D. Oaks. Pres., Dr Annette Dolly Oaks^ Seo’y & Treas. Demonstrators of East India Occultism. Are you groping in the dark? We can show you the light. Realize your future, know what to do, by sending your name in full, also date and month of birth. Ten questions answered. Mail one dollar money order or currency. Address:


3159 Southport Ave* Chicago, 111,



only to find that there was no train which could possibly get him to Yankton in time for the funeral. So he sent some flowers by telegraph, and gave himself up to an afternoon of bitter recrimination.

He had failed the girl he loved. Oh, if he had but woriced faster and to more purpose, and had found out the cause of her trouble before diat knowledge was too late to save her! Of course, his diagnosis mi^t not be correa; and even if correa, it might not have enabled him to cure her. But there had been a chance, and that chance was now lost forever.

Later a letter arrived from Dr. Porter, but it didn’t throw mudi more li^t on the situation. Marks and blood had been found on Mary’s throat, but the girl had insisted that diey had been due to her scratching a particularly vexatious woodtide bite, which she had acquired in the mountain cabin. A constant guard had been set over her, but no bat or other animal had approached her, except a stray black cat which had jumped over her bed on the day of her death. The huge gray bat had been seen around town occasionally, but not near the Morton house. It all sounded rather banal and silly, when set down in black and white on p^>er; but, in view of the previous conference between the two 'doctors. Dr, Porter said that he felt duty-bound to state all these details. He expressed no opinion about die ankylostomum duodende, except to thank Dr. Crane for the suggestion, and to eiqiress an appreciation for die younger man’s zeal, persistency and thorou^- ness at research. All of which was most unsatisfying.

Young Crane was crushed, stunned and broken-hearted. His Maty was dead! His Mary was dead!

At last he realized that what he had mistaken for merely warm affection for

the girl, had really been love. Oh, if he had but realized this in time!

It was his fault! Her deadi 'was all his fault! He ou^t to have asserted himself, have declared his love, and have dragged her away from Yankton to New York, where she could have had adequate medical attention.

For about a week, he drove his numbed brain and weary body. During working hours, his hospital duties afforded him some measure of forgetfulness of his grief; but at ni^t diere was no relief. He walked many miles every evening. Then he would lie awake in bed, the prey of bitter reaimination, imtil at last sleep came, but not oblivion, for even his sleep was tortured by dreams of what might have been.

And then one night, about midnight, he suddenly awakened with a feeling that there was someone in his r(x>m. He was thoroughly fri^tened, even before he started to awake; and yet he could not remember any dream vi^ich could be responsible for this feeling. Merely he waked up already scared, and with no apparent cause.

The room was quite light from the reflection of an advertising sign near by, and so he could distinctly see everything in the room. By the foot of the bed there st(X)d a young girl clad in white, smiling down on him.

It was Maty — or Mary’s ghost! But it couldn’t be her ghost, for there are no such things as ^osts. So it must be Mary herself. But Mary was dead. But she couldn’t be dead, for here she was. What was she doing in New York City? And in his room! And at this time of night! His Mary, at last! Could it be true?

"Mary!” he gasped.

"Yes, Ralph,” the figure replied, "it is Mary. I have come to you for help, because Herman doesn’t seem to understand. Night after night I have tried to



get Herman to help me; but he only cringes, and makes the sign of the cross, and says horrid things to me, which I don’t understand. He calls me 'undead’. Of course I’m undead! I’m alive, as alive as you are; but somehow he says the word ’undead’ as though it meant something else, something terrible and unclean. I can’t understand him, and he refuses to understand me. But you will help me, won’t you? You promised me, you know.”

"Of course I’ll help you, Mary dear!” he exclaimed. "But what are you doing in New York? Just step into my sittingroom for a moment, until I get some clothes on.”

She smiled wanly.

"I’m not in New York, Ralph,” she replied. "I’m buried six feet deep in a cold dark grave in the Yankton cemetery. But I’m not dead. I’m sure of that. Sometimes I lie for hours in that awful padded coffin. Sometimes I sleep. Sometimes I lose my hfad, and shriek and struggle in the darkness, trying to tear the box away and get out. And sometimes I think very calmly and steadily of some place, usually Herman’s room, until suddenly I find myself there. Then I plead with him to help me; but he repulses me, and drives me back into the grave again. I feel that I can’t stand it much longer. Either my strength or my wits will give out, and then I shall be really dead.”

It was quite clear to Dr. Crane that the poor girl was out of her mind. She had probably been in a cataleptic trance, had escaped from the coffin on the very eve of burial, and had closed and locked the box, perhaps even filling it with books so that her absence would not be noticed. Insane people are quite often diabolically clever in such ways. He remembered, from his recent extensive reading, that anemia often results in either catalepsy or


No man op woman can eseapo the harmf u 1 effects of tobacco, g Don’t try to banish unaided f the hold tobacco has upon you* /

Join the thoosands of in voter- \

ate tobacco nsera that have _

f oond it easy to quit with the aid of theKeeley Treatment.

KEELEY


STOPS

Tobacco HabH

lac hes all eravlnff for tobacco. Write today for PTW Book tellinff how toqnfekly Free yourself from the uxMceo habit and our Money Back Guarantee.

^. JV3 KEELEY INSTITUTE

DAM-ZINE

For Sick Gland* Caused From Age Abuse, Disease, Etc.

A product of medical research prescribed by Physicians in the treatment of starved glands. Tou take no chances and waste no money. Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded. We invite correspondence with Physicians. Packed 25 Dam-Zines, 11.00, 200 for $6.00. A $1.00 order now moans a $6.00 order later. Special Physicians offer 1,000 Dam-Zines for $21.25. All goods sent in plain sealed package postpaid. No C. O. D. Send cash or money order and expect Dam-Zines by first return mail. No delay. Write now. All correspondence confidential.


P. 0« 101 Columns, Ohio

To Any Suit!

1 Double the life of your coat and vest with correctly matched pants.100,000 patterns^^^ Every pair nand taflorM to your measure; bo **reaaymadea.** Our uateb sent PRCBf<wyocir O. K. before pants are made. Pit guaranteed. Send piece of eloth or vest today.

SyPCRIOR MATCH MHTS COMPANY^ ata Sorfiearl^ Street, Oe^ ^

TOV MBM WHO LACK VtOOH

TUT rntm test av oob ricki 777 FORMULA

Compoied of ACTUAL GLAND MATERIALS sad ttimulative tonic-tablet form.

Send $2forafail itrengdiptck.

Me. Absolnte Satisfaction,

GUARANTEED or Money I Refunded. YouTakeNoRitk. __

2 nm Packages for 43.00 THE!

CERES CO. WT-16. BSO Area St.. Pliila., Po.

BIB MAaiC BOOK lOo

Amaze and Mystify! "Book of 1,000 Wonders'* explains many startlins tricks you can do. Also catalogs big Kne Magic, Jokes, Puzzles, etc. 100 pages. Write today I LYLE DOUGLAS, STATION A-6, DALLAS, TEXAS.

Friends Everywhere, Join Oar Letter

club for ladies and gentlemen. Information and Magazine for stamp, D* Lacey Bros., Medina, N* T,



Make More

Money

The PSYCHO-PHONE Way

Here are typical results reported by users

"Ify aotery inereated from $t00 to $ilg per month."

"In aix ooMko it ontroatod my fcaudami'* wtory S0%."

How are results like these brought shout? By diroetint tho ortot powers of the uneoueeious mind. These powers are the real source of aekieveineat. Control them and there is no reasonable wish that may not be fulfiUed.

The Psycho-Phone Latest Triumph of Science

nm Psycho-Phone is an automatic suggestion machine. It directs your uneonscioos mind during sleep — to mny tnd that you desire. What do you want of life? Here are aome further statements from actual users of the Psycho-Phone, illustrating the great variety of purposes tar which it is employed: “I Imve overcome a great fear and inferiiHity complex'* — ^“In two months it cured aee of oonatipsdton and doubled my practice" (frout a doctor) — ^"It made me look much yoonger and greatly increaaed the growth of my hair" — "It greatly increased my vigor,** etc.

Send Tor Free Book

“MIND POWER”

While the Psydm-Pbooe may aeem a revolutionary inventioa, it actually is simply a modern, scientific means of hameasing the working principles utilized by the Supenaan of all the ages. These prinoiples are explained in a valuaMe Free Book that it worth sonding for. Mail coupon or write. No cost or obUgation,

THE PSYCHO-PHONE COMPANY, Inc.

103 Lafayette St., New York City

^yoho Ftisne Oo.. toe.. Deet. t-9 143 tottoyetta St., Mew Toife. M. T.

Kindly MPd ai« widuMrt «ny obtle>tion on ny part, froe copy of "Mind Power*' ead XuU details about the Psyche-Phone.

AdfrMM

Cltf StaU

insanity, so why not both? It was the only plausible solution!

His heart went out to her in a wave of masculine proteaiveness. Here was a diance for him to give to the girl he loved the expert hospital care which she had lacked in Yankton, and to restore to her both her health and her sanity. Then let Herman try and get her away from him!

As the young doaor groped in his mind for soothing words to quiet her hysteria, she spoke again, "You will help me, won’t you, Ralph? I frighten poor dear Herman so! He is beginning to get pale and anemic just like I was. Last night he had another man sleeping with him, and so I can’t go there any more. It embarrasses me.”

"Of course I’ll help you,” reassuredDr. Crane. "Now if you’ll just sit down for a moment in the next room. I’ll be right with you.”

"Thank you, Ralph,” said she. "Goodbye. Come quidkly! Very quiddy!”

He rubbed his eyes. She was no longer there! And yet he had not seen her leave the room.

Dr, Crane got up and dressed, and walked die streets of New York until morning. He did not date to go to sleep again, and thus establish the possibility that he had merely dreamed what had just happened to him.

He was standing eagerly on the steps of the Public Library when it opened at nine o’clock. As die doors were unlocked, he rushed to the medical stacks, where he plunged into a new line of reading, namely, "cataiepdc trances,"

By noon a smile of grim determination had settled over his features, and he had wired to Dan Callahan, the Yankton taxidriver, to meet him at die Limited.

The startling events at the opening of Marp Morton's Krave will be described in the closing chapters of this story in next month's WEIRD TALES.

W.T.— 9


TOO LATE

to read one of the most popular stories that has been printed in this magazine to date. Through popular demand we have published a cloth-bound edition of “The Moon Terror,” by A. G. Birch, to fulfill the wishes of those who were not fortunate enough to read this startling story when it appeared serially in the early issues of Weikd Tales.

If you haven’t read this hook of shuddery horror and utter weirdness we know you have missed something that is really worth while.

This book is beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orange-colored jacket. It will make a valuable addition to your library.

EAD the thrilling adventures of Dr. Ferdinand Gresham, the „ eminent American astronomer, in his encounters with^ Kwo-Sungtao, high priest of the 'Seuen-H’sin (the Sect of Two Moons). The Seuen-H’sin are the sorcerers of China, and the most murderously diabolical breed of human beings on this earth. Each turn of the page increases the suspense when you follow Dr. Gresham to take part in the hellish ceremonies in the Temple of the Moon God — wheh he crosses the Mountains of Fear — half starves on the dead plains of Dzunsz’chuen — swims the River of Death — sleeps in the Caves of Nganhwiu, where the hot winds never cease and the dead light their campfires; on their journey to Nirvana. Here is a story that will thrill you.

SeiVd for this fascinating book at once. Special publishers’ price $1.50 postpaid.

Book Dept. M-29,

WEIRD TALES,

840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, Illinois

To those who think

Learning Music is hard-

■JtRHArb you tnmK tnat laKing A music lessons is like taking a dose of medicine. It isn’t any longer!

As far as you concerned, the old' days of long praaice hours with their horr* 1 scales, hard-work exercises, and expensive personal teachers’ fees are over and done with.

You have no excuses — no alibis whai^cfcver for not making your start toward musical good times now!

For, through a method that removes the boredom and extravagance from music lessons, you can now leam to play your favorite instrument entirely at jjojne — without a private teacher-- in half the usual time— at a fraction of the usual cost.

Just imagine... a method that has made the reading and playing of inusic so downright simple that you don’t have to know one note from another to begin.

t)o you wonder that this remarkable way of learning music has already been vouched for by over a half-million people in all parts of the world?

Easy As Can Be

The lessons come to you by mail from the famous U. S. School of Music.

They consist of complete printed instructions, di^ gramc, and all the music you need. You study with a smile. One week you are learning a dreamy wait?/— t.ie next you are mastering a

Piano Organ Ukulolo Comol Trombonn Picealo Guitar

sons continue they prove easier and easier. For instead of just scales you are always leaiming to play by actual notes the classic favorites and the latest syncopation that formerly you only listened to.

And you’re never in hot water. First, you are told how a thing is done. Then a picture shows you how, then you do it yourself and hear it. No private teacher could make it clearer or easier.

Soon when your friends say ‘‘please play something,” you can surprise and entertain them with pleasing melodies on your favorite instrument. You’ll find yourself in the spotlight — popular everywhere. Life at last will have its silver lining and lonely hours will vanish as you play the 'blues’* away.

New Friends. Better Times

If you’re tired doingthe heavy lookingon at parties — if always listening to others play has almost spoiled the pteaspro of music for you — if you’ve been envious because they could entertain their friends and family — if learning music has always been one of those never-to-come-true dreams, let the timopi proven and tested homestudy method of the U. S. School of Music come to your rescue.

Don’t be afraid to begin your lessons at once. Over half a million people learned to play this modern way — and found it easy as A-B-C. Forget that old-fashioned idea that you need special “talent.” Just read the list of instruments in the panel, decide which one you want to play, and the U. S. School of Music will do th'^ rest. And bear in mind no matter

Pick Your Inttruroent

eiarffi*!

Flute

Saxophone Haip Mandolin *Collo

Hawaiian Steal Guitar Sight Singing Piano Accordion Hallon and Gorman Accordion Voice and Spooeh Culture Harmony and Cempooitlen Drumo and Traps Automatic Finger Control

Banjo (Plectrum, SString or Tenor)

which instrument you choiise. the cori in each case will ave..ageth(; • ame — just afewcentsaday. No matter.w hether you are a mere beginnej- or already a i<oo<l performer, you will be inten.'sted in learning ab<mt this new and wond»*rf’.** method.

Send for Our Free Book and Demonstration Lesson

Cur wonderful illustrated Free Book and our Free Demonstration Lesson expia:n all about this remarkable method. They prove just how anyone can leirn to play his favorite instrument by note in almost no time and for just a fraction of what old slow methoA cost. Toe booklet will also tell you all aVoui; the amazing new Automatic Fv^iier ContrcA,

Read the list of inst'.uments to the left.decide which you </ant to play, and the U. S. School of Music will do the rest. Act NOW. Clip and mail this, coupon today, and the fascinating Free Book tind Free Demonstration Lesson will be pent to you at once. No obligation. Instruments supplied when needi d, rash or credit. U. S. School of Music. 469 Bru.’'swick Bldg.. New York City.


4F9 Onigswlck Bldg., New York City

Please send mo your free book, “Music Lessons In Your Own Home," with Introduction by Ur. Frank Crane, Free Demonstration Lesson and particulars of TOur easy payment plan.

I rin Interested in the following course:

Have You

Instr?

Name

Address

City...State.

[THE END]
