============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: October 1923
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "“ ‘I could not but follow" by The door
  2. "the stone dwelling on three sides" by To the
  3. "me up the path" by Her palm was soft and
  4. "hope, eagerness and triumph" by Twice she
  5. "lost hope" by At the door she stopped. She
  6. "then through another door" by Then she
  7. "pride, wisdom, nobility" by Who was this
  8. "“ ‘The girl left my side" by She ran to
  9. "the bed and knelt down" by First she
  10. "By A" by HAVDAL
  11. "few minutes’ conversation" by And on one
  12. "guess you would call it" by Certainly no
  13. "ments" by Though I never did know the
  14. "attention" by Had X been superstitious or
  15. "his accustomed haunts" by No longer did
  16. "Barton" by He fell into step beside me and
  17. "wanted to confide in me" by But I held my
  18. "ern sky. Red—red like blood" by And then
  19. "most forgotten them" by But suddenly
  20. "felt suddenly cold and afraid" by TMnking
  21. "—just like a hog trough" by One end of it
============================================================
============================================================
“ ‘I COULD NOT BUT FOLLOW
by The door
============================================================
the: unique magazine

Discovers NewWayToTeach Salesmanship i in 20 Weeks!

After fifteen years an amazing new

I of all profess By J. E. <


Make it *70 to

Your Job!

Pay You *200 a Week

S«ific»tedElectricai Expert

’ Free!

a shame for you to work for small pay when Trained “Electrical

TheCooke Trained Man is the “Big Pay "Man

Here’s An Extraordinary Novel Filled with Quick Action of An Unusual Sort

The Amazing Adventure of Joe Scranton


Then I thought of Angeline. Suppose that brute, who had possession of my body, should awaken and knoek Angeline over the head with a boot-.iack! Suppose he should swear at her!

Angeline had never heard me swear. Indeed, I had never spoken to her unkindly but once in my life, and that was when she had used my razor to chip dried beef. Then I told her, calmly but firmly—but no matter! I was sorry for it afterward, and bought a ribbon bow which I tied on the handle of the razor; then gave it to Angeline to keep purposely to chip dried beef with.

I bought a fine new razor for myself, which I kept under lock and key. But as I lay there in that horrible English cabin, with those two miserable women near me, I thought of Angeline, and wished I had left the new razor where she could find it in ease the other was lost or dulled.

I did not open my eyes. Tears from the eyes of the affectionate Liz made my borrowed face uncomfortably damp, but it was better than to open my eyes to a situation that would very likely be worse than anything I had yet experienced.

Oh, how I wished I had never astralwish that I had never seen Helen. If it had not been for her I meditated, I should not have been made to suffer as I was suffering now. What right had she to lead me into temptation! Angeline and I were as happy as turtle doves until she came between us.

I had never loved her, and never given her any opportunity to think I did, and none but an unwomanly woman, a very unwomanly woman, would accept such attentions as I had offered. I was sure that nothing would ever have induced Angeline to go sailing through the atmosphere with any astral but mine; but Helen was absolutely devoid of delicacy. It was so easy for unsuspecting men like me to be taken in by a designing

I formed many good resolutions as I lay there, but all were secondary to the wish that Liz would use a pocket handkerchief when she wept, or else stop kiss-

“Don’t take on like that,” said the doctor kindly. “I think he’ll be himself again in a little while. He is not sick. He has only been a little drunker than

“Indeed, indeed, sir,” said Liz, with pathetic earnestness, “he was not drunk this time. He never has these spells when he has plenty of money to buy

many a time, and I know these spells are different.”

The doctor smiled, and said something to the sister which I did not catch. It was evident that he was quite sure Jack was drunk, and I presume he would have been no less sure of it had I opened my eyes and given him a truthful account of what had happened.

“Liz puts me out of all patience,” said the sister. “How can she be fool enough to care for a man who treats her as Jack does? I’d have killed him long ago and fed him to the hogs.”

How I did wish that she, instead of Liz, had been Jack’s wife. In all probability she would never have allowed him to live long enough to become an astral.

“I really believe you would,” replied the doctor, with a little laugh of amusement. “Well, there does not seem to be much that can be done to arouse him, so I may as well go. I think he will come to himself before long. If he becomes

Send for him, indeed! What could he

When the doctor had left, the sister, whose name was Jane, persuaded Liz to go out with her and have a cup of tea, and I was alone.

I rose, immediately, and began to look for something decent to wear.. I had no idea as to where those women had gone for their tea, or how long they would be away; but of one thing I was very sure; I must get away from them just as quick as the Lord would let me, and I hated

matter how I looked. I felt that I would be a failure should I try to personate Jack, and there was no telling what might result should it be discovered that my nature was not what his had been.

It might work Liz up to a demonstration of affection that would induce me to kill her! I could not beat her over the head with a boot-jack, as I knew I should be expected to do, or swear at her, or drag her around the room by her little wisp of uncombed hair, or do any of the other things which Jane had enumerated as being among my favorite methods of diversion.

Had I known just how Liz would have regarded my conversion to a better life, I might not have felt so uneasy. But if I should be the means of leading her to renewed efforts in the art of weepingshould Bhe fall on my neck or hold my head on her bosom while she wept into my face, or let her tears drop steadily on my bald crown, or attempt any of the styles described in books that discuss such topics—Oh, heavens! the very thought lent speed to my movements. I had had more than enough of the damp Elizabeth.

I soon decided that 1 was wearing all the clothes I owned. And the women

tiously made my exit through a back window, and felt a bit of my trousers cling to a nail and separate from thegaring periods of my life, seen myself going through the streets of any town with a hole in my trousers that could not be invisible except when I was seated.

It was easy to get away from the house because the early morning was dimmed with heavy fog.

“What is the number of this house?” I asked of a man who was evidently going to work.

He told me, with a leer, and asked me where I got the money for drink, this

“I am not drunk,” I replied. “I am a stranger here. Can you tell me the name of the man who lives in that house?”

“Do you mean Jack Walsh?” he asked, then he called to a comrade.

“Come here, Bill! Jack is so drunk that he can’t tell what his name is.”

“It isn’t Jack,” said Bill, after studying me a few minutes. “Jack couldn’t be so civil spoken if ’twas to save him from being hung.”

The men finally decided that I was Jack’s brother, and I let it go at that.

I went out into the country and threw myself under a tree, where I hoped I should be free from intruders. I had decided to astralize myself again and endeavor to discover what was going on at home. I could think of no better way in which to spend my time waiting for my own body to be vacated.

All I would need to do would be to inhabit my borrowed body just enough to keep it alive, and finally leave it where I found it, so that, in case its rightful owner wished to claim it, he would have no excuse for troubling me further.


WITH what haste I sped me across ' ' the Atlantic! How my soul reway through the ether of its native land! Hope was at the helm. Who could guess what good thing was in store for me?

I might find my body vacated, and not so very stiff and cold! I might find my intolerable tenant ready to return to his own wife, just keeping my body warm until I came to claim it. Surely, I had suffered enough. I had a right to expect release—and especially when I asked so little of life—only the privilege of living in my own body—of taking possession, never again to leave it, until Death should come to claim me.


and assuming the attitude of a prize

To my intense joy food was brought without further parley. It consisted of a bowl of oatmeal porridge and a slice of black bread without butter. It did not look at all tempting, but I recollected that.Jack’s body was in need of nourishment, and was, in all probability, used to nothing better.

the broth as I would medicine, "what

dol”° " 01 * 111011 6 “ e 0811 ee

Liz made a rush for me when I asked Ihe question, and I backed against the wall and held the bread as if I would hurl it at her.

‘‘Keep off, Liz!” I shouted. “If your dripping face comes within five feet of mine, I’ll mash it flat.”

It was harsh language to use to a woman, and one of the most steadfast of her sex at that, but I was desperate.

“Let him alone, Liz,” said Jane. “If he is thinking of going to work, for pity’s sake don’t distract his mind.”

Then Jane turned to me.

“I know of several warehouses that need sweeping,” she said.

"Where?” I asked.

“I’ll get the work, you do it, and I’ll take in the cash.”

“Indeed! Why can’t I handle my own cash?”

“Yours! You have a number of debts to pay before anything could be yours by right. If you get one penny of it you’ll never pay me a cent for what I have done for you and Liz. ’ ’

I finally consented to Jane’s arrangement, greatly to her surprise, and spent that day in sweeping warehouses. I felt that I could not be under obligations to a woman for food, even though it was not my own body that I was trying to keep alive, and I had no idea where a man like Jack would find work. I could

do no better, until I became used to my strange surroundings, than to let Jane run me. She softened perceptibly, when she saw how faithfully I applied myself, and fed mo well. That was what I wanted.

I had decided to get Jack’s body in good working order. Then I would work my passage across the Atlantic—from there to Wisconsin. When I reached home, I would try to obtain possession of my body. Failing in that, I would have two strong, material hands with which to choke the life out of my body, rendering it useless to my enemy. Then I would cut Jack’s throat.

I might be committing a crime, but at least I could relieve Angeline of the presence of my enemy, and do no harm to Liz. I realized that punishment might follow, for I had no right to hasten my departure into the next world, but I believed that I could not be forever punished for my desperate attempt to right a

This Unusual Story Will Be Concluded, in the Next Issue of WEIRD TALES. Your Newsdealer Will Reserve a Copy for You

Aged Man Kills Wife, Self and “Other Woman”

run HE final chapter of a triangle love affair was written in Battle Creek, Mich., recently, when John H. Wills, 74, a wealthy retired business man murdered his wife, Ella, 68, and Mrs. Maggie M. Stewart, 53, and then committed suicide.

For several months, it was learned, Mrs. Wills had been trying to break up a love affair between her husband and Mrs. Stewart, having several times threatened divorce proceedings. The tragedy is ascribed to this.

Under the pretense of taking Mrs. Stewart for a ride.

Wills drove her to a remote spot six miles from the city, shot her in the head and then cut her throat with a razor. Upon returning home, he immediately shot his wife and then killed himself.

Bodies of Wills and his wife were found in their apartment by a newspaper reporter who broke down the door after hearing shots. Search for Mrs. Stewart’s body was started after a nephew of Wills’ had told police his uncle declared that she would be found beyond the city limits near an old bridge.

World Ice To Wipe Out Continents

BEAT changes will take place in the geographic structure of the world and many of the continents will be completely wiped out during the next world ice epoch, which is now somewhat overdue, according to the statement of Prof. Gregory of Yale university, American representative to the Pan-Pacific Science congress at Melbourne.

The last great expansion of ice occurred 20,000 years ago, and previously there were four or five similar advances from the poles, with warm periods intervening, said Prof. Gregory.

During the next advance, according to Prof. Gregory, all high lands will become glaciated, the map of the world will undergo changes, and the North American continent will disappear as far south as the great lakes. Scandinavia, Scotland, a part of England, and a large part of Asia and Siberia will be wiped out. Switzerland, owing to its high lands, will be entirely obliterated.

From the Antarctic ocean a large slice of South America, including most of Chile, will be overrun, and the southern portion of New Zealand will suffer.

Here's a Story of Creeping Horror

That Rises, Gradually, To a Powerful Climax

It’s a Story Not Easily Forgotten

The Phantom Farm House

By SEABURY QUINN

THE


behind the clearing an owl hooted mournfully, as if to say, “Beware, beware!” and the wind soughing through the black pine boughs echoed the reThree mounds, sunken and weedgrown, lay in the unkempt thicket behind the comerib. I paused beside them, throwing off my cap and adjusting my stole hastily. Thumbing the pages to the committal service, I held the book close, that I might see the print through the morning shadows, and commenced: “I know that my redeemer liveth..

Almost beside me, under the branches of the pines, there rose such a chorus of howls and yelps I nearly dropped my book. Like all the hounds in the kennels of hell, the sheep-killers clamored at me, rage and fear and mortal hatred in their cries. Through the bestial cadences, too, there seemed to run a human note; the sound of voices heard before beneath these very trees. Deep and throaty, and raging mad. two of the voices came to me, and, like the tremolo of a violin lightly played in an orchestra of brass, the shriller cry of a third beast sounded.

As the infernal hubbub rose at my back, I half turned to fly. Next instant I grasped my book more firmly and resumed my office, for like a beacon in the dark, Mildred’s words flashed on my memory: “Look back for nothing; heed no sound behind you.”

Strangely, too, the din approached no nearer; but as though held by an invisible bar, stayed at the boundary of the clearing.

“Man that is bom of a woman hath but a short time to live and is full of misery... deliver us from all our offenses... 0, Lord, deliver us not into the bitter pains of eternal death...” and to such an accompaniment, surely, as no priest ever before chanted the office, I pressed through the brief service to the final Amen.

Tiny grouts of moisture stood out on my forehead, my breath struggled in my throat as I gasped out the last word. My nerves were frayed to shreds and my strength nearly gone as I let fall my book, and turned upon the beasts among

begun, their clamor stopped, and only the rotting pine needles, lightly gilded by the morning sun, met my gaze. A light touch fell in the palm of my open hand, as if a pair of cool, sweet lips had laid a kiss there.

A vapor like swamp-fog enveloped me. The outbuildings, the old, stone-curbed well where I had drunk the night I first saw Mildred, the house itself—all seemed fading into mist and swirling away in the morning breeze.

“■pH, EH, EH; but M’sieur will do himself an injury, sleeping on the wet earth!” Old Geronte bent over me, his arm beneath my shoulders. Behind him, great Boris, the mastiff, stood wagging his tail, regarding me with doggish good humor.

“Pierre,” I muttered thickly, “how came you heret”

“This morning, going to my tasks, 1 saw M’siextr run down the road like a thing pursued. I followed quickly, for the woods hold terrors in the dark, M’sieur.”

I looked toward the farmhouse. Only a pair of chimneys, rising stark and bare from a crumbling foundation were there. Fence, well, barn—all were gone, and in their place a thicket of sumac and briars, tangled and overgrown as though undisturbed for thirty years.

“The house, Pierre! Where is the house?” I croaked, sinking my fingers into his withered arm.

“ ’ouset” he echoed. “Oh, but of course. There is no ’ouse here, M’sieur; nor has there been for years. This is an evil place, M’sieur; it is best we quit it, and that quickly. There be evil things that run by night—”

“No more,” I answered, staggering toward the road, leaning heavily on him. "I brought them peace, Pierre.”

He looked dubiously at the English prayer book I held. A Protestant clergyman is a thing of doubtful usefulness to the orthodox French-Canadian. Something of the heartsick misery in my face must have touched bis kind old heart, for at last he relented, shaking his head pityingly and patting my shoulder gently, as one would soothe a sorrowing child.

“Per’aps, M’sieur,” he conceded. “Per’aps; who shall say no? Love and sorrow are the purchase price of peace. Yes. Did not le bon Dieu so buy the peace of the world!”

Sight Without Eyes

AFRENCH scientist named Louis Farigonle says that ’ Y human beings have latent within them the power to see without eyes. This alleged power is termed paroptio vision.

After exhaustive experiments, Farigonle has written a book on the subject in which he states that man has a "paroptio sense” that is capable of communieating to the brain cognisance of the existence of surrounding objects practically identical with the effeot of ordinary vision. His claim is that any part of the bodily exterior may be capable of paroptic vision under certain conditions.

Other experimenters who have taken up the work claim

to have attained similar results. They state their belief that paroptic vision is a natural faculty and that light is the agent that produces paroptic vision. They also claim that variations in the intensity of light produce the same effects as they do in ordinary vision and that neither touoh nor any of the other senses has anything to do with paroptic

When the tests were made, precautions were taken which eliminated all possibility of any use of the eyes, yet the subjects were able to perceive and name objects with absolute precision.

Genoese Riviera Damaged by Waterspout

AGIGANTIC waterspout struck the Genoese Riviera a short time ago, injuring many people and doing untold damage. Sestri, Pegli, Gornigliano and Ban Pier d'Arena were the principal places affeoted. The storm, which lasted nearly an hour, unroofed the Ansaldo Pig Iron Works at Pegli and many persons were injured by falling tiles. The

damage to the Ansalado Depot at San Pier d’Arena was estimated at 100,000 lira and many victims of the storm were taken to hospitals. Electric power lines were torn down and bathing establishments and trees for a half mile along the coast were cut away. It is said that, at one point, a brick house was leveled to the ground.

H. P. LOVECRAFT, Master of Weird Fiction, Has Something Unusual To Say in

DAGON

This is the First of a Series of Remarkable Stories that H. P. LOVECRAFT is Writing for WEIRD TALES. The Second Will Appear in an Early Issue

The Hero of This Story Had a Beautiful Dream and a Rude Awakening


By FRANK OWEN


* * I live apart from the howling mobs, ’ ’ he told me, “so that my sleep will not bo disturbed. Each mom I am awakened by a lad as lovely as Narcissus who plays an anthem of the Sun on a harp wrought of gold and platinum and set with a hundred and thirty-three pink diamonds. At the top of the harp is a single square blue diamond of forty carats, the finest in the world. It represents the Morning Star. The strings of the harp are the rays of the sun. The pink diamonds represent the individual kingdoms over which I reign.”

As he spoke, we came to a hole in the ground, a filthy ancient cellar. I must confess that I had a twinge of terror as I followed John Rust down a flight of slippery stone steps, more treacherous and steep than the facade of Gibraltar.

Something, I know not what, scampered across my feet and went screeching off into the blackness which engulfed us like the shadows in a tomb of recentdeath. I could hear John Rust fumbling about, and after an eternity of waiting, he struck a match and lighted a candle. As he did so, he cried:

“Behold, my treasure-chamber 1”

By the dim light of the candle which made the silhouette of John Rust dance on the wall like the capering of a fiend, I glanced about me. The cellar was absolutely unfurnished, unless the cobwebs of a century can be classed as drapery. Down the stone steps the night rain

“Look!” fairly shrieked John Rust, "look at these diamonds, sapphires, carved jades, rare corals, tourmalenes, emeralds and gorgeous lapis lazuli 1 Has ever mortal man gazed on a finer collection than this! Here is more wealth than even Midas dreamed of. The Gaekwar of Baroda by comparison to me is without jewels; the Dalai Llama of Tibet is a pauper when the light of n\y wealth shines upon him. All the treasures of Rome are insignificant when held parallel to mine. The Incas of Peru owned less than I divide in a single year among the poor I”

He clutched at the bits of ashes, coal and pebbles which were falling through

his fingers, the wealth which the Gods had lavished on him so prodigiously.

“Tell me,” he cried hoarsely, “are your eyes not blinded by the brilliance of my stonesf”

“My surprise at what you tell me is acute,” I declared truthfully. “I can scarcely find words to express my thoughts.”

“Don't try,” said John Rust grandly. “The greatest rhetoricians the world has ever known have never invented words even to suggest their true magnificence..... Nor is this treasure all I possess. I own the world! Every castle of Rome or Venice is mine; every pasture of England, every moor of Scotland, every «ity in America, I own. Come,” he ended abruptly, “come with me, and I will show you my private bath, a pool such as Mark Antony or the mighty Caesar never dreamed of.”

It must be confessed that I sighed with relief as he led the way up the worn stone steps again. It was good to be out in the open air once more even though it was raining as heavily as when Noah set sail.

John Rust led the way back to Washington Square, to the fountain in the center of the park.

“This,” he explained, “is my bath, shaded by myrtle trees and palms and in the heart of a grove where ten thousand song birds sing. Among the seven wonders of the world is nothing to equal this. I am better than Monte Cristo, for whereas he only boasted when he exclaimed, ‘The world is mine!’ I can prove my claim to it”

T'vURING the days that followed, I met John Rust several times, and although I cannot say that he remembered me, he nevertheless talked to me, which was really all he desired. He believed that all the people in the great city were his slaves and this misconception was the direct cause of his undoing.

While his eccentricities flowed in a harmless channel he was unmolested, buf one day he struck one of his subjects with his sceptor. The sceptor was a strong oak cudgel and the subject in question was a huge, stalwart ice-man

who strenuously objected to being disciplined. He raised such a din that two policemen were necessary to quell his

After chaos had ended, the ice-man continued on his rounds, but John Rust was detained until the police-patrol arrived. He believed it was a chariot of gold, that the crowd gathered around had come to envy Caesar, and so he climbed in as majestically as though he were about to proceed to the Coliseum as the supreme guest of the populace on a fete day.

In the course of weeks a great brain specialist, because he was interested in the case, examined John Rust and asserted that he could be successfully normalized by a simple operation. He went on to explain about the pressure of a bone on some vital spot in the brain, the removal of which would insure the return of rationality.

The operation was successfully performed and eventually John Rust was turned out of the hospital a withered, broken old man, entirely cured.

He went back to his cellar. The first thing he intended doing was to sell his jewels and deposit the money in a reliable bank, for he still retained the memory of his jewels, although the hallucination that he owned the world was entirely blotted out of his memory.

So he returned to his cellar only to find heaps of worthless stones and ashes. He shrieked in his anguish. He had been robbed of all his jewels! For a moment it seemed doubtful that his new-found sanity could stand the surging flood of his ravings. All his enormous wealth had vanished like the essence of a dream. Now life contained nothing for him. He had neither relatives nor friends. He had lived in his dungeon for more than ten years. No one knew from whence he had come. For hours he sat, perhaps

awfully as any woman for a lost child.

Months later they found him dead one morning in his cellar, lying face downward in the ashes. He had died of grief, in abject poverty, this man who once had owned the world and had ten million

A Tragic Story, Powerfully Told


By CHARLES HORN

TIMES there were in her married life when Meta Hansen asked for death. Not many times, true, but each one stood out terrifically, even after she believed she had made herself

Worst of all of these were the days following the death of her firstborn, a boy, and the days following the death of her lastbom, a girl. After these were the times when David, her husband, had found her pets, the two white rats, where she had hidden them in the shed back of the house. David had held her off and watched coldly while the fat grey cat caught the rats, one after the other. (The cat was the property of a neighbor.)

Last of all of her petitions for death came, it seemed, when David tipped into the yard the two geranium plants that for a day had decked the side window of the little living room. David crushed the red blossoms under his heeL

“Foolishness! Soft foolishness!” he growled, both when disposing of the white rats and the red flowers. “A woman ain’t got no time for them things. A woman has her work to do. ”

The most terrific death, then, Meta would have kissed as it came to her.

All these occurrences, came to pass in the first five years of her married life, and looking back frequently—but more infrequently—she had asked questions. Had these times taken something out of her! Had they deadened her passionate longing for love? Had these cruelties—twice at the hands of her husband and twice at tho hands of her Godmade her reconciled to life!

She believed they had. For more than fifteen years she had taught herself that she must bend every nerve of her body, every thought of her consciousness, every impulse of her hours, to David, and as he willed. His actions had taught her that she must not be soft; that she must

not disturb him with caresses; that she must not interrupt his hours with chatter; that she must not have impulses of affection, except, as he willed and at his command. Her life became a series of “must nols.”

Months after the death of her last child, with her eyes on a yellow-haired, lnBty, three-year-old boy, Meta timidly

aching, her bosoms lifting and pulling with the great yearning each time she saw the child. Her mother-heart, starved for love, hungered for him. He would bring the great completeness to her hours. And they could get this child. Tentatively she had arranged this. Timidly she carried the questiou to David.

“Talk not to me of other people’s brats!” he roared. “Why should we take things that ain’t for us?”

Then, after a long silence, and just as her lips trembled on the edge of another

The Final Installment of

The People of the Comet

By AUSTIN HALL

CHAPTER SEVER “ ' T DREW up in front of the dwelling, ^ and 88 X came to a stop the maiden, without a bit of hesitation, ran out to meet me, running alongside the ether ship until she came to the porthole where she could look in at me.

“ ‘Never had i seen any one so beautiful

“ ‘She had a lack of fear that came from innocence. She was as golden haired as a fairy, and of a grace that far outdid that of any maiden I had ever known upon the Earth. Her features were perfect; her lips red as the juice of berries; and her form sylphlike. Her dress was even stranger than her beauty —a tunic of feathers thrown over her right shoulder, leaving her left brCast bare, but covering her waist, and reaching down to her knees. Her feet were sandaled.

had no proof that I could live in it I could see all kinds of organic life, to be sure, but it was not such as I had known upon the Earth. I would first make a test of the cometary atmosphere; so X pressed a lever and ran a glass container ont through one of the small doors.

“ ‘The girl seemed to understand. When she saw what I had done she reached down and picked up a kitten-like creature that was running about her feet, and placed it in the container. Then she

“ ‘Thus I tested the atmosphere of the comet. I drew in the glass and examined the kitten, or what I call such, for it had really the legs of a rabbit If the creature should suffer at all in the ether car —that is, in my own atmosphere — 1 would know that X could not venture outside.

“ ‘The girl watched through the port-

“ ‘It was a strange moment for the both of us.

“ ‘ Here was I, an adventurer from the planet Earth, on a visit to a comet; What a maiden was this! She was the most beautiful I had ever looked at; her eyes blue, large, innocent, and full of eagerness. Her whole expression was that of hope, wonder, impatience. She held one hand above the port-hole and peered within, and when she saw me she began beckoning. There was a strange look in her eyes that I could not fathom.

“ ‘For a minute I remained in my seat, admiring her beauty. I could not hear her, of course; but I could watch her impatience. She was as natural as a child and as splendid as a goddess. When I did not move she clenched her tiny fist and pounded on the port-hole.

“ ‘She pointed toward the dwelling. Her eyes were wide, pleading. When I did not answer she broke into a little spasm of anger and beat her fist against the side as if she would break her way through the ether ship.

“ ‘What could be the meaning of such a reception as this? Who could she bet

“ ‘I had to be careful. Even if there were an atmosphere upon the nucleus I

“ ‘I placed the little creature upon the floor. At first it was timid. But after a bit it began scampering about in perfect comfort. If the kitten could live in my

not venture outside. The girl seemed to anticipate my intention. She ran to the

" ‘ When I stepped out of the ether car I was a bit unsteady. I had been many hours without sleep; and I had been forced, throughout the whole journey, to maintain myself in a more or less cramped position. The air outside was fresh and balmy, sweet like the morning. There was no sky such as we know upon the Earth, and no sunlight The air was full of a red glow that came from the coma above us. The gravitation was vertical as it is upon the Earth; and I did not notice that I felt a bit stronger or lighter than I had felt in Sansar. This, I learned, afterward, was because of the extreme magnetic pitch of the nucleus. The horizon, where the whirling rim shot up its wreaths, was the blaze of glorious crimson. The grass under my feet was soft, like clover. The air was good to breathe.

“‘The girl ran up tome. In the clear view of the open light she was even more beautiful. Her arms were bare, finely moulded. She was devoid of all fear, or

immodesty; her eyes were like a child’s. Like a child she seized me by the arm and began speaking.

“ ‘I marvelled at her voice, at its softness, and at its wistfulness; but I could not understand. The words she spoke had no meaning to me. I could only read her gestures, and look into her wonderful eyes Clearly something was wrong. She clung to my arm, and by impassioned pantomime let me know that it was in the dwelling. Her interest was not in the ether ship; nor in its contents.

“ ‘I could not but follow. The door yard was carpeted with verdure, and spangled with flowers; trees surrounded the stone dwelling on three sides. To the left ran the little river.

“ ‘She took my hand in hers and led me up the path. Her palm was soft and magnetic; I could sense her thrill of hope, eagerness and triumph. Twice she looked up at me and stniled—a look of childish possession and pride, as if I had come just in time to fulfill a long lost hope. At the door she stopped. She held her finger to her lips, and entered—

“ ‘In a minute she returned. She took my hand again, and led me across the threshold, through an ante-room, and then through another door. Then she stopped. She pointed to a figure reclining upon a couch on the opposite side of the room.

“ ‘It was the form of a man, one of the most remarkable men I bad ever seen, a man very aged, and venerable, a giant of a man. He was asleep, or (the thought startled) perhaps dying! He was propped up in pillows; his arms were crossed on the coverlet before him. His beard and hair were of snowy whiteness; and his face, even with the eyes closed, was the noblest that I had ever

sensed at once that here was virtue, pride, wisdom, nobility. Who was this strange man, and who was the maiden? What had brought them here 1

“ ‘The girl left my side. She ran to the bed and knelt down. First she picked up one of the worn hands and kissed it; then she raised up and pressed her lips to those of the sleeper. She spoke a few words.

An Odd Little Tale That You Can Read in Five Minutes


By A. HAVDAL

to!*

“ Creepy” Story Told in a Quaint Way; Arthur Edwards Chapman


Stark Terror is the Keynote of This Strange Tale


very often in the evening the doctor would drop in for a quiet smoke and a few minutes’ conversation. And on one or two occasions X have known of his actually deserting a learned company of savants, to come to my cottage and conNaturally, X believe that Doctor Carrol thought a great deal of me; and I would have died for him.

I think Ms eyes were the moat noticeable thing about him. Strange, magnetic eyes they were; which, when one once looked into them, seemed to possess the property of holding Ms gaze until the doctor choso to look away. Hypnotic, I guess you would call it. Certainly no man could ever forget the eyes of Doctor CarroL

And because I could never forget the eyes of my master, a group of analysts judged me insane! Bah! They do not know what I know—and probably never

win.

From time to time, the learned doctor had been engaged in scientific experiments. Though I never did know the complete details of those experiments, I did know that the doctor held an enviable place in the world of science, and that he was the author of several books wMch had caused sensational stirs among his fellow scientists. In fact, X was at all times impressed with the depth of the doctor’s learning.

And I never ceased to marvel at the tMngs he sometimes showed me in his laboratory. Horrible, grotesque, and sometimes seemingly supernatural were the things which he brought before my attention. Had X been superstitious or of weak heart, I know that I would long ago have died of the horrors wMch he showed me.

But the calm, precise doctor often complimented me by saying that I was able to see such tMngs in the calm, dispassionate light with wMch all scientists must view their experiments. Thus encouraged, I continued my infrequent visits to the laboratory and endeavored to manifest an enthusiasm for the horrible and eerie things wMch he showed me; though often, after seeing some of Ms terrible creations, I would return to my hut, and lie awake all night long, too shaken by the sights I had witnessed to

The result of the doctor’s last experiment, however, made such a deep impression upon me that for three months after, I was confined to the violent ward of the state hospital, with the attendants despairing of ever restoring my sanity.

I T WAS in the latter part of May that I first began to miss the doctor from his accustomed haunts. No longer did he come down to my cottage in the evening for a quiet smoke and a few minutes’ chat. From Mr. Barton, the doctor’s son-in-law, I learned that he was spending most of Ms time in the concrete laboratory; appearing at the house only for Ms meals and to snatch a few hours

“It is sometMng big he is working on aid Mr. Barton. “He won’t

■ of in

le laborat. When he does a;

Barton saw it about the same time I did; and X noticed that he shuddered. Then, as though desiring to lose sight of the crimson pool, he quickened Ms pace.

"Blood!” he muttered as though to himself. “Fresh blood every day, a‘

let ai

at the house, it is only to eat, or to doze for a moment, men ne os all haste to get back to the laboratory. And he is so nervous and excited; I swear that I have never seen him so enthusiastic over an experiment: We’ll see a lot of excitement around here when he finally throws open the door of the laboratory and invites his friends out to see what he has done.”

Remembering some of the tMngs I had seen within the grim walls of the laboratory, I could not restrain a shudder. But as days passed, X found that a certain morbid curiosity seemed to be continually drawing me toward the laboratory, in the hope that I might gain an inkling as to what was going on behind those closely-barred windows.

That it was sometMng to strike fear to the heart of mortal man, I well knew —yet I could not keep away from the place. Then the doctor disappeared entirely, and I learned that he was having Ms meals sent out to him, and was spending both days and nights within the walls of the laboratory.

About a month after the doctor had shut Mmself up in the concrete laboratory I had been working on the far side of the estate, and at sunset, as I turned my stepB toward my cottage, I met Mr. Barton. He fell into step beside me and walked to my door. I knew at once that the young man was deeply worried about something, and though he spoke no word as we walked along, I knew that he wanted to confide in me. But I held my

At last we left the shadowy woods and came out upon the concrete driveway wMch led to the house and the laboratory. For a time, we walked along, the

on the gravel, which a recent rain had washed down. I was vainly trying to arrive at some conclusion as to what had so disturbed my young companion, when, suddenly, I stopped and stared in horgleaming in rite setting sun, lay a large pool of fresh blood I

“What’s that, sir!” I asked respectfully.

He stopped suddenly and seized my sleeve.

“Greening,” he said nervously, “this thing is getting on my nerves, and I’ve simply got to have someone to talk to. You saw that pool of blood back there; but do you know what it means!”

I admitted that I did not.

“I only wish I did,” he said. “I do know that day after day the doctor has

_, only a quart;

gallon. Today—” here, he towerea ms voice— 1 ‘ today, it was ten gallons I”

“It probably has something to do with his experiments,” I said with attempted lightness. “I have known of him having stranger things than blood in that old laboratory.”

“What kind of an experiment can he be conducting which requires ten gallons of blood every day! ’ ’ demanded Mr. Barton. “I tell you, man, I’m afraid. I have a feeling that something is going to happen! SometMng terrible 1 ’ ’

At last he left me, still muttering that something terrible was about to happen. For a long time after he had gone, I sat alone on the veranda of my cottage, watcMng the bright red glow of the western sky. Red—red like blood. And then I shuddered—why, I know not.

I do not think I had been influenced by Mr. Barton’s fears—indeed, I had almost forgotten them. But suddenly there had come over me an overwhelming premonition of impending disaster. Though the night was hot and sultry, I felt suddenly cold and afraid. TMnking to lose this feeling of depression, I rose and entered the house. Inside, with the lights switched on, things began to assume a more cheerful aspect. Indeed, I managed to laugh at my fears, wMch seemed so groundless.

Would to God that I had heeded them!

TLAST, as the clock struck twelve.

A *, 1

ctinguisMng the light, I stepped out onto the veranda, and looked up the driveway toward the laboratory. The night was hot and sultry, with promise of rain before the morrow. Light, scudding clouds raced across the sky, at times entirely obscuring the moon. I no-

“X know what he has been doing with it,” he whispered. “One day, the man from the abattoir did not eome, and I had to drive in and bring it out. The doctor took the can inside the laboratory, and dumped the blood into a long trough —just like a hog trough. One end of it stuck out through a partition which the doctor had built across the laboratory. And as the blood ran down the trough, I heard a movement behind the partition, like some animal rushing to its feed.”

“What sort of an animal J” I asked.

“What sort?” he echoed. “What sort of an animal do you expect to drink ten gallons of blood every day t ’ ’

And then a sudden thought struck me. “It couldn’t have been that animal which committed this crime, whatever it was,” I said. “At the time I heard the scream I was standing just outside the window of the laboratory. The doctor was awake when I first saw him, and therefore it would have been impossible for the beast to have escaped. As I stood there, the doctor went to sleep—but I was just outside the window, the only open one in the building, and would have seen anything which came out.”

“Then who—or what did do it!” demanded Burrows.

“I don’t know—but we are going to find out, if possible,” I replied. “Get a gun, if you can find one, and join me outside. We will go, first, to the laboratory, to inform the doctor. Then we will search the grounds thoroughly.”

Outside, the storm had increased in fury, and we had great difficulty in making our way through the driving rain to the laboratory. The brilliant flares of lightning intermittently revealed our surroundings as light as day, and the next instant we were plunged into darkness so deep that often we stumbled and fell. It seemed that all the elements of nature were against us, yet we persisted in our attempt to reach the doctor.

At last we succeeded in reaching the grim walls of the laboratory. Burrows raised the butt of his rifle and pounded loudly upon the steel door; then we waited impatiently for the doctor to open it. There was no response.

Again we beat upon the door, and, while Burrows waited, I made my way around the building to where I had seen the open shutter. A sudden clutch of dread seized my heart as I saw that it was closed. Of comae, it would have been perfectly natural for the doctor to have closed it against- the rain—but still I shuddered. Wondering and fearful, I made my way back to the door, where Burrows waited.


“He doesn’t answer!” he shouted to me above the tumult of the storm.

Vainly did I try to reason with myself that nothing could have happened to the doctor, safe as he was behind those walls of solid concrete. A growing fear came over me that behind the unyielding steel door we would find another tragedy. And I was unable to throw the feeling off, even though I reasoned that the doctor had been sleeping when last I saw him, and that perhaps his sheer exhaustion or the fury of the storm made it impossible for him to hear our efforts to get in. At last I yielded to my fears and suggested that we break down the

"Do you think—” began Burrows chatteringly.

“I don’t know,” I replied. “But we are going to find out. I believe that it will be possible for us to remove the door from its hinges.”

“Oh, why didn’t I return to the city tonight!” moaned Burrows. “Blood— blood and murder. First, the doctor’s daughter and her husband—now the doetori”

“Shut up and bring some tools,” I commanded gruffly. “I believe we will find the doctor perfectly well; but we must get to work.”

Reluctantly, he went to the garage for tools, and we fell to work on the massive steel door. How long we labored I have no means of knowing, for we lost all account of the time in our frenzied efforts to reach our master.

At last we succeeded in driving out the last pin. A strong pull on the crowbar, and the immense steel door crashed to the ground, where the rain beat upon it relentlessly. There remained a wooden door which we must also force if we were to gain entrance to the doctor’s workroom. This yielded quickly to our efforts, and then we paused, suddenly stricken with an unknown fear. For the place was in absolute darkness—like that of a tomb!

“Doctor Carrol!” I called nervously.

An empty, mocking echo from the vault was my only response. And then suddenly I knew that we would never find the doctor alive—that, for the second time that evening, I stood in the presence of a horrible and mysterious death.

Death—and something else! Some subtle intuition told me that in this vault of the dead was a living, breathing

“For God’s sake, get a flashlight!” I said huskily, as I took a firmer grip on my shotgun.

Burrows hastened away, to return a moment later with the desired article.


Not without some misgivings, I stepped inside the building, directed the lamp toward the chair where I had last seen the doctor, and pressed the button.

I think I must have screamed at what I saw. There, by the window, his throat jaggedly tom from ear to ear, sat the lifeless body of the doctor. I had no doubt that the doctor had been attacked while he slept, and that the same beast which had killed his daughter and her husband had also slain the doctor. One peculiar thing impressed itself upon me; and that was the complete absence of blood. Nowhere about the doctor was there a drop to be seen, and this, in spite of the fact that his throat had been ripped and torn in a most fiendish manThen I saw how it happened that the building was in total darkness. In death, the doctor’s head had been thrown back against the wall, and, coming into contact with the switch, had broken the eurWarning Burrows to keep a close watch, I took a firmer grip on my shotgun and entered the room. Tremblingly, I strode over to the lifeless body of the doctor, lifted his head, and switched on the lights. No sooner had they flashed on than I heard a horrible, terrorstricken scream from the doorway. Burrows had disappeared!

■With a sudden clutch of dread upon my heart, I slowly wheeled about, reluctant to gaze upon the sight which must have driven Burrows screaming from the doorway. The thing I saw was even more hideous than my wildest imaginings had made it.

There, not ten feet distant from me, I beheld the most horrible creature ever seen upon this earth! Measuring fully six feet from head to tail, and possessing a head as large as my own, this creature suddenly raised itself upon its long, slender legs.

And then I realized for the first time what it was. In spite of its monstrous size, I quickly recognized it as a spider —a gigantic, horrible, grotesque spider!

TPRAY that, never again may I be A brought face to face with such a hideous parody on nature. How long I stood, staring in fascinated horror at this terrible monstrosity, I do not know. The body and the legs of the creature were literally saturated in fresh, smelly blood -the blood of Mr. Barton and his wife. With a shudder, i realized how closely I had escaped tile fate which had overtaken the other two, and, last of all, the doctor. With a sudden rage against this blood-spattered murderer, I raised my

An Uncanny Yarn About Devil Worshipers


A Complete Novelette

By E. B. JORDAN

DEVIL

The Case of the Golden Lily

Beginning a Series of Remarkable Articles

□ WEIRD CRIMES □

No, 1—Bluebeard

Compiled from Transcripts of the Judicial Records of the Ancient Duchy of Brittany

NOT long ago the world was startled by the revelations of the trial of Henri Landru, accused of murdering ten women and an eighteen-year-old boy. ‘ ‘ Bluebeard ’ ’ the newspapers dubbed him, comparing him to the most grisly character in all the

How few of those who echoed the news writer’s epithet realized that Landru, who later expiated his crimes upon the guillotine at Versailles, and even the “Bluebeard” whose story still frightens fretful children to stillness, were but amateurs in crime compared to the man who first bore the name; the man whose trial and conviction rocked Mediaeval Prance to its foundations, and whose criminal exploits surpass the wildest flights of imaginative fiction 1 Never in the stories of Poe, of Gautier, of de Maupassant—not even Bram Stoker’s Count Dracula—has a character more depraved, more terrible, more fascinating, been portrayed than Gilles de Laval, Sire de Retz, Marshal of Prance, chamberlain to the French king and cousin to the mighty Duke of Brittany.

“The most monstrously depraved imagination,” says a French criminologist, "never could have conceived what this trial reveals. This memorable trial presents horrors unsurpassed in the entire volume of the world’s history.”

During the year 1440 terrible rumors spread through Brittany, especially through the ancient pays de Retz, which extends along the Loire from Nantes to Paimboeuf.

In hundreds of peasant cottages mothers wept for children they would see no more, and at the village inns, when the laborers repaired from their fields to drink an evening cup of wine, whispered curses, mingled with sighs apd exclamations of grief, were heard. And always, when the peasants muttered their sullen complaints to each other, the name of the Sire de Retz was whispered.

By SEABURY QUINN

In that day the great feudal lords owned the common people almost as absolutely as they owned the land itself, and the Sire de Retz’s chateau was strong, his men at arms were many. What could a handful of wooden-shod peasants, armed only with scythes and flails, avail against the King’s favorite?

But one last hope remained to the peasantry. Though the chivalry of Prance was a mighty institution, the Church of Rome was mightier. No noble, be his sword ever so long or his arrogance so great, dared lay hand upon the humblest village priest; and to their spiritual advisers the peasants betook themselves when their pleas to the civil authorities fell on deaf ears.

Word was borne to Jean de Chateaugiron, Bishop of Nantes, that oppression lay heavy upon his people in Brittany, and, like the energetie prince of the church he was, the bishop despatched his agents to investigate the reports.

Gilles de Laval, the investigators found, had suddenly quit a most promising career at court to immure himself in his country seat at Machecoul, a gloomy chateau, composed of huge towers and surrounded by deep moats. Also, since hiq residence in the country, he had deeded vast tracts of land to John V. Duke of Brittany, in order, it was whispered, to prevent that nobleman’s

While the marshal kept closely to his house most of the time, he was wont to make occasional trips to nearby towns, always accompanied by a princely retinue. He spent money with a lavish hand, enriching inn-keepers and tradesmen beyond their wildest dreams, and distributing vast sums of gold to the

It might have been supposed that the townspeople would have welcomed, his coming as a visitation from the good Saint Nicholas himself. Tet, the bishop’s agents found, whenever the marshal left

a town, the cries of the poor, which had been restrained while the dank of his men at arms sounded in the streets, broke forth. Tears flowed, curses were uttered; a long-continued wail went up to heaven. Mothers had lost their children, babes had been snatched from the cradle, infants had been spirited almost from their mothers’ breasts; and it was known by sad experience that the vanished little ones would never be seen

De Retz’s castle at Machecoul was always in condition to resist siege. The drawbridge was raised, the portcullis down, the gates closed, the retainers constantly under arms. No one, except the marshal 's own servants, the investigators heard, had even been known to go through the chateau’s mysterious gates and come forth alive.

In the surrounding country strange tales of horror and deviltry circulated in hushed whisper's. Yet it was observed that the chapel of the castle was gorgeously decked with silk and cloth of gold and the sacred vessels were encrusted with gems. The excessive devotion of the marshal was also noted. He was said to be passionately fond of ecclesiastical music and to hear mass three times daily.

But when dusk settled over the forest, and one by one the castle windows became illuminated, peasants would point to one casement, high up in an isolated tower from which a clear light streamed through the gloom. They told of a fierce red glare which came from that window at times, and of agonized cries—children’s cries—ringing from it; cries which had no answer but the howl of the wolf as he rose to quest and kill his prey by night.

/■'yNCE or twice a week the drawbridge

’ was lowered and the servants of de Retz stood at the gateway distributing clothes, money and food to the beggars who crowded round. It often happened


fiat children were among those beggars; the servants wonld offer them rare dainties if they would go to the kitchen for them. Those little tots who accepted the offers were never seen again.

Charges had been laid before the duke of Brittany, accusing the marshal as a wholesale murderer of children. The duke had treated the accusations and the accusers alike with scorn.

When this report was laid before the bishop, he summoned Pierre de l’Hospital, grand-seneschal of Brittany, for a conference. Together they demanded that the duke order the arrest of the marshal on a charge of murder, threatening action by the church if he refused. Reluctantly the duke had Pierre de l’Hospital proceed with the prosecution. Action followed immediately. A sergent d*armes was given a warrant authorizing him to take “the very mighty, very powerful Sire de Betz and his accomplices” into custody.

Jean Labbe, the sergeant, was a man worthy of the master he served. Though warned that resistance would likely be encountered at the chateau, he selected a posse of twenty chosen men and marched to the castle gate, calling lustily upon the Sire de Retz to surrender.

“Who calls?” demanded the marshal, from behind the portcullis.

“LabbS,” replied the sergeant drawing his sword.

The marshal turned pale, crossed himself and ordered the drawbridge lowered, saying, “It is impossible to resist fate”

Tears before an astrologer had warned him he would one day fall into the hands of an abbf. Until the moment the sergeant demanded his surrender, the marshal had supposed the prophecy meant he would one day become a monk.

Accompanied by two of his retainers who had been his inseparable companions, Henriet and Pontou by name, the marshal crossed the drawbridge and handed his sword to Jean LabbS.

Closely guarded by the sergeant’s posse, the accused men made their way to Nantes, where Pierre de 1’Hospital waited to dispense stem and even-handed justice.

It was well for the Sire de Retz that LabM had brought his score of dauntless peace officers with him. When word passed among the villagers that the redoubted GiUes de Laval was riding toward Nantes, surrounded by a bodyguard of agents d’armes, peasants left their fields, women their kitchens, and laborers dropped their tools to throng the streets.

“ ’Way!” cried Jean Labbfi, “give way to the servants of my Lord Bishop!”


A sullen murmur from the crowd anSuddenly a woman’s shrill scream rent the noonday calm.

"My child!” she shrieked. “Accursed of God, restore my child!”

Then a wild, wrathful howl broke from the crowd, rang along the Nantes road, and died away only when the great gates of the Chateau de Bouffay clanged shut behind the prisoner.

c-pHE whole population of Nantes was in a turmoil. It was whispered the investigation would be a farce. The duke would surely screen his kinsman. The Sire de Retz would be forced to surrender some more of his land, perhaps; after that he would be released. Justice weighed heavily only on the poor.

shield the accused. Jean de Toucheronde, whose office it was to collect evidence against the prisoners was approached by the duke and told that it would be pleasing to that great nobleman if the evidence was so colored as to render the charge on which de Retz would be tried less than capital.

But the duke reckoned without the Bishop of Nantes and Pierre de l’Hospital, grand-seneschal of Brittany. These fearless exponents of justice summoned de Toucheronde before them.

“Monsieur,” said de l’Hospital, fixing his penetrating black eyes on the lawyer, “your duty lies plain before you. See to it that it be well performed.”

The bishop fingered the jeweled cross suspended from his neck by its golden

“You have taken an oath to do equal justice to rich and poor, Monsieur,” he reminded de Toucheronde. “Excommunication may be the penalty for oathCriminal procedure then in vogue in France differed from that of England in that the accused was not permitted to confront his accusers face to face at the trial. Evidence for the prosecution was taken before a commissioner, especially nominated for that purpose, then reduced to writing. The transcript of this testimony was then transmitted to the trial justice, who summoned the accused before him, read a brief summary of the offense of which he was charged, and proceeded to examine him.

No opportunity was afforded the prisoner for cross-examination of the prosecution’s witnesses, nor was he informed of the nature of their testimony. It remained for the, judge to piece together the stories of the prosecution and defense, deciding for himself whether the prisoner had adequately refuted the

vantage lacked by the common law system: the accused was unable to invent false testimony with which to meet unexpected statements made by the proseThe investigation opened on the morning of September 18, 1440. The witnesses were introduced into the hall of justice singly, or in groups if they were relations. On entering the room, each witness knelt before the commissioner, kissed the crucifix, and swore with his hand on the Gospels that he would speak the truth and nothing but the truth. After this he related all the facts in his knowledge pertaining to the case, without being either interrogated or interThe first to present herself was Perrine Loessard, living at la RocheBernard. Tears, streaming down her face, she related how, two years before, in the month of September, the Sire de Retz, with all his retinue, passed through la Roehe-Bemard. She lived opposite the house where the nobleman stopped. Her child, a lad of ten, the finest in the village, had attracted the attention of de Retz as he stood at a window, leaning on his squire’s shoulder.

Pontou, de Retz’s servant, spoke to the boy, asking him what he intended to

“A soldier,” the lad replied.

“Very well,” Pontou answered, “come with me, and I will give you a

Deposition followed deposition, always to the same effect. Parents had left their houses, sometimes only for a few moments; when they returned their children were gone. An old beggar woman, once subsisting on the peasant’s alms, had been observed going toward the castle at evening many times, accompanied by children. She invariably returned alone. In a few months, from some unknown source, she had amassed a competence, moved from the neighborhood, and was seen no more.

Thirty children had disappeared from a single village within a year.

And the victims were always boys. No girl child had been molested.

So frequent had the kidnappings become that parents dared not send children to tend sheep or goats, or carry food to their fathers or brothers working in the fields.

This is the First of.a Series of Articles Written for WEIRD TALES by Seabury H^uinn. The Second Will Appear in the November Issue

Weird Snake Dance of Hopis May Be Tabooed

A Fantastic Tale by the Author of “The Snake Fiend”


By FARNSWORTH WRIGHT

70 AN ADVENTURE OP THE FOURTH DIMENSION

“Interesting, if true,” I remarked. “And what might Jupiterians bet”

“They might be men, but they’re not,” he snapped. “They are people from the planet Jupiter. Out of your ignorance you though they might be Martians or Venusians, but you are wrong, for Mars and Venus have people of three dimensions, like ourselves. Jupiterians are entirely different There are six hundred thousand of them in this Jupiterian airship.”

I was so overjoyed at finding someone who could tell me about them, that I didn’t think to ask him how he knew all these startling facts.

‘ ‘ "Where is the airship you speak oft” I asked.

“There it is,” he answered, rather grandiloquently, and pointed to an empty spot on the grass.

I looked carefully, and made out a vast, transparent globe, apparently of glass, which was rapidly becoming visible because of the Chicago dust that was settling npon it I approached, and touched it with my hand. It gave forth a metallic ring.

“Aha,” laughed the professor. “You thought it was glass, but it is made of Jupiterian steel. Look out 1 ’ ’

I sprang back at his warning, and the last hundred thousand leapt out of the globe, passing right through the transparent metal of which it was composed.

“Nom de mademoiselle!” I exclaimed, in astonishment. This was a swear word I had learned in Prance when I was in the army.

“Nom de mademoiselle!” I repeated, for I liked to show off my knowledge of the language. “How can they pass through the glass without breaking it!”

“Through the Jupiterian steel, you mean,” said Professor Nutt, severely. “I told you before that it is not glass. Jupiterian steel has four dimensions, and they pass through the fourth dimension. That is why you can’t see the metal, for your eyes are only three-dimensional.”

“Are the Jupiterian people four-dimensional!” I asked, awed.

“Certainly,” said Nutt, rather irritably.

“Then how is it that I can see them)” I exclaimed triumphantly.

“You see only three of their four dimensions,” he replied. “The other one

I turned to look again at the Jupiterians, who now covered the whole waterfront. One of them sprang lightly, fifty feet into the air, extended a hundred ears like tentacles, and seized an English sparrow. He crushed the sparrow with some score or more of his teeth, which.

as I have said, covered hia whole body. In less than a minute the poor bird was chewed to pieces. I looked closer, and saw that the Jupiterian had no mouth.

“Nom de mademoiselle!” I exclaimed, for the third time. ‘ ‘ How can it get the bird into its stomach!”

“Through the fourth dimension,” said Professor Nutt.

It was true. The chewed-up pieces of the bird were suddenly tossed into the air, and the Jupiterian sprang lightly after them. In mid-air he turned inside out, caught the pieces of the bird in his stomach, and lit on the grass again right side up with care.

“Did yon see that!” I exclaimed, in a hushed voice. “Why can’t I turn inside

“Because you are not four-dimensional,” replied the professor, a trace of annoyance in his voice. “It is a beautiful thing to have four dimensions,” he rhapsodized. “Your Jupiterian is your only true intellectual, for he alone can truly reflect. He turns his gaze in upon

“And sees what he had for breakfast!” I gasped. “And what his neighbors had, too!”

“Your questions are childish,” said the professor; wearily. “A Jupiterian, of course, can look into the soul of things, and see what his neighbors had for breakfast, as you so vulgarly express it. But Jupiterians turn their thoughts to higher things.”

The creatures now surrounded me, their ears turned inwards, as if they were supplicating.

“What do they want!” I asked the professor.

“They want something to drink,” he replied. “They are pointing their ears toward their stomachs to show that they are thirsty.”

“Oh,” I said, and pointed toward the lake. “There is the fresh, cool water of the lake, if they are thirsty.”

“Don’t be fantastic,” said Professor Nutt. “It isn’t water they want.”

He fixed his stem, pitiless gaze on my hip pocket. I turned pale, for it was my last pint. But I had to submit. If you have ever hod Professor Nutt’s cold, accusing eyes on you, you will know just how I felt

I drew the flask from my pocket, and handed it to the chief Jupiterian, who waggled his ears in joy. Immediately there was pandemonium, if you know what I mean. Ten thousand times ten thousand ears seized the cork, and pulled it out with a resounding pop. One thirsty Jupiterian passed right through the glass into the bottle in his eagerness

to get at the contents, and nearly drowned for his pains.

“You see how useful it is to be fourdimensional,” remarked the professor. “You could get into any cellar in the world by merely passing through the walls. And into any heer-keg in the same

“But,” I argued, “how did this—this insect get through the glass into the whisky bottle! Glass has only three dimensions, like everything else in this

“Don’t call him an insect!” Nutt sharply reprimanded me. “He is a Jupiterian, and as such he is infinitely superior to you and me. He passed through the glass because he is four-dimensional, even though the glass isn’t. If you had four dimensions, you could untie any knot by merely passing it through itself. You could turn inside out, or pass through yourself until your right hand became your left hand, and change into your own image as you see it in the looking-glass.”

“Nom de mademoiselle!” I exclaimed, for the fourth time.

A distant noise of barking was borne to my ears by the breeze. All the dogs in the city seemed to have gone wild.

“They are disturbed by the talking of the Jupiterians,” explained the professor. “It is too high-pitched for clodhopper human ears to hear, unless they have an unusual range, but the dogs can hear it plainly.”

I listened, and finally made out a very shrill humming, higher than any sound I had ever heard before in my life, and infinitely sweet and piercing.

“Ah, I am hearing four-dimensional sounds,” I thought, aloud.

“Wrong, as usual,” exacerbated the professor, with much heat. “Sound has no dimensions. It proceeds in waves, and bends back upon itself until it meets itself at an infinite distance from the starting point. There are three reasons why you can’t hear the music of the spheres: first, because it is bent away from the earth by the force of gravity as it passes the sun; second, because your ears are not attuned to so shrill a sound; and third, because there is no music of the spheres. The first two reasons are really unnecessary, in the light of the third; but a scientific mind such as mine is not content with one reason when three can be adduced just as easily.”

"Shades of Sir Oliver Lodge!” I ejaculated.

“Sir Oliver is alive,” the professor corrected me. “A man does not become a shade until after his death. Then he (Continued on page 93)


The Pit and the Pendulum

By EDGAR ALLAN POE

An Unexpected Thing Happened to Bennett Tierney

After the Storm

A Short Story

By SARAH HARJJINE WEAVER

BENNETT TIERNEY did a queer

Central Park South, discussing Tom, Dick and Hatriet when my gaze was arrested by a photograph on his desk.

It was the picture of a girl in decollete gown, with a rose fastened in the diaphanous draperies of her bodice—a girl of classic beauty. For the nonce, I forgot everything trying to.recall where I had seen that vivid face.

When I had sauntered into Bennett’s bachelor apartments, he had called my attention to the view from his windows. Now, he suddenly sprang to his feet and with a wide gesture cried:

“Look, McDonald, there goes a Cardinal—in that victoria!”

As I glanced down at a figure in ecclesiastical scarlet, Bennett strode quickly across the room. I turned in time to see him grasp the photograph which had piqued my interest and throw it into the drawer of his desk. Then he dropped into a chair where he sat motionless—his face a mask.

“What on earth—” I began, and stopped abruptly. One could as soon chuck President Coolidge under the chin or wink at General Pershing as assume liberties with Bennett Tierney. But why on earth, I wondered, did he want to get that picture out of my sight?

The incident brought to mind talk I had heard of Bennett’s engagement to an out-of-town girl. But whether the match had materialized I never had heard. I was endeavoring to piece together odd fragments of gossip when Bennett brought me back to actualities.

“It’s odd how you and I have drifted,” he began. “Pals at Harvard —no.w almost strangers. You’re still at 111 Broadway?”

“Oh, I’m there all right, although my clients don’t seem aware of the fact. The population of Greater New York is over seven millions, yet, judging from the eager multitudes which flock to my door, Manhattan might be a desert

The Cauldron

True Adventures of Terror PRESTON°LANGLEY Y HICKEY

VX7HILE the columns of THE CAULDRON are open to all those knowing of or having experienced genuinely weird ” or horrifying adventures, the editor wishes to make plain that no more manuscripts dealing with ghosts or any phase of spiritualism will be considered, unless they are of unusual merit. This step is taken beoause THE CAULDRON is not a department of pByohic phenomena, and to discourage authors from submitting articles along these lines, scores of which are reoeived daily. What THE CAULDRON wants, as we state in our heading, are “True Adventures of Terror,” and not impossible “spirit” stories.

iHilil EslSSsl

mrnmm^mSsB

] THE EYRIE [

m

Our Vox Pop mail is heavier than ever; and as that WEIRD TALES is steadily widening its circle of readers. And that, you may be sure, doesn’t displease us any.

Some of our correspondents are ecstatically delighted, some are only moderately satisfied, and some are woefully disappointed, with the magazine we’re trying to edit. That doesn’t irk us either. We Bhall never be troubled, in fact, so long as people write to us—either in praise or disparagement. That shows, at any rate, that WEIRD TALES is being read and discussed.

But if they cease to say what they think of the magazine— if they ever stop caring about it, one way or the other—why, then, of course we WILL begin to worry. We’ll know then that something is wrong somewhere.

We’ve often remarked in these Columns of Cunning that nobody can make us sore, no matter how hard he slams our magazine; and we’ve gone even further and declared that our calumnious letters are read with keener interest than those that flatter us. And, just to prove that we meant what we •said, we’re going to start The Eyrie this month with all the lampoons we’ve received in four weeks.

There are only three, as it happens, and here they are:

“My Dear Mr. Baird: ‘The Invisible Terror,’ in the June number of WEIRD TALES, is much like Bierce’s ‘The Damned Thing.' ‘The Gray Death’is very like ‘The Silver Menace,’ published a decade ago. ‘Penelope,’ in May WEIRD TALES, is very like ‘Phoebe’ of some years ago—the better of the two. Phoebe was the malignant star, and the man

written by a gentleman of Jersey City, who likewise asked to have his name omitted:

Dear Sir: Referring to Mr. Francis Steven’s tale, ‘Sunfire,’ in the July-August issue of WEIRD TALES. This is a good tale, so far, but I would like to make the following comment: I have always understood that the great desideratum in all story telling was an appearance or effect of realism, truth or plausibility, brought about by the adherence of statements as close to actual facts as possible. Now, after several hundred, or possibly several thousand, years of mining, a diamond of half a ton weight, as the diamond in your story, is manifestly absurd; and do you not think that the story would have been better if, say, a nugget or ingot of silver, gold or platinum, all of which are also found in South America, had been mentioned, hammered and polished in mirror form?

“Half-ton (or, as they would say in Latin America, 300 kilograms), nuggets or ingots are not beyond the bounds of possibility, and may have actually been found, hammered or cast. Ingots can be cast of this weight. Or a slab or plate of this weight, set with large diamonds, somewhat on the manner of modem vault lights or sidewalk lights, would have imparted a touch of realism which would also have been sufficiently bizarre or outre to keep the story under the heading, ‘Weird,’ and furnished enough ‘sunfire.’

“But having both the centipede and the diamond oversize to such an extent is piling it on a bit thick, although the centipede, being alive, might possibly have been developed in some way to help out on the weirdness.—J. LJ’

“ ‘One of the Bunch’ wrote you that ‘The Phantom Wolfhound’ was ‘fairly wen written, but mighty unconvincing.’ I do not agree with ‘One,’ so far as unconvincing goes. The ohild grieved for her dog and dreamed about him. Mr. Ritsky was sensitive and received by telepathy the vibrating thoughts of the child, strongest when she was asleep. They disturbed his rest and probably pricked his conscience, causing distressing mental pictures....

The only criticism I have to make of the story is the ‘white thing’ floating from between the child’s lips. Thoughts are invisible....

.—...“I like ‘The Evening Wolves,’ ‘The Two Men Who Murdered Each Other,’ and ‘The Guard of Honor. ’ I don't like Brutal murder stories or stories of horrible crime.”

That came from a young woman in Hayward, California, who, though signing he! name, requested us to credit her criticism to “An Old Fashioned Woman.” And the next was

And the third comes from Dick P. Tooker, of Minneapolis:

“I have purchased every issue of your magazine since it was begun, and I believe you are filling a position in the magazine field that has long needed filling. I was disappointed in not getting a complete July issue. Like some of the readers wrote in The Eyrie, I believe the first two issues of WEIRD TALES were the best. You are running a few stories every month that are as good as your first ones, but in the last two issues especially I have caught myself yawning when half way through several of them. But no one would think of yawning while reading ‘Shades’ or ‘The Room of the Black Velvet Drapes.’ Please keep on improving your covers’’

AND now, having disposed of that trio of roasts (which quite failed to blister us), let us turn to those letters of another sort. First, we shall consider this one from Joel Shoemaker of 4116 Aiken Avenue, Seattle, Washington:


"My Dear Brother Baird: The big donble mmher, with thirteen thrilling short stories, two complete novelettes and two two-part stories, is before me. It is a fine number. We waited a long time for it. There are six grown-ups in my family—myself and wife and two sons and two daughters—and we all want WEIRD TALES as soon as it reaches the newsdealer.

“Of course, I kept my eye out for the first copy that might land in the city. Every newsdealer heard my voice asking why WEIRD TALES did not show np. No one could give me information.

"Then there came the big Jnly-August number. It was picked up without even the formality of asking the salesman. Then the trouble began, for all wanted to read WEIRD TALES. It was so big, had so many stories, and was so interesting that it was

points of the law, ’ while one had the magasine and five wanted to get eyes on it.

“The magazine suits me fine.... We need more of the real salt of the earth to go with the iron that we pick up from the raisins, grapes and other sources, and in WEIRD TALES you have struck the vein of salt that preserves life.”

And, next, the following from Lee Torpie, of 1204 Mason Street, San Francisco:

“Dear Sir: I used to think reading magazines a waste of time, until last April, when, quite by ohance, I bought a copy of WEIRD TALES for March—the first issue. Since then, I’ve watched for your magazine eagerly each month; I found it filled in pleasantly bits of spare time, too brief for the reading of books. The stories were the sort I liked best, and while I oannot account for the scarcity of such fiction, I know from experience how hard it is to get.

“With my discovery of WEIRD TALES, I felt the problem of finding interesting reading matter for the little leisure I have was solved. Getting my copy for April wasn’t all beer and skittles—I secured the first copy in a town where I was stopping at the time, and when I came to look for the magazine in San Francisco, I entered several bookstores and stopped at many magazine stands before I found an enlightened druggist who supplied me with the April number. I went there for the May and June issues.

“To my consternation, when I called for the July number, the druggist said it hadn’t come in. Since then, I have haunted that drug store—daily at first, till, the clerk greeted me with a grin and a shake of the head before I had time to ask him the momentous question.

“So I am appealing to you. Perhaps you have decided not to market WEIRD TALES on the Pacific Coast; if that is the reason for my inability to get the July issue, I’ll go into the subscriber class, if I may—then I’ll be sure to have the magazine each

Mr. Torpie, we are happy to say, has since read our JulyAngust issue, and, we hope, the September number, too.

TTERE is one that we’re not quite sure about. Maybe it 1 A belongs in that first batch. Maybe not. At any rate, here goes:

“Dear Mr. Baird: I was not disappointed in the June number of WEIRD TALES. I was only disappointed in not finding that magazine on the newsstands for July. I thought that either you or WEIRD TALES had died suddenly! I was reassured, however, when I beheld its welcome resurrection in August, so I put aside thoughts of mourning

reprint of Poe’s Morgue Street Murders, my contention being that everybody who has read anything is already familiar with such literature; that you rethe pages upon which they are printed is so much waste paper to the greater number. Miss Burchard, I note, opposes this theory and even suggests that you reprint Sherlock Holmes! Now, I would ask Miss B. who under the canopy is not familiar with thpse famous stories? Who among the readers of WEIRD TALES hasn’t already been satiated with them—‘The Speckled Band,’ ‘The End of the Passage,’ and so on?

“In theBe days, when a subscription to certain periodicals carries with it a set of Poe, Doyle, Bulwer, 0. Henry, suoh reading is within the reach of all. 'The Upper Berth’ is an exception, I fancy, and I hope we may have it should you lay hands on it. I am, however, open to conviction, and if yon ever think of taking a census of opinion in the matter I shall bow to the majority.

“P. S.—The July-August number was very interesting in that there was neither love mush nor old junk of the Bulwer type. ’Sunflre’ is immense, and the close of ‘Evening Wolves’ was quite as it should be.”

The foregoing was written by Dr. Henry C. Murphy of Brooklyn; and, before we comment upon it, we rise to remark that WEIRD TALES seems to offer a special appeal to physicians and surgeons. They like to read our sort of stories, and they like to write ’em. There is scarcely a day that we don’t get at least one weird story written by a doctor. Doctors, it seems, encounter some weird adventures.

With regard to the argument against reprinting weird classics, so ably presented by Dr. Murphy, we’ll say there’s an even greater division of opinion on this than there is on the matter of serials. Since the publication of Miss Burchard’s letter we’ve received at least two dozen communicaF. Marion Crawford and earnestly requesting us to reprint this story and others like it. Opposed to these, we have some eight or ten letters telling us bluntly to lay off the old stuff. What to do?... Well, since Dr. Murphy says he will bow to the majority, I suppose we’d best do the same thing— and give “The Upper Berth” another run. (The Pullman Company should thank us, anyway.)


■you may recall the letter from H. P. Lovecraft, published * here last month. A bit caustic, that letter; and today we have pleasure in offering another, which, if less stinging, is none-the-less enjoyable. Our friend Lovecraft always has something to say when he writes. Thus:

“Bear Mr. Baird: I should apologize if my former letter seemed to tax WEIRD TALES with seeking conventional material. Snch was not my intention in any way. I only meant that I presumed you would not wish too subtle or cryptical material for presentation to the general pnblic. There is a difference between' mere originality and delicate symbolism, or hideously nebulous adumbration. How many American readers outside the frankly ‘highbrow’ class, for example, would find any pleasure or coherent impression in Arthur Machen's ‘The White People,’ or in the fantastic passages of the same author’s ‘Hill of Dreams’? In a word, I take it that WEIRD TALES Wants definite stories, with a maximum of plot, tension of situation, explosive climax, and statement rather than too elusive suggestion—this rather than, the Baudelairiam prosepoem,of spiritual Satanism, where chiseled phrase, lyrical tone, color, and an opiate luxuriance of exotic imagery form the chief sources of the macabre impression....

“I lately read the May WEIRD TALES, and congratulate you on Mr. Humphrey’s “The Floor Above.’ £for a moment I had a shiver which the author didn’t intend—I thought he was going to use an idea which I am planning to use myself!! But it wasn’t so, after all], which is a close second to my favorite, ‘Beyond the Door.’ Evidently my taste runs to the architectural! ‘Penelope’ is clever—but Holy Pete! If the illustrious Starrett’s ignorance of astronomy is an artfully conceived attribute of his character’s whimsical narrative, I’ll say he’s right there with the verisimilitude! I wrote monthly astronomical articles for the daily press between 1906 and 1918, and have a vast affection for the celestial

“Some day I may send you a possible filler, be-

“Through the ghoul-guarded gateways of slumber, Past the wan-moon’d abysses of night,

I have lived o’er my lives without nuihber,

I have sounded all things with my sight—

And I struggle - and shriek ere the daybreak, being

driven to madness and fright.”

we submit the prologue to a 300-line heroic poem of his that we may print some day:

“I am he who howls in the night;

I am he who moans in the snow;

I am he who hath never seen light;

I am he who mounts from below.

My oar is the car of death;

My wings are the wings of dread;

My breath is the north wind’s breath;

My prey are the cold and dead.”

As you know, we are publishing a series of Mr. Lovecraft’s prose pieces, beginning with “Dagon;” and of this story he wrote us, in part:

“I shall venture ‘Dagon’ as a sort of test of my stuff in general. If you don’t care for this, you won’t care for anything of mine.... It is not that ‘Dagon’ is the best of my tales, but that it is perhaps the most direct and least subtle in its ‘punoh’; so that for popular publication it is most likely to please most. In copying it I have touched up one or two crude spots—it having been written in 1917, directly after a lull of nine years in my fiction-writing. Naturally I was a bit rusty in the management of the prose. A friend of mine—Clark Ashton Smith, the California poet of honror, madness and morbid beauty—showed this yarn to George Sterling, who declared he liked it very much, though suggesting (absurdly enough, as I view it!) that I have the monolith topple over and kill the ‘thing’... a piece of advice which makes me feel that poets should stick to their sonneteering...

"My love of the weird makes me eager to do anything I can to put good material in the path of a magazine which so gratifyingly cultivates that favorite element. I shall await with interest the next issues, with the tales you mention, and am meanwhile trying to get the opening number through a newsdealer. I am sure the venture will elicit some notable contributions as its fame spreads—and the extent of that fame may be judged from the fact that people in Massachusetts, New York, Ohio and California have been equally prompt in calling my attention to it and urging me to try my luck!”

In a way, “Dagon” is a radically different sort of story, even for WEIRD TALES, and those that will follow it are even more so. For this reason, we shall be particularly interested in hearing what our readers think of the Lovecraft tales. THE EDITOR.


2 /JeiOel Burlington

Adjusted to die Second 21 Ruby and Sapphire Jewels Adjusted to Temperature 25 Year Gold Strata Case Adjusted to Isochronism L>

Adjusted to Positions New Ideas in Thin Cases

HI Watch Cues beand*

V fully illustrated in

our booklet. Send for FREE Copy.

Write

Only One Dollar Down wffl buy this masterpiece of watch manufacture. The balance you are allowed to pay in small, easy, monthly payments. The Burlington—a 21-Jewel Watch—is sold to you at a price much lower than that of other high-grade watches. Besides, you have the selection of the finest thin model designs and latest styles in watch cases. Don’t delay! Write for the FREE Wat ch Book and our SPECIAL OFFER today.

Just Out!

Whist

Get the Burlington Watch Book by sending this coupon. Find out about this great special offer which is being madtffor'only a limited time. You will know a great deal more about watch buying when you read this book. You will be able to “steer clear” of the over-priced watches which are no better. Remember, the Burlington is sent to you for only One Dollar down, balance in small monthly payments. Send the coupon for watch book and our special offer TODAY.


ElSaiin'IaiiilS 63

SFffi '

explanation of your $1.00 down

The People of the Comet

(Continued front page 31)

to hold out- balance. But I had time to get our surroundings.

“ ‘ We were on a thumb 1 It was bearing us across the room. The shrill thunder was laughter. We were astride the thumb nail! We had come out just underneath the nail 1 That was what I had taken for the great semi-transparent roof.

“ ‘The gulf grew smaller, and 1 beheld a vast flat surface below us. The thumb had lifted us upon a table. We were in an immense room, full of men, vast forms, unlike any 1 had ever seen. They were moving about and all talking at once. The noise was terrible.

“‘Still we were growing!

“ * At last we were large enough to step off the thumb to the table. 1 took Sora’s hand in mine and stood up.

wonderful beings, bearded and splendid! They were gazing down upon us, with

were as miraculous to them as they were to us. 1 held Sora’s arm and made a sweep with my hand, trying to convey the suggestion that I wanted them to sit

“ ‘They seemed to understand. That was better. In their chairs they were not so terrible.

“ ‘ ‘‘Oh, Alvas 1 What sort of a room is tills? What is that thing hanging, yonder, from the ceiling 1”

“ ‘1 looked and saw we were in an observatory. The men were astronomers! The thing that hung from the ceiling was a telescope. They were studying stars.


“ •rj-'Hl

re grouped about us-great. “ V, °i “ e st fl pointed to the telescope. If I could let them know what I knew, and make them understand how we had come. I tried to convey my meaning of an earth. They held their heads close to the table. Again I pointed to the telescope, would see the stars! Finally I mad them understand. One of them placed his hand, palm up, upon, the table. It was an immense hand. When we did not move he touched us with his finger. The next instant Sora aud I were 1

‘“It was an immense affair. The eyepiece alone was twenty-six inches across, so that it was much like looklhg through the immense lense of one of our own

great eyes glowing like huge fires of intelligence. Their curiosity had been excited by our interest in their telescope. They spoke and rumbled together; and gesticulated with their hands. At last they seemed to come to an agreement. The hand that held us conveyed us, as tenderly as possible, back.to the table.

“ ‘ Then one of them stretched a white substance, much like parchment, ot my feet. He placed a long cane ir hand. The cane was a pencil The great eyes were watching, wondering if I could understand. Then I realized what was wanted. I could not speak nor explain (Continued on page 86j


New WayTo Heat Your Home.

End Your Coal Worries

Amazing new kind of heat ends drudgery of muasy furnace, heater or ooolc atove! Ends—for all time—your worry about coal strikes, shortages that send prices sky-high with discouraging regularity. Wonderful invention, in ona

_co for Free Sample

Interesting literature and -u Noobligation. WritoB. M.

>nly 5% oil, the c

gsjgag

Amazing New Invention—Three Times Heat of Coalt

Special tow Price Introductory Offer

'hose who act quickly will be entitled o a special Low Jtnteoductory- price

"oUvia^BURNEft

4 OLIVER OIL-GAS HORNER CO.^

s Any S

sen difleren



latest fox Trots and Waltzes

«t Eight Double Disc-Full Sixe lOlnch Records

FOX TROTS:

I:

U

1 hfrT6‘alUsh^r Jnd Mr Shear,

Sensational Bargain!

No Money!

I.

^ ta ™Zwr:rr- /fifsaftsaba

Thounnds of Set* Are Being Ordered /




(Continued from page 62)

“Crawdell, as you, Dale, know, is an excellent stage manager. He believes in seeing to every detail himself, consequently the stage hands were not at all surprised when he insisted on supervising the arrangements for lighting the golden lily which was so effectively used by Carol at the conclusion of her dance. You may remember that some weeks ago the light in the lily nearly failed to act.

“Some defect was discovered just in time by Crawdell himself, and after that he got the electrician to teach him enough to allow him to look after the thing himself in future. Whether he himself contrived the original defect, or whether it suggested the eventual plot to Mademoiselle Nadia is immaterial. They evolved a plan as novel as it was fiendish. As you know, the current supplying the globe in the lily was conveyed by means of thin wires, invisible to the audience, from an electrical supply behind the scenes. For convenience, the ends of the wires terminated in a small plug which was fitted to a wire taken to a point not far from the stage.

“It was an obscure comer, where there was just light enough when the lights were down foT a person to move without falling. Crawdell, as I have discovered, came to the theater early this morning, and busied himself with the golden lily and the arrangements for lighting it. This occasioned no surprise, as he would naturally be anxious that nothing should go wrong on this night of all nights, and the staff were accustomed to what they described as his fussy ways.

“As a matter of fact, Crawdell, who had learned more about electricity than his teacher supposed, had fitted a wire to the main cable which conveys the enormously powerful current used for the great lights of the auditorium. You do not need to be electricians to understand that when this powerful current was passed into the globe in the lily, the globe could not stand it, and was instantly shattered. Nadia and Crawdell had observed that Carol always raised the lily to her faoe, and they naturally expected that the explosion would blind her— blind her at the moment of her triumph and on the eve of her wedding—”

Dale’s fist crashing down on his table

“What a hellish plotl” he cried.

Nadia and Crawdell had sprung to their feet, but Paul’s hand came quickly from his pocket, holding an automatic

(Continued on page 92)


If New Hair Doesn't Grow After Using My Method —I Don’t Want a Penny!


Are you ambitious—are you looking for the way to Success? Do you want an easy, pleasant job? “Than D««/|

Do you want to make from $60 to $ 1OO a week? JL,

Do you want to enjoy the luxuries of life? My Oiler I

Km fill

B. W. COOKE, President


YOU CAN BE THIS MAN!

COVNE SCH OOl^ O F^P RAFTINO

iifiS&ii


PAT

the ENEMY that is shortening Your life

BANISHED!


l The fat in your body is caused BfR by a simple chemical process, g a.

Yeast cells in your stomach ™

NO DIET-NO BATHS-NO EXERQSE/

Dr. R. L. Graham’s marvelous pre- I on the body. Neuirokb are personally guaiss&ssssk sigm

assagsga | Kgj^g a-'S-Ls

iri> ITp PERSONAL MAIL 0 consulting^

r SERVJCE-by Dr. Qrahara’s Staff J

9&B&3E3&?


“They pack us in just as tight, n I ventured to remark.

The globe had begun to shoot into the air, when there came from behind me a high-pitched wail of distress, a shriller and higher sound than had ever before been heard by human ears, so the professor assured me. The chief Jupiterian had been left behind. He it was who had passed into the whisky bottle. Not content with getting the.lion’s share of the contents, he had surrounded the bottle, in his pleasant four-dimensional way, and now he could not get rid of it.

“Why doesn’t he turn inside out again, and drop the bottle?’’ I asked,

“Because your whisky has paralyzed him,” answered the professor. “He is quite helpless.”

I looked at the globe, which had alighted again. Each Jupiterian suddenly resumed his full size, in a brave attempt to bound to the assistance of his chief. But the creatures could no longer pass through the four-dimensional metal of which the globe was composed. So thick a layer of Chicago dust had settled upon it, that to all intents and purposes it had become three-dimensional. The sudden impact of six hundred thousand bodies caused it to burst, with a roar as of a hundred peals of thunder exploding simultaneously. The air was filled with dead and dying.Jupiterians. A dark cloud settled over the landscape, composed of the flying dust shaken from the Jupiterian globe by the explosion. Long streamers of electric tire shot from the fragments of the airship, and seemed to curve in upon themselves. Everything ran in curves—the darkness, the cloud, the sounds, the shafts of light—as

I put up my hands and fought the cloud that was settling down upon me. I seemed to be covered with falling feathers, when the cloud began to lift. I found myself in my own parlor. The air was full of flying leaves, which I was madly tearing from a book and throwing toward the ceiling. The book was a treatise on the Einstein theory of space, which I had borrowed from a friend that afternoon. I had read nearly a page in it before I fell asleep.

Only twelve men in the whole world understand the Einstein theory, it is said. If I had read the book, I would have been the thirteenth, and that would be unlucky. So it is just as well that it is destroyed. But what excuse am I to give my friend for tearing up his book?

Pimples


Beware RrnrrK pa

False Teeth Are Torture » Save Your Tee til— Before It Is Too Late

£& W£&fh& y t£h Below is a typical Pyorrhea illustration showing how the

perfect mouth. Why run the risk of dia- gums recede and pull away from the teeth. These, soft, ^^^mahSied l pyorrh*» C or^colored, ^bleeding, foul-anellin^and^pwigy gums, SSt < S3°5?S;iJ%S^MhtbS‘j; and healthy by the use of “AMOSOL”—a simpie B i!on!§ month.nd^bx ^u^iMd. treatment. Results from a free trial treatment win

s Dangerous to Your Health

ur family doctor will tell you that Pyorrhea is often respon-

-*-jt-—v ^ Rheumatism, Neuritis, Kidney

- - -ter your whole system and under*

. Doctors warn that nearly all germs enter the

AMOSOL

For Pyorrhea

mmm

KrTggLJa

SV Fhrenc. H. Cte CSe,. M. J.

SweSkt

mmm

“t StTa ZSJSft* ™i

RSjjiHfflfS

Thousands oS Mouths I4ke This Are Seen by Dentists Every Day

.^VSSg§SB!SS&S&!r&^

mMkWs rffirfcgbI

A Trial Will Amaze You

[THE END]

============================================================
by To the
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Her palm was soft and
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
HOPE, EAGERNESS AND TRIUMPH
by Twice she
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by At the door she stopped. She
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Then she
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
PRIDE, WISDOM, NOBILITY
by Who was this
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
“ ‘THE GIRL LEFT MY SIDE
by She ran to
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by First she
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
BY A
by HAVDAL
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
FEW MINUTES’ CONVERSATION
by And on one
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Certainly no
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
MENTS
by Though I never did know the
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by Had X been superstitious or
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by No longer did
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
BARTON
by He fell into step beside me and
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by But I held my
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
ERN SKY. RED—RED LIKE BLOOD
by And then
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by But suddenly
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
by TMnking
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
—JUST LIKE A HOG TROUGH
by One end of it
============================================================

[THE END]
