============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 10, Number 5
Date: November 1927
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "taken  of  such  material  while  in  their  possession" by The  contents  of  this  magazine  are
  2. "Cover  Design  C.  C" by Senf
  3. "The  Invading  Horde Arthur  J" by Burks
  4. "The  Lord  of  the  Tam G.  G" by Pendarves
  5. "The  Shadows Henry  S" by Whitehead
  6. "The  Werewolf Alvin  F" by Harlow
  7. "360  N" by Michigan  Ave.
  8. "they  have  lost  their  savor" by The  ghosts  of  fiction  derive  their  interest
  9. "a certain  place  in  the  floor  of  the  haunted  room)" by But  in  the  excitement  and
  10. "happened,  so  the  writer  worked  it  up  into  a story" by But  the  theme  was  already
  11. "They  saw  the  Big  Future  in  Drafting.  They  didn’t  wait  for  opportunity to  knock" by They  reached  out  and  grabbed  him.  They  read
  12. "to  admit  th&t  it’e  at  least  worth  a t^y" by Even  if  you  could  earn  only
  13. "........" by State....
  14. "this : A man  goes  to  sleep  in  a room  that  is  supposed  to  be  haunted" by Awaking
  15. "supposed  hand  is  his  own  foot,  and  that  he  has  blown  off  two  of  his  toes" by This
  16. "Tales" by That  is  why  the  story  is  always  returned  to  its  author.
============================================================
============================================================
TAKEN  OF  SUCH  MATERIAL  WHILE  IN  THEIR  POSSESSION
by The  contents  of  this  magazine  are
============================================================
NOVEMBER,  1927  WEIR

Vhe  Uniojie Magazine

Jfovetnber

Edmond  Hamilton .—Will  Smiths  Henry  S.  Whitel G.  G.  Pendarves  <— ' Glare  Winger  Harris  ^ and  Ot

Be  up-to-date— know  the  pleasure and  convenience  of  having  one in  your  own  home.  You’ll  be  amazed at  the  uses  every  one  in  your  house hold  will  find  for  this  real  Underwood typewriter.  Every  member . of  the  family  will  use  and  enjoy lit!  Don’t  send  a cent— but  do  get  our  big I special  offer— our  valuable  book  on  typef writers  and  typewriting— FREE.

Any  One  Can Learn  to  Operate a Typewriter

. t You  can  learn  to  write  on  this  standard-keyboard  machine  in  one  day; it  s so  simple  that  even  a child  can  use  it.  A week  after  the  expressman  has brought  it,  you’d  feel  LOST  without  it.  A trial  will  PROVE  it— and  doesn’t ^-  cost  you  a penny!

Special  Free  Trial  Offer!

We  don  t want  a penny  now.  Nor  any  money  at  all  unless  this  proves the  typewriter  bargain  of  your  life.  The  trial  is  FREE.  If  you  buy,  our easy  terms  make  it  a pleasure  to  pay.  There’s  no  excuse  now,  for  not  owning a typewriter — and  the  finest  make!  We  include  all  tools,  a cover,  etc.,  aU complete,  all  ready  to  write.  Write  us  now.  Deal  direct;  we  are  the  largest factory  of  the  kind.

Our  plan  gives  you  the  opportunity  of  a thorough  trial  before  you  buy. You  run  no  risk  whatever.  You  start  to  pay  for  your  typewriter  AFTER you  have  found  it  the  only  machine  for  you!  But  get  the  facts  before  this lot  of  machines  is  all  in  use.  Clip  the  information  coupon  before  you  turn the  page.  It  will  pay  you!  Note  the  very  useful  book  you  will  receive  free! Writs  for  full  particulars  at  once.

The  Greatest  Typewriter Offer  Ever  Made

If  you  know  typewriters,  you  know  the  perfect  work  and  the ease  and  speed  of  a Shipman-Ward  rebuilt  Underwood  typewriter New  machines  are  guaranteed  for  only  one  year;  WE  GUARANTEE EVERY  ONE  OF  OUR  MACHINES  FOR  FIVE  YEARS!  If  you have  never  owned  a typewriter,  start  with  the  finest!  You  can try  this  one  at  our  risk.  But,  the  time  to  act  is  NOW.

Don’t  miss  out  on  this  present  bargain  offer  whereby you  can  get  this  genuine  Underwood  at  a big  savings.

Don  t do  longer  without  the  convenience  of  a typewriter.

FREE!  Get  our  catalogue  free;  lowest  prices  and terms.  A manual  free,  too;  valuable  instruction for  learning  rapid  typing,  useful pointers  for  all  who  use  a typewriter, business  forms,  social  correspondence, work  for  others,  etc.

Clip  Coupon  NOW  !

MAIL  TODAY!

Shipman-Ward  Manufacturing  Company,

Dept.  3088  Shipman  Building,  Chicago,  Illinois.

Please  send  me  your  big  Free  Trial  Plan  and  Typewriter  Book, together  with  your  special  offer  on  prices,  terms,  free  course  in Touch  Typewriting  and  also  how  I can  make  money  with  this  typewriter; without  obligation.  This  is  not  an  order.

Name

Steet  or  R.  F.  D

■

City,

State.

Hour  in  a Feur  Hours  I Learned The  Secret  of  Sketching

EVEN  as  a boy,  I was  fond  of  drawing. Hundreds  of  other  people  feel  the same  way,  I suppose,  but  I always had  an  ambition  to  sometime  become a commercjaUartist.

I don’t  think  it  was  altogether  the  big  incomes that  modern  commercial  artists  receive which  attracted  me  to  this  profession as  much  as  the  fascination  and  interest  of the  work  itself,  and  the  independence  of  an artist’s  life.

Although  I had  a fondness  for  drawing,  I found  it  very  difficult  to  sketch  anything accurately.  For  example,  I could  never  get a drawing  to  look  anything  like  the  person it  was  supposed  to  represent.  I knew  just how  I wanted  the  picture  to  look,  but somehow,  I never  could  make  my  sketches lifelike  enough  to  suit  me.

How  it  All  Began

Then  one  evening,  just  as  I was  getting on  the  car  on  my  way  home  from  the  office someone  gave  me  a slap  on  the  back  and, turning  quickly;  1 foundf  myself  looking into  the  smiling  face  of  Jack  Keating.

We  found  a seat  at  the.cnd  of  the  car  and began  telling  what  we  Had  been  doing  in the  three  years  since  wc  had  last  seen  each other.

Suddenly  Jack  stopped  talking.

How  can  I describe  my  surprise  when  he ouickly  slipped  a little hook  from  his

pocket  and  began  to  r

sketch  an  old  man with  spectacjes  who was  reading  a paper at  the  far  end  of  the car.  As  I watched,

Jack 's  ha.id  flew  rapidly  and  without  apause  ov:;r  the  little sheet  before  him.

Jack  sketching!  I couldn't  Help  smiling, for  when  Jack  and  1 . were  at  school  he could  hardly  draw  a straight  line.

But. my  smile  faded.

I was  amazed.  For out  of  his  [>encil strokes  came  a vfvid little  picture  with scarcely  any  detail, vet  i n t ensely  al  i ve  and full  of  character.  I looked  up  to  find Jack  smiling  at  my amazement.

"For  the  Love  of Mike,  Jack,”  1 exclaimed, “Since  when dief  you  become  an  artist?”

Jatk  gave  a few  more  touches  to  his  little sketch,  and  then  turned  over  the  pages. His  little  book  was  almost  full  of  clever drawings  similar  in  style  to  the  one  he  had just  completed.  They  were  all  sketches  of people,  alive  with  character  and  movement.

“1  don’t  think  1 ever  drew  anything  in my  life  until  a couple  of  years  ago,”  he  said, “but  it  is  really  astonishing  how  quickly the  hand  and  eye  can  be  developed.  There

are  only  a few  basic  rules which  a fellow  can  get  in  a few  hours  of  real  work—' then  it  is  all  a matter  of practice.”

“But  how,”  I asked, "did  you  happen  to  find  all this  out — and  who  taught you?”

“It  all  began  with  an advertisement  1 saw  in  a magazine,  offering  a book about  DRAWING.  I read every  word  of  'that  advertise-, merit  twice  over.  Then  I sent  Jar the  book.**

I really  couldn’t  help  interrupting Jack  here.

“Why,  I did.  just  the thing  yesterday/'  1 s go  on,  Jack.X_

said.  “But,

ILLUSTRATED  BOOK

NOW  FREE

Well,"  saio  Jack,  "A  day  or so  later  I got  the  book.  It  convinced me  pretty  firmly  that  I could  draw  if  I really  determined to  do  it.  I came  to  the  conclusion  that  the men  behind  the  North  American  School  of  Drawing, who  issued  the  book,  meant  just  what  they said.  So  I took  up  their  offer  to  teach  me — or refund  the  money  I paid.

“I  had  always  .wanted  to  draw,”  continued  Jack, "so  I stuck  to  the  lessons  they  sent  me.”

"And — ,”  I prompted.

"Come  down  to  my  studio  tomorrow,”  he  grinned 1 as  he  left  the  car,  "and  I will  sfiow  you  the  results/’

When  Jack  had  left  me.  I felt  convinced  that  I, too.  could  do  the  same.  So .when  the  book  from  the School  arrived  the  following morning.  I read  it  right through  with  more  than casur.l  interest.

I thought  of  Jack’s  wonderful success  and  decided toenroll  for  a Course  there and  then.

I was  soon  studying  the lessons  in  my  spare  time at  heme.  I found  myself carried  away  by  the  rase with  which  I acquired  a mastery  over  my  brush and  pencil.

My  First Attempt

IorNiiTODAY

One  day  I thought  of  a .good  idea  for  a poster.  I sat  down,  sketched  it  out and  worked  it  up  into  a finished  drawing'.  When  I commenced  the  sketch  1 had  no  idea  of  attempting to  sell  it,  but  when  it  was finished  I liked  it  so  well that  I sent  it  to  the  Art ___________________  Director  of  an  Advertising

mmgpmi  Aj^ncy.  Imagine  my  sur

prise  when,  a few  days later,  a cheek  arrived,  together withaletter  asking  me  to  call  at  their  offices  to make  arrangements  to  do  some  newspaper  drawings Then  I began  sending  oddsketahes  toillustrated papers  and  other  advertising  concerns.  Of  course, they  were  not  all  accepted  fty  any  means,  but  a number wore,  and  1 soon  found  myself  averaging  a substantial weekly  income.

When  I told  Jack  Iieating  what  I had  done,  he was  delighted  and  surprised  ‘ It  only  proves,”  he aaid.  "that  anyone  wholikes sketriux.p  can  be  taught to  produce  the  kind  of  drawings  tnnt  editors  and advertisers  want.  The  w ork  is„not  as  hard  as  it  looks when  you  have  been  shown  Upw.*

A Simple  Home Study  Method

Through  its  simple,  methodical  home  study  sys^ tem  the  North  American  School  of  Drawing  teaches you  to  draw,  just  as  any  other  school  might  teach you  tp  write  shorthand,  or  krep  books  or  operate  a typewriter  or  any  other  everyday  subject.

.There  is  no  reason  why  you,  too,  snould  not  do equally  as  well,  if  you  have  a liking  for  drawing.

• ‘ Try  it  for  yourself.  You  can  enroll  with  the  North American  School  of  Drawing  without  risking  a penny.  If  you  enn  draw  at  all  you  will  astonish  yourself by  your  progress,  and  you  will  find  modern  Commercial Art  one  of  the  most  fascinating  occupations that  could  be  imagined.  The  opportunities  in  this growing  profession  are  simply  wonderful.  The  tremendous increase  in  advertising  and  illustrated publications  has  created  s,uch  a demand  for  competent artists  that  tjie  field'of  Commercial  Art  andIllustrating  is  a real  gold  mme  for  the  man  or  woman who  likes  to  draw.

Get  this  Free  Book

“Drawing  for  Pleasure  and  Profit"

This  book  has  n message  for  you.  1 1 is  unique  and inspiring.  It  brings  you  news  that  no  matter  w here you  live,  or  what  you  arc  doing,  your  talent  for drawing  can  be  developed  in  the  privacy  of  your own  home  surely  and  simply  and  without  drudgery It  contains  deeply  interesting  literature  dealing  vwth Commercial  Art  and  Illustrating  and  discusses  various kinds  of  drawings,  the  prices  paid  for  them,  and the  opportunities  which  are  open  to  you.  You  need this  book.  You  can  have  it  fur  tin-  asking-  A request for  it  does  not  place  you  under  any  obligation  w hatever.

But  act  AT  ONCE.  Learn  to  draw — whether  or not  you.  want  to  be  a commercial  artist^T  o l.e  able to  draw  is  a big  asset  socially  or  in  any  line  of  business. Fill  in  the  coupon  below  and  mail  it  today

THE  NORTH  AMERICAN  SCHOOL  OF DRAWING.  Inc.

538  HENKLE  BLDG.,  BUFFALO.  N.  Y Please  send  me  your  book  A'  Dram  ng  for Pleasure  and  Profit."  F enclose  4c  in stamps  to  cover  cost  of  postage

Name  •>, (.vmsxxz.--.-

Address  .n,  ,

Kindly  mention  this  magazine  when  answering  advertisements

Published  monthly  by  the  Popular  Fiction  Publishing  Company,  2457  E.  Washington Street,  Indianapolis,  Ind.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  March  20,  1923,  at the  post  office  at  Indianapolis,  Ind.,  under  the  act  of  March  3,  1879.  Single  copies,  25 cents.  Subscription,  $2.50  a year  in  the  United  States ; $3.00  a year  in  Canada.  English office:  Charles  Lavell,  13,  Serjeant's  Inn,  Fleet  Street,  E.  C.  4,  London.  The  publishers are  not  responsible  for  the  loss  of  unsolicited  manuscripts,  although  every  care  will  be taken  of  such  material  while  in  their  possession.  The  contents  of  this  magazine  are fully  protected  by  copyright  and  must  not  be  reproduced  either  wholly  or  in  part  without permission  from  the  publishers.

NOTE — All  manuscripts  and  communications  should  be  addressed  to  the  publishers' Chicago  office  at  450  East  Ohio  Street,  Chicago,  111.  FARNSWORTH  WRIGHT,  Editor.

Copyright,  1927,  by  the  Popular  Fiction  Publishing  Company

Contents  for  November , 1927

Cover  Design  C.  C.  Senf

Illustrating  a scene  in  “The  Invading  Horde ”

The  Eyrie 580

A chat  with  the  readers

Despair  and  the  Soul Leavenworth  Macnab  584

Verse

The  Invading  Horde Arthur  J.  Burks  587

A weird-scientific  story  of  America  far  in  the  future — Asiatic  hordes  invade  City  of  the  East  in  giant  submarines

The  Wolf Sewell  Peaslee  Wright  609

A weird  tale  of  the  Canadian  Northwest — across  the  fire  the man  faced  the  evil  thing  that  sprang  for  his  throat

An  Old  House Cristel  Hastings  614

Verse

(Continued  on  Next  Page)


COPYRIGHTED  IN  GREAT  BRITAIN

(Continued  from  Preceding  Page)

A Certain  Soldier Clare  Winger  Harris

An  ingenious  story  of  reincarnation  and  ancient  Rome,  by the  author  of  “A  Runaway  World V

The  Lord  of  the  Tam G.  G.  Pendarves

A tale  of  monstrous  cats,  the  diabolical  Eorl  of  Cumberland, and  evil  rites  in  the  spectral  abbey  on  Monk’s  Rock

The  White  People Frank  Belknap  Long,  Jr.

Verse

Back  to  the  Beast Manly  Wade  Wellman

A terrific  experiment  was  this,  by  which  the  steps  of  man’s evolution  were  retraced,  and  dreadful  was  its  outcome

The  Time-Raider  (Part  2) Edmond  Hamilton

A four-part  serial  story  about  an  entity  that  sweeps  back through  time  to  seize  its  victims

The  Shadows Henry  S.  Whitehead

A tale  of  West  Indian  Jumbee — a frightful  thing  leaped  out of  the  shadows  as  Old  Morris  met  his  death

Other  Earths Will  Smith

Professor  Noone  of  Yaleton  took  his  friend  on  a voyage through  the  starry  universe  to  seek  the  planet  “Ago”

Folks  Used  to  Believe

The  Werewolf Alvin  F.  Harlow

One  of  the  weird  beliefs  of  our  ancestors

The  Gray  Rider Charles  Hilan  Craig

Speed,  more  speed,  was  Lear’s  utmost  desire,  and  he  could not  bear  it  when  the  Gray,  Rider  passed  him

Weird  Story  Reprint

The  Thousand  and  Second  Tale Edgar  Allan  Poe

A yarn  about  the  actual  scientific  wonders  of  our  modem world,  which  the  sultan  finds  unbelievable

The  Haunted  Mansion Marietta  Hawley

Verse

For  Advertising  Rates  in  WEIRD  TALES  Apply  Direct  to

WEIRD  TALES

Western  Advertising  office: VOTING  & WARD,  Mgrs. 360  N.  Michigan  Ave. Chicago,  111.

Phone,  State  1861

Eastern  Advertising  Office: GEORGE  W.  STEARNS,  Mgr. Flatiron  liuildlng New  York,  N.  Y.

Phone,  Ashland  7329













CERTAIN  basic  ghost-story  themes  have  been  used  again  and  again,  until they  have  lost  their  savor.  The  ghosts  of  fiction  derive  their  interest and  fascination  from  their  strangeness;  and  if  ghosts  do  the  same things,  in  slightly  different  fashion,  through  story  after  story,  then  they  become as  humdrum  and  uninteresting  as  the  sight  of  a milk  wagon  to  a nightowl.  The  ghost-stories  in  Weird  Tales  are  different.  In  this  issue,  the  ghostly abbey  that  limns  itself  against  the  sky  in  The  Lord  of  the  Tarn  when  Torkel Yarl’s  hour  arrives,  and  the  ghost  of  Old  Morris  revealing  itself  more  and  more each  day  in  The  Shadows  until  that  terrific  assault  by  the  Jumbee — these  are ghost-stories  that  are  really  out  of  the  ordinary.

One  ghostly  yarn  that  has  come  to  us  in  the  mails  at  least  a score  of  times  is the  incident  of  the  wager:  Someone  bets  someone  else  that  he  (or  she)  does not  dare  to  spend  the  night  in  a certain  haunted  room  (or  sometimes  at  a haunted  grave  in  the  cemetery)  ; and  to  prove  that  the  haunted  place  has actually  been  visited,  the  person  is  to  drive  a stake  into  the  grave  (or  nails  into a certain  place  in  the  floor  of  the  haunted  room).  But  in  the  excitement  and terror  of  the  occasion,  the  person  drives  the  stake  (or  the  nails)  through  his coat,  and  when  he  tries  to  get  away  he  finds  that  he  is  held  by  the  fastened coat,  which  his  excited  imagination  transforms  into  a ghost,  and  he  dies  of terror.  Several  times,  in  rejecting  stories  based  on  this  incident,  we  have  inquired of  the  authors  how  they  happened  to  think  up  such  a plot,  and  in  each case  the  story  had  been  told  to  the  writer  as  an  incident  that  had  actually happened,  so  the  writer  worked  it  up  into  a story.  But  the  theme  was  already used  once  in  Weird  Tales  (The  Ghost  of  Liscard  Manor,  November  issue, 1924),  and  once  is  enough.  Houdini,  in  Weird  Tales  for  May,  1924,  related the  same  incident  as  having  been  told  him  by  his  father : ‘ * My  father,  who  has also  investigated  phenomena,  and  who  was  one  of  the  pioneers  in  1848,  relates a story  that  in  his  student  days  one  of  the  boys  in  his  class  had  to  drive  a nail in  a wooden  cross  at  midnight  in  the  local  cemetery,  and  as  he  turned  to  flee,  a hand  reached  out  and  held  him  fast.  He  shrieked  and  shouted  for  help, screaming  out  that  he  was  held  by  a ghostly  hand,  but  by  the  time  assistance arrived,  he  was  dead  on  the  grave.  It  appears  that  in  driving  the  nail  in,  he had  accidentally,  in  his  excitement,  nailed  down  the  coat;  His  mind  had  conjectured a hand  reaching  out  from  the  grave  and  securing  him.”

Another  ghost-story  plot  that  appears  with  great  regularity  in  our  mail  is ( Continued  on  page  582)


* 19500

alearMade  By  These  4 Men

Here’s  proof  positive  that  these  four  Dobe-trained  draftsmen  have also  made  good  with  a bang ! Their  yearly  earnings  total  $29,500! They  saw  the  Big  Future  in  Drafting.  They  didn’t  wait  for  opportunity to  knock.  They  reached  out  and  grabbed  him.  They  read my  advertisement  and  sent  for  my  Free  Book  “Successful  Draftsmanship.” They  read  it— decided  I was  actually  turning  out  real draftsmen— and  jumped  ext  the  chance  to  learn  by  my  simple,  practical, easy  drafting  method  of  teaching!  Look  where  they  are NOW ! And  their  first  step  towards  Success  was  sending  for  my Free  Book.  Let  me  send  you  a copy  this  very  day.  Use  the  coupon!

Learn  Drafting

at  Home!

Men,  I say  you  can  learn  drafting  at  home  in  yoiir  spare  time! That’s  exactly  what  Bowen  - Bernier — Stroop  and  Dewalt  did  1 I offer  you  the  identical  opportunity.  Isn’t  it  logical  for  you  to believe  that  what  these  men  did— you  can  do?  Maybe  you  can’t do  as  well  as  the  four  big  earners  pictured  here— but  you've  got to  admit  th&t  it’e  at  least  worth  a t^y.  Even  if  you  could  earn  only half  as  much  when  you  finish  my  -course!  Most  men  would  be satisfied  with  that.

500  Industries Need  Draftsmen!

Five  hundred  and  more  industries  not  only  need  trained  draftsmen noK^but  will  ALWAYS  need  them!  Plans  must  first  be  drawn by  draftsmen  before. any  machine,  building,  or  invention  can  be built!  That's  the  wonderful,  big  field  I train  you  for  by  my  prac- . tical,  quickly  learned  course.  These  men  have  had  steady,  profit- ' able  employment  year  after  year!  My  easy,  interesting,  leamedat-home-in-spare-time-training  fits  you  to  enter  this  great  profession! Decide  now  to  Get  Started!  Write  for  my  Free  Book  “Successful Draftsmanship.”  Cut  the  coupon— mail  it!

Mail  Coupon  for

FREE  Book -

ti

Successful  Draftsmanship  *

Send  a postcard  or  a letter  or  mail  the  Coupon  for  the  Free  Book# 'Successful  Draftsmanship,”  which  Dobe  has  written  for  the  benefit of  all  men  vrh9  are  interested  indrafting.Tt’sagreatbook  about a great  profession— and  you  ought

to  read  it.  These  four  men  are  ~ —

certainly  glad  they  read  it  and took  DoBe’s  word  that  he  could make  real  draftsmen  out  of  them..

No  matter  who  you  are,  where you  are,  or  what  your  job  is  you should  send-  for  this  book  NOW.

You  should  send  for  it  unless  you arp  making  all  the  money  you want  already.

DOBE  EASY  DRAFTING

Established  1900 1951  Lawrence  Ave.,  _

Div.  23-78  CHICAGO

IMbsai,

{$1000  a month.!

imp

$475  a month.

£■  C,  ■SPierft.

lygjjsm

$7000  a year.

DOBE  EASY  DRAFTING

1951  Lawrence  Ave..  Dir.  23-78  Chicago

Please  sendmefreeyourbook,“SuccessfulDraftmanshil>". and  names  of  other  big  money  earning  draftsman  you have  trained.

Name..

Address

Age.

Post  Office ._  „

........... State....

Kindly  mention  this  magazine  when  answering  advertisements


WEIRD  TALES

( Continued  from  page  580)

this : A man  goes  to  sleep  in  a room  that  is  supposed  to  be  haunted.  Awaking in  the  middle  of  the  night  he  imagines  he  sees  a ghostly  hand  at  the  foot  of  the bed.  Opening  fire  at  the  hand,  he  feels  a stinging  pain,  and  realizes  that  the supposed  hand  is  his  own  foot,  and  that  he  has  blown  off  two  of  his  toes.  This theme  has  appeared  at  least  fifty  times  in  manuscripts  submitted  to  Weird Tales.  That  is  why  the  story  is  always  returned  to  its  author.

“Why  not  publish  more  Chinese  stories?”  queries  Donald  Culhane,  of Butte,  Montana,  in  a letter  to  The  Eyrie,  and  adds:  “I  can  hardly  stand  the suspense  of  waiting  for  the  October  issue  so  that  I can  finish  The  Bride  of Osiris.  It  is  thrilling.  ”

“Every  issue  of  Weird  Tales  continues  to  amaze  me,”  writes  Charles Fingerman,  of  Camden,  New  Jersey.  “The  stories,  always  fine,  improve  each month  to  such  an  extent  that  readers  are  lost  in  conjecture,  wondering  how standards,  like  records,  can  be  broken  so  often,  for  Weird  Tales  is  always  so full  of  good  stories,  splendidly  told,  that  no  special  standard  can  stand  up  for any  length  of  time,  as  new  ones  in  point  of  themes,  styles,  and  denouements are  being  created  as  fast  as  the  old  standards  are  toppled  over.  ’ ’

Lutie  Keith,  of  Philadelphia,  expresses  her  reactions  to  this  magazine  in verse.  We  have  not  room  to  print  the  entire  poem,  but  give  the  first  strophe:

“I  lie  awake  far  into  the  wee  small  hours  and  read  Weird  Tales,

While  out  in  the  shrouding  gloom  of  the  night,  I hear  weird  wails;

I know  it  is  only  the  wind,  that  moans  in  the  tree-tops  tall,

But  to  me  it  sounds  like  a disembodied  soul’s  despairing  call.”

“Weird  Tales,  today,  is  in  a class  by  itself,”  writes  Charles  M.  Stephens, of  Brooklyn,  New  York.  “ It  is  as  fine  a magazine  as  any  the  world  over.  But everybody’s  saying  that.  And  no  wonder,  with  all  its  wealth  of  good  reading. Eli  Colter’s  The  Dark  Chrysalis  is  a masterpiece.  I’ve  just  finished  it,  and, man,  it’s  a story  that  blazes  new  trails  in  fiction.  He  deserves  all  sorts  of congratulations.  For  many  hours  of  fine  entertainment  I am  indebted  also to  H.  P.  Lovecraft,  Seabury  Quinn,  H.  Warner  Munn,  Frank  Belknap  Long, Jr.,  Nictzin  Dyalhis,  Greye  La  Spina,  Victor  Rccusseau,  and  others,  who  have written  such  exceptional  fiction  for  Weird  Tales.”

“In  the  September  issue  the  best  story  was  undoubtedly  The  Moon  Menace,”  writes  Fred  W.  Fischer,  Jr.,  of  Knoxville,  Tennessee,  “though  it  was closely  pressed  for  this  honor  by  Sax  Rohmer ’s  weird  Oriental  story,  Lord  of the  Jackals.  I wish  to  congratulate  you  on  your  new  artist,  Hugh  Rankin.  ”

Edward  T..  Radcliffe,  of  Portsmouth,  Virginia,  writes  to  The  Eyrie:  “I am  so  enthusiastic  about  Weird  Tales  that  I want  to  write  and  let  you  know just  how  much  I appreciate  it.  I started  reading  it  about  a year  ago  and since  then  I have  been  a booster  for  it  from  the  ground  up.  It  is  sa  different from  the  usual  type  of  magazine — the  stories  take  you  from  the  everyday realms  of  life.  It  is  a pity  that  it  only  comes  out  once  a month.  My  favorite authors  are  Seabury  Quinn,  Eli  Colter  and  Greye  La  Spina.  Let’s  have  some more  stories  of  the  exploits  of  Jules  De  Grandin.  They  are  excellent — but Colter’s  The  Dark  Chrysalis  is  one  of  the  best  stories  I ever  read.”

“I  have  been  a reader  of  Weird  Tales  a long  time,”  writes  Grace  M. Wise,  of  Corbett,  Oregon,  “and  of  all  the  magazines  I read,  it  is  my  favorite.

(Continued  on  page  714)

Learn  It  In  90  Days- Start  NOW Quick  Method  -Not  by  Correspondence

No  Books—  But  On  Actual  Live  'Machinery  -No  Lessons

Electricity  is  The  Field.  The  greatest;  largest, most  profitable  and  least  Crowded  of  all  industries. My  new,  quick,  easy  method  will  enable you  to  become  a master  of  practical  electricity in.  90  days.  I don’t  care  whether  you  ever  had a days’  experience  or  whether  you  have  only a Common  school  education,  I will  train  you so  you  can  quickly  get  into  the  big  pay  class. It’s  the  greatest  opportunity  of  the  era.

No  Books-No  Lessons  ^

It  is  a Chicago  resident  schoof‘  In  my  new  two  million dollar  school,  you  are*  taught  with  actual  electrical equipment.  Giant  dynamos,  great  power  plants,  enormous switch  boards,  mighty  transmitting  stations,  farm lighting  equipment  - all  full  sire,  working  every  day.  No dizzy  charts  Or  sleepy  lectures  to listen  to.  Five  minutes  after  you are  in  my  class,  you  will  be  working on  real  electrical  apparatus, winding  real  motors,  building  real, batteries,  wiring  real^  houses— and every  minute  there  is  an  instructor ready  to  give  undivided  attention; remember — Chicago  is  the  worlds greatest  electrical  center.  Yoil get  to  visit  all  . the  great  plants?

will  allow  your rail  road  fare  from

Big  Future— Big  Pay

Railroad  Fare  Allowed

any  point  you  happen  to  ceside  to  Chicago.  I will  get you  a good  clean  room,  and  I will  help  you  get  part .time  employment*  In  fact.  I'll  take,  a personal  interest in  gou  and  do  everything  possible  to  make  your stay  enjoyable.  And  when  you  graduate  my  employment department  will  give  you  lifetime  service.

It’s  the  trained  man who  gets  the  big  job •these  days.  $50.00  a week  and  up  is  nothing  for  a trained man.  Many  have  made  $34)00  and  up^  a year  with  their own  electsica!  shops.  My  system  of  teaching  gives  you such  a thorough  training  that  you  will  know  far  more than  the  average  electrician.  You  will  be  able  to  step out  and  get  a real  job  on  graduating.

You  can  start  in  anytime- no  waiting.  Each  student learns  individually.

Send  ter  Big  Book!

Fill  out  and  mail  the  coupon  below and  I wjjl  rush  you  my  big  56  page book  with  150  photographs  showing actual  Scenes  in  the  great  roaring Coyne  shops.  You  need  this book.  It  will  splve  your  future for  you.  Getting  this  book  will  not oblig&te  you  in  the  least.  So  ACT NOW  MAIL  COUPON  AT  ONCE.

Mt  Aeroplane  Electricity

Electrical

vv  1 SCHOOL

H.  C LEWIS,  Praldot,  Dept.  S7-fS-E*taMl«lraS  1S«*

500  South  Paulina  Street,  Chicago

Mr.  H.  C.  Lewie,  Pres.

COYNE  ELECTRICAL  SCHOOL,  Dept  87'W fee  L Pauline  It,  Cfeksago,  111.

Dear  Mr.  Lewis:  Without  oMigtlion  send  no  roar  big  free  eats  toe sod  all  details  of  RailroatLFarc  to  Chicago.  Free  Employment  Sardes, Radio.  Aeroplane  and  AuflJmativc  Courses,  and  how  1 csdl  earn  wh Ba learning."  1 understand  I will  not  be  bothered  by  salesman.

Kindly  mention  this  magazine  when  answering  advertisements

She  comes  to  me  in  the  midnight  oft,  when  the  pleasures  of  day  are  fled And  their  dregs  leave  bitterest  longing  and  unspeakable  regret —

A hopeless,  hung ’ring  yearning  that  in  vain  I would  forget —

Then  the  mists  back  roll,  and  my  naked  soul  with  her  presence  is  beset.

Her  eyes  outrival  the  mist-moonshine  in  their  silken,  soulless  glow ;

The  tints  of  the  yellow  autumn  cling  to  her  billowy  hair ;

Cold  as  the  hand  of  Death,  with  no  life-light  lingering  there,

Is  her  ashen  cheek,  and  the  wan  lips  speak  ever  Despair,  Despair.

She  points  me  back  to  the  far-fled  past — a weary  waste  outspun —

Where  unfinished  tasks  are  lying  that  my  hands  had  cast  aside,

And  smoldering  ashes,  telling  where  the  old  ambitions  died

When  the  scarlet  flame  of  carnal  shame  to  the  heart  was  made  a bride ;

And  onward  points  to  the  nearing  end  where  shadows  close  and  cling, While  my  shriveling  form  stands  quaking  on  the  brink  of  the  black  unknown :

Afar,  like  glints  of  Dawning,  Life’s  Ideal  Heights  are  shown

But  hope  has  fled,  for  the  soul  lies  dead  where  the  wasted  days  are  strown.

And  I shudder  back  in  the  ghostly  arms  and  the  soulless  eyes  I seek, Which  gleam  ’neath  the  yellow  autumn  tints  that  cling  to  the  billowy  hair, Cold  as  the  hand  of  Death,  with  no  hope-light  lingering  there.

Is  the  ashen  face,  and  the  wan  lips  trace  ever  Despair,  Despair.


They  Thought  I liV&s  AWfeak  Sister -But  I Tom  Their  Breath  Amy!

ALL  of  a sudden  the  office  was  very  quiet,  as  sometimes happens  for  an  instant  or  two,  and  a few “•words  reached  me.  "Oh,  he  won’t  dare  kick,” the  manager  was  saying,  "he’s  a pretty  weak  sister.”

Mechanically  I went  on  with  my  work,  wondering vaguely  who  the  weak  sister  could  be.  A new  man had  just  been  hired  for  our  department and  desks  were  being moved  to  make  room  for  him.  A minute  later  I looked  up  and  saw the  chief  clerk  standing  at  my side.  "Bob,”  he  crisply  ordered,

"move  your  desk  back  in  that corner,  I want  this  space  for the  new  assistant  I’ve  hired.”

Then  he  turned  and  strode  away.

I gulped  and  wilted  down  into my  chair.  / was  the  weak  sister ! And  I was  actually  being demoted ! The  new  man  was  being hired  for  my  place!  This was  my  reward  for  all  my  hard work — this  was  how  I won  out by  waiting  patiently  for  my  turn to  be  promoted.  I had  even  confjratulated  myself  on  my  closeipped,  reserved  manner  — I thought  I was  showing  strength of  character  by  sticking  to  my work  and  not  trying  to  push myself — to  show  off.

And  that  was  the  whole  trouble'  ulfev^y  stee*  in  my  makeup,  but  I had no  ability  to  express  myself.  I was  timid,  self-conscious,  and  actually  afraid  of  my  own  voice.  I would study  out  the  office  problems  and  find  solutions  for our  difficulties,  but  I didn't  know  how  to  present  these ideas  to  the  man  up.  ahead.  Several  of  the  boys  who had  started  at  the  time  I did  were  now  department managers— because  they  had  the  knack  of  forceful speech,  self-confidence  and  personality— the  very qualities  I lacked.

It  made  me  good  and  mad — and  I resolved  to show  them— to  get  rid,  once  and  for  all,  of  my timidity  and  shyness— my  bashfulness  and lack  of  poise.

In  Fifteen  Minutes  a Day

And  then  suddenly  I discovered  a new  easy  method which  made  me  into  a good  talker — a forceful  and  powerful speaker — almost  overnight.  I learned  how  to  say just  the  right  words  at  the  right  time,  how  to  win and  hold  the  attention  of  those  around  me,  how  to bend  others  to  my  will,  how  to  dominate  one  man  or

What  15  Minutes  a Day Will  Show  You

How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to How  to

an  audience  of  thousands.  My  sielf-consciousness  began to  vanish.  One  morning  I got  up  my  courage  and presented  the  manager  and  the  chief  clerks  with  a complete  plan  for  rearranging  our  department — stating it  simply  and  clearly,  but  in  a pleasing,  interesting and  forceful  way.  I actually  took  their  breath  away — they were  so  amazed  that  they  gave  me full  power  to  carry  out  my  ideas!

Soon  I had  won  salary  increases, promotion,  popularity,  power.  And  I accomplished  all  this  by  developing  the natural  power  of  speech  possessed  by everyone,  but  cultivated  by  so  few — by  simply  spending  15  minutes  a day in  the  privacy  of  my  own  home  on this  most  fascinating  subject.

talk  before' 'your  dob  or  lodge

propose  and  respond  to  toasts

address  board  meetings

make  a political,  speech

tell  entertaining'stories

make  after-dinner  speeches

converse  interestingly

write  letters

sell  more  goods

train  your  memory1

enlarge  your  vocabulary

develop  self-confidence

acquire  a winning  personality

strengthen  your  will-power  and  ambition

become  a clear,  accurate  thinker

develop  your  power  of  concentration

be  the  master  of  any  situation

Send  For  Thi,  Amazing  Book

This  new  method  of  training  is  fully described  in  a very  interesting  and  informative booklet  which  is  now  being sent  to  everyone  mailing  the  coupon below.  This  book  is  called.  How  to Work  Wonders  With  Words.  In  it you  are  shown  how  to  conquer  stage fright.  self-consciousness,  timidity, bashfulness  and  fear — those  things that  keep  you  silent  while  men  of lesser  ability  get  what  they  want  by the  sheer  power  of  convincing  speech. Not  only  men  who  have  made  millions, but  thousands  have  sent  for  this  book — and  are  unstinting  in  their  praise of  it.  You  are  told  how  to  bring  out 1VFIW  QFIVT1  and  develope  your  priceless  “hidden  knack” ilv/ff  OI2i* V 1 — the  natural  gift  within  you — which  will win  for  you  advancement  in  position  and  salary, popularity,  social  standing,  power  and real  success.  You  can  obtain  your  copy  absolutely free  by  sending  the  coupon.

North  American  Institute

3601  Michigan  Ave.,  Dept.  2458,  Chicago,  1U.

NORTH  AMERICAN  INSTITUTE,

3601  Michigan  Ave.,  Dept.  2458,

CHICAGO,  ILL.

Please  send  me  FREE  and  without  obligation  my copy  of  your  inspiring  booklet.  How  to  Work  Wonders With  Words,  and  full  information  regarding  your Course  in  Effective  Speaking.

Name

Address  -

City State

FREE

Kindly  mention  this  magazine  when  answering  advertisements

If  You  Want  Thrills* Popularity-Big  Pay

LEARN  AVIATION

QUICK!

Aviation  With  All  Its  Fascinating  Adventure,  Demands Red-Blooded  Young  Men!  And  Will  Pay Them  Magnificent  Sums!  Read  How  Aviation’s Best-Known  Pioneers  Will  Help  YOU  to  Qualify for  One  of  the  Big  Jobs!  Send  Today  for  Your  Copy of  Our  FREE  Illustrated  Book,  Listing  and  Describing Positions  That  Pay  $4000  to  $10,000  a Year!

AVIATION,  the  most  thrilling  of  all  20th  century l professions,  is  growing  so  swiftly  that  one  can hardly  keep  track  of  all  the  astonishing  new  developments. Air-mail  routes  have  just  been  extended to  form  a vast  aerial  network  over  the  entire  U.  S. Air-lines  and  airplane  factories  are  springing  up  all over  the  country.  Men  like  Henry  Ford  are  investing millions  in  the  future  of  commercial Aeronautics  in  America!  The possibilities  are  so  tremendous  that they  stagger  imagination!

Everything  is  set  for  the  greatest boom  in  history.  The  fortunes  that came  out  of  the  automobile  industry and  out  of  motion  pictures  will  be nothing  compared  to  the  fortunes that  will  come  out  of  Aviation!  There is  just  one  thing  holding  it  up — lack of  trained  men!  Even  in  the  beginning thousands  will  be  needed — and generously  paid.  The  opportunities open  to  them  cannot  be  over-estimated. Those  who  qualify  quickly  will find  themselves  on  the  road  to  undreamed of  money — success — popularity— and  prominence!

at  home,  in  snare  time.  Experts  will  teach  you the  secrets — give  you  all  the  inside  facts  that  are essential  to  your  success.  And,  better  yet,  the study  of  Aviation  is  almost  as  fascinating  as  the actual  work  itself.  Every  Lesson  is  chock-full  of interest — and  so  absorbing  that  you  actually  forget you  are  studying.  But  best  of  all  are  the  ultimate rewards  you  are  fitting  yourself  to gain!

Send  for  FREE  Book

Send  the  coupon  for  our  new,  free book,  just  out — “Opportunities  in  the Airplane  Industry.”  It  is  vitally  interesting, reads  like  a romance  and  tells you  things  about  this  astonishing profession  you  never  even  dreamed of.  This  book  is  so  fascinating  it could  easily  sell  for  a dollar.  Wo offer  a limited  number  FREE.  Write for  yours  today.

AMERICAN  SCHOOL  OF  AVIATION

Cent.  2458,  36D1  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  III.

PICK  YOUR  JOB!

Airplane  Instructor Airplane  Engineer Airplane  Repairman Airplane  Assembler Airplane  Mechanician Airplane  Inspector Airplane  Builder Airplane  Salesman Exhibition  Manager Airi> lane  Contractor Airplane  Motor  Expert Airplane  Designer

Start  by  Becoming  an  Aviation Expert  This  Easy  Way

Think  what  Aviation  offers  you.  Thrills  such  as you  never  had  before!  The  praise  and  plaudits  of the  multitude.  And  a chance  to  get  In  on  the ground  floor  where  rewards  will  be  unlimited!

Get  into  this  thrilling  profession  at  once  while the  field  is  new  and  unc  rowded.  Now — by  a unique new  plan— -you  can  quickly  secure  the  basic  training for  one  of  these  wonderful  high  salaries  jobs.

l 1

_ American  School  of  Aviation,

■ Dept.  2458,  3601  Micliigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111.

Without  any  obligation  please  send  me  FREE  book

■ “Opportunities  in  the  Airplane  Industry.”  Also  iniormatlon  about  your  course  in  Practical  Aeronautics.

Name

Address. City

Age_

-StateKindly  mention  this  magazine  when  answering  advertisements

"I  leave  you  to  choose  the  manner  of  your  death.”

“T  TOU  see  before  you,”  said Sark  Darlin,  with  a gesture JL  toward  his  office  window, “the  realization  of  a dream  that  endured for  a thousand  years.  Eighteen generations  of  long-lived  architects have  had  their  part  in  the dream,  and  through  that  window  you see  the  result.”

Of  course  I had  seen  it  before,  but I never  tired  of  it.  Sark  Darlin had  reason  to  be  proud.  The  culmination, this  man,  of  a thousand  years of  specialization.  He  was  old,  and his  wife  had  given  him  no  man-child to  carry  on  the  family  tradition.  The growth  of  City  of  the  East  would  die with  Sark  Darlin,  and  a little  of  the sadness  of  it  showed  in  his  face  as  he beckoned  me  to  the  window.  I,  as  his son-in-law,  must  take  up  the  torch  he

must  relinquish,  but  I — I was  not  a Darlin,  and  the  pill  was  a bitter  one for  Sark  to  swallow.  Yet  he  loved me,  else  he  never  would  have  allowed my  addresses  to  his  daughter — for that  is  the  law.

His  hand  was  on  my  shoulder  as we  stood  side  by  side  and  gazed  from the  window.  We  were  in  his  office  on the  top  floor  of  the  Executive  Building, five  hundred  stories  above ground  level.  Outside  the  window, the  platform  for  the  landing  of monopters  thrust  outward  into  space. Looking  downward  beyond  the  edge of  the  platform  I could  see  the  • other  platforms  below,  one  at  each window,  scores  and  scores  of  them, like  perches  before  the  uncountable doors  of  some  mighty  Gargantuan dovecote.  Straight  across



WEIRD  TALES

from  our  window  yet  well  below  it, since  the  Executive  Building  is  the tallest  in  all  the  City,  were  other platforms,  and  as  we  talked  there, watching,  men  and  women  and children,  like  monster  bees,  dropped from  windows  in  their  monopters, and  glided  across  to  this  or  that window  in  the  Executive  Building. All  the  windows  were  numbered  or marked  with  other  distinguishing signs.  It  -was  like  this  throughout the  whole  City,  so  that  the  great  and awesome  canyons  between  the  buildings were  fairly  alive  with  flitting and  industrious  people,  going  about their  mysterious  business  speedily and  in  silence.

Over  the  top  of  the  building  opposite I could  see  some  of  the  other buildings,  their  spires  glistening  in the  sun,  now  visible,  now  obscured  as wraiths  of  white  clouds,  like  fingers of  some  bodiless  entity  of  space, moved  into  and  along  the  canyons. Below  the  spires,  many  stories  below, there  often  were  clouds,  shutting  out the  world  beneath,  so  that  at  times, looking  from  this  window,  it  was  as though  our  building  had  been  cut  in twain  somewhere  below  us,  leaving  us here  in  space,  immovable.  At  such times  as  these  the  myriad  noises  of the  City  were  muffled,  as  well  they might  be,  when  one  considers  the depth  of  the  great  canyons.  But even  then,  when  impenetrable  fog held  the  whole  city  in  its  grip,  the noises  came  up  to  us,  even  through the  almost  sound-proof  walls  of  Sark Darlin ’s  office.  A vast,  voiceless  roar, as  though  some  subterranean  monster, imprisoned  in  a pit  that  was bottomless,  cried  out  in  agony  at his  restraint.  But  the  clouds,  white misty  draperies,  sent  their  tentacles into  the  canyons  and  paid  no  heed. While  the  clouds  were  passing through,  it  was  always  interesting  to watch  the  monopters,  each  encasing a human  being,  stand  upright  on  the platform,  patiently  waiting  for  the

mists  to  lift  or  move  on.  With  clouds in  the  canyons  it  was  virtually  suicide to  attempt  a crossing  from  one platform  to  another.  Sark  Darlin,  I knew,  had  all  but  perfected  a device whereby  monopters  might  be  directed at  will  toward  a fixed  destination,  but the  purpose  of  the  invention  had been  defeated  because,  among  the mists,  monopters  might  collide  and their  occupants  be  hurled  to  the depths.  As  we  watched  there,  while I sensed,  without  looking,  that  the face  of  Sark  Darlin  was  radiant  with pardonable  pride,  the  platforms  opposite were  fairly  aswarm  with monopters  waiting  for  the  mists  to lift  or  clear.  Like  doves  standing  before their  cotes.  It  was  impossible, of  course,  to  tell  which  were  men  and which  were  women.  Not  that  it  mattered, especially,  for  in  the  City  of the  East  there  is  no  difference  between them,  save  the  fundamental difference  of  sex,  and  women  and men  work  side  by  side.  Sark  has  told me,  he  having  read  extensively,  that this  was  not  so,  long  ago ; but  Sark  is getting  old,  and  I have  never  believed it.  To  me  it  is  inconceivable  that women  were  once  considered  to  be  of a lower  order  than  men — or  the  other way  around.  My  principal  reason for  loving  the  daughter  of  Darlin  is that  she  can  do  everything  that  I can do.

“See,  Gerd?”  he  pointed  vaguely beyond  the  window.  “The  City  of the  East!  The  greatest  city  of  all time!  The  realization  of  a dream  of my  first  recorded  ancestor.  Would that  he  lived  today  to  see  his  dream in  truth  as  he  must  have  seen  it  then in  his  mind!  He  promised  himself, this  dreamer-ancestor  of  mine,  to dedicate  his  life  to  the  building  of this  City  which  lies  before  you,  and the  tradition  was  passed  on  to  his son,  and  from  him  to  his  son,  and  the line  has  never  been  broken.  Only now  is  it  threatened,  because  my  time is  coming.  Lona  is  my  only  offspring.

THE  INVADING  HORDE


To  her,  and  to  yon,  I tender  the torch  which  has  burned  brightly through  all  the  generations  of  the Darlins.  You,  and  she,  must  carry on.”

Something  of  the  solemnity  of  the thing  entered  into  me  there  as  we stood  by  the  window.  I stood  like  a statue,  his  hand  resting  on  my shoulder,  harkening  to  the  myriad sounds  of  the  City  that  persisted  in invading  the  silence  of  Sark  Darlin’s office — and  realized  a little  of  the  tremendous responsibility  that  was  one day  to  rest  on  my  shoulders.  I shook off  the  feeling,  however,  in  a moment, and  gazed  into  the  old  man's  eyes.

‘ ‘ Nonsense ! ” I said  sharply.  “You have  twenty  years  of  active  service before  you  yet.  You  are  only  sixtyfive  ! ’ ’

“Sixty-five,”  he  repeated.  “That is  young,  I know.  Ordinarily  I should  live  to  twice  that  age.  But I have  led  a strenuous  life,  and  I shall  welcome  the  chance  to  leave  it behind  me.  I have  received  warnings  ”

He  pressed  his  white  hand,  slim and  graceful  as  Lona’s,  against  his heart.  A pang  shot  through  me.  I wondered  if  something  of  his  affliction might  not  have  been  passed  on  to Lona.  To  win  her  for  my  own,  only to  lose  her  to  Death ! ' But  I shook myself  impatiently.  Lona  was  too young,  too  replete  with  health  and brimming  vitality.

“So,”  continued  Darlin,  “you must  study  City  of  the  East  as  an artizan  studies  craftsmanship.  Every spare  hour  must  be  spent  in  the  air, learning  all  there  is  to  learn  about this  City  in  whose  future  you  will have  such  an  active  part.  The  sun  is high  now,  my  son,  so  drop  off  and busy  yourself.  This  is  a tremendous responsibility  I am  passing  on  to you.  ’ ’

I fancied  I read  a vague  hint  in  his voice  as  he  said  it,  as  though  he somehow  doubted  his  choice  of  a

successor — and  decided  instantly that,  before  he  should  leave  us,  I would  erase  any  lingering  doubt  of me  his  heart  might  harbor.  Now, however,  there  were  other  things  to do.  He  had  bade  me  go,  and  to  obey his  slightest  wish  was  my  law — since I was  soon  to  become  his  son-in-law. We  stepped  back  from  the  window and  Darlin  kept  up  a running  fire  of conversation,  while  I stepped  into my  monopter  and  adjusted  the  filament wires  to  the  headpiece  which, last  of  all,  would  be  set  in  place, closing  the  monopter  to  all  sound save  that  which  was  transmitted  by the  mechanism  of  the  wireless  telephone inside  the  headpiece.

With  Sark  Darlin’s  words  ringing in  my  ears  I stepped  to  the window.  Darlin  opened  it  and closed  it  swiftly  behind  me.  I was alone  on  the  platform,  preparing  myself for  the  duty  to  follow.  To  see and  to  learn,  and  to  remember,  and the  whole  of  City  of  the  East  was  my place  of  operation.  Added  to  this duty,  which  I loved,  was  the  anticipation of  again  seeing  Lona,  who  had promised  to  meet  me  at  the  fifty thousand  foot  air  lane,  directly  east of  the  Executive  Building,  at  the edge  of  the  Great  Rampart  which holds  back  the  rising  waters  of  the vast  Atlantic — our  usual  trysting place  where,  hand  in  hand,  communing by  telephone,  we  were  accustomed to  flying  far  out  to  sea,  beyond  the usual  range  of  other  monopters, where  we  might  enjoy  the  privacy our  love  demanded.  From  day  to day  I lived  in  anticipation  of  that winging  flight  outward  from  the Great  Rampart  in  which,  like  a Lord and  Lady  of  Creation,  we  talked lovers’  nonsense  and  looked  down upon  the  vast  dominion  we  were  to inherit  from  Sark  Darlin.

My  heart  was  all  aflutter  as  I stood  on  the  platform,  waiting  for  the mists  to  disperse  slightly  before


WEIRD  TALES

leaping  into  space.  I knew  that  behind me  Sark  Darlin  stood  by  the window,  wishing  me  a silent  Godspeed.

The  monopter,  as  you  must  know, is  nothing  more  nor  less  than  a slipover suit  of  specially  prepared  material which,  equipped  with  a tiny atomic  engine  resting  compactly  behind and  between  the  shoulders  of  the wearer,  keeps  out  the  cold  of  the higher  altitudes.  No  one  has  yet found  it  necessary  to  ascend  to  any altitude  greater  than  fifty  thousand feet,  which  is  almost  the  ceiling  for monopters.  There  are  air  lanes  below this  level,  a lane  for  each  two hundred  feet,  in  fact,  and  each  type of  monopter,  passenger  and  freight, keeps  to  its  particular  level,  assigned by  law,  the  monopters  of  the  various trades  and  strata  of  society  being designated  by  words  on  the  outside  of each  monopter  as,  for  example : “Engineer,  Air  Lane  50,000”,  or, “Building  Level  200,  Air  Lane  35,- 000”.  This  last  indicates  that  the occupant  of  the  monopter  is  a man  or woman  from  that  City  level  indicated by  the  two  hundredth  story  of  City buildings,  assigned  by  law  to  Air Lane  35,000,  which  is  to  say,  that monopters  from  this  level  must  confine themselves  to  an  elevation  not greater  than  35,000  feet.  The  first designation  is  virtually  self-explanatory, indicating  that  the  Engineers, whose  business  is  the  building  of  the City  of  the  East  to  still  grander  proportions, are  allowed  to  ascend  to  the highest  lane,  whence  they  are  enabled to  view  everything  below  them,  which includes  every  activity  known  at present  to  the  City  of  the  East.  I am of  the  Engineers,  soon  to  be  the  head of  the  Guild,  through  my  marriage to  Lona  Darlin.  But  in  reference  to the  monopter:  as  I say,  it  is  no  more than  a slip-over  suit,  entirely  enclosing the  occupant,  and  the  motive power  is  supplied  by  a small,  compact, atomic  engine,  an  invention  of

Sark  Darlin,  and  is  guided  and  directed by  tiny  buttons  inside  the finger-tips  of  the  right  glove.  In  the air  the  monopter  and  its  occupant are  one  entity,  directed  by  one  brain. Lenses  of  specially  prepared  material, with  fused  quartz  as  the  principal alloy,  allow  the  eyes  of  the  occupant full  view  in  all  directions,  or  as  far as  the  eyes  may  swerve  in  any  direction. To  look  at  the  rear  requires  a turning  of  the  entire  monopter. From  which  it  may  be  seen  that  a person  in  the  air  is  virtually  the  same in  appearance  as  a person  on  the ground,  free  of  the  monopter,  with the  exception  of  the  slight  enlargement of  the  head  and  torso,  caused  by the  covering  which  houses  the  engine of  propulsion  and  the  mechanism  of the  headpiece.  It  is  as  though  man had  suddenly  lifted  into  the  air  on invisible  wings,  and  when  all  the monopters  of  the  City  of  the  East  are in  the  air,  which  seldom  happens  at one  time,  the  City  resembles  more than  ever  a gigantic  dovecote,  with its  inhabitants  circling  about  in  preparation for  landing,  filling  the  air  to the  very  crest  of  Air  Lane  50,000. An  awe-inspiring  sight,  even  when, as  I am,  one  is  accustomed  to  it.

Standing  on  the  platform  before Sark  Darlin ’s  window,  I was  glad that  I had  locked  myself  securely  inside my  monopter,  for  I was  slightly giddy  with  my  thoughts,  inspired  by the  stupendous  responsibility  soon  to be  mine,  and,  in  my  excitement, might  have  fallen  from  the  platform. This  would  have  been  disastrous  had I,  as  I sometimes  did,  left  the  fastening of  the  headpiece  of  the  monopter until  I had  taken  my  place  on  the narrow  platform.  Now,  however,  it would  have  been  perfectly  safe  to step  off  into  space  and  drop  like  a plummet,  for  to  slacken  speed  required but  the  pressure  of  finger  on button,  so  that  I would  have  landed at  the  bottom  of  this  great  canyon  as

THE  INVADING  HORDE


lightly  as  a feather  fluttering  downward.

It  has  always  been  a great  moment for  me,  a thrilling  moment,  to  stand on  the  platform  before  leaping  outward. From  far  below  comes  the bellowing  voice  of  the  City,  welling up  like  thunder  from  the  depths, rattling  the  very  headpiece  about  my ears,  causing  my  whole  body  to tremble,  so  that  the  platform  under my  feet  seems  to  sway  as  though some  invisible  hand  is  shaking  it from  side  to  side.  A cloud  of  snowy whiteness  passes  through  the  canyon below  me,  blotting  out  some  of the  sound,  shutting  out  the  world below,  so  that  it  seems  the  world  as I know  it  has  its  foundation  in space,  with  spires  and  towers  afloat in  the  whiteness,  a City  in  the  air. The  moving  of  the  clouds  gives  the sense  of  motion,  so  that,  as  I gaze at  the  building  across  from  me, it  seems  to  be  leaning  in  my  direction, so  that  I have  an  insane  desire to  leap  into  space  before  it shall  have  toppled  against  the  Executive Building  and  both  shall  have fallen  crashing  into  the  canyon. Even  the  Executive  Building  seems to  be  moving,  as  though  it  tilted away  from  me,  toppling  me  forward, so  that  I unconsciously  lean  backward to  keep  from  falling  over  the edge.  It  is  intoxicating  and  I never tire  of  this  experience.  But  a tapping sound  comes  through  the phones  and  I turn  to  look  at  the window  through  which  I have  just stepped.  Sark  Darlin  is  tapping  the window  with  one  hand,  while  his other  hand  makes  a sweeping gesture  which  bids  me  soar  aloft  on the  business  assigned  me.  Thus,  in a gesture,  I am  brought  back  to  the matter  in  hand,  recalled  to  a mission that  never  becomes  humdrum.

However,  just  for  the  joy  of  falling, I step  to  the  edge  of  the  platform and  lean  forward  until  the  pull of  gravitation  topples  me  from  my

perch  and  I go  plummeting  downward. I always  revel,  dropping thus,  in  the  thought  that  there  may be  something  wrong  with  my monopter  and  that  I shall  not  be able  to  halt  my  downward  flight.  I might  have  failed  to  connect  some all-important  filament,  a failure  that would  assuredly  spell  disaster.  But when  I decide  to  check  my  falling, speed  slackens  gradually  until,  by an  effort  of  will,  I am  moving  in  the opposite  direction,  upward.  Once this  is  accomplished  the  matter  is simple.  I keep  on  climbing,  straight into  the  clouds.

My  flight  upward  is  uninterrupted, for  the  aerial  traffic  laws compel  monopters  already  in  the  air to  keep  out  of  the  way  of  monopters ascending  or  descending  while,  in the  up  and  down  traffic,  descending monopters  keep  out  of  the  way  of those  ascending.

So  in  a few  moments,  I find  my monopter  becoming  almost  stationary, indicating  that  I have  reached Air  Lane  50,000  or  the  ceiling  for monopters,  50,000  feet  above  ground level.  Here  for  a moment  I tilt  forward to  peer  down.  What  a magnificent sight ! No  wonder  Sark Darlin  is  proud!  Air  lane  after  air lane,  each  alive  with  its  myriads  of flitting,  darting  monopters,  as  the individuals  occupying  them  scurry here  and  there  toward  unknown destinations.  A veritable  cloud, black  layer  upon  black  layer,  extending downward  to  swathe  the very  buildings  of  the  City  of  the East.  A cloud,  moreover,  through which  it  is  easy  to  get  glimpses  of the  City  itself.

As  I have  said  before,  the  highest building  is  the  Executive  Building, 500  stories,  almost  in  the  mathematical center  of  the  City.  All about  this  building  are  grouped  the others,  many  of  them  far  more  massive, most  of  them  in  fact,  sinee


WEIRD  TALES

Executive  Building  is  more  like  a slender  spire  than  a building — and they  vary  in  height  from  two  hundred and  fifty  stories  to  four  hundred and  ninety,  the  latter  building  being an  annex  to  the  Executive  Building, housing  the  subordinates  and  apprentices of  the  Engineers,  who themselves  are  housed  in  the  Executive Building.  This  latter  building, with  its  sprawling  annex,  is  the  most industrious  hive  in  all  the  City.  Its work  is  the  City’s  progress.  Its officials  are  the  City  Administrators.

A City  of  spires,  of  great  heights, cloud-wreathed,  reaching  to  all  the horizons.  A city  of  mighty  canyons, since  the  invention  of  monopters made  it  possible  to  remove  the  suspension bridges  of  my  father’s  time. A City — but  I find  this  the  best simile:  it  is  as  though  a great  piece of  cardboard,  cut  to  represent,  on  a tiny  scale,  all  the  country  lying  between the  Atlantic  and  the  Mississippi, so-named  in  ancient  times, and  extending  into  the  region  of cold  to  the  north  and  the  region  of the  tropics  to  the  south — and  this cardboard  literally  obliterated  from view  by  pins  thrast  upward  from the  underside,  a vast  pin-cushion with  all  the  points  extending  outward. Only  the  pins  of  the  simile are  the  towers  and  spires  of  the  City of  the  East.  The  sun  glistening  on the  spires  bears  out  the  simile,  for the  spires  shine  in  its  rays  like  pinpricks of  silver,  deluging  the  sky with  silvery  glamor.  A marvelous creation,  full-sprung  from  the  brain of  eighteen  generations  of  Darlins.

But  I turn  for  the  flight  into  the East  where,  at  the  edge  of  the  Great Rampart,  I have  an  appointment with  Lona.  Together,  after  our lonely  flight,  hand  in  hand,  across the  waters  of  the  Atlantic,  we  will come  back  across  the  City  of  the East,  which  we  must  one  day  govern, to  examine  the  Invisible  Frontier. This  frontier,  if  I may  explain  in

passing,  is  that  invisible  line  of demarcation,  beyond  which  people of  the  West  may  not  come — for  they are  aliens.  These  people  are  the races  of  color,  which  occupy  all  the country  west  of  the  Mississippi, representing  the  descendants  of  the races  of  color  who,  centuries  ago,  all but  overthrew  the  people  of  the American  white  race.  Only  the foresight  of  one  of  the  Darlins  prevented this  racial  catastrophe.  He had  already  caused  the  installation of  the  Invisible  Frontier.

In  itself  the  frontier  is  simplicity. At  each  quarter-mile  along  its  length is  a tiny  station  housing  a eorps  of engineers,  whose  duty  it  is  to  see that  the  mechanism  of  the  aerial  ray producers  do  not  fail.  These  rays, which  are  invisible,  are  hurled  into the  sky  to  a height  twice  that  of  the ceiling  of  the  most  perfect  monopter, and  played  back  and  forth  so  that  it would  be  impossible  for  any  person of  the  West  to  pass  through  the  Invisible Wall,  for  to  attempt  such  a foolhardy  thing  would  be  death.  No monopter  has  yet  been  perfected which  is  able  to  pass  through  this wall  of  rays.  Certain  foolhardy people  of  the  West  have  tried  it, only  to  have  their  monopters,  less perfect  than  ours,  melt  away  from about  them,  allowing  the  occupants to  plummet  to  the  earth — a painless death  after  all,  since  even  before  the beginning  of  the  downward  plunge, the  occupant  of  the  offending monopter  has  been  burned  to  a cinder.

Only  through  a traitor  along  the Invisible  Frontier  would  the  invasion of  the  people  of  the  West  be possible.  We  have  long  known  that the  scientists  of  this  country  of  the West  have  been  trying  to  perfect machines  capable  of  passing  through the  frontier,  for  these  people  breed like  flies,  and  must  eventually  find some  place  for  their  expanding  population or  perish.  But  the  possiTHE  INVADING  HORDE


bility  of  a traitor,  a man  or  woman who  would  deliver  the  City  of  the East  into  the  hands  of  the  races  of color,  would  be  unthinkable.  The attack,  when  it  does  come,  must  be from  another  direction  and — but  one shudders  to  think  of  such  a catas- . trophe.

So  I thought  as  I fled  eastward toward  the  Great  Rampart , little guessing  that  already  an  attack  was being  launched,  and  that  Lona  and I were  to  witness  the  very  first  contact.


npHE  speed  of  my  monopter  is  three hundred  miles  an  hour,  so  that it  is  a pleasure  jaunt  from  the  center of  City  of  the  East  to  the  edge  of  the Great  Rampart — a pleasure  jaunt  all the  more  pleasant  because  I know  I shall  find  Lona  at  my  destination. Lona ! There  is  romance  in  her  very name!  Thig  flesh  and  blood  woman sired  by  Sark  Darlin,  the  greatest living  architect,  to  whom  he  was soon  to  turn  over  the  vast  responsibilities inherent  in  his  dreams.  To Lona,  and  to  myself,  as  one  after  the marriage  which  should  take  place very  soon;  but  never  too  soon  to please  me.  Lona!  The  brightcheeked girl  of  the  golden  hair,  and the  form  of  a goddess  of  the  olden times,  when  men  had  not  yet  conquered the  air  lanes,  but  crawled slowly  along  the  ground  in  liquiddriven,  clumsy  vehicles,  or  soared  to unimportant  heights  in  unwieldy machines  even  more  clumsy.  Lona, whose  very  name  spoke  of  perfection! And  I was  hurrying  into  the East  to  keep  my  daily  tryst  with  her.

Already,  far  ahead,  I could  see  the mists  which  shroud  the  shoreline  of the  Atlantic,  and  was  glancing about  me  among  the  hurrying myriads  of  monopters,  seeking  that which  bore  upon  its  crest  the  swastika-and-star  which  is  the  signal  of

the  house  of  Darlin.  Only  Sark Darlin  himself,  who  rarely  makes use  of  the  monopter  of  his  own  invention, and  Lona,  may  wear  the  insignia of  the  star  superimposed  upon the  swastika.  The  significance  of the  signal  has  been  lost  in  antiquity ; but  the  whole  City  of  the  East knows  that  inside  the  monopter marked  with  the  swastika-and-star is  Lona,  the  promised  bride  of  Gerd Sota,  myself.

So,  speeding  eastward,  with  now and  then  a glance  downward  into the  vast  canyons  of  City  of  the  East, evading  the  streams  of  other  monopters to  right  and  left  of  me  by  instinct, I pondered  the  matter.  I wonder  now,  as  I look  back  upon that  flight,  whether  I didn’t  really harbor  some  slight  intuition  of  the catastrophe  so  soon  to  follow.  Perhaps. Else  why  had  the  thought  of attack  obtruded  itself  upon  my  consciousness? Men  and  women  in other  monopters  at  my  level,  all  of them  belonging  to  this  lane  because of  their  importance  in  the  City  of the  East,  raised  their  arms  to  me  in passing,  and  I returned  their  silent greetings  abstractedly.  The  word had  already  gone  forth,  I could  see, that  Gerd  Sota  was  soon  to  take  the place  of  Sark  Darlin  as  chief  administrator of  City  of  the  East,  and these  greetings  from  the  other monopters  were  silent  pledges  of fealty.  Soon  the  very  least  of  these would  carry  out  orders  originating with  me,  or  with  Lona.

But  I was  approaching  the  Great Rampart,  which  merits  a brief description.  The  first  noticeable rising  of  the  waters  of  the  Atlantic is  shrouded  in  remote  antiquity. Suffice  it  that  the  first  Darlin  took cognizance  and  caused  the  first stones  of  the  Great  Rampart  to  be laid.  At  first  it  was  only  a great wall,  a thousand  feet  in  width  and two  hundred  feet  of  elevation,  a fortress  against  the  ocean.  Prom


WEIRD  TALES

which  I know  that  the  rising  of  the waters  had  been  an  exceedingly  slow progress,  since  the  base  of  that  first wall  is  at  the  present  moment  but fifty  feet  below  the  surface  of  the Atlantic.  I can,  however,  but  marvel at  the  foresight  of  the  first  inspired Darlin,  for  even  that  fifty feet  of  rise  would  have  spelled  disaster had  there  been  no  wall.  However, as  time  passed,  and  as  the population  of  the  City  of  the  East increased,  and  especially  after  the invasion  of  the  races  of  color,  when the  white  race  was  driven  back from  the  Pacific,  back  behind  the Mississippi,  at  whose  farther  side  the Invisible  Frontier  had  already  been installed,  and  beyond  which  the races  of  color  could  not  penetrate,  it became  increasingly  evident  that, because  the  people  of  the  white  race literally  covered  the  ground  level, the  only  possible  expansion  must  be upward.

Under  the  leadership  of  a Darlin, every  able-bodied  man  and  woman was  pressed  into  service.  Hills  and mountains  were  leveled  overnight, and  from  the  very  bowels  of  the earth  came  the  materials  which went  into  building  of  the  Great Rampart.  From  great  depths  they came,  those  materials,  for  this  farsighted Darlin  wished  to  preserve  as much  of  the  native  soil  as  was humanly  possible  from  which  to  get the  food  to  feed  the  City  of  his dreams.  And  as  his  myriad  army  of laborers  moved  westward  from  the first  Great  Rampart,  the  wall  itself was  broadened,  and  on  its  first humble  beginnings,  that  thousandfoot-wide  barrier,  was  erected  the first  series  of  the  then  highest  buildings in  all  the  world.  But  the  first one  was  an  insignificant  hundred and  fifty  stories,  so  that  our  shoreline, which  should  really  be  a thing of  beauty,  is  but  a drab  collection  of time-worn,  ill-shaped,  comparatively tiny  buildings.

But  that  was  a beginning.  And with  this  as  a starting-point  the  wall itself  was  extended,  so  that  today the  ground  is  invisible,  and  the  bottom of  the  deepest  canyon  in  the City  is  two  hundred  feet  above ground  level.  Beneath  this  level  expanse of  imperishable  stone  are  the Menials,  subjugated  peoples  who  toil in  slavery  to  feed  the  multitudes above  them.  One  wonders  at  the fears  which  must  ever  be  with  them, when  they  realize  the  number  of  uncountable tons  of  material  which hover  over  them.  But  all  they  see are  the  great  pilings  which  are  the foundations  of  the  Great  Rampart, upon  which,  in  turn,  the  buildings of  the  City  of  the  East  have  been erected.  These  pilings,  so  Sark Darlin  has  told  me,  are  of  slenderness unbelievable ; but  the  matter  of stresses  and  strains  has  been  worked out  so  carefully  that  there  is  little doubt  that  the  City  will  stand,  immovable, for  centuries  yet  to  come. The  slenderness  was  made  necessary in  order  that  every  available  bit  of ground  might  be  cultivated.  The Menials  are  never  allowed  above ground  level,  and  are  the  only  inhabitants of  City  of  the  East  who are  denied  the  use  of  monopters.

So,  to  sum  it  all  up,  the  Great Rampart,  except  where  it  sets  flush with  hills  of  solid  stone  left  by  the builders,  extends  from  the  shore  of the  Atlantic  to  what  was  the  Mississippi before  its  waters  were  diverted to  the  use  of  the  white  race. It  is  a veritable  White  City,  and  no ground  at  all  is  visible,  save  that which  may  be  seen  when  the  waters of  the  Atlantic  are  clear,  extending from  the  shore  to  that  point  where they  vanish  into  the  depths.

Some  day  City  of  the  East  will extend  still  farther  eastward,  for  on our  journeys,  Lona’s  and  mine,  over the  waters,  we  have  discussed  this possibility  of  further  vanquishing the  waters,  driving  them  back  beTHE  INVADING  HORDE


fore  a moving  wall  of  stone.  But  all that  is  in  the  future.  It  will  be  my problem,  God  willing,  and  Lona’s; for  day  by  day  people  are  being bom,  faster  than  they  die,  so  that, inevitably,  City  of  the  East  must grow  to  house  its  myriads  of  inhabitants.

Among  other  duties,  I must  strive to  familiarize  myself  with  the  duties of  the  Menials;  but  that  will  come later.  I must  know,  Sark  Darlin  tells me,  something  of  the  vast  quantities of  food  necessary  to  sustain  the  life of  City  of  the  East,  so  that  I can plan  against  the  future,  when  the population  will  be  too  great  to  feed under  present  arrangements.  Another glimpse  of  the  varied  responsibility which  is  to  be  mine

erd  ! Gerd ! ’ ’

Musically  the  name  beats against  my  eardrums  from  the phones.  I know  that  marvelous voice.  Somewhere  among  the monopters  which  hem  me  in,  Lona  is calling  my  name,  directing  the sound  into  space,  seeking  me.  She knows  that  I should  be  in  this vicinity  now,  and  that  in  a few  minutes I should  catch  her  signal.

“Gerd!  Gerd!”

I know  that  she  is  approaching, from  somewhere  off  to  my  right,  as I can  tell  by  my  direction  finder. So,  upon  the  membrane  which presses  tightly  against  my  lips,  I speak  her  name,  putting  into  its pronunciation  all  of  the  love  I bear her.

“Lona!  Beloved!”

“Wait,  Gerd!  I am  coming!”

So  I slacken  my  terrific  speed  into the  East,  remaining  virtually  motionless, as  I revolve  slowly,  seeking among  the  myriads  of  monopters  for that  on  whose  crest  is  the  sign  of  the swastika-and-star.  I locate  it  finally, far  below,  off  to  the  right,  shooting up  toward  me  from  perhaps  the  five thousand  foot  level,  the  monopter

which  causes  my  heart  to  leap  with excitement.  For  on  its  crest,  gleaming in  the  sun,  is  the  sign  of  the swastika-and-star.  I raise  my  arms and  touch  my  fingers  above  my head,  holding  the  pose  until  Lona has  picked  me  out — a pre-arranged signal  between  us.  For,  being  below me,  she  can  not  see  my  own  insignia, unless  I stand  on  my  head,  which  is unpleasant  if  one  must  hold  the  position for  any  length  of  time.  She waves  her  hand  to  indicate  that  she has  seen  my  signal,  and  in  a moment her  monopter  is  beside  mine,  and, hand  in  hand,  we  continue  the  dash into  the  East,  toward  the  shoreline which  is  now  visible,  with  the  vast blue  canvas  beyond,  a canvas  extended to  north  and  south'  to  be  lost in  the  mists  of  distance,  paralleled by  the  Great  Rampart  as  far  as  the eye  can  see,  even  when  aided  by  the magnifying  qualities  of  the  eyelenses  that  glide  into  place  when  I will  it.

“Gerd!”  it  is  almost  a whisper, scarcely  breathing  through  the phones.

My  heart  fills,  unaccountably, with  a feeling  of  dread.  Lona  is alarmed.  There  is  no  mistaking  that fact.  She  has  witnessed  something dreadful  while  awaiting  my  arrival. But  I wait  for  her  to  tell  me.

“Gerd,”  and  I know  she  is  striving for  control  to  tell  her  story,  “I thought  you  would  never  come,  dear. You  are  on  time,  sweetheart — I am not  censuring  you.  But  I have  been in  agony  because  there  was  no  one to  whom  I dared  entrust  this  news of  mine.  I could  have  sent  the  message to  Father  Sarlc;  but  there  was a chance  that  it  might  be  picked  up by  some  enemy  and  my  purpose  defeated. That’s  why  I am  now  talking to  you  in  our  own  private  code.  For all  I know,  though  it  may  be  a silly woman’s  fears,  the  monopters  all about  us  may  encase  the  persons  of enemies  or  traitors.”


WEIRD  TALES

She  paused,  and  my  heart  leaped again  because  of  her  absolute  trust in  me;  because  she  believed  that  I, Gerd  Sota,  would  know  the  proper thing  to  do.  But  I knew  that,  had I not  arrived  as  arranged,  Lona  herself would  undoubtedly  have  done whatever  was  necessary,  and  she would  have  made  no  error  in  judgment! I waited,  wondering,  in dread,  for  her  to  continue.

But  she  said  no  more.  She  merely gripped  my  hand,  and  I fancied, though  it  was  more  mental  suggestion than  speech,  that  the  phones carried  to  my  ears  the  single  whispered word:  “Speed!”

For  side  by  side,  our  hands clasped  tightly,  we  were  rushing eastward  with  a speed  such  as  I never  before  had  flown.  The  other monopters  in  this  air  lane  seemed  to go  back  from  us  as  we  passed,  _ as though  they  had  been  standing  still ; yet  I knew  that  they  traveled  at  a speed  in  excess  of  two  hundred  miles an  hour.  It  was  like  traveling through  a veritable  fog  of  monopters, held  in  aerial  suspension.  But the  swastika-and-star  on  Lona’s crest  assured  us  of  a clear  right  of way,  so  that  there  was  no  danger  of collision,  even  had  I not  released the  outside  buzzer  which  cast  a radio warning  forth  into  the  air,  so  that monopters  in  oiir  path  would  draw aside.

Speed,  speed,  speed ! The  air through  which  we  fled  met  us  like  a wall.  Right  below  us  now  was  the edge  of  the  Great  Rampart,  its  white immensity  bathed  in  flying  spume  at its  ponderous  base,  as  the  waves, mountain-high  because  of  a gathering storm,  threshed  out  their  futile strength  against  that  stony  inspiraion  of  the  first  of  the  Darlins.  But we  did  not  pause.  Lona  gripped  my hand,  so  that  I turned  to  look  into her  eyes.  It  is  difficult  to  see  eyes through  the  intervening  lenses  of

two  monopters,  but  I could  see Lona’s  as  though  their  very  intensity of  gaze  commanded.  They  were large  and  frightened,  and  as  soon  as she  knew  I had  seen,  she  raised  her free  arm  and  pointed  out  to  sea.

Then  I noticed  an  odd  phenomenon. The  beating  of  the  waves against  the  Great  Rampart  was  only a local  disturbance,  covering  a distance of  perhaps  five  miles  to  right and  left  of  where  we  were — and  ten miles  out  to  sea  the  surface  of  the Atlantic  was  as  smooth  as  a millpond ! It  was  unbelievable.  As though  some  monster  of  the  deep faced  this  particular  portion  of  the Great  Rampart  and  lashed  a mighty tail  in  fury,  causing  the  waters  to crash  against  the  immovable  stone, breaking  high  along  the  face  of  the Great  Rampart,  bathing  it  in  flying, angry  spume.  What  had  caused  this vast  disturbance?  What  mighty  upheaval in  the  depths  of  Mother  Atlantic was  thus  arousing  her  ancient displeasure?  And,  catching  a glimpse  again  of  Lona’s  face,  I saw that  it  was  white  and  set — and  a little  of  her  abject  fear  communicated itself  to  me  through  our clasped  hands.

“What  is  it,  Lona?  For  God’s sake  tell  me!”

“Wait!”

I knew  then  that  she  intended showing  me,  and  dread  was  at  my throat  again.  I knew  that  I was destined  to  witness  some  monstrous thing.  Yet  why  should  I be  afraid? Lona,  undoubtedly,  had  already seen;  yet  she  was  going  back — with me ! Some  of  her  invincible  courage imparted  itself  to  me  with  the thought,  so  that  I resolved,  come what  might,  to  live  up  to  her  faith — and  to  dispel  the  haunting  doubt  of Sark  Darlin,  which  I had  detected in  his  voice  as  he  had  wished  me Godspeed  at  the  beginning  of  my flight  from  the  Executive  Building.

THE  INVADING  HORDE


XTow  we  were  hurtling  straight  out to  sea  while,  looking  backward with  a swift  turn  of  my  head,  I could  see  that  the  waves  still  broke as  high  as  ever  against  the  Great Rampart.  But  I could  not  see  into the  depths,  here.  It  was  as  though all  the  ocean  were  a-boil,  lashing the  surface  to  a white  foam,  so  that only  the  surface  was  visible.  What monstrous  thing  wallowed  just  below us,  invisible  below  the  mantle  of white  which  made  of  this  section  of the  coast  a boiling  cauldron?

Lona  again  grasped  my  hand tightly.  Our  speed  slackened,  as though  her  will  had  dominated  mine, so  that  I slackened  my  own  monopter  instinctively.

“Look  down,  Gerd!”  she  said. “Below  the  surface!  Study  the depths  as  soon  as  we  are  far  enough out  to  be  beyond  the  milky  whiteness of  the  boiling  water.  Move slowly,  or  we  may  pass  it!'’

What  did  she  mean?  I was  soon to  know,  for  gradually  the  whiteness of  the  puzzling  boiling  faded,  so that,  here  and  there,  I caught glimpses  of  the  blue  of  the  depths, into  which,  at  intervals,  I could penetrate  with  my  eyes.  I pressed my  free  hand  to  a button  outside my  headpiece,  and  powerful  lenses dropped  into  place  before  my  eyes. I had  only  aped  Lona  in  this,  for  I had  seen  her  own  eyes  vanish  behind opacity  as  she  did  the  same thing.  We  were  both  virtually motionless  in  the  air  now,  except that  we  dropped  gradually  downward, leaning  forward  both,  so  that our  view  beneath  would  be  unobstructed.

I almost  leaped  free  of  my  monopter  when  I saw  the  thing!  It  was monstrous.

A submarine  such  as  the  wildest nightmare  might  not  have  conceived ! Even  at  the  depth  at  which it  must  have  been  lying,  for  we  were several  miles  from  shore,  the  reflection of  the  sun’s  rays  from  the elliptical  body  of  the  thing  was blinding.  It  must  have  been  all  of a mile  in  length,  and  it  rested  on  the bottom,  broadside  to  the  shore  and the  Great  Rampart,  a silvery  mass of  what  looked  to  be  a mountain  of gleaming  steel!  A metal  monster beyond  all  imagining.  There  was no  propeller  that  I could  see,  though, taking  its  vast  size  into  consideration, it  was  now  not  inconceivable that  the  thing  might  be  provided with  a myriad  of  metal  legs,  on which  it  had  walked  the  ocean’s floor,  following  the  coastline  from — where?  It  was  not  hard  to  guess, when  one  took  into  consideration  the desperate  necessity  of  the  races  of color  to"  secure  the  vast  country  in which  was  City  of  the  East.

The  more  I thought  of  it  the  more I was  sure  that  the  metal  thing  was possessed  of  legs;  that  it  was  a senseless amphibian.  It  had  probably  followed the  coast  into  the  south  from some  place  on  the  North  Pacific, thence  by  land  across  the  neck  connecting the  two  great  Americas. Reason  tottered  as  I strove  to  fancy this  great  thing  walking  across  the Isthmus,  trampling  whole  mountains under  foot,  wiping  out  cities  and towns  which  stood  in  the  way.  But what  was  it  doing  here?  Its  activities were  making  a boiling  cauldron of  this  portion  of  the  ocean ; but  how  ?

In  the  instant  of  asking  the  question I knew  the  answer.  For  by scores  and  hundreds  there  darted from  the  massive  side  of  the  thing, under  water,  egg-shaped  things  not unlike  our  own  monopters.  Tiny submarines,  these,  each  with  a man inside  it ! That  was  the  answer. There  were  thousands  of  them,  so that,  darting  into  the  deep  water, visible  until  they  had  entered  the boiling  area  to  be  lost  from  view, they  looked  like  a vast  school  of speedy  fish,  darting  headlong  toward that  section  of  the  Great  Rampart


WEIRD  TALES

upon  which  the  waves  were  breaking their  crests  into  wisps  of  flying spume.  That  boiling  had  been  induced for  the  express  purpose  of masking  from  the  view’  of  our  aerial scouts  whatever  the  enemy  was doing.

Even  as  one  school  of  the  tiny  submarines darted  into  the  whiteness, another  emerged  from  it,  dashing against  the  side  of  the  metal  monster to  be  taken  in  and  absorbed.  Like  a great  fish  spawning,  then  receiving lier  young  into  her  body  again.  Even as  I thought  this,  my  brain  working furiously  to  find  a solution,  school after  school  of  them  broke  from  the whiteness  and  were  lost  in  the  side  of the  monster.

Inside  my  left  glove,  which  is  part of  the  monopter,  my  fingers  worked like  mad  upon  the  tiny  instrument with  which,  in  the  air,  I keep  in  eontact  with  Sark  Dari  in.  I gave  him the  section  of  the  rampart  where  the mysterious  activity  was  going  on, and  a brief  description  of  the  monster in  the  slime  below,  of  the  tiny submarines  which,  their  work  already accomplished  perhaps,  were  returning to  the  mother  sub  with  the  speed of  game  fish.

Faintly  to  my  ears  came  the answer  of  Sark  Darlin.

“I  have  your  message.  I am  acting. Watch  the  Big  Submarine!”

By  the  renewed  pressure  on  my hand  I knew  that  Lena,  too,  had caught  her  father’s  message.  Motionless there,  both  leaning  forward, watching  the  metal  monster  feverishly, we  were  totally  unprepared  for what  followed.  For  behind  us,  with a roar  that  made  the  very  air  about us  a seething  maelstrom,  a five-mile section  of  the  Great  Rampart,  carrying with  it  the  hundred  and  fifty story  buildings  of  early  days,  leaped skyward  and  crashed  back  again,  a smoking,  powdery  ruin — into  which, on  the  instant,  poured  the  mighty Atlantic  to  fill  the  breach!

Simultaneously  the  surface  of  the seething  ocean  became  a welter  of dismembered,  horribly  mangled corpses.  But  all  that  I could  see were  nude.  Sark  Darlin,  then,  had acted  in  time,  when  he  had  had  but seconds  in  which  to  do  so.  Only  the unimportant  Menials  had  suffered from  the  catastrophe.

A monster  wave,  breaking  against the  broken  wall  beyond  the  breach, rolled  back  to  sea — a veritable  mountain of  water.  I saw  it  crash  against the  metal  monster  in  the  depths. Swiftly  she  heeled  over — and  I knew my  first  guess  had  been  correct. Metal  legs  waved  in  sight  for  a few moments  as  the  thing  strove  to  right itself.  Then  they  disappeared,  in  all their  monstrous  bigness  and  tentaclelike waving,  as  the  submarine  came back,  upright  and,  with  the  same motion,  swerved  to  the  right,  to  disappear like  some  unbelievable  deepsea  fish,  into  the  darkness  of  the Atlantic !


A kind  providence  must  have  been with  us  at  that  moment;  for  we faced  each  other  and  I took  her hands  in  mine,  while  our  eyes  met  in questioning  and  horror.  I am  sure that  this  involuntary,  instinctive clasp  of  hands  saved  the  life  of  Lona. In  the  instant  of  the  clasp,  while those  soundless  messages  passed  between us,  the  aerial  maelstrom  caused by  the  explosion  and  attendant  rupture of  the  Great  Rampart  was  upon us — a shock  such  as  I hope  never again  to  feel.

The  noise  of  City  of  the  East  is  a vast  and  awesome  thing  when  one hears  it  without  the  ears  protected; multiply  that  sound  by  a thousand and  you  have  some  idea  of  the  shock which  that  explosion  caused  us,  and we  almost  ten  miles  off-shore  from the  breach  in  the  wall.  It  was  like being  instantly  compressed  in  a monster  vise,  with  all  the  fiends

THE  INVADING  HOftDE


above  and  below  the  earth  hurling  wonders  at  the  massive  strength  of gibes  into  the  teeth  of  the  sufferer,  so  that  great  submarine,  that  it  was  not that  palsied  hands  fly  to  ears  and  fill  riven  in  twain  at  the  explosion ; for them  to  save  the  hearing.  One  even  as  the  swirl  and  crush  of  the

gases  broke  about  us,  I glanced  down, to  see  that,  among  the  out-floating corpses  of  the  Menials,  fishes  of  all sizes,  of  many  schools,  had  turned their  white  bellies  upward  on  the stormy  surface  of  the  water  below.

But  the  other  sensation  was  even more  terrifying.  We  had  clasped hands,  Lona  and  I,  and  the  maelstrom whirled  us  over  and  over,  distant from  each  other  by  the  lengths of  our  two  pairs  of  arms,  clinging  for life.  Now  Lona  would  be  above  me, like  some  fantastic  acrobat,  balancing on  my  upraised  hands;  then  we changed  positions,  all  in  the  batting of  an  eyelash,  a speed  of  movement that  was  doubly  terrifying.  First  I gazed  at  the  sea  below  me,  apparently looking  up;  then  I would  look  upward at  the  sky,  so  that  all  the  universe seemed  turning  topsyturvy with  unbelievable  speed.  I realized one  thing  instantly  then,  a thing  that froze  me  with  dread,  remembering the  white  bellies  of  the  fishes  so  far below  me.  Lona  was  unconscious! Only  because  I held  so  tightly  to  her hands  was  she  saved  from  the  frightful plunge,  through  thirty  thousand feet  of  space,  into  the  ocean — for  I judged  that  we  had  dropped  that  far below  Air  Lane  50,000  before  the breaking  of  the  tragic  storm.

“Three  men  rolled  from  the monopter  and  each  held  a slender  tube  in  his  blackened fingers.”


WEIRD  TALES

Was  Lona  dead?  Could  I support her  dead  weight  and  transport  us back  to  some  safe  platform  in  City  of the  East?  I’d  do  it,  I told  myself, or  plunge  with  her  to  the  depths. For  if  she  fell  from  me  I had  no  desire to  live.  So  I clung  to  her  and prayed.

Slowly,  when  the  swirling  of  the aerial  maelstrom  had  abated  somewhat, so  that  I found  myself  once more  in  a state  of  equilibrium,  Lona hanging  before  me,  her  head  against my  limbs,  I faced  toward  City  of  the East  and  drove  my  monopter  toward , safety.  Was  she  dead?  Could  I maintain  my  grasp  upon  her  hands? Would  the  mechanism  of  my  monopter support  us  both?  The  answer  to the  last  question  was  capable  of a speedy  solution.  We  were  making excellent  time  toward  the  shore;  but we  were  losing  altitude  with  fearful rapidity — a planing  glide  that  seemed endless.

It  seemed  hours;  but  reason  told me  but  a few  minutes  had  passed, before  I sank,  all  but  exhausted,  on a platform  of  a building  just  westward of  the  breach  in  the  rampart, with  the  still  unconscious  Lona clinging  to  my  hands.  I sat  down weakly  and  held  her  in  my  arms.

All  this  time  my  phones  had  been transmitting  a message  from  Sark Darlin;  but  I could  not  use  my hands  to  answer  him.  He  was  asking after  my  safety  and  Lona’s,  and for  information  about  the  great  submarine. Clasping  Lona  the  more tightly  with  my  right  hand,  for  the number  on  the  window  back  of  me told  me  that  we  were  two  hundred stories  above  the  bottom  of  this  particular street-canyon,  I managed  to send  a feeble  message  of  reassurance through  the  air  to  Sark  Darlin.  He must  have  caught  it  instantly,  for  his answer  came  back,  after  I had  assured him  of  our  return :

“Thank  God!”

I whispered  the  words  myself,

reverently,  for  Lona  had  stirred  in my  arms.  She  was  not  dead,  and  I lived  again.  I unfastened  the  headpiece  of  her  monopter,  so  that  she might  have  the  fresher  air  outside; unfastened  my  own  headpiece  and placed  it  close  beside  me.  Lona opened  her  eyes ; her  whole  body quivered  in  my  arms  in  a shudder  I understood.  She  was,  after  all,  a woman,  and  I loved  her.  She  said nothing  of  our  return  from  above  the Atlantic,  though  she  must  have known  how  she  had  been  brought back;  but  her  eyes  were  eloquent.  I had  saved  her  life;  more  than  ever, now,  was  that  life  a part  of  my  own. Our  lips  came  together  in  a kiss which  was  a delirium  of  happiness, of  which  there  is  all  too  little  in  this world  of  ours.

It  was  Lona  who  first  recalled  the horror  we  had  witnessed.

“Quick,  Gerd!”  she  exclaimed, rising  to  her  feet,  wavering  so  that  I held  her  fast  lest  she  topple  from  the platform.  “Our  headpieces  immediately ! I am  all  right  now.  We must  get  back  to  Father  Sark.  He needs  us,  as  all  City  of  the  East needs  us  now!”

I made  no  reply.  None  was needed.  She  had  spoken  truth.  Our headpieces  were  replaced  swiftly and  in  silence.  Still  hand  in  hand we  soared  aloft  from  the  platform, rising  straight  upward  between  the walls  of  the  street-canyon  until  we had  cleared  the  tallest  buildings about  us.  Then,  straight  as  homing pigeons,  we  turned  our  goggled  faces toward  Executive  Building,  a vast white  needle  eastward.  Did  I fancy it,  or  had  an  ominous  black  cloud suddenly  dropped  down  to  hover above  the  spire  of  the  Building  of the  Engineers?

I do  not  know.  I do  know  that  as we  fled  toward  Executive  Building, through  air  lanes  that  now  were silent  and  deserted  because  of  the

THE  INVADING  HORDE


catastrophe,  a vaster  dread  than  any which  had  yet  been  mine  was  at  my throat.

What  must  be  done  to  combat  this monstrous  menace  that  had  come  to us  from  the  deeps  of  the  ocean?  For centuries  we  had  been  looking  to  our Invisible  Frontier  as  protection,  and this  had  been  so  perfected  that  nothing had  yet  been  invented  which could  pass  through  or  over  the  Wall of  the  Rays.  But  we  had  paid  little heed  to  the  ocean.  We  knew  that City  of  the  West,  the  city  of  the Aliens,  possessed  monopters  as  good as  our  own.  Yet  our  whole  City  was surrounded  by  that  Invisible  Frontier, save  only  that  side  which  faced the  ocean.  We  had  thought  of  submarines as  obsolete,  and  our  cocksureness was  threatening  us  with  disaster. Of  course  we  were  not  being caught  entirely  unprepared;  for  that would  have  been  the  height  of  folly. We  had  prepared,  after  a fashion, against  attack  from  the  Atlantic  by separating  City  of  the  East  into  sections, each  of  which  could  be  isolated in  a second  by  the  man  at  the  keyboard in  Sark  Darlin’s  office — so that,  were  entrance  gained  to  any  one section,  that  section  could  be  shut  off from  the  City  at  once,  and  the  remainder of  the  City  be  as  impregnable as  before.  This  had  been  my reason  for  sending  that  message, naming  the  section,  when  I had caught  my  first  glimpse  of  the  great submarine.  Sark’s  instant  warning had  cleared  that  section  of  the  people who  mattered.  In  fancy  I could  see them  quitting  those  buildings  in  their monopters  like  swift  birds  that  are flushed  by  the  hunter.  Some,  of course,  had  been  caught;  but  there had  been  few,  for  I had  been  able  to distinguish  below  us  only  the  nude bodies  of  the  Menials.

Of  this  I was  thinking  as  we hurtled  toward  the  Executive  Building, wondering  subconsciously  at  the black  cloud  which  hid  the  glistening

spire  in  which  was  the  office  of  Sark Darlin — wondering  at  its  meaning, and  why  a vague  intuition  told  me that  all  was  not  well.

Nearer  and  nearer  we  flew,  yet  the spire  did  not  appear  from  the  black cloud.  That  meant  we  should  have  to land  on  some  lower  platform  until the  lifting  of  the  cloud.  Delay,  delay, delay!  But  we  dropped  down into  the  canyon  swiftly,  along  the edge  of  that  ominous  cloud,  and landed  upon  the  first  platform  of  the Executive  Building  we  could  see. And  made  a ghastly  discovery!

There  was  no  spire  of  the  Executive Building!  This  platform  upon which  we  stood  was  the  highest  platform remaining  of  the  needlelike shaft  which  was  the  Building  of  the Engineers!  We  stood  on  a platform on  the  four  hundred  and  ninetyeighth  story;  there  should  have  been two  stories  above  us.  Yet  half  of story  498,  all  of  story  499,  and  the glistening  white  spire  which  had  been the  pride  of  Sark  Darlin  were  gone! All  the  mass  of  the  building  above where  we  stood  had  been  sheared  off as  though  a great  knife  had  passed cleanly  through  the  building ! Nodebris at  all  and,  as  far  as  we  could see,  none  in  the  canyon  below..  The upper  portion  of  Executive  Building had  vanished ! From  where  we  stood we  could  look  into  what  remained  of story  498,  where  the  office  appurtenances stood  in  the  open  as  their  fleeing users  had  left  them,  no  cover above  them  to  protect  them  from  the elements,  shadowed  by  the  ominous cloud  which,  from  a distance,  I had thought  obscured  the  crest  of  the Executive  Building.

Lona  and  I still  clasped  hands. Now  her  hand  gripped  mine  more tightly,  and  I returned  the  pressure. No  words  were  needed.  We  both knew  that  Sark  Darlin  had  vanished as  mysteriously  as  his  office  had vanished,  together  with  all  of  those high  officials  who  had  occupied  the


WEIRD  TALES

offices  that  should  have  remained above  where  we  stood.  In  one  blow, mysteriously  delivered,  the  enemy had  shorn  City  of  the  East  of  leadership. Then  the  realization  following on  this  thought  staggered  me : 1 was the  leader  now,  with  Lona  my  equal in  power!  In  an  instant  that  responsibility which  I had  not  expected to  assume  for  years  to  come  had settled  upon  my  shoulders — and  I must  get  busy  at  once.

That  ominous  cloud  was  settling. Lona  suddenly  stepped  to  the  edge  of the  platform  and  dropped  off  into space,  pulling  me  with  her.  As  we fell,  plummeting  downward,  her words  whispered  into  my  ears.

“That  cloud,  Gerd!  Whatever took  Daddy  and  the  crest  of  Executive Building  is  inside  that  cloud! In  another  instant  City  of  the  East would  have  been  leaderless  indeed! We  must  prepare!”

“'\X7'e  must  prepare!”  Yet  what

’ * were  we  to  do  ? For  with  the obliterating  of  Sark  Darlin’s  office had  been  obliterated  that  vast  mechanism of  his  by  which  he  had  been  in communication  with  all  the  City. There  was  now  no  way  to  send  forth a warning.  But  Lona  knew!  Her father  had  confided  in  her,  more  than he  had  seen  fit  to  confide  in  me  before I had  in  fact  become  his  son-in-law. Her  hand  held  mine  as  we  continued dropping  into  the  canyon.  We struck  the  bottom  as  lightly  as feathers  and,  Lona  leading,  both  of us  running  awkwardly  because  of  the impediment  of  our  monopters,  approached a tunnel-like  opening  in  the bottom  floor  of  the  Executive  Building. This  was  the  closest  I had  been in  all  my  life  to  ground  level.  And we  still  were  going  down.

Inside  the  tunnel  we  ran,  into darkness.  We  dropped  into  ebon space  and  our  monopters  were  automatically in  use  again.  Then  we were  in  the  cavernlike  immensities  of

the  level  of  the  Menials,  and  I had set  foot  on  the  soil  of  Earth  for  the first  time  in  all  my  days,  the  first  of all  my  family  so  to  do  for  generations! But  there  was  no  time  to think  of  this  now,  for  Lona  was running  again,  leading  me  swiftly with  her,  among  the  nude  people  who were  the  Menials,  bowing  and  bending, toiling  and  steaming  in  perspiration, as  they  labored  with  the  soil  to make  it  bring  forth  fruit  for  food.  I had  no  opportunity  then  to  observe what  they  did,  for  Lona  was  leading me  to  one  of  those  slender  piles  about which  I had  been  told — one  of  those piles  which  support  the  Great  Rampart, which  is  the  floor  of  City  of  the East.  She  opened  a door  set  flush with  the  surface  of  the  slender  piling, and  we  were  in  the  piling’s heart.

“See!”’  cried  Lona.  “Sark  Darlin,  dead  though  he  may  be  now,  was still  too  far-sighted  to  be  caught  as they  thought  to  catch  him ! Here,  in miniature,  is  a keyboard  of  communication which  is  an  exact  duplicate  of that  in  Father  Sark’s  office — a duplicate whose  secret  Daddy  gave  me only  yesterday.  Gerd  Sota,  you  are now  the  chief  administrator  of  City of  the  East!  Give  your  orders!”

I am  thankful,  looking  back  upon that  moment,  that  I acted  without hesitation.  I doffed  my  headpiece  and  took  my  stand  before  the myriad-faced  board  of  communication— ticked  my  frenzied  message forth  into  space.  It  was  a message to  the  nearest  station  of  the  Invisible Frontier,  and  it  was  a command  that a single  one  of  the  Invisible  Rays  be directed  into  the  heart  of  the  black cloud  which  hovered  over  Executive Building.  When  I had  finished  the message  I turned  to  Lona,  feeling  a certain  pride  in  my  own  ability;  but Lona  was  nowhere  to  be  seen ! Frightened,  I stepped  to  the  door  and called  her  name.  But  no  one  answered. The  Menials,  some  of  them,

THE  INVADING  HORDE


looked  dully  up  from  their  tasks  for a moment ; but  a sharply  snarled  oath from  me  caused  their  eyes  to  fall.  A member  of  the  upper  levels  does  not allow  the  Menials  to  gaze  upon  his face — it  is  the  law.

Then,  from  directly  above,  Lona settled  to  the  earth  beside  me.

“I  went  up  to  Rampart  Level,” she  told  me  breathlessly,  “and  I was right  about  the  cloud ! I reached  the bottom  of  street-canyon  just  as  the ray  was  turned  upon  it.  I couldn’t see  the  ray,  of  course ; but  I could see  the  effect,  for  the  cloud  vanished in  a breath,  and  tongues  of  fire  filled the  air  where  it  had  been!  Out  of the  fire  fell  a single  monopter,  like no  monopter  in  City  of  the  East,  but larger  than  any  three  of  them,  and marked  in  motley  colors,  like  the costume  of  an  ancient  clown ! It crashed  to  the  ground  quite  near where  I stood,  and  three  men,  mere blackened  cinders,  so  that  I could  not tell  the  color  of  their  faces,  rolled from  it ! I ran  and  looked  at  them — each  one  held  in  his  blackened  fingers a slender  tube.  These  three  tubes, whatever  powerful  agency  they  may have  contained,  were,  I am  sure,  the inventions  which  wrought  such  havoc with  Executive  Building!”

“But,  Lona!”  I objected.  “How could  the  monopter  have  got  through Invisible  Frontier?”

“It  didn’t  come  through  the Frontier ! ’ ’ she  retorted..  ‘ ‘ I am  sure it  came  from  the  other  way,  else  one of  our  people  at  the  Frontier  is  a traitor,  which  I’ll  never  believe! That  submarine  brought  it,  just  as  it brought  those  tiny  submarines  which caused  the  breach  in  the  Great Rampart.  The  big  submarine  must have  emerged  far  out  to  .sea  to  discharge the  monopter,  and  the  monopter, hiding  itself  in  a cloud  of  its  own making,  floated  over  the  city.  Some way,  which  we  may  never  learn,  its occupants  kept  in  contact  with  a common  leader  inside  the  submarine,

so  that  the  leader  was  informed  of the  proper  moment  to  make  his  attack. Ugh!  Imagine  it,  Gerd  Sota! An  evil  monopter,  traveling  in  its own  cloud,  high  above  even  Air  Lane 50,000,  emitting  its  self-concealing blackness  like  a giant  squid  that  has left  the  water  suddenly  and  grown wings ! Then,  at  the  proper  moment, the  attack.  God!  Beloved!  Daddy Sark!”

It  had  been  too  much  for  Lona Darlin.  Even  as  I once  more  removed her  headpiece  she  swooned  in my  arms,  and  I bore  her  inside  the room  of  the  board  c " communication. With  the  two  monopters,  hers  and mine,  whose  material  is  soft  as  eiderdown, I prepared  her  a pallet  on  the floor.  I laid  her  down,  covering  her with  cloths  which  I found  at  hand. Then,  knowing  that  a good  rest would  be  the  best  thing  in  the  world for  her,  and  that  she  would  waken when  nature  willed  it,  burdened  only by  the  natural  sorrow  caused  by  the loss  of  her  beloved  father — I seated myself  before  the  board  of  communication and  began  to  send  forth  my messages.

To  Comm-andcr  of  the  Air:

Clear  the  air  lanes  of  all  monopters  save those  which  are  of  the  patrol  service. Under  your  personal  supervision  the  skies above  the  City  will  be  patrolled  until orders  for  your  relief  are  sent  you.  Do  not relinquish  vigilance  day  or  night.  Am sending  orders  to  the  electricians  to  keep searchlights  playing  into  the  skies  during the  hours  of  darkness.  Sota.

To  Master  of  Electricians:

Have  men  posted,  in  reliefs  of  one  hour, at  each  aerial  searchlight  throughout  the City.  Keep  the  skies  as  light  as  day throughout  the  night.  Report  any  bodies in  the  air,  clouds  or  otherwise,  which  are not  the  monopters  of  the  aerial  patrols.

Sota.

To  Department  lleads  of  Invisible  Frontier :

Be  ready  at  any  moment  to  raise  Invisible Wall  along  your  section  of  the Frontier.  Have  extra  men  posted  at  each tube,  with  instructions  to  turn  the  rays upon  any  object  in  the  sky,  cloud  or


WEIRD  TALES

monopter,  indicated  in  orders  from  me  giving location  and  direction-reading.

Sota.

To  Chief  of  Interior  Administration:

Satisfy  yourself  that  there  are  no traitors  in  the  corps  which  has  charge  of the  Invisible  Frontier.  Report  results.

Sota.

This  last  I sent  in  the  code  always used  in  communication  with  City  of the  East’s  secret  service,  a code  which Sark  Darlin  had  taught  me.  I was proud  of  the  fact  that  I was  able  to send,  in  the  code,  from  memory.

These  orders  sent  forth,  I connected the  phones  of  my  monopter with  the  receiver  of  the  board  of communication  and,  satisfied  that  any message  would  waken  me  instantly, flung  myself  down  with  my  head against  the  beloved  feet  of  Lona, ears  attuned  to  the  tympanum  of  the phones,  and  slept  the  sleep  of  utter exhaustion.


It  was  Lona  who  wakened  me.  She had  slipped  into  her  monopter again  and  had  mine  straightened  for use.  There  was  utter  silence  inside the  piling,  not  even  the  monotonous humming  of  the  machinery  used  by the  Menials  coming  through  to  us. An  ominous  silence.  Yet  no  message had  come  over  the  wires.  If  anything had  happened  outside,  in  City of  the  East,  no  warning  had  reached us.  Yet  I knew  upon  waking  that something  was  wrong.  So  did  Lona, for  she  was  as  pale  as  chalk  as  she faced  me  in  the  pale  light  of  the dimmed  incandescents  which  lighted the  room  inside  the  piling.

“Look,  Gerd!”  she  ejaculated, pointing  at  the  board  of  communication.

Then  I realized  why  no  alarm  had reached  me,  and  cursed  myself  deeply for  having  jeopardized  City  of  the East  for  the  sake  of  a bit  of  sleep. But  the  sleeping  had  saved  my  life. For  I had  turned  in  my  sleep  and,

because  my  phones  were  fastened tightly  in  place,  my  turning  had pulled  the  connection  of  the  phones with  the  board  of  communication.  It had  saved  my  life,  I repeat,  for  the board  of  communication  was  nothing but  a twisted  mass  of  metal.  The myriads  of  wires  were  fused  together in  a single  ugly  mass,  and  the  wood of  the  board  was  as  black  as  coal. The  board  of  communication  was  useless— and  I had  been  asleep.  What had  happened?  None  of  the  officials knew  the  location  of  this  second board  of  communication,  and  they might  have  been  trying  for  hours  to arouse  me  for  the  purpose  of  asking for  orders.  Anything  might  have happened  because  of  my  negligence.

There  was  no  time  to  waste.  With Lona’s  hand  in  mine,  since  I needed her  strength  and  woman’s  courage,  I stepped  out  of  the  room.  Lona  led the  way  to  the  opening  in  the  Great Rampart  through  which  we  must  rise to  first  story  level.  But  as  we  went another  and  more  terrible  revelation burst  upon  me.

Something  ghastly  had  befallen  the Menials!

I could  only  guess  how  many  there were  of  them;  but  as  far  as  the  eye could  reach  in  all  directions,  massed against  the  slender  pilings,  grouped here  and  there  in  all  sorts  of  contorted positions,  not  a nude  figure moved.  Sightless  eyes  gazed  straight at  the  ceiling,  glassily  staring,  while faces  were  contorted  into  masks  of horror  unimaginable.  One  man,  a brown  one,  had  clasped  his  hands  at his  own  throat,  and  the  grip  still held  in  death,  so  powerful  that  the tongue,  swollen  and  discolored,  protruded from  between  teeth  which glistened  like  snarling  fangs.  Another man  lay  doubled  in  such  a way that  his  face  was  almost  against  his own  nude  loins,  and  the  veins  on  his neck  stood  out  like  cords.  Dead MeniMs,  by  scores  and  hundreds, slain  swiftly  before  they  could  atTHE  INVADING  HORDE


tempt  escape,  stricken  down  in  the positions  in  which  the  unknown  agent of  death  had  found  them.

What  had  slain  the  Menials,  and why  had  they  been  slain?

The  reason  was  obvious — the Menials,  who  did  the  work  of  City  of the  East,  had  been  slain  in  order  that not  a wheel  of  commerce  should  turn throughout  all  the  city — and  the agency  which  had  destroyed  them had  been  created  for  the  very  purpose it  had  served — and  the  Menials had  perished.

But  how?

It  came  in  a flash,  then.  The Menials  were  nude,  and  only  the  nude had  perished.  Horror-stricken,  I bent  and  examined  one  of  the laborers.

Weird,  unknown  rays!  That  was the  answer — rays  which  acted  only upon  nude  flesh ! For  just  below  the breast-bone  of  each  contorted  corpse, indelibly  etched  in  the  flesh,  was  a brownish  circle  perhaps  two  inches  in diameter — much  like  the  light  circle a small  flashlight  makes  upon  an opaque  object  when  held  close  to  that object.  The  flesh  inside  the  circle was  burned  to  a crisp.  Turning  one corpse  over  I found  a similar  circle on  the  back,  bisected  by  the  spinal column!  The  ray  had  pierced  the nude  body!

I shuddered  with  horror.  Those little  submarines!  The  breach  in  the Rampart,  and  men,  countless  men, from  City  of  the  West  passing among  the  Menials  with  those  gruesome little  flashlights  in  their  hands.

Lona  and  I had  escaped  because they  had  not  found  us!  Now  I understood the  silence,  and  why  the machinery  of  the  Menials  was motionless.  That  machinery  is,  or was,  operated  by  electricity,  and  such of  it  as  I could  see  as  we  hurried through  the  contorted  forms  in  the direction  of  the  opening  upon  First Floor  Level,  had  suffered  the  fate  of the  board  of  communication.  Twisted

metal,  wood  black  as  cinders,  useless junk.  In  all  the  level  of  the  Menials was  a chaos  of  twisted  wires,  fused and  odorous,  twisted  and  contorted human  bodies,  a vast  mausoleum which  made  me  understand  something of  the  ruthless  power  of  the agency  we  were  combating,  and something  of  the  horror  we  might  yet expect.  What  would  we  find  in  the upper  levels?  Had,  while  we  slept, the  same  mysterious  agency  which had  slain  the  Menials  made  a holocaust of  City  of  the  East?  It  was  unthinkable.

But  there  was  no  time  to  lose.  It takes  time  to  tell,  but  scarce  two minutes  could  have  elapsed  after  my wakening  before  Lona  and  I once more  stood  at  the  first  story  level.

/^ity  of  the  East  was  as  light  as ^ day  and  the  catastrophe  which had  fallen  upon  the  Menials  had thrown  all  City  of  the  East  into turmoil!  Great  searchlights  played across  the  heavens,  their  diverging rays  crossing  and  recrossing,  their varied  colors  creating  a kaleidoscope more  brightly  tinted  than  the  greatest rainbow.  Imagine  the  wonder  of it!  A City  of  a million  spires  and turrets,  of  a million  buildings  whose crests  were  in  the  clouds;  buildings which  formed  a City  of  the  East whose  boundaries  were  the  Mississippi on  the  west,  the  Atlantic  on  the east,  and  the  regions  of  cold  and  heat to  the  north  and  south ; a City divided  into  sections,  each  of  which comprized  no  more  than  two  square city  blocks,  each  of  which  was  part  of a still  larger  section  which  was, roughly,  five  miles  square — and  each of  the  lesser  sections  equipped  with powerful  searchlights.  Uncountable searchlights,  of  a myriad  of  colored beams,  each  playing  across  its  allotted portion  of  the  midnight  sky.

City  of  the  East,  vast  and  immeasurable in  the  human  mind,  was the  abode  of  terror  unutterable,  for

COG

WEIRD  TALES

attack  had  been  delivered  from  an unexpected  quarter  and  countless lives  had  been  lost..  I looked  upward at  the  flight  after  flight  of  the  aerial patrols,  close-mustered  specks  in  the sky  at  Air  Lane  50,000,  and  the lights  from  the  searchlights  gilded their  monopters  eerily,  so  that  they seemed  like  monster  moths,  with  sunlight glinting  on  their  wings.  Swift darting  moths,  patrolling  all  the  sky.

Lona  and  I turned  westward, speeding  at  the  ultimate  limit  of  our monopters  for  the  Invisible  Frontier. This  could  easily  be  seen  now,  for where  the  lights  from  the  darting searchlight-wedges  encountered  the Invisible  Frontier  the  beams  broke short  off,  so  that  the  Wall,  invisible as  I knew*  it  to  be,  was  indicated  by  a night-black  mass,  through  which  even the  beams  of  the  searchlights  could not  penetrate.  Even  light  disintegrated and  refused  to  penetrate  the Wall  of  the  Rays.

Though  wre  looked  as  far  as  we could  in  both  directions,  the  black wall  seemed  endless,  and  wre  flew  for several  miles  parallel  to  it  to  satisfy ourselves  that  there  was  no  breach. An  eery  experience,  if  you  will,  for we  could  not  see  the  apparatus  which directed  the  rays.  Just  an  ebon  wall against  the  West,  as  though  it.  had been  the  edge  of  the  absolute  darkness of  outer  space — and  silence. Satisfied  that  there  was  no  breach along  the  Invisible  Frontier,  Lona and  I turned  back  toward  the  Atlantic and,  since  Air  Lane  40,000  was deserted,  w’e  flew  with  the  speed  of the  hurricane.

From  this  height  we  could  see  little of  City  of  the  East,  so  far  below  us, for  our  eyes  were  blirfded  by  the glare  of  the  myriad  of  lights  which blazoned  the  heavens  through  which we  sped.  Through  yellow  light  now; now  through  blue;  now  through  pale green,  we  fled  into  the  East.  I was now  in  communication  with  the  commander of  the  air.  Two  black  clouds,

he  told  me,  had  been  dispersed  at  his orders  when  he  had  been  unable  to communicate  with  us ; two  black clouds  which  had  apparently  hung motionless  at  least  ten  thousand  feet above  Air  Lane  50,000.  He  had  ordered the  nearest  of  the  ray  stations of  the  Invisible  Frontier  to  disperse these  clouds,  which  had  been  done  instantly— and  out  of  each  had  fallen  a single  huge  monopter  (huge,  that  is, in  comparison  with  our  own  monopters), to  plummet  downward  into  the heart  of  City  of  the  East.

I had  an  idea  whence  the  clouds came.

“Am  heading  out  over  the  Atlantic,” I wirelessed  the  commander. “Keep  your  wave-length  adjusted for  contact..  Lona  Darlin  is  with  me. Obey  orders  sent  by  either  of  us. Keep  a sharp  lookout  on  the  Invisible Frontier.  If  the  searchlights  penetrate it  at  any  point  let  me  know  at once.”

Then  I severed  connections  and Lona  and  I hurtled  onward  into  the East.

■poR  the  second  time  in  twenty-four hours  we  could  see,  dimly  it  is true,  and  then  only  with  the  aid  of powerful  night  glasses,  the  outline  of the  Great  Rampart.  We  could  not see  it  until  we  had  left  the  shoreline several  miles  behind,  because  of  the searchlights;  but  when  it  did  become visible  I began  to  get  some  idea  of  the terrible  thing  that  we  faced.  Before, mountainous  waves  of  water  had crashed  against  the  Great  Rampart along  a distance  of  little  more  than five  miles,  a local  storm  artificially  induced, in  some  way,  by  the  big  submarine. Now  a storm  so  vast  in comparison  as  to  dwarf  that  other into  insignificance  crashed  against the  Great  Rampart.  The  roar  was  so vast  that  its  very  volume  caused  Lona and  me,  holding  hands  to  keep  from being  separated,  to  be  tossed  to  and fro  like  chips  in  a mill-race.  No

THE  INVADING  HORDE


threat  of  destruction  to  a mere  five miles  of  Rampart  this  time,  for  the storm  was  visible  to  right  and  left  as far  as  we  could  see.

It  might  have  extended  along  the whole  length  of  the  Great  Rampart, as  I believed,  and  later  verified,  that it  did.  But  outward  from  the  coastline a mere  ten  miles  the  ocean  was as  untroubled  as  a pond — and  for  an excellent  reason!

Side  by  side,  each  in  contact  with its  neighbor  to  right  and  left,  submarines, only  less  vast  than  the  first we  had  seen,  pointed  their  steel  noses at  the  Great  Rampart ! No  beams  as from  searchlights  came  from  their decks,  and  I knew  that  Lona  and  I had  not  been  seen — yet.  This  was  a terrible  danger  into  which  I was  taking her.  Had  I tried  to  send  her back  she  would  not  have  understood my  reason  for  so  doing ; besides which  I wished  her  with  me,  even though  both  of  us  lost  our  lives.

Submarines  afloat,  abreast,  their noses  pointed  at  the  Great  Rampart. An  attack  was  imminent;  but  how would  it  be  delivered?  It  would  be useless  to  charge  the  Great  Rampart, even  with  metal  monsters  as  vast  as these.  What,  then  ?

I was  soon  to  know.  As  before  we had  seen  the  tiny  submarines  dart back  from  the  artifically  created maelstrom  before  the  Great  Rampart, we  saw  them  drop  back  again;  but multiplied  in  numbers  by  the  number of  the  big  submarines  which  had lined  up  offshore  to  begin  the offensive.

Here  is  where  I made  the  mistake which  was  to  prove  the  ruin  of  City of  the  East,  for  I sent  a message  to the  commander  of  the  air  to  clear  the City  immediately  of  all  inhabitants, ordering  them  to  the  unmapped  ways above  Air  Lane  50,000.  I knew  the monopters  could  do  it,  under  pressure, though  it  would  be  a terrible strain  on  the  nervous  systems  of  the flyers,  and  many  must,  of  necessity,

fall  by  the  wayside.  Sacrifice  the weak  that  the  strong  might  live — it seemed  sensible  reasoning  to  me,  in view  of  its  stark  necessity.

Looking  back,  after  receiving  the acknowledgment  of  the  commander of  the  air,  I saw  the  monopters  rising from  City  of  the  East  in  veritable clouds.  Not  until  the  space  below Air  Lane  50,000  had  become  empty of  aught  save  the  beams  of  the mighty  searchlights,  whose  operators were  left  behind  at  their  posts — and I knew  that  the  inhabitants  who  were able  had  been  herded  into  the  spaces above  Air  Lane  50,000,  did  I realize how  neatly  I had  been  tricked.  The commander,  then,  of  this  barrier  of big  submarines  had  known  all  the time  that  Lona  and  I were  above them;  but  had  been  subtle  in  his reasoning  beyond  imagining.  It proved  he  had  known  of  our  presence that  other  time,  too,  when  the  one  big submarine  had  wrought  such  havoc with  the  Great  Rampart.  From  my actions  then  he  had  reasoned  out  my own  probable  line  of  reasoning,  and I had  done  exactly  what  he  had figured  that  I would  do.

For  no  explosion  occurred ; no  new breach  showed  in  the  Great  Rampart. The  commander  of  the  invaders  had worked  a ruse  the  like  of  which  had never  before  been  encountered  in  the annals  of  modern  warfare — and  I had  fallen  into  the  trap.  How  well I knew  it  when  the  next  episode occurred !

From  the  giant  submarine  directly below  where  Lona  and  I hung  in  the air,  watching,  shot  a great  funnel  of blinding  light.  A funnel,  or  inverted cone,  with  its  apex  at  the  point  of  departure, broadening  as  it  lifted  to our  place  in  the  sky,  so  that  the  light was  all  about  us.  But  it  was  different from  the  lights  which  the  City  of  the East  used,  for  we  could  see  through the  sides  of  the  cone,  around  which we  circled  like  moths  in  a mighty lamp  chimney,  unable  to  get  through


WEIRD  TALES

because  of  something  inherent  in  the strange  light  which  dashed  us  back when  we  would  have  gone  through, dashed  us  back  as  effectually  as  a stone  wall  would  have  done,  holding us  prisoners  inside  the  gleaming  cone.

But  we  could  see — great  God,  we could  see ! And  in  the  hour  or  so  before the  end  I realized  to  the  full  the catastrophe  my  lack  of  reasoning,  my lack  of  experience  with  the  minds  of men,  had  brought  upon  City  of  the East!  I understand  now  the  reason of  that  hint  I had  caught  in  the voice  of  Sark  Darlin  when  he  had told  me  I must  become  worthy  to  be the  leader  in  affairs  of  City  of  the East.  I had  failed  and,  moving about  the  sides  of  the  cone,  seeking a way  out,  I suffered  such  torments  as no  man  before  me  has  ever  suffered and,  I hope,  as  no  man  may  ever suffer  in  the  future — for  I could  see !

AS  though  at  a signal  the  under- -*"*■  sea  hatches  of  the  countless  submarines opened  and  were  flung  back and,  as  the  bees  must  have  come  forth when  Pandora  opened  the  box,  came forth  in  swarms  and  myriads  the monopters  of  the  invaders!  Now  I l’ealized,  too,  where  even  Sark  Darlin had  been  shortsighted.  He  had never  known  of  these  submarines  of the  people  of  the  West,  feeling,  no doubt,  that  the  Invisible  Frontier made  it  unnecessary  for  him  to  send spies  and  secret  agents  into  the  country of  the  Aliens.  He  had  taken  it for  granted  that  City  of  the  East was  far  in  advance  of  the  Aliens  in point  of  inventions  and  the  paraphernalia of  warfare — a great  mistake. We  had  not  needed  to  make war,  and  were  caught  unprepared; the  Aliens  had  been  preparing  for war  for  generations,  building  their monopters  and  submarines  on  the west  coast,  so  far  away  that  not  even a whisper  of  warning  had  reached  us. Then,  when  everything  was  ready  for the  greatest  offensive  in  history,  the

long  voyage  down  the  coast  in  the fleet  after  fleet  of  metal  amphibians, the  unbelievable  walk  across  the  narrow neck  of  the  Isthmus,  the  plunge into  the  Atlantic,  and  the  lining  up of  the  monsters  before  the  Great Rampart  of  City  of  the  East.

But  my  own  mistake  had  been  far greater.  Yet,  after  all,  what  could  I have  done?  I am  sure  they  would have  beaten  us  in  any  case,  and  our people  would  have  worked  out  their lives  in  slavery  instead  of  meeting the  merciful  death  which  was  their portion  because  of  my  mistake.  Yet I feel  that  I shall  go  into  eternity with  oceans  and  oceans  of  blood  upon my  soul.  I might  have  done  something.

But  it  was  too  late  now.  I knew  it when,  watching  from  the  cone,  desiring above  all  things  to  lose  the  power to  watch  because  of  the  frightfulness, I saw  those  myriads  of  monopters swarm  from  the  hatches  of  the  metal monsters  and  advance  upon  City  of the  East  by  thousands.  But  stay! There  was  still  the  Invisible  Frontier. I could  communicate  with  the  department heads  of  the  Invisible  Frontier and  tell  them  to  turn  their  rays across  the  top  of  the  City.  For,  foreseeing the  time  when  this  very  move might  become  necessary,  Sark  Darlin had  caused  ray  reflectors  to  be erected  on  certain  lines  above  the City  so  that  the  rays  might  be  bent to  follow  the  curvature  of  the  earth, leaping  the  gaps  between  the  lines  of reflectors  with  the  mathematical nicety  which  only  a genius  like  Sark could  have  managed.  It  would  be better  to  ruin  the  buildings,  for  they could  be  built  up  again,  than  for those  huge  monopters  to  swarm  up in  a surprize  attack  against  our people,  all  of  them  now  in  the  highest air  lane  and  above.  If  I hurried  I could  have  an  invisible  barrier  built up  between  our  people  and  the  up-

( Continued  on  page  708)

HE  \N?OU

BY  5tU)Ul

PtA  si£e

WRIGhT

“Through  the  leaping  flames  the  monster  sprang  for  him.”

FROM  across  the  lake,  clearly and  with  eery  distinctness through  the  stillness  of  the night,  came  the  fearsome  notes  of  a hungry  timber  wolf  trailing  some straining,  panting  deer.

Startled,  I leaned  forward,  my pipe  cold  between  my  teeth,  and  listened to  the  hellish  music  of  that tawny  demon  of  the  woods.

The  eager,  savage  hunting  cry changed  suddenly  to  a demoniac paean'  of  victory,  broke  into  a slavering yapping — and  then  the  pulsing silence  settled  down  on  us  once  more.

“Got  her!”  I said,  giving  voice  involuntarily to  my  thoughts.

George  nodded  gravely.  _

“The  timbers  seldom  miss  making their  kill,”  he  remarked  thoughtfully. “It’s  no  wonder  the  people of  olden  times  used  to  believe ”

“Hello  the  camp!”  The  ringing, unexpected  hail  from  the  dark  lake caused  us  both  to  start  like  frightened children.  The  weird  hunting cry  of  a timber  wolf  does  things  to the  nerves  of  even  the  men  who  spend all  their  days  in  the  bush.

Our  visitors  proved  to  be  two  in number:  the  first  a tall  chap  in  the uniform  of  the  Provincial  Police, who  introduced  himself  as  Tieg  McDonald, and  a tall,  slender  man  with a professional  beard  and  black,  restless eyes,  whom  McDonald  introduced as  Dr.  Saunders.

It  was  instantly  evident  from  their attitudes  that  the  doctor  was  McDonald’s prisoner,  but  aside  from  the



WEIRD  TALES

fact  that  the  doctor  carried  no weapons  of  any  kind,  there  was  nothing tangible  to  indicate  the  fact.

Dr.  Saunders  was  in  a pitifully nervous  state;  his  eyes  roving  constantly, searching  the  surrounding blackness  with  an  intense  and  neverresting  gaze  that  bordered  on  the  insane glare  of  a madman.  When  he spoke,  his  voice  was  jerky  and  highpitched,  and  although  his  remarks were  utterly  rational,  it  was  easy  to see  that  he  was  near  the  breaking point.  McDonald  kept  a cautious  eye on  his  prisoner  at  all  times,  but  I somehow  caught  the  impression  that there  was  more  of  pity  than  sternness in  his  regard.

For  some  time  we  chatted  quite casually,  and  then  I dropped  a remark that  proved  to  be  a bomb-shell.

“The  timbers  are  ranging  south early  this  year,”  I said.  “I  suppose you  heard  that  big  boy ”

“God!”  groaned  the  doctor  in  the voice  of  a damned  soul.  “Will  I never  get  away  from  the  voice  of those  hellish  beasts?”

“That’s  all  right,  Doc,”  said  the big  policeman  soothingly.  “There’s three  of  us  here  to  see  that  no  wolf comes  around  the  camp.  ’ ’ Then McDonald  turned  to  us.  “Doc  had a mighty  bad  experience  up  on  Tennefip  Bay,”  he  exclaimed.  “Ran  up against  a mad  wolf ”

“No!”  cried  the  doctor,  his  wild eyes  searching  our  faces.  “No!  It was  not  a mad  wolf.  It  was  not,  I tell  you!  Listen,  and  I will  tell  you myself  all  that  happened.  “We were ”

“It’ll  get  you  all  nerved  up  to  tell the  story  again,  Doc,”  interrupted McDonald.  “Better  turn  in  and  get some  sleep,  eh?”

“No.  I want  to  tell  these  men  also, and  see  what  they  think,”  returned the  doctor  stubbornly.  “You  think I am  mad,  McDonald ; I am  not  blind, you  know.”

The  policeman  colored  a little

under  his  bronze,  but  he  simply shrugged  his  mighty  shoulders  and said  nothing.

“Tt  was  this  way,”  began  Dr.

Saunders,  as  calmly  as  though  he were  about  to  relate  the  most  commonplace event.  “I  came  up  into the  woods  on  a long  hunting  trip, seeking  not  so  much  a trophy  as  my health.  My  practise  had  worn  me down  in  body  and  mind,  and  I knew from  experience  that  a month  or  so up  here  in  the  bush  would  make  another man  of  me.

“I  made  the  decision  to  come,  and left  that  same  night,  trusting  to chance  to  find  an  outfitter  and  a guide  after  I got  to  the  jumping-off place.  There  had  been  a lot  of  hunters this  year,  however,  and  the  only guide  I could  find  was  a FrenchIndian  breed  known  only  as  Victor. He  had  not  been  long  in  the  country, and  I gathered  that  he  was  pretty generally  hated  and  mistrusted,  but he  had  trapped  last  year  in  the  very country  I wished  to  hunt  in,  and  so I took  him.

“He  was  surly,  silent,  and  at  times almost  savage,  but  had  a most  uncanny knack  of  finding  his  way  in  the bush,  and  of  locating  game.  I saw him  discover  game  on  several  occasions when  it  seemed  that  only  the power  of  scent  could  have  served him.  Once  or  twice,  upon  awaking late  at  night,  I found  him  missing from  the  tent,  and  always  the  following mornings  he  was  more  sullen  and morose  than  ever.  However,  I am silent  by  nature . myself,  and  my guide’s  disposition,  while  it  caused me  some  wonderment,  gave  me  no concern  whatever.  Most  of  these men  of  the  bush  are  odd  characters.

“One  night  we  were  sitting  around our  fire  just  as  we  are  sitting  here now.  It  was  very  dark,  without  even a star  showing  through  the  heavy clouds  overhead.  I had  become weary  of  my  own  thoughts,  and  gave

THE  WOLF


the  brooding  Victor  a verbal  poke  to see  if  I could  not  rouse  him.

“ ‘I  heard  old  man  Martin,  down at  the  post,  giving  some  of  the  fellows the  very  devil  for  telling  stories of  werewolves  in  this  country,’  I remarked casually.  I knew  very  well that  Victor  would  be  possessed  of  all the  superstitions  of  his  breed,  and that  old  Martin  and  Victor  were  bitter personal  enemies,  but  I was  utterly unprepared  for  the  sudden  hatred that  flared  up  in  Victor’s  eyes.

“Across  the  fire  I saw  my  guide’s deep-set  eyes  light  up  with  sudden hatred.

“ ‘OF  Martin,  he  ees  a fool!  He ees  crack’;  he  ees  a child  the  secon’ time!  Who  is  he  to  laugh  at  better men,  I ask  you?’

“ ‘Then  you  think  there  are  werewolves in  this  country?’  I asked, amused  (God  help  me!)  at  the  sudden ferocity  of  the  man.

“ ‘How  can  one  know  for  sure?’ shrugged  Victor.  ‘My  own  people, the  French’ — lie  was  about  one thirty-second  French,  the  rest  being several  breeds  of  Indian — ‘they  say for  sure  that  there  be  werewolves.  I have  met  men  who  have  seen  them. Where  there  ees  so  much  sign,  there must  be  game.  Ees  eet  not  so, M’sieu?’  He  smiled  ingratiatingly, revealing  flashing  white  teeth  beneath his  stiff  and  bristling  mustache.

“I  sent  a cloud  of  tobacco  smoke swirling  through  the  chill  night  air, and  watched  it  merge  with  the  hurrying wreaths  from  the  fire.

“ ‘Bosh!’  I rejoined,  more  for  the purpose  of  seeing  what  he  would  say than  for  any  great  interest  in  the matter  under  discussion.  ‘Werewolves have  long  since  been  proven nothing  but  myths,  Victor.  Only ignorant  people  believe  in  such things  these  days.’

“I  was  surprized  at  the  effect  of my  words.  Victor’s  dark  eyes  lit  up with  a peculiar  flickering  light  such as  I had  never  before  seen  except  in

animals;  the  kind  of  weird,  green glint  you  see  in  the  eyes  oi  a dog  or a cat  at  night.  His  eyes  narrowed until  they  were  scarcely  more  than evil  slits,  and  his  thin,  red  lips  drew away  from  his  gleaming  teeth  until his  face  was  utterly  bestial  in  its  expression of  demoniac,  insane  hatred.

“ ‘M’sieu  thinks  so?’  he  asked,  and his  voice  was  low  and  silky,  like  the purring  of  a cat  or  the  soft  guttural notes  of  a fawning  dog.  ‘Well, M’sieu  should  know.  He  ees  educate’, and  I am  but  a poor  French bushman.’  And  he  stalked  off  into the  darkness  toward  the  tent.

“I  started  to  apologize,  as  I had not  meant  to  offend  the  man,  but  he was  gone.  Oh  well,  I thought,  let him  turn  in  and  sulk  if  he  wanted  to ! I would  finish  my  pipe  anyway  before following  him.  I leaned  back comfortably  against  a big  tree  and, watching  the  weaving  tongues  of  yellow and  red,  lost  myself  in  revery.

“My  thoughts  drifted  into  many channels;  almost  I was  dozing,  when suddenly,  sharp  and  clear  as  the  note of  a bugle  on  a winter  morning,  the hunting  cry  of  a wolf  shivered through  the  night'  silence.  Once, twice,  three  times  the  eery,  hellish call  cut  through  the  air;  something maniacal,  something  threatening, something  exultant,  something  pleading in  the  long,  undulating  notes. Despite  myself  I shivered,  and  drew closer  to  the  glowing  coals.

“ ‘Hear  the  wolf,  Victor?’  I called to  my  guide,  to  break  the  uncanny silence  that  followed  the  challenge  of the  wolf.

“There  was  no  answer.

“‘Victor!’  I cried  sharply,  suddenly apprehensive.  Only  palpitant silence  answered  me.

“I  scrambled  to  my  feet  and  ran to  the  tent.  It  was  empty!  Victor had  disappeared.

“Suddenly  the  banshee  wailing  of the  wolf  again  splintered  the  deathly stillness.  It  was  nearer  now,  much


WEIRD  TALES

nearer.  It  came  racing  down  a long slope,  then  ran  up  back  of  the  camp, evidently  headed  directly  toward  me.

‘ ‘ T T astily  I piled  dry  wood  on  the dying  fire.  The  fresh  fuel smoldered  a moment  and  then  little tongues  of  eager  flame  began  licking through.  All  the  time  the  demoniac bugling  of  the  wolf  was  becoming louder,  fiercer;  was  drawing  ever nearer.  Was  the  animal  crazy? What  little  breeze  there  was  was blowing  directly  toward  him,  and surely  he  must  have  scented  the camp.  And  where  had  Victor  gone while  I napped?  And  wh  y had  he gone?  Had  he  deserted  me,  as Indian  guides  not  infrequently  do?

“These  and  a hundred  other  questions flitted  through  my  mind  as  I fed  the  fire  and  fanned  it  eagerly until  it  blazed.  No  wild  animal,  I knew,  would  come  close  to  a fire. Carefully  I piled  the  pitchy  wood, and  in  a minute  or  two  the  flames were  leaping  high  into  the  overhanging darkness,  spilling,  red  light  like blood  over  the  rocky  ground,  and setting  a thousand  shadows  springing and  dancing  like  ghoulish  imps.

‘ ‘ The  threatening,  savage  cry  of the  foraging  wolf  stopped  suddenly, and  a hushed,  expectant  silence  settled down  over  the  woods.  Even  the lap-lapping  of  the  water  on  the  shore a few  yards  away  seemed  to  die  to  an inaudible  murmur.

“ ‘Old  boy  changed  his  mind!’  I chuckled.  ‘Fire  is  the  one  tiling ’

“There  was  soft  rustle  in  the bushes  just  behind  me.  I gave  a startled  exclamation  and  turned sharply  in  my  tracks.  There,  not  two yards  away,  a pair  of  blazing  green eyes  were  watching  me  narrowly. Even  as  I turned  they  came  slowly, unwinkingly  nearer.

“I  jumped  for  my  rifle.  It  was leaning  against  a tree  on  the  other side  of  the  fire ; I remembered putting  it  there,  where  I would  be

sure  to  see  and  clean  it  before  I turned  in.  I knew  just  where  it  was — and  yet  when  I reached  for  it,  it was  gone.  Frantically,  thinking  it might  have  fallen  down,  I looked around  for  it.  It  was  not  there.  And across  from  me,  on  the  other  side  of the  fire,  a huge,  tawny  timber  wolf stalked  into  the  circle  of  fire  and stood  with  its  malevolent  green  eyes fixed  unwinkingly  upon  me.

“The  brute  was  larger  than  any timber  wolf  I had  ever  seen  or  heard of,  and  much  darker  in  color.,  The lips  were  curled  in  a hellish  caricature of  a smile,  and  a low  snarl  came from  its  slavering  mouth.  For  one long  moment  I eyed  the  brute  and  it eyed  me  back.  And  then,  suddenly, through  the  leaping  flames  and  the showering  sparks,  the  monster  sprang for  me!

“Instinctively  I crouched,  protecting my  throat.  The  movement  was the  only  thing  that  saved  me,  for  the long  white  fangs  sank  into  the  fleshy part  of  my  upflung  forearm.  Desperately I threw  myself  upon  the writhing  beast,  my  hands  seeking  his throat.  Useless,  useless!  The  beast unloosed  his  hold  on  my  arm  and reached  for  my  throat.  I leaped backward  as  quickly  as  I could,  and the  shining,  cruel  teeth  clicked  savagely together  not  an  inch  from  their mark.

“Snarling  with  rage,  the  animal sprang  again,  but  as  he  did  so  a sudden thought  struck  me,  and  I cursed explosively.  Why  hadn’t  I thought of  my  revolver  before?  Hastily  I snatched  it  from  its  holster  under  my arm,  and  as  the  wolf  flung  at  my throat  I fired.

“The  result  was  instantaneous.  A look  of  fear  blazed  suddenly  in  the smoky  green  eyes,  and  the  beast seemed  to  stop  its  leap  in  midair. Before  I eould  fire  a second  time,  the wolf  had  disappeared  into  the  shadows of  the  surrounding  forest.

THE  WOLF


“It  was  limping  badly,  its  left  hind leg  being  apparently  badly  hurt,  and in  the  firelight  I saw  several  drops of  blood  gleaming  blackly  on  the rocks  at  my  feet.

“T  made  no  effort  to  follow  the  animal.  I was  exhausted  with  my terrible  struggle,  and  my  brain  was throbbing  dizzily  with  excitement.  I am  no  hero,  and  that  great  beast,  bigger than  any  wolf  and  with  a light of  hellish  intelligence  burning  in  its eyes,  had  chilled  the  very  blood  of me.  Weakly,  with  .a  little  trembling sigh  of  relief,  I seated  myself  beside the  fire.

“A  moment  later  I started  apprehensively. Something  was  coming

through  the  bush!  Was  it ? A

familiar  voice  hailed  me  from  the darkness.  It  was  Victor!

‘ ‘ Smiling,  his  teeth  gleaming  whitely  under  his  black  mustache,  Victor came  up  to  the  fire.

“ ‘M’sieu  is  awake,  eh?’  he  remarked. ‘I  have  been  out  hunting for  a wolf  that  I hear  while  M’sieu sleeps.  I am  so  bold  as  to  take  the gun,  but  sacre!  Of  the  wolf  I do  not even  catch  sight.  Shrewd  ones,  those wolves,  M’sieu!’  He  was  smiling amiably,  but  as  his  glance  met  mine, I would  have  sworn  there  was  something mocking  in  the  depths  of  his dark  eyes,  and  for  an  instant  it seemed  that  they  gleamed  with  smoky green  fire.

“ ‘I  saw  him,’  I remarked  shortly. ‘He  attacked  me.’

“ ‘So!’  exclaimed  Vietor  in  surprize. ‘The  wolf,  he  attack  you, here  by  the  fire?  Eet  ees  imposs’!’

“ ‘Impossible  or  not,  he  did  just that,’  I declared.  ‘I  shot  and wounded  him  or  he  would  have  tom my  throat  out.  Only  hit  him  in  the leg,  but  that  was  enough.’

“ ‘And  tomorrow  we  will  be  back in  town!  Eet  ees  too  bad  you  have not  the  time  to  stay  so  we  could  hunt heem!’  said  Victor,  a peculiar  note

in  his  voice.  ‘Even  though  you  do laugh  at  the  werewolves  of  my  fathers, you  would  like  to  shoot  a timber  wolf,  ees  eet  not  so?’

“Again  the  smoky  green  light seemed  to  flicker  in  his  eyes.  A thousand  tumultuous,  impossible thoughts  swirled  through  my  brain. The  smile  on  Victor’s  face  seemed  to turn  to  a menacing  grin,  like  the snarling  visage  of  a wolf  , . . with gleaming  white  fangs  . . . slavering jaws

“Some  instinct  caused  me  to  look down.  Victor  followed  the  direction of  my  glance  with  a smile  half  of fear,  half  of  hatred.

“ His  left  leg,  from  the  knee  down, was  covered  with  blood!

“ ‘ It  was  in  the  left  leg  that  I shot the  wolf,’  I said  musingly,  almost unaware  that  I was  thinking  aloud.

“ ‘And  eet  ees  the  left  leg  that  I hurt  when  I fell  in  the  dark ! ’ smiled  Victor.  ‘Eet  ees  what  you  call a coo-incident,  ees  eet  not,  M’sieu? Something  eet  ees  hard  to  believe?’ And  he  chuckled  mockingly,  triumphantly.

“My  overwrought  nerves  gave  way then.  I felt  something  snap  out  of place  up  here” — the  doctor  indicated his  head  with  a vague  gesture — “and  a dizzy,  light-headed  feeling swept  over  me.

“I  remember  seeing  Victor  as through  a bloody  fog,  across  the  fire, but  his  face  had  changed  to  the  face of  a wolf — the  wolf  that  had  leaped through  the  flames,  straight  for  my throat.

“I  think  I shouted  something  as  I drew  my  revolver  and  fired  at  that leering  caricature  of  a human  face. I am  a good  shot,  and  I did  not  miss, for  Victor  crumpled  in  his  tracks.”

The  doctor  paused  for  a moment and  stared  moodily  into  the  fire.

“I  do  not  remember  just  what  happened after  that,”  he  resumed  after a few  minutes,  during  which  none  of


WEIRD  TALES

us  broke  the  oddly  strained  silence. “I  left  Victor  where  he  fell,  I think, and  paddled  to  one  of  the  fishing camps  on  the  lake.  Mr.  McDonald happened  to  be  there,  and  he  consented to  take  me  back  with  him.  I guess,  gentlemen,  that  is  all  my  story. Do  you  think  I am  mad,  as  Mr.  McDonald does,  I am  sure,  or  do  you think  that  I know  what  I saw?”

With  a pitiful  eagerness  he  glanced from  one  face  to  another.

George  was  the  first  to  speak.

“I  think,  Doctor,  that  you  have had  a most  unusual  experience,”  he said  thoughtfully.  “And  I think Shakespeare  was  indeed  right  in  saying that  there  are  more  things  in heaven  and  earth  than  are  dreamt  of in  the  philosophy  of  most  of  us.”

I nodded.  “That  is  undoubtedly so,  Doctor,”  was  the  only  remark  I could  think  of,  although  I knew  in

my  heart,  of  course,  that  the  doctor was  a madman.

It  was  not  until  after  the  doctor had  retired  that  I learned  the  rest  of the  story.  It  was  McDonald  who threw  the  last  light  on  the  strange tale  the  doctor  had  told.

“The  funny  thing  about  it,”  remarked McDonald  as  we  were  smoking a last  pipe  around  the  fire,  “is that  when  I went  back  to  the  doctor’s camp,  Victor  had  two  bullet  holes  in his  body;  one  through  the  leg  and one  through  the  head,  and  the  one through  the  leg  was  tightly  bandaged with  a blood-soaked  handkerchief — and  to  the  wound  were  sticking  a number  of  black  and  yellow  hairs — wolf  hairs!”

George  said  nothing,  and  I said nothing.  There  are  lots  of  things  in the  woods  of  the  far  north  that  man is  foolish  to  attempt  to  explain.

An  Old  House

By  CRISTEL  HASTINGS

Bathed  in  mystery  and  moonlight, Wistfully  it  stands At  the  end  of  a lonely,  winding  road Where  cobwebs  hang  in  strands Of  dusty  lace  an  old  ghost  hung Before  a sagging  door —

And  winds  go  moaning  through  the rooms

With  fog  from  down  the  moor.

Never  a light — nor  sound,  nor  laugh — Never  a footfall — wait!

What  was  that? — did  I hear  a step Down  by  the  creaking  gate? Echoes  resounding  in  empty  halls — Shadows  that  spring  like  cats — Sudden  drafts  that  seem  like  breaths, And  a fluttering  of  bats.

Eery  tenants — ghosts  of  old —

Loves  and  griefs — and  tears — Underneath  a leaking  roof Haunting  mildewed  years. Straggling  roses  climb  the  porches Hiding  broken  panes,

Though  their  roots  be  dry  and  fainting

Waiting  for  the  rains.

Bathed  in  silent,  moonlit  fragrance,

I hear  the  old  ghosts  talk —

Must  be  wind  in  that  old  maple Down  the  lonely  walk.

Bats,  and  broken,  paneless  windows — Creaking  shutters — weeds — Loneliness  and  sobbing  wind  ghosts, Wait  for  the  friend  it  needs.

! “The  soldier  threw  the  lighted  torch  into  the  window

I MET  Lee  Clayton  in  Rome.  The attraction  was  a mutual  one,  for we  discovered  that  we  had  much in  common ; both  students  of  history, fond  of  travel,  and  possessing  an  insatiable thirst  for  the  uncovering  of forgotten  and  apparently  insignificant historical  data  that  might throw  light  upon  questions  of  dispute.

At  the  end  of  three  weeks  we  had covered  the  city  of  the  seven  hills from  the  Flaminian  to  the  Appian Way,  reveling  especially  in  those relics  that  gave  us  any  knowledge of  the  dead  past  Dead?  Can  the past  ever  really  die  ? I believed,  and

I think  my  friend  Clayton  agreed with  me,  that  the  past  lives  today. It  is  immortal,  but  in  its  changed form  it  is  manifest  in  influence  and posterity.  These  two  in  a stream  of continuity  render  the  antiquity  of Rome  a vital  fact  in  the  Twentieth Century  A.  D.

One  warm  evening  Clayton  and  I returned  to  the  hotel  veranda  after an  interesting  day  among  the  ruins of  the  Roman  Forum.  To  our  ears came  the  characteristic  sounds  of Italian  life ; a snatch  of  song  in  melodious tenor,  a sharp  staccato  exclamation, the  rumble  of  cab  wheels over  cobblestones,  and  the  occasional


G16

WEIRD  TALES

bleating  of  goats  whose  milk  supplied the  native  quarter.  To  our right  the  yellow  thread  of  the  Tiber was  faintly  visible.

Clayton  smiled  understandingly and  waved  a hand  toward  the  streets below  as  he  sank  luxuriously  into  a comfortable  chair.

“Great  thing  for  a rest,  Ebson,” he  remarked.  “It’s  a change  from the  hurry  and  bustle  of  the  average American  city.  I like  it.  ”

“Yes,”  I agreed,  “and  a change always  means  rest.  Although  we are  both  young  we’ve  been  living strenuously  in  a modern  business world,  and  can’t  help  appreciating the  contrast.”

We  sat  for  some  time  in  silence, the  while  I noticed  Clayton’s  features displaying  a growing  pensive mood.  His  former  joviality  was  disappearing. I made  no  attempt  to encourage  conversation,  for  I felt that  it  would  come  when  the  time was  ripe.

“Friend  Ebson,”  said  Lee  Clayton at  length,  dropping  his  listless  mien and  leaning  toward  me,  “for  many years  the  repetition  of  a certain dream  has  troubled  me.  The  vision first  appeared  when  I was  in  high school  and  followed  me  throughout my  entire  college  career,  its  vividness increasing  with  the  passing  of the  years.  It  pertains  to  the  solution of  the  mystery  surrounding  the ambiguous  expression  in  the  Greek, Latin  and  Jewish  scripts  where  the incendiary  of  the  temple  of  Jerusalem is  invariably  referred  to  as  ‘a certain  soldier’.  In  my  constantly recurring  dream  I seem  continually on  the  verge  of  discovering  the  identity of  this  ‘certain  soldier’,  but  always I awake  just  before  solving  the mystery.  My  trip  upon  this  occasion to  the  Eternal  City  is  to  find out,  if  possible,  who  threw  the  flaming torch  into  the  temple  at  Jerusalem when  the  legions  of  Titus  took the  city  of  the  Jews.  If  it  is  ever

possible  to  bring  my  haunting  dream to  a consummation  it  should  be  here amid  the  relics  of  its  original  enactment.”

I must  have  gazed  at  him  incredulously, for  he  continued  hastily. “In  all  sincerity  I mean  what  I say, my  friend.  Either  here  or  in  Jerusalem I should  be  able  to  ascertain the  identity  of  that  ‘certain  soldier’ who  threw  a lighted  torch  into  a window  of  the  sanctuary.  Why, man  alive,  think  of  the  responsibility of  that  act!”

Had  the  heat  of  a semi-tropic  sun or  the  fatigue  of  daily  sight-seeing affected  my  friend’s  mind?  I hesitated before  voicing  a mild  rebuke,  and in  that  moment  of  pause  the  spirit of  adventure,  tempered  with  tolerance for  the  incomprehensible  whims of  another,  possessed  me.  My  answer must  have  surprized  him.

“There’s  a quest  worthy  of  some time  and  effort!”  I answered  with more  enthusiasm  than  I really  felt. “The  Forum  Romanum  has  already disclosed  to  us  a few  of  its  secrets, and  why  not  this  one?  We’ll  show the  world  yet  that  Tacitus  and  Josephus and  a few  others  of  the  ancients didn’t  get  exactly  the  right dope  on  all  this.”

My  light  mood  did  not  affect  Clayton. He  continued  seriously,  his eyes  showing  a dreamy  expression.

“You  must  remember  the  historians, Josephus  and  Tacitus,  were both  contemporaries  of  Titus — and — and  this  ‘certain  soldier’.  They had  first-hand  evidence  and  certainly ought  to  have  been  more  explicit in  their  details.  As  a matter  of fact,”  he  added,  “they  are  more  evasive in  their  narrations  of  the  events connected  with  the  siege  of  Jerusalem, of  which  they  must  have  been eye-witnesses,  than  they  are  regarding historical  occurrences  preceding their  era.”

“Yes,  that  is  strange,”  I agreed. “How  do  you  account  for  it?”

A CERTAIN  SOLDIER


Clayton  was  about  to  reply  when I noticed  that  a pallor  spread  over his  features  and  he  leaned  forward with  eyes  intent  upon  the  hotel  entrance. Following  the  direction  of his  gaze  I saw  the  well-tailored  back of  a gentleman  disappearing  through the  doorway.  I turned  with  a glance of  inquiry  to  my  friend.  His  manner showed  agitation,  and  I did  not  press him  for  the  explanation,  which  I knew  would  be  forthcoming  shortly.

“That  man,”  Clayton  explained  in a husky  voice,  “is  an  enemy — and possibly  not  without  reason,”  he added  reflectively.  “Two  years  ago I was  fortunate  enough  to  win  as  my wife  the  girl  whom  we  both  loved. Shortly  afterward  the  company  in which  we  were  both  financially  interested elected  me  to  the  presidency, a position  to  which  each  of  us  had aspired.  Since  that  time  my  dear wife  died — but  the  business  concern in  which  that  man  and  I are  mutually interested  is  prospering.  Although my  two  victories  have  been  won  solely by  fair  means,  the  man  whom you  saw  disappearing  within  the doorway  has  proved  a determined enemy  whose  obsession  is  to  avenge his  defeat  in  love  and  war.  ’ ’

I was  a little  disquieted,  though  I sought  to  cover  my  uneasiness  with cheering  words.

“Never  mind,  old  chap.  We  are living  in  the  Twentieth  Century.  No one  can  stoop  to  revenge  in  these days  and  get  away  with  it.  Now  if we  were  living  in  70  A.  D.,  for  instance, you  might  have  cause  for alarm.  Life  was  held  pretty  cheap at  the  time  Titus  laid  siege  to  Jerusalem, and  one  had  to  live  warily, but  things  are  different  now.”

He  smiled  wanly.  “Speaking  of Titus,  let’s  begin  tomorrow  to  solve the  mystery  of  the  ‘certain  soldier’.”

“Agreed!”  I replied  heartily. “I’m  in  my  element  when  it  comes to  finding  an  explanation  for  the  inexplicable.”


Sleep  seemed  to  have  forsaken  me completely  that  night.  The  full moon  shining  in  at  my  window caused  me  to  abandon  all  further thought  of  rest.  I arose,  dressed  myself and  stood  gazing  out  across  the silvery  landscape.  The  moonlight softened  objects  below  that  in  the glare  of  day  stood  out  in  too  bold relief.

I stood  for  some  time  in  a troubled and  hesitant  mood.

“Why  not?”  I exclaimed,  half aloud.

Once  resolved  upon  my  course  of action  I sought  the  streets  below without  eliciting  any,  surprize  from the  sleepy  concierge  at  the  desk. The  streets  were  silent  and  deserted, the  pavement  echoing  with  the  ring of  my  footfall  until  it  seemed  to  me that  all  Rome  must  be  apprized  of my  nocturnal  sally.  Soon  I spied  the ancient  grandeur  of  the  Colosseum as  it  rose  tier  on  tier  above  the  stone ruins  and  cypress  trees  that  nestled in  its  shadow.  I was  approaching the  familiar  territory  of  the  once busy  mart  of  ancient  Rome.  The Arch  of  Constantine  rose  before  me, sublime  in  its  architectural  beauty. Then  I turned  fascinated  eyes  down to  the  ruins  of  the  Forum,  which  lie several  feet  below  the  level  of  the present  city.

I know  it  was  surprize,  though  not untinged  with  fear,  that  possessed me  as  I became  aware  of  the  presence of  another  figure  not  fifty  feet ahead  of  me.  It  was  that  of  a man, and  he  was  agilely  descending  the steps  to  the  lower  level.  I instantly recognized  Lee  Clayton  and  watched him  with  fascinated  gaze.  What could  the  man  be  doing  alone  among silent  ruins  in  the  dead  of  the  night  ? Then  I thought  of  myself  and  my own  intentions  and  I nearly  laughed aloud.  Well,  I would  not  spy  on  my friend!  I quickened  my  pace  with the  intention  of  making  my  presence


WEIRD  TALES

known,  when  further  progress  was arrested  by  the  changed  demeanor  of Lee  Clayton.

No  longer  did  he  walk  as  a man alone,  but  rather  as  one  who  wends his  way  in  and  out  among  a crowd. Occasionally  he  paused  and  gazed fixedly  at  some  object  apparently visible  to  him,  then  his  head  turned as  though  following  the  course  of something  in  motion.

The  effect  -was  most  uncanny,  and I pinched  myself  to  make  certain  I was  not  asleep.  The  somnambulist, if  he  were  such,  strode  with  dignity in  the  direction  of  the  triumphal Arch  of  Titus,  and  there  he  paused. Strange  words  were  wafted  to  my ears,  phrases  in  an  unknown  tongue. Unknown?  Had  I studied  Latin  for six  years  not  to  recognize  it  when  I heard  it,  even  in  this  fashion?  Occasionally Clayton  paused,  apparently to  lay  his  hand  upon  the  shoulder  of an  invisible  associate.  Some  of  the things  he  thought  he  heard  were mirth-provoking,  and  his  laughter rang  out  weirdly  shrill  in  the  white silence  around  us.

“Jumping  Jehosophat!”  I exclaimed, wiping  my  perspiring  brow with  my  handkeisehief.  “That’s  a wow  of  a dream  all  right!”

He  must  have  heard  me,  for  he looked  in  my  direction  and  smiled  as if  in  friendly  greeting.  Tremblingly I smiled  back.  I racked  my  brain for  one  intelligent  sentence  in  Latin.

“ ‘All  Gaul  is  divided  into  three parts’  won’t  do  upon  this  occasion,” I mumbled  disconsolately.

The  only  other  words  that  came  to my  muddled  brain  ware  the  Latin version  of  ‘Twinkle,  twinkle  little star.  ’ I tried  them  and  was  greeted with  a buret  of  uproarious  laughter from  Clayton,  the  incongruity  of which  at  this  time  caused  me  to tremble  with  fear.  He  said  something about  vinum  nimium,  and  then turned  his  attention  to  the  Arch  of Titus,  talking  off  and  on  the  while

as  if  engaged  in  conversation  with many  around  him.

For  an  hour  the  apparent  monologue continued  while  I stood  spellbound. Finally  he  turned  abruptly and  proceeded  in  the  direction  of the  Colosseum.  He  strode  so  rapidly that  I had  difficulty  in  keeping  a desirable distance  behind  him.  I intended to  see  that  he  returned  without harm  to  his  rooms  at  the  hotel.

At  the  foot  of  the  flight  of  steps leading  to  the  level  of  present-day Rome,  Clayton  paused  and  passed  a hand  across  his  brow.  He  gazed about  him  in  apparent  bewilderment and  proceeded  thereafter  with  the air  of  a man  in  solitude.

Thinking  that  possibly  the  knowledge of  a witness  might  cause  him some  embarrassment  I did  not  make my  presence  manifest,  but  allowed him  to  retire  to  his  apartment  before entering  the  hotel  myself.

Was  the  true  explanation  of  Lee Clayton’s  night  expedition  in  any way  connected  with  the  puzzling dream  of  which  he  had  told  me? Sleep  claimed  me  for  the  few  hours that  remained  until  dawn.


The  following  morning  found  me in  bed  at  a late  hour.  My  vigilance of  the  previous  night  had  been more  fatiguing  than  I had 'at  the time  realized.  I lay  for  some  time pondering  the  enigma  of  my  friend’s behavior.  Should  I feign  ignorance of  the  occurrence  in  the  Forum,  or would  it  be  best  to  inform  Lee  Clayton of  what  I knew?  Unable  to  decide the  better  course  to  pursue,  I dressed  and  hastened  down  to  breakfast.

Clayton  was  breakfasting  alone  in a far  comer  of  the  dining  salon.  As I took  the  chafr  opposite  him  he looked  up  with  a smile  of  recognition and  passed  across  the  table  to  me an  open  volume  which  he  had  been

A CERTAIN  SOLDIER


perusing,  pointing  to  a paragraph therein.

“Hebrew!”  I ejaculated.  “I’m sorry,  but  I don’t  know  a word  of it.”

“Then  here  is  a rather  free  translation of  it,”  he  replied,  “but  I regret that  you  can  not  read  the  original. Some  of  the  author’s  thought is  always  lost  in  the  process  of  translation.”

I accepted  the  proffered  script  and read  the  following :

“The  secret  of  the  identity  of  a certain soldier  who  fired  the  sanctuary  of  the  holy temple  of  the  Jews  lies  buried  in  his  bosom. An  associate,  upon  threat  of  exposure,  bids him  make  record  of  his  deed.  This  he  has done,  but  so  obscurely  that  nearly  twenty centuries  shall  pass  before  the  mystery shall  be  made  clear.”

“Well,  that’s  beginning  to  get close,”  I commented,  returning  the paper  to  Lee.  “Who  was  the  old  fellow that  wrote  that?”  indicating  the volume.

“That  is  not  known,”  Lee  Clayton replied,  turning  to  the  title-page. “It  seems  to  be  merely  a collection of  anonymous  Hebrew  manuscripts published  by  a German  house  in  the early  part  of  the  Sixteenth  Century.”

“But  why  all  the  secrecy?”  I asked.  “The  ‘certain  soldier’  was merely  fulfilling  destiny  when  he obeyed  an  impulse  to  fire  the  sanctuary.”

Young  Lee  Clayton  shot  me  a swift,  searching  glance.

“If  you  believe  so,”  he  said  quietly, “I  will  not  gainsay  it,  but  if  you want  my  personal  opinion,  the  ‘certain soldier’  was,  as  indeed  all  of  us are,  the  captain  of  his  own  soul.  He was  entirely  responsible  for  his  deed. You  know  Shakespeare  wrote,

“‘The  fault,  dear  Brutus,  is  not  in  our stars,

But  in  ourselves,  that  we  are  underlings.’”

“What  if  he  did?”  I admitted, warming  to  the  argument.  “But  if

I remember  rightly  he  is  also  responsible for  these  words :

“ ‘There’s  a divinity  that  shapes  our  ends. Rough-hew  them  how  we  will.’

“How  do  you  reconcile  the  two?” Clayton  laughed  pleasantly.  “It seems  to  be  a case  of  ‘pay  your money  and  take  your  choice,’  friend Ebson,  and  my  choice  is  made  and is  unchangeable.”

“I  admire  you  for  your  convictions,” I said  heartily.  “I  confess my  own  are  not  so  unshakable.  ’ ’

He  smiled  a little  pensively,  then remarked,  “And  because  I believe this  ‘certain  soldier’  to  have  been  entirely responsible  for  his  act  of desecration,  I wish  to  ascertain  his identity.  And  now  I am  going  to  a curio-shop  which  I chanced  upon yesterday.  Will  you  come  too?”

I readily  consented,  and  together we  wended  our  way  through  the busy  streets  of  modern  Rome.

Not  far  from  the  Piazza  de  Spania,  near  the  end  of  a short  and narrow  street  lined  with  native  bazaars and  stalls,  is  a curio-shop  of one  Antonio  Salvucci,  dealer  in  antiques. Although  the  place  was  far from  cleanly  and  had  a very  cluttered appearance,  it  was  not  wholly lacking  in  charm.  The  proprietor appeared  from  the  rear  of  the  shop as  we  entered  and  eyed  us  appraisingly.

“The  American  gentlemen  wish some  Roman  antiques?”  questioned the  Italian  eagerly.

“Just  looking,  Mr.  Salvucci,”  replied Clayton,  and  aside  to  me:  “The museums  have  most  of  the  genuine antiques,  but  occasionally  one  can pick  up  something  good  for  very little  money.”

We  walked  about  the  little  store looking  at  and  inquiring  about  various objects.  Most  of  the  curios  were relies  of  Coptic  art  that  had  been found  in  and  about  the  catacombs


WEIRD  TALES

where  the  early  Christians  had  met secretly  to  escape  persecution.  Occasionally an  object  that  dated  back to  the  Republic  was  seen,  but  the majority  were  identified  in  some way  with  the  period  of  Rome’s downfall  when  attacked  by  the tribes  from  the  north.

“Have  you  any  relic  of  the  time - of  Vespasian  or  Titus?”  asked  Clayton, coming  at  last  to  the  subject that  was  nearest  his  heart.

“Titus — Titus,”  repeated  the  foreigner as  if  trying  to  recall  some long-forgotten  fact.  “Wait,  I see.”

He  vanished  through  a rear  door, but  reappeared  some  minutes  later bearing  in  his  arms  a miniature restoration  of  the  famous  Arch  of Titus  which  had  been  erected  in honor  of  the  Roman  conquest  of Jerusalem  in  70  A.  D.  This  facsimile was  two  feet  at  its  greatest length,  and  the  other  dimensions were  proportional.

We  were  delighted  with  our  find, but  feigned  indifference.  I perceived, though,  that  it  was  all  Lee could  do  to  keep  his  hands  off  it..

“What  price  do  you  ask?”  I inquired casually.

“Twenty-five  dollar,”  answered the  Italian  promptly.

“Nothing  doing,”  I replied,  turning toward  the  door,  “I’ll  give  you five  for  it.”

“Oh, — but,  signor,  I have  four bambini.  I must  make  a living,”  he pleaded  with  characteristic  Italian pathos.

“I’ll  give  you  ten,”  said  Clayton somewhat  harshly.

The  sale  was  eventually  consummated at  the  sixteen-dollar  figure, and  we  bore  our  trophy  away  with exultation.

Back  in  the  hotel  and  safely  ensconced in  Lee  Clayton’s  rooms  we studied  the  little  arch  minutely.  It was  a very  perfect  reproduction  in Pentelic  marble  like  the  original, and  showed  a faithfulness  to  detail

that  was  nothing  short  of  marvelous.

There  were  the  faces  in  bas-relief of  Titus  the  son  of  the  emperor Vespasian,  a number  of  triumphant Roman  warriors,  a line  of  Jews  in bondage,  and  a reproduction  of  the seven  golden  candlesticks  which  had been  seized  from  the  Holy  of  Holies when  the  temple  at  Jerusalem  was plundered.  The  chiseling  of  the  faces was  unique,  each  one  displaying  its characteristic  individuality.

“Do  you  notice,”  I observed,

‘ ‘ that  the  sculptor  has  differentiated between  the  Jews  and  the  Romans? The  facial  characteristics  of  each race  are  quite  in  evidence.”

“Yes — only — hold  on  a minute, Ebson!”  cried  Lee  in  excitement. “He’s  made  one  error.  Unless  I’m very  much  mistaken  he’s  got  a Jew among  the  victorious  Romans!”

“To  be  sure ! ” I exclaimed,  my excitement  equaling  his  own.  “That figure  near  the  middle  certainly  belongs to  the  conquered  race.  But there  were  Jews  who  were  Roman citizens,”  I added;  “and  the  chances are  they  were  even  more  numerous in  70  than  in  40  A.  D.”

“That  is  very  true,”  Lee  answered a little  abstractedly,  I thought,  “but  it  is  very  poor  taste for  the  artist  to  be  so  realistic  in  a symbolic  creation  where  comparatively few  figures  are  represented.  I think  he  showed  decidedly  bad judgment — unless,”  he  added,  “the Jew  in  question  was  a man  of  considerable importance.”

“That  explanation  sounds  plausible to  me,”  I said.  “The  torchbearer  is  undoubtedly  a man  of fame  whose  portrait  is  indispensable to  an  accurate  depiction  of  the  triumphal entry  into  Rome.  ’ ’


Night  and  a full  moon  shedding  its ethereal  light  across  the  eternal city  prove  a combination  irresistible to  lovers  of  beauty  and  romance.

A CERTAIN  SOLDIER


Lee  Clayton  and  I left  the  hotel at  sundown  and  wandered  on  the Roman  Campagna  amid  the  venerable quietude  of  its  ilex  and  cypress trees.  The  beauty  and  serenity  of the  scene  wei*e  not  likely  to  be  soon forgotten.  When  the  moon  hung low  we  returned  to  the  city  seeking that  part  which  is  rich  in  historic associations.  We  saw  plashing fountains,  old  altars,  partly  de- .molished  statues  of  ancient  origin, picturesque  arches  and  shattered pillars,  their  outlines  softened  and half  concealed  by  flowers  and  vines.

After  the  moon  had  disappeared we  retraced  our  steps  to  the  hotel. I had  just  locked  my  door  preparatory to  retiring  for  the  night  when I was  forcibly  impressed  with  a possible solution  to  the  enigma  of  the Roman  soldier  who  was  a Jew!  I unlocked  my  door,  locking  it  again behind  me,  and  stepped  into  the  hall. There  was  light  in  Lee’s  room  and the  door  was  slightly  ajar.  I rapped lightly  but  received  no  response. Upon  the  center  table  stood  the small  replica  of  the  famous  arch, and  it  seemed  to  me  as  I gazed  ruefully at  it  that  the  handsome  features of  the  mysterious  Roman  Jew regarded  me  with  amusement  not  untouched with  contempt.

I left  the  room  and  descended  to the  first  floor.

“Did  Mr.  Clayton  leave  the hotel?”  I inquired  of  the  deskclerk.

“He  passed  this  way  just  a moment ago,”  the  man  replied.

My  piind  was  made  up.  Without a moment’s  hesitation  I left  the hotel  and  stepped  into  the  quiet  of  a semi-tropic  night.  For  an  instant my  eyes,  unaccustomed  to  the  darkness, saw  nothing,  but  gradually,  as objects  became  faintly  visible,  I discerned the  figure  of  my  friend  as  I had  seen  him  upon  the  previous night,  striding  rapidly  toward  the site  of  the  Forum  of  ancient  Rome.

But  his  pace  was  too  rapid  for me,  and  I knew  that  unless  I dashed madly  after  him,  running  the  risk of  arousing  suspicion,  I could  not hope  to  catch  up  with  him.  Instinctively I retraced  the  route  of  the night  before.  In  a breathless  condition I espied  the  familiar  ruins  of the  great  Colosseum  and  the  arch  of the  first  Christian  emperor,  Constantine, flanking  the  mammoth  pit of  the  ancient  Forum  wherein clustered  pillars,  like  tombstones  of a bygone  age,  gleamed  palely.

Fatigued  to  the  point  of  exhaustion I seated  myself  on  a boulder and  mopped  my  perspiring  brow. The  night  seemed  to  be  growing warmer — and  a faint  glow  of  suffused light  pervaded  the  landscape.

“But  the  moon  set  an  hour  ago,” I murmured  in  bewilderment.

Then  I stared  with  gaping  mouth and  bulging  eyes.  The  Arch  of Constantine  was  growing  hazy  and transparent  while  I gazed.  1 turned to  the  Colosseum  and  saw  that  the familiar  sloping  sides  where  Time had  put  its  stamp  of  demolition  were fast  fading  away  and  in  their  stead the  outline  of  the  vast  arena  became more  distinct  in  its  pristine  splendor.

“Merciful  heaven — am  I going mad?”  I exclaimed,  passing  a hand across  my  eyes  in  perplexity.

When  I looked  again  for  the  Arch of  Constantine,  it  was  gone!  Something seemed  to  snap  in  my  brain, and  then


“T>Y  the  Gods,  Pliny,  you  are  miss-

-*-*  ing  the  fun.  Our  new  emperor, Titus,  is  marching  with  the  legions through  the  triumphal  arch  which is  just  completed.  His  route  is through  the  Forum,  as  it  was  nine years  ago  upon  his  return  from Jerusalem  while  his  father,  Vespasian, yet  wore  the  purple.”


WEIED  TALES

T looked  up  from  the  rock  upon which  I was  seated  to  see  a familiar face  regarding  me  affectionately.

“I  shouldn’t  want  to  miss  that, Quintilian,”  I replied  in  the  fluent Latin  in  which  he  had  addressed  me.

I cast  a hurried  glance  at  my  attire, thinking  how  incongruous  a figure  I must  appear  in  a suit  of  the Twentieth  Century.  But  my  alarm was  short-lived,  for  I perceived  that a spotless  toga  draped  my  body  in graceful  folds.

My  companion  plucked  my  sleeve, and  I arose  and  turned  toward  the Porum.

“See,”  exclaimed  Quintilian,  “the soldiers  are  already  passing  the Temple  of  Vesta.  Hurry!”

Stretching  before  me  beneath  an azure  sky  lay  the  busy  Roman  market-place of  the  First  Century,  its pure  marble  fanes  and  statues  reflecting the  brilliance  of  a midafternoon sun.  Throngs  of  whiterobed  people  intermingled  with young  men  in  military  accouterments who  were  scattered  singly  and in  groups  about  the  great  mart  A:,

My  sensation  was  a most  pfflmiar one.  While  I recognized  my  identity as  Paul  Ebson,  of  Cleveland,  Ohio, at  the  same  time  I was  cognizant that  as  I stood  here  with  my  good friend  Quintilian,  the  famous  rhetorician, I was  Pliny  the  Elder,  noted naturalist  of  Rome.

We  forced  our  way  through  the crowd  and  stood  before  a statue  of two  figures,  symbolic  of  the  conquest of  Judea  by  Rome;  as  beautiful a piece  of  statuary  as  I had  ever seen,  comparable  to  the  works  of  the most  noted  Greek  sculptors  rather than  to  this  decadent  period  of Roman  art.  Alas  that  the  Twentieth Century  had  never  seen  even  a remnant  of  this  masterpiece  of sculptural  art!

I was  about  to  comment  upon  this creation  when  the  cheers  of  the populace  directed  my  attention  to

the . approaching  procession,  at  the head  of  which,  mounted  upon  a richly  caparisoned  steed,  rode  young Titus,  emperor  of  Rome.  He  was followed  by  a body-guard  of  stalwart men.  Following  this  came  a cohort  of  Roman  soldiers,  and  immediately behind,  long  lines  of  captive Jews,  eight  abreast,  their  heads bowed  to  the  yokes  of  the  conquerors. Then  followed  the  legions  of Rome,  their  spears  and  shields clattering  rhythmically  as  they marched  toward  the  great  triumphal Arch  of  Titus.

A youth  of  eighteen  years  came up  to  my  side  and  greeted  me  with a friendly  salutation.  He  was  my nephew,  Pliny  the  Younger,  who shared  with  me  the  joys  of  scientific research.

“Uncle,”  he  cried,  his  eyes  sparkling with  excitement,  “I  wish  I had been  old  enough  to  have  gone  with the  legions  of  Titus  to  Jerusalem  like Flavius  over  there;  but  see,  they have  passed  through  the  arch  and some  of  the  soldiers  are  rejoining the  rest  of  us.  Look,  here  comes Tacitus.  Isn’t  he  handsome?”

I looked  at  the  stalwart  young soldier  who  was  nearing  our  group. Yes,  it  was  Tacitus,  who,  though young,  was  establishing  for  himself quite  a reputation  as  an  historian.

‘ ‘ Tacitus — Tacitus,  ’ ’ I repeated under  my  breath,  but  I knew  that the  youthful  historian  and  soldier was  Lee  Clayton.

Tacitus  regarded  me  with  an enigmatical  smile.

“Is  your  ire  still  aroused,  Pliny, that  the  portrait  of  my  fellow  historian appears  upon  the  arch  and mine  does  not?”  he  asked.  Then  he added,  “You  must  remember  that his  years  number  more  than  mine and  that  his  reputation  in  the  chosen profession  of  both  of  us  is  already established.”

“I  know  that,  my  dear  Tacitus,” I replied,  “but  I am  convinced  that

A CERTAIN  SOLDIER


your  narratives  adhere  more  strictly to  historical  facts  than  do  those of  your  Jewish  rival,  and  what  is more,  I don’t  like  a man  who  can take  part  in  the  overthrow  of  his own  people.”

Tacitus  smiled.  “I  don’t  believe the  possibility  of  my  becoming  his professional  rival  is  worrying  Josephus so  much  as  the  fact  that  the fair  Julia  has  consented  to  become my  wife.  You  know  he  sought  her hand  after  the  death  of  his  Jewish wife,  Yashti.  His  failure  in  love  has embittered  him.  We  have  been  doing a little  work  jointly  in  preparing an  accurate  chronicle  of  the  siege  of Jerusalem.  I asked  him  if  he  knew who  threw  the  lighted  torch  into  the window  of  the  sanctuary  of  the temple,  as  I thought  the  act  of sufficient  importance  to  warrant minute  detail  in  narration,  but  he was  evasive  upon  the  subject,  finally remarking  that  the  expression  ‘a certain  soldier’  was  sufficient  information to  hand  down  to  posterity ; that  the  deed  and  not  the  doer was  in  this  case  of  paramount  importance.”

“Well,  Tacitus,”  I said,  “I  admire your  love  of  truth  and  detail and  I will  do  what  I can  to  assist  in procuring  for  you  the  identity  of this  ‘certain  soldier’.”


Our  little  group  of  four  moved slowly  toward  the  Arch  of Titus  while  around  us  surged  the Roman  populace.  As  we  walked  we were  greeted  by  friends  on  this  side and  that.  At  length  we  stood  facing the  great  arch  through  which  the legions  of  Titus  had  but  recently filed.  How  familiar  it  looked!  And there  in  the  foreground,  sculptured among  surrounding  notables  of  pure Roman  blood,  was  the  face  of  Josephus with  the  same  expression  of mockery.

I tore  my  attention  from  the  arch to  the  scene  in  the  Forum.  The crowds  were  thinning  as  the  shadows lengthened.  I became  aware  of  another presence,  and  turning  I encountered the  ironic  gaze  of  the  historian Josephus.  I recognized  him to  be  a man  of  extraordinary  intellect. His  lofty  brow  and  thoughtful eyes  indicated  that.  Still  there  was something  about  the  man  I did  not like  and  I was  forced  to  confess  to myself  that  the  feeling  was  inexplicable.

“Well  met,  Pliny,”  Josephus  said in  salutation.  “I  hear  you  leave  on the  morrow  for  Pompeii.  Give  my regards  to  Lucius  Sulla  and  tell  him that  I will  myself  be  in  Pompeii  by the  ides  of  next  month.  And  here is  my  fellow  historian  Tacitus,”  he continued,  smiling  upon  the  younger man  with  a patronizing  air.  “How goes  the  account  of  the  siege?”

“I  am  still  wanting  to  put  a name in  the  place  of  ‘a  certain  soldier’,” Tacitus  replied.  “Future  generations will  not  tolerate  ambiguity.”

Josephus  shrugged  his  shoulders and  pointed  with  a smile  toward  the portrait,  upon  the  arch.  “Quite  an honor  for  an  insignificant  soldier, don’t  you  think,  my  friends?”

“I  am  of  the  opinion  that  your part  in  the  siege  may  not  have  been as  insignificant  as  you  would  like  to have  us  believe,”  I said.

“What  do  you  mean?”  Josephus demanded,  his  brow  clouding.

I did  not  reply  at  once,  for  Quintilian was  excusing  himself  to  go  to his  home.  Pliny  the  Younger  was off  for  the  new  Colosseum,  which  had been  but  recently  completed.

When  they  were  out  of  hearing, Josephus  repeated  his  question  with glowering  mien,  then  recalling  suddenly the  presence  of  Tacitus,  controlled his  anger  with  effort.  I knew that  he  would  vouchsafe  no  information in  the  presence  of  his  rival  historian.


WEIRD  TALES

I shot  a significant  glance  into  the •eyes  of  niy  dear  friend  Tacitus,  and remarked  casually,  “By  the  way, Tacitus,  is  it  not  the  fair  Julia’s daily  custom  to  ride  in  the  vicinity of  the  Colosseum  toward  sundown  in the  chariot  of  her  father,  Agrieola  ? ’ ’

"You  have  spoken  truly,  Pliny.  I am  to  meet  her  at  the  hour  of  sundown by  the  Golden  House  of Nero,”  the  young  man  replied.

“I  will  say  farewell,  Tacitus,”  I called  after  him,  “for  1 may  not see  you  again  until  my  return  from Pompeii.”

The  latter’s  reference  to  Julia  did not  improve  the  temper  of  the  Jewish historian,  who  turned  to  me  with a third  repetition  of  his  question.

“I  will  ask  you,  Josephus,”  I replied quietly,  “why  the  portrait  of ‘a  certain  soldier’  who  ignites  the sanctuary  of  his  own  besieged  people is  not  important  enough  to  appear on  a triumphal  arch.  But  there is  one  objection,  his  name  should  appear in  the  written  chronicle.”

The  historian  trembled  with mingled  fear  and  rage  and  his  voice was  thick  as  he  answered,  “Do  you dare  to  identify  me  with  that  accursed ‘ certain  soldier  ’ ? ”

I looked  sternly  at  the  wretched man  through  narrowed  eyes  and said,  “ Josephus,  if  you  will  write  a confession  of  your  deed  you  will find  favor  with  the  Gods,  and  posterity will  hold  your  records  in  good repute.”

“And  what  if  I have  already  revealed in  writing  the  name  of  the soldier  who  was  moved  by  a divine impulse  to  throw  a lighted  torch into  the  window  of  the  sanctuary?” fie  asked  mockingly.

“Divine  impulse!”  I exclaimed. “Would  you  consider  it  a divine  impulse were  I suddenly  to  seize  a bar and  demolish  the  sculptural  figure of  yonder  smirking  Jew  who  aids  in the  overthrow  of  his  people?”

His  apparent  terror  wrung  my heart.

“But  your  confession,”  I urged  in gentler  tones.  “Where  is  the  written chronicle  you  mentioned  in which  ‘ a certain  soldier  ’ is  named  ? ’ ’

“In  my  bosom  the  secret  lies, Pliny,  and  there  it  shall  stay — yes, it  shall  be  unrevealed  till  twenty centuries  have  rolled  by.  Historians are  sometimes  permitted  glimpses  of the  future  as  well  as  of  the  past!’-’

I lunged  toward  Mm,  but  he  fled, Ms  prophetie  words  ringing  in  my cars.  I stood  alone  in  the  Roman Forum  before  the  Arch  of  Titus, gazing  at  the  smug  countenance  of the  sculptured  Josephus  that  seemed gloating  over  the  secret  within  its breast.

Within  its  breast!

“By  all  the  immortal  Gods,”  I cried,  “I  understand  the  words  of Josephus,  ‘In  my  bosom  the  secret lies’.”

Impetuously  I picked  up  a blunt bar  that  lay  on  the  ground  a few feet  away,  and  cast  a hurried  glance around  me.  From  behind  the  Temple of  Jupiter  Stator  a figure  was approacMng.  I recogmzed  it  as  that of  Tacitus  returning  from  his  ride with  Julia.  I lifted  the  bar  for  a shattering  stroke  that  did  not  fall.

The  beautiful  arch  was  aging  before my  eyes.  Corners  were  becoming worn  away,  inscriptions  grew faint,  and  in  some  instances  were completely  obliterated.  Weeds  and the  creepers  of  vines  clambered  over the  surface,  and  many  of  the  chiseled features  were  chipped  or  worn smooth  by  the  fingers  of  Time.  The face  of  Josephus  was  gone  completely. For  all  posterity  might  know,  a typically  Roman  visage  could  have topped  those  shoulders.

I stood  aghast,  but  with  undiminished  ardor  commenced  to  knock away  the  marble  folds  that  covered the  breast  of  Josephus.  Then  I felt (Continued  on  page  716)

[Miles  Warriner  to  his  godfather, Sir  Donald  F rending.]

The  Green  Palace  Cinema, Liverpool,  Sept.  30.

EAR  PATER:—

It’s  tremendously decent  of  yon  to  offer  to  go up  to  Cumberland  and  see  Coral yourself.  This  cellist,  Torkel  Yarl, who  drifted  into  the  Hydro  after  I left,  sounds  a dangerous  sort  of bounder,  and  I’m  not  only  jealous but  really  afraid  for  Coral.

It’s  so  foreign  to  her  nature  to make  sudden  friendships  with  anyone— she’s  as  shy  as  a blue- jay — and that’s  why  this  violent  intimacy alarms  me.

She  is  wrought  up  to  a fever-pitch of  excitement  over  Yarl  and  his

W.  T. — 2

music,  and  seems  to  spend  the  whole day  working  with  him.  Our  orchestra broke  up  when  the  summer season  was  over  at  Brackenfells Hydro,  but  both  Coral  and  myself are  booked  for  the  Xmas  season  there. I took  a temporary  job  of  playing first  violin  at  this  cinema  because  the pay  was  so  tempting,  and  means marrying  Coral  six  months  earlier.

She  stayed  on  at  Brackenfells  at  a nominal  salary  to  entertain  any  stray visitors  that  might  drift  in,  and  to rest  before  the  Xmas  rush  begins  . . . They’re  tuning  up,  and  the  big  drum I am  using  as  a table  is  wanted.  So am  I.

Do  go  as  soon  as  possible.

Your  very  worried

Miles.


G26

WEIRD  TALES

[Coral  Deane  to  Miles  Warriner] Brackenfells  Hydro, Oct.  7.

EAR  MILES: —

What  soul-searching questions  you  ask!  I can’t  answer them  now  because  I have  so  much  to tell  you  about  the  music  I have  been doing..

Torkcl  Yarl  is  marvelous!  Even the  great  Casals  seems  to  fade  into  a mere  amateur  beside  him!  It’s  not only  his  playing — he  improvises superbly,  too;  it  quite  frightens  me sometimes,  for  I can’t  understand how  any  man  can  do  what  he  does !

He  plays  from  memory  everything you  and  I have  ever  done.  Not  only cello  solos,  but  arrangements  of  big orchestral  things  as  well.  The  Lalo Concerto,  Boellmann’s  Variations, Saint -Saens’  Allegro  and  Chopin’s Polonaise  in  C are  a few  examples  of his  repertory!

Do  you  remember  the  Mendelssohn Fugue  in  E flat  for  strings  ? He  produced a piano  part  for  me  in  script and  he  does  the  rest ! Don ’t  ask  me how — it  is  quite  beyond  me!  His genius  is  so  great  that  it  is  almost terrible.  Particularly  in  his  own compositions.  They  are  more  like  the wildest  sort  of  Slav  music  than  anything else  I have  heard,  but  far  more barbaric ! I always  dread  playing his  own  works,  though  I don’t  knowwhy  I do !

Torkel  says  I have  a certain amount  of  genius,  but  am  too  sentimental to  use  it  properly.  I was furious  when  he  said  this,  but  he  only laughed,  and  then  took  up  his  bow and  played  so  divinely  that  I forgot to  be  angry  any  more.

Of  course  I love  you  and  miss  you, Miles ! Why  do  you  ask  me  so  often  ?

I went  up  to  the  Red  Tarn  on Monk’s  Rock  last  week — that  place has  an  extraordinary  attraction  for me  now.  I got  a nasty  deep  scratch on  my  arm  when  I was  by  the  tarn

which  won ’t  heal  up.  I can ’t  remember how  I did  it  though.

With  love,

Yours,

Coral.

P.  S.  Did  I tell  you  Torkel  has  a Anger  missing  on  his  left  hand?  I can’t  imagine  how  he  does  the stretches.

[Sir  Donald  Fremling  to  Miles W arriner.]

Brackenfells  Hydro, Oct.  15.

Y DEAR  BOY:

As  I have  often  told you,  it  gives  me  the  greatest  happiness whenever  you  turn  to  me  for help.  Your  pride  and  independence make  it  difficult  for  me,  now  that you  are  no  longer  a schoolboy.

You  have  been  quite  frank  with me  about  Coral,  and  I will  be  equally frank  with  you — chiefly  because  you must  be  prepared  to  play  the  hardest part  in  the  awful  little  drama  which Torkel  Yarl  has  staged.  Your  part  is to  wait  and  do  nothing  1 No  matter how  desperate  the  crisis,  you  can  not help — only  hinder.

Torkel  Yarl  is  not  a man  as  you and  I understand  the  word!  He  is not  a human  being — but  superhuman, literally  superhuman.

Physically  he  has  all  the  characteristics of  his  Danish  forefathers  (his name — Yarl  or  Eorl — gives  you  the clue  to  his  ancestry,  of  course).  He is  powerfully  built  and  tall  in  proportion, and  moves  wflth  the  ease  and grace  of  a panther.  His  eyes  add  to this  illusion,  they  are  unnaturally bright  and  gleam  under  drooped  eyelids in  a horribly  compelling  fashion.

As  to  his  music — it  is  a weapon  of such  supreme  power  that  it  would rouse  the  dead  to  follow  him  over  the edge  of  the  world !

Why  am  I not  under  his  spell,  you ask?  Ah,  because  years  ago  I learnt what  Power  inspires  such  as  Torkel Yarl — and  behind  those  gleaming

THE  LORD  OF  THE  TARN


eyes  of  his  I see  his  devil  seated,  lustful and  mocking.

The  missing  finger  on  his  hand  is  a distinguishing  mark  which  may  help, when  it  comes  to  the  final  proving  of my  theories.

Don’t  forget  to  be  cautious  in  your references  to  me  when  you  write  to Coral.  She  has  no  idea  who  I am.

Your  affectionate  godfather, Donald  Fremling.

[Coral  Deane  to  Miles  Warriner.] Brackenfells  Hydro, Oct.  30.

EAREST  MILES:

You  always  warned me  not  to  let  my  dreams  blot  out reality  too  far,  and  I seem  to  have done  it!  I have  wandered  out  into space,  and  when  I want  to  return  I find  there  is  no  room!

You  bring  me  back  always — but  I know  that  soon  even  the  memory  of your  love  will  not  draw  me.  I shall just  go  on  and  on — and  never  return! Will  that  be  death,  Miles? But  that’s  absurd,  of  course — I am perfectly  well.

I have  changed  my  mind  again about  our  wedding;  if  you  still  want me,  I will  marry  you  when  you  come back  at  Xmas'.  I hope  Coral  Warriner will  be  better  worth  your  loving than  Coral  Deane — but  I am  afraid you  are  taking  a risk,  dear!

Don’t  you  think  it  is  curious  that I have  grown  to  love  the  Red  Tarn so  much  ? Do  you  remember  the  first time  we  saw  it  together,  one  late autumn  day  last  year  ? What  a desolate, wind-swept  place  it  seemed then — the  water  of  the  tarn  cold  and gleaming  under  the  gray  sky — the tall  yellow  reeds  rustling  and  shivering on  its  banks!  I was  never  so afraid  of  any  place  out  in  the  open before.  Do  you  remember  what  a coward  I was,  and  how  I thought  I saw  figures  crouching  and  stealing about  among  the  stunted  trees  and patches  of  gorse?

And  yet  I love  the  tarn  now  more than  any  other  spot  in  Teordale. Torkel  has  written  music  about  it  for me,  called  The  Voice  of  the  Tarn.  It is  the  wildest  music  in  the  world  and the  sweetest — in  B flat  minor,  my favorite  key !

The  theme  steals  in  like  a ghost wandering  lost  and  lonely  by  the tarn.  The  four  winds  carry  its lament  until  it  swells  to  longing  and despair,  in  great,  crashing  chords that  make  me  tremble.  The  modulations are  very  abrupt — breathless swoops  from  one  height  to  another — and  it  finishes  with  a wild  burst  of gayety  in  a major  key,  like  mocking laughter  high  above  the  tarn.

The  curious  thing  is  that  I can never  recall  a single  phrase  of  the music  unless  I am  on  the  Monk’s Rock.  The  instant  I set  foot  on  the ascent  from  the  valley  I hear  vague murmurs  which  get  clearer  as  I climb up.  Sometimes  I am  dizzy  and  bewildered by  the  rushing  harmonies that  greet  me  as  the  deep  waters  of the  tarn  come  into  sight.  It  is  almost more  than  I can  bear  to  hear.  Once I must  have  fainted — for  I discovered later  the  deep  scratch  on  my arm  of  which  I told  you,  and  I can’t remember  doing  it!  It  still  won’t heal  up!

One  of  the  guests  at  the  Hydro  is a Mr.  Donald.  He  has  traveled  all over  the  world  and  we  have  long  talks together.  I was  telling  him  about you  just  before  I began  this  letter. He  seemed  to  bring  you  much  nearer to  me.

That’s  why  I can  write  and  tell you  how  much  I love  you,  Miles,  in spite  of  my  queerness — never  believe that  you  are  not  the  only  one  that really  counts  in  the  whole  wrnrld  to me!

Good-bye,  Miles  darling ! The tarn  would  be  mysteriously  beautiful by  moonlight — I must  see  it!

Your

Coral.

G28

WEIRD  TALES

[Miles  War  liner  to  Sir  Donald

Fremling.]

27  Avon  Sq.,  Liverpool, Nov.  6.

I’m  living  in  a perfect  bell  of  doubt and  fear,  Pater!  Coral  has  just sent  me  a letter  which  brings  her back  to  me,  as  she  used  to  be  before this  infernal  Yarl  started  in!  But two  things  in  it  worry  me  horribly.

First — what  is  the  matter  with  her arm? — why  won’t  the  scratch  heal up?  Is  it  blood-poisoning  on  top  of all  the  rest?

And  has  she  told  you  about  wanting to  see  the  Red  Tarn  at  night? For  heaven’s  sake  don’t  let  her  do that!  At  night  the  shadows  would make  the  path  impossible — it’s  more or  less  dangerous  even  in  the  daylight. I am  appalled  at  the  idea!

It’s  slow  torture— this  waiting business.  Why  can’t  I come  and  d.o the  devil  out  once  and  for  all?  I’d rather  be  hanged  for  it  than  let Coral  go  on  like  this  from  day  to day.  Miles.

P.  S.  Don’t  curse  me  for  worrying you!  I know  you  can’t  do  more! But  this  is  plain  unadulterated  hell!

[Telegram.  Fremling  to  Warriner .] Teordale,  Cumberland.

Just  sent  latest  report  by  express.

It  explains  much.  If  you  see Coral  now  you  destroy  her  only chance.  Wait.

[Sir  Donald  Fremling  to  Miles Warriner.]

Braekenfells, Nov.  7.

Y DEAR  BOY  :

You  can  not  realize at  a distance,  in  spite  of  my  daily letters,  how  things  are  going;  and  I am  afraid  you  find  my  methods  slow and  dangerous,  when  Yarl  is  using every  hour!  So  am  I,  however  . . . but  Yarl  must  be  allowed  to  show himself  in  his  true  colors  before  I can  act.

The  scratch  on  Coral’s  arm  might be  described  in  a rather  dramatic way  as  a “devil  mark.’’  Yarl  has evidently  made  an  attempt  to  get  her when  she  went  to  the  Red  Tarn  on one  of  her  solitary  walks.  He  failed because  his  hour  is  not  yet  come.  It will  heal  when  Yarl  ceases  to  exist, and  not  until  then.  It  is  not  dangerous in  itself — simply  a brand!

If  it  were  of  any  use  to  kill  this man  outright,  I should  not  hesitate to  do  so;  but  if  he  were  sent  out  of life  now,  he  would  return  in  another human  form — and  with  added  power and  malevolence !

For  your  comfort  I can  tell  you plainly  that  there  is  an  hour,  and  a place,  where  I can  come  to  grips  with the  devil  that  dwells  in  him;  and  for that  hour  I am  waiting!

Now  read  the  enclosed  account  of the  early  history  of  Cumberland  and you  will  understand  whence  Torkel Yarl  derives  his  power.

I must  go  back  to  the  year  936 A.  D.  when  Hywel  Dda,  a prince  of South  Wales,  made  a law  for  the  protection of  cats;  with  the  result  that the  chazza  (the  old  High  German name  for  cat)  was  brought  over  in increasing  quantities  from  the  Baltic shores,  and  became  domesticated  in our  island.  New  and  terrible  superstitions sprang  up — the  old  Egyptian worship  of  cats  was  revived  in  crude revolting  forms  by  our  barbaric  ancestors; and  the  chazza  was  the center  and  excuse  for  a thousand nameless  obscenities.

This  cat  worship  lingered  in  remote parts  of  the  country — and  as late  as  the  Twelfth  Century  there are  traces  of  it  in  a few  of  the  socalled  religious  houses  of  those  days.

One  such  abbey,  given  over  to Satanism  and  every  evil  practise, was  built  here  in  Teordale  by  the  Red Tarn,  which  served  as  a fish-pond  for the  monks — and  was  known  as  the Tarn  of  Chazz  (or  Chazza).

This  abbey  was  built  by  a Danish

THE  LORD  OF  THE  TARN


Earl  of  Cumberland,  the  Lord  of Chazz,  who  was  immensely  wealthy and  powerful,  and  dominated  the place  to  such  an  extent  that  its  real spiritual  head,  Father  David,  was sacrificed  at  one  of  the  abominable orgies  for  which  the  abbey  was  renowned.

This  roused  the  countryside,  and an  organized  attack  was  made  under Father  Ambrosius  (the  chronicler  of the  event)  which  surprized  the monks  in  the  very  act  of  their demon  worship.

Father  Ambrosius  leaves  much  unsaid, and  refers  briefly  and  with pious  horror  to  monstrous  eats  speaking with  , the  voices  of  men  and women,  blasphemous  prayers  to  Lucifer, wild  hell-games  played  round the  stately  cloisters,  shameful  litanies recited  in  the  abbey  chapel,  and  the celebration  of  the  Black  Mass  at  the high  altar — once  dedicated  to  the Glory  of  God!

Father  Ambrosius  and  his  devoted band  of  followers  burnt  the  abbey  to the  ground ; and  the  smoke  and  flame of  it  lit  the  whole  of  Cumberland,  according to  the  chronicler.  The  cats or  monks  or  both,  they  slew  by  the sword — for  against  their  blades, dipped  in  holy  water,  the  power  of Satan  was  useless.  They  flung  the bodies  into  the  Tarn  of  Chazz,  until the  black  pond  was  red  with  blood, and  it  has  been  known  as  the  Red Tarn  ever  since.

But  the  fiercest  and  most  devilish of  all  that  monstrous  crew  escaped! He  fled  spitting  and  snarling  before the  good  father’s  sword — and,  leaping off  the  face  of  Monk’s  Rock,  vanished into  the  darkness  of  the  night!

My  belief  is  that  this  was  the  ruler of  that  infamous  abbey — the  Lord  of Chazz — and  that  he  lives  still — in  the person  of  Torkel  Yarll  He  is  sustained by  the  power  of  those  he serves,  and  in  return  for  their  protection, he  sacrifices  a victim  at  certain intervals !

The  last  Friday  of  this  month  is the  Night  of  Sacrifice — and  I need hardly  add  that  Coral  is  the  destined victim !

Do  not  be  led  by  blind  love — or fear — into  coming  to  interfere  with my  plans.  It  would  be  entirely  fatal to  Coral.

Your  affectionate  godfather, Donald  Fremling.

[Coral  Beane  to  Miles  War  finer.]

Braekenfells, Nov,  21.

EAR  MILES: —

Your  last  letter was  a rather  queer  one,  I thought. And  you  hardly  mentioned  all  the new  music  I am  studying — aren’t  you interested  ?

Torkel  has  promised  to  give  me  the Ms.  of  The  Voice  of  the  Tarn  on  condition that  I take  him  up  to  see  the Red  Tarn  itself.  We  are  going  on Friday  and  I can  think  of  nothing else ! Tqa.’kel  wants  to  see  it  by moonlight — and  as  the  moon  is  full tomorrow  night,  it  ought  to  be  a marvelous sight.

Think  of  it,  Miles!  . „ . that strange,  shadowy  tarn  with  its  fringe of  reeds  all  silvered  in  the  moonlight and  the  wrater  gleaming  white  and silent!  I can  hardly  breathe  as  the thought  of  it  burns  in  my  mind !

What  did  you  mean  about  my promise  to  marry  you  at  Xmas?  I have  never  mentioned  it  to  you  that I remember ! Coral.

[Miles  Warriner  to  Coral  Beane.] 27  Avon  Sq.,  Liverpool, Nov.  23.

Y dear!

How  stupid  of  me  not to  have  said  how  deeply  interested  in your  new  musical  efforts  I am.  I never  could  write  a decent  letter — so  I am  not  surprized  at  your  reproaches.


WEIRD  TALES

However,  you’ll  have  to  use  your imagination  to  fill  up  the  blanks,  and remember  that  I’m  working  hard  in a cold,  uninteresting,  dirty  city,  and missing  you  every  hour  of  the  day! The  heat  of  the  theater  makes  me more  dull-witted  than  usual,  too. But  don’t  think  that  I am  ever  indifferent to  anything  that  interests you.

I’m  glad  you’ve  made  friends  with Mr.  Donald — your  walks  and  talks with  him  ought  to  be  a soothing  contrast with  the  excitement  of  all  your musical  studies.

The  theater  music  here  is  deadly stuff!  Jazz,  punctuated  by  Rachmaninoff’s C Sharp  Minor  Prelude when  the  hero  fights  a duel,  or crosses  the  rapids,  or  crawls  from  a blazing  house  with  the  heroine  in  his arms!

My  violin  sings  very  low  now.  You spoilt  me  entirely  for  an  ordinary pianist,  my  bad  little  Coral!  1 was down  for  a solo  last  night — and  upon my  word  that  accompanist  was  as near  sudden  death  as  she  will  ever be!

Think  of  me  sometimes,  my  little girl.  It’s  pretty  lonely  here.  Goodnight, my  Elfin  Queen!  Don’t  go  off with  the  moon  fairies  if  you  meet them  on  the  crags.  I want  you  whenever you  are  ready  to  come  to  me ! I hope  that  will  be  soon.

Your  friend  and  lover,

Miles.

[ Miles  Warriner  to  Sir  Donald Fremling.]

Liverpool, Nov.  23.

I’m  a fool  . . . forgive  me,  Pater’ Coral’s  last  letter  proved  how right  you  are.  I took  three  hours  to answer  it!  It’s  awful  to  think  of the  risk  you  are  taking  for  us — I am horribly  anxious!

You’ll  know  all  about  Coral  and Yarl  going  to  the  tarn  on  Friday

night — she  is  almost  delirious  about it!

Your  repentant  and  devoted

Miles.

[Coral  Deane  to  Miles  Warriner.  [ Brackenfells, Nov.  27.

ATiles!  ...  It’s  come  at  last  . . .

the  lovely  silver  night ! I wanted  to  wrrite  to  say  good-bye  to you — I don’t  feel  as  if  I should  see you  again.

I sit  in  my  bedroom  writing  this, waiting  until  the  full  moon  rises over  the  top  of  Monk’s  Rock.  The great  crag  stands  out,  black  and splendid  against  the  sky,  and  lights flicker  to  and  fro  across  it !

I can  hear  the  music  of  the  Red Tarn  floating  down  to  me  from  that distant  height.  That  magic  music! It  is  calling  to  me  . . . and  I must follow  . . . follow !

The  moon  is  up — I see  the  golden rim  above  the  dark  ridge  at  last . . . the  music  calls  more  clearly now!

Good-bye,  Miles!  I am  devinely happy ! Coral.

[The  Vicar  of  Teordale  to  the  Bishop of  Carlisle  (extract)]

The  Vicarage, Nov.  30.

. . . Sir  Donald  Fremling  and  I reached  the  summit  of  Monk’s  Rock early  in  the  evening.  As  the  moon rose  and  the  shadows  deepened,  the wide  moorland  grew  more  and  more sinister.

It  was  a terrible  vigil!  I saw  the reeds  bend  under  the  foot  of  some half-visible  passer-by,  and  heard  the whispering  voice  of  evil  at  my  elbow and  echoes  of  high  squealing  laughter. And  from  the  ghyll  close  by, the  biting  wind  shrieked  and  tore its  way — adding  its  fury  to  the  terror of  the  night.

“The  Hour  and  the  Power,”

THE  LORD  OF  THE  TARN


quoted  Fromling  in  my  ears,  as  he pointed  across  the  waving  grasses. I gasped  as  the  fresh  horror  dawned slowly  before  us.

There,  only  a few  hundred  yards or  so  away,  a huge  bulk  began  to blot  out  the  sky  and  stars.  Walls rose  and  were  roofed  over.  Courtyards and  cobbled  garths  covered the  windy  heath.  Gable  and  turret, tower  and  cloister  all  built  themselves before  our  very  eyes — until  at last  a stately  abbey  stood  complete in  every  detail — its  weather-vane gleaming  in  the  moonlight,  and every  window  brilliant  with  the lights  within.

“The  stage  is  set,”  replied  Sir Donald,  in  answer  to  the  clutch  of my  fingers  on  his  arm.  “It  remains now  for  the  Lord  of  Chazz  to  arrive and  summon  his  guests  to  the  revelries. ’ ’

I must  confess,  my  lord,  that  my faith  burnt  very  dim  in  that  hour  of waiting.  Had  it  not  been  for  the  unshaken courage  of  my  companion,  I should  have  fled  from  the  unhallowed place  and  left  my  small  part in  the  drama  unplayed.

Suddenly  I heard  a laugh — a happy  little  sound  which  made  the obscene  mirth,  echoing  about  me  on the  wind,  more  terrible  by  its  contrast. I knew  it  was  the  girl  Coral Deane,  and  Torkel  Yarl,  approaching the  tarn  at  last.

In  a few  minutes  they  neared  the tarn  and  stood  in  the  strong  moonlight, not  far  from  the  hollow where  we  lay  hidden.

The  girl  stood  silent  and  enchanted— her  delicate  lovely  face  lit with  a white  fire  of  ecstasy — her hair  streamed  back  in  the  wind  like a halo  of  light — and  her  clear  eyes were  those  of  one  who  watches  the gates  of  heaven  opening  to  let  her in!

I was  ashamed  of  my  own  fears  as I saw  her  there,  so  unaware  and  innocent, and  on  the  brink  of  such

nameless  horror;  and  I longed  to dash  that  grinning  devil  by  her  side into  the  dark  bubbling  water  of  the tarn.

Suddenly  Yarl  stepped  forward and  gave  a great  ringing  cry,  which echoed  and  re-echoed,  until  I thought  every  hill  in  Cumberland had  caught  and  thrown  back  that  infernal summons.

As  it  died,  the  tarn  rose  in  leaping waves,  flecking  the  reeds  which fringed  it  with  blood-red  foam.

The  girl’s  face  lost  its  rapt  dreaming look  and  she  stared  in  horror  at the  tarn — for  from  its  depths emerged  an  evil  face  and  head,  followed by  the  body  of  a man  in  a brown  habit  girdled  with  rope.  He scrambled  out  of  the  water  and  up the  bank — and  at  his  heels  followed a long  procession,  every  one  of which  was  more  brutish  and  ugly than  his  fellow.

They  were  the  monks  of  Monk’s Rock  come  to  make  merry  in  their old  haunt  once  more!

Yarl  waved  them  on  toward  the abbey — and  at  his  gesture  the  girl turned  her  stricken  face  and  appeared to  see  for  the  first  time  the great  illuminated  building  towering against  the  sky.  She  gave  a long, incredulous  look  and  turned  to  Yarl with  a little  cry.  Then  as  she  saw him  truly  at  last  ...  a devil — mocking, lustful,  and  triumphant,  she covered  her  face  and  sank  to  the ground.

He  laughed  loudly  at  her  terror, and  picking  her  up  in  his  great  arms, strode  on  toward  the  abbey — the mad,  shouting  crew  of  monks  at  his heels.

When  the  last  capering  figure  had disappeared  under  the  arch  of  the central  door,  Fremling  and  I followed and  gained  the  abbey  by  a small  door  at  the  east  end.  We crept  into  the  chapel  and  stood  behind the  high  altar,  hidden  by  a massive  screen.


WEIRD  TALES

The  reek  of  incense  filled  the place,  and  the  flare  of  torches  lit monstrous  presentments  of  heathen gods  and  devils,  on  walls  and pillars.

Abruptly  the  main  door  was  flung open — and  to  a burst  of  wild  music, the  monks  came  trooping  in.  Behind them  followed  Yarl — leading the  girl  with  mock  courtesy  by  the hand.  She  looked  like  a white flower  in  this  fiend’s  abode;  and swayed,  half  blind  with  terror.

Yarl  led  her  to  a great  throne  at the  foot  of  the  altar  steps.  The  poor child  sat,  her  hands  clutching  the skulls  which  formed  the  arms  of  her black  throne,  and  her  wide  blank gaze  followed  each  monk  in  turn,  as he  knelt  at  her  feet,  and  with  horrid jest  and  leer  made  homage  to  her.

Then  they  filled  priceless  jeweled goblets  with  foaming  liquor,  and crowded  about  Yarl  and  Coral  as she  shrank  back  in  her  place.  Lifting their  goblets  high  they  shouted: — “Hail!  Hail,  Chazza,  Eorl  of Cumberland ! Lord  of  Life  and Death!  We  drink  to  your  Queen and  our  Feast  tonight!  Hail,  Lord of  Chazz!  Hail!”

They  drank  deep — and  as  that magic  draft  worked  in  his  veins, every  monk  changed  his  human form,  until  at  last  no  trace  of  man or  monk  was  left — and  only  monstrous snarling  cats  leapt  and  circled about  Yarl  and  the  girl.

Then  I heard  Yarl  laugh,  and  saw him  touch  the  girl  on  the  arm — and a long  scratch  on  it  began  to  bleed.

Yarl  laughed  again  and  all  the beasts  with  him.

Instantly  Fremling  withdrew  by the  door  we  had  entered — and  I came  out  of  my  hiding-place  and stood  at  the  high  altar,  and  lifted the  sacred  host  above  my  head.  A great  silence  fell — the  squalling bi’utes  were  dumb — and  I called loudly  to  Coral  to  come  to  me  . . .

I called  her  in  the  name  of  God  and that  holy  thing  I held!

She  stood  up  swaying,  and  looked from  Yarl  to  me— and  back  again. Yarl  tried  to  hold  her,  but  his  power failed,  and  his  arm  dropped  to  his side.

Again  I called — and  then,  with  a child’s  cry  of  terror  and  appeal,  she stumbled  down  the  steps  of  that hateful  throne  and  fell  at  my  feet. I stooped  and  held  her,  while  Yarl stood  speechless,  glaring  at  me,  and his  devils  crouched  as  if  turned  to stone !

Then,  warned  by  some  sound,  Yarl turned  to  see  Sir  Donald  Fremling standing  behind  him — a short  dagger in  his  hand.

In  a flash  Yarl  stooped  and  lifted a flagon  to  his  lips ; and  in  a moment crouched  transformed  and  beastlike before  his  enemy.

Then  the  lights  of  the  abbey chapel  faded — the  walls  melted  into thin  air — and  I found  myself  standing with  Coral  on  the  bleak  moorland by.  the  tarn,  whose  deep  waters foamed  blood-red  over  the  bodies  of monks  as  they  sank  beneath  its waves.

I caught  a glimpse  again  of  Fremling struggling  on  the  ground  with his  loathsome  antagonist — and  the spitting,  hissing  sound  of  the  fight rose  above  the  wind’s  shrill  cry. Then  I saw  man  and  beast  roll  off the  edge  of  the  Ridge  of  Monk’s Rock,  and  disappear  into  the  depths below!  . . .

[Extract  from  the  Cumberland Comet  newspaper.]

Monk’s  rock  in  Teordale,  Cumberland, has  been  the  stage for  as  strange  an  incident  as  has  occurred in  recent  times.  The  Yiear  of Teordale  made  the  ascent  to  the  Red Tarn  last  Friday  evening,  together with  two  members  of  the  Brackenfells

THE  LORD  OP  THE  TARN


Hydro  orchestra — Miss  Coral  Deane and  Mr.  Torkcl  Yarl;  and  lastly,  Sir Donald  Fremling,  the  world-renowed mystic  and  savant.

The  latter  appears  to  have  had  a fight  of  unprecedented  horror  with  a wild  cat,  which  met  the  party  on  the summit  of  the  rock.

Sir  Donald  Fremling  was  carrying a dagger  (a  remarkable  occurrence in  itself).  He  killed  the  beast, but  in  the  death  struggle  they  both rolled  off  the  fell-side,  and  were  discovered next  morning  by  searchparties,  far  down  the  screes  in  a tangle  of  bushes.  The  monster  cat was  cold  and  stiff,  but  horribly  menacing even  in  death.  The  handle  of the  dagger  protruded  from  its  body and  has  been  left  there  at  Sir  Donald’s express  wish.  The  latter  seemed

peculiarly  interested  in  the  fact  that a joint  and  claw  of  the  creature’s left  foreleg  were  missing.

Sir  Donald  Fremling ’s  leg  was broken  and  he  was  badly  mauled  but is  recovering  rapidly.

The  vicar  hailed  the  search  party from  the  summit  of  the  Monk’s  Rock, where  he  had  for  hours  vainly  tried to  restore  Miss  Deane  to  consciousness. She  was  carried  home  and  appears to  be  making  some  progress toward  recovery.

No  trace  has  been  discovered  of  the fourth  member  of  the  party — Torkel Yarl  the  cellist.  It  is  feared  that  in searching  for  Sir  Donald  Fremling after  his  fall  from  the  rock,  Yarl himself  lost  his  footing  and  fell  to the  unplumbed  depths  of  the  gully between  Monk’s  Rock  and  Green  fell.

The  White  People

By  FRANK  BELKNAP  LONG,  Jr.

Out  of  the  grass  when  the  dew  is  wet Their  houses  lean  and  their  hoards  are  set Deep  in  the  woods  that  are  not  yet.

Out  of  the  earth  when  the  night  is  cold Their  worm-dogs  lean  and  over  the  wold They  fly  with  tales  that  are  not  told.

Out  of  the  wold  when  the  moon  rides  low Their  witch-fires  flicker,  and  tapers  glow To  guide  the  goblins  to  and  fro.

Out  of  the  lake  when  the  comets  pass Their  maidens  rise;  and  over  the  grass They  crawl  like  shadows  on  a glass.

Out  of  the  East  when  the  stars  spin  high They  dance  and  dance  and  the  years  go  by And  the  sun  and  moon  fade  out  of  the  sky

And  still  they  dance.

(From  the  Srnith  City  Mirror,  June 26,  1927)

POLICE  are  searching  today  for Dr.  J.  E.  Lawlor,  well-known physician  and  scientist,  following a report  from  his  secretary, James  Brock,  that  he  had  disappeared from  his  home  at  2100  Van Ness  Avenue.

Accoi’ding  to  Brock,  Dr.  Lawlor locked  himself  into  his  private  laboratory twelve  days  ago,  ordering  his servants  not  to  disturb  him,  and  to send  food  down  by  means  of  a dumbwaiter. As  he  had  followed  this  plan several  times  before  while  working  on experiments,  Brock  complied  with  his request.  The  time  set  was  ten  days and  when  there  had  been  no  response from  the  laboratory  during  the  two C34

days  following  the  elapse  of  this period,  Brock  feared  some  accident and,  with  the  help  of  Georges  Dmitri, Dr.  Lawlor ’s  cook,  and  Emil  Bonner, his  chauffeur,  he  forced  the  door  this morning  and  found  that  the  doctor was  gone.

A weird  angle  is  added  to  the  incident by  the  dead  body  of  a large ape  which  Brock  found  in  a corner of  the  disordered  laboratory.  Although Dr.  Lawlor  was  known  to  be interested  in  natural  history  and  to have  conducted  several  experiments with  animals  recently,  Brock  stated that  he  was  sure  the  ape  was  not  in the  laboratory  when  it  was  closed twelve  days  ago.  The  table  was  covered with  papers,  which  have  been turned  over  to  the  police.

BACK  TO  THE  BEAST


Brock,  Dmitri  and  Bonner  are  held for  questioning  by  Chief  of  Police John  Walton.

Dr.  Lawlor  has  no  immediate  family. A brother,  Stanley  Lawlor,  of Topeka,  Kansas,  has  been  notified.

(From  the  Smith  City  Mirror,  June 28,  1927)

Attempts  to  determine  the  species of  the  ape  found  dead  in  the laboratory  of  Dr.  J.  E.  Lawlor,  who disappeared  last  Saturday,  were  unsuccessful when  Professor  F.  W. Baylor,  head  of  the  natural  science department  of  the  state  university, said  today  that  he  had  never  seen such  a creature  before.

"There  are  eight  kinds  of  anthropoid apes  known  to  science,”  said Professor  Baylor,  "but  this  ape  belongs to  none  of  them.  It  has  some  of the  characteristics  of  several,  but  resembles no  single  kind  greatly.  It  is either  a freak  or  of  a species  unknown until  now.”

Professor  Baylor  has  ordered  the animal  embalmed  and  intends  to  send it  to  fellow-students  of  natural  history in  Chicago.

(From  the  Smith  City  Mirror,  June 29,  1927)

Jambs  brock,  private  secretary  of Dr.  J.  E.  Lawlor,  2100  Van  Ness Avenue,  was  placed  under  arrest  today to  face  charges  of  kidnaping  and possibly  murder  of  his  employer  last Saturday.

The  arrest  took  place  following  the reading  of  papers  purporting  to  be a journal  of  an  experiment  performed by  the  doctor,  which  Brock turned  over  to  the  police  upon  his employer ’s  disappearance.  Brock had  been  held  for  questioning,  but was  given  his  liberty  Saturday.

The  contents  of  the  journal  were not  made  public,  but  Chief  John Walton  described  them  as  "preposterous and  unbelievable,  a forgery  by

Brock  to  cover  a very  evident

crime.  ’ ’

(Extracts  from  the  papers  given  to police  by  James  Brock  as  the  journal of  Dr.  James  Everett  Lawlor)

JUNE  15 — All  is  in  readiness  for my  experiment — the  final  step  in my  great  work  that  will  afford  scientists a true  glimpse  of  how  man  appeared in  the  dim  past.  The  narrow persons  who  refuse  to  believe  in  evolution will  be  forced  to  see  the  truth, for  we  will  confront  them,  not  with theories,  but  with  proofs.

I have  material  now  that  would fill  a great  book — notes  telling  how  I first  discovered  the  combination  of elements  that  induces  deterioration and  of  my  experiments  with  it,  first on  the  lowest  forms  of  life,  then  on more  complex  animals,  with  surprizing and  enlightening  results.  Years have  been  consumed  in  this  study,  but soon  they  will  be  paid  for  when  I reveal what  I have  learned.

The  elements  for  the  two  serums, products  of  nearly  a lifetime  of  labor and  observation,  are  at  hand.  One serum  is  the  deteriorator,  which  when properly  mingled  and  administered will  make  vital  changes  in  the  organs and  tissues  of  an  animal,  changes which  finally  result  in  giving  it  the appearance  of  its  ancestors  untold ages  ago.  This  change  can  be  arrested by  the  administration  of  the counter-agent,  which  will  restore  the transformed  creature  to  its  former condition.

I do  not  suppose  that  any  person less  determined  or  less  scientific  in mind  than  I would  dare  perform  this experiment  upon  himself;  but  after all,  it  is  as  safe  as  such  a thing  can be.  I have  studied  its  effects  and powers  too  much  and  too  long  to  go wrong  now,  and  I know  that  I shaH not  be  mentally  incapable  of  handling it.  The  change  is  physiological, not  psychological.  Foretelling  the


WEIRD  TALES

course  of  the  whole  process  is  a mere matter  of  rationalization.

As  I plan  it,  I will  let  the  deteriorator  work  in  my  blood  for  five  days, then  the  counter-agent  for  five  days, to  make  sure  that  the  effects  of  the experiment  are  completely  dissipated. Thus  I expect  to  see  in  my mirror  what  my  ancestors  were  like five  thousand  centuries  ago,  and  then return  to  the  body  and  semblance  of Dr.  Lawlor,  all  within  two  weeks  at the  least.

I have  locked  my  door  for  ten days.  Brock,  a sound,  sensible  fellow who  obeys  my  orders  without  questioning, will  see  to  it  that  I am  undisturbed. And  after  this  private  experiment, I shall  present  my  findings to  my  fellow-scientists  as  the  proof of  their  theories.  Who  can  say  that my  name  shall  not  be  numbered  with those  of  the  great  evolutionists?

Juris  16 — For  twenty-four  hours  I have  had  the  serum  in  my  blood. With  what  care  I compounded  it  and injected  it  into  the  vein  of  my  arm, you  may  well  imagine.  The  effects were  noticeable  at  once.  My  blood flowed  faster  and  for  a few  moments I felt  strangely  light-headed,  as  if  I had  been  drinking.  This  latter  feeling passed  away  and  I perspired freely,  but  felt  no  unpleasant  sensations. Throughout  the  day  I have taken  notes  on  the  progress  of  the  experiment, and  tonight  my  mirror shows  me  that  it  is  a success.

The  change  in  my  appearance  has not  been  so  great  as  I expected,  but  it is  vei*y  evident.  I am  florid  and ruddy  where  I have  generally  been pale.  I am  far  more  robust  and  all over  my  body  my  hair  has  grown  out, especially  on  the  breast  and  shoulders and  outsides  of  the  arms — a strange condition  for  me,  always  smoothskinned and  of  late  years  partly  bald. I never  felt  better  physically  in  my life,  and  I look,  not  the  fine-drawn and  slender  scientist,  but  a fullbodied,  really  splendid  savage.

In  excess  of  well-being  and  in  joy at  the  certain  fulfilment  of  my  expectations, I danced  and  leaped  up and  down  this  evening.  Then,  a little ashamed  of  myself,  I sat  down  to write.

June  17 — The  effects  of  the  serum are  more  pronounced  today.  Where yesterday  I was  but  a primitive  man, still  decidedly  human,  I am  today  a man  with  a pronounced  bestial  look. My  forehead  has  receded,  my  jaw  is heavy,  with  sharp-pointed  teeth.  The change  works  in  me  every  moment; I can  feel  it  in  my  flesh  and  bones. Among  other  things,  I am  positively shaggy..  The  hair  makes  my  clothes a discomfort  and  I have  left  them completely  off.

I am  never  weary  of  watching  my body  as  it  changes  almost  before  my very  eyes.  It  is  especially  interesting to  see  how  springy  and  flexible my  joints  have  become,  and  how  my feet  have  a tendency  to  turn  their palms  inward.  This  is  because  of  the great  toe,  which  is  beginning  to stand  out  from  the  others  like  a thumb;  excellent  proof  that  our  ancestors were  tree-dwellers  and  could get  a grip  with  their  feet.

June  18 — When  I awoke  on  my  cot this  morning,  my  first  glance  was  toward the  mirror.  It  was  unable  to recognize  myself,  unable  to  recognize even  the  thing  I had  been  last  night. In  the  -broad,  coarse  face,  with  flat nose,  splay  nostrils,  little  beady  eyes under  beetling  brows,  -wide  mouth and  brutal  jaws,  in  the  hairy,  hulking body,  there  was  no  reminder  of what  had  once  been  Dr.  Lawlor.

Some  scholars  would  be  frightened  at the  speed  and  effectiveness  with

which  the  serum  has  worked,  but  I can  think  of  nothing  save  the

triumph  to  science.

I am  stooped  considerably  and

stand  unsteadily  on  my  legs ; not  that they  are  not  strong,  but  the  tendency of  my  feet  to  turn  inward  has  increased, so  that  I walk  for  the  most

BACK  TO  THE  BEAST


part  on  the  outer  edges.  Their  prehensile powers  are  developed,  too, and  they  can  pick  up  objects  quite easily.

It  is  also  interesting  to  note  that my  mental  processes  have  not changed  one  whit — I can  think  as clearly  and  as  deeply  as  ever.  As  I predicted,  the  serum  does  not  effect the  brain  tissues;  or,  if  it  does,  it does  not  keep  them  from  functioning properly.

I have  been  hungry  all  day.  The food  Brock  sent  to  me  was  not  sufficient, especially  as  regards  meat, and  I must  send  up  a note  with  the empty  dishes  for  him  to  increase  the amount.

June  19 — This  part  of  the  experiment will  stop  tomorrow,  for  I shall then  mix  and  administer  the  counteragent.

Tonight  I see  myself  to  be  an  eery creature,  half  beast,  half  man.  I am hard  put  to  it  to  walk  without  supporting myself  on  the  table  and  the backs  of  the  chairs.  So  must  our  ancestors have  looked  when  they  swung down  from  the  trees  to  achieve  their first  adventures  on  the  ground  and to  conquer  the  world.

These  five  days,  what  with  the many  notes  I have  taken,  will  provide a fitting  climax  for  the  scientific  book that  I contemplate.  How  it  will  astound the  world!  What  honors  and distinctions  may  descend  upon  me! Fame  is  mine,  certainly;  fortune,  if I wish  it,  may  follow.

So  good-night  and  good-bye,  my primitive  self  yonder  in  the  mirror. Tomorrow  I shall  commence  the  journey back  to  the  appearance  of  Dr. Lawlor,  that  I may  immortalize  you in  all  your  fascinating  grotesqueness.

TUNE  20 — How  could  I — oh,  how **  could  I not  provide  against  this? With  all  the  machinery  of  my  experimentation evidently  flawless,  I must forget  a single  item — an  item  maddeningly simple,  maddeningly  obvious, and  yet  a thing  that  has proved  my  undoing.

Let  me  remain  sane  for  a moment and  marshal  the  incidents  as  they  occurred. There  is  not  much  to  tell. This  morning  I went  to  my  shelf  of chemicals  for  the  ingi’edients  to  compound into  the  counteracting  serum. My  hands,  which  of  course  had  become clumsy  and  primitive,  seemed to  have  trouble  in  picking  up  the  little vials,  but  this  did  not  worry  me as  I began  the  combining  of  my  materials. Two  of  them  I mixed  in  a graduated  glass  and  then  reached  for a pipette  to  administer  the  third.

But  my  unsteady  manipulation  did not  allow  the  proper  proportion  to flow  in.  I released, a drop  too  much, and  though  there  was  a corresponding effervescence,  I could  see  that  the mixture  was  a failure.  I poured  it out  and  tried  again,  with  the  same result.  With  gi’owing  uneasiness  I made  a third  attempt,  and  again  my clumsy  hands  failed  me.

Too  late,  I realized  that  the  mingling of  the  elements  in  the  proper proportions  and  manner  had  been  a task  that  required  all  the  delicacy  of a skilled  chemist.  My  hands,  no longer  the  deft,  steady  hands  of  Dr. Lawlor,  were  those  of  a sub-human creature,  and  as  such  not  equal  to  the feat !

Horrible,  horrible ! I moaned aloud  when  I realized  what  had  happened and  what  would  follow.  Without the  counter-agent  I could  not neutralize,  or  even  halt,  the  progress of  the  deteriorator.  Down  I must  go, back  along  the  road  up  which  the human  race  has  struggled  for  untold centuries !

Again  and  again  I desperately tried  to  mix  the  dose,  until  I had used  up  all  my  materials.  Once  or twice  I thought  that  I had  approximated the  proper  mingling,  but  when I injected  it,  there  was  no  effect.

I sit  here  tonight,  a rung  farther toward  the  beast  from  whence  we


WEIRD  TALES

sprang,  instead  of  on  the  road  back toward  man.  Like  one  lowered  into a well,  I see  above  me  a circle  of  light growing  smaller  and  dimmer  as  I descend  into  darkness  and  horror ! What  shall  I do?

[From  this  point  forward,  the journal  is  written  in  an  almost  unintelligible scrawl .]

June  24 — For  three  days  I have not  written.  I have  not  slept  and have  eaten  only  when  the  pangs  of hunger  roused  me  from  my  halftrance of  misery.  Horror  has  closed over  my  head  like  water.

At  first  I searched  frantically  for more  materials  for  the  counter-agent, literally  wrecking  my  laboratory,  but to  no  avail.  I had  used  it  all  in  trying to  mix  the  saving  dose  three  days ago.

Today  was  to  have  been  the  last day  of  my  experiment.  Perhaps  the servants  will  force  the  lock  if  I do  not come  out.  And  then?

I could  never  make  them  understand. I have  no  more  power  of speech  than  any  other  beast,  for  a beast  I have  surely  become.  I can not  bear  to  look  in  the  mirror,  for  I see  only  a dark,  hairy  form,  hunched over  the  table,  a pencil  clutched  in its  paw.  And  that  is  I,  James Lawlor ! What  wonder  that  I border on  the  edge  of  insanity?

Let  whoever  reads  these  words  take warning  from  my  plight.  Do  not meddle  with  the  scheme  of  things  as

nature  has  planned — delve  not  into her  mysterious  past.  I have  done that,  and  it  was  my  complete  and dreadful  undoing.  If  it  had  not  come in  this  way  it  would  have  come  in  another, I do  not  doubt  for  a moment.

June  25 — Morning.  I have  not budged  from  the  chair  where  I sat  to write  last  evening.  I heard  Brock’s voice  outside  the  door,  asking  me  if I was  coming  out.  I dared  not  make a sound  in  reply,  and  he  went  away.

Is  existence  bearable  in  such  a condition?  Even  now,  the  sliding back  into  lower  and  lower  form  continues. It  will  not  be  long  before  I am  no  longer  even  the  ape-thing  I appear.  Perhaps  the  serum  will carry  me  back  through  the  ages  until I am  the  slimy  sea-crawler  from which  all  life  had  its  beginning.  Oh, God! . . .

And  as  if  in  answer  to  that  name, comes  the  memory  of  what  still  remains in  a drawer  of  my  table.  Arsenic— not  an  easy  death,  but  a quick one.  So  shall  I die,  for  if  ever  a creature  was  justified  in  taking  its own  life,  that  creature  is  myself.

I will  leave  this  journal  as  an  account of  what  has  happened,  and  as a warning  to  others.  The  formulas for  my  serums  and  all  that  pertains to  them  I will  destroy.  Never  shall another  scientist  meet  with  my  fate if  I can  order  it  otherwise..  There, the  papers  are  flaming  in  the  grate. Now  for  the  arsenic — so  much,  in  a glass  of  water — farewell!

[Here  the  journal  ends.]

The  Story  So  Far

^y^HlLE  exploring  the  ruins  of  Angkor,  Professor Cannell,  an  archeologist,  is  captured  by  a creature  from  far  in  the  future,  which  sweeps back  through  time  for  its  victims.  He  escapes, and  is  dropped  into  the  Pacific  Ocean  by  the Time-Raider,  after  being  carried  three  years  into the  future.  He  returns  to  New  York,  and  the Raider  returns  and  seizes  him  again  in  the presence  of  his  friends,  Wheeler  and  Lantin.  The two  friends,  using  Cannell’s  theory  of  electronic vibrations,  construct  a vehicle  that  will  carry them  forward  and  backward  in  time,  and  plunge into  the  future  to  rescue  Cannell,  having  first ascertained  that  the  Raider's  home  is  in  central Illinois.  Fifteen  thousand  years  they  penetrate into  the  future,  and  hide  their  time-ship  to  investigate a City  of  Cylinders  set  in  the  heart  of a great  glacial  ice-sheet,  which  they  think  may be  the  lair  of  the  Raider.  They  are  captured  by guards  from  the  city,  and  Wheeler,  meeting  Denham (an  English  soldier  in  the  armies  of  King George  the  Third)  learns  from  him  that  he  is there  to  fight — as  a gladiator.

CHAPTER  8

THE  PEOPLE  OF  THE  CITY

A HARSH  order  from  the guards  ahead  halted  us,  and I had  time  to  survey  the  room in  which  we  stood.  It  was  a circular room,  at  the  edge  of  which  we  were grouped.  From  where  we  stood,  the walls  swept  away  in  a great  curve  on either  side,  meeting  directly  opposite us,  as  it  seemed,  some  ninety  feet away.  The  floor  of  the  room  was  of smooth,  black  stone,  resembling marble,  while  the  curving  walls  were of  the  same  white  material  as  the building’s  exterior.  A hundred  feet above  the  floor  was  a ceiling  of  white, and  I saw  at  a glance  that  this  one

This  story  began  in  TVEIRD  TALES  for  October.

<130

G40

WEIRD  TALES

great  hall  occupied  the  whole  lower half  of  the  cylindrical  building’s  interior, the  upper  half,  no  doubt,  being divided  into  smaller  apartments..  Set in  walls  and  ceiling  were  many  of  the glowing  bulbs,  and  from  these  a cascade of  ruddy  light  poured  down  on the  people  in  the  room.

There  must  have  been  nearly  a hundred  of  these  people,  men  and women.  They  lay  on  couches  along the  room’s  edge,  with  long,  curving tables  of  green  metal  before  them, like  the  banquet  halls  of  the  ancient Romans.  A .shock  went  through  me as  I looked  at  the  feasters,  for  they were  unlike  any  of  the  people  I had seen  as  I entered  the  city.  These people  were  all  tall  and  perfectly  proportioned, and  all  were  goldenhaired,  men  and  women  alike.  They were  attired  in  short  robes  or  tunics of  brilliantly  colored  silks,  and  some wore  circlets  of  flashing  gems.

With  a sudden  shock  it  came  to  me that  these  were  the  first  women  I had seen  in  all  this  city,  for  there  had been  none  among  the  guards  and slaves  outside.  But  before  I could ponder  this  fact,  it  was  swept  from my  mind  by  my  wonder  at  the  other things  in  the  room.

The  feasters,  I saw,  were  engaged in  drinking  from  transparent  goblets which  held  brightly  colored  liquids. I could  see  no  solid  food  of  any  kind on  the  tables,  but  there  were  many urns  and  flagons  and  amphora;  filled with  the  bright  fluids.  Long  lines of  the  white-robed,  stiffly  marching slaves  passed  and  repassed  behind  the couches  of  the  feasters,  with  metal trays  holding  other  glass  and  metal vessels,  which  they  placed  on  the tables.

Two  other  things  I noted  before my  brief  survey  of  the  place  was  interrupted. One  was  that,  among  the laughing,  shouting  people  at  the  tables there  was  not  one  face  that would  not  be  called  beautiful.  All seemed  youthful,  with  the  beauty  of

youth,  and  its  high  spirits,  yet  an impression  of  evil  came  to  me  as  I watched  them.  I sensed,  beneath their  jesting  and  laughing,  a cold, indolent  heartlessness.

The  other  thing  I noted  was  the source  of  the  crystalline  music.  Across the  room  from  me,  in  an  alcove,  were the  musicians,  slaves  who  operated  an intricate  instrument  which  allowed water  to  fall  on  thin  plates  of  metal, in  single  drops  or  streamlets,  producing a tumultuous  chiming  like  a storm  of  silver  bells,  wild  and  clear and  sweet,  and  for  all  its  tempestuousness, oddly  harmonious.

My  companions  had  been  surveying the  scene,  like  myself,  but  it  was evident  from  the  expressions  on  their faces  that  it  was  not  new  to  them.  I wondered  for  what  purpose  we  had been  brought  there,  and  remembering the  Englishman’s  interrupted  explanation, turned  to  speak  to  him. But  as  I did  so,  came  another  interruption, and  with  it  my  answer.

One  of  the  men  at  the  tables  rose and  uttered  a brief  order,  and  at  once a great  black  slave  strode  across  the room,  seized  a mace  of  metal,  and with  it  struck  a tremendous  blow  on a hanging  brazen  gong.  At  once  the chatter  and  song  at  the  tables  stopped, and  all  eyes  were  turned  toward  ourselves. I felt  their  gaze  sweeping over  us,  and  involuntarily  shuddered. Then,  beside  us,  the  captain  of  the guards  barked  out  an  order,  that sounded  across  the  silence  like  a whiplash.  And  at  once  two  of  the men  who  stood  beside  me  strode  out to  the  center  of  the  room,  to  the  wide, clear  floor  there,  and  stood  facing each  other.

There  was  a rippling  whisper through  the  spectators  at  the  tables, a murmur  of  pleasurable  excitement. Without  heeding  it,  the  two  men  at the  room’s  center  inspected  each other  with  fierce  eyes.

One  of  the  two  was  a proud,  darkfaced figure,  high-nosed  and  gleamTHE  TIME-RAIDER


ing-eyed,  dressed  in  torn,  flowing robe  and  with  a tightly  twisted  turban on  his  head.  He  jerked  from  his belt  a long,  curved  simitar  and whirled  it  above  his  head,  giving  vent to  a ragged,  high-pitched  yell  of  defiance. An  Arab,  I thought,  maybe one  of  the  very  hordes  that  had  carried the  green  banner  of  the  Prophet over  three  continents  like  a whirlwind. He  was  a fierce  enough  spectacle, as  he  shook  his  gleaming  blade aloft,  but  his  opponent  was  a fit  one, a gigantic  Northman  in  leathern jerkin,  whose  blue  eyes  gleamed  as  he too  sprang  forward,  brandishing  aloft a great  ax  in  ©lie  hand,  and  carrying a small,  circular  shield  in  the  other.

With  weapons  upraised,  the  two cautiously  neared  each  other,  circling like  wary  tigers,  searching  for  an opening.  I turned  away,  and  saw that  the  feasters  were  wholly  intent now  on  the  two  opponents,  and  in that  moment  I understood  the  meaning of  the  Englishman  in  saying  that we  had  been  brought  here  to  fight. For  it  was  so,  and  all  in  our  ragged, fierce  group  would  no  doubt  be  forced to  fight  and  slay  one  another  to  amuse the  indolent  spectators  at  the  tables, as  the  gladiators  of  ancient  Rome had  struck  each  other  down  in  the great  games.  And  what  of  myself  f

There  was  a sudden  great  shout from  the  tables,  and  I turned  my  attention back  to  the  struggle  at  the center  of  the  floor.  The  Arab ’s  blade had  darted  past  his  opponent’s  shield and  had  wounded  the  latter  in  the shoulder  with  a flashing  down-stroke. But  the  leather-clad  giant  was  not beaten.  Though  blood  was  streaming down  from  his  shoulder  now,  he  said no  word,  only  lifted  his  shield  higher and  circled  around  the  other,  with  ax still  poised  ready  to  strike.  The  tense silence  had  been  broken  by  that  first shout  and  now  those  at  the  tables were  calling  out  to  the  two  fighters, warnings  and  advice,  I supposed,  and

were  laying  wagers  on  the  result  of the  fight.

Suddenly  the  Arab  again  darted in,  and  again  his  blade  slashed  the other’s  arm,  but  as  he  stepped  swiftly back,  his  foot  slipped  on  the  blood that  smeared  the  smooth  floor,  and  he staggered  for  a moment,  striving  to regain  his  balance.  In  an  instant  the uplifted  ax  crashed  down  through his  skull  and  he  fell  like  a dropped weight,  his  own  spouting  arteries adding  to  the  red  stains  on  the  floor. The  other  stepped  back,  panting,  and a great  shout  of  applause  crashed  out from  the  spectators  at  the  tables.  The Northman  rejoined  our  group,  slaves rushed  out  and  cleared  the  floor,  and at  a command,  two  more  of  our  number rushed  onto  the  floor  and  faced each  other  with  drawn  swords.

The  circling  and  darting  of  the former  duel  was  repeated,  and  in  a few  minutes  one  of  the  two  lay  dead and  the  other  was  limping  back  to us,  bleeding.  And  another  pair  took their  place.

For  the  fifth  combat,  the  young Englishman  beside  me  was  called  onto the  floor,  with  a small  Japanese in  ancient,  quilted  armor  as  his  opponent. The  Japanese  was  armed with  two  short,  broad-bladed  swords, with  which  he  chopped  and  slashed at  his  opponent,  while  Denham  had but  his  thin,  fragile-looking  rapier. Yet  he  evaded  all  the  sweeps  and thrusts  of  his  adversary’s  blades,  and with  a sudden  lightning  stab  of  the needlelike  rapier  he  ended  the  duel, unscathed.  He  came  back  toward us,  jauntily,  unheedful  of  the  great applause  that  followed  his  feat.  I gripped  his  hand  warmly,  for  in  tiie short  time  I had  known  him,  a sudden sympathy  had  sprung  up  between  us, born  of  the  fact  of  our  mutual  race and  language,  in  this  strange  city.

There  were  but  few  of  us  left  now who  had  not  already  fought,  and at  an  order  from  the  leader  of  the

WEIRD  TALES


guards,  one  of  these  stepped  out  on the  floor,  a lithe,  snaky  Italian,  with beady  black  eyes  and  an  evil  smile. The  captain  of  the  guard  snapped  out another  order,  looking  at  me,  but  I could  not  understand  and  looked around  helplessly..  His  face  flushed dark  with  anger,  and  he  started wrathfully  toward  me,  but  the  Englishman intervened,  with  rapid  explanations.

“You  are  to  fight  Talerri,”  he said,  indicating  the  Italian,  and  a wave  of  icy  cold  swept  over  me  for a moment,  then  receded.  “Here, take  my  sword, ’ ’ he  continued,  drawing and  handing  it  to  me,  “and  be fearful  of  foul  fighting.  Talerri  was one  of  Ctesar  Borgia’s  bravos  and  is a dangerous  swordsman,  full  of treacherous  tricks.”

Half  dazed,  I gripped  the  rapier’s hilt  and  walked  out  to  face  the  Italian. “Good  luck!”  called  Denham, behind  me,  but  I did  not  look  back.

As  I strode  out  to  where  the  Italian awaited  me,  I dimly  saw  the curving  walls,  the  ruddy  lights,  and the  white  faces  of  those  at  the  tables, turned  toward  me.  The  whole  scene misted  before  my  eyes,  then  cleared, and  into  my  vision  came  the  face  of Talerri,  who  was  regarding  me  with a derisive  smile.  And  the  realization came  to  me,  coldly  and  clearly,  that unless  I lulled  my  opponent,  he  would kill  me.

I raised  the  blade  in  my  hand.  I had  been  a skilful  fencer  in  my  days at  the  university,  but  had  not  handled a foil  for  years.  Yet  the  long, slender  rapier  was  much  like  a foil itself,  and  as  I twirled  it  in  my grasp,  some  little  confidence  came  to me.  I glanced  back  momentarily, and  saw  Denham  smiling  encouragingly at  me.  And  now  the  Italian advanced  toward  me,  the  same  hateful smile  passing  over  his  face  as  he saw  me  raise  the  rapier  to  meet  him.

At  the  first  clash  of  our  blades,  I knew  myself  facing  a master  of

swordsmanship,  one  who  was  doubtless in  constant  practise.  So  I threw all  my  efforts  into  staving  off  his  first lightning  rashes,  though  to  this  day I wonder  that  I was  able  to  do  so. His  point  seemed  to  stab  at  me  simultaneously from  a dozen  diffei’ent  positions, and  I parried  more  by  instinct than  by  design.  As  it  was, his  blade  passed  twice  through  my shirt,  so  close  was  it.  But  after  that first  series  of  flashing  , rushes,  the Italian  drew  back  for  a moment  and we  circled  warily.

Again  he  came  on,  with  a lightning feint  at  my  heart.  As  my  rapier flashed  down  to  foil  the  stroke, his  own  stabbed  upward,  in  a straight thrust  intended  to  pierce  through my  left  eye  to  the  brain.  It  was  a stab  that  could  not  be  parried,  but instinctively  I swerved  my  head aside  from  that  flashing  point,  and missing  the  eye,  his  blade  grazed along  the  left  side  of  my  forehead, sending  a stream  of  blood  trickling down  my  cheek.  At  sight  of  that  red stream,  a shout  of  approval-  crashed out  from  the  tables.

But  now  anger  was  rising  in  me, and  ceasing  to  stand  only  on  the  defensive, I thrust  out  savagely  at  my opponent.  He  gave  back  a little  under my  unexpected  attack,  but  suddenly I felt  very  tired,  and  knew  that the  combat  must  end  soon  if  it  was to  end  in  my  favor.  As  I thrust  and parried  there,  the  walls  and  lights and  faces  around  me  faded  from viewr,  and  replacing  them  came  the long,  sky-lighted  gymnasium  where  I had  learned  to  fence.  I seemed  to hear  the  clicking  foils  and  stamping feet  there,  and  the  voice  of  our  trim little  instructor  explaining  the  most difficult  of  all  thrusts,  the  timethrust.  Steadiness  and  accuracy  were the  very  foundations  of  that  difficult play,  I knew,  and  it  would  be  sheer madness  for  one  as  weary  and  rusty at  sword-play  as  myself  to  try  it,  but as  wTe  surged  back  and  forth  on  the

THE  TIME-RAIDER

§43

smooth  floor,  I decided  that  it  was my  only  chance,  for  the  Italian  was pressing  me  ever  more  closely.

Watching  for  a favorable  opportunity, I dropped  my  guard  for  a single  instant,  leaving  my  heart  exposed. Instantly  Talerri ’s  blade darted  in  like  a striking  serpent,  his whole  body  behind  that  straight  stab. My  own  rapier  was  extended  toward him,  and  in  the  split-second  before his  point  touched  me,  my  own  blade clicked  gently  against  his,  deflecting it  to  one  side  where  it  passed  harmlessly by  me,  while  the  momentum  of his  leaping  rush  brought  him  right onto  my  outstretched  rapier,  spitting him.  I felt  the  blade  rip  through him  as  through  a man  of  sawdust,  the hilt  rapping  against  his  ribs.  I jerked it  forth  and  he  choked,  gasped,  and fell  to  the  floor  dead.

There  was  a shattering  roar  of  applause from  all  around,  and  tired and  sickened,  I stumbled  back  to  the group  of  fellow  captives  at  the  floor’s edge,  where  Denham  greeted  me eagerly.  While  he  congratulated  me on  my  victory,  the  others  in  the group  looked  at  me  with  something of  respect  on  their  fierce  faces.

Weary  from  the  hours  on  the  timecar,  and  half-nauseated  by  the  bloodshed I had  seen  and  taken  part  in,  I sank  down  onto  a step  and  watched without  interest  the  remaining  two combats.  When  these  were  finished, another  order  was  given  and  we  were hurried  back  down  the  stairs  up which  we  had  come.  Conducting  us down  a different  eorridor,  the  guards separated  us,  thrusting  us  in  pairs into  small  cells  along  the  corridor.

I had  hoped  to  be  placed  in  the same  cell  as  Denham,  for  I wanted much  to  speak  further  with  him,  but luck  was  against  me  and  I was  paired off  with  the  blond  giant  who  had killed  the  Arab  in  the  first  combat. A vicious  shove  sent  us  reeling  into the  little  room,  and  behind  me  I heard  the  thick  metal  door  clang  shut.

CHAPTER  9 PRISONED

For  ten  days  I lay  in  that  little cell,  prisoned  with  the  big  Northman. At  my  first  inspection  of  the place,  I saw  that  there  was  no  possibility of  escape,  for  the  walls  were  of smooth  stone,  and  the  only  opening in  them  was  that  of  a two-inch  pipe that  served  to  ventilate  the  cell. There  was  no  window,  as  we  think  of it,  yet  the  room  was  light  enough  in the  daytime,  for  as  the  sun  rose,  the side  of  the  cell  facing  on  the  building’s outer  wall  became  invisible,  allowing plenty  of  light  to  enter.  This explained  a fact  that  had  puzzled me,  the  absence  of  windows  on  the  exteriors of  the  cylindrical  buildings  of the  city.  Evidently  the  people  of  the city  treated  the  outside  walls  of  their buildings  in  such  a manner  that  in daylight  they  were  invisible  from  the inside,  while  perfectly  opaque  when viewed  from  without.

I had  other  evidence  of  the  scientific attainments  of  these  people  in the  food  that  was  furnished  us  twice each  day.  That  food  was  nothing  but a clear  golden  liquid,  with  a slight oily  flavor  but  otherwise  tasteless. Yet  I found  that  it  contained  all  the food-elements  necessary  for  the  human body,  since  in  all  my  time  in this  strange  city  I had  no  other  food, and  never  felt  need  of  any  other.

I found  my  cell-mate  a dull  enough companion.  He  was  morose  and fierce  in  disposition,  and  very  suspicious of  me.  I think  that  he  considered me  a spy..  I found  that  he knew  a little  English,  a strange, archaic  English,  but  enough  for  us to  carry  on  a broken  conversation. To  all  my  eager  questions,  though, the  fellow  replied  with  a cold  stare. By  this  time  I felt  convinced  that Lantin  and  I had  found  in  this  city the  home  of  the  Raider,  since  the fact  of  Denham’s  presence  and  that of  these  other  men  of  many  times


WEIRD  TALES

and  races  admitted  of  no  other  explanation. Yet  when  I asked  the Norseman  how  he  had  come  here,  or if  he  had  ever  seen  the  Raider,  he kept  to  a gloomy  silence,  and  I cursed my  luck  in  being  confined  with  such a suspicious  companion.

One  service,  though,  he  did  do  for me,  and  that  was  to  teach  me  the strange  language  used  by  the  guards and  masters  of  the  city  around  me. That  tongue,  I learned,  was  the  Kanlar  tongue,  while  the  bright-haired master-race  of  the  city  were  Kanlars. The  language  itself  was  not  hard  to learn,  and  in  the  long  hours  I lay  imprisoned I acquired  considerable facility  in  expressing  myself  in  it.

Sometimes,  too,  the  Norseman would  break  his  silence,  and  growing excited  with  his  own  words,  would tell  me  long,  interminable  stories  of the  wild  adventures  he  had  taken part  in,  the  shield-ringed  ships  that he  had  sailed  in,  to  leave  fire  and death  along  peaceful  coasts,  the  long list  of  men  he  had  slaughtered.  His cold  eyes  burned  as  he  related  tales of  butchery  that  appalled  me,  but when  I ventured  to  interject  a single question  he  would  regard  me  stonily and  then  relapse  into  silence  again.

The  days  went  by,  and  through  the transparent  wall  I watched  night give  way  to  dawn,  dawn  to  noon,  and noon  to  dusk  and  night.  Much  I thought  of  Lantin  in  those  days.  I wondered  what  fate  had  been  his in  the  gigantic  central  building, whether  he  was  alive  or  dead.  Wondered, too,  if  1 would  ever  find  that out,  for  it  was  evident  that  we  were being  reserved  for  another  gladiatorial battle,  and  I was  not  confident  of coming  through  again  unscathed.

One  thing  occurred,  in  those  days of  imprisonment,  which  still  makes me  shudder,  sometimes,  at  the  memory of  it.  The  transparent  side  of our  cell  faced  a smooth  expanse  of green  lawn,  with  gardens  beyond  it, and  most  of  my  time  I spent  lounging against  it,  looking  out.  Very  few people  passed  by  there,  now  and then  a few  slaves,  but  scarcely  ever any  of  the  Ivanlar  people.  So  on  the eighth  day  of  my  confinement,  when I saw  a slave  approaching  from  a distance, I moved  over  to  the  invisible wall  and  watched  him.

He  was  carrying  a tool  that  looked much  like  a common  garden-hoe,  and walked  toward  me  wTith  that  stiff, rigid  movement  that  marked  the white-robed  slaves.  He  came  closer, I glanced  at  his  face,  then  reeled  back against  the  side  of  the  cell.  For  it was  Talerri!

It  was  the  Italian  I had  killed  eight days  before,  garbed  as  a slave  and walking  with  the  same  inhuman,  puppetlike motion  that  all  these  strange servants  used.  He  came  closer  toward me,  so  that  I could  see  his  staring eyes,  then,  with  an  angular  movement, he  turned  aside  and  passed from  view  along  the  building’s  side.

For  hours  I puzzled  over  it,  rejecting with  a certain  panic  fear  the  one explanation  that  came  to  mind.  I knew  that  I had  killed  the  Italian that  night,  for  my  sword  had  pierced clean  through  his  heart.  Yet  here  he was,  v/orking  as  a slave  for  the  Kanlars. And  what  of  the  other  slaves, then,  these  rigid,  staring-eyed  figures? Were  they  too ?

For  hours  I speculated  on  the thing,  but  could  find  no  rational  explanation for  it,  nor  would  the  Norseman enlighten  me.  Finally  I gave  it up  as  a mystery  beyond  mo,  and strove  to  banish  it  from  my  mind.

Two  more  days  dragged  out,  days that  were  like  weeks  to  me.  I felt that  I must  soon  go  mad,  if  I were longer  imprisoned.  And  then,  sharply ending  the  monotony  of  dreary hours,  there  came  a summons,  a summons that  in  the  end  proved  to  be  a call  to  an  adventure  utterly  undreamed of  by  Lantin  or  myself.

THE  TIME-RAIDER


CHAPTER  10

THE  TEMPLE  OF  THE  RAIDER

All  that  day  I had  sensed  a tense activity  outside,  and  many  times there  was  the  tramp  of  feet  down  the corridor  outside  our  cell,  as  companies of  the  guards  came  and  went. As  sunset  came,  I stood  beside  the transparent  wall  and  watched  its brilliant  colors  fade  from  the  sky.

Overhead,  now,  the  aircraft  of  the Kanlars  were  flickering  continuously past,  all  heading  toward  the  giant cylinder  that  stood  at  the  city’s  center, and  when  I scrambled  up  a little higher  against  the  wall,  to  get  a glimpse  of  the  street,  I saw  that  that street  was  crowded  with  masses  of the  armored  guards  and  the  staringeyed slaves,  all  pressing  on  toward the  same  building.

Darkness  came,  and  the  noise  of activity  outside  died  away,  so  that  it seemed  that  all  the  city  around  us was  deserted,  nor  was  there  any sound  from  the  building  above  us. For  all  of  two  hours  after  the  darkness, we  sat  there,  listening,  waiting. Once  I thought  I heard  a distant ringing  music,  but  decided  that  my ears  had  been  deceived.  Then, abruptly,  there  was  the  stamp  of sandals  on  the  floor  of  the  corridor, and  we  heard  the  doors  of  the  cells along  it  being  opened.

Our  own  was  flung  wide,  as  we rose,  and  I saw  that  a score  of  the guards  waited  outside,  their  leader ordering  us  to  come  out,  which  we were  glad  enough  to  do.  Once  in  the corridor,  I found  Denham  and  the others  of  the  group  I had  met  before, shackled  to  each  other,  wrist  to  wrist, in  a single  file.  The  Northman  and myself  were  fettered  to  the  end  of the  line,  and  then  we  set  out,  a long file  of  guards  on  each  side  of  us, marching  us  down  the  corridor  and outside  the  building.

The  big  street  up  which  I had  come before  was  utterly  deserted,  as  we

turned  into  it.  I looked  back  along its  length,  lit  with  the  crimson  bulbs, a winding  serpent  of  red  light  that stretched  away  out  into  the  country beyond  the  city,  out  to  where  our time-car  lay  hidden  in  the  hills.  At the  thought  of  it,  so  fierce  a desire seized  me  to  win  back  to  it,  and  my own  time,  that  had  I not  been shackled  I would  have  made  a break for  freedom  down  the  empty  street. But  as  it  was,  I had  no  choice,  and followed  the  others  in  our  fettered line  down  the  wide  street  toward  the gigantic  cylindrical  building  at  its end.

That  great  pile  seemed  to  loom higher  and  higher  as  wre  drew  near it.  Brilliant,  winking  lights  along  its sides  outlined  it  against  the  gloom of  night,  a huge,  erect  cylinder  of smooth  stone,  its  flat  top  all  of  a thousand  feet  in  width,  and  nearly  a half-mile  above  the  ground.  Obscured as  the  immense  edifice  was  by  the darkness,  yet  the  vague  glimpses  I got  of  its  sky-flung  walls  staggered me.  And  we  were  being  marched directly  toward  it.

A quarter-mile  from  the  building, the  flat  street  we  followed  ended, changed  to  a wide,  smooth  ramp  that led  up  toward  the  giant  edifice  in  a slight  upward  slant.  We  went  up that  ramp,  the  guards  still  on  either side,  till  we  stood  under  the  very shadow  of  the  gigantic,  perpendicular walls,  and  now  I saw  that  the  ram]) led  up  to  and  through  a wide,  higharched  entrance  cut  in  the  building’s side,  much  like  the  entrance  of  the cylindrical  building  where  I had  been prisoned.

We  passed  up  and  through  that arched  entrance,  and  were  in  a long tunnel,  similarly  arched,  and  cut through  solid,  seamless  stone.  It  was a hundred  feet  in  length,  and  as  we passed  on  down  its  length  it  came  to me  that  this  must  be  the  thickness  of the  great  building’s  sides..  The  idea was  too  prodigious  for  speculation,


WEIRD  TALES

even,  and  I shook  it  off,  peering ahead  toward  the  tunnel’s  end,  where a ruddy  light  flooding  down  from above  marked  that  end.

A few  moments,  and  we  had reached  the  tunnel’s  mouth,  and emerged  from  it  into  the  vast  cylinder’s interior.  I swept  one  startled glance  around  that  interior,  then  felt myself  staggering,  reeling,  falling. The  immensity  of  the  place  was  soulshaking, bearing  down  on  me  with  a weight  that  seemed  physical,  crushing my  thoughts  down  into  nothing but  dazed  awTe  and  terror.

I had  imagined  the  building’s  interior to  be  divided,  partitioned  into apartments,  but  instead,  the  whole interior  was  one  titanic  room,  shaped by  the  outside  walls  and'  roof,  its sides  looming  up,  dimly  and  vaguely, into  a hazy  darkness  that  hid  their upper  parts  from  view.  Along  the sides  were  many  of  the  light-emitting bulbs,  but  these  merely  burned  red holes  in  the  dimness  that  surrounded the  building’s  interior,  rather  than illuminated  it.

Starting  at  the  wall,  and  extending twenty  feet  out  toward  the  center of  the  room,  the  floor  was  of  black stone,  a flat,  continuous  ring  of smooth  material  that  circled  the whole  room.  Inside  of  this  ring  was the  real  floor,  a single,  huge  disk  of burnished  metal,  smooth  as  ice  and as  seamless,  over  nine  hundred  feet, in  diameter.  And  except  for  ourselves, who  stood  on  the  black  ring near  the  entrance,  there  was  nothing whatever  on  black  circle  or  burnished floor,  no  people,  tables,  altar,  nothing but  the  immense  expanse  of  smooth metal  and  the  comparatively  thin black  circle  that  surrounded  it.

I looked  up,  and  saw  for  the  first time  the  people  of  the  city.  Cut  in the  thickness  of  the  prodigious  walls of  the  building  were  broad  balconies, one  above  the  other,  ringing  the building’s  interior  as  far  up  as  I could  see  in  the  haze  that  hung  above,

and  in  these  balconies  were  the  dwellers of  the  city,  Kanlars,  guards  and slaves.  The  lowest  balcony,  which was  only  a few  feet  above  the  floor, jutted  forth  in  a smaller  square  gallery, a little  away  from  where  I stood,  and  in  this  projecting  square sat  three  of  the  bright-haired  Kanlars, the  old'est-appearing  men  I had yet  seen  among  them,  two  garbed  in long  robes  of  solid  crimson  while  the other’s  garment  was  of  deepest black.  They  sat  there  calmly,  looking away  across  the  big  floor  toward the  great  hall ’s  other  side.  This  lowest gallery,  and  the  three  directly above  it,  were  filled  with  the  Kanlars, while  in  the  unnumbered  galleries above  these  were  the  armored guards  and  the  slaves.  The  only  entrance to  these  galleries  that  I could see  was  a single  narrow,  winding stairway,  a spiral  stairway  that  began on  the  black  circle  of  stone  near the  wall  and  slanted  up  from  balcony to  balcony,  circling  the  building’s sides  several  times  as  it  spiraled  up, and  evidently  leading  up  to  the  very roof  of  the  place.

While  I surveyed  the  scene,  other ragged  groups  like  our  own  had  entered, escorted  by  guards,  until  a considerable  number  of  us  had  been collected  there  near  the  entrance. Now  one  of  the  crimson-robed  figures who  sat  in  the  gallery  that  jutted  out from  the  lowest  balcony,  rose  and uttered  an  order.  My  knowledge  of the  Kanlar  language  was  too  rudimentary for  me  to  understand  him, but  when  he  had  finished  and  resumed his  seat,  a delighted  murmur swept  over  the  massed  crowds  in  the balconies.

Before  I had  time  to  speculate,  the captain  of  the  guards  who  watched us  snapped  out  brief  orders,  and  immediately eight  of  our  number  ran out  of  the  center  of  the  metal  floor, where  they  at  once  drew  their  weapons and  faced  each  other,  in  four  individual combats.

THE  TIME-RAIDER


In  a few  minutes,  the  four  duels were  over,  but  only  three  of  the  contestants came  back  from  the  floor’s center.  To  my  surprize,  then,  instead of  being  re-shackled  to  the  rest  of  us, the  three  were  handed  armor  and weapons  like  that  of  the  other  guards, which  they  donned  at  once.  I began to  understand  now  the  purpose  of these  combats.  Evidently  the  bravest fighters  were  weeded  out  in  preliminary duels,  such  as  I had  taken  part in,  and  the  survivors  of  these  first battles  were  then  pitted  against  each other,  the  victors  being  adjudged worthy  to  enter  the  company  of  the guards.  But  where  were  these ragged  fighters  brought  from?

The  combats  went  on,  always  eight men  battling  at  once,  and  I saw  that our  number  was  growing  smaller very  rapidly.  Neither  Denham  nor  I had  yet  been  called  on  to  fight,  but my  heart  was  beating  rapidly,  for  I expected  each  time  to  be  among  the next  eight.  The  blades  clashed  on,  at the  floor’s  center,  and  group  after group  went  out  from  us,  either  to  return and  don  the  armor  of  the  guards or  to  be  dragged  off  the  floor  by slaves,  dead  or  dying.  The  Kanlars in  the  lower  balconies  laughed  and chatted  as  the  ragged  fighters  on  the floor  slew  each  other,  the  massed guards  above  shouted  their  approval at  each  shrewd  blow,  and  the  fighting continued  until  finally  but  ten  of our  number  were  left,  and  by  a freak of  chance,  both  Denham  and  I were of  that  ten.

The  fights  on  the  floor  ended,  one by  one,  and  swiftly  the  guards  unshackled eight  of  our  number  and thrust  them  out  onto  the  floor.  I stood  appalled.  For  the  two  who were  left  were  myself  and  the  Englishman !

While  the  swords  clicked  and flashed  out  on  the  floor,  I stood  in  a daze,  dismayed  at  the  ironical  trick which  fate  had  played  me.  Of  all  the men  in  the  city,  I must  fight  the  one

whom  alone  I knew  and  liked.  In  a space  of  seconds,  it  seemed,  the  four fights  on  the  floor  had  ended,  and  the fetters  on  my  wrists  were  loosed.  Together, hesitantly,  Denham  and  I walked  out  onto  the  floor.  Shouts  of applause  and  encouragement  came down  from  the  balconies,  for  ours was  the  last  fight,  and  the  spectators wanted  an  exciting  one.

Standing  there  at  the  very  center of  the  huge  building,  Denham  and I faced  each  other.  Simultaneously we  grasped  the  hilts  of  our  rapiers, half  drew  them,  and  then,  with  a common  impulse,  slammed  the  blades back  down  into  their  sheaths..  Without speaking,  my  companion  stepped over  and  flung  an  arm  across  my shoulders,  then  tilted  up  his  head  and favored  the  spectators  in  the  balconies with  an  insolent  stare.

A howl  of  rage  went  up  as  it  became evident  that  we  would  not fight  each  other.  A torrent  of  taunts and  execrations  poured  down  on  us from  above,  but  we  continued  to lounge,  arm  in  arm,  as  nonchalantly as  possible.

Out  from  the  black  edge  of  the floor  rushed  a half-dozen  of  the guards,  who  seized  us  and  hurried  us off  the  floor,  amid  a storm  of  abuse from  above.  Instead  of  returning with  us  to  the  entrance,  the  guards led  us  toward  the  bottom  of  the spiraling  stair  and  there  stationed themselves  beside  us.

The  angry  cries  in  the  balconies silenced,  now,  and  a strange  stillness filled  the  great  hall.  Music  began, single,  thrilling  notes,  like  dropping peals  of  sound.  Swiftly  the  lights began  to  dim,  the  glowing  bulbs  in the  walls  waning  until  all  things  in the  vast  room  were  wrapped  in  shadowy dusk.

The  chiming  music  ceased,  and over  all  that  mighty  fane  wras  absolute silence,  with  no  sound  from  Kanlars, guards  or  slaves.  Then,  in  the


WEIRD  TALES

little  projecting  gallery  where  he  sat, the  black-robed  oldster  rose  and spoke.

Ilis  deep,  heavy  voice  rolled  out over  the  vast  room  with  awesome effect,  breaking  as  it  did  the  unearthly silence.  He  was  chanting, uttering  an  invocation  or  prayer. The  words  came  to  my  ears,  thick and  blurred,  so  that.  I understood  few of  them.  But  the  effect  was  one  of utter  solemnity — the  darkness,  the massed,  silent  crowds  above,  and  that one  deep  voice  speaking  on,  rising and  falling.  <

For  minutes  the  voice  rumbled  on, then  abruptly  ceased.  There  was  another full  minute  of  the  strange  silence, and  a tremendous  ringing  note sounded.  Even  after  it  had  died,  the echoes  of  it  beat  in  my  ears  like ghostly  carillons  of  tiny,  elfin chimes.  And  as  it  died  away,  there was  a heavy,  grating  sound  and  the whole  vast  metal  floor  abruptly  sank down  some  six  feet  into  what  appeared to  be  a gigantic  smooth-wralled shaft,  then  slid  sidewise  with  another grating  jar,  vanishing  into some  aperture  prepared  for  it.  And where  the  floor  had  been  was  now  a tremendous  circular  abyss,  a straightsided pit  of  such  titanic  depth  that, looking  down  into  it,  I fell  weakly  to my  knees  and  was  seized  with  sudden nausea.

I stood  on  the  very  edge  of  the abyss,  on  the  ring  of  black  flooring that  was  its  rim.  And  down  from that  rim,  the  stone  sides  of  the  great shaft  fell  smoothly  to  an  unguessed depth.  Far,  far  below,  I seemed  to see  glimmering  lights  that  winked faintly.  And  I saw,  too,  that  the spiral  staircase  which  circled  the great  room’s  interior  from  floor  to roof  continued  on  down  beneath  the floor  and  circled  around  and  around this  circular  chasm  in  the  same  way, winding  down  into  the  unguessed depths  below.

I felt  Denham  pulling  me  back

from  the  edge  of  the  shaft,  beside which  I lay.  Dimly  I realized  that all  in  the  great  building  were  now chanting,  rolling  forth  the  same  invocation as  the  black-robed  leader. Far  above,  now,  at  the  very  ceiling  or roof  of  the  cylinder,  a light  burgeoned out,  a burning  purple  beam that  clove  its  light  down  through  the dim  haze  and  shadows  around  it.  A moment  it  hung  there,  then  there  was a faint  sigh  of  wind,  a puff  of  icy  air, and  down,  straight  down  fi’om  the vast  hall’s  roof,  there  raced  like  a misty  plummet — the  Raider!

It  flashed  down  until  it  hung  on  a level  with  myself,  in  midair,  poised at  the  very  center  of  the  circular abyss  and  floating  there  effortlessly. It  hung  there,  its  gray  mass  changing, fluxing,  interlacing,  while  at  its center  hung  the  three  little  orbs  of purple  light,  steady  and  unwinking. From  all  the  massed  thousands  on  the balconies  a sigh  of  worship  went  up.

The  chant  rolled  out,  louder, fiercer,  and  through  it  sounded  another single  ringing  note.  There was  another  whistle  of  wind,  and  the three  purple  orbs  of  the  Raider flashed  to  green,  while  the  solid  but fluxing  mass  of  it  changed  to  a spinning cloud  of  gray  vapor,  that swirled  rapidly  around  the  central lights.  Another  fierce  gust  of  wind smote  me,  and  abruptly  the  Raider had  vanished.

Up  in  the  balconies  the  chant  went on,  repeated  again  and  again.  I saw  a sea  of  white  faces  above,  all turned  down  toward  the  spot  where the  Raider  had  disappeared.  Minutes passed.  The  chanting  went  on, low,  vast  and  deep-toned.

Came  another  buffeting  breeze,  a tempest  of  shrill  wind-sounds,  and with  startling  suddenness  the  Raider reappeared,  flashing  back  into  being at  the  same  spot  where  it  had  vanished, above  the  center  of  the  abyss. Again  the  green  orbs  changed  to purple,  and  its  cloudy  mass  conTHE  TIME-RAIDER


tracted  to  the  shifting  but  solid  form it  had  occupied  before.  But  now, held  in  its  shapeless  self,  were  men, who  hung  helpless  in  its  grasp.  It drifted  over  to  the  marble  edge  of the  abyss,  and  loosed  the  men  it  held, then  moved  back  to  the  pit’s  center.

The  chanting  swelled  out,  exultant, and  I saw  the  men  thus  loosed struggle  to  their  feet  and  look  around with  utter  awe  and  terror.  They were  five  in  number,  three  in  short white  tunics  who  looked  like  men  «f ancient  Greece,  the  other  two  wizened little  figures  with  dark  skin  and  long, wispy  mustaches,  either  Huns  or Tartars.

Again  a ringing  note  cut  through the  chanting,  and  as  if  in  obedience the  Raider  rose,  floated  up  toward the  vast  hall’s  roof,  whence  it  had come.  It  disappeared  there,  the purple  light  burned  for  a moment and  vanshied,  and  the  chanting finally  ceased.

The  bulbs  glowed  out,  at  once,  and light  filled  the  place.  The  crowds  in the  balconies  began  to  leave,  streaming down  the  narrow  staircase  toward the  floor.  Before  they  reached  it, however,  guards  had  reached  and fettered  the  five  men  the  Raider  had left  on  the  pit’s  edge,  and  they  now brought  them  over  and  shackled  them also  to  Denham  and  me.

Our  little  group  stood  now  on  the very  edge  of  the  abysmal  shaft. Some  twenty  feet  below  us  there  was a little  landing,  from  which  the  stair started,  spiraling  down  and  around the  shaft,  into  the  darkness  below.  I wondered  momentarily  how  the  landing was  reached,  but  my  wonder ceased  as  a guard  touched  a lever  in the  wall,  causing  a little  metal  stair to  unfold  swiftly  from  the  side  of  the shaft  itself,  a light  little  series  of steps  that  connected  the  black  marble ring  of  flooring  with  the  landing below.

At  an  order  from  the  guards  we stepped  onto  it,  down  it  to  the  landing and  on  down  the  spiral  stair, which  was  cut  in  the  solid  rock  of the  great  shaft’s  sides.  Looking back,  I saw  the  steps  down  which  we had  come  fold  back  into  the  wall,  and a moment  later  the  light  from  above was  shut  out  as  the  great  metal  floor of  the  temple  swung  back  into  position above  us  with  a grating  clash.

Our  only  light  now  was  from  bulbs set  in  the  smooth  wall  along  the down-winding  stair,  and  these  gave hardly  enough  light  to  show  us  the next  steps.  A low  wall  about  a yard in  height,  pierced  with  an  ornamental design  of  openings,  was  our  only protection  from  the  abyss  on  our  left. Yet  the  guards  still  marched  us  on, around  and  around  the  great  shaft, in  a tremendous,  falling  spiral,  down, down.  . . .

CHAPTER  11

THE  CITY  OF  THE  PIT

Soon  a dim  pearly  light  began  to show  far  below  us,  a light  that puzzled  me.  In  the  world  above,  I knew,  it  must  be  dawn,  but  how  this was  connected  with  the  growing light  below,  if  it  was  so  connected, baffled  me.

And  now  we  reached  the  end  of the  shaft  down  whose  sides  we  had come.  It  ended  abruptly,  and  below on  each  side  lay  a great  open  space, obscured  by  drifting  clouds  of  mist. But  the  stair  did  not  end  with  the shaft.  It  dropped  straight  on  down, a free,  unsupported  spiral  of  gleaming metal,  winding  down  into  the obscuring  mists  that  hid  its  lower length.  It  was  an  eery  thing  to  see, that  gigantic  twisted  stairway,  like  a great  corkscrew,  vanishing  down  into the  mists,  like  some  pathway  of  the gods  from  heaven  to  earth.  And  it could  hardly  have  been  hung  there by  less  than  gods,  I thought.  No metal  or  material  ever  known  to  me would  have  been  able  thus  to  hold  its unsupported  weight  in  the  form  of

C50

WEIRD  TALES

this  stair,  yet  there  it  was,  seemingly tossed  there  in  godlike  indifference  to the  laws  of  mechanics.  In  its  way,  it was  as  great  a wonder  as  the  great bidding  above.  As  that  thought came  to  me,  the  light  around  us  began to  grow,  to  redden  like  the  sunrise, and  the  mists  cleared,  drifted away  in  masses,  vanished.  And  there, beneath  me,  lay  the  pit.

I can  only  describe  that  pit  by  saying that  it  was  like  the  inside  of  a round,  squat  bottle,  the  neck  of  the bottle  being  the  shaft  down  which  I had  come.  This  great  cavern  below me  was  roughly  circular  in  shape,  all of  four  miles  in  diameter,  and  a mile from  its  level  floor  to  its  glowing roof.  For  that  roof  was  glowing. Looking  up  at  it  as  we  marched  on dowrn,  I saw  that  set  in  it  wrere  scores of  brilliant  globes  of  glass,  from which  a flood  of  growing  light, golden  light,  sunlight,  daylight,  was pouring  down.

I saw  now  that  the  spiral  stair down  which  we  marched  reached down  to  the  pit’s  floor,  and  touched it  near  its  center.  And  I saw,  too, that  all  of  the  great  cavern’s  floor, from  one  towering  side  to  another, was  covered  with  mass  on  mass  of white,  roofless  buildings,  of  all shapes,  covering  the  floor  of  the  pit and  huddling  closely  beneath  the  perpendicular walls  of  smooth  rock.

At  the  center  of  this  great  mass  of buildings,  directly  below  us,  was  a great  open  clearing,  or  plaza,  and  it was  there  that  the  stairway  touched the  pit’s  floor.  And  from  this  plaza, clear  to  the  circling  walls,  nine streets  branched  out,  radiating  in every  direction  like  the  spokes  of  a wheel.  Along  those  streets  moved great  masses  of  men,  and  these  were the  dwellers  in  the  city,  the  people  of the  pit.

So  It  was  that  I looked  first  on  the city  of  the  pit,  the  city  of  the  Raider, and  its  people,  over  whom  his  shadow had  been  cast.  And,  looking,  I

wondered  if  there  in  the  massed crowds  below  were  Lantin  and  Canned, and  if  it  were  possible  to  find them,  here.

Again  our  guards  ordered  ns  forward, and  wre  marched  on.  But  now only  a low  wall  on  each  side  protected us  from  the  abyss,  and  there was  no  wall  on  the  right  side  against which  to  cling.  But  our  guards seemed  to  mind  this  not  at  all,  and  I judged  that  they  had  made  many trips  up  and  down  the  stair,  to  be thus  hardened  to  its  dangers.

As  we  descended,  Denham  explained to  me  in  a low  voice  the  origin  of  the  lights  On  the  roof.  These were  merely  lenses  of  a kind,  he  said, which  diffused  into  the  cavern  real sunlight  brought  from  above.  I had already  seen  and  puzzled  at  the  glass globes  set  on  pedestals  through  the city  of  cylinders  above,  but  now  saw their  purpose.  Those  globes  received the  sunlight,  transmitted  it  in  some unknown  fashion  down  to  the  globes on  the  roof,  which  gave  it  forth again.  Thus  it  was  that  day  and night  in  the  pit  were  the  same  as  in the  world  above,  and  the  light  there waxed  and  waned  in  accordance  with the  rising  and  setting  of  the  sun which  these  people  never  saw.

We  drew  closer  and  closer  toward the  ground,  and  now  I saw  that  at the  stair’s  end,  where  it  touched  and debouched  on  the  pit’s  floor,  it  was closed  by  a high,  heavy  gate  of metal,  barred  and  spiked,  and  that  on our  own  side  of  this  gate  was  a force of  some  fifty  of  the  guards,  armed with  long  spears  and  also  with  curious little  cylinders  of  shining  metal which  they  carried  in  their  belts,  and which  I guessed  were  weapons  of  a kind  unknown  to  myself.

As  we  came  down  toward  them, these  guards  drew  aside  and  unlocked the  big  gate..  Our  own  captors  unshackled  us,  and  then  pushed us  through  it  unceremoniously,  so that  we  stood  in  the  clearing  or  plaza.

THE  TIME-RAIDER


And  the  gate  was  quickly  shut  and locked  behind  us.

Standing  there,  I forgot  all  else  in the  fascination  of  the  scene  around me.  Across  the  open  plaza,  which was  smoothly  floored  with  stone,  a great  multitude  of  people  were coming  and  going,  and  it  was  that shifting  throng  that  held  my  gaze. For  in  it  were  men  of  every  race  and land  and  time,  men  of  the  far  past and  men  of  my  own  time,  all  seized and  brought  here  by  the  Raider  to mix  and  mingle  in  one  vast,  variegated throng.  Even  that  first  glance showed  me  that  there  must  be thousands,  tens  of  thousands  of  men prisoned  in  this  gigantic  under-city, and  it  showed  me,  too,  that  even  as among  the  guards  and  slaves  above, there  were  no  women.  All  were  comparatively young  men,  few  being  over middle  age,  and  nearly  all  had  the appearance  of  warriors.

Men  of  a thousand  different  centuries passed  and  repassed  there  before my  eyes,  men  who  had  been flashed  through  the  ages  and  brought there  by  the  same  alien,  being  that had  seized  Cannell  before  my  eyes, and  that  had  seized,  only  a few  hours before,  the  five  newcomers  who  had come  down  the  great  stair  with  Denham and  me.

For  these,  these  crowds  and  masses of  men  that  choked  the  streets  and squares  and  buildings  of  this  city  of hell,  these  were  the  spoils  of  the Raider,  gathered  together  for  some unholy  purpose  of  his  own,  and  prisoned here  in  the  pit,  far  beneath  the city  of  the  Kanlars.  In  a living panorama  of  the  past,  they  streamed by  me,  a brilliant,  barbaric  throng.

Many  of  them  were  unknown  in race  to  me,  but  many  others  I could recognize  by  their  dress  or  features. There  were  Egyptians,  shavenheaded men  in  long  white  robes, strangely  aloof  and  silent  in  that noisy  gathering.  They  carried  short swords  and  bows,  and  I noticed  that

every  one  of  the  figures  that  passed before  me  wore  weapons  of  some  sort. I saw  Assyrians,  here  and  there, ravagers  of  the  ancient  world,  wolffaced, black-bearded  men  with  burning eyes,  clad  in  strange  armor.

Three  courtly,  spade-bearded Spaniards  sauntered  by,  carrying themselves  as  proudly  as  on  the  day when  their  galleons  ruled  the  seas.  A hulking,  shock-headed  savage  clad  in evil-smelling  skins  shambled  by,  with a giant  gnarled  club  in  his  hand,  his receding  brow  and  jutting  jaw  proclaiming him  a troglodyte,  a man  of the  world’s  dawn.  And  right  behind him  came  two  stern-faced  men  in medieval  armor,  with  the  cross  of  the Crusaders  blazoned  on  their  battered shields.

Indians  passed,  with  bow  and  tomahawk, hawk-faced  and  alert.  Clearskinned  Greeks,  laughing  at  some jest  of  their  own.  Chinese,  quiet  and inscrutable,  whose  eyes  narrowed even  further  as  they  caught  sight  of the  two  wizened  Tartars  who  had come  down  the  stair  with  us.  A tall frontiersman  in  suit  of  buckskin, with  bowie  knife  in  his  belt,  strode past,  conversing  with  a helmed  Phenician  sea-captain.  And  everywhere, clustering  always  together  in  little groups,  were  Romans,  legionaries  in tunic,  breastplate  and  helmet,  with bronze  short-swords,  who  looked  contemptuously on  all  other  races  in  the passing  throng.

A hand  descended  on  my  shoulder, and  I turned,  startled,  to  find that  I had  completely  forgotten  the Englishman,  Denham,  who  stood  behind me.

“Deuced  strange,  at  first,  isn’t it?”  he  asked,  smilingly,  gesturing toward  the  moving  pageant  of  the past,  around  us.  Before  I could answer,  he  went  on,  “You’d  best come  with  me,  now.”

“Where?”  I asked.

“Why,  to  my  own  barracks,”  he


WEIRD  TALES

answered.  ‘ ‘ That ’s  what  these  buildings are  for,  you  know,  but  as  a newcomer, you’d  be  in  trouble  here  in  a minute,  without  someone  to  answer for  you.  And,  too,  I want  you  to meet  my  own  friends.”

He  looked  at  me  more  sharply.  “I take  it  that  you’re  no  great  friend

of ” and  he  stopped,  raising  his

eyes  eloquently  upward.

“The  Raider?”  I asked,  and  when he  nodded  I said,  “Not  I!  I’m  here to  find  a man — tw7o  men.”

“Find  a single  man  here?”  asked Denham,  sweeping  his  hand  around the  crowded  streets  in  a hopeless gesture.  ‘ ‘ It ’s  impossible ! And  what wrould  you  do  when  you  found  him? Escape?  That,  too,  is  impossible. How  would  you  get  up  the  stair, through  the  city  of  the  Kanlars? And  even  if  you  achieved  the  impossible and  did  get  through,  there would  be  no  place  to  go,  for  all around  the  city  above  is  nothing  but wild,  uninhabited  country  where  they would  easily  hunt  you  down.”

“No  matter,”  I told  him;  “once  I got  clear  of  the  city  above,  I could make  good  my  escape.  ’ ’

He  looked  at  me  with  sudden  interest. “So,”  he  murmured;  “and perhaps  if  my  friends  and  I could

help  you ,”  but  then  lie  checked

himself.  “I  must  see  them,”  he said,  “before  saying  more.”

I nodded,  a new  line  of  thought opening  up  to  me,  and  then  with Denham  leading,  we  went  on  down one  of  the  branching  streets.  In  that street  was  a replica  of  the  noisy, motley  throng  that  filled  the  plaza, and  their  cries  filled  the  air  with  a babel  of  a thousand  different  tongues. I noted,  though,  that  many  spoke  in the  language  of  the  Kanlars,  and guessed  that  it  wTas  that  tongue  which served  more  or  less  as  a means  of communication  between  the  thousands gathered  here,  a supposition  I later  found  to  be  correct.

Most  of  the  buildings  along  the street  seemed  to  be  the  barracks  Denham had  spoken  of,  housing  the  city ’s occupants,  though  some  of  them  appeared to  be  wine-shops  of  a sort, judging  from  the  drunken  men  who reeled  out  of  them.  An  inquiry  to my  companion  elicited  the  information that  the  only  food  of  the  city was  the  same  golden  liquid  which  had been  furnished  me  above,  and  which I learned  wras  made  artificially  directly from  the  soil  itself.  Thus  the cycle  of  foodstuffs  in  my  own  time, where  a plant  draws  its  substance from  the  soil  and  is  then  eaten,  or where  an  animal  feeds  on  the  plants sprung  from  the  soil,  to  be  eaten  by us  in  turn,  was  entirely  eliminated by  the  Kanlars,  who  manufactured their  food  directly  from  the  soil  itself, recasting  the  chemical  composition of  it  to  produce  the  yellow  fluid. This  yellow7  liquid,  I learned,  was made  by  slaves  in  the  city  above  and. was  piped  down  to  the  city  below  and dispensed  to  the  hordes  there  in  the little  buildings  which  I had  assumed to  be  wine-shops.  It  seemed  that while  the  stuff  was  a perfect  food when  taken  in  small  quantities,  yet when  an  excess  was  drunk  it  produced a violent  intoxication.  And  as it  was  dispensed  freely,  it  was  not wonderful  that  there  were  great  debauches of  drunkenness  in  this under-metropolis.

One  result  of  that  we  saw,  for  all along  the  street  there  was  fighting, deadly  battles  between  men  of  fardiffering  times  and  races.  There  was no  interference  in  these  combats,  for there  were  none  of  the  guards  or Kanlars  through  all  the  city,  the  occupants being  left  to  fight  their  own battles  on  the  principle  of  the  survival of  the  fittest.  An  excited  ring of  spectators  was  gathered  round each  combat,  shouting  at  and  cheering the  opponents,  not  dispersing until  the  fighting  was  over.  As  we passed  the  scene  of  one  such  duel,  I

THE  TIME-RAIDER


saw  the  victor  dragging  away  the body  ot“  his  late  enemy.

‘ ‘ Where  is  he  taking  it? ” I asked of  Denham,  motioning  toward  the  receding figure.

“To  the  bottom  of  the  stair,”  was his  answer.  “There  is  an  iron  rule that  in  any  battle  where  a man  is killed,  the  victor  must  carry  the  body of  his  opponent  to  the  stair  and  hand it  over  to  the  guards  there.”

“But  why?”  I asked.  “For  burial above?”

Denham  smiled  grimly.  “You saw  the  slaves  in  the  city  above,”  he said,  ‘ ‘ but  did  you  notice  how strange  they  were,  how  glassy-eyed and  stiff-moving?”

When  I nodded,  he  said,  “Well, the  slaves  of  the  city  above  are  men who  have  been  killed  here  in  the under-city.”

At  my  exclamation  of  horror,  he repeated  his  statement.  “Man,”  he exclaimed,  “you  do  not  know  the power  of  the  Kanlars.  With  the  wisdom that  is  theirs,  such  an  accomplishment is  child’s-play.”

“But  how  done?”  I asked.

“Ask  them,”  he  answered  darkly. “In  some  way  they  are  able  to  bring back  the  breath  of  life  into  the  dead men,  to  repair  the  wounds  that  killed them.  They  can  make  them  live again,  but  not  even  the  Kanlars  can bring  back  their  souls.  They  are  just living,  walking  bodies,  whom  the Kanlars  are  able  to  control  and  to force  to  work  their  will  in  all  things. Dead-alive,  and  slaves  to  the  Kanlars ! ’ ’

I shuddered  deeply,  for  the  idea was  soul-sickening.  Yet  I knew  now that  Denham  spoke  truth,  for  I remembered how  from  my  cell  in  the city  above  I had  seen  Talerri,  garbed as  a slave,  Talerri,  whom  I had killed  myself.  It  was  an  invention that  would  have  aroused  pride  in  the fiends  of  lowest  hell,  thus  to  raise dead  men  back  to  life  and  use  them

as  servants.  And  I knew  that  this was  but  one  of  the  dark  evils  that  lay concealed  under  the  rule  of  the  laughing, bright-haired  Kanlars.

While  we  talked  we  had  been moving  along  the  crowded street  toward  the  distant  wall  of  the pit.  Finally,  very  near  that  wall, Denham  turned  in  at  a low,  long building  that  was  of  white  stone,  and roofless,  like  most  others  in  the  city. I followed  him  inside,  and  looked around  curiously.

The  building ’s  interior  was  a single large  room,  shaded  from  the  light, above  by  a suspended  awning  of green  cloth.  Ranged  along  the  walls was  a triple  tier  of  metal  bunks,  in some  of  which  lay  cloth  and  fur robes.  There  was  a long  metal  table at  the  room’s  center,  and  lounging  in chairs  around  it,  and  in  the  bunks, were  a score  of  men  who  looked  up without  interest  as  we  entered.

Denham  greeted  them,  and  in  reply they  grunted  lazily,  looking  at  me  incuriously. I followed  my  companion to  the  farther  end  of  the  room,  where he  seated  himself  in  one  of  the  bunks and  motioned  me  to  join  him.

“My  friends  aren’t  here  now,”  he said,  , “but  they’ll  return  before long.  ’ ’

A sudden  curiosity  prompted  my next  question.  “How  did  you  get here,  Denham  ? ’ ’ I asked.  “Was  it — the  Raider?”

“Naturally,”  he  answered.  “It was  the  Raider,  as  you  call  it,  that brought  us  all  here,  curse  him.  It was  in  the  Colonial  rebellion  he  got me.  ’ ’

“The  American  rebellion?”  I asked,  striving  to  understand  his Eighteenth  Century  allusions.

“Of  course,”  he  answered.  “We were  quartered  in  Philadelphia, under  that  old  fool,  Howe.  He  liked the  city,  y’know,  the  bottle  and  the ladies.  But  the  rest  of  us  were  itching for  fight,  and  since  we  couldn’t

C34

WEIRD  TALES

fight  the  rebels,  we  soon  took  to  fighting one  another.

“There  was  a ball  one  night,  and toward  the  end  of  it  I began  to  have a few  words  with  a Hessian  attached to  our  staff.  We  were  both  a little scrambled,  by  then.  Curse  me  if there  weren ’t  some  fine  cellars  there ! But  as  to  the  German,  he  and  I got hotter  and  hotter,  until  he  finally made  the  assertion  that  our  commander was  a fool.  Personally,  that was  my  opinion  also,  but  I couldn’t, allow  the  Dutchman  to  say  so,  and the  upshot  of  it  was  that  we  left  the ball  together  and  adjourned  to  an open  field  near  by  to  resume  the argument,  with  our  swords.

“Before  we  had  made  a half-dozen passes,  there  was  a hellish  sound  of wind,  a big,  gray  cloud  with  burning green  eyes  seemed  to  drop  down  on us  from  above,  and  then  the  bottom dropped  out  of  the  world.  When  we came  to  our  senses,  we  were  standing up  there  in  the  big  temple,  with  a dozen  others.  Of  course,  we  didn’t know  then  that  we  had  been  brought on  through  time,  but  we  knew  it  was a damned  strange  place.

“They  brought  us  down  here, down  the  stair,  and  as  soon  as  we were  turned  loose  here,  we  resumed our  dispute,  borrowing  swords  from two  bystanders.  By  luck,  I pinked him.  There  was  a big  crowd  around, cheering  us  on,  and  it  was  then  that I met  D’Alord,  who  is  one  of  the friends  I mentioned.”

As  Denham  finished  his  story,  I began  to  feel  a sudden,  utter  weariness, for  I had  not  slept  for  many hours.  I yawned  and  rubbed  my eyes,  and  at  once  Denham  jumped up.

“Why,  take  the  bunk,  man,”  he ordered  me.  “Go  ahead  and  sleep.”

“But  what  of  Lantin,”  I asked, “my  friend?  He’s  somewhere  in  the city  here,  I’m  sure,  and  I must  find him.”

Denham  shook  his  head  doubtfully.

“What  does  he  look  like?”  he  asked.

When  I had  described  Lantin  to him,  his  face  cleared  a little,  I thought.  “An  elderly  man,  you said?”  he  questioned,  and  when  I nodded,  he  continued,  “That  should make  it  easier  to  find  him,  then. There  are  hardly  any  but  young  men here,  so  your  friend  would  be  more conspicuous  and  easily  located.  But you  go  ahead  and  sleep,  and  I’ll  find my  friends  and  look  for  your  companion. If  anyone  can  find  him,  we can.  ’ ’

I tried  to  thank  him,  but  he  waved my  words  aside  with  a smile  and walked  out  of  the  room.  I sank  back in  the  bunk  and  closed  my  eyes.  As drowsiness  overcame  me,  there  came to  my  ears  the  dull  sound  of  voices of  the  men  in  the  room,  with  now  and then  a shout  or  bellow  of  laughter. And  even  these  faded  from  hearing as  I sank,  contentedly  enough,  down into  the  green  depths  of  sleep.

CHAPTER  12

PLANS  FOR  ESCAPE

Golden  light  again  streamed through  the  windows  when  I finally  woke,  and  I realized  that  in my  utter  weariness  I must  have  slept the  clock  twice  round.  I swung  out of  the  bunk  and  stood  up,  stretching.

There  was  only  one  man  in  the long  room  besides  myself,  a man  who sat  at  the  table,  some  distance  away from  me.  As  I looked  at  him  he turned,  saw  me,  and  jumped  up  and hurried  over  toward  me.

“Lantin!”  I cried,  extending  my hands.  He  gripped  them,  his  eyes sparkling.

“Where  have  you  been?”  I asked eagerly.  “Were  you  in  the  city  here all  the  time?”

“All  the  time  since  I left  you,”  he affirmed.  “They  brought  me  directly here,  Wheeler,  and  of  course  when I got  here  I knew  at  once  that  we  had found  the  Raider’s  lair.  Your  friend

THE  TIME-RAIDER


Denham,  found  me,  a few  hours  ago, and  told  me  where  you  were,  but when  I came  here  I saw  that  you were  sleeping  and  didn’t  waken you.  ’ ’

“You  should  have,”  I told  him. “But  where  is  Denham  now?”

“He’ll  be  here  soon,”  replied  my friend.  “He  said  he  would  go  after his  friends,  who  were  helping  him  to look  for  me,  and  bring  them  here.  ’ ’

“But  what  of  Cannell,  Lantin?”  I asked.  “You  have  seen  nothing  of him  in  your  stay  here?”

His  face  clouded.  “Nothing,”  he admitted.  “I  have  searched  for  him, but  how  is  one  to  find  a single  man  in this  city  of  thousands?  And  we  do not  even  know  that  he  is  here, Wheeler.  For  all  we  know,  he  may have  been  killed  long  ago  in  some brawl  here.”

“Don’t  give  up  hope,”  I told  him. “With  Denham  to  help  us,  we  have a far  better  chance  to  find  him.”

Lantin  shook  his  head  doubtfully, but  before  he  could  answer,  our  conversation was  interrupted  by  the entrance  of  Denham  and  his  three friends.  As  they  came  up  to  us,  I gazed  with  mounting  interest  at  the trio  of  strange  companions  who  accompanied the  Englishman.

One  of  them  was  patently  a Roman,  a short,  sturdy  man  with swarthy,  stem-set  features,  attired in  armor  and  helmet.  The  man  beside him  was  brown-skinned  and long-haired,  with  eagle  black  eyes, dressed  in  spotted  skins,  quilted  cotton armor,  and  head-dress  of  feathers. He  carried  a curious  long sword,  or  weapon,  whose  edges  were serrated,  or  saw-toothed,  and  the weapon  gave  me  the  clue  to  his  identity. I had  seen  swords  exactly  like it  brought  out  of  the  Aztec  ruins  in Mexico.

But  it  was  the  third  man  who caught  and  held  my  gaze.  He  was  a figure  of  romance,  a slouch-hatted, wide-booted  trooper,  long  sword

rattling  at  his  heels,  laughing,  daredevil eyes,  and  white  teeth  gleaming behind  a fierce  black  mustache..  As I surveyed  him,  rather  rudely  I think,  he  smiled  at  me  and  exclaimed, in  execrable  English:  “ Mordieu , is this  the  lad  who  killed  that  pig, Talerri  ? ’ ’

When  Denham  nodded,  he  thrust forth  his  hand  impulsively,  and  I was  glad  to  take  it.  And  then  Denham made  introduction.  “The Chevalier  Raoul  D’Alord,”  he  said, indicating  the  laughing  trooper,  who swept  me  a grand  bow.  “One  time captain  in  the  armies  of  Henry Quatre,  King  of  Navarre  and  France, but  now  a lodger  in  our  pleasant city,”  and  he  laughed  at  the  wry face  the  Frenchman  made.

“This  is  Ixtil,  Cacique  of  Tlacopan,”  he  went  on,  indicating  the wild  brown  figure  in  the  middle,  and I looked  at  him  with  renewed  interest, now  that  my  surmise  had  proved correct.  An  Aztec ! One  of  the  fierce hordes  who  had  swept  away  Maya and  Toltec  forever,  only  to  be  crushed in  turn  by  ruthless,  steel-shod  Cortes. The  chieftain  bowed  to  me, gravely  and  silently,  but  did  not speak.

Denham  turned  to  the  remaining figure.  “Fabrius  Arminius,”  he said,  “formerly  centurion  in  the  legions of  Tiberius  Ctesar,”  and  the Roman  stiffly  inclined  his  head.  Then, at  Denham’s  suggestion,  we  seated ourselves  around  the  end  of  the  long table.

“D’Alord  speaks  English  as  well as  I do,”  said  Denham,  “and  between us  we  taught  it  to  Ixtil  and Fabrius,  so  you  can  speak  freely.  I have  told  my  friends  that  you  are, like  ourselves,  ready  for  an  attempt at  escaping.  Naturally,  though,  they would  like  to  hear  it  from  your  own Ups.’”

“It  is  so,”  I assured  them.  “Lantin and  I came  here  to  find  a certain man,  and  if  we  can  find  him,  we’ll


WEIRD  TALES

take  him  out  of  here  in  spite  of  the Raider.  ’ ’

“The  Raider?”  queried  D’Alord, and  Denham  interjected  a brief  explanation. “He  means — him,'’  he told  the  Frenchman,  jerking  a thumb upward.

The  trooper  laughed.  “Sucre, that’s  a name  for  the  beast!  Eh, Fabrius?”

The  Roman  nodded,  silently,  and Denham  came  back  to  the  subject. “For  some  time,”  he  went  on,  “we four  have  considered  different  plans for  escaping,  but  none  has  been  practical. There  are  so  many  obstacles. It  will  be  necessary  to  get  up  the stair,  avoiding  the  guards  at  bottom and  top.  Once  up,  it  will  be  necessary to  pass  through  the  city  of  the cylinders,  though  that  should  not  be too  difficult.  But  once  out  of  the city,  what  then  ? How  cross  the ice?”

“We  are  talking  at  cross  purposes,” I said.  “You  must  remember, Denham,  that  I know  next  to nothing  about  this  place.  Why  have all  these  men  been  collected  in  this under-city?  Does  anyone  know,  except the  Raider?  What  is  the  purpose of  it  all?”

“You  do  not  know?”  asked  Denham, in  surprize.  “I  thought  you would,  by  now.  These  men,  these thousands  of  warriors  in  the  city here  around  you,  have  been  gathered here  by  the  Raider  to  act  as  his ai'mies,  his  mercenaries,  to  pour  down in  hordes  upon  the  cities  of  the  enemies of  the  Kanlars,  and  destroy those  enemies  utterly,  which  the  Kanlars are  too  few  in  number  to  do.”

I gasped  with  astonishment.  Denham went  on.  “You  tell  him,  Fabrius,” he  said,  addressing  the  Roman. “You  have  been  here  longer  than any  of  us.”

The  centurion  spoke,  in  a slurred, accented  English.  “Some  things  I have  heard,”  he  said,  “but  whether true  or  not,  I can  not  say.  There

was  a man  here  I knew  when  first  I was  brought  here,  a Persian.,  Before he  was  killed  (for  he  was  killed  in  a drunken  brawl)  he  told  me  that  once, in  the  city  above,  one  of  the  Kanlars had  become  drunk  and  had  babbled to  him  the  story  of  his  race.

“As  you  know,  endless  fields  of ice  lie  around  this  land  where  is  the Kanlar’s  city.  Well,  the  Persian said  that  these  fields  of  ice  were  not endless,  that  far  to  the  south  there were  other  green  lands  and  in  them a mighty  people  and  a mighty  city, named  Kom.  He  said  that  long  ago the  Kanlars  lived  in  this  city,  and were  of  its  people,  but  that  trouble had  risen  between  them  and  the  other people  of  Kom,  because  of  the  Raider. More  than  this  he  did  not  know,  but said  that  because  of  this  trouble,  the Kanlars  had  fled  from  the  city,  with the  Raider  leading  them,  and  coming north  in  their  air-boats  over  the  icefields, had  found  this  green,  uninhabited land,  set  in  the  ice.  Its  existence had  never  been  suspected  by those  in  Kom,  who  thought  that  the ice  extended  clear  north  to  the  very edge  of  earth.

“So  the  Kanlars  had  settled  here and  had  built  the  city  of  cylinders, which  lies  above  us.  But  still  they planned  to  sweep  back  on  Kom,  and annihilate  all  there.  But  this  they could  not  do,  being  too  few  in  number. So  the  Raider,  who  is  their  god and  their  king,  spoke  to  them  and said  that  he  would  bring  them  men from  every  age  of  earth’s  past  to  be their  servants,  to  fight  for  them  at will.  The  Raider  could  travel  at  will through  time — ask  me  not  how ! — and he  swept  back  through  the  centuries and  brought  men  by  the  thousands to  the  Kanlars,  young  warriors  to fight  their  battles  for  them.

‘ ‘ There  was  a great  cavern  far  beneath the  city  of  the  Kanlars,  a great hollow  space  formed  by  inside  stuffings of  the  young  earth,  and  in  this the  Kanlars  prisoned  the  men  brought

THE  TIME-RAIDER


by  the  Raider,  piercing  a shaft  down to  it  from  their  temple  above,  and placing  in  that  shaft  the  stairway down  which  you  came,  under  the direction  of  the  Raider.  They  chose from  among  their  prisoners  some  to be  guards  of  the  others,  and  those killed  in  battle  here  they  brought back  to  seeming  life  by  their  arts  of hell,  and  used  as  slaves.

“So,  steadily,  the  hordes  here  in the  pit  have  grown  in  number,  until scarcely  more  could  be  contained here.  Soon  there  will  be  enough  to suit  the  purpose  of  the  Raider  and then  they  will  be  loosed  and  hurled south  to  carry  fire  and  death  to  the cities  beyond  the  ice,  to  Kom  and  the people  of  Kom,  who  can  have  no knowledge  whatever  of  the  peril  that hangs  over  them.  Up  on  the  great roof  of  the  temple,  which  is  the  home of  the  Raider,  there  are  scores  of great  flying  platforms  which  the Kanlars  have  been  constructing. They  have  made  strange  weapons, too,  and  so  when  their  hour  strikes, they  will  open  the  gates  here  and allow  the  hordes  to  pour  up  the  stair, up  to  the  roof  of  the  temple,  where they  will  crowd  into  the  flying  platforms, under  the  leadership  of  the Kanlars,  and  race  south  over  the  ice to  rain  down  death  and  destruction on  Kom.  And  thus  will  the  Raider and  the  Kanlars  be  revenged  upon the  people  who  east  them  out.”

T^abrius  stopped,  and  I looked  at Lantin,  then  back  toward  the Roman.  Was  this  the  true  secret  of the  Raider’s  activity?

“But  will  the  hordes  here  do this?”  I asked.  “Will  they  follow the  Kanlars,  and  obey  them?”

Fabrius  laughed  shortly,  and D’Alord  replied  for  him.  “Ha, friend,”  he  said  to  me,  “you  are  new here,  and  do  not  know  these  men. They  are  evil,  I tell  you.  They  boast always  of  what  they  will  do  when they  are  loosed  on  Kom,  for  they

know  that  soon  they  are  to  be  thus loosed.  Some  subtle  poison  from  the Raider’s  self  has  entered  into  them, I think.  They  are  like  tigers  waiting to  be  freed  upon  a helpless  prey.”

“It  is  so,”  said  Lantin,  “for  short, a time  as  I have  been  here,  I have found  that  this  is  so.  There  is  no hope  from  the  hordes  here  in  the  pit, for  they  will  follow  the  Raider  to  a man.  ’ ’

There  was  a silence  after  that. Suddenly  Denham  spoke.  “I  think it  would  be  possible  for  some  of  us,  at least,  to  get  out  of  the  pit  here,”  he said,  “for  I have  a plan  that  would effect  that  much.  But  what  then? Do  you  suppose  it  would  be  possible to  get  up  to  the  roof  of  the  temple and  steal  one  of  the  flying  platforms you  speak  of?  Or  steal  one  of  the Kanlars’  air-boats?  If  we  could  do that,  we  could  fly  south  over  the  icefields and  warn  the  cities  there  of their  peril,  get  their  aid  and  come back  and  crush  the  Raider  and  these damned  Kanlars.”

For  the  first  time,  the  Aztec  spoke, shaking  his  head.  “It  can  not  be done,”  he  said,  speaking  in  precise, queerly  clipped  English.  “I  was  to the  roof  of  the  temple  once,  and know.  The  only  way  to  get  to  that roof  is  by  the  narrow  stairway  that spirals  up  the  inside  of  the  temple. And  that  stairway  leads  directly through  the  lair  of  the  Raider!”

“But  what  can  we  do,  then?” asked  the  Englishman.  “It  would  be folly  to  try  to  steal  one  of  the  Kanlars’ air-boats,  for  they  always  rise from  and  alight  on  the  roofs  of  buildings, and  we  could  never  get  to  them unobserved.  ’ ’

Lantin  broke  into  the  silence  that ensued.  “But  suppose  there  was  an air-boat  hidden  back  in  the  hills,  outside the  city,”  he  said;  “that  would make  things  easier,  wouldn’t  it?”

When  they  assented,  he  went  on quickly,  “Wheeler  and  I have  such  a machine  hidden,”  he  said,  “and  it

G58

WEIRD  TALES

was  on  it  that  we  came  here  from  our own  time.”

They  looked  up  eagerly,  incredulously. “Do  you  mean  that  you  came into  this  age  from  your  own  time  on a machine?”  asked  Denham.  “That you  came  yourselves,  and  were  not brought  here  by  the  Raider,  like  all the  rest  of  us?”

Lantin  nodded  affirmation,  aud then  went  on  to  describe  briefly  the seizure  of  Cannell,  our  pursuit through  time,  and  our  subsequent capture  outside  the  city  by  the guards.  They  listened,  fascinated, and  when  he  had  finished,  D’Alord asked,  with  something  of  awe  in  his voice,  “And  you  made  this  machine yourselves?  You  found  the  secret  of the  Raider’s  time-traveling?”

“It  is  so,”  Lantin  told  them;  “we made  the  time-car  and  then  came after  Cannell.”

“God!”  exclaimed  the  trooper, ‘ ‘ what  a chance  for  freedom ! If  we could  all  win  free  of  this  pit,  escape from  the  city  to  your  car,  we  could get  back  to  our  own  times  in  it.  Back to  France!”

“No!”  said  Denham,  decisively. “In  the  first  place  not  all  of  us  can escape  from  the  pit.  I have  a plan by  which  some  of  us  can,  but  the  rest must  stay  here.  And  another  thing, even  if  we  each  got  back  to  our  own time,  D’Alord,  who  knows  but  that the  Raider  would  come  back  and  recapture us,  as  he  did  this  Cannell they  tell  of?  For  all  we  know,  the Raider  may  have  placed  on  us  some sign  or  mark  by  means  of  which  he could  track  us  down  through  the ages  again.  And  until  he  is  destroyed, it  will  be  of  no  use  to  return to  our  own  times.”

“But  what  to  do,  then?”  asked  the Frenchman.

“This,”  said  Denham.  “We  four will  help  Lantin  and  Wheeler  to  escape from  the  pit..  Only  two  can succeed  in  escaping,  by  my  plan,  for

more  would  be  noticed  in  the  city above,  and  we  four  will  be  needed  to give  them  their  start  up  the  stair, how,  I will  explain  later.  And  since only  one  or  two  can  escape,  Lantin and  Wheeler  must  be  the  ones  to make  the  attempt,  since  they  alone know  how  to  operate  their  machine, and  know  where  it  is  hidden.

“If  they  can  reach  their  car,  they will  speed  south  across  the  ice,  warn the  people  of  Kom  of  the  plans  of  the Kanlars,  and  come  back  with  a force sufficient  to  crush  the  Raider  and  the Kanlars  forever,  and  then  they  can rescue  us  four  from  the  pit.”

“The  plan  is  good,”  approved  the Roman.  “We  four  must  stay  while they  go.  When  do  you  plan  to  make the  attempt?”  he  asked  Denham.

“We  must  wait  until  the  night will  be  moonless,”  he  said,  “for  the darkness  will  favor  the  attempt.  The eighth  night  from  today  would  be best.  ’ ’

“But  your  plan,”  asked  the  impatient Frenchman;  “how  do  you plan  to  get  up  the  stair  ? ’ ’

“In  this  manner,”  explained  the Englishman;  “we  must  make  a grappling-hook  of  heavy  metal,  and a long,  strong  rope.  On  the  night we  select  for  the  attempt,  we  four will  assemble  at  the  lower  gate  of  the stair,  while  Lantin  and  Wheeler  take up  a position  at  the  plaza’s  edge,  directly under  the  lowest  curve  of  the spiral  stair.  Then,  by  shouting  or fighting,  we  four  shall  create  a riot around  the  gate,  to  draw  the  attention of  the  guards  inside.  When  the excitement  is  at  its  highest,  and  when the  people  around  the  position  of Lantin  and  Wheeler  have  run  toward the  riot,  as  they  always  do  here,  then Wheeler  will  fling  up  the  grapplinghook  toward  the  curving  stair  above him.  If  fortune  favors  us,  the  hook will  catch,  he  can  ascend  the  rope and  pull  up  Lantin,  and  the  two  can then  proceed  on  up  the  stair,  being above  the  gate  and  its  guards.”

THE  TIME-RAIDER

“But  the  guards  above?”  D’Alord objected.  “IIow  pass  them?  And what  of  the  metal  floor  of  the  temple, which  covers  the  shaft?  It  will  be closed,  and  how  will  they  get  through it?”

“No,”  said  Denham,  “for  if  we start  a sufficiently  large  riot  at  the gate  of  the  stair,  the  guards  behind it  will  become  alarmed  and  call  for help  from  above.  They  have  a system of  signaling  with  those  above  and if  they  think  the  hordes  here  are going  to  attack  the  gate,  those  above will  open  the  shaft  by  swinging  aside the  temple  floor,  and  will  send  guards down  to  repel  the  attack  on  the  gates. The  shaft  being  open,  and  the  guards gone,  Lantin  and  Wheeler  should have  no  trouble  getting  out  and through  the  city,  to  their  car.”

“But  we  will  meet  the  guards  coming down  the  stair!”  I cried.

“Not  so,”  Denham  assured  me, “for  when  there  is  a call  for  aid  from their  fellows  below,  the  guards  above don’t  descend  by  the  stair,  since  it would  take  them  too  long.  They  unreel great  ropes  or  cables,  drop  them over  the  shaft’s  edge  so  that  they hang  clear  to  the  stair’s  bottom,  and then  attach  a sort  of  harness  to  themselves, join  that  harness  to  the  cables with  special  pulleys,  and  slide  down to  the  stair’s  bottom  in  a few  minutes. Twice,  since  I have  been  here, there  have  been  riots  around  the gate,  and  each  time  the  guai’ds  above came  whizzing  down  in  that  way,  to repel  the  riot.”

“Whatever  else  they  ai’e,”  added D’Aloi’d,  “there  are  no  cowards among  the  guards.  No  one  ever called  me  craven  yet,  but  ventre-debiche,  I’d  look  twice  befoi’e  slidhxg down  a rope  into  this  hell.”

“Yet  what  if  some  of  the  guards did  come  down  the  stair?”  I asked.

Denham  shook  his  head.  “I  do not  think  they  will  do  so,”  he  said.

‘ ‘ Yet  if  they  did  ? ” I insisted.

He  shi’ugged  his  shoulders.  “Why,

65J

then  you  would  meet  them  on  the stair.”

We  looked  at  each  other,  a little grimly,  I think,  and  then  there  was  a shattering  roar  of  laughter  from D’Aloi’d.  “Why  borrow  trouble?” he  cried.  “Take  your  sword  with you,  lad,  and  if  you  meet  anyone  on the  stair,  have  at  him.  If  you  are the  stronger,  you  will  kill  your enemies,  and  if  your  enemies  are  the stronger,  they  will  kill  you.  What more  is  thei’e  to  it?”

I could  not  help  laughing,  ruefully, as  did  the  rest,  but  Lantin  suddenly sobered.

“But  Cannell?”  he  asked.  “What of  my  friend?  We  came  here  to  rescue him,  you  know,  aixd  can’t  leave without  him.”

“There  are  eight  days  yet  in  which to  find  him,”  Denham  pointed  out, “and  if  you  can  not  find  him  in  that time,  we  four  will  try  to  locate  him after  you  and  Wheeler  have  escaped. If  he’s  hei’e  in  the  pit,  we’ll  have  him with  us  by  the  time  you  come  back.”

Our  conversation  was  abruptly broken  off  by  the  entrance  of  a number  of  the  room’s  occupants,  who l’egarded  our  little  group  with  suspicious stai’es.

“We’d  best  break  up,”  Denham whispei’ed,  “for  we  don’t  want  it  to get  abroad  that  we’re  planning something.  ’ ’

So,  l’ising,  we  sauntered  out  of  the room  into  tlie  street.  Outside  a hot sunlight  was  pouring  down  from  the glass  globes  in  the  roof,  so  strongly that  one  could  not  look  ixp  at  that roof  dii’ectly,  any  more  than  one  can look  dii’ectly  at  the  sun.  Whatever method  the  Kanlai’s  had  devised  to collect  and  bring  so  far  underground the  light  and  heat  of  the  sun,  it  was a wonderfully  efficient  one.

Behind  us  loomed  the  gray-rock wall  of  the  pit,  and  before  us, stretching  away  for  miles  to  the  op660

WEIRD  TALES

posite  wall,  were  the  masses  of  white buildings  that  housed  the  city’s teeming  thousands.  And  at  the  central plaza,  the  titanic,  gleaming spiral  of  the  metal  stairway  rose vastly  up  toward  the  black,  round shaft  that  pierced  the  cavern’s  roof, its  winding  turn  on  turn  glinting  in the  light  like  a huge,  upraised  serpent of  metal.

In  the  shifting,  noisy  throng  that pressed  by  us  along  the  street,  that swirled  aimlessly  through  streets  and buildings,  I sensed  a quality  of  expectation, of  eager,  restless  waiting. Even  I,  new  to  the  city  as  I was, could  feel  the  unwonted  excitement that  pulsed  from  the  passing  crowds. And  I saw  that  my  companions  felt it  likewise.

A grizzled  seaman  in  stained, shapeless  clothes,  who  might  have sailed  with  Drake  or  Hawkins, stopped  in  front  of  us.

“Ho,  comrade!”  he  cried  to  Denham; “hast  heard  the  news?”

‘ ‘ News ! What  news  ? ’ ’ asked  Denham, his  brows  drawing  together.

“An  hour  ago,”  said  the  other, “the  guards  sent  word  through  the city  to  sharpen  all  swords,  to  get  all weapons  ready.  I tell  thee,  lad,  it’s soon  we  ’ll  be  dropping  down  on  Kom, to  loot  it  from  end  to  end.  Split  me, they’re  going  to  loose  us  ere  long,” and  with  an  anticipatory,  gloating chuckle,  the  seaman  passed  on.

Denham  turned  to  us,  his  face  suddenly white.  “You  heard?”  he asked.  “That  means  that  we  have little  time  left  for  action.  We  dare not  wait  now  until  the  moonless nights.  We’ll  have  to  take  our chance  on  the  first  night  that  its cloudy  above,  for  then  it  will  be darker  here.  And  if  we  fail  in  our attempt,  it  means  these  hordes  of devils  here  flashing  down  to  make  a hell  of  an  unwarned,  unprotected city.  For  the  Raider  is  getting  ready to  strike!”

CHAPTER  13 IN  THE  PIT

Thk  hours,  the  days,  that  followed, I remember  now  as  one  remembers a particularly  vivid  dream,  for even  at  the  time,  I seemed  to  see  all in  the  city  around  me  through  the haze  of  assured  impossibility  that surrounds  a dream.  And,  although I can  well  understand  how  the  city  in the  pit  was  a very  hell  on  earth  to those  long  confined  in  it,  yet  to  me during  the  next  few  days  it  was  a city  of  wonder.

There  was  little  to  do  but  wander through  it.  Each  day  we  waited tensely  for  night,  but  always  when night  came  there  came  with  it  a flood of  soft  light  that  poured  down  revealingly  from  the  roof,  the  moonlight of  the  earth  above  brought down  to  us  by  the  glass  globes  above and  in  the  roof.  Had  it  been  cloudy above,  it  would  have  been  dark enough  here  in  the  pit  to  chance  an attempt,  but  to  do  so  in  the  brilliant light  was  out  of  the  question.  And we  dared  take  no  more  chances  than necessary,  since  if  discovered,  we should  doubtless  never  live  to  make another  attempt.

So  in  the  eight  days  that  followed, while  Denham  and  his  friends  fretted impatiently  at  the  delay,  I spent  the time  roaming  through  the  city, usually  with  one  or  all  of  the  four friends  as  guide.  When  possible,  we preferred  to  keep  together,  since thus  we  made  up  a strong  little  company whose  five  swords  deterred many  truculent  souls  from  attacking us.

Even  so,  we  were  twice  involved  in combats,  from  both  of  which  we managed  to  emerge  victorious,  though not  unscathed.  It  was  a bloody enough  society,  there  in  the  city  of the  pit,  a wilder  life  almost  than that  of  roaming,  wolves,  yet  it  had  a fierce,  free  charm  that  stirred  me,  at times.  A product  of  civilization,

THE  TIME-RAIDER


myself,  I was  thrown  now  into  a life where  strength  and  skill  with  weapons were  the  measure  of  a man,  and where  all  disputes  were  settled  with swords.  Cooped  as  we  were  in  the crowded  pit,  yet  we  were  untrammeled by  any  form  of  law  or  etiquette, and  I soon  learned  to  swagger as  boldly  and  scowl  as  ferociously as  any  fire-eater  in  the  pit.  And, too,  in  constant  practise  with  my friends,  I learned  sword-play  well.

I came  to  love  my  four  new-found friends,  in  those  days.  Four  men, out  of  four  different  centuries,  and different  in  temperament  as  they were,  yet  strong  bonds  of  friendship sprang  up  between  them  and  myself, and  Lantin  also.

From  the  beginning,  I had  felt  attracted to  Denham,  for  he  was  more of  my  own  time  and  way  of  thinkng than  the  rest.  Fastidious,  elegant even,  in  manner,  and  of  an  indolent disposition  naturally,  yet  he  was  terribly quick  in  battle,  his  slim  rapier flashing  out  resistlessly  even  while he  yawned  in  his  opponent’s  face. He  was  a good  bit  of  a fop,  and  it was  a source  of  constant  mirth  to  us to  watch  him  cleaning  and  patching his  ragged  suit,  and  anxiously  assuring himself  of  the  fit  of  the  torn  coat. But  at  all  our  jests,  he  would  smile quietly,  and  go  on  with  his  work.

A great  deal  different  was  D ’Alord, though  he  attracted  me  as  much. Swearing,  laughing,  shouting,  he was  never  quiet,  never  still,  and  even in  the  cramped  pit  lived  with  a magnificent  gusto  that  was  enviable. He  was  very  quick  to  take  offense, and  the  rest  of  us  had  trouble  always in  keeping  him  from  embroiling  us in  some  senseless  quarrel,  but  he  was as  quick  to  forget  the  cause  of offense,  and  was  incapable  of  holding a grudge.  More  than  the  rest  of  us, he  loved  fighting  for  its  own  sake, and  was  so  much  in  his  element  in the  pit  that  he  sometimes  declared that  if  it  were  not  for  the  lack  of

wine  and  women,  he  would  be  content to  stay  in  the  pit  forever.

Some  few  years  older  than  the  rest of  us  was  the  Roman,  who  had  followed the  insignia  of  his  legion  over all  the  distant  frontiers  of  the Empire,  from  Parthia  to  Britain.  He was  never  excited,  and  never  unprepai’ed,  a calm,  fearless  veteran,  who made  me  understand  something  of the  greatness  of  his  people,  who reared  up  the  greatest  empire  in history,  and  stamped  their  language and  their  customs  on  half  the  world.

Strangest,  of  the  four,  perhaps, was  the  Aztec.  Quiet,  even  gentle, when  not  provoked ; yet  I have  never seen  such  tigerish  fury  as  he  exhibited in  battle.  He  had  a great  name as  a fighter,  even  in  that  city  of  warriors, and  was  feared  by  the  most fearless.  He  could  handle  his  sawtoothed sword  with  wonderful  skill and  quickness,  and  I shuddered  at the  gashing  wounds  he  inflicted  with it.  As  staunch  and  faithful  a friend as  I have  ever  had  or  seen,  yet  to those  he  hated  he  was  a terrible enemy.

Always,  while  we  five  roamed through  the  city,  we  searched  for Cannell,  but  found  him  not.  I began to  think  that,  after  all,  Cannell  was not  in  the  pit,  for  though  it  was  possible we  had  missed  him  in  the  swirling hordes,  it  was  equally  possible that  he  had  been  killed  in  some  combat here  or  above,  and  that  he  now walked  dead-alive  through  the  city  of the  Kanlars  as  one  of  the  ghastly, white-robed  slaves.

But  Lantin  would  not  believe  that. He  searched  from  dawn  to  darkness of  each  day,  and  was  not  discouraged when  he  failed  to  find  his  friend.  He did  not  accompany  us  five  in  our rambles  through  the  city,  preferring to  search  alone,  and  though  we  were fearful  for  his  safety,  he  was  never molested.  His  obvious  elderliness, and  the  gentleness  and  inoffensiveness of  his  nature,  served  to  protect

C62

WEIRD  TALES

him  from  the  constant  bullying  and fighting  that  went  on  in  the  pit.

The  days  dragged  past,  and  working in  odd  hours  when  we  were  not. noticed,  we  managed  to  make  a metal grappling-hook  and  a long  rope.  The hook  was  much  like  a triple  fishinghook,  large  enough  to  catch  on  the wall  of  the  stair,  and  was  hammered out  from  pieces  wrenched  from  metal chairs.  The  rope,  a long  and  very strong  one,  was  braided  from  long strips  of  torn  cloth,  and  was  knotted to  make  easier  an  ascent  along  its length.  Both  rope  and  hook  lay  concealed beneath  the  bunk  of  D’Alord, in  a cunningly  contrived  little  hiding place  there.

So  we  came  at  last  to  the  eighth day,  the  night  of  which  would  be moonless  on  the  earth  above,  with consequent  darkness  below.  As  the day  wore  on,  we  grew  increasingly nervous,  with  the  exception  of Fabrius,  who  appeared  as  imperturbable as  ever.  Finally  the  light  from the  roof  waned  and  died,  and  a thick darkness  settled  down  on  the  city,  a darkness  relieved  only  by  one  or  two

of  the  glowing  red  bulbs  that  were set  around  the  gate  of  the  stair,  and along  the  nine  streets.

An  hour  passed,  and  another,  and another.  Then  Denham  rose  from his  bunk  and  sauntered  leisurely  out of  the  room,  followed  in  a few  minutes by  D’Alord  and  the  Aztec.  By now  the  bunks  were  filled  with  snoring sleepers,  but  as  the  two  went across  the  room  to  the  door,  none  of these  stirred,  so  Lantin,  Fabrius  and I followed,  the  Roman  carrying  the hook  and  rope  concealed  under  his cloak.

We  stepped  from  the  dark  room into  a street  almost  equally  dark,  the ruddy  bulbs  set  sparsely  along  its length  accentuating  rattier  than  dispersing the  blackness.  A few  drunken stragglers  were  wandering  along the  street,  but  most  of  the  city’s thousands  were  slumbering  in  the many  buildings,  for  few  were  abroad in  the  pit  at  night.

Denham,  D’Alord  and  Ixtil  were awaiting  us  outside,  and  without speaking,  our  entire  little  party moved  rapidly  down  the  dark  street, toward  the  plaza  and  the  great  stair.

The  startling  adventures  of  the  friends , the  thrilling  flight to  the  wonderful  city  of  Kom,  and  the  sinister plans  of  the  Raider  will  be  described  in WEIRD  TALES  next  month

I DID  not  begin  to  see  the  shadows until  I had  lived  in  Old Morris’  house  for  more  than  a week.  Old  Morris,  dead  and  gone these  many  years,  had  been  the  scion of  a still  earlier  Irish  settler  in  Santa Cruz,  of  a family  which  had  come into  the  island  when  the  Danes,  failing to  colonize  its  rich  - acres,  had opened  it,  in  the  middle  of  the Eighteenth  Century,  to  colonists ; and younger  sons  of  Irish,  Scottish,  and English  gentry  had  taken  up  sugar estates  and  commenced  that  baronial life  which  lasted  for  a century  and which  declined  after  the  abolition  of slavery  and  the  German  bounty  on beet  sugar  had  started  the  long

process  of  West  Indian  commercial decadence.  Mr.  Morris’  youth  had been  spent  in  the  French  islands.

The  shadows  were  at  first  so  vague that  I attributed  them  wholly  to  the slight  weakness  which  began  to  affect my  eyes  in  early  childhood,  and which,  while  never  materially  interfering with  the  enjoyment  of  life  in general,  had  necessitated  the  use  of glasses  when  I used  my  eyes  to  read or  write.  My  first  experience  of  them was  about  1 o’clock  in  the  morning. I had  been  at  a “Gentlemen’s Party”  at  Hacker’s  house,  “Emerald,” as  some  poetic-minded  ancestor of  Hacker’s  had  named  the  family estate  three  miles  out  of  Christian663

WEIRD  TALES

6G4

sted,  the  northerly  town,  built  on  the site  of  the  ancient  abandoned  French town  of  Bassin.

I had  come  home  from  the  party and  was  undressing  in  my  bedroom, which  is  one  of  two  rooms  on  the westerly  side  of  the  house  which stands  at  the  edge  of  the  old  “Sunday Market”.  These  two  bedrooms open  on  the  market-place,  and  I had chosen  them,  x-athcr  than  the  more airy  rooms  on  the  other  side,  because of  the  space  outside.  I like  to  look out  on  trees  in  the  early  mornings, whenever  possible,  and  the  ancient market-place  is  overshadowed  with the  foliage  of  hundred-year-old mahogany  trees,  and  a few  gnarled “otaheites”  and  Chinese-bean  trees.

I had  nearly  finished  undressing, had  noted  that  my  servant  had  let down  and  properly  fastened  the  mosquito netting,  and  had  stepped  into the  other  bedroom  to  open  the  jalousies so  that  I might  get  as  much  of  the night-breeze  as  possible  circulating through  the  house.  I was  coming back  through  the  doorway  between the  two  bedrooms,  and  taking  off  my dressing  gown,  at  the  moment,  when the  first  faint  perception  of  what  I have  called  “the  shadows”  made itself  apparent.  It  was  very  dark, justj  after  switching  off  the  electric light  in  that  front  bedroom.  I had, in  fact,  to  feel  for  the  doorway.  In this  I experienced  some  difficulty,  and my  eyes  had  not  fully  adjusted  themselves to  the  thin  starlight  seeping  in through  the  slanted  jalousies  of  my own  room  when  I passed  through  the dooiway  and  groped  my  way  toward the  great  mahogany  four-poster  in which  I was  about  to  lie  down  for my  belated  rest.

I saw  the  nearest  post  looming  before me,  closer  than  I had  expected. Putting  out  my  hand,  I grasped — nothing.  I winked  in  some  surprize, and  peered  through  the  slightly  increasing light,  as  my  eyes  adjusted themselves  to  the  sudden  change.

Yes,  surely, — there  was  the  corner  of the  bedstead  just  in  front  of  my  face ! By  now  my  eyes  were  sufficiently attuned  to  the  amount  of  light  from outside  to  see  a little  plainer.  I was puzzled.  The  bed  was  not  where  I had  supposed  it  to  be.  What  could have  happened?  That  the  servants should  have  moved  my  bed  without orders  to  do  so  was  incredible.  Besides, I had  undressed,  in  full  electric light  in  that  room,  not  more  than  a few  minutes  ago,  and  then  the  bed was  standing  exactly  where  it  had been  since  I had  had  it  moved  into that  room  a week  before.  I kicked, gently,  before  me  with  a slippered foot,  against  the  place  where  that bedpost  appeared  to  be  standing — and  my  foot  met  no  resistance.

I stepped  over  to  the  light  in  my own  room,  and  snapped  the  button. In  the  sudden  glare,  everything  readjusted itself  to  normal.  There  stood my  bed,  and  here  in  their  accustomed places  about  the  room  were  ranged the  chairs,  the  polished  wardrobe (we  do  not  use  cupboards  in  the  West India  Islands),  the  mahogany  dressing table, — even  my  clothes  which  I had  hung  over  a chair  where  Albertina my  servant  would  find  them  in the  morning  and  put  them  (they were  of  white  drill)  into  the  soiledclothes  bag  in  the  morning.

I shook  my  head.  Light  and shadow  in  these  islands  seem,  somehow, different  from  what  they  are like  at  home  in  the  United  States! The  tricks  they  play  are  different tricks,  somehow.

I snapped  off  the  light  again,  and in  the  ensuing  dead  blackness,  I crawled  in  under  the  loose  edge  of the  mosquito  netting,  tucked  it  along under  the  edge  of  the  mattress  on that  side,  adjusted  my  pillows  and the  sheets,  and  settled  myself  for  a good  sleep.  Even  to  a moderate  man, these  gentlemen’s  parties  are  rather wearing  sometimes.  They  invariably last  too  long.  I closed  my  eyes  and

THE  SHADOWS


was  asleep  before  I could  have  put these  last  ideas  into  words.

In  the  morning  the  recollection  of the  experience  with  the  bed-beingin-the-wrong-place  was  gone.  I jumped  out  of  bed  and  into  my shower  bath  at  half-past  6,  for  I had promised  0 ’Brien,  captain  of  the U.  S.  Marines,  to  go  out  with  him  to the  rifle  range  at  La  Grande  Princesse  that  morning  and  look  over  the butts  with  him.  I like  O’Brien,  and I am  not  uninterested  in  the  efficiency of  Uncle  Sam’s  Marines,  but my  chief  objective  was  to  watch  the pelicans.  Out  there  on  the  glorious beach  of  Estate  Grande  Princesse (“Big  Princess”  as  the  Black People  call  it),  a colony  of  pelicans make  their  home,  and  it  is  a neverending  source  of  amusement  to me  to  watch  them  fish.  A Caribbean pelican  is  probably  the  most  graceful flier  we  have  in  these  latitudes, — barring  not  even  the  hurricane  bird, that  describer  of  noble  ares  and  parabolas,— and  the  most  insanely,  absurdly awkward  creature  on  land that  Providence  has  cared  in  a light-hearted  moment  to  create!

I expressed  my  interest  in  Captain O’Brien’s  latest  improvements,  and while  he  was  talking  shop  to  one  of his  lieutenants  and  half  a dozen  enlisted men  he  has  camped  out  there, I slipped  down  to  the  beach  to  watch the  pelicans  fish.  Three  or  four  of them  were  describing  curves  and turns  of  indescribable  complexity  and perfect  grace  over  the  green  water  of the  reef-enclosed  white  beach.  Ever and  again  one  would  stop  short  in the  air,  fold  himself  up  like  a jackknife, turn  head  downward,  his  great pouched  bill  extended  like  the  head of  a cruel  spear,  and  drop  like  a plummet  into  the  water,  emerging  an instant  later  with  the  pouch  distended with  a fish.

I stayed  a trifle  too  long, — for  my eyes.  Driving  back  I observed  that  I

had  picked  up  several  sun-spots,  and when  I arrived  home  I polished  a set  of  yellowish  sun-spectacles  I keep for  such  emergencies  and  put  them on.

The  east  side  of  the  house  had  been shaded  against  the  pouring  morning sunlight,  and  in  this  double  shade  I looked  to  see  my  eyes  clear  up.  The sun-spots  persisted,  however,  in  that annoying,  recurrent  way  they  have, — almost  disappearing  and  then  returning in  undiminished  kaleidoscopic grotesqueness, — those  strange blocks  and  parcels  of  pure  color changing  as  one  winks  from  indigo  to brown  and  from  brown  to  orange  and then  to  a blinding  turquoise-blue,  according to  some  eery  natural  law  of physics,  within  the  fluids  of  the  eye itself.

The  sun-spots  were  so  persistent that  morning  that  I decided  to  keep my  eyes  closed  for  some  considerable time  and  see  if  that  would  allow  them to  run  their  course  and  wear  themselves out.  Blue  and  mauve  grotesques of  the  vague,  general  shape of  diving  pelicans  swam  and  jumped inside  my  eyes.  It  was  very  annoying. I called  to  Albertina.

“Albertina,”  said  I,  when  she  had come  to  the  door,  “please  go  into  my bedroom  and  close  all  the  jalousies tight.  Keep  out  all  the  light  you can,  please.”

“Ahl  roight,  sir,”  replied  the obedient  Albertina,  and  I heard  her slapping  the  jalousie-blinds  together with  sharp  little  clicks.

“De  jalousie  ahl  close,  sir,”  reported Albertina.  I thanked  her, and  proceeded  with  half-shut  eyes into  the  bedroom,  which,  not  yet  invaded with  afternoon’s  sunlight  and closely  shuttered,  offered  an  appearance of  deep  twilight.  I lay,  face down,  across  the  bqd,  a pillow  under my  face,  and  my  eyes  buried  in darkness..

Very  gradually,  the  diving  pelican faded  out,  to  a cube,  to  a dim,  recur666

WEIRD  TALES

rent  blur,  to  nothingness.  I raised my  head  and  rolled  over  on  my  side, placing  the  pillow  back  where  it  belonged. And  as  I opened  my  eyes  on the  dim  room,  there  stood,  in  faint, shadowy  outline,  in  the  opposite corner  of  the  room,  away  from  the outside  wall  on  the  market-place side,  the  huge,  Danish  bedstead  I had  vaguely  noted  the  night  before, or  rather,  early  that  morning.

It  was  the  most  curious  sensation, looking  at  that  bed  in  the  dimness  of the  room.  I was  reminded  of  those fourth-dimensional  tales  which  are  so popular  nowadays,  for  the  bed  impinged, spatially,  on  my  large  bureau, and  the  curious  thing  was  that  I could  see  the  bureau  at  the  same time!  I rubbed  my  eyes,  a little  unwisely, but  not  enough  to  bring  back the  pelican  sun-spots  into  them,  for  I remembered  and  desisted  pretty promptly.  I looked,  fixedly,  at  the great  bed,  and  it  blurred  and  dimmed and  faded  out  of  my  vision.

Again,  I was  greatly  puzzled,  and I went  over  to  where  it  seemed  to stand  and  walked  through  it, — it being  no  longer  visible  to  my  now  restored vision,  free  of  the  effects  of the  sun-spots, — and  then  I went  out into  the  “hall” — a West  Indian drawing  room  is  called  “the  hall” — and  sat  down  to  think  over  this strange  phenomenon.  1 could  not account  for  it.  If  it  had  been  poor Prentice,  now ! Prentice  attended all  the  “gentlemen’s  parties”  to which  he  was  invited  with  a kind  of religious  regularity,  and  had  to  be helped  into  his  car  with  a similar regularity,  a regularity  which  was verging  on  the  monotonous  nowadays, as  the  invitations  became  more  and more  strained.  No, — in  my  case  it was,  if  there  was  anything  certain about  it,  assuredly  not  the  effects  of strong  liquors,  for  barring  an  occasional sociable  swizzel  I retained here  in  my  West  Indian  residence my  American  convictions  that  moderation in  such  matters  was  a reasonable virtue.  I reasoned  out  the  matter of  the  phantom  bedstead, — for  so  I was  already  thinking  of  it, — as  far  as I was  able.  That  it  was  a phantom of  defective  eyesight  I had  no  reasonable doubt.  I had  had  my  eyes  examined in  New  York  three  months before,  and  the  oculist  had  pleased me  greatly  by  assuring  me  that  there were  no  visible  indications  of  deterioration. In  fact,  Dr.  Jusserand had  said  at  that  time  that  my  eyes were  stronger,  soundei’,  than  when he  had  made  his  last  examination  six months  before.

Perhaps  this  conviction, — that  the appearance  was  due  to  my  own  physical shortcoming,  accounts  for  the fact  that  I was  not  (what  shall  I say?)  disturbed,  by  what  I saw,  or thought  I saw.  Confront  the  most thoroughgoing  materialist  with  a ghost,  and  he  will  act  precisely  like anyone  else;  like  any  normal  human being  who  believes  in  the  material world  as  the  outward  and  visible  sign of  something  which  animates  it.  All normal  human  beings,  it  seems  to  me, are  sacramentalists !

I was,  for  this  reason,  able  to  think clearly  about  the  phenomenon.  My mind  was  not  clouded  and  bemused with  fear,  and  its  known  physiological effects.  I can,  quite  easily,  record what  I “saw”  in  the  course  of the  next  few  days.  The  bed  was clearer  to  my  vision  and  apprehension than  it  had  been.  It  seemed  to have  grown  in  visibility ; in  a kind  of substantialness,  if  there  is  such  a word ! It  appeared  more  material than  it  had  before,  less  shadowy.

I looked  about  the  room  and  saw other  furniture : a huge,  old-fashioned mahogany  bureau  with  men’s  heads carved  on  the  knuckles  of  the  front legs,  Danish  fashion.  There  is  precisely such  carving  on  pieces  in  the museum  in  Copenhagen,  they  tell  me, those  who  have  seen  my  drawing  of it.  I was  actually  able  to  do  that,

THE  SHADOWS


and  had  completed  a kind  of  planpicture  of  the  room,  putting  in  all  the shadow-furniture,  and  leaving  my own,  actual  furniture  out.  Thank the  God  in  whom  I devoutly  believe, — and  know  to  be  more  powerful  than the  Powers  of  Evil, — I was  able  to finish  that  rather  elaborate  drawing before  . . . Well,  I must  not  “run ahead  of  my  story”.

That  night  when  I was  ready  to  retire, and  had  once  more  opened up  the  jalousies  of  the  front  bedroom, and  had  switched  off  the  light,  I looked,  naturally  enough  under  the circumstances,  for  the  outlines  of that  ghostly  furniture.  They  were much  clearer  now.  I studied  them with  a certain  sense  of  almost “scientific”  detachment.  It  was, even  then,  apparent  to  me  that  no weakness  of  the  strange  complexity which  is  the  human  eye  could  reasonably account  for  the  presence  of  a well-defined  set  of  mahogany  furniture in  a room  already  furnished with  real  furniture!  But  I was  by now  sufficiently  accustomed  to  it.  to be  able  to  examine  it  all  without  that always-disturbing  element  of  fear, — strangeness.  I looked  at  the  bedstead and  the  “roll-back”  chairs,  and  the great  bureau,  and  a ghostly,  huge, and  quaintly  carved  wardrobe,  studying their  outlines,  noting  their  relative positions.  It  was  on  that occasion  that  it  occurred  to  me  that it  would  be  of  interest  to  make  some kind  of  drawing  of  them.  I looked the  harder  after  that,  fixing  the  details and  the  relations  of  them  all  in my  mind,  and  then  I went  into  the hall  and  got  some  paper  and  a pencil and  set  to  work.

It  was  hard  vrork,  this  of  reproducing something  which  I was  well aware  was  some  kind  of  an  “apparition”, especially  after  looking  at  the furniture  in  the  dark  bedroom, switching  on  the  light  in  another room  and  then  trying  to  reproduce.  I

could  not,  of  course,  make  a direct comparison.  I mean  it  was  impossible to  look  at  my  drawing  and  then look  at  the  furniture.  There  was always  a necessary  interval  between the  two  processes.  I persisted through  several  evenings,  and  even for  a couple  of  evenings  fell  into  the custom  of  going  into  my  bedroom  in the  evening’s  darkness,  looking  at what  was  there,  and  then  attempting to  reproduce  it.  After  five  or  six days,  I had  a fair  plan,  in  considerable detail,  of  the  arrangement  of  this strange  furniture  in  my  bedroom, — a plan  or  drawing  which  would  be recognizable  if  tliei’e  were  anyone now  alive  who  remembered  such  an arrangement  of  such  furniture.  It will  be  apparent  that  a story  had been  growing  up  in  my  mind,  or,  at least,  that  I had  come  to  some  kind  of conviction  that  what  I “saw”  was  a reproduction  of  something  that  had once  existed  in  that  same  detail  and that  precise  order!

On  the  seventh  night,  there  came an  interruption.

I had,  by  that  time,  finished  my work,  pretty  well.  I had  drawn  the room  as  it  would  have  looked  with that  furniture  in  it,  and  had  gone over  the  whole  with  India  ink,  very carefully.  As  a drawing,  the  thing was  finished,  so  far  as  my  indifferent skill  as  a draftsman  would  permit.

That  seventh  evening,  I was  looking over  the  appearance  of  the  room, such  qualms  as  the  eeriness  of  the situation  might  have  otherwise  produced reduced  to  next-to-nothing partly  by  my  interest,  in  part  by having  become  accustomed  to  it  all.  I was  making,  this  evening,  as  careful a comparison  as  possible  between  my remembered  work  on  paper  and  the detailed  appearance  of  the  room.  By now,  the  furniture  stood  out  clearly, in  a kind  of  light  of  its  own  which  I can  roughly  compare  only  to  “phosphorescence.” It  was  not,  quite, that.  But  that  will  serve,  lame  as  it

C68

WEIRD  TALES

is,  and  trite  perhaps,  to  indicate what  I mean.  I suppose  the  appearance of  the  room  was  something  like what  a cat  “sees”  when  she  arches her  back, — as  Algernon  Blackwood has  pointed  out,  in  John  Silence, — and  rubs  against  the  imaginary  legs of  some  personage  entirely  invisible to  the  man  in  the  armchair  who  idly wonders  what  has  taken  possession  of his  house-pet.

I was,  as  I say,  studying  the  detail. I could  not  find  that  I had  left  out anything  salient.  The  detail  -was,  too, quite  clear  now.  There  were  no blurred  outlines  as  there  had  been  on the  first  few  nights.  My  own,  material furniture  had,  so  to  speak,  sunk back  into  invisibility,  which  was sensible  enough,  seeing  that  I had put  the  room  in  as  nearly  perfect darkness  as  I could,  and  there  was  no moon  to  interfere,  those  nights.

I had  run  my  eyes  all  around  it,  up and  down  the  twisted  legs  of  the great  bureau,  along  the  carved  ornamentation of  the  top  of  the  wardrobe, along  the  lines  of  the  chairs,  and  had come  back  to  the  bed.  It  was  at  this point  of  my  checking-up  that'  I got what  I must  describe  as  the  first “shock”  of  the  entire  experience.

Something  moved,  beside  the  bed.

I peered,  carefully,  straining  my eyes  to  catch  what  it  might  be.  It had  been  something  bulky,  a slowmoving  object,  on  the  far  side  of  the bed,  blurred,  somewhat,  just  as  the original  outlines  had  been  blurred  in the  beginning  of  my  week’s  experience. The  now  strong  and  clear  outlines of  the  bed,  and  what  I might describe  as  its  ethereal  substance, stood  between  me  and  it.  Besides, the  vision  of  the  slow-moving  mass was  further  obscured  by  a ghostly mosquito-net,  which  had  been  one  of the  last  of  the  details  to  come  into  the scope  of  my  strange  night-vision.

Those  folds  of  the  mosquito-netting moved, — waved,  before  my  eyes.

Someone,  it  might  almost  be  imagined, was  getting  into  that  bed!

I sat,  petrified.  This  was  a bit  too much  for  me.  I could  feel  the  little chills  run  up  and  down  my  spine. My  scalp  prickled.  I put  my  hands on  my  knees,  and  pressed  hard.  I drew  several  deep  breaths.  “Alloverish”  is  an  old  New  England  expression, once  much  used  by  spinsters, I believe,  resident  in  that  intellectual section  of  the  United  States. Whatever  the  precise  connotation  of the  term,  that  was  the  wray  I felt.  I could  feel  the  reactive  sensation,  I mean,  of  that  particular  portion  of the  whole  experience,  in  every  part of  my  being, — body,  mind,  and  soul! It  was, — paralyzing.  I reached  up  a hand  that  was  trembling  violently, — I could  barely  control  it,  and  the fingers,  when  they  touched  the  hardrubber  button,  felt  numb, — and switched  on  the  bedroom  light,  and spent  the  next  ten  minutes  recovering.

That  night,  when  I came  to  retire, I dreaded, — actually  dreaded, — what might  come  to  my  vision  when  I snapped  off  the  light.  This,  however, I managed  to  reason  out  with  myself. I used  several  arguments — nothing had  so  far  occurred  to  annoy  or  injure me ; if  this  were  to  be  a cumulative experience,  if  something  were  to be  “revealed”  to  me  by  this  deliberate process  of  slow  materialization which  had  been  progressing  for  the last  week  or  so,  then  it  might  as  well be  for  some  good  and  useful  purpose. I might  be,  in  a sense,  the  agent  of Providence ! If  it  were  otherwise ; if it  were  the  evil  work  of  some  discarnate  spirit,  or  something  of  the  sort, well,  every  Sunday  since  my  childhood, in  church,  I had  recited  the Creed,  and  so  admitted,  along  with the  clergy  and  the  rest  of  the  congregation, that  God  our  Father  had created  all  things, — visible  and  invisible! If  it  were  this  part  of  His creation  at  work,  for  any  purpose,

THE  SHADOWS


then  He  was  stronger  than  they.  I said  a brief  prayer  before  turning  off that  light,  and  put  my  trust  in  Him. It  may  appear  to  some  a bit  oldfashioned, — even  Victorian ! But  He does  not  ehange  along  with  the  current fashions  of  human  thought about  Him,  and  this  “human thought,”  and  “the  modern  mind,” and  all  the  rest  of  it,  does  not  mean the  vast,  the  overwhelming  majority of  people.  It  involves  only  a few dozen  prideful  “intellectuals”  at best,  or  worst !

I switched  off  the  light,  and, already  clearer,  I saw  what  must  have been  Old  Morris,  getting  into  bed.

I had  interviewed  old  Mr.  Bonesteel,  the  chief  government  surveyor, a gentleman  of  parts  and  much  experience, a West  Indian  born  on  this island.  Mr.  Bonesteel,  in  response  to my  guarded  enquiries, — for  I had,  of course,  already  suspected  Old  Morris; was  not  my  house  still  called  his?— had  stated  that  he  remembered  Old Morris  well,  in  his  own  remote  youth. His  description  of  that  personage  and this  apparition  tallied.  This,  undoubtedly, was  Old  Morris.  That  it was  someone,  was  apparent.  I felt, somehow,  rather  relieved  to  realize that  it  was  he.  I knew  something about  him,  you  see.  Mr.  Bonesteel had  given  me  a good  description  and many  anecdotes,  quite  freely,  and  as though  he  enjoyed  being  called  on  for information  about  one  of  the  oldtimers  like  Morris.  He  had  been more  reticent,  guarded,  in  fact,  when I pressed  him  for  details  of  Morris’ end.  That  there  had  been  some  obscurity,— intentional  or  otherwise,  I could  never  ascertain, — about  the  old man,  I had  already  known.  Such casual  enquiries  as  I had  made  on other  occasions  through  natural  interest in  the  person  whose  name  still clung  to  my  house  sixty  years  or  more since  he  had  lived  in  it,  had  never  got me  anywhere.  I had  only  gathered what  Mr.  Bonesteel ’s  more  ample  account corroborated:  that  Morris  had been  eccentric,  in  some  ways,  amusingly so.  That  he  had  been  extraordinarily well-to-do.  That  he  gave occasional  large  parties,  which,  contrary to  the  custom  of  the  hospitable island  of  St.  Croix,  were  always  required to  come  to  a conclusion  well before  midnight.  Why,  there  was  a story  of  Old  Morris  almost  literally getting  rid  of  a few  reluctant  guests, by  one  device  or  another,  fx*om  these parties,  a circumstance  on  which hinged  several  of  the  amusing  anecdotes of  that  eccentric  person!

Old  Morris,  as  I knew,  had  not always  lived  on  St.  Croix.  His youth  had  been  spent  in  Martinique, in  the  then  smaller  and  less  important town  of  Fort-de-France.  That, of  course,  was  many  years  before  the terrific  calamity  of  the  destruction  of St.  Pierre  had  taken  place,  by  the eruption  of  Mt.  Pelee.  Old  Morris, coming  to  St.  Croix  in  young  middleage, — forty-five  or  thereabouts, — had already  been  accounted  a rich  man. He  had  been  engaged  in  no  business. He  was  not  a planter,  not  a storekeeper, had  no  profession.  Where  he produced  his  affluence  was  one  of  the local  mysteries.  His  age,  it  seemed, was  the  other.

“I  suppose,”  Mr.  Bonesteel  had said,  “that  Morris  was  nearer  a hundred  than  ninety,  when  he, — ah, — died.  I was  a child  of  about  eight at  that  time.  I shall  be  seventy  next August-month.  That,  you  see,  would be  about  sixty-two  years  ago,  about 1861,  or  about  the  time  your  Civil War  was  beginning.  Now  my  father has  told  me, — he  died  when  I was nineteen, — that  Old  Morris  looked exactly  the  same  when  he  was  a boy! Extraordinary.  The  Black  People

used  to  say ” Mr.  Bonesteel  fell

silent,  and  his  eyes  had  an  old  man’s dim,  far-away  look.

“The  Black  People  have  some  very strange  beliefs,  Mr.  Bonesteel,”  said I,  attempting  to  prompt  him.  “A


WEIRD  TALES

good  many  of  them  I have  heard about  myself,  and  they  interest  me very  much.  What  particular ”

Mr.  Bonesteel  turned  his  mild,  blue eyes  upon  me,  reflectively.

“You  must  drop  in  at  my  house one  of  these  days,  Mr.  Stewart,”  said he,  mildly.  “I  have  some  rare  old rum  that  I’d  be  glad  to  have  you sample,  sir!  There’s  not  much  of  it on  the  island  these  days,  since  Uncle Sam  turned  his  prohibition  laws  loose on  us  in  1922.”

“Thank  you  very  much  indeed, Mr.  Bonesteel,”  I replied.  “I  shall take  the  first  occasion  to  do  so,  sir; not  that  I care  especially  for  ‘olcl rum’  except  a spoonful  in  a cup  of tea,  or  in  pudding  sauce,  perhaps; but  the  pleasure  of  your  company, sir,  is  always  an  inducement.”

Mr.  Bonesteel  bowed  to  me  gravely, and  I returned  his  bow  from  where  I sat  in  his  airy  office  in  Government House.

“Would  you  object  to  mentioning what  that  ‘belief’  was,  sir?”

A slightly  pained  expression  replaced my  old  friend’s  look  of  hospitality.

“All  that  is  a lot  of  foolishness!” said  he,  with  something  like  asperity. He  looked  at  me,  contemplatively.

“Not  that  I believe  in  such  things, you  must  understand.  Still,  a man sees  a good  many  things  in  these islands,  in  a lifetime,  you  know !

Well,  the  Black  People ” Mr.

Bonesteel  looked  apprehensively about  him,  as  though  reluctant  to have  one  of  his  clerks  overhear  what he  was  about  to  say,  and  leaned toward  me  from  his  chair,  lowering his  voice  to  a whisper.

“They  said, — it  was  a remark  here and  a kind  of  hint  there,  you  must understand;  nothing  definite, — that Morris  had  interfered,  down  there  in Martinique,  with  some  of  their  queer doings,  offended  the  Zombi, — something of  the  kind;  that  Morris  had made  some  kind  of  conditions — oh,  it

was  very  vague,  and  probably  all mixed  up! — you  know,  whereby  he was  to  have  a long  life  and  all  the money  he  wanted, — something  like that, — and  afterward.  . .

“Well,  Mr.  Stewart,  you  just  ask somebody,  sometime,  about  Morris’ death.”

Not  another  word  about  Old  Morris could  I extract  out  of  Mr. Bonesteel.

But  of  course  he  had  me  aroused. I tried  Despard,  who  lives  on  the other  end  of  the  island,  a man  educated at  the  Sorbonne,  and  who knows,  it  is  said,  everything  there  is to  know  about  the  island  and  its affairs.

It  was  much  the  same  with  Mr. Despard,  who  is  an  entirely  different kind  of  person ; younger,  for  one thing,  than  my  old  friend  the  government surveyor.

Mr.  Despard  smiled,  a kind  of  wry smile.  “Old  Morris!”  said  he,  reflectively, and  paused.

‘ ‘ Might  I venture  to  • ask — no offense,  my  dear  sir! — why  you  wish to  rake  up  such  an  old  matter  as  Old Morris’  death?”

I was  a bit  nonplussed,  I confess. Mr.  Despard  had  been  perfectly courteous,  as  he  always  is,  but,  somehow, I had  not  expected  such  an  intervention on  his  part.

“Why,”  said  I,  “I  should  find  it hard  to  tell  you,  precisely,  Mr.  Despard. It  is  not  that  I am  averse  to being  frank  in  the  face  of  such  an enquiry  as  yours,  sir.  I was  not aware  that  there  was  ansdhing  important,— serious,  as  your  tone  implies,— about  that  matter.  Put  it down  to  mere  curiosity  if  you  will, and  answer  or  not,  as  you  wish,  sir.”

I was,  perhaps,  a little  nettled  at this  unexpected,  and,  as  it  then seemed  to  me,  finicky  obstruction being  placed  in  my  way.  What  could there  be  in  such  a case  for  this formal  reticence, — these  verbal  safeTHE  SHADOWS


guards?  If  it  were  a “jumbee” story,  there  was  no  importance  to  it. If  otherwise,  well,  I might  be  regarded by  Despard  as  a person  of reasonable  discretion.  Perhaps  Despard was  some  relative  of  Old  Morris, and  there  was  something  a bit off-color  about  his  death.  That,  too, might  account  for  Mr.  Bonesteel’s reticence.

“By  the  way,”  I enquired,  noting Despai'd ’s  reticence,  ‘ ‘ might  I ask  another question,  Mr.  Despard?”

“Certainly,  Mr.  Stewart.”

“I  do  not  wish  to  impress  you  as idly  or  unduly  curious,  but — are  you and  Mr.  Bonesteel  related  in  any way?”

“No,  sir.  We  are  not  related  in any  way  at  all,  sir.  ’ ’

“Thank  you,  Mr.  Despard,”  .said  I, and,  bowing  to  each  other  after  the fashion  set  here  by  the  Danes,  we pai'ted.

I had  not  leaxmed  a thing  about Old  Morris’  death.

I went  in  to  see  Mi’s.  Heidenklang.

Here,  if  anywhere,  I should  find out  what  was  intriguing  me.

Mrs.  Heidenklang  is  an  ancient Ci’eole  lady,  relict  of  a prosperous storekeeper,  who  lives,  surrounded by  a certain  state  of  her  own, propped  up  in  bed  in  an  environment of  a stupendous  quantity  of  lacy things  and  gauzy  niffles.  I did  not intend  to  mention  Old  Morris  to  her, but  only  to  get  some  information about  the  Zombi,  if  that  should  be possible.

I found  the  old  lady,  surrounded by  her  ruffles  and  lace  things,  in  one of  her  good  days.  Her  health  has been  precarious  for  twenty  years!

It  was  not  difficult  to  get  her  talking about  the  Zombi.

“Yes,”  said  Mrs.  Heidenklang,  “it is  extraordinary  how  the  old  beliefs and  the  old  words  cling  in  their minds!  Why,  Mr.  Stewart,  I was hearing  about  a trial  in  the  police

court  a few  days  ago.  One  old  Black woman  had  summoned  another  for abusive  language.  On  the  witness stand  the  complaining  old  woman said:  ‘She  eahl  me  a wuthless  ole Cartagene,  sir!’  Now,  think  of  that! Carthage  was  destroyed  ’way  back  in the  days  of  Cato  the  Elder,  you  know, Mr.  Stewart!  The  greatest  town  of all  Africa.  To  be  a Carthaginian meant  to  be  a sea-robber, — a pirate; that  is,  a thief.  One  old  woman  on this  island,  more  than  two  thousand yeai’S  afterward,  wishes  to  call  another a thief,  and  the  word  ‘Cartagene ’ is  the  word  she  naturally  uses ! I suppose  that  has  persisted  on  the West  Coast  and  throughout  all  those village  dialects  in  Afr'ica  without  a break,  all  these  centuries ! The Zombi  of  the  French  islands?  Yes, Mr.  Stewart.  There  are  some  extraordinaxy  beliefs.  Why,  perhaps you’ve  heard  mention  made  of  Old Morris,  Mr.  Stewart.  He  used  to live  in  your  house,  you  know?”

I held  my  breath.  Here  wras  a possible  trove.  I nodded  my  head.  I did  not  dai*e  to  speak !

“Well,  Old  Morris,  you  see,  lived most  of  his  earlier  days  in  Martinique, and,  it  is  said,  he  had  a somewhat adventurous  life  there,  Mr. Stewart.  Just  what  he  did  or  how  he got  himself  involved,  seems  never  to have  been  made  clear,  but — in  some way,  Mr.  Stewart,  the  Black  People believe,  Morris  got  himself  involved with  a very  powerful  ‘Jumbee’,  and that  is  where  what  I said  about  the persistence  of  ancient  beliefs  comes in.  Look  on  that  table  there,  among those  photographs,  Mr.  Stewart. Thex’e ! that ’s  the  place.  I wish  I were able  to  get  up  and  assist  you.  These maids ! Everything  askew,  I have  no doubts  Do  you  observe  a kind  of fish-headed  thing,  about  as  big  as  the palm  of  your  hand?  Yes!  that  is it!”

I found  the  “fish -headed  thing” and  carried  it  over  to  Mrs..  Heiden672

WEIRD  TALES

klang.  She  took  it  in  her  hand  and looked  at  it.  It  lacked  a nose,  but otherwise  it  was  intact,  a strange, uncouth-looking  little  godling,  made of  anciently-polished  volcanic  stone, with  huge,  protruding  eyes,  small, humanlike  ears,  and  what  must  have been  a nose  like  a Tortola  jackfish,  or a black  witch-bird,  with  its  parrot beak.

“Now  that,”  continued  Mrs. Heidenklang,  “is  one  of  the  very ancient  household  gods  of  the  aborigines of  Martinique,  and  you  will observe  the  likeness  in  the  idea  to  the Lares  and  Penates  of  your  schoolLatin  days.  Whether  this  is  a lar  or a penate,  I can  not  tell,”  and  the  old lady  paused  to  smile  at  her  little joke,  “but  at  any  rate  he  is  a representation of  something  very  powerful, — a fish -god  of  the  Caribs.  There’s something  Egyptian  about  the  idea, too,  I’ve  always  suspected;  and,  Mr. Stewart,  a Carib  or  an  Arawak Indian, — there  were  both  in  these islands,  you  know, — looked  much  like an  ancient  Egyptian;  perhaps  half like  your  Zuni  or  Aztec  Indians,  and half  Egyptian,  would  be  a fair  statement of  his  appearance.  These  fishgods  had  men’s  bodies,  you  see,  precisely like  the  hawrk-headed  and  jackal-headed deities  of  ancient  Egypt.

“It  was  one  of  those,  the  Black People  say,  with  which  Mr.  Morris got  himself  mixed  up, — ‘ Gahd  knows’ as  they  say, — how ! And,  Mr. Stewart,  they  say,  his  death  was terrible!  The  particulars  I’ve  never heard,  but  my  father  knew,  and  he was  sick  for  several  days  after  seeing Mr.  Morris’  body.  Extraordinary, isn’t  it?  And  when  are  you  coming this  way  again,  Mr.  Stewart?  Do drop  in  and  call  on  an  old  lady.”

I felt  that  I was  progressing.

The  next  time  I saw  Mr.  Bonesteel, which  was  that  very  evening,  I stopped  him  on  the  street  and  asked for  a word  with  him.

“What  was  the  date,  or  the  approximate date,  Mr.  Bonesteel,  of  Mr. Morris’  death?  Could  you  recall that,  sir?”

Mr.  Bonesteel  paused  and  considered.

“It  was  just  before  Christmas,” said  he.  “I  remember  it  not  so  much by  Christmas  as  by  the  races,  which always  take  place  the  day  after Christmas.  Morris  had  entered  his sorrel  mare  Santurce,  and,  as  he  left no  heirs,  there  was  no  one  who ‘owned’  Santurce,  and  she  had  to  be withdrawn  from  the  races.  It affected  the  betting  very  materially and  a good  many  persons  were  annoyed about  it,  but  there  wasn’t  anything that  could  be  done.”

I thanked  Mr.  Bonesteel,  and  not without  reason,  for  his  answer  had fitted  into  something  that  had  been growing  in  my  mind.  Christmas  was only  eight  days  off.  This  drama  of the  furniture  and  Old  Morris  getting into  bed,  I had  thought  (and  not  unnaturally, it  seems  to  me),  might  be  a kind  of  re-enactment  of  the  tragedy of  his  death.  If  I had  the  courage  to watch,  night  after  night,  I might  be relieved  of  the  necessity  of  asking any  questions.  I might  witness  whatever had  occurred,  in  some  weird  reproduction, engineered,  God  knows how!

For  three  nights  now,  I had  seen the  phenomenon  of  Old  Morris getting  into  bed  repeated,  and  each time  it  was  clearer.  I had  sketched him  into  my  drawing,  a short,  squat figure,  rather  stooped  and  fat,  but possessed  of  a strange,  gorillalike energy.  His  movements,  as  he walked  toward  the  bed,  seized  the edge  of  the  mosquito-netting  and climbed  in,  were,  somehow,  full  of power,  which  was  the  more  apparent since  these  were  ordinary  motions. One  could  not  help  imagining  that Old  Morris  would  have  been  a tough customer  to  tackle,  for  all  his  alleged age!

THE  SHADOWS


This  evening,  at  the  hour  when this  phenomenon  was  accustomed  to enact  itself,  that  is,  about  11  o’clock, I watched  again.  The  scene  was very  much  clearer,  and  I observed something  I had  not  noticed  before. Old  Morris’  simulacrum  paused just  before  seizing  the  edge  of the  netting,  raised  its  eyes,  and  began, with  its  right  hand,  a motion precisely  like  one  who  is  about  to sign  himself  with  the  cross.  The motion  was  abruptly  arrested,  however, only  the  first  of  the  four touches  on  the  body  being  made.

I saw,  too,  something  of  the  expression of  the  face  that  night,  for  the first  time.  At  the  moment  of  making the  arrested  sign,  it  was  one  of  despairing horror.  Immediately  afterward, as  this  motion  appeared  to  be abandoned  for  the  abrupt  clutching of  the  lower  edge  of  the  mosquito-net, it  changed  into  a look  of  ferocious stubbornness,  of  almost  savage  selfconfidence.  I lost  the  facial  expression as  the  appearance  sank  down upon  the  bed  and  pulled  the  ghostly bedclothes  over  itself.

Three  nights  later,  when  all  this had  become  as  greatly  intensified  as had  the  clearing-up  process  that  had affected  the  furniture,  I observed  another motion,  or  what  might  be  taken for  the  faint  foreshadowing  of  another motion.  This  was  not  on  the part  of  Old  Morris.  It  made  itself apparent  as  lightly  and  elusively  as the  swift  flight  of  a moth  across  the reflection  of  a lamp,  over  near  the bedroom  door  (the  doors  in  my  house are  more  than  ten  feet  high,  in  fourteen-foot-high  walls),  a mere  flicker of  something, — something  entering the  room.  I looked,  and  peered  at that  corner,  straining  my  eyes,  but nothing  could  I see  save  what  I might describe  as  an  intensification  of  the black  shadow  in  that  corner  near  the door,  vaguely  formed  like  a slim human  figure,  though  grossly  out  of all  human  proportion.  The  vague w.  t. — 3

shadow  looked  purple  against  the black.  It  was  about  ten  feet  high, and  otherwise  as  though  cast  by  an incredibly  tall,  thin  human  being.

I made  nothing  of  it  then;  and again,  despite  all  this  cumulative  experience with  the  strange  shadows  of my  bedroom,  attributed  this  last phenomenon  to  my  eyes.  It  was  too vague  to  be  at  that  time  accounted otherwise  than  as  a mere  subjective effect.

But  the  night  following,  I watched for  it  at  the  proper  moment  in  the sequence  of  Old  Morris’  movements as  he  got  into  bed,  and  this  time  it was  distinctly  clearer.  The  shadow, it  was,  of  some  monstrous  shape,  ten feet  tall,  long,  angular,  of  vaguely human  appearance,  though  even  in its  merely  shadowed  form,  somehow cruelly,  strangely  inhuman ! I can  not describe  the  cold  horror  of  its  realization. The  head-part  was,  relatively to  the  proportions  of  the  body,  short and  broad,  like  a pumpkin  head  of  a “man”  made  of  sticks  by  boys,  to frighten  passers-by  on  Hallowe’en.

The  next  evening  I was  out  again to  an  entertainment  at  the  residence of  one  of  my  hospitable  friends,  and arrived  home  after  midnight.  There stood  the  ghostly  furniture,  there  on the  bed  was  the  form  of  the  apparently sleeping  Old  Morris,  and  there  in the  comer  stood  the  shadow,  little changed  from  last  night’s  appearance.

The  next  night  would  be  pretty close  to  the  date  of  Old  Morris’  death. It  would  be  that  night,  or  the  next  at latest,  according  to  Mr.  Bonesteel’s statement.  The  next  day  I could  not avoid  the  sensation  of  something  impending !

I entered  my  room  and  turned  off the  light  a little  before  11,  seated  myself, and  waited.

The  furniture  tonight  was,  to  my vision,  absolutely  indistinguishable from  reality.  This  statement  may sound  somewhat  strange,  for  it  will


WEIRD  TALES

be  remembered  that  I was  sitting  in the  dark.  Approximating  terms again,  I may  say,  however,  that  the furniture  was  visible  in  a light  of  its own,  a kind  of  “phosphorescence”, which  apparently  emanated  from  it. Certainly  there  was  no  natural  source of  light.  Perhaps  I may  express  the matter  thus:  that  light  and  darkness were  reversed  in  the  case  of  this ghostly  bed,  bureau,  wardrobe,  and chairs.  When  actual  light  was  turned on,  they  disappeared.  In  darkness, which,  of  course,  is  the  absence  of physical  light,  they  emerged.  That is  the  nearest  I can  get  to  it.  At  any rate,  tonight  the  furniture  was  entirely, perfectly,  visible  to  me.

Old  morris  came  in  at  the  usual time.  I could  see  him  with  a clarity  exactly  comparable  to  what  I have  said  about  the  furniture..  He made  his  slight  pause,  his  arrested motion  of  the  right  hand,  and  then,  as usual,  cast  from  him,  according  to his  expression,  the  desire  for  that protective  gesture,  and  reached  a hard-looking,  gnarled  fist  out  to  take hold  of  the  mosquito-netting.

As  he  did  so,  a fearful  thing leaped  upon  him,  a thing  out  of  the corner  by  the  high  doorway, — the dreadful,  purplish  shadow-thing.  I had  not  been  looking  in  that  direction, and  while  I had  not  forgotten this  newest  of  the  strange  items  in this  fantasmagoria  which  had  been repeating  itself  before  my  eyes  for many  nights,  I was  wholly  unprepared for  its  sudden  appearance  and malignant  activity.

I have  said  the  shadow  was purplish  against  black.  Now  that  it had  taken  form,  as  the  furniture  and Old  Morris  himself  had  taken  form,  I observed  that  this  purplish  coloration was  actual.  It  was  a glistening, humanlike,  almost  metallic-appearing thing,  certainly  ten  feet  high,  completely covered  with  great,  iridescent fish-scales,  each  perhaps  four  square

inches  in  area,  which  shimmered  as  it leaped  across  the  room.  I saw  it  for only  a matter  of  a second  or  two.  I saw  it  clutch  surely  and  with  a deadly  malignity,  the  hunched  body of  Old  Morris,  from  behind,  just,  you will  remember,  as  the  old  man  was about  to  climb  into  his  bed.  The dreadful  thing  turned  him  about as  a wasp  turns  a fly,  in  great, flail-like,  glistening  arms,  and  never, to  the  day  of  my  death,  do  I ever  expect to  be  free  of  the  look  on  Old Morris’  face, — a look  of  a lost  soul who  knows  that  there  is  no  hope  for him  in  this  world  or  the  next, — as  the great,  squat,  rounded  head,  a head precisely  like  that  of  Mrs.  Heidenklang’s  little  fish-jumbee,  descended, revealing  to  my  horrified  sight  one glimpse  of  a huge,  scythelike  parrotbeak  which  it  used,  with  a nodding motion  of  the  ugly  head,  to  plunge into  its  writhing  victim’s  breast,  with a tearing  motion  like  the  barracoota when  it  attacks  and  tears.  . . .

I fainted  then,  for  that  was  the last  of  the  fearful  picture  which  I can  remember.

I awakened  a little  after  1 o’clock, in  a dark  and  empty  room,  peopled by  no  ghosts,  and  with  my  own,  more commonplace,  mahogany  furniture thinly  outlined  in  the  faint  light  of the  new  moon  which  was  shining cleanly  in  a starry  sky.  The  fresh night-wind  stirred  the  netting  of  my bed.  I rose,  shakily,  and  went  and leaned  out  of  the  window,  and  lit  and puffed  rapidly  at  a cigarette,  which perhaps  did  something  to  settle  my jangling  nerves.

The  next  morning,  with  a feeling of  loathing  which  has  gradually worn  itself  out  in  the  course  of  the months  which  have  now  elapsed  since my  dreadful  experience,  I took  up my  drawing  again,  and  added  as  well as  I could  the  fearful  scene  I had witnessed.  The  completed  picture was  a horror,  crude  as  is  my  work  in this  direction.  I wanted  to  destroy

THE  SHADOWS


it,  but  I did  not,  and  I laid  it  away under  some  unused  clothing  in  one  of the  large  drawers  of  my  bedroom wardrobe.

Three  days  later,  just  after  Christmas, I observed  Mr.  Despard’s car  driving  through  the  streets,  the driver  being  alone.  I stopped  the boy  and  asked  him  where  Mr.  Despard  was  at  the  moment.  The  driver told  me  Mr.  Despard  was  having breakfast, — the  West  Indian  midday meal, — with  Mr.  Bonesteel  at  that gentleman’s  house  on  the  Prince’s Cross  Street.  I thanked  him  and went  home.  I took  out  the  drawing, folded  it,  and  placed  it  in  the  inside breast  pocket  of  my  coat,  and  started for  Bonesteel ’s  house.

I arrived  fifteen  minutes  or  so  before the  breakfast  hour,  and  was pleasantly  received  by  my  old  friend and  his  guest.  Mr.  Bonesteel  pressed me  to  join  them  at  breakfast,  but  I declined.

Mr.  Bonesteel  brought  in  a swizzel, compounded  of  his  very  old  rum,  and after  partaking  of  this  in  ceremonious fashion,  I engaged  the  attention of  both  gentlemen.

“Gentlemen,”  said  I,  “I  trust that  you  will  not  regard  me  as  too much  of  a bore,  but  I have,  I believe, a legitimate  reason  for  asking  you  if you  will  tell  me  the  manner  in  which the  gentleman  known  as  Old  Morris, who  once  occupied  my  house,  met  his death.”

I stopped  there,  and  immediately discovered  that  I had  thrown  my kind  old  host  into  a state  of  embarrassed confusion.  Glancing  at  Mr. Despard,  I saw  at  once  that  if  I had not  actually  offended  him,  I had,  by my  question,  at  least  put  him  “on  his dignity.”  He  was  looking  at  me severely,  rather,  and  I confess  that for  a moment  I felt  a bit  like  a schoolboy.  Mr.  Bonesteel  caught something  of  this  atmosphere,  and looked  helplessly  at  Despard.  Both

men  shifted  uneasily  in  their  chairs; each  waited  for  the  other  to  speak.

Despard,  at  last,  cleared  his  throat.

“You  will  excuse  me,  Mr.  Stewart,” said  he,  slowly,  “but  you  have asked  a question  which  for  certain reasons,  no  one,  aware  of  the  circumstances, would  desire  to  answer. The  reasons  are,  briefly,  that  Mr. Morris,  in  certain  respects,  was — what  shall  I say,  not  to  do  the  matter an  injustice? — well,  perhaps  I might say  he  was  abnormal.  I do  not  mean that  he  was  crazy.  He  was,  though, eccentric.  His  end  was  such  that stating  it  would  open  up  a considerable argument,  one  which  agitated this  island  for  a long  time  after  he was  found  dead.  By  a kind  of  general consent,  that  matter  is  taboo  on the  island.  That  will  explain  to  you why  no  one  wishes  to  answer  your question.  I am  free  to  say  that  Mr. Bonesteel  here,  in  considerable  distress, told  me  that  you  had  asked  it of  him.  You  also  asked  me  about  it not  long  ago.  I can  add  only  that the  manner  of  Mr.  Morris’  end  was such  that ” Mr.  Despard  hesitated, and  looked  down,  a frown  on his  brow,  at  his  shoe,  which  he  tapped nervously  on  the  tiled  floor  of  the gallery  where  we  were  seated.

“Old  Morris,  Mr.  Stewart,”  he  resumed, after  a moment’s  reflection,  in which,  I imagined,  he  was  carefully choosing  his  words,  “was,  to  put  it plainly,  murdered!  There  was  much discussion  over  the  identity  of  the murderer,  but  the  most  of  it,  the  unpleasant part  of  the  discussion,  was rather  whether  he  was  killed  by human  agency  or  not!  Perhaps  you will  see  now,  sir,  the  difficulty  of  the matter.  To  admit  that  he  was  murdered by  an  ordinary  murderer  is,  to my  mind,  an  impossibility.  To  assert that  some  other  agency,  something ab-human,  killed  him,  opens  up  the question  of  one’s  belief,  one’s  credulity. ‘Magic’  and  occult  agencies are,  as  you  are  aware,  strongly  in676

WEIRD  TALES

trenched  in  the  minds  of  the  ignorant people  of  these  islands.  None  of  us cares  to  admit  a similar  belief.  Does that  satisfy  you,  Mr.  Stewart,  and will  you  let  the  matter  rest  there, sir?”

I drew  out  the  picture,  and,  without unfolding  it,  laid  it  across  my Knees.  I nodded  to  Mr.  Despard, and,  turning  to  our  host,  asked :

“As  a child,  Mr.  Bonesteel,  were you  familiar  with  the  arrangement  of Mr.  Morris’  bedroom?”

“Yes,  sir,”  replied  Mr.  Bonesteel, and  added:  “Everybody  was!  Persons who  had  never  been  in  the  old

man’s  house,  crowded  in  when ”

I intercepted  a kind  of  warning  look passing  from  Despard  to  the  speaker. Mr.  Bonesteel,  ' looking  much  embarrassed, looked  at  me  in  that  helpless fashion  I have  already  mentioned, and  remarked  that  it  was  hot weather  these  days!

“Then,”  said  I,  “perhaps  you  will recognize  its  arrangement  and  even some  of  the  details  of  its  furnishing,  ’ ’ and  I unfolded  the  picture  and handed  it  to  Mr.  Bonesteel.

If  I had  anticipated  its  effect  upon the  old  man,  I would  have  been  more discreet,  but  I confess  I was  nettled by  their  attitude.  By  handing  it  to Mr.  Bonesteel  (I  could  not  give  it  to both  of  them  at  once)  I did  the  natural thing,  for  he  was  our  host.  The old  man  looked  at  what  I had  handed him,  and  (this  is  the  only  way  I can describe  what  happened)  became, suddenly,  as  though  petrified.  His eyes  bulged  out  of  his  head,  his  lower jaw  dropped  and  hung  open.  The paper  slipped  from  his  nerveless grasp  and  fluttered  and  zigzagged  to the  floor,  landing  at  Despard ’s  feet. Despard  stooped  and  picked  it  up, ostensibly  to  restore  it  to  me,  but  in doing  so,  he  glanced  at  it,  and  had his  reaction.  He  leaped  frantically  to his  feet,  and  positively  goggled  at  the

picture,  then  at  me.  Oh,  I was  having my  little  revenge  for  their  reticence, right  enough!

“My  God!”  shouted  Despard. “My  God,  Mr.  Stewart,  where  did you  get  such  a thing?”

Mr.  Bonesteel  drew  in  a deep breath,  the  first,  it  seemed,  for  sixty seconds,  and  added  his  word.

“Oh  my  God!”  muttered  the  old man,  shakily.  “Mr.  Stewart,  Mr. Stewart!  what  is  it,  what  is  it? where ”

“It  is  a Martinique  fish-zombi, what  is  known  to  professional  occult investigators  like  Elliott  O’Donnell and  William  Hope  Hodgson  as  an ‘elemental’,”  I explained,  calmly. “It  is  a representation  of  how  poor Mr.  Morris  actually  met  his  death; until  now,  as  I understand  it,  a purely  conjectural  matter.  Christiansted  is  built  on  the  ruins  of French  Bassin,  you  will  remember,” I added.  “ It  is  a very  likely  spot  for an  ‘elemental’!”

“But,  but,”  almost  shouted  Mr. Despard,  “Mr.  Stewart,  where  did you  get  this,  its ”

“I  made  it,”  said  I,  quietly,  folding up  the  picture  and  placing  it  back in  my  inside  pocket.

“But  how ?”  this  from  both

Despard  and  Bonesteel,  speaking  in unison.

“I  saw  it  happen,  you  see,”  I replied, taking  my  hat,  bowing  formally to  both  gentlemen,  and  murmuring my  regret  at  not  being  able  to  remain for  breakfast,  I departed.

And  as  I reached  the  bottom  of Mr.  Bonesteel ’s  gallery  steps  and turned  along  the  street  in  the  direction of  Old  Morris’  house,  where  I live,  I could  hear  their  voices  speaking together:

“But  how,  how ?”  This  was

Bonesteel.

“Why,  why ?”  And  that  was

Despard.

ROJECT  vision  by  radio!”

‘ ‘ Exactly,  ’ ’ said  the  profesJL  sor,  quietly.  “Or  rather,  not exactly;  although  it  does  amount  to the  same  thing.  Let  us  say  I can direct  your  vision  by  radio.  And  intensify its  force.”

‘ * Do  you  mean  to  say  there  is  such a thing  as  a force  of  vision?”  I smiled.  Professor  Noone  had  always been  noted,  even  back  in  college  days, for  his  rabid  refusal  to  accept  some of  the  established  laws  of  physics.

“Certainly  there  is  a force  of vision.  It  makes  me  tired  the  way people  will  accept  some  old  alchemist’s theories  regarding  everyday phenomena  and  call  them  laws. These  people — some  of  the  so-called best  minds  of  the  country,  too — never question  these  snap- judgment  laws,

but  follow  the  old  paths  of  science like  so  many  blatting  sheep.

“An  apple  hit  old  man  Newton  on the  head,  and  he  jumped  up  and strung  off  his  drivel  about  the  laws of  gravitation.  It  must  have  been the  delirious  babbling  resulting  from the  blow.  Yet  because  his  theory sounded  reasonable,  people  ever  since have  worshiped  it.  Why,  I tell you ”

I was  amused,  but  I hated  to  have him  get  started  now  on  one  of  his hours-long  impromptu  lectures.  Not for  nothing  had  the  faculty  of  Yalcton  discharged  him.  I had  thought at  the  time,  along  with  most  of  the students,  that  the  old  fellow  had  been done  an  injustice.  In  the  thirty years  since,  whenever  I had  thought of  him  I had  idealized  the  professor



WEIRD  TALES

as  a martyr.  But  here  was  the  reality, crazy  without  a doubt.

To  halt  the  tide  of  erudite  nonsense that  I felt  sure  was  coming,  I broke  in:  “But  my  time  is  limited, Professor.  Why  did  you  ask  me here?  Of  course  your  laboratory  is bound  to  interest  me  as  a writer,  and I ”

“Gravitation  is  a force  coming  not from  some  mysterious  source  in  the center  of  the  earth,  but  from  the  object or  substance  in  question  itself. Newton ”

‘ ‘ I must  meet  a fellow  at  half-past 8.  When  I ran  across  you  on  the street  tonight  I was  pleased  to  find an  old  friend,  and  was  interested  in your  description  of  this  laboratory.  I was  glad  to  come  see  it,  but  as  for this  idiotic  talk  of ”

“Newton’s  apple  attracted  the earth,  not  the  earth  the  apple.  If the  apple  had  been  bigger  and  the earth  smaller,  the  earth  would  have come  up  to  meet  the  apple.  In  fact, I’m  not  sure  but  that’s  what  happened. The  earth  may  have  carried Newton  up  to  the  apple,  while  the tree  went  on  up  beyond  it.  Of  course Newton  didn’t  know  he  was  getting a free  ride,  but  that’s  the  point.  We don’t  know  anything  in  science,  and we  mustn’t  take  anyone  else’s  sayso.”

“Well,”  I rose  stiffly,  “I  will  bid you  good  evening.”

“Hm-m.  No,  that  wouldn’t  do. The  earth  would  be  twitching  constantly in  all  directions,  going  up  to meet  apples  everywhere  as  fast  as they  ripen.  It  might  try  to  meet  an apple  in  Canton,  China,  and  one  in Canton,  Maine,  at  the  same  time,  and burst  in  the  effort.  However,  I am convinced — I have  proved — that Newton’s  apple  attracted  the  earth. Apple,  earth ; earth,  apple — which gives  us  'earth -apple’.  ‘Earthapple’,  or  ‘terpomo’,  is  the  way  they say  ’potato’  in  Esperanto.  And

speaking  of  potatoes,  I can  demonstrate that Sit  down! ”

I fell  into  my  chair,  blasted  into  it by  the  explosive  force  of  Noone’s  yell. I confess  I was  badly  frightened.  A raving  maniac!

“Now  then.”  The  professor  spoke with  a cold,  steely  directness..  “If you  don’t  care  for  my  ‘idiotic  talk’, kindly  refrain  from  questioning  my statements.  As  for  your  friend,  you will  not  meet  him  at  half  past  8.  Oh, don’t  look  so  frightened — I’m  not crazy,  and  nothing  is  farther  from my  thoughts  than  harm  to  you.  You will  not  want  to  leave  here  tonight, that’s  all.

“I  have  one  more  thing  to  say  on gravitation.  This  evening  I propose to  demonstrate  something  else,  but another  time  I shall  prove  to  you  that the  phenomenon  of  gravitation  is  due to  a force  generated  within  a given substance  and  reaching  out  toward the  earth  in  the  form  of  rays.  And furthermore,  I shall  bend  those  rays for  you.  Can  you  imagine  the  result of  bent  rays  of  gravitation?”

I was  appalled.  Gravitation  drawing in  a curved  line  or  even  around an  angle ! It  seemed  plausible enough — as  plausible  as  Newton’s theory.  . . But  it  was  absurd,  of course ! Still

“What  about  the  radio  vision  projector, Professor?”

“Now  you  sound  interested.  You will  be  more  interested  before  morning. Come  into  my — astronomical observatory.  ’ ’


Although  the  room  into  which  we passed  was  lined  with  charts  of the  heavens,  it  held  none  of  the  other aspects  of  the  orthodox  observatory. Where  was  the  domed  ceiling? Where  the  circular  walls,  the  raised platforms,  the  slot  in  the  roof?  This was  an  ordinary  little  square  room with  the  perfectly  common  type  of

OTHER  EARTHS


ceiling.  The  thing  most  obviouslylacking  I missed  last.  The  telescope!

“Ah,  yes!"  Noone  smiled'  genially .- “The  telescope.  Here  you  are."  He motioned  toward  the  center  of  the room.

Still  I was  mystified.  All  the  room contained,  as  far  as  I could  see,  was the  group  of  furnishings  in  the  middle of  the  soft  drugget.  There  were a few  armchairs  arranged  around  an oak  library  table,  a well-stocked smoking-stand  and  an  innocuous-appearing radio  cabinet.  It  looked  to me  like  only  a place  for  a gentleman to  smoke  and  toy  with  the  ether..  But there  were  the  charts,  fast  enough, and  that  cabinet  might  mean  something.

“Be  seated,  Mr.  Phillips.  Have  a cigar  or  something.  We  will — toy with  the  ether."  For  the  second time,  Professor  Noone  handled  my mental  phrase  coolly,  delving  into  the cabinet  the  while.

“Here  are  our  head-sets.  Ah,  you place  yours  over  your  ears.  That looks  sensible  enough,  but  let  me  put it  over  your  eyes.  So!  Don’t  be alarmed.  I shall  don  mine  in  the same  way  presently.”

The  man  was  crazy,  then !

“We  will  now  tune  in.  Thus. And  now  I have  my  eye-phones,  so  to speak,  adjusted.  Now  who’s  crazy?"

Not  Noone,  surely!  Or  if  he  was, so  was  I.  For  before  my  eyes  was spread  out  a vast,  bright  galaxy,  exactly as  if  I lay  sprawled  on  my  back, star-gazing!  So  complete  was  the  illusion that  I fancied  I felt  a draft  of cool  night  air  on  my  forehead.

“While  you  are  picking  out  a star to  visit,"  Noone  was  saying,  mildly, “let  me  expound  another  idiotic theory.  Some  old  duck  or  other — no matter  who  it  was,  for  he  was  wrong, of  course — told  us  that  vision  consists, roughly,  of  light  rays  caught  on  a highly  sensitive  screen  within  the eye.  If  there  is  no  light,  we  are  told, there  is  no  vision.  The  rays  that

reach  the  eye  have  first  to  squirt  out from  some  such  source  as  the  sun  or an  electric  bulb  ®r  what  not,  strike the  object  to  be  seen,  and  bounce  off into  the  eye — so  the  books  say.

“I  say  that  vision,  like  gravitation, originates  within  the  object.  The  eye manufactures  and  gives  off  a ray  of its  own.  Think  of  the  Evil  Eye, which  is  positively  known  to  emit  a shaft,  baneful  though  it  is.  Light simply  plays  the  part  of  a stimulant, to  the  ray-making  mechanism — a sort of  catalytic  agent.  The  more  light, the  more  rays,  and  the  more  powerful they  are.  And  the  farther  we  can see.

“The  eye  rays,  I have  learned,  are mainly  exceedingly  high-frequency electrical  rays.  My  little  apparatus catches  these  and  adds  to  them  the beams  from  an  intense  cold  light  generated within  the  cabinet.  The  resulting rays  when  put  through  a special  kind  of  transformer  are  converted into  powerful  radio  waves which  are  projected  into  spaee  by  a series  of  ordinary  directional  antennas. So  great  is  their  power  that they  travel  at  a speed  many  thousand times  greater  than  that  of  light.  And distances  measured  in  light-years become  only  a matter  of  minutes.

“The  directional  antennae  I control with  certain  knobs  on  the  panel. The  intensity,  or  range,  of  the  vision ray  is  governed  by  the  intensity  of the  light  added,  which  I control  with a single  knob.  The  range  is  infinite.

“How  do  you  like  my  telescope? Would  you  like  to  look  closer  at  one of  those  planets?  What  about  that pretty  red  one  on  the  left?”

I heard  Noone ’s  fingernails  rasping against  the  radio  panel.  Evidently he  was  turning  on  his  cold light,  for  as  I stared — upward,  I must perforce  call  it — the  stars  grew nearer  and  brighter..  The  red  star moved  toward  the  left  side  of  the picture  and  disappeared.


WEIRD  TALES

“The  antennse  will  fix  that,”  said Noone.  I heard  a momentary  sound as  of  static,  and  the  star  swung  into view  again.  “There,  our  objective  is centered  properly.  Let ’s  move  up  on it.”

So  far,  one  could  see  as  much through  the  regulation  type  of  telescope. I began  to  suspect  trickery  of some  obscure  sort,  but  my  suspicions were  short-lived.  A network  of canals  spread  out  before  my  eyes  and every  minute  became  nearer  and plainer!  Canals  they  were,  unmistakably.

The  professor  began  to  speak,  but in  a voice  so  incredibly  tender  as  to suggest  a woman  crooning  over  her baby.

“Mars!”  he  murmured.  “Ever the  subject  of  conjecture  and  controversy. And  you  and  I are  permitted to  learn  the  answers  to  the questions  of  centuries.”

Nearer  grew  the  canals,  and  nearer. What  had  been  only  scratches  across them  developed  rapidly  into  sets  of parallel  lines  and  then  bridges — giant suspension  bridges  the  like  of  which Earth  engineers  have  never  conceived! I grew  giddy  in  my  excitement as  antlike  creatures  crawling along  them  changed  and  grew,  until I could  see  them  for  what  they  were.

Men!  Mars  is  inhabited!


HpiME?  I knew  nothing  of  time.  I ^ was  rapt,  enchanted.  Eightthirty  came  and  went,  and  might have  come  a dozen  times,  for  all  I knew.  I was  conscious  only  of  the quick,  hushed  breathing  of  the  man beside  me  on  Earth,  and  the  teeming life  and  cataclysmic  sights  of  that world  above  us.

Mars — with  its  queer  people  so miraculously  like  the  familiar  conception of  Wells,  its  gigantic  structures, titanic  feats  of  a civilization far,  far  beyond  ours — we  explored  at

will.  So  transported  were  we  that  it was  perhaps  an  hour  before  either spoke.

We  hadr  come  to  rest  directly  over, as  it  were,  a monster  building  with even  more  than  the  usual  number  of queer  antenna  wires  overhead.

“I  have  been  here  many  times” — it  was  Noone,  scarcely  breaking  the silence — “and  learned  many  things. Shall  we  look  in  the  windows?  My antenna)  will  direct  our  vision  anywhere. ’ ’

We  seemed  to  float  downward,  to halt  beside  a great,  single-paned window  perhaps  two  hundred  feet from  the  ground.

“The  middle  story,”  Noone  whispered, “and  the  most  interesting. Now!”

For  a moment  I had  the  sensation of  touring  slowly  and  smoothly  in midair,  as  though  suspended  spiderwise  by  a thread.  Next  I was  looking through  the  crystal-clear,  footthick  plate-glass.

How  can  I,  with  faculties  poor even  by  Earth  standards,  hope  to describe  the  myriad  activities  of  the insect-men  within?  In  the  short space  I could  bear  to  look,  I saw miracle  heaped  on  miracle  in  the  most matter-of-fact  kind  of  way.  Dross into  gold?  Easy,  for  these  people.  I saw  it  done  in  the  twinkling  of  an eye.  That  was  the  least  of  their stolid  marvels.  It  was  all  too  steep for  me,  and  to  call  back  my  reeling senses  I shut  my  eyes.

“Don’t!”  The  professor  fairly screamed  it.  “You  made  me  miss the  most  important  part — the  very

crux — of  an  experiment  that

But  pardon  me;  of  course  you  didn’t understand.  When  you  want  to  shut your  eyes  again  let  me  know.,  Just to  teach  you,  watch  what  happens when  I shut  mine.”

I had  to  smile,  in  spite  of  my  chagrin. I understood  quickly  enough why  Noone  had  been  annoyed  at  me. At  his  shout  I had  of  course  popped

OTHER  EARTHS


my  eyes  open.  I had  fixed  them absently  on  a Martian  workman  inhaling— literally — his  lunch.  I was just  in  the  act  of  wondering  how  the food  smelled  when  the  scene  was wiped  out!

In  a flash  what  had  been  a vista  of whirring  machinery  and  hurrying little  men  became  a great  luminous ball  covered  over  with  a network  of lines.

“You  see,  Mr.  Phillips,  you  are half-way  between  Earth  and  Mars. The  reason,  of  course,  is  that  by  closing my  eyes  I cut  off  half  the  optic force.  Of  course  I can  remedy  the situation  by  increasing  the  cold  light, but  it’s  much  easier  for  me  to — open my  eyes  again.”

The  workman  rose  and  stretched, and  all  seemed  well  on  Mars.

“Likewise” — the  scene  changed again  as  the  professor  went  on — “I can  close  one  eye  and  leave  you  threequarters  of  the  way  between  here  and there.  If  I shut  both  eyes  and  you shut  one,  you  will  be  one-quarter  of the  way  along,  as  you  can  doubtless understand  by  now.”  Professor Noone  laughed,  his  good  humor  restored.

“Let’s  look  over  some  of  the  other planets,”  he  suggested  amiably.  “We can  return  to  Mars  later  if  we  wish. Let’s  see  now.”

He  shut  off  the  light  entirely,  and immediately  came  my  original  sensation of  lying  on  my  back  gazing  at the  stars.  The  red  planet  was  in  the middle  of  the  heavens  now.  The scientist  went  on.

“Look  them  over  and  pick  out  another star.  Venus  over  there! Going  up?”

“Hold  on,  Professor.  Honestly, this  is — it  seems  somehow — indecent. To  hang  over  another  world — or  over this  world  either,  I suppose  it  is  possible— looking  down  on  its  creatures, peeking  in  their  windows,  seems  too — godlike.  I’m  afraid ”

“Phillips,  do  you  believe  in  God?”

Such  a question  fired  at  me  at  such a time  had  an  indescribably  terrifying effect,  and  I tore  off  that  blasphemous head-set.  As  I glared  at  the man,  Noone  had  followed  suit,  and we  sat  eye  to  eye.

“Certainly.  Don’t  you?”

“Absolutely.  Yes  indeed,  my  dear Phillips.  How  else  can  I account  for the  wonders  I have  seen?  There must  be  some  great  purpose  behind  it all.  But  as  for  the  God  of  the  orthodox Bible — if  you  have  faith  in  such a One,  hold  tight  to  it.  I propose  to show  you  things  now  that  will  shake that  faith.  Shall  I go  on?”

Shake  my  faith  in  the  Bible?  No man  could  do  that — let  this  one  try if  he  wished.  Yet  my  voice  held  far from  the  stoutness  I meant  it  to  hold as  I answered  him.

“Go  ahead.”


1 ‘ T have  to  follow  a blazed — or

A blazing— trail  to  get  to  my  present objective.  I have  named  the planet  ‘Ago’.  The  inhabitants  call it — but  you  will  learn.”

I wondered  why  all  the  mystery. Once  more  I tried  to  bulwark  my courage  against  fear  of  the  unknown. But  the  journey  in  itself  was  fearsome enough.

We  were  bound,  optically  speaking, far  beyond  the  realm  of  the  wildest astronomer’s  nightmare.  Just  as  a starter,  the  professor  had  tuned  us  in on  Neptune.

“Neptune  is  the  farthermost  away from  Earth  of  all  the  known planets,”  Noone  muttered.  “I  have been  amused  to  learn  that  the  astronomers during  1924  made  the  discovery that  the  known  universe  is  at least  a million  light  years  across. With  my  little  radio  telescope  these learned  gentlemen  would  find  their known  universe  increasing  somewhat. Why,  see  here ”


WEIRD  TALES

We  had  been  standing,  figuratively, on  the  surface  of  Neptune.  All  the while  he  was  speaking  Noone  had been  swinging  our  vision  ray  backward and  forward,  sweeping  it  slowly across  the  new,  fearsome  sky. With  his  last  words  he  had  brought the  ray  to  bear'  steadily  on  a certain tree-shaped  constellation  and  was now  bringing  that  constellation  rapidly nearer.  Only  dimly  visible  at first,  the  tree  was  flashing  at  us  at such  a pace  that  I instinctively  recoiled. In  a matter  of  seconds  the tree  had  leaped  upon  us  and  we  had passed  through  it.  I breathed  again. I had  the  sensation  of  having  miraculously survived  a blow  from  a burning Christmas  tree.

In  the  center  of  our  field  of  vision, among  a host  of  queerly  colored bodies,  there  hung  one  star  of  a hard, brilliant  white.  Our  pace  slowed.

“Well,  Phillips,”  the  professor chuckled,  “their  ‘known  universe’  is far  behind  us.  We  traveled  along  at a leisurely  gait  until  we  got  to  Neptune, but  you  must  know  we  ticked off  quite  a distance.  The  astronomers admit  that  Neptune  is  nearly  three billion  miles  from  our  sun.  The jump  to  Neptune,  however,  was  a mere  bagatelle.  Our  quick  second jump — the  leap  through  the  trees — was  something  like  one  million  times as  long.  Now,  as  for  this  nice  white star  ahead,  so  many  million  lightyears  away  from  Earth,  what  do  you suppose  it  is?”

“Ago?”  I hazarded,  brightly.

“No.  Just  the  second  of  some seventy  blazes  on  our  trail  to  Ago.”

Stunned,  I subsided.

“I  should  like  to  make  all  my jumps  as  quickly  as  the  last  one,” said  Noone,  “but  unfortunately  I can’t  always  have  such  a fine  starry hoop  to  jump  through  and  guide  my jump.  We  shall  have  to  go  slowly and  cautiously  at  times.  Now  watch the  white  star.”

I watched,  while  this  body  never

dreamed  of  by  ordinary  astronomers grew.  It  became  a pea,  a marble,  an orange,  and  so  on  until  it  lost  all spherical  shape  and  became  a sheet  of beaten  silver  filling  our  field  of  vision. Still  it  drew  nearer;  the  silver  became lined,  scarred,  and  discolored  in spots.  Presently  it  was  the  surface of  a world — a bleak,  evilly  forbidding world.

Again  Noone  manipulated  his  antennae until  we  got  a view  of  a new sky.  Again  he  located  a star  far  beyond and  brought  it  close.

“It  took  me  a year  to  find  this short  path  to  Ago.  It  has  been  three years  since  I first  stumbled  onto  the planet  and  lost  her,  and  it  was  a year before  I found  her  again.”

Professor  Noone  talked  on  for some  time,  describing  his  method  of plotting  out  the  course.  Some  day, he  hoped  to  have  a system  of  micrometrically  divided  dials  on  his  antennas controls,  so  that  he  could  make a memorandum  of  the  exactly  correct direction  of  any  desired  star.

The  talk  was  interesting,  but  it  had been  a long  time  now  since  we  had pushed  off  from  Earth,  and  the  strain was  beginning  to  tell  on  me.  How many  trillions  of  light-years  away could  this  Ago  be  ? I wondered  again why  Noone  had  chosen  such  a name, and  what  the  Agonians  called  their planet.  How,  for  that  matter,  did Noone  know  what  they  called  it? How  could  he  know  their  language  or read  their  writings?  If  he  did  know the  name,  why  not  tell  it  to  me  ?

“Ah!”  The  professor’s  pleased little  exclamation  aroused  me.  “Now we  are  in  Ago’s  solar  system.”  And presently,  “That  pale  bluish  planet! It’s  Ago.  Watch  it.”

Here  was  an  end  to  the  suspense, then.  I was  glad  to  fix  my  attention on  the  planet  and  watch  it  go  through the  same  metamorphoses  as  had  those others.  But  as  the  surface  came  near enough  for  us  to  make  out  the  contour of  the  continents  I observed  that

OTHER  EARTHS


which  ended  the  suspense  indeed. Now  the  world  was  so  close  I could easily  pick  out  the  mountains,  lakes and  forests.  I spoke  to  my  companion. with  a trace  of  pique.

“This  is  an  anticlimax,  I must  say, Professor.  Didn’t  you  rather  go astray  in  your  calculations?’’

“That’s  only  the  first  of  a number of  questions  you  will  he  asking  directly,” he  said  imperturbably.  “I  can’t possibly  answer  them  all,  so  I shall refrain  from  answering  any.  You will  see.”

I saw,  all  right.  I saw  that  Professor Noone,  A.M.,  Ph.D.,  and  Lord knows  what-all,  with  all  his  attainments, was  positively  crazy.  This planet  to  which  I had  been  led  with such  a blare  of  trumpets  was — Mother  Earth!

“ ‘Ago’,  eh?  Well,  I know  what the  inhabitants  call  it.  They  call  it ‘ Earth  ’.  ”

“The  inhabitants  call  it  Earth,” parroted  Noone.

Oh  well,  this  was  novel  at  least. Let  the  show  go  on.  I watched  the familiar  outline  of  North  America spread  out  and  pass  from  the  sides of  the  field.  The  Mississippi  flowed through  the  center  of  the  picture  for a moment  and  then  moved  over  and away  to  the  left.  The  well-known colored  patchwork  of  states  was  oddly but  naturally  missing,  and  so  were the  printed  names.  But  here  was something  I could  recognize  at  once — the  Capitol  at  Albany.  Down  the

Hudson  we  sped,  and  here  was

“New  York,”  I shouted.

“New  York,”  came  Noone ’s  echo. “See  here,  Professor.  Of  course  I see  the  joke  now.  You  wanted  me  to see  ourselves  as  others  see  us.  But why  the  name  ‘Ago’?  And  what  has this  to  do  with  shaken  faith?”

No  answer.

Down  to  earth  we  sank,  to  land  in the  very  street  in  which  Professor Noone ’s  house  stood.  But

“What  is  wrong  with  this  picture?” My  tone  was  light  enough, but  the  lightness  cloaked  a consciousness of  something  faintly  eery.

The  scientist  deigned  to  say, “Ah!”

Something  was  wrong.  What  was it?  Up  the  street  we  moved,  and  in the  direction  of  the  house  in  which we  sat.  At  a corner  I scanned  a sign. There  it  was:  “Nason  Street.”

Nason  Street  was  correct.  But something  was  wrong!  The  sign, now.  It  looked  queer;  the  lettering looked  unfamiliar,  even  funny.  As we  passed  on  I noticed  the  roadway. Where  was  the  paving?  Come  to think  of  it,  the  light  back  at  the corner  had  been  dim — an  oil  lamp! Where  were  the  usual  automobiles? What  about  this  quaint  conveyance approaching?  As  I lived,  a horse and  buggy !

Here  at  last  was  No.  129,  Noone ’s house ; but  how  queerly  different ! The  doorway  was  flanked  with  oil lamps.  As  I stared  the  door  opened, and  out  came  Professor  Noone  himself, with  a roll-rimmed  derby  balanced on  his  head  and  sporting  a beautifully  waxed,  black  mustache!

“Proff  No  One,  of  Yaleton,”  I gasped,  “to  the  life!”

“None  other,”  said  Noone.

“What  does  it  all  mean? What ?”

The  man  rested  a hand  on  my  arm. “Let’s  drop  over  to  Yaleton,”  he suggested  calmly.  “Perhaps  there you  will  find  light.”

Once  more  we  were  over  the  housetops, and  once  more  as  we  sailed  along I marveled  at  the  familiar,  yet  unaccountably amiss,  aspect  of  my  stamping ground  of  years.  Dim  and  dark, the  streets  gave  an  impression  of being  uninhabited,  deserted.  ^ Yet lights  there  were,  here  and  there,  and even  the  light  of  an  occasional vehicle.  But  those  lights  that  moved were  so  dim,  and  they  moved  so slowly !


WEIRD  TALES

These  were  not  the  thickly  intermingling, hurrying  bright  shafts  of automobile  headlamps.  I thought again  of  the  ancient  “horseanbuggy” of  Nason  Street.

Yaleton  swung  into  view  below  us, and  my  heart  leaped  and  stopped. Yaleton,  certainly,  . but  not  the bustling  little  college  community  I had  visited  only  last  week.  This  was the  Yaleton  of  student  days,  thirtyodd  years  gone.

The  professor  seemed  to  be  making some  sort  of  calculation.  “Let’s  see. 1927  minus  30 — Hm-m.  This  is April  30th.  Well,  well!”  And  to me  he  said,  “Phillips,  this  is  a coincidence. Watch  the  little  play  I’m sure  is  about  due.”

By  now  I had  lost  the  power  of coherent  thinking,  almost  of  wondering. Our  ship  of  vision  settled  to earth  directly  in  front  of  Carmel Hall,  in  which  I remembered  were the  college  executive  offices.  A lamp sputtered  on  a post  by  the  open  doorway, but  the  vestibule  was  dark.  I was  trying  to  wonder  at  the  changed appearance  of  the  place,  when  a wide inner  door  swung  open,  to  reveal  a number  of  men  sitting  around  a table. I started  from  my  chair,  shocked  out of  my  mental  paralysis.

“Professor  Hitchcock — the  man with  the  beard!  He’s  been  dead  for years!”

Noone  shook  his  head  sadly.  “Dear old  Walter  Hitchcock.  The  best president  this  college  has  ever  had.  I missed  you  at  the  funeral,  Phillips.  I thought  that  of  all  the  students,  you would ”

“He  wanted  to  expel  me,  and  to write  my  father!”  I had  forgotten the  absurdity  of  it  all,  and  was  actually defending  myself.

“Ali,  yes.  I know.  We  shall  see. Do  you  recognize  any  of  the  other gentlemen  present?”

Of  course  I did.  There  were  Professor Higgins,  Professor  Smith  and the  rest.  I even  recognized  the  janitor of  my  dormitory,  although  I had forgotten  his  name.

“Proff  No  One  is  late,  as  usual,” remarked  my  companion.  “He  will be  here  presently.  You  remember  we just  saw  him  leave  his  house.  Of course  we  beat  him  here.  He  is  still on  the  train,  no  doubt.  The  other faculty  gentlemen  are  getting  impatient— as  usual.”  Noone  chuckled delightedly.

It  must  have  been  a hot  night  at Yaleton,  though  it  was  cool  enough here.  The  janitor  arose  and  opened the  door  still  wider.  The  president lifted  his  long  beard  and  ran  a large handkerchief  around  under  his  collar. Even  in  my  bewilderment  I had  to smile  at  what  this  operation  revealed. As  I had  always  suspected,  Professor Hitchcock  wore  no  necktie.

But  wake  up,  Phillips!  All  this can  not  be — should  not  be.  This ancient  graybeard  is  dead!

The  old  president  gave  me  the  lie. He  arose  from  his  chair,  glared around  from  one  to  another  of  his companions  with  his  beard  jerking up  and  down  in  rapid,  angry  speech, and  banged  his  fist  down  upon  the table — all  most  unseemly  actions  for a cadaver.  Evidently  his  anger  was increased  by  the  absence  of  Professor Noone.

Like  an  actor  in  a play,  the  latter individual  now  made  his  entrance. Hitchcock  strode  over  to  him  before Noone  had  time  to  hang  up  his  lowcomedy  derby,  grasped  him  by  the shoulder  and  shook  a closely  written paper  tinder  his  nose.

“Is  this ?”  I wet  my  lips.

They  were  parched  from  hanging apart  so  long.  “Is  this  where  you — where  they ?”

“I  didn’t  get  fired  this  night.  This concerns — another.  You  will  see directly.  There — look  now!”

Merciful  heavens ! I looked — I looked  at  Horace  H„  Phillips!  I saw myself  go  up  the  steps  and  pass  into that  room  of  the  past!

OTHER  EARTHS


Again  I was  forced  to  laugh  in  the midst  of  my  horrified  stupefaction. So  this  funny-looking  youth  was Horace  M.  Phillips  of  Yaleton  University! This  gangling  lad  with  the tight-legged,  bell-bottomed  trousers of  yellow  and  the  tight,  blue  cutaway coat!  Yes,  sadly;  it  was  I.

“Come  now,  Professor.  Tell  me what  this  means.  The  scene  is  familiar enough.  Professor  Hitchcock, after  what  he  considered  the  worst  of my  college-hoy  pranks,  resolved  to  expel me  and  write  my  father  why.  He called  me  here  to  tell  me,  and  to  show me  the  letter,  and ”

“And  in  the  morning. he  told  you he  had  decided  to  destroy  the  letter and  give  you  another  chance,  eh?”

“Yes,  but ”

“If  you  will  stay  the  rest  of  this act  you  will  get  some  light  on  that too.  ’ ’

I gave  up  for  the  nonce  the  effort to  learn  what  all  this  delving  into the  past  could  mean,  and  tried  to concentrate  on  the  scene  before  me. I stood  by  while  young  Phillips  got the  dressing-down  of  my  life.  As  he left  the  room  I saw  the  younger  Professor Noone  step  up  to  the  president and  begin  what  appeared  to  be  an impassioned  plea.  Now  he  would throw  a gesture  in  the  direction  of  the letter  lying  on  the  table,  and  now  he would  seem  to  appeal  to  the  other men  in  the  room.  Once  he  leveled  an accusing  finger  at  the  janitor,  at which  the  fellow  quailed.

Finally,  after  many  negative shakes  of  the  great  beard,  Professor Hitchcock  threw  up  his  hands  in  eloquent despair  and  nodded.  At  once the  meeting  was  dissolved.

“Learn  something,  Phillips?”  the scientist  asked  slyly,  almost  bashfully. “Oh,  well;  no  matter.  Now as  for  that  prank  of  yours,  I always suspected Let’s  peek  in  a window or  two.  ’ ’

The  scene  changed  until  I found myself  on  a level  with  the  second

story  window  of  a dormitory-.  In  the room  was  a young  man  sitting  dejectedly before  a table  under  a lamp. We  paused  only  long  enough  to  see the  youth — Mr.  Phillips  again — place an  arm  on  the  table  edge  and  bow  his head  onto  it,  before  we  dropped  to  a lighted  window  in  the  next  story.

‘ ‘ Deak  J ehnson ’s  room — and

there’s  Deak,”  I whispered.

I had  never  cared  for  this  fellow, I remembered,  nor  he  for  me.  Rivalry in  athletics  had  something  to  do with  it,  I had  thought,  as  did  also  a certain  1897  flapper  of  the  town. Still,  I had  never  before  suspected that  Deak’s  rancor  ran  so  deep  as this.

As  I pressed  my  disembodied  eyes to  that  doubtless  long-since-shattered wiaidow-pane,  I saw  the  janitor  enter the  room.  Deak  rose,  asked  a question or  two,  nodded  in  a satisfied manner  and  handed  the  man  a greenback.. As  soon  as  he  was  alone  Deak sat  down  and  began  to  write.

“The  plot  thickens,”  chuckled Noone.  “We  must  read  that  letter. Here  we  are.”

Just  as  in  a movie  close-up,  the letter  lay  before  our  eyes.  Deak’s hand  and  pen  traveled  rapidly  across it,  tracing  the  words  that  damned him  forever  in  my  eyes :

"Dear  Pa:  My  scheme  worked  perfectly, and  Phillips  has  been  given  his  walking papers.  The  janitor  was  just  in  to  inform me  his  fake  testimony  had  done  the  trick. Thought  you  would  be  interested  because  ”

Because,  of  course,  Deak’s  father was  interested  in  anything,  however mean,  that  would  result  in  a victory for  his  son  over  that  of  old  Joe Phillips.  I could  see  the  whole  miserable business  now,  and  I knew whom  to  thank  for  my  deliverance from  what  had  threatened  to  be  a disgraceful  mess.

But  that  could  come  later.  For  the immediate  present  all  I wanted  was some  explanation  of  the  phenomenon I was  witnessing.


WEIRD  TALES

“Shut  it  off,  Professor.”  There was  real  determination  in  my  tone now.  “I  want  you  to  answer  my questions..’  ’

Without  a word  Noone  did  as  directed, and  we  removed  our  head-sets..

“What  we  have  seen,”  I commenced, “is  authentic,  to  be  sure.  It is  impossible  that  it  can  be  happening again  before  our  eyes.  That  scene was  enacted  thirty  years  ago.”

“ ‘Ago’ — that’s  the  word!”


“T^ire  away,  Professor.”  I spoke along  my  cigar.

“Phillips,  I presume  you  know  the popular  theory  as  to  how  this  earth originated.  ’ ’

I nodded.

“For  once,  the  popular  theory  is correct.  Eons  ago  a lump  of  some kind  of  matter  was  thrown  off  by  our sun.  That  lump,  after  passing through  ineffable  convulsions  and slow  metamorphoses,  has  become  what we  call  ‘Earth’.

“But  do  you  realize  that  every single  thing — every  brick,  every  man, every  word  even — of  this  Earth  was done  up  in  that  ball  of  matter?  Oh, I don’t  mean  it  was  present  in  the form  of  a brick,  a man  or  what  not; but  it  was  surely  there  in  its  component. parts — its  elements.  If  not from  that  original  ball,  whence  did the  things  of  today  come?

“Nothing  ever  happens.  There  are no  accidents.  There  is  a physical cause  for  everything.  Every  whim  of a man’s  mind,  healthy  or  otherwise, can  be  traced  to  some  tiny  blood-vessel, nerve-end  or  spore  of  the  physical brain.  And  those  spores  in  their  turn had  a logical,  physical  origin.  You say  events  which  changed  the  world’s history  hinged  on  a whim?  But those  events  had  an  immutable  cause, because  the  whim  did.  Perhaps  the father  of  the  whim  had  eaten  something for  dinner  that  caused  an  abnormal— or  prevented  a normal — flow  of  blood  to  the  brain.  The  abnormal brain  fostered  a different thought  or  whim  than  it  would  have done  had  the  person  concerned  eaten something  else  for  dinner.  His  dinner menu  in  turn  depended  on  some other  equally  physical  cause.

“The  same  logic  applies  to  events which  hinge  on  so-called  ‘chance’ and  ‘miracles’.  A man  is  out  in  a rowboat,  say,  being  blown  toward  the rocks  by  a tremendous  wind.  When he  is  within  a rod  of  the  rocks  the wind  suddenly  veers  and  blows  him in  the  other  direction.  ‘A  miracle!’ says  he.  Or  ‘providence’,  or  ‘luck’, depending  on  whether  the  man  is  of  a religious  turn  of  mind.

“Pish,  tush!  That  sudden  change of  wind  had  perfectly  natural  causes, and  had  been  brewing  for  days  perhaps. Furthermore,  if  the  man  and his  boat  had  not  been  present  the veering  of  the  wind  would  have  taken place  just  the  same.  A minute’s  fearless cogitation  should  convince  the most  unyielding  Fundamentalist  that what  I say  is  true,  that  nothing  ever' just  happens,  and  that  everything has  a physical  cause.

“Now,  Phillips,  with  all  that  in mind,  consider  what  conditions  would be  obtaining  here  at  this  moment  if the  sun  had  delayed  a minute  in throwing  off  that  lump  of  matter. Exactly  the  same  condition  would obtain,  except  that  we  would  be  one minute  behind  where  we  are  now. Instead  of  being  11 :55  p.  m.,  the  time now  would  be  11 :54.  But  you  and  I would  be  sitting  here ; and  you  would be  Phillips,  and  I would  be  Noone. Don’t  you  agree?”

I did.

‘ ‘ If  the  sun  had  delayed  a hundred years  in  throwing  off  our  lump,  of course  the  world  would  be  a century behind  the  times.  But  it  would  have been  the  same  old  world — the  lump would  have  contained  its  same  old potential  events.  You  and  I would

OTHER  EARTHS


not  be  here,  Phillips,  but  our  forefathers would.  And  they  would  be doing  the  same  things  now  that  they actually  did  do  one  hundred  years ago.  That’s  logic,  isn’t  it?

“This  Earth,  with  all  its  complication of  different  substances,  really contains  only  a comparatively  few elements.  Out  of  those  few  elements all  the  material  things  that  have  ever been  were  made..  That,  of  course,  is an  old  thought.  But  perhaps  a new thought  is,  that  all  the  abstract  things came  from  those  same  material  elements. Think  it  over.  ’ ’

The  old  man  paused,  while  I strove to  marshal  my  frayed  reasoning powers  for  a rout  of  this  necessarily nonsensical  theory.  But  strive  as  I might,  I could  not  find  a vulnerable spot  in  it.  It  could  not  be,  of  course, and  yet I remained  silent.

“Suppose,  Phillips,  that  even  as our  sun  once  threw  off  a little  package of  elements,  another  sun  gave birth  to  an  identical  package.  Impossible ? Hold  on.

“I  have  convinced  you  that  nothing ever  happens  in  this  world. Should  not  the  same  rule  apply  to  the great  assembly  of  worlds,  the  universe? Whatever  caused  our  sun  to spew  us  forth  may  well  have  caused some  other  sun  to  do  the  same  thing. There  are  millions  upon  millions  of solar  systems — a fact  I had  never thoroughly  appreciated  until  I perfected my  sight  projector.  Among so  many  millions  of  suns,  why  is  it improbable  that  another  world — another not  very  complicated  package of  elements  exactly  like  this  one — could  be  born?  We  should  wonder, rather,  how  large  a number  of  such worlds  there  are.  How  many  Earths!

“In  the  short  time  at  my  disposal I have  already  found  several.  One  of them  I have  shown  to  you.  The events  of  that  Earth  are  identical with  those  of  ours.  Why?  Because its  embryo  contained  the  same  elements in  the  same  proportions.  But

it  was  not  born  at  the  same  time. The  calendars  and  clocks  there  show the  period  to  be  just  twenty-nine years,  ten  months,  twenty-one  days and  twenty-two  hours  behind  ours. Roughly,  present-day  events  of  that world  are  events  of  this  world  thirty years  ago.”

Ago ! The  planet  I had  just  visited ! Impossible ! It  was  the  absurd  dream of  a madman.  But  with  my  own  eyes I had  seen  the  proof.  I had  seen  a world  I knew  was  Earth,  and  knew was  not  Earth  of  today.

A slice  from  my  past  relived  before my  eyes!  I could  easily  guess what  that  other  Horace  M.  Phillips was  doing  now.  That  night,  if  I remembered rightly,  I had  sat  with bowed  head  until  long  after  the  lamp had  burned  out,  then  crawled  miserably into  bed.  What  a prophet  Phillips of  Ago  would  call  me  could  I but tell  him  what  had  taken  place  in  my life  since  that  night !

Suddenly  came  a new  thought, most  radical  of  all.


“T  haven’t  dared,  that’s  all,”  the

-l  professor  was  saying.  “But since  you  will  voyage  with  me  I will undertake  it.  ’ ’ He  turned  to  his  cold light  control.

What  a blast  of  light  was  at  work in  that  cabinet.  I shuddered  as  I thought  for  the  hundredth  time  of what  would  happen  should  that ordnance  of  rays  become  turned  backward upon  us.  There  would  be  one black  flash,  and  then  blindness. Death,  more  likely,  I thought,  as  I considered  the  piercing  power  of  the shaft.  One  thing  sure,  there  would be  no  charred  eye-sockets  from  this heatless  light.

Once  more  I marveled  at  the  wisdom of  the  man  beside  me.  He  had learned  much  from  the  Martians,  had he?  Well,  he  was  not  so  very  ignorant to  begin  with.  It  took  a fairly


WEIRD  TALES

smart  man  to  get  an  entrance  certificate to  Mars  University.

• “It  was  on  Mars  that  I learned the  principle  of  cold  light/’  the  professor put  in.  ‘ ‘ Before  that  time  my mercury  vapor  light  was  a constant  ”

“Did  the  Martians  give  you  a post-graduate  course  also  in  mindreading?” I shifted  uncomfortably.

Noone  laughed.  “I  learned  that simple  trick  at  Facultus  College. ‘Facultus’  is  the  name  I gave  to  a particularly  offensive  little  star  I stumbled  upon  one  day.  It  is  inhabited solely  by  poly-legged,  crawling beings  whose  only  means  of  communication is  through  their  waving antennae.

“Just  for  an  hour’s  amusement  I studied  the  creatures.  I noticed  that the  centipedish  fellow  sending  out thoughts  had  both  his  antennae  tense and  quivering,  while  the  one  receiving allowed  himself  to  slump,  relaxed all  over,  his  eyes  assuming  that stupid  expression  peculiar  to  college faculty  members.  In  a mental  conversation first  one  creature  wrould stiffen  and  then  the  other.  This  led me  to  wonder  if  thoughts  were  only another  manifestation  of  high  frequency waves  or  rays.  I believed  the inhabitants  of  that  far-off  world knew  how  to  exercise  some  set  of functions  that,  put  their  minds  into a receptive  state  for  the  thought  rays. Probably  relaxing  all  the  muscles  of body  and  brain,  as  it  were,  allowed this  faculty  to  gain  ascendency.

“To  shorten  a long  story,  my theory  proved  out.  Imperfectly  to be  sure — as  yet  I wear  no  antennae — I have  developed  a thought-receiving or  mind-reading  faculty  for  myself That  faculty  is  present  in  you,  in  all of  us.  Some  few  on  Earth  know  how to  use  it.”

Where  was  my  scoffing?  I could not  scoff.  My  mind  was  worn  out — I was  tired.  I remember  a subdued chuckle  from  Noone,  the  sound  of  a

more  rapid  turning  of  knobs,  and  I slept.

It  seemed  only  a minute  before the  professor’s  voice  insinuated  itself into  my  consciousness.

“Easy  now,”  he  was  murmuring. “You  are  awake,  but  let  your  eyes open  slowly.  Loose  the  force  of  your vision  gradually.  That’s  it.  Slowly!” I heard  the  whir  of  controls. Presently,  “There!  You  understand I had  to  reduce  the  light  force  in proportion  to  your  waxing  eye  force. Now'  what  do  you  see?”

“Ago,”  I grunted.

“Still  sleepy,  eh?  Look  closely.”

I batted  my  eyes — with  far-reaching results — and  looked  again.  There was  the  Mississippi  as  it  had  appeared before,  and  the  Great  Lakes. Evidently  the  professor  had  again chosen  to  approach  the  world  on  our home  side.  We  drew  nearer.

“Well?”

Still  I could  see  nothing  to  distinguish this  sun-batlied  world  from our  Earth  or  Ago.  It  was  one  or  the other,  surely.  But  no!  Those  scintillating spots!

Hundreds  of  them!  Wherever  I looked  I could  see  them.  Below  us lay  a country  speckled  over  with  a starry  rash.  A new  United  States!

“Aha!  New!  You  bet  it’s  new. Never  in  history  has  our  country borne  such  markings.  They  are  the proof  that  this  is  our  goal.  We  are now  at  the  point  where  I have  always turned  back  in  terror.  Once  more, shall  we  go  on?  It  rests  with  you.”

I dared  not  think.  “Go  on,”  I said  huskily.


At  first  we  judged  the  Earth under  our  eyes  to  be  at  least  a hundred  years  older  than  ours.

It  was  when  we  were,  as  before, tracing  a course  above  the  Hudson and  coming  to  earth  as  we  progressed downstream,  that  we  got  our

OTHER  EARTHS


first  close-up  of  the  mysterious spangles  we  had  observed  shining from  near  the  surface.  They  turned out  to  be  great  metallic  spheres  of  a golden  color,  covered  with  countless square  facets  from  which  the  sunlight flashed  constantly.  The  great  spheres were  mounted  on  individual  steel towers  of  varying  heights.  Coming on  a number  of  the  things  in  a group high  above  a vast  tobacco  field,  we paused  to  study  them.

As  we  speculated  as  to  their  use, each  ball,  in  unison  with  all  the others  in  the  group,  began  to  surround itself  with  a bluish,  lambent aura.  The  auras  increased  in  size and  density  until  the  central  golden cores  shone  through  but  dimly.  The bluish  haze-clouds  became  shot through  at  increasingly  shorter  intervals with  forked,  zigzagging tongues  of  flame,  for  all  the  world like  miniature  lightning  shafts.  Each moment  the  flames  leaped  farther  and farther  from  out  their  auras,  accompanied by  a volley  of  crackling.

Presently  the  little  flickers  began to  meet  one  another  in  their  darting courses  across  the  field.  At  each  intersecting point  a little  ball  of  mist was  formed,  until  perhaps  a score  of them  were  being  wafted  about  between the  towers.  Soon  all  had joined  into  a blanket  of  black  cloud.

“Rain-making!”  gasped  Noone.

He  was  right.  Below,  through  occasional rifts  in  the  cloud,  we  could see  the  tobacco  plants  being  drenched in  a copious  shower,  while  the  fields on  all  sides  remained  bathed  in  clean sunshine.

“Another  scientists’  dream  come true,”  I said.  “Weather  control, then,  is  possible.”

“Certainly.  And  another  theory of  mine  is  vindicated.  These  people are  using  an  idea  I have  had  for years.  This  is  merely  a demonstration of  static  electricity  doing  useful work.  Those  huge  balls  are  nothing but  electrodes  of  giant  Leyden-jars.

At  the  operator’s  will  some  of  the nodes  become  charged  with  negative static  electricity,  and  others  positive. You  saw  for  yourself  what  happened when  the  charges  overflowed  the capacity  of  the  electrodes.”

“A  home-made  thunder  shower, eh?”

“That’s  it.  Meanwhile,  the  nodes in  the  . other  fields  are  grounded  to keep  any  tiny  accumulations  of static  drained  from  the  premises. And  doubtless  they  radiate  a mild warmth  to  break  up  any  stray  hatful of  rain-causing  vapor.”

Useful  static ! I thought  of  how  I had  cursed  the  static  only  last  evening when  it  had  ruined  a perfectly nice  batch  of  broadcast  from  KIPI for  me..

“Home  radio  audiences  never think  of  static  here,”  Noone  said confidently.  “The  weather  control people  collect  it  all  for  their  own use.”

The  shower  below  us  was  abating, the  de-energized  balls  reflecting  the sunlight  and  gleaming  even  brighter than  before.  We  moved  off.

“What  next?”  I breathed.

I can  not  hope  to  list  here  all  the marvels  unfolded  for  us  in  the  next hour  or  two.  Many  of  them  failed utterly  to  register  with  me.  Such things  as  pneumatic  tubes  for  underground passenger  traffic,  aerial  travel made  safe,  sane  and  commonplace, economic  improvements  shown  by  the total  lack  of  evidences  both  of  poverty and  of  great  wealth — these things  perhaps  lie  within  the  scope  of my  descriptive  powers.  But  my mind  is  not  that  of  a scientist.  Professor Noone,  however,  seemed  to comprehend  the  most  stupendous  of the  prodigies,  even  anticipate  them.

Why,  one  might  wonder,  did  the scientist  keep  us  so  long  in  downtown New  York?  Why  not  hasten  to Nason  Street,  to  see  how  our  familiar neighborhood  would  look  after  a hundred  years?  I did  not  wonder;


WEIRD  TALES

for  I too  feared,  for  all  my  brave words,  to  face  anything  touching  on our  personal  future.  I too  was  content to  procrastinate.

Central  park  was  changed  but little.  We  had  just  noted  this fact  when  ©ur  attention  was  attracted by  a man — in  costume  exactly  like that  of  the  man  of  today — sitting  on a bench  reading  a newspaper.

“Here’s  where  we  answer  the  date question,”  said  the  professor,  lowering our  eyes  to  the  man’s  shoulder level.  “Ah!  Would  you  believe  it!” The  paper  was  dated  July  10,  1937. Only  about  ten  years  ahead,  then! And  as  for  my  personal  future,  here it  was  spread  on  the  paper  before  me :

NOTED  AUTHOR  HOME  FROM  CHINA  TRIP

Horace  M.  Phillips  Deplores

Passing  of  Old  Orient

The  piece  stated,  among  other things,  that  “a  feature  of  the  passage was  Mr.  Phillips’  winning  of  the  pool on  the  ship’s  run  for  both  days.”

I was  amused,  elated — and  relieved immeasurably.  It  was  certain  that  I had  nothing  to  worry  about  in  the next  ten  years,  at  least.

Noone  congratulated  me  heartily enough,  but  even  in  the  warmth  of his  tone  I could  detect  an  undercurrent of  chill,  of  dread.  This  I pretended not  to  notice.

“Well,  well.  I’ll  bet  there’s  something in  that  paper  about  the  great Professor  Noone,  also.  Probably  the world  before  us — shall  we  name  it ‘Ahead’,  or  ‘Hence’,  or  what? — owes most  of  its  scientific  wonders  to  that gentleman.  I’ll  bet  all  ‘Hence’  has been  watching  you  ever  since  you announced  the  invention  of  the  eyesight shooter.”

The  old  man  was  silent.  I continued, apparently  undaunted.  “To come  back  to  this  Earth  for  the moment,  do  you  intend  to  make  public your  discoveries  at  once,  or  will you  set  yourself  up  for  a while  as  a

prophet  and  soothsayer  in  general? You  could  certainly  get  by  either  as a cold  scientist  or  an  ardent  occultist. ’ ’

I could  not  babble  on  forever  in the  faee  of  Noone ’s  persistent  dull silence,  but  evidently  my  blather  had an  effect.  I found  myself  approaching Nason  Street  at  once.

How  different  was  the  street  now from  that  of  today,  and  that  of  Ago! In  place  of  lumbering  buggies  and carefully  regulated  automobiles,  the roadway  was  filled  with  little  individual electric  eycles  darting  at breath-taking  speed.  Even  these, however,  were  regulated;  for  a strip of  grass-ground  along  the  center  of the  street  kept  the  two  currents  of traffic  separated.  Heavy  vehicular traffic  was  completely  absent.

“Bulky  commodities  are  no  longer in  demand,  I judge,”  said  Noone,  “at least  in  residential  districts.  Coal, for  one  thing,  is  probably  long  out  of date.  There  must  be  heavy  loads  in local  traffic  in  some  sections — where building  is  going  on  for  instance. Ah,  here  is  No.  129.”

Instantly  the  professor’s  pall  of glumness  settled  down,  although  I could  see  no  reason  for  it  as  yet.  The old  house  looked  about  the  same  as  it does  now.  Surely  there  was  nothing about  it  to  suggest  anything  so  very dreadful.

The  first  evidence  of  something wrong  we  found  to  be  the  professor’s laboratory — the  room  adjoining  that in  which  we  were  sitting.  We  had peered  through  the  window,  to  look upon  a scene  of  utter  desolation. The  dust  of  years  lay  thick  over everything,  marring  the  scientist’s most  precious  possessions.

“Only  one  thing  could  keep  me away  from  this  room.”  The  old man’s  voice  was  filled  more  with  regret than  sadness.  I dared  not  ask what  that  one  thing  was.

As  we  stared  appalled,  a playful mouse  knocked  down  what  we  quickly

OTHER  EARTHS


identified  as  Noone ’s  notebook;  it  lay open  upon  the  floor,  freed  of  dust  by its  fall  and  easily  legible.  The  lefthand  page  was  half  filled  with  the professor’s  cramped  writing.  The notes,  which  were  utterly  meaningless, ceased  in  the  middle  of  a long technical  word.  The  entry  thus abruptly  broken  off  was  dated  Dec. 21,  1929.  Two  years  from  now!

Why  had  I assented  to  taking  this damnable  trip  to  a world  not  meant for  our  eyes?

"Let’s — let’s  turn  back,”  I whispered, groping  toward  my  companion.

‘ ‘ Too  late.  ’ ’ Noone  strove  to  make his  tone  stronger,  less  unhappy. "But  this  laboratory — I — I can’t bear — I don’t  care  to  look  at  it.”

Downstairs  we  found  a family  of youngish  people  just  arising  from luncheon.  Afternoon  here,  then.  An aged  servant  entered  the  room,  asked a question  and  was  answered  by  a nod.

"My  nephew’s  family,”  Noone muttered.  "The  old  fellow  is  John Staples,  who  let  you  in  this  evening. More  friend  than  servant,  too.  Now I’ll  bet — good  old  John!  Let’s  see where  he  goes.”

Staples  had  evidently  gotten  the afternoon  off,  for  presently  we  saw him  emerge  from  the  back  door,  clad in  street  clothes  and  carrying  a longish  pasteboard  box,  and  signal  one  of the  little  hovering  taxi-planes.  We had  no  difficulty  in  keeping  the machine  in  our  field  of  vision  and  following it  across  the  city  and  out  over the  rolling  hills  of  Westchester. Here  the  plane  dipped  and  swung  out of  sight  beyond  a massive’  set  of  stone buildings.

I could  hear  the  trembling  of Noone ’s  hand  at  the  controls.  I knew  he  must  be  reading  the  name on  the  great  central  building  as  we passed  over  it.  Why  would  he  not turn  back?

The  plane  we  found  parked  in  a field  a little  to  the  rear  of  the  buildings. The  driver  sat  at  the  wheel alone,  while  Staples  wended  a way across  the  field,  unwrapping  his package  as  he  went.  We  followed him  along  a path  and  through  the opening  in  a hedge.  Beyond,  Staples had  stopped  and  knelt  beside

With  a curse  I ripped  at  those cursed  eyepieces.  Professor  Noone unhurriedly  removed  his,  and — smiled ! He  had  seen.

A grave  behind  a madhouse ! Such was  the  fate  of  that  other  Professor Noone  on  that  other  Earth!  And  he knew,  as  I knew,  that  nothing  could alter  the  course  of  destiny,  and  that the  same  fate  was  to  be  his  on  this Earth.  Yet  he  smiled!  A brave  man is  Professor  Noone — old  Proff  No One  of  Yaleton  University.

toB

boALVIN-F-

-Pi

HARLPW

The  Werewolf

THE  belief  that  certain  human beings  were  changed  or changed  themselves  at  times into  lower  animals  has  prevailed  since ancient  days  not  only  in  Europe  but in  many  other  parts  of  the  world. The  animal  into  which  persons  were most  often  transformed  was  a wolf. In  ancient  Greece  a man  named  Lycaon  was  said  to  have  been  turned  into a wolf  as  a result  of  eating  human flesh.  The  Greeks  also  said  that  a man  of  the  Anteus  family  was  chosen by  lot  at  certain  intervals,  taken  to a lake  in  Arcadia,  where  he  hung  his clothes  on  an  ash-tree  and  swam across.  There  he  became  a wolf  and wandered  with  the  pack  nine  years. Herodotus  said  that  the  Neurii,  a tribe  of  eastern  Europe,  were  turned into  wolves  for  a few  days  every  year.

Hideous  stories  were  told  of  witches and  wizards  who  were  able  to  turn themselves  into  wolves,  and  thus  went forth  to  work  the  will  of  their  master, the  Devil,  on  innocent  persons.  The change  was  brought  about  in  various ways.  In  Europe  the  commonest method  was  to  remove  the  clothing and  put  on  an  enchanted  girdle, usually  of  the  skin  of  the  animal whose  form  was  to  be  assumed. Sometimes  the  body  was  rubbed  with a magic  salve.  Our  old  Southern friend,  Uncle  Remus,  declares  that such  people  have  a slit  in  the  skin  at the  back  of  the  neck,  where  they  can take  hold  of  the  skin  and  pull  it  off like  a shirt — undoubtedly  an  African form  of  the  myth.  Less  skilful  persons brought  about  the  change  by

drinking  water  out  of  the  animal’s footprint,  by  eating  of  its  brains  or drinking  of  certain  enchanted streams.

In  Prussia,  Livonia  and  Lithuania in  the  Sixteenth  Century,  the  Christian bishops  said  that  the  werewolves were  more  destructive  than  the  natural wolves.  They  were  a sort  of army  allied  against  Christian  people and  divine  law.  During  that  century many  peasants,  influenced  by the  mania,  imagined  themselves wolves.  There  was  clear  proof  of many  cases  in  which  human  beings, especially  children,  had  been  killed and  eaten  by  men  who  fancied  themselves wolves.

It  seems  that  werewolves  were  not always  opposed  to  mankind  and  the Church,  for  in  the  year  617  A.  D.  a pack  of  them  went  to  a monastery and  killed  some  heretic  monks. Saints  sometimes  had  the  power  of turning  people  into  wolves.  St.  Patrick changed  Vereticus,  King  of Wales,  into  a wolf,  and  St.  Natalis cursed  a prominent  Irish  family  by dooming  each  member  of  it  to  be  a wolf  for  seven  years.  An  involuntary werewolf  could  be  cured  by  kneeling in  one  place  for  a hundred  years;  or you  could  bring  either  a voluntary  or involuntary  werewolf  back  to  human form  by  accusing  it  with  being  a werewolf,  or  saluting  it  with  the  sign of  the  cross,  addressing  it  by  its  human baptismal  name  three  times, striking  it  on  the  forehead  three times  with  a knife  or  drawing  three drops  of  its  blood.

A Grim  Race  With  Death

The  Gray  Rider

By  CHARLES  HILAN  CRAIG

HIS  name  was  Lear.  He  was the  world’s  greatest  racing driver  and  it  was  said  of him  that  he  was  utterly  devoid  of nerves.

For  three  years  he  had  been  the leader  among  the  speed  demons  of the  surfaced  tracks,  and  during  those three  years  he  had  won  every  race in  which  his  car  had  finished.  Several times  accidents  had  sent  him  to  the pits  to  stay — again  he  had  been rammed  by  a driver  who  lost  control — but  whenever  he  finished  the  race it  was  in  the  lead.

Throughout  the  land  he  was known  to  the  sporting  public  as “King  Lear” — to  his  more  intimate friends  simply  as  “the  king.”

He  no  longer  needed  the  money which  came  to  him  through  racing, but  rather  drove  for  the  sheer  zest of  driving.  There  was  a thrill  for him  in  every  turn  on  any  speedway, a double  thrill  every  time  he  came thundering  into  the  straightaway. As  he  raced  he  laughed;  and  he  was a man  who  still  could  laugh  when  he had  finished  the  last  lap  on  the  great brick  oval  at  the  capital  of  the  racing world— laugh  while  ready  hands unbent  the  fingers  that  clutched  the wheel  in  a deathlike  grip.

Without  nerves  was  King  Lear, they  said,  and  there  was  little  reason to  deny  that  bald  statement.  For  he was  a man  who  went  out  in  front  and stayed  there  till  the  race  was  over  or something  had  broken.  No  tremendous spurts,  no  sneaking,  no  jockeying. Lear  clamped  down  the  accelerator and  held  it  there.  Little  wonder he  got  a thrill  from  those  terrible turns,  for  he  went  into  them  faster than  any  other  living  man — and lived:  less  strange  the  double  thrill from  the  straightaway,  for  his  car was  a weaving  phantom  when  he came  from  the  turns,  a gray  mist when  he  went  into  the  next.

Lear  was  perhaps  thirty-five  years old  at  the  time  of  which  I write,  and had  been  racing  for  about  ten  years. It  was  nearing  the  end  of  the  racing season  and  he  was  in  the  next  to  the last  race  of  the  year  when  he  first  saw the  man  whom  he  intuitively  dubbed “the  Gray  Rider.”  He  had  paid little  attention  to  the  other  entries: it  made  no  difference  to  him  who they  were  or  in  what  numbers — he would  beat  them  all,  barring  accident.

He  was  on  the  sixtieth  lap  of  the two  hundred  and  fifty  mile  grind when  first  his  attention  was  attracted by  this  gray  rider  who  was  to  be  his chief  competitor  in  the  next  race.

The  car  was  gray,  not  the  gray which  bright  enamel  usually  gives, but  a drab  gray,  a sordid  gray.  The car  was  low-slung  and  apparently awkwardly  built.  King  Lear  found himself  criticizing  as  he  swung  past that  car  on  the  sixtieth  lap.  The  man was  deep  down  in  the  seat,  barely showing  his  head,  but  he  also  was gray.  And  he  seemed  to  be  laughing as  Lear  swept  past  him:  an  uncomfortable thought  welled  up  in  the mind  of  the  king  that  there  was  a sardonic  something  about  this  man and  his  car  that  he  could  not  fathom.


G94

WEIRD  TALES

But  he  swept  the  thought  away  and settled,  down  to  finish  ahead.

They  were  on  the  ninetieth  lap when  the  gray  car  almost  rammed him,  and  he  swung  into  the  fence, splintering  it  and  ripping  off  a wheel.

With  anger  in  his  heart  he  made ready  to  protest,  but  the  Gray  Rider had  swept  from  the  track  and  was waiting  for  him,  having  left  the race.  “I’m  sorry,”  he  said.

Lear’s  anger  dissipated  like  a mist. He  laughed.

“Maybe  it  wasn’t  your  fault,”  he said,  and  took  mental  stock  of  the other  driver.

Gray  dust  had  settled  finely  over the  driver’s  face.  The  hair,  just visible  under  the  turned-up  helmet, was  gray.  Under  the  gray  of  that face  there  were  many  tiny  wrinkles. The  face  was  set  as  though  it  had come  from  a mold — granite.  Hours of  grim  intensity  at  the  taped  wheel had  seen  to  that.

“What’s  your  name?”  asked  Lear. He  was  surprized  that  he  never  had seen  this  man  before — perhaps  some new  chap  breaking  into  the  game.

‘ ‘ Gray,  ’ ’ answered  the  Gray  Rider, and  to  Lear  it  appeared  that  for  a moment  a sardonic  smile  touched  the thin  lips.  He  didn’t  like  that  smile.

There  was  something  . . .

He  had  intended  to  look  the  man up,  to  ask  Angus  about  him, but  somehow  he  didn’t  do  it.  A reason why  he  should  now  want  to  find out  who  and  what  a fellow  racer  was didn’t  occur  to  him — he  who  had never  given  a hang  what  was  put against  him  in  a race.

Angus,  his  team  manager,  had come  a-running.

“What  happened?”  he  had  said; and  Lear  had  replied,  “I  almost  got rammed.  ’ ’

“What!”  and  there  had  been  on the  face  of  Angus  a strange  expression of  wonder  and  doubt.  Lear  had

looked  about  for  Gray  but  the  man had  gone.

Speed — more  speed ! That  was  what was  killing  Lear.  Cars  were  not built  fast  enough  for  him.  Time after  time  in  races  he  had  ruined cars,  driving  them  to  the  ultimate limit  of  their  endurance  till  they were  burned  out  beneath  him. Wrecked  many  times — but  he  seemed to  have  the  lives  of  a cat.  He  always came  through.  His  god  was  Speed!

“It’ll  get  you  yet,”  said  Angus, again  and  again.  “You  can’t  keep up  those  stunts  and  live.  Take  it from  me,  boy,  if  you  don ’t  quiet  down on  the  curves  you’ll  go  through  the big  gates  some  day.”  This  from Angus,  who  was  continuously  exhorting his  other  drivers  to  show  a little  pep.

Lear  laughed.

But  then  that  was  Lear.  That  was why  he  was  the  best-loved  driver  in America.  The  crowd  came  to  see speed,  and  he  was  there  to  show  it  to them.  But  deep  down  in  his  heart he  knew  that  Angus  was  right.  Too near — many  times — was  death.  For now  that  the  great  American  classic race  had  been  run  at  an  average  rate of  more  than  one  hundred  miles  per hour  the  ultimate  speed  on  wheels was  fast  being  attained.  Little  more could  be  expected  of  a machine  which clung  to  earth.

Yet  Lear  still  asked  for  speed.

To  see  him  drive  in  a race  was  to see  something  never  to  be  forgotten. He  always  smiled  as  he  rode:  of course  the  crowd  couldn’t  see  that, but  they  knew,  for  the  press  agents had  long  been  busy.  All  the  crowd could  see  was  a blur  as  the  red  car swept  past  the  stands.  But  they knew  he  was  smiling  at  death  as  he rode.  And  from  East  and  West  men came  to  watch  him  ride  like  a red whirlwind  to  victory.

And  then  the  last  five  hundred  mile race  of  the  season — on  the  new  board

THE  GRAY  RIDER


track  in  California.  The  team  managed by  Angus  was  entered,  and  of course  Lear  was  expected  to  win.

As  the  day  for  the  race  neared there  came  into  the  mind  of  Lear  a question.  Would  the  Gray  Rider  be in  the  race?  Why  he  wondered  about this  he  did  not  know.  He  never  had questioned  before.  He  did  not  ask Angus  about  it,  for  he  knew  that  a query  now  about  the  other  entries would  serve  to  make  the  fiery  little Scotchman  wonder  if  he  were  losing his  iron  nerve.  He  didn’t  read  the newspapers;  he  didn’t  read  the  bulletins ; he  never  read  anything.  All  he cared  to  do  was  race — all  he  ever  desired was  to  sit  under  the  wheel  of  his little  red  Gannon  and  thunder  to victory.  He  never  had  cared  who  it was  he  was  racing.

Speed — more  speed ! He  would shatter  that  five  hundred  mile  record to  fragments.  He  would  show  them that  his  red  Cannon  could  show  its heels  to  any  car  ever  built.  ' And  as he  thought  of  it  in  his  ‘last  trial  spin before  the  big  race  he  involuntarily increased  his  pace  till  the  other  cars, the  fence,  the  empty  stands  became gray  blurs.  Faster,  faster,  faster! Round  the  curve,  into  the  long straightaway  past  the  stands  again. Faster,  faster.  And  then  he  knew instinctively  as  Angus  flagged  him  in that  he  had  ridden  at  a pace  never before  equaled  by  man.

rT"1HE  day  came;  the  hour  was  at hand — the  time  for  the  big  race. Car  after  car  drew  up  to  the  pits  for final  adjustments;  car  after  car  was trundled  to  the  starting  line.  Drivers smoking  a last  cigarette.  Mechanicians pottering  about.  The  drone  of a ear  ready  to  go.

The  officials  lined  them  up.  Lear and  his  red  wagon  in  the  first  tier. The  others  stretched  to  the  side  and behind.  The  Gray  Rider?

Lear  looked  about.  Yes,  there  he was  at  the  outside  of  the  first  tier:

and  Lear  was  puzzled:  that  made  an extra  car  in  the  first  row — not  safe.

An  official  was  beside  him.

“What’s  the  idea  of  the  extra  car there?”  he  asked.

“Which  car?”  asked  the  official.

‘ ‘ Gray  one — number  thirty-one — outside.”

The  official  looked  where  he  pointed and  laughed;  said  something  which Lear  did  not  catch.

But  Lear  laughed  too.  He  had never  been  accused  of  lack  of  sportsmanship. What  did  he  care  if  the first  tier  was  jammed  from  pole  to stand?  He  was  going  to  burn  them all  up:  win!

But  as  he  sat  there  looking  at  the Gray  Rider  there  came  over  him  a sensation  he  never  had  known  before — a scarcely  felt  impression  of  impending disaster.  Somehow,  deep down  within  him,  he  felt  that  this would  be  his  last  race.  But  he  shook off  the  feeling  with  a laugh  of  disdain, lighted  a cigarette  and  waited.

There  sounded  the  last  preliminary signal.  The  track  was  cleared.  A sputtering  roar  and  they  were  off. Round  the  track — a droning  string of  angry  motors,  following  the  pacer. A vast  thunder  of  sound.  They passed  the  starting  line  and  the  flag dropped  down  and  up  again.

A dull  roar  from  the  crowd; screaming  of  exhausts;  whining throb  of  motors ; gray  film  of  smoke ; gray  cloud  of  dust.  Speed — more speed !

Mile  after  mile,  lap  after  lap — and the  Gray  Rider  had  nosed  up  and  was running  close  to  Lear.  A gray  shadow stalking  him,  urging  him  on;  and he  responded.  His  car  changed  from a red  streak  to  a misty  blur  as  he thundered  around  the  track.  A hundred and  ten  — twenty  — -thirty  — forty.  Speed.  And  the  gray  shadow still  stalked  him,  lacking  the  necessary spurt  to  go  around.

A car  went  through  the  fence  on the  death  curve.  Another  went  over


WEIRD  TALES

and  over  when  a tire  blew  out,  but  by superb  skill  Lear  and  the  Gray  Rider missed  the  wreckage,  went  on  and  on. Speed — speed  to  the  utmost !

Into  the  pit  for  new  tires  and  gas : then  back  to  the  grind:  back  to  the race  with  the  gray  shadow  which  was challenging  his  superior  skill.

They  passed  the  hundred  and eightieth  lap.  The  hundred  and ninetieth.  Ten  laps  to  go.  And  on the  straightaway  the  Gray  Rider passed  Lear.  The  smile  left  Lear’s face.  His  teeth  set  hard..  His  dark face  was  a mass  of  tiny  wrinkles.  He leaned  forward.

But  his  car  did  not  respond.  He held  grimly  at  the  rear  wheel  of  the gray  car,  but  could  do  no  better. Wildly  reckless  on  the  curves,  a raging demon  in  the  stretch — it  availed nothing.  The  Gray  Rider  was  just as  reckless,  just  as  superb  in  his handling  of  the  gray  car.

Five  laps  to  go — three  laps — two laps — one  lap,  and  the  spring  on  his foot-feed  broke.  He  could  feel  it  go. Wide  open  his  car  thundered  on.  He reached  over  to  shut  off  the  power, but  at  that  moment  the  Gray  Rider’s eyes  looked  into  his.  He  could  feel rather  than  see  the  sardonic  challenge in  those  eyes.  He  gripped  again  the wheel,  careened  wildly  into  the  curve.

How  he  made  it  he  did  not  know, but  he  came  out.  A mere  touch would  send  him  tumbling  into  the fence.

At  the  rear  wheel  of  the  gray  car. He  wanted  speed  and  couldn’t  get  it. Speed!  Down  the  stretch  he  roared like  the  wind,  and  then  he  began  to gain,  gain,  gain.  His  radiator  was even  with  the  driver’s  seat  of  the leading  car.  A little  more,  a little more!  He  did  not  hear  the  roar  of the  race,  had  no  ears  for  the  thunder of  the  hundred  thousand  people  mad with  the  thrill  of  speed.  He  could think  of  nothing  but  the  sardonic smile  which  he  felt  must  be  on  the face  of  the  Gray  Rider.

Slowly  he  gained,  but  too  late ! Too late!  The  checkered  flag  went  down — but  the  Gray  Rider  had  drawn  it.

A low  snarl  escaped  Lear’s  lips  as he  realized  that  he  had  lost.  Then the  snarl  changed  to  an  exclamation of  horror  as  the  Gray  Rider  shot  in front  of  him.  He  started  to  slow  up, forgetting  that  his  foot-feed  was  no longer  working.  Sharply  he  twisted the  wheel,  went  broadside  into  the Gray  Rider.  He  heard  a tremendous roaring,  the  elang  of  steel  on  steel; smelt  the  odor  of  blazing  gasoline; felt  its  wrath  sear  his  lungs;  saw stars  shoot  across  his  vision;  saw, too — no,  felt — the  sardonic  smile  of the  man  who  had  beaten  him.  . .

Lear  regained  consciousness  for only  a few  minutes  at  the  hospital. Angus  was  there  with  him, firmly  solicitous.

“Lost!”  gasped  Lear.

“Lost,  hell,”  said  Angus.  “You won.”

“But  the  gray  car — thirty-one — beat  me  out  just  before  I crashed  into him.”

Angus  looked  puzzled.

“There  wasn’t  any  thirty-one  in the  race,”  he  said.  “And  you  didn’t crash  anybody.  You  hit  the  fence.” “But  the  Gray  Rider?”

“There  wasn’t  any  Gray  Rider!” “But — there  must  have  been!” Lear  knew  that  Angus  was  lying. No  Gray  Rider!  The  fool!  Why, look,  there  was  the  Gray  Rider  beside Angus  now,  his  hand  on  Angus’ shoulder.  The  Gray  Rider — gray with  dust,  gray  with  sternness.  A sardonic  smile  was  upon  his  face,  but the  gray  eyes  which  shone  through the  goggles  held  no  mirth.  They were  cold — as  death !

“He’s  beside  you,”  cried  Lear, hoarsely.  “Look,  Angus!”

Angus  turned  all  around  in  utter amazement.  There  was  no  one  there.

“Why,  Lear ”

Lear  was  dead.

WEIRD  STORY  REPRINT

The  Thousand-and-Second  Tale of  Scheherazade

By  EDGAR  ALLAN  POE

Truth  is  stranger  than  fiction.

— Old  Baying.

HAVING  had  occasion,  lately, in  the  course  of  some  Oriental investigations,  to  consult  the Tellmenow  Isitsdornot,  a work  which (like  the  Zohar  of  Simeon  Jochaides) is  scarcely  known  at  all,  even  in Europe;  and  which  has  never  been quoted,  to  my  knowledge,  by  any American — if  we  except,  perhaps,  the author  of  the  Curiosities  of  American Literature; — having  had  occasion,  I say,  to  turn  over  some  pages  of  the first-mentioned  very  remarkable  work, I was  not  a little  astonished  to  discover that  the  literary  world  has hitherto  been  strangely  in  error  respecting the  fate  of  the  vizier’s daughter,  Scheherazade,  as  that  fate is  depicted  in  the  Arabian  Nights; and  that  the  denouement  there  given, if  not  altogether  inaccurate,  as  far  as it  goes,  is  at  least  to  blame  in  not having  gone  very  much  farther.

For  full  information  on  this  interesting topic,  I must  refer  the  inquisitive reader  to  the  Isitsdornot itself ; but  in  the  meantime,  I shall  be pardoned  for  giving  a summary  of what  I there  discovered.

It  will  be  remembered,  that,  in  the usual  version  of  the  tales,  a certain monarch  having  good  cause  to  be jealous  of  his  queen,  not  only  puts her  to  death,  but  makes  a vow,  by  his beard  and  the  prophet,  to  espouse each  night  the  most  beautiful  maiden in  his  dominions,  and  the  next  morning to  deliver  her  up  to  the  executioner.

Having  fulfilled  this  vow  for  many years  to  the  letter,  and  with  a religious punctuality  and  method  that conferred  great  credit  upon  him  as a man  of  devout  feeling  and  excellent sense,  he  was  interrupted  one  afternoon (no  doubt  at  his  prayers)  by  a visit  from  his  grand  vizier,  to  whose daughter,  it  appears,  there  had  occurred an  idea.

Her  name  was  Scheherazade,  and her  idea  was,  that  she  would  either redeem  the  land  from  the  depopulating tax  upon  its  beauty,  or  perish, after  the  approved  fashion  of  all heroines,  in  the  attempt.

Accordingly,  and  although  we  do not  find  it  to  be  leap-year  (which makes  the  sacrifice  more  meritorious} , she  deputes  her  father,  the  grand vizier,  to  make  an  offer  to  the  king  of her  hand.  This  hand  the  king  eagerly accepts — (he  had  intended  to  take it  at  all  events,  and  had  put  off  the matter  from  day  to  day,  only  through fear  of  the  vizier) , — but,  in  accepting it  now,  h'e  gives  all  parties  very  distinctly to  understand,  that,  grand vizier  or  no  grand  vizier,  he  has  not the  slightest  design  of  giving  up  one iota  of  his  vow  or  of  his  privileges. When,  therefore,  the  fair  Scheherazade insisted  upon  marrying  the  king, and  did  actually  marry  him  despite her  father’s  excellent  advice  not  to do  anything  of  the  kind — when  she would  and  did  marry  him,  I say,  will



WEIRD  TALES

I,  nill  I,  it  was  with  her  beautiful black  eyes  as  thoroughly  open  as  the nature  of  the  case  would  allow’.

It  seems,  however,  that  this  politic damsel  (who  had  been  reading Machiavelli,  beyond  doubt)  had  a very  ingenious  little  plot  in  her  mind. On  the  night  of  the  wedding,  she contrived,  upon  I forget  what  specious pretense,  to  have  her  sister occupy  a couch  sufficiently  near  that of  the  royal  pair  to  admit  of  easy conversation  from  bed  to  bed;  and, a little  before  cock-crowing,  she  took care  to  awaken  the  good  monarch, her  husband  (who  bore  her  none  the worse  will  because  he  intended  to wring  her  neck  on  the  morrow), — she  managed  to  awaken  him,  I say, (although  on  account  of  a capital conscience,  and  an  easy  digestion,  he slept  well)  by  the  profound  interest of  a story  (about  a rat  and  a black cat,  I think)  which  she  was  narrating (all  in  an  undertone,  of  course)  to her  sister.  When  the  day  broke,  it so  happened  that  this  history  was  not altogether  finished,  and  that  Scheherazade, in  the  nature  of  things,  could not  finish  it  just  then,  since  it  was high  time  for  her  to  get  up  and  be bowstrung — a thing  very  little  more pleasant  than  hanging,  only  a trifle more  genteel !

The  king’s  curiosity,  however,  prevailing, I am  sorry  to  say,  even  over his  sound  religious  principles,  induced him  for  this  once  to  postpone the  fulfilment  of  his  vow  until  next morning,  for  the  purpose  and  with the  hope  of  hearing  that  night  how  it fared  in  the  end  with  the  black  eat (a  black  cat,  I think  it  was)  and  the rat.

The  night  having  arrived,  howrever, the  lady  Scheherazade  not  only  put the  finishing  stroke  to  the  black  cat and  the  rat  (the  rat  was  blue),  but before  she  well  knew  what  she  was about,  found  herself  deep  in  the intricacies  of  a narration,  having

reference  (if  I am  not  altogether  mistaken) to  a pink  horse  (with  green wings)  that  went,  in  a violent  manner, by  clockwork,  and  was  wound up  with  an  indigo  key.  With  this history  the  king  was  even  more  profoundly interested  than  with  the other — and,  as  the  day  broke  before its  conclusion  (notwithstanding  all the  queen’s  endeavors  to  get  through with  it  in  time  for  the  bowstringing) , there  was  again  no  resource  but  to postpone  that  ceremony  as  before,  for twenty-four  hours.  The  next  night there  happened  a similar  accident with  a similar  result;  and  then  the next — and  then  again  the  next;  so that,  in  the  end,  the  good  monarch, having  been  unavoidably  deprived  of all  opportunity  to  keep  his  vow  during a period  of  no  less  than  one thousand  and  one  nights,  either  forgets it  altogether  by  the  expiration  of this  time,  or  gets  himself  absolved  of it  in  the  regular  way,  or  (what  is more  probable)  breaks  it  outright,  as well  as  the  head  of  his  father  confessor. At  all  events,  Scheherazade triumphed,  and  the  tariff  upon beauty  was  repealed.

“My  dear  sister,”  said  she,  on  the thousand-and-second  night  (I  quote the  language  of  the  Isitsoornot  at  this point,  verbatim),  “my  dear  sister,” said  she,  “now  that  all  this  little  difficulty about  the  bowstring  has  blown over,  and  that  this  odious  tax  is  so happily  repealed,  I feel  that  I have been  guilty  of  great  indiscretion  in withholding  from  you  and  the  king (who,  I am  sorry  to  say,  snores — a thing  no  gentleman  would  do)  the full  conclusion  of  the  story  of  Sinbad the  sailor.  This  person  went  through numerous  other  and  more  interesting adventures  than  those  which  I related; but  the  truth  is,  I felt  sleepy on  the  particular  night  of  their  narration, and  so  was  seduced  into  cutting them  short — a grievous  piece  of misconduct,  for  which  I only  trust

THE  THOUSAND  AND  SECOND  TALE


that  Allah  will  forgive  me.  But  even yet  it  is  not  too  late  to  remedy  my great  neglect — and  as  soon  as  I have given  the  king  a pinch  or  two  in  order to  wake  him  up  so  far  that  he  may stop  making  that  horrible  noise,  I will forthwith  entertain  you  (and  him  if he  pleases)  with  the  sequel  of  this very  remarkable  story.”

Hereupon  the  sister  of  Scheherazade, as  I have  it.  from  the  Isitsoornot,  expressed  no  very  particular intensity  of  gratification ; but  the king,  having  been  sufficiently  pinched, at  length  ceased  snoring,  and  finally said,  “Hum!”  find  then  “Hoo!” when  the  queen,  understanding  these words  (which  are  no  doubt  Arabic) to  signify  that  he  was  all  attention, and  would  do  his  best  not  to  snore any  more — the  queen,  I say,  having arranged  these  matters  to  her  satisfaction, re-entered  thus,  at  once,  into the  history  of  Sinbad  the  sailor:

“At  length,  in  my  old  age”  [these -U*-  are  the  words  of  Sinbad  himself, as  retailed  by  Scheherazade] — “at length,  in  my  old  age,  and  after  enjoying many  years  of  tranquillity  at home,  I became  once  more  possessed of  a desire  of  visiting  foreign  countries ; and  one  day,  without  acquainting any  of  my  family  with  my  design, I packed  up  some  bundles  of  such merchandise  as  was  most  precious  and least  bulky,  and,  engaging  a porter to  carry  them,  went  with  him  down  to the  sea-shore,  to  await  the  arrival  of any  chance  vessel  that  might  convey me  out  of  the  kingdom  into  some  region which  I had  not  as  yet  explored.

“Having  deposited  the  packages upon  the  sands,  we  sat  down  beneath some  trees,  and  looked  out  into  the ocean  in  the  hope  of  perceiving  a ship, but  during  several  hours  we  saw  none whatever.  At  length  I fancied  that  I could  hear  a singular  buzzing  or  humming sound — and  the  porter,  after listening  awhile,  declared  that  he  also

could  distinguish  it.  Presently  it grew  louder,  and  then  still  louder,  so that  we  could  have  no  doubt  that  the object  which  caused  it  was  approaching us.  At  length,  on  the  edge  of  the horizon,  we  discovered  a black  speck, which  rapidly  increased  in  size  until we  made  it  out  to  be  a vast  monster, swimming  with  a great  part  of  its body  above  the  surface  of  the  sea.  It came  toward  us  with  inconceivable swiftness,  throwing  up  huge  waves  of foam  around  its  breast,  and  illuminating all  that  part  of  the  sea  through which  it  passed,  with  a long  line  of fire  that  extended  far  off  into  the  distance.

“As  the  thing  drew  near  we  saw  it very  distinctly.  Its  length  was  equal to  that  of  three  of  the  loftiest  trees that  grow,  and  it  was  as  wide  as  the great  hall  of  audience  in  your  palace, 0 most  sublime  and  munificent  of  the califs.  Its  body,  which  was  unlike that  of  ordinary  fishes,  was  as  solid  as a rock,  and  of  a jetty  blackness throughout  all  that  portion  of  it which  floated  above  the  water  with the  exception  of  a narrow  blood-red streak  that  completely  begirdled  it. The  belly,  which  floated  beneath  the surface,  and  of  which  we  could  get only  a glimpse  now  and  then  as  the monster  rose  and  fell  with  the  billows, was  entirely  covered  with  metallic scales,  of  a color  like  that  of  the moon  in  misty  weather.  The  back was  flat  and  nearly  white,  and  from  it there  extended  upwards  of  six  spines, about  half  the  length  of  the  whole body.

“This  horrible  creature  had  no mouth  that  we  could  perceive ; but,  as if  to  make  up  for  this  deficiency,  it was  provided  with  at  least  four  score of  eyes,  that  protruded  from  their sockets  like  those  of  the  green  dragon-fly, and  were  arranged  all  around the  body  in  two  rows,  one  above  the other,  and  parallel  to  the  blood-red streak,  which  seemed  to  answer  the


WEIRD  TALES

purpose  of  an  eyebrow.  Two  or  three of  these  dreadful  eyes  were  much larger  than  the  others,  and  had  the appearance  of  solid  gold.

“Although  this  beast  approached  us, as  I have  before  said,  with  the  greatest rapidity,  it  must  have  been  moved altogether  by  necromancy — for  it  had neither  fins  like  a fish  nor  web-feet like  a duck,  nor  wings  like  the  seashell  which  is  blown  along  in  the  manner of  a vessel ; nor  yet  did  it  writhe itself  forward  as  do  the  eels.  Its  head and  its  tail  were  shaped  precisely alike,  only,  not  far  from  the  latter, were  two  small  holes  that  served  for nostrils,  and  through  which  the  monsted  puffed  its  thick  breath  with prodigious  violence,  and  with  a shrieking,  disagreeable  noise.

“Our  terror  at  beholding  this  hideous thing  was  very  great,  but  it  was even  surpassed  by  our  astonishment, when  upon  getting  a nearer  look,  we perceived  upon  the  creature’s  back  a vast  number  of  animals  about  the  size and  shape  of  men,  and  altogether much  resembling  them,  except  that they  wore  no  garments  (as  men  do), being  supplied  (by  nature,  no  doubt), with  an  ugly,  uncomfortable  covering, a good  deal  like  cloth,  but  fitting  so tight  to  the  skin,  as  to  render  the  poor wretches  laughably  awkward,  and  put them  apparently  to  severe  pain.  On the  very  tips  of  their  heads  were  certain square-looking  boxes,  which,  at first  sight,  I thought  might  have  been intended  to  answer  as  turbans,  but  I soon  discovered  that  they  were  excessively heavy  and  solid,  and  I therefore concluded  they  were  contrivances designed,  by  their  great  weight,  to keep  the  heads  of  the  animals  steady and  safe  upon  their  shoulders. Around  the  necks  of  the  creatures were  fastened  black  collars  (badges of  servitude,  no  doubt),  such  as  we keep  on  our  dogs,  only  much  wider and  infinitely  stiffer — so  that  it  was quite  impossible  for  these  poor  victims to  move  their  heads  in  any  direction without  moving  the  body  at the  same  time;  and  thus  they  were doomed  to  perpetual  contemplation of  their  noses — a view  puggish  and snubby  in  a wonderful  if  not  positively in  an  awful  degree.

“When  the  monster  had  nearly reached  the  shore  where  we  stood,  it suddenly  pushed  out  one  of  its  eyes to  a great  extent,  and  emitted  from  it a terrible  flash  of  fire,  accompanied by  a dense  cloud  of  smoke,  and  a noise  that  I can  compare  to  nothing but  thunder.  As  the  smoke  cleared away,  we  saw  one  of  the  odd  mananimals  standing  near  the  head  of  the large  beast  with  a trumpet  in  his hand,  through  which  (putting  it  to his  mouth)  he  presently  addressed  us in  loud,  harsh,  and  disagreeable  accents, that,  perhaps,  we  should  have mistaken  for  language  had  they  not come  altogether  through  the  nose.

“Being  thus  evidently  spoken  to, I was  at  a loss  how  to  reply,  as  I could in  no  manner  understand  what  was said ; and  in  this  difficulty  I turned  to the  porter,  who  wras  near  swooning through  affright,  and  demanded  of him  his  opinion  as  to  what  species  of monster  it  was,  what  it  wanted,  and what  kind  of  creatures  those  were  that so  swarmed  upon  its  back.  To  this  the porter  replied,  as  well  as  he  could  for trepidation,  that  he  had  once  before heard  of  this  sea-beast;  that  it  was  a cruel  demon,  with  bowels  of  sulfur and  blood  of  fire,  created  by  evil  genii as  the  means  of  inflicting  misery  upon mankind;  that  the  things  upon  its back  were  vermin,  such  as  sometimes infest  cats  and  dogs,  only  a little larger  and  more  savage;  and  that these  vermin  had  their  uses,  however evil — for,  through  the  torture  they caused  the  beast  by  their  nibblings and  stingings,  it  was  goaded  into  that degree  of  wrath  which  was  requisite to  make  it  roar  and  commit  ill,  and  so fulfil  the  vengeful  and  malicious  designs of  the  wicked  genii.

THE  THOUSAND  AND  SECOND  TALE


“This  account  determined  me  to take  to  my  heels,  and,  without  notice even  looking  behind  me,  I ran  at  full speed  up  into  the  hills,  while  the  porter ran  equally  fast,  although  nearly in  an  opposite  direction,  so  that,  by these  means,  he  finally  made  his  escape with  my  bundles,  of  which  I have no  doubt  he  took  excellent,  care— although this  is  a point  I can  not  determine, as  I do  not  remember  that  I ever  beheld  him  again.

“For  myself,  I was  so  hotly  pursued by  a swarm  of  the  men-vermin (who  had  come  to  the  shore  in  boats) that  I was  very  soon  overtaken, bound  hand  and  foot,  and  conveyed to  the  beast,  which  immediately  swam out  again  into  the  middle  of  the  sea.

“I  now  bitterly  repented  my  folly in  quitting  a comfortable  home  to peril  my  life  in  such  adventures  as this ; but  regret  being  useless,  I made the  best  of  my  condition,  and  exerted myself  to  secure  the  good-will  of  the man-animal  that  owned  the  trumpet, and  who  appeared  to  exercise  authority over  his  fellows.  I succeeded  so well  in  this  endeavor  that,  in  a few days,  the  creature  bestowed  upon  me various  tokens  of  his  favor,  and  in  the end  even  went  to  the  trouble  of  teaching me  the  rudiments  of  what  it  was vain  enough  to  denominate  its  language; so  that,  at  length,  I was  enabled to  converse  with  it  readily,  and came  to  make  it  comprehend  the  ardent desire  I had  of  seeing  the  world.

“ ‘Washish,  squashish,  squeak,  Sinbad,  hey  diddle  diddle,  grunt  unt grumble,  hiss,  fiss,  whiss said  he  to me,  one  day  after  dinner — but  I beg a thousand  pardons,  I had  forgotten that  your  majesty  is  not  conversant with  the  dialect  of  the  Cock-neighs (so  the  man-animals  were  called;  I presume  because  their  language formed  the  connecting  link  between that  of  the  horse  and  that  of  the rooster).  With  your  permission,  I will  translate.  ‘ Washish  squashish,’ and  so  forth: — that  is  to  say,  ‘I  am

happy  to  find,  my  dear  Sinhad,  that you  are  really  a very  excellent  fellow ; we  are  now  about  doing  a thing  which is  called  circumnavigating  the  globe; and  since  you  are  so  desirous  of  seeing the  world,  I will  strain  a point and  give  you  a free  passage  on  the back  of  the  beast.  ’ ’ ’

'\X7hen  the  lady  Scheherazade  had ’ ’ proceeded  thus  far,  relates  the Isitsbornot,  the  king  turned  over  from his  left  side  to  his  right,  and  said :

“It  is,  in  fact,  very  surprizing,  my dear  queen,  that  you  omitted,  hitherto, these  later  adventures  of  Sinbad. Do  you  know  I think  them  exceedingly. entertaining  and  strange?’’

The  king  having  thus  expressed himself,  we  are  told,  the  fair  Scheherazade resumed  her  history  in  the  following words :

“Sinbad  went  on  in  this  manner with  his  narrative — ‘I  thanked  the man-animal  for  its  kindness,  and  soon found  myself  very  much  at  home  on the  beast,  which  swam  at  a prodigious rate  through  the  ocean ; although  the surface  of  the  latter  is,  in  that  part  of the  world,  by  no  means  flat,  but round  like  a pomegranate,  so  that  we went — so  to  say — either  up  hill  or down  hill  all  the  time.  ’ ’ ’

“That,  I think,  was  very  singular,” interrupted  the  king.

“Nevertheless,  it  is  quite  true,”  replied Scheherazade.

“I  have  my  doubts,”  rejoined  the king;  “but,  pray,  be  so  good  as  to  go on  with  the  story.”

“I  will,”  said  the  queen.  “ ‘The beast,’  continued  Sinbad,  ‘swam,  as  I have  related,  up  hill  and  down  hill, until,  at  length,  we  arrived  at  an island,  many  hundreds  of  miles  in  circumference, hut  which,  nevertheless, had  been  built  in  the  middle  of  the sea  by  a colony  of  little  things  like caterpillars.’  ” 1

1 The  coralites.


WEIRD  TALES

“Hum!”  said  the  king.

“ ‘Leaving  this  island,’  said  Sinbad — (for  Scheherazade,  it  must  be  understood, took  no  notice  of  her  husband’s ill-mannered  ejaculation) — ‘leaving  this  island,  we  came  to  another where  the  forests  were  of  solid stone,  and  so  hard  that  they  shivered to  pieces  the  finest-tempered  axes with  which  we  endeavored  to  cut them  down.’  ”*

“Hum!”  said  the  king,  again;  but Scheherazade,  paying  him  no  attention, continued  in  the  language  of Sinbad.

“Passing  beyond  this  last  island, we  reached  a country  where  there  was a cave  that  ran  to  the  distance  of thirty  or  forty  miles  within  the  bowels of  the  earth,  and  that  contained  a greater  number  of  far  more  spacious and  more  magnificent  palaces  than are  to  be  found  in  all  Damascus  and Bagdad.  Prom  the  roofs  of  these palaces  there  hung  myriads  of  gems, like  diamonds,  but  larger  than  men; and  in  among  the  streets  of  towers and  pyramids  and  temples,  there flowed  immense  rivers  as  black  as ebony,  and  swarming  with  fish  that had  no  eyes.”2

“Hum!”  said  the  king.

“We  then  swam  into  a region  of  the sea  where  we  found  a lofty  mountain, down  whose  sides  there  streamed  torrents of  melted  metal,  some  of  which were  twelve  miles  wide  and  sixty miles  long  ;3  while  from  an  abyss on  the  summit  issued  so  vast  a quantity of  ashes  that  the  sun  was  entirely blotted  out  from  the  heavens,  and  it became  darker  than  the  darkest  midnight; so  that  when  we  were  even  at the  distance  of  a hundred  and  fifty miles  long;3  while  from  an  abyss possible  to  see  the  whitest  object,

1 One  o f the  most  remarkable  natural  curiosities in  Texas  is  a petrified  forest,  near  the  head  of Pasigno  river.  It  consists  of  several  hundred trees,  in  an  erect  position,  all  turned  to  Stone.

2 The  Mammoth  Cave  of  Kentucky.

8 In  Iceland,  1783.

however  close  we  held  it  to  our eyes.” 4 5 * 7

“Hum!”  said  the  king.

“After  quitting  this  coast,  the beast  continued  his  voyage  until  we met  with  a land  in  which  the  nature of  things  seemed  reversed — for  we here  saw  a great  lake,  at  the  bottom of  which,  more  than  a hundred  feet beneath  the  surface  of  the  water, there  flourished  in  full  leaf  a forest of  tall  and  luxuriant  trees.  ’ ’ 3

“Hoo!”  said  the  king.

“Some  hundred  miles  farther  on brought  us  to  a climate  where  the  atmosphere was  so  dense  as  to  sustain iron  or  steel,  just  as  our  own  does feather.”3

“Fiddle  de  dee,”  said  the  king.

“Proceeding  still  in  the  same  direction, we  presently  arrived  at  the most  magnificent  region  in  the  whole world.  Through  it  there  meandered a glorious  river  for  several  thousands of  miles.  This  river  was  of  unspeakable depth,  and  of  a transparency richer  than  that  of  amber.  It  was from  three  to  six  miles  in  width ; and its  banks,  which  rose  on  either  side to  twelve  hundred  feet  in  perpendicular height,  were  crowned  with ever-blooming  trees,  and  perpetual sweet-scented  flowers,  that  made  the whole  territory  one  gorgeous  garden; but  the  name  of  this  luxuriant  land was  the  Kingdom  of  Horror,  and  to enter  it  was  inevitable  death.  ’ ’ 3

“Humph ! ’ ’ said  the  king.

4 During  the  eruption  of  Hecla,  in  1766,  clouds of  this  kind  produced  such  a degree  of  darkness that,  at  Glaumba,  which  is  more  than  fifty  leagues from  the  mountain,  people  could  only  find  their way  by  groping.

5 In  1790,  in  the  Caraccas  during  an  earthquake a portion  of  the  granite  soil  sank  and  left  a lake eight  hundred  yards  in  diameter,  and  from  eighty to  a hundred  feet  deep.  It  was  a part  of  the forest  of  Aripao  which  sank,  and  the  trees  remained green  for  several  months  under  the  water.

0 The  hardest  steel  ever  manufactured  may, under  the  action  of  a blow-pipe,  be  reduced  to  an impalpable  powder,  which  will  float  readily  in  the atmospheric  air.

7 The  region  of  the  Niger.

THE  THOUSAND  AND  SECOND  TALE


“We  left  this  kingdom  in  great haste,  and,  after  some  days,  came  to another,  where  we  were  astonished  to perceive  myriads  of  monstrous  animals with  horns  resembling  scythes upon  their  heads.  These  hideous beasts  dig  for  themselves  vast  caverns in  the  soil,  of  a funnel  shape,  and line  the  sides  of  them  with  rocks,  so disposed  one  upon  the  other  that  they fall  instantly,  when  trodden  upon  by other  animals,  thus  precipitating them  into  the  monster’s  dens,  where their  blood  is  immediately  sucked, and  their  carcasses  afterwards  hurled contemptuously  out  to  an  immense distance  from  the  caverns  of  death.” 1 2

4 ‘ Pooh ! ’ ’ said  the  king.

“Continuing  our  progress,  we  perceived a district  with  vegetables  that grew  not  upon  any  soil,  but  in  the air.5  There  were  others  that  sprang from  the  substance  of  other  vegetables ;3  others  that  derived  their  substance from  the  bodies  of  living  animals;4 and  then  again,  there  were others  that  glowed  all  over  with  intense fire;6  and  others  that  moved from  place  to  place  at  pleasure,6  and what  was  still  more  wonderful,  we discovered  flowers  that  lived  and breathed  and  moved  their  limbs  at will,  and  had,  moreover,  the  detestable passion  of  mankind  for  enslaving other  creatures,  and  confining them  in  horrid  and  solitary  prisons

1 The  Myrmeleon — lion-ant.  The  term  “monster” is  equally  applicable  to  small  abnormal things  and  to  great,  while  such  epithets  as  “vast” are  merely  comparative.  The  cavern  of  the  myrmeleon is  vast  in  comparison  with  the  hole  of  the common  red  ant.  The  grain  of  silex  is  also  a "rock.”

2 The  Epidendron,  Flos  aeris,  of  the  family  of the  Orchideae,  grows  with  merely  the  surface  of its  roots  attached  to  a tree  or  other  object,  from which  it  derives  no  nutriment — subsisting  altogether upon  air.

2 The  Parasites,  such  as  the  wonderful  Raflesia arnaldii.

4 The  Ilotte,  a decided  caterpillar,  or  worm,  is found  growing  at  the  foot  of  the  Rata  tree,  with a plant  growing  out  of  its  head.

2 In  mines  and  natural  caves  we  find  a species of  cryptogamous  fungus  that  emits  an  intense phosphorescence.

'The  orchis,  scabius  and  valisneria.

until  the  fulfilment  of  appointed tasks.  ’ *

“Pshaw!”  said  the  king.

“Quitting  this  land,  we  soon  arrived at  another  in  which  the  bees and  the  birds  are  mathematicians  of two  very  difficult  problems,  they give  daily  instruction  in  the  science of  geometry  to  the  wise  men  of  the empire.  The  king  of  the  place  having offered  a reward  for  the  solution  of two  very  difficult  problems,  they were  solved  upon  the  spot — the  one by  the  bees,  and  the  other  by  the birds ; but  the  king  keeping  their  solution a secret,  it  was  only  after  the most  profound  researches  and  labor, and  the  writing  of  an  infinity  of  big books,  during  a long  series  of  years, that  the  men-mathematicians  at length  arrived  at  the  identical  solutions which  had  been  given  upon  the spot  by  the  bees  and  by  the  birds.  ’ *

“Oh  my!”  said  the  king.

“ VX7e  had  scarcely  lost  sight  of

* ' this  empire  when  we  found  ourselves close  upon  another,  from  whose shores  there  flew  over  our  heads  a flock  of  fowls  a mile  in  breadth,  and two  hundred  and  forty  miles  long; so  that,  although  they  flew  a mile  dur7 Aristolochia  Clematitis .

8 The  bees  construct  their  cells  with  just  such sides,  in  just  such  number,  and  at  just  such  inclinations, as  it  has  been  demonstrated  (in  a problem  involving  the  profoundest  mathematical principles)  are  the  very  sides,  in  the  very  number, and  at  the  very  angles,  which  will  afford the  creatures  the  most  room  that  is  compatible with  the  greatest  stability  of  structure.

During  the  latter  part  of  the  18th  century,  the question  arose  among  mathematicians — “to  determine the  best  form  that  can  be  given  to  the sails  of  a windmill,  accordng  to  their  varying distances  from  the  revolving  vanes,  and  likewise from  the  centers  of  the  revolution.”  This  is  an excessively  complex  problem,  for  it  is,  in  other words,  to  find  the  best  possible  position  at  an infinity  of  varied  distances,  and  at  an  infinity  of points  on  the  arm.  There  were  a thousand  futile attempts  to  answer  the  query  on  the  part  of  the most  illustrious  mathematicians ; and  when,  at length,  an  undeniable  solution  was  discovered, men  found  that  the  wings  of  a bird  had  given  it with  absolute  precision  ever  since  the  first  bird had  traversed  the  air.


WEIRD  TALES

ing  every  minute,  it  required  no  less than  four  hours  for  the  whole  flock  to pass  over  us — in  which  there  were several  millions  of  millions  of  fowl.”1

“Oh  fy!”  said  the  king.

“No  sooner  had  we  got  rid  of  these birds,  which  occasioned  us  great  annoyance, than  we  were  terrified  by the  appearance  of  a fowl  of  another kind,  and  infinitely  larger  than  even the  rocs  which  I met  in  my  former voyages;  for  it  was  bigger  than  the biggest  of  the  domes  on  your  seraglio, O most  Munificent  of  Califs.  This terrible  fowl  had  no  head  that  we could  perceive,  but  was  fashioned  entirely of  belly,  which  was  of  a prodigious fatness  and  roundness,  of  a softlooking  substance,  smooth,  shining and  striped  with  various  colors.  In  its talons,  the  monster  was  bearing  away to  its  eyrie  in  the  heavens,  a house from  which  it  had  knocked  off  the roof,  and  in  the  interior  of  which  we distinctly  saw  human  beings,  who, beyond  doubt,  were  in  a state  of frightful  despair  at  the  horrible  fate which  awaited  them.  We  shouted with  all  our  might,  in  the  hope  of frightening  the  bird  into  letting  go of  its  prey ; but  it  merely  gave  a snort or  puff,  as  if  of  rage,  and  then  let  fall upon  our  heads  a heavy  sack  which proved  to  be  filled  with  sand ! ’ ’

“Stuff!”  said  the  king.

“It  was  just  after  this  adventure that  we  encountered  a continent  of immense  extent  and  prodigious  solidity, but  which,  nevertheless,  was  supported entirely  upon  the  back  of  a sky-blue  cow  that  had  no  fewer  than four  hundred  horns.”2

‘‘That,  now,  I believe,”  said  the

1 “He  observed  a flock  of  pigeons  passing  betwixt Frankfort  and  the  Indian  territory,  one mile  at  least  in  breadth ; it  took  up  four  hours in  passing ; which,  at  the  rate  of  one  mile  per minute,  gives  a length  of  240  miles ; and,  supposing three  pigeons  to  each  square  yard,  gives 2,230,272,000  pigeons.” — Travels  in  Canada  and the  United  States,  by  Lieut.  F.  Hall.

2 “The  earth  is  upheld  by  a cow  of  a blue  color,

having  horns  four  hundred  in  number.” — Sale’s Koran.

king,  because  I have  read  something of  the  kind  before,  in  a book.”

“We  passed  immediately  beneath this  continent,  swimming  in  between the  legs  of  the  cow,  and,  after  some hours,  found  ourselves  in  a wonderful country  indeed,  which,  I was  informed by  the  man-animal,  was  his own  native  land,  inhabited  by  things of  his  own  species.  This  elevated  the man-animal  very  much  in  my  esteem, and  in  fact  I now  began  to  feel ashamed  of  the  contemptuous  familiarity with  which  I had  treated  him; for  I found  that  the  man-animals  in general  were  a nation  of  the  most powerful  magicians,  who  lived  with worms  in  tseir  brains,3  which,  no doubt,  served  to  stimulate  them  by their  painful  writhings  and  wrigglings  to  the  most  miraculous  efforts of  imagination.”

“Nonsense!”  said  the  king.

“Among  the  magicians  were  domesticated several  animals  of  very singular  kinds;  for  example,  there was  a huge  horse  whose  bones  were iron  and  whose  blood  was  boiling water.  In  place  of  corn,  he  had  black stones  for  his  usual  food ; and  yet,  in spite  of  so  hard  a diet,  he  was  so strong  and  swift  that  he  could  drag a load  more  weighty  than  the  grandest temple  in  this  city,  at  a rate  surpassing that  of  the  flight  of  most birds.  ’ ’

“Twattle!”  said  the  king.

“I  saw,  also,  among  these  people  a hen  without  feathers,  but  bigger  than a camel ; instead  of  flesh  she  had  iron and  brick;  her  blood,  like  that  of  the horse  (to  whom,  in  fact,  she  was nearly  related),  was  boiling  water; and  like  him  she  ate  nothing  but  wood or  black  stones.  This  hen  brought forth  very  frequently  a hundred chickens  in  a day;  and,  after  birth, they  took  up  their  residence  for  sev3  The  Entozoa,  or  intestinal  worms,  have  repeatedly been  observed  in  the  muscles,  and  in  the cerebral  substance  of  men.


THE  THOUSAND  AND  SECOND  TALE


eral  weeks  within  the  stomach  of  their mother.”

“Fallal!”  said  the  king.

“One  of  this  nation  of  mighty  conjurors created  a man  out  of  brass  and wood  and  leather,  and  endowed  him with  such  ingenuity  that  he  would have  beaten  at  chess  all  the  race  of mankind  with  the  exception  of  the great  Calif,  Haroun  Alraschid.1  Another of  these  magi  constructed  (of like  material)  a creature  that  put  to shame  even  the  genius  of  him  who made  it ; for  so  great  were  its  reasoning powers  that,  in  a second,  it  performed calculations  of  so  vast  an  extent that  they  would  have  required the  united  labor  of  fifty  thousand fleshy  men  for  a year.8  But  a still more  wonderful  conjuror  fashioned for  himself  a mighty  thing  that  was neither  man  nor  beast,  but  which  had brains  of  lead,  intermixed  with  a black  matter  like  pitch,  and  fingers that  it  employed  with  such  incredible speed  and  dexterity  that  it  would have  had  no  trouble  in  writing  out twenty  thousand  copies  of  the  Koran in  an  hour ; and  this  with  so  exquisite a precision,  that,  in  all  the  copies  there should  not  be  found  one  to  vary  from another  by  the  breadth  of  the  finest hair.  This  thing  was  of  prodigious strength,  so  that  it  erected  or  overthrew the  mightiest  empires  at  a breath ; but  its  powers  were  exercised equally  for  evil  and  for  good.”

“Ridiculous!”  said  the  king.

“Among  this  nation  of  necromancers there  was  also  one  who  had  in his  veins  the  blood  of  the  salamanders; for  he  made  no  scruple  of  sitting down  to  smoke  his  chibouc  in  a red-hot  oven  until  his  dinner  was thoroughly  roasted  upon  its  floor.3 10 Another  had  the  faculty  of  Converting the  common  metals  into  gold.

1 Maelzel’s  Automaton  Chess-player.

2 Babbage’s  Calculating  Machine.

2 Chabert,  and  since  him,  a hundred  others.

without  even  looking  at  them  during the  process.4  Another  had  such  a delicacy of  touch  that  he  made  a wire  so fine  as  to  bo  invisible.5 * 7  Another  had such  quickness  of  perception  that  he counted  all  the  separate  motions  of an  elastic  body,  while  it  was  springing backward  and  forward  at  the  rate of  nine  hundred  millions  of  times  in a second.” 8

“Absurd!”  said  the  king.

“Another  of  these  magicians,  by means  of  a fluid  that  nobody  ever  yet saw,  could  make  the  corpses  of  his friends  brandish  their  arms,  kick  out their  legs,  fight,  or  even  get  up  and dance  at  his  will.7  Another  had  cultivated his  voice  to  so  great  an  extent that  he  could  have  made  himself heard  from  one  end  of  the  world  to the  other.8  Another  had  so  long  an arm  that  he  could  sit  down  in  Damascus and  indite  a letter  at  Bagdad— or indeed  at  any  distance  whatsoever/ Another  commanded  the  lightning to  come  down  to  him  out  of  the  heavens, and  it  came  at  his  call ; and served  him  for  a plaything  when  it came.  Another  took  two  loud  sounds and  out  of  them  made  a silence.  Another constructed  a deep  darkness out  of  two  brilliant  lights.18  Another made  ice  in  a red-hot  furnace.11  An4 The  Electrotype.

5 Wollaston  made  of  platinum  for  the  field  of view  in  a telescope  a wire  one  eighteen-thousandth part  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  It  could  be seen  only  by  means  of  the  microscope.

• Newton  demonstrated  that  the  retina  beneath the  influence  of  the  violet  ray  of  the  spectrum,  vibrated 900,000,000  times  in  a second.

7 The  Voltaic  pile.

8 The  Electro  Telegraph  Printing  Apparatus.

9 The  Electro  telegraph  transmits  intelligence instantaneously — at  least  so  far  as  regards  any distance  upon  the  earth.

10  Common  experiments  in  natural  philosophy.

11  Place  a platina  crucible  over  a spirit  lamp, and  keep  it  a red  heat;  pour  in  some  sulfuric acid,  which,  though  the  most  volatile  of^bodies at  a common  temperature,  will  be  found  to  become completely  fixed  in  a hot  crucible,  and  not  a drop  evaporates — being  surrounded  by  an  atmosphere of  its  own,  it  does  not,  in  fact,  touch  the sides.  A few  drops  of  water  are  now  introduced, when  the  acid,  immediately  coming  in  contact with  the  heated  sides  of  the  crucible  flies  off  in sulfurous  acid  vapor,  and  so  rapid  is  its  progress, that  the  caloric  of  the  water  passes  off  with  it, which  falls  a lump  of  ice  to’  the  bottom : by taking  advantage  of  the  moment  before  it  is allowed  to  re-melt,  it  may  be  turned  out  a lump of  ice  from  a red-hot  vessel.


WEIRD  TALES

other  directed  the  sun  to  paint  his portrait,  and  the  sun  did.’  Another took  this  luminary  with  the  moon and  the  planets,  and  having  first weighed  them  with  scrupulous  accuracy, probed  into  their  depths  and found  out  the  solidity  of  the  substance of  which  they  are  made.  But the  whole  nation  is,  indeed,  of  so surprizing  a necromantic  ability,  that not  even  their  infants,  nor  their  commonest cats  and  dogs,  have  any  difficulty in  seeing  objects  that  do  not exist  at  all,  or  that  for  twenty  millions of  years  before  the  birth  of  the nation  itself  had  been  blotted  out from  the  face  of  creation.  ’ ’1  2

“Preposterous!”  said  the  king.

“The  wives  and  daughters  of  these incomparably  great  and  wise  magi,” continued  Scheherazade,  without being  in  any  manner  disturbed  by these  frequent  and  most  ungentlemanly  interruptions  on  the  part  of her  husband — “the  wives  and  daughters of  these  eminent  conjurers  are everything  that  is  accomplished  and refined ; and  would  be  everything  that is  interesting  and  beautiful,  but  for an  unhappy  fatality  that  besets  them, and  from  which  not  even  the  miraculous powers  of  their  husbands  and fathers  has,  hitherto,  been  adequate to  save.  Some  fatalities  come  in  certain shapes,  and  some  in  others — but this  of  which  I speak  has  come  in  the shape  of  a crochet.  ’ ’

1 The  camera.

2 Although  light  travels  186,000  miles  in  a second, the  distance  of  61  Cygni  (the  only  star  whose distance  is  ascertained)  is  so  inconceivably  great, that  its  rays  would  require  more  than  ten  years to  reach  the  earth.  For  stars  beyond  this,  20 — or  even  1,000  years — would  be  a moderate  estimate. Thus,  if  they  had  been  annihilated  20,  or 1,000  years  ago,  we  might  still  see  them  today by  the  light  which  started  from  their  surfaces  20 or  1,000  years  in  the  past  time.

“A  what?”  said  the  king.

“A  crochet,”  said  Scheherazade. “One  of  the  evil  genii,  who  are  perpetually on  the  watch  to  inflict  ill,  has put  it  into  the  heads  of  these  accomplished ladies  that  the  thing  which  we describe  as  personal  beauty  consists altogether  in  the  protuberance  of  the region  which  lies  not  very  far  below the  small  of  the  back.  Perfection  of loveliness,  they  say,  is  in  the  direct ratio  of  the  extent  of  this  lump.  Having been  long  possessed  of  this  idea, and  bolsters  being  cheap  in  that  country, the  days  have  long  gone  by  since it  was  possible  to  distinguish  a woman from  a dromedary ”

“Stop!”  said  the  king — “I  can’t stand  that,  and  I won’t.  You  have already  given  me  a dreadful  headache with  your  lies.  The  day,  too,  I perceive,  is  beginning  to  break.  How long  have  we  been  married  ? — my  con- • science  is  getting  to  be  troublesome again.  And  then  that  dromedary touch— do  you  take  me  for  a fool? Upon  the  whole,  you  might  as  well get  up  and  be  throttled.”

These  words,  as  I learn  from  the Isitsdornot,  both  grieved  and  astonished Scheherazade ; but,  as  she  knew the  king  to  be  a man  of  scrupulous integrity,  and  quite  unlikely  to  forfeit his  word,  she  submitted  to  her fate  with  a good  grace.  She  derived, however,  great  consolation  (during the  tightening  of  the  bowstring)  from the  reflection  that  much  of  the  history remained  still  untold,  and  that,  the petulance  of  her  brute  of  a husband had  reaped  for  him  a most  righteous reward,  in  depriving  him  of  many inconceivable  adventures.

THE  HAUNTED  MANSION


The  Haunted  Mansion

By  MARIETTA  HAWLEY

It  stands  alone  on  a haunted  shore,

With  curious  words  of  a deathless  lore On  its  massive  gate  empearled;

And  its  carefully-guarded,  mystic  key Hideth  its  solemn  mystery

From  the  seeking  eyes  of  the  world.

And  pictures  out  of  each  haunted  room Up  through  the  ghostly  shadows  loom And  gleam  with  a spectral  light;

Pictures  lit  with  a radiant  glow,

And  some  that  image  such  desolate  wo That  weeping  you  turn  from  the  sight.

And  oft  do  its  stately  walls  repeat Echoes  of  music  wildly  sweet,

Swelling  to  gladness  high;

With  mournful  ballads  of  ancient  time,

And  funeral  hymns — and  a nursery  rime,

Dying  away  in  a sigh.

And  oft  in  the  silence  of  midnight  air You  hear  on  its  stately  winding-stair The  echoes  of  fairy  feet;

Gentle  footsteps,  that  lightly  fall Through  the  enchanted  castle-hall And  up  in  the  golden  street.

And  still  in  a dark,  forsaken  tower,

Crowned  with  a withered  cypress-flower,

Is  a bowed  head  turned  away;

A face  like  carved  marble  white,

Sweet  eyes  drooping  away  from  the  light,

Shunning  the  eye  of  day.

Mysteries  strange  its  still  walls  keep;

Strange  are  the  crowds  that  through  it  sweep,

Walking  by  night  and  day;

But  evermore  will  the  castle-hall Echo  their  footsteps’  phantom  fall,

Till  its  walls  shall  crumble  away.


WEIRD  TALES

NEXT  MONTH

THE  INFIDEL’S DAUGHTER

By  E.  HOFFMANN  PRICE

T andon  was  greedy  for  the  lips ^ of  the  Infidel’s  Daughter,  for the  Hundred  and  One  Strange Kisses  that  she  bestowed  upon those  she  loved,  though  he  knew that  the  Hundred  and  First  Kiss would  consume  him  to  ashes.

\ tale  of  strange  magic,  of  a ziggurat  built  in  the  heart  of Feringhistan,  and  the  avatar  of  a beautiful  maiden  who  danced  by moonlight  on  the  mound  of  Koyunjik.  The  signs  of  the  zodiac  rose to  their  predestined  positions,  and Ismeddin  the  old  darvish  strove  to protect  Landon  from  the  wiles  of Sarpanit,  whom  he  had  called  from across  the  Border.  A tale  that breathes  the  exotic  perfumes  and weird  witchery  of  the  Orient.  It will  be  published  complete  in  the

December  issue  of

WEIRD  TALES

On  Sale  November  1 Clip  and  Mail  this  coupon  today/

WEIRD  TALES 450  E.  Ohio  St.,

Chicago,  Hi.

Enclosed  find  U for  special  5 months  subscription to  “Weird  Tales”  to  begin  with the  December  issue.  (Special  offer  void  unless remittance  is  accompanied  by  coupon).

Name

Address

City State

The  Invading Horde

( Continued  from  page  608)

rushing  hordes  of  the  enemy  monopters.

But  I reckoned  without  the  deep wisdom  of  the  unknown  enemy  commander who  led  the  mighty  offensive. For  I found  that  even  as  Lona  and I could  not  get  out  of  this  great  cone of  light,  neither  could  our  aerial messages!  We  were  as  separated from  the  City  of  the  East  as  if  we  had been  in  the  very  bowels  of  the  earth. The  corps  in  charge  of  the  Invisible Frontier  would  never  get  our  message, and  before  they  could  see  what was  happening  it  would  be  too  late — and  thus  it  turned  out.

Even  as  the  hordes,  carrying  a wall  of  dark  cloud  ahead  of  them, climbed  into  the  skies,  high  above  the ceiling  of  our  monopters,  I thought of  another  way.  Lona  and  I were both  perfect  physical  specimens. Perhaps  we  could  endure  the  terrific coldness  of  the  atmosphere  above  the ordinary  ceiling  of  our  monopters — and  win  our  way  to  freedom  by  flying out  at  the  top  of  the  cone  of  light.

I shouted  to  Lona,  who  nodded wearily.  We  lifted  straight  upward with  all  the  speed  we  could  get  from our  monopters,  nor  did  we  even slacken  pace  until  we  had  attained  a height  twenty  thousand  feet  greater than  the  accepted  "ceiling”  of  our monopters ; but  the  cone  of  light stretched  upward  away  from  us  still, seeming  to  reach  the  very  stars — and at  an  elevation  of  eighty  thousand feet  there  still  seemed  no  way  of winning  free,  and  we  could  climb  no higher.  The  air  would  not  sustain the  weight  of  our  monopters,  and from  this  grand  and  awful  height  we were  compelled  to  remain  and  watch the  slaughter  of  our  people.

The  clouds  which  went  with  the ( Continued  on  page  710)

I Was  Afraid  of  This New  Way  to  Learn  Music

— Until  / Found  It  Was  Easy  As  A-B- C

Then  I Gave  My  Husband the  Surprise  of  His  Life

“t-^ON’T  be  silly,  Mary.  You’re I M perfectly  foolish  to  believe  you can  learn  to  play  music  by  that method.  You  are  silly  to even  think  about  it.  Why,  it claims  to  teach  music  in  half the  usual  time  and  without a teacher.  It’s  impossible.”

That  is  how  my  husband felt  when  I showed  him  an ad  telling  about  a new  way to  learn  music.  But  how  I hated  to  give  up  my  new  hope of  learning  to  play  the  piano. When  I heard  others  playing, I envied  them  so  that  it  almost spoiled  the  pleasure  of  the  music  for me.  For  they  could  entertain  their  friends and  family  . . . they  were  musicians.  I had  to  be  satisfied  with  only  hearing  music.

I was  so  disappointed.  I felt  very  bitter as  I put  away  the  magazine  containing  the advertisment.  For  a week  I resisted  the temptation  to  look  at  it  again,  but  finally I couldn’t  keep  from  “peeking”  at  it.  It fascinated  me  so  much  that  finally,  halffrightened,  half-enthusiastic,  I wrote  to  the U.  S.  School  of  Music — without  letting  my husband  know.

Imagine  my  joy  when  the  lessons  started and  I found  that  they  were  as  easy  as  A,  B, C.  Why,  a mere  child  could  master  them! My  progress  was  wonderfully  rapid  and  before I realized  it,  I was  rendering  selections which  pupils  who  study  with  private  teachers for  years  can’t  play.  For  thru  this  shortcut method,  all  the  difficult,  tiresome  parts of  music  have  been  eliminated  and  the  playing of  melodies  has  been  reduced  to  a simplicity which  anyone  can  follow  with  ease.

Finally  I decided to  play  for  Jack, and  show  him  what a “crazy  course”  had taught  me.  So  one night  when  he  was sitting  reading,  I went  casually  over to  the  piano  and started  playing  a lovely  song.  Words can’t  describe  his  astonishment. “Why  . . . why”  ...  he  floundered.  T simply  smiled  and  went  on  playing.  But soon  Jack  insisted  that  I tell  him  where  I had learned  . . . when  . . . how?  So  I told  of  my secret.

One  day  not  long  after  my  husband  came  to  me and  said,  “Mary,  don't  laugh,  but  I want  to  try learning  to  play  the  violin  by  that  wonderful method.  You  certainly  proved  to  me  that  it  is  a good  way  to  learn  music."

So  only  a few  months  later  Jack  and  I were playing  together.  Now  our  musical  evenings  are a marvelous  success.  Every  one  compliments  us. and  we  are  flooded  with  invitations.  Music  has simply  meant  everything  to  us.  It  has  given  us Popularity  I Fun ! Happiness !

If  you,  too,  like  music — then  write  to  the  U.  S. School  of  Music  for  a copy  of  the  booklet  “Music Lessons  in  Your  Own  Home,"  together  with  a Demonstration  Lesson,  explaining  this  wonderful new  easy  method.

Don’t  hesitate  because  you  think  you  have  no talent.  Thousands  of  successful  students  never dreamed  they  possessed  musical  ability  until  it was  revealed  to  them  by  a wonderful  “Musical Ability  Test."  You,  too,  can  learn  to  play  your favorite  instrument  by  note  thru  this  short-cut method.  Send  the  coupon.  The  Demonstration Lesson  showing  how  they  teach,  will  come  AT ONCE.  Address  the  U.  S.  School  of  Music.  4611 Brunswick  Building,  New  York.  Instruments  supplied when  needed,  cash  or  credit.

U.  S.  SCHOOL  OF  MUSIC

4611  Brunswick  Bldg.,  New  York  City

Please  send  me  your  free  book,  “Music  Lessons  in  Your Own  Home,"  with  Introduction  by  Dr.  Frank  Crane,  Demonstration Lesson  and  particulars  of  your  offer.  I am interested  in  the  following  course:

Have  you  above  instruments  f

Name

(Please  write  plainly)

Address

City  State.

Pick  Your  Course

Piano Organ Violin Brums  and Traps Mandolin Clarinet Flute

Saxophone

'Cello

Voice  Speech  Culture Automatic  Finger  Control Piano  Accordion Banjo  (5-String,  Plectrum or  Tenor)

Harmony  and Composition Sight  Singing Ukulele Guitar Hawaiian Steel  Guitar Harp Cornet Piccolo

Kindly  mention  this  magazine  when  answering  advertisements


WEIRD  TALES

What  Made  His Hair  Grow?

Read  His  Letter  for  the  Answer

"Two  years  ago I was  bald  all  over the  top  of  my  head. "I  felt  ashamed

for  people  to  see  my head.  1 tried  different preparations, bat  they  did  no good.  I remained bald,  until  I used Kotalko.

"New  hair  eame almost  Immediately and  kept  on growing.  In  a short time  I had  a splendid head  of  hair, Which  has  been  perfect ever  since — and  no  return  of the  baldness.”

This  verified  statement  is  by  Mr.  H.  A.  Wild.  He fa  but  one  of  the  big  legion  of  users  of  Kotalko  who voluntarily  attest  it  has  stopped  falling  hair,  eliminated dandruff  or  aided  new,  luxuriant  hair  growth. KOTALKO  is  sold  by  busy  druggists  everywhere.

FREE  Trial  Box

To  prove  the  efficacy  of  'Kotalko,  for  men’s, women’s  and  children’s  hair,  the  producers  are giving  Proof  Boxes.  Use  coupon  or  write,  to

KOTAL  CO.,  A-611,  Station  L,  New  York

Please  send  me  FREE  Proof  Box  of  KOTALKO

Name

Address

BIG  WEEKLY  ISSUES

w o!  The  Pathfinder,  Araerlea’s  liveliest,  most  unique,  most r entertaining  weekly  magazine.  Fullo*1 wit,  humor,  information,  news  events,  picres,  special  features,  best  fiction.  Once  yc

1 THE  PATHFINDER  you  will  never  do  wlth-^B r out  It.  Send  your  name  and  10  cents  IMMEDIATELY!^

'THE  PATHFINDER.  Dept.  6-108.  WASHINGTON,  D.  C.

AGENTS  WANTED  TO  ADVERTISE  OUR goods  and  distribute  free  samples  to  consumers: 90c  an  hour;  write  for  full  particulars. American  Products  Co.t  9161  Monmouth,  Cincinnati, Ohio.

BOOKS:  SCIENTIFIC  ROMANCES  AND

Weird  Novels.  Largest  collection  in  America. Interesting  catalogue  for  2c  stamp.  Fresno Book  Shop,  1943  Tuolumne  St.,  Fresno,  Calif.

PSYCHIC  READING  BY  MAIL.  WILL  ANswer  questions  and  consider  your  problems. Send  birthdate  $1.  Anna  Friedrich,  52  Lilly St.,  Florence,  Mass.

INVENTIONS  COMMERCIALIZED.  PATented  or  Unpatented.  Write  Adam  Fisher  Mfg. Co.,  551  Enright,  St.  Louis.  Mo.

225  MOVIE  STARS  PHOTOGRAPHS,  CATAlog  free.  BELMONT  SHOPPE,  Ta-39,  Downers Grove,  Illinois.

SONG  POEM  WRITERS  WRITE  HIBBELER,

D-156,  2104  N.  Keystone  Ave.,  Chicago.

( Continued  from  page  708)

enemy  monopters  fell  away  from their  myriad  numbers  when  they  had reached  the  airways  above  City  of  the East,  and  the  monopters,  in  plain sight  now,  lifted  skyward  toward our  hordes  of  defenseless  people  in and  above  Air  Lane  50,000 — and  before the  corps  in  charge  of  the  Invisible Frontier  could  have  seen what  was  happening,  the  enemy monopters  were  among  our  monopters, so  that  the  rays  from  the  Invisible Frontier  would  now  have  meant  at the  same  time  the  wholesale  slaughter ■of  our  own  people.  There  was  a chance  that  our  people  might  win  the fight  in  the  air,  I thought,  and  knew that  the  department  heads  of  the  Invisible Frontier  must  have  thought likewise.

But  it  was  hopeless.  The  enemy fell  by  thousands,  yes ; but  where  one enemy  fell,  fell  a hundred  of  our people,  free  of  their  monopters, which  had  been  burned  away  from around  them  by  the  mysterious  rays used  by  the  enemy,  the  occupants themselves  burned  to  cinders  even  before they  fell.  Downward-drifting moths,  their  wings  singed,  their bodies  lifeless  and  shapeless,  soulless and  lost ! Black  myriads,  like feathers  drifting  earthward  from  a horizon-to-horizon  flock  of  crows which  is  set  upon  by  millions  upon millions  of  fighting  sparrows.  The black  clouds  under  which  the  enemy had  launched  its  attack  settled  about the  spires  of  the  skyscrapers — and those  spires  vanished  in  a breath,  disintegrated into  invisible  powder  before our  eyes,  while  our  searchlights faded  and  died.  Their  operators,  I knew  instinctively,  had  died  at  their posts  of  duty,  one  by  one.

From  our  place  of  imprisonment inside  that  cone,  shut  off  from  all  our precious  world,  we  witnessed  the  colossal destruction  of  the  inhabitants of  City  of  the  East.

We  watched  until  the  last  inhabWEIRD  TALES


itants  of  City  of  the  East  fell  into  the City  to  vanish  in  a breath  as  their falling  cinder-bodies  encountered  the  . black  clouds  which  hung  about  the skyscrapers.  Then  the  enemy  marshaled forces  for  the  return  to  the submarines.

Dakkness  finally  settled  over  all that  remained  of  City  of  the East.  Of  all  that  vast  myriad  of white  men  and  women,  only  Lona and  I remained.  But  still  the  cone held  us;  and  we  were  being  drawn downward !

Looking  up  we  knew  the  reason, for  the  cone  was  narrowing  above  us to  become  an  ellipse,  narrowing  and retracting,  drawing  us  in  and  down toward  that  pin-point  of  light  whence came  the  light  of  the  cone.

Swifter  and  swifter  we  dropped downward,  forced  by  the  narrowing, constricting  cone,  until  we  stood  at last  on  the  deck  of  that  big  submarine we  had  first  seen.

Here  men  of  color  awaited  us. They  caught  and  removed  us  from our  monopters,  carried  us  into  the heart  of  the  metal  monster,  to  stand before  the  grim  commander  of  the  invading Aliens — a great  lump  of  a yellow  man  whose  brow,  smooth  as  an egg,  was  so  ponderous  as  to  be  terrible, housing,  plainly  evident,  such  a brain  as  neither  Lona  nor  I had  ever before  encountered.

“I  am  sorry,”  he  said  in  our language;  “but  it  was  all  inevitable! The  fortunes  of  war,  my  friends,  and you  have  lost!  As  you  are  the  last representatives  of  your  race,  I wish to  express  to  you  the  high  respect  in which  I have  held  you,  and  my  sorrow that  there  was  no  half-way ground  upon  which  we  could  all meet.  It  was  either  you  or  we — and we  have  triumphed.  As  prisoners  of war  you  are  to  be  executed ; but  as  a brave  man  and  woman,  who,  I see, love  each  other,  I leave  you  to  choose the  manner  of  your  own  departure

“Real  Money  in the  Bank”

“Think  of  it,  Nell — $460!  And  to  think that  just  a few  months  ago  we  couldn’t  save a cent.

“Remember  the  night  we  talked  it  over and  you  persuaded  me  to  send  in  that  I.  C.  S. coupon?  It  was  the  best  investment  we ever  made.

“The  boss  says  if  I keep  on  showing  the same  interest  in  my  work  there  will  be  a still  better  position  open  for  me  soon.  It certainly  does  pay  to  study  in  spare  time.”

Thousands  of  men  now  know  the  joy  of  happy, prosperous  homes  because  they  let  the  International Correspondence  Schools  prepare  them  in  spare  time lor  bigger  work.

One  hour  after  supper  each  night,  spent  with  the I.  C.  S.  in  the  quiet  of  your  home,  will  prepare  you ior  the  position  you  want  in  the  work  you  like  best.

This  is  all  we  ask:  Without  cost  or  obligation,  put It  up  to  us  to  prove  how  we  can  help  you.

Mail  This  Coupon  Today for  Free  Booklet

INTERNATIONAL  CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOLS

“ The  Universal  University”

Box  7329,  Scranton,  Penna.

Without  cost  or  obligation,  please  send  me  a copy  of  your  booklet, “Who  Wins  and  Why,”  and  full  particulars  about  the  course before  which  I have  marked  X In  the  list  below:

BUSINESS  TRAINING  COURSES

□ Salesmanship

□ Advertising Better  Letters

□Show  Card  Lettering □Stenography  and  Typing "□English

□ Civil  Service □Railway  Mail  Clerk

□ Common  School  Subjects

□ High  School  Subjects □Illustrating  □

Cartooning

B Business  Management Industrial  Management □Personnel  Organization □Traffic  Management □Business  Law

□Banking  and  Finance  Management □ Accountancy  (Including  C.P.A.)

□ Nicholson  Cost  Accounting □ Bookkeeping □Private  Secretary □Spanish  □ French

TECHNICAL  AND  INDUSTRIAL  COURSES 3 Electrical  Engineering  □Architect

3 Electric  Lighting  □ Architects'  Blueprints

3 Mechanical  Engineer  □Contractor  and  Builder

3Mechanical  Draftsman  □Architectural  Draftsman

□Machine  Shop  Practice  QConcrete  Builder

§ Railroad  Positions  □ Structural  Engineer

Gas  Engine  Operating  nchemistry  □ Pharmacy

Civil  Engineer  □Automobile  Work

□ Surveying  and  Mapping  □ Airplane  Engines

B Metallurgy  □ Mining  □Agriculture  □ Navigation

Steam  Engineering  □Mathematics  □ Radio

Name

Street  Address.. City

..State..


WEIRD  TALES

A PERFECT  LOOKING  NOSE

CAN  EASILY  BE  YOURS

Trados  Modal  No.  25  corrects  now all  ill-shapod  noses  quickly,  painlessly, permanently  and  comfortably  at  home. It  is  the  only  noseshaping  appliance  of  precise adjustment  and  a safe  and  guaranteed patent  device  that  will  actually  give  you  a perfect  lookiug  nose.  Over  90, U00  satisfied users.  For  years  recommended  by  physicians. 16  years  of  experience  in  manufacturing Nose  Shapers  is  at  your  service. Model  25  Junior  for  children.

Awarded  Prize  Medal  by  big  Wembley Exposition,  London.  England.  Write  for testimonials  and  free  booklet,  which  tells you  how  to  obtain  a perfect  looking  nose.

M.  TRILETY.  Pioneer  Noseshaping  Specialist Dept.  2932  Binghamton,  N.  Y.

No  talent  or  expcnci  .

H Fascinating  work.  Pays  big  money.  / f Complete  instruction  DOok  TELLo  /i ABOUT:  Alphabets.  Colors,  HOW TO  MIX  PAINTS.  Show  Cards,  u ■Window  Board  and  Wall  Signs,

* Ready  made  letters.  Gilding,  m TRICKS  OF  THE  TRADE,  also

inio&o  or  XIXEJ  inm/ia.mov

gives  100  Alphabets  and  Designs.  Book I Bound  in  flexible  lmt.  leather,  gold  edges, U**  ri  - n and  four  ball  bearing  Show  Cai

^NWBRriii  Show  Card Book  and  Pen3  sent  postpaid

1\  IM  earn  mm  immediately-

-'ll  ll'7  WE  FURNISH  EQUIPMENTTO  !

What  Do  You  Want?

Whatever  it  is  we  can  help  you  get  it.  Just give  us  the  chance  by  writing  for

“ Clouds  Dispelled ”

Absolutely  Free.  You  will  be  delighted.  A«t today!  Write  NOW!!

THE  BROTHERHOOD  OF  LIGHT

Dept.  O.  Box  1525,  Los  Angeles,  Calif.

Complete  course  of  Hypnotism. Mind  Reading  and  Magnetic  Healing. 25  fascinating  lessons.  How  to  become  an  expert,  hypnotize  at  a glance,  make  others  obey  your  wishes,  overcome  bad  habits  and  enemies. gam  in  power,  wealth,  love.  Simple,  easy  system.  Equals $20  course;  now  only  $1.  Send  stamps,  cash;  no  more  to  pay.

Educator  Press,  19  Park  Row,  New  York,  Dept.  10-11

Dice,  $5.00 ; Cards,  $1.25 ; Inks,  $1.50 ; Magic  Fluid  for  Transparents,  $3.00; Slick  Ace  Cards,  $1.25;  Factory Readers,  $1.00.  Sales  Boards,  etc.  Catalog  10c.

CENTRAL  NOVELTY  COMPANY,

112  N.  La  Salle  Street,  Chicago,  111,

OLD  MONEY  WANTED  *1,*°  *Tr

dreds  of  Old  or  Odd  Coins.  Keep  All  Old  Money, It  may  be  very  valuable.  Send  10  cents  for New  Illustrated  Coin  Value  Book,  4x6.  Guaranteed Prices.  Get  Posted.  We  pay  cash. CLAKIIE  COIN  CO.,  W.  T.  Dept.,  LeRoy,  N.  T.

MEN  WANTING  OUTDOOR  WORK,  QUALIFY

for  forest  ranger  position.  Start  $125  month; cabin  and  vacation;  patrol  the  forests,  protect the  game;  give  tourists  information.  Write Mokane,  Dept.  M-37,  Denver,  Colo.

from  the  world.  You  have  all  the time  you  desire  in  which  to  make your  decision.”

So,  locked  together  in  a room  far below  the  deck  of  the  big  submarine, together  for  our  last  hours  on  earth as  we  shall  be  together  in  death,  we have  written,  in  collaboration,  this story  of- City  of  the  East.  The  commander of  the  Aliens  has  promised that  it  shall  be  published  to  the world,  so  that  all  living  men,  whatever their  color,  shall  know  of  the wonder,  the  glory,  the  awesome grandeur  of  what  was  once  the  home of  the  white  race — wonderful  City  of the  East !

So  it  is  finished,  and  tomorrow  we die,  Lona  and  I;  but  our  death  shall be  glorious  because  of  the  promise  of the  commander  of  the  Aliens.  From the  deck  of  the  big  submarine,  which will  emerge  as  part  of  the  ritual  of our  passing,  we  will  hurl  ourselves heavenward  in  our  monopters,  which were  not  destroyed  at  our  capture,  to the  very  “ceiling”.

There,  when  we  have  gone  as  high as  we  can,  we  will  face  each  other. My  right  arm  will  support  Lona while,  with  my  left,  I remove  the headpiece  of  her  monopter;  with  a flirt  of  her  hand  she  will  do  the  same for  me.  Then  we  shall  begin  that long,  plummeting  descent  toward  the Atlantic,  which  will  be,  if  our strength  holds  in  the  ascent,  eighty thousand  feet  below  us.

Lieutenant  Burks , author  of  the above  story , has  written  for  you an  eery  tale  of  the  sea , called “ Bells  of  Oceana  ’ — a gooseflesh  story  of  shuddery  horror. It  will  appear  in  next  month's issue  of  WEIRD  TALES.

7 Out  of  10  Are  Prospects!

If  You  Sell  VE-PO-AD The  New  Vest  Pocket  Adding  Machine

Men,  here  is  a wonder!  If  you're looking  for  a rapid-fire  seller — an  item that  sells  for  a popular  price — an  item that  nets  you  100  per  cent  profit — an item  that  appeals  to  7 out  of  10  men — an  item  that  sells  itself  on  demonstration— I've  got  it!  Is  it  any  wonder that  scores  of  my  men  are  reporting sales  of

$200  a Week— Easily!

Yes,  that's  what  most  of  them  are doing.  Shapiro,  of  California,  cleaned up  over  $475  in  one  week.  Many  others do  almost  as  well,  and  it's  easy  work, for  VE-PO-AD  sells  itself  on  demonstration.

VE-PO-AD  is  without  a doubt  one  of the  cleverest,  most  ingenious  inventions of  the  last  25  years.  A complete  and accurate  adding  machine  that  will  do  all the  work  of  a $300  machine,  yet  fits into  your  vest  pocket  and  retails  for only  $2.95!  What's  more,  you  make 100  per  cent  on  every  sale!  VE-POAD  counts  clear  up  to  999,999,999, operates  like  lightning,  can  be  cleared by  a pull  of  the  finger,  and  yet

Sells  fop  Only  $2.95

It's  almost  unbelievable  that  $2.95 could  buy  so  much.  This  remarkable

invention  is  truly  vest-pocket  size.  Only % inch  thick,  5 inches  long  and  3% inches  wide.  Handsomely  bound  in  blue leatherette  cover.  Face  is  of  etched brass.  Works  easily  and  silently.  So simple  a child  can  learn  to  operate  it in  th^ee  minutes.

100%  Profit  for  You

Frankly,  I don't  know  of  any  other proposition  which  retails  for  $2.95  that will  net  you  a profit  of  100  per  cent. Yet  that’s  exactly  what  I offer  you — 100  per  cent  profit  on  every  sale. And  just  stop  to  think  for  a minute what  a big  field  there  is  in  your  own territory  for  an  article  like  this!  Every storekeeper  on  Main  Street  needs  it — merchants,  farmers,  storekeepers,  housewives— in  fact,  everybody  will  find VE-PO-AD  a big  aid  in  the  daily  use of  figures.  Surely,  no  other  article  has so  universal  an  appeal.

Mail  Coupon  Today For  Sample  Machine

There  is  only  one  way  for  you  to  appreciate what  a money-maker  VE-POAD  will  be  for  you,  and  that  is  to  send me  the  coupon  and  let  me  put  a machine in  your  hands  so  you  can  see  it.

RELIABLE  ADDING  MACHINE  CORPORATION

Dept. 79 -C 184  W.  Washington  St.,  Chicago,  111.

use  it  and  prove  that  all  my  claims  are true.  Although  VE-PO-AD  sells  regularly for  $2.95,  I will  furnish  you  one at  the  special  price  of  $1.65,  with  the understanding  that  this  amount  will  be credited  to  you  on  your  first  order  for five  machines,  or  that  if  you  can  not  see the  sales  possibilities  of  VE-PO-AD, you  can  return  this  sample  machine  to mo  within  ten  days  and  your  money  will be  refunded  in  full.  There  are  no strings  attached  to  this  offer.  It's  genuine and  lOO  per  cent  fair  to  you.  If you  arc  really  interested  in  making money  and  in  earning  a substantial, steady  income,  investigate  VE-PO-AD today.  Mail  the  coupon  now  and  let  me put  you  on  the  way  to  big  money.

SPECIAL  OFFER

**.  CUary.  Sales  Mgr.,

I Reliable  Adding  Machine  Corp.,

Dept.  79-C,

184  W.  Washington  St.,  Chicago,  III.

I Please  send  me  one  VE-PO-AD.  for  which * will  pay  postman  the  wholesale  price  of *1.65,  plus  a few  cents  delivery  charges.  (If

I Ton  wish,  you  may  enclose  11.65  and  machine will  be  sent  postpaid.)  1 understand  that  I may  return  this  machine  within  10  days  and

I you  will  refund  my  money,  or  that  you  will credit  me  with  this  sum  on  my  first  order  for five  or  more  machines.

| Name

I Address

* City State.

Kindly  mention  this  magazine  when  answering  advertisements


WEIRD  TALES

The  Eyrie

(Continued  from  page  582)

The  September  issue  is  the  best  yet.  I read  it  late  at  night,  and  retired  soon after.  Now,  for  a woman,  I have  pretty  steady  nerves.  But  I live  near  the foot  of  Mount  Hood,  where  the  trees  are  very  dense,  and  it  is  certainly  lonesome. Well,  that  book  nearly  finished  me  for  sleep.  I left  the  light  burning, and  also  took  the  hand-ax  and  scissors  to  bed  with  me.  ’ ’

Readers,  what  is  your  favorite  story  in  this  issue?  The  Moon  Menace,  by Edmond  Hamilton,  was  your  first  choice  in  the  September  issue,  closely pressed  for  this  honor  by  The  Bead  Wagon,  written  by  Greye  La  Spina,  and The  White  Lady  of  the  Orphanage,  by  Seabury  Quinn.

MY  FAVORITE  STORIES  IN  THE  NOVEMBER  WEIRD  TALES

ARE:

Story

Remarks

(1).

(2).

(3).

(1).

(2).

I do  not  like  the  following  stories: Why?

It  will  help  us  to  know  what  kind  of stories  you  want  in  Weird  Tales  if  you will  fill  out  this  coupon  and  mail  it  to The  Eyrie,  Weird  Tales,  450  E.  Ohio  St., Chicago,  111.

Reader’s  name  and  address:

WANTED  "Men  who  earn  less  than  $40  a wh*

~ i

IKS

f- :


• n niBunfi

1 | U.S.  MAIL  |_*

iiiiiiiiiiiiii  ji

Bigger  PAY  in  the  Civil  Service

THE  difference  between  whatyou  earn  noto  and  what  you  can  earn  working  for  Uncle  Sam  may  mean  $5000. to  you  in  a very  lew  years.  Why  ' " ‘ “““  “ ~

> you  in  a very  lew  years.  Why  work  hard  for  small  pay?  Uncle  Sam  offers  you  a fine  position  as  a Railway Postal  Clerk.  Travel  on  fast  trains  sorting  mail.  Tnr

„ - -vel  expenses  paid.  $1900  a year  TO  START.

$100  RAISE  EVERY  YEAR  until  you  reach  TOP  PAY.  Long  vacations.  ^

FREE  Information  About  These  Fine  Jobs

Let  Arthur  XI.  Patterson  help  you  qualify  for  a position  as  a Railway  Postal  Clerk  or  in  ^ ^ %

Customs,  Internal  Revenue,  Departmental,  Immigration,  Postmaster,  Post  Office  . , P;

and  Rural  Branches.  He  trained  thousands  now  in  Civil  Service.  Write  for  FREE  Dept.  i39B,

BOOK.  Tells  how  Mr.  Patterson  coaches  you  to  pass  exams.  Also  read  hid  - ^

Arthur  R*

Patters  o~ Civil  Sen

HHenSe

Expert,  Principal 'atterson  School, »B,  Wisner  Bldg.,

_ ss  you  to  pa

agreement  that  in  one  year  af  ter  rating  you  will  be  offered  a vosUUm—OT  your money  back,.  Mail  coupon  uow.

ARTHUR  R.  PATTERSON,  Principal PATTERSON  SCHOOL.  Dept.  t39B,  Wisner  Bldg.,  Rpchegterfejf.V,\

lochester,  N.  Y.

Sir:  Send  me  without  charge

Age_»,

City,

yoor

petal

NOW  IS  THE  TIME TO 'GET  YOUR  TYPEWRITER!

Be  up-td-date — know  the  pleasure  and  convenience  of  having One  in  your  home.  You’ll  be  amazed  at  the  uses  everyone  in  your household  will  find  for  this  real  Underwood  typewriter.  Every member  of  the  family  will  use  and  enjoy  it!  Don’t  send  a cent— but  do  get  our  big  special  offer— our  valuable  book  on  typewriters and  typewriting— FREE.

Any  One  Can  Learn  to  Operate  a Typewriter!

You  can  learn  to  write  on  this  standard-keyboard  machine  tn one  day;  it’s  60  simple  that  even  a child  can  use  it.  A week after  the  expressman  has  brought  it,  you’d  feel  LOST  without It.  A trial  will  PROVE  it — and  doesn’t  cost  you  a penny!

SPECIAL  FREE  TRIAL  OFFER

We  don’t  want  a penny  now.  Nor  any  money  at  alt  unless this  proves  the  typewriter  bargain  of  your  life.  The  trial  is  FREE.

If  you  buy,  our  easy  terms  make  it  a pleasure  to  pay.  There’s  no excuse  now,  for  not  owning  a typewriter — and  the  finest  make*.

We  include  all  tools,  a cover,  etc.,  all  complete,  all  ready  to  write.^

Write  us  now.  Deal  direct;  we  are  the  largest  factory  of  the  kind.

Our  plan  gives  you  the  opportunity  of  a thorough  trial  before you  buy.  You  run  no  risk  whatever.  You  start  to  pay  for  your typewriter  AFTER  you  have  found  it  the  only  machine  for  you!

But  get  the  facts  before  this  lot  of  machines  is  all  in  use.  Clip  the

information  coupon  before  you  turn  the  page.  It  will  pay  >rc>u!

Note  the  very  useful  book  you  will  receive  free!  Write  for  full

particulars  at  once.

The  Greatest  Typewriter  Offer  Ever  Made

If  you  know  typewriters,  you  know  the  perfect  work  and  the ease  and  speed  of  a Shipman  Ward  rebuilt  Underwood  typewriter. New  machines  are  guaranteed  for  only  one  year;  WE  GUARANTEE EVERY  ONE  OF^OUR  MACHINES  FOR  FIVE  YEARS!  If  you have  never  owned  a typewriter,  start  with  the  finest!  YoU  can try  this  one  at  our  risk.  But,  the  time  to  act  is  NOW.  Don’t miss  out  on  this  present  bargain  offer  whereby  you  can  get  this genuine  Underwood  at  a big  savings.  Don’t  do  longer  without the  convenience  of  a typewriter.

FREE!  Get  our  catalog  free;  lowest  prices  and  terms.  A manual  free,  too;  valuable  instruction  for  learning rapid  typing,  useful  pointers  for  all  who use  a typewriter,  business  forms,  social correspondence,  work  for  others,  etc.

Clip  coupon  NOWI

Mail  Today!

Shipman  Ward  Manufacturing  Co.,

4368  Shipman  Building,  Chicago,  111. Please  send  me  your  Free  Trial  Plan  and Typewriter  Book,  together  with  your special  offer  on  prices,  terms,  free  course m Touch  Typewriting  and  also  how  I can  make  money  with  this  typewriter* without  obligation.  This  is  not  an order

Name

s

Year

Guarantee

Kindly  mention  this  magazine  when  answering  advertisements


WEIRD  TALES

PERSONAL Appearance

is  now  more  than  ever the  key  note  of  success, both  in  social  and  business life.  Bow-Legged and  Knock-Kneedmen and  women,  both  young and  old.  will  be  glad  to hear  that  my  new  appliance will  successfully straighten,  withinashort time,  bow-leegedness and  knock-kneed  legs, safely,  quickly  and  permanently, without  pain, operation  or  discomfort. Worn  at  night.  My  new  "Liin-Straitner”,  Model  18,  U.  S.  Patent, i9  easy  to  adjust;  its  results  will  soon  save  you  from  further humiliation,  and  improve  your  personal  appearance  100 per  cent.  (Model  18  is  not  like  old-fashioned  splints  or  braces, with  bothersome  straps,  hard  to  adjust,  but  a scientific,  modern device  of  proven  merit,  used  and  recommended  for  the  last ftyeeroby  physiciaus  everywhere.)

Write  today  for  particulars,  testimonials  and  my  free  copyrighted physiological  and  anatomical  book  which  tells  you  how to  correct  bow  and  knock-kneed  legs  without  any  obligation. Enclose  a dime  for  postage.

M.  TRILETY,  SPECIALIST 2563L*  W.  U.  Building,  Binghamton,  N.  Y.

Stop  Using  a Truss

STUART’S  PLAPAOPADS  are  different  from the  truss,  being  mechanics chemico  applicators  mada self-adhesive  purposely  to bold  the  distended  musolea securely  in  place.  No  straps, buckles  or  spring  attached — cannot  slip,  so  cannot chafe  or  press  against  tbe pubic  bone.,  Thousands  have successfully  treated  themselves at  home  without  -- - - hindrance  from  work — most  HESrfiJS _ . Obstinate  cases  conquered.  wrMflrrlx Soft  as  velvet — easy  to  apply— Inexpensive.  Awarded Gold  Medal  and  Grand  Prix.  Process  of  recovery  ia natural,  so  afterwards  no  further  use  for  trusses.  We prove  it  by  sending  Trial  of  Plapno  absolutely  CDCP Write  name  oil  Coupon  and  send  TODAY.  *

Plapao  Co.,  4099  Stuart  Bldg.,  St.  Loins  Mo.

Kamo  .......

Address  ............... .................. ........ ..a

Betuiu  mall  will  bring  Free  Trial  Plapao

Reduced

“YOU  MEN  PAST 40" TRY

"All  In?"  Weak?  Lack vigor?  Then  send  at once  for  S.  0.  S.  Tabs, the : amazing  new  tonic discovery.  Pep  and energy  come  back  quick. Feel  like  a new  man. full  of  red-blooded  vim and  vigor.  Nothing  like  S.  0.  S.  Tabs — that’s  why  so many  are  finding  this  tonic  so  superior.  Satisfaction eo&ranteed  or  money  back.  Send  $2.00  for  double  strength Package.  Special  2 package  offer  $3.00;  also  C.  0.  D. fcCBES  C0„  Oept.N.  61.6  Victory  Bldg.,  Phila.,  Pa,

A Certain  Soldier

( Continued  from  page  624)

a restraining  hand  on  my  arm,  and a voice:  “Not  that,  friend  Ebson! One  does  not  wantonly  destroy  the relies  of  ancient  art.  ’ ’

I turned  and  gazed  full  into  the face  of  Lee  Clayton.  “But  it  is  in there,  ’ ’ I exclaimed,  ‘ ‘ the  proof  of  the identity  of  ‘a  certain  soldier’!”

He  looked  at  me  uncomprehendingly.  A first  gleam  of  early  dawn stole  across  the  city  and  found  its way  into  the  midst  of  the  monuments and  pillars  that  now  give  but a vague  conception  of  the  glory  that was  Rome  when  she  was  mistress  of the  world.

‘ ‘ The  truth  is  in  there,  ’ ’ I asseverated, “and  the  twenty  centuries have  expired.  Come,  let  us  see!”

I seized  the  bar  once  again  for  a telling  stroke,  but  instead  dropped it  helplessly  at  my  feet  as  I became aware  of  the  figure  of  a man observing  us  with  penetrating  gaze through  the  arch.

“Josephus!”  I muttered  hoarsely.

“That  is  Joseph  Pollard,”  Lee whispered  hurriedly  in  my  ear.  “It is  he,  my  enemy,  of  whom  I told  you yesterday.”

“Nevertheless,  behold  the  ‘certain soldier’,”  I cried  triumphantly.

“You  are  both  insane  somnambulists!” shrilled  the  voice  of  Joseph Pollard,  “and  if  either  of  you  dares to  deface  this  arch,  I shall  report  you to  the  authorities.”

There  was  a ring  of  triumph  in his  voice  and  a gleam  of  malice  in his  eye  as  he  strode  through  the arch  toward  us.  I caught  the  glitter of  steel  as  he  came  through  on  our side  of  the  monument.  Then  a distant shout,  followed  by  a confused jargon  and  the  sound  of  hurrying footsteps,  dragged  our  attention  to ( Continued  on  page  718)

America !

What  is  the  mysterious  power  wielded  by  this  man — a power  he  also  shows  others  how  to  nse?  What |is  tliis  new  method  which  has  started  thousands  of fdespairingr  persons  on  the  rood  to  health,  happiness and  prosperity?

.rpHOUSANDS  upon  thousands  have  been J.  turned  away  from'  the  great  theaters  and auditoriums  in  Chicago,  New  York,  San  Francisco, Seattle,  Denver,  Boston,  and  practically every  great  city  in  America  where  Dr.  Bush has  been  lecturing!  These  vast  halls  could not  accommodate  half  of  those  who  heard  of his  wonderful  powers  and  had  heard  how  he disclosed  the  secret  of  his  powers  to  others!

Those  who  were  ill  had  been  shown  how  to become  well  and  strong  by  a method  to  which other  mental  science  movements  were  as  the first  step  in  a mammoth,  far-reaching  stairway.

The  worried  and  the  nervous  had  been  shown  how to  rise  above  their  mental  and  nervous  troubles  in  a single  evening  and  how  to  attack  and  solve  their problems  with  a keener  mind  unhampered  by  despair.

David  V,  Bash America*  8 Foremost Author-Lecturer  on Practical  Psyckcloav

first  month  and  made  over  $1,000.  Dr.  Bush  has thousands  of  letters  like  these.  They  are  his  proudest possessions.

His  Teachings  Now  in  Book  Form

In  order  to  help  an  even  greater  number  of  people. Dr.  Bush  has  incorporated  his  lectures  in  an  absorbingly interesting  book,  ‘‘Applied  Psychology  and Scientific  Living/'  which  will  be  sent,  on  FREE TRIAL,  to  any  earnest  seeker  after  knowledge. Luther  Burbank  said,  “Applied  Psychology  appears to  me  the  most  practical  and  useful  work  which  has been  published  on  these  and  similar  subjects/*

When  You  Need  This  Book

An  Astounding  New  Power

But  that  wasn’t  all.  Long  before  the  lectures  were over  the  reports  began  to  come  in  showing  how

quickly  his  audiences had  been taught  to  use  a new, wonderful  power that  brought  MATERIAL rewards.

“By  your  method of  visualization  I secured  the  funds to  build  my  home,” writes  one  of  Dr. Bush’s  Chicago  listeners. Mrs.  Mary Roberts  of  Denver writes,  “My  salary was  increased  40% in  one  week  by  following your  psychological method — and  my  powers  of salesmanship  were DOUBLED.”  “TEN Thousand  Dollars would  not  pay  for the  benefits  I have received.”  James#  C.‘ Smith  of  Somerville, Mass.,  writes  him. Another  says : “I was  making  no money,  my  health was  had  and  I was heavily  in  debt. Now  I have  a store of  my  own  and  am doing  a good  business. My  family and  myself  enjoy the  best  of  health.” A man  who  learned of  this  power  in Pittsburgh — he  had never  earned  more than  $25  per  week — stepped  out  the

Partial  List  of  Contents Psycho-Analysis  and  the Subconscious

How  to  Have  Amazing Memory

How  to  Destroy  Fear — Man's  Worst  Enemy — The  Unseen  World What  Is  Love  and  How  to Keep  It

How  to  Be  Popular How  to  Overcome  Failure and  Adverse  Environment How  to  Be  Beautiful Through  Mysterious  Force Vibration  — How  to  Win S ucc  ess

How  to  Develop  Personality How  to  Conquer  Illness Poverty  a Disease — How  to Overcome  It

How  to  Double  Your  Efficiency

Visualization — How  to  Make Your  Dreams  Come  True The  Mastery  of  Fate How  to  Use  Suggestion  for Health,  Success  and  Happiness

The  Greatest  Law  in  the Universe,  Just  Lately  Discovered, and  How  to  Use It

What  the  World  Owes  Yon and  How  to  Get  It After  This  Life  What? — What  Is  God?

Smile,  Smile,  Smile Psychology  of  Health  — Building  the  Body  Beautiful

Long  Life  and  Full  of  Pep

Are  you  nervous  or  depressed?  Do  you  feel  old?  Have  you lost  your  grip?  Have  you  a worrying  disposition?  Have  you  a personality  that  fails  to  attract  others?  Are  you  timid?  Are  you misunderstood?  Do  others  seem  inclined  to  give  you  always the  worst  of  everything?  Do  you  lack  the  aggressiveness  necessary to  bring  you  position  and  power?  Are  you  in  ill  health? Have  you  any  chronic  disease?  Is  anyone  in  your  family  or among  your  friends  so  affected?  Are  your  children  wilful  and disobedient  ?

Examine  It  Free!

But  no  description  can  begin  to  give  you  even  an  idea  of  the startling  truths  explained  and  proved  in  this  wonderful  54  0page  book.  The  very  first  page  will  be  a revelation  to  you  just as  Dr.  Bush’s  lectures  have  been  a revelation  to  keen,  thinking, analytical  minds  in  every  city.  One  enthusiast  says:  "It  can  be understood  by  everyone.  And  If  everyone  would  read  it  and  then use  this  new  force,  humanity  would  advance  5,000  years  overnight."

But  you  will  be  the  sole  judge  of  this  wonderful  value.  Mail the  eoupon.  This  remarkable  book  will  be  sent  at  once.  Read it  for  5 days.  Practice  this  now  force  yourself.  At  the  end of  that  time  if  you  find  it  the  most  inspiring,  the  most  valuable means  to  obtain  health,  wealth  and  happiness,  send  us  only $3.50  which,  as  you  will  realize,  pays  only  for  tho  cost  or printing,  advertising  and  distributing  the  540-page  book. Otherwise  return  the  book  itself  within  5 days  and  you  will  not owe  a penny.  But  begin  to  enjoy  the  benefit  of  this  new  force at  once.  Mail  aie  coupon  today.  DAVID  V.  BUSH,  PutolUhcr, Dept.  1 131  f , 226  N.  Michigan  Avo.,  Chicago.  III.

["daVID  V.  BUSH,  Publisher,  Dept.  11311

| 225  N.  Michigan  Are.,  Chicago,  HI.

(Please  send  me  a copy  of  “Applied  Psychology  and  Scientific Living"  for  approval.  I agree  to  remit  $3.50  or  re- ■ mail  the  book  in  five  days.

Address


I City State |

■ ( Remittance  from  Foreion  countries  and  U.  8,  T08S€i3iOM  . must  accompany  all  orders)

Kindly  mention  this  magazine  when  answering  advertisements

BLANK  CARTRIDGE  PISTDI*

Sneezing  Powder

So  eneera  Without  Icnowfag  tb«  reaeoo

why.  Itifl  tnoet  •mOBinfftoneftr  their  remarks, as  they  oever  anspcct  tha  real pource-but  thin*  they  hivo  caught  it  on® from  the  other.  Between  the  laaghinff ond  sneezing  yoayourBelC  will  bo  bavins the  t'we  of  your  life.  For  parties,  politl* Cal  maetlnga,  car  *<!••.  or  any  place  at all  where  there  to  a gathering  of  people, it  is  themKHi  |?Ht  Q*u  PfleciOcur  9 for  asc

BOYS!

--  .VoBeinarcoDom*1

VBSLlBfUL«iAifgb «■«!..  .M«»dbV«.  I

Johnson  Smith  A Co..  Oepu  710.  Racine,  WM,

■ Mystio  Skeleton

5*1

in.  in  height,  will  M \

dance  Co and  perform  vari-. oua  gyrations  and* movements  while tbo  operator  mayj l>o  ftomo  diataucc!

I \taomi*jgBsm*.  ■

c Serpent’s  Eggs  ;

EMtcootm-naiacCfra.

I lit  wit  h a match

ono  gradually  tu.», „

itself  into  %

a snake  , aovorall

»“b»  ,i«  -

'"’rla  Hnd*cwlflta  ebont  In  a roost  Ilf*. :o  tnacner.  Price  per  box  locpntf*

BOYS!

BOYS!

THROW  YOUR  VOICE

Into  a"' trunk,'  under  the bed  or  anywhere.  Lots  of fun  fooling  the  teacher* policeman  or  friends.^'

THEiVENTRILO

'a  little  instrument,'  fits  in' the] mouth  out  of  sight,®; used. with above  for  Bird  Calls,oetCir  Any*  ^

'one  can  use  it.1T  Y*sil

Never  Fails.' A 16-page  course  onventiriloquismS and  the  Ventrilo,  ALL  FOR;  lOc  postpaid^

ITCHING  POWDER

This  is  another  good  practical  joke;  the  intense discomfiture  of  your  victims  to  eveiyone  but themselves  is  thoroughly  enjoyable.  .All  that is  necessary  to  start  the  ball  rolling  Is  to  de* posit  a little  of  the  powder  on  a person's  hand and  the  powder  can  be  relied  upon  to  do,  the rest.  The  result  i9  a vigorous  scratch*  then ^ ^ some  more  scratch,  and  still  some  more*

toe  box,  3 bongforgsc  or  75c  per  Coz  boxes,  smith  a c.

^Good Luck Ring

RndNmli

VcrT.unjq^

I 28  CENTS.

Novelty  Badges'

Kitting  Permit  I0cm  Goner  Jntpedor  iOo Two  very  novel  metal  badges,  nickel plated,  that  you  can  wear,  giving  you  fun out  of  all  proportion  to  their  trifling  coot.

Mo.  ®*«b  bade®,  3 for  25c,  or  75c lor.  P-pd.  Johnson  Smith  & Co.

PISTOL,  OPERA>/& » FIELD  GLASS

'tics  fositmid  $1.00 s It la  made  to

the  shape  of and  looks  like a regular  Automatic  Pistol No  one  Is  likely to  stop  and  ask you  whether  it

_ is  real  or  not.

Thusi  t ia  likely  to  prove  itaelf  very  bandy  In  an  emergency.  On  preaalug  the  trigger  it opene  up.  an  shown  in  the  illuatratlon  at  the  right,  revealing  ijjne  moat  uaefu  articles— Opera  and  Field  Glaaa.Teleacope,  Mirror,  Magnifying  Giaaa and  Burning  Lena.  Reading Glaaa.  Sun  Dia..  Sun  Compaea.  etc  In  the  handle  of  the  revolver  there  ia  a place  for various  pocket  necessaries, auch  ae  Firat  Aid  Articlea.  Buttons.  Pina,  etc.  The  Piatolia of  aheei  metal.  blued  finish  that  can  bo  carried  comfortably  ia  pocket. PRICE  SI. 00*

JOHNSON  SMITH  & CO.  Dept  710,  Racine,  Wis.

LOOK!

( Continued  from  page  716)

the  approach  of  two  officers  who  ran up  to  Pollard  and  seized  him.

“You  are  under  arrest,”  said  one of  the  policemen,  “for  entering  a hotel  guest’s  room  and  destroying his  property.”

Clayton  and  I left  Pollard  in  the safe  hands  of  the  officers  and  returned to  the  hotel.  We  repaired  at once  to  Lee’s  room.  There,  strewn on  the  table  and  floor,  were  minute fragments  of  what  had  once  been  a miniature  likeness  of  the  Arch  of Titus.  I commenced  picking  the pieces  off  the  floor  and  Lee  proceeded to  clear  up  the  fragments from  the  table,  where  they  lay  scattered across  the  hooks  and  papers which  in  his  hurry  he  had  left opened  and  thrown  about.

A sudden  exclamation  brought  me hurriedly  to  his  side.  He  was  staring with  bulging  eyes  at  a page  of Latin  wherein  the  words  miles  certus  seemed  to  jump  up  out  of  the text  to  meet  us,  and  immediately above  the  inscription,  laid  by  the careful  hand  of  Pate,  was  a fragment of  the  tiny  arch;  the  breast and  head  of  Josephus!”

‘ ‘ The  twenty  centuries  are  passed,  ’ ’ I said,  “and  the  prophecy  is  fulfilled. Josephus  was  light,  though he  did  all  within  his  power  to  prevent its  accomplishment.  He  was unconsciously  a tool  in  the  hands  of Fate.  ’ ’

After  a silence  of  some  moments I asked,  “Why  didn’t  Tacitus  correct his  version  of  ‘a  certain  soldier’? Pliny  intended  to  tell  him the  revelation  of  Josephus  and  that would  have  made  it  unnecessary  for two  thousand  years  to  pass  before its  becoming  known.”

Lee  Clayton  smiled.  “If  you  wilf look  up  Pliny  the  Elder  in  the  encyclopedia, you  will  learn  that  he died  at  Pompeii  in  the  famous  eruption of  Mt.  Vesuvius  in  79  A.  D.”

aossiatssoE

WEIRD  TALES


K=S3[=IE=0[


A Feast  of  Stories

Weird  tales  has  built  its  remarkable  success  by  living  up  to  its  title,  by publishing  the” best  weird  fiction  written.  In  the  pages  of  this  magazine are  printed  fascinating  and  imaginative  stories  such  as  can  be  found  nowhere else — tales  of  cosmic  space,  wars  between  the  worlds,  tremendous  dooms  rushing upon  the  world  from  the  outer  void;  bizarre  and  fantastic  stories;  tales of  weird  monsters;  ghost-stories,  and  other  tales  of  the  supernatural;  creepy mystery  stories;  shuddery  tales  of  eery  horror;  tales  of  devil-worship,  witchcraft, vampires  and  werewolves;  orientales  of  wild  beauty.  Among  the  remarkable stories  in  the  next  few  issues  will  be:

THE  CALL  OF  CTHULHU,  by  H.  P.  Lovecraft

A superb  masterpiece  of  outrd  literature  by  the  author  of  “The  Outsider”— the  loathsome  cult  of  Cthulhu  prepared  for  the  renascence  of  the  obscene monstrosity  that  sent  its  thought-waves  slithering  through  the  earth.

THE  GOLDEN  WHISTLE,  by  Eli  Colter

He  came  from  a far  planet,  searching  through  al! attuned  that  he  could  draw  it  to  himself  by  his  u vibration.

THE  FEATHERED  SERPENT,  by  Walter  Carrington

He  came  from  a far  planet,  searching  through  all  the  worlds  for  a soul  so attuned  that  he  could  draw  it  to  himself  by  his  uncanny  mastery  of  atomic vibration.

The  Gray  Death  slithered  through  the  ruins  of  the  Temple  of  Xupa,  where Cyrene  Cortelyou,  with  a love  that  transcended  mortality,  fought  against  the Thing  that  had  crushed  the  life  out  of  her  sweetheart.

THE  EIGHTH  GREEN  MAN,  by  G.  G.  Pendarves THE

A weird  tale  of  the  uncanny  horror  that  befell  the  guests  of  the  innkeeper when  the  Seven  Green  Men  held  revel — a story  replete  with  eery  shudders.

GODS  OF  EAST  AND  WEST,  by  Seabury  Quinn

The  shadowy  incarnations  of  the  Great  Spirit  of  the  American  Indians  and Kali,  the  Black  God  of  the  Hindoos,  waged  a terrific  battle  over  the  soul  of Idolyne  Chetwynde — a tale  of  Jules  de  Grandin.

THE  WITCH-BAITER,  by  R.  Anthony

A torture-tale  of  the  witchcraft  craze  in  Holland — a shuddery  story  of stark  horror,  of  fanatic  superstition,  and  dire  disaster  that  overtook  the Dutch  zealot.

THE  DEVILS  OF  PO  SUNG,  by  Bassett  Morgan

A creepy,  powerful  weird  tale  of  brain  transplantation  by  an  unscrupulous Chinese  surgeon — a pirate  tale  of  pearl-fishing  in  the  South  Seas.

THESE  are  but  a few  of  the  many  super- excellent  stories  in  store  for the  readers  of  Weibd  Tales.  To  make  sure  of  getting  your  copy  each month,  and  thus  avoid  the  embarrassment  of  finding  your  favorite  news  stand sold  out,  just  fill  out  the  coupon  below  and  let  us  send  it  right  to  your  home. That’s  the  safest  way.

WEIRD  TALES,

450  E.  Ohio  St.,

Chicago,  m.

Enclosed  find  $2.50  for  1 year’s  subscription  to  "Weird  Tales,”  to  begin  with

the  December  Issue.  ($3.00  in  Canada.)

Name

Address

City  State0

D

D

□E3=0E

?»>$•  fes

MYS^r*vP  k'StS"^"*'

Det£c  . , \U ijgSfS*”

STOW*®  $10KSS^p'

While  they  last  | |/2.  Perrmfr^

i/Ti/i^ P&<

— ^a";m/

<=

*"S§^  -

THINK  of  it!  A splendid  set  of  12  1 * >v  — > V \

astounding  mystery  stories,  in  separate booklets  for  only  $1.00.  Marvelous  chance.  Send  for  these  stories  today, tales  that  spread  before  your  eyes  a new  Do  it  now!  Just  pin  a dollar  bill  to  the and  fascinating  world  of  romance  and  coupon, adventure — a breathless  succession  of

amazing  episodes— crammed  with  mys-  POPULAR  FICTION  PUBLISHING  CO. terious  action  that  will  hold  you  Dept.  35>  312  Dunham  Bldg.,  Chicago,  111. spellbound.  They  are  uncommon  tales that  will  cling  to  your  memory  for  many  j — — - —

a day  and  will  help  to  pass  away  many  > popular  fiction  publishing  co. a lonely  hour,  In  convenient  pocket  size.  | Dept.  35,  313  Dunham  unig-.,  Chicago,  ni.

I enclose  $1.  Sent!  at  once,  postage  prepaid,  the __  __  __  ,, T__  . _ T_,TTT  . _ _ _ 1 12  stories  listed  in  this  advertisement.  It  is  underSUPPLY  NEAR  EXHAUSTION  l thi3  *»  **  payment  m fun.

This  offer  may  be  withdrawn  at  any  j Name

time.  Treat  yourself  to  some  real  en-  1 Address

tertainment  while  you  still  have  the  I City state

l

„f  tone

from  this  handsome ukulele  matches  highpriced  instruments. : Rich  walnut  finish. Jr  Excellently  made.

Rook  of  instructions sent  free  with  specimen lessons  and  songs.  Easy  to learn  to  play,  and  easy  to own  at  our  big  sale  prh^. y -RDER  BY  L 126 Sale  Price

COLIO  gold  feflect  case,  guaranteed 25  years.  Richly  engraved.  Rail1 r?ad  model  with  famous  Leonard regulator.  Adjusted  for  absolute Factory  accuracy-  Backed  by  Million  Dollar

N,°  MONEY-  P*y  Postman  Sale  Price 3>o.tw  and  postage  on  arrival.

F?Ef:  i Genuine  Waldemar  chain  and  knife! included  with  this  watch  during  sale.

fkf V Order  by  No.  L 108 Om.  Sale  Price

EASY BANJO

TVfAPLEfini.

Skin  hea Nickel  plated  rir Good  tone volume.  Easy

method  course

MAN’S  Special

Gypsy  mount*

’ ing.  rolled  gold i plate.  Reproduction Diamond. ORDER  L 15

’ SM-*  83.98

RED  Ruby  colored gem  full  of smoldering  fire.  A | beauty!

ORDER

L 16

Sale  £2.98

RUBY  gem  enhanced by  two flashing  Reproduction  Diamonds.  A beautiful  ring.

free

Friendship

ring.  Rolled gold  plate.  Unusual.

Order  *-  18 Sale  82.98

THE  Triplet.  I

Throe  extra brilliant  Reproduction Diamonds. Very  rich.

Order  L 19 Sale

/Ms

Sf.49

given  free.

Order  L 95

Handsome hammered effect  complete compact.  Given free  with  orders for  TWO  or  more

ARABIAN

HORSESHOE

PWMOUS  Kosmos  ring  of rolled  gold  plate  in horseshoe  ring  style.  Sparkling garnet  of  deep  smoldering red.  A stunning  ring!

THE  Banker.  Elegant ring  of rolled  gold  plate  set with  extra  brilliant Reproduction Diamond. ORDER  2Q

SALE  8|.48

'T’llE  Senator. * Looks  like  a million  dollars.

Order  l 21

SALE  8J.98

p}V-«i

¥ S

*V".

J

r *

139,

, feet  ladies'  wrist .watch.  ‘ Ten  and one-half  ligne  jewelled movement. Silvered  dial.  Jewelled sapphire

crown.  Satisfaction guaranteed  or  your money  back. Order

TIN  . RECTANGULAR WRIST .WATCH

/-’OLD  filled '-P  case.  Six jewelled movement. Guaranteed accurate.

No.  “

THC  MINUTE  MAN

raw

EGYPTIAN “LUCK  RING**

CYMBOL1C  of luck  in  love. Old  gold  finish. Set  ruby  and  emerald colored

L 135

WRIST WATCH

MAXINE, platinum effect  case. Jewelled,  accurate, elegant! Stores ask  $15  for this  style.

N“  SE98

L 117

NDID

TIMEKEEPER

6 JEWELS Sapphire blue  stone stem.  Dainty, refined,  elegance

No.  ..

L 118

• Famous  charm  replica against  sickness  and  evil. Used  by  Hindus  to  bring Good  Luck.  74-karat  gold shell.  Ruby  colored  gem head.

Order  L 140 Sale  Price

MEN'S  MILITARY WRIST  WATCH

CIMl’LE,  virile.  «<vod  looking.

Miniature  “Sam  Brown belt  strap  and  buckle.  Mo

ment  selected  for  ace

Case  guaranteed  to  I hard  use.  #i

ORDER  L 31  vl

Sale  Price

Barfa

A RISTOC.RATIC  octagon

shape,  gold  plated. Accurate  jewelled movement.  Clever expansion  hreeelet to  match.  Will  slip t your  hand  and snugly  fit  your rist.  1 inagine the  surprise and delight  of the  lucky wearera.

Will  you he  one  ef thcmT

L 135

Don’t  Send  a Penny

Wholesale

Newton  Branch.

L 9 _

Jewelers BOSTON,  MASS.

N*-A-4

Actual  Size Slightly Larger Than  This

9 times  as much  for  your  money

WITH  a few  strokes  of  a pen you  can  instantly  short-circuit a lot  of  expense.  This  is made  possible  by  a simple,  easy and  very  quick  sales  method  successfully established  three  years by  the  Postal  Pen  Company.

Your  name  on  the  coupon  below eliminates  jobbers'  discounts, salesmen's  commissions,  retail  discounts— two-thirds  of  the  “profits" that  a pen  must  yield  when sold  in  the  ordinary  way.

But  that  isn’t  all.  It  brings you,  direct  from  manufacturers' factory,  the  pen  whose  hundreds of  thousands  of  users  consider  superior to  any  fountain  pen,  regardless of  price.  Its  exclusive patented  features  put  the  Postal Pen  in  a class  by  itself.

Figure  this  out  for  yourself: There's  just  one  reason  for  carrying a fountain  pen.  You  can’t carry  an  inkwell  around  in  your pocket  or  hand-bag.  The  reason for  carrying  a fountain  pen  is  so that  you  will  always  have  a smooth,  beautiful,  easy-flowing writing  instrument  that  carries  its own  supply  of  ink.  When  it  is dry,  it  is  no  better  than  an  oldfashioned  steel  pen  till  it  is  filled again — the  more  ink  it  holds  the more  real  Service  it  renders  you.

Then  compare  the  following features  of  the  Postal  Pen  with any  other  pen  at  any  price :

3 Times  3 Is  9

Postal — the  same  size  as  other fine  fountain  pens — actually  holds three  times  more  ink!  Has  three times  the  usual  inside-of-barrel capacity.  Three  times  as  much writing  service.

FREE

With  each  Postal  Pen  you receive,  absolutely  free,  5 gold  premium  post  cards each  worth  50c  on  the  purchase price  of  other  Postal Pens  or  Postal  materials.

To  carry  this  much  ink — to  be able  to  write  this  long  without  the trouble  of  refilling — you  would need  .3  ordinary  fountain  pens. And  to  get  ordinary  pens  of  similar unexcelled  quality,  you'd  have to  pay  3 times  as  much  as  you pay  for  a Postal  Pen.  3 times as  much  service — a fine,  beautiful pen  absolutely  guaranteed  equal in  quality  and  workmanship  to pens  costing  3 times  as  much — 3 times  3 : 9 times  as  much  for  your money  when  you  buy  a Postal Pen!

And  one  of  the  biggest  features of  all  is  the  fact  that  the  Postal Pen  Barrel  is  actually  transparent.

POSTAL  PEN  CO.,  INC.

Desk  275,  4 1 Park  Row,  New  York  City

You  may  send  me  a Postal  Reservoir  Pen  on  5 days’ trial.  If  I am  not  entirely  satisfied  with  it.  I have  the  privilege of  returning  it  and  and  you  are  to  refund  the  full purchase  price.  I am  also  to  receive  5 premium  post  cards, each  worth  60c  on  the  purchase  price  of  a new  Postal  Pen. I reserve  the  right  to  sell  these  cards  at  50c  each  or  dispose of  them  in  any  way  I wish.  I will  nay  postman  52.60 upon  receipt  of  my  pen.  Send  me  the  model  I have checked.  []  Men’s  Size  Q Women's  Size,

If  y pi/  live  outside  the  United  States  send l.iternational  Money  Order  With  coupon.

Costs  Only

$2 50

Keep  it  clean  and  you  can  always see,  right  through  the  barrel,  exactly how  much  ink  you  have, cither  pens  run  unexpectedly  dry. Postal  never  does — you  always know  when  to  re-fill  it.

Finest  iridium  tipped  solid  14karat  gold  point — the  same  quality as  in  the  costliest  pens. Absolutely  guaranteed.  All  of  the materials  and  craftsmanship  are absolutely  guaranteed  to  be  equal or  superior  in  quality  to  those found  in  any  other  pen  sold  at $7,  $8.75  or  more.

Another  Great  New Feature

But  how  will  we  know  exactly  what kind  of  pen  you  need?  Our  experts  have been  working  with  graphologists— handwriting experts— for  months,  and  now — they  can  tell  from  your  own  handwriting exactly  what  type  of  point  will  suit  you beat.  Just  as  an  expert,  after  making an  examination,  can  tell  a person  who needs  glasses  exactly  what  kind  of lenses  he  should  have.  You  wouldn’t  try to  select  a pair  of  glasses  from  a little comer  store  with  only  a few  to  choot  c from.

Thirty  days  free  test!  So  satisfactory has  this  greatly  improved  new  method  of selecting  a pen  point  proved  that  we  will let  you  use  your  Postal  Pen  a full  month and  then  return  it  and  get  your  money back  if  you  don't  find  it  the  most  satisfactory pen  and  point  you  ever  used  in your  life.

Don’t  wait  until  tomorrow!  Majl  the

write  in  your  natural  style,  write  tn  the margin  of  the  page  so  that  our  pen  point experts  can  select  from  a gigantic  stock the  point  exactly  suited  to  your  natural * >f  writing.

_ no  money— merely  deposit  52.50 with  the  postman  when  he  delivers  your pen,  and  then  try  it  thirty  days  before you  even  decide  to  keep  it?  Mail  coupon

Postal

RESERVOIR  PEN

POSTAL  PEN  CO.,  INC.,  Desk  275 41  Park  Row  New  York  City

[THE END]

============================================================
COVER  DESIGN  C.  C
by Senf
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THE  INVADING  HORDE ARTHUR  J
by Burks
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THE  LORD  OF  THE  TAM G.  G
by Pendarves
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THE  SHADOWS HENRY  S
by Whitehead
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THE  WEREWOLF ALVIN  F
by Harlow
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
360  N
by Michigan  Ave.
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THEY  HAVE  LOST  THEIR  SAVOR
by The  ghosts  of  fiction  derive  their  interest
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
A CERTAIN  PLACE  IN  THE  FLOOR  OF  THE  HAUNTED  ROOM)
by But  in  the  excitement  and
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
HAPPENED,  SO  THE  WRITER  WORKED  IT  UP  INTO  A STORY
by But  the  theme  was  already
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THEY  SAW  THE  BIG  FUTURE  IN  DRAFTING.  THEY  DIDN’T  WAIT  FOR  OPPORTUNITY TO  KNOCK
by They  reached  out  and  grabbed  him.  They  read
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
TO  ADMIT  TH&T  IT’E  AT  LEAST  WORTH  A T^Y
by Even  if  you  could  earn  only
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
........
by State....
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
THIS : A MAN  GOES  TO  SLEEP  IN  A ROOM  THAT  IS  SUPPOSED  TO  BE  HAUNTED
by Awaking
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
SUPPOSED  HAND  IS  HIS  OWN  FOOT,  AND  THAT  HE  HAS  BLOWN  OFF  TWO  OF  HIS  TOES
by This
============================================================

[THE END]

============================================================
TALES
by That  is  why  the  story  is  always  returned  to  its  author.
============================================================

[THE END]
