============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: August 1926
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Devil’s Pay___August W" by Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
THE DEVIL’S PAY___AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
except Terry’s word—and the fact of immeasurable relief that the ThreeFinger Butcher and Tito Moroni were never seen again.

A Five-Minute Story of Black Magic

The Devil’s Pay

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

T HE gondola thudded against the dock and a man jumped out. He drew his cloak about ltim, and the rings on his fingers flashed in the moonlight as he turned to the gondolier.

“I shall be gone perhaps for horns, Messer.”

“No matter, Magnificent. I am at your command. I shall wait if need be until the dawn of the second day.” “Then wait.”

He turned and plunged into the shadows, which seemed to reach out to engulf him. He walked swiftly, surely. His face was heavily veiled and his long black cloak reached to his ankles. The few pedestrians who passed him turned and stared for a moment but went on, failing to com¬ prehend his muttcrings. The path M as none too smooth, and more than once the man from the gondola stumbled over the cobblestones. At length he modified his pace and began to scrutinize the houses about him. He stopped before a low structure squatting before him like an ugly, re¬ pulsive denizen of darkness. He raised his hand to rap upon the panel of the door, but before he could do so, it swung inward.

“Come,” a voice bade him from the darkness, and he entered. At the farther end of the long hall he could discern a feeble light issuing from beneath the folds of a heavy curtain.

“Follow,” came the voice again, and he felt his way along the wall to where the curtain was, and when he reached it, it was swept aside and the

light fell upon him and enveloped him. He stepped into the room that was thus disclosed, and the curtain fell again into place. Facing him was a man as repellent as the dwelling in which he lived. He was a short man, and his beady eyes flashed venom¬ ously at the visitor. He attempted to smile, but his sensual lips curled into a sneer which mocked the attempt. Ha slowly lowered the flambeau in the sconce which he had held at arm’s length to the table behind him, and he endeavored to pierce the veil which covered his visitor’s face.

The Duke of Venice raised the veil and moved forward.

“Messer Duca!” gasped the magi¬ cian, and his face paled a trifle. “What is the cause for this honor, if I may so much as ask, Magnificent?”

The duke sank into a chair and gazed meditatively at the wizard be¬ fore him.

“I have an enemy, Messer Oamani

-.” He glanced meaningly at his

host.

“Ah, Excellency. Poisons? Or perhaps a keen stiletto,” he answered, quick at comprehension.

“No. Neither will do. They avail me nought. I have used them. I have had my enemy set upon, but he turned and slaughtered my men and escaped without so much as a scratch. Diavolo! I have sent him wines di¬ luted with the best of poisons, but they have gone into the canals of Venice. I have sent him a gorgeous gown saturated with a deadly poison, but he allowed a lackey to wear it and

THE DEVIL’S PAY


discovered my plan, for, of course, the lackey died. I have sent him an opal with the curse of hell upon it, but he ground it and returned it to me. But need I go on? I have come to you as a last resort. He must die!”

“I see but one way, Excellency. Would you”—he stopped as if to re¬ consider, but resumed almost at once at the gesture of impatience mani¬ fested by his visitor—“would you en¬ list the powers of darkness?”

The duke nodded silently and shrugged his shoulders eloquently.

“You are aware, Messer Duca, that man must pay for consort with Satan?”

“I am aware. I care not for the consequences.”

“It is a rash act, Magnificent.”

“It remains that my enemy must die,” returned the duke coldly.

Messer Gamani shrugged his shoulders and spread his hands in a gesture of helplessness.

“Since you are determined, Excel¬ lency-. ’ ’

“I am.”

“Perchance you have a portrait of your enemy?”

The duke cast something upon the table and the magician’s hand closed over it, and he peered at it intently.

“It bears a strong resemblance to the Borgia.”

“Cesare? It is not he; it is not a Borgia, much as it may seem.”

Messer Gamani remained silent He moved to the fireplace and added fuel to the flames.

“Care you to watch my prepara¬ tion, Excellency? I shall have com¬ pleted the first part of the task in the space of a glass of sand. If you care not you may retire to my library and amuse yourself among my books.”

“That I shall do, Messer Gamani.”

A panel in the stone wall near the fireplace swung away and the duke passed into the wizard’s library.

'T'he sands in the hour-glass dribbled slowly to a heap, and as the last grains slipped through, Messer Gamani opened the panel in the wall and allowed the duke to enter.

The magician held a wax image in his hand, and he showed it to the duke, who exclaimed sharply: “It resembles him, my enemy, Messer Gamani!”

“It was modeled from the minia¬ ture portrait.”

“What do you propose to do with it?”

“The image must be. burned. It will take another glass of sand, but it can not be hastened.”

“But when does my enemy suc¬ cumb?”

“As the flame from the wax dies, so your enemy dies.”

An expression of skepticism crossed the face of the duke.

“I very much doubt.”

“Satan does not fail his followers, Magnificent.”

“It remains to be seen.”

He seated himself and watched the wizard ignite the taper of the wax figure. The incantations of the ma¬ gician over it drew his attention for a space, and he watched the wax figure dwindle slowly before his eyes. The head was gone, the main body, and the flame sputtered over the legs of the fantastic little mold. As the flame expired over the wax remnants Messer Gamani turned to the duke.

“He is dead, Excellency. At the hour, seven glasses of sand since the setting of the sun.”

The duke threw a purse of ducats upon the table, but Messer Gamani made no move to take it.

“Beware, Messer Gamani, if your efforts fail, if you have sported. ’ ’ He indicated the purse. “Take this gold.”

“The gold is my pay. But there is more-.”

“More gold?”


“'More pay. Satan must yet exact the penalty.”

The duke was walking through the hall, the wizard at his heels. At the door they paused.

“The Devil may have a casket of gold,” laughed the duke, “if my enemy is dead. * *

‘ ‘ Have you heard, Magnificent ? The Devil loves nought so much as a soul.”

His leering face vanished in the darkness, and the duke relished the vision of the magician’s squat head on the end of a pike-pole as he picked his way back to where his gondola awaited him.

He stepped from his gondola to the dock before his magnificent palace and stood there a space watching the gondola recede in the distance. He looked up at the moon and wondered about his enemy. If he were not dead the vision of the wizard’s head on a pike-pole would no longer be a vision, but a reality.

He was about to turn to ascend the steps to his palace when he heard the swishing of poles in the water. The gondola was coming at a swift rate, he judged. He did not err, for it hove into sight and came directly to the dock upon which he was standing.

“Messer Duca,” came a muffled voice from the gondola.

The duke started; he recognized the voice of his watch in the house of his enemy.

“Ho, Messer Marcquo. Come you from the residence of the duke?”

“So 1 do, and I must haste to re¬

turn, for my absence will be suspected. I have great news. ”

“The duke-?”

“Is dead.”

“Excellent.”

“At the end of the sixth hour after sunset he was seized with a most violent pain throughout his body. He screamed that he was burning; that he had been poisoned. But he had not been poisoned, for his food-tasters still live unaffected. At the end of the seventh hour he succumbed in horrible pain, delivering a curse upon you.”

“It is well, Messer Marcquo. You shall be rewarded amply for this. You have not been followed?”

“I trow not, Magnificent.”

“Then haste and return; it would not do to have someone suspect you as my envoy.”

The boat moved away, and the duke exultantly leaped up the steps and in¬ to the palace. He ascended to his chamber, threw off his cloak and donned a luxurious gown. His en¬ emy was dead! Now he would no longer be hampered in his nefarious designs by his enemy! His chief councilor must know. He would go to him, now, and inform him of the incident. The Devil could come and take a casket of gold—ten cas¬ kets, for that matter, for his enemy was dead.

He started down the stairway as swiftly as his burdensome robe would allow. But half-way down his gown tangled in his legs and he tripped and fell headlong down the stone steps.

A lackey found him next morning. He was dead; his neck was broken.

[ONSTER-GQBof MAMURTH

I T WAS out of the desert night that he came to us, stumbling into our little circle of firelight and collapsing at once. Mitchell and I sprang to our feet with startled ex¬ clamations, for men who travel alone and on foot are a strange sight in the deserts of North Africa.

For the first few minutes that we worked over him, I thought he would die at once, but gradually we brought him back to consciousness. While Mitchell held a cup of water to his cracked lips, I looked him over and saw that he was too far gone to live much longer. His clothes were in rags, and his hands and knees literally flayed, from crawling over the sands, I judged.

So when he motioned feebly for more water, I gave it to him, knowing that in any case his time was short. Soon he could talk, in a dead, croak¬ ing voice.

“I’m alone,” he told us, in answer to our first question; “no more out there to look for. What are you two —traders? I thought so. No, I’m an archeologist. A digger-up of the past,. ’ ’ His voice broke for a moment. “It’s not always good to dig up dead secrets. There are some things the past should be allowed to hide.”

He caught the look that passed bey

Edmond Hamiltoiv

“I had not killed the thing, hut had chained it down by the block that held it prisoner.”

tween Mitchell and me. * ‘ No, I’m not mad,” he said. “You will hear. I’ll tell you the whole thing. But listen to me, you two,” and in his earnest¬ ness he raised himself to a sitting position, “keep out of Igidi Desert. Remember that I told you that I had a warning, too, but I disregarded it. And I went into hell—into hell. But there, I will tell you from the beginning.

“My name—that doesn’t matter now. I left Mogador more than a year ago, and came through the foot¬ hills of the Atlas ranges, striking out into the desert in hopes of finding some of the Carthaginian ruins the North African deserts are known to hold.

“I spent months in the search, traveling among the squalid Arab vil¬ lages, now near an oasis and now far into the blank, untracked desert. And as I went farther into that savage country, I found more and more of the ruins I sought, crumbled remnants of temples and fortresses, relics, al¬ most destroyed, of the age when Carthage meant empire and ruled all of North Africa from her walled city. And then, on the side of a massive block of stone, I found that which turned me toward Igidi.

“It was an inscription in the garbled Phenician of the traders of Carthage, short enough that I remem¬ bered it and can repeat it word for word. It read, literally, as follows:

“ ‘Merchants, go not into the city of Mamurth, which lies beyond the



mountain pass. For I, San-Drabat of Carthage, entering the city with four companions in the month of Eschmoun, to trade, on the third night of our stay came priests and seized my fellows, I escaping by hiding. My companions they sacrificed to the evil god of the city, who has dwelt there from the beginning of time, and for whom the wise men of Mamurth have built a great temple the like of which is not on earth elsewhere, where the people of Mamurth worship their god. I escaped from the city and set this warning here that others may not turn their steps to Mamurth and to death.’

“Perhaps you can imagine the ef¬ fect that inscription had on me. It was the last trace of a city unknown to the memory of men, a last floating spar of a civilization sunken in the sea of time. That there could have been such a city at all seemed to me quite probable. What do we know of Carthage even, but a few names? No city, no civilization was ever so com¬ pletely blotted off the earth as Carth¬ age, when Roman Scipio ground its temples and palaces into the very dust, and plowed up the ground with salt, and the eagles of conquering Rome flew across a desert where a metropolis had-been.

“It was on the outskirts of one of those wretched little Arab villages lhat I had found the block, and its inscription, and I tried to find some¬ one in the village to accompany me, but none would Jo so. I could plainly see the mountain pass, a mere crack between towering blue cliffs. In re¬ ality it was miles and miles away, but the deceptive optical qualities of the desert light made it seem very near. My maps placed that mountain range all right, as a lower branch of the Atlas, and the expanse behind the mountains was marked as ‘ Igidi Des¬ ert’, but that was all I got from them. All that I could reckon on as certain was that it was desert that lay on the

other side of the pass, and I must carry enough supplies to meet it.

“But the Arabs knew morel Though I offered what must have been fabulous riches to those poor devils, not one would come with me when I let them know what place I was heading for. None had ever been there, they would not even ride far into the desert in that direction; but all had very definite ideas of the place beyond the mountains as a nest of devils, a haunt of evil Jinns.

“Knowing how firmly superstition is implanted in their kind, I tried no longer to persuade them, and started alone, with two scrawny camels carry¬ ing my water and supplies. So for three days I forged across the desert under a broiling sun, and on the morning of the fourth I reached the pass.

“Tt was only a narrow crevice to begin with, and great boulders were strewn so thickly on its floor that it was a long, hard job getting through. And the cliffs on each side towered to such a height that the space between was a place of shadows and whispers and semi-darkness. It was late in the afternoon that I final¬ ly came through, and for a moment I stood motionless, for from that side of the pass the desert sloped down into a vast basin, and at the basin’s center, perhaps two miles from where I stood, gleamed the white ruins of Mamurth.

“I remember that I was very calm as I covered the two miles between myself and the ruins. I had taken the existence of the city as a fact, so much so that if the ruins had not been there I should have been vastly more surprized than at finding them.

“From the pass I had seen only a tangled mass of white fragments, but as I drew nearer, some of these be¬ gan to take outline as crumbling blocks, and walls, and columns. The sand had drifted, too, and the ruins

THE MONSTER-GOD OP MAMURTH


were completely buried in some sec¬ tions, while nearly all were half cov¬ ered.

“And then it was that I made a curious discovery. I had stopped to examine the material of the ruins, a smooth, veinless stone, much like an artificial marble or a superfine con¬ crete. And while I looked about me, intent on this, I noticed that on al¬ most every shaft and block, on broken cornice and column, was carved the same symbol—if it was a symbol. It was a rough picture of a queer, out¬ landish creature, much like an oc¬ topus, with a found, almost shapeless body, and several long tentacles or arms branching out from the body, not supple and boneless, like those of an octopus, but seemingly stiff and jointed, like a spider’s legs. In fact, the thing might have been intended to represent a spider, I thought, though some of the details were wrong. I speculated for a moment on the profusion of these creatures carved on the ruins all around me, then gave it up as an enigma that was unsolvable.

“And the riddle of the city about me seemed unsolvable also. What could I find in this half-buried mass of stone fragments to throw light on the past ? I could not even superficially explore the place, for the scantiness of my supplies and water would not permit a long stay. It was with a discouraged heart that I went back to the camels and, leading them to an open spot in the ruins, made my camp for the night. And when night had fallen, and I sat beside my little fire, the vast, brooding silence of this place of death was awful. There were no laughing human voices, or cries of animals, or even cries of bird or in¬ sect. Nothing but the darkness and silence that crowded around me, flowed down upon me, beat sullenly against the glowing spears of light my little fire threw out.

“As I sat there musing, I was star¬

tled by a slight sound behind me. I turned to see its cause, and then stif¬ fened. As I have mentioned, the space directly around my camp was clear sand, smoothed level by the winds. Well, as I stared at that flat expanse of sand, a hole several inches across suddenly appeared in its sur¬ face, yards from where I stood, but clearly visible in the firelight.

“There was nothing whatever to be seen there, not even a shadow, but there it was,' one moment the level surface of the sand, the next moment a hole appearing in it, accompanied by a soft, crunching sound. As I stood gazing at it in wonder, that sound was repeated, and simultane¬ ously another hole appeared in tho sand’s surface, only five or six feet nearer to me than the other.

“When I saw that, ice-tipped ar¬ rows of fear seemed to shoot through me, and then, yielding to a mad im¬ pulse, I snatched a blazing piece of fuel from the fire and hurled it, a comet of red flame, at the place where the holes had appeared. There was a slight sound of scurrying and shuf¬ fling, and I felt that whatever thing had made those marks had retreated, if a living thing had made them at all. What it had been, I could not imagine, for there had been absolutely nothing in sight, one track and then another appearing magically in the clear sand, if indeed they were really tracks at all.

“The mystery of the thing haunted me. Even in sleep I found no rest, for evil dreams seemed to flow into my brain from the dead city around me. All the dusty sins of ages past, in this forgotten place, seemed to be focused on me in the dreams I had. Strange shapes walked through them, unearthly as the spawn of a distant star, half-seen and vanishing again. It was little enough sleep I got that night, but when the sun finally came, with its first golden rays my fears and oppressions dropped from me like



a cloak. No wonder the early peoples were sun-worshipers!

“And with my renewed strength and courage, a new thought struck me. In the inscription I have quoted to you, that long-dead merchant-adven¬ turer had mentioned the great temple of the city and dwelt on its grandeur. Where, then, were its ruins, I won¬ dered. I decided that what time I had would be better spent in investi¬ gating the ruins of this temple, which should be prominent, if that ancient Carthaginian had been correct as to its size.

“T ascended a near-by hillock and looked about me in all direc¬ tions, and though I could not per¬ ceive any vast pile of ruins that might have been the temple’s, I did see for the first time, far away, two great figures of stone that stood out black against the rosy flame of the sunrise. It was a discovery that filled me with excitement, and I broke camp at once, starting in the direction of those two shapes.

n “They were on the very edge of the farther side of the city, and it was noon before I finally stood before them. And now I saw clearly their nature. Two great, sitting figures, carved of black stone, all of fifty feet in height, and'almost that far apart, both facing toward the city and toward me. They were of human shape and dressed in a queer, scaled armor, but the faces I can not describe, for they were unhuman. The features were human, well-proportioned, even, but the face, the expression, suggested no kinship whatever with humanity as we know it. Were they carved from life? I wondered. If so, it must have been a strange sort of people who had lived in this city and set up these two statues.

“And now I tore my gaze away from them, and looked around. On each side of those shapes, the remains of what must once have been a mighty

wall branched out, a long pile of crumbling mins. But there had been no wall between the statues, that be¬ ing evidently the gateway through the barrier. I wondered why the two guardians of the gate had survived, apparently entirely unharmed, while the wall and the city behind me had fallen into ruins. They were of a different material, I could see, but what was that material?

“And now I noticed for the first time the long avenue that began on the other side of the statues and stretched away into the desert for a half-mile or more. The sides of this avenue were two rows of smaller stone figures that ran in parallel lines away from the two figures. So I started down that avenue, passing be¬ tween the two great shapes that stood at its head. And as I went between them, I noticed for the first time the inscription graven on the inner side of each.

“On the pedestal of each figure, four or five feet from the ground, was a raised tablet of the same material, perhaps a yard square, and covered with strange symbols—characters, no doubt, of a lost language, undecipher¬ able, at least to me. One symbol, though, that was especially prominent in the inscription, was not new to me. It was the carven picture of the spider, or octopus, whieh I have men¬ tioned that I had found everywhere on the ruins of the city. And here it was scattered thickly among the symbols that made up the inscription. The tablet on the other statue was a replica of the first, and I could learn no more from it. So I started down the avenue, turning over in my mind the riddle of that omnipresent symbol, and then forgetting it, as I observed the things about me.

“That long street was like the ave¬ nue of sphinxes at Karnak, down which Pharaoh swung in his litter, borne to his temple on the neek3 of men. But the statues that made up

THE MONSTER-GOD OP MAMURTH


its sides were not sphinx-shaped. They were carved in strange forms, shapes of animals unknown to ns, as far removed from anything we can imagine as the beasts of another world. I can not describe them, any more than you could describe a dragon to a man who had been blind all his life. Yet they were of evil, reptilian shapes; they tore at my nerves as I looked at them.

“Down between the two rows of them I went, until I came to the end of the avenue. Standing there be¬ tween the last two figures, I could see nothing before me but the yellow sands of the desert, as far as the eye eould reach. I was puzzled. What had been the object of all the pains that had been taken, the wall, the two peat statues, and this long avenue, if it but led into the desert ?

“Gradually I began to see that there was something queer about the part of the desert that lay directly before me. It was flat. For an area, seemingly round in shape, that must have covered several acres, the sur¬ face of the desert seemed absolutely level. It was as though the sands within that great circle had been packed down with tremendous force, leaving not even the littlest ridge of dune on its surface. Beyond this flat area, and all around it, the desert was broken up by small bills and valleys, and traversed by whirling sandclouds, but nothing stirred on the flat surface of the circle.

“Interested at once, I strode for¬ ward to the edge of the circle, only a few yards away. I had just reached that edge when an invisible hand seemed to strike me a great blow on the face and chest, knocking me back¬ ward in the sand.

“It was minutes before I advanced again, but I did advance, for all my curiosity was now aroused. I crawled toward the circle’s edge, holding my pistol before me, pushing slowly for¬ ward.

“When the automatic in my out¬ stretched hand reached the line of the circle, it struck against something hard, and I could push it no farther. It was exactly as if it had struck against the side of a wall, but no wall or anything else was to be seen. Reaching out my hand, I touched the same hard barrier, and in a moment I was on my feet

“For I knew now that it was solid matter I had run into, not force. When I thrust out my hands, the edge of the circle was as far as they would go, for there they met a smooth wall, totally invisible, yet at the same time quite material. And the phenomenon was one which even I could partly understand. Somehow, in the dead past, the scientists of the city behind me, the ‘wise men’ mentioned in the inscription, had discovered the secret of making solid matter invis¬ ible, and had applied it to the work that I was now examining. Such a thing was far from impossible. Even our own scientists can make matter partly invisible, with the X-ray. Evi¬ dently these people had known the whole process, a secret that had been lost in the succeeding ages, like the secret of hard gold, and malleable glass, and others that we find men¬ tioned in ancient writings. Yet I wondered how they had done this, so that, ages after those who had built the thing were wind-driven dust, it remained as invisible as ever.

I stood hack and threw pebbles into the air, toward the circle. No matter how high I threw them, when they reaohed the line of the circle’s edge, they rebounded with a clinking sound, so I knew that the wall must tower to a great height above me. I was on fire to get inside the wall and examine the place from the inside, but how to do it? There must be an entrance, but where? And I suddenly remem¬ bered the two guardian statues at the head of the great avenue, with their carven tablets, and wondered what



connection they had with this place.

“Suddenly the strangeness of the whole thing struck me like a blow. The great, unseen wall before me, the circle of sand, flat and unchanging, and myself, standing there and won¬ dering, wondering. A voice from out the dead city behind me seemed to sound in my heart, bidding me to turn and flee, to get away. I remembered the warning of the inscription, ‘Go not to Mamurth. * And as I thought of the inscription, I had no doubt that this was the great temple described by San-Drabat. Surely he was right: the like of it was not on earth else¬ where.

“But I would not go, I could not go, until I had examined the wall from the inside. Calmly reasoning the matter, I decided that the logical place for the gateway through the wall would be at the end of the ave¬ nue, so that those who came down the street could pass directly through the wall. And my reasoning was good, for it was at* that spot that I found the entrance. An opening in the barrier, severa’. yards wide, and run¬ ning higher than I could reach, how high I had no means of telling.

“T felt my way through the gate, and stepped at once upon a floor of hard material, not as smooth as the wall’s surface, but equally invis¬ ible. Inside the entrance lay a cor¬ ridor of equal width, leading into the center part of the circle, and I felt my way forward.

“I must have made a strange pic¬ ture, had there been any there to ob¬ serve it. For while I knew that all around me were the towering, invis¬ ible walls, and I knew not what else, yet all my eyes could see was the great flat circle of sand beneath me, carpeted with the afternoon sunshine. Only, I seemed to be walking a foot above the ground, in thin air. That was the thickness of the floor beneath me, and it was the weight of this

great floor, I knew, that held the cir¬ cle of sand under it forever flat and unchanging.

“I walked slowly down the pas¬ sageway, with hands outstretched be¬ fore me, and had gone but a short distance when I brought up against another smooth wall that lay directly across the corridor, seemingly making it a blind-alley. But I was not dis¬ couraged now, for I knew that there must be a door somewhere, and began to feel around me in search of it.

“I found the door. In groping about the sides of the corridor my hands encountered a smoothly rounded knob set in the wall, and as I laid my hand on this, the door opened. There was a sighing, as of a little wind, and when I again felt my way forward, the wall that had lain across the passageway was gone, and I was free to go forward. But I dared not go through at once. I went back to the knob on the wall, and found that no amount of pressing or twisting pf it would close the door that had opened. Some subtle mechanism within the knob had operated, that needed only a touch of the hand to work it, and the whole end of the cor¬ ridor had moved out of the way, slid¬ ing up in grooves, I think, like a port¬ cullis, though of this I am not sure.

“But the door was safely opened, and I passed through it. Moving about, like a blind man in a strange place, I found that I was in a vast inner court, the walls of which sloped away in a great curve. When I dis¬ covered this, I came back to the spot where the corridor opened into the court, and then walked straight out into the court itself.

“It was steps that I encountered: the first broad steps of what was evidently a staircase of titanic pro¬ portion. And I went up, slowly, carefully, feeling before me every foot of the way. It was only the feel of the staircase under me that gave reality to it, for as far as I could see,

THE MONSTER-GOD OP MAMURTH


I was simply climbing up into empty space. It was weird beyond telling.

“Up and up I went, until I was all of a hundred feet above the ground, and then the staircase narrowed, the sides drew together. A few more steps, and I came out on a flat floor again, which, after some groping about, 1 found to be a broad landing, with high, railed edges. I crawled across this landing on hands and knees, and then struck against another wall, and in it, another door. I went through this, too, still crawling, and though everything about me was still invisible, I sensed that I was no longer in the open air, but in a great room.

“I stopped short, and then, as I crouched on the floor, I felt a sudden prescience of evil, of some malignant, menacing entity that was native here. Nothing I could see, or hear, but strong upon my brain beat the thought of something infinitely ancient, infinitely evil, that was a part of this place. Was it a conscious¬ ness, I wonder, of the horror that had filled the place in ages long dead? Whatever caused it, I could go no farther in the face of the terror that possessed me, so I drew back and walked to the edge of the landing, leaning over its high, invisible rail¬ ing and surveying the scene below.

“The setting sun hung like a great ball of red-hot iron in the western sky, and in its lurid rays the two great statues cast long shadows on the yellow sands. Not far away, my two camels, hobbled, moved restless¬ ly about. To all appearances I was standing on thin air, a hundred feet or more above the ground, but in my mind’s eye I had a picture of the great courts and corridors below me, through which I had felt my way.

“Musing there in the red light, it was clear to me that this was the great temple of the city. What a sight it must have been, in the time of the city’s life! I could imagine the long procession of priests and peo¬

ple, in somber and gorgeous robes, coming out from the city, between the great statues and down the long ave¬ nue, dragging with them, perhaps, an unhappy prisoner to sacrifice to their god in this, his temple.

* ‘ npHE sun was now dipping beneath the horizon, and I turned to go, but before ever I moved, I became rigid and my heart seemed to stand still. For on the farther edge of the clear stretch of sand that lay beneath the temple and the city, a hole sud¬ denly appeared in the sand, springing into being on the desert’s face exactly like the one I had seen at my camp¬ fire the night before. I watched, as fascinated as by the eyes of a snake. And before my eyes, another and an¬ other appeared, not in a straight line, but in a zigzag fashion. Two such holes would be punched down on one side, then two more on the other side, than one in the middle, making a series of tracks, perhaps two yards in width from side to side, and advanc¬ ing straight toward the temple and myself. And I could see nothing!

“It was like—the comparison sud¬ denly struck me—like the tracks a many-legged insect might make in the sand, only magnified to unheardof proportions. And with that thought, the truth rushed on me, for I remembered the spider carved on the ruins and on the statues, and I knew now what it had signified to the dwellers in the city. What was it the inscription had said? ‘The evil god of the city, who has been there from the beginning of time.’ And as I saw those tracks advancing toward me, I knew that the city’s ancient evil god still dwelt here, and that I was in his temple, alone and unarmed.

“What strange creatures might there not have been in the dawn of time? And this one, this gigantic monster in a spider’s form—had not those who built the city found it here when they came, and, in awe, taken



it as the city’s god, and built for it the mighty temple in which I now stood? And they, who had the wis¬ dom and the art to make this vast fane invisible, not to be seen by human eyes, had they done the same to their god, and made of him almost a true god, invisible, powerful, un¬ dying? Undying! Almost it must have been, to survive the ages as it had done. Yet I knew that even some kinds of parrots live for cen¬ turies, and what could I know of this monstrous relic of dead ages? And when the city died find crumbled, and the victims were no longer brought to its lair in the temple, did it not live, as I thought, by ranging the des¬ ert? No wonder the Arabs had feared the country in this direction! It would be death for anything that came even within view of such a hor¬ ror, that could dutch and spring and chase, and yet remain always un¬ seen. And was it death for me ?

“Such were some of the thoughts that pounded through my brain, as I watched death approach, with those steadily advancing tracks in the sand. And now the paralysis of terror that had gripped me was broken, and I ran down the great staircase, and into the court. I could think of no place in that great hall where I might hide. Imagine hiding in a place where all is invisible! But I must go some place, and finally I dashed past the foot of the great staircase until I reached a wall directly under the landing on which I had stood, and against this I crouched, praying that the deepening shadows of dusk might hide me from the gaze of the creature whose lair this was.

“T knew instantly when the thing entered the gate through which I too had come. Pad, pad, pad—that was the soft, cushioned sound of its passage. I heard the feet stop for a moment by the opened door at the end of the corridor. Perhaps it was

in surprize that the door was open, I thought, for how could I know how great or little intelligence lay in that unseen creature’s brain? Then pad, pad—across the court it came, and I heard the soft sound of its passing as it ascended the staircase. Had I not been afraid to breathe, I would have almost screamed with relief.

“Yet still fear held me, and I re¬ mained crouched against the wall while the thing went up the great stairs. Imagine that scene! All around me was absolutely nothing visible, nothing but the great flat cir¬ cle of sand that lay a foot below me, yet I saw the place with my mind’s eye, and knew of the walls and courts that lay about me, and the thing above me, in fear of which I was crouching there in the gathering darkness.

“The sound of feet above me had ceased, and I judged that the thing had gone into the great room above, which I had feared to enter. Now if ever was the time to make my escape in the darkness, so I rose, with in¬ finite carefulness, and softly walked across the court to the door that led into the corridor. But when I had walked only half of the distance, as I thought, I crashed squarely into an¬ other invisible wall across my path, and fell backward, the metal handle of the sheath-knife at my belt strik¬ ing the flooring with a loud clang. God help me, I had misjudged the position of the door, and had walked straight into the wall, instead!

“I lay there, motionless, with cold fear flooding every part of my being. Then, pad, pad—the soft steps of thing across the landing, and then for a moment silence. Could it see me from the landing, I wondered. Could it ? For a moment, hope warmed me, as no sound came, but the next instant I knew that death had me by the throat, for pad, pad —down the stairs it came.

“With that sound my last vestige

THE MONSTER-GOD OF MAMURTH


of self-control fled and I scrambled to my feet and made another mad dash in the direction of the door. Crash!—into another wall I went, and rose to my feet trembling. There was no sound of footsteps now, and as quietly as I could, I walked into the great court still farther, as I thought, for my whole ideas of direc¬ tion were hopelessly confused. God, what a weird game it was we played there on that darkened circle of sand!

“No sound whatever from the thing that hunted me, and my hope flickered up again. And with a dread¬ ful irony, it was at that exact moment that I walked straight into the thing. My outstretched hand touched and grasped what must have been one of its limbs, thick and cold and hairy, that was instantly tom from my grasp and then seized me again, while another and another clutched me also. The thing had stood quite still, leav¬ ing me to walk directly into its grasp —the drama of the spider and the fly!

“A moment only it held me, for that cold grasp filled me with such deep, shuddering abhorrence that I wrenched myself loose and fled madly across the court, stumbling again on the first step of the great staircase. I ran madly up those stairs, and even as I ran I heard the thing in pursuit, no soft steps now, but a rapid shuffle.

“Up I went, and across the landing, and grasped the edge of the railing, for I meant to throw myself down from there, to a clean death on the floor below. But under my hands, the top of the railing moved, one of the great blocks that evidently made up its top was loosened and rocked to¬ ward me! In a flash I grasped the great block and staggered across the landing with it in my arms, to the head of the staircase. Two men could hardly have lifted it, I think, yet I did more, in a sudden access of mad strength; for as I heard that monster coming swiftly up the great stairs, I raised the block, invisible as ever,

above my head, and sent it crashing down the staircase upon the place where I thought the thing was at that moment.

“For an instant after the crash there was silence, and then a low humming sound began, that waxed into a loud droning. And at the same time, at a spot half-way down the staircase where the block had crashed, a thin, purple liquid seemed to well out of the empty air, giving form to a few of the invisible steps as it flowed over them, and outlining too, the block I had thrown, and a great hairy limb that lay- crushed be¬ neath it, and from which the fluid that was the monster’s blood was ooz¬ ing. I had not killed the thing, but had chained it down, as I thought, with the block that held it prisoner.

“There was a thrashing sound on the staircase, and the purple stream ran more freely, and by the outline of its splashes, I saw, dimly, the mon¬ strous god that had been known in Mamurth in ages past. Like a giant spider, it was, with angled limbs that were yards long, and a hairy, repel¬ lent body. Even as I stood there, I wondered that the thing, invisible as it was, was yet visible by the life¬ blood in it, when that blood was spilled. Yet so it was, nor can I even suggest a reason., But one glimpse I got of its half-visible, purple-splashed outline, and then, hugging the farther side of the stairs, I descended. When I passed the thing, the intolerable odor of a crushed insect almost smothered me, and the monster itself made frantic efforts to loosen itself and spring at me. But it could not, and I got safely down, shuddering and hardly able to walk.

“Straight across the great court I went, and ran shakily through the corridor, and down the long avenue, and out between the two great statues. The moonlight shone on them, and the tablets of inscriptions stood out on the sides of the statues



clearly, with their strange symbols and carved spider forms. But I knew now what their message was!

“It was well that my camels had wandered into the ruins, for such was the fear that struck through me that I would never have returned for them had they lingered by the invisible wall. All that night I rode to the north, and when morning came I did not stop, but still pushed north. And as I went through the mountain pass, one camel stumbled and fell, and in falling burst open all my water sup* pirns that were lashed on its back.

“No water at all was left, but I still held north, killing the other camel by my constant speed, and then staggered on, on foot. On hands and knees I crawled forward, when my legs gave out, always north, away from that temple of evil and its evil god. And tonight, I had been crawl¬ ing, how many miles I do not know, and I saw your fire. And that is all. ’ ’

H e lax back exhausted, and Mitchell and I looked at each other’s faces in the firelight. Then, rising, Mitchell strode to the edge of our camp and looked for a long time at the moonlit desert, that lay toward the south. What his thoughts were, I do not know. I was nursing my own, as I watched the man that lay beside our fire.

It was early the next morning that he died, muttering about great walls

around him. We wrapped his body securely, and bearing it with us held our way across the desert.

In Algiers we cabled to the friends whose address we found in his money belt, and arranged to ship the body to them, for such had been his only request. Later they wrote that he had been buried in the little church¬ yard of the New England village that had been his childhood home. I do not think that his sleep there will be troubled by dreams of that place of evil from which he fled. I pray that it will not.

Often and often have Mitchell and I discussed the thing, over lonely campfires and in the inns of the seaport towns. Did he kill the in¬ visible monster he spoke of, and is it lying now, a withered remnant, under the block on the great staircase? Or did it gnaw its way loose; does it still roam the desert and make its lair in the vast, ancient temple, as unseen as itself ?

Or, different still, was the man simply crazed by the heat and thirst of the desert, and his tale but the product of a maddened mind? I do. not think that this is so. I think that he told truth, yet I do not know. Nor shall I ever know, for never, Mitchell and I have decided, shall we be the ones to venture into that place of hell on earth where that ancient god of evil may still' be living, amid the in¬ visible courts and towers, beyond the unseen wall.

The most thrilling, most enthralling weird-scientific story ever written , “Across Space,” by Edmond Hamilton, author of the above story, will begin in next month's issue . Don't fail to read this astonishing thrill-tale.

WEIRD STORY REPRINTS

No. 14. The Horla

By GUY de MAUPASSANT

AY 8. What a lovely day! I have spent the whole morn¬ ing lying on the lawn in front of my house, under the great plane tree that shades the whole of it. I like this part of the country and I like to live here, for I am attached to it by old associations, by those deep and delicate roots which attach a man to the soil on which his ancestors were born and died, which attach him to the ideas and usages of the place as well as to the food, to local expres¬ sions, to the peculiar twang of the peasants, to the smell of the soil, of the villages and of the atmosphere itself.

I love the house in which I grew up. Prom my windows I can see the Seine, which flows alongside my garden, on the other side of the high road, almost through my grounds—the great and wide Seine, which goes to Rouen and Havre, and is covered with boats pass¬ ing to and fro.

On the left, down yonder, lies the large town of Rouen, with its blue roofs, under its pointed Gothic towers. These are innumerable, slender or broad, dominated by the spire of the cathedral, and full of bells which sound through the blue air on fine mornings, sending their sweet and distant iron clang even as far as my home; that song of the metal, which the breeze wafts in my direction, now stronger and now weaker, according as the wind is stronger or lighter.

What a delicious morning it was!

About 11 o’clock, a long line of boats drawn by a steam tug as big as a fly, scarcely puffing as it emitted its thick smoke, passed my gate.

After two English schooners, whose red flag fluttered in the breeze, there came a magnificent Brazilian threemaster, perfectly white, and wonder¬ fully clean and shining. I saluted it, I hardly knew why, except that the sight of the vessel gave me great pleasure. «

Tl/TAY 12. I have had a slight feverish attack for the last few days, and I feel ill, or rather I feel low-spirited.

Whence come those mysterious in¬ fluences which change our happiness into discouragement, and our selfconfidence into diffidence ? One might almost say that the air, the invisible air, is full of unknowable Powers whose mysterious presence we have to endure. I wake up in the best spirits, with an inclination to sing. Why ? I go down to the edge of the water, and suddenly, after walking a short dis¬ tance, I return home wretched, as if some misfortune were awaiting me there. Why? Is it a cold shiver which, passing over my skin, has upset my nerves and given me low spirits? Is it the form of the clouds, the color of the sky, or the changeable color of the surrounding objects, that has troubled my thoughts as they passed before my eyes? Who can tell? Everything that surrounds us, every¬ thing that we see, without looking at it, everything that we touch, without

*Translated from, the French.


WEIKD TALES

knowing it, everything that we han¬ dle, without feeling it, all that we meet, without clearly distinguishing it, has a rapid, surprizing and inex¬ plicable effect upon us and upon our senses, and, through them, upon our ideas and upon our heart itself.

How profound that mystery of the Invisible is! We can not fathom it with our miserable senses, with our eyes which are unable to perceive what is either too small or too great, too near to ns or too far from us— neither the inhabitants of a star nor of a drop of water; nor with our ears that deceive us, for they transmit to us the vibrations of the air in sono¬ rous notes. They are fairies who work the miracle of changing these vibra¬ tions into sound, and by that meta¬ morphosis give birth to music, which makes the silent motion of nature musical . . with our sense of smell which is less keen than that of a dog, . . . with our sense of taste which can scarcely distinguish the age of a wine!

Oh! If we only had other organs which would work other miracles in our favor, what a number of fresh things we might discover around us!

May 16. I am ill, decidedly! I was so well last month! I am feverish, horribly feverish, or rather I am in a state of feverish enervation, which makes my mind suffer as much as my body. I have, continually, that horrible sensation of some impending danger, that apprehension of some coming misfortune, or of approaching death; that presentiment which is, no doubt, an attack of some illness which is still unknown, which germinates in the flesh and in the blood.

May 17. I have just come from consulting my physician, for I could no longer get any sleep. He said my pulse was rapid, my eyes dilated, my nerves highly strung, but there were no alarming symptoms. I must take a course of shower baths and of bro¬ mide of potassium.

May 25. No change! My condition is really very peculiar. As the eve¬ ning comes on, an incomprehensible feeling of disquietude seizes me, just as if night concealed some threatening disaster. I dine hurriedly, and then try to read, but I do not understand the words, and can scarcely dis¬ tinguish the letters. Then I walk up and down my drawing room, op¬ pressed by a feeling of confused and irresistible fear, the fear of sleep and fear of my bed.

About 10 o’clock I go up to my room. As soon as I enter it I doublelock and bolt the door; I am afraid— of what? Up to the present time I have been afraid of nothing. I open my cupboards, and look under my bed; I listen—to what? How strange it is that a simple feeling of discom¬ fort, impeded or heightened circula¬ tion, perhaps the irritation of a nerve filament, a slight congestion, a small disturbance in the imperfect delicate functioning of our living machinery, may turn the most light-hearted of men into a melancholy one, and make a coward of the bravest! Then, I go to bed, and wait for sleep as a man might wait for the executioner. I wait for its coming with dread, and my heart beats and my legs tremble, while my whole body shivers beneath the warmth of the bedclothes, until all at once I fall asleep, as though one should plunge into a pool of stagnant water in order to drown. I do not feel it coming on as I did formerly, this perfidious sleep which is close to me and watching me, which is going to seize me by the head, to close my eyes and annihilate me.

I sleep—a long time—two or three hours perhaps—then a dream—no— a nightmare lays hold on me. I feel that I am in bed and asleep ... I feel it and I know it—and I feel also that somebody is coming close to me, is looking at me, touching me, is get¬ ting on to my bed, is kneeling on my chest, is taking my neck between his

THE HORLA


hands and squeezing it—squeezing it with all his might in order to strangle me.

I struggle, bound by that terrible sense of powerlessness which para¬ lyzes us in our dreams; I try to cry out—but I can not; I want to move— I can not do so; I try, with the most violent efforts and breathing hard, to turn over and throw off this being who is crushing and suffocating me— I can not!

And then, suddenly, I wake up, trembling and bathed in perspiration; I light a candle and find that I am alone, and after that crisis, which occurs every night, I at length fall asleep and slumber tranquilly till morning.

June 2. My condition has grown worse. What is the matter with me ? The bromide does me no good, and the shower baths have no effect. Sometimes, in order to tire myself thoroughly, though I am fatigued enough already, I go for a walk in the forest of Roumare. I used to think at first that the fresh light and soft air, impregnated with the odor of herbs and leaves, would instil new blood into my veins and impart fresh en¬ ergy to my heart. I turned into a broad hunting road, and then turned toward La Bouille, through a narrow path, between two rows of exceeding¬ ly tall trees which placed a thick green, almost black, roof between the sky and me.

A sudden shiver ran through me, not a cold shiver, but a strange shiver of agony, and I hastened my steps, uneasy at being alone in the forest, afraid, stupidly and without reason, of the profound solitude. Suddenly it seemed to me as if I were being fol¬ lowed, that somebody was walking at my heels, close, quite close to me, near enough to touch me.

I turned round suddenly, but I was alone. I saw nothing behind me ex¬ cept the straight, broad path, empty and bordered by high trees, horribly

empty; before mo it also extended until it was lost in the distance, and looked just the same, terrible.

I closed my eyes. Why ? And then I began to turn round on one heel very quickly, just like a top. I nearly fell down, and opened my eyes; the trees were dancing round me and the earth heaved; I was obliged to sit down. Then, ah! I no longer remem¬ bered how I had come! What a strange idea! What a strange, strange idea! I did not the least know. I started off to the right, and got back into the avenue which had led me into the middle of the forest.

June 3. I have had a terrible night. I shall go away for a few weeks, for no doubt a journey will set me up again.

J VLY 2. I have come back, quite cured, and have had a most de¬ lightful trip into the bargain. I have been to Mont Saint-Michel, which I had not seen before.

What a sight, when one arrives as I did, at Avranches toward the end of the day! The town stands on a hill, and I was taken into the public gar¬ den at the extremity of the town. I uttered a cry of astonishment. An extraordinarily large bay lay extend¬ ed before me, as far as my eyes could reach, between two hills which were lost to sight in the mist; and in the middle of this immense yellow bay, under a clear, golden sky, a peculiar hill rose up, somber and pointed, in the midst of the sand. The sun had just disappeared, and under the still flaming sky appeared the outline of that fantastic rock which bears on its summit a fantastic monument.

At daybreak I went out to it. The tide was low, as it had been the night before, and I saw that wonderful abbey rise up before me as I ap¬ proached it. After several hours’ walking, I reached the enormous mass of rocks which supports the little town, dominated by the great church.



Having climbed the steep and narrow street, I entered the most wonderful Gothic building that has ever been built to God on earth, as large as a town, full of low rooms which seem buried beneath vaulted roofs, and lofty galleries supported by delicate columns.

I entered this gigantic granite gem, which is as light as a bit of lace, cov¬ ered with towers, with slender bel¬ fries with spiral staircases, which raise their strange heads that bristle with chimeras, with devils, with fan¬ tastic animals, with monstrous flow¬ ers, to the blue sky by day, and to the black sky by night, and are connected by finely carved arches.

When I had reached the summit I said to the monk who accompanied me: “Father, how happy you must be here!” And he replied: “It is very windy here, Monsieur;” and so we began to talk while watching the rising tide, which ran over the sand and covered it as with a steel cuirass.

And then the monk told me stories, all the old stories belonging to the place—legends, nothing but legends.

One of them struck me forcibly. The country people, those belonging to the Mount, declare that at night one can hear voices talking on the sands, and then that one hears two goats bleating, one with a strong, the other with a weak voice. Incredulous people declare that it is nothing but the cry of the sea birds, which occa¬ sionally resembles bleatings, and occa¬ sionally human lamentations; but be¬ lated fishermen swear that they have met an old shepherd wandering be¬ tween tides on the sands around the little town. His head is completely concealed by his cloak and he is fol¬ lowed by a billy goat with a man’s face, and a nanny goat with a wom¬ an’s face, both having long, white hair and talking incessantly and quarrel¬ ing in an unknown tongue. Then suddenly they cease and begin to bleat with all their might.

“Do you believe it?” I asked the monk. ‘ ‘ I scarcely know, ’ ’ he replied, and I continued: “If there are other beings besides ourselves on this earth, how comes it that we have not known it long since, or why have you not seen them ? How is it that I have not seen them ? ” He replied: “ Do we see the hundred-thousandth part of what exists? Look here: there is the wind, which is the strongest force in nature, which knocks down men, and blows down buildings, uproots trees, raises the sea into mountains of water, destroys cliffs and casts great ships on the rocks; the wind which kills, which whistles, which sighs, which roars. Have you ever seen it, and can you see it? It exists for all that, however.”

I was silent before this simple reasoning. That man was a philoso¬ pher, or perhaps a fool; I could not say which exactly, so I held my tongue. What he had said had often been in my own thoughts.

July 3. I have slept badly; cer¬ tainly there is some feverish influence here, for my coachman is suffering in the same way as I am. When I went back home yesterday, I noticed his singular paleness, and I asked him: “What is the matter with you, Jean?” “The matter is that I never get any rest, and my nights devour my days. Since your departure, Monsieur, there has been a spell over me.”

However, the other servants are all well, but I am very much afraid of having another attack myself,

July 4. I am decidedly ill again; for my old nightmares have returned. Last night I felt somebody leaning on me and sucking my life from between my lips. Yes, he was sucking it out of my throat, like a leech. Then he got up, satiated, and I woke up, so ex¬ hausted, crushed and weak that I could not move. If this continues for a few days, I shall certainly go away again.

THE HOBLA


J ULY 5. Have I lost my reason?

What happened last night is so strange that my head wanders when I think of it.

I had looked my door, as I do now every evening, and then, being thirsty, I drank half a glass of water, and accidentally noticed that the water bottle was full up to the cut-glass stopper.

Then I went to bed and fell into one of my terrible sleeps, from which I was aroused in about two hours by a still more frightful shock.

Picture to yourself a sleeping man who is being murdered and who wakes up with a knife in his lung, and whose breath rattles, who is covered with blood, and who can no longer breathe and is about to die, and does not un¬ derstand—there you have it.

Having recovered my senses, I was thirsty again, so I lit a candle and went to the table on which stood my water bottle. I lifted it up and tilted it over my glass, but nothing came out. It was empty! It was com¬ pletely empty! At first I could not understand it at all, and then sud¬ denly I was seized by such a terrible feeling that I had to sit down, or rather I fell into a chair. Then I sprang up suddenly to look about me; then I sat down again, overcome by astonishment and fear, in front of the transparent glass bottle. I looked at it with fixed eyes, trying to conjecture, and my hands trembled. Somebody had drunk the water, but who? I? I without any doubt. It could surely only be I. In that case I was a som¬ nambulist; I lived, without knowing it, that mysterious double life which makes us doubt whether there are not two beings in us, or whether a strange, unknowable and invisible being does not at such moments, when our soul is in a state of torpor, animate our cap¬ tive body, which obeys this other be¬ ing, as it obeys us, and more than it obeys ourselves.

Oh! Who will understand my hor¬ rible agony? Who will understand the emotion of a man who is sound in mind, wide-awake, full of common sense, who looks in horror through the glass of a water bottle for a little water that disappeared while he was asleep ? I remained thus until it was daylight, without venturing to go to bed again.

July 6. I am going mad. Again all the contents of my water bottle have been drunk during the night— or rather, I have drunk it!

But is it I ? Is it I ? Who could it be? Who? Oh, God! Am I going mad? Who will save me?

July 10. I have just been through some surprizing ordeals. Decidedly I am mad! And yetOn July 6, before going to bed, I put some wine, milk, water, bread and strawberries on my table. Somebody drank—I drank—all the water and a little of the milk, but neither the wine, bread, nor the strawberries were touched.

On the seventh of July I renewed the same experiment, with the same results, and on July 8, I left out the water and the milk, and nothing was touched.

Lastly, on July 9,1 put only water and milk on my table, taking care to wrap up the bottles in white muslin and to tie down the stoppers. Then I rubbed my lips, my beard and my hands with pencil lead, and went to bed.

Irresistible sleep seized me, which was soon followed by a terrible awak¬ ening. I had not moved, and there was no mark of lead on the sheets. I rushed to the table. The muslin round the bottles remained intact; I undid the string, trembling with fear. All the water had been drank, and so had the milk! Ah, Great God! . . .

I must start for Paris immediately.



J ULY 12. Paris. I must have lost my head during the last few days. I must be the plaything of my ener¬ vated imagination, unless I am really a somnambulist—or have I been un¬ der the power of one of those hitherto unexplained influences which are called suggestions? In any case, my mental state bordered on madness, and twenty-four hours of Paris suf¬ ficed to restore my equilibrium.

Yesterday, after doing some busi¬ ness and paying some visits which in¬ stilled fresh and invigorating air into my soul, I wound upt the evening at the ThSatre-Frangais. A play by Alexandre Dumas the younger was being acted, and his active and power¬ ful imagination completed my cure. Certainly solitude is dangerous for active minds. We require around us men who can think and talk. When we are alone for a long time, we peo¬ ple space with phantoms.

I returned along the boulevards to my hotel in excellent spirits. Amid the jostling of the crowd I thought, not without irony, of my terrors and surmises of the previous week, because I had believed—yes, I had believed— that an invisible being lived beneath my roof. How weak our brains are, and how quickly they are terrified and led into error by a small incom¬ prehensible fact!

Instead of saying simply: “I do not understand because I do not know the cause,” we immediately imagine terrible mysteries and supernatural powers.

July 14. Fete of the Republic. I walked through the streets, amused as a child at the firecrackers and flags. Still it is very foolish to be merry on a fixed date, by government decree. The populace is an imbecile flock of sheep, now stupidly patient, and now in ferocious revolt. Say to it: "Amuse yourself,” and it amuses itself. Say to it: "Go and fight with your neighbor,” and it goes and fights. Say to it: "Vote for the

emperor,” and it votes for the em¬ peror, and then say to it: "Vote for the republic,” and it votes for the republic.

Those who direct it are also stupid; only, instead of obeying men, they obey principles which can only be stupid, sterile, and false, for the very reason that they are principles, that is to say, ideas which are considered as certain and unchangeable, in this world where one is certain of nothing, since light is an illusion and noise is an illusion.

J ULY 16. I saw some things yes¬ terday that troubled me very much.

I was dining at the house of my cousin, Madame Sable, whose husband is colonel of the 76th Chasseurs at Limoges. There were two young women there, one of whom had mar¬ ried a medical man, Dr. Parent, who devotes much attention to nervous diseases and to the remarkable mani¬ festations taking place at this moment under the influence of hypnotism and

He related to us at some length the wonderful results obtained by English scientists and by the doctors of the Nancy school; and the facts which he adduced appeared to me so strange that I declared I was al¬ together incredulous.

"We are,” he averred, "on the point) of discovering one of the most important secrets of nature; I mean to say, one of its most important secrets on this earth, for there are certainly others of a different kind of importance up in the stars, yonder. Ever since man has thought, ever since he has been able to express and write down his thoughts, he has felt himself close to a mystery which is impenetrable to his gross and imper¬ fect senses, and he endeavors to sup¬ plement through his intellect the in¬ efficiency of his senses. As long as that intellect remained in its elemenTHE HORLA

tary stage, these apparitions of in¬ visible spirits assumed forms that were commonplace, though terrifying. Thence sprang the popular belief in the supernatural, the legends of wandering spirits, of fairies, of gnomes, ghosts, I might even say the legend of God; for our conceptions of the Workman-Creator, from whatever religion they may have come down to us, are certainly the most mediocre, the most stupid and the most incred¬ ible inventions that ever sprang from the terrified brain of any human be¬ ings. Nothing is truer than what Voltaire says: ‘God made man in His own image, but man has certainly paid Him back in his own coin. ’

“However, for rather more than a century men seem to have had a pre¬ sentiment of something new. Mesmer and some others have put us on an unexpected track, and, especially within the last two or three years, we have arrived at really surprizing re¬ sults.”

My cousin, who is also very in¬ credulous, smiled, and Dr. Parent said to her: “Would you like me to try and send you to sleep, Madame?”

“Yes, certainly.”

She sat down in an easy chair, and he began to look at her fixedly, so as to fascinate her. I suddenly felt my¬ self growing uncomfortable, my heart beating rapidly and a choking sensa¬ tion in my throat. I saw Madame Sable’s eyes becoming heavy, her mouth twitching and her bosom heav¬ ing, and at the end of ten minutes she was asleep.

“Go behind hex*,” the doctor said to me, and I took a seat behind her. He put. a visiting card into her hands, and said to her: “This is a looking glass; what do you see in it?” And she replied: “I see my cousin.” “What is he doing?” “He is twist¬ ing his mustache.” “And now?” “He is taking a photograph out of his pocket.” “Whose photograph is it?” “His own.”

That was true, and the photograph had been given me that same evening at the hotel.

“What is his attitude in this por¬ trait ? ” “ He is standing up with his hat in his hand. ”

She saw, therefore, on that card, on that piece of white pasteboard, as if she had seen it in a mirror.

The young women were frightened, and exclaimed: “That is enough! Quite, quite enough!”

But the doctor said to Madame Sable authoritatively: “You will rise at 8 o’clock tomorrow morning; then you will go and call on your cousin at his hotel and ask him to lend you five thousand francs which your hus¬ band demands of you, and which he will ask for when lie sets out on his coming journey.”

Then he woke her up.

On returning to my hotel, I thought over this curious seance, and I was assailed by doubts, not as to my cousin’s absolute and undoubted good faith, for I had known her as well as if she were my own sister ever since she was a child, but as to a possible trick on the doctor’s part. Had he not, perhaps, kept a glass hidden in his hand, which he showed to the young woman in her sleep, at the same time as he did the card? Pro¬ fessional conjurors do things that are just as singular.

So I went home and to bed, and this morning, at about half-past 8, I was awakened by my valet, who said to me: “Madame Sable has asked to see you immediately, Monsieur .” I dressed hastily and went to her.

She sat down in some agitation, with her eyes on the floor, and with¬ out raising her veil she said to me: “My dear cousin, I am going to ask a great favor of you.” “What is it, cousin?” “I do not like to tell you, and yet I must. I am in absolute need of five thousand francs.” “What, you?” “Yes, I, or rather



my husband, who has asked me to procure them for him.”

I was so thunderstruck that I stam¬ mered out my answers. I asked my¬ self whether she had not really been making fun of me with Dr. Parent, if it was not merely a very well-acted farce which had been rehearsed be¬ forehand. On looking at her atten¬ tively, however, all my doubts disap¬ peared. She was trembling with grief, so painful was this step to her, and I was convinced that her throat was full of sobs.

I knew that she was very rich and I continued: “What! Has not your husband five thousand francs at his disposal? Come, think. Are you sure that he commissioned you to ask me for them?”

She hesitated for a few seconds, as if she were making a great effort to search hei* memory, and then she re¬ plied: “Yes—yes, I am quite sure of it. ” “ He has written to you ? ’ ’

She hesitated again and reflected, and I guessed the torture of her thoughts. She did not know. She only knew that she was to borrow five thousand francs of me for her husband. So she told a lie. “Yes, he has written to me.” “When, pray? You did not mention it to me yester¬ day.” “I received his letter this morning.” “Can you show it me?” “No; no—it contained private mat¬ ters—things too personal to ourselves. I burned it.” “So your husband runs into debt?”

She hesitated again, and then mur¬ mured: “I do not know.” Thereupon I said bluntly: “ I have not five thou¬ sand francs at my disposal at this moment, my dear cousin.”

She uttered a kind of cry as if she were in pain and said: “Oh! oh! I beseech you, I beseech you to get them for me!”

She got excited and clasped her hands as if she were praying to me. I heard her voice change its tone; she wept and stammered, harassed and

dominated by the irresistible order that she had received.

“Oh! oh! I beg you to! If you only knew what I am suffering! I want them today.”

I had pity on her: “You shall have them by and by, I swear to you.” “Oh! thank you! thank you! How kind you are. ’ ’

I continued: “Do you remember what took place at your house last night?” “Yes.” “Do you remember that Dr. Parent sent you to sleep?” “Yes.” “Oh! Very well, then; he ordered you to come to me this morn¬ ing to borrow five thousand francs, and at this moment you are obeying that suggestion.”

She considered for a few moments, and then replied: “But as it is my husband who wants them-”

For a whole hour I tried to con¬ vince her, but could not succeed, and when she had gone I went to the doc¬ tor. He was just going out, and he listened to me with a smile, and said: “Do you believe now?” “Yes, I can not help it.” “Let us go to your cousin’s.”

She was already half asleep on a reclining chair, overcome with fa¬ tigue. The doctor felt her pulse, looked at her for some time with one hand raised toward her eyes, which she closed by degrees under the ir¬ resistible power of this magnetic in¬ fluence, and when she was asleep, he said:

“Your husband does not require the five thousand francs any longer. You must, therefore, forget that you asked your cousin to lend them to you, and, if he speaks to you about it, you will not understand him.”

Then he woke her up, and I took out a pocketbook and said: “Here is what you asked me for this morning, my dear cousin.” But she was so surprized that I did not venture to persist; nevertheless, I tried to recall the circumstance to her, but she de¬ nied it vigorously, thought I was makTHE HOELA


ing fun of her, and, in the end, very nearly lost her temper.

I have just come back, and I have not been able to eat any lunch, for this experiment has altogether upset me.

July 19. Many people to whom I told the adventure laughed at me. I no longer know what to think. The wise man says: “It may be!”

July 21. I dined at Bougival, and then I spent the evening at a boat¬ men’s ball. Decidedly everything de¬ pends on place and surroundings. It would be the height of folly to be¬ lieve in the supernatural on the lie de la Grenouilliere—but on the top of Mont Saint-Michel ?—and in India? We are terribly influenced by our sur¬ roundings. I shall return home next week.

YULY 30. I came back to my own •/house yesterday. Everything is going on well.

August 2. Nothing new; it is splendid weather, and I spend my days in watching the Seine flowing past.

August 4. Quarrels among my servants. They declare that the glasses are broken in the cupboards at night. The footman accuses the cook, who accuses the seamstress, who accuses the other two. Who is the culprit ? It is a clever person who can tell.

August 6. This time I am not mad. I have seen—I have seen! I can doubt no longer—I have seen it!

I was walking at 2 o’clock among my rose trees, in the full sunlight, in the walk bordered by autumn roses which are beginning to fall. As I stopped to look at a Geant de Bataille, which had three splendid blossoms, I distinctly saw the stalk of one of the roses near me bend, as if an invisible hand had bent it, and then break, as if that hand had picked it. Then the flower raised itself, following the curve which a hand would have

described in carrying it toward a mouth, and it remained suspended in the transparent air, all alone and motionless, a terrible red spot, three yards from my eyes. In desperation I rushed at it to take it. I found nothing; it had disappeared. Then I was seized with furious rage against myself, for a reasonable and serious man should not have such hallucina¬ tions.

But was it an hallucination? I turned round to look for the stalk, and I found it at once, on the bush, freshly broken, between two other roses which remained on the branch. I returned home then, my mind great¬ ly disturbed; for I am certain now, as certain as I am of the alternation of day and night, that there exists close to me an invisible being that lives on milk and water, that can touch objects, take them and change their places; that is, consequently, en¬ dowed with a material nature, al¬ though it is imperceptible to our senses, and that lives as I do, under my roofAugust 7. I slept tranquilly. He drank the water out of my decanter, but did not disturb my sleep.

I wonder if I am mad. As I was walking just now in the sun by the river side, doubts as to my sanity arose in me; not vague doubts such as I have had hitherto, but definite, ab¬ solute doubts. I have seen mad peo¬ ple, and I have known some who have been quite intelligent, lucid, even clear-sighted in every concern of life, except on one point. They spoke clearly, readily, profoundly on every¬ thing, when suddenly their mind struck upon the shoals of their mad¬ ness and broke to pieces there, and scattered and floundered in that furi¬ ous and terrible sea, full of rolling waves, fogs and squalls, which is called madness.

I certainly should think that I was mad, absolutely mad, if I were not conscious, did not perfectly know my



condition, did not fathom it by an¬ alyzing it with the most complete lucidity. I should, in fact, be only a rational man who was laboring under an hallucination. Some unknown disturbance must have arisen in my brain, one of those disturbances which physiologists of the present day try to note and to verify; and that dis¬ turbance must have caused a deep gap in my mind and in the sequence and logic of my ideas. Similar phenomena occur in dreams which lead us among the most unlikely fantasmagoria, without causing us any surprize, be¬ cause our verifying apparatus and our organ of control are asleep, while our imaginative faculty is awake and active. Is it not possible that one of the imperceptible notes of the cerebral keyboard has been paralyzed in me? Some men lose the recollec¬ tion of proper names, of verbs, or of numbers, or merely of dates, in con¬ sequence of an acoident. The localiza¬ tion of all the variations of thought has been established nowadays; why, then, should it be surprizing if my faculty of controlling the unreality of certain hallucinations were dor¬ mant in me for the time being?

I thought of all this as I walked by the side of the water. The sun shone brightly on the river and made earth delightful, while it filled me with a love for life, for the swallows, whose agility always delights my eye, for the plants by the river side, the rustle of whose leaves is a pleasure to my ears.

By degrees, however, an inexpli¬ cable feeling of discomfort seized me. It seemed as if some unknown force were numbing and stopping me, were preventing me from going farther, and were calling me back. I felt that painful wish 1 to return which op¬ presses you when you have left c be¬ loved invalid at home, and when you are seized with a presentiment that he is worse.

I, therefore, returned in spite of

myself, feeling certain that I should find some bad news awaiting me, a letter or a telegram. There was nothing, however, and I was more sur¬ prized and uneasy than if I had had another fantastic vision.

August 8. I spent a terrible eve¬ ning yesterday. He does not show himself any more, but I feel that he is near me, watching me, looking at me, penetrating me, dominating me, and more redoubtable when he hides himself thus than if he were to mani¬ fest his constant and invisible pres¬ ence by supernatural phenomena. However, I slept.

August 9. Nothing, but I am afraid.

August 10. Nothing; what will happen tomorrow?

August 11. Still nothing; I can not stop at home with this fear hang¬ ing over me and these thoughts in my mind; I shall go away.

August 12. Ten o’clock at night. All day long I have been trying to get away, and have not been able. I wish to accomplish this simple and easy act of freedom—to go out—to get into my carriage in order to go to Rouen—and I have not been able to doit. What is the reason?

August 13. "When we are attacked by certain maladies, all the springs of our physical being appear to be broken, all our energies destroyed, all our muscles relaxed; our bones, too, have become as soft as flesh, and our blood as liquid as water. I am ex¬ periencing these sensations in my moral being in a strange and distress¬ ing manner. I have no longer any strength, any courage, any self-con¬ trol, not even any power to set my own will in motion. I have no power left to will anything; but someone does it for me and I obey.

AUGUST 14. I am lost! Some- ^ body possesses my soul and domi¬ nates it. Somebody orders all my acts, all my movements, all my

THE HORLA


thoughts. I am no longer anything in myself, nothing except an enslaved and terrified spectator of all the things I do. I wish to go out; I can not. He does not wish to, and, so I remain, trembling and distracted, in the armchair in which he keeps me sitting. I merely wish to get up and rouse myself; I can not. I am riveted to my chair, and my chair adheres to the ground in such a manner that no power could move it.

Then, suddenly, I must, I must-go to the bottom of my garden to pick some strawberries and eat them, and I go there. I pick the strawberries and eat them. Oh, my God! My God! Is there a God ? If there be one, de¬ liver me! Save me! Pardon! Pity! Mercy! Save me! Oh, what suffer¬ ing! What torture! What horror!

August 15. This is certainly the way in which my poor cousin was possessed and controlled when she came to borrow five thousand francs of me. She was under the power of a strange will which had entered into her, like another soul, like another parasitic and dominating soul. Is the world coming to an end?

But who is he, this invisible being that rules me? This unknowable be¬ ing, this rover of a supernatural race?

Invisible beings exist, then! How is it, then, that since the beginning of the world they have never manifested themselves precisely as they do to me? I have never read of anything that resembles what goes on in my house. Oh, if I could only leave it, if I could only gd away, escape, and never re¬ turn! I should be saved, but I can not.

August 16. I managed to escape today for two hours, like a prisoner who finds the door of his dungeon ac¬ cidentally open. I suddenly felt that I was free and that he was far away, and so I gave orders to harness the horses as quickly as possible, and I drove to Rouen. Oh, how delightful

to be able to say to a man who obeys you: “Go to Rouen!”

I made him pull up before the library, and I begged them to lend me Dr. Hermann Herestauss’ treatise on the unknown inhabitants of the ancient and modem world.

Then, as I was getting into my carriage, I intended to say: “To the railway station!” but instead of this I shouted—I did not say, but I shouted—in such a loud voice that all the passers-by turned round: “Home!” and I fell back on the cushion of my carriage, overcome by mental agony. He had found me again and regained possession of me.

August 17. Oh, what a night! What a night! And yet it seems to me that I ought to rejoice. I read until 1 o’clock in the morning! Herestauss, doctor of philosophy and theogony, wrote the history of the manifestation of all those invisible beings which hover around man, or of which he dreams. He describes their origin, their domain, their power; but none of them resembles the one that haunts me. One might say that man, ever since he began to think, has had a foreboding fear of a new being, stronger than himself, his successor in this world, and that, feeling his pres¬ ence, and not being able to foresee the nature of that master, he has, in his terror, created the whole race of oc¬ cult beings, of vague phantoms born of fear.

Having, therefore, read until 1 o’clock in the morning, I went and sat down at the open window, in order to cool my forehead and my thoughts, in the calm night air. It was very pleasant and warm. How I should have enjoyed such a night formerly!

There was no moon, but the stars darted out their rays in the dark heavens. Who inhabits those worlds ? What forms, what living beings, what animals are there yonder? What do the thinkers in those distant worlds know more than we do? What can



they do more than we can ? What do they see which we do not know 1 Will not one of them, some day or other, traversing space, appear on our earth to conquer it, just as the Norsemen formerly crossed the sea in order to subjugate natives more feeble than themselves?

We are so weak, so defenseless, so ignorant, so small, we who live on this particle of mud which revolves in a drop of water.

I fell asleep, dreaming thus in the cool night air, and when I had slept for about three-quarters of an hour, I opened my eyes without moving, awakened by I know not what con¬ fused and strange sensation. At first I saw nothing, and then suddenly it appeared to me as if a page of a book which had remained open on my table turned over of its own accord. Not a breath of air had come in at my win¬ dow, and I was surprized, and waited. In about four minutes, I saw—yes, I saw with my own eyes!—another page lift itself up and fall down on the others, as if a finger had turned it over. My armchair was empty—at least it appeared empty—but I knew that he was there, sitting in my place, and that he was reading. With a furious bound, the bound of an en¬ raged wild beast that springs at its tamer, I crossed my room to seize him, to strangle him, to kill him! But be¬ fore I could reach it, the chair fell over as if somebody had run away from me—my table rocked, my lamp fell and went out, and my window closed as if some thief had been sur¬ prized and had fled out into the night, shutting it behind him.

So he had run away; he had been afraid; he, afraid of me!

But—but—tomorrow—or later— some day or other—I should be able to hold him in my clutches and crush him against the ground! Do not dogs occasionally bite and strangle their masters?

August 18. I have been thinking

the whole day long. Oh, yes, I will obey him, follow his impulses, fulfil all his wishes, show myself humble, submissive, a coward. He is the stronger; but the hour will comeAUGUST 19. I know—I know—I know all! I have just.read the following in the Revue du Monde Scientiftque: “A curious piece of news comes to us from Rio de Janeiro. Madness, an epidemic of madness, which may be compared to that con¬ tagious madness which attacked the people of Europe in the Middle Ages, is at this moment raging in the Province of Sao Paulo. The terrified inhabitants are leaving their houses, saying that they are pursued, pos¬ sessed, dominated like human cattle by invisible, though tangible beings, a species of vampire, which feed on their life while they are asleep, and who, besides, drink water and milk without appearing to touch any other nourishment.

“Professor Don Pedro Henriques, accompanied by several medical sa¬ vants, has gone to the province of Sao Paulo, in order to study the origin and the manifestations of this sur¬ prizing madness on the spot, and to propose such measures to the emperor as may appear to be most fitted to re¬ store the mad population to reason.”

Ah! Ah! I remember now that fine Brazilian three-master which passed in front of my windows as it was going up the Seine, on the 8th day of last May! I thought it looked so pretty, so white and bright! That being was on board of her, coming from there, where its race originated. And it saw me! It saw my house, which was also white, and it sprang from the ship on to the land. Oh, merciful heaven!

Now I know, I can divine. The reign of man is over, and he has come. He who was feared by primitive man; whom disquieted priests exorcised; whom sorcerers evoked on dark nights,

THE HORLA


without having seen him appear, to whom the imagination < f the transient masters of the world lent all the monstrous or graceful forms of gnomes, spirits, jinns, fairies and fa¬ miliar spirits. After the coarse con¬ ceptions of primitive fear, more clear¬ sighted men foresaw it more clearly. Mesmer divined it, and ten years ago physicians accurately discovered the nature of his power, even before he exercised it himself. They played with this new weapon of the Lord, the sway of a mysterious will over the human soul, which had become a slave. They called it magnetism, hypnotism, suggestion—what do I know? I have seen them amusing themselves like rash children with this horrible power. Wo to us! Wo to man! He has come, the—the— what does he call himself?—the—I fancy that he is shouting out his name to me and I do not hear him— the—yes—he is shouting it out—I am listening—I can not—lie repeats it —the—Horla—I hear—the Horla— it is he—the Horla—he has come!

Ah! the vulture has eaten the pigeon; the wolf has eaten the lamb; the lion has devoured the sharphomed buffalo; man has killed the lion with an arrow', with a sword, with gunpowder; but the Horla will make of man what we have made of the horse and of the ox; his chattel, his slave and his food, by the mere power of his will. Wo to us!

Rut, nevertheless, the animal some¬ times revolts and kills the man who has subjugated it. I should also like —I shall be able to—but I must know him, touch him, see him! Scientists say that animals’ eyes, being different from ours, do not distinguish objects as ours do. And my eye can not dis¬ tinguish this newcomer who is op¬ pressing me.

Why? Oh, now I remember the words of the monk at Mont SaintMichel: “Can we see the hundredthousandth part of what exists? See

here: there is the wind, the strongest force in nature, which knocks down man, and bowls down build¬ ings, uproots trees, raises the sea into mountains of water, destroys cliffs and casts great ships on the breakers; the wind which kills, which whistles, which sighs, which roars—have you ever seen it, and can you see it? It exists for all that, however!”

And I went on thinking; my eyes are so weak, so imperfect, that they do not even distinguish hard bodies, if they are as transparent as glass. If a glass without tinfoil behind it were to bar my way, I should run into it, just as a bird which has flown into a room breaks its head against the windowpanes. A thousand things, more¬ over, deceive man and lead him astray. Why should it then be sur¬ prizing that he can not perceive an unknown body through which the light passes?

A new being! Why not? It was assuredly bound to come. Why should we be the last ? We do not distinguish it any more than all the others created before us. The reason is, that its nature is more perfect, its body finer and more finished than ours, that ours is so weak, so awkwardly con¬ structed, encumbered with organs that are always tired, always on the strain like machinery that is too com¬ plicated, which lives like a plant and like a beast, nourishing itself with difficulty on air, herbs and flesh, an animal machine which is a prey to maladies, to malformations, to decay; broken-winded, badly regulated, simple and eccentric, at once a coarse and a delicate piece of workmanship, the sketch of a being that might be¬ come intelligent and grand.

We are only a few, so few in this world, from the oyster up to man. Why should there not be one more, once that period is passed which sepa¬ rates the successive apparitions from all the different species?

Why not one more? Why not, also,


other trees with immense, splendid flowers, perfuming whole regions ? Why not other elements besides fire, air, earth and water? There are four, only four, those nursing fathers of various beings. What a pity! Why are there not forty, four hundred, four thousand? How poor every¬ thing is, how mean and wretched, grudgingly produced, roughly con¬ structed, clumsily made! Ah, the elephant and the hippopotamus, what grace! And the camel, what elegance!

But the butterfly, you will say, a flying flower! I dream of one that should be as large as a hundred worlds, with wings whose shape, beauty, colors and motion I can not even express. But I see it—it flutters from star to star, refreshing them and perfuming them with the light and harmonious breath of its flight! And the people up there look at it in an ecstasy of delight as it passes!

What is the matter with me? It is he, the Horla, who haunts me, and who makes me think of these foolish things! He is within me, he is be¬ coming my soul; I shall kill him!

AUGUST 20. I shall kill him. I have seen him! Yesterday 1 sat down at my table and pretended to write very assiduously. I knew quite well that he would come prowling round me, quite close to me, so close that I might perhaps be able to touch him, to seize him. And then—then I should have the strength of despera¬ tion; I should have my hands, my knees, my chest, my forehead, my teeth to strangle him, to crush him, to bite him, to tear him to pieces. And I watched for him with all my over¬ excited senses.

I had lighted my two lamps and the eight wax candles on my mantel¬ piece, as if with this light I could dis¬ cover him.

My bedstead, my old oaken post bedstead, stood opposite me; on my right was the fireplace; on my left,

the door, which was carefully closed, after I had left it open for some time in order to attract him; behind me was a very high wardrobe with a looking glass in it, before which I stood to shave and dress every day, and in which I was in the habit of glancing at myself from head to foot every time I passed it.

I pretended to be writing in order to deceive him, for he also was watch¬ ing me, and suddenly I felt—I was certain that he was reading over my shoulder, that he was there, touching my ear.

I got up, my hands extended, and turned round so quickly that I almost fell. It was as bright as at midday, but I did not see my reflection in the mirror! It was empty, clear, pro¬ found, full of light! But my figure was not reflected in it—and I, I was opposite it! I saw the large, clear glass from top to bottom, and I looked at it with unsteady eyes; and I did not dare to advance; I did not ven¬ ture to make a movement, feeling that he was there, but that he would es¬ cape me again, he whose impercepti¬ ble body had absorbed my reflection.

How frightened I was! And then, suddenly, I began to see myself in a mist in the depths of the looking glass, in a mist as it were a sheet of water; and it seemed to me as if this water were flowing clearer every mo¬ ment. It was like the end of an eclipse. Whatever it was that hid me did not appear to possess any clearly defined outlines, but a sort of opaque transparency which gradually grew clearer. At last I was able to distin¬ guish myself completely, as I do every day when I look at myself.

I had seen it! And the horror of it remained with me, and makes me shudder even now.

August 21. How could I kill it, as I could not get hold of it? Poison? But it would see me mix it with the water; and then, would our poisons have any effect on its impalpable

THE HORLA


body? No—no—no doubt about the matter- Then—then?-

August 22. I sent for a blacksmith from Rouen, and ordered iron shut¬ ters for my room, such as some pri¬ vate hotels in Paris have on the ground floor, for fear of burglars, and he is going to make me an iron door as welt I have made myself out a coward, but I do not care about that

QEPTEMBEB 10. Rouen, Hotel ^Continental. It is done—it is done —but is he dead? My mind is thoroughly upset by what I have seen.

Well then, yesterday, the locksmith having put on the iron shutters and door, I left everything open until midnight, although it was getting cold.

Suddenly I felt that he was there, and joy, mad joy, took possession of me. I got up softly, and walked up and down for some time, so that he might not suspect anything; then I took off my boots and put on my dip¬ pers carelessly; then I fastened the iron shutters, and, going back to the door, quickly double-locked it with a padlock, putting the key in my pocket.

Suddenly I noticed that he was moving restlessly round me, that in his turn he was frightened and was ordering me to let him out. I nearly yielded; I did not, however, but, put¬ ting my back to the door, I half opened it, just enough to allow me to go out backward, and as I am very tall my head touched the easing. I was sure that he had not been able to escape, and I shut him up quite alone, quite alone. What happiness! I had him fast. Then I ran downstairs; in the drawing room, which was under my bedroom, I took the two lamps and poured all the oil on the carpet, the furniture, everywhere; then I set fire to it and made my escape, after having carefully double-locked the door.

I went and hid myself at the bot¬ tom of the garden, in a clump of

laurel bushes. How long it seemed! Everything was dark, silent, motion¬ less, not a breath of air and not a star, but heavy banks of clouds which one could not see, but which weighed —oh, so heavily!—on my soul.

I looked at my house and waited. How long it was! I already began to think that the fire had gone out of its own accord, or that he had ex¬ tinguished it, when one of the lower windows gave way under the violence of the flames, and a long, soft, caress¬ ing sheet of red flame mounted up the white wall, and enveloped it as far as the roof. The light fell on the trees, the branches and the leaves, and a shiver of fear pervaded them also. The birds awoke, a dog began to howl, and it seemed to me as if the day were breaking. Almost immediately two other windows flew into fragments, and I saw that the whole of the lower part of my house was nothing but a terrible furnace. But a cry, a hor¬ rible, shrill, heartrending cry, a wom¬ an’s ray, sounded through the night, and two garret windows were opened. I had forgotten the servants! I saw their terror-stricken faces, and their arms waving frantically.

Then, overwhelmed with horror, I set off to run to the village, shouting: “Help! help! fire! fire!” I met some people who were already coming to the scene, and I returned with them.

By this time the house was nothing but a horrible and magnificent fu¬ neral pile, a monstrous funeral pile, which lit up the whole country, a fu¬ neral pile where men were burning, and where He was burning also—He, He, my prisoner, that new being, the new master, the Horla!

Suddenly the whole roof fell in be¬ tween the walls, and a volcano of flames darted up to the sky. Through all the windows which opened on that furnace, I saw the flames darting, and I thought that he was there, in that kiln, dead.



Dead? Perhaps! His body? Was not his transparent body indestructi¬ ble by such means as would kill ours?

If he were not dead-? Perhaps

time alone has power over that invis¬ ible and redoubtable being. Why this transparent, unrecognizable body, this body belonging to a spirit, if it also has to fear ills, infirmities and premature destruction?

Premature destruction? All human

terror springs from that! After man, the Horla. After him who can die every day, at any hour, at any mo¬ ment, by any accident, came the one who would die only at his own proper hour, day, and minute, because he had touched the limits of his exist¬ ence !

No—no—without any doubt—he is not dead! Then—then—I suppose I must kill myself! . . .

STARKEY STRANG

By BERTRANDE HARRY SNELL

Up from his grave rose Starkey Strang, when midnight’s foulest gloom Cast evil blackness on the earth: up from his musty tomb He came, all fleshless and unclad, for Starkey had been dead Pull ten score years, the faded script upon his tombstone said.

His dry bones rattled as he walked and in his awful eye There gleamed a light that ne’er was born beneath an earthly sky.

Prom where the mouthing vampire moults beneath the vapid moon,

Where Shaitan sings with ghastly grin a rude and rimeless rune,

The while he fondles at his feet a pauper, or a king

That his feal fiends have flayed for him—a writhing, nameless thing;

Where flaunt, the fiercely flickering flames above the horrid hole,

That holds in helpless horror full many a screeching soul,

Where nameless gnomes in robes of red blaspheme with lurid cries,

And ghastly ghouls guard well the gates, to snatch the soul that tries,

In hopeless way, to make escape, and hurl it back, once more,

Into the scorched and slithering mass that fills the fiery floor:

From such a place had Starkey come, through vacuous realms of Naught (Though barely had he ventured through, so nearly was he caught),

To walk once more upon the earth, to see the world he knew;

Now wasn’t that a foolish thing for Starkey Strang to do?

He ambled through the churchyard gate, his fleshless jaws agrin; “Cogswounds!” said he; “a stoup or three I’ll have at Piebald Inn.” He turned—and, oh! there at his heels a specter, all in white.

With soundless step and swaying robe, came slinking through the night; Then fearsome was the frenzied shriek that tore the midnight air,

And formless was the pile of bones that lay, all lifeless, where

Poor Starkey Strang had stood, erstwhile .... Lift up your skulls and toast

The man who died a secoud time, because he saw a ghost!

T HERE was nothing compli¬ cated or unusual about my case, Dr. Shelton assured me. It was merely the old story, now written daily into the pages of in¬ numerable lives, that my appendix, never of any value to me, had sud¬ denly become a menace to my life, and therefore, like any other obstruc¬ tion to health and happiness, was due to be removed with promptness and dispatch. There had been several re¬ curring periods of severe pain in the region cf the offending organ, but it so far diminished that I was a little doubtful of the urgency of the case, and might have demurred to the point of blank refusal had I been under treatment of a stranger.

But I had every confidence in my physician, who had been the unfailing port of shelter in every storm of sick¬ ness that had assailed my family since my earliest recollections. He had carried me through measles and ty¬ phoid and diphtheria, saved my moth¬ er’s life at least twice, and prevented my father from undergoing a serious operation, against the judgment of several other doctors, pulling him through in fine shape. So I believed

him when he said the operation was necessary, but that there was no danger, with the efficient and sanitary present-day methods and the wellequipped hospital at my disposal.

"You will probably emerge a younger man than you are,” he said, smilingly, a remark that came back to me afterward. So I yielded to his superior judgment, as I had always done, placing myself wholly at Ills disposal. It meant only a small in¬ cision and ten or twelve days in bed, I comforted myself. So I found my¬ self being trundled into an elevator and stretched upon a tall wheeled wagon, with a pretty, womanly nurse at my head.

In spite of my predicament, my eyes kept seeking her face. I had never really cared for any woman, though I was nearly thirty years old, and it struck me, as she smiled en¬ couragingly down at me, that here was one in whom, on closer acquaint¬ ance, I could take a real interest. Her cap was as becoming as her smile, but it was a certain strong womanliness and dependableness in her counte¬ nance that elicited my admiration, rather than any perfection of outline



or coloring. I hoped it would be my good fortune to remain under her care while in the hospital, and I re¬ member wondering, whimsically, if I wouldn’t be the better off for remain¬ ing three weeks instead of the con¬ ventional ten days!

My father was with me, also, but when the elevator arrived at the door of the mysterious region known as the surgery, he was left outside, to his relief, I am quite sure.

I had never had occasion to take ether before. I felt a faint curiosity to know what the experience would be like, but this was speedily overcome by a livelier anxiety concerning the various uses of the glittering assort¬ ment of surgical tools quite frankly displayed on a glass table near the one upon which I was placed. I raised my head to examine them more closely, feeling a crawling sensation at the pit of my stomach as I won¬ dered which particular instrument was going to sever the tissues of my own flesh within the next few min¬ utes!

At that moment my pretty nurse withdrew, to be replaced by one of a very different type, swathed from head to foot in white. Dr. Shelton now entered the surgery, accompanied by a brother physician, both looking strangely inhuman, with their bare arms and shoulders, close-fitting white garments, and heads so bandaged in thin white cloths that little more than the eyes were visible .... Once or twice lately, I had noticed something odd about my doctor’s eyes—he had those large, somewhat bulging, agatecolored orbs that can stare at you so effectively and persistently—and at this moment they gave me a sensation that I can only describe as fear, as he leaned over and gazed into mine for an endless moment.

His voice, when he remarked con¬ ventionally, but pleasantly, “Well, old man, how are you?” held an ac¬ cent of sympathy that, for the first

time in my acquaintance with him, had what I fancied an insincere ring, as if his mind were not on them, and the strange look in his eyes held me again.

They seemed to gloat over my con¬ dition, over my helplessness, and as he rubbed his hands together in a characteristic way* he had, I thought his fingers were twitching for the knife and itching to get about the business of dissecting me. J. saw no reason why I should have this halluci¬ nation, if that was what it was, be¬ cause I had not even yet smelled the ether, and I had loved and trusted Dr. Shelton for years.

But, as he turned away, and his brother surgeon attempted to force the white cone down over my face, gently but firmly, I tried with all my strength to push it aside and to cry out: “Look at the doctor’s eyes! He is going to murder me! He is going crazy!”

I think I succeeded in muttering the words, muffled by the object that was shutting out my breath, and ob¬ scuring my vision, but if I did, no one heeded them, and the next moment I seemed to be floating in a great sea of white light, a nebula of tiny spark¬ ling points, with a sweetish, sickening odor in my nostrils, and an overpow¬ ering necessity of swallowing while a voice somewhere at a great distance urged me to take deeper breaths— and yet, through it all, Dr. Shelton’s great bulging agate orbs burning into my own, and growing larger and larger.

I knew nothing more for a space of time that might have been long or short—I had no means of measuring it. But presently I came to myself, at what was apparently the touch of a finger on my bare eye-ball. The cone seemed now to have been re¬ moved, and the whole room was quite clear to my vision—that is, so much of it as was in line with my eyes.

THE MAD SURGEON


There was no one else in the surgery except the two doctors and the nurse with the hard, sharp features and granite lips, the spareness of her pro¬ file pei'haps accentuated by the tight arrangement of bandages con finin g every strand of hair.

I tried to raise my head, to observe Dr. Shelton’s movements—but found, to my horror, that I could not move a muscle, not even so little as was necessary for the flicker of an eye¬ lid.

You can imagine my anguish of mind when he raised himself, a mo¬ ment later, from the table whereon I had seen the instruments, with a gleaming scalpel in his hand; and bent over my bared abdomen, having for one terrible moment fixed his wide gray orbs on mine with nothing less than a triumphant, fiendish, gloating glare!

There could be no doubt of it: the man was mad—stark, staring mad. And I, one of his best friends, lay there inert, helpless, unable to speak or move, about to be murdered, per¬ haps dissected like a dog! Why did not one of the others see it? I fried to look at the nurse and the other doc¬ tor pleadingly, but they betrayed no answering gleam of intelligence—in¬ deed, they merely glanced carelessly at me now and then during the hor¬ rors of the operation that followed, apparently having eyes only for the scientific side of the thing, regarding me as a thing upon which to wreak any experiment that entered their heads!

The pain that followed the use of the knife upon my flesh was sharp, yet it was negligible compared with my mental suffering, for I knew now that a madman in the guise of a reputable and responsible physician was taking my precious life into his hands as nonchalantly as he would eat his breakfast. That the others could look on so callously added to my hor¬ ror. Would one of them notice if he

made a false move, in time to save my life? Or would he be so sly about it that they would not know it if he did ? Or would they dare raise a hand against the judgment of a surgeon so skilful and well-known, even should they suspect that he was inclined to make some new experiment?

For I feared nothing so raw as his cutting me up before their eyes. There were a hundred ways in which so knowing and experienced a master of his craft might put an end to my life without arousing suspicion, un¬ less the onlookers had some reason for watching him closely. The sly open¬ ing of some internal vein, the delicate —but here Dr. Shelton straightened up, having done whatever he would with my internals, tossing aside some¬ thing with the muffled remark, “In another day it would have bursted,” and then came the painful process of sewing up the lips of the incision.

Although I could see and think with agonizing clearness, I .seemed un¬ able to comprehend the idea of Time —it was as if Time had no beginning, middle, nor end, like eternity itself. So I have no idea how long he was about the operation. But I felt a great relief when he straightened up at last, and announced, “It is done!’’ He came to my head, then, and stood looking down at me for a long time— an endless time.

The great, bulging, agate eyes stared into mine with such burning intensity that I wanted to scream aloud for relief. But I was, to all intents and purposes, dead, except the seeing, thinking, hurting part of me, and felt that, after all, movement is life, whatever we may prate of the soul, of the spiritual, intellectual, emotional sides of our natures. . . . The other doctor joined him, and pressed the tip of his finger cruelly against my unmoving eye-ball. “En¬ tirely under still,” he announced, and Dr. Shelton nodded, with apparent satisfaction.



“And now,” the latter’s clarion tones rang through my inner con¬ sciousness like the tolling bells of doom, “now for the real operation!”

M y god ! At last it had come—the thing I had feared from the be¬ ginning! No doubt he had removed my appendix in the professionally correct manner, his cunning purpose held in temporary abeyance; but now he was certainly going to put his nefarious designs upon my helpless person into immediate execution!

What was it to be? Something in¬ tricate and scientific and doubly fiend¬ ish, having to do with the delicate mechanism of my inner organs?—or anything so crass and commonplace as cutting off an arm or a leg, or gouging out an eye? He looked capable of anything, as he stood there, leering down at me, and I gave my¬ self up at once as irrevocably lost.. ..

My last hope lay in the possibility of the nurse or the other doctor sus¬ pecting the true state of affairs, and putting a stop to the thing before it went too far, but this chance grew more and more remote, as I recalled the proverbial shrewdness and cun¬ ning of the insane, and that Dr. Shel¬ ton might easily hoodwink them into believing that this second operation was also necessary to my full recov¬ ery.

But I was due to receive a severe shock in this direction, also. Dr. Shelton motioned slightly to the nurse, as she drew near, and nodding, she turned quietly toward a small, white-enameled cabinet with glass doors and shelves, on a revolving stand behind her. She drew from this, without hesitation, a small vial filled with a clear, rosy purple liquid, and passed it to him without a word, across my passive but bursting breast, wherein ten thousand little red-hot devils of fear and torment raged.

The doctor held the vial up to the light, so that the sparkling rose-col¬

ored beams danced through it, and chuckled—a deep-throated, gloating, anticipatory chuckle!

“At last I have the chance to try you out, and to demonstrate beyond doubt your efficacy!”' he chortled. Of course I could see the faces of the other occupants of the room only as they incidentally entered the limited circle of my vision, so that I could not immediately know what effect this statement, startling in its crude frankness, had upon his two auditors. But he went on in a confident tone, still caressing the fatal bottle, preg¬ nant with so many possibilities of horror to me. Might it not be a slow and insidious poison he wished to ex¬ periment with—a thousand times more horrible than instant death?

“Of course, I have explained it all to you before, and we have tried it out on several animals, including man’s nearest prototype, the ape, in all of which it ran true to form. But this opportunity to try it on a human being is priceless. I have chosen this man because we are intimate friends, and I -will therefore have the better chance to watch its hourly and daily effect. Once I have demonstrated the value and efficiency of this drug be¬ yond doubt and cavil, my fame in the world of medical science is as¬ sured. ... I have spent the best years of my life in perfecting the dis¬ covery, and have dreamed night and day of putting it to practical use for the benefit of man. . . . Many have I besought to lend themselves to the glorious task of demonstrating to mankind my theory, but all have self¬ ishly refused. ... I can not see why; there is something positively fascinat¬ ing in the idea! Think of it, my friends! Perfect, sparkling, radiant health, undiminishing youth and en¬ ergy—the halting, as it were, of Time itself for a stated number of years, and then—the end, suddenly, pain¬ lessly, with all opportunities of mak¬ ing one’s preparations beforehand!

THE MAD SUBGEON


“How many would be eager for it, or ought to be, once its value were demonstrated beyond doubt ? The elderly actress, watching her health go and her charms fade and her audi¬ ences thin, while in her prime intel¬ lectually—by a few drops of this liquid rosy with promise, she can be granted ten more years of brilliant, vivacious youth, the only penalty be¬ ing sure and sudden death at the end, a thing which, with the ordinary chances of life, might, take her un¬ awares at any moment, or come as the result of painful and lingering illness. The feeble, bald old man, in love with the beautiful young girl, for whom he would give his life—this potent elixir will give him five or ten years of youth and happiness. The invalid, dragging out a suffering ex¬ istence in the wheel-chair, has but to have it injected into his heart to be granted a comparatively short but free and healthy life, with miraculous strength and vitality, and youth itself renewed with all its hopes and ambi¬ tions!

*‘I only wish’ ’—his voice dropped a bit here, while his tone, hitherto tri¬ umphant, became a bit regretful— “that it were possible to make the lease of life longer; but so far, ten years must be considered-the limit. No system will longer withstand the terrible strain put upon it—the en¬ ergy and vigor which should last a healthy man three score and, ten years, drained out, as it were, in a brief, concentrated period! In this case, I shall use just enough to limit the man’s life to five years from this date, because I am anxious to study the case at first hand, to learn if the end is as sudden and as painless as it is with the lower animals, and if it will fall as planned, exactly on the date five years hence. Five drops— five years!”

This was not the raving of a mad¬ man—unless the very coldness of the calculating scientist be madness! And

as the other doctor came into my line of vision, I saw him nod, gravely and understandingly, and he, too, had the light of the fanatic in his eyes! As for the granite-lipped nurse, she set about preparing me for this further operation as calmly and methodically as if I had been only going to have my tonsils removed.

T here was no longer even a glim¬ mer of hope; they w r ere three monsters leagued together in a com¬ mon cause, caring no more for me personally than they would have cared for a common street mongrel they were going to dissect, intent only upon demonstrating a cold theory.

I grew as icy as death, all my pain numbed under this terrible strain of danger and helplessness, and made a last vain struggle, wholly mental, to break my bonds and speak! I might as well have tried to move, with my bare hands, the Washington monu¬ ment. . . .

If only he would grant me ten years! Even that period looked short indeed to a man of thirty, just begin¬ ning to value life, and having had high hopes of reaching three score and ten. But five—five short winters, five sunny summers, and all would be over! And of what value to me would this wonderful elixir be, in any case ? I was young enough, and usually in good health, and quite satisfied with life as it came to me. Yet this terrible creature granted me five years as ruthlessly as if he were planning to kill a beef after fattening it for a number of months. That I should be a martyr to science consoled me not at all, for I cared more for one redblooded year of life than for all the dry-as-dust science in the world!

I was vividly aware when the edge of the scalpel touched my flesh. Yet the pain was not so terrible as I had expected, being sharp and quick. The awful sickening moment when my soul was ground to powder beneath



the wheels of agony, and I hoped that I was dying nnder the villain’s hand, came when he reached in, with as lit¬ tle compunction as he would have suf¬ fered in pulling a beet, and lifted my palpitating heart from its bed!

He seemed to hold it in his hands for eons of time, and it beat and quiv¬ ered and fluttered there, but in spite of my agony I observed the gesture with which he beckoned the nurse, and the hypodermic needle which she filled from the bottle and handed him.

Then came the sharp sting of the needle entering the heart itself, and for me the whole world swam in rosecolor, with tens of thousands of flick¬ ering points dancing through it, like motes through a sunbeam. When my vision cleared again, all was appar¬ ently over, the bandages in place, and Dr. Shelton talking calmly to his con¬ frere. “Five drops—five years, at this hour,” was all I caught, before I drifted away into a deep, restful sleep.

T n the course of time I recovered. I ^ do not recall what cock-and-bull story Dr. Shelton put up to account for the scar on my breast, but I pre¬ tended to swallow his explanations, and even to thank him for his efforts in my behalf. I do not know what kept my hands from his throat dur¬ ing those first days when he bent over me with an expression of pre¬ tended sympathy, but I know I was only biding my time to get my re¬ venge.

Meanwhile, I had but five years to live. I set about to get the most out of them. It never occurred to me to doubt that the unscrupulous fiend who had wrought my ruin was not right in every detail of his careful scheme. I fully expected health for the stated period, with sudden death at the end of it.

But I was hardly prepared for the complete rejuvenation, the abounding energy, the glow of ambition and op¬

timism, which followed speedily on my complete recovery. So strong and vigorous and hopeful and happy was I, that even my natural hatred of Dr. Shelton and my morbid desire for re¬ venge gradually subsided, until I hardly thought of it at all.

Not very long after the operation, I met a young woman with whom I fell in love with all the ardor of healthy, red-blooded young manhood. Alice had softly waving bronze hair, brown eyes with reddish lights in their depths, a bewitching, tantalizing dimple that came and went at the comer of her mouth on the slightest provocation, and a tiny round black spot just beneath her left eye, where the soft skin crinkled when she laughed. Our wooing was not “long a-doing,” which is not to be wondered at when it is remembered that I had never before met a woman who in¬ terested me even temporarily; and we were married just one year from the date of the fatal operation, by a freak of fate, at the very same hour, 3 p. m.

It may have looked selfish in me to marry the girl I loved with the cer¬ tainty of . death ahead of me in such a short time, but I argued that the hap¬ piness of the intervening four years would be as much hers as mine, and that all must take such chances when they marry. Also, with my abundant health and unfading youth, I had an opportunity to add enough to my for¬ tune to place her beyond the possible chance of want. I took out very heavy life insurance, being considered an excellent risk by the physician who examined me.

Dr. Shelton came and went at will, attending my wife’s small ailments and watching his “case,” as I sup¬ posed, but I was so happy in my married life that I had little thought to spare to him. And so the second and third and fourth years went by like a happy dream, and Alice pre¬ sented me with a little son. . . .

THE MAD SURGEON


There was only a moment of night¬ mare now and then, when something came up to remind me how short was to be my earthly span! And then something happened that opened my eyes to another complication in the plot; Dr. Shelton was becoming alto¬ gether too fond of my wife!

It was at this point in my life that the iron entered into my soul, and I began brooding and planning anew my vepgeance on the man who had taken my life into his hands. . . .

- The tenth of July came at last —the fatal day. I arose feeling as well as usual, but by noon I noticed my heart-beats growing a little slower, and also detected slight signs of fever.

' It was the first feeling of physical dis¬ comfort that I had experienced in five years, and I had not the slightest doubt that it betokened the end.

I spoke of it to Alice, asking her to telephone for Dr. Shelton, and on no account to enter my room after he came, nor until the following morn¬ ing. I pressed tender kisses of fare¬ well upon her wondei’ing face, and having sent her away, I set about my preparations for murdering the doc¬ tor before my own end should come.

As he entered my room, a hypo¬ critically professional smile on his lips and a scarcely-veiled triumph in his eyes, I seized him and gagged him —for my strength was still prodig¬ ious, in spite of my rapidly failing heart-beats. Then I bound him with leather straps to a bare table that I had dragged into the middle of the floor, having first coolly stripped his coat, shirt, and undershirt from his body. I produced a shining knife from his own bag (he had just come from the surgery) and flourished it meaningly before his horrified eyes.

“Do you remember what you did to me five years ago today, at 3 o’clock?” I asked, through closed teeth, my fingers writhing about the handle of the knife. “It is now my

turn. I have still an hour in which to wreak my vengeance, and it shall be to the full! I am going to cut your heart out, and leave it to a museum for natural freaks, for, al¬ though you still live, it has been petri¬ fied for five years!”

Another moment, and I would have plunged the shining blade into his bosom. But my own moment of dis¬ solution was come. ... a numb¬ ness seized me, my nerveless hand loosened its grip on the knife, that clattered to the floor, everything grew dark, my heart-throbs seemed to cease entirely, and I felt myself falling— falling, through endless blackness. My last conscious thought was a bit¬ ter, poignant reflection on the injus¬ tice of everything, of the vengeance cruelly torn from my grasp at the last moment.

T opened my eyes, to find the sun shining across a well-ordered hos¬ pital room, reflected from a vase of rose-colored flowers similar to those carried by the nurse who had accom¬ panied my little wagon into the ele¬ vator, previous to the operation. And at my side, the same sun bringing out golden light in the waving bronze hair above her smooth forehead, the same nurse!

I gazed up at her for a time in puzzled silence. She had brown eyes with reddish lights in their depths, a bewitching, tantalizing dimple that came and went at the corner of her mouth on the slightest provocation, and a tiny round black spot just under her left eye, where the soft skin would crinkle when she laughed.

. . . Alice, of course. . . but Alice was not a nurse. And she wouldn’t have left the baby at home, anyway. Then my glance fell upon a calendar on the wall.

“Why,” I gasped, involuntarily, “that calendar still says 1925.”



“Precisely,” smiled my nurse, her soft hand slipping from my -wrist, as she snapped shut the little gold watch she had been studying. Then she added, teasingly, “How long did you suppose you had been under the anes¬ thetic?”

“Five years,” I answered, faintly and somewhat doubtfully. The dimple danced merrily at the comer of her mouth, as she smothered a peal of low, silvery laughter.

“You were under just a few minutes,” she answered, “and I thought that quite long enough.”

“Where is—Dr. Shelton?” I man¬ aged to ask, after another minute’s study.

Her sweet face grew grave and con¬ cerned—just as I had seen it do a thousand times in the past four years (now fast receding with the things that were not) over the misfortunes of another.

“Poor old doctor! You were hardly under the ether when he col¬ lapsed. It seemed he has been over¬ working, and a serious fever is setting in. His colleague, young Dr. Strahorn, knew much about your ease, and thought Dr. Shelton might not have been entirely responsible when he insisted on removing your appen¬ dix, without more serious symptoms having set in. So they did not oper¬ ate, after all, but you are to remain here ten days for treatment, just the same.”

I gasped. Now, my brain having cleared rapidly, I knew what it was I had seen in his eyes as I went under —merely the premonitory symptoms of the breakdown brought on by a too conscientious adherence to his duty. And I had tried to murder him . . . but no, had I? Where were the past five years, anyway ?

I felt a sudden stinging sensation in the center of my breast. Misgivings again seized me.

“Alice,” I asked, gravely, “are you sure there was no operation per¬ formed?”

“Of course I am,” she answered.

Then a look of remembrance came into her eyes.

“Oh yes, I forgot. Dr. Strahom thought it a good opportunity, while you were so sound asleep, to remove that large mole on your chest. You didn’t mind, did you?”

I shook my head, and then lay quite still, studying her delicate profile.

“How did you know that my name is Alice?” she asked, suddenly.

“I do not know,” I answered, truthfully.

And to this day I do not know. We were quite alone. I put out my hand feebly and touched hers, to attract her attention. She seemed to have forgotten me in the contemplation of some problem far removed.

“Alice,” I asked, gravely, “will you marry me?”

“Certainly not,” she answered, in a matter-of-fact tone, though perhaps the rose-colored flowers had thrown a brighter reflection on her cheeks. “You have known me less than half an hour.”

“I have known and loved you for more than four years,” I answered, earnestly. She looked at me in a shocked way, and opening the little gold watch, began counting my pulse again in a professional manner.

1 turned my head on my pillow with a satisfied sigh, at the touch of her soft little hand, that had soothed my dreams a hundred times in the past, still real to me. Ah, well, of course she could not be expected to understand until I had a chance to explain! But I was sure of ten days, at any rate—which is quite long enough for the wooing of a man who has been thirty years about beginning it!

"^nroU don’t understand, John! j I used to laugh at it, too, but -®- these last months the thought of that old curse has been more and more in my mind.”

“Well, dear, why worry yet? It will be time enough if this proves to be a boy; after all, we may have a daughter at last.”

"No! I feel convinced it will bo another boy, and the words of that old saying go round and round in my head:

"When Radcliffe’s heir has brothers six And seeks to take to wife The only child of Blackmore’s line.

The Curse shall wake to life."

"But, Agnes, you are really invent¬ ing worries. Supposing this seventh is a boy! According to the silly jin¬ gle you quoted, the worst will only happen about twenty years hence, if our eldest boy should happen to fall in love with Blackmore’s small daugh¬ ter. And after all, it’s absurd,” he went on. "She might have any num¬ ber of brothers and sisters in the in¬ terval—or she might even die,” he added hopefully,

"You may make light of it, and I know it sounds absurd; hut I feel so afraid, so miserably afraid, as though some black shadow was by my side, al¬ ways whispering and threatening.” "My dear,” said Radcliffe, now w. T—3

genuinely alarmed, ‘You musn’t let go like that! It’s only a foolish old story, kept up by one generation after another. AH old families boast of hidden treasures, or a curse, or a ghost, or something of that nature—it goes with the estate. You must not get fancies like that into your head, dear."

He got up and crossed the room to where his wife was sitting in the sunny window embrasure, and stood looking at her in a puzzled way, as though she were ? new hybrid which had appeared among his treasured plants, and could not be accounted for. He was devoted to his wife, but hitherto she had been so normal, and well-balanced that this strange fan¬ tastic notion of hers worried him con¬ siderably. It was so utterly unlike her.

"Better have Dr. Green up tomor¬ row and have a chat with him.”

His wife suppressed a sigh. It was impossible to make him take her seri¬ ously. It was of no use to try to ex¬ plain the awful weight that pressed upon her heart—the monstrous fear that oppressed her. He put it all down to her health, and brushed aside her premonitions as mere fancies.

But at. the same time it comforted her that he should take this attitude. His unimaginative practical outlook on life, and careless way of disbeliev24!


ing what he did not understand, actually did, for the moment, make her feel that perhaps after all her fears were only imaginary.

She smiled at her husband in the sudden relief of her thought, as he bent down to kiss her and, drawing her wrap about her shoulders, said:

“It would do you good to have a turn round the grounds, Agnes. I’ll take you down to the potting sheds. There are some new hybrids there that will surprize you. Perfect speci¬ mens! Even old Bums was almost enthusiastic about them; he never be¬ lieved I could get that blue dahlia.”

T he stillness of a golden October evening enveloped the big room where so many generations of Radclift'es had first seen the light. Mrs. Radcliffe lay dying in that room now.

Her husband, bewildered and help¬ less, faced with the first great sorrow in a hitherto placid existence, stood over by one of the windows, staring out over the far-stretching acres of the Radcliffe estate.

The six elder sons had come and gone, she would see them no more; and on them, especially David, her first-bom and dearest, the mother’s thoughts were centered.

She glanced from time to time at the cot, where slept her seventh son. Who was he? What was he? Why did her whole being shrink from the tiny helpless thing? She had turned from him with loathing, when the nurse showed him to her first—how long ago was that? A day, or an hour? It was all a mist and confusion in her brain. But after that they had troubled her with him no more.

She looked again at the child. What was that dark shadow? Why did it move when everything else was still in that quiet room?

A little cloud resting on the cot. A vapor exhaling from the body of the child. Rapidly it darkened and spread, and soon loomed gigantic to

the ceiling. Very slowly, almost im¬ perceptibly, it took form and shape! Its vague outlines became sharp and definite, and presently something dimly approaching the semblance of a man towered there—a leering unholy thing! Its menacing bulk, shapeless and uncouth as one of the lesser ani¬ mals in the far-off days of the prime¬ val world! Its cold unsmiling eyes in dreadful contrast to the mouth dis¬ tended in silent horrid laughter! Its bloated features a travesty of man even at his most vile!

The evil hour had dawned. This was the horror which had haunted her so long, this was the doom that would haunt her first-born!

She tried to call out—to move, and the pale eyes of that accursed thing gleamed evilly upon her efforts.

One last awful struggle with the icy numbness that pressed upon her limbs, and then the mother gave one great cry, pointing a shaking finger at the cot.

“The Curse! Kill—kill the child!”

John Radcliffe turned instantly; he saw nothing but the awful look on his wife’s face as she fell back, and be¬ fore he could reach her side she was gone—her heart had stopped in that supreme effort; and all unseen as Radcliffe stooped over the bed, that fell shadow moved about the silent room, and presently withdrew itself once more to the human habitation which sheltered it.


U'ae up among the heather which A spread its rich carpet to the very verge of his own fields and parklands, David Radcliffe sat, and by his side the girl who had just promised to marry him.

They were both extremely happy. The sun seemed to be shining for their especial benefit, the deep glow¬ ing colors of sky and moor to be painted just as a background for their joy.

THE DEVIL’S GRAVEYARD

“There is nothing to wait for, Maisie dear,” said the man. “Now that my father is dead I must live at The Turrets altogether, and curb my desire for travel and expeditions. But you must marry me soon—very soon! I can’t face the great lonely old place for very long without you. There’s only Hirst at home now, and I see as little of him as possible.”

“I shall feel dreadful about leaving my poor old dad by himself, though,” answered the girl. “I know he would never consent to come and live at Radcliffe Turrets with us; he would never have a happy moment away from all those old Blackmore ances¬ tors who gloom down on us from the walls. You’ve no idea how I dislike some of them.”

“I expect you will dislike some of mine even more,” iaughed David, as he turned to kiss the sunburnt cheek so near his own.

“Well, for sheer ugliness I think the Blaekmores score; your family was really rather handsome. But, of course, that horrible portrait you boast of is worse than all mine put together.”

“Oh, you mean the man who was nick-named ‘Giles the Thruster,’ be¬ cause he fought so many duels. He had a rather sinister reputation, and his face matches it. It is a very fa¬ mous portrait, though.”

“I hate it,” said Maisie with a lit¬ tle shiver. ‘ ‘ That sneering mouth and those long narrow eyes. Oh, it’s a wicked face!”

David put a protecting arm about her.

“Well, it’s only a picture after all; he’s dead, hundreds of years ago.”

“Yes, and I am very glad too. That old legend of the Radcliffe Curse is about him, isn’t it?”

“'Yes, ” answered David. * ‘ He said he was coming back to haunt us. I’m the one he ought to haunt, too! The eldest of seven sons, and you are a Blackmore, and an only child.”

“Oh, David, what a perfectly hor¬ rid idea! Are you really the one that is meant in the Curse?”

He replied laughingly, “Yes, I really am. But, of course, it’s only a fairy tale.”

“What was the whole story of the Curse, dear? Why did your ancestor curse anybody at all?”

“Well, if you will promise not to take it seriously, I will tell you. I read it in some old manuscripts I found once in a secret drawer. The story goes that in the Thirteenth Cen¬ tury there was, as now, a family of seven Radcliffe brothers, and the youngest was this Giles the Thruster. He was betrothed to a girl, the only daughter of a Blackmore, whose land adjoined ours then, as it does now.

“The eldest Radcliffe also loved this girl, and the two of them ran away together. Giles pursued them, caught them up on the road, and the two men fought a duel in which Giles, blind with fury, missed his stroke, and was fatally wounded, and died, and was buried there in the clearing by the roadside, where they had fought. In dying, he cursed his brother bitterly, and swore that he would come again to earth and take his revenge.

“He prophesied that history would repeat itself, and that in the future once more seven Radcliffe brothers should "be bom, and the eldest again desire to wed a Blackmore’s only daughter. Giles vowed that then he would return to snatch the girl from that eldest bom, and cheat him of his love as he himself had been cheated.”

“Oh, David! How awful if such things really could happen!”

“Well, they can’t. We don’t live in the Dark Ages now, darling. I am afraid old Giles would have a rough time of it if he returned to England in these post-war days. Everything got killed in the war. Religion and superstition alike. People only be244


lieve in what can be seen and paid for now.”

“Nonsense, David! — Of course they-”

She broke off and turned to look at him. He had let his arm drop from her shoulders, and was sitting up stiffly, his eyes fixed on something ahead.

“Why, what’s the matter? What are you looking at, David?”

She caught his arm, her own rosy color fading as she saw his dreadful pallor and the stricken look in his eyes.

“David! David! Answer me. Oh, do speak! There’s nothing there!”

She beat with her little hand on the man’s clenched fist, but he neither moved nor answered her.

“Oh, you must be ill. What shall Ido? Can’t you speak to me—just a word, dear?”

But he sat in frozen silence, his face a mask of horror.

At last she got up and moved to¬ ward the spot on which David’s eyes were fixed so intently. Suddenly the wide sweep of moors seemed desolate, almost menacing. A dark cloud blot¬ ted out the sunshine, and a little squall of wind rushed up angrily against her as she moved forward.

“Come back, Maisie. A—a—h—h! come back. ’ ’

The voice rose almost to a scream, and she turned to see David plunging over the heather toward her. He seized her roughly by the arm and <lragged her away, and then stood holding her, panting as though he had run a race.

The reaction of finding him appar¬ ently recovered made her irritable, and she said, “I’m not going to run away; you needn’t clutch me like that. What on earth is the matter with you, David?”

The man did not answer, but clasped her to him, his lips moving silently. He did not heed her ques¬ tions, but began to walk away rapid¬

ly, holding her hand in his, and urg¬ ing her to greater haste.

Once or twice he pushed up against her, as though to avoid someone or something at his other side, his hand gripping hers convulsively.

Maisie was first frightened and then annoyed at his behavior. Why couldn’t he explain? It was ridicu¬ lous—dragging her across the moors like this.

She wrenched her hand free at last, and said, “I can’t go so quickly. Leave me, David; I would rather go home alone.”

He turned a white face to her, as she stood looking np at him, her brown curls all blown about her pret¬ ty face, her gray eyes wide and indig¬ nant.

Her heart melted when she saw his look, and she said, “Oh, my dear, what is it? Do tell me. I can’t bear to be treated like this. You look as though you had seen a ghost!”

Then as David recoiled, the horror on his face was reflected on her own, and she said, in a terrified whisper, “Oh, David, have you seen some¬ thing ? What was it ? Tell me! ”

The man’s lips moved, but no sound was audible. Maisie clasped his arm.

“Was it really a ghost?” she whis¬ pered, with a horrified glance over her shoulder. “Oh, let us go then, quickly; it may come back; it’s so lonely here.”

For answer David put his hand to his throat with a sudden sharp intake of breath.

“Go away—go away,” he managed to gasp out. She fell hack a few paces, her frightened eyes glued to his face.

“But why won’t you let me touch you? I want to be near you, David.”

“No, no,” he muttered. “Keep away. It’s—it’s—oh, Maisie, it’s the Curse!”

At the last word he shivered like one in an ague, and backed away still farther from the girl, his outstretched

THE DEVIL’S GRAVEYARD


hands repelling something terrible and unseen.

She covered her face and stood trembling and shaking in every limb.

David stood looking at her miser¬ ably, then he sprang to her side and, taking her in his arms, said, “Kiss me good-bye, Maisie. Quick, ah, quick! Before he-”

But as the girl raised her face to his, David jerked back violently, with such abruptness that Maisie almost lost her balance.

“Go home—run—run, darling,” came David’s voice, low and urgent. “It’s no use. We may not be to¬ gether.”

At that she turned, and ran obe¬ diently in the opposite direction, look¬ ing over her shoulder at intervals to see him walking away, his head bent, his whole figure shrunk together like that of an old man.


A whole week went by, and still Maisie, beside herself with con¬ stant anxiety, saw and heard nothing of David.

The memory of his face with that gray shadow of fear upon it, and the agony of his eyes haunted her night and day. She had never known how dear he was to her until now, when this awful invisible agency had thrust them asunder.

Her heart was tom between the longing to see him and the fear of adding to his sufferings if she did so.

Every day she wandered aimlessly about the moors, seeking the high levels where she could command a view of the country round, and per¬ haps catch a glimpse of his tall figure.

When dark came, she kept watch from the window of her room, staring for hours in the direction of Radeliffe Turrets, where the many lighted win¬ dows shone; and she pictured David alone and wanting her. All night she would keep the vigil, with the feeling that so she might help him, that her

love would protect him when night and its evil .shadows closed in around him; and when dawn came she would fall into heavy sleep, troubled by many dreams in which she and David fled over land and sea, pursued by a monster which would not let her go.

Then one day she saw him! It was late afternoon when she came upon him, sitting on a rough boulder, ap¬ parently watching the sun sinking into a smoky gray cloud-bank, which like a forest of dreams rose on the western horizon.

“David!—Oh, at last, my dear!”

She ran eagerly. toward him, and he rose at the sound of her clear voice, and made as if to meet her. But at the first step he fell back suddenly, clutching the rock behind him with one hand and holding the other arm before his face, as though to ward off some invisible opponent.

“Don’t come near me, Maisie,” his voice came in a choking cry.

The girl stood rooted, and a great nausea swept over her as she watched the unspeakable loathing on the man’s face, the blind terror with which he resisted some unseen foe.

Instinct warned her that in some way. her presence was harmful to David, that her nearness increased his danger and suffering—and she re¬ treated until she saw that he no longer struggled with that hateful enemy, but was sitting on the rock with his head bowed on his hands.

There she left him, and stumbling, with tears blinding her eyes, she went slowly home.

The bitterness of despair filled her as she realized that she had actually been the cause of torturing David afresh. She must never see him again. She would write and tell him so to¬ night.


‘ ‘ IT eke is a letter for you, David, I found it on the hall table and brought it as I happened to be com¬ ing up.”



Hirst Radcliffe, the youngest of the Radcliife sons, entered his brother’s study as he spoke, and stood, a tall, arresting figure, his pale cold eyes gleaming as he noted the bowed shoul¬ ders and drawn features of the man in the chair by the fire.

“It looks like Maisie’s writing. I have wondered why we have seen so little of her lately—perhaps this will explain.”

Hirst crossed the room and stood leaning up against the fireplace. He held the letter carelessly, and as Da¬ vid stretched out an eager hand, with a sudden glow of color in his sunken cheek, Hirst slipped, stumbled, and in some way too quick for David to see, the letter fell into the heart of the flames and was destroyed in a mo¬ ment.

“Oh, I say! How stupid of me! My dear chap, I am sorry. What a perfectly rotten accident.”

There was a wild light in David’s eyes as he sprang to his feet.

“You’re not sorry.! I believe you did it on purpose. Get out of my room. I loathe the sight of you. ”

“That’s nothing new, is it? No one would ever accuse us of being a David and Jonathan! But it's no use letting your feelings run away with you like that.”

“Will you or won’t you get out?”

“Yes, when I am ready to go. I just came up to bring your letter, and tell you I thought of strolling over to see old Blackmore and Maisie.”

David’s fists clenched, and he made a spring forward, but a sudden black¬ ness descended upon him, and from out its murk, that which he knew and dreaded began slowly to take form. He collapsed, suddenly limp and shaking, into the chair behind him, as with a sneering laugh Hirst saun¬ tered out of the room, closing the door softly behind him.

For long David sat, staring hard at the fire, as if out of the flames

themselves he could reconstruct the precious letter they had consumed.

At last he rose shakily to his feet and rang the bell.

“Send Reed to me, will you?” he asked the footman.

The valet appeared almost at once, an old servant of the Radcliffes, and devoted to David as he had been to his father before him.

“Reed, I have made up my mind to go away. I want you to pack for me at once, and also take a message to Miss Blackmore.”

“Yes, Mr. David.”

“I won’t write the message. You must remember it, Reed—it’s safer so. Tell her I am going to try to es¬ cape if I can! I am going to that lit¬ tle place in the Carpathians where I stayed once with a college chum. She knows where it is. Ask her to write and—give her my love, Reed.”

The old man stood hesitating.

“Take me with you, sir,” he burst out at last. “You must not go alone.”

But David shook his head.

“No, no, Reed. You can do more for me by staying here at home. I think you know or guess something of what has fallen on me. I am cursed—a doomed man, Reed.”

The faithful old servant nodded dumbly, and David continued. “Look after her for me. You and she are the only ones who know or under¬ stand. And now come, we must be quick; I want to start in a few hours.”


TV/fAisiE blackmore was in the 1 train on the way to London. It was some weeks, the darkest she had ever known, since David had fled from England. The faithful Reed had given his master’s message and she had written again and again to him, and waited now in the greatest suspense for news. It was a few days only since the wonderful idea had dawned which had impelled her to take her present journey.

THE DEVIL’S GRAVEYARD


It was her father who had been the unconscious means of sending her on it. At breakfast one morning, he had looked up suddenly from his Norths ern Mail, saying, “Well, well. I am sorry to have missed that. If I had known I would have gone up to town to hear him.”

Maisie was absorbed in her own thoughts, wondering if David would write, if he had escaped from the Curse, and if she would ever see him again—and she answered abstracted¬ ly, “Would you?”

Mr. Blackmore continued with in¬ creasing enthusiasm, “Of course. Old Fremling was the best chum a man ever had. I shall never forget those years at Oxford together. And apart from that, his lecture must have been well worth hearing.”

The girl’s listless interest was roused at the name of Fremling, and she asked, “What was he lecturing on, father?”

“Devil Worship and Ancient Rites among the Nomadic Tribes of Central Asia.”

“I would like to have heard that, too,” said Maisie, her eye kindling with an almost painful interest.

“Nonsense, child! Not at all the sort of thing for you. The tales Frem¬ ling tells make even me—well, if not afraid, something very like it. It’s appalling to think such things exist, even in foreign countries. Of course I consider Fremling exaggerates a great deal. He’s an extraordinary man—a genius!—and knows more about Asia than, any man alive.”

“I remember him very well, com¬ ing to stay here once, when I was a child,” answered Maisie reflectively.

“Yes—about ten years ago,” agreed her father. “He was very much in¬ terested in the strange illness of the vicar of this parish, who was said to be haunted.”

Maisie’s voice shook as she asked, “And what happened? What did Sir Donald Fremling do?”-

Blackmore buttered his toast, and helped himself to marmalade before replying, “Well, I never pretended to understand Fremling or his fantas¬ tic theories. He did explain his view of this particular case, but I have for¬ gotten.”

“But the vicar! Did Sir Donald save him?”

“There was no question of sav¬ ing,” said her father testily. “The vicar was mad—and he got better. Fremling helped in one way, soothing influence and all that, no doubt. But as to casting out devils—well it’s not the sort of thing that happens to a decent Englishman. All very well for the colored races, with their hot climate, and priests, and opium.”

And with this final statement the old man had risen from the table and gone out into the garden.

Maisie had swiftly made her de¬ cision ; and accepting a long-standing invitation from a friend who lived in London, she left home two days later, determined to see Sir Donald Frem¬ ling and tell him the whole story of the Curse.

Sir Donald Fremling! The name rose up now in Maisie’s mind, as a harbor light to a storm-tossed mari¬ ner. Could he really cast out devils ? Would he be able to save David?


T hese two questions still burned in her mind as, on the following aft¬ ernoon, she reached Sir Donald’s house. He was sitting alone by his study fire, with a Great Dane stretched by his side, and an old worn book in black letter on a small table at his elbow.

He showed no surprize at her visit, and greeted her with a gentle Old World courtesy which gave her cour¬ age. She sank into a chair on the op¬ posite side of the fire. The dog looked at her solemnly, then stalked over and put one heavy paw on her knee. “You see you are among friends,”



Sir Donald said with a smile in his deep-set eyes, as they met the hesitat¬ ing doubt in her own. “You can speak freely! Tell me why you are here, in London, instead of enjoying your moors and heather at home? You don’t look as though the city agreed with you, either. Why are you so unhappy, dear child?”

“Oh, I am—I am most unhappy,” said the girl, clasping her hands with painful earnestness. “It’s too awful. It’s not the sort of thing that can hap¬ pen, really. I feel you can’t possibly believe it.”

“There’s very little I can not be¬ lieve,” answered the old savant gravely. “Tell me everything, and let me judge for myself. Remember I have spent my whole life in warring against those dark forces which are all about us, and which manifest themselves so terribly at times.”

Thus encouraged, Maisie told him all she knew, first of the legend of the Curse—and of its subsequent fulfil¬ ment in the haunting of David Rad¬ cliffe.

Sir Ronald heard her without com¬ ment or interruption, and when she had finished he sat gazing thought¬ fully at the Persian rug under his feet, his deep-set eyes almost hidden under his white eyebrows, his thin face showing many a line furrowed by past ordeals and encounters with Evil.

“Tell me all you can about the present Radcliffe family,” Sir Don¬ ald asked presently.

“Well, as I said, David has six brotheis, and they are all particularly nice jolly boys, except Hirst—the youngest?”

“Ah! The youngest! And why is he so different?”

“It is difficult to explain what he is like. But I hate him, and so does David. In fact, none of the brothers got on with him, and as soon as they were old enough they left home rather than live with him. It’s been a very

unhappy household since their moth¬ er died. The father loved Hirst best, and could see no fault in him; he sac¬ rificed all the rest of the family to his caprices and wishes.”

“This is most valuable informa¬ tion,” Sir Donald said, his keen eyes alight with interest. “Go on, tell me all you can remember about this youngest Radcliffe.”

“He was the strangest child. Even as a baby no one ever knew him to cry or shed a tear. He has never had one hour’s pain or illness in his life, and is absolutely callous to everyone else’s suffering. In fact, I am sure he en¬ joys the sight of pain. He is a horri¬ ble man—cold, sneering and hateful.”

“How did the other boys treat him at school?”

“Oh, no school kept him more than a few days. There were dreadful scandals about it. He had a tutor fi¬ nally—a Mr. Fane. And that was the worst of all.”

“What happened to the tutor?”

“No one knows exactly—that’s the horrible part of it. He got to look wretchedly ill and miserable while he was at The Turrets. David once begged him not to stay, because it made him feel so angry to see how Hirst treated him.”

“And why didn’t Fane go away then?”

“He told David he couldn’t go— he would give no reason, simply said he couldn’t go. Then he disappeared, and they found his body later, lying in the woods among the bracken and dead leaves. The doctor said he had died of shock, and his face was terri¬ ble to see, I believe.”

“And'was Hirst held to blame for the tragedy?”

“ Well, no! Not exactly. And yet everyone who knew Hirst well, and had seen Fane with him, felt uneasy. The poor man had so obviously been in his power, and cringed before him in a most painful way.”

THE DEVIL’S GRAVEYARD

“And is this Hirst Radcliffe living .at home now?”

“Yes,” answered Maisie. “He rarely leaves The Turrets; he has a suite to himself, and is supposed to be studying astronomy. He’s got tel¬ escopes and all sorts of apparatus fixed up on a flat roof, very strange instruments some of them look, but I have only seen them from a dis¬ tance.”

After a few more questions Sir Donald said, “It’s well for David Radcliffe that you came to me. He will not find a place of escape in Europe, or on any spot on earth until the Curse is broken and its power de¬ stroyed. Will you give me his ad¬ dress? I will go in search of him and bring him home. The Curse must be undone where it was first uttered, and David must help me to find that place.”

Maisie rose, her white face raised imploringly to Sir Donald’s.

“And do you think there is any hope of helping David?”

“Yes, my child,” Sir Donald said, putting a hand on her shoulder. “There is always hope, and you have done much to help him already by coming here. In the meantime stay in London, do not return north. You must not see David again until he is a free man once more. Another meet¬ ing between you would mean danger to you both in the highest degree. And as to Hirst—I will explain more fully later, but if you value your immortal soul keep away from him. He is not what he seems.”

,7

T^avid radcliffe stopped walking and stared around him. He real¬ ized suddenly that for the last few minutes that long-drawn-out sound had persistently forced itself upon his consciousness, but, absorbed in his own despairing thoughts, he had paid no heed to its appeal.

The broad highway over the Car¬

pathian Alps stretched out before him, flinging its endless leagues about the shoulders of the mountains that towered in proud desolation to the wintry sky.

David stood for a minute, trying to penetrate the gloom of the dense firforests that mai'ched on either hand; then, guided by that repeated cry, he turned off the road and plunged in among the trees. It was some min¬ utes before he could locate the call accurately, but at last on the edge of a clearing he saw that an old man was there on the ground, leaning up against a tree and evidently in pain.

The stranger explained to David that he had walked out from Borviz, a small mountain hamlet about three miles distant, but had unfortunately slipped and wrenched his ankle, and found himself unable to walk or even stand.

Radcliffe, a great fair giant well over six feet, looked down on the slight figure of the injured man with considerable interest and sympathy; and for the first time in many weeks he felt the burden of his thoughts lifted, and an unwonted sense of se¬ curity enveloped him.

“There’s only one thing for it, I think, sir—I must carry, you, if you will trust yourself to me.”

The other man smiled up at this modem Sir Christopher.

“I think that would be imposing a little too far on your goodness, I am heavier than I look. But if you could find some conveyance and bring it here to me-”

Radcliffe shook his head.

“No! That would not do at all. These woods are far from safe even in the daylight, and it is already dusk! Night would have fallen long before I could get one of those ras¬ cally Tsziganes back here with a horse and cart. It is not safe for you to be here alone. Better let me carry you. ’ ’

The older man looked up at his companion.



“Perhaps if you took me down to the road, someone might pass and give me a lift.”'

“I don’t think there is any chance of that. Won’t you let me try to lift you? We ought to start at once, there is a big fall of snow just about due.”

As he spoke David knelt and hoisted the stranger on to his broad shoulders, and began to make his way slowly through the increasing dark¬ ness to the open road.

But there he halted. The snow¬ storm had arrived! And a stinging icy wind blew a flurry of sleet against his face as he emerged from the shel¬ ter of the forest.

“You can’t do it in this. Better set me down again in the shelter of the trees, and make your way to the nearest village,” said the stranger.

David answered with quick indig¬ nant warmth, “You don’t know what a night, or even a few hours, means in these heights at this time of the year, sir. You would die of the cold, even apart from the danger of wolves. No! the only thing is to make a night of it together. I will build a fire, and find some sort of a shelter.”

And in spite of protests, David carried his burden back to the woods, and having found a spot comparative¬ ly sheltered from the fury of the everrising storm, he proceeded to break off the lower branches of the fir trees, and soon made an effectual screen from the wind.

A fire was quickly built, and its cheerful crackle and the fragrant odor of the resinous wood drew a sigh of satisfaction from the man by whom Radcliffe now seated himself.

“You are showing great kindness to an absolute stranger—I owe my life to yon,” said the former, as he looked earnestly at his young bene¬ factor, noting the hunted expression of the blue eyes, the marks of pain and fear on the young face.

David’s color deepened as he made an awkward gesture of denial.

“I can’t tell you how awfully glad I am of the accident that has brought tis together,” continued the old man. “I have come to this part of the world for the purpose of finding you.”

“Finding me!” echoed David. “But I don’t quite understand, I am afraid. Perhaps your name-?”

“My name is Fremling,” answered the other.

‘ ‘ What! Not Sir Donald Fremling the famous traveler?”

Fremling smiled at the young man’s enthusiasm.

“Yes, I suppose that describes me.”

David put out his big brown hand and clasped that of the older man.

“I can’t tell you how awfully glad I am to meet you, sir. It was only the other day I came across some friends of yours in Budapest. They were talking about what you had done for them, and all the strange places and people you had known.”

David paused; then, encouraged by the listening attitude of his compan¬ ion, he continued, rather hurriedly, “Is it true that you are interested in the supernatural, and—well, in what is called Black Magic?”

Fremling’s face became very grave as he answered slowly, “Tell me what it is that haunts you.”

“Haunts me!” gasped David. “But I did not say—I don’t know why you think-?”

He suddenly turned and faced the other man, staring hard into Frem¬ ling’s deep-set eyes.

“I am haunted! No man was ever haunted as I am. Do you believe in the power of a Curse?”

“I believe in the power of the hate which prompts a Curse,” answered Fremling quietly.

Still David looked long and eagerly into the other’s tranquil face; then, as if he had found what he sought and was satisfied, he turned away.

“It is not necessary for me to say that I am David Radcliffe,” he said

THE DEVIL’S GRAVEYARD


at length. “Evidently you know who I am, and why I am here.”

“Yes, I know everything. I have seen Maisie Blackmore—in fact she came to see me, and it was from her that I learned the danger you are in. I am an old friend of her father’s, and remembering that I am interested in all supernatural manifestations she brought your case to me.”

David flushed with pride and pleas¬ ure in this new proof of Maisie’s love and ceaseless efforts to help him.

Sir Donald smiled.

“You are very young still in spite of your trouble. A girl whose spirit is so finely tempered as that of Maisie Blackmore, when she loves, loves without counting the cost at all—she would become the haunted one herself if by so doing she could free you from your Curse!’

“And what is your opinion, Sir Donald, now that you know all? What is it that haunts me—and why?”

'“My opinion is that you have lived all your life with a demon at your side—your brother Hirst! He is not a human being, as we understand the term. His body is a vehicle borrowed by an Elemental. Your ancestor Giles died in a moment of eternal hate! And after death his strong personality was still bound to earth by its own overwhelming passions. Consequently it would ally itself with those Elemental forces of evil which strive unceasingly to gain access to mankind. Thus Giles has acquired force to project his hate down the centuries; and by infernal aid has at last gained possession of a body so that he may live on earth again.”

David tossed a branch on to the fire, adding more and more fuel, until the crackling hiss of the flames almost drowned the moan of the wind, and the encroaching shadows of the forest fell back reluctantly.

Fremling noted the furtive glance the young man threw over his shoul¬

der, and the nervous dilation of his nostrils.

“Tell me,” begged David at last, “this—this thing that haunts me . . . can you destroy it... can you lift the Curse? Oh, I can not bear more.”

“Poor boy!” said the older man. “All alone here in the wilderness with that ever at your side. I can realize what you must suffer.”

At the compassion and understand¬ ing in Fremling’s voice, the other looked up with tears in his eyds.

“I am going mad. I meant to end it all tonight. To walk on and on into the very heart of the storm, until the cold and snow had frozen the life out of me and I could never wait or fear or suffer any more.”

“Only to find your implacable ene¬ my awaiting you on the other side of the door you would thus force open.”

“What do you say? No . . . Oh, no! I can’t believe that.”

“Won’t believe it, you mean,” cor¬ rected Fremling. “I do not wonder that you are eager to meet death— that you long for its merciful obliv¬ ion ! But believe me when I tell you that there is no such easy way out of it as that. Should your enemy over¬ come you while you still possess your human body, his hate would cause your death . . . the death of your body, that is! But that would be the end, for in the effort he put forth to bill you, his power would expend it¬ self, and your true self would hence¬ forth continue freed from his malice.

“But on the other hand—should you cut short your span of human life yourself, Giles would meet you as an equal; you would have descended to his level, have pulled down the bar¬ riers between . . . and his hate would absorb your very being into his, and add incalculably to the diabolical force which gives him existence.”

David leant forward in terrible agi¬ tation, and spoke rapidly, “Are you a devil, too? Has he sent you to taunt me—to drive me to greater de252


spair ? You have taken away my only hope. Death was my one refuge.”

His blue eyes glared at Fremling as he spoke, and it was only too evident that his reason was tottering to a fall.

With all the compassion of a father for a frightened child, Fremling clasped the hand of the unhappy man and answered gently, “I wall help you. That is what I am here for. If you have courage and will to obey me, you may yet be saved. I can promise nothing, because so much depends on your own efforts and strength of pur¬ pose—but I have saved others in more desperate case even than yourself.”

David’s brief moment of madness passed, leaving him deeply contrite and ashamed of his outburst, and as the two men sat talking together hour after hour, David felt a spring of hope and confidence well up within him. His former passive acceptance of his awful fate changed to a strong determination to fight the evil which shadowed his existence. And when dawn came at last and the storm died, the quiet stillness of the mountains was reflected in his own heart as he rose to tread out the red fire and pre¬ pared to carry Fremling to some place of shelter and safety.

.8

O ver the jagged spine oi rock which crested the hill known as the “Devil’s Teeth,” in that neigh¬ borhood—the great reddened orb of a harvest moon rose like the eye of some gigantic Polyphemus peering down on that unhallowed spot with wide un¬ blinking stare, eager to witness once again the triumph of deathless hate— to gloat with full-orbed vision on the resurrection of all that was evil and abominable.

Fremling and Radcliffe stood watching the rising of this ill-omened moon, the younger man with beat¬ ing heart and a feeling of helpless terror which made his hands and feet icy cold, and the breath come short

and quick through his nostrils. His nervous excitement was in strong con¬ trast to the calm of his companion, who looked alternately from his watch to the heavy shadow cast by the hill— a shadow retreating gradually like some furtive guilty thing back into the bulk of the hill which had cast it forth.

Fremling drew from his pocket a roll of parchment yellow with age, and consulted it narrowly.

“In half an hour’s time, according to this manuscript,” he said, “the outline of the grave should be dis¬ tinct, and we shall learn the exact spot where Giles’ blood was shed. It is there that we must meet the demon¬ soul which possesses your brother’s body—and it is there alone that we can destroy it.”

A long shudder shook David’s body as he looked furtively round at the trees which encircled the open grassy space on which they stood. He watched the inky shadow of the hill, until its sharp outline became hazy and indistinct and the whole scene swam in a pale mist before his aching eyes. For a moment he shut them to recall Maisie’s face—to nerve himself by the thought of her love and belief in him to face what was coming.

“Ah—h—h”—the low exclamation from Fremling made his heart stop beating; then his pulses throbbed furi¬ ously as he followed the direction of the other’s pointing.finger.

A luminous red stain, its shape un¬ mistakable and sinister, was growing momentarily more distinct there on the grass in front of them .. . not six feet distant! Every leaf and blade of grass or weed within that rectangular boundary gleamed red as blood and fiery bright.

Sir Donald picked up from the ground a short, broad-bladed sword, worn and stained, its hilt encrusted with rubies whose fire outshone even the crimson glare of the grave itself.

“Dig ... dig swiftly,” he comTHE DEVIL’S GRAVEYARD


manded, putting the weapon in the young man’s hands. “Do not lose a moment—all depends now on your speed—before midnight that grave must lie open to the moon and stars, or we shall meet Giles unprepared and helpless.”

Urged and goaded by repeated warnings, David pursued his dreadful task. The red grass came up easily enough, being rooted in a light pow¬ dered soil of the same deep red stain as the grass itself.

As the last sod of that stained weed was cut up and tossed aside, Fremling drew David quickly back from the graveside, and as he did so a great tremor shook the whole place, and a tongue of fire toot with a hissing roar skyward from the uncovered grave.

When it died Fremling went for¬ ward and peered cautiously into the grave, beckoning David to his side.

Clutching the older man with icy hands, the other looked, and drew back with a gasp ... a dark shaft had opened, reaching to unfathomable depths, in whose yawning chasm a far-off point of green light burned like an evil star of the underworld.

David recoiled with ashen face, while Sir Donald’s firm mouth set in its sternest lines.

“It is Gaffarel! Gaffarel the Mighty! Gaffarel and the Four An¬ cient Ones who come against us,” he whispered to his trembling compan¬ ion. “This place is saturated with unspeakable guilt.”

His eyes closed for a minute as he muttered a few low indistinct words. Then taking from his pocket a small phial he turned to David again, and with a certain rare and fragrant oil he rapidly anointed the eyes, nose, and mouth of his companion and him¬ self.

“I warn you,” Fremling said, “to wait in. silence now for what shall come. Do not utter a syllable, or you will plunge us both into that devil’s

tomb where Giles and his legions await us.”

Chill eddies of wind swept up against the silent pair as the mid¬ night hour approached ... the pound under their feet trembled with the thundering march of some invisible army... the sound of countless hoarse voices and echoing horrid laughter came faintly to their ears.

Fremling drew forth a rod of an¬ cient ivory, carved with symbols of magic as old as the dawn of the world. Its tip gleamed with pale fire, and as Sir Donald traced on the ground the outline of the sacred pentaele, the rank grass burned fiercely in its wake, and within the fiery five-pointed star David and Fremling stood by the graveside waiting.

Strange flickering lights moved among the trees which hemmed them in. Shadows formed and re-formed in sinister array about them.

The chill of death gripped David’s heart, and he turned to look at his companion, standing upright and stedfast, his face raised to the mid¬ night sky, his lips moving rapidly.

Suddenly all noise and movement ceased abruptly, and in the intense stillness which fell, David nerved himself for the last supreme effort. To face Giles the Thruster—to defy him—to pit his own will against the awful power of the demon.

It was coming—coming! In every nerve he felt the dread approach of the Enemy. With cold lips he mur¬ mured over to himself the ancient words of power which Fremling had taught him, and with shaking fingers pressed a leaf of vervain to his nos¬ trils.

There upon the open grave stood Giles, a gigantic shadow, his beckon¬ ing figure drawing David with irre¬ sistible lure.

Like one in a trance, David took a stiff step forward, but ere he could move again, Fremling advanced swiftly and interposed his own body



between the monstrous Shadow and its victim.

At this, the baleful lights outside the pentaele drew eloser, and dim forms were visible, bestial and un¬ couth, surging forward with horrid effort to pass the barrier of fire.

Fremling stood as though carved in stone; not a step did he give back, as with almost imperceptible movement Giles advanced upon him. There was not a hand’s breadth between them, when Fremling held up the firetipped rod, and in a loud clear voice commanded Giles to return to the place whence he came. Three times Sir Donald repeated the terrible name which can command even the Ancient Four themselves, and slowly Giles the Thruster retreated—his hate powerless against the divine courage of his antagonist.

Inch by inch Sir Donald advanced —inch by inch Giles moved backward to the grave.

Sir Donald’s face was awful in its set intensity, his steady eyes fixed on the flaming eyeballs of the demon who opposed him.

Good and Evil matched in a colossal struggle for supremacy.

Back over the brink of the grave Giles was forced, and then with the swiftness of light Fremling raised the magic rod and plunged its blazing tip deep into the Thruster’s heart.

A great tongue of flame shot up from the fathomless depths of the grave, wrapping round Giles like a winding sheet of fire!

And in that same moment the phantom lights that pressed about the pentaele vanished utterly—the blaz¬ ing star itself dimmed, and went out.

David gripped his companion’s arm convulsively as they waited.

The black clouds overhead were tom by a blinding glare, followed by

crash after crash of thunder, which seemed to shake the solid earth.

Then came the rain, sudden and torrential—washing the evil of the haunted spot from off the earth, and Fremling and Radcliffe lifted their faces thankfully to its cleasning sweetness.

A t last it ceased, the darkness lifted, and from a ragged fringe of cloud the moon shone clear and bright. Grass and trees glistened with the silvery sparkle of some en¬ chanted forest.

How strangely altered was that sullen ring of trees! That ragged, haunted, desolate spot!

Not haunted now—quiet and lone¬ ly, perhaps, but not desolate.

A calm sweet peace brooded over the place; the threatening copse had become a friendly shelter from the storm, where the birds cowered and shook their wings, piping encourage¬ ment to one another as they dried their wet feathers.

The circle of grass was wholly green. No red stain now, nor gaping depth was there. Green and fragrant the weeds and long waving grasses shone in the moonlight.

But that which had walked among men as Hirst, the youngest of the Radcliffe brothers, would haunt them no more.

Cold and terrible in death they found the mortal body deserted by its demon!

It faced them as they burst open the locked door of the study—sitting upright in a high carved chair—one hand clenched over its heart—the features twisted by inhuman rage.

The pale cold eyes were hardly changed by death, and stared into the horror-stricken faces around—-and stared—and stared.

Hhe* O r t’Ke,'Bi»M

a

Willis Knapp Jones

“Obju was dead, and Ms wife was thrown to the alligators that she might accompany Mm into the here¬ after.”

C ALMLY the girl slept, all un¬ conscious of the electric lights glaring into her face or the celebrated specialist standing at her bedside. After studying that oval face and its bobbed brown hair tousled from sleep, he turned to her mother. “You say she’s been this way ever since she was born, Mrs. Prentice. Have you noticed any other abnor¬ mality?”

“No, Dr. Stein. During the day¬ time, Vera is all one could wish for. That’s why I asked you to come early this morning. By 6 or 7 o’clock she will awake and be like any other twenty-year-old girl. Then she’ll have her interests and go and come, but about sundown she’ll get drowsy and fall asleep and its just impossible to waken her till the next morning.”

The gray-haired nerve specialist touched the arm lying above the bed clothes. “You’re sure this will not arouse her?”

“Nothing will. At first the doctors tried everything, shaking, electric treatment. She slept through it all.”

“Her pulse is steady, but slow,” he remarked.

“Yes, all the doctors said there was nothing physically the matter. They thought she would outgrow it, so after her father’s death, we decided to let her grow up and see what would hap¬ pen. He, poor man, worried contin¬ ually. Toward the end, he was some¬

what insane, I believe. He kept rav¬ ing about curses and African magi¬ cians and-”

“African, eh?” The doctor pon¬ dered a moment. “Well, I’ll make a thorough examination after she wakes, and if you’re willing, I’d like to bring a young friend of mine, a medical missionary just returned from Africa. And it might be just as well not to say we are doctors, but simply friends.”

“Yes, indeed. Why don’t you come for luncheon this noon? I’Il¬ l’ll introduce you as acquaintances of Captain Prentice. Perhaps your friend knew him, for he used to make trips to Africa. He was even wrecked there, twenty-two years ago. He lived among some coast tribes for months before he was rescued.”

“I’m afraid Dr. Thornton didn’t know him, then. He wasn’t through high school then. But I must be go¬ ing. I’ll find my friend and return about-”

‘ * Twelve o ’clock. We ’ll eat at that hour.”

And so the doctor bowed himself out.

Promptly at the hour set he and another gentleman presented them¬ selves at the door. The newcomer, whom Dr. Stein addressed as “Ted”,



was about thirty. His face was dark, and creases at eyes and nose bore evi¬ dence of his life in climates where the sun glared. He was lean and his every action showed his nervous ten¬ sion.

“Miss Prentice, may I present -” Dr. Stein began.

The girl’s eyes widened and her face grew white, but she recovered herself. “I’m glad to meet Dr. Thornton,’’ she said, a strange thrill and tenseness in her voice.

Mrs. Prentice wondered. She had not heard the visitor’s name men¬ tioned, yet momentarily she received the impression that the two young people had met before. There was not a sign of recognition on the tanned face of Dr. Thornton, however. His expression was that of one meeting a new and altogether charming person. So Vera’s mother knew that she must have missed the introduction.

A fter a few minutes of general conversation, the meal was an¬ nounced and all four entered the din¬ ing room, Mi’s. Prentice on Dr. Stein’s arm and the young people together.

During the course of the luncheon, the conversation turned to Africa.

“My father was fascinated by the continent,” Vera said. “Surely you must want to go back, Dr. Thornton.”

“I’m not sure,” he replied. “I may have to remain here because my health won’t stand the climate.”

“But didn’t you hate to leave?”

The doctor laughed shortly. “Some of them hated to have me. In fact, some of them tied me up, so that I couldn’t.”

“Is tills a cannibal story, Ned?” Stein interrupted.

“But there aren’t cannibals in Africa now!” protested Mrs. Pren¬ tice.

“Yes, there are, mother.” Vera looked bewitching in her intensity.

“What do you know about it, dear?” Mrs. Prentice’s voice held a

tone with which a forward child is reproved. “When Vera was little,” she explained, “she used to have the wildest dreams about Africa, till finally her father and I refused to let her read any of the captain’s big library on African life and adven¬ ture.”

“Well, she happens to be right about cannibals,” replied Dr. Thorn¬ ton, coming to her defense. “Of course, feasts of that sort are forbid¬ den by law, but there are plenty of ways of evading the law, especially where the white man isn’t very power¬ ful.”

“Don’t yam, Ted,” Dr. Stein scoffed. “I read a British colonial report only last year saying that can¬ nibalism in Africa was a thing of the past.”

“Then don’t believe it. I know what I’m talking about. I was slated for one of their feasts, myself.”

“Tell us about it,” begged Mrs. Prentice.

The medical missionary glanced over at Vera, whose cheeks were white. The nerve specialist, too, was studying her, but he nodded a slight assent.

“I’m not a story teller,” Dr. Thornton apologized. “One of those writer chaps could trim my yam up and make something out of it, but he’d have to give it an end. And it couldn’t be the traditional one, either, for I didn’t marry the girl who saved me.”

They were all eagerness and so, after another glance around the table, he told them the story, sketching the pictures and leaving their imagina¬ tions to fill in the outline. He de¬ scribed his journey from the mission station toward the coast, going by a direct route against the advice of others, because he was weak and wanted to reach the seacoast to re¬ cuperate.

He made them see the trail through unfrequented country,. telling how

THE OTHER VERA


sometimes he was so weak that he had to be carried in a traveling hammock supported by four natives. And as he told of the desertion of some of his carriers and the exciting details of a night attack by a savage tribe, Vera’s eyes were dreamy, though her breath came fast.

“There I was, prisoner among a lot of black savages, ” he wound up. “I understood their dialect only imper¬ fectly, but I made out enough to realize that I was being fattened up to be the guest of honor at a feast. Night and day an armed warrior guarded the circular thatched hut in which I was kept prisoner.

“They gave me all the food I wanted. The women brought me breadfruit, some sort of potatoes fried in fat, and delicious meat. And they’d see that I ate it. If I refused, there was a warrior to jab me with his spear till my appetite came back. The people were all homely enough, ex¬ cept one girl, as beautiful a savage as I’ve ever seen. She took quite a fancy to me, apparently.”

Vera, whose eyes had not left his face, uttered a little expression of dis¬ gust which drew all eyes to her.

“Oh, if you’d seen her,” went on the doctor quickly, “you wouldn’t grunt. She was erect and cleaner than the rest. I might have suspected she had some white blood in her if there had been any ehance for a white man to visit that tribe and live. She was very attractive. No wonder the chief of the tribe fell under her spell, although he already had a half-dozen or so of wives. But she is the heroine of my tale. She saved my life.”

“How?” came in a chorus.

“I’m certainly not telling this story well. I should have drawn it out, told of the feeling of restlessness visible in every warrior, the rumors of the coming of an enemy, and all. But that’s not my style. I can tell you only how it turned out. The warriors armed hastily and started

off for battle. If I had been fat¬ ter or if there had been time, I imagine I’d have been eaten before they started. However, they said they were saving me for the victory banquet. Anyway, they moved me to a shelter right next to the king’s palace, overlooking a pool where the chief’s pet alligators basked, and after they tied me, they set all the women of the tribe to watch that I stayed put.”

‘ ‘ Couldn’t you escape ? ’ ’ Mrs. Pren¬ tice was drinking in his words,

“The men that put the grass ropes around me knew their business. I couldn’t stretch them, and I couldn’t reach the knot. And I knew that the men would be back probably that night.

“Finally, about noon, when the women had gone into their huts to keep a little cool, I heard the slightest of sounds. I turned my head and there stood my black beauty with a knife in her hand. ’ ’

“It was a pair of scissors.” Vera spoke as assuredly as though she had heard all the details before.

“Yes, I found that out soon, but -” Thornton stopped in amaze¬ ment. “I say, how did you know that?”

“I—I read it in—in-” She

gave him an appealing look, like one throwing herself on his mercy.

Without knowing why, he came to her rescue. “Oh, in my article in the World Review? Did you see it, too, Mrs. Prentice?”

The matron shook her head.

“That’s about all there was to the affair,” the missionary resumed after a pause. “I thought that for some fancied slight she wanted to stab me, but she was rescuing me. She cut the ropes, gave me a package of food, and directed me to safety. I made my way as best I could to a seaport, and was so run down that they shipped me home by the first boat.”



“But the girl?” Mrs. Prentice wanted to know. “Did she escape?”

“That's the part that must be left to the fiction writer. I don’t go any farther.”

T he story caused such discussion that the meal was over before they finished. Then Dr. Stein told who he was, and Vera submitted to an examination. It was about 3 o’clock when the men left the house.

“I can not make it out,” Dr. Stein confessed as they strolled together into the spring afternoon. “I couldn’t find a single important abnormality.”

“It’s beyond me,” Dr. Thornton agreed. “The thing that stumps me is how she knew that the girl who saved me carried a pair of scissors in¬ stead of a knife.”

“She explained that. She had read your article.”

‘ * That’s the trouble. I never wrote any article. I never even told the story before.”

“Then why in the world-?”

“Why did I invent a magazine? That’s what I don’t know. She showed me she was in trouble about it. She’s keeping something from her mother. And I’d like to know what it is.”

“I’ll go back tomorrow, Ted. You should have said something about it to me while we were there today.”

“I didn’t get a chance. But you needn’t bother. I’m going to the bot¬ tom of this mystery myself. I asked for permission to call tomorrow after¬ noon.”

“Smitten, are you, Ted?” Dr. Stein slapped his younger companion on the shoulder.

The thin man straightened up. “I don’t know,” he confessed. “They call women the eternal mystery; Vera’s the super-mystery, and I’ve got to unravel it.”

His attempt the next afternoon brought him little success. Vera begged him not to question her,

though promising to tell him every¬ thing sometime in the future. In every other subject, she was entirely frank, and the young doctor found her very attractive. As his mission¬ ary board had ordered him to stay in that, part of California for a few weeks, he managed to preempt a fair Bhare of her time. Finally, the day he was compelled to leave for his lec¬ turing trip, he proposed to her.

“Nc\ Ted, I mustn’t. It isn’t be¬ cause I don’t love you,” she hastened to add, observing his gloomy expres¬ sion.

“Won’t you tell me the reason, dear?”

Vera shook her head.

“You know you’re the only girl I ever loved.”

She broke into a bewitching smile. A roguish expression came over her face. “Then you didn’t love the black girl who saved your life?”

He laughed out loud.

“And you wouldn’t be sorry to learn that the chief of that tribe took her as his eighth wife?”

“What do you mean, Vera?”

“She married Obju, or whatever you said the chief’s name was.”

“Look here, dear. Why can’t you explain? I never told you the chief’s name because I could not remember it. But now that you mention it, I know that they called him that. Now where do you get your information?”

“Because I—I’m—ch, I can’t ex¬ plain! Trust me, Ted. I ’m terribly upset, but things will be arranged soon and when you come back, if I’m here—I mean, when I see you, I’ll tell you everything.”

That had to satisfy him because he discovered that it was time to hurry to his train. She could not accom¬ pany him, because it left shortly be¬ fore 6 and she fell asleep at sunset.

P or nearly two weeks Dr. Thorn¬ ton traveled through Washington and Oregon, speaking every night.

THE OTHER VERA


Each day he sent Vera a letter telling of his love, and at each post-office he found a letter froni her awaiting him. Then came one from her that was so weird that it upset every theory he had ever had.

“Dearest,” it began. “I’ve got to start letting yon know about myself, and I couldn’t tell you. The reason I knew all the details about the Afri¬ can girl is that I am she and she, I. By day I live in my white body, but at night here (and day in Africa) I inhabit hers. And my thoughts are just as badly mixed. I am a wife of Obju, though because he was taken sick on his wedding day, I married him by proxy and have not seen him since. He has been sick for several weeks. If you despise me, do not come near me when you return this week. And I am afraid you will hate me—for how could you love half a person? Could you respect me when you know that there’s another tVera in Africa?”

Rational thinking told him at once that the whole story was a eoneoetion. of the girl’s brain. There could be no truth in it. And yet—the strange behavior at night had no normal ex¬ planation. There was the detail of the seissors, too. He had studied psychology. He knew that Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde had many real life counterparts. With Dr. Prince’s ex¬ periments with Miss Beauchamp he was familiar. He remembered how hypnotism had taken that woman’s two selves (the real one and the dis¬ sociated one) and fused them together into a single personality that in¬ habited the body which previously was controlled alternately by each in turn. And as he was a student of ab¬ normal psychology, other similar cases came thronging to his memory.

He was interrupted by the coming of the committeeman to take him to •the lecture hall. “And here’s a tele¬ gram that just came, Doctor,” said the man. “Hope it isn’t had news.”

With a foreboding of evil, Dr. Thornton tore open the flimsy maniia envelope and took in the contents at a glance:

OBJU DIED LAST NIGHT. COME AT ONCE. I NEED YOU. VERA.

“When is the next train out of here?” Dr. Thornton asked.

“Tomorrow morning at 11.”

“I’ve got to get away before that.”

“Well, I can take yon down to Ebersville after the lecture, if you like. There’s a train out of there over the main line about midnight.”

“I’d like to have you. And will you send a telegram, too, cancelling my lecture tomorrow evening?”

Dr. Thornton went on to the plat¬ form, still puzzling why the girl would telegraph him about the death of a minor African chief. But he had to put the idea aside and begin his missionary talk. He had given it so many times that the words came almost automatically. His mind was not on his subject, so that it was with a start that he heard himself inform¬ ing them: “The Indian custom of suttee, the sacrifice of a widow on the funeral pyre of her husband, has its counterpart in Africa. Some of the most powerful men decree that their wives shall be killed to accompany them into the hereafter to be ready to wait on them.”

Like a flash everything became clear. The death of the chief meant his wives would be killed. If that story had a grain of truth in it, it meant that the other Vera, the Afri¬ can Vera, would be one of them to die. He had read of the Siamese Twins, one of whom had died and the other lasted only a few minutes. The whole enormity of the situation rushed over him. Well for him that his speech was mechanical! He cut it and slashed, finishing fully fifteen minutes early. Then he fairly dragged the committeeman to his car.


W hat if he were too late ? What if he reached Vera, the girl he loved, to find her dead?

There was no unoccupied berth in the express train when it finally ar¬ rived, but Thornton was in no mood for sleep. He sat by the window watching the train crawl along, till the east lightened. The sun came up and rose higher. It was already start¬ ing down into the Pacific when he leached his destination.

Even the automobile seemed to loiter as it carried him to Vera’s home. Not till after 4 did he finally get there and see her, and then she was so changed that he scarcely recog¬ nized her. Her soft skin and delicate complexion had been wasted by fa¬ tigue and worry.

“It’s too late,” she moaned. “To¬ night I am to be killed. It will be good-bye forever.”

“But, Vera darling,” he said in a tone he meant to be judicial, profes¬ sional. ‘ ‘ This is all a fancy of yours. It is impossible for one person to oc¬ cupy two bodies!”

“I can’t explain it, Ted. It may be impossible, but it is so. Many things in Africa are like that. Aren’t they?”

Her challenge brought to his mem¬ ory a demonstration he had witnessed in which a tribal magician had his ears, nose, and mouth stuffed with cotton, himself rolled in heavy blan¬ kets, and then was buried in a sandpile for three weeks. Afterward his friends dug him up, said incantations over him, and unwrapped him. He got up and walked around and showed that he had not suffered at all by his burial.

“Yes,” Thornton agreed. “But how could you, an American girl, and that African be mixed up that way?”

“My father was wrecked there. His journal is a pretty full record of what he did. Mother never saw it, and he made me promise to destroy it, but I

read it first. And the natives still remember the white man who saved the chief’s life and so was protected in the village. But when he refused to worship the sacred snake, and laughed at the magicians, and even came into a gathering of all the tribal magicians, he made enemies of all the medicine men. He fell in love, they said, with the daughter of the chief of the magicians, and his desertion of my African mother was another cause of hate. After his rescue, the magi¬ cians gathered into a powwow that is still spoken of with awe in the tribe. The eleven tribal curses were put upon him and as a special incantation it was decreed that if he ever married one of his own white people, his first child should be only half a child, sharing its personality with the Afri¬ can baby he left behind.”

Dr. Thornton said nothing. There was such conviction in the girl’s voice, such sureness in her expression, that he was led to believe her story. And he knew by the way she trembled be¬ neath his arm, that she believed in it implicitly. *

“ At noon all his wives are to be killed to go with Obju, and now it’s —oh, Ted, it’s sunrise in Africa now! Hold me. Don’t let me slip away. If I leave, I’ll never return.” Franti¬ cally she clung to him.

“I’ll protect you, sweetheart,” he promised. He tightened his grip.

“Oh!” she screamed and shud¬ dered. “I’m going. I’m-”

Her words trailed off. Her grasp relaxed, and if he had not had his arms around her, she would have fallen.

Mrs. Prentice, hastening in at the cry, found the doctor using every ef¬ fort to revive her. She was not ex¬ cited, however. In the occurrence she saw only the nightly episode to which she had become accustomed. “This is what I mean, doctor,” she said. “I’m glad you could have seen her go to sleep. But don’t look so startled.

THE OTHER VERA


She’s all right. She’ll awake in the morning.”

Nothing the doctor could say would move her. In his insistence, she saw the worry which she used to have, but which she had outgrown. When he told her he must stay and watch her, she shrugged wearily and gave in finally, after sending him away while she prepared the girl for bed.

He realized that nothing would oc¬ cur till midnight, but he would not lie down for rest. His weariness and lack of sleep no longer troubled him. Though he could not help the far¬ away girl in her fight for existence, he would be on hand at the turn. So he told Mrs. Prentice that he had a theory which would compel him to re¬ main till after midnight. She sat with him for a time, but soon got up and left him With the sleeping girl.

T he hours ticked away. From the street came noises of modem life, automobile horns, police whistles, and the distant rumble of street cars. And on the bed Vera Prentice lay motion¬ less. Her features were drawn with fatigue. Only a slight motion of her breast showed that she was alive.

Finally, when the clock’s hands marked a quarter of 12, Dr. Thornton turned on all the lights, with a read¬ ing lamp spotting her face. In a few minutes he would know. At noon, she said, the sacrifice would take

place. And since the tribal village was on the other side of the globe, directly opposite the place where he was, it would mean that midnight would reveal whether she was to live or to die when the African Vera was thrown to the alligators.

A clock somewhere struck 12. Still the girl did not move. Five minutes passed. Ten. He felt her pulse. The slow, steady rise and fall showed that the heart was still beating. If she

lasted through the night-! While

he held the wrist, he felt a quiver. A shriek such as he had never hoard from mortal throat made his hair stand on end. The pulse slowed, al¬ most stopped, and then quivered and raced. There was the slightest of movements in the eyelids. Then the girl on the bed blinked in the glare of the light. She opened her eyes and saw Dr. Thornton.

In an instant his arms were around her. “My sweetheart has returned,” he said.

Vera was trembling. “It’s all over,” she whispered. “The other me is—is dead. She was thrown to the alligators to accompany Obju into the beyond.”

“And the Vera that is left will marry me, won’t she?”

Her “Yes” was not very loud, but it served its purpose. The other Vera had found happiness.

FETTERED

A Serial Novel

By GREYE LA SPINA

The Story So Far

D r. bale armitage warns his neighbors, Ewan Gillespie and his twin sister Bessie, who have come to the woods to spend the summer, that they must never invite his wife, Gretel Armitage, into their cabin, under pain of dire consequences so fearful that they would not believe him should be explain what those consequences were. He leaves with Bessie the key to the lodge where he keeps his wife imprisoned behind heavy bars, while he goes to the funeral of a child who has died of pernicious anemia. Ewan, fearing that the doctor’s lodge may be struck by lightning, rescues Gretel in the midst of a roaring thunder¬ storm and brings her to his cabin, but is forced to carry her across the stream that runs between. Bessie surprises Gretel in the dead of night, as Gretel is leaning over her brother’s face behind the cascade of her hair. As the storm has sub¬ sided, the brother and sister take Gretel back to the lodge, where Gretel tells Bessie that she will call Ewan to her when she wants him, and utters exultantly her threat. “You shall all be minel” Bessie leads her brother, in a daze, back to the

CHAPTER 6

WOUNDS IN EWAN'S THROAT

T HE day dragged for Bessie, who dreaded the doctor's re¬ turn and at the same time longed for the meeting to be over. The personality .of the man had so im¬ pressed her that she felt he would be just in the matter of the key. But what his attitude might be toward her too-forward brother she dared not conjecture, especially after the spe¬ cific warning that under no circum¬ stances was Mrs. Armitage to be in¬ vited into the Gillespie cabin. As for Gretel, Bessie felt that the doctor’s wife was fully competent to look after her own interests.

All day Ewan was moody and ir¬ ritable. He was indolent, too, with an indolence unlike his aforetime lazy moods, which inhibited his paint¬ ing only. Although the sun shone, and sky and woods were magnificent in their allure, he lay flat on his baek

in his room, staring at the ceiling. At meal-tim6 he roused, but ate with a lack of appetite that troubled his sis¬ ter, who was accustomed to cook for a good trencherman. She thought him extraordinarily pale. When she looked in at the door for the twentieth time, she saw him with one hand at his throat gingerly.

“Throat sore?”

He answered languidly that it just bothered him, “Some insect must have stung me, Bess. Perhaps you’d better put on iodine just as a pre¬ caution.”

She brought the iodine bottle. As he took his hand away from his neck, Bessie exclaimed:

“Why, Ewan, something cer¬ tainly did bite you! There are two tiny white-rimmed punctures on your throat, and there’s blood smeared-”

Ewan rolled wearily off the cot and went to the mirror, where he exam¬ ined his throat attentively.

“Looks funny, doesn’t it? More like a snake-bite than a spider-bite,” he mused.

He washed off the streak of blood and Bessie touched the two angrylooking spots with iodine.

Bessie suggested then that he take fishing tackle down the brook a way, where they had observed trout on their trip up the first day.

“It’s so beautiful out, Ewan, that it’s a shame to stay indoors,” she told

“Don’t even feel up to fishing. Feel tired out. Jove, hope I’m not going to be sick, sis! Well, I’ll go, any¬ way.”

FETTERED


His sister watched the canoe slip downstream, with a mixture of relief and apprehension. She did not want Ewan present when the doctor re¬ turned for the lodge key, but at the same time she dreaded his meeting Mrs. Armitage, for no reason except her distaste for that lady. Also, she intended to question the doctor more fully as to his wife’s mental condi¬ tion; if Gretel were not insane, but worse, Bessie intended that the doctor should clarify this remarkable state¬ ment, in justice to her confidence in him.

About 4 o’clock her watchful eyes saw the doctor’6 sturdy form coming into sight. He drew up his canoe and walked across to the cabin. Bessie went out to meet him. The troubled face she lifted to his searching eyes must have told him that any secret apprehensions he had entertained were not without foundation.

“You have the key?” he queried, dark eyes upon her kindly, and he ex¬ tended one hand, palm upturned.

Those world-weary eyes of his had heavy black shadows about them; his mouth looked drawn as if he had re¬ cently endured a severe nervous strain.

Bessie’s voice trembled. She dreaded to add the new trouble to those secret burdens he was already shouldering.

“Last night there was a frightful thunderstorm, ” she began.

“And Gretel has been out!” sup¬ plemented the doctor quickly.

Bessie nodded.

“Oh, God in heaven, how long must this infamous traffic in human souls be permitted?” cried the doctor pas¬ sionately, throwing back his head and apostrophizing the clear afternoon sky.

“I’m so troubled about it!” Bessie cried out anxiously. “But I couldn’t help it. Honestly, T couldn’t.”

“It was your brother who let her out?” stated rather than asked the

doctor. His face had assumed a heavily weary expression, but it was not angry. “Of course, he carried her across the brook? And at the doorway she fainted, and he picked her up and took her across the threshold?”

“How can you know?” the girl ex¬ claimed, aghast at this mysterious knowledge of the preceding night’s oc¬ currences.

“History always repeats itself,” answered Dr. Armitage significantly.

"I don’t understand,” faltered the girl.

The doctor bent dark eyes on her with stem tenderness.

“I am sorry, little brown wren, that you have been drawn into this wretched business, but you would stay, when I warned you to go.”

“Perhaps I can help you,” said the girl eagerly, then dropped her hazel eyes as warm color ran up into face and neck at the betrayal of her own interest.

“For that ingenuous blush I thank you, child,” said the doctor, a slight tremble in his yoice. “But I should have known better than to have drawn you into this business. I should have let Gretel run her own risks,” bitterly.

He picked up Bessie’s hands, press¬ ing them so strongly that she almost cried out with the pain.

“You are reproaching yourself be¬ cause of your friendly interest in me, are you not? Because I am a mar¬ ried man? Oh, brown girl with the kind eyes, if only you could be strong enough not to let your pity turn into anything warmer! You could help me, heaven only knows how much!” He dropped her hands then and with a shake of his whole body recovered his poise. “What I need to know just now is more for your sake and your brother’s than for my own. Except,” he corrected himself, “that my con¬ science is involved.”

His hand caught her under the


chin. Ho tilted her face upward, scrutinizing her closely. He with¬ drew his hand with a sigh of relief.

“So far, all is well with you,” said he thankfully. “And now, tell me everything that happened last night, my child. Everything. Do not omit the most trivial word or action of my —of Mrs. Armitage.”

TXThilkB essie told of GretePseom- ** ing, Dr. Armitage listened in silence. He saw in sequence the pic¬ tures of Ewan carrying Gretel against his breast over the log bridge; of GretePs fainting without the door and Ewan carrying her inside. Then Bessie told of how Gretel had called her in the night, and of how she had kept silence, knowing not why. And at that, he groaned aloud, but bade her continue. She told of finding GretePs face against Ewan’s, behind that veil of flaxen hair ...

“God! God!” ejaculated the doc¬ tor, dark eyes blazing with combined pain and anger. “Is this vicious cir¬ cle of corruption to go on forever? And then, Bessie-?”

“We took her home early, at day¬ break,” the girl concluded. “She told me that she intended to call Ewan, and that she would call me, too. And you,” shivered Bessie, lift¬ ing a pale, scared face to his. “Can she? Can she? And what does she mean by it?”

Again the doctor jerked her chin up, exclaiming as he did so:

* ‘ Impossible! ” He scrutinized her white throat closely. “No. As yet you are safe. But your brother-?”

Bessie caught at his sleeve in fright.

“What has happened to Ewan?” she managed to ads, choked.

“Tell me, brown girl, has he com¬ plained of feeling weak and languid, since last night?” asked the doctor grimly. She nodded. “Have you seen, by any chance, whether his throat-?”

“Something had bitten him. There were two white-rimmed little holes on his throat, and his neck was smeared with blood. I put iodine on the bites.”

* * Iodine! ’ ’ ejaculated the physician, with a shout of wild laughter that made the girl shrink back in momen¬ tary alarm. “Iodine! Since when can iodine save a soul?” he demanded of nobody in particular, but followed his words with another terrible, sar¬ donic laugh.

“Then it’s something serious? Something poisonous?” she faltered.

‘ * Serious ? Good God, yes! Poison¬ ous? Brown Bessie, the most ven¬ omous thing upon God’s footstool has attacked your brother and unless drastic measures are taken immediate¬ ly, he will lose not only his body, but his soul’s salvation,” declared Dale Armitage gravely.

Great tears rose in the girl’s eyes,

“You can save him, can’t you?” she whispered hopefully.

“Do you believe that I can?” he parried.

“Yes! Oh, yes, I do!”

“God bless you, child,” said he fervently. “Only He knows how much your simple faith means to me. Yes, I believe I can save your brother, but only if he puts himself completely into my hands, and I doubt if be can bo persuaded to do that,” sadly, “for Gretel has succeeded in arousing his antagonism against me.”

“I will make him,” said Ewan’s sister with emphasis.

“Then we will do what we can, Bessie.”

“But what was it that bit him?”

The doctor laughed. It was not the wild laughter of a moment since; it was the hopeless laughter of one who laughs because otherwise he must weep.

“If I were to tell you, you would not believe me,” he said.

“You are wrong. I would believe anything you told me.”

“I wonder,” said he, slowly.

FETTERED


“Well, let me see how much you are capable of believing, from my Ups.” A cynical smile, but his dark eyes were yearning, and Bessie felt her whole being answer that call for un¬ derstanding and trust.

“If I told you, for example, that yesterday I attended the funeral of a child, in order to locate its grave readily this morning, could open it without hindrance, could expose that poor little bloodless corpse-”

The girl’s eyes were staring, wide upon his face, but she moistened her dry lips and said firmly: “ I would be¬ lieve that you had some good reason. ”

“Thank you, brown girl. And suppose I told you that I cut off the poor little head? That I drove a sharp stake through the little wasted body into the stilled heart? That I filled the dead baby’s mouth with garlic ? ’ ’

Uncontrollable shudders shook Bessie, but something in her heart bade her maintain her courage and her trust. She quavered, her voice trembling in spite of herself:

“You must have had a good rea¬ son.”

“Again, I thank you,” he mur¬ mured.

At the tremolo in his voice, Bessie knew that he was touched to the core by her expression of confidence.

“And then I left the grave as I had found it, and returned here, and— and found that yet worse than that awaited me!” he groaned, ail at once losing his forced composure.

He dropped his face into his hands despairingly. Bessie was at his side, her gentle hand on his arm. He lifted his face to smile wanly at her.

“You may have thought me harsh and cruel when I warned you against ever having Mrs. Armitage here, in your cabin. How little you felt the actual weight of my words you have shown by the tale of last night’s oc¬ currence. Oh, had you realized the fearful consequences of your hospital¬

ity, you would have stood immobile in the doorway, and have refused to let even your brother enter, if he carried her with him. You would have bid¬ den him leave her without, to perish in the storm!”

“I can not believe that anything would make me as inhuman as that,” cried the girl incredulously. “What could possibly change me so? You owe it to me to tell me, now that you have trusted me so far.”

He regarded her pityingly.

“I shall tell you—but not until I must,” he responded. “And it will not be because I owe you the reason, but because I have made it the busi¬ ness of my life to keep—Mrs. Armi¬ tage—from committing any more gruesome murders-”

“You dare call your wife a mur¬ deress!” interrupted Bessie, gasping and shrinking from him.

“She is not my wife,” said the doc¬ tor gravely.

“Not—your—wife?”

“Legally, yes. So that I may in a measure control her actions. But only a moral monster would dare to make such a—such a-—to make Gretel Armitage his wife in anything but name only,” dryly.

Bessie’s brown cheeks flushed scar¬ let.

“I know that it is all a strange mystery, child. It is because of what she is that I married her—and be¬ cause of it that she will never be my mate. And this, unhappily, has turned her love for me into fury. Out of a desire to be revenged upon me, she takes pleasure in escaping my vigilance, and then—because of her hatred for me she does these frightful things! The poor child whose little body I dug up this morning, that I might set its soul free, was slain by Gretel Armitage, in spite of all my precautions! In spite of all her promises to me, given time and again!”

Bessie’s hands flew to her mouth,


smothering a cry of horror and in¬ credulity.

“You don’t believe me, of course?” said the doctor patiently.

“I am trying to. But I read the clipping about the child. It died of pernicious anemia.”

He smiled, shrugging his shoulders expressively.

“All this is part of the matter that I can not tell you because you would believe me quite mad,” said he sim¬ ply. “Yet Gretel is the direct cause of that child's death, and because of it I had to go today to do what I told you. Partly for the child’s sake, partly because the burden of Gretel’s —being what she is—rests upon me,” he admitted with a heavy sigh of pa¬ tient resignation. “And now, can you still trust me?”

Bessie stood, eyes downcast, mien thoughtful.

“I believe you are sincere,” she said at last. “As to the rest, I can not understand it, but I believe that you do understand it.”

CHAPTER 7

’WILD ROSES BLOSSOMING “"Drown girl, you are a marvel among women!” cried the doc¬ tor, a kind of wonder ringing in his voice. “Yet I must save you while I can. Will you leave this place to¬ morrow? Oh, you do not know what it costs me in resolution, to put dis¬ tance between myself and the first hu¬ man soul that has shown a measure of comprehension for me in my frightful situation! But I must be strong,” he added.

Her emotion overcame Bessie.

“How can you ask me to go away,” cried she pitifully, “when you ought to know that I would never have a moment’s peace the rest of my life, thinking of you—working out some hideous, ghastly problem alone—and

thinking that I might have helped you somehow?”

“Child, child, you are breaking my heart,” said he gravely, taking her wrists in his dry, burning palms. “I

dare not think that you, too-? I

have never believed that I could so quickly learn to care, as I have in these few pregnant days! Do not tell me that you, too, care more for me than casually? Oh, brown Bessie, tell me it is only as a friend that you hold me in your heart! It can not be that you, too, care? Tell me that I am nothing but a friend, ehild,” he pleaded.

Bessie hung her head; she could not give him the answer he desired. She knew all at once that he had become more than a friend. She realized that out of her pity and her interest had sprung a deeper sentiment, that was to chain her life to bis more surely than iron bands could have done. Yet he was tied to another woman whom he did not love; another woman who wore his name.

At her silence the doctor groaned as if in such terrible mental agony that he could no longer contain him¬ self. The girl raised pitying eyes to those burning ones that plunged their gaze deeply into hers as if to cool themselves. The convulsed face frightened her. She spoke his name in a little voice, trembling as she tried to withdraw her hands, gripped so fiercely now in his fingers.

“No, Bessie, do not take away these gentle hands,” he pleaded in a tone so poignant that she desisted. “Let me hold onto them, and onto sanity for a little, before I go back into the yawn¬ ing darkness of horror that awaits me.”

“What are you saying?” she whis¬ pered. “What darkness do you fear, Dale? You—so brave—and fear¬ less?”

His ugly laugh shook her anew with shuddering, although she knew it was not meant to frighten her. As if in

FETTERED


reassurance, his grasp on her hands became lighter; he pressed her fingers gently, then released them.

“Bessie, my little brown Bessie! Why did you have to love me, and so thrust yourself into the most horrible tangle of infernal machinations that the world has ever known?”

“Dale,” said she stumblingly, “there never need be any tangle be¬ cause of me.”

“Good heavens, child I”

“Isn’t that what you mean?”

“Bessie, your innocent and wholly natural assumption betrays only too clearly how little you dream of the horrors into which you may be plunged unless you go away at once and leave me—forever. God forgive me for not having been more brutal in my behavior; perhaps then you would not have pitied me, you would have kept me away. How I blame myself for having brought that key to you! Yet, I dared not leave—her— all alone, and how conld I trust—a man?”

“Perhaps God knew best when He sent me here,” murmured the girl, timidly. “Perhaps somehow I can help you, Dale. If only you would let me know what I can do.”

“Take your brother away from here,” responded the man quickly. “If he remains in this vicinity and refuses to put himself into my hands for treatment, he is in such ghastly danger that the human mind would refuse to credit it, for sheer horror.”

At the seriousness of the doctor’s face, the gravity of his intonation, cold shivers passed over Bessie’s body.

“But I am not going, Dale. I—I could not go, leaving you to face your problems alone.”

“How can I persuade you? Bessie, I can not bear to have you, too, fall vietim to that poisonous Thing which Gretel has become.”

“7 am not a silly man,” retorted

the girl, wrinkling her nose scorn¬ fully at masculine weakness.

“And do you think your sex will save you?” asked the doctor iron¬ ically.

“I would be strong where Ewan might be weak, Dale.”

“But you see, Bessie, that Gretel now has the entree to the cabin. Ewan has carried her across your threshold and welcomed her within.”

“I would refuse to admit her,” sturdily.

“She needs no welcome from you now, ’' went on the doctor sadly. ‘ ‘ The fact that your brother was within would secure her entrance. He car¬ ried her across the stream and over the threshold. And on his throat”— the doctor closed and opened his eyes slowly as if in pain—“are the marks that make him her slave for all time, unless he leaves this place at once and goes where she can not reach him. Until those wounds heal, he is in her power.”

“Then she can really call him to her?”

“Yes, my dear. And in time he will die like that poor child. Of per¬ nicious anemia,” he finished, in light scorn of that newspaper diagnosis. “He will be drained of his life blood, Bessie. God, girl, don’t you under¬ stand, yet?”

“Do you mean that Gretel is a—a vampire?”

“If you consider me quite mad, it may frighten you away,” said the doctor, with a short laugh. “Bessie, Gretel is a vampire. Do you under¬ stand that ? Gretel is a bloodsucking demon. I am the husband of a living fiend. I am chained to her for her life by my own innocent act-”

“That will do, Dale, please. You can’t frighten me off by shouting at me,” Bessie said tranquilly. “So that is the secret. I've read of such things, but I didn’t think they really existed. How did she ever get such an illu¬ sion?”



“Illusion? Are you quite sure you’ve understood what I told you? It can not be that you would take the matter so calmly if you really under¬ stood it.”

“Can she be cured, Dale?”

“Nothing can be done for her until she dies, and then I must do for her what I did for that poor child-vic¬ tim.”

“Then how can you cure Ewan?”

“If he persists in remaining here, and she gets at him again, I can not cure him. If he goes away before those wounds on his throat heal, he will be beyond her jurisdiction.”

“But she had no wounds on her throat,” objected Bessie.

“That is such a long story that I can not go into it now,” said the doc¬ tor wearily. “Her inclinations have been so evil that she herself does not care to be healed, you see. Bessie, can you manage to get your brother away from here?”

“Can harm come to him, if he re¬ mains, putting himself into your hands?” queried the girl.

“How your interest in me weakens my resolution!” cried the doctor. “You are trying to coax me into let¬ ting you stay. Instead of arguing with you, I should be urging you to leave here at once.”

“You did not answer my ques¬ tion,” said the girl’s soft voice.

“If he puts himself into my hands, he will be comparatively safe,” ad¬ mitted the doctor reluctantly. “But he will have to be watched constantly, or, under Gretel’s compelling psychic influence, he will remove the very safeguards that I shall have put about him.”

“I shall watch over him myself. She shall not touch him again,” promised the girl fervently. “Now you must tell me how I can help you, Dale.”

He leaned over and kissed one of her hands reverently.

“jjust believe in me, brown Bessie.

And if it chances that I die before her, you will see to it that upon her death her body is cremated, as my will directs. On a funeral pyre of mountain ash. They will try to keep you from doing it. They will say you are mad. But for the sake of an un¬ happy soul that through my inadver¬ tence would otherwise be burdened by that awful curse, you must do it.”

“I promise,” said she with white lips. At last her indomitable spirit sensed that possible defeat she had not cared to admit. “But you ivon’t die first, Dale!” she begged piteously, like a child.

“No, I won’t die first,” he com¬ forted her gently.

“Ewan is returning!”

The girl’s sharp ears had caught the sound of the water rippling back from the prow of the canoe, and the dripping of the flashing drops from the paddle.

“He will be furious to find you here,” she murmured nervously.

“Nevertheless, he must find me here, Bessie. He will want to tell mo what a brute I am,” commented the doctor dryly.

He turned to watch Ewan, and as he looked, his expression softened into a great and understanding pity.

T he young artist drew the canoe to shore as if even that trifling effort was hard for him. He picked up the fishing tackle and basket that came up so easily that one realized it must be empty, and started up from the bank with the weary, dragging steps of an old man. At the door his eyes lifted heavily, and took in the doctor stand¬ ing near by with Bessie. A flash of resentment came into that heaviness. Ewan dropped the basket and fishing tackle and took a hasty, stumbling step forward.

‘ ‘ What are you doing here ? ” he de¬ manded belligerently, but as he came toward the two he swayed weakly and fell.

FETTERED

The doctor sprang 1 , caught the fainting form, and carried the artist into the cabin, where he laid Ewan on the cot. He stood over him, look¬ ing down with gathered brow. The girl had followed, her round face pale with apprehension.

“He’s not-?”

“It’s the lack of blood,” explained the doctor, absently. “He’s been about drained. She—she’d been fast¬ ing,” he murmured significantly.

“This is horrible!” gasped the girl sickly, the truth coming home at last with force.

The doctor caught her arm as she swayed dizzily and led her to a chair.

“You see, you didn’t really under¬ stand how terribly true all I told you was. Now you’re beginning to realize it. Sit still, child, while I make an examination of your brother.”

He returned to Ewan; straightened the fainting man’s limbs into a more comfortable position; pulled up the eyelids and looked at the dull eyes; drew the lips apart, that he might ex¬ amine the teeth with meticulous care; pulled taut the skin of the throat and stared white-faced at the two odd lit¬ tle openings on the neck.

“Bessie, your brother is in pretty bad case. She—she must have been ravenous. If it were not already growing night, I would put him into the canoe and leave it to you to slip down the stream to the town. Any risks you might take alone in the woods would be as nothing in com¬ parison to those you face by remain¬ ing here.”

The girl leaned back weakly in her chair.

“He isn’t going to die, is he?” she whispered anxiously.

“I think not. At least, not this time,” replied the doctor pointedly. “But we must take care that there isn’t another time, Bessie. And to that end,” he added as if to himself, “I have an hour of daylight, and I

saw wild roses in blossom about a mile down the stream, on my side.”

He turned briskly to the door after those cryptic words.

“Close this window, my child. Keep it tightly closed.”

“But the night is growing warm and heavy v Dale. The air in here is so close-”

“There are worse things than close air, brown Bessie,” returned the doc¬ tor enigmatically. “Keep all the windows closed, and also the door. Until I return,” he amended.

“What shall I do for Ewan?”

“Let him sleep. Nature has her own best means of recuperation. When he wakens, give him bacon, eggs, thick slices of well-buttered bread. Plenty of coffee with evapo¬ rated milk. Don’t stint him. He’ll be hungry, I promise you, after he’s rested a while.”

He walked across the clearing, Bes¬ sie watching him. Then he came striding back again.

“Don’t be alarmed if I’m not back before dark, Bessie. Keep the doors and windows closed until I return. I’ll have to stop in at the lodge, you see. I must attend to Gretel before I return.”

Dejection was in his mien and ac¬ cent.

“I understand, Dale. I’ll be wait¬ ing.”

In those few words, Bessie Gillespie outlined her trust and her patience and her future policy in life to the man who went away comforted be¬ cause of her sturdy simplicity and wholesomeness.

CHAPTER 8 EWAN SUBMITS

IX/’ aiting was not to be as easy for

* ’ Bessie as she had fancied. Ewan stirred on his cot shortly after dark, and when she flew to his side he begged her peevishly to let a little air


WEIKD TALES

into the room; he felt as if he were suffocating, he declared.

“I can’t do that, Ewan. I prom¬ ised the doctor-’*

He sat up on hia cot weakly.

“Jove, but it’s exasperating to feel down and out like this,” he com¬ plained. “Can’t understand what’s come over me. Bessie, fix me some¬ thing to eat; that’s a good girl. I’m half starved. Why, that must be it. I’m faint for want of food. I hardly ate tliis noon.”

“Do keep quiet, Ewan,” begged his sister earnestly. “Lie down—please. I ’ll bring you something in a few min¬ utes. The doctor-”

“What’s all this about the doctor? Why can’t I get up, Bess? Must be a touch of grippe,” said the young man, his hand going to his throat in a familiar gesture.

“Ewan, you fainted, and Dr. Avmitage had to bring you in here.”

“You were talking with him when I came back,” accused Ewan. He sat up and leaned limply against the wall. “Jove, if only I felt like my¬ self, sis, I’d rate you well. The fel¬ low’s married, you know.”

“You don’t have to warn me off, Ewan,” retorted liis sister, but her tones lacked .conviction. “I might point out to you that Gretel Armitage is married, too, and that her husband might not be over pleased if he knew that you-”

She broke off abruptly. Why should she tell Ewan that she had caught the doctor’s wife bestowing upon him her loathsome caresses?

More, that Gretel had-? Oh, she

dared not broach that subject! He would not believe her. She would wait. Dale would know how to tell her brother.

“Poor Gretel!” Ewan was saying languidly. “The fellow took advan¬ tage of her innocent unworldliness, and when her father died, he married her and got hold of all her money.”

Bessie was momentarily indignant,

but she relaxed, letting him talk on. So that was what Gretel had been telling him.

“And then he began to betray his jealous disposition. He wouldn’t let her have a friend. Even children were taboo. When she did make friends on the sly with a seven-yearold girl, he dragged her off into the woods. When the little thing died re¬ cently, he wouldn’t even let her at¬ tend the funeral or send flowers. Jove, he’s a jealous brute!”

Bessie, listening as she turned ba¬ con and broke eggs into the sizzling fat, felt resentment sweeping over her. So this was Gretel’s version of the child’s death. Incredible as the doctor’s story would have been had anyone but himself related it to her, Bessie, with a loving woman’s con¬ trariness, preferred to believe it, rather than to accept Gretel’s. Yet she was forced unwillingly to admit to herself that Gretel’s story was more reasonable.

Presently she invited her brother to come into the larger room and eat. The inviting aroma of steaming cof¬ fee floated alluringly to the artist’s nostrils. He rose weakly f r-om the cot and walked into the adjoining room, where he sank into a chair, looking with the appreciation of a hungry man at his sister’s culinary efforts.

“Is your throat better?” she asked presently, unable to keep away from a topic she very well knew she should have avoided until the doctor was present to make it as reasonable as such an incredible affair could be made.

Ewan put one hand to his neck; stroked it gingerly.

“Some spider, I’ll say,” he ob¬ served. “It feels as if all of me had been drawn into my neck,” he smiled, wincing.

Bessie could have shrieked her new knowledge at him. “And so it is,” she felt like crying in terrible warn¬ ing. “And so it is!”

FETTERED


“I suppose the doctor could give me something to put on it!” Ewan continued, half reluctantly.

“I’m glad you’re not going to let any silly prejudice against him stand in your way when you need him,” commented his sister gravely. “He saw those wounds on your neck, Ewan, and is much disturbed.”

“Over a spider’s bite?” asked Ewan mockingly. “Just like a doctor N to exaggerate the thing, so that a cure will appear marvelous.”

“A very venomous creature at¬ tacked you, Ewan,” responded his sister, with such seriousness that Ewan’s fork paused on its way to his. mouth, and he stared hard at her.

* ‘Jove! And this creature is-? ’ ’

“He’ll explain everything when he comes,” she evaded, for the subject she had so carelessly introduced had gone a little beyond what she had in¬ tended.

“I see,” said Ewan shortly. “And I presume he’ll also explain why he visits my sister so frequently behind my back?”

“It will be intolerable if you start anything of that kind!” eried the girl passionately. ‘ ‘ Haven’t I a right to consult a physieian if I choose?”

“Ah!” Ewan stared at her again. “Well, it all depends upon what atti¬ tude he takes with regard to that poor little lonely wife of his. More bacon and another egg, please, sis.”

Bessie refilled his plate in silence. She was relieved when she saw the dancing light of a flashlight coming across the log bridge.

“Ewan, he’s coming. Please he nice to him,” she begged.

Her brother regarded her with drawn brow.

“Bessie, this is the first time I’ve known you to be really interested in a man. And he has to be married,” he grunted, half in disgust.

“It’s the first time I’ve known you to take up the cudgels in defense of

a married woman,” she put in quickly.

“Oh, for the Lord’s sake, Bessie!” “Well, be decent, then,” said the girl in a tense undertone, as the doc¬ tor’s flashlight approached the door¬ way and hesitated without, dancing on the window and through it upon the cabin roof.

“Let him in, will you?” Ewan said shortly-, as Bessie hesitated. “He comes as a physician, doesn’t he?” She flew to the door and opened it.

T he doctor came striding in, push¬ ing the door to behind him and putting the bar into place with a cau¬ tion that stirred the artist’s curiosity and Bessie’s apprehension.

“Feeling better after a good sup¬ per?” he asked Ewan pleasantly.

The artist took his cue from the other’s finely impersonal tone.

“My neck’s a bit sore,” said he, touching it and wincing a bit.

The doctor nodded with contracted brows and a quick glance at Bessie.

“Anything you can do for it?” continued Ewan. “It-—it seems to be—drawing me so,” he added dis¬ tastefully. “And if it was something venomous that hit me, as Bessie says

you told her-”

“What bit you, Mr. Gillespie, was a creature so venomous that I hardly dare encourage you very much in feeling sanguine about consequences unless you agree to put yourself unre¬ servedly into my hands for such treatment as I may outline, no matter how absurd or inadequate such treat¬ ment may appear to you just now,” said the doctor gravely.

Ewan gave a short, dry laugh. “You don’t mean that these tiny punctures on my neck may prove fa¬ tal?” he asked incredulously, and at the other’s grave inclination of the head he laughed again. “Bessie, do you make any sense out <xf that? I’ve never heard that there was any insect



in these woods that could give a fatal bite.”

“Did I say ‘insect’?” asked the doctor very quietly.

Ewan twisted about in his chair, the better to observe the doctor’s face.

“Are you joking at my expense?” he inquired, with an assumption of offended dignity.

“No, Mr. Gillespie,. I am not jok¬ ing. I am in deadly earnest.”

“Then please explain yourself,” demanded the artist, pushing back his chair and looking imperatively at the other man.

The doctor hesitated. He sighed heavily, and then, without Ewan’s in¬ vitation, drew up a chair to the oppo¬ site side of the table and seated him¬ self with deliberation.

“ If I were to tell you outright what has happened, you would refuse to be¬ lieve my explanation,” he said finally. “Can you not just trust my state¬ ment that your wounds—which ap¬ pear so trifling—are of an importance that can not be exaggei’ated? That unless they are healed within a few days you are in danger of losing your life, to say nothing of what is far more important to you than life— your immortal soul?”

“You are not talking to a baby, Dr. Armitage,” retorted the artist ner¬ vously, feeling in his pocket for a cig¬ arette case. “Do you object to a sick man’s smoking? It may help to settle my nerves after your wonderfully clear statement,” he finished iron¬ ically.

The doctor accepted a cigarette, and replied with obvious reluctance: “You are a baby, Mr. Gillespie, when it comes to matters medical. If I were to give you in technical terms the story of what has happened to your throat, and what is liable to hap¬ pen to you unless drastic steps are taken at once, you will admit that you would most likely be unable to under¬ stand those technical terms?”

“I agree with you there.” Ewan coolly puffed his cigarette. “But why should you hesitate to tell me in non-technical terms what bit me ? And the effect of this bite upon the human system? Always in non-teehnical terms. And the proper meas¬ ures to be taken to heal these danger¬ ous wounds?” he finished sarcastic¬ ally.

“I do not tell you, because you would consider me a madman,” re¬ plied the doctor with conviction. “And, considering me out of my mind, you would hardly credit or carry out my means of protection from further infection, would you?”

“I suppose not,” Ewan said after a short pause.

“I will make a bargain with you,” offered the doctor thoughtfully. “If you will put yourself into my hands and let me provide such measures of precaution for the healing of that dangerous infection which is even now creeping over your system”— Ewan’s hand went to his throat again; and his face was startled as he listened—“when you have been healed I will tell you all that I feel I can not wisely tell you at this time, when your confidence in me is so ab¬ solutely necessary that I dare not risk losing an iota of any faith you may have in me as a medical man he emphasized pointedly.

Ewan’s face became thoughtful.

“Oh, Ewan, please let the doctor do what he thinks is best for you. Please!” begged the girl earnestly. “You can not realize how important it all is.”

Her earnestness betrayed her. Ewan turned his eyes on her with an inscrutable expression. The doctor’s brows contracted and his fine lips pressed firmly together.

“Jove, Bessie, you talk as if you know something about the habits of this—ah—bug, or whatever it was,” Ewan commented, his gaze scrutinizFETTERED


ing his sister’s flushed face. “How about it, sis?”

She threw a quick glance at the doc¬ tor for help and counsel.

“Your sister happened to see the— creature—that bit you,” said the doc¬ tor slowly, “and described—it—to me. Do you wish to tell him, Bessie?”

The girl turned her back to them both, shuddering uncontrollably. Her voice was half smothered when she finally spoke.

“No, I can’t tell him now. You know I can’t. He would be furious with me. He wouldn’t believe me,” she almost whispered.

“Bessie!” reproached her brother sharply.

“Well, Ewan,” the girl cried, whirling about to face him, her gentle face convulsed by the emotion in¬ duced by the fearful memory of that night, “if I can not, myself, credit fully as yet the evidence of my own eyes, how can I expect you to?”

Ewan eyed her in silence. At last he said, his face moody:

“There’s something darned queer about this whole business. I don’t understand it. I admit that. But I do know one thing: if I’ve been bitten by something venomous, and you, Dr. Armitage, believe you can heal the wound and stop the circulation of the poison through my system—well, I put myself unreservedly into your hands. Until,” he added hastily, “until the wound is healed and the poison gone. Then I shall certainly expect an explanation of all this mys¬ tery. It seems very childish to me now.”

Bessie had dropped her face into her hands and was crying softly.

“Don’t, please, Bessie!” The doc¬ tor sprang to his feet and looked at her with all his heart plainly written on his face. “He shall be healed, I promise you. Don’t worry, dear. He has put himself into my hands, and I can take care of him if my directions are followed with strict attention.”

T ub girl finally managed to choke back her sobs of relief at her brother’s decision. She raised her tear-stained face to meet Ewan’s pluckily.

“Why, sis, I’d no idea you’d feel that way about it,” said her twin, deeply touched by her sisterly solici¬ tude. “Well, doctor, on with the dance! What’s first on the docket ? ’ ’ Dr. Armitage’s reply was wordless. He went to the door, opened it cau¬ tiously, peering outside beforehand. He leaned down and came back, bar¬ ring the door behind him. His arms were full of blossoming sprays of wild roses.

“This is the best I can do tonight. They must go all over the window crevices in your brother’s room,” he directed, addressing Bessie with an appeal in his dark eyes to which she responded, although the oddity of his orders was stirring Ewan into humor¬ ous mood.

“Is that part of the ‘important treatment’?” inquired the artist, struggling to maintain his gravity, the absurdity of decorating his room with flowers as a precaution having affected his risibility.

“This is an important part of the precautions that we must take to pre¬ vent a further recurrence of infec¬ tion,” responded the doctor, his face so grave that the other man controlled himself for fear of stirring Dale Ar¬ mitage to indignation. “Over the doorway here,” he added, placing a long pink-blossomed spray over the lintel of the door that led out-of-doors from the larger room.

“Aren’t you going to put some¬ thing on my neck?” inquired Ewan with considerable curiosity.

The doctor gave him a long look. “It won’t be necessary,” he said finally. “That is, as long as you are wearing this,” and he took from his pocket a rosary with a crucifix of silver.

“I’m not a Catholic,” declared



Ewan decidedly. “Wliy on Earth should I put that about my neck? It’s absurd.”

“It may be absurd to you,” re¬ sponded the doctor quietly, “but it is part—and a deeply serious part—of the necessary treatment. If you keep this crucifix close about your neck, Mr. Gillespie, that—Thing—which in¬ fected you will be unable to approach easily.”

‘ ‘ Jove! Do you actually expect me to believe that?”

“I do not care whether you believe it or not,” flashed the other man, “as long as you follow my orders to wear it.”

“Oh, I suppose I shall have to, then,” submitted Ewan, with unex¬ pected meekness. “But I’ll say I never thought I’d be wearing a Cath¬ olic emblem-”

“Is the cross any more Catholic than Protestant?” demanded the doc¬ tor sharply. “It is not the thing in itself. It is what hundreds of years of reverence and adoration from mil¬ lions of human souls have made it. It is the visible emblem of that which has been the redemption of mankind from Evil, and as such, Evil flees it today because of its powerful occult influence, gathered through the ages from the loving worship of so many human hearts.”

The doctor finished fastening the wild rose branches about Ewan’s room.

“Now, Mr. Gillespie, if the win¬ dows and doors are kept tightly closed tonight, and that crucifix remains on your neck, I can guarantee that you will sleep well, waken refreshed and stronger-”

“And the wounds will heal, won’t they?” eagerly interrupted the girl.

“And the wounds—in time—will heal, ’ ’ agreed the doctor. ‘ ‘ But-’ ’

“Ah, always there is a ‘but’,” the artist murmured, with an odd expres¬ sion on his face as he fingered the ro¬ sary about liis neck and stared at the

garlands now decorating his sleeping quarters.

“In the meantime, Mr. Gillespie, you must agree not to see Mrs. Armitage alone,” decreed the doctor, and with a quickly uplifted finger cut short Ewan’s instant, indignant pro¬ test. “After the wounds have healed and I have explained to you, in her presence if necessary, the cause of them—you may make your own choice about seeing her further,” he ended heavily in dejected tone. ‘ ‘ But that choice may spell tragedy to you,” he added, grimly.

Ewan’s eyes were on the doctor’s face.

“Frankly,” said he lightly, “my opinion is that you’re off your head. But as Bessie insists—and I’ve prom¬ ised—I’ll keep to your orders. So I accept the added foolish condition, with its corollary that I may have the honor of seeing Mrs. Armitage later on, in her husband’s presence,” he laughed.

He turned on his heel and went into his room, closing the door without so little as a good-night.

“Oh, Dale!”

Bessie was perilously close to tears again.

The doctor went to her, gently took her hands in his and held them quiet¬ ly until it seemed to her that she could feel his strength pouring into her from his strong, cool fingers.

“Bessie, my dear, if your brother does not see Gretel privately until those wounds are healed, all will go well with him. But you,” he ordered reluctantly, “must watch over him all night. She will try her utmost to impress her evil wishes upon his sub¬ jective mind, forcing him to tear off the crucifix I have placed about his neck, and even to pull down the pro¬ tecting branches of the wild rose that I have put about his window and door, for she has this power over him now. As long as all remains as ar¬ ranged, she can not enter, bodily.

FETTERED


Have you the courage to undertake this vigil?”

“Can’t you stay?” she quavered, the whole horror of the prospective night weighing upon, her spirits.

He shook his head in negation.

“No, brown girl, I can not remain. I must return to her. In my own way I must also watch. I must keep her mind so occupied that she will be un¬ able to concentrate upon your brother.”

“Was she angry?” queried Bessie timidly.

He laughed, a short, grim laugh.

“Angry! If that could describe it, Bessie! She made a threat which I hardly think she will carry out. If she does,” he said huskily, “God would have to be especially merciful to all three of us here!”

Bessie’s fingers trembled in his. Her hazel eyes glazed with inward terror.

“Dale, you terrify me! What— what do you mean?”

“My dear, if she gets the oppor¬ tunity to carry out her threat, an op¬ portunity I don’t intend she shall have, then it will be time enough for me to tell you what I mean. Until then, do not open the door until morning breaks full,” he warned im¬ pressively. “Nor a window. And keep awake, for Ewan’s sake. Do not leave him out of your sight for a sin¬ gle minute.”

Bessie, white to the lips, nodded ac¬ quiescence.

CHAPTER 9

ON THE WINGS OF THE WIND

A s she barred the door when the doctor left, Bessie found herself shaking with nervous chills. All her life she had been protected; an oldfashioned home girl. Never had she been separated from her twin brother as she was now, in spirit. Depressing and terrifying was the thought that she must spend that entire night vir¬

tually alone, with an evil something hovering near with malicious intent, the outworking of which she could not foresee. Only the reflection that Dale Armitage would be thinking of her, struggling from his own place to pro¬ tect Ewan and herself, comforted her, for she had much confidence in his superior knowledge and ability to ward off this pressing evil.

Hardly had the doctor gone than Bessie heard her brother stirring in his room. She flew to the communi¬ cating door and opened it, with a light but imperative tap. Ewan stood at the window, pulling down the sprays of wild roses which the doctor had placed about it. On the floor lay the rosary, where he must have tossed it after tearing it from his neck. At his sister’s involuntary cry of appre¬ hension and warning, Ewan turned and faced her. She shrank sickly at the revelation of that hard, far-away gaze that seemed to pass through her and out—out—beyond the cabin walls.

“Ewan! What are you doing?

You promised!” she cried.

As she called his name, the artist shuddered slightly. By slow degrees his eyes became more normal. He moved his head so that his gaze rested on his sister’s solicitous face. Then it passed her and went, as if drawn irresistibly, to the window.

“Jove!” The ejaculation was jerked convulsively from his pale lips. “Bessie! Bessie! Am I madf Or do you see it, too?”

His sister sprang across the room to his side. She had had a moment’s terrible hallucination; or so she ex¬ plained it to herself, for she feared to admit it was anything more sub¬ stantial than a purely mental image that had all at once flattened chalky face against the window, with parted crimson lips drawn back tightly against red gums and pointed, shin¬ ing white teeth. And those horridly



gleaming eyes! Plashing with ruby glints! The evil smile!

“Come away from that window, Ewan!” she screamed, grasping her brother’s arm in sheer panic.

The artist retreated slowly, but his eyes were glued to the panes, and in them once more that far-away look began to grow. He moved like a per¬ son in a trance.

Bessie pulled at him frantically. Then she leaned down, picked up the rosary and tried to put it about his neck, a gesture he vaguely but inef¬ fectually repulsed. She had the final satisfaction of seeing the sacred em¬ blem slip down over his heart.

He sighed deeply, then, and re¬ moved his eyes from the window. Still in that dazed manner he groped his way back to his cot and let himself slip supinely upon it, his sister watch¬ ing meantime in an agony of. appre¬ hension lest that ghastly countenance that had seemed to flash against the windowpane should once more glare in upon them.

“I’m—sleepy,” drawled the artist.

He closed heavy lids, seemingly falling quickly into a deep sleep.

Bessie, although she shrank from approaching the window, crossed the room again and picked up the wild rose sprays. 'She replaced them in as nearly the same positions as the doc¬ tor had. Then she went into the liv¬ ing room for a hammer and some nails, determined to tack a piece of burlap securely over the window, to put a permanent stop to such hallu¬ cinations. This accomplished, she felt much more comfortable, and with Ewan’s door open so that she could watch him from her seat by the table, where she purposed to sit and read, Bessie settled herself for her long night vigil.

The alarm-clock ticked sedately on the table before her, until its little black hands passed 3 o’clock. A pen¬

etrating cold, strangely out of place on a summer night, began to chill her to the marrow. And she found her¬ self attacked by fits of yawning, and a deep longing for sleep. At that, she rose and began to prepare hot coffee, to ward off that overwhelming im¬ pulse to throw herself on her cot and let herself slip off into slumber.

As she stood over the bubbling saucepan, watching the boiling water rise around the edges and overflow the island of coffee in its midst, a sudden roaring in the forest aisles startled her into frozen stillness. It was as if all the trees were suddenly shouting together; a tumult almost incredible to have come without previous warn¬ ing into the quiet peace of the night. And in the midst, of that terrible, por¬ tentous sound there was borne to Bessie’s straining ears a wailing cry of eery omen that sent her staggering back against the table, clutching at the. edge of it to support her trem¬ bling body.

“Help—help—help!” wailed that shrilling voice, and the cry was a woman’s, and it came from a soul in the final throes of some intolerable agony.

The roaring in the forest trees grew with noticeable steadiness into a fear¬ ful uproar that seemed the voice of a tremendous volume of blasting wind, but in spite of all this racket the little cabin seemed to stand in the midst of a mighty calm, for there was no whistling of that tremendous air movement around its sturdy walls. ,Yet a terrible and penetrating cold came pushing through every crack and crevice. And ever above the booming of that mysterious force, whatever it was that swelled thunder¬ ing among the forest giants, shrilled with distinct and horrisonous signifi¬ cance that woman’s cry for help.

Although the blood seemed congeal¬ ing about her slowly heating heart,

FETTERED


Bessie Gillespie’s first thought was for her brother, for that this cry upon the mounting larum of the forest was a portent of impending evil she. felt instinctively. At her hasty glance about, she saw that the wild rose spray over Ewan’s door had slipped off and disappeared. She remem¬ bered that she had caught them, all up in her perturbation of spirit and had put them about the window, that spray, probably, with the others. She ran now to the living room door and pulled down the branch above it. This she pushed into position over the lin¬ tel of the door leading to her broth¬ er’s room, and heaved a deep sigh of relief as she saw him'apparently in a heavy sleep, the beads of the rosary just in sight about his neck, and the window protected, as she had last ar¬ ranged it.

Now there came a wild rapping at the cabin door. A frantic pounding of fists upon the sturdy wood. Then the noisy moaning as of a woman’s ultimate clamoring appeal, wordless in its stress of emotion.

T) essie trembled where she stood, in- ^ decision whirling her mentally this way and that. Ewan, if she could believe the doctor’s word, was more or less safe as long as the wild rose sprays and the crucifix remained in place; unless he wakened, tore them down, or emerged from the room which just now was his one ref¬ uge. She told herself that if that shouting tumult of the forest had not wakened him, nothing else could.

She knew that she could not refuse admittance to that poor soul moaning without her door. There were bears and wildcats in the woods, so Amity Dam folk had told Ewan. And the cold was biting more and more cruelly in spite of the fire the girl had made in the stove to boil her coffee. Sup¬ pose a wild animal should attack some

poor night wanderer outside her very door; in the morning she might find the half-devoured body, the picked bones... . Her dark hair almost, stood on end at this obnoxious thought; she felt that she could not, in the name of common humanity, ignore that cry in' the night.

With a swelling prayer for protec¬ tion and guidance, she lifted the bar from the door. Simultaneously, it burst inward, bringing with it all the roar of the furious forest giants, and bearing upon that almost tangi¬ ble booming the form of a woman that came sweeping upon the startled girl as if actually carried into the cabin by the force of the wild gust. And as Bessie retreated in involuntary dis¬ may—although to her increasing be¬ wilderment not a breath of air seemed to infringe upon the stillness of the room’s atmosphere—the din and hub¬ bub was gone as suddenly as it had arisen. The cabin door slammed shut as if sucked back by the retreating of those mysterious and potent forces that had been invoked for her own fell purpose by Gretel Armitage, who uncovered her flaxen hair with a quick gesture that flung her envelop¬ ing mantle aside imperiously.

“You!” gasped Bessie, retreating toward Ewan’s door in an attitude of unconscious guardianship, her arms out, her palms spread against this un¬ expected and unwelcome visitor.

Gretel smiled in a superior way, disclosing sharp white teeth between her ruby lips, which she touched del¬ icately with her red tongue in a man¬ ner almost animal, wakening appre¬ hensive shudders in that other woman who stood watching and waiting for the visitor’s next move.

“Didn’t you expect me?” mur¬ mured Gretel sweetly. “Surely you must have known that I would come again—and again—after your brother brought me in here in his arms,

27S


against his heart, ’ ’ she stabbed softly, subtly.

Bessie’s hazel eyes darkened with anger and fear.

“ It is abominable of you to have re¬ turned, ’ ’ she enunciated finally, speaking with careful precision, and standing before Ewan’s threshold with firmness, while her heart beat heavily and her soul cried out for courage and help. “Was there any reason why you should beat upon my door as you did, when you have a home of your own to shelter you?’'

‘ ‘ A home of my own ? ’ ’ said the doc¬ tor’s wife, with an indescribably bit¬ ter accent. “Girl, I have no home. Home—home is where the heart is, they say. My heart has been tram¬ pled upon until its sweetness has been turned to fury and resentment. There is no place where I can rest my aching heart, you brown thing,” she cried with a sudden flash of such concen¬ trated venom that Bessie shrank has¬ tily backward.

“What brought you here?” de¬ manded the girl, summoning all her courage, and throwing back her shoulders pluekily.

“What brought me here? Your brother, my dear, of whom I am very fond,” replied the doctor’s wife, with an oddly surreptitious glance into the room beyond Bessie. “Why all those flowers? Is that interior decorating idea yours?”

“Your husband put those sprays there,” replied the girl steadily. “And you know why. You know why my brother is not himself just now. He is protected, thanks to your husband. You shall not have him again, as you did the other night. Dale knows all about it, and he will see that my brother is kept in safety.”

“ ‘Dale’?” repeated Gretel, mus¬ ingly. ‘ ‘ So you are having a little in¬

trigue of your own, you demure brown thing? I might tell you that if you let my husband alone, I’d let your brother alone, but—but I intend to have your brother for my own. Al¬ ready he is half mine,” she said, lean¬ ing forward with lifted eyebrows, as if in pretty confidential mood. “To¬ night—or some other night—will be all the same to me. I can wait, Bessie Gillespie. He will be entirely mine, when I find the right opportunity, as find it I shall. And that is a prom¬ ise,” she added, scarlet lips drawing into a straight, uncompromising line. “Now, my dear, for you -”

At the flickering red lights in those flashing blue eyes, Bessie felt herself grow faint. There was something ir¬ resistibly alluring, if terrible, em¬ anating from the doctor’s wife, as she stood without moving from the spot where the forest forces had brought her; it stirred at the very roots of the girl’s hair until she could feel each separate hair stiffening on her prick¬ ling scalp. She clutched at the door¬ way on either side, hazel eyes wide, fixed upon the unwavering, snakelike gaze of Gretel Armitage. The strange hypnotic orbs of the doctor’s wife did not move from Bessie’s strained face; over Gretel’s countenance there began to play a subtle expression of gratifi¬ cation and unsuppressed amusement.

“Oh, Bessie, you are so simple and so easy to handle!” gurgled the doc¬ tor’s wife softly. “After all, it will be amusing to take you first. Ewan can wait for my kisses; he can not get away from me, for he has tasted them once. You are losing yourself , my plump brown maid — you are falling into the abysses of my eyes, that are drowning you in flames

of dizzy rapture -” The voice

droned on, sending humming tones through Bessie’s unhappy, unwilling ears.

All at once, brusk and impera¬ tive, came Gretel’s command.

FETTERED


‘‘Put out that light on the table, my dear,” she said sharply. “It would only draw my furious husband here after me, and—ah, how I love the enveloping darkness,” she ended in a lower tone. “Do as I tell you, Bessie. You have saved your brother for tonight. I shall not bother him just now, for you will do very nicely in his stead. Let him grow strong again; all the better for me!” Her eery laugh sounded like the intolera¬ ble resonance of silver bells, which rang—ana rang—and rang—in Bes¬ sie’s ears.

The girl stirred in the doorway and moved away from it slowly. Her arms fell limply at her sides. Her dazed eyes were drawn powerfully to those fixed, redly flashing orbs of the other woman, who stood smiling con¬ fidently in the middle of the living room. Through Bessie’s whole body a pleasant languor crept, a kind of voluptuous pleasure in the urging of her body forward under the will of that other, a releasing of responsibil¬ ity that gave her a sense of freedom, almost sweet.

“Come, rosy Bessie! Put out the light,” droned Gretel’s achingly pen¬ etrating voice. “You have hated me, but you shall yet loVe me with every drop of your blood.” She laughed softly, terribly. “Come, and when we are in the enveloping darkness I shall put my arms tightly about you, lovely little plump brown thing that you are. Oh, it will be much pleas¬ anter than Dale’s kisses, when you sink into delicate faintness under my lips, I promise you! Put out the light, my dear, so that you may come the more quickly and surely into my arms! Oh, you will thrill—from head to foot—with delicious trem¬ blings. Ah, Bessie, I love you al¬ ready, for you are almost mine. When you are completely mine, I shall love you very tenderly—and you will come to me and offer me every¬

thing you have to give, my dear! Come—come—I long to have you of your own free will—it will be more delicious to have it so—little brown thing!”

The voice was languorous, thrillingly sweet and penetrating. Gretel leaned forward, arms outstretched, long fingers beckoning. Her ruby lips smiled with a terrible significance. Her white, pointed teeth flashed as she touched them with her tongue. About her shoulders tumbled that writhing mass of flaxen hair that had veiled Ewan’s face as his head lay on her lap that other night.

T) essib took an involuntary step forward, drawn by Gretel’s encour¬ aging smile. She moved dazed-like across the room to the table, stretched out her hand, turned down the wick. The dim flame still flickered and smoldered.

“Blow it out!” commanded Gre¬ tel’s voice, in harsh impatience, a panicky haste running in undertone through every accent. “Hurry! I can hear Dale’s feet trampling through the forest! Hurry, Bessie, or you will not taste tonight what I have promised you! The thrill—the ecsta¬ sy—of my kisses-”

Bessie turned her face toward the smoldering light of the lamp, her lips pursed to blow out the flame. As she turned, a shout from the clearing startled her from her half-trance into her normal consciousness. She fol¬ lowed out the intended action under the impetus of Gretel’s imperative or¬ der, but as the flame died, she knew what awaited her, and from her lips went a shrill, wailing cry of terrible helplessness, as she found herself gripped firmly in Gretel’s arms in the darkness.

Gretel’s lips were moistly, horribly, pressing upon her shrinking flesh.

The darkness grew Stygian, heavy,


oppressive. In it Bessie straggled weakly to push those sharp white teeth away, even if her flesh were torn badly in her effort to escape that impending doom. She realized her futility. The atmosphere was super¬ charged with malicious triumph. Evil reigned supreme.

Gretel'3 panting breath came hotly

against the straggling girl’s throat. Gretel’s white teeth met with a click-

“Dale!” sobbed out Bessie.

Consciousness left the agonized girl as a sharp pain at her throat apprized her that her battle was lost.

Gretel was chuckling horribly in the dark.

This story rises in a thrilling crescendo of horror in next month's issue of WEIRD TALES> wherein is described Gretel's desperate attempt to wreck the lives of her husband and of Ewan' and Bessie Gillespie.

On Canton Road

By SAMUEL M. SARGENT, Jr.

The ancient house on Canton Road Is bleak, and blank, and lone;

Its windows stare with stolid eyes Over its walls of stone.

Its windows stare with stolid eyes, But window eyes are blind;

Its windotvs are like midnight lakes Deep-frozen in the wind.

Its stoop is dank, of prison stone (If prison stone be cold);

Its stoop is dank, and creepers crawl Over it, fold on fold.

It has a yard of fetid vines That straggle to the wall;

It has a tree—one weary tree—

The trunk is green with viscid growth, The wall, the house, are green; And at the windows, of a night,

The creepers’ souls are seen.

But souls of things are better hid That fiends gaze on with lust;

The vines like millepedes squirm up House-high above the dust.

The vines, like things from Styx-fed tarns,

Edge upward to the night; Hell-grown mosses choke the house, For houses do not fight.

Hell-grown mosses writhe and twist On wall, on house, on tree. . . .

(’Tis better not to see the souls Of things men should not see.)J

Waiting long to fall.

The ancient house on Canton Road Is bleak, and blank, and green, And filmy with a thousand things That better are not seen.

T HE illusion of reality! That seems to be the key to the amazing suc¬ cess of Weird Tales. Stories that take one far from the sordid, hum¬ drum, everyday life of the world into a deathless land of fantasy, of imaginative unrealities that seem real; stories that plumb the future with the eye of prophecy, explore the spaces between the stars, cross the threshold of death and deal boldly with devil-worship and black magic, witchcraft and voodoo, ghosts, forces of occult evil and occult good; yet the stories seem real— otherwise they could not hold the thrill that has given Weird Tales its fame. When it was first decided to put out a magazine that should be truly different from all others in the world, convincingness was made the essential test for all stories. Tales that amaze, yet convince; tales that thrill—and seem true. Some of the stories in Weird Tales are absolutely impossible (as far as we know what is possible and what is not), but even the impossible stories seem probable. They carry the illusion of reality.

The classic example of impossibility made probable is Dracula, which was written by Sir Henry Irving’s manager, Mr. Bram Stoker. It deals with vam¬ pires—the Undead who come out from their tombs at night and prey upon the living; an absolutely impossible story, treating of things that nobody believes in any more (though such beliefs were once common enough); yet so carefully and convincingly does the author develop his theme that the story seems en¬ tirely real while we are reading it, and thus we are able to become tremen¬ dously excited over the thrilling adventures therein described. And it is the aim of Weird Tales to keep this thrill that comes of the illusion of reality, even in stories that deal with what is called the impossible. They seem pos¬ sible while we are reading them; otherwise they could hold no thrill.

It is much more difficult for an author to write a convincing weird tale now than it was when the Arabian Nights Entertainments were written, when everyone believed in magic, in jinns and occult influence. It is real art to write a thoroughly convincing story in which the planet Mars hurtles in flam¬ ing destruction straight toward Earth, pulled from its orbit by creatures on this world with power to repel or attract the planet by stabbing across space with red or green rays of light. Across Space, the story by Edmond Hamil¬ ton, which begins next month in Weird Tales, is replete with thrills, because it is written so convincingly that nothing in it seems impossible, and the reader is carried along in the sweep of hopes and fears that beset the world, for the story seems utterly probable in every detail. It is pseudo-science, but it is based on sound scientific principles. And it is this magazine’s inWEIRD TALES

tention to print the best weird and weird-scientific stories obtainable, but all must carry the illusion of reality. If they have this, then they have power to thrill; and it is this illusion of reality that has established the success of this magazine of “weird tales.”

The June issue has called forth many enthusiastic letters, though we have space to print only a few. “The magazine certainly deserves credit for its wonderful strides in the last few months,” writes Rosemary E. Field of Uniontown, Pennsylvania. “You are carrying better stories, and I love the magazine—even if it does keep me awake all night shivering with imagined dangers. Why don’t you print the pictures of the authors? I, for one, would like to see what they look like.”

Amelia Tamozzi, of San. Francisco, suggests: “Would it be possible to secure as reprints chapters or extracts of some of the practically unknown books on black magic, witchcraft, etc. ? Many of the rare books of the Middle Ages none of us have a chance to read, and some of them certainly must be suitable for publication in Weird Taxes as reprints.”

Writes L. J. Frank, of Portland, Oregon: “In The Eyrie I see that you hear from many parts of the East. I want you to know that there are people out in the West that also wait anxiously for each edition of Weird Tales. I congratulate you on your selection of stories for the last edition and am eagerly waiting for the next one.”

“Spider-Bite, in the June issue, is the most eery and fascinating tale I have ever read,” writes Carroll McMasters, of Tacoma, Washington. “I would also like many more stories by Lovecraft, please, for he is a wonderful writer.”

Manual S. Perry, of New Bedford, Massachusetts, voices his dissent from those readers who want Weird Tales published twice as often as at present. “Many readers suggest having the magazine published semi-monthly, but let it remain as it is,” he writes. “The stories in your magazine would lose their thrilling effect if published oftener. Remember, Mr. Editor, that only rare things are precious; so let it be rare.”

“Your magazine each month proves an oasis in a weary desert of standard reading matter,” writes Manly Wade Wellman, of Wichita, Kansas. “I have long been attracted by the fantastic and unusual in fiction, but there seemed to be little in modem writing of that order, I have been reading Weird Tales with intense interest for months. ’ ’

Ralph Anstad, of Minneapolis, writes enthusiastically to The Eyrie: “Though I have read your magazine since it was first published, never have I read a more thrill-inspiring issue than the June copy. The magazine held me spellbound for the whole afternoon. To think that in one magazine are stories by the great Stamper, Powers, Burks and Lovecraft is worth ten times the price of the magazine.”

Frank Simon, of Hartsville, Tennessee, finds reading Weird Tales lucra¬ tive. He writes to The Eyrie: “I began reading Weird Tales with the March number, 1925, and haven’t missed a copy since. I have all my maga¬ zines, as I read them and then lease them out for ten cents a week. I have four out this week, so I make my magazine free.”

Harold Weight, of Pasadena, California, writes: “I’ve been a constant reader of Weird Tales from almost the first issue. The magazine certainly is improving. There isn’t a bad story in the May issue. Strange though it may seem, with all the good stories, none of them held my interest as much as one little poem. That poem was The Moon Dance, by A. Leslie. The poem was wonderful. I must have read it a dozen times. There was a certain swing to

THE EYRIE

it which gripped my imagination. The Dance of Death by Joan Labors was another poem which attracted my attention. Please have more such issues as the May one.”

Writes William S. Pillsbury, of Eugene, Oregon: “For some time I have been reading and enjoying your magazine. I like Mr. Quinn’s stories a lot, I think Mr. Powers is clever, and of course Mr. Wells’ stories get a vote. But I think the best author you have is this Eli Colter. His stories get me right where I live. Just finished the serial one, On the Dead Man’s Chest, and it certainly is a knockout. I’ve an idea Colter meant a lot more than he said in that story. He has one quality I like more than any other. O. Henry had it. I mean the bumness of handing you a whale of a punch at the end of the story. When¬ ever I start in on a Colter story I know it’s going to wind up with a bang. I hope you get another one soon.” Mr. Pillsbury will be glad to hear that we have not merely one, but several stories by Eli Colter scheduled; and The Last Horror, which will appear soon, is one of the greatest, most thoughtstimulating stories we have ever read, anywhere. There is a whole philosophy of life in that story, and the “bang” at the end is a veritable explosion.

Writes John Paul Ward, from Marblehead: “I live on a lonely stretch of seacoast in Massachusetts, and our house is apart from the others in the village. It overlooks the ocean; and on a dark, stormy night with the rain spattering against the window, and noises (real or imaginary) and Weird

Tales 1 -well, you can draw your own conclusions as to how anyone would

feel. But I love it and I know many readers of this unique magazine would like to have my surroundings to read it in.”

What is your favorite story in this issue? Your votes for the best-liked story in the June issue gave an overwhelming lead to Spider-Bite, Robert S. Carr’s eery tale of resurrected mummies and great white Egyptian tombspiders. Five or six stories are in a close race for second place as this issue goes to press, but all of these are far behind Spider-Bite in popularity.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE AUGUST WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 ).

( 2 ).

(3).

( 1 ).

( 2 ).

I do not like the following stories: - Why? _

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out the coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 408 Holliday Building, Indianapolis, lhd.


Next Month

The Bird of Space

By Everil Worrell

O N a dark star warmed by in¬ ternal heat lives a race of green-faced men who have learned how to cross from one world to an¬ other. And one of these greenhued men comes to Earth to take back human beings with him to stock the cattle-pens of Faros, the dark star.

F rom a moving Canadian Pacific train in the Rockies, men and women mysteriously disappear. The green-faced man herds them in a den hewn out of Castle Rock by his blow-pipe, awaiting the re¬ turn of the Bird of Space to carry them to Furos.

T his fascinating story, utterly different from any you have ever read before, will be published complete in the

September Issue of


The Unique Magazine On Sale August 1 ... Jri‘2 fi'fPSZ

408 Holliday Bldg.,

Indianapolis, Ind.

Enclosed find $1 for special five months subscription to “Weird Tales" to begin with

the September Issue. (Special offer wid un¬ less remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

City

The Woman of the Wood

(Continued from page 166)

“What but the trees, M’sieu?” an¬ swered the old man, and McKay thought that his gaze dwelt upon him strangely. “The trees killed them. See—we went up the little path through the wood, and close to its end we found it blocked by fallen trees. The flies buzzed round those trees, M’sieu, so we searched there. They were under them, Polleau and his sons. A fir had fallen upon Polleau and had crushed in his chest. An¬ other son we found beneath a fir and upturned birches. They had broken his back, and an eye had been torn out—but that was no new wound, the latter.”

He paused.

“It must have been a sudden wind,” said his man. “Yet I never knew of a wind such as that must have been. There were no trees down except those that lay upon them. And of those it was as though they had leaped out of the ground! Yes, as though they had leaped out of the ground upon them. Or it was as though giants had torn them out for clubs. They were not broken—their roots were bare-”

“But the other son—Polleau had two?” Try as he might, McKay could not keep the tremor out of his voice.

“Pierre,” said the old man, and again McKay felt that strange qual¬ ity in his gaze. “He lay beneath a fir. His throat was torn out!”

“His throat tom out!” whispered McKay. His knife! The knife that had been slipped into his hand by the shadowy shapes!

“His throat was tom out,” re¬ peated the innkeeper. “And in it still was the broken branch that had



done it. A broken branch; M’sieu, pointed like a knife. It must have caught Pierre as the fir fell, and lip¬ ping through his throat—been broken off as the tree crashed.”

McKay stood, mind whirling in wild conjecture. “You said—a bro¬ ken branch?” McKay asked through lips -gone white.

“A broken branch, M’sieu.” The innkeeper’s eyes searched him, “It was very plain—what it was that hap¬ pened. Jacques;” he turned to Ids man, “go up to the house.”

He watched until the man shuffled out of sight.

“Yet not all is so plain, M’sieu,” (Continued on next page)

The Ancient

ROSICRUCIAN

DOCTRINES

Now Revealed

Most practical of ail occult and most complete of all psy¬ chological systems for the at¬ tainment of health, success and mastery of life’s problems.

Stahd books explaining the lessons loaned to those sending 6c stamps Jor postage. Librarian No. 41

GOVT.

POSITIONS

MEN WANTING FOREST RANGER, RAILway mall clerk. Internal revenue agent, postoffice clerk, carrier and field clerk positions. $1500 to $2700 year. Write tor free particulars.

DEPT. SOS, DENVER, COLO.

LUCK

Get Your Share. The “__

SEVEN” Secret Rules are free to all who wear this Rare and beauti¬ ful Talisman Ring. On each aide of this Odd and Charming Ring is moulded the figure of Fortuna—

_ ___in Love.

Games. Business, Health and everything. Genuine 3 i-K Antique Gold S. Ring, mounted with one carat Blazing Blue White Mexican Im. Diamond. Guaran- - '20yt - -------*—

pay—Yours to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Wear 7 days—follow tho 7 rules that we send you. Hnotsat-

©ET THIS 25 CAL. CUN

Extra Mag FREE

Veet pocket. Blue Steel Automatic; 7^«hotM9lb modeatae or money reful

*6“ war-'

SEALING THE ENSEEN WAY

Let them heal, comfort and prosper you Do It Now!

Give symptoms or desires. Name, address and Free Will Offering for Demonstration and

BIG 20c BARGAIN

ve Letters; lft

only 20c. Just say ”!

HOWARD SALES CO.,

Desk B, 118e-Folsom St. Sea Fra.



Geft One off These MOW

Help Wanted

UK

he spoke low to McKay, “since in Pierre’s hand I found—this.”

He reached into a pocket and drew out a button from which hung a strip of cloth. They had once been part of that stained coat which McKay had hidden in his trunk. And as McKay strove to speak the old man raised his hand. Button and cloth dropped from it, into the water. A wave took it and floated it away; another and another snatched it and passed it on. They watched it, silently, until it had vanished.

“Tell me nothing,” said the keeper of the inn. ‘ ‘ Polleau was a hard man and hard men were his sons. The trees hated them. The trees killed them. The—souvenir—is gone. Only M’sieu would better also—go.”

npHAT might McKay packed. When dawn had broken he stood at his window, looking long at the little wood. It too was awakening, Stirling sleepily—like drowsy, delicate dem¬ oiselles. He thought he could see that one slim birch that was—what?

Tree or woman? Or both?

Silently, the old landlord and his wife watched him as he swung out his car—a touch of awe, a half-fear, in their eyes. Without a word they let him go.

And as McKay swept up the road that led over the lip of the green bowl he seemed to hear from all the forest a deep-toned, mournful chanting. It arose around him as he topped the rise in one vast whispering cloud—of farewell! And died.

Never, he knew, would that green door of enchantment he opened to-him again. His fear had closed it—for¬ ever. Something had been offered to him beyond mortal experience—some¬ thing that might have raised him to the level of the gods of Earth’s youth. He had rejected it. And never¬ more, he knew, would he cease to re¬ gret.

Disappearing Bullets

By GEORGE J. BRENN

E xperience smith, master detec¬ tive, looked pointedly at the man seated opposite him.

“Let’s get down to business,” he suggested. “When did this trouble of yours start?” “About two weeks ago,” said Bradley. “Someone telephoned my home at Westbury about midnight. Told me that I would be shot while I was breakfasting. I hung up the receiver and returned to bed. Thought it was just a crank or practical joker. Next morning a bullet pierced the window of my breakfast room, on a level with my head!” “What!”

"That’s not all,” continued Bradley nerv¬ ously. “It never touched me, and we couldn’t find a trace of it, other than the hole in the glass. The whole room has been examined minutely, but we are unable to find that a bullet has lodged in the walls or furniture. The hole in the window pane is about the size that a .38 caliber bullet would make.’ “What did you do?” asked Smith.

“I was about to look out the window for the person who did the shooting, but Bernice, my daughter, restrained me. She persuaded me to go to another window to look out, assuming that it would be less dangerous. There wasn’t a person in sight, however.”

“Strange,” commented Barnes.

“Fairly strange,” drawled Smith. “What else, sir?”

“The same thing has happened half a dozen times since. First there would be a threaten¬ ing telephone call, advising me of the hour at which the shot would be fired. The strange voice would say: ‘The bullet will not touch you this time.’ The manner in which it was said would lead one to believe that on some subsequent occasion the bullet would touch

“Always the same voice?” asked Experience Smith.

“Yes. I have no doubt of that, but I can’t seem to place the owner. There is a slight imperfection or impediment in his speech, but I don’t know how to describe it. It’s not a lisp or a stammer, nor is it due to inability to pronounce certain consonants. The only way I can describe it is to say that it is a ‘thick,” imperfect or slurred pronunciation of almost every word, although what is said is always intelligible enough.”

“And has this feller made good his threats every time?” questioned Smith.

Bradley nodded emphatically.

“He surely has! There are two other holes in windows at Westbury. There is one in a library window in my home in Park Avenue.

Another is in the plate glass window of my office in the Corinthian Building. Do you wonder that the thing is driving me mad?”

“No need of bein’ alarmed, yit,” encouraged Experience Smith. “Any demands been made for money, or anything like that?”

“None,” answered Bradley.

“Any idea of the reason for the attacks?”

“None,” repeated Bradley.

The telephone on Barnes’ desk rang, and the telephone official answered it.

“Yes, Mr. Bradley is here,” Barnes an¬ nounced. “No. He won’t talk over the tele¬ phone to anyone.” Barnes listened for another minute and hung up the receiver.

“Was that right?” he asked, turning to Bradley. “I understood you to say that you’ve given up answering your telephone.”

“I’ve tried to,” said the financier, wearily, “but it’s almost impossible to transact busi¬ ness without it. That call may have been from my office, or it may have been from that —man.”

“It was, Mr. Bradley,” said Barnes. “I don’t wish to alarm you unnecessarily, but your Unknown says he is going to launch an¬ other harmless bullet in your direction.”

“I thought so!” muttered Bradley.

Smith sauntered to the window nearest Bradley and looked out. They were fifteen stories above the street. He could look out on half a dozen skyscrapers. Far below was the seotliing bustle of down-town New York.

“Come away from there. Experience!” cautioned Barnes.

As he spoke there came a sharp impact against the window pane,-

Read how this strange mystery of the dis¬ appearing bullets is solved by Experience Smith, master detective. This novelette in booklet form, together with eleven (11) others, may be had for $1.00 postpaid. The titles of the others are: Crimson Poppies, Buff, The Triangle of Terror, The Valley of Missing Men, The Sign of the Toad, The Mystery at Eagle Lodge, The Web, The Glass Eye, Ten Dangerous Hours, The Green-Eyed Monster and Derring-Do. Each novelette has a hand¬ some two-colored cover, and ranges in length from 15,000 to 25,000 words. These mystery stories will thrill you and help pass away many a lonely hour. In convenient pocket size. Just the thing for vacation reading. Order now while the supply lasts. Mail One Dollar to the Popular Fiction Publishing Company, Dept. N-l, Indianapolis, Ind., and these smashing novelettes will be sent you by return mail.—Advertisement.




The Brotherhood of Light

Occultism, Psychic Phenom¬ ena, Spiritualism, Astrology, New Thought, Theosophy and Nature Study.

THRArrA Or Snuff .Habit j

Ts&ntsa of Professor Yon Rothapfel

(Continued from page 100)

getting you, in a litt 1 ; while a real present after you senau:: c .

“npHREB weeks later I was enjoying a cup of cafe del pais with Senor Don Jaime Salazar in his trading camp on the border of Pviente, while I awaited the arrival f my pack mules to cany oat 4^yeeimens to the nearest poirJL^flfe. the TransAndean railroad, senor being

called into his shop fur a few minutes, I was gazing eastward over the darkling mountains and thinking of home, when I was startled by a touch on my arm, and turning, I beheld an armed Jivaro, naked, and hideous in his brilliant war-paint,

“ ‘Senor Capitan Americano,’ said he in his strange Spanish, ‘my Indian chief his friend not forgetting, his promise keeping, a real present send¬ ing.’ And he placed in my hand a small object wrapped in the green leaf of a wild plantain. Before I eould speak he had slid like a shadow into the gathering darkness, and left me alone on the veranda.

“A premonition of evil seized me, and, shivering unaccountably, I shouted to Don Jaime to bring a light. Placing the lamp on the table, with trembling fingers I tore open the plantain leaf covering, and dropped the contents on the table in dismay.

“Hideous, shriveled, and shrunken though they were, there could be no mistake. The features were those of Herr Doktor Professor Ludwig Von Rothapfel, curator of anthropology in. the Berlin Museum and personal friend of William the Second. And with them, in his formal German script, was the manuscript of the professor’s account of the secret cere¬ mony of the tsentsas.**

[THE END]
