============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 20, Number 2
Date: August 1932
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Arkham Robert E" by Howard
  2. "No Eye-Witnesses Henry S" by Whitehead
  3. "Old Clothes * John D" by Whiting
============================================================
============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
"He had escaped by the one sure way. The little knife showed him how. He used it just back of the left ear, doctor. When I went up at midnight, he was dead.”

rkham

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

Drowsy and dull with age the houses blink On aimless streets the rat-gnawed years forget — But what inhiunan figures leer and slink Down the old allejrs when the naoon has set?

Angel

By SEABURY QUINN

A tale of seemingly inexplicable murders, a terrible visitant that spreads weird death, and a daring exploit of Jules de Grandin

lENS, my friend,” Jules de Grandin selected an Hoyo de Monterey from the humidor and set it alight with gusto, "say what you will, there is no combination more satisfying to the soul and body than that of the processes of digestion and slow poisoning by nicotine. No.” He regarded the gleaming tip of his diminutive patent-leather evening pump with marked satisfaction, and wafted a smoke-wreath slowly toward the ceiling. "To make our happiness complete,” he added, "needs only the presence of ”

"Detective Sergeant Costello, if ye please, sor,” interrupted Nora McGinnis, my household factotum, appearing at the drawing-room door with the unexpected suddenness of a specter taking shape from nothingness.

"Eh, do you say so, petite?” the little Frenchman answered with a chuckle. "Bid him enter, by all means.”

The big, red-hfeaded plain-clothes man advanced in Nora’s wake, a smile of real affection for the Frenchman on his face. Behind him marched an equally big man, ruddy-faced, white-haired, with that look of handsome distinction so many commonplace Irishmen acquire at middle life.

"Shake hands wid me friend. Chief O’Toole, o’ th’ Norfolk Downs force, gentlemen,” Costello bade with a nod toward his companion. "Timmie, this is Doctor de Grandin I’ve been tellin’ ye about, an’ Doctor Trowbridge.”

"Pleased to meet yez, gentlemen,” Chief O’Toole acknowledged with a smile

and bone-crushing grip for each of us. "Jerry’s been tellin’ me ye might be willin’ to give me a lift wid th’ damndest — beg pardon — th’ most puzzlin’ case I’ve ever had th’ evil luck to run agin.”

De Grandin transferred his cigar to his left hand and tweaked the needle points of his tightly waxed blond mustache with his right. "If the good Sergeant Costello vouches for the case, mon chef, I make no doubt that it will intrigue me,” he answered. "Tell us of it, if you please.”

"Well, sor,” Chief O’Toole lowered himself ponderously into a chair and regarded the gray imiform cap he had removed with a stare which seemed to indicate he sought inspiration from its silklined depths, "well, sor, it’s this way. Over to Norfolk Downs we’ve been havin’ one hell o’ — one most distressful time o’ it, an’ none o’ us seems able to say what it’s all about.” He paused, twisting the cap between his large, white hands and examining its peaked vizor as though he’d never seen the thing before.

"U’m?” de Grandin shot a quick glance at the visitor. "This is of interest, but not instructive. If you will amplify your statement ”

"Beg pardon, sor, maybe I could help,” Costello interrupted. "Timmie — Chief O’Toole — an’ me’s been friends for twenty year an’ more. We wuz harness bulls together an’ got our detectives’ badges at th’ same time. When they started that swell real estate development over to Norfolk Downs, they put in a paid police force, an’ offered th’ job o’


21S>

chief to Timtnie. He’s a good officer, sor, as none knows better than I, but keepin’ burglars in their place an’ nabbin’ spiers is more in his line than handlin’ this sort o’ trouble. There’s been some mighty queer doin’s at Norfolk Downs o’ late, an’ th’ whole community’s terrified. Not only that; they’re sayin’ Timmie’s not competent, an’ one more killin’ like dicy’vehad an’ he’ll be warmin’ some employment office bench. He wuz over to me house this evenin’ to talk things over, an’ th’ minute I heard about it I says to meself, 'Here’s a case fer Doctor de Grandin, or I’m a Dutchman.’ So here we are, sor.”

O’Toole took up the explanation. "If ye’re askin’ me about it. I’ll say di’ Divil’s in it, sor,” he told de Grandin solemnly.

'"The Devil.^” de Grandin eyed him



narrowly. "You mean that Satan has a hand in it, or do you use an idiom?”

"No, sor, I mean exactly what I said,” the chief replied. " ’Twas a matter o’ three months or so ago — th’ night afther Qiristmas — when Mike Scarsci got his’n. Everybody in th’ Downs knew Mike, and no one knew much good o’ him. Some said he wuz a bootlegger, and some a runner fer a joint down Windsor way — th’ kind o’ place where ye git what ye pay fer an’ no questions asked, an’ if ye feel th’ want o’ womanly sympathy, there’s a young an’ pretty hostess to give ye what ye crave. However that might be, sor, we used to see Mike sliding round th’ place, whispering to th’ respectable folks who might not be so good when they thought no one wuz lookin’, an’ I’d ’a’ run him out o’ town, only I didn’t dast oflfend his customers. So I wuz content to keep a eye on him, just until he pulled oflf sumpin I could rightly pinch him fer.

"Well, that night we heard him drive up th’ Edgemere Road in that big, expensive roadster o’ his, an’ seen him turn th’ corner like he wuz headed fer one o’ th’ big houses on th’ hill. I didn’t see it meself, sor, but one o’ me men, name o’ Gibbons, wuz near by when it happened. He seen th’ car go round th’ bend an’ disappear behind some rhododendron bushes, an’ all of a sudden he heard somebody give a yell as if th’ Divil’s self wuz on ’im, an’ then two shots come close together. Next moment wuz a flash o’ fire so bright it blinded him, an’ — that wuz all.

"But when he came a-runnin’ to th’ place where Scarsci’s car wuz stalled, he found Mike wid his gun still in his hand, an’ th’ front mashed out o’ his head — leastwise, most of it wuz gone, but enough remained to show th’ footprint of a monster goat stamped on ’im, sor.

Furthermore, there wuz th’ smell o’ brimstone in th’ air.”

D e grandin raised the narrow black brows which showed such marke-d contrast to his wheat-blond hair. "Eh bien, mon chef,” he murmured, '"rhis devil of yours would seem to be a most discriminating demon; at least in Monsieur Scarsci’s case. Am I to understand that you give credence to the story?”

A tinge of red showed in O’Toole’s broad face. "Ye are, sor,” he returned. "I wuz brought up amongst goats, sor; I’d know their tracks when I seen ’em, even if me eyes were tight shut; an’ I recognized th’ print on Scarsci’s forehead. Besides ” he paused a moment, swallowing imeasily, and a dogged, stubborn look came in his eyes. "Besides, I seen th’ thing meself, sor.” O’Toole breathed quickly, pantingly, as one who shifts a burden from his chest.

"We all thought it mighty queer how Mike got kilt,” he went on, "but th’ coroner said he must ’a’ run into a tree or sumpin — though th’ saints knows there wuz no tree there — so we had to let it pass. But widin another week, sor. Old Man Withers wuz found layin’ dead furninst th’ gate o’ his house, an’ he died til’ same way Mike did — wid th’ top mashed out o’ his head an’ th’ mark o’ th’ beast on his brow. 'There warn’t no possibility o’ his runnin’ into no tree — not even a tree as wuzn’t there, sor — for there he wuz, spread-eagled on th’ sidewalk wid his mouth wide open, an’ his eyes a-starin’ at th’ sky, an’ there wuz blood an’ brains oozin’ from a hole in his head big enough to put yer fist into.

"There wuz plenty said th’ old man wuz a bad lot; it’s certain he never let a nickel get away once he got his hands on it, an’ many a one as borrowed money from him lived to regret it; but that’s


221 ]

not here nor there. Th’ fact is he wuz dead, an’ th’ jury had to bring it in as homicide, though, o’ course, they couldn’t blame no one specifically.

"Then, last o’ all, wuz Mr. Roscoe. A harmless, inoffensive sort o’ cuss he wuz, sor; quiet-spoken an’ gentleman-like as any that ye’d meet. He had some money an’ didn’t need to work, but he wuz a sort o’ nut on atheism, an’ ran some kind o’ paper pokin’ fun at th’ churches fer his own amusement.

" ’Twas about midnight, ten days ago, when th’ thing got him. I’d finished up me work at th’ Borough Hall, an’ wuz headin’ fer home when I passed th’ bus station. Mr. Roscoe gits off’n th’ last bus from Bloomfield, an’ we walks along together. As we wuz walkin’ past St. Michael’s church we seen th’ light which burns before th’ altar, an’, ’O’Toole,’ says Mr. Roscoe, ' ’tis a shame that they should waste th’ price o’ oil to keep that thing a-goin’ when there’s so much misery an’ sufferin’ in th’ world. If I could have me way,’ says he, 'I’d raise th’ divil wid ’

"An’ then it wuz upon us, sor. Taller than me by a good foot, it wuz, an’ all covered wid scales, like a serpent. Two horns wuz growin’ from its head, an’ its eyes wuz flashin’ fire. I couldn’t rightly say it had a tail, fer there wuz small chance to look at it; but may I never stir from this here chair if it didn’t have a pair o’ big, black wings — an’ it flew right at us.

"Mr. Roscoe give a funny sort o’ cry an’ put his cane up to defend hisself. I wuz yankin’ at me gun, but me fingers wuz all stiff wid cold, an’ th’ holster wouldn’t seem to come unsnapped.

"Th’ next I knew, somethin’ give a awful, screamin’ laugh, an’ then there wuz a flash o’ fire right in me face, an’ I’m a-coughin’ an’ a-chokin’ wid th’

fumes o’ sulfur in me loose, an’ when I gits so I can see again, there’s no one there a-tall but Mr. Roscoe, an’ he’s stretched out beside me on th’ sidewalk wid his skull mashed in an’ th’ Divil’s mark upon his brow. Dead he were, sor; dead as yesterday’s newspaper.

"I’d made shift to snatch me gun out whilst th’ fire wuz still blindin’ me, an’ had fired at where I thought th’ thing must be, but all I ever found to show

that I’d hit sumpin wuz this thing ’’

From his blouse pocket he withdrew an envelope, and from it took a small, dark object.

De Grandin took it from him, exam* ined it a moment, then passed it on to me. It was a portion of a quill, clipped across the shaft some three or four inches from the tip, the barbs a brilliant black which shone with iridescent luster in the lamplight. Somewhat heavier than any feather I had ever felt, it was, and harder, too, for when I ran my thumb across its edge it rasped my skin almost like the teeth of a fine saw. Indeed, the thing was more like the scale from some gigantic reptile, cut in foliations to simulate a quill, than any feather I had ever seen.

"I never saw a quill like this, before,’* I told O’Toole, and:

"Here’s hopin’ that ye never do again, sor,’’ he responded earnestly, "fer as sure as ye’re a-settin’ on that chair, that there’s a feather from a Divil’s Angel’s wing!”

“"D eggin’ yer pardon, sor,” Nora Mc- •t# Ginnis once more appeared abruptly at the door, "there’s a young man wid a special delivery letter fer Doctor de Grandin. Will ye be afther lookin’ at it now, sor, or will it wait.^”

"Bring it in at once, if you will be so good,” the Frenchman answered. "All special letters merit quick attention.”


.WEIRD TALES

Bowing mute apologf to us, he slit the envelope and glanced quidcly through dte brief typewritten missive. "Parbleu, ’tis very strange!” he exclaimed as he finished reading. "You come to me regarding these so strange events, tnon chef, and on your heels comes this. Attend me, if you please:

My dear Doctor de Grandifi:

I have heard of your ability to arrive at explanations of cases which apparently possess a supernatural aspect, and am writing you to ask if you will take the Borough of Norfolk Downs as client in a case which will undoubtedly command the limit of your talents.

Our police force admit their helplessness, special investigators hired from the best detective agencies have failed to give us any satisfaaion. Our people are terrified and the entire Community lives in a feeling of constant insecurity.

In view of this I am authorized to offer you a retainer of one thousand dollars immediately upon your acceptance of the case, and an additional fee of fifty dollars a day, plus reasonable expenses, provided you arrive at a solution of the mystery which is not only causing our citizens much anxiety but has already reached the newspapers in a garbled form and is causing much unfavorable publicity for Norfolk Downs as a residential center.

Your promptness in replying will be appreciated by

Yours faithfully,

Rolland Wilcox,

Mayor of Norfolk Downs.

“An’ will ye take th’ case, sor?” O'Toole asked eagerly.

"Sure, Doctor de Grandin, sor, ye’ll be doin’ me a favor, an’ Timmie, too, if ye’ll say yes,” Costello added.

“Assuredly,” de Grandin answered with a vigorous nod. “Tomorrow afternoon the good Doctor Trowbridge and I shall wait upon Monsieur le Maire and say to him: 'Voila, Monsieur, here we are. Where is the thousand dollars, and where the mystery that you would have us solve? But yes; certainly.’ ”


T he wealthy realtors and expensive architects who mapped out Norfolk Downs had done their work artistically. Houses of approved English architecture.

Elizabetlian, Tudor, Jacobean, with here and there an example of the Georgian or Regency periods, set well back in tastefully planted grounds along wide, treebordered rOads which trailed gracefully in curves and avoided every hint of the perpendicularity of city streets. Commercial buildings were restricted to such few shops as were essential to the convenience of the community — a grocery, drug store, delicatessen and motor service station — and these were confined to a dfcumscribed zone and eflfectually disguised as private dwellings, their show windows fashioned as oriels, neatly sodded yards, set with flower beds and planted with evergreens, before them.

Mayor Wilcox occupied a villa in Edgemere Road, a great, rambling house of the half-timbered English style with Romantic chimneys, stuccoed walls and many low, broad windows. A smug, wellkept formal garden, fenced in by neatly trimmed hedges of box and privet, was in front; at the side was a pergola and rose garden where marble statues, fountains and a lily-pond stood in incongruous contrast to tfie Elizabethan house and Victorian front-garden.

"I understand you’ve had some of the details of the case already from O’Toole, Doctor de Grandin,” Mayor Wilcox said when we had been escorted to his study at the rear of the villa’s wide central hafl.

'The Frenchman inclined his head. “Quite so,” he answered. ”1 was most solemnly assured you were suffering from diabolic visitation. Monsieur le Maire."

Wilcox laughed shortly, mirthlessly. "I’m not so sure he’s wrong,” he answered.

"Eh, yOu have some reason to believe ” de Grandin started, then broke

off questioningly.

The mayor looked from one of us to the other with a Sort Of shamefaced exTHE DARK ANGEL


pression, "It’s really very odd,” he returned at length. "Folloilott rather inclines to the diabolical theory, too, but he’s so mediasval-minded, anyway, that ”

"And this Monsieur Fol — ^this Monsieur with the funny name, who is he, if you please.^”

"Our rector — the priest in charge of St. Michael and All Angels’; queer sort of chap; modern and all that, you know, but believes in all sorts of supernatural nonsense, and ”

"One little moment, if you please,” de Grandin interrupted. "Let us hear the reasons for the good man’s assumptions, if you will. Me, I know the by-ways of ghostland as I know my own pocket, and I solemnly assure you there is no such thing as the supernatural. 'There is undoubtedly the superphysical; there is also that class of natural phenomena which we do not understand; but the supernatural? Non, it is not so.”

Mayor Wilcox, who was bald to the ears and affected a pointed beard and curling mustache which gave him a Shakespearian appearance, glanced sharply at the Frenchman, as though in doubt of his sincerity, then, as he met the earnest gaze of the small, blue eyes, responded with a shrug;

"It was the Michael which started him. Our church, you know, is largely constructed from bits of ruined abbeys brought from England. The font is Sixteenth Century, the altar even earlier, and some of the carvings date back to preTudor times. 'The name-saint, the Archangel Michael, is represented by a particularly fine bit of work showing the Champion of Heaven overcoming the Fiend and binding him in chains. It was in first-rate shape despite its age when we received it, and every precaution was taken when we set it over the church

porch. But just before the first of these mysterious killings took place the stone fetter which bound the Devil became broken in some way. Folloilott was the first to notice it, and directed my attention to the missing links. He seemed in a dreadful state of funk when he to4d us the bits of missing stone were nowhere to be found.

" 'Well, we’ll have a stone-cutter over and have new ones carved,’ I told him, but it seemed that wouldn’t do at all. Unless the identical links which were missing could be found and reset right away, something terrible would descend on the community, he assured me. I’d have laughed at him, but he was so earnest about it any one could see he was sincere.

" 'I tell you, Wilcox,’ he said, 'those links are symbolical. The Archfiend is unchained upon the earth, and dreadful things will come to us unless we can confine him in those sacred fetters right away!’ You have to know Folloilott to understand the impressive way he said it. Why, I almost believed it, myself, he was so serious about it all.

"Well, the upshot of it all was we searched the churchyard and all the ground around, but couldn’t find a single trace of those stone links. Next night the boot — the Scarsci man was killed in the way O’Toole told you, and since that time we’ve had two other inexplicable murders.

"No one can offer any explanation, and the detectives we hired were as much at sea as any of us. What do you think of it, sir?”

''U’m,” de Grandin took his narrow chin between a thoughtful thumb and finger and pinched it till the dimple in its tip deepened to a cleft. "I think we should do well to see this statue of St. Michael and also the so estimable clergy224


man with the unpronounceable name. Can this be done at once?”

Wilcox consulted his watch. "Yes,” he answered. "Folloilott says evensong about this time every day, rain, shine or measles. We’ll be in time to see him if we step over to the church right away.’'

WINTER was dying hard. The late afternoon was bitter for so late in March. A leaden sky, piled high with asphalt-colored clouds, held a menace of snow, and along the walks curled yellow leaves from the wayside trees scuttered, and paused and scuttered on again as thou^ they fled in hobbled fear from the wind that came hallooing from the north.

Chimes were playing softly in the square bell-tower of the church as we approached, their vibrant notes scarce audible against the wind’s wild shouting:

Abide with me: fast falls the eventide;

The darkness deepens; Lord, with me abide....

A look of almost ineffable sadness swept across de Grandin’s features, swift as the passing of a drought. "Have her ever in ’Ihy gracious keeping. Lord!” he murmured, and signed the cross before his face, so quickly one might have drought him stroking his mustache.

"’There’s Folloilott, now!” Wilcox exclaimed. "I say, Mr. Folloilott, here ”

A tall young man in shovel hat and Inverness coat strode quiddy across the patch of lawn separating the church from the brick-and-sandstone rectory. If he heard the mayor’s greeting above the wind he gave no sign as he thrust the nailstudded door of the vestry aside and entered the sacred edifice.

"Humph, he’s a sacerdotal fool!” our companion exclaimed half angrily. "You might as well try to get a number on a broken telephone as attract his attention vdien he’s about his parish duties.” ’TTm?” de Grandin murmured. '"The

one-tracked mind, as you call him in American, hiin^ And this St. Michael of whom you spoke, where is he, if you please?”

"There,” Wilcox answered, pointing his blackthorn stick to a sculptured group set in the wall above the pentice.

The group, cut in high relief upon a plinth of stone, represented the Archangel, accoutered in cuirass and greaves, erect above the fallen demon, one foot upon his adversary’s throat, his lance poised for a thrust in his fight hand, the left holding a chain which was made fast to manacles latched around the fiend’s wrists. ’Ihe whole thing, rather crudely carved, had an appearance of immense age, and even from our point of view, some forty feet away, we could see dial several links of the chain, as well as the bracelets binding the Devil’s hands, had weathered and chipped away.

"And Monsteuf t’Abbi insists this has connection with these so strange deaths?” the Frenchman asked musingly.

"He affects to believe so; yes,” Wilcmc answered, impatience in his voice.

"Eh bten, in former limes men have believed in stranger ’ ings,” de Grandift returned. "Come, kt us go in; I would observe him more dosely, if you please.”

Like too many churches, St. Michael and All Angels’ did not boast impressive congregations at ordinary serdees. A verger in a black-serge robe, three or four elderly and patently virgin ladies in expensive but frumpish costumes and a young and slender girl almost nun-like in her subdued gray coat and hat were the sole attendants besides ourselves.

*1116 organ prelude finished as we found seats in a forward pew, and the Reverend Mr. Folloilott entered from die vestry, genuflected to the altar and began to intone the service. Rather to my surprize, he chose the long, or Hicene Creed, in

W. T.— 5



preference to the shorter one usually recited at the evening service, and at the words, "and was incarnate by the Holy Ghost," his genuflection was so profound that it was almost a prostration.

Immediately following the collect for peace he descended from the diancel to the body of the church and began the oflice of general supplication.

It was chilly to the point of frostiness in the church, but perspiration streaked the cleric’s face as in a voice vibrant with intense emotion he cantillated the entreaty:

O holy, blessed and glorious Trinity, three persons and one God; have mercy upon us miserable sinners....

From our seats in the transept we were almost abreast of the priest as he knelt at the litany desk, and I caught de Grandin studying him covertly while the interminable oflice was recited. Mr. Folloilott’s face was cameo-sharp in profile, pale, but not with poor health; lean rather than thin, with a high, narrow brow, deep-set, almost piercingly clear eyes of gray, highbridged, prominent nose and long, pointed chin. The mouth was large, but thinlipped, and the hair which grew well forward at the temples intensely black. A rather strong, intelligent face, I thought, but one marked by asceticism, the face of one who might be either unflinching martyr or relentless inquisitor, as occasion might direct.

"No use trying to see him now," Wilcox told us when benediction was pronounced and the congregation rose from their knees after a respectful interval. "He'll be about his private devotions for the next half-hour, and — ah, by George, I have it! I’m having another friend for dinner tonight: what d’ye say we have Folloilott and Janet in as well.^ You’ll have all the chance you want to talk with him."

"Excellent," de Grandin acquiesced, W.T.— 6

"And who is Janet, may one ask? Madame Fol — the reverend gentleman's wife?”

"Lord, no!” the mayor responded, "Folloilott’s a dedicated celibate. Janet’s his ward.”

"Ah?” the Frenchman answered with a barely perceptible rising inflection. I drove my elbow in his ribs lest he say more. The frank expressions of de Grandin’s thoughts were not always acceptable to American ears, as I well knew from certain contretemps in which he had involved me in the past!


E ight of us gathered at the Jacobean oak table in Mr. Wilcox’s diningroom that evening: the mayor and his wife, a slender, dark young man of scholarly appearance with refined, Semitic features, George, Wilcox’s son, recently admitted to the bar and his father’s partner in practise, the Reverend Basil Folloilott and his ward, Janet Payne, de Grandin and 1. The meal was good, thou^ simple: clear soup, fried sole, a saddle of Canada hare, sal^ and an ice; white wine with the fish, claret with the roast.

De Grandin studied each of the guests with his quick, stock-taking glance, but Janet excited my curiosity most of all. She was slight and unmistakably attractive, but despite her smooth and freshcolored complexion she somehow conveyed an impression of colorlessness. Her long, fair hair was simply arranged in a figure 8 knot at the nape of her neck; her large, blue, heavy-lidded eyes seemed to convey nothing but disinterested weariness. Her lips were a thought too full for beauty, but she had a sweet, rather pathetic smile, and she smiled often but talked rarely. "H’m,” I wondered professionally, "is she anemic, or recovering from an illness?”



The sound of Wilcox’s voice broke through my revery: "I saw Withers’ executors today, Mr. Silverstein,” he told the young Jewish gentleman, "and I don’t think there’s much doubt that they’ll renew the loan."

To us he added in explanation, "Mr. Silverstein is Rabbi of the Congregation Beth Israel. Withers held a mortgage on their temple and was pressing them for payment in full when he was — when he died. The executors seem nwre leniently inclined.”

A sharp kick on my shin made me wince with pain, but before I could cry out, de Grandin’s hand was pressing mine and his eyes beckoning my attention to the clergyman across the table. 'The reverend gentleman’s face had gone an almost sickly gray, and an expression of something like consternation was on his features.

I was about to ask if I could be of service when our hostess rose, and with her Janet went into the drawing-room. Evidently the custom of leaving the gentlemen at table with their cigars still obtained in Wilcox’s house. For just an instant as she passed the girl’s glance rested on young Wilcox, and in it was tenderness and such yearning that I almost cried aloud, for it was like the look of a pauper’s child before a toyshop window at Christmas time.

De Grandin noted the look, too.''Tiens, Monsieur I’ Abbe," he said genially as he lighted his cigar, "unless I greatly miss my guess, you shall soon celebrate a most joyous ceremony.”

’The clergyman looked pu22led. "How do you mean?” he asked.

"Why, when Mademoiselle Jeannette marries with Monsieur Georges, to be sure, you will most certainly perform the

'The other cut him ofiF. "Janet has no place for earthly love in her life,” he answered. "Hers is one of those devoted souls which long for sweet commimion with the Heavenly Bridegroom. As soon as she has come of age she will become a postulate in the order of the Resurrection. All plans are made; it is her life’s vocation. She has been trained to look for nothing else since she was a little girl.”

De Grandin shot a doubtful, questioning glance at me, and I nodded confirmation. St. Chrystosom’s, where I had served as vestryman for nearly thirty years, was "moderate,” being neither Methodistically "low” nor ritualistically "high,” but in a vague way I knew the ritualistic branch of the Episcopal Church supported monastic and conventual orders with discipline and rules as strict as any sponsored by the Greek and Latin churches, especially women’s orders, where the members took their vows for life and lived as closely cloistered as mediaeval nuns.

An awkward pause ensued. De Grandin tweaked the points of his mustache and seemed meditating a reply, and knowing him as I did, my teeth were on edge with apprehension, but Wilcox saved the situation. "I was telling Doctor de Grandin your theory of the strange deaths — how the breaking of the fetter in St. Michael’s hand might be responsible,” he told the clergyman.

Young Rabbi Silverstein looked puzzled. "Surely, you’re not serious, Mr. Folloilott?” he asked. "You can’t mean you believe there’s some connection between a graven image and these murders. Why, it’s ”

Folloilott rose, his face drawn and working with half-suppressed emotion. "To one of your religion, sir,” he answered cuttingly, "the statue of the Archangel Michael may be a 'graven image’ j

cero



to */ it is a holy thing, endued with heavenly powers. As for these 'murders,' as you call them, I am convinced no earthly agency has anything to do with them; no human hand struck the blows which rid the world of those moral lepers. They are unquestionably the visitations of an outraged Heaven upon contemners of Divine authority. The call to repentance has gone forth, even as it did in the days of the Patriarch Noah. Heaven is outraged at the iniquity of man, and the Dark Angel of Death is abroad; you may almost hear the beating of his dreadful sable wings. There is no one as when the first-born was slain of old, to sprinkle blood upon the lintels of ouc doors that he may spare us and pass on. Repentance is the only way to safety. No mortal man can stay his flight, no mortal dare impede him in his awful errand!”

"Tiens, there you do make the great mistake. Monsieur," de Grandin answered with one of his quick, elfin grins. "I dare do so. The law forbids such killings, and be he angel or devil, he who has committed them must answer to the law. Furthermore, which is of more immediate importance, he must answer to Jules de Grandin. Certainly; of course.”

"You?" the tall cleric looked down at the little Frenchman incredulously.

"Even as you say. Monsieur I’ Abbe”

For a moment they faced each other across the table, Folloilott’s piercing gaze seeking to beat down de Grandin’s level stare, and failing as the wind may fail to move a firmly planted rock. At length;

"You take grave risks lightly, sir,” the clergyman admonished.

"It is a habit of long standing. Monsieur,” de Grandin answered in a toneless, level voice. His little, round blue eyes set in a fixed, unwinking state against the other’s burning gaze.

T he clergyman excused himself a short while afterward, and we were Irft alone before the fire.

"I think your rector needs a rest,” I told the mayor. "His nerves are all unstrung from overwork. I’d say. Once or twice I fancied he was on the verge of a breakdown this evening.”

"He did look rather seedy,” Wilcox admitted. "Guess we’ll have to send him off to Switzerland again this summer. He’s a great mountain-climber, you know; quite a hunter, too. Some years ago he went exploring in the Andes and brought back some rare specimens. They say he’s one of the few men who ever succeeded in bringing down a condor in full flight.”

De Grandin glanced up sharply. "A condor, did you say, Monsieur — one- of those great Andean vultures?” he demanded.

"Yes,” Wilcox answered. "He risked his life to do it; but he shot one down from an eminence of several thousand feet. Got two of ’em, in fact, but one was lost. The other’s stuffed and mounted in the museum at Harrisonville.”

"A condor?” murmured Jules de Grandin musingly. "He shot a condor, this one, and ”

Furious knocking at the dcx)r, followed by the tread of heavy boots in the tiled passage cut him short. "Doctor de Grandin, sor,” Chief O’Toole burst into the dining-room, amazement and something strangely lilce terror in his florid face, "there’s another one been kilt. We just got th’ word!”

"Mille tonnerres — another? Beneath our very noses?” The Frenchman leaped from his seat as a bounced ball rises in the air, and fairly rushed toward the coat closet where his outdoor wraps were hung. "Come, Friend Trowbridge, rush, hasten; fly!” he bade me. To O’Toole:



"Lead on, mon chef, we follow close behind!”

" ’Tis Misther Bostwick, this time, sor,” the chief confided as we walked along the frosty street. "Not five minutes ago I took a call at headquarters, an’, 'Is this th’ chief o’ police.^’ a lady asks, all scared and trembly-like.

" 'It is,’ says I, 'an’ what can I be doin’ fer ye. Miss?’

" 'Come over to Misther Bostwick’s, if yez please,’ she tells me. 'Sumpin terrible has happened!’

"So over to Misther Bostwick’s house I goes, an’ she wam’t exaggeratin’ none, sor. I’ll say that fer her. 'Th’ place is a holy wreck, an’ pore Bostwick’s a-settin’ there in his livin’ -room wid th’ back mashed out o’ his head an’ th’ mark o’ th’ Divil on his brow.”

DeGrandin took a few steps in thoughtful silence; then: "And what was Monsieur Bostwick’s besetting sin, mon chef?” he asked.

"Eh?”

"What was it this one did which might offend a straight-laced moralist?”

O’Toole returned a short, hard laugh. "How’d ye guess it, sor?” he asked.

"Name of an old and thoroughly decaying cheese — I ajk you, not you me!” the Frenchman almost shouted.

"Well, sor, Norfolk Downs ain’t like some places; we don’t go pokin’ too much into th’ private life o’ th’ citizens as pays our salaries, an’ ”

”A bos the explanations and apologies! What was it this one did, I ask to know!”

"Well, sor, if ye must know, they do say as how he wuz uncommon fond o’ th’ ladies. Time afther time I seen th’ pretty ladies shteppin’ out o’ their cars before his door, an’ late o’ nights th’ light wuz goin’ in his house. Yet he were a bachelor, sor, an’ his bootlegger’s bill must ’a’ been tremenjous, judgin’ be th’ empty

bottles that wuz carted from his place. I’ve heard tell as how some o’ his little playmates had husbands o’ their own, too, but as ’twas all done quiet an’ orderly-like, I never interfered, an’ ”

"No matter, one understands,” de Grandin cut him short. "Are we arrived?”


W E WERE. Ablaze with lights, the big, brick house in which Theodore Bostwick had lived his gay and not particularly righteous life stood before us, a uniformed policeman at the door, another waiting in the hall. Crouched on a settle by the fire, shaking with sobs and plainly in an agony of fear, a very pretty little lady in a very pretty pajama ensemble raised a tear-stained face to us.

"Oh, don’t — please don’t let them give my name to the papers!” she besought as de Grandin paused before her.

"Softly, Mademoiselle,” he soothed, tactfully ignoring the platinum-and-diamond band encircling the third finger of her left hand. "We do but seek the facts. Where were you when it happened, if you please?”

"I — I’d come downstairs to get some ice,” the little woman answered, dabbing at her eyes with a wisp of rose-colored cambric. "Ted — Mr. Bostwick, wanted some ice for the cocktails, and I said I’d come down and get it from the Frigidaire,

and ” She paused and shivered as

though a chill had laid its icy finger on her, despite the superheated room.

"Yes, Mademoiselle, and ” de

Grandin prompted softly.

"I heard Ted call out once — I couldn’t understand him, and called back, 'What?’ and then there was a dreadful clatter in the big room upstairs, as if everything were being smashed, and I was frightened.



'T waited for a moment, then went upstairs, and — oh, it was dreadful!”

"Precisement, one understands as much; but what was it you saw?”

"You’ll see it for yourself, when you go up. Ted was sitting there — looking straight at me — and everything around him was all broken. I took one look at him and turned to run, but on the steps I must have fainted, for I fell, and when I came to I was lying at the bottom of the stairs, and ”

"What did you do next?” he asked as she paused again.

"I — I fainted.”

"Morhleu, again?”

"Yes, again!” something half stubborn, half hysterical was in her answer. "I was going to the telephone to call the ofl&cers when I chanced to glance up, and

there ” Once more her voice trailed

off to nothingness, and the color drained from her pink cheeks, leaving them ghastly-white beneath the rouge.

The little Frenchman looked at her, compassion in his gaze. "What was it that you saw, ma pauvre?" he asked gently.

"A — a face, sir. It looked at me through the window for just an instant, but I’ll not forget it if I live to be a hundred. 'There was nothing above it, nothing below it — it seemed to hang tliere, like the head of a decapitated man suspended in the air — and it glared at me. It was long — ^twice as big as any face I’ve ever seen — and a sort of awful grayish color — like the imderside of a toad! — and great tusks protruded from its mouth. 'The eyes were green and glowing with some dreadful light, and there were horns growing from the forehead. I tell you there were!” She paused a moment while she fought for breath; then, very softly: "It was the Devil!”

"Eh bien, Mademoiselle, this is of interest, certainly. And then, if you please ”

"Then I fainted again. I don’t know how long I lay on the floor, but as soon as I came to I called police headquarters.”

De Grandin turned to Qiief O’Toole. "You came at once?” he asked.

"Yes, sor.”

"Who came with you?”

"Kelley an’ Shea, sor.”

"Trh bien. You searched the place inside and out? What of the doors and windows?”

"Locked, sor; locked tight as wax. 'Th’ little lady here let us in, afther askin’ who we wuz, an’ we heard her throw th’ lock an’ draw th’ inside bolt an’ chainfastener. Th’ back door wuz tight locked, an’ every windy in th’ place but one wuz closed an’ latched. 'Th’ big windy in th’ livin’ -room upstairs wuz shut, but not latched, sor.”

"Very good. And that window there — the one through which Mademoiselle declares she saw the face — ^what of it?”

"It’s more’n ten foot from th’ ground, sor, an’ fixed — ^th’ frame’s set fast in th’ jamb, so’s it can’t be opened a-tall.”

"Very good. Let us ascend and see what we shall see above.”

T he upstairs living-room of Bostwidc’s house was a blaze of light, for Chief O’Toole and his aides had turned on every available bulb when they made their preliminary search.

"Ah?” de Grandin murmured softly as we paused upon the threshold "A-ah?”

Facing us through the doorway which gave upon the upper hall, his chin sunk on his breast, hands clenched into rigid fists upon the arms of his chair, a man sat staring endlessly at nothing with sightless, film-glazed eyes. He had been in early middle life — forty-five, perhaps, possibly fifty years old — ^with profuse.


.WEIRD TALES

gray-streaked hair and a Vandyke beard in which the brown was thidcly fledred with gray. In life his face must have been florid, but now it shone under the glowing electric bulbs with the ash-gray pallor which belongs only to death, his parted lips almost as blanched as his cheeks, little gouts of perspiration, glistening like beads of oil, dewing his high, white forehead.

The room behind him was a welter of confusion. Chairs were overturned, even broken, the contents of the center table — bits of expensive bric-a-brac and objects of vertu — ^were strewn upon the rich Turkey carpet, the pieces of an almost priceless K’angshi vase lay scattered in one corner.

De Grandin advanced and slowly surveyed the corpse, walking round it, observing it from every side. A little to the left and above the right ear a deep, wedge-shaped depression showed in the skull, blood, a little ruptured brain-substance and serous cerebrospinal fluid escaping from the wound. The Frenchman looked at me with elevated brows and nodded questioningly. I nodded back. Death must have been instantaneous.

"D’ye see it, sor?” O’Toole demanded in an awed whisper, pointing to the dead man’s forehead.

There was no denying it. Impressed upon the flesh, as though stamped there with almost crushing force, was the bifurcated imprint of 4 giant goat’s hoof.

"They must ’a’ had th’ divil of a fight,” O’Toole opined as he surveyed the devastated room.

De Grandin looked about him carefully. "It seems so,” he agreed, "but why the Evil One should vent his wrath upon the poor man’s chattels when he had killed the owner gives one to wonder n’est-ce-fas?’

"An’ — an’ d’ye notice th’ shmell, sor?” O’Toole added diffidently,

De Grandin’s narrow nostrils contracted and expanded nervously as he snifl^ed the air. I, too, inhaled, and down the back of my neck and through my cheeks ran tiny ripples of horror-chills. There was no mistaking it — ^trust one who’d served a term as city health officer to know! Faint, but clearly perceptible, there was the pungent, acrid scent of burning sulfur in the room.

De Grandin’s small blue eyes were very round and almost totally expressionless as he looked from O’Toole to me and back again. At length: "Out-da,” he agreed, 'West le soufre, vraiment. No matter, we have other tilings to do than inhale silly scents.”

"But, sor ” O’Toole began.

"But be grilled upon the grates of hell, mon vieux. What make you of this?” he pointed to a splash of blood, roughly circular in shape, and some four or five inches in diameter, which disfigured the carpet almost underneath the window.

"Huh? Why that’s where he bled, sor,” the Irishman replied, after a moment’s study of the ruddy spot.

"Exactement, my friend — ^where he bled. Now, consider this ” Wheeling, he led us bads to the seated body, and pointed in turn to the dead man’s collar and the back of the chair. Scarcely a bloodstain showed on them.

"I don’t think I quite git ye, sor,” the chief admitted after a long scrutiny.

"Ah bah, my friend, are you then blind?” the Frenchman asked him almost angrily. "Consider: One window was open, or unlatched, at least; and by that window we find blood. It is almost the only blood we find. But Monsieur Bostwidc is seated in his chair, almost as though awaiting visitors. Is that the way a man would be if he had died in fight?”

THE DARK ANGEt


"Well, sor”— O’Toole put up a hand to saatch his head — "he might ’a’ staggered to that chair an’ died there, afther he’d been struck ’’

"Name of a blue rat, my friend, how can you say so?” de Grandin interrupted. "The blow which killed this poor one caused instant death. Doctor Trowbridge will bear me out in that. No human man could live three seconds following such a blow. Besides, if the man had staggered across the room, there would be blood upon the floor if he leant forward as he crawled toward the chair, or blood upon his collar if he stood upright; yet we see none save in this single spot. That is the spot where he bled, my friend. He was undoubtlessly struck dead close by the window, then carried to that chair and placed there with both feet flat upon the floor, and hands composed upon the arms, and then the one who killed him smashed the furniture to bits. The testimony of the room can be interpreted no other way.”

The Irishman glanced round the room, then at the dead man. "Howly Mither,” he exclaimed at length, "I’m damned if I don’t think th’ dominie is right, sor. It were th’ Divil as done this thing. No mortal man could fly up to that windy an’ kill th’ pore felly in that way!” He paused to bless himself, then: "Let’s be goin’, sor. ’There’s no good cornin’ from our stayin’ here!”

De Grandin nodded in agreement. ’Then, as we reached the lower hall: 'We shall not need the pretty lady’s testimony. Chief. I believe her story absolutely — she was too frightened to be lying — and nothing she can tell us will throw light upon the case. Meantime, if you will have a strict watch kept, and see that no one comes or goes, except the undertaker’s men when they come for the body, I shall be greatly in your debt.”

To the trembling, half-hysterical girl he announced: "You are free to go at will, petite, and were I you, I should not long remain here; one never knows who may come, and having come, depart and retail gossip.”

"You mean I may go — now?” she asked in incredulous delight.

"Perfectly, my little cabbage, to go and sin — ^with more discretion in the future.”


PALE daylight had scarcely dawned when de Grandin nudged and kicked me into wakefulness. "Have you forgotten that we inspect Monsieur Bostwick’s house today?” he asked reproachfully. "Come, my friend, rush, hasten, make the hurry; we have much to do and I would be about it while there are not too many to observe our actions.”

Our hasty toilets made and a call put through to ask O’Toole to meet us, we hurried to the house of death, and while we waited for the chief, de Grandin made a careful circuit of the place. "'This is undoubtlessly the window where the little lady with the fragile morals saw the evil face look through,” he mused, pausing under the big chimney which reared itself along the southern wall.

"Yes,” I agreed, "and it’s directly underneath the window of the room where Bostwick’s body was found, too; the window Chief O’Toole said was closed but unlocked.”

"Excellent,” he clapped his hands, as though applauding at a play. "I shall make something of you yet. Friend Trowbridge. You have right, now — ah? Que diable?"

He broke off sharply, aouched suddenly upon the frozen lawn and crq)t forward quickly, as though intent upmi taking something by surprize. "You see?*' he asked in a tense whisper.



A tiny coppice of dwarf spruce was planted in the angle of the chimney and the house-wall, and as he pointed I saw that one or two small branches were freshly broken, the tender wood showing white and pallid through the ruptured bark.

Following him, I saw him part the lower boughs, examine the frosty ground with his nose almost thrust into it, then saw him straighten like a coiled spring suddenly released from tension. "Behold!” he bade me, seizing my wrist and dragging me forward. Upon the hard earth showed a tiny stain, a dull, browncolored stain, no larger than a split bean, but unmistakable. Blood!

"How ’’ I began, but:

"And look at this — ^ten thousand small blue devils! — look at this, my friend, and tell me what it is you see!” he ordered sharply. Nearer the house, where the chimney’s warmth had kept the frost from hardening the earth to any great extent, there showed two prints — footprints — but sudi footprints!

One was obviously human, a long and slimly aristocratic foot, shod with a moccasin or some sort of soft shoe, for there was no well-defined impression of a builtup heel. But close beside it, so placed it must have been left by the same person, was the clear-cut, unmistakable impression of a hoof — a cloven hoof — as though an ox or giant goat had stamped there.

"Well!” I exclaimed, then paused for very want of words in which to frame my reeling thoughts.

"Non,” he denied emphatically. "It is most unwell. Friend Trowbridge. It is diabolical, no less. Tout la tnetn ^' — he raised his narrow shoulders in a shrug — "I shall not be dissuaded. Thou^ Satan’s self has done these things. I’ll not desist until I have him clapped in jail, my friend. Consider, has not the mayor of

Norfolk Downs retained me for that purpose.^ Come, let us go. I see the good O’Toole approaching, and he will surely be made ill if he should see this thing.’*

Once more we searched the house as carefully as a jeweler might search a gem for hidden flaws, but nowhere was there any clue to help us. At length: "We must look at the roof,” de Grandin said. "It may be we shall find some little, so small thing to aid us there; the good God knows we have not found it here.”

"Arra, Doctor de Grandin, sor, 'tain’t Christmastime fer nigh anodier year,” O’Toole objected.

"Eh, what is it that you tell me — noel?” the Frendunan answered sharply.

"Why, sor, ye must be afther thinkin’ it wuz Santy Claus as did in Misther Bostwick, instead o’ — instead o’ Satan.” He looked quiddy round, as though he feared some hidden listener, dien signed himself furtively with the cross.

De Grandin grinned acknowledgment of the sally, but led the way micompromisingly to the attic from which a trapdoor let upon the steep, tiled roof. Pausing for a moment to survey die serrated rows of semi-cylindrical tiles with which the housetop was covered, he threw a leg over the ridgepole and began slowly working his way toward the chimney. Early as it was, several small boys loitering in the street, the policeman on guard outside the house and a dog of highly doubtful ancestry were on hand to witness his aerial performance, and as he reached the chimney and clung to it, both arms encircling the tall terra-ootta pot with which the flue was capped, we cau^t a flash of black and saw the Reverend Basil Folloilott pause in a rapid walk and gaze up wonderingly.

De Grandin hugged the chimney some three minutes, crooked his knee across the angle of the roof and leant as fafi



downward as was possible, examining the glaaed, round tiles, then slowly hitched himself back to the trap-door where O’Toole and I were waiting.

"Find anythin’, sor?’’ the chief inquired good-humoredly.

"Enough to justify the risk of breaking the most valuable neck which I possess,’’ the Frenchman answered with a smile. "Parbleu, enough to give one food for speculation, too, I am inclined to think!’’

"What WU 2 it?’’

The Frenchman opened his hand, and in the palm of his gray glove we saw a slim, dark object resting, a little wisp of horsehair, I supposed.

"What ’’ O’Toole began, but:

"No whats, my friend, no whys, not even any wherefores, if you please,’’ the other cut him short. "Me, I shall cogitate upon this matter — ^this and some others. Anon I may announce the goal to which my thoughts have led. Meantime 1 am too well aware that it is villainously cold up here and I am most tremendously in need of food.’’

B reakfast was laid in the pleasant room adjoining Wilcox’s kitchen when we returned, and de Grandin did full justice to the meal. He was commencing his fifth cup of well-creamed coffee when a maid announced the Reverend Basil Folloilott.

Despite the coldness of the day, the clergyman’s pale face was even paler than its usual wont as he came into the breakfast room, still a little short of breath from rapid walking. "Dreadful news of Mr. Bostwick,’’ he announced as he greeted us reservedly. "The poor unfortunate, cut off in deadly sin — if only

he had seen the light in time ’’

"Who says he was cut off in sin, Monsieur?” de Grandin broke in suddenly.

“I do,’’ the clergyman’s pale lips

snapped shut upon the words. "I know he was. Time after time, night after night, I saw his paramours arriving at his door as I watched from my study window, and I went to him with messages of peace — redemption and release through hearty and unfeigned repentance. But he ’’

"Eh bien, Monsieur, one can guess without great difficulty what he said to you,’’ the Frenchman answered with a laugh.

"One can,’’ the cleric answered hotly. "He told me to go to the devil — ^me, the messenger of holiness. There was no hope for such as he. He led a life of sin; in sin he died, and God can find no pity for a wretch like him. The Lord Himself ’’

"It seems I have read somewhere of a lady whose behavior was not all a lady's conduct ought to be, yet who was counted of some worth in later days,” de Grandin interrupted softly.

An ugly sneer gathered at the corners of Folloilott’s mouth. "Indeed?’’ he asked sarcastically. "She was a countrywoman of yours, no doubt. Monsieur de Grandin?”

"No-o,” the Frenchman answered slowly, while a malicious twinkle flickered in bis eyes. "She was from Magdala — the Scriptures call her Mary Magdalene, and somewhere I have heard the Blessed Master did not bar her out of Paradise, although her life had been at least as bad as that of Monsieur Bostwick.”

“T SAY, de Grandin, you seem to take -8- delight in getting a rise out of Folloilott,” Wilcox accused when the clergyman had taken a hasty and offended leave.

The almost boorish manner of the preacher puzzled me. "Perhaps the man’s a pious hypocrite,” I hazarded but:

"Mms non," denied the Frenchman.



"Pious he is, I freely grant — ^but a hypocrite? No, it is not so. He is in deadly earnest, that one. How much his deadliness exceeds his earnestness I should not

care to guess, but ” He lapsed into

a moody silence.

"What d’ye mean?” I urged. "Are

you implying that ”

"Ah bah, I did but let my wits go wool-gathering — there is a black dog running through my brain. Friend Trowbridge,” he apologized. "Forget what I have said; I was conversing through the hat, as you so drolly say.”


D e grandin was busy all that day, making a hasty trip to the city, returning for luncheon, then dashing off to consult Qiief O’Toole till nearly dinner time.

He kept the table in an uproar with his witty sallies throughout the meal, and when dessert was served young George Wilcox pulled a long face. "I’d rather sit right here and talk with you than go out tonight, Doctor de Grandin,” he declared, "but ”

"Ah-ha; ah-ha-ha — I see him!” laughed de Grandin. "I too was young upon a time, my friend. I know the ecstasy of the little hand’s soft pressure, the holy magic which can be found within the loved one’s glance. Go to her with speed, mon vieux; you were not half a man if you delayed your tryst to talk with such a silly one as Jules de Grandin. Hold her hand gently, mon brave, it is a fragile thing, I make no doubt.”

The boy retreated with a sheepish grin and heightened color.

"I wish George wouldn’t see her,” Mrs. Wilcox sighed plaintively. "They’re terribly in love, of course, but Mr. Folloilott won’t hear of it — ^he’s mapped the poor girl’s life for her, you know, and

next May she starts on her novitiate at Carlinville. I suppose he knows best, he’s

such a thoroughly good man, but ”

She broke off with another sigh, as though she felt herself a heretic for questioning the rector’s wisdom.

We played bridge after dinner, but de Grandin’s mind was not upon the game. He lost consistently, and shortly after ten o’clock excused himself on the plea he had a busy day before him, paid his losses and furtively beckoned me to join him in our room.

"Friend Trowbridge,” he informed me earnestly, "we must do something for those children. It is an outrage two young hearts should thus be pried apart. You saw the look she gave him yesternight at table — a look in which her very heart beat for release against the fetters of her eyes. You saw the look on young Monsieur^s face this evening. Our business is to help them to each other.”

"Our business is to find out who’s perpetrating these murders — if it’s not the Devil himself, as O’Toole and Folloilott seem to think,” I broke in roughly. '"This boy-and-girl affair’s just puppy love. They may think their hearts are broken, but ”

"Zut, who says it?” he cried sharply. "I tell you, good Friend Trowbridge, a man’s heart breaks but once, and then it is forever. Misere deDieu, do I not know it? As for these killings, my friend, I am the wiser, though not sadder, man tonight. Attend me: At Harrisonville I had the tiny flecks of hard-dried liquid which we found outside Monsieur Bostwick’s window analyzed. They were, as I suspected, blood — ^human blood. Also, while he was absent on some parish duty, I did feloniously and most unlawfully insert myself into the reverend gentleman’s study, and made a careful search. Behold what I have found ” From the pocket



of his dinner coat he took several small, twisted things, grayish, curved objects which looked for all the world like sections of a hard, gray doughnut.

"What the deuce ’’ I began, but

he stopped me with a grin.

"Qiains, my friend — chains of the devil, no less. The mystery of the holy Michael’s tether for the Devil is explained. I would not go so far as to declare that the good cleric broke that carven chain, then spread the story of impending doom about; but unquestionably he had possession of the missing links, even while he helped search for them in pl2U£S where he knew that they were not. What do you make of that.^’’

"Why ’’ I looked at him in openmouthed amazement. "WTiy ’’

"Exactly, precisely; quite so. It is our task to find out why, and unless I am more mistaken than I think I am, we shall know something ere we see another morning.”

Yawning, he stripped off his jacket and waistcoat, pulled his pajama coat on above his shirt, and proceeded to snap on every available bulb in the room. Once more he yawned prodigiously, went to the window and vmbarred it, flinging wide the casement and spreading wide his arms in a tremendous stretch. I yawned in sympathy as he stood there with jaws agape, the personification of a man who can withstand the urge to sleep no longer.

A moment he stood thus, then, snapping off the light, leaped quiddy in the bed and pulled the comforter about his neck.

"Good Lord, you’re not going to sleep that way, are you.^” I asked, amazed.

"Pardieu, I shall not sleep at all, my friend!” he answered in a whisper. "And you will please have the goodness not to shout Qimb into bed if you desire, and

pull the blankets over you, but do not sleep; we shall have need of wakefulness before the ni^t is done, I damn think.”

Despite his admonition, I dropped off. 'The respite from the cares of my practise and the dull evening at cards combined to wear down my will to stay awake. How long I slept I do not know, but something — that odd sixth sense which rouses sleeping cats, dogs and physicians — brought me full-conscious from the fairyland of dreams. No time was needed to orient myself; my eyes turned unbidden to the window which de Grandin had left open.

The steady southwest w’ind had chased the clouds before it, and the moonii^t fell as bright, almost, as midday on the planted lawn outside. Bars of the silvery luminance struck through the open casement and lay along the floor, as bright and unobscured as — ^stay, there was a shadow blotting out the moonlight, something was moving very slowly, soundlessly, outside the window.

I strained my eyes to pierce the intervening gloom, then sat bolt-upright, horror gripping at my throat, chill, grisly fear dragging at my scalp.

Across the eighteen-inch-wide sill it came, as quiet as a creeping snake; a great, black thing, the moonlight glinting evilly on the polished scales which overlaid its form. From its shoulders, right and left, spread great, black wings, gleaming with a sort of horrid, halfdulled luster, and as they grasped the window-sill I caught a glimpse of long, curved talons, pitiless as those of any vulture, but larger and more cruel by far than those of any bird.

But awful as the dread form was, the countenance was more so. A ghastly sort of white it was, not white as snow or polished bone is white, not white as death’s pale visage may be white, but a leprous, unclean white, the sort of pallor



which can not be dissociated from disease, corruption and decay. Through the pale mask of horror looked two brilliant, glaring eyes, like corpse-lights shining through the sockets of a fleshless skull, and from the forehead reared a pair of curving, pointed horns. A dreadful memory rushed across the years, a memory of childish fear which had laid dormant but undead for nearly half a century. With my own eyes I saw in living form the figure of Apollyon out of Pilgrim’s Progress!

I tried to cry aloud, to warn de Grandin of the visitant’s approach, but only a dull, aoaking sound, scarce louder than a sigh, escaped my palsied lips.

Low as the utterance was, it seemed to carry to the creeping horror. With a wild, demoniac laugh it launched itself upon the bed where my little friend lay sleeping, and in an instant I heard the sickening impact of a blow — another blow — and then a high, cracked voice crying: "Accursed of God, go now and tell your master who keeps watch and ward upon the earth!”

Weapon I had none, but at the bedside stood a table with a chromium carafe of chilled spring water, and this I hurled with all my might straight at the awful face.

A second marrow-freezing cry went up, and then a flash of blinding light — bright as a summer storm’s forked lightning on a dark night — flared in my eyes, and I choked and gasped as strangling fumes of burning sulfur filled my mouth and nostrils.

"De Grandin, oh, de Grandin!” I wailed, leaping from the bed and blundering against furniture as I sought the light. Too well I knew that Jules de Grandin could not hear my voice, already I had seen the effects of such flailing blows as I had heard; the little Frenchman lay upon his bed, his head crushed in, his gallant spirit gone for ever from his slender, gallant body.

"Tiens, my friend, you battled him right manfully. I dare assert his belly is most villainously sore where you hit it with the bottle,” de Grandin’s voice came to me from the farther end of the room, and as my light-burned eyes regained their sight, I saw him crawl forth from behind an overstuffed armchair.

My first impulse was to rush upon him and clasp him in my arms; then sudden hot resentment rose within me. "You were there all the time,” I accused. "Suppose it had struck me instead of ”

"Of the pillow which I so artistically arranged within the bed to simulate myself.^” he interrupted with an impish grin. "In such a case I should have brought this into play.” He waved the heavy French army revolver which he held in his right hand. "I could have dropped him at any time, but I desired to see what he was about. It was a gallant show, n’est-ce-pas?”

"But — but was it really human?” I demanded, shuddering at the dreadful memory of the thing. "D’ye suppose a bullet could have reached it? I could have sworn ”

"Assuredly you could,” he acquiesced and chuckled. "So can the good O’Toole, and so can our most reverend friend, the abbe with the funny name, but ”

A thunderous knocking at the door broke through his words. "Doctor de Grandin, is everything all right?” Mayor Wilcox called anxiously. "I thought I heard a noise in your room, and — nothing’s happened, has it?”

"Not yet,” the Frenchman answered coolly. "Nothing of any consequence. Monsieur le Moire; but something of importance happens shortly, or Jules de



Grandin will eat turnips for next Qiristmas dinner.”

"That’s good,” Mayor Wilcox answered. "At first I thought it might be George stumbling over something as he came in, but ”

"Ha? Petit Monsieur Georges — he is still out.^” the Frenchman interrupted shrilly.

"Yes, but ”

"Grand Dieu des pores, grand Dieu des coqs; grand Dieu des artichauts — • come. Friend Trowbridge, for your life, for his life, for their lives; we must hasten, rush, fly to warn them of the horror which stalks by night! Oh, make haste, my friend; make haste, I beg of you!”

Wondering, I got into my hat and overcoat while de Grandin thrust the heavy pistol in his outer pocket and beat his hands together as he urged me feverishly to hurry.

"Tell me. Monsieur," he asked the mayor, "where does Monsieur Georges make the assignation with his sweetheart? Not at the rectory, I hope?”

"That’s the worst of it,” Wilcox answered. "Folloilott’s forbidden him the house, so Janet slips out and meets him somewhere and they drive around; I shouldn’t be surprized if they were parked along the roadside somewhere; but only Heaven knows where. With all this reckless driving and bootlegging and hijacking going on. I’m in a perfect jitter every night till he gets home, and ”

"Name of a mannerless small blue pig, our task is ten times harder!” the Frenchman interrupted. "Come, Friend Trowbridge, we must search the secret paths, seek out the cars secluded by the roadside and warn them of their peril. Pardieu, I should have warned him of it ere he left the house!”

,7

T here was something vaguely sinister in the night as we set out; a chill not wholly due to the shrewd wind which blew in from the meadows was biting at my nerves as we walked quickly down the winding, darkened road. Some half a dozen blocks beyond the house we came on a parked car, but when de Grandin flashed his searchlight toward it the angry question of a strange young man informed us we had failed to find the pair we sought. Nevertheless:

'"The thing responsible for the deaths which have terrorized the town is out tonight, my friends,” the little Frenchman warned. "We ourselves have seen it but

a moment since, and ”

'"rhen you stay here and see it by your” self, old chap!” the young man bade, as he disengaged himself from the clinging arms of his companion, shot his selfstarter and set his car in motion.

Three other amorous couples took to flight as we gave warning, and de Grandin was close upon hysteria when the darting shaft of luminance from his flashlight at last picked out the dark-blue body of young Wilcox’s modish roadster. As we crept softly forward we heard a woman’s voice, rich, deep contralto, husky with emotion:

"My darling, more to me than this world and the next, it must — it has to be — ^good-bye. 'There is no way I can avoid it, no other way, my dear. It’s fate — the will of God — whatever we may choose to call it, dear; but it has to be. If it were any one else, it might be different, but you know him; you know how much he hates the world and how much such things mean to him. And if it were only that he wanted me to do it, I might defy him — though I never did before. Love might make me brave enough to do it — but it’s more than that. I’m vowed and



dedicated, dear; long, long ago I took an oath upon my naked knees to do this thing, and I can not — I dare not break it. Oh, my dearest one, why — why — did I have to meet you before they had me safely in the sisterhood? I might have been happy, for you can’t miss the sunshine if you’ve always been blind, but

now “ Sbe paused, and in a faint

glow of the dashboard light we saw her take his face between her hands, draw his head to her and kiss him on the lips.

"Monsieur — Mademoiselle " the

Frenchman started, but never finished speaking.

Out of the blackness of surrounding night, its body but a bare shade lighter than the gloom, dreadful, fleshless head and horrid eyes agleam, emerged the phantom-thing we'd seen a half-hour earlier in our bedroom. The night wind whistled with a kind of hellish glee between the sable pinions of the thing’s extended wings, and the gleam of phosphorescence in its hollow, orbless eyeholes was like the staring of a basilisk. I stood immobile, rooted in my tracks, and watched destruction bearing down upon the hapless lovers.

Not so de Grandin. "Sa-ha, Monsieur I’ Assistant du Diable, it seems we meet again — unhappily for you!” he announced in a deadly, quiet voice, and as he spoke the detonation of his pistol split the quiet night as summer thunder rends a lowering rain-cloud. Crash — crash! the pistol roared again; the phantom-thing paused, irresolute as though a wall of hidden steel had suddenly been reared in its path, and as it halted momentarily, the Frenchman fired again, coolly, deliberately, taking careful aim before he squeezed the trigger of his heavy weapon.

A sort of crackling, like the scutteriiig of dry, dead leaves along the autumn roads, sounded as the fearsome thing bent

slowly bade, tottered uncertainly a moment, then fell to earth with a sharp, metallic rattle and lay there motionless, its wide, black wings outspread, its scaleclad arms outflung, its legs grotesquely twisted under it.

"Tiens. I did not shoot too soon, it seems,” de Grandin told young Wilcox cheerfully as he neared the roadster and smiled upon the startled lovers. "Had I delayed a second longer I damn think that the papers would have told the story of another murder in the morning.”

I walked up to the supine monster, a sort of grisly terror tugging at my nerves, even though my reason reassured me it was dead.

The eyeholes in the skull-like face still glared malevolently, but a closer look convinced me that nothing more uncanny than luminous paint was responsible for their sullen gleam. i

Half timidly, half curiously, I bent and touched the thing. The face was but a mask of some plaster-like substance, and this was cracked and broken just above the eyes, and through the fissure, where de Grandin’s ball had gone there came a little stream of blood, dyeing the graywhite surface of the plaster mask a sickening rusty-red. About the body and the limbs was drawn a tightly-fitting suit of tough, black knitted fabric, similar to the costume of an acrobat, and to the cloth was sewn row after row of overlapping metal scales. One foot was clothed in what looked like a heavy stocking of the same material as the suit, while to the other was affixed two plinths of solid rubber — evidently the halves of a split rubber heel. Here was the explanation of the cloven footprint we had seen impressed upon the earth by Bostwick’s house.

Still grasped within the thing’s right hand there lay the handle of the oddestlooking hammer I had ever seen — heavg

THE DARK ANGEt


as a blacksmith’s sledge, but fashioned like an anvil, one end a sharp and pointed cone, the other flat, but fitted with a sort of die shaped like the hoof of a gigantic goat. "That’s it!” I murmxired, as if I would convince myself. "That’s what was used to stamp the Devil’s mark upon the victims’ faces. First smash the skull with the pointed end, and then reverse the weapon and stamp the victim with the Devil’s brand!”

Again I bent to touch the ghastly head, and at my touch the mask rolled sidewise, then, shattered as it had been by de Grandin’s bullet, split in two parts, laying bare the face beneath.

"De — de Grandin!” I croaked hoarsely, "it — it’s ”

"Of course it is,” he supplied as my lips refused to frame the name. "I have known for some time it was the reverend gentleman — who else could it have been?”

He turned his shoulder toward me and called across it: "Leave him as he lies, my friend; he will make interesting material for the coroner.”

"But — but don’t you even want to look?” I expostulated, horrified by his indifference.

"For why?” he answered. "I saw him when he tried to batter out my brains. That look was quite enough, my friend; let the others gaze on him and marvel; let us return to Monsieur Wilcox’s house with these ones; there is something I would say to them anon.”


D e grandin called O’Toole and told him briefly what had happened, then having notified him where the body lay, hung up the telephone and turned a level stare upon young Wilcox and the girl.

"My friends,” he told them sternly,

"you are two fools — two mutton-headed, senseless fools. How dare you trifle with the love the good God gives you? Would you despise His priceless gift? Ah bah, I had thought better of you!”

"But, Doctor de Grandin,” Janet Payne’s reply was like a wail, "I can’t do otherwise; I’m vowed and dedicated to a life of penance and renunciation. He made me take an oath, and ”

"A-ah?” the Frenchman’s voice cut through her explanation. "He made you, hein? Very good; tell us of it, if you will be so kind.”

"I was a little girl v/hen he first took me,” she answered, her voice growing calmer as she spoke. "My parents and I were traveling in Ecuador when we came down with fever. We were miles from any city and medical help could not be had. Mr. Folloilott came along while we were lying at the point of death in a native’s hut, and nursed us tenderly. He risked his death from fever every moment he was with us, but showed no sign of fear. Mother died the day he came, and Father realized he had not long to live; so when the kind clergyman offered to take me as his ward, he gladly consented and signed a document Mr. Folloilott prepared. 'Then he died.

"It was a long, long time before I was strong enough to travel, but finally my strength came back, and we got throu^ to the coast. Mr. Folloilott had the paper Father signed validated at the consul’s ofl5ce, then brought me back to this country. I never knew if I had any relatives or not. I know my guardian never looked for them.

"For a long time, till I was nearly twelve years old, he never let me leave the house alone. I never had a playmate, and Mr. Folloilott acted as my tutor. I spoke French and Spanish fluently and could read the hardest Greek and Latin



texts at sight before I was eleven, and had gone through calculus when I was twelve. The Book of Common Prayer and the Hymnal were my text-books, and I could repeat every hymn from New Every hioming Is the Love to There is a Blessed Home Beyond this Land of Wo by heart.”

"Mon Dieu!" exclaimed de Grandin pityingly.

"When I had reached thirteen he sent me to a sisters’ school," the girl continued. "I boarded there and didn’t leave during vacation; so I was much more advanced than any of the other pupils, and when I was fifteen they sent me home — ■ back to Mr. Folloilott, I mean.

"Of course, coming bade to the lonely rectory with no company but my guardian was hard after school, and I was homesick for the convent. He noticed it, and one day asked me if I shouldn’t like to go back to Carlinville to stay. I told him that I would, and ”

She paused a moment and a thoughtful pucker gathered between her brows, as though an idea had struck her for the first time. "Why” — she exclaimed — "why, it was no better than a trick, and ”

"Eh bien, we. do digress. Mademoiselle" the Frenchman interrupted with a smile, '"rhe evidence first, if you please, the verdict afterward. You told the reverend gentleman you should like to return to the good sisters, and ’’

"And then he took me to the church,” she answered, "and led me to the chancel, where he made me stop and turn my stockings down so that I knelt on my bare knees, while he held a Bible out to me, and made me put my hands on it and swear that I would dedicate myself to holy poverty, chastity and obedience, and as soon as I had reached eighteen, would go to Carlinville and enter as a postulant,

progressing to the novitiate and finally making my profession as a nun.

"It was shortly after that Mr. Folloilott received the call to Norfolk Downs

and I met George, and ” her voice

trailed off, and once again sobs choked her words.

D e grandin tweaked the ends of his mustache and smiled a trifle grimly. "I wish I had not shot him dead so quickly,” he muttered to himself; then, to the girl:

"A promise such as that is no promise at all. Mademoiselle. As you yourself have said, it was a trick, and a most despicable one, at that. Now listen to my testimony. Mademoiselle:

"When Monsieur Wilcox called me to this place to look into these so strange murders, I was most greatly puzzled. The evidence of Chief O’Toole all pointed to some superphysical agency at work, and as I’d had much practise as a phantomfighter, it was for me to say what tactics I should use, for what may rout a ghostly enemy is often useless when opposed to human foes, while what will kill a human being dead is useless as a pointed finger when directed at a spirit. You apprehend? Very good.

"So when I learned that Monsieur your guardian with the funny name I can not say had laid the onus of these killings on a piece of broken sculpture, I was most greatly interested. Stranger things had happened in the past; things quite as strange will doubtless happen in the future. The theory that the Devil was xmloosed seemed ten^le but for one little single thing; Every one this Devil killed was some one of an evil life. "This is the very devil of a Devil, Jules de Grandin,' I tell me. 'Most times the Evil One attacks the good; this time the Evil One has singled out the evil for attack. It

W.T.-6



does not hang together; it has the smell of fish upon it. Out-da, but of course.’

"Accordingly, I made the careful study of your guardian. He is a very pious man; that much one sees while both his eyes are closed. Ha, but piety and goodness are not of necessity the same. By no means. Gille de Retz, the greatest monster ever clothed in flesh, he was a pious man, but far from being good. Cbtton Mather, who hanged poor, inoffensive women on th« gallows tree, he was a pious man; so was Totquemada, who fouled the pure air of heaven with the burnings of the luckless Jews in Spain. They all were pious — too pious to be truly good, parbleu!

'The evening when I met your guardian at dinner, I studied him some more. I hear Monsieur Wilcox tell the young rabbi that the debt upon his temple is extended. How does Monsieur your guardian take that statement? It makes him iU, by blue! Furthermore, he has upon his face the look of one who finds too late that he had made a great and terrible mistake. The loan would have been called had not the money-lender died. Now, for the first time, the clergyman finds the hated Jews have profited by the Shylock’s death — and he looks as if he were about to die! 'Jules de Grandin, this are ^ange,’ I tell me. 'You must keep the eye on tliis one, Jules de Grandin.' And, 'Jules de Grandin, I shall do so,’ I reply to me.

"Meanwhile, he has been at great pains to tell us all once mere that these killings are the work of righteous Heaven. Is it more superstition — or something else — which makes him tell me this? One wonders.

"When he had gone I learn that he has been a hunter and a mountainclimber, that he has shot a condor down W. T.— 7

in flight. 'Ah-ha,’ I say to me, 'what does this mean, if anything?’

"The police chief has shown to me a feather clipped by his bullet from the dreadful being which commits these murders. I have looked at it and recognized it. Although it has been metallized by a process of electro-plating, I have recc^- nized it instantly. It is the feather of a condor. U’m-m. Once more one wonders, Mademoiselle.

"And while we sit and talk before the fire, there come the tidings of another killing. Monsieur Bostwick has been slain.

"We go at once and find him in his chair, dead like a mutton, and very peaceful in his pose; yet all his goods and chattels have been smashed to bits. ’The blow which killed him had done so instantly, and there is blood to mark the spot where he fell — ^yet he sits in his chair. I look around and come to a conclusion. The smashing of the furniture is but a piece of window-dressing to cover up the manner of the killing.

"But who can enter in a house where all the windows, save a single one upon the second floor, are latched, strike down a man, then vanish in thin air? I ask to know. Moreover, what was it that was seen to look into a window ten feet from the ground? I can not answer, but the next day I find that which helps me toward conclusions.

"There is blood upon the ground by Monsieur Bostwick’s house; a little, tiny drop, it is, but I tedre it that it fell from off the murderer’s weapcHi. There are also footprints — most extraordinary footprints — in the soft earth by the house, "rhe murderer have stood here,’ I inform me.

" 'Quite so,’ I agree with me, 'but where was he before he stood there?*



"So up upon the roof I go, and there I find a strand of horsehair. I think: Monsieur your guardian is a skilled mountain-climber; he had been to South America. In that land the vaqueros, or herdsmen, use lariats of plaited horsehair in their work; they find them lighter and stronger than hemp. That I remember. I remember something else: A skilled mountaineer might have lassoed the chimney of that house, have drawn himself up to the roof, then lowered himself to the open window of the second-story room. He might have struck down Monsieur Bostwick from the window, then smashed the furniture to make it seem a struggle had been had. That done, he might have closed the window after him, lowered himself to the ground by his lariat, and made off while no one was the wiser. To disengage the lasso from the chimney would have been an easy task, I know, for i have seen it done when jutting rocks, instead of chimneys, held the mountain-climbers’ ropes.

"As he slid down his rope he looked into the window of the hall, and when his evil mask was seen, they said it was the Devil. Yes, it were entirely possible.

"Now, while I stood upon the roof sedcing that little strand of horsehair upon which hung my theory, who passed but your good guardian? He sees me there, and realizes I am hot upon the explanation of the crime. Anon he comes to Monsieur Wilcox’s house — ^perhaps to talk with me and find out what I know — and I exert myself to be most disagreeable. I wish to sting him into overt action.

"Parbleu, I have not long to wait! This very night he comes into my room and would have served me as he did the others, but I am not beneath his hammer when it falls, and good Friend Trowbridge knodcs the wind from him with a carafe.

"And then, too late, I learn that you and Monsieur Georges have the assignation. All well I know how that one will attack you if he finds you. To such an one the greatest insult is the thwarting of his will. And so I rush to warn you. The rest you know.’’

'"The man was mad!’’ I exclaimed.

"Of course,’’ replied the Frenchman. "He was fanatically ascetic, and you cannot make the long nose at Dame Nature with impunity, my friend. As your Monsieur John Hay has said:

... he who Nature scorns and mocks By Nature is mocked and scorned.

"He brou^t his madness on himself, and ’’

"But that sulfurous, blinding fire we saw — O’Toole saw it, too. What was that?’’

"Have you never attended a banquet, my friend?’’ he asked with a grin.

"A banquet — ^whatever are you talking about?”

"About a banquet, parbleu — znA about the photographs they take of such festivities. Do you not recall the magnesium flares the photographers set oflF to take their indoor pictures?”

"You — ^you mean it was only flashlight powder?” I stammered.

"Only that, my friend; nothing more fantastic, I assure you. Blazing in the dark, it blinded those who saw it; they smelled the acrid, pungent smoke, and imagination did the rest. Voila; we have the 'fires of hell’ of vyhich the good O’Toole did tell us.”

Young Wilcox turned to Janet. "You see, dear,” he urged, "that promise was extracted from you by a trick. It can’t be binding, and I love you so much ”



De Grandin intermpted. ’'There is another vow that yoa must take, ray child,” he told the girl solemnly.

"A — a vow?” she faltered. "Why, I

thought — I was beginning to think ”

"Then think of this: Can you repeat: T Janet, take thee, George, to my wedded husband?”

A blush suffused her face, but: "I’ll tidke that vow, if George still wants me,” she replied.

"Wants you? Par la harbe ^un cochon vert, of a surety he wants you!” the Frenchman almost shouted. "And me, pardteu, I greatly want a drink of brandy!”

Vhe

5^unted Room

By aUSTEL HASTINGS

What is it that goes aeeping through this room. Trailing its dusty garments as it crawls?

Why does the air seem like an icy breath That penetrates the dim and empty halls?

They say that Death came once into this room —

That old four-poster in the corner there —

They whisper^ too, of shrieks that pierce the night.

Of banging doors, and blue light everywhere.

A rose that hung outside the shuttered pane

Withered and died one night when shrill winds moaned — The queer blue Eght hovered a while, and then The very timbers of the old house groaned.

Weeds now run riot in the somber path

Like snares for careless feet that wander through.

But no one comes, for no one ventures near —

Always there is the dim light, pale and blue.

The low winds moan even on summer nights —

There is a sighing sound in every room.

The mice have full possession of the halls

And hold their ghostly dance in shadowed gloom.

They say each night when sane folk’s clocks strike twelve The Uue Nght glows a while throu^ shuttered panes, And then it is the Thing comes aawling back And tries to rid the flocur of aimsoa stains.

Uhe 0

CA^hantom Hand

By VICTOR ROUSSEAU

^An astounding novel of Black Magic, eery murders, and weird occult happenings

The Story Thus Par

H urrying home to Loma West, to whom he is engaged, Don Wentworth has the night vision of her father being executed by hanging, and awakes to find himself choking and gasping in his stateroom. Loma had summoned Don a year before, when he was in China, begging him to come to her at once, but he was captured by brigands, and held in bondage. In the morning Don reads a radio message to the effect that Senator Lemuel West has paid the last penalty of the law.

At San Francisco he learns that West was convicted on circumstantial evidence of the murder of Police Captain Morse, who had the goods on him and his associates. He hurries to Cannonville, where West had lived, and meets one Sudh Hafi[2, a Persian in charge of a Babist temple.

Hafiz takes Don out to the house of Godfrey Moore, a millionaire, in a lonely part of the country, warning him that Moore practises the Black Art. Moore is taking care of Lorna, who has become mentally deranged. Don can see that she hardly knows him.

Moore shows his new television set to Hafiz, Don, and his bootlegger, Moroni, who had been mixed up in Senator West’s affairs. Don, horrified, sees, in place of the stage of the grand opera, which the others see, the scene of West’s hanging in the penitentiary yard. Suddenly the phantom West grows to life size and leaves the saeen. Moroni cries out.

When the lights are turned on, he is found dead, with finger-marks about his throat. The story continues:

“'YT’ou saw the same picture that I

X did.^” demanded Don of the Persian, as the car purred back along the lonely road across the swamp.

"I saw the same, and so did Moore, but not Moroni, for he was marked for death from the beginning. And his death was Godfrey Moore’s challenge to us."

"You mean to say that Moroni was actually strangled by the phantom.^’’ asked Don incredulously.

"Do not forget that you yourself had a narrow escape on board the President Harrison," replied the other. "Yes, I mean to say that Godfrey Moore finds himself hard-pressed, and probably blackmailed by his confederates, who joined with him in sending poor West to his death. Remember, it was at Moore’s own house that West was drugged, and from that house he was carried back to his own apartment, where the evidence had already been prepared that was to send him to the gallows.”

"Who killed Captain Morse?”

"I believe the murderer has already paid the penalty,” replied Sudh Hafiz.

"You mean it was Moroni?”

"In all probability. Well, what is the situation now? The gang believe that they have Moore at their mercy. He has determined to kill them — that is to say, Gus Walstein, the Democratic boss of

XUa 0toi7 began in WBIBD XAIiES for July



245,

Caimonville, and Abner Wells, the silkstocking district’s candidate for mayor last fall. Moroni is already gone.”

"But — but how — assuming what you suggest is correct, how could a phantom kill Moroni?” asked Don. "And why should West, who was sent to his deatli by Godfrey Moore, as you claim, oblige him by killing off all the participants in the conspiracy?”

"I shall answer your last question first,” replied the Persian, giving the wheel a twist as the car wabbled dangerously near the sucking mud beside the causeway. "I likened West to a bull in a china shop, and that is a good simile. He passed out of this life — I know it, for I was with him toward the last — burning with hatred toward the men who had railroaded him. A simple soul, not bad, but primitive, and with all primitive man’s loves and hatreds.

"Now he finds himself in a place of

darkness. He does not know just what has happened to him. But he sees a light, and struggles toward it. This light is his daughter, Loma, who draws him by her love for him. He manages, in the clumsy way of the newly dead, to take possession of her ”

"Ah!” exclaimed Don.

"You saw the transformation of her face? Well, my friend, that very hatred that he feels toward all his former associates enables him to materialize a phantom that strangles Moroni.”

"And why not Moore?”

"Moore knows how to protect himself. West is striking out blindly. Our task is to bring West to an understanding of his situation, to bid him direct his powers intelligently; in short, to make an ally of him.”

Don fell silent, while the car, leaving the swamp, began to take the toad back through the pine forests.



"Why didn’t Moore attempt some trickery against us?’’ asked Don suddenly.

"Moore is not omnipotent. He had achieved his purpose — which, I may say, I should have prevented had I foreseen his object. He scored a decided victory over me in that. And he knows how to bide his time.”

"I wish I’d insisted on taking Lorna with me,” Don blurted out.

"It could not have been done. But she will never come to any harm at Moore’s hands.”

"Why not?”

"Some day I’ll tell you,” answered Sudh Hafiz.

T he car ran on. Don was revtrfving it all over in his mind. Of course Hafiz was cracked. And yet, Don had seen too much that night to be any longer an imcompromising materialist. Trickery the whole thing might have

been, must have been, and yet

Suppose Moroni had died of a sudden heart attack, how could Moore have projected the phantom from the radio? And how could materialism explain the vision he had seen on board the ship, repeated in every detail in that room? He was aroused by Sudh Hafiz’s voice. The Persian spoke hesitantly, almost timidly.

"When I told you I believed that Moroni was the murderer of Captain Morse, I was not entirely frank with you, Wentworth,” he said. "As a matter of fact, it was Moroni who prepared the stage effects in West’s apartment, the circumstantial evidence that condemned him. It was not his hand that struck the blow.”

"Whose, then?” asked Don.

"It was Lemuel West’s,” answered Hafiz.

"What? You mean that Senator West actually was the murderer?”

"Not consciously. Not willingly. West was on intimate terms with Moore. In a moment of confidence — and even a man like Moore has his weaknesses — ^he had aroused West’s interest in the Black Art. One of the tests of a Master, the first test that is required, is the ability to sqjarate the astral double from the physical body. West had permitted Moore to hypnotize him and to withdraw his astral. Little by little Moore gained sufficient control over West to be able to dispatch his double on errands, to force it to obey his will unquestioningly. It is my belief that on the night of the tragedy, while West was in a drugged sleep at Moore’s house, Moore sent his astral to murder Captain Morse.”

"With a gavel?” asked Don incredulously.

"Have you ever sat at an amateur seance and seen a table smashed to pieces by the psychic powers about you?”

'Tve heard of such things, but ”

"The astral counterpart possesses strength such as no human being is capable of. West’s double smashed Morse’s skull to pieces. ’Ihe gavel was part of the evidence manufactured by Moroni.”

Again Don fell into silence, but now he was conscious of a definite resentment against the Persian, as we feel resentment against those who endeavor to shake us out of our preconceived ideas. He said not another word until the car drew up outside Sudh Hafiz’s house.

"You’ll be my guest tonight?”

"No, I’m much obliged,” answered Don, "but I think I’ll go to a hotel. I want to mull over all this business.”

"As you please, Westworth. Of course there may be an inquest, but I don’t think so, and you’re not likely to be called upon. It looks like a simple case of death from



heart disease. May I ask what you are planning to do?”

"I think Walstein and Abner Wells should be warned somehow,” said Don.

"It wouldn’t do the slightest good. You would simply get yourself in trouble. Remember, this town is sewed up tight politically, and Godfrey Moore runs it. G)me and see me before you do anything.”

He spoke in Persian to the lad who had appeared, and the lad ran back into the house and returned with Don’s suitcase.

"I beg of you to do nothing until we have had the opportunity of a further chat,” continued Sudh Hafiz. "As for a hotel, there’s a good one, the Parmclee, just around the corner on the right. May I drive you there?”

"No, thanks. I’ll walk,” Don answered. "I need a breath of air.”

"I think,” said Sudh Hafiz deliberately, "that you may receive an important ’phone call in the morning. If you require a car, please call on my services. No taxi driver would take you out to Moore’s place for any amount of money.”

D on slept not at all that night, but then he had no desire to sleep. The events that had happened since his arrival at Cannonville, hitherto an unassimilated mass, gradually began to assume coherence In his mind during the long night watch. And the result was a decided hardening against Sudh Hafiz.

But that the Persian had been the means of bringing him to Lorna, Don would have felt an even deeper resentment against hkn. He was, in fact, at the parting of the ways. Either he had to swallow everything that Sudh Hafiz had told him, or else he must reject the supernatural element in toto. And, like most men in his position, he chose the latter course.

He succeeded in convincing himself,

before morning, that the picture he had seen on the radio was the result of an overwrought brain, that the year of brooding over Lorna, and the shock of reading of her father’s execution, must have produced visual hallucinations.

But he was sane enough now, he told himself, as he looked from the window of his bedroom at the street, with its bright lights, and the winking electric signs in the amusement district a few blocks away.

Sane enough to make his plans. These centered, for the present, exclusively about Lorna. To hunt down the men who had sent Lemuel West to his death, and clear her name — ^that was secondary, but first he resolved to get Lorna out of an environment which, he was convinced, was retarding her recovery. He did not altogether trust Godfrey Moore, and he did not believe that Lorna was getting the right sort of treatment in his home.

He determined to go out again in the morning and see Lorna, and ask her to become his wife. She had promised to marry him as soon as he returned from Qiina. Even if she was mentally ill, who had a stronger right than he to undertake the task of caring for her?

With which resolution, Don lit a pipe and waited for the coming of dawn.

It came at last, and Don had a good hot bath, shaved, and dressed. He was feeling pretty fit, in spite of the night’s experiences. He was about to go down to breakfast when his telephone rang.

"’This is Godfrey Moore,” came the voice. "How are you after last night’s distressing experience, Wentworth?”

"I’m feeling about as well as could be expected,” answered Don.

"'That’s good. Well, I’m phoning you about Lorna. I’m sorry to say she’s had rather a bad relapse. In fact, I had my physician out here soon after you left, and he thinks she should be removed to



some institution where Ae can have complete rest.”

"When do you propose to move her?” queried Don.

'Tve already engaged a room for her at the State Institution for the Insane,” came Moore’s voice in bland tones.

Don was horrified. "A public institution?” he demanded.

“Yes, and an excellent one. I am c«ie of the governing body.”

"I’d like to see her — and you — first.”

"By all means, my dear fellow. Come out as soon as you like; in fact, the sooner the better. I’ve already arranged for a nurse to come out here and take her away on the afternoon train.”

A ll Don’s resentment against Sudli 1. Hafiz had disappeared with this conversation. His fears for Lorna rose paramount. He snatched a mouthful of breakfast and hurried round to the Persian’s house, where he found Sudh Hafiz smoking a cigarette over the morning paper. Something in the man’s manner indicated to Don that he had been awaiting him.

Don recounted the telephone conversation. "I can’t imderstand it,” he said. "Apparently he proposes to wash his hands of her, since he’s sending her to a public institution. Of course I won’t tolerate It. I’ve got a few thousand put by, and I’m going right out to ask her to marry me. Do you think I’ll have any trouble with Moore?”

"I should say not the slightest,” answered Sudh Hafiz. "In fact, I think he was just baiting a hook to get you to do exactly that.”

"You mean you think he wants me to marry her?” asked Don.

"I think he wants to get her — and you — out of his immediate course. Godfrey Moore is playing a shrewd game, and like

all the best strategists, he doesn’t believe in taking on too many adversaries at once.”

"I’m going right out there. I remembered your kind offer of a car. By the way, you seemed to anticipate my receiving an important telephone call.”

"Yes,” smiled the Persian in his enigmatic way. Don knew it was useless to question him.

"1 may as well admit to you tlrat last night I ” he began.

"My dear sir, it is unnecessary to tell me that! You Westerners have not the Oriental faculty of keeping the face from expressing the thoughts. And you stiil believe that I am — ^may I say unhinged?”

"Frankly, I don’t know what I believe,” answered Don. "All I want is to get Lorna out of Godfrey Moore’s clutches.”

"And I don’t anticipate the slightest difficulty, as I was saying,” answered Hafiz. "I can start with you right away.”

'Three minutes later the two were again on the road running out toward the house. About half-way, however, a strange vehicle appeared among the trees, coming in their direction. It turned out to be a motor-hearse. Sudh Hafiz slowed down and signalled the driver to stop.

"You’ve got Mr. Moroni’s body inside?” he asked.

"Yep, got a call a coupla hours ago. ’The coroner was there and said there didn’t need to be no inquest since it was a case of heart disease. But say, I wouldn’t trust myself in that there ha’nted house at night for all the money in the world. I seen a feller killed by ha’nts once before, and he looked jest like Moroni — fleck of foam on his lips and all the horrors of hell in his eyes. Yep, and, between you and me, heart disease don’t leave finger-prints on the throat. But it ain’t my business, and I



ain’t interferin’. I’m jest tellin’ you, Mr. Halffish, because my wife goes to your temple.”

'Td keep it strictly to yourself, if I were you,” said. Sudh Hafiz, and the driver nodded and started the hearse again.

D on had queer premonitions of disaster long before the house came into sight, so that it was almost a shock to him to see it standing just as it had been on the night before. Hafiz drew up at the door, and rang the bell. But the peal, which could be heard within the house, elicited no answer. He rang again with like result, and looked at Don as if in perplexity.

"We’ve got to get in,” said Don, looking about him. He saw that one of the windows on the ground floor was not quite closed, and that a solid trunk of creeper tan upward past the sill. He set foot on it and quickly scrambled up, Sudh Hafiz following him.

It was only the work of a moment to push the window up and drop to the floor inside. The two found themselves k a pantry, with the kitchen leading ofl it. Tliey hurried through and saw the series of drawing-rooms in front of them.

A faint groaning became audible. Don ran through the blue velvet portieres. On the floor of the room in which they had sat the evening before lay Godfrey Moore. He was tightly trussed and gagged, but his eyes were open, and from the violent attempts to free himself that he was making, it did not seem that his injuries were very serious ones.

Don pulled out a pocket-knife and slashed the gag over his mouth, and Godfrey Moore instantly became violently vocal.

"Where’s Loma?” cried Don.

’’Gone!” spluttered Godfrey. "He took

her with him, that poor insane girl. He most have been mad himself to dare attempt this outrage!”

"Who?”

"WTio? Gu 6 Walstein, the political boss of Cannonville, and one of Lemuel West’s most intimate associates. I’ll show him who’s got more power here. I’ll ”

"Where has he taken her? What does he mean to do with her?” cried Don, while Sudh Hafiz took the pocket-knife from his hand and began cutting at th'e table<over which, ripped into strips, had been used to truss up Moore very efficiently. "Tell me what happened, quick!”

"Gus Walstein came here about an hour ago. He’d heard of Moroni’s sudden death last night, and he believed Moroni had been carrying certain papers that would implicate Walstein in the murder of Captain Morse, and that I’d got hold of them. He knows I’ve been at work ever since the trial trying to bring Gus Walstein to justice. I know his was the guiding hand behind that murder,” continued Moore, his old glibness of speech rapidly returning to him.

"He came here just after the coroner and the hearse-driver had left. Mu^ have been waiting for them to go. He threatened me with death unless I gave those papers. I told him I’d ^en no papers from Moroni, and that I wouldn’t give them up if I had. Then he struck me over the head with some blunt instrument, and half stunned me.”

Don glanced at Godfrey Moore’s head, but saw no signs of any contusions; still that proved nothing.

"Tell me about Lorna,” he said, trying to keep his voice steady.

"She came into the room half -dazed. I was barely conscious, and Walstein was going through my pockets. He seemed desperate, and when he saw her, I tblok



he got some sort of idea that she knew where the papers were, or else he may have thought he was holding her as a hostage, or to prevent her giving evidence that he had attacked me. He may have thought I was dead, and, anyway, he was not in the frame of mind to reason.

"He took her away with him, and she made no resistance. Poor girl, she’s been little more than an automaton since that unfortunate aflfair last night.’’

"Where’s his place, his home, his hangout?” shouted Don.

"You won’t find him in any of those places. But I can guess where he’s gone. Mike Moroni had a place at the head of the creek, an old trapper’s cabin in the marshes that he rebuilt and used in his rum-running operations. I think he’s gone there to ransack it.”

"I know it,” said Sudh Hafiz.

"But it’s no use following him there. Walstein’s desperate. More than likely he’s brought some of his gang with him. 'They’ll shoot without hesitation.”

By this time Sudh Hafiz had got Godfrey Moore free of his bonds. The millionaire got up stiffly, rubbing his head. "I’ll ’phone the police,” he said, "and have the place surrounded. ’They’ll be out here in a couple of hours at most ”

"I think not,” answered Don decisively. "I’m going to get Loma, and every minute is important.”

"If you could save her, poor girl! The nurse will be out here for her this afternoon. It will be a terrible weight off my mind if I can turn her over to her unharmed.”

"Loma is not going to be turned over to any nurse, or sent to any institution,” said Don, speaking as calmly as he could. "We’ve been engaged nearly two years, and she promised to marry me as soon as I returned from Qiina. If I am fortunate

enough to get her out of Gus Walstein’s clutches, Tm going to take her straight into Guinonville and marry her.”

Godfrey Moore’s eyes lit up. "You mean that, Wentworth?” he cried eagerly.

"You don’t intend to offer any objection?”

"Not the least in the world. It will be the only possible solution of the problem about her, for I have felt my own responsibilities very keenly. I congratulate you on your fine sense of honor, Wentworth.”

"I love her,” answered Don simply, but thawing under Moore’s praise, despite his suspicions of the man, which had been growing steadily.

"But let me ’phone the police anyway,” persisted the millionaire. "You are running up against a desperate gang — two gangs, Walstein’s and Moroni’s. No? But are you armed? I have a revolver in my desk which Walstein overlooked.”

He crossed the room and, pressing a secret spring somewhere in the large mahogany desk, opened a drawer and took out a handy-looking forty-five revolver, which he placed in Don’s hands.

"It’s loaded in every chamber,” he said. "I wish you better luck than I had with Walstein. I shall await the first news from you with the greatest anxiety.”

“T T IS only about four miles from here,” • 1 - said Sudh Hafiz, as they got into the car. "But this road ends a mile farther on, and we shall probably have to walk. There is only a trail along the shore. Don’t be alarmed for her, Wentworth. Of course you see now that the whole business was a fake?”

"I got the idea that Moore tied himself up, or had some one tie him up deliberately,” answered Don. "But I don’t yet see ”



"More than that. Moore sent Loma West with Walstein, and she accompanied him because, as Moore said, she was in a condition of automatism. Walstein was the dupe. Moore sent her under some pretext that would be very acceptable to Walstein, who appreciates the company of a pretty woman. But he won’t dare harm her. Just keep cool, and we’ll save her. I think I Imow which way Moore’s mind is working. Only keep cool, Wentworth — remember last night and keep cool, whatever happens.”

"But what was Moore’s purpose?”

"Walstein,” replied the Persian, "is the second of the trio whom Moore has marked for death, and only a miracle can save him now. Certainly I could not if I would, for the forces that Godfrey Moore has set in motion can not be stayed.”

There was an intense solemnity in the Persian’s manner of speaking that almost convinced Don in spite of himself.

"You mean that Loma is taking Walstein to his death?” he asked.

"Yes, but not consciously. She is a mere agent of the Evil Powers.”

"Once I get her in my hands, I’ll never let her go again,” said Don. "All this is enigmatic to me. How many men do you suppose we shall meet at Moroni’s place?”

"It makes no difference; you shall get Loma West back unharmed if you will be guided by me,” answered Sudh Hafiz.

Don sat beside him in silence. It was impossible to believe in Sudh Hafiz’s prophecies, and yet they had an uncanny knack of being fulfilled. He took refuge from bis doubts in thoughts of Loma. To save her, make her his wife, restore her reason — that was all that mattered hnmediately, and the rest could wait.

"Will you tell me why you think Moore told us where Walstein was to be

found, and why he gave me this gun?” he asked suddenly.

Sudh Hafiz shrugged bis shoulders. "He knows you are to be his most powerful enemy,” he answered. "Therefore, to send you against Walstein, and to send you armed, is a mere matter of poUcy. If either of you kills the other, be is that much better off. There is nothing deep or esoteric in that.”

The end of the concrete road came suddenly into view. Beyond it was a mere track, winding along the shore, an impassable muddy trail, so far as the car was concerned. There was a circle of conaete for turning on, and Sudh Hafiz rounded it and parked the machine fadng in the direction of Ginnonville.

"We’re in for a brisk walk — ^and a brisk shower, I think,” he said, glancing up at the sky.

T he mud was ankle-deep. After they had proceeded a hundred yards or 80 Don stopped suddenly. "Walstein never brought Lorna this way this morning,” he said. "There arc no footprints in front of us. Besides, where did he leave his car?”

"We passed his car returning to Cannonville just after leaving,” answered the Persian. "It was empty, save for the driver. Evidently he sent it back. 'Therefore he must have gone to Moroni’s place in Godfrey Moore’s gasoline launch, which, as a matter of fact, I did not sec in its usual place on the sea-front,” he concluded, smiling. "Forgive me, Wentworth, but I saw no reason to trouble you with all these details. We’ll find them at Moroni’s place. I hope they’re there by now, for the girl’s sak^ for this lodb more like a storm than a.shower,” he added.

As he spoke, the whips of the rain began to lash them. An immense dark thun252


dercloud rolled muttering overhead- The stinging rain became almost a cloudburst, and it grew steadily in violence. In a few moments Don and Hafiz were soaked to the skin.

The wind roared from the sea, driving it in great breakers upon the flats, and sending showers of drenching spray across the road, which here ran close to the water’s edge. The two men shivered as they trudged through the muddy swamp. It was almost as dark as midnight.

*'I hope they’ve not been caught out at sea in this storm,” said Don.

"The sea hasn’t had time to grow tough yet,” answered Sudh Hafiz. "And there’s the creek,” he added, pointing to an inlet beyond a headland.

'They ascended it steadily, the wind growing worse as they advanced. At the top they were hardly able to keep their feet, so violent was the gale. But the darkness was slowly dissipating, and, looking down, they could see the cabin at the head of the creek, which was filled with dark, churning, oily water, and the motor-launch drawn up beside it, as well as a larger vessel, evidently used by Moroni in his rum-running expeditions.

A trail led down from the headland toward the cabin? which was fringed at the rear with a repulsive-looking low scrub.

"I think we’d best keep under cover of that,” said Don, pointing. "No need to advertise our approach, and it’s getting light.”

Sudh Hafiz agreed. They left the trail and made their way toward the cabin by a circuitous route among the great boulders that studded the sides of the headland. In a little while they had reached the scrub, and found a trail running through it in the direction of the cabin. The darkness had now become a sort of

twilight; the violence of the storm had ceased, but the rain still fell in sheets.

A light was shining through the single window in the rear of the cabin, as if from a candle. There was a rear door, too, and silhouetted against the panes, the two could see the shadows of men — several men, who seemed to be gesticulating violently.

Creeping out of the scrub up to the rear door, Don and Sudh Hafiz stood, the former fingering the revolver that Godfrey Moore had given him. Through the ill-fitting door they could hear every word that was spoken within.

"You leave the girl alone,” rumbled a man’s bass voice. "Dummy.? Yeah, and she ain’t pretendin’, neither. Godfrey said for to take her down into the basement and she’ll maybe git a spark of reason there, seein’ she follered Moroni there that night to try to git him to save her dad. That’s what drove her bughouse. Godfrey says it’s the only chance to git her to remember what she knows, to put her in the same place as where she got the shock.”

"Shock? How come shock?” asked another voice with a sneer.

"Wasn’t it a shock to the girl when she caught Moroni sortin’ out his papers, and he refused to help save her dad’s life? He’d have killed her then and there if Godfrey hadn’t been trailin’ him. ’That’s what Godfrey told me anyways, but he’s a slick liar. However, we’re goin’ to search this basement from end to end.”

"And s’posin’ we say you ain’t?” asked a third voice. "Unless you come across with a coupla grand each.”

’The answer came in an inaudible snarl. Don knew that this speaker must be Walstein, and whatever he said, it seemed to beat down the other’s opposition eflFectively, for the reply came in a grudging whisper of assent 'There seemed to be



four men within the cabin, two of them apparently Walstein and one of his aides from town, while the two others were evidently part of Moroni’s crew of rumrunners.

"Smart idea of Moroni’s, diggin’ this basement for his stock,’’ came Walstein’s voice. "Nobody’ d guess there was a concrete foundation under this mud. Customs guys wouldn’t find it in a score of years.’’

’The candle flickered. Walstein’s steps could be heard as he moved about inside the hut, and he was evidently carrying the candle, for it changed its position as he moved.

"See there, Benny," he said to his assistant. "Now who in hell would guess there was a flight of steps behind this plank.? Moroni had a head on him. Pity he croaked last night.”

"Croaked.?” grinned the other. "You’re woozy, Mr. Walstein. "Croaked? Yeah, but who croaked him? ’That Godfrey Moore is a damn sight too slick for my taste. Why didn’t he come with us? You took his word for it that there wasn’t no papers on Moroni. It’s my belief he croaked him somehow, and he’s gettin’ away with the goods.”

"Listen,” growled Walstein, "Godfrey knows if anything happened to me I got evidence enough to put him where West went. Savvy? He wouldn’t have sent me here on a fool’s errand imless he was aimin’ to croak me. And who’s goin’ to croak me here? 'Them two bums over there? Hey, you two, get down the stairs, and we’ll follow you, and if you got any fancy stunts roamin’ round in your heads, fergit them!”

'The voices faded, as if the four were going down into the basement. When all was silent, Don put his hand on the door. But Sudh Hafiz stopped him.

"Take care,” he whispered. ”1 do not

like this. I can not rely on ambuscades, or my powers go. I do not know — it is all misty ”

Don, without answering him, opened the door quietly and stepped inside. It was all dark, and his first impression was that the upper floor of the cabin was empty.

’Then a step sounded close beside him, and, as he whirled, a figure leaped at him out of the darkness. He felt the violent impact of some weapon upon his head. He tried to raise his revolver, but his hand was powerless,,and he went plunging down into darkness.

H ow long Don was out he bad no idea, but it could not have been veiy long. He came back to himself with a racking pain in his head, to find himself tied up with ropes, and seated in a comer of a cellar. Not far away was Sudh Hafiz, similarly tied. Four men were in the cellar, two of whom were searching among a heap of papers at the foot of an overturned desk, by the light of the candle. The two others were lounging sullenly near.

And then Don saw Loma. She was seated in a chair, unbound, her ej'es staring in front of her, as lifeless as if she had been a waxen figure.

"So you’re snappin’ out of it, huh?” asked one of the two loungers, speaking with an Italian accent, and coming up to Don.

It was easy to distinguish the two as the late Moroni’s assistants, while Walstein was self-evident in the burly form in the flashy suit snarling over the papers. The man beside him was a flash city crook, evidently his aide. The farther end of the cellar was stocked with cases.

"Snappin’ out, are they?” jeered Walstein, rising and coming toward Don. "I reckon I know you, Mister Wentworth.



Snoopin’ on me, huh? Whadya expect to find? Who yuh workin’ for — Godfrey Moore? Or mebbe you heard your broad had taken a fancy to me and come here with me, huh?”

He kicked Don savagely in the side with his heavy shoe, and shook his fist in Don’s face.

"Listen, bo! You and the dago parson have got just about half an hour to live. I’m holdin’ you till I’ve gone through Moroni’s papers, in case I’m goin’ to need you. But don’t bank on diat. Moroni’s dead, and this place is goin’ to be your tomb. And these two fellers are goin' to help croak you, so there won’t be no one to give evidence. And that goes for you, too,” he said, kicking Sudh Hafiz in the ribs.

"Don’t be too sure, Mr. Walstein,” answered the Persian in an even voice. "Sometimes the wisest of us are mistaken.”

Walstein raised his foot again with an oath, looked into Sudh Hafiz’s face, and set it down again. Cursing, he turned away.

"Let's get this business over, Benny,” he said to his assistant. "Gimme a drink, some one!”

One of the two rum-runners ran to an open case and pulled out a bottle. He dexterously knocked off the glass rim at the top without uncorking it, and handed it to Walstein, who took a deep drink. Each of the others drank in turn, the last emptying the bottle and flinging it against the wall, breaking it in pieces. Walstein and Benny resumed their task, while the two others, lounging by the wall, began to chatter in Italian.

'The little Eght of the candle Clarely illuminated the vault. Outside its periphery, all was shadow. Don, stating at Lofoa, could hardly see her face. She

seemed in a state of profound unconsdousnass.

He was quietly working at the ropes that bound him. Tight as they were, he had managed to relax them sufficiently to get his fingers about what seemed to be the main knot. But he was still partly paralyzed by the blow upon the head that he had received, and was perforce compelled to desist until he could gather a little more of his strength.

He sat there, trying to pull himself together. But suddenly a gasp came from his lips. Something was happening to Loma. Her face, her form, were growing misty.

ACRY of exultation broke from Walstein’s lips as, after looking through and tossing aside paper after paper, he held one close up to the candle-flame.

"Benny, I got something!” he shouted. "Here’s Godfrey Moore’s signature to that note to Abner Wells! 'That’ II hold the feller for a time!”

He laid the paper aside with two or three others that he had selected, and feU to work with renewed haste. But Don’s eyes were fixed on Lorna. A faint, lambent light was beginning to play about her features, a light that appeared to be invisible to the two Italians close beside her, for they were chattering to each other and glancing malevolently at Walstein and Benny, sorting the papers on the floor.

By that light Don could see, to his horror, a singular and fearful change proceeding. Lorna seemed to be awaking from her sleep or trance. But it was like the awaking of a dead person. It was like a corpse coming back to life.

Slowly her q^elids were unclosing. Slowly the vacant lo<^ of the features was vanishing. And slowly there came an exTHE PHANTOM HAND


presslon on the face. And, as on the night before in Moore’s drawing-room, a mask of hatred was spreading over the sweet countenance — a mask of such abominable hatred that Don shuddered at the sight of it. And again, as before, the features were slowly and in some inexplicable way taking on the lineaments of the face of Lemuel West, as Don remembered it!

It was the most terrific metamorphosis that Don had ever seen. It made him forget his bonds, his danger, and he could only crouch where he was and watch that awful change that was taking place in the woman he loved.

He believed now! He belie^'ed everything that Sudh Hafi2 had told him. In that moment all his preconceptions, all his materialism broke down in the light of sturuiing reality.

That look on Lorna’s face would have appalled the bravest man who ever lived. And yet none of the four seemed to see what was happening. They could not even see the steady blm'sh glow that threw the girl’s face into clear relief.

Only the Persian, Sudh Hafiz, saw it, and he conveyed this knowledge by the faintest gesture as he half turned his face toward Don’s for a moment.

But another change was taking place in Loma, for her outlines were growing momentarily more hazy. A swirling mist seemed to be enveloping her. It was coiling up from her face, from her body, eddying and revolving in front of her and above her, illumined by that same lambent light. And still none of the four was aware of it. It was incredible, but it was true.

The mist was thickening, condensing. It was gradually assuming the shape of a huge egg, swaying and rotating in front of the girl. The egg bisected into two

imequal parts. From the upper and lower part respectively there issued two projections that became ill-defined arms and legs.

'Hie mist was assiuning human form — it was becoming a man — the form of the dead man, Lemuel West!

Don bit his tongue to keep from crying out in his horror as the figure of West became momentarily more clearly defined. It faced Loma. Not flesh, and yet not phantom, but more phantom than flesh. A tenuous outline, a stealthy shadow that was gradually assuming personality, awaking to life as Lorna once more relapsed into trance, drawing upon her vitality to give itself fictitious existence.

Lorna’s face relaxed. It became placid, gentle. The look of hatred that she had worn was now transferring itself to the face of the phantom. 'There stood Lemuel West, the very incarnation of evil passions, his hands clenched, his head lolling crookedly upon his shoulder. On Lorna’s face was now the waxen mask of sleep, or trance — or death. She had sunk ba^ into her chair.

Now Don could see what looked like a thick band of radiant light connecting the bodies of father and daughter. 'The phantom bobbed and swayed, and with each movement the cord seemed to be elongated. It was beginning to thin at the middle. It waned to the thinness of a hair. It snapped, and the phantom floated free.

Lemuel West st<x)d before his daughter. Don could see the glowing eyes of the phantom fixed on her pale face, and for just an instant the look of hatred seemed to change to one of pity or love. And in that moment the phantom’s outlines seemed to shrink, and Loma stirred and faintly smiled.

But the next moment Lemuel West



stood there again, the same lodk of hate upon his face, and Lorna had subsided into her death-like trance once more.

Lemuel West turned slowly in the direction of the two men who were sorting papers upon the floor. At that moment Gus Waktein raised his head, locked straight at the phantom — and saw nothing.

"Well, we’re almost through. Hey, you two dagoes, bring some more drink!’’ he shouted drunkenly.

One of the two Italians began moving toward the broken case that contained the whisky-bottles. He toc^ another bottle «)d brought it badk to Walstein. And he walked straight through the phantom and never saw it!

G us WAtsTEiN raised the bottle to his lips, tilted back his head, and todc a tong drink. He handed it to Benny.

"Well, we ain’t got all we want, but we got something,’’ he shouted. "Le’s go through this last pile, and then we’ll fix drem two butters-in here!’’

He reeled, and again squatted down on the floor, sorting the last batch of Moroni’s papers by the light of the candle.

It was burning low, and the long, redtipped wick sent up a wavering flame and a stench of grease. *It broke off, leaving only a tiny fragment in the tallow, to which the little flame clung, trying to reestablish itself. 'The cellar was almost dark.

Don saw the two Italians looking malevolently At Walstein and his companion. He saw ffie specter raise its hand and point toward them. One of the two men raised his head, and his hand dropped to his belt.

Waktein cursed at the darkness. Still neither he nor any of the others seemed aware rff the shadow flitting to and fro

between them, like a bobbin on a loom, as if weaving some fearful net that was to entrap them. Yet it had come into clea.ter relief against the darkness, as if it were darker than the darkness.

And now, straining his horrified eyes, Don watched Lemuel West gaining strength and power. At first he bad crouched and swayed, like a man seeking to gain his foothold. Then a succession of tremors had run through the shadowy form, and all at once it had grown vigorous, vital, gprilla-like. And Loma’s body had become still more shrunken, until she looked like a child — like the waxen effigy of a child.

Lemuel West was advancing toward Walstein with clenched fists. Now he was standing immediately behind him, one arm upraked. Walstein looked up.

"Well, that finishes the pile, Benny,’’ he said. "Br-r-r, it’s cold here!”

The arm fell. Walstein yelped, staggered to his feet, and stood swaying and clutching at bis heart.

"They got me^ Benny!” he yelled. "Get them, the s!”

Quick as a flash the man Benny whirled, gun in hand. ’The roar of the discharge followed, and one of the two Italians screeched and stumbled forward, recovered himself, and whipped out a knife. He and his companion flung themselves upon Benny.

Walstein had got a gun from his pocket. He fired, but the bullet went wild, and the next moment the four were engaged in a desperate mel6e, while behind them stood the phantom, arm still upraised, a leer upon its shadowy face.

Yelling and cursing, the four struggled to and fro, a murder-knot that twined and unfastened, disclosing knives that flashed in the candle-light and guns that roared and sent up coils of aaid smoke.

W. T.— 7



Benny’s gun spoke three times in quick succession, and one of the Italians dropped, half his face blown away. But the next instant his companion’s knife flashed, and Benny dropped, a fearful, gaping wound in his chest.

Moaning like a wounded dog, he rolled over and over until he came to rest at Don’s feet. He looked up at him, his features twisted in a spasm of fearful, baffling hate and fear, and died.

Walstein and the second Italian were locked in a death struggle, each trying to get a grip on the other’s hand, and both bleeding from half a dozen wounds. Don saw Wdstein wrench his hand free, place the revolver to the Italian’s head, and pull the trigger. But the hammer fell on an empty cartridge, and the next moment the Italian’s knife went home.

Shrieking like a fiend, Walstein poised his great bulk, seized the Italian in his arms, ignoring the flashing knife whicli struck home again and again, and, with the exercise of all his strength, he broke the man in two, raised him, and hurled the limp, quivering body against the wall. It fell thudding to the floor, neck and back broken.

Walstein stood rocking like a giant tree about to fall, the blood streaming down his body. And suddenly he seemed to grow aware of the mocking, leering shadow that stood behind him.

He turned. 'The dead man and the dying one glared into each other’s eyes. A yell of horror broke from Walstein’s lips.

"You?” he shrieked. "You — you — you?”

The phantom’s lips parted, and it seemed to Don as if there passed from them some message that he could not hear. Walstein’s eyes grew lurid with horror, then filmed, and with a crash the W. T.— 8

boss of Cannonville dropped dead among the three dead men.

All the while Don had been working intermittently at his bonds. Now he felt the knot begin to loosen in his fingers. And suddenly, inexplicably, he was free. He staggered to his feet. His head was reeling, and he could only faintly see the outlines of the phantom in the flickering candle-light.

But he saw it turn toward him with hate-distorted face, and raise its arm. 'Then of a sudden the arm dropped, and the next moment Lemuel West was no longer there, but the swirl of mist was again coiling about Loma’s body.

And Lorna seemed to be growing larger. She looked more life-like, too. Her features were no longer a waxen effigy, and she stirred and sighed.

D on staggered to the side of Sudh Hafiz. The Persian looked up at him impassively. Don tried to find ffle knot in the cord that bound him, but to his amazement saw that he was free.

Sudh Hafiz smiled and rose to his feet. He put out one hand and caught Don as he swayed.

"I would have saved them,” he said, "but it would have meant to reverse the inexorable workings of divine retribution. You believe in me now, Wentworth? You’ll work with me to save Lorna, and to stamp out this nest of deviltry?”

"I’ll work with you to the end,” Don answered. And he staggered toward Lorna and gathered her into his arms.

She was awake. She sat up in her chair. She looked at him, but there was no recognition in her eyes, which only stai^ blankly before her.

"Don’t you know me, dear?” aked Don. "I’ve come to take you away.”

She rose to her feet ol^diently, but no



word came from her lips. Suddenly an exclamation broke from Sudh Hafiz.

"Take care, Wentworth!” he cried. "Face them! Walk backward to the door! Don’t let them get behind you, and they’ll be powerless!”

Don swung about. By the faint light of the candle he could see four swirling shapes slowly materializing above the bodies of the four dead men.

"Three of them seemed to hover uncertainly, as if unable to take form, but the fourth had already assumed Walstein’s outlines, and was crouching with clenched fists, as if about to strike, while the lips were drawn back in a bestial snarl.

Suddenly the thing leaped, and Don felt as if he had been plunged into an icy bath. He struck at it, and his fist passed through the phantom.

He whirled as it tried to leap behind him. Somehow he knew that if it could strike from behind he would be dead in a moment. He saw Sudh Hafiz at his side. He lifted Lorna in his arms. Step by step they fought their way backward until they reached the cellar entrance. Backing to the stairs, the Persian shut the door upon the interior.

"Now make for the open, Wentworth,” he shouted.

«

A few moments later Don set Lorna down outside the cabin and tried to pull himself together.

I T MUST have been hardly later than noon, but the same strange, dim twilight hung over land and sea, and sulfurous, yellow clouds were heavy in the sky. Sudh Hafiz came up to Don.

'We’re safe for the present,” he said. "That was a shrewd stroke of Moore’s, but it had small chance of success. Walstein’s hate might have enabled him to strike home, had he had a little experience, but you can’t expect a man to be

able to kill within a few minutes after his death.

"I told you,” he added, seeing Don didn’t understand, "that Moore had trained West’s double so that it was able to travel at will, to obey his commands, and even to kill Captain Morse with a blow? By the aid of the same infernal power he was able to control Walstein’s phantom after his death, but Walstein had neither the strength nor the knowledge. We shall meet him again. A dead man is more potent for evil than a living one. Where are you thinking of taking Lorna?”

"Anywhere away from here,” said Don.

"You’d better bring her to my house for the present. Don’t be alarmed at her condition. Once we’ve destroyed that viper’s nest, I think she’ll be her old self again.” He pointed to the boat. "We can pull round the shore to the car,” he said, "and be in Cannonville in a couple of hours.”

"Suppose Moore has taken our car?”

Sudh Hafiz smiled. "He doesn’t work that way. He’s thrown the dice, and won — and lost. Won, because he got rid of Walstein. Lost, because I have the papers Walstein had sorted out, and Moore, who was an interested spectator of the whole proceedings, knows that the issues are now fairly joined between us.”

"Moore — saw?”

"Yes, that was not difficidt in his Akashic Mirror, which shows past, present, and a short way into the future. Of w'hich more later. Now, Wentworth, the first thing necessary is to get this girl to my house, and then we’ll plan our course of action.”

Using the dead Lemuel West as his tool. Godfrey Moore has now rid himself of two of his confederates in crime. Will the third. Abner Wells, share

[THE END]

============================================================
by Whitehead
============================================================
their fate? Can Sudh Haflz succeed in winning I^muel West to his side, so as to destroy Moore? Do n't m iss the next Installment. Order your copy of WSIEO TATARS from your dealer now.

o Eye-Witnesses

By HENRY S. WHITEHEAD

Bverard Simon had a weird experience in Platbush when his shoes were caked with blood and forest mold from the slaying of ferry the Wolf

HERE were blood stains on Everard Simon’s shoes....

Simon’s father had given up his country house in Rye when his wife died, and moved into an apartment in Flatbush among the rising apartment houses which were steadily replacing the original rural atmosphere of that residential section of swelling Brooklyn.

Blood stains— and forest mold — on his shoes!

The younger Simon — ^he was thirtyseven, his father getting on toward seventy — always spent his winters in the West Indies, returning in the spring, going back again in October. He was a popular writer of informative magazine articles. As soon as his various visits for week-ends and odd days were concluded, he would move his trunks into the Flatbush apartment and spend a week or two, sometimes longer, with his father. There was a room for him in the apartment, and this he would occupy i til it was time for him to leave for his ‘"immer camp in the Adirondacks. Early in September he would repeat the process, always ending his autumn stay in the United States with his father until it was time to sail back to St. Thomas or Martinique or wherever he imagined he could write best for that particular winter.

’lliere was only one drawback in this arrangement. This was the long ride in the subway necessitated by his dropping in to his New York club every day. The

Copyright, 1982. by

dub was his real American headquarters. 'There he received his mail. There he usually lunched and often dined as well. It was at the club that he received his visitors and his telephone calls. The dub was on Forty-Fourth Street, and to get there from the apartment he walked to the Church Avenue subway station, changed at De Kalb Avenue, and then took a Times Square express train over the Manhattan Bridge. 'Die time consumed between the door of the apartment and the door of the club was exadly threequarters of an hour, barring delays. For the older man the arrangement was ideal. He could be in his office, he boasted, in twenty minutes.

To avoid the annoyances of rush hours in the subway, Mr. Simon senior commonly left home quite early in the morning, about seven o’clock. He was a methodical person, always leaving before seven in the morning, and getting his breakfast in a downtown restaurant neat the office. Everard Simon rarely left the apartment until after nine, thus avoiding the morning rush-hour at its other end. During the five or six weeks every year that they lived together the two men really saw little of each other, although strong bonds of understanding, affection, and respect bound them together. Sometimes the older man would awaken his son early in the morning for a brief conversation. Occasionally the two would have a meal together, evenings, or on Sundays; now and then an evening would be spent Henry 3. Whitehead. 259,



in each other’s company. They had little to converse about. During the day they would sometimes call each other up and speak together briefly on the telephone from club to office or office to club. On the day when Everard Simon sailed south, his father and he always took a farewell luncheon together somewhere downtown. On the day of his return seven months later, his father always made it a point to meet him at the dock. These arrangements had prevailed for eleven years. He must get that blood wiped off. Blood! How?

During that period, the neighborhood of the apartment had changed out of all recognition. Open lots, commimity tenniscourts, and many of the older one-family houses had disappeared, to be replaced by the ubiquitous apartment houses. In 1928 the neighborhood which had been almost rural when the older Simon had taken up his abode "twenty minutes from his Wall Street office” was solidly built up except for an occasional, and now incongruous, frame house standing lonely and dwarfed in its own grounds among the towering apartment houses, like a lost child in a preoccupied crowd of adults whose business caused them to look over the child’s head.

ONE evening, not long before the end of his autumn sojourn in Flatbush, Everard Simon, having dined alone in his club, started for the Times Square subway station about a quarter before nine. Doubled together lengthwise, and pressing the pocket of his coat out of shape, was a magazine, out that day, which contained one of his articles. He stepped on board a waiting Sea Beach express train, in the rearmost car, sat down, and opened the magazine, looking down the table of contents to find his article. The train started after the ringing of the warning

bell and the automatic closing of the side doors, while he was putting on his reading-spectacles. He began on the article.

He was dimly conscious of the slight bustle of incoming passengers at Broadway and Canal Street, and again when the train ran out on the Manhattan Bridge because of the change in the light, but his closing of the magazine with a pagecorner turned down, and the replacing of the spectacles in his inside po^et when the train drew in to De Kalb Avenue, were almost entirely mechanical. He could make that change almost without thought. He had to cross the platform here at De Kalb Avenue, get into a Brighton Beach local train. The Brighton Beach expresses ran only in rush hours and he almost never travelled during those periods.

He got into his train, found a seat, and resumed his reading. He paid no attention to the stations — Atlantic and Seventh Avenues. The next stop after that. Prospect Park, would give him one of his mechanical signals, like coming out on the bridge. 'The train emerged from its tunnel at Prospect Park, only to re-enter it again at Parkside Avenue, the next following station. After that came Church Avenue, where he got out every evening.

As the train drew in to that station, he repeated the mechanics of turning down a page in the magazine, replacing his spectacles in tljeir case, and putting the case in his inside pocke*-. His mind entirely on the article, he got up, left the train, walked back toward the Caton Avenue exit, started to mount the stairs.

A few moments later he was walking, his mind still entirely occupied with his article, in the long-familiar direction of his father’s apartment.

The first matter which reminded him of his surroundings was the contrast in his breathing after the somewhat stuffy air of the subway train. Consciously he



drew in a deep breath of the fresh, sweet outdoor air. There was a spiqr odor of wet leaves about it somehow. It seemed, as he noticed his environment with the edge of his mind, darker than usual. The crossing of Church and Caton Avenues was a brightly lighted corner. Possibly something was temporarily wrong with the lighting system. He looked up. Great trees nodded above his head. He could see the stars twinkling above their lofty tops. The sickle edge of a moon cut sharply against black branches moving gently in a fresh wind from the sea.

He walked on several steps before he paused, slackened his gait, then stopped dead, his mind responding in a note of quiet wonderment.

Great trees stood all about him. From some distance ahead a joyous song in a manly bass, slightly muffled by the wood of the thick trees, came to his ears. It was a song new to him. He found himself listening to it eagerly. The song was entirely strange to him, the words unfamiliar. He listened intently. The singer came nearer. He caught various words, English words. He distinguished "merry,” and "heart,” and "repine.”

It seemed entirely natural to be here, and yet, as he glanced down at his brown clothes, his highly polished shoes, felt the magazine bulging his pocket, the edge of his mind caught a note of incongruity. He remembered with a smile that strange drawing of Aubrey Beardsley’s, of a lady playing an upright cottage pianoforte in the midst of a field of daisies! He stood, he perceived, in a kind of rough path worn by long usage. The groimd was damp underfoot. Already his polished shoes were soiled with mold.

The singer came nearer and nearer. Obviously, as the fresh voice indicated, it was a young man. Just as the voice presaged that before many seconds the

singer must come out of the screening array of tree boles, Everard Simon was startled by a crashing, quite near by, at his right. The singer paused in the middle of a note, and for an instant there was a primeval silence undisturbed by the rustle of a single leaf.

Then a huge timber wolf burst through the underbrush to the right, paused, crouched, and sprang, in a direction diagonal to that in which Everard Simon was facing, toward the singer.

STARTLED into a frigid immobility, Simon stood as though petrified. He heard an exclamation, in the singer’s voice, a quick "heh”; then the sound of a struggle. The great wolf, apparently, had failed to knock down his quarry. Then without warning, the two figures, man and wolf, came into plain sight; the singer, for so Simon thought of him, a tall, robust fellow, in fringed deerskin, slashing desperately with a hunting-knife, the beast crouching now, snapping with a tearing motion of a great punishing jaw. Short-breathed "heh’s” came from the man, as he parried dexterously the lashing snaps of the wicked jaws.

The two, revolving about each other, came very close. Everard Simon watched the struggle, fascinated, motionless. Suddenly the animal shifted its tactics. It backed away stealthily, preparing for another spring. The young woodsman abruptly dropped his knife, reached for the great pistol which depended from his belt in a rough leather holster. 'There was a blinding flash, and the wolf slithered down, its legs giving under it. A great cloud of acrid smoke drifted about Everard Simon, cutting off his vision; choking smoke which made him cough.

But through it, he saw the look of horrified wonderment on the face of the young woodsman; saw the pistol drop on



the damp ground as the knife had dropped; followed with his eyes, through the dimming medium of the hanging smoke, the fascinated, round-eyed stare of the man who had fired the pistol.

There, a few feet away from him, he saw an eldritch change passing over the beast, shivering now in its death-struggle. He saw the hair of the great paws dissolve, the jaws shorten and shrink, the lithe body buckle and heave strangely. He closed his eyes, and when he opened them, he saw the figure in deerskins standing mutely over the body of a man, lying prone across tree-roots, a pool of blood spreading, spreading, from the concealed face, mingling with the damp earth under the tree-roots.

Then the strange spell of quiescence which had held him in its weird thrall was dissolved, and, moved by a nameless terror, he ran, wildly, straight down the narrow path between the trees....

I T SEEMED to him that he had been running only a short distance when something, the moon above the trees, perhaps, began to increase in size, to give a more brilliant light. He sladcened his pace. The ground now felt firm underfoot, no longer damp, slippery. Other lights joined that of the moon. Things became brighter all about him, and as this brilliance increased, the great trees all about him turned dim and pale. The ground was now quite hard underfoot. He looked up. A bridk wall faced him. It was pierced with windows. He looked down. He stood on pavement. Overhead a streetlight swung lightly in the late September breeze. A faint smell of wet leaves was in the air, mingled now with the fresh wind from the sea. The magazine was clutched tightly in his left hand. He had, it appeared, drawn it from his pocket. He looked at it ciuiously, put it back into the pocket.

He stepped along over familiar pavement, past well-known fagades. The entrance to his father’s apartment loomed before him. Mechanically he thrust his left hand into his trousers pcxket. He took out his key, opened the door, traversed the familiar hallway with its rugs and marble walls and bracket side-wall light-clusters. He moiuited the stairs, one flight, turned the comer, reached the door of the apartment, let himself in with his key.

It was half-past nine and his father had already retired. They talked through the old man’s bedroom door, monosyllabically. ’The conversation ended with the request from his father that he close the bedroom door. He did so, after wishing the old man good-night.

He sat down in an armchair in the living-room, passed a hand over his forehead, bemused. He sat for fifteen minutes. Then he reached into his pocket for a cigarette. They were all gone. Then he remembered that he had meant to buy a fresh supply on his way to the apartment. He had meant to get the cigarettes from the drug-store between the Church Avenue subway station and the apartment! He looked about the room for one. His father’s supply, too, seemed depl^d.

He rose, walked into the entry, put on his hat, stepped out again into the hallway, descended the one flight, went out into the street. He walked into an unwonted atmosphere of excitement. People were conversing as they passed, in excited tones; about the drug-store entrance a crowd was gathered. Slightly puzzled, he walked toward it, paused, blocked, on the outer edge.

"What’s happened?’’ he inquired of a young man whom he found standing just beside him, a little to the fore.

"It’s a shooting of some kind," the young man explained. "I only just got



here myself. The fellow that got bumped off is inside the drug-store, — what’s left of him. Some gang- war stuff, I guess.”

He walked away, skirting the rounded edge of the clustering aowd of curiositymongers, proceeded dovm the street, procured the cigarettes elsewhere. He passed the now enlarged crowd on the other side of the street on his way back, returned to the apartment, where he sat, smoking and thinking, until eleven, when he retired. Curious — a man shot; just at the time, or about the time, he had let that imagination of his get the better of him — those trees!

HIS father awakened him about five minutes before seven. The old man held a newspaper in his hand. He pointed to a scare-head on the front page.

"This must have happened about the time you came in,” remarked Mr. Simon.

"Yes — the crowd was around the drugstore when I went out to get some cigarettes,” replied Everard Simon, stretching and yawning.

When his father was gone and ^e had finished with his bath, he sat down, in a bathrobe, to glance over the newspaper account. A phrase arrested him:

"... the body was identified as that of the Wolf,’ a notorious gangster with a long prison record.” Then, lower down, when he had resumed his reading:

"... a large-caliber bullet which, entering the lower jaw, penetrated the base of the brain.... no eye-witnesses....”

Everard Simon sat for a long time after he had finished the account, the newspaper on the floor by his chair. "No eyewitnesses!” He must, really, keep that imagination of his within bounds, within his control.

Slowly and reflectively, this good resolution uppermost, be went back to the

bathroom and prepared for his morning shave.

Putting on his shoes, in his room, he observed something amiss. He picked up a shoe, examined it carefully. The soles of the shoes were caked with black mold, precisely like the mold from the woodpaths about his Adirondack camp. Little < withered leaves and dried pine-needles clung to the mold. And on the side of the right shoe were brownish stains, exactly like freshly dried bloodstains. He shuddered as he carried the shoes into the bathroom, wiped them- clean with a damp towel, then rinsed out the towel. He put them on, and shortly afterward, before he entered the subway to go over to the club for the day, he had them polished.

The bootblack spoke of the killing on that comer the night before. The bootblack noticed nothing amiss with the shoes, and when he had finished, there was no trace of any stains.

SIMON did not change at De Kalb Avenue that morning. An idea had occurred to him between Church Avenue and De Kalb, and he stayed on the Brighton local, secured a seat after the emptying process which took place at De Kalb, and went on through the East River tunnel.

He sent in his name to Forrest, a college acquaintance, now in the district attorney’s oflSce, and Forrest received him after a brief delay.

"I wanted to ask a detail about this gangster who was killed in Flatbush last night,” said Simon. "I suppose you have his record, haven’t you?”

"Yes, we know pretty well all about him. What particular thing did you want to know?”

"About his name,” replied Simon. "Why was he called ^h® Wolf —

that is, why "The Wolf particularly?”


• WEmD TALES

"That’s a very queer thing, Simon. Such a name is not, really, uncommon. There was that fellow, Goddard, you remember. They called him The Wolf of Wall Street.’ There was the fiction criminal known as 'The Lone Wolf.’ There have been plenty of 'wolves’ among criminal 'nHjnikers.’ But this fellow, Jerry Goraffsky, was a Hungarian, really. He was called 'The Wolf,’ queerly enough, because there were those in his gang who believed he was one of those birds who could change himself into a wolf! It’s a queer combination, isn’t it? — for a New York gangster?”

"Yes,” said Everard Simon, "it is, very queer, when you come to think of it. I’m much obliged to you for telling me. I was curious about it somehow.”

"That isn’t the only queer aspect of this case, however,” resiuned Forrest, a light frown suddenly showing on his keen face. "In fact that wolf-thing isn’t a part of the case — doesn’t concern us, of course, here in the district attorney’s office. That’s nothing but blah. Gangsters are as superstitious as sailors; more so, in fact!

"No. 'Hie real mystery in this affair is — the bullet, Simon. Want to see it?”

"Why — yes; of course — -if you like, Forrest. What’s.wrong with the bullet?”

Forrest stepped out of the room, returned at once, laid a large, round ball on

his dedr. Both men bent over it curiously.

"Notice that diameter, Simon,” said Forrest. "It’s a hand-molded round ball — belongs in a collection of curios, not in any gangster’s gat! Why, man, it’s lUce the slugs they used to hunt the bison before the old Sharps rifle was invented. It’s the kind of a ball Fenimore Cooper’s people used — 'Deerslayer!’ It would take a young cannon to throw that thing. Smashed in the whole front of Jerry’s ugly mug. The inside works of his head were spilled all over the sidewalk! It’s what the newspapers always call a 'clue.' Who do you suppose resurrected the horse-pistol — or the ship’s blunderbuss — to do that job on Jerry? Clever, in a way. Hooked it out of some dime museum, perhaps. There are still a few of those old 'pitches’ still operating, you know, at the old stand — along East Fourteenth Street.”

"A flintlock, single-shot horse-pistol, I’d imagine,” said Everard Simon, laying the ounce lead ball bade on the mahogany desk. He knew something of weapons, new and old. As a writer of informational articles that was part of his permanent equipment.


[THE END]

============================================================
OLD CLOTHES * JOHN D
by Whiting
============================================================
"Very likdy,” mused the assistant district attorney. "Glad you came in, dd man.”

And Everard Simon went on uptown to his dub.

(^Id Clothes

By JOHN D. WHITING

The old inventor learns the truth about life from his marvelous radio receiver

T he great inventor sank upon his couch, tired and rather depressed. There, before him, was the last and greatest child of his brain, a radio receiver many times more sensitive than any other in the world. But, after all, what was the use.^ Was the struggle worth while? He was an old man, worn out and sick and nearing the end. And when he was gone, fools, he reflected, would misuse his invention, perhaps to get some ungodly jazz from the far ends of the earth.

How still was the night! Not a breath stirred in the maple trees outside his windov/. And over them twinkled the stars, countless incredible proofs of a universe unbounded; a universe cruel as death, infinite, heartless, inhuman. The old man bowed his white head to shut out the stars.

Suddenly something began to come in on his marvelous receiver. Strange, he had tuned the thing so as to bar any ordinary wave length. All he had wanted was silence and rest. But here it was, faint as a breath but clear enough in the silence, a message in Morse:

"Dear Girl:

"I hope this will reach you at Saturn. I tuned it for Saturn, knowing that you must be on your way there. I’ve had a most.interesting trip — where do you suppose I’ve been? Why, you’d never guess: back to that quaint little spot we used to call 'the world.’ It was too funny for words and, still, rather pathetic. My dear.

I had forgotten how very primitive it was.

"The voyage down was really lovely, a calm brilliant night with the planets glowing like fire in -a velvet black sky. As we approached it the dear old 'world,* lit by the full summer sun, was a dazzling mirror of light touched with all the tints of the spectrum on its curtain of clouds. You know, I tliink that curtain is thinner than it was when we left. As I got into the mists, the radiation of light burst suddenly into a vast dome of dazzling blue, and the black sky with its millions of stars was blotted from sight. You remember the same effect when we came in to Venus?

“I couldn’t make out where I was at first, but there was a great stretch of land and I came down at once. Well, my dear, what do you think, it proved to be 'home,' that great field we used to call America — remember? — ^you called it the States’, I travelled all over the globe for twentyfour hours, refreshing my memory, Grace, on the old haunts that we knew. Do you remember dirty old London, and Paris, or Italy — my, it was lovely! — and the poor little Alps? It was all so natural, but so small and funny that I could have laughed and cried. Good heavens! people down there are still wearing the same old 'bodies’ that we used to wear. Do you remember them, dear? Why, they were heavy as lead. Two 'legs’, think of it, we used to go stalking along on those stilts; it’s a wonder that we didn’t fall. And




'bones’ to hold ’em together, great cumbersome bones; how did we ever stand it? They looked to me like ancient armor or some ungodly machine.

"But then, each time we get a new dress the old one seems funny like that. You must remember how, down on Venus, we had a good laugh at the queer old motor suits we had used while on Mars. And yet these poor earthworms, my dear, hang to their suits like grim death, as if, forsooth, life would be over when the machinery broke. It is pitiful — and funny. I can dimly remember my horror, down on that stodgy old 'world’, when I foimd my suit was wearing out. Oh, you may laugh, but it was really a terrible fear. And you must remember, yourself, how those old bodies hurt us when anything went wrong. They were so heavy that of course it was a terrible struggle to get out of them at all. How surprized the earthworms would be if they could know that today I had just slipped out of my suit to go up to Mars! It didn’t take five minutes.

"It might occur to the dears tliat their suits aren’t fit for changes. They don’t wear the same clothes for Alaska and the tropics. And yet they go along in their noisy airplanes trying to get up to Mars in bodies that are* suited to the 'world’. It is really very stupid. I saw some broken bodies, on earth, poor little huddles of clothes, so very like cast-off overcoats that one could hardly mistake them. How very blind we were! You remember how we used to put them into boxes and stick them underground while a. parson prayed before blubbering mourners in solemn black duds? Really, one might as well cry and say prayers over his last winter’s suit.

"But it was sad leaving old friends; I left some, on earth, that I’ve never seen again. We know now that, in those cas«,

they didn’t really care for us. It was pretty hard to read a person’s thought through all that camouflage; great masses of tallowy flesh, skulls, and, yes, even 'whiskers’. Do you remember the whiskers? I laughed aloud when I saw some on the suit of an earthworm. It was a clumsy suit worn by a man in that flat field we called 'Russia’. We used to think that the Russians were primitive; we, stalking stiffly aroimd, fighting and worrying over our money — ^poor little, greedy, blind fools.

"They still use money down there — isn’t it simply absurd? Of course their suits are so very hard to keep in condition tliat they need a lot of fuel, but, my dear, most of those earthworms have money to burn. They don’t spend half of it on the upkeep of their 'bodies’. You remember we used to buy savage ornaments, Grace, to hang upon our necks. And yet we would worry and scurry over the face of the 'world’ like a swarm of restless ants, searching for something to do. We were blind, absolutely blind....’’

WHEN the inventor’s daughter came in from a dance in the early hours of the morning, she found her father fast asleep on the couch beside his last invention. On his sunken, wrinkled face was a gentle smile of understanding.

"My, how peaceful he looks,’’ she thought, "like a happy child! Poor dad, he has worked too hard; he’s not long for this world. I wonder if that receiver of his is really any good. He won’t make much out of it anyway, I guess; he always gets cheated. Well, money doesn’t mean such a lot to him; he won’t need it very long. I hardly dare to wake him, he looks so unearthly, but he ought to get to bed. He’ll be awfully cramped, lying all night in his clothes.’’

Uhe

^Archfiend’s Fingers

By KIRK MASHBURN

]ohn Power blundered into a strange and weird adventure during the Mardi Gras carnivd in New Orleans

WHAT place this was into which he had stumbled, John Power neither knew nor cared. It was some shady cabaret; some dimly lighted dive of sinister shadows, perhaps near to the waterfront.

Slumped at a small table, he sensed little of what went on around him, remembered nothing of how he had become separated from his friends. It was carnival time, Mardi Gras Day in New Orleans. Vaguely, Power knew that he had celebrated too enthusiastically, had drunk too freely. There was a blank in his memory, and everything was rather more than hazy. He had no knowledge, even, that the thinning backwash of ^e carnival crowds no longer eddied in the street outside, had wearily dissolved in the early night.

Something of his surroundings obscurely troubled the bemused man. But it was too weighty and painful an effort to think. His head throbbed dully; nausea reached slyly, touched him with a tentative finger. It seemed that some one spoke, from across the table —

"Your pardon, sir. I have no wish to intrude, but you appear in need of something to lower your stomach, and raise your spirits.”

In blurred, indistinct outline. Power saw that there was indeed another person seated opposite him. The stranger laughed dryly, as though his indulgence might be tinged with faintly contemptuous amusement. He beckoned, spoke succinctly to

a none too clean waiter who answered the gesture.

A drink was brought, a palely green drink that shimmered in its glass, as if with flecks of gold in its depths. The stranger pressed the greenish drink upon the younger man with obdurate, if kindly guised insistence. Power groaned weakly, swallowed the virescent potion and nausea together; know*" he was shortly to be ill; hoping, with teeble malice, that he would be very unpleasantly ill. Then, perhaps, they would let him alone.

The draft stung his palate, seared his throat, struck his stomach like flowing fire. Amazingly, almost before he could gasp for breath, nausea vanished; the throbbing at his temples began to still, tire fog to lift from his wits.

"Ah, that is better! Is it not?” The stranger nodded, smiled easily. Power looked across at him with mixed emotions, in which some trace of resentment lingered.

He took in the dark, saturnine countenance, about which there was something familiar — ^vaguely and disturbing]^ familiar. Somewhere, he thought, he had seen that high forehead; the whisper of memory strove to identify that arrogant, narrow-bridged nose, the oddly arched brows and the thin-lipped mouth that presently wore a smile of tolerant amusement.

Only the eyes were unfamiliar. John Power felt that he had seen the face without having looked into the dark, glittering eyes: his memory could not otherwise




have escaped some record of their chill fascination. It was as if he remembered a picture of the face, rather than the living countenance.

"I feel better,” Power belatedly acknowledged. "That is — I don’t feel ill, nor stupid, as I did. But” — he brushed a hand uncertainly across his eyes — "I don’t know ”

The stranger — he made no move to identify himself; nor, strangely, did the thought occur to Power — the stranger laughed again. His was an enfolding laugh, a laugh of comprehension. It was as if he knew and understood all the insidious perplexities of mankind — and was glad of mankind’s human frailty.

The waiter brou' r ' more of the green drinks. The stranger talked to Power while they were coming, and the latter listened. They drank often, always the green drinks; but Power had never felt more alive, his mind had never before seemed quite so active. Occasionally the stranger passed him cigarettes, apparently of tobacco in which the blending gave a peculiar distinctive taste that was not, however, displeasing at the moment.

At length the bracing effect Power had experienced with the first draft of the green liquor began to wear off. His head was resuming its tlirobbing, and thinking was again an effort. A feeling of uneasiness assailed him with recurring insistence. He sensed something disturbing in his surroundings; something that included his unknown yet oddly familiar table companion.

H e decided to go while the effort was still possible — wondered that he had not taken his leave after that revitalizing first drink. With difficulty, he gained his feet, hastened by a sudden, rising impulse of dread: instinctive, insinuating dread, that came unsummoned and unexplained.

"Surely you will not leave so early?”

It was the stranger who spoke; but the simple question seemed, to Power’s tortured fancy, fraught with irony and all the weight of a command. Giddily he sought to focus his thoughts. Thickly he repeated his intention of departing; thinking that, despite himself, he spoke so low that his words were almost whispered. Then he wondered whether, instead, he had shouted: every one in the place appeared to have centered attention suddenly in his direction.

As Power peered about him, each face among those present flared into startling distinctness — and what faces they were! There were nightmare visages of horror; grotesque, distorted faces that worked with slavering malice as they approached.... ( God! What place was this into which he had blundered?) There were other faces, pale with the pallor of death, set masks of wo and utter, horrible despair.

One fantastic shape detached itself and came forward, apart from its fellows. It wore a Spanish helmet and breastplate ol antique design, and was shod in high Spanish boots. The shadowing helmet blurred the face beneath, and that but intensified an impression of hideous fearsomeness. As the monster came beneath a ceiling light — or was there a light there? was there even a ceiling? — Power observed that its armor, its garments even to the high boots, looked to be splotched and smeared with red — bloody splotches that spread and merged until they wholly enveloped the sinister figure.

"Who are you?” Power snarled in uneasy anger. There was no answer. It was an easy and natural transition, in Power’s irrational condition, from disturbed peevishness to sudden, flaring rage.

Still snarling, he staggered up, seized his chair and raised it to hurl at the moTHE ARCHFIEND’S FINGERS


tionless figure in ancient Spanish armor. But his table companion, who had sat motionless until the moment, sprang forward with outstretched hands.

Suddenly it seemed to Power that he saw the Stranger with blinding clearness, as if a veil had been torn aside — saw him, and knew him for what he was! At the sight of those reaching talons, fear snapped the last shreds of his control. He screamed aloud in panic —

"Help!” and again, "Help!”

From a door in the rear of the place leaped a figure, and Power shouted with joy upon recognizing the waiter who had served his table. But no! — Before his eyes, an awful metamorphosis occurred.

... The attendant was but another demon come to join the grim, silently encircling throng.

"Away, fiends!” Power shrieked, again raising the chair he held. Before he could fling it, the Stranger had seized his wrist. To Power, it felt as if those taloned fingers seared through his flesh to the bone.

"Back! All of you stand back!” cried he of the clutching hands. "Let me deal with him alone!”

The words seared Power’s brain: He was claimed by the Archfiend himself!

The thought gave final impetus to his madness. Wrenching violently from the grasp that pained his wrist, and swinging the chair before him. Power swept a path of havoc to a door.

'The door opened. Power gained the street with a bound, fled over ancient flagstones down dim, narrow, cobbled streets. What course he covered in twisted flight, he never afterward knew. At the moment, he cared only that it was away from the clamorous pursuit upon his heels. At lengtli, looking up, the fugitive recognized an enclosure within a high iron fence — a fence in which gaped an open gate.

Clanging shut and latching the gate in the faces of the foremost of the racing figures at his back. Power bounded across Jackson Square, where the hero of Chalmette sat his charger in bronze disdain of the turmoil boiling in his shadow.

The gate stopped pursuit for a precious moment. Power made for the opposite side of the square, where Saint Louis’ Cathedral loomed out of the shadows, across a narrow street. He was spent; a myriad aches racked his heaving chest, but he knew that he must cross that street, gain the cathedral. 'Shey could never enter there!

He staggered into the open vestibule as the chimes pealed on the stroke of midnight. The period of carnival was over; Ash Wednesday and Lenten penitence were ushered in, while Power beat against the inner doors. The patter of pursuing feet sounded without, as their spent quarry sagged and crumpled to the floor.

"Sanctuary!” he sobbed. "Sanctuary!”

A sound as of roshing waters filled his ear-drums almost to bursting; darkness crowded in, encompassed him. The gasping figure in the cathedral vestibule sank into merciful oblivion.

POWER recovered his senses in what seemed a few seconds. Trip-hammers pounded inside his head, and he was conscious of acute and consuming thirst. Still dominating every other thought was the urge to crawl farther into the cathedral.

It had been so much darker a moment ago, he thought with vague wonder as he strove to drag himself forward. Something interfered with his effort; he peered dazedly to see what it was. Then Power sat up with a jerk that nearly burst his head, filling him v/ith giddiness. He groaned aloud.

He was in a small white bed, in a



white-walled room with other small, white beds... a hospital ward! At his movement, a white-uniformed nurse came briskly forward.

"What happened.?” Power croaked, ignoring the nurse’s injunction to lie down and be quiet. "How long have I been here?”

"Since last night, when you were found collapsed at the doors of Saint Louis’ Cathedral,” the nurse replied. Her voice was brittle with disapproval.

"Why was I brought here?” Power demanded, gropingly insistent.

"Because you were suffering from the effects of acute alcoholism,” tartly returned the nurse. "And also” — ^her tone was definitely accusing — "you were raving as the result of smoking mart juana.”

"Mari juana?’’ Power stupidly repeated.

"Sisal — ^hasheesh,” crisply affirmed the nurse, turning away. "Will you please lie down?”

But Power had become aware of a dull pain that was apart from the bursting of his head. Lifting a hand, he stared at the bandage swathing his wrist. He would never be jd>le to forget the Stranger who had shared his table, uninvited, in a shadowed, unknown place; hazily, he remembered smoking cigarettes of a peadiar, acrid taste.

But premonition whispered that drink nor drug would ever explain the reason for the gauze wrapped about his wrist. Slowly, Power removed the bandage.

Except that they were burned like a brand into the ffesh, the marks upon his wrist were the livid imprint of a thund) and four long, pointed fingers.

cPi

irate’s Hoard

By ALFRED 1. TOOKE

Seven skulls upon the sand. White as any coral;

This one was a captain’s skull. Cracked in bloody quarrel. 'This one was a cabin boy’s;

These were mutineers’.

Seven skulls upon the sand. Bleaching through the years.

Seven chests of treasure strewn On the coral strand;

Seven skeletons on guard In the sifting sand.

Golden goblets, silver coins. Strings of precious stones; Seven grinning skulls that watdi Piles of bleaching bones.



The Eyrie

(Continued from page 130)

Hyman Vinunsky, of Cleveland, writes to the Eyrie: "The Devil’s Bride is again the best story in the June issue. And Black Invocation by Paul Ernst — what a story that is! When the Latin formula is read, I can just imagine what a scene of weird power it makes. A wonderful story!”

"My curiosity is aroused — is there a Jules de Grandin, or did Seabury Quinn just create him?” writes Evelyn Martin, of Heltonville, Indiana. "I have been greatly enjoying The Devil’s Bride. Please don’t leave Jules de Grandin out of any more issues.”

"I have been a reader of Weird Tales for the past four years and in that time I have come to enjoy each issue better than the one which preceded it,” writes William H. Waters, Jr., of Gaithersburg, Maryland. "If I were to vojce a preference for any of your authors (all of whom are good), it would certainly be Seabury Quinn. His Doctor de Grandin is a veritable Sherlock Holmes of the occult.”

"In the name of Allah and a thousand minor deities,” writes Andr^ Galet, of New York City, "will you please tell us why you propose to reprint such well-known stories as Frankenstein and Dracula when they can be secured in almost every public library or bookstore? If you are really sincere in your desire to please us (the readers) and if it is humanly possible, why not publish in your reprint department Von Junzt’s Nameless Cults, or the Necronomicon by Abdul Alhazred? Yours for more stories like Kings of the Night, The Outsider, and The Picture.”

The favorite story in the June issue, as shown by your letters and votes, is The Devil’s Pool, that amazing werewolf novelette by Greye La Spina. 'The fifth installment of Seabury Quinn’s powerful novel of devil-worship. The Devil’s Bride, was your second choice. What is your favorite story in this issue?

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE AUGUST WEIRD TALES ARE;

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave.,

Qiicago, 111.

— Reader's name and address:

I

By MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT SHELLEY

The Story Thus Far

R obert WALTON, captain of a ship seeking a passage through “■ the Arctic Ocean, saw a low carriage, fixed on a sledge and drawn by dogs, pass over the ice-field to the nordi. In it sat a being which had the shape of a man, but apparently of gigantic stature.

The next morning, after the ice had broken, he rescued from an ice-field another man, greatly emaciated. Only one of his dogs remained alive, for he had been marooned for some time. The man was Victor Frankenstein, a young scientist, who related to Captain Walton the incredible story of his life and how he came to be on the ice-floe.

Frankenstein had lived in Geneva with his father and his adopted sister, Elizabeth, to whom he was betrothed. His father sent him to school at Ingolstadt with his chum, Henry Clerval. There he progressed in his studies of natural science to such a point that he learned to create life.

Without taking Qerval into his secret, Frankenstein created a monster, eight feet tail and human in appearance, taking his materials from graveyards, slaughterThis stoi7 In 1

houses and dissecting-rooms. The monster was so terrible to look upon that Frankenstein fled from it, and the monster escaped.

Abandoned by its creator, the monster made its way to the vicinity of Frankenstein’s home, where he murdered Frankenstein’s younger brother, William, making it appear that Justine Moritz, a friend of the family, had committed the murder. Justine was convicted and sentenced to death; while Frankenstein, knowing that if he told the tmth he would be considered a lunatic, was forced to keep silence.

Frankenstein met the monster in a hut in the Alps, and there the monster began to tell him how he had learned to talk, and how he had changed from a being with good impulses to a malevolent demon, simply b^ause all hands were raised against him on account of his frightful appearance.

CHAPTER 12

“T LAY on my straw, but I could not sleep. I thought of the occurrences of the day. What chiefly struck me was the gentle manners of these people; and I

IBB TAXJBS tor


W. T.— 8



longed to join them, but dared not. I remembered too well the treatment I had suffered the night before from the barbarous villagers, and resolved, whatever course of conduct I might hereafter think it right to pursue, that for the present I would remain quietly in my hovel, watching, and endeavoring to discover the motives which influenced their actions.

"The cottagers arose the next morning before the sun. The young woman arranged the cottage, and prepared the food; and the youth departed after the first meal.

"This day was passed in the same routine as that which preceded it. The young man was constantly employed out of doors, and the girl in various laborious occupations within. The old man, whom I soon perceived to be blind, employed his leisure hours on his instrument or in contemplation. Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable companion. They performed towards him every little office of affection and duty with gentleness; and he rewarded them by his benevolent smiles.

"They were not entirely happy. The young man and his companion often went apart, and appeared to weep. I saw no cause for their unhappiness; but I was deeply affected by it. If such lovely creatures were miserable, it was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitary being, should be wretched. Yet why were these gentle beings unhappy? They possessed a delightful house (for such it was in my eyes) and every luxury; they had a fire to warm them when chill, and delicious viands when hungry; they were dressed in excellent clothes; and, still more, they enjoyed one another’s company and speech, interchanging each day looks of affection and kindness. What did their tears imply? Did they really express pain? I was at first unable to solve these questions.

W. T.— 9

"A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the causes of the uneasiness of this amiable family: it was poverty; and they suffered that evil in a very distressing degree. Their nourishment consisted entirely of the vegetables of their garden, and the milk of one cow, which gave very little during the winter, when its masters could scarcely procure food to support it. They often, I believe, suffered the pangs of hunger very poignantly, especially the two younger cottagers; for several times they placed food before the old man vhen they reserved none for themselves.

"This trait of kindness moved me sensibly. I had been accustomed, during the night, to steal a part of their store for my own consumption; but when I found that in doing this I inflicted pain on the cottagers, I abstained, and satisfied myself with berries, nuts, and roots, which I gathered from a neighboring wood.

"I discovered also another means through which I was enabled to assist their labors. I found that the youth spent a great part of each day in collecting wood for the family fire; and, during the night, I often took his tools, the use of whidi I quickly discovered, and brought home firing sufficient for the consumption of several days.

"I remember the first time that I did this the young woman, when she opened the door in the morning, appeared greatly astonished on seeing a great pile of wood on the outside. She uttered some words in a loud voice, and the youth joined her, who also expressed surprize. I observed, with pleasure, that he did not go to the forest that day, but spent it in repairing the cottage and cultivating the garden.

"By degrees I made a discovery of still greater moment. I found that these people possessed a method of communicating their experience and feelings to one another by articulate sounds. I perceived



that the words they spoke sometimes produced pleasure or pain, smiles or sadness, in the minds and countenances of the hearers. This was indeed a god-like science, and I ardently desired to become acquainted with it. But I was baffled in every attempt I made for this purpose. Their pronunciation was quick; and the words they uttered, not having any apparent connection with visible objects, I was unable to discover any clue by which I could unravel the mystery of their reference. By great application, however, and after having remained during the space of several revolutions of the moon in my hovel, I discovered the names that were given to some of the most familiar objects of discourse; I learned and applied the words, fire, milk, bread, and wood. I learned also the names of the cottagers themselves. The youth and his companion had each of them several names, but the old man had only one, which was father. The girl was called sister, or Agatha; and the youth Velix, brother, or son. I can not describe the delight I felt when I learned the ideas appropriated to each of these sounds, and was able to pronounce them. 1 distinguished several otfier words, without being able as yet to understand or apply them; such as good, dearest, unhappy.

“T SPENT the winter in this manner. The - 1. gentle manners and beauty of the cottagers greatly endeared them to me: when they were unhappy, I felt depressed; when they rejoiced, I sympathized in their joys. I saw few human beings besides them; and if any other happened to enter the cottage, their harsh manners and rude gait only enhanced to me the superior accomplishments of my friends.

"The old man, I could perceive, often endeavored to encourage his children, as sometimes I found that he called them, to cast off their melancholy. He would talk

in a cheerful accent, with an expression of goodness that bestowed pleasure even upon me. Agatha listened with respect, her eyes sometimes filled with tears, which she endeavored to wipe away unperceived; but I generally found that her countenance and tone were more cheerful after having listened to the exhortations of her father. It was not thus with Felix. He was always the saddest of the group; and, even to my unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his friends. But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old man.

“I could mention innumerable instances, which, although slight, marked the dispositions of these amiable cottagers. In the midst of poverty and want, Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little white flower that peeped out from beneath the snowy ground. Early in the morning, before she had risen, he cleared away the snow that obstructed her path to the milk-house, drew water from the well, and brought the wood from the out-house, where, to his perpetual astonishment, he found his store always replenished by an invisible hand. In the day, I believe, he worked sometimes for a neighboring farmer, because he often went forth, and did not return until dinner, yet brought no wood with him. At other times he worked in the garden; but, as there was little to do in the frosty season, he read to the old man and Agatha.

"This reading had puzzled me extremely at first; but, by degrees, I discovered that he uttered many of the same sounds when he read as when he talked. I conjectured, therefore, that he found on the paper signs for speech which he understood, and I ardently longed to comprehend these also; but how was that possible, when I did not even understand the sounds for which they stood as signs? I



improved, however, sensibly in this science, but not sufficiently to follow up any kind of conversation, dthough I applied my whole mind to the endeavor: for I easily perceived that, although I eagerly longed to discover myself to the cottagers, I ought not to make the attempt until I had first become master of their language; which knowledge might enable me to make them overlook the deformity of my figure; for with this also the contrast perpetually presented to my eyes had made me acquainted.

“I had admired the perfect forms of my cottagers — their grace, beauty, and delicate complexions: but how was I terrified when I viewed myself in a transparent pool! At first I started back, unable to believe that it was indeed I who was reflected in the mirror; and viffien I became fully convinced that I was in reality the monster that I am, I was filled with the bitterest sensations of despondence and mortification. Alas! I did not yet entirely know the fatal effects of this miserable deformity.

"As the sun became warmer, and the light of day longer, the snow vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth. From this time Felix was more employed; and the heart-moving indications of impending famine disappeared.

‘•V’ l Ihe old man, leaning on his son,

A walked each day at noon, when it did not rain, as I found it was called when the heavens poured forth its waters. This frequently took place; but a high wind quickly dried the earth, and the season became far more pleasant than it had been.

"My mode of life in my hovel was uniform. During the morning, I attended the motions of the cottagers; and when they were dispersed in various occupations I slept: the remainder of the day was spent in observing my friends. When they had retired to rest, if there was any

moon, or the night was starli^t, I went into the woods, and collected my own food and fuel for the cottage. When I returned, as often as it was necessary, I cleared their path from the snow, and performed those offices that I had seen done by Felix. I afterwards found that these labors, performed by an invisible hand, greatly astonished them; and once or twice I heard them, on these occasions, utter the words good spirit, wonderful; but I did not then understand the signification of these terms.

"My thoughts now j^ecame more active, and I longed to discover the motives and feelings of these lovely creatures; I was inquisitive to know why Felix appeared so miserable and Agatha so sad. I thought (fpolidi wretch!) that it might be in my power to restore happiness to these deserving pwple. When I slept, or was absent, the forms of the venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and tfie excellent Felix flitted before me. I locked upon them as superior beings, who would be the arbiters of my future destiny. I formed in my imagination a thousand pictures of presenting myself to them, and their reception of me. I imagined that they would be disgusted, until, by my gentle demeanor and conciliating words, I should first win their favor, and afterward* their love.

"These thoughts exhilarated me, and led me to apply with fresh ardor to the acquiring the art of language. My organs were indeed harsh, but supple; and although my voice was very unlike the soft music of their tones, yet I pronounced such words as I understood with tolerable ease.

"The pleasant showers and genial warmth of spring greatly altered the aspect of the earth. Men, who before ffiis change seemed to have been hid in caves, dispersed themselves, and were employed in various arts of cultivation. The birds



sang in more cheerful notes, and the leaves began to bud forth on the trees. Happy, happy earth! fit habitation for gods, which, so short a time before, was bleak, damp, and unwholesome. My spirits were elevated by the enchanting appearance of nature; the past was blotted from my memory, the present was tranquil, and the future gilded by bright rays of hope and anticipations of joy.

CHAPTER 13

“T NOW hasten to the more moving part A of my story. I shall relate events that impressed me with feelings which, from what I had been, have made me what I am.

"Spring advanced rapidly; the weather became fine, and the skies cloudless. It surprized me that what before was desert and gloomy should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure. My senses were gratified and refreshed by a thousand scents of delight, and a thousand sights of beauty.

"It was on one of these days, when my cottagers periodically rested from labor — the old man played on his guitar, and the children listened to him — that I observed the countenance of Felix was melancholy beyond expression; he sighed frequently; and once his father paused in his music, and I conjectured by his manner that he inquired the cause of his son’s sorrow. Felix replied in a cheerful accent, and the old man was recommencing his music when some one tapped at the door.

"It was a lady on horseback, accompanied by a coimtryman as a guide. The lady was dressed in a dark suit, and covered with a thick black veil. Agatha asked a question; to which the stranger only repEed by pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of Felix. Her voice was mu-, sical, but unlike that of either of my friends. On hearing this word, Felix came

up hastily to the lady; who, when she saw him, threw up her veil, and I beheld a countenance of angelic beauty and expression. Her hair was of a shining raven black, and curiously braided; her eyes were dark, but gentle, although animated; her features of a regular proportion, and her complexion wondrously fair, each cheek tinged with a lovely pink.

"Felix seemed ravished with delight when he saw her, every trait of sorrow vanished from his face, and it instantly expressed a degree of ecstatic joy, of which I could hardly have believed it capable; his eyes sparkled as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and at that moment I thought him as beautiful as the stranger. She appeared affected by different feelings; wiping a few tears from her lovely eyes, she held out her hand to Felix, who kissed it rapturously, and called her, as well as I could distinguish, his sweet Arabian. She did not appear to understand him, but smiled.

"He assisted her to dismount, and dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage. Some conversation took place between him and his father; and the young stranger knelt at the old man’s feet, and would have kissed his hand, but he raised her, and embraced her affectionately.

"I soon perceived that, although the stranger uttered articulate soimds, and appeared to have a language of her own, she was neither understood by, nor herself understood, the cottagers. They made many signs which I did not comprehend; but I saw that her presence diffused gladness through the cottage, dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the morning mists. Felix seemed peculiarly happy, and with smiles of delight welcomed his Arabian. Agatha, the ever-gentle Agatha, kissed the hands of the lovely stranger; and, pointing to her brother, made signs which appeared to me to mean that he had been sorrowful until she came.



"Some hours passed thus, while they, by their countenances, expressed joy, the cause of which I did not comprehend. Presently I found, by the frequent recurrence of some sound which the stranger repeated after them, that she was endeavoring to learn their language; and the idea instantly occurred to me that I should make use of the same instructions to the same end. The stranger learned about twenty words at the first lesson; most of them, indeed, were those which I had before understood, but I profited by the others.

"As night came on, Agatha and the Arabian retired early. When they separated, Felix kissed the hand of the stranger, and said, 'Good night, sweet Safie.’ He sat up much longer, conversing with his father; and, by the frequent repetition of her name, I conjectured that their lovely guest was the subject of their conversation. I ardently desired to understand them, and bent every faculty towards that purpose, but found it utterly impossible.

"The next morning Felix went out to his work; and, after the usual occupations of Agatha were finished, the Arabian sat at the feet of the old man, and, taking his guitar, played some airs so entrancingly beautiful that they at once drew tears of sorrow and delight from my eyes. She sang, and her voice flowed in a rich cadence, swelling or dying away, like a nightingale of the woods.

"When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first declined it. She played a simple air, and her voice accompanied it in sweet accents, but unlike the wondrous strain of the stranger. The old man appeared enraptured, and said some words, which Agatha endeavored to explain to Safie, and by which he appeared to wish to express that she bestowed on him the greatest delight by her music.

HE days now passed as peaceably as

A before, with the sole alteration that joy had taken place of sadness in the countenances of my friends. Safie was always gay and happy; she and I improved rapidly in the knowledge of language, so that in two months I began to comprehend most of the words uttered by my protectors.

"In the meanwhile also the black ground was covered with herbage, and the green banks interspersed with innumerable flowers, sweet to the scent and the eyes, stars of pale radiance among the moonlight woods; the sun became warmer, the nights clear and balmy; and my nocturnal rambles were an extreme pleasure to me, although they were considerably shortened by the late setting and early rising of the sun; for I never ventured abroad during daylight, fearful of meeting with the same treatment I had formerly endured in the first village which I entered.

"My days were spent in close attention, that I might more speedily master the language; and I may boast that I improved more rapidly than the Arabian, who understood very little, and conversed in broken accents, whilst I comprehended and could imitate almost every word that was spoken.

"While I improved in speech, I also learned the science of letters, as it was taught to the stranger; and this opened before me a wide field for wonder and delight.

"The book from which Felix instructed Safie was Volney’s 'Ruins of Empires. I should not have understood the purport of this book, had not Felix, in reading it, given very minute explanations. He had chosen this work, he said, because the declamatory style was framed in imitation of the eastern authors. Through this work I obtained a cursory knowledge of history, and a view of the several empires at pres278

.WEIRD TALES

ent existing in the world; it gave me an insight into the manners, governments, and religions of the different nations of the earth, I heard of the slothful Asiatics; of the stupendous genius and mental activity of the Grecians; of the v.'ars and wonderful virtue of the early Romans — of their subsequent degenerating — of the decline of that mighty empire; of chivalry, Christianity, and kings. I heard of the discovery of the American hemisphere, and wept with Safie over the hapless fate of its original inhabitants.

"Tliese wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings. Was man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and magnificent, yet so vicious and base? He appeared at one time a mere scion of the evil principle, and at another as all that can be conceived of noble and god-like. To be a great and virtuous man appeared die highest honor that can befall a sensitive being; to be base and vicious, as many on record have been, appeared the lowest degradation, a condition more abject than that of the blind mole or harmless worm. For a long time I could not conceive hov/ one man could go forth to murder his fellow, or even why there were laws and governments; but when I heard details of vice and bloodshed, my wonder ceased, and I turned away with disgust and loathing.

"Every conversation of the cottagers now opened new wonders to me. While I listened to the instructions which Felix bestowed upon the Arabian, the strange system of human society was explained to me. I heard of the division of property, of immense wealth and squalid poverty; of rank, descent, and noble blood.

"The words induced me to turn towards myself. I learned that the possessions most esteemed by your fellowaeatures were high and unsullied descent united with riches. A man might be respected with only one of these advantages; but, without either, he was considered, except in very rare instances, as a vagabond and a slave, doomed to waste his powers for the profits of the chosen fewl And what was I? Of my creation and creator I was absolutely ignorant; but I knew that I possessed no money, no friends, no kind of property. I was, besides, endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome; I was not even of the same nature as man. I was more agile than they, and could subsist upon coarser diet; I bore the extremes of heat and cold with less injury to my frjune; my stature far exceeded theirs. When I locked around, I saw and heard of ncme like me. Was I then a monster, a blot upon the earth, from which all men fled, and whom all men disowned?

“T CAN not describe to you the agony i that these reflections inflicted upon me: I tried to dispel them, but sorrow only increased with knowledge. Oh, that I had for ever remained in my native wood, nor known nor felt beyond the sensations of hunger, thirst, and heat!

"Of what a strange nature is knowledge! It clings to the mind, when it has once seized on it, like a lichen on the rock. I wished sometimes to shake off all thought and feeling; but I learned that there was but one means to overcome the sensation of pain, and that was death — a state which I feared yet did not understand. I admired virtue and good feelings, and loved the gentle manners and amiable qualities of my cottagers; but I was shut out from intercourse with them, except through means which I obtained by stealth, when I was unseen and unknown, and which rather increased than satisfied the desire I had of becoming one among my fellows. The gentle words of Agatha, and the animated saailes



of the charming Arabian, were not for me. The mild exhortations of the old man, and the lively conversation of the loved Felix, were not for me. Miserable, unhappy wretch!

"Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deeply. I heard of the difference of sexes; and the birth and growth of children; how the father doted on the smiles of the infant, and the lively sallies of the older child; how all the life and cares of the mother were wrapped up in the precious charge; how the mind of youth expanded and gained knowledge; of brother, sister, and all the various relationships which bind one human being to another in mutual bonds.

"But where were my friends and relations? No father had watched my infant days, no mother had blessed me with smiles and caresses; or if they had, all my past life was now a blot, a blind vacancy in which I distinguished nothing. From my earliest remembrance I had been as I then was in height and proportion. I had never yet seen a being resembling me, or who claimed any intercourse with me. What was I?

"I will soon explain to what these feelings tended; but allow me now to return to the cottagers, whose story excited in me such various feelings of indignation, delight, and wonder, but which all terminated in additional love and reverence for my protectors (for so I loved, in an innocent, half-painful self-deceit, to call them).

CHAPTER 14

“^OME time elapsed before I learned •3 the history of my friends. It was one which could not fail to impress itself deeply on my mind, unfolding as it did a number of circumstances, each interesting and wonderful to one so utterly inexperienced as I was.

"The name of the old man was De Lacey. He was descended from a good family in France, where he had lived for many years in afiSuence, respected by his superiors and beloved by his equals. His son was bred in the service of his country; and Agatha had ranked with ladies of the highest distinction. A few months before my arrival they had lived in a large and luxurious city called Paris, surrounded by friends, and possessed of every enjoyment which virtue, refinement of intellect, or taste, accompanied by a moderate fortune, could afford.

"The father of Safie had been the cause of their ruin. He was a Turkish merchant, and had inhabited Paris for many years, when, for some reason which I could not learn, he became obnoxious to the government. He was seized and cast into prison the very day that Safie arrived from Constantinople to join him. He was tried and condemned to death. The injustice of his sentence was very flagrant; all Paris was indignant; and it was judged that his religion and wealth, rather than the crime alleged against him, had been the cause of his condemnation.

"Felix had accidentally been present at the trial; his horror and indignation were uncontrollable when he heard the decision of the court. He made, at that moment, a solemn vow to deliver him, and then looked around for the means. After many fruitless attempts to gain admittance to the prison, he found a strongly grated window in an unguarded part of the building which lighted the dungeon of the unfortunate Mahometan; who, loaded with chains, waited in despair the execution of the barbarous sentence.

"Felix visited the grate at night, and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favor. The Turk, amazed and delighted, endeavored to kindle the zeal of his deliverer by promises of reward and wealth. Felix rejected his offers with con280


tempt; yet when he saw the lovely Safie, who was allowed to visit her father, and who, by her gestures, expressed her lively gratitude, the youth could not help owning to his own mind that the captive possessed a treasure which would fully reward his toil and hazard.

"The Turk quickly perceived the impression that his daughter had made on the heart of Felix, and endeavored to secure him more entirely in his interests by the promise of her hand in marriage, so soon as he should be conveyed to a place of safety. Felix was too delicate to accept this offer; yet he looked forv'ard to the probability of the event as to the consummation of his happiness.

"During the ensuing days, while the preparations were going forward for the escape of the merchant, the zeal of Felix was warmed by several letters that he received from this lovely girl, who found means to express her thoughts in the language of her lover by the aid of an old man, a ser\’ant of her father, who understood French. She thanked him in the most ardent terms for his intended services towards her parent; and at the same time she gently deplored her own fate.

"Safie related that her mother was a Qiristian Arab, seized and made a slave by the Turks; tecommended by her beauty, she had won the heart of the father of Safie, who married her. The young girl spoke in high and enthusiastic terms of her mother, who, born in freedom, spurned the bondage to whidi she was now reduced. She instructed her daughter in the tenets of her religion, and taught her to aspire to higher powers of intellect, and an independence of spirit, forbidden to the female followers of Mahomet.

“This lady died; but her lessons were indelibly impressed on the mind of Safie, who sickened at the prospect of again returning to Asia and being immured within the walls of a harem, allowed only to occupy herself with infantile amusements, ill suited to the temper of her soul, now accustomed to grand ideas and a noble emulation for virtue. The prospect of marrying a Qiristian, and remaining in a country where women were allowed to take a rank in society, was enchanting to her.

"The day for the execution of the Turk was fixed; but, on the night previous to it, he quitted his prison, and before morning was distant many leagues from Paris. Felix had procured passports in the name of his father, sister, and himself. He had previously communicated his plan to the former, who aided the deceit by quitting his house, under the pretense of a journey, and concealed himself, with his daughter, in an obscure part of Paris.

“T7 eldc conducted the fugitives throu^ JT France to Lyons, and across Mont Cenis to Leghorn, where the merchant had decided to wait a favorable opportunily of passing into some part of the Turkish dominions.

"Safie resolved to remain with her father until the moment of his departure, before which time the Turk renewed his promise that she should be united to his deliverer; and Felix remained with them in expectation of that event; and in the meantime he enjoyed the society of the Arabian, who exhibited towards him the simplest and tenderest affection. They conversed with one another through the means of an interpreter, and sometimes with the interpretation of looks; and Safie sang to him the divine airs of her native country.

"The Turk allowed this intimacy to take place, and encouraged the hopes of the youthful lovers, while in his heart he had formed far other plans. He loathed the Idea that his daughter should be



united to a Qiristian; but he feared the resentment of Felix, if he should appear lukewarm; for he knew that he was still in the power of his deliverer, if he should choose to betray him to the Italian state which they inhabited. He revolved a thousand plans by which he should be enabled to prolong the deceit until it might be no longer necessary, and secretly to take his daughter with him when he departed. His plans were facilitated by the news which arrived from Paris.

"The government of France were greatly enraged at the escape of their victim, and spared no pains to detect and punish his deliverer. The plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were thrown into prison. The news reached Felix, and roused him from his dream of pleasure. His blind and aged father, and his gentle sister, lay in a noisome dungeon, while he enjoyed the free air and the society of her whom he loved. This idea was torture to him. He quickly arranged with the Turks that if the latter should find a favorable opportunity for escape before Felix could return to Italy, Safie should remain as a boarder at a convent at Leghorn; and then, quitting the lovely Arabian, he hastened to Paris, and delivered himself up to the vengeance of the law, hoping to free De Lacey and Agatha by this proceeding.

"He did not succeed. They remained confined for five months before the trial took place; the result of which deprived them of their fortune, and condemned them to a perpetual exile from their native country.

"They found a miserable asylum in the cottage in Germany where I discovered them. Felix soon learned that the treacherous Turk, for whom he and his family endured such unheard-of oppression, on discovering that his deliverer was thus reduced to poverty and ruin, became a traitor to good feeling and honor, and had

quitted Italy with his daughter, insultingly sending Felix a pittance of money, to aid him, as he said, in some plan of future maintenance.

"Such were the events that preyed qn the heart of Felix, and rendered him, when I first saw him, the most miserable of his family. He could have endured poverty; and while this distress had been the meed of his virtue, he gloried in it: but the ingratitude of the Turk, and the loss of his beloved Safie, were misfortunes more bitter and irreparable. The arrival of the Arabian now infused new life into his soul.

"When the news reached Leghorn that Felix was deprived of his wealth and rank, the merchant commanded his daughter to think no more of her lover, but to prepare to return to her native country. The generous nature of Safie was outraged by this command; she attempted to expostulate with her father, but he left her angrily, reiterating his tyrannical mandate.

"A few days after, the Turk entered his daughter’s apartment, and told her hastily that he had reason to believe that his residence at Leghorn had been divulged, and that he should speedily be delivered up to the French government; he had, consequently, hired a vessel to convey him to Constantinople, for which city he should sail in a few hours. He intended to leave his daughter under the care of a confidential servant, to follow at her leisure with the greater part of his property, which had not yet arrived at Leghorn.

"When alone, Safie resolved in her own mind the plan of conduct that it would become her to pursue in this emergency. A residence in Turkey was abhorrent to her; her religion and her feelings were alike adverse to it. By some papers of her father, which fell into her hands, she heard of the exile of her lover, and learnt the name of the spot where he then resided. She hesitated some time, but at



length she formed her determination. Taking with her some jewels that belonged to her, and a sum of money, she quitted Italy with an attendant, a native of Leghorn, but who understood the common language of Turkey, and departed for Germany.

"She arrived in safety at a town about twenty leagues from the cottage of De Lacey, when her attendant fell dangerously ill. Safie nursed her with the most devoted affection; but the poor girl died, and the Arabian was left alone, unacquainted with the language of the country, and utterly ignorant of the customs of the world. She fell, however, into good hands. The Italian had mentioned the name of the spot for which they were bound; and, after her death, the woman of the house in which they had lived took care that Safie should arrive in safety at the cottage of her lover.

CHAPTER 15

“ ^ UCH was the history of my beloved >3 cottagers. It impressed me deeply. I learned, from the views of social life which it developed, to admire their virtues, and to deprecate the vices of mankind.

"As yet I looked upon crime as a distant evil; benevolence and generosity were ever present before me, inciting within me a desire to become an actor in the busy scene where so many admirable qualities, were called forth and displayed. But, in giving an account of the progress of my intellect, I must not omit a circumstance which occurred in the beginning of the month of August of the same year.

"One night, during my accustomed visit to the neighboring wood, where I collected my own food, and brought home firing for my protectors, I found on the ground a leathern portmanteau, containing several articles of dress and some

books. I eagerly seized the prize, and returned with it to my hovel. Fortunately the books were written in the language the elements of which I had acquired at the cottage; they consisted of Paradise Lost, a volume of Plutarch’s Lives, and the Sorrows of Werther. The possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight; I now continually studied and exercised my mind upon these histories, whilst my friends were employed in their ordinary occupations.

"I can hardly describe to you the effect of these books. They produced in me an infinity of new images and feelings that sometimes raised me to ecstasy, but more frequently sunk me into the lowest dejection. In the Sorrows of Werther, besides the interest of its simple and affecting story, so many opinions are canvassed, and so many lights thrown upon what had hitherto been to me obscure subjects, that I found in it a never-ending source of speculation and astonishment. The gentle and domestic manners it described, combined with lofty sentiments and feelings, which had for their object something out of self, accorded well with my experience among my protectors, and with the wants which were for ever alive in my own bosom. But I thought Werther himself a more divine being than I had ever beheld or imagined; his character contained no pretension, but it sunk deep. The disquisitions upon death and suicide were calculated to fill me with wonder.

"As I read, however, I applied much personally to my own feelings and condition. I found myself similar, yet at the same time strangely imlike to the beings concerning whom I read, and to whose conversation I was a listener. I sympathized with, and partly understood them, but I was unformed in mind; I was dependent on none and related to none. 'The path of my departure was free;’ and there was none to lament my annihilation.



My person was hideous and my stature gigantic What did this mean? Who was I? What was I? Whence did I come? What w'as my destination? These questions continually recurred, but I was unable to solve them.

"The volume oif lutarch/ s Lives,

I possessed, contained the histories of the first founders of the ancient republics. This book had a far different effect upon me from the Sorrows of Werther. I learned from Werther’s imaginations despondency and gloom: but Plutarch taught me high thoughts; he elevated me above the wretched sphere of my own reflections to admire and love the heroes of past ages.

"Many things I read surpassed my understanding and experience. I had a very confused knowledge of kingdoms, wide extents of country, mighty rivers, and boundless seas. But I was perfectly unacquainted with towns, and large assemblages of men. The cottage of my protectors had been the only school in which I had studied human nature; but this book developed new and mightier scenes of action. I read of men concerned in public affairs, governing or massacring their species. I felt the greatest ardor for virtue rise within me, and abhorrence for vice, as far as I understood the signification of those terms, relative as they were, as I applied them, to pleasure and pain alone. Induced by these feelings, I was of course led to admire peaceable lawgivers, Numa, Solon, and Lycurgus, in preference to Romulus and Theseus. The patriardial lives of my protectors caused these impressions to take a firm hold on my mind; perhaps, if my first introduction to humanity had been made by a young soldier, burning for glory and slaughter, I should have been imbued with different sensations.

"But Paradise Lusst excited different and far deeper emotions. I read it, as I

had read the other volumes which had fallen into my hands, as a true history. It moved every feeling of wonder and awe that the picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures was capable of exciting. I often referred the several situations, as their similarity struck me, to my own. Like Adam, I was apparently united by no link to any other being in existence; but his.state was far different from mine in every other respect. He had come forth from the hands of God a perfect creature, happy and prosperous, guarded by the especial care of his Creator; he was allowed to converse with, and acquire knowledge from, beings of a superior nature; but I was wretched, helpless, and alone.

"Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these feelings. Soon after my arrival in the hovel, I discovered some papers in the pocket of the dress which I had taken from your laboratory. At first I had neglected them; but now that I was able to decipher the characters in which they were written, I began to study them with diligence. It was your journal of the four months that preceded my creation. You minutely described in these papers every step you took in the progress of your work; this history was mingled with accounts of domestic occurrences. You, doubtless, recollect these papers. Here they are. Everything is relat^ in them which bears reference to my accursed origin; the whole detail of that series of disgusting circumstances which produced it is set in view; the minutest description of my odious and loathsome person is given, in language which painted your own horrors and rendered mine indelible.

"I sickened as I read. 'Hateful day when I received life!’ I exclaimed in agony. 'Accursed creator! Why did you form a monster so hideous that even you turned from me in disgust? God, in pity,



made man beautiful and alluring, after his own image; but my form is a filthy type of yours, more horrid even from the very resemblance. Satan had his companions, fellow-devils, to admire and encourage him; but I am solitary and abhorred.’

HESE were the reflections of my

A hours of despondency and solitude; but when I contemplated the virtues of the cottagers, their amiable and benevolent dispositions, I persuaded myself that when they should become acquainted with my admiration of their virtues, they would compassionate me, and overlook my personal deformity. Could they turn from their door one, however monstrous, who solicited their compassion and friendship? I resolved at least, not to despair, but in every way to fit myself for an interview with them which would decide my fate.

"I postponed this attempt for some months longer; for the importance attached to its success inspired me with a dread lest I should fail. Besides, I found that my understanding improved so much with every day’s experience that I was unwilling to commence this undertaking until a few more months should have added to my sagacity.

"Several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage. ’The presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants; and I also found that a greater degree of plenty reigned there. Felix and Agatha spent more time in amusement and conversation, and were assisted in their labors by servants. 'They did not appear rich, but they were contented and happy; their feelings were serene and peaceful, while mine became every day more tumultuous. Increase of knowledge only discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was. I cherished hope, it is true; but it vanished when I beheld my person reflected in water,

"I endeavored to crush these fears, and to fortify myself for the trial which in a few months I resolved to undergo; and sometimes I allowed my thoughts, unchecked by reason, to ramble in the fields of Paradise, and dared to fancy amiable and lovely creatures sympathizing with my feelings, and cheering my gloom; their angelic countenances breathed smiles of consolation. But it was all a dream; no Eve soothed my sorrows, nor shared my thoughts; I was alone. I remembered Adam’s supplication to his Creator. But where was mine? He had abandoned me: and, in the bitterness of my heart, I cursed him.

"Autumn passed thus. I saw, with surprize and grief, the leaves decay and fall, and nature again assume the barren and bleak appearance it had worn when I first beheld the woods and the lovely moon. Yet I did not heed the bleakness of the weather; I was better fitted by my conformation for the endurance of cold than heat. But my chief delights were the sight of the flowers, the birds, and all the gay apparel of summer; when those deserted me, I turned with more attention towards the cottagers. 'Their happiness was not decreased by the absence of summer. They loved, and sympathized with one another; and their joys, depending on each other, were not interrupted by the casualties that took place around them. The more I saw of them, the greater became my desire to claim their protection and kindness; my heart yearned to be known and loved by these amiable creatures: to see their sweet looks directed towards me with affection was the utmost limit of my ambition. I dared not think that they would turn them from me with disdain and horror. 'The poor that stopped at their door were never driven away.

"The winter advanced, and an entire revolution of the seasons had taken place (Phase turn to page 286 )

Coming Next Month

A S SARDANAPALUS, King of Babylon, had feasted with his Magi, and women* and favorites, and all the sycophants of a fabulously wealthy court, so did Prince jL Dena ibn Zodh, in his black and scarlet robes of ceremony, sit with Evadne at his side on the night of sacrifice.

Wild beasts, controlled by the magnetic power of the Magi, rolled in luxurious ease on silken rugs; the great tables gleamed with jewelled goblets and golden dishes; a thousand instruments mingled with the clamor of a thousand tongues; waves of intoxicating perfumes were wafted up from vaults beneath the palace; myriads of lamps winked and blazed from roof and walls and pillars. At intervals a dancer would float out on to the great white marble circle of floor, round which the tables were grouped, veiled only in her cloud of hair, and moving like a blown leaf before the wind would draw an outburst of applause that set the great beasts roaring until the domed hall rang.

Vast, sinister, marvellous as the dreams of a hashish-eater, the long orgy at last drew to an end. The revellers lay back amidst their cushions, while Prince Dena rose from his place and led Evadne to the center of the enclosed circle.

He held up a hand, and silence fell over the entire multitude of feasters; not even a beast but seemed suddenly turned to a lifeless statue. Sir Hugh Willett and Hadur, who had sat watchful and silent during the long revel, looked up with tightening nerves as the destined Bride stood facing the vast assembly.

A single garment of marvellously wrought gold tissue outlined her lovely slenderness. Her shining head was bound with a richly jewelled circlet of gold, and over her eyes its clasp glittered bright and evil in the myriads of lamps. So brilliant were the gems that formed this clasp that it had all the effea of a living flame, and Sir Hu^ shuddered as he saw the hatefully familiar symbol of Melek Taos flash, and flash again about Evadne’s dreaming misted eyes.

"The Hour is at hand!" the High Priest’s ringing tones pierced even the wine-sodden senses of the revellers. "This is my Hour, my Hour of love, my Hour of fulfilment, the Hour of mystic communion with Melek Taos, when he in me, and I in him, rejoice in the Bride!...

This vivid narrative of the devil-worshipping Yezidees will be printed complete in our next issue. Order your copy now at your favorite news stand.


By G. G. PENDARVES

— ALSO—

THE EMPIRE OF THE NECROMANCERS By Clakk Ashton Smith An endless army of plague-eaten bodies, of tattered skeletons, poured in ghastly torrents through the streets of the city.

THE EYE OF TRUTH By Abxton Eadib

A fascinating story of a Greek who found strange powers in the ruins of a temple in Bceotia.

THE RAVENING MONSTER By Harold Ward

A shuddery story about an electrocuted murderer who was raised from the dead and revivified.

THE LAST OF PLACIDE’S WIFE By Kirk Mashburn

A thrill-tale of a fierce and bloody fight in n Louisiana swamp between a maddened group efl Cajuns and a horde of vampires.

THE SHERATON MIRROR By August W. Derleth The story of a strange and unearthly revenge accomplished from beyond the grave.

Also, another thrilling installment of Prankem* stein, and Victor Rousseau’s exciting story, Tb4 Phantom Hand.

September WEIRD TALES Out August 1

28S



( Continued from page 284 )

since I awoke into life. My attention, at this time, was solely directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the cottage of my protectors. I revolved many projects; but that on which I finally fixed was, to enter the dwelling when the blind old man should be alone. I had sagacity enough to discover that the unnatural hideousness of my person was the chief object of horror with those who had formerly beheld me. My voice, although harsh, had nothing terrible in it; I thought, therefore, that if, in the absence of his children, I could gain the good-will and mediation of the old De Lacey, I might by this means, be tolerated by my younger protectors.

"One day, when the sun shone on the red leaves that strewed the ground, and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth, Safie, Agatha, and Felix departed on a long country walk, and the old man, at his own desire, was left alone in the cottage. When his children had departed, he took up his guitar, and played several mournful but sweet airs, more sweet and mournful than I had ever heard him play before. At first his countenance was illuminated with pleasure, but, as he continued, thoughtfulness and sadness succeeded; at length' laying aside the instrument, he sat absorbed in reflection.

"My heart beat quick; this was the hour and moment of trial which would decide my hopes or realize my fears. The servants were gone to a neighboring fair. All was silent in and around the cottage: it was an excellent opportunity; yet, when I proceeded to execute my plan, my limbs failed me, and I sank to the ground. Again I rose; and, exerting all the firmness of which I was master, removed the planks which I had placed before my hovel to conceal my retreat. The fresh air revived me, and, with renewed determination, I approached the door of their cottage.

“I knocked. 'Who is there?’ said the old man — 'Come in.’

"I entered; 'Pardon this intrusion,’ said I: 'I am a traveller in want of a little rest; you would greatly oblige me if you would allow me to remain a few minutes before the fire.'

" 'Enter,’ said De Lacey; 'and I will try in what manner I can relieve your wants; but, luifortunately, my children are from home, and, as I am blind, I am afraid I shall find it difficult to procure food for you.’

" 'Do not trouble yourself, my kind host, I have food; it is warmth and rest only that I need.’

“T SAT down, and a silence ensued. I A knew that every minute was precious to me, yet I remained irresolute in what manner to commence the interview; when the old man addressed me

" 'By your language, stranger, I suppose you are my countryman; — aie you French?'

" 'No; but I was educated by a French family, and understand that language only. I am now going to claim the protection of some friends, whom I sincerely love, and cf whose favor I have some hopes.’

" 'Are they Germans?’

" 'No, they are French. But let us change the subject. I am an unfortunate and deserted creature; I look around, and I have no relation or friend upon earth. These amiable people to whom I go have never seen me, and know little of me. I am full of feaxs; for if I fail there, I am an outcast in the world for ever.’

" 'Do not despair. To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate; but the hearts of men, when unprejudiced by any obvious self-interest, are full of brotherly love and charity. Rely, therefore, on your hopes;



and if these friends are good and amiable, do not despair.’

" 'They are kind — they are the most excellent creatures in the world; but, unfortimately, they are prejudiced against me. I have good dispositions; my life has been hitherto harmless, and in some degree beneficial; but a fatal prejudice clouds their eyes, and where they ought to see a feeling and kind friend, they behold only a detestable monster.’

" "That is indeed xmfortunate; but if you are really blameless, can not you undeceive them?’

" 'I am about to undertake that task; and it is on that account that I feel so many overwhelming terrors. I tenderly love these friends; I have, unknown to them, been for many months in the habits of daily kindness towards them; but they believe that I wish to injure them, and it is that prejudice which I wish to overcome.'

" "Where do these friends reside?’

*' 'Near this spot.’

"The old man paused, and then continued, 'If you will unreservedly confide to me the particulars of your tale, I perhaps may ^ of use in imdeceiving them. I am blind, and can not judge of your countenance, but there is something in your words which persuades me that you are sincere. I am poor, and an exile; but it will afford me true pleasure to be in any way serviceable to a human creature.’

" 'Excellent man! I thank you, and accept your generous offer. You raise me from the dust by this kindness; and I trust that, by your aid, I shall not be driven from the society and sympathy of your fellow-creatures.’

" 'Heaven forbid! even if you were really aiminal; for that can only drive you to desperation, and not instigate you to virtue. I also am unfortunate; I and my family have been condemned, although

” A Uttle Qoat *

GaTe It* Maine to

TAXICAB

Taxkai it to tbbteviation of {aximtur<abritUt — a Tchlcle carrying an instrument for automatically registering the fate.The name caitioht is the diminutiTe of the French eab~ rick, meaning "a leap" like that of a goat, and was applied to this type of carriage because of its light, bounding motion. Cairhle came from the Italian eaprioit meaning “a aomersault," from Latin capir "a he^oaii" tapra "a ahe-goat." There ate thousands of such stories about the origins of English words in

WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY

**Th€ Supreme Authority

Write tat gtee Booklet, trhlA 30 miv obtain G

■lUDBota howj

cooimaad or

he knowledge of word origins.

afiiCeMERRlAM COMPANY Sprfa&gfidd* Mass*

WITHOUT!

IsLASSES!

'NaturalEyesighl

SystOfn Makes Them Unnecessory _ ^flowUiMlinov«r30CognlriM

Serid for FREE information telling how Revolutionary Invention makes it easy to correct Nearsight, Farsight, Astigmatism Eyestrain, Weak Eyes, Failing Vision, Old Age Sight, Eye Muscle Trouble, Etc., at home without glasses. NATURAL EYESIGHT INSTITUTE, Inc.

Oeat. as-F,

U* JUceiM. Oeilt.

HYPNOTIZE INSTRtrCTION BOOK NOW lOo. DeSala, 251SW. Portland, LoulsvlllOy Ey.


For complete list and prices write to Weibs Tales,, S40 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IlL




The Ravening Monster

By HAROLD WARD

H ere is a shuddety stoty that will put goose-pimples on your flesh and send shivers of horripilation up your spine. It is the story of an electrocuted murderer who was raised from the dead and brought to life by the power of science.

B y a miracle of brain-transplantation the wretch is made to live again, but he proves to be a veritable Frankenstein monster. This story of the strange deaths and terrible mutilations that plunged a whole countryside into blind panic makes a narrative of absorbing interest. It will be published complete

in the September issue of


On sale August 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WSIBD TALKS 1^40 N. Avt.,

CUeago, 111.

Bncloaed And $1.00 for which send xne the next CiV issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the Heptember issue ($1.7S in Canada). I^>eclal offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name..— — —

Address- — — — —.

Ol$r — Stofce

innocent: judge, therefore, if I do not feel for your misfortunes.’

" 'How can I thank you, my best and only benefactor? From your lips first have I heard the voice of kindness directed towards me; I shall be for ever grateful; and your present humanity assures me of success with those friends whom I am on the point of meeting.’

" 'May I know the names and residence of those friends?’

"I paused. This, I thought, was the moment of decision, which was to rob me of, or bestow happiness on me for ever.

I struggled vainly for firmness sufficient to answer him, but the effort destroyed ail my remaining strength; I sank on the chair and sobbed aloud. At that moment I heard the steps of my younger protectors.

I had not a moment to lose; but, seizing the hand of the old man, I cried, 'Now is the time! — ^save and protect me! You and your family are the friends whom I seek. Do not you desert me in the hour of trial!’

" 'Great God!’ exclaimed the old man, 'who are you?’

"At that instant the cottage door was opened, and Felix, Safie, and Agatha entered. Who can describe their horror and consternation on beholding me? Agatha fainted; and Safie, unable to attend to her friend, rushed out of the cottage. Felix darted forward, and with supernatural force tore me from his father, to whose knees I clung: in a transport of fury, he dashed me to the ground and struck me violently v/ith a stick. I could have t®rn him limb from limb, as the lion rends the antelope. But my heart sunk within me as with bitter sickness, and I refrained. I saw him on the point of repeating his blow, when, overcome by pain and anguish, I quitted the cottage and in the general tumult escaped unperceived to my hovel.’’

(To be continued next month)

W. T.— 9


MEN/.

SELLING NEHT SPCCIALTir

BVSI^SS

and

PR0rESSI0N4L

MEN

When green men, with Just average ability, make $200 to $400 a week, and up, our proposition must be worth investigating. We train you, giving you successful methods of one of the fastest sales forces In the country. If you are looking for a man-size business, free from worries of other overcrowded lines of work, write for full Information,

WORLD’S LARGEST

Finns Among Our Customers: HarleyDavldson Motorcycle Company, Larkin Company. l4oftl8 Bros, and Company, National Radio, Dodd, Mead and Co., Collier's, National Biake Servlce,lnc., Advance- Rumely Thresher Co., and scores cf others nationally known are among our customers. It’s a life saver for the smallest merchant who needs it even more than the big Arm and he buys quick two sizes — one costs $2.50 — sells $7.50; your profit $ 5. and more, as your sales increase. Other size costs $5 — sells $15 — your profit $10 and more — every salesman working regularly makes close to $12.00 profit per sale on this size! Think of that!

GLARANTBED To Biingr Customer Ten Times Its Cost in Actual Cash

Customer gets signed certificate of guarantee protecting him, backed by a national organization. Very few business men are so foolish as to turn down a proposition guaranteed to pay 10 for one, with proof from leading concerns of the world that it does pay.

Here’s Whdt Our Men Make

f 400 \M%klrT

Between Sept. 6th and Sept. 20th —

Just 2 weeks — E.

D. Ferrell, of Atlanta, Ga.. cleaned up $802.50 on his first orders. His sales were all made in 3 small Georgia towns.

His customers are reordering and he is going strong.

EDDIE EOYER $4930 in 3 Months

California rings the bell again I E. Foyer starts out April 1st and by July Ist he has 410 $15 sales to his credit. Multiply 410 by $12 profit and you've got something to show you the money in this propositimi.

G, F. PEGRAM Nets $315

First Five Days Pegram, Dallas, Texas, writes, "I sold five $15 sizes out of six calls in less than 2 hours. The first five days netted me $315. If I don’t make at least $12,000 my first year with your proposition I'll know it's my fault.”

Made by E. H. Walker — Georgia — ^Made one sale to a Columbus, Georgia, organization, and that sale got him 4 more sales within a few hours. Met another salesman, and the other salesman bought him out! That’s the kind of proposition this is.

clear for California.

$1500 a Month

M. L. Tardy,

$6000 First Year

for A. R. Almond, Carolina. They make everywhere.

South

good

$60 Per Day

for W. E. Vaughn, North Carolina,

Write for Other Salesmen’s Reports

We can send them as fast as you can read ’em. We've got plenty! See for yourself. Mail the coupon for further details.

WGiTPORtroi ofjLETTERS frf

WOOD'S LEAMMiri

A handsome, impressive portfolio that contains letters from the world's most famous concerns. Every type of business and profession represented. You have immediate, positive proof of success. They can’t say — “doesn’t fit my business.” Nails ’em right then and there. Sells them on sight.

BE SURE TO READ THIS Remember, this is no ordinary proposition. You deal with a company that doesn’t split pennies, headed by a man who spent 20 years on the road. A company with a record you can be proud of as our representative. Get the — see with your own ' eyes what you can make in this business. Mail th coupon for full information.

SURETY Company’s BOND Protects Customer

Your customer is entitled to the service of a national organization bonded by a Surety Com' pany with assets running into the millions. He CAN’T lose. You are able to show positive safety. This means quick sales and big turn-over for you.

Seeing Is Delieviii^...Mail Coupon for Proo^

This Is a business with a future to it. Enormous repeat business. Tremendous profits fro-m sub-agents — ^your sub-agents have more margin than total profit on 99 out 100 other specialties. You get profit on all mail order business from your territory. Every customer is a prospect for two or three times the initial amount on your second call. Every customer recommends others to you. If you g€ ready to quit, you have an established route that can be sold like any other business. An opportunity to make $5,000 to $10,000 a year ' worth while. Just a limited number of openings. Hurry, boys — they won’t be left long nowj

F. E. ARMSTRONG, Pres., Dept. 4060-E, Mobile, Ala,

A Sinister Voice from the Ether

Threatened the Lives ot all Mankind

T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

Who Was This Dictator of Destiny?

Y ou will want to know the answer to this question. Read "The Moon Terror,” the most enthralling fantastic-mystery story of the age. And you can get this splendid book FREE.

Special Offer

For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours without further cost. You receive the magazine for six

months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


840 N. Micliigran Ave., I>ept. S-10. Chicago, ni.

! WEIRD TAX.ES, Dept. S-19,

I 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

I I enclose $1.60. Send at once, postage prepaid, I the book “The Moon Terror.” and enter my subj scription to WEIRD TALES for six months to begin with the September Issue. It is understood this I $1.50 is payment in full.

I Name

I Address

i City State

[THE END]
