============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 13, Number 3
Date: March 1929
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Visions in Smoke Rufus W" by Landon
  2. "The Deserted Garden August W" by Derleth
  3. "Left by the Tide Edward E" by Schiff
============================================================
============================================================
VISIONS IN SMOKE RUFUS W
by Landon
============================================================
to work and, not without difficulty, extracted the screws. As the last one came away the door suning open of its own accord. A simultaneoxxs gasp (Continued on page 425)

Visions in Smoke

By RUFUS W. LANDON

The qiiivering smoke-wreaths of my cigarette Curl slowly upward in the silent room,

Ensnaring straying sunbeams in a net Ethereal, woven on a magic loom.

Aloft, there hovers on the atmosphere

A rippling haze through which the sunlight gleams.

And from its iridescent folds appear Fantastic images that fade like dreams.

A blue expanse of ocean I behold.

Whose rolling billows seem to meet the sky,

And far below, vast stores of gems and gold Within their coral caves half buried lie.

Their luster falls upon the rotting hulls Of ancient vessels sunk in days of yore.

While whitened bones and ghastlj^ grinning skulls A silent vigil keep forevermore.

The scene now changes, from the ocean bed The waters disappear, and in their place A stately, marble palace rears its head.

The relic of a long-forgotten race.

Out of the buried centuries it shines.

The glamor of the past in every part ; '

Beauty and grace adom its phantom lines To form a masterpiece of ancient art.

Its gleaming marble walls and lofty towers Now fade and merge into a woodland green.

With vine-clad trees and banks of gorgeous flowers That deck the grassy spaces in between.

Beneath the spreading shelter of the trees.

The woodland spirits gather one by one.

Their filmy garments waving in the breeze.

Their white forms flashing in the golden sun.

From far and near they come, a merry band.

With flowing tresses and with wings outspread,

And dance a mystic measure hand in hand While dazzling sunbeams fall from overhead.

As o’er the sod in ecstasy they glide.

Like white-capped ocean waves they rise and fall,

Floating among the flowers in circles wide.

Soaring aloft above the tree-tops tall.

Then, as they sink to earth, a cloud of gray Enfolds the forest in a somber cloak;

The scene grows dim and slowly fades away Into the air, on trailing wisps of smoke.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE DESERTED GARDEN AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================

The W zird Pipes of Pan Sounded In

THE DESERTED GARDEN

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

M r. JERYM WAKING’S archeological researches had brought him at last to the Gower coast of Wales. He stood now in the center of the highway that ran through the unnamed hamlet that he had reached with the aid of kind tourists. In one hand he held a suitcase; in the other the clipping that had brought him there. He looked askance at the headline — “Dead Man in Mysterious Deserted Garden” — and hoped fervently that any prying investigators would have completed their work. The article went on to say that a tourist had been found dead in a strange, out-of-the-way garden overlooking the sea, and that his death was supposed to have been by murder, though it was rather late to ascertain definitely, the body having gone long undiscovered. There were curious marks about the throat, it seemed, and the intrepid detective in charge of the case insisted on murder. This, instead of contributing to the clarity of the matter, tangled it still more. Mr. Jerym Waring had a penchant for anything that suggested the ancient; consequently, when he i-ead the last paragraph of the article, telling about the antiquity of the garden, he lost no time in making for the place. Unfortunately he lost himself, and ari’ived seven days later than he had scheduled.

Mr. Jerym Waring looked up from the article to find himself the cynosure of several pairs of eyes. Two

of them were directed at him from behind a curtain to his left; another came from a large frame dwelling on the other side of the road. Mr. Waring fixed his eyes on this building, reflecting to himself that it suspiciously resembled a hostelry. The eyes abruptly vanished, and a moment later a large, rotund man ambled casually out of the building and planted himself against the door-jamb. The archeologist took hold of his suit-case and went over to him.

“I say, brother,” he began, “can you tell me where I can find some place to put up for a week or a fortnight?” He shifted his weight from one foot to the other.

The rotund man slowly removed a pipe from his mouth, made a little bow, and ansAvcred him, with a faraway look in his eyes, as if he were watching for sailboats along the distant sea-horizon, “You can make yourself right at home here, sir. This has always been as good a hotel as you can find hereaboiits. ’ ’ He bowed again, and imperturbably turned to lead the way into the building. Mr. Jerym Waring saw nothing to do but to follow his host.

At table that night ^Ir. Jerym Waring casually mentioned the mysterious garden. Was it far from there? And could one get to it ea.sily? And how?

“It’s a good many steps,” said his host, “but it’s not what I’d call far.” He tunied to his wife for corrobora333



tion ; she nodded hastily. ‘ ‘ The path ’s pretty clear, now that all those detectives and doctors have worn it down so. You follow it right down to the sea, and there you turn northward and start going up on the cliffs. You’d best be i)retty careful there, sir, for the path’s narrow as can be, and the sea’s below, and there’s sharp rock under the water.” His wife nodded again, and Mr. Waring nodded, too. The host was using his fork to ])iurctuate his remarks.

T he following morning Mr. Jerym Waring rose especially early and made his wa 5 ^ out of his hotel to the sea-coast. It was as yet somewhat misty, and he stood for some moments debating on the advisability of ascending the cliffs in the half light. The path ixpward seemed fairly clear, but it was also dangei'ously close to the edge of a sheer wall to the sea. He resolved at last to continue his jaunt, and he made his way carefully up along the cliff wall. At times gulls flew screaming past him, so close that he might have reached out and touched them, had it not been for the danger of upsetting himself. He emerged from the rocky path Anally in a sort of ravine, eqixally as rocky. This he followed to its end, where he came ui)on the deserted garden.

At first glance it looked like a forlorn cemetery: there were a great many vine-grown rocks and slabs of stone to be seen among the trampled weeds. Here and there were sicklylooking flowers — not at all what Mr. Waring had expected. He walked about among the stones, examining them under his glass, and leaving one after the other with a disappointed air. About half-way through the garden he discovered himself to be in the middle of the ruins of what had once been a stone building. He stood for some minutes looking ai’ound him, trying to trace the outlines of this old ruin, when his eye lighted on a

peculiar flat slab, close to the wall line of the ruin. It struck him at once as being infinitely older than any of the other stones, and he hurried over to it eagerly.

It was certainly a marker for a grave, reflected Mr. Waring, and he bent closer in a vain effort to decipher the cryptic scrawls on the stone. But the writing was totally strange to Mr. Waring, well versed as he was in ancient lore. Mr. Jerym Waring was chagrined, and he stood up and glanced shamefacedly about, as if on the lookout for anyone who might have seen him. He rambled through the remainder of the garden, but his fancy drew him at last back to the slab. He tried, half-heartedly, to move it, but the effort was futile ; the stone Avas too large, and besides, it was half imbedded in the earth.

It was somewhat after 12 when Mr. Jerym Waring reached his hostelry. The archeologist noticed at once that his host’s manner was rather strained, and he wondered vaguely whether this had to do with his presence. At table he mentioned casually his intention to return to the garden for the afternoon. A quick glance passed between his host and hostess, and for a moment after his announcement there was complete silence. Mr. Jerym Waring ’s host coughed nervously and put his tea-cup in his saucer.

“You’ll be back before nightfall, I sxippose, sir?”

“That depends,” said Mr. Waring reflectively, “on what I find. I have a flashlight with me; so don’t worry if I fail to come back for lunch.”

“We’d like to have you with us for lunch, Mr. Waring. All afternoon, in fact. You needn’t go up there today — you’ve all Aveek to Ausit, sir.”

“There’s never a time like the present. Besides, there may be nothing there after all ; so that I may leave you tonight. If I waited and found nothing, I should lose that much time.”

THE DESERTED C4ARDEN


“I don’t like to mention it, sir, but that garden is a bad spot — an unhealthful spot at night.”

“There’s a queer slab up there. It has a lot of curious carvings on it,” Mr. Waring went on, as if he had not heard his host.

His hostess suddenly set her cup oE tea on the table, and moved her chair slightly away.

“It was beside that stone,” said his host slowly, “that the body was found. ’ ’

“Is that so? Well, that’s most interesting. I wonder, now. . . . How old do you take the garden to be ? ”

“I don’t know, sir. That garden was there before this town was founded. Some say it’s Roman.”

“Do you know what night this is?” asked his hostess suddenly. Mr. Waring stared blankly at her. “May Eve, sir. And for years past there ’ve been queer doings up in that garden on htay Eve, to sav nothing of All Souls and All Hallows.”

“What do you mean — ‘queer doings ’ ? ”

“Lights, greenish -blue lights,” his host broke in. ‘ ‘ And often weird, uncanny music that scares you.”

“And no one ever investigated?” asked Mr. Waring incredulously.

“Yes. One of us went up.” There was a significant silence. “He never came back ; we never found his body. ” His host coughed again. “But we heard him in the night, screaming. ’ ’

“What do you suppose ?” begain Mr. Waring.

“There is,” said his host stolidly, “it is said, an old god named Pan — a Greek god — of good and of evil, of nature. On May Eve, on All Hallows, on All Souls, the evil iiredominates, and it is better for man to avoid the spot Pan and his satyrs frequent. ’ ’

Mr. Waring made an efEort to speak, but he said nothing. The eyes of his hostess were staring blankly into the past; her face had gone a pasty white.

Mr. Jerym Waring was somewhat

perplexed. But in the aftenioon he went up, and by evening he had quite forgotten about the matter.

H e learned nothing from the slab, save that it might have been moved. Had it not been for this discovery, Mr. Waring would have returned to his hostelry in time for lunch. As the matter stood, his lingering was pardonable. His first reaction on sight of the disturbed ground about the base of the slab was one of intense surprize. It was clear to him that it would take more than one man to move the slab, and it was fairly certain that not more than one man at a time had been up here, save perhaps the detectives who had investigated the death some weeks before. Yes, that was most probably it. But it did not seem to him that the stone had been disturbed at all that moniing.

Mr. Jerym Waring stood up, relieved. The discovery had been made at sundown, and when the archeologist rose from his crouching position there was only a deep red fringe on the horizon to show where the sun had been. A gull wheeled about high iip in the sky, and another followed it, screaming raucously. Mr. Waring stood for a tentative moment. All was strangely silent, with that curious silence that falls in still places when the birds have ceased their crying. It was getting rapidly darker, and all that was left of the day was a faint, darkening line of red on the sea, as if someoiie were dying there, and bleeding from a hundred wounds. A dim moon was making its way slowly through great clouds of fog rolling up from the lowlands.

Mr. Waring stood there until the fog had entirely .surrounded the peak he surmounted; it was as if he had suddenly been thrust out into the far reaches of the sky; as if the earth were thousands and thousands of miles below him.

He turned to go at last, even while



the wisps of vapor were curling around him. He sought out the slab once more, and directed his flashlight at it. He had not anticipated what he saw : the slab had been raised fully an inch from the ground, and it stood on one edge at a distinct angle. Mr. Waring had a sudden, luiaccoimtable vision of his hostess ’drawn face. Then his flashlight went out. He stood quite still for a moment; then he ran forward — and fell over a stone. He picked himself up, bewildered, and ran again, only to fall a second time. Again he stood still, and looked in vague fright toward the place where the slab should be.

The fog was too thick to see anything, but the archeologist was not unaware of the faint greenish luminosity that hoA’^ered in the vapor near him. He had yet to assure himself of its reality, and he knew of no way to go about it. He was frightened, though he could not himself tell why. Within him stirred indistinct fears, and he felt in the air about him a power, as of a strong charge of electrical current released close by. He anticipated something, though he coxfld not say what.

For some minutes nothing whatever happened, and he was just about to make a tentative step forward, when suddenly, in his immediate propinquity, sounded a succession of weird notes, as if from a group of flutes or willow pipes — sounds as of some diabolic Danse Macabre. At almost the same instant a brilliant flash of green light came into being before his eyes, and in its midst he saw a curious, swirling outline, suggestive of a face framed in curling black hair, crowned by a pair of odd upright structures, as of horns. From pipes that the weird creature held at its lips came awful music. Mr. Waring was chilled. He felt in some unaccountable manner that this thing before him was not destined for human eyes, and he wondered if he, too, were

seen. The greenish light spread and undulated as he watched, and beyond it he could see hundreds of little black figures dancing.

But suddenly Mr. Waring became acutely conscious of the miisic that the creature was playing on the pipes. From pianissimo it rose sharply to crescendo after crescendo in a succession of piercing notes that came to Mr. Waring as sharp stabs inflicted. For a moment he had no knowledge of what was passing ; even while he strove to reassert himself, he felt the music drawing him, and looking around him in his terror, he saw the vague outlines of the trees writhe and twist to the notes. The last thing he saw was a hawthorn bush, whose great white flowers were limned on his consciousness like dead things. Then he felt within him a searching and prodding, as if the strains of that melancholy, weird music had gained entrance to his body, and were now seeking for something to which to ally themselves. And then, finally, a terrific withdrawal. He collapsed, striking his head against the slab as he fell.

■jV/fR. waking’s host found his body at about noon on the following day. He came at the head of an exploring party, organized for the express purpose of discovering Mr. Waring ’s whereabouts. The archeologist was lying close to the slab, and it was assumed by many that he had slipped and fallen, striking his head on the slab, thus mortally injuring himself. Mr. Waring ’s host said nothing. He interested himself mainly in the disposal of the body, but he did not fail to note the hundreds of minute hoofprints in evidence on the grass.

Then, too, quite close to the dead man ’s hand, almost hidden by a clump of grass and an overhanging hawthorn bush, lay a brown, discolored group of willow pipes.

D r. MERSON looked at the dying rat, and decided that, should he delay his experiment longer, it would l)e dead before morning.

He had nursed it now for nearly six months, and it had been very old and blind and feeble when he had bought it.

He had told Briggs that he would give him £5 for the oldest rat in Belsham, and the rat-catcher had eaimed his monej^

It had surprized him, when he had first approached the subject, to realize how difficult it would be to find an animal that was really old and feeble. He had to observe that nature does nol encourage the pTOlongation of pain and weariness : when health goes, life very quickly follows.

But he knew that, in the course of their age-long warfare with the human race, tiie rats had aiTived at some social organization, and had adopted W. T.— 2

some of our practises, and in particular, that when a disease of blindnes.s (to which they are very liable) attacks them, they may be nursed and fed by members of their family, so that life is prolonged to an age which would otherwise be impossible.

So he had asked for an aged rat, and had watched its vitality recede, tiU now it was too weak to crawl toward the tempting food that was offered. . . . It was so dull with age that it did not flinch when the needle pricked it.


T he next morning it was not dead.

It lay sleeping ; old, and blind, and decrepit. It was not pleasant to look at, but it may have been less feeble than the night before — and the food had been eaten.

Dr. Merson, observing this, became aware that his heart was beating fast, with a sudden excitement, of which



he liJiil not supposed himself to be capable.

When he looked at it again at midday, anti observed that it was feebly attending to a neglected toilet, he did a thing which was less wise than his usual custom, calling his wife to observe it.

jM ilcr.son disliked his experiments; and his own habit of professional reticence disinclined him from speech which had no immediate purpose. But this was a diseoveiy of such momcjitoiis con.sci|uence that he Avas impelled to share it.

“You mean tliat no one need ever die?” she asked incredulou.sly. She was not gi-eatly impressed, even if she took it Avith any seriousness. .She Avas a healthy young Avoraan, utterly without imagination, and the cook had given notice an hour ago.

“Yes, it might mean that — -or nearly — unle.ss by acr ident. . . . You see,’’ he continued, to an auditor Avho scarcely heard him, “it isn't I'cally neAv. We've knoAvn for a long time that youth would continue if the cells of Avliich the bod.v is b\iilt could hav'e the right stimuli, but it's been difficult to find Avhat the.v ai’c. Some of the lower forms of life never die, as it is. The old ones Ijreak ai)art, and each part acquires a ncAV impulse of growth from the shock of that division. But in the higher animals there is a change in the substance or actiA’ities of the cells as the years pass, the nature of which has been difficult to ascertain, thoAigh its results have been CA'ident. . .

He stopped, as he became aAvare that JMrs. Merson had ceased to listen. She regarded the sleeping rat with disfaA'or.

“I shouldn’t think anything Avants to Ih'e Avhen it’s that old,” she said, with decision. She had the impatience of healthy youth for all signs of decrepitude. 'I’licy seemed stupid.

She heard the Amice of the butcher at the back door, and her mind rmverted to matters of greater urgency. She Avent back to the kitchen.


T he rat improved very slowly. Its appetite increased. It moved more briskly. It gained Aveight. It gave more attention to its toilet. It became wilder, and more alert to the sounds around it. Finally, its sight returned.

The process Avas not rapid, but continuous. At the end of three months from Avhen it had received the injection (Avhich had not been repeated), it sliowed the bodily activity and physique of a young rat.

Dr. Mereon did not mention it again to his Avife, nor did he seek another confidant. He became thoughtful. and, at times, appeared to be suffering from acnite depression. His ]>atients eomx)]ained, and his lAraetise suffered.

The fact is that he Avas beginning to fear the consequences of his discovery.

At first, it had seemed simple — and stAipendoiAs. He Avas about to benefit his race as no man had done before him. Had he not found a way by Avhich death itself Avas defeated? He saw that it aa'ouM change the Avhole face of the earth. Old age Avould become an obscene tradition. Disease avoiaM be poAverless to overcome the ncAV vitality which he had discovered. Men Avould no longer die as their minds appi’oached the threshold of wisdom.

He thought of his own patients. Thei'e Avas Mrs. Corner, who would be dead of tuberculosis within a year, Ainless he should lAsc his new power for her rescue — Minnie Corner, with three young children, fighting her hopeless battle, alAAmys “a little better today” when he called to Avatch the slow, r.elentless progress of a disease that he could not conquer. He would be Aery glad to give her health. Having it in his poAver, it was a clear and simple duty, as her doctor, to do it. But (so far as he could suppose) he

THE RAT


would do more than that. He would give her an api)roximation to immortality. Not absolute immortality. Her body would still be liable to be damaged or destroyed by violence. Certainly, it would have no power to survive the planet on w'hich it lived. It w'ould be liable to drowning, or suffocation. But it would no longer be in subjection to the treachery of time. Fed, and guarded from violence, it would not age nor decay. There was something odd in imagining Minnie Comer immortal. But there was nothing repellent. He supposed it would mean treating her children in the same way. They Avould be annoyed if they observed themselves growing old and feeble, while their mother remained young. It would confuse the relationship. Neither would she thank him for such a tableau. He knew Mrs. Comer w'ell enough to realize that there would be no rest for him till he had conferred the same boon upon her household that he should give to her. Well, w'hy not?

About two of the children there would be no difficulty. But he disliked Peter. He disliked Peter intensely. He could not endure the thought of an immortal Peter. It wasn’t the clubfoot, though it did seem a pity that it should become an abiding feature of a world grown static : it was certain qualities of meanness and cruelty which the boy had show’n from infancy, w’hich his mother had lamented, but wffiich she had been powerless to influence.

According to the law of nature which now prevailed, Peter would grow old, and in due course he would die, and his unpleasant characteristics would perish with him. He might have children, but these children would be diffei’ent from himself, whether better or worse, and, in due course, they would have still different children, the race repeating itself with an unending variety.

Somehow, this seemed a better prospect than that of an enduring Peter.

Yet he could not imagine an arrangement being smoothly made by which Peter w'ould be consigned to an exceptional mortality. How'ever carefully his moral and physical inferiorities, and the importance of his early elimination, might be explained to him. Dr. IMerson felt sure that he would resent it furiously. He imagined a violent assault upon his own person by an adult and desperate Peter to whom he was refusing the boon of immortality. Even a mux’- derous assault. . . .

His mind was diverted to observe that murder would become a more serious crime than it now is — the risk of being jnurdered a more dreadful possibility. Indeed, all idiysical risks would be talvcn at an almost infiiiitely greater price, and — ])resumably — with a corresponding reluctance.

It Avas a relief to abandon these speculations to the task of lancing a boil on the neck of the landlord of the Spotted Cow.


''T^he weeks went on, and the rat continued, and even increased its youthful vigor. Its eyes were bright. Its coat w'as smooth and glossy. Its movements were lithe and swift. It W’as fierce, and Avatchful for a chance of biting. Once its teeth met in the sleeve of Dr. Merson's coat, and the incident led him to Avonder AA'hether its new vitality could be communicated by the medium of a bite. He Avas aAA’are that the thought gave him a sensation of a ]ieril escaped, and he realized that he AV’as already regarding his discoA’ery Avith a])prehension rather than pleasure. Certainly, he had no Avish to have its benefits thrust ixpon him before he had deliberated more fully on their ultimate consequences.

Also, the rat Avas disconcertingly watchful for a chance of escaping



fi'om its coufmemciit. Once it actually got its head through the closing door, and it needed a ^larp blow to induce it to abandon the hope of freedom. Dr. Mcrson had an actual nightmare as the result of imagining that if had escaped, and that his iirvention was destroyed or forgotten, so that the world would pass at last to the dominion of a continually increasing army of immortal rats.

A fter that incident, Dr. Mereon became more careful to lock the door of the laboratory in which the rat was confined, and to keep the key in his pocket. Considering the possibilities which might follow should it be accidentally let loose, he realized how little he yet knew of the nature of his discovery. He could not even say whether the vitality it conferred would be passed on to succeeding generations. He imagined some prolific and noxious insect inoculated to immoitality, and still exercising a blind fecundity. It might become uncontrollable, and destroy everything before it. Tliat would be a weird ending to created life on this abortive planet, which must already be a joke to all surrounding intelligences.

Yet the idea was more than remotely possible. He imagined his discovery made public, and its advantages become the common property of mankind, and then some super-criminal thi-eatening his race with the results of such an inoculation of some hostile vermin, unless they should do his pleasure eternally.

Day by day his mind renewed its efforts to ])robe the conse<iuences of his discovery, and retired bewildered, as it encountered some new problem, or some obvious I'esult which he had not previously contemplated.

He saw that the human race would become static. Not in brain, perhaps; but, at least, in body. That alone murt make profound differences, produce profound cleavages. The ugly

and dcfoimed mi;st remain so to all eternity, perhaps with an increased vitality: but vitality would not alter structure.

Tliere might be an agitation to eliminate the obviously unfit in brain or body, and to replace them with healthier children. But who would decide ? Would those who were judged inferior be content to be sacrificed ? He imagined fierce and ruthless wars of exteimination. ISuppose, again, that the white races .should attempt to confine his discovery to their own use. He imagined the black and yellow races attacking them wth a mad ferocity, to force the priceless secret from them. Would the white race yield, or would they risk their potentially immortal bodies in such a conflict ? If they should yield, would not the latent animosities of race and race stiU remain, to break out into ware which, imder such conditions, must result in seiwitude or extermination?

He saw that, in the absence of widespread war, the world would soon reach a maximum population, and that children must cease ... or, perhaps, an occasional child might be permitted to I’eplace an accidental death ... or a large number of children to replace the wastage of war. Would tire race remain capable of these occasional fertilities ? Or would it arrive at a position at which its numbers would be reduced (however slowly) by occasional misadventures, and these I’eductions would be irreirlaceable®

Or if children should remain a potential possibility, would not the desire for them Irecome at times iri*esistible with at least many of the unoccupied women? Might they not welcome a war which would throw upon them the duty of replacement ?

He was roused from these visions by the consciousness that he was at Mrs. Empsey’s bedside.

It Avas some years since Mrs. Empsey had walked across her bedroom

THE RAT


floor. Her daughter, Ada, waited on her without complaint, and earned a little money by sewing and taking care of the neighbors’ children. It was many years since Joe Horton had asked for any rent for the cottage. They had a few shillings weeklj^ from the parish. So they lived.

Dr. Merson had not sent in a bill ibr ten years past. He never thought of doing so. He had fought as hard for Mrs. Empsej’^’s life as for that of his wealthiest patient. It was all in the day’s work.

Blit he had not been able to cure her. Indeed, he had not hoped to do so. Even now, he was not certain that her damaged intei’ior could be reconstructed, though he could give her a new vitality. But he hoped, even for that. Anyway, she would be about again, and Ada could marry the booking-clerk at Belsham station, who had courted her long enough. They w'ere both over thirty. Here was one of the fii’st ])laees to Avhich his discovery would bring a joy almost beyond imagination. Mrs. Empsey had always clung to life with a desperate cowardice. But even here he would do nothing — would say nothing — too hastily. The whole prospect was so stupendous.

lie checked himself in writing a prescription which would have placed his iiatient beyond the power of any drug to revive her. . . . That was another thought. . . . The power of jioisons would continue. ... If the certainty of death were removed, would the dread of such contingencies be increased until life would become an intolerable cai’e to avoid them? Only experience could resolve that problem.


/^UT of much confusion, a thought came in the end, clearly born out of chaos. If he were right that his discovery could give perpetual youth to mankind, it could only mean that a limited number of people would live

long, where, othenvise, a larger number of people would have lived for a shorter time. Putting aside all theories of a future life, all the speculations or dogmatisms of religion, its only result could be to make the single life longer, and the individual lives less numerous. Finallj^ therefore, it could only be advantageous if it resulted in higher and happier conditions of life than those which were prevailing ainund him. It would abolish children. It would abolish age. It would make youth perpetual. Youth was the desire of all men. Those who were young desired to retain it. Those w'ho Avei'e old would give anything they had to recover it. So much Avas clear — if he Averc only sure. Aiming to abolish age, might it not be found — and perhaps too late — that it was youth that had left the world ?

By all outward evidences, the rat had regained its youth. Why should he doubt that it was the perpetuity of youth which he would offer to a grateful world ? Perhaps he A^exed himsel f because his own mind was too small to understand the greatness of his oAvn discoveiy.

Yet, could youth be perpetual? Youth Avas not only of the body, it was of the spirit. He did not Imow ... As a doctor, he was predisposed to consider the physical as dominant. But the freslmess of youth ?

He considered another possibility. Perhaps age Avould come, though more gi’adually, as the spirit tired. Then the body might be periodically inoculated to a ncAv youth, as he had done to the rat, Avith all the joy of a returning springtime. “If youth but kncAv!’’ Hoav many men had Avasted youth, and longed for its return in vain, when they had gained the experience Avhich Avould have valued it more highly, and used it differently! To unite Ihe experience of age Avith youth’s vitality! . . . and then he saAv his delusion . . , the joy of



youth is not of experience, but of inexperience. It is because the adventure is new : the path untrodden.

He considered himself. He did not feel old. He was forty-three. He ImeAv that he must appear old to the young people around him. If he were unmarried, and should he ask a young girl to share his life, she might make it a jest to her companions.

But he had a good constitution, and he had lived temperately. His body was still strong and vigorous. Yet he had not the outlook of youth. He realized that his youth would not return, though twenty years should be taken from the age of his body.

With a sudden clarity he realized that, to regain his youth, it was not so much a new body which would be needed ; that which he had would serve his purpose well enough, could it only tlirow off the appearances of thinning hair and growing corpulence, which disguised it from the youth around it ; it was a new youth of the soul, an intervening Lethe, which would be needed. .. . He had made no discovery in that direction. Physically, youth might continue, but, as the millenniiams pas.sed — even the centuries . . .


H e made efforts to regain the standI)oint of his omr youth, that he might explore its differences. He became absent-minded in reminiscence. ... He used to write poetry then. He had not done anything quite so foolish for many years. All the same, he had done it rather well. The only weak point was that the poems were usually left unfinished. It was so much easier to get the first lines. The memories of youth moved bim to the old impulse. With a sudden keen recoverj’- of emotion he remembered his first meeting with jMolly . . . the picnic under the trees . . . the first shy kiss on her shoulder. . . . That was before he had gone to college. ... He had always been loyal to her, and she to him. ... He was not of the shallower sort of those that change lightly. .. . He loved her now as he had loved her then — but oh! the world between. . . .

I can not stand where once I stood. It takes a life to learn

That none may steer his course to shear the trail of light astern.

That was well expressed. He would have written those lines down twenty years ago. He would have intended to make them into a complete poem. But he knew better now. He knew that they would never be finished. He knew so much — about himself, and others. He even knew' his own weaknesses.

That was the trouble. The inexperience of youth was something which could never be recovered, and the experience of age was no substitute. He realized that to abolish age is to abolish youth also.

Seeing this, his mind startled itself with a further possibility — might it l3e equally true to say that to abolish death would be to abolish life? In a moment 's vision he saw life and death in a conflict from which each wins recurrent victory : he saw them interdejjendent, and this strife as the condition on which they both existed. . . .


H e imagined his discovery applied to the vegetable world; an oak tree in perpetual vigor. . . . Would there be no place left for fruit-time and harvest ? For the young growths of spring? There was the question of food — corn must still be grown for food, and mown down in due season — or perhaps there might be developed roots of a continuing vigor? But the question of food was not merely a human one. All life grew by feeding upon the life around it.

This was fundamental. It had an aspect of cruel rapacity, seeming in1’HE RAT


consistent with the idea of a beneficent Grod. Yet if there be mortality at all, there can be no better end to the ontwom or defeated body than to support the vigor of a new life. . . . His mind stooped, bewildered once again l)efore the stupendous nature of the change which his discoveiy must bi'ing to the earth’s economy.

Perhaps the question was too great for one man to face. Woidd it not be w’ell to announce his discoveiy, and for some small committee of selected men to consider whether it should be used? . . . But he knew that there would be no such question in the minds of men. They might doubt its advantages for other men, for alien races, for animal or vegetable creations, but for themselves there would be no doubt at all.

It was true that he might withhold the discovery itself, and merely announce that he possessed it, but even that announcement (if it were believed) might rouse an excitement that he could not estimate. . . . He imagined himself mobbed, beaten, even tortured, till he should consent to reveal it to a frantic world. . . .

Pacing the laboratory restlessly, dLstracted Avith such thoughts as these, afraid to meet the reproaches of his wife, who could not understand why he was changed and aging so rapidly, so that he had aequirccl a habit of remaining there till it should be time to go out on his daily round, he regarded tlie rat, now running up the bars of his cage in a restless and tireless activity, with sudden hatred. He would kill the loathsome thing, and forget the horror he had discovered. Perhaps he might enjoy life once again. . . .

He looked at his watch, and was stai'tled to .see that it was half an hour after the usual time at which he set out on his daily round — and he had a consultation with Sir William Brett at 10:30. He went out hurriedly.


S CHOOL was just commencing that morning Avhen Peter Comer left it. He owed his freedom to liis ability to take unscrupulous advantage of the caprice of circumstance, and the crediility of his fellows. His two sisters had colds, and his mother had kept them at home. Had he reported to his schoolmistress that his mother suspected measles he would have incurred the risk of ultimate retribution, which he was always adroit to avoid. Instead of that, he made the remark to Jessie Phipson, who could be relied upon to report it promptly. Challenged on the point, he strenuou.sly denied the truth of the suggestion. His mother had never said so. He had told Jessie that they had not got mea.sles nor scarlet fever. The misti’ess did not kirow what to believe, and sent him home till she could obtain more reliable information. He had expected that.

His expression was almost goodtempered as he dragged his clubfoot toward Dr. ]\Ierson’s surgery. His sisters usually called for his mother’s medicine, but as they had not come to school today the duty fell to him. He did not like going there. He hated Dr. Mer.son. He hated his eyes, which seemed to see through him without effort, and then to look elsewhere, as though he were not worth seeing. But he had to go today, and he had a hopeful idea this morning. He did not expect to get the medicine before noon. He Imew that the doctor was not at home during the mornings. But he could not be blamed for calling on his way home.

He found the .surgery door unlocked, as it Avas sometimes left when Dr. IMereon was absent. He had expected that. He knew when and whether most of the doors in Belsham were locked or open. He did not often make use of this knowledge. His physical deformity, and the practical



difficulties of secreting or disposing of illicit gains, had withheld him from active dishonesties. But in his waking dreams (for he had them, as much as more attractive children) he was most often a cat burglar of superhuman audacities.

Had he rung tlie surgeiy bell, the maid would have come, or the doctor’s wife, but he turned the handle without haste or hesitation, and stood quietly inside, in an attitude of respectful waiting, till he was reassured by the surrounding silence. Then he passed through to the passage. He could not move very ciuietly, but a sound of crockery in the distant kitchen reassured him, and — beyond his hopes — the key was in the door on the other side of the passage.

Dr. Merson did not often experiment with living animals, but it was generally known that he held a vivisection certificate. It was the dream of Peter’s life to enter that room, and view the liorrors which he vaguely imagined to be concealed behind the frosted gla.ss that could be seen sideways from the road, if you forced your face sufficiently far between the palings.

Now the door was not even locked, though the key w'as in it. Peter opened it quietly, entered, and closed it behind him.


■TNr. mkrsox had not gone far when he was vexed by a doubt as to whether he had locked the door. He was almost s\ire that he had — yes, he was quite sure — but he felt va'guely uneasy. He felt for the key in its usual pocket, but it was not there. He felt in his other pockets, with the same result. He must have left it in the door. He felt sure now that he had turned the key, but not removed it. That wms what had made his mind uneasy. Really, it didn’t matter. No one of his household would enter the room under such circumstances. Certainly Molly wouldn’t. She hated the room, and never entered it except to seek him. More certainly still, the maid woirld not venture. She would not enter to dust it. Not that he wanted her to. Women are a curse w'here a man works. But he knew her feeling. It was, in fact, her talk in the village which was mainly responsible for the fact that Peter Corner was now inside it. But Dr. Merson didn’t ImoAv that. He only thought that if the women of his household found the door locked and the key outside they would know that he couldn’t be in, and woitld be unlikely to enter. But was he sure he had locked it?

Probably he wouldn’t have turned back, being so late already, had he not discovered, to his added annoyance, that he had left behind some clinical notes which he should require at the consultation for which he was late already.

He went back hastily. On the way, he made a resolution that he would kill the rat that night, and destroy the serum he had invented. He perceived, with a sudden clarity, that the world’s Creator might understand His job better than a local practitioner in Belsham vdllage.

The relief that the decision gave him confirmed its wisdom. He w'as in better spirits than he had been for many weeks as he passed through the surgery, and crossed the passage to the room beyond.

********

Sir William Brett waited for over half an hour at the house of the patient for the benefit of w'hose health, and relief of whose pocket, the consultation had been arranged. Then he rang up Dr. Merson ’s house for an explanation. He received a reply (after some delay) that the doctor had been seized with a sudden indisposition, and greatly regretted that the appointment must be deferred until the following day.

THE RAT



T he inquest on the body of Peter Corner had been twice adjourned by a coroiier who had knowui Dr. Merson sufficiently well to regard it as incredible that he should have committed a crime so sti’ange and so inexi)]ieable. He hoped that the doctor might be found, and that his voluntary return would fuimish some satisfactory explanation. But the police had not been retarded by any similar hesitation. AYithin twenty-four hours of the doctor’s disappearance the dismembered body of Peter Comer had been discovered, and the facts that the doctor could not be found, and that he liad drawn nearly four hundred ])ounds (practically the whole of his available balance) from his bank in Treasury notes on the previous day, had enabled them to obtain a warrant for his arrest without difficulty.

But the warrant had not been executed.

Dr. Merson had walked to the station quite oi)cnly. He had chatted Avith casual acquaintances on the platform. He had even got into a compartment containing others who knew him. He had traveled to London, saying that he was in .search of certain surgical instruments wdiich he reciuired to renew, and had disap- ])eared absolutely.

It Avas agreed that he had been in pai*ticularly good spirits. Indeed — and this Avas one of the minor mysteries of the case — there had been a noticeable change in his demeanor from the morning Avhen Peter had been seen to enter the door of his surgery. Everyone had noticed the change. It Avas as though a load of fear or trouble had been suddenly lifted from him.

Mrs. Merson — Avho had insisted on giving evidence, in spite of the coroner’s Avaming — had confinned this. Bhe had entered the witness box to urge her conAuetion, against the weight of OA'erAvhelming evidence, that

he had not murdered Peter at all, and to assert that he had himself been living in dread of some mysterious enemy, Avho must be responsible both for the fate of Peter, and for her husband’s disappearance.

Her evidence, given Avith the conA'incing simplicity of an \inimaginative mind, had impressed its liearers Avith her sincerity, and increased the sympathy Avitli AA’hich she Avas regarded, but it coiild not shake the Av^cight of evidence AAdiich placed the ci'ime upon the shoulders of the absent doctor.

It was admitted by the police that the doctor could not haA^e knoAAui that Peter Avould be icleased from school on the fatal morning, but their theoiy Avas that he had met the boy by chance in the street, and had recognized an unexpected opportunity lor the commission of a crime Avliich had been designed Avithin his mind previously. He had told the boy to go to the surgery, and await his return. He had folloAved immediately, by a different route, entering the surgery unobserved, and promptly disimsed of his unsuspecting A’ictim. His household admitted that they had not knoAvn that he Avas at home till the telephone enquiiy from Sir William Brett had caused them to seek him, and he had then replied thro\igh a half-opened door, that he Avas unwell, and the ap- ])ointment must be deferred to the folloAving day.

He had callously proceeded to the dissection of his victim’s body, and it Avms only Avhen the police had traced the missing boy to his OAvn door, and the enquiries had become too close and pointed for his comfoii, that he had decided that it Avould be best to bolt, Avithout delaying for the added risk of attempting tlie destruction or removal of the dismembered corpse.

Such Avas the theory of the })olice, and Avhile it failed to offer the explanation of any adequate motiA'e for a deed so ghastly, and a risk so great, and Avhile there Avas nothing in the



doctor’s previous record to support the suggestion of criminality at once so gross and so reckless, yet it had the advantage of meeting the admitted facts more plausibly than appeared othei’wise possible, and even those who were least willing to believe that the doctor could have been guilty of such a murder wei’e unable to put forward any reasonable supposition which could explain the presence of the boy’s remains on his premises, and his subsequent flight and silence.


I T WxVS now two months since Dr.

]\Ierson had alighted at Paddington, and been seen to make a leisurely descent of the stairs to the Undergi’omid station which adjoins that terminus. Doubtless, the police would continue their enquiries, and the public would continue to keep them occupied with abortive “elites”, but the coroner could see no reason for adjourning the inquest further, nor means of avoiding the obvious verdict which the jury would be expected to render. It would place him under the painful necessity of issuing a warrant against an old friend, of whose guilt his own mind was not easily convinced, but that would be of no practical importance, in view of the magistrate’s warrant, on which the police were already acting. (The time had not arrived at which this duplication of procedure was reformed in practise).

He had no further evidence to bring forward, except that of Sir Lionel Tipshift, the Home Office export, who had conducted the postmortem on the dismembered body, and would give his opinion upon the cause of death with the air of Olympic impartiality on which the police had relied so often for the hanging of suspected persons.

The coroner’s court was small, and crowded. It was a rainy day, and the atmosphere within it was one of

depression, and of damp umbrellas. The room was plainly furnished with a table for the legal profession, an armchair for the coroner, a partitioned comer for the jury, and some benches for the use of the waiting witnesses, and the general public. It was clean, and its windows were wide and high. Yet it had an aspect of invincible grime, as though it were washed incessantly and vainly to remove an ingrained dirt, against which no physical assault could be directed successfully.

Mrs. Merson sat on the front bench, looking grave, but not acutely miserable. Her husband’s cousin, Mr. Reginald Merson, sat beside her. This gentleman, of whose existence she had not known previously, had arrived from the Argentine about six weeks after Dr. Merson had disappeared. He had made a casual call upon a cousin whom he had not seen for over twenty years, and finding himself in the midst of circumstances so strange and tragic, and having time at his disposal, he had offered such help as he could give to his cousin’s wife by remaining until the inquest should be over. He had declined her invitation to reside in the house, preferring to take a room at the Spotted Cotv, but this discretion had not prevented some unkindly gossip, which had attributed Mrs. Merson ’s equanimity to the very opportune companionship which he was able to offer.

On this point gossip was not entirely wrong, but the emotions of the doctor’s wife, being beyond her own analysis, were not likely to be imderstood by the observations of strangers. She had not wavered in her loyalty to her absent husband, nor had her affection lessened. She held a matter-of-course opinion that he had not murdered anyone; she was quite sure that he was not dead; and she was equally sure that he would return at his own time, and deal with the situation with his usual efficiency. The whole trouble was the worii of some

THE RAT


enmity, as to the nature of which, as was natural in the ease of one who was destitute of normal imagination, her imaginations were very wild indeed.

IVIr. Reginald Merson attracted and sometimes bewildei’ed her by a likeness, not so mueh to her husband as she had last seen him, as to that whieh he had been at the time of their engagement, and during the first years of her married life. His voiee, though stronger in tone, was curiously similar : his hair, though abundant, whereas her husband had become partially bald, was of the same color and quality — or, perhaps, very slightly darker. His features were alike, except for the short hair on the upper lip, and even that was a reminder of how her husband once had worn it. He was slow and guarded in speech, but, even so, he would let fall remarks at times "which showed a puzzling familiarity mth the past events of the household.

She did not disguise from herself that his presence gave her confidence, though there was mystery even in that, for he never spoke with any conviction of the doctor’s innocence, nor suggested that he might return and vindicate his reputation, and any plans he might casually indicate for her future appeared to assume that the doctor’s disappearance was to be accepted as final.

Inspector Clawson, who was in charge of the ease, had not overlooked the strangeness of the arrival of this young man, and his curiosity had been increased when he had failed to trace the name of Merson on the passenger lists of any recently arriving liners. He did not see how Mr. Reginald Merson could be associated with the crime, in the absence of any evidence that he had been in the neighborhood when it was committed, but he felt that he was a source from which valuable information might be obtained, that he might very probably be aware of the place in which the

doctor was hiding, and might very possibly be induced to speak, if the penalties which are incurred by an accessory after the fact were judiciously indicated.

He had him watched, and discovered nothing. He appeared to have no acquaintances, except Mi-s. Merson. He Avrote no letters. He received none. The inspector decided to interview him.

J\lr. Reginald received him genially. He alluded to the murder at once, and condoned with him on his failure to make any arrest. The position seemed to amuse him. The inspector could not see the joke, and did not like the tone he adopted. He asserted, wdth a confidence that he did not feel, that he expected that an arrest would soon be made. “Scotland Yard,” he lied with the boldness of exasperation, “always gets its man in the end.”

Mr. Reginald suggested humorously that he might himself be the doctor in disguise. Would the inspector like to arrest him? The inspector would have liked to do so very w'^ell, had a sufficient pretext arisen. He had already considered the ])ossibility which was now .suggested in an obvious mockery. The appeai’ance of this mysterious cousin, at such a time, and of so vague an origin, would have attracted the notice of the dullest detective of fiction, and Inspector Clawson was a very capable officer.

But his judgment was too sound to lead him into an error so obvious. He knew how much may be done by disguise, and he knew its limitations. He had never seen Dr. Merson, but he had examined .some recent photographs. He knew his age. He had discussed his appearance with local members of the force, who had seen him daily.

Between the suddenly disappearing doctor and the suddenly arriving cousin there were more than the usual cousinly resemblances. But the differences were beyond the possibilities of disguise or exj)lanation. A bald



man can not disguise himself with a thick crop of natural hair. A man of a growing rotundity can not disguise himself in a few w’ceks by the production of a slim and obmously youthful figure. A man of forty-five can not disguise himself into an apimarance of half his age which will deceive the hostile eyes of a detective who is standing two feet away in the open street, when the morning is sunny.

lusim-tor Clawson only remarked that it was a, fine day.


T hat Avas yesterday. In the coroner’s court this morning the insi»ector's eyes were still drami in the same direction. He was not greatly interested in the evidence of Sir Lionel Tipshift. For one reason, he knew what it was to he, and for another, he had no respect for the expert Avitness. He is useful to impress juries, but the police and lawyers knew that another can alAAays be procured to contradict him. Sir Lionel Tipshift was a tame exj^ert, regularly hired by the Ctoavii. The natui'e of his CAddence could be I'elied upon as t-ertainly as that a prosecuting counsel AA'Ould not point out the probable innocence of the prisoner against Avhom his brief Avas draAATi.

So the inspector’s attention wandered when Sir Lionel, with a manner suggesting that he was slightly bored by his OAvn infallibility, gave the result of his post-mortem examination.

The body, he assured the court, had been disjointed after death — probably scAreral hours later — by someone with considerable laiowledge of anatom.A . The internal organs had been preserA'cd, and (Avith some technical qualifications) were healthy. There was no trace of poison. There were marks of violence upon the body, including certain bruises on the legs.

Avhich must have been caused before death, by some blunt instrument. (That was correct. They had been inflicted by Bunny Simpson’s foot in the school playground on the afternoon before Peter’s existence had abraptly tenninated.)

The listeners were hypnotized by the coldly decisive voice to the belief that additional and important evidence had been given. The coroner only, being accustomed to analyze oaudenee, Avas conscious that nothing had been added to tliat which Avas already knoAATi, or could have been reasonably deduced from admitted circumstances, and he was a1x)Ut to address a final word to the jury, when Mr. Reginald Merson rose, and asked, in a deferential but self-possessed manner, if, as the nearest mtAle relative of the absent doctor, whose reputation was so much concerned, the unfortunate death having taken place on his premises, he might ask Sir Lionel Tipshift a feAv questions upon the evidence he had giA^en.

The coroner hesitated. A coroner’s enquiry is someAvhat less formal than are the proceedings in the criminal courts. Possibly the fact that not all coroners belong to the legal profession (many are doctors) may have produced a less rigid etiquette for preventing oral intercourse of any kind except throAigh the medium of a paid lawyer. But it is not usual for a witness to be examined in such a manner. He was about to say that he would himself put any enquiry Avhich he might approve, if Mr. Merson would let him ImoAv AA'hat Avas in his mind, when that gentleman, taking his pause of hesitation for consent, addressed a question to Sir Lionel Tipshift which was sufficiently unexpected to cause him to remain silent to await the answer.

“Can you tell me if any other body was discovered in the laboratory, besides that of Peter Corner?”

Sir Lionel, Avho had already moved

THE RAT


some paces from the witness stand, turned back, as he answered with a dry precision:

“There were no other human remains. Dr. Merson appears to have been engaged in the dissection of a recently killed rat, on the last occasion on which he occupied the laboratory.”

“Does not the fact that he could have been so occupied, at such a time, with the boy’s body upon his hands, suggest that there must have been some connection between the two?” Mr. Reginald asked, but the coroner interposed before Sir Lionel could answer.

“If you have any information which may be of assistance to this enquiry, Mr. Merson, I must ask you to take the oath, and offer yoxir evidence in the usual way; it can not be given in the form of suggestions to another witness.”

Mr. Merson did not appear either disconcerted or annoyed by this rebuke. He answered easily. He apologized for his ignorance of the coiTect procedure. He regi’etted that he was not in a position to accept the comner’s offer. It had only occurred to him — and he submitted the suggestion with diffidence — that the doctor might have siiddenly returned, having remembered, after starting out, that he had not locked the room in accordance with his usual practise, and found the l)oy trespassing within it. Sui)pose that the rat had been inoculated with some new and dreadful disease, and the boy had interfered with it, and been bitten, so that he would be certain to contract it, and would not only die himself, but might give it to others, would it not become a natural thing — even a duty, however unlaAvful — to take any .steps, at whatever personal risk, to prevent such eonse«fuences?

The court listened in a tense silence to this unexpected theory, but Sir Lionel, though he had not been addressed, gave a reply which *}!S{rf'-‘->ad

of its probability, the coroner silently allowing his interposition, with the respect which was usually accorded to his name and title.

“The rat was not diseased. It was a remarkably fine specimen. Indeed, it was the finest and healthiest that I have ever seen. There were remarkable signs of vitality in every organ.”

“Then, if it were so exceptional in its physical development, might it not have sprung at the boy’s throat, when he opened the door of its cage — which would be about at the same level — and inflicted a serious, or even a fatal woimd?”

Sir Lionel, who was seldom disinclined to the .sound of his own voice, was about to answer, but his opinion on this point will never be kiiown, for this time the coroner interposed too quickly.

“I don’t think, Mr. Merson, that anything can be gained by pur.suing hyix)thetical improbabilities. Such explanations, if put forward at all, should have come from Dr. Merson himself, or from some regularly appointed advocate on bis behalf. I am not awai'C that you have any claim to represent him at all, beyond that of an alleged relationship, and oAcn that has not been swoni to. Di’. Merson is absent. He w'ent away voluntarily, leaving the body of this nirhappy boy on his premises, at a time when he knew that enquiries were turning in his direction. I am. afraid that the jury will draw their own c(>nclusions. ’ ’

He paused a moment, and then commenced a brief and lucid charge to the jury, from Avhich a verdict of wilful murder against the absent doctor might be confidently expected.

Mr. Reginald Merson turned to the woman beside him, and said something in a low voice, on which she smiled, and rose with him. Evidently they did not propose to wait to hear the verdict given. The ease and confidence of his own demeanor appeared to have infected his companion, and



she passed out somewhat l>riskly and buoyantly, as one who leaves an luipleasant incident with finality.

As they went down the steps which led to the sti’eet, Inspector Clawson touched Mr. Merson’s arm, and he turned politely.

“I should just like to ask,” said the inspector, “how you came to know that the boy opened the cage.”

Jilr. Mex’son appeared amused. “I dreamt it on Monday night, Inspector. I’m rather good at dreams,” he added pleasantly.

The inspector’s hand was in his pocket. His fingers closed upon the warrant which he was carrying. If only he had the courage to make the arrest to which his instinct urged him ! It might make — or break — him. He became aware that Mi‘. Merson was speaking to him again, and in a voice of banter.

“It’s no good, Inspectoi’. You won’t, get a word more. The voluntary statement’s played out. ... It’s no use worrying,” he said kindly; “you’d better go home, and forget it.”

The inspector felt that the advice was sound, though he did not like it. He thought of his wife and children, and of the comfortable pension which awaits the later years of frequently promoted officers who do not make mistakes which arouse adverse newspaper comment. He turned sadly away.


D r. merson walked home very happily, beside a wife who did not know him. He was very fond of Molly. He wondered (as he had done before) if the time had come to show her the birthmark on his left arm. He wondered whether it would be expedient to use the hypodermic syringe in his right-hand pocket, wliicji would restore her youth, and give her the vitality which he was already experiencing. He liked her veiy well as she was, but he did not doxibt that he should like her quite as well if she were looking twenty years younger. But he was not quite clear as to the pretext on which he should make the injection. Not quite clear, either, that it would be morally defensible to do it without explaining its results beforehand. He felt that to convince her of the actual truth would not be the easiest of mental enterprises. But he felt also that, if she should be led to shai’e his experiences, she would admit his identity more readily than •would be otherwise probable.

Still, there was no hurry. There might even be advantages in delay. He imagined Inspector Clawson studying the metamorphosis of the wife of the missing doctoi*. It would be amusing. It could hardly be dangerous. Still, it was a needless risk. There was no hurry.

Yes — he would come in to tea.

® xf« itomoK

Edmond HamiHorij

“That great arm circled the submarine and held it tightly.”

I T IS only now, when we Mow all the story, that we see at last how narrow was our escape, that we understand at last the power and the dread of that dark liorror that rose to whelm an unsusi^ecting world. From the first sailing of the Clinton expedition to that last flaming hour of tremendous combat when the destinj^ of a planet was settled forever, we can follow the thing now, and can recognize what vast and unseen forces they were that wove around our world the net of a terrible doom. For it is only now, when the liori’or has passed over us, that we can understand that horror from its beginning.

It is with Clinton himself that the beginning lies, and with the expedition which bore his name. Dr. Herbert Clinton, holder of the chair of marine zoology at the University of London, was generally conceded to be the foremost expert on deep-sea life in all the British Isles. For a

score of years, indeed, his fame had risen steadily as a residt of his additions to scientific Iniowledge. lie had been the one to prove first the connection between the absence of ultraviolet rays and the strange phospliorescence of certain forms of bathic life. He had, in his famous Indian Ocean trawlings, established the significance of the quantities of foraminiferal ooze found on the scarps of that sea's bottom. And he it was who had annihilated for all time the long-disputed Kempner-Stoll theory by his brilliant new classification of ascidian forms.

Even to the general public the slender, gray-haired .scientist with the keen gray eyes was a well-known figure, for it was his famous investigations into the forms of deep-sea creatures Avhich had made possible the building of the new K-type submarines. These submarines, which had now been adopted by practically all nations, were built upon a new pres352


sure-resistance principle evolved by Dr. Clinton from his investigations, and could venture to depths and pressures impossible to the imdersea boats of war and post-war types. Some of them, indeed, had descended to depths of a mile and more without experiencing injury, and it was Clinton ’s contention that they were in reality capable of depths of three miles and more. To many, at first, that contention seemed only a somewhat boastful exaggeration on his part, but -when the announcement of the Clinton expedition made it known that one of these submarines was to be used by that enterprise, the scientist’s sincerity was conceded.

It was early in December that the expedition was fii’St announced, by Clinton himself, from the University of London offices. He had long desired, he stated, to investigate the peculiar forms of deep-sea life to be found in the great Nelsen Deeps. ’Phese deeps, lying in the Atlantic almost half-way between Ireland and Newfoundland, had been but little explored by oceanographers, due to their great extent and depth, the latter averaging somewhat more than three miles. Ti’awls used over these great deeps could accomplish but little, but they had brought up some curious variations of common bathic forms, and in one case had brought up an extraordinary portion of a skeleton, or reticulation of bones, that was quite unlike that of any deep-sea form known to zoologists. It was Clinton’s hope, therefore, that a more thorough exploration of these great deeps might reveal forms as yet unknown to science, and for such an exploration he planned to use, he announced, one of the new K-type submarines which he himself had helped to design, and one of which had been specially equipped and placed at his disposal by a grateful Admiralty Board.

The submarine provided, the K-16, had a cruising radius which made a mother-ship unnecessary, and was

large enough to contain all of the necessary trawling apparatus, storage-tanks and laboratories, as well as the expedition’s personnel. The members of the latter, it was announced, would be drawn almost entirely from the university’s ovra scientific faculty, including besides Dr. Clinton, Dr. Randall Lewis, an expert on ichthyological and eonchological forms; Professor Ernest Stevens, a young instructor of biology and friend of Clinton’s; two laboratory technicians from the university’s laboratories; and a half-dozen assistants, such as photographers, experienced trawlers, and the like.

It was Clinton’s plan to proceed from London directly toward the northern boundary of the Nelsen Deeps, at an approximate latitude of 57° north, and from there work his way down to their lower boundary six hmidred miles to the south, making free use of the submarine’s trawls, and descending for detailed investigations at aiiy promising spot ; since, as he stated, his calculations showed the submarine to be easily capable of reaching the three-mile depth. Besides its regulation torpedo tubes and deck-guns, the K-16 had been equipped with powerful undersea searchlights capable of dispelling the darkness of the lower depths, while small port-holes of immensely thick reinforced glass had been set in the sides of its control room, as in all the new-type submarines, making a survey of the surrounding waters possible. Communication with the expedition’s headquarters at London, was assured by its powerful radio apparatus. It was Clinton ’s hope, therefore, that by making use of all this equipment an extensive and 3 '^et thorough ex])loration of the great deeps could be carried out in a comparatively short time.

Late in April, therefore, the long, glistening steel submarine swept down the Thames and out to the open sea, with the members of the expedition

THE SEA HORROR


and two or three of its naval crew grouped on its loAv-railed deck. At the last moment the expedition’s limited personnel had been limited still further by the loss of Ernest Stevens, the young biology instructor who was to have been of it. Young Stevens, on the day before that of sailing, had had the misfortune to twist his ankle badly as he ran dowui the steps of one of the university buildings, and as the crowded submarine was obviously no place for a disabled man, he was forced to watch it sail without him, contenting himself, during the following days, by following the expedition ’s progress through the radio reports received from it by the universitj^ station.

rj^OR the first few days, while the A K-16 crept out of the English Channel and into the broad Atlantic, the messages from it were for the main part but routine reports of progress. The submaidne was following a northwestern course toward the upper boundary of the Nelsen Deeps, and would, Clinton reported, begin its surveys at once upon reaching that objective. For several days thereafter the K-16’s messages to the university station at London gave only its position and progress, and it Avas not until May 5th that a brief rejmrt from the submarine stated that it had reached the desired latitude and was now forging slowly southward on the surface, the expedition’s members already busy with their trawls and deck-winches.

For the next three days the messages from the K-16 were reports of the work accomplished with the ti'awls. In those days, so Clinton reported, no less than a dozen new forms had already been brought up and classified. An entirely new species of the Modiola vulgaris was, he stated, probably the most important of their finds .so far, but besides this a half-dozc-n variations of common malacopterygii and acanihopterygii

forms had been obtained and examined. The submarine, Clinton added, was still forging south, working all her trawls, and as yet no dc.scents had been attempted.

On the next day, the 9th, there came a further message in which Clmton reported the bi’inging up of .several other notable vai iations from classified forms, this time of the dibranchiate and tetrabrandiiate cephalopods. He stressed, in this i-eport, the difficulty experienced in using the trawls at the great depths over which the submarine w'as forging, and added that they had been further hamj)ered by the loss, on the preceding day, of one of their trawds, which, as he said, ‘'was lost in a rather puzzling manner which none of us is able to explain.” With this rather ambiguous phrase the message of the 9th concluded, and on -the next day no word whatever from the K-16 was received by the university station. Then, late on the morning of the 11th, there came that short and enigmatic me.ssage which was to make Clinton and his expedition the center of a sudden storm of s})eeulation and discussion.

The message itself, received ju.st before noon on the 11th, was a (juite coherent one, yet seemed at the same time a quite crazy one. It read :

Either we are all mad, or we have, made the gi-eatest discovery ever made. One of our trawls has brought up a thing so incredible, so unbelievable, that our minds refuse to credit it though it lies before our eyes. I will not expose this expedition to the derision of the world by telling what we have found until we learn more, and for that reason we are making a descent within the next half-hour which will tell us all. When you hear from us again we shall either have made the gi-eatest discovery ever made by men, or shall know ourselves the victims of some incomprehensible delusion.

Clinton.

Considering that nu'ssage, it i.s hardly surprizing that tlie tvorld found it intci’os+ing, and that within the next few liouvs tlsc newspaper-reading pttblic developed a .sudden interest in the



scientific expedition of whose existence it had hardly been aw'are until then. Til rough the aftenioon of the 11th, in a hundi’ed radio stations on both sides of the Atlantic, press-writers and scientists alike crowded into the little receiving-rooms to wait for the first news from Clinton and his expedition. And in the university station at London, Stevens and Clinton’s other friends and as.sociates waited tensely for that news.

Through the long afternoon of that long spring day they waited, and the world waited, but .still there came no word. Night fell, but a veil of silence had di'opped upon the submarine, and when morning came it found Stevens and his friends still waiting in vain by the silent imjiersonal instruments. Through all that night the calls of a score of stations to the submarine had gone unheeded, and when the morning newspaper’s gave to the public the first news of the K-16’s long silence, they stated openly that some mishap or disaster must have overtaken the submarine. Only young Stevens and his friends remained stedfast in their optimism, and even they began to doubt as the 12th passed and .still no message came. By night it was universally believed that the submarine had met disaster, and out on the Atlantic a half-dozen steamers were heading toward the spot where it had last repoi-ted its position.

By the morning of the 13th the public was informed through the early editions that the ships rushing to the submarine’s aid had been luiable to find any trace of it whatever, though they had circled repeatedly over the sjmt. By that time, too, it was pointed out that the submarine’s air-supply would be getting very low, even if it still remained intact beneath the surface. The general opinion, though, by then, was that Clinton in over-confidence had ventured to too great a depth in the submarine, and that it had been crushed by the tejrific ])ressure. Even at the itniversity it was tacitly conceded that this must be the case.

Concerning the strange last message from the K-16 there was .still discussion, but even that was capable of more than one explanation. It was pointed out that Clinton was an ardent zoologist, and that the discovery of some entirely new form might have cau.scd the exaggerated language of his message. Stevens, who knew the calm and precise mentality of his superior rather better than that, would not believe in such an explanation, but was unable to devise a better one to fit that sensational last report. It was the general belief, therefore, that in liis excitement over some new discovery Clinton had oi’dered his submarine to a depth too great, and had met disaster and death there beneath the terrific pressure of the waters. Certainly, whatever its defects, there was no other theory that fitted the known facts so well.

Thus, in a few days, the brief sensation of Clinton and his ill-starred expedition was disposed of. It was useless, of course, to attempt to locate or raise the missing submarine at that terrific depth, and no such suggestion was ever made. Even Stevens and his friends were forced to admit, as the days went by, that there seemed no further thing to be done, nothing by which more might be learned of the hapless expedition’s fate. The British and American newspapers combined to advise caution in over-estimating the capacities of the new-type submarines, but except for that, save in scientific circles, the loss of one of the greatest living scientists excited no particular attention. The world deplored the loss, indeed, but turned the moment after to consideration of its ovm affairs. Certainly, as the days and weeks went by, it never dreamed of the true importance of the strange sensation that had flamed so briefly from the headlines, nor ever guessed the existence of the calm and gigantic plans and forces of which that sensaTHE SEA HORROR


tion was but an incident, and which were rising even then to the destruction of man and all man ’s world.


I T WAS on the fourth day of August, just three months after the passing of Clinton and his expedition, that the first news of the approaching terror was given to the world. That first news was in the form of a dispatch from the government oceanographic station at Portsmouth, in which it w'as stated that during the last three days the level of the sea had risen almost as many feet. Unnatixrally high tides had been lashing the coasts of England and of the world during those days, the message stated, and a study of them had disclosed the astounding and unexplainable rise Avhich had taken place. The dispatch added that the rise was a world-wide and not a local one, since corroborative reports of it had been received fi’om associated oceanographic stations at New York, Yokohama, Sydney and Calcutta.

It is not wonderful that that brief first message aroused in the world of science, and even in the world of everyday, a very intense interest and curiosity. Published as it was in all the London journals on the evening of the fourth, and by them transmitted by Avire and wireless to the world at large, it soon eclipsed even the latest atrocious murder as a theme of general discussion. For if there is one thing considered constant in this changing AAorld of ours, it is the level of the sea. All our heights and depths are compared to and computed from it, so unchanging do Ave esteem it; since though great tides may come and go the level of the sea itself seems never to change, so delicately balanced are the combined processes of evaporation and condensation Avhich deplete and replenish it. And for this hitherto \inclianging level to ri.se suddenly for almost three feet, in as

many days, was a phenomenon of intense interest and mystery.

Scientists, indeed, Avhen confronted AA’ith accounts of what had taken place, coiAld only shake their heads in somewhat helpless perplexity. No ordinary conditions, of course, could account for such a tremendous and unprecedented rise as this. They A^entured the suggestion, though, that some great subterranean upheaval or earthquake might have forced up the bed of the ocean in some spot to such a distance as to heighten the level of the waters. If such an upheaval had taken place in some central spot, they pointed out, such as the Arctic or Antarctic regions, it might avcII have caused such a great rise as this in the level of all the sea. They Avere unable, however, to explain the fact that during the last fcAv Aveeks no such upheaval or quake Avhatever had been recorded by the seismographs of the world.

Unchecked by any positive knoAvledge as to the thing’s cause, therefore, it could be argued and discussed during the next daj' or two Avith zest, and many and fantastic Averc the explanations that Avere advanced. The great space devoted to it by the neAvspapers had aroused the ])ublic’s fickle interest, and during the next tAvo days the sea and the great tides Avhich Avere rolling in from it against the coasts of all the Avorld became the center of a Avorld-Avide interest. In Sussex and in Anglesey, in Maine and in California, in Korea as in Ceylon, there Avere evervAvhere large groups of interested spectators gathered along cliff and sca-Avall and beach, to AA^atch those great green tides shattering themselves against the shore, and to speculate idly on the subject of general interest. In England and the Continent, as avcU as in America, special excursion trains Avere run to many beaches, and the proprietors of resorts reaped a sudden and unex- ])ected harvest.



It was true that here and there some damage had been done by the rising of tlie waters, and by the great, unnatural tides, but it was not of a magnitude large enough to arouse attention. A row of bathing-machines wrecked, a road or sea-wall w^ashed away, a beached boat or two swept out to sea — such events as these could hardly seem important to the mass of people in comparison to the strange conditions which had caused them. It was also true that the lot of ships at sea had become suddenly very arduous, due to the great seas running, and that large numbers of the smaller boats had been forced to remain in port until the great tides abated, yet even this made no impression save on that small portion of the world ’s population which follows the sea. The larger part of the public chose, during those two days, to I'egard this strange manifestation as a spectacle rather designed for its own entertaiiiment and interest. On the evening of the second day, though, the 6th, there came that which suddenly swept away this attitude.

This was the second calm report from the Portsmouth station, given to the Avaiting newspapers late on the afternoon of the 6th. Within an hour it had flashed along the telegraph keys and wires, and had fallen into type and was leaping from the presses in London, and in New York, too, and in cities around the whole earth 's girdle. And with the publication of that message the whole matter suddenly lost its lighter aspects, and the world that had theorized and laughed and .ioked concerning it suddenly sobered, and looked up with startled eyes. For the Portsmouth station's second report stated that the rise already noted had not stopped but was apparently still continuing at the same steady and extraordinary rate, having risen some two feet further during the ensuing two days.

“While this extraordinary rise is purely a temporary one, of course,”

said the report, “it seems advisable, that preparations be made for the evacuation of whatever regions or sections lie at a height of less than ten feet above the former standard sealevel.” It was this calm advice that sent a sudden chill across the peoples of the earth, so that for the flrst time there rose the thought of peril in connection with the thing. All during the next day, while the day and night slid around the Avorld in endless alternation, men spoke of the thing with knitted broAvs and troubled eyes, and in Edinburgh and Chicago and Honolulu and Bombay said to each other, as though Avith a strange ncAv thought, “If this thing — this rise — keeps on, it’s going to be a bad thing, d’ye knoAV ? ” It was as though that thought had stridden across the world like some giant specter of fear, to still Avith lifted ghostly hand the laughter which the matter had aroused at flrst.

But in one spot of earth men neither laughed nor spoke concerning it, but labored madly to stem the peril Avhich they saAv rising SAvift to Avhelm them and theii'S. An observer hanging high over Holland on that fateful 6th would have made out, all along the coasts of that sunken little land, a desperate and unceasing activity, as of the efforts of some sAvarming insects to repair a breach in their tiny fortifleations. For the last few days, indeed, the rising sea had been lashing Avitli all the power of its tremendous tides against the dikes which alone protected the sunken little land from the fury of the ocean. Inch by inch that land had been Avon from the ocean’s poAver, and Availed with the tiiick dikes which until noAV had resisted all the ocean ’s bloAvs ; but thick as they AAere their height AA^as not great, and toward their tops the rising Avaters had been steadily claA\dng during the last few days.

As sunset of that day gleamed blood-rcd in the west the anxious watchers saw that even the parapets of hastily filled sandbags Avhieh they

THE SEA HORROR


had placed upon their dikes were giving beneath the thunderous tides, and shifting and dissolving. Valiantly they labored, as men will do for their life and land, but before midnight of that night through a score of great breaches the long-repressed seas 'were rushing in upon the little land in ravening, titanic fury, and church bells were ringing wildly across the countryside and beacon fires blazing red, while roads and canals were choked with hordes of panic-driven fugitives fleeing blindly through the darkness from the terror that leaped upon them from behind. And when at last sunrise gleamed golden over the body-choked waters and over the flooded meadows and spires of cities, word had been flashed to the world that more than half of Holland was under Avater, its cities buried and populations drowned by the vast, inrushing floods.

With that word the strained anxiety of the world dissolved suddenly into stark fear. It was only the most emphatic messages of reassurance on the i)art of the newspapers and agencies of public information that prevented a great panic on that morning. They admitted that the disaster had occurred, but ])ointed out that it had boeir caused by the breaking of the dikes, as similar disasters had been caused before. No such thing could occur elsewhere, they stated, and assured the public that the rise in the sea’s level was only temporary, caused by the subterranean upheaval which had been mentioned b.y the scientists. Not only would the rise not continue, they predicted, but it would be seen when the measurements wei’e made public that evening that a positive lowering of the waters had taken place.

such assertions the rising ’ ^ panic of the earth’s people was calmed a little on that morning, but the foreboding of dread to come increased as the extra editions poured

from the presses that day hour-byhour chronicles of further disaster. Parts of Lancaster and Norfolk were already flooded, they learned, their inhabitants fleeing by every road to higher ground. Louisiana and the lower vallej^ of the Mississippi were under water, and the basin of the Amazon was a maze of flooded jiuigles. Fishing villages on the Chinese and Japanese coasts had been swept away with great loss of life by the vast tides of the Pacific, the plantations of lower Malaya had become salt swamps, and along the coastlines of India and Africa the waves were battering the shore with terrific fury. Scores of ships at sea were Iniown to have foundered, sending out despairing calls for help until the last, Avhile others making tor the nearest harbor had been caught by the great tides and flung against cliffs and shoals to be pounded into unrecognizable wreckage.

Yet still, through the long hours of that tense day, the authorities and newspai)ers combined to allay the rising panic. These conditions were but temporary, they repeated, could be but temporary. The sea had risen almost a half-dozen feet during tlie last few da.ys, due to certain extraordinary conditions, but it Avould rise no higher, could rise no higher. When the report from the oceanographic stations came, that would be seen. Until then they im]Jored the public not to yield to the excitement of alarmists. So through all that day the ])eoples of England, and of America, and of all the world, remained tensely ([uiet, waiting, waiting for the word that would either explode their fears or spell their doom. And at last, late that eyening, the word they awaited came.

“The extraordinary and unprecedented rise of the sea’s level,” said the general report issued from the Portsmouth and associated oceanographic stations, “has not subsided during the la.st twenty-four hours, but



on the contrary has increased approximately a foot more, indicating that this rise, whatever may be its cause, is still continuing at the same rate as when first observed. It is impossible to predict when the rise will cease, knowing as we do nothing of its cause, and it will be also impossible to issue further reports from these stations, since the rise of thcAvatei’s makes their abandonment necessaiy. Our only suggestion is that the world’s peoples make their way toward the highest grounds near them, since it is clearly evident that within a few more days this continuing rise will result in the flooding of the earth’s surface to an unpredictable depth and extent.”

That brief, calm message, the last to be sent out by the oceanographic stations, let loose upon the world such a hurricane of panic as it had never known before. We look back, now, upon the night that followed it as one of the most terrible in the history of humanity, a night in which death and fear stalked together across the world like gigantic twin destroyers. For in all the cities of the world, that night, were such scenes, such rushing crowds and shouting men and flaring lights, as no man had ever seen before.

In London the great Thames was already flooding over its embankments into the great basin in which the city lay. The power-plants that lit the great city were failing one by one as the rising waters reached them, section after section snapping into sudden darkness, Avhile aAvay to the west the soaring red flames of a great fire cast a quivering crimson glow across the doomed and dro\vning metropolis. Beneath that ghastly light, through the swift-running streets, the panicdriven mobs fought and splashed their way toward the nearest hills, toward the open countrj^ toward safety. Crowded automobiles whirled through those streets in blind disregard of tliose whom they ran do^vn. Ships all along thn flooded harbor stood out to sea, preferring rather to face the

great waves and mountainous tides than to be smashed helplessly against their moorings. Airplanes high above buzzed unceasingly through the night, to north and south and east, to wherever wms higher groimd.

And in New York, too, the seas w'ere lapping now against the great buildings that seemed to tower up in splendid disdain of tlie waters clawing at their bases. There, too, were flooded streets, and rushing, fear-mad mobs, and fierce men with burning eyes who bawled at street corners of tlie wrath of the Loi’d and of the returning deluge. Already immense crowds had collected on the heights of the island’s northern part, and from there, and from the other heights westward, they watched with awe the sweeping seas that rolled and broke now across the squares and parks and avenues of the proudest city in the world. And by then, too, the populations of Boston, and Philadelphia, and San Francisco and Seattle were fleeing inland by every road, and of New Orleans there remained visible only the roofs of flooded buildings.

Everywhere on earth, in those hours, men were turning away from the coasts, away from the vast, ravening seas that were hurling themselves over the land, and were pushing inland toward higher ground, toward the Alps and the Appalachians, toward the Pyrenees and the Andes, toward the Ilimalayas and the Rockies. And even as they fled, news was flashing along the last remaining lines of communication of great tidal waves that had wiped away life in the Hawaiian and Philippine Islands, of the waters of tlia China and YcHoav Seas black with the bodies of drowned men, of the fear that had lit India red with the torch of terror, that had prostrated black and howling hordes along flooded African coasts, that had made of a hundred European cities infernos of roaring panic. For through all of earth’s five continents, that night, the roads leading inland

THE SEA HORROR


were the scene of the stampede of humanity.

Through the darlmess of that dread night they went, vast, unorganized mobs that fled blindly on, pushing and strildng and trampling, and as they fled the last organizations of men were slipping and crushing, knocked downi like children’s houses of blocks by the giant hand of fear. It was the flood, the ever-feared deluge of all the legends of men, tlie horror that was springing upon all the earth. IMen prayed and fought and sobbed and killed themselves in their raving fear, that night, but ever the remorseless waters rose higher, and higher, and higher. Up and up they came, slowly, steadily, surely, up toward the annihilation of man and the age-old reign of man, up toward the whelming of a world.


Y oung Ernest Stevens, on that fateful night of the 7th which saw the climax of the world’s fear, had found himself in the vicinity of Piccadilly when the first rush of the panic began. He had seen for himself the sudden rise of the waters of the Thames which had taken place during the preceding few days, and had also read the newspaper accounts of the extiaordinary and unexplainable heightening of the sea’s level, but was still so much centered on the strange passing of Clinton and his expedition as to give the subject of general interest but small attention. On this night, however, when the publication of that epochal last message from the Portsmouth station sent the first crowds hastening through the streets, Stevens realized his own position and started off across the city toward his lodgings.

Before he had gone far the first great mobs were rushing through the streets, beginning the vast exodus from the city, and disrupting all the ordinary means of tiansportation. Already, too, salt fioods were creeping

through the streets, adding to the panic of the crowds, and as Stevens walked on, the lights of the city around him were beginning to fail, fanning the flames of fear higher in the ah’eady panic-mad crowds. By the time Stevens finally stumbled up the steps of his lodging-house, the street on which it stood was wholly dark, and covered by a few inches of water through which the fugitives along its length were splashing.

He found the house itself deserted, and going to his owni rooms quickly gathei’ed the most necessary of his belongings into a small bundle, which he formed into a rough knapsack or pack. This done he tunied toward the door, then paused a moment at the window. Before him stretched away the roofs and steeples of the vast city, all their sparkling lights vanished now and darkened. Prom the west, though, came a flickering red light, and he could see there a mighty upI’ush of flames. The street outside, ihe waters in it slowly rising, was alive with hurrying figures, many with great bundles or barrows, all pressing on to escape from the city, and shouting hoarsely to one another.

Stevens tunied toward the door, but as he did so he stopped suddenly short. The door had swung open, and in its opening stood a man, a dark, slender figure. The red glow of light from the window fell full upon his face, and as Stevens saw it he cried out.

‘ ‘ Clinton ! ” he cried. ‘ ‘ Good God ! — Clinton ! ’ ’

The other came swiftly toward him, and grasped his arm. “I thought I might find you here, Stevens,” he said, quietly. ‘‘It was a thousand-toone chance, but I came.”

Stevens stumbled with him to the red-lit window, like a man in a dream. “Clinton!” he exclaimed again. “Where in God’s name have you been, while this horror has been rising on the world? When did you come back ? ’ ’



Clinton pushed him back into the chair by the window, and silenced his questions with an upraised hand. “I came back but a few hours ago, Stevens,” he said, “and I came here for you because I sail again in an hour, and want you with me. ’ ’

“Sail?” repeated Stevens, stupefied. “To where?”

“To the bottom of the Atlantic,” said Clinton, calmly.

As the younj;er man stared at him he dropped into a chair beside him. “To the bottom of the Atlantic,” he repeated, his voice suddenly pregnant with dread knowledge, “where I have been for weeks, where there is a secret which I first of all men discovered, where the work of untold ages is whirling now to its climax and sending this mighty flood rolling out to drown our world!”

He was silent a moment, gazing out over the red-lit city while Stevens stared at him in stunned amazement, and then went on. “You were to have been of our expedition, Stevens, and you know what ray plans were. You know how we sailed in our submarine to penetrate the deeps that had never yet been penetrated by man. Out of the English Channel, out into the open Atlantic we sailed, west and northwest, imtU. we had reached at last the northem boundary of the Nelsen Deeps. And there our work began.

“I need not tell you of that work, for our own radio reports recorded the main features of it. We headed slowly southward, on the surface, using our trawls, and during the next three days we were amazed at the richness of the fields beneath us, the profusion of new forms and variations of old ones that our trawls brought up. It was late on the fourth day that we lost one of our trawls, as I reported. We drew up the steel cable, to find that it had been severed near its end, and though we were certain, of course, that it had broken when the trawl caught on a snag, it

was no ragged break but a clean, sharp cut, as though done by giant shears. That it was which touched us first with a sense of mystery and awe. Around us was only the vast empty panorama of sea and sky, but beneath us were three miles and more of lightless waters, a vast gulf unpenetrated since the world’s birth by man or the science of man. We worked on, southward, feeling as though under some strange spell. And then, shattering that spell, came the thing which one of our trawls brought up on the morning of the fifth day, the 11th.

“It was not so much in the tr*awl as on it, hanging from a comer as though caught and brought up by the ascending trawl. It was a machine, or part of a machine, a thing of shining metal about a foot in each dimension. There was a framework of heavy metal rods, three of them ; inside were a chain of little gears and six slender tubes of what seemed glass, with inside of each a red wire or thread. The framework’s three thick pillars were broken off sharp at the bottom, as though the thing had been ripped by the trawl from some larger machine, yet in itself the thing was a complete mystery. It was totally unlike anything we had ever seen, the shining metal was a wholly unfamiliar one, and the glasslike tubes, we found, were not glass but a transparent metal of some sort. The thing was constructed, too, with a strength and heaviness unusual in so small a mechanism. No one on earth would construct it thus heavily ; but suppose it had been actually constructed at the sea’s bottom from whence we had dragged it, to resist the tremendous pressures there? What mysteries could be lurking m the three miles of water below us?

“There w'as but one thing to do, to descend in the submarine for further exploration, and after sending off a last message in which I hinted of our discovery, without telling more lest the whole thing prove a hoax, we Ijegan excited preparations for the

THE SEA HORROR


descent. The deck-fittings were dismantled, the heavy conning-tower doors clanged shut, and a moment later the submarine’s electric motors began to hum and we slanted downward into the green waters, using both ballast-tanks and diving-planes for our descent, and moving downward in a great spiral.

“Razing through the little portholes in the control room. Dr. Lewis, Captain Evans, the submarine’s commander, and I watched the sunlit waters outside darkening as we sank downward. In those waters there turned and flashed the shoals of surface fishes, but as we dropped on, these disappeared, giving way to other forms that we could but vaguely make out in the darkening waters. By the time the bathometric dial registered five hundred feet the darkness about us was all but absolute, and a word of command turned on the great under-sea searchlights, from which long lanes of golden light cut out through the gloom about us.

“Still down we sank, in that great spiral course, until we had reached a thousand feet, two thousand, a mile, a mile and a half. Now and then we glimpsed great sea-creatures that blundered into the glow of our lights, cephalopods and gasteropods, and now and then one of the larger deep-sea crustaceans. Most of these, however, seemed to flee from the brilliance' of our lights, though in one case we caught sight of a long, snaky form that could only have belonged to the hydrophis family, though it was of unpi'ecedented thickness and length.

“The dial now registered a twomile depth, and we snapped off the submarine’s lights, for in the waters about us were glowing the phosphorescent creatures that lurk in these great depths. Floating by in the darkness went here and there a Brisinga elegans, or luminous starfish, its nineteen long tentacles glowing with misty light. The snakelike stomias boa flashed past, the double rows of luminous disks on the sides of its long body adding to the phosphorescent brilliance. We made out, too, a squat, flat creature fully fifteen feet in length, with great fanged mouth and luminous tail and fins, quite unknown to the science of zoology, while scores of the rare malacosteus niger, with its two headspots of greenish-gold light, could be seen around xis. Then, as wo sank still farther downward, the glowing phosphorescent forms about us thinned and vanished, while about us lay a dark and almost lifeless region of waters.

“I turned to order the' lights snapped on again, but stopped short at a sudden cry from Levds, at the port-hole beside me. He could not speak, only pointing down in utmost excitement through the glass, and as I too gazed down, awe and astonishment fell on me. For glimmering up toward us from far below, through the dark waters, was a faint white light, a strange, cold radiance that was growing rapidly stronger as we dropped down toward it. In stunned silence we watched, as our craft dipped dowui, and now at last we began to see its source.

“A thousand feet below us tliere stretched an unimaginable scene. It was the ocean’s -floor, a level, somewhat rolling plain, and on it, within this vast region of wliite radiance, were grouped scores, hundreds, thoixsands of strange stnictures, great globes of shining metal, pierced by doorways, which were of uniform size, each being fully three hundred feet in diameter. They were ranged in long streets or avenues with mathematical precision. Away into the distance as far as the eye could reach stretched this mighty city of globes, and I saw that on the top of each globe was a small squat mechanism, like that which our trawl had



brought up but larger, and while these mechanisms were not themselves luminous or shining, there sprang from them in some way rays of white light which made it plain that it was these which produced the strange white light that bathed all this gigantic city.

“Our craft was slanting downtvard. toward and across the city as we watched in awe, and as it did so we made out two things. The first was that far away there was a spot at the city’s heart where were no globes, a vast, smooth-walled pit that seemed to sink down into the sea’s fioor for ail unguessable distance, and which I judged was fully two miles in diameter. Near its edge there soared up above the globes of the city, for fully two thousand feet, a slender tower of the same shining metal, at whose tip was a small, bulblike room. I seemed to see, also, vague, great shapes that moved about this tower, but at that moment my attention was shifted suddenly by Lewis’ exclamation to the city beneath us, and I saw for the first time the people of that city.

“Through the streets, but a few hundred feet below us, now. there moved countless numbers of black forms, creeping along the smooth, metal-paved avenues like great black slugs. And as w’c dropped closer toward them Ave saw that that was what they were — great .slug-people, their bodies thick cylinders of dark flesh, perhaps eight feet in length and three in thickness, on which they crawled forAvard like giant wormthings, their only limbs tAvo short, thick flippers near the head, their only sense-organs that we could see being tAvo great, dark, shining eyes like the eyes of an octopus — great slug-creatures, inhabitants of the Avaters here at the sea’s bottom, crawling through this strange and awful city Avhose existence men have never dreamed — a city at the bottom of the sea, a city gloAving AA’ith white.

unearthly radiance, a city peopled by unhuman creatures, but reared into being by more than human poAver !

“We stared down upon it, in indescribable awe and wonder, and then Evans, the commander, uttered a sudden exclamation. A group of the strange slug-creatures had collected in the street ju.st beloAv us, gazing up through the Avaters toward us with their strange, dark eyes, and noAv Ave saw that across the city toAvard us Avas striding an erect, gigantic shape. It came from the direction of the great pit and tower, where there could be glimpsed others like it — an erect, vast shape of metal, striding toAvard us on tAvo mighty limbs or columns Avhich mu.st have measured a thousand feet in height, and Avhich supported at their top a small disk- platform on Avhich were grouped tAvo or three of the slug-creatures, operating their Amst mechanism. From below this platfoiTO, too, there projected a great jointed limb, or arm, of almost the same length as the tAvo great legs, and as the vast thing strode toward us OA^er the city of globes this mighty arm was reaching out toAvard our craft.

“I uttered a shout, and heard a hoarse order from Evans shouted through the speaking-tube, and a moment later the .submarine shot upAvard AAUth all the poAA^er of its motors. But as it did so there came a jarring shock and clash of metal, and then our craft Avas pulled doAvnAvard, its propellers spinning in vain. The great upraised arm of the giant striding machine had gripped ns and held ns as a child might hold a toy.

“Noav, Avith that great arm circling the submarine and holding it tightly, the vast mechanism began to stride back across the city, and a moment later had halted, and Avas lowering our craft to the city’s floor. Below us, we saw, was a group of three of the globe-buildings set apart

THE SEA HORROR


from the others in a small clearmg, and before one of these the arm that held our craft placed it, still holding it tightly. We saw the great door of the globe-building, fifty feet across and twice that in height, opening by sliding down into the metal pavement below. Ten feet inside was another similar door which was opening likewise, both great doors being quite transparent, though appai’- ently of immense strength. In a moment our craft had been pushed inside, into the bare, white-lit interior of the great metal globe, and then both great doors rolled back up and closed tightly. Our submarine, with all in it, was prisoned in the waters inside.

“The next moment, though, there came the throb of great pumps, and swiftly the waters inside the globe began to sink, while a strange hissing began. A glance at the dials explained it, for as the waters sank they were being replaced by air, at a pressure the same as at sea-level. In a moment more the waters had disappeared entirely, and cautiously we opened the conning-tower doors and stepped out. The air, we found, was quite pure and breathable, though with a strange odor of chemicals, and had it not been for the vast white-lit city of globes lying beneath the waters outside our transparent doors, one might have thought himself in some room on earth’s surface.

“I knew, though, as the submarine’s startled occupants stepped out into our strange prison, how far we were from earth’s surface, how unfathomably far from the life of humanity in this city of the sea’s dark depths, this white-lit town of the trackless ocean’s flooi’. For I Imew now how far from humanity were these strange and fearful slug-creatures who were of more than human intelligence, but with no human point of view, who could capture men and put them in this prison of air at the sea’s bottom as we of earth

woidd capture some creatures of the sea and imprison them in a prison of water, or aquarium, on earth!


WERE not long left nndis-

» ^ turbed in our strange prison. Within a few minutes we saw, approaching our building from outside along the smooth-paved street, a group of the slug-creatures who carried with them what seemed strange suits of flexible metal, with transparent eye-holes. Three of them donned these, fastening them carefully, and then the outer door of our prison rolled down and the three moved or crawled into the vestibule, or space between the doors, which was filled with water, of course. A moment later came the throbbing of pumps again, the vestibule emptied of water and filled with air, and as the inner door rolled down in turn the three crawled into our prison. Their armored .suits, we saw, were filled with water to enable them to venture into the unfamiliar element of air, just as a human diver in an air-filled suit will venture into water.

“A moment we humans stared at these strange figures, in sickened horror, while those outside watched us carefully through the clear door, ready to open it and send the destroying floods in npon us at any wrong move on our part. Then one of the three, with a long, slender rod in his grasp, moved to the metal wall of our prison and drew a sketch, or diagram, of sea and land, with sluglike creatures at the sea's bottom and erect, manlike ones upon the land. He pointed from the former to himself, and from the latter to us, and I stepped foi-ward and repeated his gesture to show our understanding.

“With this beginning he worked on, with other sketches and diagrams, establishing a slender line of communication between us, while



those of our party watehocl in fascinated horror. At the end of an hour or more of this the things left us, thi’ough the vestibule-chamber, leaving us all in a strange state of wonder and fear. There was but little conversation on the part of any of us, and though wc examined our prison carefxilly there seemed no chance whatever for escape; so the hours that folloAved passed in a semilassitude and silence, broken only by a sketchy meal from our own stores, after which most of our party resigned tlicmselves to sleep. The air, we noted, remained <piite pure, and xvas apparentlj' made artificially by these creatures in some Avay, and pumped to xis from oxitside.

“The next day passed in the same way, and the next, and the next, strange nightless and dawnlcss days, eternally lit by the perpetxial white radiance, which followed one another like the time-peiiods of a dream. In those days, however, the creatures who xvei’e our captoi’s pei'sisted in endeavoi'ing to establish commxinication with us, foi- their own pxxi’poscs, and gradually Lewis and I attained to an exchange of ideas with them. Their pxirjxose, we found, was to (juestion us concerning tlxe world above, ])articulaxly concerning our nations and cities and their relation to the sea. We did not xxnderstand the pxxrpose of those qxxestions, then, but bit by bit dxiriug that exchange of ideas we came to learn something of their own history and plans, and began at last to iinderstixnd what terrible peril was hanging above oxxi’ world.

“These ci’catures, as we had guessed, were native to the sea as man is native to the land, developed from the lower forms of sea creatxxres in the remote past ju.st as man developed from the lower land ones. Life began in the sea, as you know, and these slug-beings had developed into intelligence and power while man was still

a half-ape roaming the barren plains. They had built their great globecities at the sea’s bottom, and for their greater convenience had lit them with the light-producing mechanisms on the globes, which set up a permanent excitation or vibration of the ether, of a frerpiency that formed pei’petxxal light-vibrations. In their hidden depths they reigned, lox’ds of the sea.

“Exit their domains were steadily diminishing. You know that since the dawm of time earth’s seas have dwindled steadily, following the laws of molecular motion, that slowly those seas have retreated and dwindled, as on every planet they do, as on Mars they did eons ago. And since the slug-people could live only in the terrific pressures of the great depths their own realms were swiftly shrinking. They must either form some plan to halt the dwindling of the seas, or face certain extinction.

“They finally, after long discussion, adopted a stupendous plan, which was none other than to produce artificially such vast quantities of water as would replenish the dwindled seas, w'oxild cover all earth miles deep with them and give all earth as the slxxg-people’s domain. They knew, in their science, how to form atoms of any element out of the piumal ether itself by rai.sing it to the desired freqxxency of vibi’ation. Jxxst as they had prodxiced light from the ether they could produce matter, which is bxxt a vibration of the univci’sal ether. Suppose, then, that they set up vast generatoi’s to foi’m immense quxintities of hydrogen and oxygen atoms, xxnd sxxpposc those tremendoxxs qxxantities of hydrogen and oxygen Avere mixed togethei*, Avith a small proportion of certain chemicals added. The result Avould be that from the generators immense quantities of sea Avater woxild be shot forth to add to the sea’s bxxlk, to cause it to rise until it covered the highest

THE SEA HORROR


peaks. They needed only to make generators of sufficient size and number, and at this they set to work.

“They set to work, and for the sake of convenience they built their vast generators under their own cities, which were located in all the great deeps of the sea over earth, in the Atlantic ^nd Pacific and Indian oceans, vast cities with countless hordes of the slug-creatures. Under each of their cities lay one of the titanic generators, with a vast pitopening at the city’s center for the waters that would be formed to issue forth from beneath. It was a work of centuries, of ages, this building of the great generators, one beside which the building of the pyi'amids was but the task of an hour. Man rose to power on earth above them, never suspecting their presence, even, and still in the depths the slug-creatures worked on at their great task, that was to give them all the world.

“At last the great generators, under the cities of the slug-people in all the deeps of the sea, approached completion. It was ncees.sary to in-ovide a single control for all of them, so that all could be turned on at the same moment, since otherwise the inequality of ciirrents might produce too great disturbances of the sea. This control, therefore, was placed in a small room at the top of a great spire at the center of one of their cities in the deeps of the mid-Atlantic, the city which we had discovered and where we were prisoned. And now, as we learned, the great work was almost finished, and soon the generators which had taken ages to build would be put into action. Around the spire which held the control of all the generators there watched always their giant stridi]igmachines, since this little room at the spire’s tip hold all the energies of all their generators on earth centered inside it, and should it be damaged or wrecked the gemn-ators themselves would run wild, resulting

in titanic ctheric explosions which woidd inevitably desti'oy not otdy all the generators themselves but also the great cities luiilt upon them, and the numberless slug-people of those cities.

“In sick despair we watched the days passing, cooped in our little prison, while the plans of the slugpeople came to their climax. Far above us, we knew, were sunlight, and fresh breezes, and ships going to and fro upon the waters, but around us were only the oppri'ssing waters and the wdiitc radiance and the city of globes and its unluiman people. And at last the age-old plans of those people wore finished, and the great generators were turned on. We saAV them flocking througli the sti’cets toward the great spire and the vast pit, saw a gleam of sudden green radiance from the control room at the spii'c's top, in the distance; and then th('re Avas a great ([uivering of the ground and the watei's about us. and up from the pit there shot with imnien.se force and speed a vast current of Avalers, a tremendous solid strc'am two miles wide and of terrific .speed, formed we kncAv by the combining elenu'iits in the vast generator beneath the city, turning each moment millions of tons of Avater into the seas above us. And Ave kncAv, too, that at that moment in all the other cities of the slug-people across all the deeps of the sea, other and similar currents Avere being shot forth by the titanic generators, adding each moment incalculable amounts to the bulk of the seas.

“Through all that day Ave Avatched the great current shooting ceaselessly up through the calmer AAmters about it, and through the next, and kncAV that on eai-th the waters must already be rising inch by inch, and that they Avould creep u]), inch by inch and foot by foot, until they had covered all earth’s fields and fore.sts



and cities and highest peaks, until earth itself was covered miles deep with this sea of hell, and at its bottom. the slug-people reigned triumphant. Then, at last, the agony of our despair broke forth, and we seized at once upon a chance for escape which presented itself.

“It was in a suggestion made by Evans, the submarine’s commander, that we saw our chance. His plan seemed suicidal, almost, but it was still a chance, so we ignored the risks. Waiting for some hours until the street outside our prison had emptied somewhat of the passing slug-people, we took from the submarine’s equipment a long, slender drill of steel, and with this, held and guided by two seamen, set to work on the metal Avail of our prison. At first the metal seemed too hard for the drill to affect, but gradually it bit into it, deeper and deeper. Inch by inch it crept on into the thick metal Avail, Avhilc we watched anxiously. The hours Avere passing SAviftly, and in the distance Ave could see the mighty current from the pit still roaring upAvard, but at last, when it seemed that the Avail was too tliick for us, the drill broke through.

“Before Ave could AvithdraAV it, it had been knocked inward toAvard us Avith terrific force by the pressui*e of tlie Avaters outside, and through the tAAm-ineh hole it left came shooting iilAvard a solid stream of Avater of tei’rific force, in a moment that jet had filled the great room to a depth of a foot, and hastily Ave splashed toward our submarine, clambering up and inside it and shutting tightly the heavy doors. P’roin the portholes Ave could see the Avaters in the room SAviftly rising, until within a fcAV more minutes they had risen sufficiently to float the submarine, which had been lying on the bare metal floor of the great room.

“Instantly Evans gave an order, and at once the craft’s motors began to hum and its reversed propellers to thrash the Avatei*s, backing us against the Avail opposite the great doors. There Ave paused a moment, and then another order sent the boat leaping across the great room through the Avaters like a living thing, toAvard the imier of the tAvo great doors, Avhich could be opened only from the outside. With a great ramming shock the craft’s proAV struck the door; for this Avas our plan, to batter down the tAvo doors if possible and make our escape. The door, we saw, had been shaken by the bloAv, its thick, transparent metal deeply dented, but it still hung fast; so again the submarine retreated to the opposite wall and again leapt forward to crash against the barrier.

“At the second bloAv there was a clash of metal against the sides of our craft and Ave saw that the great door had crumpled beneath the tAvo bloAvs. Only the outer door barred our escape, noAV, and excitedly Ave watched as the .submarine reversed once more and leapt forAvard against that last barrier. We struck it Avith a great jar that again knocked us all from our feet but did not dislodge the door, and noAv there came a sudden exclamation from Evans as he saAv, through the port-hole, a group of the slug-creatures v, ho had stopped outside and Avere peering in toAvard us. As our craft leaped forAvard in another da.sh against the thick metal Ave saAv them hastening doAvn the street, and a moment later saAV .striding over the city from the distant spire three of the great machines that guarded tliat spire, hastening across the city in gigantic strides tOAvard us !

“In spite of our second bloAv the outer door still hung fast, and SAviftly the hastening machines were nearing us. By now the submarine’s motors Avere humming at their highest power, and as Evans hoarsely shouted the order, the craft backed

THE SEA HORROR


against the wall, hesitated foi* a moment, and then leapt forward through the waters toward the outer door for a third time, with all the force of its whirling propellers. As we shot forward I saw, not a thousand feet away, the great machines that were bending down toward our prison, and then there came a great crash and jar, the great metal door was crumpled aside like one of cardboard, and our submarine shot out into the open waters. Swiftly toward us reached the great arm of the foremost giant machine, and for a moment, as we slanted sharply upward, we felt the end of that arm graze against the side of our craft. Then we had torn past it and were shooting up through the waters toward the surface at a steep angle, up until the city of globes and the white radiance that bathed it were lost from view beneath us.

'‘Up, up, up — ^iintil at last our craft shot bodily out of the waters into the sunlight and clean air. Panting and half senseless we ripped the doors open, breathed deep of the salt breezes. The waters on which the submarine floated were running in great seas, and from a hasty consultation of our instruments we saw that already the sea’s level had risen several feet, and knew, too, as no others did, what was causing that rise and bringing doom upon the earth. So we set our course back toward England and raced homeward through the rising waters to bring our warning to the world, for in the general panic our radio calls received no answer. East and southeast we held, and at last were sweeping into the harbor of London, where, after a frantic hour, Evans, Lewis and I were able to convince the naval authorities of the truth of our story, were able to convince them that the only remaining chance to prevent the destruction of all our world is to descend into the depths in force and destroy or attempt to

destroy the great generator which Ave saw in action there in the deeps of the Atlantic, and after it the others.

“This was bxit a few hours ago, Stevens, and in those hours and while I haAm talked here Avith you the submarines of all the British fleet, the new-type submersibles which alone can descend into those terrific depths, have been gathered in the flooded Thames and soon Avill sail, with the submarines of all other countries that can be gathered, to make one last attempt to save our world. I had an hour or more, I knew, so Avhile Lewis hastened away in search of his family. I, Avho have none, came here in the hope of finding you, Stevens, knoAAung that you would be with us if you could. And so noAv you knoAv what terror it is that is flooding our world, that is rising toward the death of all humanity, and toward which, at the bottom of the Atlantic, we sail within the hour, for one final desperate attempt to halt this rising doom.”

Clinton rose to his feet AAdth these words, gazed silently out over the red-lit city, over the rising floods that rushed through its streets and sent the fear-crazed fugitiA’^es outside shouting down those streets in blind horror. Stevens, too, arose, gazed with him, and then with a common impulse and with no spoken word they had turned tOAvard the door, toward the street. Half an hour later they had Avon their way across the dark, flooded wilderness that was London toward the rank on rank of long, grim steel hulls that sAvung by the shores of the SAVollen Thames, and a few minutes later they stood in the narrow control room of one of those hulls as they sAAmng in formation out to the open sea, more than a hundred strong.

Out, out, they moved, into the darkness of the surging channel, and then southward around the foreland, where there fell in at the side of their



I'oriaation a similai* formation of an oqual nuinbor of craft, the combined Atlantic, and Mediterranean sirbmarinc fleets of France, Germany and Italy. Still the combined fleets moved on, toAvard the Avest, through the surging, tremendous waves, in steady, unchanging formation. OnAvard through the hours of the night they moved, and on into the day, still AvestAvard, and through the night again nntil at last, at daAvn, there could be seen on the Avaters far ahead a multitude of long black spots, long steel hulls like their oavu, the great American submarine fleet racing eastward in answer to the call for help. The two fleets met, coalesced, and then, in one groat triangular formation, more than three hundred strong, turned and headed north. The morning waned, and the afternoon, and sunset came, but still those gatiiered scores of long grim craft forged north and north, toAvard the Nebsen Deeps and what lay at their bottom, toAvard the last great battle of humanity to save its droAvning Avorld.


S TANDING in the submarine ’s narrow control room, Clinton gazed intently at the dials before him. then oAit of the port -holes in the Avail. “We’re there, StcA^ens,” he said, quietly, gesturing toAvard the little AvindoAvs through Avhich the great fleet behind could be seen, each of its scores of craft resting motionless on the surface. And noAV the submarine ’s commander, Evans, Avho had been lost and prisoned Avith Clinton, came toAvard them.

“Our craft will descend first,” ho told them, “the others following in close formation. Our plan is to descend to an elevation of a fcAV thousand feet above the city and attempt to cripple or destroy the generator bciK'atb it Avith our torpedoes and bomb-charges. ’ ’

While he spoke be liai) twisted

around the signal-lever on the dial before him, and a moment later, in answer to his signal, the boat’s elective motors again took up their powerful hum. At the same time it began to move forAvard through the Avaters, slanting doAviiAvard. Stevens had a last glimpse through the port-holes of the sea and sky outside, Avarmly lit by the sun that blazed above, and then the long green Avaves were washing up over the glass and over the submarine’s conning-tower as it slanted doAvnward, in a great spiral. And soon the green Avaters outside, alive Avith shoals of silA'’ery fish, Avere darkening, changing, as the needle on the bathometer dial crept sloAvly around.

He looked up suddenly as he glimiised through the port-holes a dark .shape passing above, and then saw that it Avas but one of the submarines of the fleet above, descending after them and following them, score upon score of long, dark, flshlike hulls, that circled and dipped and sank after them, doAini toward the fate of a Avorld. Surely in all the record of battles bad men never gone toAvard battle like this, Avith no shouts or cheers or flying flags or defiant shots, but only the dark, grim shapes that sank gently doAvn and (loAvn into the peaceful, darkening depths of the sea.

DoAvn, doAvn, doAvn — a thousand feet the dial registered, and the A\'aters about the submarine had become dark blue, all but lightless, and darkening .still more as they steadily drojiped lower. There Avere no lights turned on, nothing to betray their presence, and into a still deeper darkness the great fleet sank, Avhile Clinton and Evans and the seamen ip the little room stared from the dials to the dark port-holes with .strange, set faces. Great currents had begun to rock and SAvay the submarine as it dropped on, currents from the mighty generator beloAV, fsl evens knew, but still they held to

THE SEA HORROR


their downward progress until the bathometric dial showed a depth of a mile — a mile and a half — two miles

Abruptly Clinton, at the port -holes, made a sudden gesture, and pointed downward. Stevens gazed intently down into the blackness that seemed to press against the glass, and then he uttered a low exclamation. For he could make out, far below, a ghostly white radiance that filtered faintly up toward them through the filmy depths. Stronger and stronger it was growing as they sank down toward it, and he saw Evans turn, give swift orders through the speaking-tube by his side, and heard the clang and clash of metal somewhere in the submarine as its great torpedo and bomb tubes were made ready. In an instant, it seemed, while they dropped downward still, the stillness of the submarine had been replaced by swift activity. And then, cutting abruptly across the sounds of that activity, came a sharp cry from Clinton.

“Those globes!” he cried. “They are coming up ! Look ! ’ ’

But Stevens, too, had seen. Outlined dark against the groAving white light beneath them he had glimpsed a dark, round object that was moving steadily and swiftly up toward them from beneath, that moved up with ever-increasing speed like the reversal of some object falling downward. Swiftly it came, and now he could see that it was a black metal globe perhaps a yard in diameter. He felt the submarine swerve sharply as Evans abruptly spun its wheel, glimpsed the uprushing globe grazing past its side, and then the thing had passed above them, and had struck full on the bottom of a submarine just above. There Avas a flash of intense purple light, flaring out through the Avaters in blinding intensity, and then the submarine rocked and spun like a leaf in a gale, while the great flash and the craft

above which it had enveloped vanished together.

“Bombs!” shouted Clinton. “Bombs of some kind that they release from beneath, to rise and strike us — and look, more ”

Even as he spoke there Avas rushing up toAvard them from beneath an immense mass of the round black globes, seeming in that moment to fill the Avaters about them.

SteA'ens remembered the next few moments only as a timeless period of flashing action. He felt the submarine dive steeply doAvnward under the hand of its commander, saw through the glass scores of the deadly globes flashing up past them, and then the submarine again was rocked by titanic convulsions of the waters about it as craft after craft of the fleet above them vanished in blinding flashes of the purple light. In those few minutes, he knew, scores of the submarines that followed them had fallen victim to the deadly spheres.

But noAV the great fleet, diAung sharply amid that deadly uprush of globes, was within a few thousand feet of the sea’s floor, was slanting down through the white radiance toward the city below, which Stevens saAv for the first time. A moment, as the fleet seemed to pause above the city, he saAv it all plain — the multitixdes of ranked great globular structures, stretching aAvay as far as the eye could see, the dark, sluglike beings that hastened through their streets and squares, the vast pit at the city’s center from which arose the mighty, half-glimpsed current of waters, and the towering spire near that pit’s edge, the tiny bulbular room at its top a point of green radiance, around which Avere grouped scores of the vast, thousand-foot striding-machines. Then that one moment of pause was over and the AAdiole great fleet Avas swooping doAAui upon the city below, releasing a shoAv^er of great torpedoes and bombs as it did so.



The next moment there came a liundretl flashes of fire beneath them as the torpedoes and depth-charges struck, and then it seemed as though in a score of places beneath them the city was crumbling, disintegrating, beneath the force of the great explosions. The submarine was rocking and swaying perilously from the effect of those explosions, only the .super-resistant hulls of the new-type craft enabling tliem to endure the shock, but even while Stevens heard the men near him shouting hoarsely he was aware that the massed boats wore diving again, and again the thunderous detonations below came dully to their ears through the waters about them.

But now he heard a sudden cry of alarm, taken up and repeated by all in the control room. Prom far away, all around the great city, there were hastening toward the attacking submarines scores of the giant stridingmachines, their vast steps whirling them across the city with inconceivable swiftness, the great arm of each outstretched toward the submarines. An order was barked, and the craft’s propellers spun SAviftly as it headed upward to avoid those reaching, men- .acing arms, while the whole groat fleet headed up also with the same purpose. The next moment, Iioavever, a spark of more brilliant white light broke into being in the city below them — a great, erect cylinder, they saw, that was suddenly shining with a dazzling radiance that darkened the Avhite luminosity of the waters about it. And as it broke into being the submarine beloAv seemed suddenly to Avaver, to halt, and then to be pulled sloAAdy, steadily doAvnward by great unseen hands, toAvard that shining cylinder.

StCA'ens heard the motors throbbing in his own craft, its spinning propellers only serving to hold it in the same position, and heard a shout from Evans.

“That cylinder!” he cried. “It’s

a great magnet of some kind — it’s pulling our ships dowiiAvax’d!”

For now by dozens, by scores, by hundreds, the fleet’s massed ships Avere being pulled doAvnward, their screAvs thrashing the waters in vain, pulled doAvn toward that mighty, dazzling beacon of light. The next moment the great striding-machines had reached them, were grasping them, crushing them, whirling them about like toys and hurling them far aAvay to break and smash upon the globes beloAV, spilling forth men and air-bubbles and great clouds of oil. Ea’ci* doAA’iiAvai’d, doAvnward, the mighty magnet of light pulled the helple.ss craft, while Stevens’ own craft, highest of them all, could only resist that terrific pull by all the poAver of its humming motors. And among the helpless craft below he could see the great machines of the slug-people stalking about in terrific destruction, crushing and smashing the defenseless boats as they sought vainly to escape while Stevens’ own craft sought frenziedly to Avin out of the remorseless grip that held it.

But now, beloAV, the doomed submarines seemed suddenly to cease their efforts to escape from the great magnet’s grip, and abruptly turned, paused, and then hurtled down Avith all their OAvn force and that of the attracting magnet toward the giant machines beloAv them who.se great arms AA^ei-e destroying them. Stevens cried out hoarsely as he saw torpedo and bomb flash down and send a half-dozen of the great machines reeling and crashing down upon the city in flashes of bursting fire. At the same moment he was aware that their OAvn craft was Avinning sloAvly out of the giant grip of the magnet, inch by inch, foot by foot, creeping upAvard and oxitAvai'd from that grip, Aviiile beloAv the last scores of the attacking submarines were meeting their doom, crushed by the arms of the giant machines and annihilated by the purple-flaring bombs that

THE SEA HORROR


rushed up toward them from the city below.

And now the great machines were striding toward his own craft, the last remaining one except for a few far across the city that were battling their way upward against others of the machines. Slowly, slowly, the submarine crept iipward, while the mighty shapes whirled across the streets and globes of the city toward it. They were below it, now, were reaching up with gigantic arms, and Stevens stared down upon those upward-reaching arms in a strange apathy of despair. The battle was over, he knew, humanity’s battle, lost now forever, its last chance flickered out. Up came the whirling arms, up, while still the submarine crept higher, and then one of them had struck it a great, glancing blow, in reaching for it, had knocked all in it to the floor, stunning Evans and his seaman and Stevens himself against the metal walls, and knocking, too, the submarine oxit of the last limits of the magnet ’s giant grip.

Its propellers whirling with sudden power, it shot out of that unseen hold, over the city, and Stevens raised his head, stunned and bleeding, to see Clinton .standing at the wheel, to hear his wild shout as he sent the submai’ine racing above the city toAvard the great pit and the uprushing current at its center, toward the towering spire at that pit’s rim, and the pund, green-lit little control room at its top. Straight toward that balllike room at the great spire’s tip flashed the racing submarine, and Stevens glimpsed the mighty striding-machines, far across the city, abandoning the battle with the remaining few submarines, which shot sharply upward, to whirl after their own ; saw ru.shing toward them from around the spire others of the giant machines, their vast arms upraised to grasp and crash the hxirtling craft. But before they could grasp it, before their great arms could do ought

more than graze along its sides, Clinton had sent the .submarine flashing past them with a hoarse cry and had crashed it straight into the little room at the mighty tOAver’s tip.

Through the metal Avails of that room the hui’tling submarine crashed as though through Avails of paper, speeding still straight up and outAvard Avith the force of its tremendous impetus. To the half-co7iscious Stevens, crouched thei’o. it seemed that for a single moment tin; Avhole Avorld held its breath, and then he saAV a fountain of brilliant green fire burst out and upAvard from the little control room at the gi’cat spire’s top, felt a mighty, thundei'ing detonation shake the Avaters about him, and then half glimpsed beloAv him the sea’s bottom and the great city upon it heaving, rumpling, breaking and crashing, as that city bi-oke up and Avas annihilated by a tremendous uprush of dazzling fires from beneath it — bi’oke up and Avas annihilated, as he kneAv, by the exi)losion of the mighty generator beneath it, Avhose titanic, pent-up energies the wrecking of the little control I’oom had released — broke up and was annihilated, Stevens knew, as all the cities of the slug-x)eople had been in that moment, Avhen the mighty generators beneath each of those cities exploded likeAvise, the prisoned energies of all of them released by the wrecking of the little room from Avhich all had been controlled. In all the far-flung deeps of earth’s seas the cities of the slug-people and all their hideous hordes had met annihilation in that tremendous moment, he knew. The earth shuddered and SAvayed beneath those simultaneous, titanic cataclysms; the sea’s whole floor rolled and shook; and then, as the submarine was flung Avildly upAvard by the terrific convulsions of the waters, the vast fiery uprush of destruction beneath faded fi-om his eyes.

Then Stevens felt his senses failing him, sank backward and Avas but



dimly conscious of the waters outside the submarine roaring wildly as it shot upward with terrific speed. For a time that speme<l endless to his darkened mind that roaring continued, and then abruptly came silence, and a great shock and splash. Tlicn he felt hands upon him, and hoarse voices shouting in his ears, heard the doors above elanging open, admitting a flood of sunlight and clean fresh air upon him, and then he knew no more.


S unset was flaming red in the west once more when Clinton and Stevens stood together again on the submarine’s narrow deck, watching the preparations for its homeward voyage. Behind it floated a bare dozen of other long steel craft, as scarred and battered as itself, flung up and saved like itself by that last great convulsion of the waters — a dozen only, the last remnant of the mighty fleet of hundreds that had dived to the attack a scant few hours before. Even as they Avatehed. three of those craft Avere moving away on their OAA'ii homeward journey. toAvard the west, tOAvard the sunset, over the waters that were noAV miraculously calmed and smoothened. Their last rejoicing fareAvells came faintly OA^er those waters as they Avent, and then they Avere passing from sight, dark blots against the brilliance of the western sky, dwindling and vanishing.

There came into the minds of both

men, as they gazed across the peaceful Avaters, a Avonder as to what frantic outbursts of joy were shaking the peoples of earth to see those AAmters calmed thus, to see their terrible rise thus halted. Tlicre came into their minds a vision of what might liaAm been, of the seas that might have Avhelmed a planet, with a strange and terrible race triumphant and supreme upon it, and then one of what would be, when the hordes of fugitives, half hoping, half doubting, Avould creep back from their hills and mountains of refuge toward their deserted lands and cities, when the places that were silent noAV and dead would be ringmg again with life, Avlien all the terror that had riven earth would be but a thing of the remembered past.

Then these things slipped from the minds of both and they turned toAA’ard the east as their craft, and those behind it, moved aAvay in that direction. Onward through the waters they moved, their propeller’s turning faster and faster, little waves breaking from either side of their proAA’s as they clove the sea. The brilliance faded from the sky behind the two men, as the little fleet moved on, and the gathering night closed doAA’n upon the woi’ld, star-embroidered. But the tAA'^o standing there alone on the little vessel ’s deck were silent still, and unmoving, gazing out into the darkness across the calm Avaters Avith the silence of men whose minds hold things too great for speech.

. lymk Selkyiap fhi^.cJk

“H« was starkly nude, and twisted and tom.”

“TT TVI GLAD you came,” said ChalI mers. He was sitting by the A window and his face was very pale. Two tall candles guttered at his elbow and cast a sickly amber light over his long nose and slightly receding chin. Chalmers would have nothing modem about his apartment. He had the soul of a mediaeval ascetic, and he preferred illummated manuscripts to axitomobiles and leering stone gargoyles to radios and addingmachines.

As I crossed the room to the settee he had cleared for me I glanced at his desk and was surprized to discover that he had been studying the mathematical formulse of a celebrated contemporary physicist, and that he had covered many sheets of thin yellow paper with curious geometric designs.

“Einstein and John Dee are strange bedfellows,” I said as my gaze wandered from his mathematical charts to the sixty or seventy quaint books

that comprised his strange little library. Plotinus and Emanuel Moseopulus, St. Thomas Aquinas and Freniele de Bessy stood elbow to elbow in the somber ebony bookcase, and chairs, table and desk were littered with pamphlets about medieval sorcery and witchcraft and black magic, and all of the valiant glamorous things that the modern world has repudiated.

Chalmers .smiled engagingly, and passed me a Russian cigarette on a curiously carved tray. “We are just discovering now,” he said, “that the old alchemists and .sorcerers were twothirds rigM, and that your modem biologist and materialist is nine-tenths wrong.”

“You have always scoffed at modern science,” I said, a little impatiently.

“Only at scientific dogmatism,” he replied. “I have always been a rebel, a champion of originality and lost




causes; that is why I have ehosou to repudiate the conclusions of conteml>orary biologists.”

“And Einstein?” I asked.

“A priest of transcendental mathematics!” he murmured reverently. “A profound mystic and explorer of the gi-eat suspected.”

“Then you do not entirely despise science. ’ ’

“Of course not,” he affirmed. “I merely distrust the scientific positivism of the past fifty years, the positivism of Haeckel and Darwin and of Mr. Bertrand Ru.sscll. I believe that biology has failed pitifully to explain the mj'stery of man’s origin and dest iny. ’ ’

“Give them time,” I retorted.

Chalmers’ eyes glowed. “My fi'iend,” he murmured, “your pun is sublime. Give them time. That is l)i‘ecisely what I would do. But your modern biologist scoffs at time. He has the key but he refuses to use it. What do we know of time, really? Ein.stein believes that it is relative, tliat it can be interpreted in terms of space, of curved space. But must we slop there? When mathematics fails us can we not advance by — iiisight?”

“You arc treading on dangerous ground,” I replied. “That is a pitfall that your true investigator avoids. That is why jnodcin science has advanced so slowly. It aecej)ts nothing that it can not demonstrate. But

“I would take hasliish, opium, all manner of drugs. 1 would emulate the sages of the East. And then i3erhaps I Avould apprehend ”

“AVhat?”

“The fourth dimension.”

“Theosophical rubbish!”

“Perhaps. But I believe that drugs exi^and human consciousness. William James agreed with me. And I have discovered a new one.”

“A new drug?”

“It was used centuries ago by Chinese alchemists, but it is virtually unknown in the West. Its occult

l)roperties are amazing. With its aid and the aid of my mathematical knowledge I believe that I can go hack ihrough lime.”

“I do not understand.”

“Time is merely our imperfect perception of a new dim.ension of space. Time and motion are both illusions. Everything that has existed from the beginning of the world exists now. Events that occurred centuries ago on this planet continue to exist in another dimension of space. Events that will occur centuries from now exist already. We can not perceive their existence because we can not enter the dimension of space that contains them. Human beings as we know them are merely fractions, infinitesimally small fractions of one enormous whole. Every human being is linked with all the life that has preceded him on this planet. All of his ancestors are parts of him. Only time separates him from his forebears, and time is an illiTsion and does not exist. ’ ’

“I think I understand,” I murmured.

“It will be sufficient for my purpose if you can form a vague idea of Avhat I wish to achieve. I wish to strip from my eyes the veils of illusion that time has thi'OAvn over them, and see the beginning and the end.”

“And you think this new drug will help you?”

“I am sure that it will. And I want you to help me. I intend to take the drug immediately. I can not wait. I must see.” His eyes glittered strangely. “I am going back, back through time.”

He rose and strode to the mantel. When he faced me again he was holding a small square box in the palm of his hand. “I have here five pellets of the drug Liao. It was used by the Chinese philosopher Lao Tze, and while under its influence he visioned Tao. Tao is the most my.sterious force in the w-orld; it surrounds and pervades all things; it contains the visible universe and everything that we

THE HOUNDS OF TINDALOS


call reality. He who apprehends the mysteries of Tao sees clearly all that was and will be.”

‘ ‘ Kubbish ! ” I retorted.

“Tao resembles a great animal, reemnbent, motionless, containing in its enormous body all the worlds of our universe, the past, the present and the future. We see portions of this great monster through a slit, which we call time. With the aid of this drug I shall enlarge the slit. I shall behold the great figure of life, the great recumbent beast in its entii’ety.”

‘ ‘ And what do you wish me to do ? ”

“Watch, my friend. Watch and take notes. And if I go back too far you must recall me to reality. You can recall me by shaking me violently. If I appear to be suffering acute physical pain you must recall me at once.”

“Chalmers,” I said, “I wish you wouldn’t make this experiment. You are taking dreadful risks. I don’t believe that there is any fourtli dimension and I emphatically do not believe in Tao. And I don’t approve of your experimenting with unknowm drugs.”

“I know the properties of this drug,” he replied. “I know precisely how it affects the human animal and I know its dangers. The risk does not reside in the drug itself. My only fear is that I may become lost in time. You see, I shall assist the drug. Before I swallow this pellet I shail give my undivided attention to the geometric and algebraic symbols that I have traced on this paper.” He raised the mathematical chart that i*ested on his Imee. “I shall prepare my mind for an excursion into time. I shall approach the fourth dimension with my conscious mind before I take the drug which will enable me to exercise occult powers of perception. Before I enter the dream world of the Eastern mystics I shall acquire all of the mathematical help that modem science can offer. This mathematical knowledge, this conscious approach to an actual apprehension of the fourth

dimension of time will supplement the work of the drug. The drug will open up stupendous new vistas — the mathematical prci)aration will enable me to grasp them intellectually. I have often grasped the fourth dimension in dreams, emotionally, intuitively, but I have never been able to recall, in waking life, the occult splendors that were momentarily revealed to me.

“But with your aid, I believe that I can recall them. You will take domi everything that I say while I am under the influence of the drug. No matter how strange or incoherent my speech may become you will omit nothing. When 1 awake I may be able to supply the key to whatever is mysterious or incredible. I am not sure that I .shall succeed, but if I do •succeed” — his eyes were strangely luminous — “time ivill exist for me no longer!”

He sat down abruptly. “I shall make the experiment at once. Please stand over there by the window and watch. Have you a fountain pen?”

I nodded gloomily and removed a pale green Waterman from my upper vest pocket.

“And a pad, Frank?”

I groaned and produced a memorandum book. “I emphatically disapprove of this experiment,” I muttered. “You’re taking a frightful risk.”

“Don’t be an asinine old woman!” he admonished. “Nothing that 3 mu can say will induce me to stop now. I entreat jmu to remain silent while I study these charts.”

He raised the charts .and studied them intently. I watched the clock on the mantel as it ticked out the seconds, and a curious dread clutched at my heart so that I choked.

Suddenly the clock stopped ticking, and exactly at that moment Chalmers swalioAved the drug.

I ROSE quickly and moved toward him, but his eyes implored me not to interfere. “The clock has stopped,”



he miirmured. “The forces tliat control it api)rove of iny experiment. Time stopped, and I swallowed the drug. I pray God that I shall not lose my way. ’ ’

He closed his eyes and leaned baek on the sofa. All of the blood had left liis face and he Avas breathing heavily. It Avas clear that the drug Avas acting Avith c.xtraoi'dinary i‘ai)idity.

“It is begiiniing to get dark,” he murmured. “Write that. It is beginning to get dark and the familiar objects in the room are fading out. I can discei'n them A'aguely through my eyelids but thev are fading sAviftly.”

I shook my pen to make the ink come and Avrote rapidly in shorthand as he continued to dictate.

“I am leaving the room. The walls are A'anishing and I can no longer see any of the familiar objects. Your face, though, is still visible to me. I hope that you are Avriting. I think that I am about to make a great leap — a leaj) through space. Or perhaps it is through time that I shall make the leap. 1 can not tell. E\’erything is dark, indistinct.”

He sat for a Avhile silent, Avith his head sunk iipon his breast. Then suddenly he stiffened and his eyelids fluttered open. “God in heaA'en!” he cried. “I sec!”

He Avas straining forAvard in his chair, staring at the opposite Avail. But I kncAV that he Avas looking beyond the Avail and that the objects in the room no longer existed for him. “Chalmers,” I cried, “Chalmers, shall I Avake you?”

“Do not!” he shrieked. “I see cvcrufliing. All of the billions of lives that preceded me on this planet are before me at this moment. I see men of all ages, all races, all colors. They arc fighting, killing, building, dancing, singing. They are sitting about rude fires on lonely gray deserts, and flying through the air in monoplanes. They are riding the seas in bark canoes and enormous steamships; they are painting bison and mammoths on the Avails of dismal caves and covering huge canvases with fjueer futuristic designs. I watch the migrations from Atlantis. I watch the migrations from Lemuria. I see the elder races — a strange horde of black dAvarfs overwhelming Asia and the Neandertalers Avith lowered heads and bent knees ranging obscenely across Europe. I AA’atch the Achaeans streaming into the Greek islands, and the cimde beginnings of Hellenic culture. I am in Athens and Pericles is young. I am standing on the soil of Italy. I assist in the rape of the Sabines ; I march Avith the Imperial Legions. I tremble Avith aAve and wonder as the enormous standards go by and the giound shakes with the tread of the victorioiAS Jiastati. A thousand naked slaves gi-ovel before me as I pass in a litter of gold and ivory drawn by night-black oxen from Thebes, and the flower-girls scream ‘Ave Ceesar’ as I hod and smile. I am myself a slave on a Moorish galley. I watch the erection of a great cathedral. Stone by stone it rises, and through months and years I stand and Avateh each stone as it falls into place. I am burned on a cross head doAvnward in the thyme-scented gardens of Nero, and I watch Avith amusement and seoni the torturers at Avork in the chambers of the Inquisition.

“I Avalk in the holiest sanctnaries; I enter the tom])les of Venus. I kneel in adoration before the Magna Mater, and I throAv coins on the bare knees of the saei’ed courtezans Avho sit Avith veiled faces in the groves of Babylon. I creep into an Elizabethan theater and Avith the stinking rabble about me I applaud The Merchant of Venice. I Avalk Avith Dante through the narrow streets of Florence. I meet the young Beatrice and the hem of her garment brushes my sandals as I stare enraptured. I am a priest of Isis, and my magic astounds the nations. Simon Magus kneels before me, imploring my assistance, and Pharaoh trembles

THE HOUNDS OF TINDALOS


when I approach. In India I talk with the Masters and run screaming from their presence, for their revelations are as salt on wounds that bleed.

“I perceive everything simultaneously. I perceive everything from all sides; I am a part of all the teeming billions about me. I exist in all men and all men exist in me. I perceive the whole of human history in a single instant, the past and the present.

‘ ‘ By simply straining I can see farther and farther back. Now I am going back through strange curves and angles. Angles and curves miiltiply about me. I perceive great segments of time through curves. There is curved time, and angular time. The beings that exist in angular time can not enter curved time. It is very strange.

“I am going back and back. Man has disappeared from the earth. Gigantic reptiles crouch beneath enormous palms and swim through the loathly black waters of dismal lakes. Now the reptiles have disappeared. No animals remain upon the land, but beneath the waters, plainly visible to me, dark forms move slowly over the rotting vegetation.

“The forms are becoming simpler and simpler. Now they are single cells. All about me there are angles — strange angles that have no counterparts on the earth. I am desperately afraid.

“There is an abyss of being which man has never fathomed.”

I stared. Chalmers had risen to his feet and he was gesticulating helples.sly with his arms. “I am passing through unearthly angles; I am approaching — oh, the burning horror of it!”

“Chalmers!” I cried. “Do yoix wish me to interfere ? ’ ’

He brought his right hand quickly before his face, as though to shut out a vision unspeakable. ‘ ‘ Not yet ! ” he cried; “I will go on. I will see — what — lies — beyond ’ ’

A cold sweat streamed from his

forehead and his shoulders jerked spasmodically. “Beyond life there are ’ ’ — ^liis face grew ashen with terror — “things that I can not distinguish. They move slowly through angles. They have no bodies, and they move slowly through outrageous angles. ’ ’

It was then that I became aware of the odor in the room. It was a pungent, indescribable odor, so nauseous that I could scarcely endure it. I stepped quickly to the window and threw it open. When I returned to Chalmers and looked into his eyes I nearly fainted.

“I think they have scented me!” he shrieked. “They are slowly turning toward me.”

He was trembling horribly. For a moment he clawed at the air with his hands. Then his legs gave way beneath him and he fell forward on his face, slobbering and moaning.

I watched him in silence as he dragged himself across the flooi’. He was no longer a man. His teeth were bared and saliva dripped from the corners of his mouth.

“Chalmers,” I cried. “Chalmers, stop it! Stop it, do you hear?”

As if in reply to my appeal he commenced to utter hoarse convulsive sounds which i-esembled nothing so much as the barking of a dog, and began a sort of hideous Avrithing in a circle about the room. I bent and seized him by the shoulders. Violently, desperately, I shook him. He turned his head and snapped at my wrist. I Avas sick Avith horror, but I dared not release him for fear that he would destroy himself in a paroxysm of rage.

“Chalmers,” I muttered, “you must stop that. There is nothing in this room that can haim you. Do you understand ? ’ ’

I continued to shake and admonish him, aiid gradually the madness died out of his face. Shu’ering convulsively, he crumpled into a grotesque heap on the Chinese rug.



I CARRIED him to tlio sofa and deposited liim iipon it. His features were twisted in pain, and I knew’ that he w’as still struggling dumbly to escape from abominable memories.

“Whi.sky,” he muttered. " You’ll find a flask in the cabinet by the window — upper left-hand draw’er. ’ ’

When I handed him the fla.sk his fingers tightened about it until the knuckles showed blue. “They nearly got me,” he gasped. He drained the stimulant in immoderate gulps, and gradually the color crept back into his face.

“That drug was the very devil!” I murmured.

“It w’asu’t the drug,” he moaned. His eyes no longer glared insanely, but he .still wore the look of a lost soul.

“They scented me in time,” he moaned. “I w’cnt too far.”

“What w’crc they like?” I said, to humor him.

He leaned forward and gripped my arm. He w’as shivering horribly. “No Avord in our language can describe them ! ” He spoke in a hoarse Avhisper. “They are symbolized vaguely in the mjdh of the Pall, and in an obscene fomi Avhich is occasionally found engi’aven on ancient tablets. The Gi’eeks had a name for them, which veiled their essential foulness. The tree, tlie snake and the apple — these are tlie vague symbols of a most aw’ful mystery. ’ ’

His voice had risen to a scream. “Frank, Frank, a teiTible and unspeakable deed was done in the beginning. Before time, the deed, and

from the deed ”

He had risen and Avas hysterically pacing the room. “The seeds of the deed move through angles in dim recesses of time. They are hungry and athirst ! ’ ’

“Chalmers,” I pleaded to quiet him. “We are living in the third decade of the TAA-entietli Century.”

“They are lean and athirst!” he shrieked. “The Hounds of Tindalos!”

' ‘ Chalmers, shall I plione for a physician ? ■ ’

' ' A physician can not help me now. They are horrors of the soul, and yet” — he hid his face in his hands and groaned — “they are real. Prank. I saAV them for a ghastly moment. For a moment I .stood on the other side. I stood on the pale gray shores beyond time and space. In an awful light that Avas not light, in a silence that shrieked, I saAV them.

“All the evil in the unh’erse was concentrated in their lean, hungry bodies. Or had they bodies? I saw them only for a moment; I can not be certain. But I heard them breathe. Indescribably for a moment I felt their breath upon my face. They turned tOAvard me and I fled screaming. In a sin gle moment I fled screaming through time. I fled doAvn qiiintillions of years.

“But they scented me. Men awake in them cosmic hungers. We have escaped, momentarilj’^, from the foulness that rings them round. They thirst for that in us which is clean, which emerged from the deed without stain. There is a iiart of us Avhich did not partake in the deed, and that they hate. But do not imagine that they are literally, prosaically evil. They are Pej’ond good and evil as w’e knoAv it. They are that Avhich in the beginning fell aAvay from cleanliness. Through the deed they became bodies of death, receptacles of all foulness. But they are not evil in o%ir sense because in the spheres through AA’hieh they move there is no thought, no morals, no right or wwong as we understand it. There is merely the pure and the foul. The foul expresses itself through angles ; the pure throtigh curves. Man, the pure part of him, is descended fi’om a curve. Do not laugh. T mean that literall5^”

I rose and searched for my hat. “I’m dreadfully sorry for you, Chalmers,” I said, as I Avalked toward the door. “But I don’t intend to .stay and listen to such gibberish. I’il

THE HOUNDS OF TINDALOS


send my physician to see j'oxj. He’s an elderly, kindly chap and he won’t be offended if yon tell him to go to the devil. But I hope you’ll respect his advice. A week’s rest in a good sanitarium should benefit you immeasurably. ’ ’

I heard him laughing as I descended the stairs, but his laughter was so utterly mirthless that it moved me to tears.


W HEN Chalmers phoned the following morning my first impulse was to hang up the receiver immediately. His request was so unusual and his voice was so wildly hysterical that I feared any further association with him would result in the impairment of my own sanity. But I could not doubt the genuineness of his misery, and when he broke down completely and I heard him sobbing over the wire I decided to comply with his request.

“Very well,” I said. “I will come over immediately and bring the plaster.”

En route to Chalmers’ home I stopped at a hardware store and purchased twenty pounds of plaster of Paris. When I entered my friend’s room he was crouching by the window watching the opposite wall out of eyes that were feverish with fright. When he saw me he rose and seized the parcel containing the plaster with an avidity that amazed and horrified me. He had extruded all of the furniture and the room presented a desolate appearance.

“It is .iust conceivable that we can thwart them!” he exclaimed. “But we must work rapidly. Frank, there is a stepladder in the hall. Bring it here immediately. And then fetch a pail of water.”

“What for?” I murmui'ed.

He turned sharply and there was a flush on his face. “To mix the plaster, you fool!” he cried. “To mix the plaster that will save our bodies and souls from a contamination unmentionable. To mix the plaster that will save the world from — Frank, they must he hept out!”

“Who?” I mui-mured.

“The Hounds of Tindalos!” he muttered. “They can only reach us through angles. We must eliminate all angles from this room. I shall plaster up all of the comers, all of the crevices. We mxist make this room resemble the interior of a sphere.”

I Imew that it would have been u-seless to argue with him. I fetched the stepladder, Chalmers mixed the plaster, and for three hoxxrs we labored. We filled in the four corners of the wall and the intersections of the floor and wall and the wall and ceiling, and we roiuided the sharp angles of the window-seat.

“I shall remain in this room until they return in time, ’ ’ he affirmed when our task was completed. “When they discover that the scent leads throixgh curves they will return. They will return ravenous and snarling and unsatisfied to the foulness that was in the beginning, before time, beyond space. ’ ’

He nodded graciously and lit a cigarette. “It was good of you to help,” he said.

“Will you not see a physician, Chalmers?” I pleaded.

‘ ‘ Perhaps — tomorrow, ’ ’ he murmured. ‘ ‘ Bixt now I must watch and wait. ’ ’

“Wait for what?” I urged.

Chalmers smiled wanly. “I know that you think me insane,” he .said. “You have a shrewd but prosaic mind, and you can not conceive of an entity that does not depend for its existence on force and matter. But did it ever ocexxr to you, my friend, that force and matter are merely the barriers to perception imposed by time and space ? “'^en one knows, as I do, that time and space are identical and that they are both deceptive because they are merely imperfect manifestations of a higher reality, one no



longer seolcs in the visible vorkl for an explanation of the mystery and terror of being.”

I rose and walked toward the door.

“Forgive me,” he cried. “I did not mean to offend you. You have a s\iperlativc intellect, but I — I have a superJnim'tn one. It is only natural that I sliould bo aware of your limitations.”

“Phone if you need me,” I said, and descended the stairs two steps at a time. “I’ll send my idiysician over at once.” I multered, to myself. “He’s a hopeless maniac, and heaven knows Avhat will happen if someone doesn’t take charge of him immediatcl3^”


T IIK foUowing is a condensation of two announcements ivhich appeared in llie Partridgeville Gazette for J uhj 3, 1928:

Earthquake Shakes Financial District At 2 o’clock this morning an earth tremor of unu.sual severit.v broke several plate-glass windows in Central Square and comjdetel.v disorganized the electric and street railwaA^ systems. The tremor was felt in the outl.ying districts and the steeple of the PTrst Baptist CMmrch on Angell Hill (designed b.v Christopher Wren in 1717) was entirel.v demolished. Firemen are now attempting to put out a blaze which threatens to destroj^ the Partridgeville Glue Works. An investigation is promised b.v the majmr and an immediate attempt will be made to fix resi)onsibilit.y for this disastrous occurrence.

OCCULT WRITER MURDERED BY UNKNOWN GUEST

Horrible Crime in Central Square

Mystery Surrounds Death of Halpin Chalmers

At 9 a. m. today the body of Halpin Chalmers, author and journalist,

Avas found in an empty room above the jewelry store of Smithwick and Isaacs, 24 Central Square. The coroner's investigation revealed that the room had been rented furnished to Jlr. Chalmers on IMaj’^ 1, and that he had himself disposed of the furniture a fortnight ago. Chalmers was the author of several recondite books on occult themes, and a member of the Bibliogra|)hic Guild. He formerly resided in Brooktyn, New York.

At 7 a. m. Mr. L. E. Hancock, who occupies the apartment opposite Chalmers’ room in the Smithwick and Isaacs establishment, smelt a peculiar odor Avhen he opened his door to take in his cat and the morning edition of the Partridgeville Gazette. The odor he describes as exti’emely acrid and nauseous, and he affirms that it was so strong in the vicinity of Chalmers’ room that he was obliged to hold his nose wdien he approached that section of the hall.

He was about to return to his own apartment Avhen it occurred to him that Chalmers might have accidentally forgotten to turn off the gas in his kitchenette. Becoming considerably alai’med at the thought, he decided to investigate, and Avhen repeated tappings on Chalmers’ door brought no response he notified the sui)eiin1endent. The latter opened the door by means of a pass key, and the two men quickty made their wa.y into Chalmers’ room. The room was utterly destitute of furniture, and Hancock asserts that when he first glanced at the floor his heart went cold within him, and that the superintendent, without saj'ing a word, walked to the open windoAV and stared at the building opposite for full}^ five minutes.

C.'halmers lay stretched upon his back in the center of the room. He was starkly nude, and his chest and arms were covered with a peculiar bluish pus or ichor. His head lay grotesquely upon his chest. It had been completel.y severed from his body, and the features were twisted

THE HOUNDS OF TLNDALOS


and torn and horribly mangled. Nowhere was there a trace of blood.

The room presented a most ast9nishing appearance. The intersections of the wails, ceiling and floor had been thickly smeared with plaster of Paris, but at intervals fragments had cracked and fallen off, and someone had grouped these upon the floor about the murdered man so as to form a perfect triangle.

Beside the body were several sheets of charred yellow paper. These bore fantastic geometric designs and symbols and several hastily scrawled sentences. The sentences were almost illegible and so absurd in contest that they furnished no possible clue to the perpetrator of the crime. “I am waiting and watching,” Chalmers wi’ote. “ I sit by the window and watch walls and ceiling. I do not believe they can reach me, but I must beware of the Doels. Perhaps they can help them break through. The satj^rs will help, and they can advance through the scarlet circles. The Greeks Imew a way of preventing that. It is a great pity that we have forgotten so much.”

On another sheet of paper, the most badly charred of the seven or eight fragments foimd by Detective ^rgeant Douglas (of the Partridgeville Keserve), was scrawded the following:

“Good God, the plaster is falling! A terrific shock has loosened the plaster and it is falling. An earthquake perhaps! I never could have anticipated this. It is growing dark in the room. I must phone Frank. But can he get here in time ? I will try. I will recite the Einstein formula. I will — God, they are breaking through ! They arc breaking through ! Smoke is pouring from the corners of the wall. Their tongues — ahhhhh ”

In the opinion of Detective Sergeant Douglas, Chalmers was poisoned by some obscure chemical. He has sent specimens of the strange blue •slime found on Chalmers’ body to the Partridgeville Chemical Laboratories ;

and he expects the report will shed new light on one of the mast mysterious crimes of recent years. That Chalmera entertained a guest on the evening preceding the earthquake is certain, for his neighbor distinctly heard a low muraiur of conversation in the fomer’s room as he ])assed it on his way to the stairs. Suspicion points strongly to this unknoAvn visitor and the police are diligently endeavoring to discover his identity.


EPORT of James Morton, chemist and bacteriologist :

My dear Mr. Douglas ;

The fluid sent to me for analysis is the most peculiar that I have ever examined. It resembles living protoplasm, but it lacks the peculiar substances known as enzymes. Enzymes catalyze the chemical reactions occurring in living cells, and when the cell dies they cause it to disintegrate by hydrolyzation. Without enzjunes protoplasm should possess enduring vitality, i. e., immortality. Enzymes are the negative components, so to speak, of unicellular organism, which is the basis of all life. That living matter can exist without enzymes biologists emphatically deny. And yet the substance that you have sent me is alive and it lacks these “indispensable” Imdies. Good God, sir, do you realize what astounding new vistas this opens up?


E xcerpt from The Secret Watchers by the late Hal pin Chalmers:

Wliat if, parallel to the life we know, there is another life that does not die, which lacks the elements that destroy our life? Perhaps in another dimension there is a different force from that which generates our life. Perhaps this force emits energy, or something similar to energy, which



passes from the unknown dimension where it is and creates a new fonn of cell life in onr dimension. No one knows that sueli new cell life does exist in our dimension. Ah, but I have seen its manifestations. I have talked with them. In my room at night I have

talked with the Doels. And in dreams I have seen their maker. I have stood on the dim shore beyond time and matter and seen it. It moves through strange curves and outrageous angles. Some day 1 shall travel in time and meet it face to face.

Ballade of Wandering

Ghosts

By HANNA BAIRD CAMPBELL

Have you heard the story the old wives tell,

When Avinds in the turret sob and groan,

And the bloated moon casts an evil spell

On the hearts of men Avhen the day has flown?

Wlien shadows out of the void are blown.

And the reeling stars grow sick and pale.

When phantoms meet and their sins condone —

Have you heard them Avhisper the evil tale?

They mumble and mouth of a loathsome dell.

And a stagnant pool, with dead leaves strown,

Where vapors, foul Avith the .stench of hell.

Strike the chill of death through blood and bone;

And al)Ove the pool on a slimy stone.

Wrapped in a luminous mist-gray veil.

Sits the ghost of the self -slain Angelone —

HaA’c you heard them Avhisper the evil tale?

They sAvear, at the stroke of the midnight bell,

Betrayed by her lover, to rest unknown.

Her eery songs on the night -Avinds SAvell

As she hushes her unboni babe’s faint moan.

And the old wives clack in an undertone.

And droAvn their fears in mugs of ale.

While Love looks doAvm from a rotting thi-one —

HaA’c jmu heard them AAhi.sper the evil tale?

ENVOI

Ah, ravished heart, can man atone.

Or prayers, or penance, or tears aA^ail?

The ghastly harvest is reaped as sown —

Have you heard them whisper the evil tale?

The Story Thus Far

Jesse and his brother Dju invite a party of friends to their Imnting-lodgc. Waggoner Wilds, in the wilderness. Among others in the party is Ben Tarrton, a handsome man, lionized by the ladies, but Dan for some reason takes a violent dislike to him; and so does Natchez, the caretaker of the lodge, whose expression is one of stark horror as he gazes at Tarrton. Natchez becoming suddenly ill the first night the party is at the lodge, .Jesse gets into his car to go to town for a doctor. On the way he finds Natchez’s collie-dog, dead, its throat torn open, and drained of its blood. A little farther on he meets Sneath, the hobo who had been helping Natchez at the lodge, and who had been a soldier in Tarrton’s company overseas during the war. Sneath is frantic with terror, bawling out, “I seen Tarrton doin’ it again, just like I seen him out in No Man’s Land — only this time it was Natchez’s collie.”

4. The Monster

I WAS not half-way home, when Dan was awakened in liis room abruptly. For a moment he lay still, wondering? what had disturbed him. Then he became acutely aware of commotion outside, and he sat up, listening. He heard, then. It was the hounds, howling loudly. You must remember that he had, all along, at least a suspicion, though he had never fully grasped what a monstrous thing the reality would prove to be. Even what he suspected was ghastly enough. And the moment he heard the hounds howling, he had a faint idea of Avhat he would find.

He leaped out of bed, and Boyce, in the next room, heard him. They called back and forth, and inside of five minutes the whole crowd was in

,^83

Tills story began in WKIRD TAI.ES for February



Dan ’s room in dressing-gowns and slippers, staring out at the dogs. By this time the police dogs and the setter had joined the hounds, and before Dan had time to wonder where the collie was, Jane Lee remarked that they were all in Dan’s room but Ben. Only Ben was still asleep. Marian said nenmusly that she didn’t see how he couM sleep in such a racket.

The noise was hideous. Dan, more than any of them, was starkly aware of Ben’s absence. And he was aware of something else. He felt the awful, pestilential presence brooding over the great, gloomy house. The dawn was just breaking in tlie sky, a horrible, raw, cold dawn, and the group stood huddled there by the window frightened stiff by tlie diabolical nameless fear that crowded upon them. Gladstone, desperate for action, wanted to know why Natchez didn’t .shut the dogs up, and asked where I was. Dan told him Natchez was sick and I had gone for a doctor, and that Cliin was too much afraid of the dogs to try to order them about. Lee, terrorized into sobriety, begged Dan to go and see if Ben was all right.

- Dan was reluctant to malic a move towai’d that silent room of Ben’s, but the whole crowed added their pleas to Lee’s and he gave in. He hurried across the hall, not stopping for the formality of a lap on Ben’s door. He was too sure of what he’d find. Like terrorized sheep the others crowded after him. But they all stopped short and hxiddled together again as Dan threw open the door, and they saw what was there in the dim morning light.

Ben had been murdered in his bed. He lay fiat on his back, one hand under his head, the other lying loosely across his stomach. But for the telltale waxen pallor of his skin he might have been asleep. A knife, with a large handle of miusual design, was buried to the hilt in his left breast. Not a drop of blood had escaped, since

the knife had not l)een I'emoved. Boyce gasped out something about the knife. Dan told him it was one that had belonged to our father, that it had hung downstairs in his old room. The next instant Dan had a bunch of shaken men and hysterical women on his hands.

He herded them out of the room and downstairs to the living-room, where he built a fire in the fireplace. They were so stiuined and stricken that they obeyed him docilely. The women w'ere crying and the men were trying to quiet them, and Dan was having a nasty few moments of it. As he rose from getting a fire blazing, he heard the Hammerton roar up and stop. He rushed to the window and saw me leap out of the ear and turn the hose on the dogs. The excited brutes fought the icy water savagely, but they stopped their unearthly howling. I locked them in the garage and dashed up to see Natchez. He had come to, by that time, was quite conscioxxs, but a little weak, and he .had been on the point of coming down to quiet the dogs when he heard me arrive.

I asked him what had been the matter with liim, and he looked at me queer! 3’-, sajung that his heart was none too good. I left Chin Hoy still taking care of him, and raced for the house.

Dan met me in he hall, his face white and set, and I saw the huddled, terror-ridden group behind him. “What’s the matter?’’ I asked, wondering what else could have happened to add to the already unendurable horror in which I was striving to retain my mental equilibrium.

“Go up and look in Tairton’s room,’’ Dan ainswered tersely, and Nan Boyce gave a smothered scream.

I ran upstaii’s, three steps at a time, but I alreadj' had some idea of what I would find. Oddly enough, it steadied my reeling brain. You may think that queer. But out of a night of hideous fantasy and unnaiaable

THE VENGEANCE OF THE DEAD


madness, plain human murder was something tangible and understandable, something I could get hold of. If you’ll believe it, I walked out of that room of death and back down the stairs more nearly my cool nonnal self than I had been since Dan had come north. When I entered the living-room, and the rest of them turned to stare at me fearfully, my evident calmness had a quieting etfect on them that nothing else could have done. I saw it, and lost no time in following up that one grim advantage in that house of horror.

“Does anyone know anything about this?’’ I asked quietly, as I laid aside my topcoat and gloves.

‘ ‘ No. ’ ’ Dan shook his head, answering for the rest. “The dogs woke us, and we went in and found him like that.’’

' ‘ I see, ’ ’ I said, probably because I could think of nothing else to say. I was thinking rapidly enough, trying to decide uj^on which was the wiser thing to do next, when Natchez came in the front door and paused in the hall, beckoning to me. I excused myself from my guests for a moment and went to see what he wanted.

“Has something happened, Mr. Waggener?’’ he asked quietly, and to my astonishment the man was quite himself again. I remarked on it. “Heart attacks like mine don’t leave much trace after they’re over,” he said, and asked again if something had happened. I told him Ben had been murdered in his sleep, and asked him where Chin was. He merely nodded at hearing of that grisly death upstairs, and said he knew from the howling of the dogs that death was around somewhere, then informed me that he had ordered Chin Hoy to stay in the garage till some of us should call him. “Was that right?” he finished.

I told him I approved of it, and requested him to come into the livingroom with me, thinking I might be able to use him. He followed, his W. T.— 3

face expressionless, and took his place leaning up against one corner of the fireplace mantel a little way from Dan, as I again faced my guests. I really was grateful for the harshness of fact, sad as it made me to know that Ben was dead. Delving into a murder would take ray mind off the hideous chimeras that had been harassing me. I was determined to do what I could myself, before calling in an officer. With that in view, as the most logical beginning, I tumed to my brother.

“You locked up, Dan?”

“I certainly did.” He looked me squarely in the eye. “Every door, and shot every bolt from garret to cellar, as you requested.”

I shrank at what that meant, but there was nothing for it except the truth. I felt the harshness of my own tones as I spoke, to them all, collectively: “You will realize that, in that case, the house could not have been entered. Asa matter of fact, it could not even have been approached. The dogs would have driven off any intruder.”

Rick Boyce started, stared at me, and demanded belligerentlj'’, “What are jmu hinting at, Jesse?”

“I’m not hinting, Rick,” I answered, giving him back Ids look. “I’m merely stating an obvious fact. All of you noted the bars on the windows. With the doors securely bolted and locked, this house is as impregnable as an armed fort. Therefore, the person who killed Ben Tarrton was in the house wlien the doors were locked. That fact is unassailable.”

“But, good heavens, man,” Lee burst out indignantly, “you aren’t accusing ”

“I’m accusing no one of anything,” I interrupted tersely. “I’m merely stating the fact that no person could have entered this house save those of yoii who are now here ! And somebody killed Ben Tarrton since 11 o’clock last night.”



A scream answered me, a scream that was barely audible, the mere exudation of an exhausted breath, and Jane Lee threw herself into her husband’s arms.

“Let’s keep as cool as we can, please.’’ I swept my gaze over the entire group. Only Dan and Natchez were cool and self-possessed. Dan was rather white and his eyes had a qxaeer light in them, but Natchez was almost boi’cd. It was none of Natchez’s affair, anyhow, and I couldn’t expect Dan to get excited over the death of a man he had disliked from the moment he first saw him. I felt sorriest, I think, for Marian Gladstone. She sat like a person stunned, cowed into a state bordering on vacuity. Action was the thing that would be good for her, I knew, and with that in mind I spoke to her. “Marian, I think a good hot cup of coffee would benefit us, and I don’t want Chin brought in yet. Would you make us a pot of coffee?”

She rose with a flash of eager assent in her eyes, and I gestured toward the kitchen. “You’ll find kindling in a box by the stove,” I told her, “and small wood in a box on the stoop, just outside the side kitchen door. ’ ’

She nodded and hurried from the room. I turned my attention back to the task before me.

“/^F COURSE, most of you know

^-'nothing about this affair, anyway,” I began. “But one of you must know jxrecisely all about it. That one will save the rest of us a great deal of unpleasantness if he will come out with it like a gentleman.”

“Yoxi’re going rather far,” Boyce interrupted, angrily.

“I’ll not foi’get that I am your liost,” I answered. “I simply want to have this business over as (luiekly as possible. I see no need for the inquisition of extensive questioning. Anyone could have driven that knife. Its own weight would have been

enough for the death blow. We must face the facts. Ben lies dead in an impregnable house into which a party of people have been locked. Yet all of us here were his closest friends. We ”

“See here, Jesse.” Rick Boyce got to his feet and faced me abruptly.

‘ ‘ Before \ve go any further with this thing let’s get doxvn to cases. It’s utterly ridiculous to accuse any of us of having done away with Bexi. Why, he was one of the best friends I ever had — one of the finest chaps I’ve ever known. I’m certain the rest of us here held him always in high esteem. ’ ’

“You bet we did,” Gladstone affirmed quickly, wiping his glasses with shaking fingers.

“All of us,” Lee said, his comedy sunk in sober grief, and he looked at me over the head of his wife, burrowed into his breast. “Nobody could have really hated Ben. It’s utterly ridiculous, just as Rick says, even to intimate that any of us could have — could have ” He stammered, and Boyce picked up the sentence smoothly.

“Could have done such a thing. And it’s just as ridiculous to try to locate the murderer before we do a little calculating. No, no, Jesse. Your deduction is absurd. Somebody must have gotten in, somehow.”

“Nobody could have gotten in,” I retorted. I was becoming more and more myself with every moment. Pacing logical reasoning had brought me up sharply, chased the terrors out of my brain and planted my feet firmly in a solid everyday environment. Already the horrors of the past night were faded into so dim a piece of fantasy that I could laugh at them, and at the whole chain of incidents wdiich had caused them, culminating in that poor fool of a raving drunkard. I sighed in positive relief, straightened my shoulders, and went on briskly. “What kind of calculating do you wish to assume, Rick?”

THE VENGEANCE OF THE DEAD


“Well, first, where the devil did that knife come from?” Rick returned.

“I’ll show you,” I answered, not knowing then that Dan had already told him. I crossed to Father’s old room, slipped my hand in my pocket for the key, and started, to find it absent and not with the other keys on my ring. Then I remembered, and turned to my brother. “Oh, I’ve not got the key. I gave it to you last night, Dan. May I have it, please.”

He took the key from his pocket and extended it toward me. I accepted it and unlocked the door. The guests crowded behind me as I thi'cw back the door and entered the room. Silently I gestured to the place where the knife had hung. Set into the opposite wall was a high, polished board. Into the board seven spikes were driven, and on six of the protruding spikes hung knives of diminishing size but identical in construction with the knife buried in Tarrton’s chest. The seventh spike was empty, the spike that had held the biggest knife. I motioned toward it.

‘ ‘ That ’s where the knife hung. My father was an expert knife-thrower — it was a hobby of his. He had them hung up there that way to prevent their falling from an insecure peg of any kind. They are dangerous playthings. ’ ’

“But, listen, Jesse!” Boyce was talking again. “None of us has been in this loom as yet. We’d never even looked inside of it. And the door was locked and you had the key. Why, think, man ! Whoever killed Ben knew, he had to know, of the existence of those knives. And that lets every darned one of us out ! ’ ’

I started. God save me for a fool, but I had not till that moment even considered suspicion pointing at Dan. But I saw it now. We all saw it at once. I saw a look dart from eye to eye. I felt a thought dart from brain to brain. Dan knew of the knives.

Dan had had my key when the thing was done. I realized that my face was slowly whitening, as I waved them all out of the room and locked that door behind me. I followed them dumbly into the living-room and they congregated in a huslied, appalled group, drawn aside from Dan. He stood leaning up against the fireplace again, looking them over with faint cynical amusement. Natchez was staring at him with startled eyes. I had lost my power of speech, and the hideous silence that had fallen upon us was rasping my nerves.

“Surely,” Boyce spoke quietly, almost gently, striving to help me get a grip on myself, “you can see what I say is logical, Jesse. Isn’t it perfectlj' obvious?”

“Y-yes,” I admitted dumbly. “Of course. It had to be someone who — who knew of the knives. And — there — there is no other key. But — by God, that ’s infamoiis ! It can ’t be possible!” They all knew what I meant.

Dan smiled faintly. “I didn’t do it,” he said, taking the bull by the horns with a flatness that made me gasp. He turned to Boyce. “The supposition isn’t infamous, as Jesse says; it’s only silly. If you have any observant senses at all, Rick, you must have seen that I was as astounded at finding Tarrton like that as any of you were.” Which was true. He hadn ’t expected to find Ben dead. He finished sarcastically, “I should call it the intelligent thing to .search for evidence of some kind before the deed is hung on the most likely person handy. And there arc such things as finger prints, you know.”

“Don’t get nasty, Dan,” I put in, hastily, seeing the indignant expression that flashed into Rick’s face, “we’ll leave the Anger prints to the experts. I’m going up to Ben’s room and see whether or not there is any evidence, any clue that can help us. Natchez, since you and I were the only ones locked out of the house, I shall ask you to come with me.”



N atchkz followed me up to Ben’s room, with a queer backward {'lance at Dan. But we found nothing. I stood around rather helplessly, I fear, not paying much attention to Natchez and his businesslike examination of the room. My mind was stiicken with a new horror. My kid brother Dan! Caught in a net of circumstantial evidence ! I knew well enough it was circumstantial, that Dan had never killed Ben. But what would that avail, with the circumstances as they were?

He had been in Mexico for six years. He was a stranger to most of the party. Boyce, the Gladstones and I had all heard him saj' he did not like Ben, and he had certainly acted qucerly about that, too. The house was locked. No one could have got in. He was the only one in the house who knew of the knives, and he had had my key in his pocket.

I felt sick at the pit of my stomach as I followed Natchez back to the living-room. Rick asked eagerly if we had found anything.

“No,” I said didly. “No clue.” I did not even glance at Natchez. If he had found anything he would have told me. I looked at the crowd of friends, those who had long been my friends, but I viewed them now with hostile .eyes. A horrible suspicion was gi’uw'ing into a cloud over them, looming and menacing. They were, one and all, already convinced that my brother was the murderer in their midst. But I saw they shrank from facing me squai'ely. They waited for me to end the silence, flashing covert glances at each other, fldgeting imeasily, while Dan suiweyed them collectively with a cool, ironic, halfamused gaze. I couldn’t endure it longer.

“Well, somebody did it!” I burst out, hotly. “And thei'e’s alwayssomething to tell the tale. If the guilty person is not willing to come clean, I must do the next best thing and send for the sheriff.”

Marian cried out sharply. She had just come back from the kitchen. I only nodded at her. The sheriff would find the guilty one, fast enough, I told myself desperately. That was the one way to extricate Dan. The sheriff must be brought. I turned straining ej es on Dan. His faee had become grim, and there was an ugly glare in his deep-set black eyes.

‘ ‘ Oh, Benny ! Benny I ’ ’ Nan Boyce cried suddenly, in the hysteria of grief.

Dan flared, like a inan at the end of his patience. '“Your little tin god’s dead,” he ra.sped. “Stop grieving over the rotter. I’m here to tell you that to any man who killed Ben Tarrton society owes a vote of thanlvs.”

A gasp of horror rose from over the room. I’m not sure that it was not harshest and quickest from me. Dan faced down our incredulous stare with flaming eyes.

“How can you judge what he must have done to someone, to have brought that on himself? If he never c did another thing but what he did to me, he deserved killing as richly as any convict in a death cell waiting the rope. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Dan ! Dan ! ” I interrupted him, terrified at the thing he was doing to himself. It looked black enough for him already. “You said you never saw him before!”

“And I never did,” Dan corroborated. I couldn ’t stop him. He was insane with fvuy, roused to a pitch of insane anger over the rising of some old ghost, shaken with a rage that had been born years ago and had never died, the worst rage a man can Imow. His words came crackling from his sneering mouth. ‘ ‘ Btff I ’ve crossed his trail before. The man was a hellion — with the women. How do I know? Because he took the girl I was to have married, seven years ago. She died. Don ’t a.sk me how — it ’s too horrible to repeat. Through him she died. I’d have killed him i-ight then if I could have got my hands on him.

THE VENGEANCE OP THE DEAD


But he was out of harm ’s way, overseas. After I buried her, I guess I was crazy for a while.

‘ ‘ I wanted to get out of the United States. I didn’t want to murder anybody. But I knew I didn’t dare stay in the States after he came back. I went to Mexico. You thought it was because I was peeved that I didn’t get overseas. Hell ! It was because I didn’t Avant to commit murder! And I pitched into work like a fool to keep it out of my mind. If I’d known he was to be one of this party I’d never have come north. When I did come, and found him with your crowd, it was all I could do to endure it. I didn’t kill him, but I’m glad he’s dead. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Dan ! ” I cried, into the torrent of Avords, and gripped his arm. He turned his ghastly face and blazing eyes on me.

“Sorry if I’ve made an ass of myself,” he said curtly. “But it’s true, and I don’t take a AA-ord of it back. You people are grieAung over a skunk — over a hell-monster of the AA'orst kind. You’d be sick to death if you knew Avhat a fiend he Avas. Give it out that he committed suicide. For God’s sake, don’t sick the sheriff on the human benefactor that knifed that devil in a saint’s body.”

A numb silence fell over the room. I Avas cold to the heart. Couldn’t Dan see that after such an outburst as that, not a person in the room could be made to believe he hadn’t killed Ben? But I had only one thing to do. My reeling brain held tenaciously to one thin thread of hope — the sheriff would find the murderer, there was ahvays something to tell the tale. I dropped my hand from Dan’s arm and turned to Natchez.

“Natchez, take the Hammerton — and go for the sheriff.”

Natchez nodded, and crossed the room toAvard the hall, almost shambling, like a man stricken. I saAV his eyes cling to Dan’s face, and then Dan, aware that the caretaker was

staring at him, swung round his head and looked after him. Natchez jerked his thumb in a slight beckoning gesture. Then he was gone. Dan looked SAviftly around the room, to see whether or not the guests had observed that little byplay, but all of them were meticulously avoiding looking that Ava}^ My brother Avhirled silently, stepped into the hall as noiselessly as a cat, and folloAved Natchez.

My brain w'as whirling. What could that possibly mean? Had Natchez found something in the room upstairs after all, something he had kept from me? What could he Avant of Dan? I stared at my guests. They Avere meticulously avoiding my gaze. In that moment I hated them. They had condemned Dan. I flared at them, harshly :

“Kindly stay Avhere you are till I return. I Avant to speak to Dan.”

None of them ansAvered, but they looked at me with open pity as I Avheeled and hurried from the room. Off to the side, out of vioAV from the living-room, I saw Dan and Natchez just passing into the garage. I Avas determined to knoAv what Avent on betAveen them. I broke into a light run, circled the garage, and came up to it on the opposite side. Dan and Natchez would not go upstairs, I kneAV. They woiildn ’t Avant Chin Hoy to hear Avhat they said. They Avould stay doAvn Avhere the cai’s Avere.

I AA'as correct in my calculations. I slipped up to the small side AvindoAv and peered^through the pane. Dan and Natchez had come to a halt by the Hammerton, and Natchez was speaking.

“Dan — just what will the shexfff do when he gets here ? ’ ’

“Why, the usual thing, Natchez,” Dan ansAvered. He lit a cigarette, raised one foot to the I'unning-board and leaned comfortably on the foredoor. His rage had subsided, noAv. Only a somber gleam smoldered in the black depths. I could see and hear them both quite plainly. Dan Avent



on to explain: “He'll qnestion eveiybodj’, search the house and the i)eople, examine Tarrton’s room for a clue, and all that sort of thing. He might find something you and Jesse overlooked. Things to -which the layman would attach no importance might be of inestimable value to the sheriff. In sparsely settled country like this the sheriff is the whole works, you know — police force, detective agency and everything else. And a lot of those fellows are pretty keen.”

“ Yes. ” Natchez nodded, his grouchy face dark and his eyes harried. “Have you thought of your position, Dan?”

“It’s not so menacing as Jesse th inks. ’ ’ And Dan smiled. “ As J esse said, there is always something to tell tlie tale. P'inger prints, maybe nothing but a hair or a thread from a garment. But ahvays .something. And then, if he doe.sn’t find anj’thing in the way of a clue, there is always the third degree. Oh, he’ll find the guilty one, Natchez. Under adequate pressure, the murderer will break. ’ ’

“But — suppose no one breaks!” Natchez moved close, and his eyes Avere like phosphorus. “Suppose everyone in that party is innocent. Suppo.se there is not the least clue — no finger prints — nothing. Then what?”

Dan stared at him. “What are you getting at, Natchez? If such a condition coiAld exist, my neck wouldn’t be Avorth a last year’s rent receipt, of course. But it can’t exis^l”

“It does exist,” Natchez' said shortly. “But your neck has got to be saved .some Avay. Uod knows hoAv it can be done.”

Dan’s face Avhitened, and he gripped Natchez b}'- the arm, convulsively. “IIoAv can it exist? What do you mean? Hoav do you know?”

“I knoAv who killed Ben Tarrton,” Natchez an.swered.

‘ ‘ What ! ’ ’ Dan stood like a man frozen, then he sloAvly took out -his cigarette case and tried to light a

cigarette AAUth his shaking fingei’S. “You knotv?”

“I certainly do.”

Dan’s hand, in the act of lighting the cigarette that quivered in his hold, stopped short, and I could see the reflection of the flame in his wild eyes. “Well, for God’s sake, AA’ho? Out Avith it, man ! ’ ’

“The dead. ” , Natchez bowed his head, with a strange reverence. “The dead killed him. Not one, but a hundred. All those dead AA'hom he tortured to the last gasp.” Natchez’s face was .suddenly gha.stly, and his A'oice sank loAver. “You know Avhat he Avas, don’t you? You Imow that — he Avas” — loAver and lower dropped the hideous gasp, as Natchez looked back on some unspeakable horror he could not forget — “he Avas — a ”

But I could not get that last word. I strained my ears for the slightest sound. Natchez did not say it again.

“God!” Dan cried. “Holy God! Not that ! ’ ’

.5. The Vengeance of the Dead

‘ ‘ ES ! ” Natchez cried vehemently.

* “He Avas! And you’re in a net so tight that only the power of God can help you. But He aauII stand by, Dan. I tell you He Avill. And so will I. I’ll get you out of this if it takes my life !”

“You! Why?” Dan’s dark face Avas filled with wonder.

And then again I saw the miracle of Natchez’s dour and sour countenance refined and softened into a splendid humanity. “Because,” he said in a strangely vibrant tone of gratitude, “you are Borden Waggener come alive again, and Borden Waggener Avas the only man Avho would ever believe me. I told him what had shaken me from my moorings, almost driven me from sanity, and he believed.”

“It Avas — Tarrton?” Dan asked swiftly.

“Yes.” Natchez’s face flamed with

THE VENGEANCE OF THE DEAD


rigliteoiis hatred and anger. “It was that hell-hound they called Tarrton. When the war broke out I enlisted and was sent aci’oss. I wasn ’t so young, but I was a good cook and they made me a mess sergeant. My wife and daughter followed me. I never knew how they managed it, but they did. I had been sent to the trenches, and what with the tangle of the mail and the rigidity of the censorship, I didn ’t know they were there. Then I got messed up, was sent to the hospital and invalided home.

“Not till then did I find out that my wife and daughter had followed me. My wife died over there of the flu, but my daughter came back here. Over there she had met a captain and fallen in love with him. He had finally been sent back to the front, she had met him on leave, and slie came home to see me, having discovered that I was wounded and sent to the States. She was puzzled and frightened by things she did not understand, and she Avas afraid at first to tell me. Her very fear drove her to detailing the whole thing, though.

“She said that Avhen she was with this fellow she Avas ahvays so happy and AA'ell. He Avas a man the Avomen fancied a great deal. And she gave me his name, and described him, Avith his Avhite skin and dark eyes and red hair. But Avhen he went aAvay from her she ahvays felt such a strange depletion of her strength. I laieAV something terrible had happened to her. She Avas as Avhite and bloodless as though the red fluid had been draAAUi from her veins. I began to suspect I’ight then what he Avas, especially when she spoke of his big white teeth. They Avere so large, she said, for a man’s teeth, and so terribly poAA’erful. He could lift the weight of his huge body by his teeth.

“I felt that the only way to rai.se any protection about her Avas to make myself capable of leaving my body in sleep. I Avatched her at night, when she was asleep and didn’t Imow, but

I couldn’t sec him come. I went to a jArofessor of mysticism and studied like a fiend. I got so that I could get out of m}’’ body by Avilling myself out. Then I Avatched her again — out of the body, you understand. As long as I Avas in the flesh I couldn’t .see him, and I couldn’t stop him. Biit when I was out I saw him fast enough. He came in the AV'indoAV, and started toAvard her bed, but I leaped between them. I grappled Avith him, to find that he Avas much stronger than I. I had no chance AAuth him. He threw me aside as thoAigh I Avere a stick, rushed to the bed and leaned over her — and as I Avatched he changed to a monstrous cat. The next instant his face Avas against hers, and he Avas sucking the breath from her mouth Avith his. I heard her horrible ga.sping struggles, but I was poAverless. I moaned and shrieked at him, leaping on his back and beating at him. He drew the life out of her till he had his fill, in spite of my puny assault, changed back to the form of a man, and Avent away again as he had come, laughing as he slipped through the Avindow.

‘ ‘ I got back in my body and struggled to bring her back to consciousness. She Avas appallingly AA’cak. I began to be afraid that she AA'as gone. But by moiTiing she had recoA'cred enough to open her eyes, to dress and ti’ail languidly about the house. Frantic Avith fear for her, I rushed to my ]n*ofessor of mysticism. And he ex- ])lained to me exactly the kind of monster I had to deal Avith. He AA’as not a Ammpire, he Avasn’t a Avei’CAvolf, he wasn’t any commonly understood type of monstrosity. He Avas a combination of them all, and something else besides. This Avas the explanation of his actiAuties, Dan, as the professor outlined them to me.

“He came to this planet Avhen the poAA^ers threw him off one of the dark .stars. As far as the profeSvSor could judge, that Avas someAvhere around a thousand years ago.”



‘ ‘ What ! Is he that old ? ’ ’ Dan exclaimed.

“That old anyway, yes. He’s had two or three existences. In one he was a werewolf. In one he w'as a vampire. In one he was a soul-stealer. In this last existence he was all combined. He kept abreast of the times as the world advanced, living first on one part of the globe, then on another. He presented to society the appearance of a wealthy man of the world, and no one ever suspected what he was. He Avas too smooth, too sly. But to keep his body and spirit replenished he continually was forced to gorge himself on warm blood, and to breathe into his throat the souls of Avomen.

“For that reason he was always on hand when any country went to war. He assumed the dress and language of the country, and through his unholy black magic got himself into some not too prominent position — whei'c he could reach the battlefield. When a battle Avas over and the field was strcAvn Avith the dead and dying, he changed to a AA’olf, slunk among the corpses and Avounded and drank enough of blood to keep his youth intact for another decade. He could always find a Avar, you realize. If too long a stretch occurred between wars, he resorted to his wercAvolf form and went into the Avild country where he could tear open the throat of some animal.

“Oh, he Avas hideously sly and clever! Ahvays his ti’acks were cov'ered so that not even any strange gossip could rise and folloAv him AvhereA'cr he Avanted to go. And that monstrous loathsome ghoul Avas In-eathing the soul from my daughter’s body to replenish his ghastly spirit! I begged the professor in terror to tell me what I could do. I a.sked him Avhy in God’s name the monster hadn ’t been annihilated before. He told me sadly that only a fcAV of the initiate such as he knew Tarrton for Avhat he Avas. There was only one way in Avhich he could

be foreA'er laid low, only one way in Avhich he could be killed, body, brain and bestial spirit.”

“And that?” Dan breathed, so low I could but faintly hear him.

“While he was out of the body, aAvay where he could not protect it, some other man must accomplish the thing. The avenger must pass out of his OAvn body, and must be possessed of the power to moA^e matei’ial things while in that form. He must take a heavy knife, a long one with a blade that would sink into the heart. He must carry that knife to the monster ’s sleeping empty body. In one hand he must carry a mixture of the ashes of one victim the monster had slain and the blood of another, stirred into a paste. A hole must be drilled into the point of the knife and packed with that paste. Then the avenger must call around him the disembodied souls of all the victims the monster had claimed. Those souls must mass around him in a mighty impassable group while he drove the knife deep into the heart of the sleeping monster-body. And as the knife sank in they must with one accord chant the incantation which would blast his hellish spirit.

“I did not know how I could ever accomplish such a hideous thing, a thing that others had tried to do, and that he had ahvays easily foiled, for always they lacked some one thing that Avas Autal to the accomplishing of the deed. But I would have moved heaven and eai’th to save my daughter. I rushed back — only to find her gone. He had, by subtle mental suggestion, urged her to flee from me, raging at the thought that I Avanted to cheat him of her life. I think I went insane for a while. But after a few horrible days I grew calmer, then set out to folloAv her. I traced her slowly, by devious means, to find that he had beaten me after all. She had died in a charity hospital and some kindhearted person had buried her.

THE VENGEANCE OF THE DEAD


“T^rom then on I had but one motive in living. It was to blast him forever. I studied and practised magic night and day, but my mind had been so heavily taxed that it gave way under the strain, and all my power fell from me. Hopeless, I decided to commit suicide, to go on from this life and find her where she might be. It was then your father stopped me, and listened to my story, and believed me, and sent me up here to gain strength and sanity again. He iised to come up here and work with me. I grew strong and levelminded before he died. I went back to my magic. Then I discovered that the very fiend I planned to kill was now a friend of your brother’s. I doubled my efforts.

“I got so I could leave my body and move material things. Out of the body, I went to my fair daughter’s grave and brought back a small bit of her ashes. Then Jesse wrote me they were coming up here for this outing. God had delivered the fiend into my hands. I knew it had been some time since he had been able to get his fill of blood. The instant I laid eyes on him I saw that he was losing his strength a little. I knew he would claim a victim that night the moment he could get out of the body. I had already taken that largest knife and drilled a hole in the point. But I had placed it back on the spike so that its absence might not cause any comment from you or Jesse.

“As soon as I saw the lights upstairs in the lodge, I knew he had gone to his room and would be quickly at his activities. I immediately repaired to my room and left my body. I went out into the yard and watched. Chin Hoy, seeing the state of my body, thought I was sick and called Jesse, but I dared not delay. The monster had already come from the lodge and started toward the garage. I had to follow him. He had already taken on his wolf form. He made a ravenous attack on my dogs. The

four dogs that were not chained fled in terror. I do not think they could see him clearljq but they sensed and feared him. That only delighted his hellish soul, and he leaped after the collie and raced to the kill.

“The collie fled madly down the road. Chin was then in the house, where he had gone to get Jesse. I raced, too, after the fiend. Nearly a half-mile down the road he caught the collie, and leaped to his kill, to tear open the dog’s throat. He was so ravenously thirsty for his ghoulish drink that he did not notice me. I went so close that I reached a hand down under the furry body and caught two or three drops of blood that slobbered from his wolf jaws. That was all I wanted.

“Wild with fuiy, I ran back to the garage, and passed Jesse tearing to town for the doctor. I went to the hiding-place I had made in the garage and brought forth the sacred ashes of my daughter, and of them and the blood of my noble collie I made the magic paste, saying over it the incantation the professor had taught me. Cariying the precious paste carefully, I hurried into the lodge. Locked doors were nothing to me. I walked right through the door into your father’s room, took down the knife and packed the ]iaste into the hole in its blade. Then I passed through the door into the hall. The knife, in my hands, w'as as capable of passing through wooden panels as I.

“I leaped up the stairs, calling with all my might on the souls of all his ravaged victims. I was shaken by the response that answered me. By the hundreds they came, out of all the centuries he had blasphemed with his presence; women fiom whom he had drawn the souls, men from whom ha had drained blood on the battlefield, animals of every species from whom he had tom the life and of whom ho had emptied the veins. They knew what I wanted of them. With a holy cry of vengeance, the vengeance of



the dead, they massed around me as I hurtled into his room,

“There that hellishly beautiful body lay, asleep, while back do\\m the road the wereu'olf crouched and gorged himself. I called on all the powers of heaven as I raised high the big knife, and the souls of the dead chanted their mighty incantation. Slowdy I lowered the Iniife, and slowly I drove the blade home. The fiend felt that avenging steel the moment the point touched his flesh. He knew he was in danger of his hellish existence. He screamed and tried to get back. But in vain ! The knife reached his heart, and before our eyes — the eyes of the dead and me — his monstrous spirit was blasted into a million fragments and whirled into the pit of oblivion forever.

“And then — I saw a marvelous sight. Those weary and ravaged dead began to glow with golden light. Their haunted eyes became blessed with peace. One by one they blessed me as they passed me, singing, and even the beasts he had ravaged frisked at my heels and licked my hands as they went on. One of the last to go was my fair daughter. She leaned to press a kiss on my cheek, but I could not bear to see her go. I walked with her for a long way before I finally bade her a temporary farewell and returned to my body.

“Chin Hoy was still there, and Jesse had returned. I knew a hue and cry would be raised when the monster’s body was found, and the howling of the dogs had already apprised you of his death. But I had thought that, finding no guilty person in the house, the verdict would be death at the hands of a person unknorni. I had not reckoned with the hideous net of eircum.stantial evidence that had clo.sed around you. You were the only man who slept alone. The other men have their wives with them and therefore posse.ss a perfect alibi. I am terrorized, Dan. I could tell my story, but they would laugh

me out of court. You must not be sacrificed ! But what can we do ? ’ ’

‘ ‘ God ! I don ’t know ! ’ ’ Dan ’s face was ghastly. “We’re together, you and I, Natchez. Your daughter — she and I quarreled over a silly thing. I met her after you w'ent overseas. When, we quarreled, she and her mother followed you. Then she came back — and when he, that hellion, drove her from you, she fled to me, and I saw her die before my eyes. It was I who buried her, just before I went to Mexico.’’

‘ ‘You — Dan ! ’ ’ Natchez cried. “You — and my daughter!’’

“ Yes. ’ ’ Dan ’s white face quivered. “I knew there was something horrible back of it, the way she died. I studied those things, too. I learned who and what he was, and how he could be conquered. But I could never gain even the first rudimentary ability in magic. I was powerless, I didn’t want to live, but I had to, so I made the best of it. If I have to die because that fiend died, if they hang me on circumstantial evidence, I think I shall be glad to go on with her. ’ ’

“No!” Natchez cried. “No! You shall not be his last victim ! He shall not claim another, even by roundabout means. God listens, Dan. Pray! You and I together — pray!”

6. The Loyalty of the Living

T TURNED away from the window, then. Dan must be saved ! And it was I who had to do it. I, as the tool of the divine power who would not let his innocent children suffer overlong. We were here, all of us, at this lodge, in an ordinary world, with an ordinary murder to face. The unbelieving world, that would laugh at Natchez’s story as the raving of a madman, must have some commonplace explanation of the thing that had happened, of the death that had occurred. And suddenly, like a sequence unrolled on a silver sheet before my eyes, I saw the way.

THE VENGEANCE OF THE DEAD


I whirled and raced down the road to a spot I remembered, stooped and picked up something from the brush aiid slipped it into my pocket. Then I circled the house, keeping out of sight of those within the living-room. At the rear of the house I entered it noiselessly by the side kitchen door, which was unlocked by Marian when she went into the kitchen to make the coffee. I crossed the kitchen and descended the stairs into the cellar. There I hurried to the outer door, threw back the heavy bolts, milocked it, opened the door and passed out, leaving it wide behind me.

Then I went back around the house and up the front steps. The guests heard me cross the veranda and enter the hall, and they crowded to the door as I came into the living-room. Their anxiety and concern clogged their tongues. I spoke quickly, to forestall their questions.

“I want to ask you to wait till I run up to Ben’s room again. When I come down I hope to present to you a chain of evidence that will be unbreakable. ’ ’

They nodded, as one, waiting dumbly to know what I might have to say. I hurried on up the stairs. That business of looking in his room again was all bluff, but it was part of the swift plan that had formed in my head. I walked into his bed chamber, disarranged the bed clothes a trifle, stood looking doAvn for a moment iipon the beautiful foul dead face, then went back down the stairs. The guests watched me in an agony of suspense as I stepped to the front door to call Natchez. He thrust his head out of the garage to see what I w'anted, and I told him to come immediately, and to bring Dan and Chin Hoy. Before we others had gathered again in the living-room, I heard those three come running across the yard and up the steps. Then the next thing they were all crowded excitedly around me, seeing in my face that I had something startling to tell.

“Did you find anything, Jesse?” Rick Boyce burst out. “For God’s sake, don’t keep us in suspense.”

“Yes,” I said. “ I understand. But I want you all to settle down quietly and listen to me. I think a good drink would brace us all up.”

“Oh!” Marian cried. “I forgot all about the coffee.”

“Coffee!” I smiled. “It’s hardly what we want now, anyway, Marian. Chin Hoy, go down in the cellar and get a bottle of Scotch for the men and one of Benedictine for the ladies. Can’t you all just take it easy, please ? ’ ’

They stared at me, and Dan and Natchez, close together, hung on my words. They did not know I had been near the garage.

“Follow me closely, and you will see that it is so simple you will wonder why we did not trace it all out before. When Natchez and I were up before we did not look on the bed — we did not want to disturb the body. But I looked just now, and ”

I paused abruptly as I heard Chin Hoy come scurrying up the basement stairs. He raced across the kitchen and burst into the room to confront us with a frightened face, a bottle in each hand.

“Basement door, Missa- Wegeneh. Wide open. Bolts up. Must be open all night, no?”

“What?’’ cried Dan, explosively. A chorus of excited cries came from the room about me and I raised a hand, asking for silence.

“That’s the last link,” I said steadily. Then swiftly I wove my web, the web that Avas to saA’^e Dan. “You will remember the hobo, Sneath. He had no trouble approaching the house; you recollect he had made friends Avith the dogs. When he left here he must have sneaked back and hidden himself in the basement before the doors Avere locked. There are plenty of places there where he coiAld hide. His motive we know, from what Ben himself said : cheap revenge for



fancied imposition. He had l)een here helping Natcliez clean house, so he knew of the knives. I saw him have a bunch of pass keys, so he would have had little trouble when he went to unlock the door. He helped Natchez put away the luggage, so he had Ben ’s room located. When you had all gone to bed, he slipped quietly up from the basement, entei'cd Father’s old room, got the knife and .slipped upstairs, knifed Ben, stole back again and Avent oiAt through the basement.

“But this — this is the thing that makes the cliain complete. I found it just a moment ago, in the bedclothes by Ben’s arm. It evidently dropped as Sneath leaned over in the dark. ’ ’

I thrust my hand h:to my pocket, drcAV forth the thing my fingers touched, and held up for their inspection a small piece of bright green silk studded Avith yelloAv polka dots, made into a bow and fastened on little celluloid nibs.

“By God!” Lee cried, staring. “The hobo’s trick tie!”

Instantly the room Avas in an uproar as they croAvded around me, laughing half hysterically in their relief, slapping me on the back and congratulating everybody that the mystery Avas solved. Only Natchez and Dan stood stock-still, staring at me with shocked eyes. They thought I belieA’ed it too, you knoAv. I had to stop either of them from saying anything to spoil Avhat I had done.

“Into the kitchen Avith you, CA'erybody,” I demanded, “for a muchneeded bracer. Chin Hoy, run along and open those bottles. ’ ’

With the effervescent spirit of relief surging through them, the guests folloAved the Chinese into the kitchen. The caretaker and my brother did not move. When the last guest had gone, Dan took a step toAvai’d me.

“Jesse!” he said hoarsely. “Don’t you realize that you’ve built such a chain of evidence around that Sneath

that anv court in the land AV’ould hang him?”

“Certainly,” I answered steadily. “The CA’idence is absolutely indefeasible. ’ ’

“But,” Dan gasped, “you can’t! You can’t hang an innocent man!”

“Listen to me!” I cut him short. I looked him steadily in the eye, measuring the ground step by step.

How much must I tell ? Must I tell that, as I got out of my car that morning to silence the dogs, I had seen Sneath ’s little green tie in the car seat and tossed it out into the brush by the road? No, not that. Must I tell that I kneAV Sneath had killed Willotson, kneAV it by his own admission, since I noAv realized that all Sneath had said was true ? No, not that, either. Only one part of the grim truth did I need to tell.

“Listen, Dan. They would hang Sneath on that evidence, if they could, and rightly, for he Avas a murderer. But they can’t hang him. He is already dead. As I came back from toAAUi this morning I saAv his body lying doubled Aip by the railroad track. A Avild beast, or something, had torn his throat open, but had been frightened aAvay before it could Avoi’k any further horrors upon him. I placed his body in the tool house, intending to send an undeidaker for it. Noaa’ — I shall send the sheriff.”

Dan turned his Avhite face and awed eyes upon Natchez. For a moment they held each other’s gaze in a wordless communication that I understood, though they did not knoAV that.

“His last A’ictim,” Dan muttered. “But eA’en Sneath is free, now.”

“What?” I said, pretending not to haA'e heard clearly.

“Nothing.” Dan straightened, thrcAv an aim about Natchez’s shoulders and one about mine. “Let’s go get a drink. Then Natchez and I will drive for the sheriff.”

[THE END]

T here was but Uttle light in the chamber of Messer Lorenzo Piorelli, though a summer sun bathed the Emilian plain in a clear, ambient light and the snow on the peaks of the distant Apennines sparkled like sheets of quartz. It was always dim in that chamber, for Messer Lorenzo seemed to prefer to work in a murky twilight. Perhaps there is something about alchemy that prospers better in the shadows, but more likely it was but a survival of old habits — for the alchemist had once been a sorcerer and astrologer of note.

There had been a time when all Italy rang with tlie praises of one Sextus Sapientus, who practised necromancy, astrology and similar questionable arts in a dark and gloomy house in one of the lesser quarters of the Most Serene Republic. There

were few in Venice who did not pass tlirougli the heavy door of that house at one time or another, seeking either the subtle poisons dispensed by the learned mage or the equally subtle charms and amulets or — and these most frequent of all — ^news of what portents were held by the stars. Rumor had it that even the Ten themselves were not above consulting the mage upon occasion, and since he always assiduously denied this fact it is probably true.

Sextus All-knowing, to quote the name he had so modestly taken, had prospered greatly. Partly it was because he avoided dabbling in politics or other matters beyond his sphere, partly because he was chary of selling poisons and nota1)ly successful in the dispensing of love potions, and partly because he saved and used his money with wisdom worthy of a true



Venetian. Tiie years had turned his dark liair white and imi)aired his hearing, but they liad also brought him a sizable fortune. Now, under his true name of Lorenzo Fioi’elli, he dwelt quietly in his Villa Sequestra on the outskirts of Ravola and gave his time to certain obscure studies.

Darkness had been an essential accomi)animent of his earlier practises in that it put his patrons in a proper state of mind to view wonders and hear prophecies. It was alchemy that elaimed him now, those delicate and subtle processes that attempt to transmute baser metal into gold, and old habits led him to choose a shadowy chamber that had but one small casement for his laboratory.

jMesser Lorenzo sat at a table beneath this one window, writing bi^sily on a broad sheet of parchment. He was robed all in black velvet, even to the skull-cap that covered his bald pate. The fur that bordered his robe and lined the broad sleeves was of the same sober color. A heavy gold chain circled his neck and carried a pendant that hung low on his chest — but this pendant was not the cross that might be so worn by a devout Christian. It was a strange and ratJier sinister symbol that gave a slight feeling of discomfort on close inspection. Though he had retired from the practise of magic, Messer Lorenzo was still a rather discomforting man.

Long shelves lined the walls in the tapestried room, shelves stocked with a vast and disorderly array of phials and flasks, of coffers and chests, of retorts and crucibles, of stivinge bronze instruments for I'onding the stars and innumerable musty manuscripts. All the gear that had been essential to the magic of Sextus Sapientus was here, and all the adjuncts of that alchemy into which the mage now delved. Dust was thick on all things save those that liad been recently used, for none of the seiwants ever entered this room. In fact, a lackey discharged from service at the

Villa Sequestra swore that he had heard Messer Lorenzo converse on the friendliest terms with his Satanic majesty in that very cabinet. The smell of brimstone had pervaded the house for a sevennight thereafter, said the lackey.

In one dim comer of the room a charcoal fire smoldered under a glass retort, the squat body of which glowed redly like the distended belly of a gigantic spider. A dark liquid simmered in the retort, and at intervals a drop fell from the end of the long neck into a waiting beaker. Evil things were spoken of those brews of Messer Lorenzo, and it was even hinted that — for a price — he would temporarily forget his resolutions to deal no more in magic.

Across the room was another spot of color where a second brazier of charcoal burned redly under a small crucible supported on a triangle. A lanthorn hung beside it and a prism concentrated the rays of this last and flung them through a purple screen down on to the shining substance that gleamed Avithin the crucible. The mage had certaiii theories relative to the beneficent effect of colored light upon the jjrocess of transmuting metals. '

On a small table by the door stood the most prized of the fcAV ai'tistie treasures the mage had collected — a tall vase of the finest celadon ware. Graceful and fragile, delicate and I)osscssed of rare beairty, it had been given in gratitude for certain services by one too high-bom to be mentioned. It was kept in this chamber lest one of the house lackeys break it.

T hebe was no sound in the room except for the faint bubbling liqAtid in the retort and the scratchiirg of Messer Lorenzo’s quill as it traveled over the parchment, and then light footsteps sounded in the hall. The door swung open and a woman entered.

Young she was, and comely, with

THE CELADON VASE 399

her dark hair held in a jeweled net and her slim waist circled by a broad and richly ornamented girdle. Her scarlet dress seemed to illuminate the chamber with a radiance of its own, yet yielded nothing in wai-mth to the soft whiteness of the bosom it left revealed. Less than a third the age of her learned spouse was Donna Bcatriz Fiorelli and as full of the joy of life as he was old and sere. She had been accounted the most beautiful of all the maidens of her native hamlet, but she had possessed no dowry and her parents had welcomed a marriage to the wealthy if somewhat antique alchemist. For Messer Lorenzo had decided that a wife was needed to ease his declining years.

“Messire!” said Donna Beatriz from the doorway, and then sighed. Her lord’s hearing had gi’own far worse since they had been wed, until now he was as deaf as the bronze image that squatted on the table beside him. With a slight shudder — for this room always affected her unpleasantly — Donna Beatriz crossed the thick carpet with her lithe, quick tread and laid her hand on his shoulder. He looked up with that slight start common to the deaf.

"A woman called Fulvia who keeps a wine shop in the city is without and desirous of seeing you.”

Messer Lorenzo had become adept at the reading of lips and could thus understand the speech of one directly before him. He now made an impatient gesture of one thin, bony hand.

‘ ‘ What does the woman want 1 ” he said in his cracked voice which was void of all intonation.

“It seems that she has a child — a son— who has been stricken with some inflammation of the bowels and is near to death. She desires some remedy of you.”

Messer Lorenzo looked longingly at the fair sheet of parchment upon which he had been writing and ran his thumb along the edge of his quill as though testing a knife.

“Let her go to some chirurgeon in the city,” he said impatiently. “I have no time for such trifles.”

Donna Beatriz shrugged her slender shoulders; it was clearly to be seen that the life or death of an imknown boy was of little moment to her.

“I suppose it was your great repute that brought her.” She started to turn away but he stopped her with a gesture.

“Tell the woman to catch a rat alive, split its paunch open, and place it across the boy ’s belly with its head to the right — this last is important. The rat is naturally foul, and will draw into itself all the foulness of the disease.”

The mage returned to his wi'iting and Donna Beatriz carried the message to the woman Fulvia. She then passed out into the broad gardens which circled the villa, pacing the lawns and hedge-bordered walks with the slow tread of one who thinks on weighty matters. Her scarlet dress was a brilliant spot of color against the green of the hedges, and the jewels on her girdle sparkled in the sun. By a miniature lake upon the glassy surface of which two snowy swans floated in joyful revery she paused to watch the approach of one who quickened his stride when he saw her.

It was Messer Nicolo d’Urvanti who traversed the gardens with so sure a step, he Avho was secretary to the mage. Lithe and debonair, it is small wonder that the secluded Donna Beatriz found pleasure in his eoml)any. An adverse critic might liaA'e said that Ser Nicolo ’s eyes were a trifle too close together and that his mouth was not that of one who is to be greatly trusted, but then — the sages have often Avarned against hasty judgments.

Something qiiick and eager about his stride warned her, and Beatriz held up a restraining hand.

“Take care, Nicolo; remember that



the window of my lord’s chamber looks upon this part of the garden.”

With all due digiiity he paced at her side until they reaclied a secluded bower across the garden. The next instant she was in his arms, her head thrown back, her lips eager, her eyes half closed, her hair slipping from its nest and forming a sable mantle across her shoulders. From the alacrity with which Messer Nieolo took advantage of this condition it vas manifestly not the first incident of the sort. However, it is scarcely just to think too harshly of the lady. She had seen but little of life, and this Ser Nieolo was a master of the ars xeditcia.

W HEN the sun was an hour lower Nieolo stood in the laboratory aiding his master in an experiment. Donna Beatriz appeared in the door and paused on the threshold, noting how the glow of the charcoal illumined the intent faces of the two men. For an instant the hand of the younger Imgered in the beam of light that focused on the crucible — ^in the weird purple radiance it was like the hand of a corpse. Beatriz shuddered, and moved across the room to take a seat in the high-backed chair close to the casement. Finally the mage grunted and straightened up.

“It fails again, Nieolo, it fails again ! There must be some stibtle ingredient or some delicate process that we yet lack.”

“Without doubt,” answered the other, and then as Messer Lorenzo faced about and walked across the room Nieolo tiirned swiftly to Donna Beatriz. “In but a little while, my well beloved!” he said in a Ioav voice.

“In but a little while!” she whis- ])ered back. Yet there was no need of whispering, for so deaf was IMesser Lorenzo that he could not hear a single word. Much of the early lovemaking of these two had taken place in the mage’s presence in this veiy manner. Then he turned back to

them, and they fell silent lest he I'ead their lips.

“The experiment is ended for today, Nieolo, and I will no longer keep you.” The secretary bowed, but as the lady rose the mage added: “But you. Madonna, remain. ’ ’ She and Ser Nieolo exchanged a single glance, and then the latter bowed again and departed.

M esser lorenzo -took the seat aci’oss the table from his spouse, resting his clasped hands before him. The skin of his hands was wrinkled and yellowed and the fingers were gnarled and thin, but she knew that their weakness was deceptive and that they held great strength. Her arms still bore bruises from the intensity of his grip when she had stumbled at his side a few days back and he had caught her from falling.

His pale eyes were fixed on her w'ith a steady, unwinking gaze that she found most discomforting. She looked out the window, she strove to appear at ease, but the power of the man ever drew her gaze back to him and she felt that she Avas unaccountably pale. Suddenly he smote one hand on the table as though reaching a conclusion, then I’ose to his feet. ' “There are things I will show you, ’ ’ he said, and walked over to one of the shelves in the dimmest comer. The tension was broken and Beatriz felt the color return to her cheeks. For an instant she pressed her palms to her eyes.

From the shadow's of that far corner Messer Lorenzo brought out a coffer that the donna had never seen before, a bronze casket green with mold and thick with the dust of years. Setting it upon the table and resuming his seat he fingered the carAung on the side, seeking some secret spring. As last he threw back the cover. The hinges squeaked like a trapped rat and a musty smell arose from within.

From the casket the mage took out an object wrapped in black velvet.

THE CELADON VASE


Placing it on the table between them be gently removed the shielding folds of the cloth and revealed a dagger, a long, keen blade of some strange metal that shone blue in the light from the casement. Intricate, cabalistic designs were lightly traced on both sides of the thin blade, but it was at the curiously shaped gold hilt that Donna Beatriz looked longest. The symbols and designs on that hilt were similar to but even more disquieting than the pendant that Messer Lorenzo wore around his neck, and with a slight shudder she raised her darkling eyes.

“What is it, Messire?”

“It is the dagger of Hassan Sabbah,” he answered slowly, “he who is called the Old Man of Mt. Alamout. You will note the peculiar color of the blade. Madonna, and the strangeness of the hilt. Tradition has it that this blade is forged of a metal hitherto unknown to man and has the peculiarity of warning its owner of treachery. ’ ’

Secure though she was in the knowledge that he could suspect nothing, Donna Beatriz paled slightly. Then she essayed to laugh.

“A quaint conceit! How came you by it?”

“It has been in my possession for some time,” and he laid the knife on one end of the table. “Now there is one matter more,” and he began to search among the great mass of varied articles contained in the coffer. All were thick with dust and he threw open the window to clear the air.

At last he pushed aside some moldy wrappings and drew out a necklace, a string of wondrous rubies that filled even that dim chamber with the charm of their latent fire. Donna Beatriz littered a gasp of admiration and the mage shot her a single keen glance.

‘ ‘ ’Tis the ancient and sacred necklace of the Amerites,” he said. “There is magic in it. And it may only be worn safely by the most

chaste of virgins or the most faithful of wives. Take it, my love.”

Now Donna Beatriz thought little of magic or portents, being of a practical turn oi mind. She had been in no way troubled by the mage’s claim for that blue-bladed dagger, and she now clasiied the necklace around her slender throat without a tremor, but her lord’s manner puzzled her. He was also a little disturbing, though she could not tell exactly what it was about him that troubled her. He was again rummaging in the casket when suddenly the door of the room opened.

Nicolo d’Urvanti, booted and spurred, stood in the doorway with his cloak over his ami. Donna Beatriz cast a swift look at her lord to make sure that he still sat with his back to the door, and then smiled at her lover.

“I have two liorees saddled and ready at the eastern end of the garden,” he said.

Scarce moving her lips she replied, “Await me at the bower of the faun. I will soon come.”

Ser Nicolo nodded and turned to go, and as he passed through the door a sudden vagrant gust of wind came in the open casement and swept his cloak in a fluttering arc so that it knocked the celadon vase from its stand and sent it crashing to the floor where it shattered into iridescent fragments. Donna Beatriz gasped, and the mage started so that he dropped the bunch of keys he held.

O uiET returned to the laboratory when Nicolo was gone, and Messer Lorenzo continued to burrow among the odd miscellany contained in the casket, but the woman sat staring at him with all trace of color gone from her face and her hands tight-clenched on the caiwen arms of her chair. He had jumped when the vase fell to the floor. He had heard it fall and break, and if he had heard ihaf, then what else might not have reached his ears? What other things



that might not have shattered his iron control, as did the sudden loss of his beloved vase? His pretended absorption in the articles in the coffer did not fool her — it only inci’eased her fear. If his hearing had but just returned he would have remarked it. The fact that he continued the pretense convinced her that he had heard many other things. Like the slow advance of a tide came the conviction that this deafness of Messer Lorenzo had all been feigned from the very first, had been but a trap, and she began to tremble from head to foot with paralyzing terror.

One thought was uppermost in the mind of Donna Beatriz — she must in some w'ay escape from this ghastly chamber and warn Nieolo, who was waiting at the end of the garden. The belief that Lorenzo still thought his mask unpierced sustained her, and with a mighty effort she surmounted her fear — blind and luii’easoning and therefore all the more powerful — and arose. The mage did not look up, and with eveiy appearance of easualness Donna Beatriz passed from the room — ^with her body bathed in a chill moisture and her face like that of one who has seen a phantom. If he had spoken or called as she went her control would doubtless have failed her, but he seemed oblivious to her going.

Down the hall and the stairs and out through the portal of the house itself she held her way, walking swiftly but fearing to appear too hasty. Her spirits lifted a little as she went. Immediate flight was their only course, but at least they might easily put many leagues behind them ere the act was discovered.

Then Donna Beatriz stood in the garden itself, fragrant and pleasant, with the slanting rays of the late afternoon sun thi-owing long shadows across the smooth greensward. On her left was a long hedge, a mighty wall of green that extended unbi*oken the full length of the garden to the bower of the faun at the end. As she walked

beside this hedge her new-found courage left her and swift terror again returned, though the garden seemed deserted and peaceful. It was more than fear this time, for it verged on certainty that something — some horror she was powerless to prevent — was about to happen. Faster and faster went her flying feet, till at last she picked up her long skirts lest they trip her and began to run, flitting along close to the hedge like some graceful bird of scarlet plumage.

No one was in sight, but as .she ran Donna Beatriz felt a growing conviction that she was not alone. On a sudden thought she bent down and peered through the hedge at the base where the trunks of the bushes made tliis possible. On the other side of the long barrier, paralleling her course and a fcAV paces ahead, she could .see the legs of a man in black — the legs of one who ran with a certain relentless purpose embodied in every movement.

Stark panic gripped her then and she ran like a hunted wild thing, with the hot breath hissing between her parted lips. Perhaps tw’enty yards from the end she twisted her foot and fell, rolling over on the grass and leaping to her feet immediately though one ankle pained like the soar of a flame.

The delay Avas but a few seconds, yet she knew that the race w'as lost. Her eyes grew dull, and even the fact that she knew what she must find did not keep her slender body from sagging as she passed the end of the long hedge and came to the bower of the faun.

A cool cup of greenery it was, with the dark encircling mass of another hedge behind it and the marble faun on its pedestal in the center. The level rays of the sinking sun tinged the head and shoulders of the faun with a ruddy light w’hich seemed to give life to the old marble, but the rest of the bower was bathed in a

THE CELADON VASE


soft twilight. On the damp grass at the base of the statue, one hand still quivering but in all other respects as peaceful as though he slept, lay the lifeless body of Nicolo d’Urvanti.

IMesser Lorenzo was standing a little to one side, tojdng with the chain at his neck.

“Ah, Madonna,” he said slowly.

“you come too late. Ser Nicolo will break no more vases — nor rules of honor. ’ ’

Through some chink in the surrounding hedge came a lone, vagrant ray of the sun that struck redly on the gold hill of the dagger buried in the slain man’s heart — a hilt of a strange ami discomforting design with a glimpse of blue metal below it.

T he joyous celebration of May Day can be traced back to the Roman Ploralia, a spring festival of flowers. Then the Goths and other northern barbaric races had a similar festival of rejoicing over the departure of winter. The Queen of the May was shnply a modern prototype of the Roman goddess Flora, and the maypole dance and other festivities of the day were reminders of early pagan rites w’hich were far less decorous than they became latei*.

In England even as late as the Sixteenth Century, people often spent the whole night previous to May Day frolicking in tlie woods (perhaps in more or less conscious imitation of the witches who were holding their “sabbath” at the same time) and bringing home flowers and boughs.

Along some of tlie estuaries in Scotland where salmon fishing is carried on, a man goes across the river before daybreak on May Day, for if a female crossed first, the salmon would not come up into the river that season, and the fishing would be ruined. Throughout Europe it was believed

that if a maiden washed hex’self with dew gathered from the hawthorn at daybreak on every May Day, her beauty would never fade. We read in 1515 of Catherine of Aragon, firet wife of Henry VIII, going out with twenty-five of her ladies after May dew. In 1623 there is a I’ocord of the Spanish Infanta Maria doing the same thing wliile Prince Charles of England, afterward Charles I, was paying his addresses to her.

In the London Morning Post for May 2, 1791, we read, “Yesterday being the first of May, according to annual and sixperstitious custom, a number of persons went into the fields and bathed their faces with the dew, under the idea that it would make them beautiful.”

In Pepy’s Diary in May, 1667, we find, “My wife away down with Jane and W. Hewer to Woolwich, in order to a little ayre and to lie there tomorrow, and so to gather May dew tomorrow morning, which Mrs.

[THE END]

============================================================
LEFT BY THE TIDE EDWARD E
by Schiff
============================================================
Turner hath taught her is the only thing in the world to wash her face with; and I am contented with it.”

A Shorty Strange Tale of the Sea

Left by the Tide

By EDWARD E. SCHIFF

W ERE it not for that four-inch scar upon my forehead, I would have thought it a nightmare — some ghastly hallucination, even though it happened in broad daylight. But there is that sear, which mars my features for life, tangible and terrible evidence to prove that I did not dream it.

I had gone down to the beach with the rising sun, but I was the only one there. None of the other guests from the hotel had yet come down to take their early morning plunge. A charity affair that did not break up till 3 o’clock that morning kept them abed. So I was alone i;pon that sundrenched stretch of sand.

The tide was low and I had to walk some hundred yards before I was waist-deep and breasting the invigorating waters of old ocean. I swam out at once to a pile of rocks, a good quarter of a mile from the shore, and climbed out upon them. Now, at low tide, they formed a nearly circular, barnacle- and weedcovered island, about fifty feet in diameter and rising only a few feet above the waters. After resting a few minutes I clambered over the jagged stones toward the center, where there was a depression about six or seven feet deep and about the same width, and where the retreating waters sometimes left strange denizens of the deep, which could be observed under ideal conditions.

Just before I reached the little pool, I thrilled to the sound of a splash of a heavy body. The tide had left something there with a vengeance, I

thought gleefully, and I hastened forwarcl to see what it was.

I stared, sickened by what I saw — a dead man, with shriveled, shrunken skin, hollow cheeks, and hideous in apparently the last stages of putrefaction. There he was fioating on his back a bare few inches below the surface. His hands were under him, and at first I thought he was naked. Then, as I overcame my first horror, I noted that he had a sort of apron about his loins — an apron made of what appeared to be the scales of a large fish. It was a curious garment and covered with green alg® or sea moss. The man must have been dead a long time to have allowed for the formation of that slime. I puzzled over this, wondering how it was he remained whole and not half devoured by the scavengers of the sea. Then suddenly I remembered the splash I had heard. Who had made it? Not the dead man. Closely I searched the pool for some other sign of life, but except for a sea crab or two there was none.

Turning my attention to the body again, I scrutinized it closely and felt my scalp twitch when I thought I detected a barely perceptible rising and falling of the chest. The more I stared the more certain I was that I was not mistaken. But drowned men do not breathe, I told myself ; I must be laboring under a hallucination. I turned my eyes away and gazed out over the sea aird sky to rest them, and when I turned them back again I was shocked into an exclamation. The body had moved toward me. I could

LEFT BY THE TIDE


still see the faint traces of the eddy it had made to reach me. But dead men can not move and there Avas no wave or tide or any breath of wind tliat could propel it within that enclosed space.

Now I was certain it was breathing. The slight but definitely regular expansion and contraction of the chest were caused by respiration. I could not be mistaken.

Then suddenly the lids flashed open and I was staring into its eyes. And they Avere the eyes of a living creature, sea-green and evil, that probed through mine into the very recesses of my brain Avith satanic curiosity. Then, still holding me with its baleful gaze, the thing reached for the brink with huge hands that were webbed like those of some aquatic bird, and started to pull itself up.

Somehow I broke the spell by which the thing held me, and, half mad with loathing and horror, I kicked him with my bare foot back into the pool.

I think I stumbled half back to the open water before I recovered my courage and paused to look back. It had come out of the pool and Avas dragging its slimy length over the rocks toward me. I realized at once it could not Avalk upright and that I would have no difficulty in evading it. With unmitigated loathing I Avatched it craivl until it approached to within a few feet of me. Then I backed away from it, taking care to avoid being crowded into the sea where it could easily outmaneuver me with its finlike appendages.

Again it tried to hold me with its hypnotic stare, but I avoided its eyes, and, stooping down, picked ixp a fragment of rock and tried to threaten it back. Suddenly it, too, reached out and picked up a stone, and Ave both threw at the same moment. Biit I was completely beside myself Avith horror and missed him by inches, while he caught me fairly on the chest

— a blow that knocked the breath out of me and dropped me to my knees. Tlie next moment he was upon me, liis poAverful hands closing aboAit my throat, his cold, slimy body against ray cringing, Avarm flesh, his fetid breath in my nostrils.

Blit I fought, fought in a stark, frenzied madness that promised to rid me of his clinging, hateful weight, Avhen suddenly he released one of his hands from my throat, and I could feel him fi;mble around his waist. The next moment I Avould have been free of him, but his hand came up again wielding a stone or coral knife.

I screamed and tried to evade the blow, but Avhile I spoiled his aim for my throat he managed to inflict that awful gash on my forehead.

W HEN I came back to consciousness it was Avith a cry of terror, in the arms of tAvo men avIio Avere lifting me into a skiff; and for some minutes I struggled Avith them, before I realized they Avere my rescuers.

Their story is briefly told. They had observed me from the beach apparently trying to avoid some creature Avhich they thought was a seal. They quickly got into a skiff and roAved to the rocks, shouting to frighten oft' tlie creature Avhen they saw me struggling Avith it. Then for a minute or two I Avas out of their sight, hidden by a projecting lock, and when they again saAv me I was alone and lying flat on my back, though a moment before they had heard the thing splash into the sea.

That is their stoiy. Mine they AAmuld not belicA'e. In fact, they tried to stop me in the telling of it, and attempted to soothe me as if I Avere a terror-stricken child, or crazy. They said I had injured my forehead by falling on a jagged stone.

But that day two bathers were pulled down to their death by some creature of the sea. Sharks, they all said. But I know better.

The Phantom Farmhouse^

By SEABURY QUINN

1 HAD been at the new Briarcliff Sanitarium nearly three weeks before I actually saw the house. Everj; morning as I lay abed after the nurse had taken my temperature, I wondered what was beyond the copse of fir and spruce at the turn of the road. The picture seemed incomplete without chimneys rising among the evergreens. I thought about it so much I finally convinced myself there really was a house in the wood — a house where people lived and worked and were happy.

All during the long, trying days when I was learning to navigate a wheel-chair, I used to picture the house and the people who lived in it. There would be a father, I was sure ; a stout, good-natured father, somewhat bald, who sat on the porch and smoked a cob pipe in the evening. And there was a mother, too — a waistless, plaid-skix’ted mother with hair smoothly parted over her forehead, who sat beside the father as he rocked and smoked, and who had a brown work-basket in her lap. She spread the stocking feet over her outsti'etched fingers and her vigilant needle spied out and closed every hole

S'From WEIRD TALES, October, 1923.

with a cunning no mechanical loom could rival.

Then there was a daughter. I was a little hazy in my conception of her; but I knew she was tall and slender as a hazel wand, and that her eyes were blue and wide and sympathetic.

Picturing the house and its people became a favorite pastime with me during the time I was acquiring the art of walking all over again. By the time I was able to trust my legs on the road I felt I knew my way to my vision-friends’ home as well as I knew the byways of my own parish ; though I had as yet not set foot outside the sanitarium.

Oddly enough, I chose the evening for my first long stroll. It was unusually warm for September in Maine, and some of the sturdier of the convalescents had been playing tennis during the afternoon. After dinner they sat on the veranda, comparing notes on their respective cases of influenza, or matching experiences in appendicitis operations.

After building the house bit by bit from my imagination, as a child pieces together a picture puzzle, I should have been bitterly disappointed if the woods had proved empty; yet when I reached the turn

THE PHANTOIkl FARMHOUSE


of the road and found my dream house a reality, I was almost afraid. Bit for bit and part for part, it was as I had visualized it.

A long, rambling, comfortable-looking farmhouse it was, with a wide porch screened by vines, and a whiteAvashed picket fence about the little clearing before it. There was a tumbledown gate in the fence, one of the kind that is held shut with a weighted chain. Looking closely, I saAV the Aveight Avas a disused ploAvshare. Leading from gate to ])orch was a path of flat stones, laid unevenly in the short grass, and bordered with a double roAV of clam shells. A lamp burned in the front room, sending out cheerful golden rays to meet the silver moonlight.

A strange, eeiy sensation came over me as I stood there. Somehow, I felt I had seen that house before — many, many times before; yet I had never been in that part of Maine till I came to Briareliff, nor had anyone ever described the place to me. Indeed, except for my idle dreams, I had had no intimation that there AAms a house in those pines at all.

“■IITho lives in the house at the ’ ^ turn of the road ? ” I asked the fat man AAdio roomed next to me.

He looked at me as blankly as if I had addressed him in Choctaw, then countered, “What road?”

“Why, the south road,” I explained. “I mean the house in the pines — just beyond the curve, you know.”

If such a thing had not been obviously absurd, I should have thought he looked frightened at my ansAver. Certainly his ah’eady prominent eyes started a bit further from his face.

“Nobody lives there,” he assured me. “Nobody’s Ih^ed there for years. There isn ’t any house there. ’ ’

I became angry. What right had this fellow to make my civil question the occasion for an ill-timed jest? “As you please,” I replied. “Perhaps there isn’t any house there for you; but I saAv one there last night.”

“My God!” he ejaculated, and hurried aAvay as if I’d just told him I was infected Avith smallpox.

Later in the day I overheard a snatch of conversation betAveen him and one of his acquaintances in the lounge.

“I tell you it’s so,” he Avas saying AA’ith great earnestness. “I thought it Avas all a lot of poppycock, myself ; but that clergyman saw it last night. I’m going to pack my traps and get back to the city, and not Avaste any time about it, either.”

“Rats!” his companion scoffed. “He must liaA^e been stringing you.”

Turning to light a cigar, he caught sight of me. “Say, Mr. Weatherby,” he called, “yoAi didn’t mean to tell my friend here that you really saw a house doAvn by those pines last night, did yoiA ? ’ ’

“I certainly did,” I answered, “and I tell you, too. There’s nothing unusual about it, is there?”

“Is there?” he repeated. “Is there? Say, Avhat’d it look like?”

I deseril)ed it to him as well as I could, and his eyes greAv as wide as those of a child hearing the story of Bluebeard.

“Well, I’ll be a Chinaman’s uncle!” he declaimed as I finished. “I sure Avill!”

“See here,” I demanded. “What’s all the mystery about that farmhouse? Wliy .shouldn’t I see it? It’s there to be seen, isn’t it?”

He gulped once or tAvice, as if there AA'ere something hot in his mouth, before he ansAA’ered :

“Look here, Mr. Weatherby, I’tn telling you this for your oAvn good. You’d better stay in o’ nights; and you’d better stay away from those pines in particular.”

Nonplussed at this unsolicited advice, I Avas about to ask an explanation, when I detected the after-tang of Avhisky on his breath. I understood, then. I Avas being made the



butt of a dnuiken joke by a pair of racc-course followers.

‘•I’m very much obliged, I ’m sure,” I replied with dignity, ‘‘but if you don’t mind. I’ll choose my own comings and goings.”

“Oh, go as far as you like” — he waved his aims wide in token of my complete free-agency — “go as far as you like. I’m going to New York.”

And he did. The pair of them left the sanitarium that afternoon.

A SHOUT recurrence of my illness held me housebound for several days after my conversation with the two sportively inclined gentlemen, and the next time I ventured out at night the moon had waxed to the full, IHturing a flood of light upon the cartli that rivaled midday. The minutest objects were as readily distinguished as they would have been before sunset; in fact, I remember comparing the evening to a silverplated noon.

As I trxidged along the road to the pine copse I was busy formulating plans for intruding into the family i-ircle at the farmhouse; devising all manner of pious fraud.'! l)y which to scrape acquaintance.

‘‘Shall I feign having lo.st my way, and inquire direction to the sanitarium ; or shall I ask if some m^dhical acfiuaintance, a John Squires, for instance, lives there?” I asked myself as I neared the turn of the road.

Fortunately for my conscience, all these 'subterfuges were unnecessary, for as I neared the whitewashed fence, a girl left the ])orch and walked (luickly to the gate, where she stood gazing pen.sively along the moonlit road. It was almost as if she were coming to meet me, I thought, as I slackened my pace and assumed an air of deliberate ca-sualness.

Almost abreast of her, I lowered tny cadence still more, and looked directly at her. Then I knew why my conception of the girl xvho lived in that house had been misty and indistinct. For the same reason the venerable John had faltered in his description of the New Jerusalem until his vision of the Isle of Patmos.

From the smoothly parted hair above her wide, forget-me-not eyes, to the hem of her white cotton frock, she was as slender and lovely as a Rossetti saint ; as wonderful to the eye as a mediaeval poet’s vision of his lost love in paradise. Her forehead, evenly framed in the beaten bronze of her hair, was wide and high, and startlingly white, and her brows were delicately penciled as if laid on by an artist with a camel’shair brush. The eyes themselves were sweet and clear as forest pools mirroring the September sky, and lifted a little at the comers, like an Oriental's, giving her face a quaint, exotic look in the midst of these Blaine woods.

So slender was her figure that the swell of her bosom was barely perceptible under the light stuff of her dress, and, as she stood immobile in the nimbus of moon rays, the undulation of the line from her shoulders to ankles was what painters call a “cuive of motion.”

One hand rested lightly on the gate, finely cut as a bit of Italian sculpture, and scarcely less white than the timed wood supporting it. I noticed idly that the forefinger was somewhat longer than its fellows, and that the nails were almond-shaped and very pink — almost red — as if they had been rouged and brightly polished.

No man can take stock of a w'oman thus, even in a cursory, fleeting glimpse, without her being aware of the inspection, and in the minute my eyes drank up her beauty, our glances crossed and held.

The look she gave back was as calm and unperturbed as though I had been non-existent ; one might have thought I was an invisible wraith of the night ; yet the faint suspicion of a flush (luickening in her throat and cheeks told me she was neither unTHE PHANTOM FARMHOUSE


aware nor unappreciative of my serntiny.

IMeelianically, I raised my cap, and, wholly without conscious volition, I heard my own voice asking:

“May I trouble you for a drink from your well ? I ’m from the sanitarium — only a few days out of bed, in fact — and I fear I’ve overdone myself ill my walk.”

A smile flitted across her rather wide lips, (piick and sjunpathetie as a mother’s response to her child’s re- (luest, as she swung the gate open for me.

“Surely,” she answered, and her voice had all the sweetness of the south wind soughing through her native pines, “surely you may drink at our well, and rest yourself, too — if you wish.”

She preceded me up the pa1h, quickening her pace as she neared the house, and running nimbly up the steps to the porch. From where I stood beside the old-fashioned well, fitted Avith ivindlass and bucket, I could hear the sound of whispering voices in earnest conversation. Hers I recognized, lowered though it ivas, by the flutelike purling of its tones; the other two were deeper, and, it seemed to me, hoarse and throaty. Somehow, odd as it seemed, there was a queer, canine note in them, dimly reminding me of the muttering of not too friendly dogs — such fractious growls as I had heard while doing missionary duty in Alaska, when the savage, half-wolf malamutes were not fed promptly at the relay stations.

Her voice rose a thought higher, as if in argument, and I fancied I heard her whisper, ‘ ‘ This one is mine, I tell you — mine. I’ll brook no interference. Go to your own hunting.”

An instant more and there was a reluctant assenting growl from the shadow of the vines curtaining the porch, and a light laugh from the girl as she descended the steps, sAvinging a bright tin cup in her hand. For a second she looked at me, as she sent the

bucket plunging into the stone-curbed Avell ; then she announced, in explanation :

“We’re great huntei’s here, you knoAv. The season is just in, and Dad and I have the Avorst quarrels about AA’hose game is Avhose.”

She laughed in recollection of their argument, and I laughed Avith her. I had been (juite a Nimrod as a boy, myself, and Avell I remembered the heated controversies as to Avhose charge of shot Avas responsible for some luckless bunny’s demise.

The Avell Avas A'ery deep, and my brealh Avas coming fast by the time I had helped her Avind the bucket-rope upon the Avindlass; but the Avater was cold as only spring-fed Avell Avater can be. As she poured it from the bucket it shone almost like foam in the moonlight, and seemed to Avliisper Avith a half-human voice, instead of gurgling as other Avater does AA-hen poured.

. I had drunk Avatcr in nearly every quarter of the globe, but never .such Avater as that. Cold as the breath from a glacier, limpid as visualized air, it Avas yet so light and tasteless in substance that only the chill in my throat and the sight of the liquid in the cup told me I Avas doing more than going throiigh the motions of drinking.

“And noAA', Avill you rest!” she invited, as I fini.shed my third draft. “We’A’e an extra chair on the porch for you.”

Behind the screen of vines I foimd her father and mother .seated in the rays of the big kitchen lamp. They Avere just as I had expected to find them — plain, homely, .sincere country folk, courteous in their reception and anxious to make a sick stranger Avelcome. Both Avere stoixt, Avith the comfortable stoutness of middle age and good health; but both had surprizingly slender hands. I noticed, too. that the same characteristic of an oA'er-long forefinger Avas apparent in their hands as in their daughter’s.


WEIKD TALES

and that the nails of both were trimmed to points and stained almost a brilliant red.

“My father, Mr. Squires,” the girl introduced, “and my mother, Mrs. Squires.”

I could not repress a start. These people bore the very name I had casually thought to use when inquiring for some imaginary person. My lucky stars had surely guided me away from that attempt to scrape an acquaintance. What a figure I should have cut if I had actually asked for Mr. Squires!

Though I was not aware of it, my curious glance must have stayed longer on their reddened nails than I had intended, for Mrs. Squires looked deprecatingly at her hands. “WeVe all been turning in, putting up foxgrapes” — she included her husband and daughter with a comprehensive gesture. “And the stain just w'on’t wash out ; has to wear off, you know. ’ ’

I spent, perhaps, two hours with my new-found friends, talking of everything from the best methods of potato culture to the surest way of landing a nine- pound bass. All three joined in the conversation and took a lively interest in the topics under discussion. After the vapid talk of the guests at the sanitarium, I found the simple, interested discourse of these country people as stimulating as wine, and when I left them it was with a hearty promise to renew my call at an early date.

‘ ‘ Better wait until after dark, ’ ’ Mr. Squires warned. “We’d be glad to see you any time; but we’re so busy these fall days, we haven’t much time for company.”

I took the broad hint in the same friendly spirit it was given.

It must have grown chillier than I realized while I sat there, for my new friends’ hands were clay-cold when I took them in mine at parting.

Homeward bound, a whimsical thought struck me so suddenly I laughed aloud. There was something

suggestive of the dog tribe about the S(iuires family, though I could not for the life of me say what it was. Even jMildred, the daughter, beautiful as she was, with her light eyes, her rather prominent nose and her somewhat wude mouth, reminded me in some vague way of a lovely silver collie I had owned as a boy.

I struck a tassel of dried leaves from a cluster of weeds with my walking-stick as I smiled at the fanciful conceit. The legend of the werewolves — those horrible monsters formed as men, but capable of assuming bestial shape at will, and killing and eating their fellows — was as old as mankind’s fear of the dark, but no mythology I had ever read contained a reference to dog-people.

Strange fancies strike us in the moonlight sometimes.

Oeptember ripened to October, and

the moon, w’hich had been as round and bright as an exchange-worn coin when I first visited the Squires house, waned as thin as a shaving from a silversmith’s lathe.

I became a regular caller at the house in the pines. Indeed, I grew to look forward to my nightly visits with those homely folks as a welcome relief from the tediously gay companionship of the over-sophisticated people at the sanitarium.

]My habit of slipping away shortly after dinner was the cause of considerable comment and no little speculation on the part of my fellow convalescents, some of whom set it down to the eccentricity which, to their minds, was the inevitable concomitant of a minister’s vocation, while others were frankly curious. Snatches of conversation I overheard now and then led me to believe that the objective of my strolls was the subject of wagering, and the guarded questions put to me in an effort to solve the mystery became more and more annoying.

I had no intention of taking any of

THE PHANTOM FARMHOUSE


them to the fannhouse with me. The Squires were my friends. Their cheerful talk and unassuming manners were as delightful a contrast to the atmosphere of the sanitarium as a breath of mountain balsam after the fetid air of a hothouse; but to the city-centered crowd at Briarcliff they would have been only the objects of less than half-scornful patronage, the source of pitying amusement.

It was IMiss Leahy who pushed the impudent curiosity further than any of the rest, however. One evening, as I was setting out, she met me at the gate and announced her intention of going with me.

“You must liave found something dreadfully attractive to take you off every evening this way, Mr. Weatherby,” she hazarded as she pursed her rather pretty, rouged lips at me and caught step with my walk. “We girls really can’t let some little coiuitry lass take you away from us, you know. We simply can’t.”

I made no reply. It was scarcely possible to tell a pretty girl, even such a vain little flirt as Sara Leahy, to go home and mind her business. Yet that was just what I wanted to do. But I would not take her with me ; to that I made up my mind. I would stop at the turn of the road, just out of sight of the farmhouse, and cut across the fields. If she wanted to accompany me on a cross-country hike in high-heeled slippers, she was welcome to do so.

Besides, she would tell the others that my wanderings were nothing more mysterious than nocturnal explorations of the near-by woods; which bit of misinformation would satisfy the busybodies at Briarcliff and relieve me of the espionage to which I was subjected, as well.

I smiled grimly to myself as I pictured her climbing over fences and ditches in her flimsy party frock and beaded pumps, and lengthened my stride toward the woods at the road’s turn.

We marched to the limits of the field bordering the Squires’ grove in silence, I thinking of the mild revenge I sliould soon wreak upon the pretty little busybody at my side. Miss Leahy too intent on holding the pace I set to waste breath in conversation.

As Ave neared the woods she halted, an expression of worry, almost fear, coming over her face.

“I don’t believe I’ll go any farther,” she announced.

“No?” I replied a trifle sarcastically. “And is your curiosity so easily satisfied?”

“It’s not that” — slie turned half round, as if to retrace her steps — “but I ’m afraid of those woods. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Indeed ? ” I queried. ‘ ‘ And what is there to be afraid of? Bears, Indians, or wildcats? I’ve been through them several times without seeing anything terrifying.” Now slie had come this far, I Avas anxious to take her through the fields and imderbrush.

“No-o,” Miss Leahy ansAvered, a neiwous quaA'er in her A'oiee, “I’m not afraid of anything like that ; but — oh, I don’t knoAv AA’hat you call it. Pierre told me all about it the other day. Some kind of dreadful thing — loop — loop — something or other. It’s a French Avord, and I can ’t remember it.”

I Avas puzzled. Pierre Geronte was the ancient French-Canadian gardener at the sanitarium, and, like all doddering old men, Avould talk for hours to anyone avIio AA’ould listen. Also, like all hahitanis, he Avas full of the Avild folklore his ancestors brought overseas Avith them generations ago.

“What did Pierre tell you?” I asked.

“Why, he said that years ago some terrible people lived in these AA'oods. They had the only house for miles around, and traA'elei's stopped there for the night, sometimes. But no stranger Avas ever seen to leave that ])lacc, o]]eo he Avent in. One night the farmers gathered about the house



and burned it, with the family that lived there. When the embers had cooled do^vn they made a search, and found nearly a dozen bodies buried in the cellar. That was why no one ever came away from that dreadful place.

“They took the murdered men to the cemetery and buried them, but they dumped the charred bodies of the murderers into graves in the barnyard, without even saying a prayer over them. And Pierre savs — oh, look! Look!”

She broke off her recital of the old fellow’s story and pointed a trembling hand across the field to the edge of the woods. A second moi-e and she shrank against me, clutching at my coat with fear-stiffened fingers and crying with excitement and terror.

I looked in the direction she indicated, myself a little startled by the abject fear that had taken such sudden hold on her.

Something white and ungainly was running diagonally across the field from us, skirting the margin of the woods and making for the meadow that adjoined the sanitarium pasture. A second glance told me it was a sheep, probably one of the flock kept to supply our table with fresh meat.

I was laughing at the strength of the superstition that could make the girl see a figure of horror in an innocent mutton that had strayed away from its fellows and was scared out of its silly wits, when something else attracted my attention.

Loping along in the trail of the fleeing sheep, somewhat to the rear and a little to each side, were two other animals. At first glance they appeared to be a pair of large collies; but as I looked more intently, I saw that these animals were like nothing I had ever seen before. They were much larger than any collie — nearly as high as St. Bernards — yet shaped in a general way like Alaskan sledgedogs — huskies.

The farther one was considerably the larger of the two, and ran with a

slight limp, as if one of its hind paws had been injured. As nearly as I could tell in the indifferent light, they were a rusty brown color, very thickhaired and unkempt in appearance. But the strangest thing about them was the fact that both were tailless, which gave them a terrifyingly grotesque look.

As they ran, a third form, similar to the other two in shape, but smaller, slender as a greyhound, with much lighter-hued fur, broke from the thicket of short brush edging the wood and took up the chase, emitting a series of short, sharp yelps.

“Sheep-killers,” I murmured, half to myself. “Odd. I’ve never seen dogs like that before.”

“They’re not dogs,” wailed Miss Leahy against my coat. ‘ ‘ They ’re not dogs. Oh, ]\Ir. Weatherby, let’s go away. Please, please take me home 1 ’ ’

She was rapidly becoming hysterical, and I had a difficult time with her on the trip back. She clung whimpering to me, and I had almost to carry her most of the way. By the time we reached the sanitarium, she was crying bitterly, shivering as if with a chill, and went in without stopping to thank me for my assistance,

I turned and made for the Squires farm with all possible speed, hoping to get there before the family had gone to bed. But when I arrived the house was in darkness, and my knock at the door received no answer.

As I retraced my steps to the sanitarium I heard faintly, from the fields beyond the woods, the shrill, eery cry of the sheep-killing dogs.

A TORRENT of rain held us marooned the next day. Miss Leahy was confined to her room, with a nurse in constant attendance and the house doctor making hourly calls. She was on the verge of a neiwous collapse, he told me, crying with a persistence that bordered on hysteria, and responded to treatment very slowly.

THE PHANTOM FARMHOUSE

An impromptu dance was organized in the great hall and half a dozen bridge tables set up in the library; but as I was skilled in neither of these rainy day diversions, I put on a waterproof and patrolled the veranda for exercise.

On my third or fourth trip around the house I ran into old Geronte shuffling across the porch, wagging his head and muttering portentously to himself.

‘ ‘ See here, Pierre, ’ ’ I accosted him, "what sort of nonsense have you been telling ]\Iiss Leahy about those pine woods down the south road ? ”

The old fellow regarded me unwinkingly with his beady eyes, wrinkling his age-yellowed forehead for all the world like an elderly baboon inspecting a new sort of edible. “M’sieur goes out alone much at nights, n’est-ce-pas?” he asked, at length.

"Yes, Monsieur goes out alone much at night," I echoed, "but what Monsieur particularly desires to know is what sort of tales you have been telling Mademoiselle Leahj^ Goniprenez vans?”

The network of wrinkles about his lips multiplied as he smiled enigmatically, regarding me askance from the comers of his eyes.

*‘M’sieur is Anglais,” he replied. "He wwld not understand — or believe. ’ ’

"Never mind what I’d believe," I retorted. “What is this storj’- about murder and robbery being committed in those woods? Who were the murderers, and where did they live? Hein?”

For a few seconds he looked fixedly at me, chewing the cud of senility between his toothless gums ; then, glancing carefully about, as if he feared being overheard, he tiptoed up to me and whispered:

“M’sieur mus’ stay indoors these nights. W’en the moon, she shine, yes; w’en she not show her face, no. There are evil things abroad at the

4i:^

dark of the moon, M’sieur. Even las’ night they keel free of my bes’ sheep. Remembair, M’sieur, the loup-garou, he is out when the moon hide her light. ’ ’

And with that he turned and left me; nor could I get another word from him save his cryptic warning, "Remembair, M’sieur, the loup-garou. Remembair. ’ ’

In spite of my annoyance, I could not get rid of the unpleasant sensation the old man’s words left with me.

‘ ‘ The loup-garou — werewolf ’ ’ he had said, and to prove his goblinwolf’s presence, he had cited the death of his three sheep.

As I paced the rain-wa.shed porch I thought of the scene I had witnessed the night before, when the sheepkillers were at their work.

"Well," I reflected, "I’ve seen the loup-garou on his native heath at last. From causes as slight as this, no doubt, the horrible legend of the werewolf had sprung. Time was when all France quaked at the sound of the loup-garou’s hunting-call and the bravest knights in Chri.stendom trembled in their castles aird crossed themselves fearfully because some renegade shepherd dog quested his prey in the night. On such a foundation are the legends of a people built."

Whistling a snatch from Pinafore and looking skyward in search of a patch of blue in the clouds, I felt a tug at my raincoat sleeve, such as a neglected tei’rier might give. It was Geronte again.

“M’sieur,” he began in the same mysterious whisper, "the loup-garou is a verity, certainly. I, myself, have uevair seen him" — he paused to bless himself — "but my cousin, Baptiste, was once pursued by him. Yes.

"It was near the shrine of the good Sainte Anne that Baptiste lived. One night he was sent to fetch the cure for a dying woman. The^/ rode fast through the trees, the cure and my cousin Baptiste, for it was at the dark of the moon, and the evil forest folk


4U

were abroad. And as they galloped, there came a loup-garou from the woods, with eyes as bright as hell-fire. It followed hard, this tailless hound from the devil’s kennel; but they reached the house before it, and the cure put his book, with the Holy Cross on its cover, at the dooi’step. The loup-garou wailed under the windows like a child in pain until the sun rose ; then it slunk back to the forest.

“When my cousin Baptiste and the cure came out, they found its hand marks in the soft earth around the door. Very like your hand, or mine, they were, M’sieur, save that the first finger was longer than the others. ’ ’

“And did they find the loupgarou?” I asked, something of the old man’s earnestness communicated to me.

“Yes, M’sictir; but of course,” he replied gravely. “T’ree weeks before, a stranger, drowned in the river, had been buried without the office of the Church. W ’en they opened his grave they found his fingernails as red as blood, and sharp. Then they knew. The good cure read the burial office over him, and the poor soul that had been snatched away in sin slept peacefullj^ at last.”

He looked quizzically at me, as if speculating whether to tell me more ; then, apparently fearing I would laugh at his outburst of confidence, he started away toward the kitchen.

“Well, what else, Pierre?” I asked, feeling he had more to say.

“Non, non, non,” he replied. “There is nothing more, M’sieur. I did but want M’sieur should know my own cousin, Baptiste Geronte, had seen the loup-garou with his very eyes.”

“Hearsay evidence,” I commented, as I went in to dinner.

D uring the rainy week that followed I chafed at my confinement like a privileged convict suddenly deprived of his liberties, and looked as wistfuUy down the south road as

any prisoned gipsy ever gazed upon the open trail.

The quiet home circle at the farmhouse, the unforced conversation of the old folks, Mildred’s sweet companionship, all beckoned me with an almost irresistible force. For in this period of enforced separation I discovered what I had dimly suspected for some time — I loved Mildred Squires. And, loving her, I longed to tell her of it.

No lad intent on visiting his first sweetheart ever urged his feet more eagerly than I when, the curtains of rain at last dra^vn up, I hastened toward the house at the turn of the road.

As I hoped, yet hardly dared expect, Mildred was standing at the gate to meet me as I rounded the curve, and I yearned toward her like a hiunming-bird seeking its nest.

She must have read my heart in my eyes, for her greeting smile was as tender as a mother’s as she bends above her babe.

“At last you have come, my friend,” she said, putting out both hands in welcome. “I am very glad.”

We walked silently up the path, her fingers still re.sting in mine, her face averted. At the steps she paused, a little embarrassment in her voice as she explained, “Father and Mother are out; they have gone to a — meeting. But you will stay ? ’ ’

“Surely,” I acquiesced. And to myself I admitted my gratitude for this chance of Mildred’s unalloyed company.

We talked but little that night. Mildred was strangely distrait, and, much as I longed to, I could not force a confession of my love from my lips. Once, in the midst of a long pause t>etween our words, the cry of the sheepkillers came faintly to us, echoed across the fields and woods, and as the weird, shriU sound fell on our ears she threw back her head with something of the gesture of a hunting dog scenting its quarry.

THE PHANTOM FARMHOUSE


Toward midnight she turned to me, a panic of fear having apparently laid hold of her.

“You must go,” she exclaimed, rising and laying her hand on my shoulder.

“But your father and mother have not returned,” I objected. “Won’t you let me stay until they get back?”

“Oh, no, no!” she answered, her agitation increasing. “You must go at once — please.” She increased her pressure on my shoulder, almost as if to shove me from the porch.

Taken aback by her sudden desire to be rid of me, I was picking up ray hat, when she uttered a stifled little scream and ran quieldy to the edge of the porch, interposing herself between me and the yard. At the same moment I heard a muffled soimd from the direction of the front gate, a sound like a growling and snarling of savage dogs.

I leaped foi-ward, my first thought being that the sheep-killers I had seen the other night had strayed to the Squires place. Crazed with blood I knew they would be almost as dangerous to men as to sheep, and every nerve in my sickness-weakened body cried out to protect Mildred.

To my blank amazement, as I looked from the porch I beheld Mr. and Mrs. Sqiiires walking sedately up the path, talking composedly together. There was no sign of the dogs or any other animals about.

As the elderly couple neared the porch I noticed that Mr. Squires walked with a pronounced limp, and that both their eyes shone very brightly in the moonlight, as though they were sufPiised with tears.

They greeted me pleasantly enough ; but Mildred’s anxiety seemed increased, rather than dimini.shed, by their presence, and I took my leave after a brief exchange of civilities.

On my way back I looked intently in the woods boi’dering the road for some sign of the house of which Pierre had told Miss Leahy ; but everywhere

the pines grew as thicldy as though neither ax nor fire had ever disturbed them.

“Geronte is in his second childhood,” I reflected, “and like an elder child, he loves to terrify his jmiiors with feareome witch-tales.”

Yet an uncomfortable feeling was with me till I saw the gleam of the sanitarium’s lights across the fields; and as I walked toward them it seemed to me that more than once I heard the baying of the sheep-killers in the woods behind me.

A buzz of conversation, like the sibilant arguments of a cloud of swarming bees, greeted me as I descended the stairs to breakfast next morning.

It appeared that Ned, one of the pair of great mastiffs attached to the sanitarium, had been found dead before his kennel, his throat and brisket torn open and several gaping wounds in his flanks. Boris, his fellow, had been discovered whimpering and trembling in the extreme comer of the dog house, the embodiment of canine terror.

Speculation as to the animal responsible for the outrage was rife, and, as usual, it ran the gamut of possible and impossible surmises. Every sort of beast from a grizzly bear to a lion escaped from the circus was in turn indicted for the crime, only to have a complete alibi straightw’ay established.

The only one having no suggestion to offer was old Geronte, Avho stood sphinxlike in the outskirts of the crowd, smiling sardonically to himself and wagging his head sagely. As he caught sight of me he nodded .sapiently, as if to include me in the joint tenancy to some weighty secret.

Presently he worked his way through the chattering group and w’hispered, “M’sieur, he was here last night — and with him was the other tailless one. Come and see.”



Plucking me by the sleeve, he led me to the rear of the kennels, and, stooping, pointed to something in the moist earth. “You see?” he asked, as if a printed volume lay for my reading in the mud.

“ I see that someone has been on his hands and knees here,” I answered, inspecting the hand prints he indicated.

“Something,” he corrected, as if reasoning with an obstinate child. “Does not M’sieur behoP that the first finger is the longest? ’ ’

“Which proves nothing,” I defended. ‘ ‘ There are many hands like that. ’ ’

“Oh — yes?” he replied with that (pieer upward accent of his. “And where has M’sieur seen hands like that before ? ’ ’

“Oh, many times,” I assured him somewhat vaguely, for there was a catch at the back of my throat as I spoke. Try as I would, I could recall only three ])airs of hands with that peculiarity.

His little black eyes re.sted steadily on me in an unwinking stare, and the corners of his moutli curved upward in a malicious grin. It seemed, almost, as if he found a grim pleasure in thus driving me into a corner.

“Sec here, Pierre,” I began testily, equally annoyed at myself and him, “you know as well as I that the Zoupgarou is an old woman’s tale. Someone was looking here for tracks, and left his own while doing it. If we look among the patients here we shall undoubtedly .find a pair of hands to match these prints. ’ ’

“God forbid!” ho exclaimed, crossing himself. “That would be an evil day for us, M’sieur.

“Here, Bor-ees,” he snapped his fingers to the surviving mastiff, “ come and eat.”

The huge beast came wallowing over to him with the ungainly gait of all heavily muscled animals, stopping on his way to make a nasal investigation of my knees. Scarcely had his

nose come into contact with my trousers when he leaped back, every hair in his mane and along his spine stiffly erect, every tooth in his great mouth bared in a savage snarl. But instead of the mastiff’s fighting growl, he emitted only a low, frightened whine, as though he were facing some animal of greater power than himself, and knew his own weakness.

‘ ‘ Good heavens ! ” I cried, thoi’oughly terrified at the friendly brute’s sudden hostility.

“Yes, M’sieur,” Geronte cut in quickly, putting his hand on the dog’s collar and leading him a few paces away. “It is well you should call upon the heavenly ones; for surely you have the odor of hell upon your clothes. ’ ’

“What do you mean?” I demanded angrily. “How dare you ?”

He raised a thin hand deprecatingly.

“M’sieur knows that he knows,” he replied evenly, “and that I also Imow. ’ ’

And leading Boris by the collar, he shuffled to the house.

M ildred was waiting for me at the gate that evening, and again her father and mother were absent at one of their meetings.

We walked silently up the path and seated ourselves on the porch steps, where the waning moon east oblique rays through the pine branches.

I think Mildred felt the tension I was drawn to, for she talked trivialities with an almost feverish earnestness, stringing her sentences together, and changing her subjects as a Navajo rug-weaver twists and breaks her threads.

At last I found an opening in the abattis of her small talk.

‘ ‘ Mildred, ’ ’ I said, very simply, for great emotions tear the ornaments from our speech, “I love you, and I want you for my wife. Will you marry me, Mildred ? ” I laid my hand on hers. It was cold as lifeless flesh,

THE PHANTOM FARMHOUSE


and seemed to shrink beneath my touch.

"Surely, dear, you mxist have read the love in my eyes,” I ixrged, as she averted her face in silence. "Almost from the night I first saw you. I've loved you, dear. I ”

"0-o-h, don’t,” her interruption was a strangled moan, as if wrung from her by my words.

I leaned nearer hei*. "Don’t you love me, Mildred?” I asked. As yet she had not denied it.

For a moment she trembled, as if a sudden chill had come on her; then, leaning to me, she clasped my shoulders in her arms, hiding her face against my jacket.

“John, John, you don’t know what you say,” she whispered disjointedly, as though a sob had torn the words before they left her lips. Her breath was on my cheek, moist and cold as air from a vault.

I could feel the litheness of her through the thin stuff of her gown, and her body was as devoid of warmth as a dead thing.

"You’re cold,” I told her, putting my arms shieldingly about her. ‘ ‘ The night has chilled you. ’ ’

A convulsive sob was her only answer.

“Mildred,” I began again, putting my hand beneath her chin and lifting her face to mine, "tell me, dear, what is the matter?” I lowered my lips to hers.

With a cry that was half scream, half weeping, she thrust me suddenly from her, pressing her hands against my breast and lowering her head xnitil her face was hidden between her outstretched arms. I, too, started back, for in the instant our lips were about to meet, hers had writhed back from her teeth, like a dog’s when he is about to spring, and a low, harsh noise, almost a growl, had risen in her throat.

“For God’s sake,” she whispered hoarsely, agony in every note of her shaking voice, "never do that again!

Oh, my dear, dear love, you don’t Itnow how near to a horror worse than death you were. ’ ’

"A — horror — wor.se — than — death?” I echoed dully, pressing her cold little hands in mine. "What do you mean, Mildred?”

‘ ‘ Loose my hands, ’ ’ she commanded with a quaint reversion to the speech of our ancestors, "and hear me. I do love you. I love you better than life, better than death. I love you so I have overcome something stronger thaix the walls of the gi*ave for your sake; but John, ray veiw love, this is our last night together. We can never meet again. You must go, now, and not come back until tomorrow morning.”

“Tomorrow morning?” I repeated blankly. What wild talk was this?

Heedless of my interruption, she hurried on. "Tomorrow morning, just before the sun rises over those trees, you must be here, and have your prayer-book with you. ’ ’

I listened speechless, wondering which of us was mad.

"By that corncrib there,” she waved a directing hand, “you will find three moixnds. Stand beside them and read the office for the burial of the dead. Come quickly, and pause for nothing on the way. Look back for nothing; heed no sound from behind you. And for your own safety, come no sooner than to allow yourself the barest time to read your office.”

Bewildered, I attempted to reason with the madwoman; begged her to explain this folly ; but she refu.sed all answer to my fervid queries, nor would she .suffer me to touch her.

Finally, I rose to go. "You will do what I ask?” she implored.

‘ ‘ Certainly not, ’ ’ I answered firmly.

"John, John, have ])ity!” .she cried, flinging hei'self to the earth before me and clasping my knees. "You say you love me. I only ask this one favor of yon — only this. Please, for my sake, for the peace of the dead



and the safety of the living, promise you will do this thing for me.”

Shaken by her abject supplication,

I promised, though I felt myself a figure in some grotesque nightmare as I did it.

“Oh, my love, my precious love,” she wept, rising and taking both my hands. “At last I shall have peace, and you shall bring it to me. No,” she forbade as I made to take her in my arms at parting. “The most I can give you, dear, is this. ’ ’ She held her icy hands against my lips. “It seems so little, dear; but oh! it is so much. ’ ’

Like a drunkard in his cups I staggered along the south road, my thoughts gone wdld with the strangeness of the play I had just acted.

Across the clearing came the howls of the sheep-killers, a sound I had gro\\^l used to of late. But tonight there was a deeper, fiercer timbre in their bay, a note that boded ill for man as well as beast. Louder and louder it sAvelled; it Avas rising from the field itself, now, drawing nearer and nearer the road.

I turned and looked. The great beasts I had seen pursuing the luckless sheep the other night Avere galloping toward me. A cold finger seemed traced doAvii my spine; the scalp crept and tingled beneath my cap. Tliere was no other object of their quest in sight. I Avas their elected prey.

My first thought Avas to turn and run, but a second’s reasoning told me this Avas Avorse than useless. Weakened Avith long illness, Avith an uphill road to the nearest shelter, I should soon be nm doAvn.

No friendly tree offered asylum ; my only liope Avas to stand and fight. ( I rasping my stick, I spread my feet, lu’acing myself against their charge.

And as I Avaited their onslaught, ilic7-c came from the shadow of the pines the shriller, sharper cry of the third beast. Like the crest of a flying, Avindlashcd Avave, the slighter, silverfurred brute came speeding across the meadow, its ears laid back, its slender paws spurning the sod daintily. Almost it seemed as if the pale shadow of a cloud were racing toward me.

The thing dashed slantwise across the field, its flight converging on the line of the other tAA'o’s attack. MidAvay between me and them it paused, hairs bristling, limbs bent for a spring.

My eyes went Avide Avith incredulity. It Avas standing in my defense.

AU the savageness of the larger beasts’ hunting-cry was echoed in the smaller creature’s bay, and with it a defiance that needed no interpretation.

The attackers paused in their rush, halted, and looked speculatively at my ally. They took a few tentative steps in my direction, and a fierce whine, almost an articulate curse, Avent up from the silver-haired beast. Slowly the taAvny pair circled and trotted back to the woods.

I hurried toward the sanitarium, grasping my stick firmly in readiness for another attack.

But no fiirther cries came from the AAmods, and once, as I glanced back, I saAv the light-haired beast trotting sloAvly in my wake, looking from right to left, as if to ward off danger.

Half an hour later I looked from my window toward the house in the pines. Par doAvui the south road, its muzzle pointed to the moon, the bright-furred animal crouched and poured out a lament to the night. And its cry Avas like the wail of a child in pain.

F ar into the night I paced my room, like a condemned convict Avhen the Augil of the death Avatch is on him. Reason and memory struggled for the mastery; one urging me to give over my wild act, the other bidding me obey my promise to Mildred.

ToAvard morning I dropped into a chair, exhausted Avith my objectless marching. I must have fallen asleep,

THE PHANTOM FARMHOUSE


for when I started up the stars were dimming in the zenith, and bands of slate, shading to amethj^st, slanted across the horizon,

A moment I paused, laughing cynically at my fool’s errand; then, seizing cap and book, I bolted down the stairs, and ran through the paling dawn to the house in the pines.

There was something ominous and terrifying in the two-toned pastel of the house that morning. Its windows stared at me with blank malevolence, like the half-closed eyes of one stricken dead in mortal sin. The little patches of hoar-frost on the lami were like leprous spots on some unclean thing. From the trees behind the clearing an owl hooted mournfully, as if to say, “Beware, beware!’’ and the wind soughing through the black pine boughs echoed the refrain ceaselessly.

Three mounds, sunken and weedgrown, lay in the unkempt thicket behind the comcrib. I paused beside them, throwing off my cap and adjusting my stole hastily. Thumbing the pages to the committal service, I held the book close, that I might see the print through the morning shadows, and commenced: “I know that my redeemer liveth. ,

Almost beside me, under the branches of the pines, there rose such a chorus of howls and yelps I nearly dropped my book. Like all the hounds in the kennels of hell, the sheep-killers clamored at me, rage and fear and mortal hatred in their eyes. Through the bestial cadences, too, there seemed to run a liuman note — the sound of voices heard before beneath these very trees. Deep and throaty and raging mad two of the voices came to me, and, like the tremolo of a violin lightly played in an orchestra of brass, the shriller cry of a third beast sounded.

As the infemal hubbub rose at my back, I half tunred to fly. Next instant I grasped my book more firmly and resumed my office; for, like a beacon in the dark, Mildred’s words

flashed on my memory: “Look hack for nothing; heed no sound behind you.”

Strangely, too, the din approached no nearer, but as though held by an invisible bar, staj^ed at the boundary of the clearing.

“Man that is born of a woman hath but a short time to live and is full of misery . . . deliver us from all our offenses ... 0 Lord, deliver us not into the bitter pains of eternal death. ...” and to such an accompaniment, surely, as no priest ever before chanted the office, I pressed through the brief service to the final amen.

Tiny gouts of moisture stood out on my forhead and my breath struggled m my throat as I gasped out the last word. My nerves were frayed to shreds and my strength nearly gone as I let fall my book and turned upon the beasts among the trees.

They were gone. Abruptly as it had begun, their clamor stopped, and only the rotting pine needles, lightly gilded by the morning sun, met my gaze. A light touch fell in the palm of my open hand, as if a pair of cool, sweet lips had laid a kiss there.

A vapor like swamp-fog enveloped me. The outbuildings, the old, stonecurbed well where I had drunk the night I first saw Mildred, the house itself — all seemed fading into mist and swirling away in the morning breeze.

“■pH, EH, EH; but M^sieur will do

-L-' himself an injury, sleeping on the wet earth ! ” Old G eronte bent over me, his arm beneath my shoulders. Behind him, great Boris, the mastiff, stood wagging his tail, regarding me with doggish good humor.

“Pierre,” I muttered thickly, “how came you here ? ’ ’

“This morning, going to my tasks, I saw M’sieur run down the road like a thing pursued. I followed quickly, for the woods hold terrors in the dark, M’sieur.”



I looked toward the farmhouse. Only a pair of chimneys, rising stark and bare from a crumbling foundation, were there. Fence, well, barn — all were gone, and in their place was a thicket of sumac and briars, tangled and overgrown as though undisturbed for thirty years.

“The house, Pierre! Where is the house?” I croaked, sinking my fingers into his withered ann.

“ ’ousc?” he echoed. “Oh, but of course ! There is no ’ouse here, U’sieur: nor has there been for years. This is an evil place, M’sieiir; it is best we quit it, and that quickly. There be evil things that run by night ”

“No more.” I answered, staggering toward the road, leaning heavily on him. “I brought them peace, Pierre.”

lie looked dubiously at the English ])rayer book I held. A Protestant clergymen is a thing of doubtful usefulness to the orthodox FrenehCanadian. Something of the heartsick misery in my face must have touched his kind old heart, for at last he relented, shaking his head pityingly and patting my shoulder gently, as one would soothe a sorrowing child.

“Per’aps, M’sieur,” he conceded. “Per’aps; who shall say no? Love and sorrow are the purchase price of peace. Yes. Did not le bon Dieu so buy the peace of the Avorld?”

of the niPWIGtlT-fiOURJ

12 . A Vision of the Future

1 di’eamed the waters of the world had dried; The ocean-beds were open, now, and free.

And all strange things once covered by the sea Lay everywhere, and slowly, vilely, died.

Here was a hulk, some bones, and there I spied Old, rotted things of ancient mystery.

And slimy horrors that were yet to be.

And stone enormities no slime could hide.

I saw the monstrous caverns of the deep,

I saw the dwellers of the ocean night.

The graves, the relics of the curious dead; And in the fading vision of the sleep,

I saw a thing, vast, horrible, and white.

That feebly moved its pulpy, eyeless head.

VER since The Moon Terror — that vivid weird-scientific story by A. G.

Birch which ran serially in early issues of Weird T.\les — was brought

out in book form, our readers have taken it for granted that sooner or later we would collect the Jules de Grandin stories of Seabury Quinn in a book; and you, the readers, have been urging the book-publication of the temperamental French occultist’s adventures. Several readers have gone so far as to suggest a title for the book. The best of these suggested titles seems to be The Phantom-Fighter ; another good one is The Ghost-BreaTcer. We welcome further suggestions; for the idea of making Jules de Grandin ’s stories from this magazine available in book form appeals to us. ^Meanwhile we shall print further adventures of the fascinating French phantom-fighter in Weird Tales. The next Jules de Grandin story will be The Devil’s Rosary.

Writes Jack Snow, of Piqua, Ohio: “The Copper Bowl, by Captain George Fielding Eliot, is one of the most gripping stories that has appeared in the pages of Weird Tales for many months. It is excellent, and I am sure the readers would appreciate more of Captain Eliot’s work.”

Madella Risca, of Oakland, California, writes to The Eyrie: “Why do you not publish any more stories by Eli Colter? By chance I found two old copies of Weird Tales; one contained The Last Horror and one the story about the princess of two thousand years ago. I was enthralled by the sheer magnificence of The Last Horror. It is a truly wonderful mind that could put into the mouths of his characters the words he does. Please publish more of his stories.” [This letter was written before the February issue, beginning Eli Colter’s new serial, appeared on the news stands. — The Editor.] Howard S. Whiteside, of Boston, writes: “You choose excellently when you put Seabury Quinn’s stories first in your magazine. He is the best of the many good writers in Weird Tales. The Black Master is, in my opinion, the best story of the January issue. There was a story printed some time ago in Weird Tales that I considered remarkable; it was called The White Ship. I suppose it is too recent to reprint as yet, but I think, it would be very acceptable to your readers if you reprinted it in the future.”

Writes Henry Kuttner, Jr., from Millbrae, California: “I have been an



WEIED TALES

ardent i*eader of yonr magazine, although I am only a high school student, ever since I became acquainted with it — which was, I believe, in an issue containing as a feature a story called The Metal Giants, by Edmond Hamilton. It was an excellent story, as are most of your others. My favorite fiction is horror and science stories, and Weird Tales fills a long-felt want.”

C. Hampel, of Los Angeles, breaks into verse to describe his impression of what the Weird Tales office must be like:

“Home of a thousand horrors.

Birthplace of terror and gloom.

Playground of ghosts and demons Is the Weird Tales editor’s room.

“There are manusei’ipts reeking in weirdness.

Of humans harried to doom ;

And the lore that is ancient, forgotten.

Is reboiTi in the editor’s room.

“In the night, when the office is empty,

Inchoate shadows loom.

Twisting, gesturing, mouthing.

There in the editor’s room.

“Evils from ancient Asia,

When Babylon was in bloom.

Lore from covered Atlantis Are unleashed in the editor’s room.”

Howard A. McElroy writes from Hampton, Virginia, that the January issue is far below standard, “the worst yet,” but he greatly enjoyed Kline’s story. The Demon of Tlaxpam, and Quinn’s The Black Master. “I think a book of Seabury Quinn’s stories would go over big,” he writes; “also Otis Adelbert Kline, Lovecraft and Howard. Wliy can’t we have their best stories in book form?”

“After being a constant reader of your magazine for the past two years,” writes K. L. Grantham, of Cainsville, “I thought I had better write in my opinion of some of your stories. I never cared much in the past for your monthly ‘Weird Story Eeprint,’ which has been much discussed by other readers in The Ej'i’ie. I think, though, that this month’s reprint of Nictzin Dyalhis’ story, ^Yhen the Ch'een Star Waned, from one of jmur previous issues will certainly create more interest to your readers than any new story. Let us have more stories from your early issues.”

Writes E. E. Eeed, of Lewistovra, Pennsylvania: “Having read W. T. for several years and never having written you my opinion of it, I take the liberty of writing now. I like to read weird tales very much. But I don’t see much any more of Nictzin Dyalhis’ stories, except The Oath of Hul Jok,

( Continued on page 424)

30^C3IS:0D



]o=sic:^&=oc


FUTURE ISSUES

A WEALTH of fascinating stories is scheduled for early publication in Weied Tales, the unique magazine. The brilliant success of Weibd Tales has been founded on its unrivaled, superb stories of the strange, the grotesque and the terrible — gripping stories that stimulate the imagination and send shivers of apprehension up the spine — tales that take the reader from the humdrum world about us into a deathless realm of fancy — marvelous tales so thrillingly told that they seem very real. Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. If Poe were alive he would undoubtedly be a contributor. In addition to creepy mystery stories, ghost-tales, stories of devil-worship, witchcraft, vampires and strange monsters, ihis magazine also prints the cream of the weird-scientific fiction that is written today — tales of the spaces between the worlds, surgical stories, and stories that scan the future with the eye of prophecy. Among the amazing tales in the next few issues will be:

THE THING IN THE HOUSE, by H. F. Scotten

A combination of de Maupassant’s “Horla,” Bierce’s “Damned Thing” and Crawford’s invisible creature in “The Upper Berth,” this fearsome monster wrought dreadful havoc before it was brought to bay.

WITHIN THE NEBULA, by Edmond Hamilton

Three beings from different corners of the Galaxy — an Earth-man from our own solar system, a plant-man from Capella, and a tentacle-m.an from Arcturu.s — start out on the strangest expedition in all literature as the great nebula expands and menaces the universe with fiery destruction.

UP IRRIWADDY WAY, by Lieutenant Edgar Gardiner

A strange and thrilling tale of a great idol with its ghastly death-trap — a theft of sacred rubies — a weird story of man-eating plants and giant blue fungus growths that attack human beings.

IN A DEAD MAN’S SHOES, by Harold Markham

a story of Tyburn Gallows and vengeance from beyond the grave — a tale of Davy Garrick, the actor, and grim justice visited upon the man who betrayed his friend the highwayman.

THE DUNWICH HORROR, by H. P. Lovecraft

The author of “The Call of Cthulhu” rises to new heights of terror and horror in this powerful story — a tale in which the horror creep-s and grows, and finaliy bursts fuli-biown upon the reader.

THE SHADOW OF A NIGHTMARE, by Donald Wandrei

Tucked away in a corner of the Himalayas was a strange country, inhabited entirely by madmen; and from a manuscript that found its way to the outer world from this Country of the Mad stalked forth nightmare and horror.

THE LAUGHING THING, by G. G. Pendarves

Eldred 'Werne signed away his estates to Jason Drewe, and then died, but the terrific manifestations at the manor showed that he wielded more power dead than alive — a powerful ghost-story.

T hese are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of Weird Tales. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite new.s stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

WiaKD TALES,

S40 North Michigan Avc.,

Cliicago, ni.

Enciosed find J2.50 for 1 year’s subscription to “'Weird Tales,” to begin with the April issue. ($3.00 in Canada.)

Name

Address

City State — —



(Coniinaed from page 422)

which I believe is one of his best. I have read the Green Star Waned,

The Eternal Conflict and The Dark Lore. I wish you would try to get more of his stories. I gi'eatly admire them, and a lot of ray friends would also like more of his stories. ’ ’

From Schoolfield, Virginia, writes B. Lemons: “I just had to write to yon to let you know how I like your magazine. I have been reading it about two years. I woxildn’t give it for any other magazine on the market. I can’t wait for it to come out each month, so I wish you would print it twice a month. My favorite writers are Seabury Quinn, H. P. Lovecraft, Edmond Hamilton and EJi Colter. Seabury Quinn with his little doctor, Jules de Crandin, can't be beaten.”

‘‘If there ever was a magazine that is different,” wi’ites Mrs. F. D. Simmons, of St. Louis, ‘‘yours is it. I have been reading Weird Tales for two years and I would like to see stories reprinted from your back numbers. Seabury Quinn and Edmond Hamilton are my favorite authors.”

“I just fini.shed reading the reprint. When the Green Star Waned,’' Avrites Chester Dix, of Shamokin, Penn.sylvania, ‘‘and am wildly enthusiastic about it. I hope you Avill continue publishing some of your earlier stories, as I have been reading jmur wonderful magazine only three years. Also I wish to compliment Seabury Quinn; I comsider his best The Blood-Flower and The Jexcel of Seven Stones.”

Readers, xvliat is your favorite story in this issiie? The most popular story in the January issue, as shown by your votes, Avas Seabury Quinn’s The Black Master. This Avas closely pressed for first place by Bassett Morgan’s fantastic and beautiful tale of the Nortlieni Lights, Bimini.

:MY favorite stories in the march weird tales ARE:

story

Eemarks

. 1 )

( 2 )

I do not like the

( 1 )

(2)

Tt will help ua to know wlint kind of atories you want in Weird Talcs if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

folloAA'ing stories: Why?

' Reader’s name and address:

I


I

I


WEIED TALES


The Immortal Hand

( Coniinued from page 331)

of amazement escaped our lips. In place of the opening through which we had passed not an hour since, there stood facing us a stretch of solid wall. And not a newly built wall, either. The mortar was set as hard as iron; long festoons of dusty cobwebs hung from the discolored bricks, showing that they had not been disturbed for ages.

We could only stare at each other speechlessly.

“Were we dreaming or drunk when we passed through that door last night?” asked Kinnaird after a pause that seemed to have lasted hours.

Moved by a sudden thought, I stepped to the window and threw it open. Leaning out, I looked along the outside surface of the wall. Our room abutted on a vacant site, and where the room of the previous night had been there was nothing but empty air ! But, looking closer, I perceived unmistakable traces that the house had once formed a wing of a much larger building, which had been demolished. I turned my eyes downward; stared — rubbed my eyes — and stared again.

The sun was rising bright and clear behind the peaked gables of the surrounding houses, and by its light I saw that I was looking down on the serried rows of broken and timestained stones which are all that remain to mark the site of New Place — the last home of William Shakespeare.

Be Sure and Read

ARLTON EADIE’S

Next Story in This Magazine

A Stirring Weird' Scientific Story Called

*‘The World -Wrecker”

White Magic

and Its Laws

A Remarkable Book LOANED To Ail Seekers For Power

Whatever you imagine the power of Black Masric may be, remember there is a pure WHITE MAGIC which is as potent for erood.

■With the higher occult laws and secrets of mystical power you can change the course of your life and attract success, health, happiness and a development of mental foresight that will astound you and surprise your friends.

The Rosicruoians wcie the Master Mystics in all ages and today they are organized in LfOdges, groups and colleges in all parts of the world. In their teachings they secretly preserve the ancient wisdom that made the Pyramid in Egypt the marvel of today and the mystery temples of Greece the most alluring places of strange achievements.

You may share in this great knowledge If you are more than u mere seeker for mystery and magic. If you really desire to master the arcane, occult knowledge of the Masters, step by step, and become a true Adept of the Rosicrurian Fraternity, you may have the doorway opened to you.

The Rosicrucian teachings containing the true knowledge of the mystics are never published in book.s. But you may borrow a book called "The Right of Egypt," in which the strange story of the Rosierucians Is told and an explanation of how you may have the private teachings of the Rosicruclan Fraternity in America.

Unless you are truly sincere and anxious to study and gradually become developed in a superior manner, do not ask for this book. Address in confidence, giving name and address in a letter (not on post card):

T/ibrarinn T. W.

AMORC TEMPLE

RONioriician I’ark

SAN JOSE, CAEIF.

(Not Rponsorinsr Rosionicum “Fellowships” or “Societies”)

Dice. $6.00; Cards, $1.25; Inks, $1.50; Magic Fluid forTransparents, $3.00; Slick Ace Cards, $1.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc. Catalog 10c. CBNTRAI. NOVELTY COMPANY,

740 W. Madison St.. Chicago, III,

INVENTIONS WANTED — PATENTED, DNpatented. If you have an idea for sale, write Hartley, Box 928, Bangor, Maine.


WEIKD TALES

The People of Pan

(Co7itimied from page 305)

Idrtle gi’otcsqnely askew. He paused, reverently, and turned the body on its back. The expression on the face was quite peaceful, as though a nalural and quiet death had overtaken the victim.

As he rose from his task, his face being near the floor’s level, he saw, along it, innumerable other bodies, lying about in varying postures. He stood upright and looked toward the image of the Goat. Bodies lay heaped in great mounds about the curved, imimal legs; more bodies lay heaped ijefore the sanctuary.

Awestruck, but, now that he knew, somewhat steadied by this wholesale calamity which had overtaken the peaceful People of Pan, he now moved quietly forward at an even pace.

Something lay across the altar.

Picking his way carefully among •he massed corpses he mounted the sanctuary steps. Across the altar lay die body of the priestess, her dead arms outstretched toward the image )f the Goat. She had died in her appointed place, in the very attitude of making supplication for her people who had died about her. Grosvenor, 'i-eatly moved, looked closely into the •anee beautiful face. It was still ;trangely beautiful and placid, noble in death ; and upon it was an expression of profound peace. Pan had taken his priestess and his people to Himself. . . .

He had slightly raised the nuimmi- :ied body, and as he replaced it reverently back across the altar, something fluttered from it to his feet. He tiieked up a bit of parchmentlike material. There was writing on it. Holding it, he passed back through the sanctuary to the room behind, where Miere ivould be a clearer light. The rooms were empty. Nothing had been disturbed.

The parchment was addressed to

him. He spelled out, carefully, the antique, beautifully formed characters of the old literary Greek :

“Hail to thee, and farewell, 0 stranger. I, Clytemnestra, priestess of Pan the Merciful, address thee, that thou mayest understand. Thou art freed from thy oath of silence.

“At the change of the seasons the sacrifice failed. Our search revealed no living thing to offer to our god. Pan takes His vengeance. My people abandon this life for Acheron, for upon us has Pan loosed the poisonous airs of the underworld. As I write, I faint, and I am the last to go.

“Thine, then, O kind barbarian, of the seed of them that - drove from Kuba the men of Hispaniola, are the treasures of Pan’s People. Of them take freely. I go now to my appointed place, at the altar of the Great Pan who gathers us to Himself. In peace and love, 0 barbarian of the North Continent, I greet thee. In peace and love, farewell.”

Grosvenor placed the parchment in his breast-pocket. He was profoundly affected. He sat for a long time on the white stone couch. At last he rose and passed reflectively out into the underground gardens. The great flares of natural gas burned steadily at the tops of the irregular pipes.

At once he was consumed in wonder. How could these continue to bum without there having occurred a great conflagration? The amount of free gas sufficient to asphyxiate and mummify the entire population of this underground community would have ignited in one heaving cataclysm which would have blown Saona out of the water!

But — perhaps that other gas was not inflammable. Then the true explanation occurred to him abruptly. The destructive gas was heavier than the air. It would lie along the ground,



and be gradually dis!?ipated as the fresh air from the pipes leading above diluted its deadly intensity. It would not mount to the tops of these illuminating pipes. The sliortest of them, as he gaged it, was sixty feet high. Of course, he would never know, positively. . . .

lie looked about him through the lovely gardens, now his paradise. All about were the evidences of long neglect. Unshorn grass waved like standing hay in the light breeze which seemed to come from nowhere. Rotting fruit lay in heaps under the .sapodilla trees.

He plucked a handful of the drying grass as long as his arm, and began to twist it into the tough string of the Antilles’ grass-rope. He made five or six feet of the string. He retraced his steps slowly back to the room where he had read his last message from the priestess of Pan. He passed the string through the handles of a massive golden fruit jar, emptied out the liquefying mass of corrupt fruit which lay sodden in its bowl.

He slung the heavy jar on his back, returned through the sanctuary, threaded his way among the heaped bodies, began to walk back through the temple toward the anteroom.

From aci’oss that vast room he looked back. Through the dim pei’- spective the monstrous figure of the Goat seemed to exult. With a slight shudder Charles Grosvenor passed out onto the platform. He grasped the handrail, planted his feet on the first round of the ladder, and began his long, weary climb to the top. . . .

Electricity

— E^y at Last

Learn by Doing-* Not Books In 90 Days

Learn tbl8 fascinating. b!g«

^ pay game on real electrical machinery. Prepare for Jobs leading to salaries of $60. $00 and up a week. New, Easy, Sure Method. Not a correspondence School. You learn by working on great outlay of electrical apparatus! And Instniotora help you every NO EXPERIENCE OR ADVANCED EDUCATION NEEDED. It stands to reason that nothing can compare with practical, Personal Training.

EARN WHILE LEARNING

Our employment department helps students to get pn’*ft time work to help pay their expenses and assists them to a good paying electrical Job when they graduate. My big book size 12 x 15 elves you the proof and tells you how you can become a big money maker. It’s absolutely Freo if you mall coupon.

SEND NOW FOB BIG FREE BOOK

COYNE Electrical SCHOOL

Not a Corrotpoftdettce SeAool^ff^ C. Lowio, Prta.^lCot. 1H99

SOO So. Paulina St. Dept. 19-96 Chicago, 111.

■ ■■■■■BBaoBaaaaaBaBaBBBCaaa.

Lewi,, CoyiM Electrical School. Oopt. 19-9C SOO So. Paulina Street. Chicago, III.

Pl.aao send me lllnatrated P8EG Book oo Electricity and Corn.. No ODliiratipn. Also details on free ciDDloyi&ent service. Ra^o. ■

tive aod aeroplsDe elsetriesl courses tbst are included.

- ■ ■ ■ ■■ _■

Citv State.

lOsreignWMid

Like to Travel — does Romantic, .Wealthy Sooth America call yoo? Unosoal ^portunities for youns men. American ^nployerspayfareand expenses. Bigpay I ^write for Free Information and Instructions, '*How to Apply for Position,’' No obligations. SOUTH AMERICAN SERVICE BUREAU $4600 Atma Avenae* Ootreltv Mich*

^rOOOKief

Explains many mystifying tricks with coins, cards, handkerchiefs, etc., you can do. Also contains complete catalog of Magic Tricks, Jokes. Puzzles, Escapes, ('urios, and Imported Novelties from many Foreign lands. Large assortment, lowest prices. You will amaze and mystify your friends! Send 10c today.

LYLE DOUGLAS,

Station A-6 Oallas, Toxaa

_^uil treatmcDt seot oo triaL Can be

tlveo aecredjr In privacy of borne. Guaraiiteed

iforever lU deiire for whiskey, gin. wine, home

I brow, moonabioe, opium, morphine, berom, paregoric aod

taodnum. Coats $2J)0 if cui^ oorhlng U fella. Save him from Poison. CTANDARO LASORAlOfnijs Su. N-88 BALTIMORE. UO.

SONO POEM WRITERS— “REAL" PROPOSItion. Hibbcler, D-156, 2104 N. Keystone,

Cbicago.



The City of Iron Cubes

(Continued from page 324)

long yeat's. At last, frightened to desperation, she must have done something which opened the doors. Is it not so, Aien?” He leaned forward affectionately to pat her hand.

I had become so absorbed in his story of the happenings on that faraway world that I had lost track of the happenings in our immediate vicinity. Which, perhaps, accounts for the fact that it was not until he had finished the tale that I realized that for the past few minutes a faint hissing sound had been piercing the partly wrecked walls of the cabin. It was a sound as of a giant blow-torch cutting thi’ough metal. Although I had heard it only once before, I was sure that my faculties interpreted it correctly.

Across the valley, the last visitors from beyond the stars were cutting their way out!

A ien and the professor became conscious of the disturbance nearly at the same instant, and we all rushed to the tiny window, straining our eyes to behold the fierce cutting flame which we knew must be there. Even from our distant position it was easy to see that our suspicions were well founded. As we watched, the flame completed its chiseling through the iron wall of the eighth cube and the heated metal fell outward to clang brazenly against the earth.

“Will they be friendly, do you think. Doctor?” I whispered. “Or will it be — otherwise?”

“I don’t know,” he replied, “but from the attitude of our visitor I should believe — otherwise.”

Her head bowed between her shoulders, Aien was staring hopelessly at the black hole in the side of the cube. In her attitude Avas dejection so complete and absolute that one felt she had abandoned all hope. I have seen soldiers stand so when alone and friendless they faced an overwhelming rush of gray-clad, bayonet-waving figures.

Not knowing definitely what to fear, I could not give up so easily. “How much time will we have?” I asked.

He shook his head. “I don’t know. It is possible that they may not discover us until night. It depends on how many there are of them.

“You stay here and care for Aien,” he ordered. “I have something that must be done at once.” And without wasting further time he left us, descending, I noticed, through a trap-door in the floor of the cabin Avhieh had previously escaped my attention.

We Avere alone, Aien and I; alone, that is, Avith the exception of the black hole Avhich yawned in the side of the metal mountain a scant halfmile aAvay. Hoping to arouse her from her despondency, I took her by the hand and gently twisted her aAvay from the window.

The gray eyes Avhieh stared into my OAvn Avere abstracted and fixed.

“Aien, Aien,” I entreated her, “what does it matter? Come, look at me?” I placed my hands on her shoulders and bent my head nearly to a level with her eyes. Automatically, she became aAvare of the contact of my hands and .shrugged her shoulders to throw them off.

I shook her gently as one chastises a friend. Instantly she responded and her expression grew proud and haughty. For an interval our glances clashed like two rivers of molten steel meeting in a single fiery channel. The gray eyes became suddenly



more fierce and then, as I did not relax my grasp, grew scornful.

Yet I would not loosen the clasp of my hands on her shoulders. Indeed I could not if I would. Between us the invisible magnetic current of life pulsed fiercely. I knew that despite herself she must feel it even as I.

For an instant she struggled frantically while I, scarce knowing what I was doing, drew her toward me. Then she relaxed, and, imprisoned in my arms, ceased to fight.

It was the relaxation which brought me to my senses. It was incredible. I had met her but a few short hours ago and now — I knew that in another second I must have kissed her.

I released her, and bowing my head humbly murmured, ‘ ‘ I beg your pardon,” forgetful that my language was meaningless to her. Yet I think she understood, perhaps from my attitude, for her scornful glance melted and her hand sought my own to clasp it for a brief second ere it dropped away. Then we turned to the cube, I, for one, careless of what might have happened during our period of abstraction. At least I knew she had forgiven me.

I reached for a pair of field glasses and focused them upon the entrance. Together we waited for what was to take place.

I T MUST have been at least a halfhour before we noticed any movement. Then a man appeared in the entrance with his hand shading his eyes from the fierce glare of the sunlight. For a long minute he stood there, framed in the metal doorway, and I wondered what were his thoughts. It must have been a marvelous sensation to be the first to look upon a new and strange woi’ld, a world which was awaiting a conqueror; to be the first to step from space upon the soil of an unknown land. Dangerous he might be, and

TOBACCO HABIT ^ STOPPED or

Money, ^

For

inorethan^ _ ,

60 years Th^ ,

Keaey Treatment has been snocessful ... in thousands ^ and thousands of cases. It ^ bas been tried and tested, and It offers you the easiest. qiUckeb* surest way on earth or stopping useof tobacco without Inconvei unpleasant effects.

Thousands Praise Keeley Treatment" „

Heavy, inveterate tobacco users are amaaed at the easev^ with which this wonderful treatment enables them to stop < 2 s!ng tobacco. Itls thesafo, reliable method— known to ana mdorsed by the medical profession for half a century^

. Take Treatment At Our Risk If, after you have taken this treatment, you are not satis* fled. It will not cost you a cent. The Keeley Treatment s^ dom falls: tbatiswhywocanmakesuch anun* Qualified guarantee. You arc judge and jury* This Booklet FREE Every tobacco usershould read thcamae* ing facta in this booklet. It tells youlwhat physicians have found out about the harmful effects of tobacco: what Insurancestatistics reveal, and many othes Interesting facts. 1 1 is free. Send today* THE KEELEY INSTITUTE Dept. E«700 Dwightp IIHnolO

What Do You Want?

\Vliatever it ia we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

** Clouds Dispelled**

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Ast today! Write NOW!!

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT

Oept. O. Box 1525, Los Anireles, Oalif.

How to Obtain

A Perfect Looking Nose

My latost Improved Model 26 eorreett now 111-shaped nogei quickly, painlessly, permanently and comfortably at home. It is the only noseshaping appliance of precise adjustment and a safe and guaranteed patent device that will actually give you a perfect looking nose. Write for free booklet which tella you how to obtain a perfect looking nose. M. Trilety, Pioneer Noseahapl^ Specialist, Dept. 31 91,Btnghamton,N.T

X RAY KATHOSCOPB. Pock- * ct Detector. Everybody wantf) it. See your best girl and all 8he*s doing. No one knows; you see everything. Periscope operates in all climates; lasts lifetime: ready for use. Made of hard rubber. $1.00 cash with order for this wonderful instrument and 8 astonishing French pictures.

KATHOS CO., P. 0. Box 8302. CHy Hall Post Office, NewYorkCity

OLD MONEY WANTED

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. ICeop All Old Money. It may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4xG. Guaranteed Prices. Got Posted. We pay cash. CLARKB COIN CO., V>. T. Dept., LeRoy, N. T.

MRN, GET FOREST RANGER JOB; $125-$300 mo. and home furnished: hunt, fish. trap. For details, write Norton Inst., 16S1 Temple Court, Denver. Colo.



an etenial enemy, bnt I envied him the glory of that single instant.

Even as we watched, it was over; for with a graceful movement he raised his hand high overhead in silent salute. Then he turned and vanished into the interior.

I turned back to the cabin and secured a rifle and a bandolier of shells. It was as well to be prepared for whatever might take place.

Wlien I returned to the window a file of men were pouring from the cntranceway. They wore tight-fitting clothes of an unusual and virtually invisible shade of gray. Under the arm of each man was a long tube, shaped somewhat like a rifle, but with a barrel two or three times the size. Although I was ignorant of its purpose, I assumed it to be a weapon.

Apparently all had received their orders beforehand ; for, without a sound that we could hear, they formed into little groups of three or four and disappeared into the sui’- rounding territory. Following them were other men, dozens of them, who behaved in the same startling manner. I could admire them for their skill and the ability with which the}' performed the maneuver even while I feared for what their near approach might mean to iis.

The strangers who were leaving the cube noAv were no longer armed, but instead carried tools; strange tools of an inconceivable utility. These men Avere workers, not fighters. Even as I Avatched, they commenced the assembling of a huge and uiiAvieldy apparatus in an open space before the (Uibe. They Avorked swiftly and with a minimum of orders, each man performing some particular task. A group of head engineers or overseers left the cube next and stopped to watch the assembling. Prom their reserved and dignified appearance it was not difficult to deduce that they were the chiefs of the enterprise, Avhatever it might be.

In a few minutes the scouts began to report back. A drab figure would arise from the earth as a veritable shadoAv-man materializing from nothingness. The scout would incline his head briefly, speak a feAv words and vanish as he had come.

A few minutes later two soldiers, for such these men must be, came into vieAV carrying between them a burden wrapped in a white cloth. I looked quickly at Aien. To me the nature of their burden was obvious at once. They had discovered the entrance to the seventh cube, had penetrated to the interior and were carrying the corpse of the old inventor.

Aien Avas regarding the scene with interest, and with a trace of fear, but there Avas no indication that she had guessed the contents of the whiteAvrapped package.

The leaders were watching the approaching soldiers with intense curiosity. As I watched, one of them stepped forward and directed the scouts to lay down their burden. He stared into the face of the shrouded figure and then, to my disgust, spat upon the uncovered features.

Then he evidently asked the guard a question, for the felloAv shook his head in negation. A commotion at the entrance to the cube temporarily distracted my attention. They were bringing out a man, obviously a prisoner, for his hands were bound behind him.

At the orders of the leader, they led the captive across the open space to confront him with the corpse. He stared at the dead features and then started in surprize and grief. Then he stood with drooping head as before. His attitude and indifference appeared to enrage the leader, for he motioned back the guards and advanced upon the prisoner.

Aien, whom I had disregarded in my excitement, chose that moment to pluck me by the sleeve and mutely

WEIKD TALES


request the loan of my glasses. Foolishly I gave them to her.

The man, as I could see with my naked eye, was regarding the approaching leader with an air of defiant hopelessness. So quickly it occurred that I had scarcely time to gasp befoi-e the lean hands of the leader closed around the throat of the captive and throttled him before our very eyes !

Aien screamed, dropped the glasses and bolted for the door. I sprang after her and caught her on the threshold. For a moment we fought fiercely before I succeeded in dragging her back to the safety of the room. Seemingly bent upon attempting a rescue of the man attacked, she fought as one demented, and it required my entire strength to subdue her. Then she collapsed on the floor, sobbing and crying in despair.

The earth chose that moment to turn and twist under our feet. Instantly I thought of the arrival of another cube and then realized that this time it was a true earth tremor. The entire floor of the plateau shifted and settled. The shock was not a bad one, but, combined with the affair of the night before, it was sufficient to complete the wrecking of our roof. Before I had time to move, the entire expanse of heavy thatch sagged drunkenly and collapsed on our heads. I was caught, pinned down beneath the wreckage.

Strangely enough I felt no pain, although I had been felled to the ground by the initial blow. T realized that the force of the fall had been broken by the stout wooden table which stood in the center of the room and that, unless the tremor increased in force, we were safe from further harm.

But what had become of the doctor and Aien ?

In much less time than it takes to tell all this, the quake passed and I heard it rumbling away, echoing and re-echoing into the circle of mounThis New Way GERMAN DISCOVERY Works Wonders in 3 Days!

R ead free offer! worry no more over your pimples, blackheads, large pores, shiny nose, oily akin, freckles, unsightly blemishea and surface wrinkles that ruin your complexion! Learn FREE how to make disfiguring blotches "fail off" and have a new, clear, smooth skin on face, neck, arms, hands or any part of body. Makes you lookmore youthful and beautiful — years younger! New skin comes — old skin falls off! Blemishes positively GONE, because they're OFF! Simple, harmless, easy! Different from anything 5’ou ever tried! All explained In wonderful new book in English language entitled —

“Beautiful New Skin in 3 Days”

Send no money — just name and address. Get it by return mail, postpaid — FREE!

Addrass MARVO LAB., Dept. 324.F No. 1700 Broadway New York, N. Y

Backache

If Bladder Weakness, Getting Up Nights, Backache, Burning or Itching Sensation, leg or groin pains make you feel old, tired, pepless, and worn out why not make the Cystex 48 Hour Test? Don't give up. Get Cystex today at any drug store. Put it to a 48 hour te.st. Money back if you don’t soon feel like new, full of pep, sleep well, with pains alleviated. Try Cystex today. Only 60c.

VES?

Are You Always Excited? Fatigued? Worried? — . Gloomy? Pessimistic? Constipation, indigestion, cold

MCDtie “bd sex weakness are caased by

NEIWE EXHAUSTION. toniett and medte^n^H eannot heln

i/'oaA:. Biek ntn’en! Loam how to regain Vigor, Calmnetui and Seix Lonhoencc. Send 2Sc for this amazing boot;.

RICHARD BUICKSTONE, N-.iOX FLATIRON BUILOING. NEW YORK

HTS

Amazing discovery. Stops Epileptic attacks at once. NO IJUO^dlDES — NO LIQUID MEDICINE. Results guaranteed or first treatment costs nothing. Write at once.

REMEDY RRODUCTS. INC..

Box No. 225 Gon. P. O. New York. Dept. 0-09

^or DRUG HABIT

^ B CURED FOREVER or NO PAY

- ^ _ Full treatment sent on trial. Can be _ J given secretly in privacy of iiome. Guaranteed _ - to banish forever all desire for whiskey, gin, wine, home ■brew, moonshine, opium, moipI\u>e. heroin, paregoric and llaudnum. Gosts $2.00 iTcures, nothing If fails. STANDAJRJ> • laboratories Sta.NP83 BALTIMORE, MD.

mo PAY: SOtJTn A3IEKICAN WOKK. AMKKican firms pay faro, expenses. South American Service Bureau, 14,600 Alma, Detroit, Mich.



/30*3V

TIRES

Jit Uras ar* a«t Mils- ■ _ 'factory rotom In 10 HP Dmb and OoiYOUR f MONBV BACK

29X4^0

BAaOON

TIRES

L^aisJ

swo.i“ - uevf

Hl8''*’'®¥we8 SW* V-9®

32*4 •• •• 3,20 33*4 /•• 3.50 2.<K> 32*4H- ■

33 * 4 >| - ’* 3.70 2 -^ 34*456- ••• 4.00 2-^'

• ■ ■■ 4-'®

83*5 ••■• 4.20 2^ 35*5

Sava 80% by buying theae nna uMd tires now.

Send SI deposit for each tire ordered. Balance

the ^iisED TIRE CO. OF CHICAGO Dept. 1 ze, 2S53 S. State St.. Chleaso. III.

PERSONAL Appearance

h DOTT more than ever the key uote of success. ix>th in social and busl* ness life. Bow-Lagged andKnock-Kneedmen and womeiig both young and old. will be glad to hear that my new applL anco will successfully straighten, witbinashort time, IsoW'leggeduess and knock'kneed legs, safely, quickly and per* uianently. without pain, operation or discomfort. Worn at night. My new ‘'iJm-Strallucr”, 51odel 18, U. S. Patent. is easy to ailjuEt; its results will soon save you from further humiliation, and iiiiproTc your personal appearance 100 per cent. (Model IHis not like old-fashioned splints or braces, with bothersome straps, hard to adjust, but a scientific, modern device of proven merit, used and recommended for the last 8 years by physicians everywhere.)

Write today for particulars* testimonials and my free copyrighted pltysinlogical and anatomical book which tells you how to correct tiow and knock-kneed legs without any obligation. Bneiose a dime for postage.

M. TRILETY. SPECIALIST 1676L, W. U. Buildine, Binghamton, N. Y.

•RESIRAHCB

.. Men. get Forest Ranger job; $125'$200 , mo. and home ftimishw; hunt, fish, trap, ^etc.; vacations on full' pay. For details, write

NORTON INST-

■TOBACCO -*

I Cubed Or NoPatI

Fidl treatment ■ ifit&ilL OverS

m en inuL aaniUBSe, vobib u cunHi, nouuag u »i> uuia. v/vw

leaOiOOO tnatmsnto lued 8UPERBA CO. NT-17, edtimor*. Md.

MOVIE CAaiERAS, FIItMS, BOOKLET, 10c. ■Tohn J. Young. General P. O. Box 28. New York City.

tains surrounding ns. I struggled fiercely to free myself but found that my strength was insufficient. Forgetful of the necessity for silence, I shouted again and again.

A queer feeling that someone was watching me at last silenced my cries.

The resulting quiet was uncanny. I endeavored to twist my head to one side in an effort to see what had impressed me. The effort was futile. I was pinned fast as though held in a vise.

Then into my circle of vision moved a pair of legs. They were strange legs and I was sure that they belonged neither to Aien nor the professor. They were gray-clad, the very color worn by the shadowscouts. Back and forth they moved before my eyes, and then, as their owner stepped hack to catch a better view, I saw him in his entirety.

It was indeed one of the enemy — a spare man of medium height and with cold, cruel eyes. Seeing that I was conscious, he addressed several words to me. I .shook my head to show that I did not understand. He leaned his weapon against the wall and strode across the room to me.

So, after all, they are going to be friendly, I thought, as he knelt down beside me. It was only when his long, naiTow’ fingers closed around my throat that I remembered the fate of the strange prisoner. So it was to be that ! Of course in a world which was perishing through lack of air, strangulation would be the most cruel death.

Gently, almost lovingly, the fingers tightened around my throat. My breath was cut off. Everything turned black. It was so easy to die! As from a great distance I was aware of an explosion. The hands around my throat relaxed and I lapsed into a cool and quiet unconsciousness.

The catastrophe, and the astounding secret of the origin of the men from the iron cubes, will be related in the concluding chapters of this story in next month’s WEIRD TALES.

MIRACLES

OF

SCIENCE

Beautifully hound in rich blue cloth with attractive orange-colored jacket.

The Making of Another Moon!

N umerous legends almost as old as the human race represent that the earth once had two moons. Have you ever heard of the Sect of Two Moons? They were the sorcerers of China and were the greatest scientists this world had ever produced. Talk of modern progress — our arts and sciences, our discoveries and inventions are child’s play beside the accomplishments of this race of Chinese devils. Shut away in that remote interior — in a valley so little lieard of that it is almost mythical — beyond trackless deserts and the loftiest mountains on the globe — this terrible sect of sorcerers has been growing in power for tliousands of years, storing up secret energy that some day should inundate the world with horrors such as never had been known.

Crammed With Action

This novel narrates the sensational attempt of a group of Chinese scientists to obtain rulership of the world by a tremendous threat against the very existence of the earth. The diabolical methods by which they put their scheme into execution, the frantic race across the ocean to circumvent them, the weird and exciting adventures that befell, make one of the moat gripping and fascinating novels ever written.

And Other Stories

In addition to this full-length novel, wo are also including in this book three shorter

stories by well-known authors — thrilling weird stories that appeared in early issues of Weird Tales:

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrett, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.

A Superb Book

Order your copy today! You will enjoy reading this book.

If your bookdealer doesn’t carry this book in stock, have him order it for you, or, mail the coupon to us and we will send the book direct to you postage prepaid.

I Weird Tales, Book Dept., M>13,

I 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.

( Enclosed find $1.50 for cloth-bound- copy of THE MOON TERROR.

I

I Name I Address

I City

State.

It Was the Greatest Shock

of My Life to Hear Her Play

how had she found time to practice?

*«TTrELL, Jim— I told you I had a

W surprise for you !'*

" ~ She beamed at her husband, delighted to see how surprised — and pleased — he was.

And I was astonished, too. Quite casually she had gone to the piano, sat <lown — and played! Played beautifully — though I had never seen her touch a piano before. Neither of us could conceal our curiosity.

“How did you ever do it?*’ her husband asked. “When did you find time to practice ?’*

“And who is your teacher?” I added.

“Wait, wait!” she laughed. "One question at a time. I have no teacher, that is, no private teacher, and I do my practicing between dishes.”

“No teacher?”

“No — I learned to play the piano an entirely new way — without a teacher. You see, all my life I wanted to play some musical instrument. I thought I’d never learn how to play, though — for I haven’t much time to spare, and I thought it would take long hours of hard work. And I thought it would be expensive, too.”

“Well, it is hard work, and it is expensive,” I said. “Why, I have a sister . . .”

“I know,” she laughed, “but I learned to play the piano through the new simplified method. Some time ago I saw an announcement of the U. S. School of Music. It told how a young man had learned to play the piano during his spare time without a teacher. I found that thousands of others had learned to play their

favorite musical instruments in this same delightful, easy way, and so I decided to enroll for a course in piano playing.”

“But you didn’t tell me anything about it,” Jim said.

“Well, you see, that was my big surprise. Ever since I received my first lesson I've been practicing by myself — during the day while you’ve been away at business. I turned my spare moments between housekeeping and shopping into something pleasant and profitable.”

“If you planned to surprise me — you’ve certainly succeeded,” said Jim.

Learn to Play at Home

This story is typical. Thousands of men and women have learned to play their favorite musical instruments through the U. S. School of Music.

Are you letting priceless moments slip by when you could be

learning to play some

musical instrument — easily quickly ?

You simply can not go wrong. First you are told how a thing is done, then by illustration and diagram you are shown how, and

when you play — you hear it.

Thus you actually teach yourself to become an accomplished ^ musician right in your own home. Withoiit any long hours of tedious practice. Without dull or uninteresting scales you learn hOw to play real music from real notes.

Here is your chance to become a good player — quicklv — without a

teacher. The U. S. School of Music

will make you a capable and efficient player. Many of our pupils now have positions with professional bands and orchestras.

Demonstration Lesson Free

Half a million people have already taught themselves to play their favorite instruments right in their own home. To prove that you, too, can learn music this fascinating way, let us send you our free book, “Music Lessons in Your Own Homo,” which fully explains this remarkable method. We will include also our Free Demonstration' Lesson.

Mail Coupon Today

If you really want to gain new happiness and increase your popularity — send off this coupon at once. Forget the old-fashioned idea that “talent” means everything. Decide which instrument you want to play, and the U. S. School of Music will do the rest. At the average cost of only fi few pennies a day! Act Now. Mail coupon today for the fascinating Free Book and Demonstration Lesson. IT. S. School of Music, 463 Brunswick Bldg., New York City.

TT ,S. School of Music

463 Brunswick Bldg., New York City.

Please send me your free bonk "Music Lessons in Yntir Own Home” with introduction by Dr. Frank Crane, Free Demonstration Lesson and particulars of your easy payment plan. I am interested in the following course:

Have you above instrument?

Name --

(Please Write Plainly)

Address

City State _

Choose Your Course

F'iaiio Piccolo Harp Organ (’larinet ’Cello Violin Flute , Guitar Hawaiian Guitar Drums and Traps IMandolln Trombone Sight 8ingingC!ornet tlknlele Saxophone %'oice and Speech Culture Automatic Finger Control Piano- Accordion Banjo (Plectrum,

5 String or Tenor)

Also /or Advanced Pianfsts . a Special Course incltiding 24 famous classics — a distinctive addition to any pianist’s repertoire.

[THE END]
