============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 34, Number 4
Date: October 1939
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Finished Game ......" by Harry Butman
  2. "Worms of the Earth .." by Robert E. Howard
  3. "The Bream ......." by Edith Hurley
============================================================
============================================================
by Harry Butman
============================================================
God’s voice had called, and so I must depart. One candle flared into a tall, black plume As wearily I sighed and left the room.

T? '

I inished Game

By HARRY BUTMAN

What weird compulsion led the player to make the moves he did in that archaic chess game?

M R. CABOT reluctantly pushed a black pawn forward. His position was nearly hopeless, and familiar symptoms of frustration and annoyance began to simmer in him. This was the worst of being club champion. You had to play every touring master who came to Boston.

The thin-faced youngster across the table brought his cleverly masked bishop out of hiding.

"Check,” he said.

Mr. Cabot made a pretense of studying the board. You had to look as though you were trying, if only for the sake of the century-old tradition of the Sommers Club. There seemed to be something familiar about the position of the pieces. Suddenly his attention sharpened. The pieces were approaching Morrison’s Game.

"The first time I’ve ever seen it come up in play,” he murmured.

"I beg your pardon,” said his opponent. "Excuse me,” said Mr. Cabot. "I just remembered something.”

On a shelf in a closet of that very room stood an unfinished game, with bone chessmen, stuck to the board with varnish a century had set, arranged as the pieces in today’s game, with only the positions of black’s king and white’s knight altered. There was a tale told of that carefully preserved game.

The first and greatest of the Sommers Club champions was Talbot Morrison, who, during his Wander jahr on the Continent had amazed the chess masters of the Old World with the genius of his play.

When Mr. Cabot was a boy he had heard the story from one who had been present that morning when Talbot Morrison’s carelessness had brought him to the verge of checkmate while playing a novice from Salem. Perhaps it was not wholly carelessness, for as Morrison sat drumming the table with his fingers, Henry Crandall, his closest friend, pushed his bulky watch into a pocket of his flowered waistcoat, and touched Morrison on the arm.

"We’ll be late, Talbot,” he said.

Talbot Morrison stood up reluctantly.

"By the laws of chess,” he said, "I forfeit this game by leaving the room. But will you do me the honor, sir, to permit me to finish the game later? Had I more time I think I could study out a solution.”

His opponent beamed, well pleased at the play that had placed the great Morrison in an impossible position.

"We’ll put the board aside, Mr. Morrison,” he agreed, "till you come bade.”

"Thank you,” said Talbot Morrison. "I will certainly return to finish this game.”

But when Talbot Morrison came back from his trip from a lonely West Roxbury farm he played no chess, for there was an ounce ball in his brain. His adversary fled to Canada, for affairs of honor were no longer legal.

Out of memory to their champion the directors caused the pieces to be varnished




in place and set aside. Through the years, now and then, men toyed with the problem, and while some could stave off black’s defeat longer than could others, it was at last conceded by all that white was unbeatable. Mr. Cabot had tried it himself alone in the club, afternoons, but the odd unease that assailed him, the curious sense of pressure on him whenever the game was set up, led him to cease seeking a solution.

M R. CABOT, back in the present, moved his king out of check. He was certain his opponent would move the white knight. A dream-quality, a sense of having been there before, was creeping over Mr. Cabot. The young man moved his knight.

There it was. After a hundred years, out of all the infinite combinations possible to chess, Morrison’s Game had at last reappeared.

Mr. Cabot definitely did not like the way his mind was behaving. You’re getting as silly as Old Bangs, he told himself.

Old Bangs was the club custodian, a fey old fellow who put outlandish interpretations on the noises he heard about the venerable chambers at night, surmises which so annoyed Mr. Cabot that only yesterday he had baited a trap with his own hands and a bit of his own Stilton to prove to Old Bangs that nothing more eery than a solitary rat was responsible. Mr. Cabot wouldn’t have liked it if anyone had said that he had sacrificed genuine imported Stilton because he too wanted proof.

Mr. Cabot watched his right hand irrelevantly move a pawn. He wasn’t sure why he made that particular move. His opponent puckered his lips, breathed

through his teeth in an abstracted fashion, and countered. Again Mr. Cabot’s hand made an apparently aimless move. This time the young man looked keenly at him and studied the board for several minutes before responding.

The habitues of the club watching the game, began to buzz softly behind the backs of their hands. Swiftly, as though he had rehearsed this game many times, Mr. Cabot maneuvered his pieces. The young man buried his head in his hands and thought long over each reply. But, incredibly, black had seized the offensive and the white pieces were in retreat.

Somewhat over an hour later Mr. Cabot made his final move.

"Checkmate,” he said.

Mr. Cabot was aware of his friends jovially pummeling his shoulders. He was also aware of the amazement on his opponent’s face.

"Why,” he cried, looking at Mr. Cabot wildly, "you played like nothing human. How did you do it?”

"I don’t know,” began Mr. Cabot confusedly, rubbing his hand hard across his eyes. “I———”

A muffled crash from the closet stepped him.

Old Bangs was the first to open the door. The board with Morrison’s Game had fallen from the shelf, and the pieces were scattered.

"You were right, Mr. Cabot,” admitted Old Bangs. "It was a rat, after all. And he’s finished that game, all right.”

Mr. Cabot’s mind was still confused from his strange victory.


[THE END]

============================================================
by Robert E. Howard
============================================================
Should I tell him, he wondered, that I caught the rat this morning?

orms of

the Earth

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

TRIKE in the nails, soldiers, and let our guest see the reality of ^ our good Roman justice!”

The speaker wrapped his purple cloak closer about his powerful frame and settled back into his official chair, much as he might have settled back in his seat at the Circus Maximus to enjoy the clash of gladiatorial swords. Realization of power colored his every move. Whetted pride was necessary to Roman satisfaction, and Titus Sulla was justly proud; for he was military governor of Ebbracum and answerable only to the Emperor of Rome. He was a strongly built man of medium height, with the hawk-like features of the purebred Roman. Now a mocking smile curved his full lips, increasing the arrogance of his haughty aspect. Distinctly military in appearance, he wore the golden-scaled corselet and chased breastplate of his rank, with the short stabbing-sword at his belt, and he held on his knee the silvered helmet with its plumed crest. Behind him stood a clump of impassive soldiers with shield and spear — blond titans from the Rhineland.

Before him was taking place the scene which apparently gave him so much real gratification — a scene common enough wherever stretched the far-flung boundaries of Rome. A rude cross lay flat upon the barren earth and on it was bound a man — half naked, wild of aspect with his corded limbs, glaring eyes and shock of tangled hair. His executioners were Roman soldiers, and with heavy hammers they prepared to pin the victim’s hands and feet to the wood with iron spikes.

Only a small group of men watched this ghastly scene, in the dread place of execution beyond the city walls: the governor and his watchful guards; a few young Roman officers; the man to whom Sulla had referred as "guest” and who stood like a bronze image, unspeaking. Beside the gleaming splendor of the Roman, the quiet garb of this man seemed drab, almost somber.

He was dark, but he did not resemble the Latins around him. There was about him none of the warm, almost Oriental sensuality of the Mediterranean which colored their features. The blond barbarians

* From WEIRD TALES for November, 1932.




behind Sulla’s chair were less unlike the man in facial outline than were the Romans. Not his were the full curving lips, nor the rich waving locks suggestive of the Greek. Nor was his dark complexion the rich olive of the south; rather it was the bleak darkness of the north. The whole aspect of the man vaguely suggested the shadowed mists, the gloom, the cold and icy winds of the naked northern lands. Even his black eyes were savagely cold, like black fires burning through fathoms of ice.

His height was only medium but there was something about him which transcended mere physical bulk — a certain fierce innate vitality, comparable only to that of a wolf or a panther. In every line of his supple, compact body, as well as in his coarse straight hair and thin lips, this was evident — in the hawk-like set of the head on the corded neck, in the broad square shoulders, in the deep chest, the lean loins, the narrow feet. Built with the savage economy of a panther, he was an image of dynamic potentialities, pent in with iron self-control.

At his feet crouched one like him in complexion — but there the resemblance ended. This other was a stunted giant, with gnarly limbs, thick body, a low sloping brow and an expression of dull ferocity, now clearly mixed with fear. If the man on the cross resembled, in a tribal way, the man Titus Sulla called guest, he far more resembled the stunted crouching giant.

"Well, Partha Mac Othna,” said the governor with studied effrontery, "when you return to your tribe, you will have a tale to tell of the justice of Rome, who rules the south.”

"I will have a tale,” answered the other in a voice which betrayed no emotion, just as his dark face, schooled to immobility, showed no evidence of the maelstrom in his soul.

"Justice to all under the rule of Rome,”

said Sulla. "Pax Romana! Reward for virtue, punishment for wrong!” He laughed inwardly at his own black hypocrisy, then continued: "You see, emissary of Pictland, how swiftly Rome punishes the transgressor.”

"I see,” answered the Piet in a voice which strongly-curbed anger made deep with menace, "that the subject of a foreign king is dealt with as though he were a Roman slave.”

"He has been tried and condemned in an unbiased court,” retorted Sulla.

"Aye! and the accuser was a Roman, the witnesses Roman, the judge Roman! He committed murder? In a moment of fury he struck down a Roman merchant who cheated, tricked and robbed him, and to injury added insult — aye, and a blow! Is his king but a dog, that Rome crucifies his subjects at will, condemned by Roman courts? Is his king too weak or foolish to do justice, were he informed and formal charges brought against the offender?”

"Well,” said Sulla cynically, "you may inform Bran Mak Morn yourself. Rome, my friend, makes no account of her actions to barbarian kings. When savages come among us, let them act with discretion or suffer the consequences.”

THE Piet shut his iron jaws with a snap that told Sulla further badgering would elicit no reply. The Roman made a gesture to the executioners. One of them seized a spike and placing it against the thick wrist of the victim smote heavily. The iron point sank deep through the flesh, crunching against the bones. The lips of the man on the cross writhed, though no moan escaped him. As a trapped wolf fights against his cage, the bound victim instinctively wrenched and struggled. The veins swelled in his temples, sweat beaded his low forehead, the muscles in arms and legs writhed and knotted. The hammers fell in inexorable strokes, driving the cruel



points deeper and deeper, through wrists and ankles; blood flowed in a black river over the hands that held the spikes, staining the wood of the cross, and the splintering of bones was distinctly heard. Yet the sufferer made no outcry, though his blackened lips writhed back until the gums were visible, and his shaggy head jerked involuntarily from side to side.

The man called Partha Mac Othna stood like an iron image, eyes burning from an inscrutable face, his whole body as hard as iron from the tension of his control. At his feet crouched his misshapen servant, hiding his face from the grim sight, his arms locked about his master’s knees. Those arms gripped like steel and under his breath the fellow mumbled ceaselessly as if in invocation.

The last stroke fell; the cords were cut from arm and leg, so that the man would hang supported by the nails alone. He had ceased his struggling that only twisted the spikes in his agonizing wounds. His bright black eyes, unglazed, had not left the face of the man called Partha Mac Othna; in them lingered a desperate shadow of hope. Now the soldiers lifted the cross and set the end of it in the hole prepared, stamped the dirt about it to hold it erect.

The Piet hung in mid-air, suspended by the nails in his flesh, but still no sound escaped his lips. His eyes still hung on the somber face of the emissary, but the shadow of hope was fading.

“He’ll live for days!” said Sulla cheerfully. "These Piets are harder than cats to kill! I’ll keep a guard of ten soldiers watching day and night to see that no one takes him down before he dies. Ho, there, Valerius, in honor of our esteemed neighbor, King Bran Mak Morn, give him a cup of wine!”

With a laugh the young officer came forward, holding a brimming wine-cup, and rising on his toes, lifted it to the

parched lips of the sufferer. In the black eyes flared a red wave of unquenchable hatred; writhing his head aside to avoid even touching the cup, he spat full into the young Roman’s eyes. With a curse Valerius dashed the cup to the ground, and before any could halt him, wrenched out his sword and sheathed it in the man’s body.

Sulla rose with an imperious exclamation of anger; the man called Partha Mac Othna had started violently, but he bit his lip and said nothing. Valerius seemed somewhat surprised at him, as he sullenly cleansed his sword. The act had been instinctive, following the insult to Roman pride, the one thing unbearable.

"Give up your sword, young sir!” exclaimed Sulla. "Centurion Publius, place him under arrest. A few days in a cell with stale bread and water will teach you to curb your patrician pride, in matters dealing with the will of the empire. What, you young fool, do you not realize that you could not have made the dog a more kindly gift? Who would not rather desire a quick death on the sword than the slow agony on the cross? lake him away. And you, centurion, see that guards remain at the cross so that the body is not cut down until the ravens pick bare the bones. Partha Mac Othna, I go to a banquet at the house of Demetrius — will you not accompany me?”

The emissary shook his head, his eyes fixed on the limp form which sagged on the black-stained cross. He made no reply. Sulla smiled sardonically, then rose and strode away, followed by his secretary who bore the gilded chair ceremoniously, and by the stolid soldiers, with whom walked Valerius, head sunken.

The man called Partha Mac Othna flung a wide fold of his cloak about his shoulder, halted a moment to gaze at the grim cross with its burden, darkly etched against the crimson sky, where the clouds of night



were gathering. Then he stalked away, followed by his silent servant.


TN AN inner chamber of Ebbracum, the man called Partha Mac Othna paced tigerishly to and fro. His sandaled feet made no sound on the marble tiles.

"Grom!” he turned to the gnarled servant, "well I know why you held my knees so tightly— why you muttered aid of the Moon-Woman — you feared I would lose my self-control and make a mad attempt to succor the poor wretch. By the gods, I believe that w'as what the dog Roman washed— his iron-cased watch-dogs watched me narrowly, I know, and his baiting was harder to bear than ordinarily.

"God black and white, dark and light!” he shook his clenched fists above his head in the black gust of his passion. "That I should stand by and see a man of mine butchered on a Roman cross — without justice and with no more trial than that farce! Black gods of R’lyeh, even you would I invoke to the ruin and destruction of those butchers! I swear by the Nameless Ones, men shall die howling for that deed, and Rome shall cry out as a woman in the dark who treads upon an adder!”

"He knew you, master,” said Grom. The other dropped his head and covered his eyes with a gesture of savage pain.

"His eyes will haunt me when I lie dying. Aye, he knew' me, and almost until the last, I read in his eyes the hope that I might aid him. Gods and devils, is Rome to butcher my people beneath my very eyes? Then I am not king but dog!”

"Not so loud, in the name of all the gods!” exclaimed Grom in affright. "Did these Romans suspect you were Bran Mak Morn, they would nail you on a cross beside that other.”

"They will know it ere long,” grimly answered the king. "Too long I have lingered here in the guise of an emissary, spying upon mine enemies. They have thought to play with me, these Romans, masking their contempt and scorn only under polished satire. Rome is courteous to barbarian ambassadors, they give us fine houses to live in, offer us slaves, pander to our lusts with women and gold and wine and games, but all the w'hile they laugh at us; their very courtesy is an insult, and sometimes — as today — their contempt discards all veneer. Bah! I’ve seen through their baitings — have remained imperturbably serene and swallowed their studied insults. But this — by the fiends of Hell, this is beyond human endurance! My people look to me; if I fail them — if I fail even one — even the lowest of my people, who will aid them? To whom shall they turn? By the gods, I’ll answer the gibes of these Roman dogs with black shaft and trenchant steel!”

"And the chief with the plumes?” Grom meant the governor, and his gutterals thrummed with the blood-lust. "He dies?” He flicked out a length of steel.

Bran scowled. "Easier said than done. He dies — but how may I reach him? By day his German guards keep at his back; by night they stand at door and window'. He has many enemies, Romans as well as barbarians. Many a Briton would gladly slit his throat.”

Grom seized Bran’s garment, stammering as fierce eagerness broke the bonds of his inarticulate nature.

"Let me go, master! My life is worth nothing. I will cut him down in the midst of his warriors!”

Bran smiled fiercely and clapped his hand on the stunted giant’s shoulder with a force that would have felled a lesser man.

"Nay, old war-dog, I have too much need of thee! You shall not throw your life away uselessly. Sulla would read the intent in your eyes, besides, and the javelins of his Teutons would be through you



ere you could reach him. Not by the dagger in the dark will we strike this Roman, not by the venom in the cup nor the shaft from tire ambush.”

The king turned and paced the floor a moment, his head bent in thought. Slowly his eyes grew murky with a thought so fearful he did not speak it aloud to the waiting warrior.

“I have become somewhat familiar with the maze of Roman politics during my stay in this accursed waste of mud and marble,” said he. "During a war on the Wall, Titus Sulla, as governor of this province, is supposed to hasten thither with his centuries. But this Sulla does not do; he is no coward, but the bravest avoid certain things — to each man, however bold, his own particular fear. So he sends in his place Caius Camillus, who in times of peace patrols the fens of the west, lest the Britons break over the border. And Sulla takes his place in the Tower of Trajan. Ha!”

He whirled and gripped Grom with steely fingers.

"Grom, take the red stallion and ride north! Let no grass grow under the stallion’s hoofs! Ride to Cormac na Connacht and tell him to sweep the frontier with sword and torch! Let his wild Gaels feast their fill of slaughter. After a time I will be with him. But for a time I have affairs in the west.”

Grom’s black eyes gleamed and he made a passionate gesture with his crooked hand — an instinctive move of savagery.

Bran drew a heavy bronze seal from beneath his tunic.

"This is my safe-conduct as an emissary to Roman courts,” he said grimly. "It will open all gates between this house and Baal-dor. If any official questions you too closely — here!”

Lifting the lid of an iron-bound chest, Bran took out a small, heavy leather bag which he gave into the hands of the warrior.

"When all keys fail at a gate,” said he, "try a golden key. Go now!”

There was no ceremonious farewell between the barbarian king and his barbarian vassal. Grom flung up his arm in a gesture of salute; then turning, he hurried out.

Bran stepped to a barred window and gazed out into the moonlit streets.

"Wait until the moon sets,” he muttered grimly. "Then I’ll take the road to — Hell! But before I go I have a debt to pay.”

The stealthy clink of a hoof on the flags reached him.

"With the safe-conduct and gold, not even Rome can hold a Pictish reaver,” muttered the king. "Now I’ll sleep until tine moon sets.”

WITH a snarl at the marble friezework and fluted columns, as symbols of Rome, he flung himself down on a couch, from which he had long since impatiently torn the cushions and silk stuffs, as too soft for his hard body. Hate and the black passion for vengeance seethed in him, yet he went instantly to sleep. The first lesson he had learned in his bitter hard life was to snatch sleep any time he could, like a wolf that snatches sleep on the hunting trail. Generally his slumber was as light and dreamless as a panther’s, but tonight it was otherwise.

He sank into fleecy gray fathoms of slumber and in a timeless, misty realm of shadows he met the tall, lean, whitebearded figure of old Gonar, the priest of the Moon, high counsellor to the king. And Bran stood aghast, for Gonar’s face was white as driven snow and he shook with ague. Well might Bran stand appalled, for in all the years of his life he had never before seen Gonar the Wise show any sign of fear.

“What now, old one?” asked the king. "Goes all well in Baal-dor?”

"All is well in Baal-dor where my body



lies sleeping,” answered old Gonar. "Across the void I have come to battle with you for your soul. King, are you mad, this thought you have in your brain?” "Gonar,” answered Bran somberly, "this day I stood still and watched a man of mine die on the cross of Rome. What his name or his rank, I do not know. I do not care. He might have been a faithful unknown warrior of mine, he might have been an outlaw. I only know that he was mine; the first scents he knew were the scents of the heather; the first light he saw was the sunrise on the Pictish hills. He belonged to me, not to Rome. If punishment was just, then none but me should have dealt it. If it were to be tried, none but me should have been his judge. The same blood flowed in our veins; the same fire maddened our brains; in infancy we listened to the same old tales, and in youth we sang the same old songs. He was bound to my heartstrings, as every man and every woman and every child of Pictland is bound. It was mine to protect him! now it is mine to avenge him.”

"But in the name of the gods. Bran,” expostulated the wizard, "take your vengeance in another way! Return to the heather — mass your warriors — join with Cormac and his Gaels, and spread a sea of blood and flame the length of the great Wall!” “All that I will do,” grimly answered Bran. "But now — now — I will have a vengeance such as no Roman ever dreamed of! Ha, what do they know of the mysteries of this ancient isle, which sheltered strange life long before Rome rose from the marshes of the Tiber?”

“Bran, there are weapons too foul to use, even against Rome!”

Bran barked short and sharp as a jackal. “Ha! There are no weapons I would not use against Rome! My back is at the wall. By the blood of the fiends, has Rome fought me fair? Bah! I am a barbarian king with a wolfskin mantle and an iron

crown, fighting with my handful of bows and broken pikes against the queen of the world. What have I? The heather hills, the wattle huts, the spears of my shockheaded tribesmen! And I fight Rome — with her armored legions, her broad fertile plains and rich seas — her mountains and her rivers and her gleaming cities — her wealth, her steel, her gold, her mastery and her wrath. By steel and fire I will fight her — and by subtlety and treachery — by the thorn in the foot, the adder in the path, tire venom in the cup, the dagger in the dark; aye,” his voice sank somberly, "and by the worms of the earth!”

"But it is madness!” cried Gonar. "You will perish in the attempt you plan — you will go down to Hell and you will not return! What of your people then?”

"If I cannot serve them I had better die,” growled the king.

"But you cannot reach the beings you seek,” cried Gonar. “For untold centuries they have dwelt apart. There is no door by which you can come to them. Long ago they severed the bonds that bound them to the world we know.”

“Long ago,” answered Bran somberly, "you told me that nothing in the universe was separated from the stream of Life — a saying the truth of which I have often seen evident. No race, no form of life but is close-knit somehow, by some manner, to the rest of Life and the world. Somewhere there is a thin link connecting those I seek to the world I know. Somewhere there is a Door. And somewhere among the bleak fens of the west I will find it.”

Stark horror flooded Gonar’s eyes and he gave back crying, “Wo! Wo! Wo! to Pictdom! Wo to the unborn kingdom! Wo, black wo to the sons of men!”

"ORAN awoke to a shadowed room and the starlight on the window-bars. The moon had sunk from sight, though its



glow was still faint above the house tops. Memory of his dream shook him and he swore beneath his breath.

Rising, he flung off cloak and mantle, donning a light shirt of black mesh-mail, and girding a sword and dirk. Going again to the iron-bound chest he lifted several compact bags and emptied the clinking contents into the leathern pouch at his girdle. Then wrapping his wide cloak about him, he silently left the house. No servants there were to spy on him — he had impatiently refused the offer of slaves which it was Rome’s policy to furnish her barbarian emissaries. Gnarled Grom had attended to all Bran’s simple needs.

The stables fronted on the courtyard. A moment’s groping in the dark and he placed his hand over the great stallion’s nose, checking the nicker of recognition. Working without a light he swiftly bridled and saddled the great brute, and went through the courtyard into a shadowy sidestreet, leading him. The moon was setting, the border of floating shadows widening along the western wall. Silence lay on the marble palaces and mud hovels of Ebbracum under the cold stars.

Bran touched the pouch at his girdle, which was heavy with minted gold that bore the stamp of Rome. He had come to Ebbracum posing as an emissary of Pictdom, to act the spy. But being a barbarian, he had not been able to play his part in aloof formality and sedate dignity. He retained a crowded memory of wild feasts where wine flowed in fountains; of whitebosomed Roman women, who, sated with civilized lovers, looked with something more than favor on a virile barbarian; of gladiatorial games; and of other games where dice clicked and spun and tall stacks of gold changed hands. He had drunk deeply and gambled recklessly, after the manner of barbarians, and he had had a remarkable run of luck, due possibly to the indifference with which he won or lost.

Gold to the Piet was so much dust, flowing through his fingers. In his land there was no need of it. But he had learned its power in the boundaries of civilization.

Almost under the shadow of the northwestern wall he saw ahead of him loom the great watch-tower which was connected with and reared above the outer wall. One corner of the castle-like fortress, farthest from the wall, served as a dungeon. Bran left his horse standing in a dark alley, with the reins hanging on the ground, and stole like a prowling wolf into the shadows of 'the fortress.

The young officer Valerius was awakened from a light, unquiet sleep by a stealthy sound at the barred window. He sat up, cursing softly under his breath as the faint starlight which etched the window-bars fell across the bare stone floor and reminded him of his disgrace. Well, in a few days, he ruminated, he’d be well out of it; Sulla would not be too harsh on a man w r ith such high connections; then let any man or woman gibe at him! Damn that insolent Piet! But wait, he thought suddenly, remembering: what of the sound which had roused him?

"Hssst!” it was a voice from the window.

Why so much secrecy? It could hardly be a foe — -yet, why should it be a friend? Valerius rose and crossed his cell, coming close to the window. Outside all was dim in the starlight and he made out but a shadowy form close to the window.

"Who are you?” he leaned close against the bars, straining his eyes into the gloom.

Elis answer was a snarl of wolfish laughter, a long flicker of steel in the starlight. Valerius reeled away from the window and crashed to the floor, clutching his throat, gurgling horribly as he tried to scream. Blood gushed through his fingers, forming about his twitching body a pool that reflected the dim starlight dully and redly.

Outside Bran glided away like a shadow.



without pausing to peer into the cell. In another minute the guards would round the corner on their regular routine. Even now he heard the measured tramp of their iron-clad feet. Before they came in sight he had vanished and they clumped stolidly by the cell-windows with no intimation of the corpse that lay on the floor within.

Bran rode to the small gate in the western wall, unchallenged by the sleepy watch. What fear of foreign invasion in Ebbracum? — and certain well-organized thieves and women-stealers made it profitable for the watchmen not to be too vigilant. But the single guardsman at the western gate — his fellows lay drunk in a near-by brothel — lifted his spear and bawled for Bran to halt and give an account of himself. Si-. lently the Piet reined closer. Masked in the dark cloak, he seemed dim and indistinct to the Roman, who was only aware of the glitter of his cold eyes in the gloom. But Bran held up his hand against the starlight and the soldier caught the gleam of gold; in the other hand he saw a long sheen of steel. The soldier understood, and he did not hesitate between the choice of a golden bribe or a battle to the death with this unknown rider who was apparently a barbarian of some sort. With a grunt he lowered his spear and swung the gate open. Bran rode through, casting a handful of coins to the Roman. They fell about his feet in a golden shower, clinking against the flags. He bent in greedy haste to retrieve them and Bran Mak Morn rode westward like a flying ghost in the night.


INTO the dim fens of the west came Bran Mak Morn. A cold wind breathed across the gloomy waste and against the gray sky a few herons flapped heavily. The long reeds and marsh-grass waved in broken undulations and out across the desolation of the wastes a few still meres reflected the dull light. Here and there rose curiously regular hillocks above the general levels, and gaunt against the somber sky Bran saw a marching line of upright monoliths — menhirs, reared by what nameless hands?

A faint blue line to the west lay the foothills that beyond the horizon grew to the wild mountains of Wales -where dwelt still wild Celtic tribes — fierce blue-eyed men that knew not the yoke of Rome. A row of well-garrisoned watch-towers held them in check. Even now, far away across the moors, Bran glimpsed the unassailable keep men called the Tower of Trajan.

These barren wastes seemed the dreary accomplishment of desolation, yet human life was not utterly lacking. Bran met the silent men of the fen, reticent, dark of eye and hair, speaking a strange mixed tongue whose long-blended elements had forgotten their pristine separate sources. Bran recognized a certain kinship in these people to himself, but he looked on them with the scorn of a pure-blooded patrician for men of mixed strains.

Not that the common people of Caledonia were altogether pure-blooded; they got their stocky bodies and massive limbs from a primitive Teutonic race which had found its way into the northern tip of the isle even before the Celtic conquest of Britain was completed, and had been absorbed by the Piets. But the chiefs of Bran’s folk had kept their blood from foreign taint since the beginnings of time, and he himself was a pure-bred Piet of the Old Race. But these fenmen, overrun repeatedly by British, Gaelic and Roman conquerors, had assimilated blood of each, and in the process almost forgotten their original language and lineage.

For Bran came of a race that was very old, which had spread over western Europe in one vast Dark Empire, before the coming of the Aryans, when the ancestors of the Celts, the Hellenes and the Germans



were one primal people, before the days of tribal splitting-off and westward drift.

Only in Caledonia, Bran brooded, had his people resisted the flood of Aryan conquest. He had heard of a Pictish people called Basques, who in the crags of the Pyrenees called themselves an unconquered race; but he knew that they had paid tribute for centuries to the ancestors of the Gaels, before these Celtic conquerors abandoned their mountain-realm and set sail for Ireland. Only the Piets of Caledonia had remained free, and they had been scattered into small feuding tribes — he was the first acknowledged king in five hundred years — the beginning of a new dynasty — no, a revival of an ancient dynasty under a new name. In the very teeth of Rome he dreamed his dreams of empire.

He wandered through the fens, seeking a Door. Of his quest he said nothing to the dark-eyed fenmen. They told him news that drifted from mouth to mouth — a tale of war in the north, the skirl of war-pipes along the winding Wall, of gathering-fires in the heather, of flame and smoke and rapine and the glutting of Gaelic swords in the crimson sea of slaughter. The eagles of the legions were moving northward and the ancient road resounded to the measured tramp of the ironclad feet. And Bran, in the fens of the west, laughed, well pleased.

In Ebbracum, Titus Sulla gave secret word to seek out the Pictish emissary with the Gaelic name who had been under suspicion, and who had vanished the nightyoung Valerius was found dead in his cell with his throat ripped out. Sulla felt that this sudden bursting flame of war on the Wall was connected closely with his execution of a condemned Pictish criminal, and he set his spy system to work, though he felt sure that Partha Mac Othna was by this time far beyond his reach. He prepared to mardi from Ebbracum but he did not accompany the considerable force of

legionaries which he sent north. Sulla was a brave man, but each man has his own dread, and Sulla’s was Cormac na Connacht, the black-haired prince of the Gaels, who had sworn to cut out the governor’s heart and eat it raw. So Sulla rode with his ever-present bodyguard, westward, where lay the Tower of Trajan with its war-like commander, Caius Camillus, who enjoyed nothing more than taking his superior’s place when the red waves of war washed at the foot of the Wall. Devious politics, but the legate of Rome seldom visited this far isle, and what with his wealth and intrigues, Titus Sulla was the highest power in Britain.

And Bran, knowing all this, patiently waited his coming, in the deserted hut in which he had taken up his abode.

One gray evening he strode on foot across the moors, a stark figure, blackly etched against the dim crimson fire of the sunset. He felt the incredible antiquity of the slumbering land, as he walked like the last man on the day after the end of the world! Yet at last he saw a token of human life — a drab hut of wattle and mud, set in the reedy breast of the fen.

AWOMAN greeted him from the open door and Bran’s somber eyes narrowed with a dark suspicion. The woman was not old, yet the evil wisdom of ages was in her eyes; her garments were ragged and scanty, her black locks tangled and unkempt, lending her an aspect of wildness -well in keeping with her grim surroundings. Her red lips laughed but there was no mirth in her laughter, only a hint of mockery, and under the lips her teeth showed sharp and pointed like fangs.

"Enter, master,” said she, "if you do not fear to share the roof of the witchwoman of Dagon-moor!”

Bran entered silently and sat him down on a broken bench while the woman busied herself with the scanty meal cooking over



an open fire on the squalid hearth. He studied her lithe, almost serpentine motions, the ears which were almost pointed, the yellow eyes which slanted curiously.

"What do you seek in the fens, my lord?” she asked, turning toward him with a supple twist of her whole body.

"I seek a Door,” he answered, chin resting on his fist. "I have a song to sing to the worms of the earth!”

She started upright, a jar falling from her hands to shatter on the hearth.

"This is an ill saying, even spoken in chance,” she stammered.

"I speak not by chance but by intent,” he answered.

She shook her head. "I know not what you mean.”

"Well you know,” he returned. "Aye, you know well! My race is very old — they reigned in Britain before the nations of the Celts and the Hellenes were born out of the womb of peoples. But my people were not first in Britain. By the mottles on your skin, by the slanting of your eyes, by the taint in your veins, I speak with full knowledge and meaning.”

Awhile she stood silent, her lips smiling but her face inscrutable.

"Man, are you mad?” she asked, "that in your madness you come seeking that from which strong men fled screaming in old times?”

"I seek a vengeance,” he answered, "that can be accomplished only by Them I seek.” She shook her head.

"You have listened to a bird singing; you have dreamed empty dreams.”

"I have heard a viper hiss,” he growled, "and I do not dream. Enough of this weaving of words. I came seeking a link between two worlds; I have found it.”

"I need lie to you no more, man of the North,” answered the woman. "They you seek still dwell beneath the sleeping hills. They have drawn apart, farther and farther from the world you know.”

"But they still steal forth in the night to grip women straying on the moors,” said he, his gaze on her slanted eyes. She laughed wickedly.

“What would you of me?”

"That you bring me to Them.”

She flung back her head with a scornful laugh. His left hand locked like iron in the breast of her scanty garment and his right closed on his hilt. She laughed in his face.

"Strike and be damned, my northern wolf! Do you think that such life as mine is so sweet that I would cling to it as a babe to the breast?”

His hand fell away.

"You are right. Threats are foolish. I will buy your aid.”

"How?” the laughing voice hummed with mockery.

Bran opened his pouch and poured into his cupped palm a stream of gold.

"More wealth than the men of the fen ever dreamed of.”

Again she laughed. "What is this rusty metal to me? Save it for some whitebreasted Roman woman who will play the traitor for you!”

“Name me a price!” he urged. “The head of an enemy — — ”

"By the blood in my veins, with its heritage of ancient hate, who is mine enemy but thee?” she laughed, and springing, struck cat-like. But her dagger splintered on the mail beneath his cloak, and he flung her off with a loathsome flirt of his wrist which tossed her sprawling across her grass-strewn bunk. Lying there, she laughed up at him.

“I will name you a price, my wolf, and it may be in days to come you will curse the armor that broke Atla’s dagger!” She rose and came close to him, her disquietingly long hands fastened fiercely into his cloak. "I will tell you, Black Bran, king of Caledon! Oh, I knew you when you came into my hut with your black hair



and your cold eyes! I will lead you to the doors of Hell if you wish — and the price shall be the kisses of a king!

"What of my blasted and bitter life, I, whom mortal men loathe and fear? I have not known the love of men, the clasp of a strong arm, the sting of human kisses, I, Atla, the were-woman of the moors! What have I known but the lone winds of the fens, the dreary fire of cold sunsets, the whispering of the marsh grasses? — the faces that blink up at me in the waters of the meres, the foot-pad of night — things in the gloom, the glimmer of red eyes, the grisly murmur of nameless beings in the night!

"I am half human, at least! Have I not known sorrow and yearning and crying wistfulness, and the drear ache of loneliness? Give to me, king — give me your fierce kisses and your hurtful barbarian’s embrace. Then in the long drear years to come I shall not utterly eat out my heart in vain envy of the white-bosomed women of men; for I shall have a memory few of them can boast — the kisses of a king! One night of love, O king, and I will guide you to the gates of Hell!"

Bran eyed her somberly; he reached forth and gripped her arm in his iron fingers. An involuntary shudder shook him at the feel of her sleek skin. He nodded slowly and, drawing her close to him, forced his head down to meet her lifted lips.


niHE cold gray mists of dawn wrapped

King Bran like a clammy cloak. He turned to the woman whose slanted eyes gleamed in the gray gloom.

"Make good your part of the contract,” he said roughly. “I sought a link between worlds, and in you I found it. I seek the one thing sacred to Them. It shall be the Key opening the Door that lies unseen between me and Them. Tell me how I can reach it.”

"I will,” tire red lips smiled terribly. "Go to the mound men call Dagon’s Barrow. Draw aside the stone that blocks the entrance and go under the dome of the mound. The floor of the chamber is made of seven great stones, six grouped about the seventh. Lift out the center stone — and you will see!”

"Will I find the Black Stone?” he asked,

"Dagon’s Barrow is the Door to the Black Stone,” she answered, "if you dare follow the Road.”

"Will the symbol be well guarded?” He unconsciously loosened his blade in its sheath. The red lips curled mockingly.

"If you meet any on the Road, you will die as no mortal man has died for long centuries. The Stone is not guarded, as men guard their treasures. Why should They guard what man has never sought? Perhaps They will be near, perhaps not. It is a chance you must take, if you wish the Stone. Beware, king of Pictdom! Remember it was your folk who, so long ago, cut the thread that bound Them to human life. They were almost human then — they overspread the land and knew the sunlight. Now they have drawn apart. They know not the sunlight and they shun the light of the moon. Even the starlight they hate. Far, far apart have they drawn, who might have been men in time, but for the spears of your ancestors.”

The sky was overcast with misty gray, through which the sun shone coldly yellow when Bran came to Dagon’s Barrow, a round hillock overgrown with rank grass of a curious fungoid appearance. On the eastern side of the mound showed the entrance of a crudely built stone tunnel which evidently penetrated the barrow. One great stone blocked the entrance to the tomb. Bran laid hold of the sharp edges and exerted all his strength. It held fast. He drew his sword and worked the blade



between the blocking stone and the sill. Using the sword as a lever, he worked carefully, and managed to loosen the great stone and wrench it out. A foul charnelhouse scent flowed out of the aperture, and the dim sunlight seemed less to illuminate the cavern-like opening than to be fouled by the rank darkness which clung there.

Sword in hand, ready for he knew not what. Bran groped his way into the tunnel, which was long and narrow, built up of heavy joined stones, and was too low for him to stand erect. Either his eyes became somewhat accustomed to the gloom, or the darkness was, after all, somewhat lightened by the sunlight filtering in through the entrance. At any rate, he came into a round, low chamber and was able to make out its general dome-like outline. Here, no doubt, in old times, had reposed the bones of him for whom the stones of the tomb had been joined and the earth heaped high above them; but now of those bones no vestige remained on the stone floor. And bending close and straining his eyes, Bran made out the strange, startlingly regular pattern of that floor: six well-cut slabs clustered about a seventh, six-sided stone.

He drove his sword-point into a crack and pried carefully. The edge of the central stone tilted slightly upward. A little work and he lifted it out and leaned it against the curving wall. Straining his eyes downward he saw only the gaping blackness of a dark well, with small, worn steps that led downward and out of sight. He did not hesitate. Though the skin between his shoulders crawled curiously, he swung himself into the abyss and felt the clinging blackness swallow him.

Groping downward, he felt his feet slip and stumble on steps too small for human feet. With one hand pressed hard against the side of the well he steadied himself, fearing a fall into unknown and unlighted depths. The steps were cut into solid rock, yet they were greatly worn away. The

farther he progressed, the less like steps they became, mere bumps of worn stone. Then the direction of the shaft changed sharply. It still led down, but at a shallow slant down which he could walk, elbows braced against the hollowed sides, head bent low beneath the curved roof. The steps had ceased altogether and the stone felt slimy to the touch, like a serpent’s lair. What beings. Bran wondered, had slithered up and down this slanting shaft, for how many centuries?

The tunnel narrowed until Bran found it rather difficult to shove through. He lay on his back and pushed himself along with his hands, feet first. Still he knew he was sinking deeper and deeper into the very guts of the earth; how far below the surface he was, he dared not contemplate. Then ahead a faint -witch-fire gleam tinged the abysmal blackness. He grinned savagely and without mirth. If They he sought came suddenly upon him, how could he fight in that narrow shaft? But he had put the thought of personal fear behind him when he began this hellish quest. He crawled on, thoughtless of all else but his goal.

And he came at last into a vast space where he could stand upright. He could not see the roof of the place, but he got an impression of dizzying vastness. The blackness pressed in on all sides, and behind him he could see the entrance to the shaft from which he had just emerged — a black well in the darkness. But in front of him a strange grisly radiance glowed about a grim altar built of human skulls. The source of that light he could not determine, but on the altar lay a sullen, night-black object — the Black Stone!

Bran wasted no time in giving thanks that the guardians of the grim relic were nowhere near. He caught up the Stone, and gripping it under his left arm, crawled into the shaft. When a man turns his back on peril, its clammy menace looms



more grisly than when he advances upon it. So Bran, crawling back up the nighted shaft with his grisly prize, felt the darkness turn on him and slink behind him, grinning with dripping fangs. Clammy sweat beaded his flesh and he hastened to the best of his ability, ears strained for some stealthy sound to betray that fell shapes were at his heels. Strong shudders shook him, despite himself, and the short hair on his neck prickled as if a cold wind blew at his back.

When he reached the first of the tiny steps he felt as if he had attained to the outer boundaries of the mortal world. Up them he went, stumbling and slipping, and with a deep gasp of relief, came out into the tomb, whose spectral grayness seemed like the blaze of noon in comparison to the stygian depths he had just traversed. He replaced the central stone and strode into the light of the outer day, and never was the cold yellow light of the sun more grateful, as it dispelled the shadows of blackwinged nightmares of fear and madness that seemed to have ridden him up out of the black deeps. He shoved the great blocking stone back into place, and picking up the cloak he had left at the mouth of the tomb, he wrapped it about the Black Stone and hurried away, a strong revulsion and loathing shaking his soul and Unding wings to his strides.

A gray silence brooded over the land. It was desolate as the blind side of the moon; yet Bran felt the potentialities of life — under his feet, in the brown earth — - sleeping, but how soon to waken, and in what horrific fashion?

He came through the tall, masking reeds to the still deep mere called Dagon’s Mere. No slightest ripple ruffled the cold blue water to give evidence of the grisly monster legend said dwelt beneath. Bran closely scanned the breathless landscape. He saw no hint of life, human or unhuman. He sought the instincts of his savage soul

to know if any unseen eyes fixed their lethal gaze upon him, and found no response. He was alone as if he were the last man alive on earth.

Swiftly he unwrapped the Black Stone, and as it lay in his hands like a solid, sullen block of darkness, he did not seek to learn the secret of its material nor scan the cryptic characters carved thereon. Weighing it in his hands and calculating the distance, he flung it far out, so that it fell almost exactly in the middle of the lake. A sullen splash and the waters closed over it. There was a moment of shimmering flashes on the bosom of the lake; then the blue surface stretched placid and unrippled again.

. 5

THE were-woman turned swiftly as Bran approached her door. Her slanteyes widened.

"You! And alive! And sane!”

"I have been into Hell and I have returned,” he growled. "What is more, I have that which I sought.”

"The Black Stone?” she cried. "You really dared steal it? Where is it?”

"No matter; but last night my stallion screamed in his stall and I heard something crunch beneath his thundering hoofs which was not the wall of the stable — and there was blood on his hoofs when I came to see, and blood on the floor of the stall. And I have heard stealthy sounds in the night, and noises beneath my dirt floor, as if worms burrowed deep in the earth. They know I have stolen their Stone. Have you betrayed me?”

She shook her head.

“I keep your secret; they do not need my word to know you. The farther they have retreated from the world of men, the greater have grown their powers in other uncanny ways. Some dawn your hut will stand empty, and if men dare investigate



they will find nothing — except crumbling bits of earth on the dirt floor.”

Bran smiled terribly.

"I have not planned and toiled thus far to fall prey to the talons of vermin. If They strike me down in the night, They will never know what became of their idol — or whatever it be to Them. I would speak with Them.”

"Dare you come with me and meet Them in the night?” she asked.

"Thunder of all gods!” he snarled. "Who are you to ask me if I dare? Lead me to Them and let me bargain for a vengeance this night. The hour of retribution draws nigh. This day I saw silvered helmets and bright shields gleam across the fens — the new commander has arrived at the Tower of Trajan and Caius Camillus has marched to the Wall.”

THAT night the king went across the dark desolation of the moors with the silent were-w'oman. The night was thick and still as if the land lay in ancient slumber. The stars blinked vaguely, mere points of red struggling through the unbreathing gloom. Their gleam was dimmer than the glitter in the eyes of the woman who glided beside the king. Strange thoughts shook Bran, vague, titanic primeval. Tonight ancestral linkings with these slumbering fens stirred in his soul and troubled him with the fantasmal, eonveiled shapes of monstrous dreams. The vast age of his race was borne upon him; where now he walked an outlaw and an alien, dark-eyed kings in whose mold he was cast had reigned in old times. The Celtic and Roman invaders were as strangers to this ancient isle beside his people. Yet his race likewise had been invaders, and there was an older race than his — a race whose beginnings lay lost and hidden back beyond the dark oblivion of antiquity.

Ahead of them loomed a low range of

hills, which formed the easternmost extremity of those straying chains which far away climbed at last to the mountains of Wales. The woman led the way up what might have been a sheep-path, and halted before a wide, black, gaping cave.

"A door to those you seek, O king!” her laughter rang hateful in the gloom. "Dare ye enter?”

His fingers closed in her tangled locks and he shook her viciously.

"Ask me but once more if I dare,” he grated, "and your head and shoulders part company! Lead on.”

Her laughter was like sweet deadly venom. They passed into the cave and Bran struck flint and steel. The flicker of the tinder showed him a wide, dusty cavern, on the roof of which hung clusters of bats. Lighting a torch, he lifted it and scanned the shadowy recesses, seeing nothing but dust and emptiness.

“Where are They?” he growled.

She beckoned him to the back of the cave and leaned against the rough wall, as if casually. But the king’s keen eyes caught the motion of her hand pressing hard against a projecting ledge. He recoiled as a round black well gaped suddenly at his feet. Again her laughter slashed him like a keen silver knife. He held the torch to the opening and again saw small worn steps leading down.

“They do not need those steps,” said Atla. "Once they did, before your people drove them into the darkness. But you will need them.”

She thrust the torch into a niche above the well; it shed a faint red light into the darkness below. She gestured into the well and Bran loosened his sword and stepped into the shaft. As he went down into the mystery of the darkness, the light was blotted out above him, and he thought for an instant Atla had covered the opening again. Then he realized that she was descending after him.


rpHE descent was not a long one.

Abruptly Bran felt his feet on a solid floor. Atla swung down beside him and stood in the dim circle of light that drifted down the shaft. Bran could not see the limits of the place into which he had come.

"Many caves in these hills,” said Atla, her voice sounding small and strangely brittle in the vastness, “are but doors to greater caves which lie beneath, even as a man’s words and deeds are but small indications of the dark caverns of murky thought lying behind and beneath.”

And now Bran was aware of movement in the glogm. The darkness was filled with stealthy noises not like those made by any human foot. Abruptly sparks began to flash and float in the blackness, like flickering fireflies. Closer they came until they girdled him in a wide half-moon. And beyond the ring gleamed other sparks, a solid sea of them, fading away in the gloom until the farthest were mere tiny pin-points of light. And Bran knew they were the slanted eyes of the beings who had come upon him in such numbers that his brain reeled at the contemplation — and at the vastness of the cavern.

Now that he faced his ancient foes, Bran knew no fear. He felt the waves of terrible menace emanating from them, the grisly hate, the inhuman threat to body, mind and soul. More than a member of a less ancient race, he realized the horror of his position, but he did not fear, though he confronted the ultimate Horror of the dreams and legends of his race. His blood raced fiercely, but it was with the hot excitement of the hazard, not the drive of terror.

"They know you have the Stone, O king,” said Atla, and though he knew she feared, though he felt her physical efforts to control her trembling limbs, there was no quiver of fright in her voice. "You are in deadly peril; they know your breed


of old — oh, they remember the days when their ancestors were men! I cannot save you; both of us will die as no human has died for ten centuries. Speak to them, if you will; they can understand your speech, though you may not understand theirs. But it will avail not — you are human — and a Piet.”

Bran laughed, and the closing ring of fire shrank back at the savagery in his laughter. Drawing his sword with a soulchilling rasp of steel, he set his back against what he hoped was a solid stone wall. Facing the glittering eyes with his sword gripped in his right hand and his dirk in his left, he laughed as a blood-hungry wolf snarls.

“Aye,” he growled, “I am a Piet, a son of those warriors who drove your brutish ancestors before them like chaff before the storm! — who flooded the land with your blood and heaped high your skulls for a sacrifice to the Moon-Woman! You who fled of old before my race, dare ye now snarl at your master? Roll on me like a flood, now, if ye dare! Before your viper fangs drink my life I will reap your multitudes like ripened barley — of your severed heads will I build a tower and of your mangled corpses will I rear up a wall! Dogs of the dark, vermin of Hell, worms of the earth, rush in and try my steel! When Death finds me in this dark cavern, your living will howl for the scores of your dead and your Black Stone will be lost to you for ever — for only I know where it is hidden, and not all the tortures of all the Plells can wring the secret from my lips!”

Then followed a tense silence; Bran faced the fire-lit darkness, tensed like a wolf at bay, waiting the charge; at his side the woman cowered, her eyes ablaze. Then from the silent ring that hovered beyond the dim torchlight rose a vague abhorrent murmur. Bran, prepared as he was for anything, started. Gods, was that



the speech of creatures which had once been called men?

Atla straightened, listening intently. From her lips came the same hideous soft sibilances, and Bran, though he had already known the grisly secret of her being, knew that never again could he touch her save with soul-shaken loathing.

She turned to him, a strange smile curving her red lips dimly in the ghostly light.

“They fear you, O king! By the black secrets of R’lyeh, who are you that Hell itself quails before you? Not your steel, but the stark ferocity of your soul has driven unused fear into their strange minds. They will buy back the Black Stone at any price.”

"Good.” Bran sheathed his weapons. "They shall promise not to molest you because of your aid of me. And,” his voice hummed like the purr of a hunting tiger, “They shall deliver into my hands Titus Sulla, governor of Ebbracum, now commanding the Tower of Trajan. This They can do — how, I know not. But I know that in the old days, when my people warred with these Children of the Night, babes disappeared from guarded huts and none saw the stealers come or go. Do They understand?”

Again rose the low frightful sounds, and Bran, who feared not their wrath, shuddered at their voices.

"They understand,” said Atla. "Bring the Black Stone to Dagon’s Ring tomorrow night when the earth is veiled with the blackness that foreruns the dawn. Lay the Stone on the altar. There They will bring Titus Sulla to you. Trust Them; They have not interfered in human affairs for many centuries, but They will keep their word.”

Bran nodded and, turning, climbed up the stair with Atla close behind him. At the top he turned and looked down once more. As far as he could see floated a glittering ocean of slanted yellow eyes upturned. But the owners of those eyes kept carefully beyond the dim circle of torchlight and of their bodies he could see nothing. Their low hissing speech floated up to him, and he shuddered as his imagination visualized, not a throng of biped creatures, but a swarming, swaying myriad of serpents, gazing up at him with their glittering, unwinking eyes.

He swung into the upper cave and Atla thrust the blocking stone back in place. It fitted into the entrance of the well with uncanny precision; Bran was unable to discern any crack in the apparently solid floor of the cavern. Atla made a motion to extinguish the torch, but the king stayed her.

“Keep it so until we are out of tire cave,” he grunted. “We might tread on an adder in the dark.”

Atla’s sweetly hateful laughter rose maddeningly in the flickering gloom.


I T WAS not long before sunset when Bran came again to the reed-grown marge of Dagon’s Mere. Casting cloak and sword-belt on the ground, he stripped himself of his short leathern breeches. Then gripping his naked dirk in his teeth, he went into the water with the smooth ease of a diving seal. Swimming strongly, he gained the center of the small lake, and turning, drove himself downward.

The mere was deeper than he had thought. It seemed he would never reach the bottom, and when he did, his groping hands failed to find what he sought. A roaring in his ears warned him, and he swam to the surface.

Gulping deep of the refreshing air, he dived again, and again his quest was fruitless. A third time he sought the depth, and this time his groping hands met a familiar object in the silt of the bottom. Grasping it, he swam up to the surface.



The Stone was not particularly bulky, but it was heavy. He swam leisurely, and suddenly was aware of a curious stir in the waters about him which was not caused by his own exertions. Thrusting his face below the surface, he tried to pierce the blue depths with his eyes and thought to see a dim, gigantic shadow hovering there.

He swam faster, not frightened, but wary. His feet struck the shallows and he waded up on the shelving shore. Looking back he saw the waters swirl and subside. He shook his head, swearing. He had discounted the ancient legend which made Dagon’s Mere the lair of a nameless watermonster, but now he had a feeling as if his escape had been narrow. The time-worn myths of the ancient land were taking form and coming to life before his eyes. What primeval shape lurked below the surface of that treacherous mere. Bran could not guess, but he felt that the fenmen had good reason for shunning the spot, after all.

Bran donned his garments, mounted the black stallion and rode across the fens in the..desolate crimson of the sunset’s afterglow, with the Black Stone wrapped in his cloak. He rode, not to his hut, but to the west, in the direction of the Tower of Trajan and the Ring of Dagon. As he covered the miles that lay between, the red stars winked out. Midnight passed him in the moonless night and still Bran rode on. His heart was hot for his meeting with Titus Sulla. Atla had gloated over the anticipation of watching the Roman writhe under torture, but no such thought was in the Piet’s mind. The governor should have his chance with weapons — with Bran’s own sword he should face the Pictish king’s dirk, and live or die according to his prowess. And though Sulla was famed throughout the provinces as a swordsman, Bran felt no doubt as to the outcome.

Dagon’s Ring lay some distance from the Tower — a sullen circle of tall, gaunt

stones planted upright, with a rough-hewn stone altar in the center. The Romans looked on these menhirs with aversion; they thought the Druids had reared them; but the Celts supposed Bran’s people, the Piets, had planted them — and Bran well knew what hands reared those grim monoliths in lost ages, though for what reasons, he but dimly guessed.

The king did not ride straight to the Ring. He was consumed with curiosity as to how his grim allies intended carrying out their promise. That They could snatch Titus Sulla from the very midst of his men, he felt sure, and he believed he knew how They would do it. He felt the gnawings of a strange misgiving, as if he had tampered with powers of unknown breadth and depth, and had loosed forces which he could not control. Each time he remembered that reptilian murmur, those slanted eyes of the night before, a cold breath passed over him. They had been abhorrent enough when his people drove Them into the caverns under the hills, ages ago; what had long centuries of retrogression made of Them? In their nighted, subterranean life, had They retained any of theattributes of humanity at all?

Some instinct prompted him to ride toward the Tower. He knew he was near; but for the thick darkness he could have plainly seen its stark outline tusking the horizon. Even now he should be able to make it out dimly. An obscure, shuddery premonition shook him, and he spurred the stallion into swift canter.

And suddenly Bran staggered in his saddle as from a physical impact, so stunning was the surprise of what met his gaze. The impregnable Tower of Trajan was no more! Bran’s astounded gaze rested on a gigantic pile of ruins — of shattered stone and crumbled granite, from which jutted the jagged and splintered ends of broken beams. At one corner of the tumbled heap one tower rose out of the. waste of



crumpled masonry, and it leaned drunkenly as if its foundations had been half cut away.

"DRAN dismounted and walked forward, dazed by bewilderment. The moat was filled in places by fallen stones and brown pieces of mortared wall. He crossed over and came among the ruins. Where, he knew, only a few hours before the flags had resounded to the martial tramp of ironclad feet, and the walls had echoed to the clang of shields and the blast of the loudthroated trumpets, a horrific silence reigned.

Almost under Bran’s feet, a broken shape writhed and groaned. The king bent down to the legionary, who lay in a sticky red pool of his own blood. A single glance showed the Piet that the man, horribly crushed and shattered, was dying.

Lifting the bloody head, Bran placed his flask to the pulped lips, and the Roman instinctively drank deep, gulping through splintered teeth. In the dim starlight Bran saw his glazed eyes roll.

"The walls fell,” muttered the dying man. “They crashed down like the skies falling on the day of doom. Ah Jove, the skies rained shards of granite and hailstones of marble!”

“I have felt no earthquake shock,” Bran scowled, puzzled.

“It was no earthquake,” muttered the Roman. "Before last dawn it began, the faint dim scratching and clawing far below the earth. We of the guard heard it. — like rats burrowing, or like worms hollowing out the earth. Titus laughed at us, but all day long we heard it. Then at midnight the Tower quivered and seemed to settle — as if the foundations were being dug away ”

A shudder shook Bran Mak Morn. The worms of the earth! Thousands of vermin digging like moles far below the castle, burrowing away the foundations — gods,

tire land must be honeycombed with tunnels and caverns — these creatures were even less human than he had thought — what ghastly shapes of darkness had he invoked to his aid?

“What of Titus Sulla?” he asked, again holding the flask to the legionary’s lips; in that moment the dying Roman seemed to him almost like a brother.

"Even as the Tower shuddered we heard a fearful scream from the governor’s chamber,” muttered the soldier. “We rushed there — as we broke down the door we heard his shrieks — they seemed to recede — into the bowels of the earth! We rushed in; the chamber was empty. His bloodstained sword lay on the floor; in the stone flags of the floor a black hole gaped. Then — the — towers — reeled — the — roof broke; — through — a — storm — of — crashing - — walls — I — crawled. ’ ’

A strong convulsion shook the broken figure.

“Lay me down,” whispered the Roman. "I die.”

He had ceased to breathe before Bran could comply. The Piet rose, mechanically cleansing his hands. He hastened from the spot, and as he galloped over the darkened fens, the weight of the accursed Black Stone under his cloak was as the weight of a foul nightmare on a mortal breast.

As he approached the Ring, he saw an eery glow within, so that the gaunt stones stood etched like the ribs of a skeleton in which a witch-fire burns. The stallion snorted and reared as Bran tied him to one of the menhirs. Carrying the Stone he strode into the grisly circle and saw Atla standing beside the altar, one hand on her hip, her sinuous body swaying in a serpentine manner. The altar glowed all over with ghastly light, and Bran knew someone, probably Atla, had rubbed it with phosphorus from some dank swamp or quagmire.

He strode forward and, whipping his


cloak from about the Stone, flung the accursed thing on to the altar.

“I have fulfilled my part of the contract,” he growled.

"And They theirs,” she retorted. "Look! — They come!”

He wheeled, his hand instinctively dropping to his sword. Outside the Ring the great stallion screamed savagely and reared against his tether. The night wind moaned through the waving grass and an abhorrent soft hissing mingled with it. Between the menhirs flowed a dark tide of shadows, unstable and chaotic. The Ring filled with glittering eyes which hovered beyond the dim, illusive circle of illumination cast by the phosphorescent altar. Somewhere in the darkness a human voice tittered and gibbered idiotically. Bran stiffened, the shadows of a horror clawing at his soul.

He strained his eyes, trying to make out the shapes of those who ringed him. But he glimpsed only billowing masses of shadow which heaved and writhed and squirmed with almost fluid consistency.

"Let them make good their bargain!” he exclaimed angrily.

"Then see, O king! ” cried Atla in a voice of piercing mockery.

THERE was a stir, a seething in the writhing shadows, and from the darkness crept, like a four-legged animal, a human shape that fell down and groveled at Bran’s feet and writhed and mowed, and lifting a death’s-head, howled like a dying dog. In the ghastly light. Bran, soulshaken, saw the blank glassy eyes, the bloodless features, the loose, writhing, froth-covered lips of sheer lunacy — gods, was this Titus Sulla, the proud lord of life and death in Ebbracum’s proud city?

Bran bared his sword.

"I had thought to give this stroke in vengeance,” he said somberly. "I give it in mercy — Vale Caesar!”

The steel flashed in the eery light and

in

Sulla’s head rolled to the foot of the glowing altar, where it lay staring up at the shadowed sky.

"They harmed him not!” Atla’s hateful laugh slashed the sick silence. “It was what he saw and came to know that broke his brain! Like all his heavy-footed race, he knew nothing of the secrets of this ancient land. This night he has been dragged through the deepest pits of Hell, where even you might have blenched!”

"Well for the Romans that they know not the secrets of this accursed land!” Bran roared, maddened, "with its monsterhaunted meres, its foul witch-women, and its lost caverns and subterranean realms where spawn in the darkness shapes of Hell!”

“Are they more foul than a mortal who seeks their aid?” cried Atla with a shriek of fearful mirth. “Give them their Black Stone! ”

A cataclysmic loathing shook Bran’s soul with red fury.

"Aye, take your cursed Stone!” he roared, snatching it from the altar and dashing it among the shadows with such savagery that bones snapped under its impact. A hurried babble of grisly tongues rose and the shadows heaved in turmoil. One segment of the mass detached itself for an instant, and Bran cried out in fierce revulsion, though he caught only a fleeting glimpse of the thing, had only a brief impression of a broad, strangely flattened head, pendulous writhing lips that bared curved, pointed fangs, and a hideously misshapen, dwarfish body that seemed mottled — all set off by those unwinking reptilian eyes. Gods! — the myths had prepared him for horror in human aspect, horror induced by bestial visage and stunted deformity — but this was the horror of nightmare and the night.

"Go back to Hell and take your idol with you!” he yelled, brandishing his clenched fists to the skies, as the thick shadows re118


ceded, flowing back and away from him like the foul waters of some black flood. "Your ancestors were men, though strange and monstrous — but gods, ye have become in ghastly fact what my people called ye in scorn!

“Worms of the earth, back into your holes and burrows! Ye foul the air and leave on the clean earth the slime of the serpents ye have become! Gonar was right — there are shapes too foul to use even against Rome!”

He sprang from the Ring as a man flees the touch of a coiling snake, and tore the stallion free. At his elbow Atla was shrieking with fearful laughter, all human attributes dropped from her like a cloak in the night.

"King of Pictland!” she cried. "King of fools! Do you blench at so small a thing? Stay and let me show you real fruits of

the pits! Ha! ha! ha! Run, fool, run! But you are stained with the taint — you have called them forth and they will remember! And in their own time they will come to you again!”

He yelled a wordless curse and struck her savagely in the mouth with his open hand. She staggered, blood starting from her lips, but her fiendish laughter only rose higher.

Bran leaped into the saddle, wild for the clean heather and the cold blue hilh of the north where he could plunge his sword into clean slaughter and his sickened soul into the red maelstrom of battle, and forget the horror which lurked below the fens of the west. He gave the frantic stallion the rein, and rode through the

[THE END]

============================================================
by Edith Hurley
============================================================
night like a hunted ghost, until the hellish laughter of the howling were-woman died out in the darkness behind.

The

Bream

By EDITH HURLEY

Out of the misty shadows came the dream,

If dream it were and not dread things to be. Upon the shore of some vast midnight sea I walked, and there was not a single gleam Of moon or stars the darkness to redeem,

But eery Fear alone kept pace with me As Earth went hurtling through Eternity,

And on the planet Silence reigned supreme.

A dim remembrance lingered with me still,

Of shattered stars that made the darkness bright, The great sun shrinking like a pricked balloon; Of frantic feet that climbed a lonely hill;

Of water rising, and the fall of night;

And I awoke and saw the trembling moon.


READERS, here is news of two exceptionally fine serials that will appear _ soon in Weird Tales. One of them, The Twilight of the Gods, by Edmond Hamilton, deals with the Norse gods as real persons instead of deities. It is different from anything you have ever read before, and will hold * your breathless interest to the last fascinating episode. The other serial, A Million Years in the Future, is by Thomas P. Kelley, author of The Last Pharaoh and I Found Cleopatra. It is undoubtedly the most exciting interplanetary story ever published. Weird to its very core, it deals with the Nine Terrible Sisters, and the ravening Wolves of Worra, and paints an unforgettable picture of the great god Time as he sits spellbound in his black tower on the Moon of Madness.

A New Writing Technique

Miss Leah Drake writes from Owensboro, Kentucky: “The August WT was remarkable for two features which your writers have been working toward for some time: characterstudy, and a superlative style of writing. I’ll take my stand (in Dixie and anywhere else) that for distinguished writing, WT authors can give cards and spades to any of their brotherhood in the 'slicks’. Take Spawn, for example: here is a completely new style of writing. Reminiscent of Charles Fort’s, the peculiarly gripping style of this story was something new in the work of putting words together — not an easy feat! Mr. Miller has read his Bible to considerable advantage, for certain sentences, and groupings of words, are

Old Testament if I ever read it (which I certainly have!) Then take Apprentice Magician, which was humorous in style, and yet none the less weird and thrilling for that. A comic ghost-story is usually very dull, and certainly not thrilling — yet this story was a true weird tale and the dry drollery of its 'Li’l Abner’ hero did not detract from its grotesquery. Mr. Price in some strange way managed to blend two usually irreconcilable elements. Let’s hear more about that cute li’l ol’ country boy! Giants in the Sky reveals yet a third new idea in WT stories: the entirely logical notion that all unearthly and alien beings are not evil and hostile to man. Long’s creatures were outre and unhuman, but in them, as in those of our own race, were the elements of pity and tenderness, and a not-unkind curiosity resembling that of our own scientists. The story was touching, poignant — and so sane! For certainly the denizens of other spheres have tire same emotions as we do, seeing that one Creator designed us all! Perhaps the best example of tire first two elements of writing that I mentioned — character-study and distinguished style - — is the story The Valley Was Still. That was a perfect piece of writing! There was not only the necessary weird element in it — there was an ideal portrait of a Southern soldier; there was the eternal conflict between honor and — the easiest way. And honor won. It was a story that I would place among the great short stories of the world. It had more than a pure style (all Wellman’s stories have that) — it had beauty.... For these new features of WT stories — for the issues that get better and better each month — let us all give a hurTHE EYRIE


rah, banzai, and viva, while making a deep salaam!”

Quinn Leads

Bart Reagan writes from Pittsburgh: "The August issue is o. k.... Quinn’s incomparable Jules de Grandin leads in The House of the Three Corpses. But that is no surprise. Second honors go to Miller for his Spawn. It rings true in theme and craftsmanship. Wellman easily takes third honors with his The Valley Was Still. He handles this theme very well. Price’s yarn tickled me. Good humor in every paragraph. A tale like this now and then improves WT.... But Poe reprints are out. How about HPL reprints for new readers (and old ones too)? Reprints could be serialized. The cover of this issue is fine.”

Different Stuff

Robert Bloch writes from Milwaukee: "Speaking of different stuff, Spawn was just that. And— Apprentice Magician. A damned, devilish, demoniac, dark, dour, dank, dismal, dim, diabolical tale filled with fine human touches. One of the smoothest ever rendered by pearl-white-Price, Dervish of Djinns. More from Price, Wandrei, Long and other old-timers — keeps the young squirts on their toes.”

May WT Live Forever

Dorothy Ellis writes from San Francisco: "I have never been a subscriber to Weird Tales. But for years I have snatched a copy from the nearest newsstand and borne it triumphantly home to wallow — and I mean just that — in the sheer fascination of horror. Nor have I ever been disappointed. The reprint some months ago of The Curse of Yig affected me with almost tearful nostalgia (I was living in a rattlesnake country v/hen I first read it in your magazine.) And the names of the contributors haunt me as I fumble with my own inadequate mss. But the main point of this is merely cheery, if shivery, congratulations. Individual stories may not have been to my particular taste, but I have never been let down by any issue. And in my basement reposes a box with many, many old copies of Weird Tales which I would no more touch than I would shake hands with a copperhead.... Drink with me as I raise a cup of the Lord knows


The loon Terror

By A. G. BIRCH

<KZX>

THE MOON TERROR by A. G. Birch

Is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Oriental intrigue to gain control of the world.

ALSO — OTHER STORIES

In addition to the full-length novel, this book also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weird-scientific fiction:

OOZE

by Anthony M. Rud

Tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amoeba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE by Vincent Starrett

Is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.


by Farnsworth Wright

Is an uproarious skit on the fourdimensional theories of the mathematicians, and inter-planetary stories in general.


Make sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order today for this book at the special bargain price of only 50c.

ixrxi

NOTE: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

WEIBD TAXES, Book Dept.,

D Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y„ V. S. A.

Enclosed find 50c for cloth-bound copy ol THE MOON TERROR as per your special offer.

Ngrua..

rt'ty I..., i State..



Next Month


By G. G. Pendarves

H ere is a posthumous weird story by G. G. Pendarves, written shortly before that brilliant English author’s death. This gripping tale plumbs the depths of horror and will cause many a shudder to make your spine tingle.

K nown to Weird Tales readers as the author of The Eighth Green Man, Thing of Darkness, and other chillers, G. G. Pendarves has here added another to the long list of unforgettable weird tales. This story of dark occult powers will be printed complete

in the November issue of


on sale October 1

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for

PSPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER. (YOU SAVE 30c)

9 Bockefeller Plaza New York, N. Y.

Enclosed find $1.50 for which send me the next twelve issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the November issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name..........

AddrCSS..»«-MlH44.UIMlMIMWII.lMIHWIIimil l l lll||IIIWmilllllll HMlM. City StStCM.M..H.W.HM«IIM

what unearthly witch’s brew and say (with due regard for an extremely clever and consistent editorial policy): Weird Tales, live forever!”

Sarcasm?

Anthony F. Ranere writes from Hammonton, New Jersey: "I'm sorry Almuric is finished. I’ve enjoyed every word of that splendid story. Mr. Howard succeeded in making one of the finest stories I’ve ever read.... Spawn was good! And that Edgar Allan Poe is a comer: before you know it he’s liable to be called the 'father of the short story’. Anyway he finally made Weird Tales, which in itself is no small honor. Yep, I’d say Poe is going places. I’ve got to keep an eye on him. I feel kinda like I discovered him. Well, time will tell, and if he gets famous, don’t forget — I told you so! Well, anyhoo, best wishes for tire future success of your very good rag.”

The Best Verse

Richard H. Hart writes from New Orleans: "The August issue is altogether excellent. Miller’s story, Spawn, is easily the most bloodcurdling; he must have pushed the 'weird’ key on his typewriter and left it on all the way through. For sheer imaginative power, I think Giants in the Sky equals anything published in a long time. The Valley Was Still is a fine piece of re-creation — and excellent recreation, as well; Mr. Wellman should go places. I enjoyed Price’s whimsical yarn very much. Too bad more writers can’t combine weirdness and humor with such satisfying results. Quinn turns out his usual craftsmanlike story, although not as weird as is his wont. After Washington Nocturne, however, he must expect his work to seem a trifle pale for a few issues; he put plenty of the real heart’s-blood into that one. I can’t help feeling sorry for the readers who didn’t appreciate it. The verse, as usual, is excellent. I think you are publishing the best verse in the country, regardless of classification. I’d like to see you get out an anthology, if you could find it worth while; Starrett’s and Field’s pieces in this number would be well worth inclusion.”

We Shall Reprint This Story

Richard Kraft writes from Long Branch, New Jersey: “Though I have already written

THE EYRIE 123

NEED RELIEF From AGONY of

my monthly letter to Weird Tales, I feel I must write again. You see, I have managed to purchase a whole pile of oid Weirds — and in the April, 1933, issue I have just finished Revelations in Black, by Carl Jacobi. What a story! I find it hard to think up suitable adjectives to praise it. Lots of vampire yarns have I read: some good, some bad, some lousy; but this absolutely is the best. Every situation in this tale was steeped in cold horror. Seldom does a yarn actually make me jump; I pride myself on being a veteran Weird Tales reader, but Revelations in Black had me gasping. Jacobi is a damn good author. What has happened to him lately? I can’t help thinking that Revelations in Black is just about the best thing I have ever read in WT. To my mind it even tops the terrorfilled works of H. P. L. A question, please. Of all the stories ever published in our mag, which one was absolutely the most popular? I’m willing to venture that Revelations isn’t far from the lead!” [The most popular story ever printed in WT was The Woman of the W ood, by A. Merritt. Others at the top were The Outsider, by H. P. Lovecraft, When the Green Star Waned, by Nictzin Dyahlis, and Shamhleau, by C. L. Moore. — The Editor.}

From a New Reader Lee Schirck writes from Oklahoma City: “I am a comparatively new reader of your really grand magazine. (Also permanent.) All my friends know that I love Weird Tales too. Spawn and Giants in the Sky were your best August stories. I’ll never forget these oooooooogy stories — The Rats in the Walls, Up Under the Roof, The Return of Hastur, and The White Rat. I could applaud for hours— but why? Just keep it up 'cause — I love Weird Tales.”

Consistently High Standard Wilson Lane writes from Wooster, Ohio: "For several years I have enjoyed reading Weird Tales, and have found the magazine to be of a consistently high and improving literary and artistic standard. I have especially liked the stories by Lovecraft and Clark Ashton Smith, and the excellent art work of Virgil Finlay. Allow me to congratulate you


Caused by Gastric Hyperacidity

■Ban If you are one of those men or women who Bjf ■ have "tried everything” and given up hope of relief we urge you to try this effective, ■!» JTB yet simple inexpensive way at home. Pain r f ~ jnl anf * distress relieved from the start. NumI nJti® bers report they were saved from expensive Kl operations. If after meals and at night

P*— you have pain and distress from Gas, Acid, Sour Stomach, or Ulcers due to gastric hyperacidity CEBITEr write f° r valuable booklet with informab tion as to guaranteed trial offer.

TWIN CITY VON COMPANY, Dept. 303, St. Paul, Minn. > BECOME AN EXPERT

Bookkeeper

New, better bookkeeping opportunities opening every day. Jobs that pay well — and lead to still better jobs.

We train you to get them — and keep them! Previous. training not necessary. C.P. A. instructors cover everything from the ground up. Inexpensive. Write for free book and special terms. No obligation. Address:

LaSalle Extension University, Dept. 1 075. H Chicago, 111.

A Correspondence Instit ution


Two Beautiful Double-Weight Professional Enlargements. 8 Never Fade Prints. 25c.

CENTURY PHOTO SERVICE, La Crosse, Wis.

ITCH

STOPPED

*” a t/effu •os' Money Basis

For quick relief from itching of eczema, pimples, athlete’s foot, scales, scabies, rashesand other externally caused skin troubles, use world-famous, cooling, antiseptic, liquid D. D. D. Prescription. Greaseless, stainless. Soothes irritation and quickly stops the most intense itching. 35c trial bottle proves it, or money back. Ask your druggist today for S> a D. D. Prescription.



laKiagvrflersrurine line]

Earn more every day in the year representing old established firm with a complete line of fast selling necessities: Shirts, Ties, Underwear, Hosiery, Pajamas, Raincoats, Sweaters, Jackets, Pants, Belts, Breeches, Shoes, Coveralls, Shop Coats, Uniforms, etc. Every item guaranteed. Experience

unnecessary.

Write quick for FREE SALES EQUIPMENT NIMROD COMPANY,

4922-M Lincoln Ave., Chicago, HI.

Splendid Opportunities. Prepare Quickly in spare time. Easy method. No

B revious experience necessary, common school education sufficient.

lany earn while learning. Send. for free booklet “Opportunities in Modern Photography”, particulars and requirements.

AMERICAN SCHOOL OF PHOTOGRAPHY _ = „„

3601 Michigan Avenue Dept. 1 187 Chicago, IlUnoL?

Mother, Home, Love, Patriotic, Sacred, Comic or any subject. Don’t delay — send your poem today for immediate consideration, RICHARD BROS., 37 Woods Bldg., Chicago, 111.

AGENTS WANTED!

CLEEKS, FACTORY, MILL or OFFICE WORKERS. Rare opportunity. Earn Extra Money. 70% Commission Selling METAL SOCIAL SECURITY LIFE-TIME PLATES and CASES. Send 10c with your S.S.; Number.


665 W. Lexington St. Baltimore, Maryland



LOWEST

PRICES

SDDATS'TRIAI,

If you need teeth, but do not care to spend much money. MY METHOD IS WHAT YOU WANT, MY MONEY BACK GUARANTEE gives you 3 months to see hew they fit and look. I have thousands of Satisfied Customers in United States and foreign countries. MY SPECIAL METHOD IS FOUNDED ON 30 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE.


Write TODAY for FREE BOOKLET and MATERIAL.


Dept. 50-P9, 503-05, Missouri Avenue, East SL Louis, III.


New ways they read cards. Stop losing. Know dice exposes, missers and passers, also slot machine and punch hoard. New book “BEAT THE CHEAT," $1.00 copy. Add 25c for new 1939 catalog. Send $1.25 to SPECIALTY EXPOSES, Box 2488, Kansas City, Mo.

““ STOP TOBACCO?

b the craving for tobacco as thousands have. Make j-ouraelf free and happy with Tobacco Redeemer. Not a substitute, not habit forming. Write for free booklet telling of injurious effect of tobacco and dependable. easy way to relieve the craving manymen have.

Newel! Pharmacol Co. Dept. EDS, St. touts. Me.

available at $125-5175 per month, steady. Cabin. Hunt, trap, patrol. Quality at once. Get details immediately.

BATSON SEBVICE BUREAU, B-52, Denver, Colo.

High School Course

at Home

Many Finish in 2 Years

I Go as rapidly ns your time and abilities penult. Course equivalent to resident school work — prepares you for entrance to college. Standard H. S. texts supplied —

Diploma. Credit for H. S. «rabj®ct3 already completed. Single e objects if desired. High school education is very iayiortant for advancement in btudneae and industry and socially. Don’t be handicapped all your life. Bo a High School graduate. Start your I training now. Free Bulletin on request. No obligation.

—American. School, Opt. H -733. Bmd oS 56 th, Cb!c's»


Legally trained men win higher portions and bigger success in business and public

_ headed by men with legal training.

, More Ability: More Prestige: More Money

Wo guide yon stop by stop. You can train at homo _ during eparo time. Degree of LI*. B. Successful graduates in evetT section of the U. S. We furnish *11 text Jnefceruu, including Id- volume Law Library. Low cost, easy tarme. Got onr valuable 4-3-p«ge"Law Training foe Leadership” ana "Evidence” books FRKM. Send for them NOW.

LaSalle Extension University, Dept. 1075- L Chlcags A Correspondence Instlteiicn

vm wm

*”fin.95 a ' Hf Jem

Brand NEW!

_ XO-Bay^rrlaP— Easy Torn** li Guaranteed Brand New latest REM- 'm SXGTONCADETmodelonly$19.95 ri urine this eoaMtional sate. Also LvoyaL Corona and famous Feather- 1 wo»ht Porubloe at real moneysaving price?. Abe standard full six* office smodolf? rebuilt and fully guaranteed at U savins* SEND FOR BIG FREE CATALOG IN COLORS. _

International Typewriter Each.,:

on the quality of the magazine, and to hope that you will continue with the same type of work that has been produced in the past.”

From Merrie England J. E. Peatfield writes from Manchester, England: "All the way from 'Merrie England' to give you my thanks for many, many unforgettable, enjoyable reading hours. 1 have read Weird Tales for the past six years.... I like all your types of stories. I demand from life as much variety as possible. We have nothing at all in England anything like this.”

Spawn

Henry Kuttner writes from Beverly Hills, California: "I am amazed, charmed and delighted. Not in a long while have I enjoyed any story as much as P. Schuyler Miller’s Spaivn. That’s truly a veritable honey of a yarn — one of the best I’ve read in a long, long time. The peculiar style is strikingly effective, and I anticipate re-reading the tale more than once, something I seldom do. Congrats on your acumen in buying the epos. Congrats, too, to Finlay on his fine weird cover, and a courtly bow to Messire Ferman on his strong, macabre technique. Second place in the issue, after Spawn, should be divided between Almuric and Apprentice Magician, in my opinion.”

Imagination, Beauty, Strangeness John W. Parsons writes from Pasadena: “I note that an annual crop of your readers manage to assume the prerogative of deity, and ergo 'this is best’ or 'that is no good’, period. I wish I could exercise such judgment of universal merit. For myself I prefer stories in whidi imagination and a quality of beauty and strangeness are blended with a certain literary quality. In tills connection I particularly recall The Planet of the Dead and The Necromantic Tale by Clark Ashton Smith; The Dark God’s Kiss by C. L. Moore; Celephais by H. P. Lovecraft; and Toean Matjan iy Vannette Herron. May there be more stories of this magnitude.”

Almuric

Gerard Lerner writes from Youngstown, Ohio: “I have just finished reading the



August Weird Tales, and must congratulate you on another superb issue. WT seems to improve more each month. How do you do it? Of course I was glad to see the old type back; makes a much neater-looking page. I first became acquainted with WT with the September 1937 issue, and have not missed a copy since that time. All my copies are bound and repose in a special section of my library. Your covers by Finlay are always good, and I remember one, the December 1937 cover, as the most beautiful I ever saw on any magazine. Now for the stories in the August issue. First, of course, is the concluding installment of Howard’s Almuric. This story, in my opinion, is one of the greatest ever to appear in WT. Howard had the knack of vivid description and thrilling action that few authors can lay claim to. I really lived that yarn. What a tragedy the magic pen is still, to write no more. The House of the Three Corpses — another gem by Quinn. Return from Death by Bryan — a real chiller. It fairly made my blood run cold to think of that man in the refrigerator. I can still remember vividly Bryan’s thrilling tale, The Ho-Ho-Kam Terror, the first story I ever read in Weird Tales.”

The August Issue

Charles H. Chandler writes from Wooster, Ohio: "Concerning the August issue of

Weird Tales, congratulations on maintaining the high standards set in the last issue. First place among the stories goes to the Poe reprint, but if that doesn’t count, call it a tie between Apprentice Magician and The Little Man. First of these was very refreshing; both well done. Almuric ends well. When will authors, F. B. Long in particular, get rid of the idea of creatures of totally alien races falling in love with each other? It’s laughable.... Wellman’s story, The Valley Was Still, deserves honorable mention.”

Concise Comments

E. Hoffmann Price writes from California: "P. Schuyler Miller’s yarn, Spawn, is indeed amazing; his slightly eccentric style and arrangement perfectly suited to that story. I

World's Larges* Laboratory Making Dental Plates Only. Unbreakable Roofless and Partial Plates— -Our Specialties.

injl FIT-RITE PLATES

Set with life-like, pearly-white porcelain teeth- Carved and styled for Good Looks, yonr Comfort and Lira-long wear. Thousands of enthusiastic and satisfied customersall over the country now wear teeth we made for them-BY MAIL, at sensible prices.

• ••by MAIL!,,, U1U

We make fo measure, to fit yon individually, bymail, the World’s No.l FIT-RITE Dental Plates for men, women from an impression of your mouth,

ON OUR 60 DAYS' TRIAL

Maka us prove you can’t beat our fit, work or price. Save half or more. ADentistsupervises construction of each plate. Wear our dentures 60 days with a

100% MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE

Then, if you’re not delighted with your improved looks, if you’re not 100% sat- r ° —

isfied we guarantee to refund j your every cent. W© take your word. We repair and reproduce OLD PLATES. 48-bour service.

Monthly payments possible.


World sDafoest Laboratory Malcing Dental Platea only.

155S Milwaukee Ave. f Dept. D 13, Chicago


MATERIAL

easydirections and catalog.

FREE 6001

ms

Tan SKINS, make up FURS

Be a Taxidermist. Double your hunting fun. We ich you at Home. Mount Birds, Animals, Fish,

*ads, common specimens. Fun and profits. Decorate home and den MAKE MONEY. Mount srsme, tan for others. Big profit* in spare tana. WRiTE TODAYHun terafse t%o ar^py f jt " FREE BOOK

Now Free. Send post card. State your AGE.

NORTHWESTERN SCHOOL OF TAXIDERMY Dept. 3037 Omaha, Nebraska



Free Examination. Send Your Poems to

J. CHAS. McNEIL


510-NF Sa. Alexandria Los Angeles, Calif.

Complete Outfit-FREE

Own a steady route: full or spare time. Make money at once and all year ‘round with Coffee, Teas, Spices and other home necessities — over 200 nationally known, guaranteed products. Complete Outfit, including large assortment of full size packages — FREE to reliable persons. Old-established company. Write quick for my Free Offer.

E. J. MILLS. 7934 Monmouth Avenue,

Cincinnati, Ohio.

ARAILWAY

.TRAFFIC INSPECTOR

WRITE

TODAY

Our Training Means Good Jobs— Good P?y

Railway and Bus Lines want our trained Railway and Bus Passenger Traffic Inspectors. Splendid opportunities for ambitious men — 19 to 50; inter-. esting work — travel if you like. Easy, home- study course prepares you ana upon completion we place you at up to $135 per month plus expenses to start, or refund tuition. Free booklet.

STANDARD BUSINESS TRAINING INSTITUTE Dfv. 1310 Buffalo, N. Y.



's Lowest TIRE PRICES Tire users by the thousands ell over the U.S.A. vouch for the Long; Herd Service of oar Standard Brand tires reconditioned with high grade ^materials and latest methods by onr tire experts. 0ar21 years experience makes It possible to

, FREE!

(LANTERN

With Every 2 Tires ordered

Complete with batteries and newest type reflector bulb. Ready for instant nse. Strontr. steady llxht. Dsefrd everywhere. Order now.

offer tires at lowest prices, with Segal Pagreomont to replace at price any tire that fails to give 12 Mos. Service.

EVERY TIRE GUARANTEED!'

BALLOON TIRES) REGULAR CORD TIRES

Size Rim Tires Tnl«se^..T3«?»-TPbesis|ze,Fjws.mm

R35 *3xS 3.75 1.75

3.35 1.45135x5 3.95 L75

stoSoo-so 2.85 L2| HEAVY DUTY TRUCK TIRES

6.25-17 2.90 1.35 _ [HUrh PreaBore)

23x5.26-18 2.90 1.35 Size Tires TubeslSize Tires Tubes 29x5.25-19 2.95 L25 30x5 $4.25 f 1.95)34x7 $10.95 54.65

“ 21 * " 3:11 aii? 8 * 7 lo * 95 -l 65

’5.60-17 3^35 1.40l32x6 7^95 S.Og 36 ^ *£-*5 4 * 95

28x530-18 3.35 1.40 36x9 9.9S 4.45140x8 J3.25 4.95

Ho TRUCK BALLOON TIRES

so,*:™:!! 1:40 M«fe^_r!K._TS!we^T!BH.3*«S

31x6.00-19 3.40

r^Sizo Tires TubeslSize i Tires Tubes

„„ Hr 6.00-20 $3.75$1.66l7.50-20 $6.95 $3.75

MS 6.50-20 4.4S 1.9518.25-20 8.95 4.95

II&M 1:21 ig-ll |S|

82x6.50-20 3.75 1.76 ALL OTHER rHW 1 g m 6-00-lfl 3.7S L4fiS SIZES - lBgfliaiKAvfeta'B 1^1 SEND ONLY $1.00 DEPOSIT on each tire ordered. ($3.00 on each Truck Tire.) We ship balance C. O. D.

iseentfnfoli *"

Deduct S per cent if cash Is sent t

il with order. To

fill order promptly we may substitute brands it necessary, ALL TUBES BRAND NEW — GUARANTEED —

PERRY-FIELD TIRE &J1UBBER CO. 2328-30 S. Michigan Av„ Dept, 6043.Chkaga.in.


FREE

Stomach Ulcers

to Gastric Hyper-Acidity)

H. H. Bromley, of Rutland, Vt., writes: “I suffered for 10 years

with acid-stomach trouble. Doctors all told me I had ulcers and would have to diet the rest of my life. Before taking your treatment I weighed 143 pounds and could eat nothing but soft foods and milk. Now, after taking Von’s Tablets, I weigh 171 pounds, can eat almost anything and feel perfectly well.” If you suffer from indigestion, gastritis, heartburn, bloating or any other stomach trouble due to gastric hyperacidity, you, too, should try Von’s for prompt relief. Send for FREE Samples of this wonderful treatment, and details of guaranteed trial offer. Instructive Booklet is included- Write PHII*ABEIiFHIA VON CO. Dept. 646-F

Fox Bldg., Fhiladelpliia, Pa.

ST ™I Q $ yf£o ^-/"franklin institute

$2100 YEAR ^ Dept. p.240, Rochester, N. Y.

.. cru A Sirs: Bush without charge, (1) 32-page book

u/nMETM Cb with list of U. S. Government Jobs (2) Tell « N C> me hosv to qualify for one of these jobs.

Mall Coupon,

Today / Xeme

SURE. / Address

hope that many join me in complimenting him, and you, for your respective responsibilities in getting it into print.”

John Kelsch writes from Brooklyn: "I am a regular WT fan who considers Quinn your best writer, Finlay your best artist, and who does not like your Elder God, science-fiction, or vampire stories. All others satisfy me deeply.”

Frank Roberts writes from London, England: "Your July issue is splendid. I am not a lover of science-fiction, but the s-f tales you get hold of are in a class of their own. Congratulations to you for your editorial policy and your continued high standard of literature.”

David R. Evans writes from Victoria, Australia: "My favorite authors in Weird Tales are Seabury Quinn, Robert Bloch, and Henry Kuttner — good old regulars. Hypnotism has been my favorite subject for a long time until I read a reprint in Weird Tales entitled Medusa, by Royal W. Jimerson, which brought atavism to my notice.”

Bob Pehrson writes from Manitowoc. Wisconsin: "On reading for the first time your fine publication, I find I enjoyed The Little Man by Clifford Ball the most, though all your stories were what we 'cliilluns’ go for.”

E. B. Hardy writes from Lewiston, Maine: "Here is my vote for favorite stories in the August Weird Tales: 1. Almuric; 2. Ap prentice Magician.”

That Poe Cover

J. J. O’Connell writes from New York: "1 just bought the September WT, and am greatly pleased with the excellent way in which Virgil Finlay has carried out my suggestion of a cover based on Poe’s classic poem, The Raven. I had pictured in my own mind the Raven perched demurely on the bust of Pallas Athene, but this spread-winged creature from the night’s Plutonian shore gives a touch of wildness and terror to the picture that makes it positively macabre. And the wild, distrait countenance of the poet is incomparably well-done. Here’s to Virgil Finlay, a real artist if there ever was one. More power to his arm! May I express the hope that this is only the first of a series of



covers illustrating famous weird poems? For, fine as Finlay’s black and white illustrations are, his color is even finer. I suggest the three witches from Macbeth might make a good cover.... His recent full-page picturization of Shakespeare’s line, 'I can call spirits from the vasty deep,’ would have made a wonderful cover. I am very much gratified to note that H. P. Lovecraft’s collected works are to appear at last. The many thousands of Lovecraft admirers who have read his masterly stories in Weird Tales will welcome the opportunity to own the volume. Now a word about some of your recent stories. First, Almuric, by the late Robert E. Howard. Although ordinarily I am not fond of reading so-called interplanetary stories, Howard quite carried me away with the powerful sweep of his fertile imagination. He produced a story that I cannot easily forget. I fairly lived through the weird adventures of Esau Ironhand myself. Then there was that fine story by Manly Wade Wellman, The Valley Was Still. We have come to expect fine literary craftmanship from Wellman’s pen, but this strange and eery story has distinction beyond any of his previous stories. P. Schuyer Miller’s Spawn, in the August issue, is one of the greatest stories I ever read, absolutely unique.”

Most Popular Story

It will help us to keep the magazine as you desire it if you will send in your comments. What stories do you like best, and why? And if there are any stories that you dislike, we want to know about those too. Address your letters to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City. Your favorite story in the August issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was Spawn, P. Schuyler Miller’s highly imaginative tale for which he invented a new writing technique. That was one powerful story, for a fact.


■ranaanBaal ■ MWifti' i wp i Mn ai'ji miiii MnM Bnww

Books by Lovecraft, Merritt, Quinn, etc., rented by mail. 3c a day plus postage. Write for free list. WEREWOLF LENDING LIBRARY, 227. L, So. Atlantic Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa,

^Hrirmw

after emoiMnm

IF YOU'RE SHORT OF MONEYS

Mail coupon today for details of my “Pay after graduation plan” and famous Coyne “Learn by Doing” method of practical shop training for your start for success in this big-pay field. Age or lack of money need not hold you back... If you are short of money you can get training first — then pay for most of it in small monthly payments after you graduate.


IN 12 WEEKS IN COYNE SHOPS

Coyne Training is practical training, easy to grasp... you learn quickly by doing actual jobs on real electrical machinery in my shops. Not by books — not a correspondence or a home study course-— you are trained right here in my big Chicago training shops. You don’t need previous experience or a lot of book learning. Expert instructors guide you every step of the way. Start any time.

EARN WHILE LEARNING Job Help After Graduation

Big things ahead in Electricity mean steady jobs, good pay*' and a real future for many trained men in this fascinating “live’* Industry. Thousands of opportunities. Kush the coupon TODAY for Big Free Book with many photos of the great Coyne Shops in Chicago — Opportunities in Electricity — How we can train you for your start in this field and let you pay your tuition after graduation in easy monthly pay* merits. If you need part time work to help with living expenses my employment department will help you. After graduation you will be given Free lifetime employment service.

DIESEL, ELECTRIC REFRIGERATION AND AIR CONDITIONING TRAINING

Now included at no extra cost. Take advantage of this train, ing to increase your earning capacity.


I have a mighty interesting story to tell about my 6chool that will interest any fellow who wants to get ahead • *. Fill in the coupon today and mail it to me and you’ll get my big /a £>.,,* 2,

FREE Catalog and all the facts. / '-*T * t. LMuU!.

H. C. LEWIS, President,

Coyne Electrical School,......

500 S. Paulina Street, Dept. 79»66, Chicago, III.

Send me. without cost or obligation, your Big Free Book and details of Pay-Tuition-After-Graduatiom-Offer.

NAME

ADDRESS

■£££& e» i.mmma m mmmmm m k


S imeon geeard leaned forward in the great leather chair. His white, withered face showed no trace of expression as he said, “I am to die in a month, then?” Doctor Stone hesitated. He felt ill at ease in this great, high-ceilinged room, dimly lit by the red glow of a dying fire. The pungent smoke that curled up from swinging censers tickled his throat. And this strange, shrunken man before him only added to the physician’s discomfort. Though Stone had attended Gerard for years, he had always felt a vague, indefinable dislike for the old eccentric. He could not have told exactly why.

Simeon Gerard held up a claw of a hand and looked through its translucent parchment. “A month, you say?” he repeated.

“Roughly, I should say so,” Doctor Stone said, more loudly than he had intended. His round, well-shaved face glistened in the reddish glow. “You may live much longer — you may die tonight. Frankly, Gerard, I warned you this was coming.”

For a moment the old man’s pale blue eyes turned to the doctor. A mocking smile seemed to dance in their depths.

Stone went on stolidly, “This hobby of yours — from a moral standpoint, I have nothing to say. It’s none of my business. But it has undermined

your health. If you wanted to play with occultism ”

“What?” Gerard’s tufted eyebrows lifted.

“Well — devil-worship, then! Praying to Satan and holding Black Masses, or whatever it is — that was your affair. But I know quite well that you’ve been taking some poisonous drug, against my orders, and doing God knows what else.”

“I have made — experiments,” Gerard admitted.

The physician shrugged. “There’s nothing more to be said. I advise you to get your affairs in order. I’ll come whenever you need me. Perhaps I had better leave these... He laid a small bottle upon a table, and hesitated slightly before resuming. “There will be pain, I’m afraid. Great pain.”

Gerard stood up. A spasm crossed his wrinkled face, but he repressed it immediately. Standing straight and still by the fire, he murmured, “I shall not need you again, Stone. Take your opiate with you. I shall not require it, or you. Send your bill to me, or to my heir. Good evening.”...

This story of a man who dealt in forbidden arts, and the means to which he resorted to prolong his evil life, makes absorbing reading. It will be printed complete in the November issue of Weird Tales.


By Henry Kuttner

many other fascinating weird stories

November Issue of Weird Tales. Out October 1

BelieveltoiNot/

WINQ

TIRE COVERS MADE of FAMOUS Ice OVERALL JELT DENIM ARE STILL WHOLE and GOOD AFTER GRUELING 50-^ILE RUN/

APAIR OFOVERALLS CAN BE MADE WITH AS FEWAsfO PIECES OF CLOTH-5 buttons2 BUCKLES ANDTHREAD

"ROJLUN BUCK- "/imerica's Typical Overall Wearer ' 1

Says:7 COULDN'T BELIEVE TILL / SAW/

I/O WONDER l£E GIVES SUCH FIT AND COMFORT!

IT TAKESHI PARTS AND 4^4 OPERATIONS TO MAKE SUPER- COMFORT TAILORED-SIZE

r UNION-MADE

RIPLEY’S EXPLANATION: 50-Mile Test Run — Tires covered with genuine Jelt Denim carried Buzz Lewis, dirt-track speedster, on an amazing test run! No rips — no worn spots! These tire-covers looked as though they had many miles left in them. This test proves why Jelt Denim used only in Lee Overalls gives you far more wear — Believe It Or Not!

Tailored” Sizes— (repeated by request): To make each size give the wearer a perfect fit, Lee uses 76 parts and 484 operations! Lee is the only overall made of genuine Jelt Denim — sanforized for lasting fit— and woven of multiple- twist yarn for extra wear!.... Believe It Or Not!

Copyright 1939, The H. D. Lee Merc. Company

@mnm

THIS MINIATURE CUT-OUT OVERALL OFjELT DENIM WILL SHOW YOU WHY THIS TOUGH MULTIPLE-TWIST DENIM WEARS LONGER Believe It or Not!

The H. D. Lee Merc. Company,

(Address nearest office) Dept. N-10

KansaaCity, Mo.; Trenton. N.J.; San Francisco, Calif.; South Bend, Ind.; Minneapolis, Minn.

Please send me that miniature cut-out overall and my nearest Lee dealer’s name, too!

Name

Address _

^Town ___ State..

An Amazing Offer to

The Works of 20 Great Authors in 20 Giant Volumes



Send No Money — We Pay the Postage —

The Opportunity of a Lifetime to Own Huge, Handsome Books You Will Treasure, Your Friends Will Envy!

Ready Now!

r Your First Volume The Complete Short Stories o;

'guy de Maupassant'

/ EVERY short story the greatest short story* J writer in the world ever wrote! 222 immor-1 Ital masterpieces— each complete, authentic. I 1 paganly frank, unexpurgated. Translated! I direct from original French. We cannot list f lall titles here, but these few will showj \ treats in store for you in this volume I \.. The Diamond Necklace.. Mme. Fifij 1.. The Mad Woman.. Love’s Awakk ening.. Bed No. 29.. The Artist’s^ l Wife.. and many more! And thisi ^jr^i^is just the first of 20 great voLj m p.s, now yours almost “foj song”! Start getting

it jy*^ YQUIi set N °^*

1VJ EVER before such an offer to readers of this magazine! Examine these’ beautiful books, without one penny in advance. Your chance to own a luxurious Giant Library of the important books of the greatest authors. Accept them— ALMOST AS A GIFT!

These 20 GIANT volumes bring you, in rich bindings, the most fascinating, exciting reading known. Smash hit; of stage, screen, radio! Owning them is a mark of culture. These partial contents give only an inkling of all these books hold!

1. MAUPASSANT. (See full description in circle at the left.)

2. SHAKESPEARE. Every matchless play, every passionate poem, every gemlike sonnet— every word that this immortal among the immortals ever wrote! All 34 plays, over 150 poems and sonnets.

3. HUGO. The master of French literature. 39 Complete work ■, including Hunchback of Notre -Dame, Ninety -Three, Woman of the Streets, Ruy Bias, The Souls, etc,

4. STEVENSON. 144 adventurous novels, stories, poems. Treasure Island, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Kidnaped, Suicide Club, The Merry Men* Child’s Garden of Verses, etc., etc., every one complete.

5. TOLSTOI. 31 breathless novels, stories, Anna Karenina, Kreutzer Sonata, The Cossacks. Love, many more.

6. POE. All 128 tales, poems, essays of America's greatest writer! Annabel Lee. The Raven, The Gold Bug, Murders in the Rue Morgue, The Pit and the Pendulum — and others.

7. IBSEN. Every one of his daring plays, absolutely complete, including A Doll's House, Ghost.;, He Ida Gabler, Peer Gynt, several others.

8. BALZAC. 25 complete novelettes of irresistible frankness and realism. Girl With Golden Eyes, Imaginary Mistress, A Passion iii the Desert, The Vendetta, and many other famous titles.

9. KIPLING. Complete novel. The Light That Failed. 7G exciting stories — 75 great ballads, verses, including Gunga Din, Danny Deever, Tomlinson, the Vampire.

10. DUMAS. 175 short stories, episodes of romantic adventures — Cannibals, Mme. Dubarry, The Wedding Night, A Grecian Slave Girl, Glory of Love, Death of the King’s Mistress, The Smuggler's Inn, many others.

The other one-volume editions In this great library of famous authors now in preparation but which space does not permit a description are: — 11. Doyle. 12. Emerson. 13. Flaubert.

1 1. Oscar Wilde. 15. Voltaire. 16. Haggard. 17. Chekhov. 18. Dickens. 19. Hawthorne. 20. Rousseau.


| BOOK COUPON EXCHANGE, 330 West 42nd Street. New York, N. Y.

Please reserve in my name the books listed in your generous offer to | readers of this magazine. I prefer the edition checked below:

□ Regular Cloth Edition □ DeLuxe Embossed Edition


I enclose my first READERS COUPON (printed at right) which entitles I me at once to receive the first book. The Works of Maupassant, in the edition I I have checked above, with NO MONEY IN ADVANCE. Within one week I | will send you the correct payment (89c for the Regular Edition or $1.39 for the DE LUXE). and I will he entitled to receive each following volume, as it comes from the press, on the same generous no-money-in-advance plan.

INAME

IADDRESS

| CITY STATE N.G. 10-39

.4 convenient PRIVILEGE form for future looks will be forwarded with your copy of Maupassant.

The Readers Coupon and Reservation Certificate here, plus nominal sum of 89c for Regular Edition (or $1.39 for luxurious DE LUXE EDITION) entitle you to awn one Giant Volume in this famous series of Great Authors. To receive first book. Works of Maupassant, send no money now. Just mail READERS COUPON and Reservation and this marvelous volume will be shipped at our expense. _ With book will come special invoice for small sum indicated above, and complete instructions on how to get other volumes.

No other charges. President’s Executive Order drastically reducing postage rates for books, for a limited time, makes it possible for us to prepay charges.

Send RESERVATION CERTIFICATE and the READERS COUPON NOW! No “Reservation Fee”— no “Deposit.” Your first book will come at once. First come, first served! Act NOW, before you mislay this page!

[THE END]
