============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: October 1929
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Fate-Thelma E" by Johnson
  2. "Transformation___Harvey W" by Flink
============================================================
============================================================
FATE-THELMA E
by Johnson
============================================================
with before us the silence and dark¬ ness of the eternal void, and behind us the galaxy’s stars.

[ THE END ]

FATE

By THELMA E. JOHNSON

I know a land of beauty and of peace:

Serene it lies, beyond the gates of death, Remote and holy, free from any breath Of earthly winds and rain that never cease;

And there with you, beloved, I would walk Deep in the windless solitude sublime,

A child of music and of careless rime,

And oh, how new and strange would be our talk!

But there is one who still withholds the key:

He stands unmoved beside the marble gate,

A veiled, colossal figure—is it Fate Or only Death that chills the heart of me? Beloved, will I walk with you alone In that far land, between the gates of stone?

A JVeird Mystery Is Brought to Light

The Gray Lady

By FLAVIA RICHARDSON

T HEY had been married three or four months and were still perfectly happy. Bernard was working all day in a publisher’s office, and because he did not get a very large salary Maureen went on with her daily job as a typist. As a general rule she got back to the flat about half an hour before Bernard. They had been very much pleased when they first found the flat. It was at the- top of one of the large, oldfashioned houses that abound in Bloomsbury and consisted of four -rooms—bedroom, living-room, bath¬ room and a minute dressing-room. Their meals were eaten in restaurants, cooked on the gas ring, or provided by the housekeeper.

The first floor of the house was oc¬ cupied by an elderly gentleman who lived a presumably blameless exis¬ tence with his radio and his pet ca¬ nary, which hung in the sitting-room window and occasionally came out of the cage to hop around.

The second and third floors were empty and unfurnished. Lodgers seemed somehow to fight shy of the rooms on those floors: either there were not enough of them or the rents Avere too high. And still higher, up a corkscrew flight of stairs, but with no front door of their own, lived Maureen and Bernard.

It was not until they had lived in the house for three or four months that Maureen began to wonder. She said nothing: she was Irish enough to believe in the other world; she was English enough to have a real dis¬ taste for being ridiculed in any way.

And she did not know Bernard very well—or thought she did not. Be¬ sides, there was so little to say— nothing to go upon, nothing tangible, or even visible; only a strange impres¬ sion that she was not alone when she came into the house, that someone every now and then followed her up the stairs to the first floor.

It so happened that she was often the only inhabitant when she returned from the office. The housekeeper was either out shopping or else so deeply entombed in the basement that she might to all intents and purposes have been elsewhere; the old gentleman usually went out for an airing after tea, whatever the weather; in addi¬ tion to being old, he was crippled and very sensitive over the deformity; he liked to walk in the quieter streets at the quieter part of the day.

Maureen began to turn her head to see who was on the stairs; the stone steps were uncarpeted and she was sure that she could hear the distinct sound of individual footsteps. But there was never anything to be seen. After the first floor, the steps usually stopped; once she heard a lingering sigh that seemed to float on the air as though someone were reluctant to leave her company.

She was nervous as a rule, dislik¬ ing to be alone, always liable to imagine burglars if the chairs creaked. Yet curiously enough this ghost or suggestion of a ghost did not make her afraid. It seemed friendly, lonely, as if anxious for company.

At last she summoned up courage to tell Bernard.

THE GRAY LADY

“It’s silly of me, I know,” she said, when she had ended her story, “but I’m always sure that there’s someone there.”

Bernard said nothing for a minute or two. He pulled at his right eye¬ brow, a habit he had when he was a little puzzled. Then he asked her to give him the dates more particularly and to try and remember if she had* been specially conscious of the in¬ fluence on any particular day.

Maureen frowned. “No,” she ad¬ mitted at last. “But it seems to be getting more definite, little by little.”

“Curious,” submitted Bernard, slowly. “I’ve felt it, too.”

“ You ? ” Maureen’s voice was part¬ ly surprize, partly relief.

“Yes. I wouldn’t say anything to you because I didn’t want to make you nervous and I know you come in by yourself at night and that to all intents and purposes you’re alone in the house. But I’ve been conscious of it for quite a time.”

“What—what ought we to do about it?” asked Maureen.

* ‘Nothing, ’ ’ replied Bernard promptly. “At least, not at present. After all, what have we got to go on? Nothing that we could tell anyone else. And it’s no good asking Mrs. Johnson downstairs if she’s noticed it, because she’ll only go off the deep end and give notice to the landlord and then there’ll be a real row. Be¬ sides, we don’t want her to go. She can cook.”

Maureen was a little doubtful. “If it gets worse-?”

“I daresay it won’t. And you must admit that so far it hasn’t shown any desire to hurt you. It seems very friendly.”

“I don’t mind it,” she hastened to explain. “It almost seems like com¬ pany some days. But I don’t feel quite happy. It seems to be gaining strength so much.”

Bernard shrugged his shoulders. “Why not? You’re quite friendly disposed to it and so am I. Whv

shouldn’t it be friendly? It’s prob¬ ably some old bird who used to live here and had a good time and comes back to enjoy the scene of his de¬ bauches. It has never shown any de¬ sire to show me where to find hidden hoards, or anything of that kind. I’m afraid it’s a washout in that way.”

Maureen shivered a little. “I used not to mind; I still don’t mind,” she began, “but I am beginning to dislike it.”

“That’s due to talking it over,” suggested Bernard. “You’ve begun subconsciously to think of ghost stories and evil spirits and things like that, and that’s getting mixed up in your mind with our perfectly harmless goosestepper. Don’t be silly.”

Thus admonished, Maureen men¬ tally shook herself and made up her mind not to give way to foolish fancies. But she was not too happy. Her complete enjoyment in their first home since marriage had begun to quiver. The flat was lovely; she was quite happy there, but though she did not exactly dread the stairs, she began to be glad when she had mounted them, to run a little more swiftly through the hall and up the first flight.

And as she ran, so the steps seemed to hurry too, until she found she could never outpace them. But still nothing more happened, and she neither heard nor saw anything fresh, so that gradually she began to become accustomed to them once again.

B y tacit consent, neither she nor Bernard had ever spoken of the ghost outside their two selves: it did not seem a matter to treat too lightly; neither did they want to be laughed at by more sophisticated friends.

It was therefore somewhat of a sur¬ prize when one evening Betty Dan¬ vers, Maureen’s intimate friend, came to see them and said casually as she dropped into the big armchair, “What a funnv echo von have in this honsA!



I could have sworn that someone fol¬ lowed me up the first flight of stairs. It was so strong an echo that I turned round to see who was there.”

Maureen and Bernard exchanged uneasy glances. Betty saw the con¬ straint in their maimer and begged for the truth.

They told her, rather reluctantly, but to their surprize she did not laugh. Instead she looked more serious.

“Rather you than me,” she said, with a little grimace. “I don’t like those sorts of stray things running round my house. But why doesn’t it ever come any higher! ’ ’

“Don’t know,” said Bernard, fill¬ ing his pipe as he spoke. “I suppose the chief seat of the power, or what¬ ever you call it, is on the first flight. Perhaps the old boy lived in the first floor room once. Old man Robinson downstairs may be on quite pally terms with him. But one can hardly ask that kind of a question of a man to whom one has never spoken before.”

The subject was dropped, and for a time nothing happened.

M aureen made the next discovery.

She was coming up the stairs on a rather dark evening in early spring. She had noticed that for once no foot¬ steps had followed her and was a little surprized, so familiar had they become.

Lifting her head as she came round the bend on the half-landing she was suddenly aware of a woman in a gray dress, slipping into Mr. Robinson’s sitting-room, the door of which faced the stairs. The woman, if woman there was, disappeared so quickly that Maureen was loth to believe the evi¬ dence of her eyes, taking the fastfading daylight into account. She was convinced, however, that she had seen the woman, but suddenly as she continued upstairs and thought over the incident, she remembered that the sitting-room door had been shut, in

accordance with Mr. Robinson’s in¬ variable custom.

Maureen told Bernard, who con¬ sidered this new development with becoming gravity. He suggested the possibility of a visitor to the old man, but was puzzled by the closed door. Though perfectly convinced himself that Maureen had actually seen the ghost, he preferred to ascribe it to a trick of the light, being extremely anxious not to allow his imagination to run away.

Asking her not to think of it any tnore, he determined to keep his own eyes and ears open and to discover the mystery if he could. Somehow he began to believe that there was some sinister meaning behind it all. The atmosphere of the house seemed subtly to have changed. There was a curious air about it, an air of hushed ex¬ pectancy, instead of the placid calm that had hitherto been especially noticeable.

Both Maureen and Bernard were conscious of the change. Maureen grew tense and nervous; she took to going for walks in the evening to fill in the time between her return and Bernard's.. Then she took to waiting about for him in the street, and ask¬ ing him to wait for her if she were not there, so as to avoid any possibility of her having to go into the house alone.

She did not see the gray lady again for a long time, but once as she almost ran past the first floor landing she thought she heard a laugh, a strange, unearthly laugh, and though it was not exactly horrible, it made her blood run cold.

“We must look for other rooms,’* Bernard declared.

But Maureen shook her head. “I must see this through,” she .said. “I don’t know why, but I couldn’t leave here now. ’ ’

“But it’s making you ill,” pro¬ tested Bernard.

“I won’t get ill. I promise that. I

THE GRAY LADY

541 '

know I’m nervous and tired, but I won’t let it get the better of me. And I feel—I can’t explain, but I know something is going to happen soon.”

“As you like,” he returned. “But if the climax doesn’t come within the next three months when we get our holiday, I shan’t let you come back here. Seriously, darling, it’s beyond a joke, and I don’t like the place my¬ self. I believe we’re both having hallucinations, that the drains are wrong. There’s a filthy smell on that first flight sometimes—only not the kind of smell you can get hold of and complain about, ^t made me nearly sick today.”

“Oh, so you’ve smelt it, too,” was all that Maureen said.

The banging of a door below made them both jump. Bernard slipped on to the landing, ran down the cork¬ screw flight and hung over the ban¬ isters below. He came back in a mo¬ ment or two.

“Old man Robinson’s just gone out,” he reported. “I say, Maureen, do you know he almost ran down the stairs?”

“Ran?” she echoed in surprize. “But he’s a cripple.”

“Yes.” Bernard spoke slowly. “He almost ran and he’s a cripple. The inference is that he was running either away from something pretty beastly or to something pretty safe. Get me?”

Maureen nodded. “He’s seen— her?” she suggested.

“Probably. I wonder if we dare call on him and inquire.”

“Better not. You can’t very easily ask him, can you? And it isn’t in the best of taste to watch his comings and goings over the banisters. You know what I mean?”

Bernard looked doubtful. “I don’t like it,” he said.

T) y tacit consent they seldom went upstairs alone. If either had to go down on an errand the other one

accompanied. At first they made feeble little excuses but after a short time these dried up and it was simply ac¬ cepted as a matter of course.

There was no doubt about the smell now, but it was so transitory that there seemed nothing to lay hold upon. Bernard mentioned it to Mrs. Johnson, but she could smell nothing, though he dragged her up to the first flight at a moment when he knew that there had been a particularly malig¬ nant odor there a few moments before. But he was obliged to agree that there was no trace of any trouble just then and could only compromise by saying that he would write to the landlord and ask to have the drains tested. But he did not trouble to write that letter.

As he went upstairs after Mrs. Johnson had gone down, he distinctly saw the gray lady whisk into Mr. Robinson’s room.

After that they began to see her more frequently, but only her back; the face was never turned toward them and she was always disappear¬ ing into the room, from which she never seemed to come out. Gradually, too, her outlines began to be more de¬ fined: they could distinctly tell the contours of her hair-dressing, the shape of her hand, the curve of her neck. But the face was always hidden and this tantalized Maureen.

“She might at least let us see if we can recognize her,” she contended one evening. She had lost a good deal of her nervous tension but she spoke more rapidly than before and there was a patch of color in her face that Bernard did not like.

“I don’t want to,” he said. “It might be unutterably foul.”

“I have a feeling,” said Maureen, slowly, “that when we do see her face we shall come to the end of the story.”

“Perhaps,” Bernard grunted, and then added, “And the end of the story lies, I believe, in Robinson’s



room. The only question is, does it affect him or is it something he’s walked into?”

“He hasn’t run downstairs again— at least we haven’t heard him,” Maureen amended. “Bernard, I am sure he’s mixed up in it somehow. Aren’t you?”

Bernard was non-committal. He had his own theories, but they were only theories and he did not choose to speak of them at that moment for fear the*y should loom too realistically in their minds and prevent them from weighing their evidence calmly.

T he spring days were- lengthening and the evenings were drawing out, assisted particularly by the day¬ light saving, but still there was no ending to the drama that went on below.

And then, in the first week of May, came a thunderstorm. It began late in the afternoon, and when Bernard and Maureen came to the house it was raging fiercely. Thunder pealed overhead as they shut the front door behind them and shook themselves in the tiled hall, rubbing shoes on the worn coconut hair mat.

Suddenly at the foot of the stairs Maureen clutched her husband by the elbow. “Bernard!” she cried. “Look —look!”

On the half-landing stood the gray lady. As they stared at her she turned slowly in their direction. A vivid flash of lightning lit up the whole of the staircase, pouring in from the window half-way up. The yellow rays played on the woman. At the sight of her Maureen screamed and Bernard shouted to her to hide her eyes. The gray lady had no face. Where one should have been yawned a mask of white and red, horridly mingled, and as Bernard continued to gaze, petrified by what he saw, he realized that the features had been beaten into a pulp.

With a motion of her hand, the

lady beckoned them to come up the stairs. Moved by an impulse she could not fathom, Maureen started to go forward. Bernard, still holding her closely, came too, afraid to leave her alone, certain that she should not come.

Outside the door of the sitting-room the gray lady paused for a second, with her back to them as usual. Then she went inside. Another vivid flash of lightning lit up the house. As it died away, a terrible cry was heard from inside the room.

Bernard sprang forward. Maureen clutched him wildly.

“Don’t!” she cried. “Oh, Bernard, don’t go in!”

“Stay here,” he commanded. “I must see what has happened. ’ ’

He turned the handle of the sittingroom door, which yielded to his touch. Then, bracing himself for a further shock, he went boldly in.

On the floor lay the body of Mr. Robinson, dead. The last vivid flash of lightning had struck him where he stood by the open window. He had fallen on to the floor, his head against a tall cupboard built into the wall.

Bernard came on to the landing again, shut the door and turned the key in the lock.

“Mr. Robinson has been struck by lightning,” he said. “He’s dead. I must go and telephone for the police and a doctor.”

“I’ll go,” said Maureen, and ran before he could speak.

She was back in a minute or two with a policeman who had provi¬ dentially been near by. Together the three went into the room of mystery.

All seemed ordinary and there was nothing to alarm anyone. Yet the policeman looked round with some suspicion before he went over to the still figure on the floor.

“Dog or cat about, sir?” he asked.

(Continued on page 571)

An Eery Story Is

THE PALACE OF THE DEAD

By ROBERT PEERY

T HE night was cold and quiet. The traffic outside the windows of Gale Parmenter’s great brown mansion on Taliaferro Street had moderated until there was heard only now and then the slithering whir of black tires on the frozen pavement. The fire had burned low in the grate and neither of us had thought to re¬ plenish it from the black enameled box that stood beside it. The shadows flickered in an eery dance over the walls, the floor and the ceiling of the big room. For four hours we had sat there, slowly exhausting the possi¬ bilities of conversation between two old friends who had not seen each other for ten years. The clock in the hall behind us had faithfully ticked the minutes away, and now, after groaning internally, it clanged out the hour from its brass throat.

“The dead,” said Gale Parmenter, his cold black pipe still clenched be¬ tween his teeth, “have devious ways of communicating with the living.”

The notes from the clock wavered about us, then died away until only a ghostly echo, small, reverberating, re¬ mained.

“And the easiest way is through dreams,” he said.

I had been surprized at the change that had come to the face and to the philosophy of my old friend. Where before—when I left him at the ferry at Hoboken on our return from a jaunt with Jack Pershing in France —his face had been ruddy, and alive with the joy of healthy living, it now

was the color and seemed of the very texture of old and yellowed parch¬ ment. I remembered his eyes as small wells of happiness; I saw them now as burned holes in his cadaverous face. He was thinner by thirty pounds; I had heard that he rarely left his house, but remained cloistered there like a monk, poring over ancient tomes and puzzling his head with various abstruse studies. All night his conversation had been forced. I could tell that much; his manner im¬ pressed me strangely. He had ap¬ peared all evening to be looking or listening for some horror just beyond the next tick of the hall clock.

I had watched his gaze wander and fasten for minutes at a time upon the painting that hung above the black marble mantel-board. I will admit that the picture held for me also a peculiar sense of fascination. It was Delgari’s The Palace of the Dead, an excellent copy of original size, in genuine oils. The foreground was a placid lake; tall, exquisite poplars, of a height and beauty not seen even in Lombardy, stood like solitary sentinels on each side of a cavern which lifted its black masses ponderously, majes¬ tically, toward a dark and scowling heaven. Upon the lake in a small boat was the figure of a man with outstretched arms, who was pleading with some savage god to renounce the verdict of death to his soul. The colors were somber, dispirited. The very taint of death seemed to exude from that terrible canvas. I «hud643



dered involuntarily when I caught the burning eyes of Gale Parmenter fixed intently upon the painting. And it seemed to me, in that moment as he spoke the words, that it was his own figure in that boat upon the lip of the cavern in which the dead were pris¬ oned for an eternity of darkness and damnation. It was more than merely ithat there seemed a sort of kinship between that man in the boat of the picture and my friend in the chair be¬ fore the dying firelight. It was more serious than that; it created strange thoughts in me; I do not know how I might explain this, but it was there, and it was of reality, I think. I have never been called an unduly imagina¬ tive man.

“The picture, Frank,” said Gale in a flat, almost toneless voice, “is part of a strangely recurring dream that comes to me with the regularity of a booming evening gun—like the guns at Mangapore, you ’ll remember. ’ ’ At such times, when he recalled a scene, a friend, a time we both had known, there was the slightest wraith of his old self that seemed to flicker past his eyes. But not for long.

“I have dreamed so many times that I have stood in that boat and rowed into that yawning cavern which lips the lake like a grinning god of destruction that I am almost con¬ vinced that I am that person who rails so ineffectually against the powers whose shapes one can so dimly discern Sn the gray and black skies above.”

I stood up, the better to examine the picture, and to find what I had at first overlooked. So skilful had been the artist’s brush that one had to look closely to see that the very clouds above that darkly mirroring lake were the heads and writhing torsos of enig¬ matic gods at sportive play and amo¬ rous jousts! Their puffed eyes were greedily watching the drama below them. What matter to them that an¬ other human being made the danger¬ ous journey to the shades of Death? What cared they? It was a part of

their sport, a spectacle for the jaded eyes of their goddess mistresses! Their limbs were like writhing serpents, their middles bloated and spongy. Their mouths grinned luridly. The figures seemed to shift about in dis¬ orderly fashion.

I stepped back. They had gone. The leaden sky was immovable but grim with the power of its im¬ placable, unending surface. A step forward and again I saw the bawdy sport of deism! I could almost hear their voices as they shouted cruel words that would thunder at length upon the ears of the tortured being upon that ebony lake.

“I have heard those voices, too ,’ 7 said Gale. He had not risen from his chair; his eyes searched the last flickering flames within the grate. The room had begun to grow colder. I turned to him with surprize in my face.

“The voices of those terrible gods?” I cried. Was he hypnotizing me? Why should he have twice voiced my thoughts?

“The Voices of the Terrible Gods,” he replied. His voice rose as each syllable fell from his lips; uncon¬ sciously he had capitalized the letters of his sentence by the inflection, the horror, of his tone. “Shall I tell you about the dream ? ” he asked.

I sat down once more and he began.

“Tt has been eight years since first

A I dreamed of the Palace of the Dead. I bought that picture when the furniture and furnishings of the old Campanis place were sold at auc¬ tion in New Orleans. It was the only purchase I made. It struck me as soon as I laid eyes upon it. It cost a great deal of money, too, but I wanted it and I bought it.

“I will not try to tell you that the picture has some malign influence over my mind, because we both are sensible men. I have caused myself to dream of these things because of late years my mind has fastened

THE PALACE OF THE DEAD


itself tenaciously upon the utter hor¬ ror of death, upon the imperturbable countenance of death, and upon the necessity for each man ‘wrapping the mantle of his couch about him and lying down to’—to what, Frank? What lies just beyond the brightness, the sunlight, the color and the noise of this life? Is it peace? Content¬ ment? Or a vague wandering, an un¬ rest, an eternal search for something which forever eludes? I have imag¬ ined ofttimes, have dreamed, that I was lost in an eternity of distance, bodiless, brainless, heartless—search¬ ing, groping in a darkness deeper than any Stygian hell, and never finding what I sought! Is it possible that whatever gods there be can be so cruel as to send a soul upon such a fruitless quest? Is it not enough that they should make sport with our destinies while we live and play and dream upon this earth? Can it be true, as Delgari has portrayed in this picture, that their sport has only be¬ gun when we leave behind the vest¬ ments of reality and take upon our souls the ineffectual garments of death? Will they hound us through all eternity, as they hound us through the black door of death—as they thunderously charge that pitiful fig¬ ure of a man to enter the Palace of the Dead and its ghastliness? Look at him, Frank! See the horrorstricken countenance, the livid eyes, the grip of death in his clenched hands, the upraised, hopeless arms begging for mercy at the couches of those grinning gods who turn from his plea with mirth to place their hot mouths upon the lecherous lips of their mistresses! See how death hangs in heavy folds about his damp gar¬ ments! Look how the odor of death beats up from his mouth!”

I arose nervously and placed a stick of wood upon the red coals. I had begun to feel that I could not for a moment longer bear the thought of that room growing darker and colder.

“Always I seem to be waking upon

a flat, level ground upon which no living thing grows. The flatlands stretch away to the gray horizon. Always I feel as if the sky above me is pressing down about my body, is strangling me, is imprisoning my heart and lungs with its suffocating embrace. The essence of the sky in that picture, in my dreams, seems to be loosed in my breast and to pluck at the beat of my heart as a skeleton might pluck the strings of a ghostly guitar. And always the rhythm of that serenade is played to the beat of my heart—always I feel it pulsing, quivering, as if trying to escape some indescribable horror.

“My throat becomes slowly more and more constricted—breathing be¬ comes a torture—often I wake at that point, and always I am glad when I do. But more often than not I must go forward on weak limbs until I stumble upon the edge of a lake in which nothing grows, neither green nor brown nor black. And there upon the edge of that dead lake I find my guide with the boat.

“The boat is frail, of a thin, carved black wood, like ebony, and the oarsman is unspeakably dirty and slimy. His hair hangs about his face like matted seaweed; his nose is hooked and thin; his lips curl back with disdain for my plight. He speaks no word to me. He is like a madman, now sobbing violently, now laughing as if in merriment; again drawing himself into a shell of reserve as if he knew the answer to the riddles of the world but was afraid to look at any man lest he give something of his knowledge away with a single glance. Silently he paddles the boat along over that lake whose waters are like none in this land of the living. There is great depth to the lake, although one can not see for an inch beneath the surface. There is no slightest ripple upon the surface, because, you see, the wind is dead, too. The paddle makes no" ripple as it rises and falls with the slow movement of the guide’s



arms. That water is thick, like blade blood, and a terrible odor arises from it. . . .

“At length we come to the month —the yawning, hungry mouth of the cavern that is the Palace of the Dead. Where there was darkness be¬ fore, there now is complete night. There is no sound; the boat glides on as if upon the air, without motion to the right or to the left, but on, implacably on, toward the horrors of the grave and the musty corridors of that cavern wherein the dead speak without words in a strange idiom of unreality. Beside us, as we go farther into the cave, I see the wraiths walk¬ ing with solemn, funereal tread, their heads bowed with their great despair. Their elothing hangs from their shoulders in somber folds.

“Here and there along the narrow ledge that borders the channel, pale, yellowish lights throw back the ter¬ rible darkness for a few yards, but the water of the canal gives back no answering reflection. Have you ever seen a light that refused the exhilara¬ tion of reflection? It is terrible in its finality—it shines for a little way into the blackness, then abruptly throws itself against an eternity- of darkness.

“At length we reach land; the stone corridors and the vistas of cathedral spaces filled with strange, bat-like creatures give way at lak, and we step out upon the soil, where stretches away a flat, monotonous land without herbage or trees as far as our eyes can reach in the yellowish eternal dusk of that awful place. And as our feet step upon the ground it gives be¬ neath my tread as if it were spongy, unwholesome soil, not built for the tread of living bodies. Always it is only my own feet that sink deep into that strange ground; the feet of my guide, who goes ahead, tread more' lightly. Always there is the feeling that I alone of all the creatures in that place am alive, that all my com¬ panions are dead things, spinning out

the futility of non-existence for the satisfaction of their terrible gods.

“And here comes the strangest part of this dream that recurs. ...”

Touring this recitation my eyes had remained upon the face of my friend. The nerves along his temple jerked and fluttered as he unfolded the tale for my ears. Although the fire had mounted to licking amber and red, the room seemed permeated with a strange, unearthly chill.

“I must go back now, Frank, to a day in France when we stormed the canal at St. Quentin,” he continued. “During the evening, yon will re¬ member, we found a platoon of skulk¬ ing Germans in the tunnel and routed them out. I can remember still how they came out with their hands in the air, their faces caked with the blue, sticky mud of that uptorn land, their eyes hollows of madness. Do you re¬ member what I did that evening in the dusk near Bellinglis?”

I nodded. How well I remembered 1 Gale Parmenter, tired, nervous, the rack and tension of the day’s battle against the death-rattling pillboxes on the slope, against the clattering cata¬ ract of German rifle fire, still tearing with destructive fingers at his brain, had gone mad in an instant. A Ger¬ man boy, wearing the uniform of the Bavarian regiment then in action in that seetor, came up out of the tunnel. His face was pasty gray, his eyes pitted sepulchers, his hair matted, and his mouth twisted with horror. And Gale Parmenter, his mind snap¬ ping for a moment with frenzy and madness, had lunged onee with naked, already reddened bayonet. The Ger¬ man boy fell in a heap before him, a little moan of surprize escaping be¬ tween his lipsw We removed the dripping bayonet. For weeks Gale Parmenter lay on a bed of torment; his mind seemed to us at one time completely upset and beyond all chance of recovery. When he finally regained a degree of sanity he reTHE PALACE OF THE DEAD


membered his act, but it required ex¬ pert nursing and attention to bring him out of the pit of despair into which that mad act had cast his soul.

“The dead, Frank, have devious ways of communicating with the liv¬ ing. In this dream I meet the Ger¬ man boy of Bellinglis. He wears the small skull-cap as he wore it that evening when I spitted him upon my bayonet. His face is just as it ap¬ peared to me that day—the matted locks, the horribly staring eyes, the trembling lips. He points his finger at me in that dream, and from his lips, in a voice that is like a woman’s, so small and weak and tired it seems, he says to me, ‘Der Tag !’—.the two German words that one heard so much in those days. ‘The Day!’ And I know what he means. He is telling me that the day is coming when the gods themselves will take toll upon my life for the wrong I committed upon him at Bellinglis. He was a captured prisoner, Frank. ...”

Parmenter’s voice had weakened considerably at this point. I inter¬ rupted.

“You must forget that dream, Gale,” I said. “Surely you can not feel that you are responsible for your moment of madness. Surely the gods will not further despise you.”

“They must have their sport,” he said, casting his glance toward the sportive, greedy gods in the sky above the Palace of the Dead in the picture above the black marble board. ‘ ‘ They will visit something more upon me.”

The jangling of the door-bell shat¬ tered the silence. I sprang half up from the depths of my chair. Gale Parmenter also sprang to his feet, and his face went deathly white.

“Who could be ringing the door¬ bell at this hour? And Fanning is abed' long ago. I shall have to an¬ swer it.”

I stood up and watched him walk toward the doors of the study. And I knew in that moment that he was going to his doom, but I was power¬

less to speak. My tongue refused the bidding of my mind. I heard the front door open and I heard a gut¬ tural voice repeating the two words that were spoken in the dream: “Der Tag!”

1 heard the body fall. I ran to the hallway and found Gale Parmen¬ ter lying face downward in the door. I looked through the door. A very shabby man with a close-fitting skull¬ cap was standing there, his eyes dis¬ tended in horror. His hair was matted beneath the cap; his face wore a yellowish, grayish cast. I tried to order him inside. I could not speak. I lowered my gaze from that apparition, then glanced up again. The figure was still there. The lips were trembling.

He moved through the door and knelt beside me. ‘ ‘ I think I am mad, ’ ’ he said weakly.

My hands searched for a spark of life about the stilled heart of Gale Parmenter. He was dead.

“Who are you?” I cried, in horror of the man who knelt beside me.

“My name is Fritz Artmann. I could not sleep tonight. I dressed and walked, not knowing where I was going. I have been out of work. I am a ditch-digger. A German. It is hard to find work because I am not very strong. I do not know why I came to this door and pushed the bell. Something was pushing me along the street.”

I knew he was telling the truth. “Were you in the German army?” I asked.

“I was wounded at Bellinglis dur¬ ing the last days. My comrade, a youth, was killed at Bellinglis with his hands in the air. Sometimes he

comes to me in dreams-”

“At Bellinglis? Your comrade killed?” I cried.

I felt the fingers of Gale’s unseen ghostly musician plucking at the beat of my own heart. The strange horror



closed over me, suffocating, destroying my heart with its deadly embrace. The last thing I remember was a mocking tongue shouting words that must have been my own: “The dead have devious ways of communicating with the living! ’ ’

I saw the grins of the gods above the Palace of the Dead; I saw their lecherous sport; I heard the mocking thunder of their gargantuan laughter rolling and resounding along the leaden sky above that implacable lake. Then I fell into unconsciousness.

A Vtry Short Ghost-Story Is

THE PHANTOM BARBER

By E. W. MAYO

W E WERE all gathered around the fire, and had been telling ghost stories, when Ed Win¬ ters, who had been unusually silent all evening, cleared his throat and leaned forward.

“I had the strangest experience of my life about a month ago,” began Ed. “I had just returned from a four weeks hunting-trip and I needed a haircut, so I started for Sam Daily’s barber shop as soon as I reached town.

“As I entered the shop a strange feeling crept over me, and it seemed as if an uncanny spell hovered over the whole place. Just as I shut the door I heard the courthouse clock strike three, and as the last sound died away I thought I heard a mock¬ ing laugh. I looked up. Bill Elders, the assistant barber, was alone in the shop, and I tried to tell myself I imagined the laugh.

“You know that Bill Elders and I had hated each other like poison since I beat him up for kicking that lame dog. And you know that Bill had threatened to get even with me— had even threatened to kill me. But I was too tired to come back later, so I climbed into the chair and told Bill

I wanted a shave and haircut. Bill didn’t say a word, but started to cut my hair.

“As I sat in the chair a strange un¬ easiness stole over me, and the room seemed filled with weirdness.

“Finally Bill finished my hair and started to shave me. Suddenly some¬ thing seemed to warn me of danger; I glanced toward the mirror, and as I looked my blood froze in my veins.

“Bill Elders stood above me with a terrible look of hate on his face. In his upraised hand he held a razor, and it was- just about to descend on my throat when I screamed and slipped over the side of the chair and raced for the door. I pulled it open and fled down the street and into the arms of Sam Dally.

“ ‘Sam,’ I screamed, ‘Bill Elders just tried to murder me! ’

“A look of amazement overspread Sam Daily’s face as he stood and stared at me.

“ ‘Ed,’ he said, ‘you’re crazy! Bill Elders was killed in an accident two days ago and was buried at 3 o’clock this afternoon.’

“And that,” concluded Ed Win¬ ters, “was the strangest experience I ever had in my life.”

“■VTTTELL, and what do you Wthink of it?” asked Noel T T Drayle.

The object upon which I was thus invited to pass an opinion was a large and very battered wooden mummy-case resting in the middle of the floor of his study. The lid was carved in low relief with a repre¬ sentation of a life-sized human fig¬ ure, and the sides daubed with crude hieroglyphs in red and green paint. These were so plainly the work of a modern hand that I had no difficulty in making up my mind.

“A palpable fake,” I said with a shrug. “I’m surprized at a man of your experience being taken in with a thing like that. Why, the signs seem to have been painted in hap¬

hazard — they do not even make sense.”

Noel Drayle merely laughed.

“Oh, I quite agree that the hier¬ oglyphic writing is a forgery—it was added by an ignorant showman to whose ‘Exhibition of Freaks and Curiosities ’ the mummy formerly be¬ longed. It is quite evident that they have been painted by someone who did not know their meaning, just to make the thing look interesting. The fraud is so bare-faced that not a single bid — other than my own, of course — was forthcoming when it was put up for sale last week. It was knocked down to me for five pounds, and I think I’ve got a bargain.”

“Mummy and all?” I cried; for he had removed the lid as he spoke, re549



vealing the still, linen-wrapped-figure within.

“Yes, and I think it's rather an unusual type of mummy at that,” was my friend's reply.

I drew near and looked into the great wooden case.

Even to one whose daily task is to lecture on the antiquities of ancient Egypt there comes a feeling of mys¬ tery and awe at the sight of the em¬ balmed remains of the men and women who once formed part of that remote and long-vanished civiliza¬ tion. Looking upon their silent, stiff-lying forms, one is tempted to ask oneself what strange sights have greeted those now lusterless eyes; what deeds have been accomplished by those rigid hands; what thoughts and emotions have surged within those handfuls of brownish dust which were their brains. Could they but speak, what a tale those lips could tell of the dim, far-off ages when the his¬ tory of our own land had yet to emerge from the mists of savagery which then enshrouded it.

‘‘A little bit out of the usual, eh?”

Noel’s question roused me from the train of thought into which I had unconsciously fallen. Dismiss¬ ing my romantic speculations, I ap¬ plied myself to the practical task of examining the mummy.

Yes, it certainly did seem to differ from the common run. The general style of the interlaced swathings led me to assign it to the early part of the Nineteenth Dynasty, probably between the reigns of Rameses I and Menephtah II, though the absence of any inscription made this a mere guess on my part. This absence, in itself, was unusual. The method of embalming was a costly one, only used for wealthy and influential per¬ sons, and such were in the habit of having their names and titles fully displayed.

‘ ‘ There seems to be some metal ob¬ ject beneath the wrappings,” said Noel, srentlv Droddiner the breast of

the mummy, “and the shape of the head seems to suggest there is a sort of diadem on it. I’ve a jolly good mind to unroll the wrappings and see what’s underneath.”

“Just as you please,” I answered, adding, with an attempt at a rather grim jest, “I reckon it’s your fu¬ neral—not mine.”

‘ ‘ Let’s carry him into the surgery— we ’re not likely to be disturbed there. It would be deuced awkward if Esther happened to walk in here while we were in the middle of our post-mortem! ’ ’

We gently lifted the ancient relic of humanity and carried it into the tiny, white-painted room where Noel was accustomed to perform his minor operations.

“Up with him,” said Noel, and an instant later his long-defunct “sub¬ ject” was lying on the silver-plated top of the long iron table.

For a while the young surgeon looked at it reflectively.

“It has just struck me,” he said suddenly, “what a splendid idea it would be for an up-to-date murderer to get rid of his victim by embalm¬ ing the corpse and passing it off as an ancient Egyptian mummy.”

I started and drew back slightly. His casually uttered surmise had sent an ice-cold shiver down my spine.

“You — you surely don’t think that this- 5 —”

lie interrupted me with a laugh.

“Of course not, old chap. The thought merely crossed my mind, that’s all, and I wondered why these writers of sensational fiction have never hit upon so novel, yet obvious, a method of getting rid of the corpus delicti. But let’s get to work.”

R emoving our coats and rolling up our shirt-sleeves, we began our ghoulish task. Taking a pair of scissors from his instrument-case, he cut the knot at the back of the neck; then, I lifting the shoulders while he unrolled, we began to remove the

THE SCOURGE OF EGYPT


endless bandages with which the mummy was swathed. We worked in silence, the only sounds to be heard within that tiny, brilliantly lighted room being the pattering of the dried spices on to the metal table and the whir of the electric fan which Noel had set in motion to dis¬ sipate the heavy aromatic odor aris¬ ing from the mummy.

“I was right. Look!” said Noel suddenly, pointing to a gleam of bronze which showed dully between the swathings on the breast. Then he resumed his task with feverish energy.

But it almost seemed as if the mummy were reluctant to give up its secret. With tantalizing deviation the wrappings led down to the feet, then upward to the shoulders — everywhere, in fact, except where their unrolling would reveal the hid¬ den object. What could it be? I asked myself the question time and again as I breathlessly waited. Was it an amplet? — the usual ushabti image?—a sword?—a regal scepter?

But it was none of those things that Noel at last drew forth.

“Why, it’s a flail!” he cried, hold¬ ing it up.

“It looks to me more like a scourge,” I answered, as I took the strange object from him and closely examined it.

Whatever name one chose to call it by, it was a terrible instrument. The stock was of bronze, elaborately or¬ namented and engraved with an in¬ scription in hieroglyphic writing. The butt was fashioned into a beautifully carved head of a Sphinx; from the other end there sprang three thin, pliant bronze wires, loaded at their tips with many small, sharp pieces of the same metal, placed there, presum¬ ably, for the purpose of lacerating the flesh of the unfortunate slaves or criminals whose fate it had been to come under its deadly stroke; for it seemed as though the thing had formed an instrument of execution

rather than a mere means of punish¬ ment. The same thought seemed to occur to my friend.

“Pretty little toy, isn’t it?” he said, making the loaded triple tails whistle through the air. “I should imagine that a couple of dozen with this was about equivalent to a sen¬ tence of death.”

“It looks as though you’ve got good value for your fiver,” I told him. “Although I’ve had a fairly wide experience of Egyptian antiq¬ uities, I’ve never seen such an article before. There’s an inscription on it, too. Would you mind if I have a shot at deciphering it?”

“By no means. Go ahead.”

It did not take me many minutes to realize the importance of the en¬ graved signs.

“Hullo! here’s a royal cartouche /” I cried, pointing to an oval near the end of the inscription; “ ‘Seti Menephtah, beloved of the Gods’— that’s the king usually known as Seti the First-”

“Let’s have it in its proper order,” said Noel, burning with impatience.

I again applied myself to the study of the writing.

“ ‘This is the Scourge of KephraOphis, Lord of the Lash, Keeper of the bond-slaves of Yuteh-Melk, those who labor for their divine master, King Seti Menephtah, beloved of the Gods, ruler of the Upper and Lower Nile-lands’ — why, Noel, my boy, you’ve struck a gold mine this time. You can sell this relic for a thou¬ sand times the sum you gave for it.”

He looked at me as though he thought I had taken leave of my senses.

“What’s the excitement?” he said. “I can’t see anything extraordinary in the thing. Is it made of gold?”

I shook my head.

“Better than that,” I answered impressively. “That scourge has made history—and big, world-famed history! Seti was the Pharaoh of the Oppression, the bond-slaves of



Yateh-Melk were the Israelites, and this scourge was wielded by the chief of their Egyptian taskmasters, and that ornament” — I pointed to the cirelet of bronze which he had at that moment freed from the head-wrap¬ pings—‘‘was probably Kephra-Ophis’ badge of offiee!”

Noel Drayle gave a little gasp.

“You’re joking — yon must be!” he cried incredulously.

“I’m quite prepared to offer you a hundred pounds for your purchase, right now. But I warn you that it is not a tenth of its real value.”

“I don’t intend to sell, anyway,” Noel returned decisively. “If what you say is true, I think I’ll make a little experiment with our defunct slave-driver-’ ’

“What kind of an experiment?” I asked quiekly.

“I’ll tell you that when my ar¬ rangements are complete,” he coun¬ tered, with a cryptic smile. “And now, if you don’t mind, we’ll return Kephra-Ophis to his little wooden dugout. I’ve had about enough re¬ search for one night. I want to do a bit of thinking.”

I intend no disrespect to the man who was my friend when I say that Noel Drayle was possessed of a strange and unusual mentality. He had not been content with making the physical properties of the human brain his special study; he went farther, delving into the much-de¬ bated questions of the psychological functions of that organ, with the result that his undoubted sueeess in the first-named sphere was more than counterbalanced by the coldness with which the medical world re¬ ceived his startling, semi-oceult theories in the latter. During the last few years, I knew, his investiga¬ tions had been centered on the phe¬ nomena of hypnotism. It occasioned no surprize, therefore, when I called on him a few days later, to find him in the mmnanv of Dr Harland. the

man whose open practise of mesmer¬ ism had been the subject of a recent inquiry of the British Medical Society.

Harland was a tall, commanding, hawk-faced man with an almost Oriental swarthiness of hair and com¬ plexion. It needed but one glanee into his dark, magnetic eyes to un¬ derstand the secret of his successful treatment of obscure nervous dis¬ orders. He was one of those strange freaks of nature that one occasion¬ ally meets with, a man possessed of a natural power to sway the thoughts and emotions of his fellow-ereatures.

The surprize with which Noel Drayle greeted me seemed rather greater than the occasion called for.

“So it is you, after all?” he cried. Then he turned to the other man. “Pray accept my apology, Dr. Har¬ land; you were quite right.”

I gazed from one to the other in surprize. Noticing my look, Har¬ land stepped forward with a smile.

“I think we are needlessly mysti¬ fying you, sir,” he said, fixing his bright, black eyes on me. “As a mat¬ ter of fact, we expected your coming —at least I did, though Mr. Drayle was somewhat skeptical!”

I shook my head.

“I fear you have made a mistake,” I answered. “My visit here was quite on the impulse of the moment.”

“Quite so,” Harland’s tone was quite unruffled by my denial. “And I do not think I am far out when I say that this sudden impulse—as you quite honestly thought it to be — came to yon exactly ten'minutes since.”

I thought for a moment, then was compelled to admit that he was right. I had started out with the intention of going somewhere else; it was only when I was passing the top of the street that I turned aside to seek out Drayle.

“You’ll probably be surprized to know that you’re here because Dr. Harland willed you to come,” internosed Noel Dravle at this point. “I

THE SCOURGE OP EGYPT


particularly wished to see you, and suggested ’phoning you to call, round. Dr. Harland, however, as¬ serted that he could bring you here by exerting his will and implanting the unconscious impulse in your mind. I agreed to allow him to make a test of his power—and within ten minutes you were ringing at the bell!”

It was certainly a strange expla¬ nation of my unpremeditated visit, but I possessed too open a mind on such matters either to affirm or deny its truth. I ventured to hint, how¬ ever, that I should be glad to witness another and more convincing demon-. stration of the hypnotic doctor’s skill.

“And you have come at just the right time to do so,” declared Noel. “Come into my study, and we shall

“What we shall see,” broke in Harland with a smiling shrug. “It is best not to dogmatize on the suc¬ cess of any incursion into the occult. It is only tricksters and charlatans who .claim the power of entering the unseen world at any and every seance.”

As soon as I entered the study I saw that some preparations had al¬ ready been made. Two couches had been drawn up side by side in the center of the room, immediately be¬ neath the electrolier; the heavy cur¬ tains were drawn across the windows so as to exclude every ray of day¬ light. Upon one couch lay the mummy of Kephra-Ophis, still part¬ ly unrolled as we had left it after the finding of the scourge and headfillet. These latter objects had been placed in their original positions, one resting on the head of the mummy, the other lying between its clasped hands.

“Mr. Drayle informs me that you are able to write shorthand,” said Harland, turning to me. “Are you able to do so in the dark?”

“Well, as a matter of fact, I’ve

never had occasion to attempt that feat,” I answered, smiling.

Harland looked disappointed.

“In that case we will have to have a little light during the seance, though I should have preferred the room to be in complete darkness. I am about to place your friend in an hypnotic trance, and I wish you to take down anything he may say while under its influence. But first we must reduee the light.”

He mounted on a chair and, after one or two attempts, succeeded in fixing a piece of brown paper over the single illuminated globe in such a manner as to throw a narrow fun¬ nel of light on to the two couehes, the rest of the room being in semi-dark¬ ness.

“Is there enough light for you to write by?” he inquired of me when he had finished.

“Oh, yes,” I assured him, glancing at his notebook which I had placed before me in readiness. There was just sufficient light for me to see the point of my pencil against the paper.

“Then let us begin;” said Harland.

As he spoke, the door was thrown open and Esther Drayle entered.

O n the few occasions on which I had met Noel’s wife I had been impressed by her unusual, if some¬ what statuesque, beauty. With her dark, thickly curling hair, her large somber eyes, her slightly aquiline, pallid features and full red lips, she had always struck me as being more of an Oriental than a European type. I knew that Noel had met her while traveling in the East, but exactly where, and under what circum¬ stances, he had not thought it nec¬ essary to explain. Now, as she entered the room, I could see that she was laboring under some strong emotion.

“Noel!” She ignored our pres¬ ence and advanced straight to her husband. “What is this thing that you intend to do?”



The young surgeon laughed re¬ assuringly as he laid a hand on her arm.

“A little experiment, Esther; that is all.”

“With that?” An expression of loathing mounted on the beautiful face as she pointed to the mummy of Kephra-Ophis.

Noel flushed and fidgeted like a guilty schoolboy.

“Tell me exactly what you are about to do,” she went on in a tone of quiet insistence.

“Well, I know it may sound very foolish to a professed skeptic in oc¬ cult matters, such as you, my dear, but we—or rather I—was about to attempt a little tentative journey into the Past.”

“I’m afraid I do not understand, Noel.” She looked around as she spoke and for the first time seemed to become aware of the presence of Harland and me.

“There is really no occasion for alarm, my dear Mrs. Drayle,” said Dr. Harland as he stepped forward. “These little—ah—investigations are quite trifling little affairs, interesting only to those eccentric people who, like myself, look upon the unseen world as being no less real than the one around us. They are so foolish and trifling as to be quite unworthy of the notice of such an enlightened skeptic as yourself!” And he made a slow, ironical inclination of his head.

Esther Drayle shrugged slightly and a hard look came into her eyes.

“I must ask you for a more de¬ tailed explanation of your ‘little investigation,’ Doctor,” she said firmly.

The great hypnotist gave a toler¬ ant smile.

“I will do my best to make things clear, my dear madam.” He spoke m the patient tone of one who hu¬ mors the caprice of a wayward child. “I fear I may seem to be talking in a foreign language if I attemDt to

explain the theories of the great Freud, so I will confine myself to elementary matters. Of course you, in common with the rest of the hu¬ man race, occasionally have dreams. When the conscious mind has lost its own individuality in that period¬ ical oblivion which we call sleep, a series of impressions will sometimes be recorded by the sensorium—that part of the nervous system which is the first recipient of the impressions of the senses—which causes images to appear before the mental eye. Sometimes the visions thus called up are reasonable and coherent; some¬ times they are fragmentary and fan¬ tastic. But invariably the sleeper has no conception of Time or Space. For his soaring senses the barriers which beset our petty, earthly lives do not exist. Without astonishment he re-enacts the events that have hap¬ pened long ago; without fear he holds converse with those who have passed away. But these are the mere chance impressions impinging on the sleep¬ ing brain. When such visions are controlled-”

“How can they be controlled?” demanded the girl.

“By the exercise of hypnotic in¬ fluence, aided by the propinquity of some object that will help to fix the subconscious impression. This mummy”—Harland pointed to the motionless form on the couch—“is that of a man who lived in the reign of Seti the First, about 3,300 years ago. By virtue of the time-anni¬ hilating power of sleep, I am confi¬ dent that I will be able to so merge the individuality of your husband— the ka, or twin-soul, as the ancient Egyptians called it—with that of this Kephra-Ophis, as to cause him to re¬ call the memories of that long-dead officer of Pharaoh, to be swayed by his thoughts, to experience his loves and hatreds. All this, of course, only so long as he remains in the hypnotic sleep.”

Esther Dravle turned to her husTHE SCOURGE OP EGYPT


band and held out her hands in ap¬ peal.

“Do not consent, Noel,” she cried. “Do not allow him to carry out this experiment. Remember that if it is successful you will assume the individuality of this Egyptian slavedriver, reverencing what he rever¬ enced and hating what he hated.”

“Of course,” returned Noel, sur¬ prized at the vehemence of her opposition to his project. “That" is the whole point of the experiment.”

“Then do not allow it to be made!” she burst out, her voice vibrant with entreaty. “If you do, your love for me will turn to bitter hatred. The bond-slaves of Yuteh-Melk, whom this Kephra-Ophis scourged and flayed, were the Children of Israel.”

Noel Drayle looked puzzled.

“I know that, Esther, but I fail to see how that fact can affect my love for you.”

“Have you not read of the barbar¬ ities which he practised on the Jew¬ ish slaves? If you allow your soul to enter into his body, you will loathe me as he loathed them—treat me as he treated them. For, although I have never confessed it before, I am of Jewish race.”

He stared at her for a moment in bewildered surprize, then laid his hand on her arm with a reassuring laugh.

“That can not possibly make the slightest difference in my love for you,” he answered gently. “Come, come, Esther. You are exciting yourself needlessly.”

Dr. Harland stepped forward with a smile.

“Since Mrs. Drayle objects to the experiment, there is nothing more to be said-”

“No, no, Doctor,” Noel inter¬ rupted quickly. ■ ‘ I should never for¬ give myself if I allowed a foolish scruple to stand in the way of my great adventure. Come with me, Esther. You will laugh at your hys¬ terical fears when it is all over.”

He took her arm gently and led her from the room, returning in a few moments.

“I have administered a sedative,” he said briefly. “And now, gentle¬ men, I am ready for the experi¬ ment.”

TTe laid himself on the couch by A A the side of the mummy and Har¬ land took up his stand before him and began to make slow passes in the air. In a few seconds Noel’s eyes grew fixed and vacant; the muscles of his body relaxed; his breathing became slow and regular.

Harland ceased his passes and folded his arms across his breast.

“Sleep!” he commanded in a deep, sonorous voice. “Let your soul wing its way back through the mists of Time, seeing, and revealing what it sees. Do you h ear me ? ”

“Yes,” came from Noel’s slightly parted lips.

“What do you behold?”

There was a slight pause; then:

“I see two narrow belts of ver¬ dure set in a waste of golden sand, with a broad river running through the green. It is the Land of Khem.”

“Approach nearer,” ordered the hypnotist. “What do you see now?”

“I see a mighty, many-pillared temple, with sun-kissed pylons rising into the blue sky. It is the Temple of Chensu at Karnak. An avenue of Sphinxes guards the approach, all fresh-hewn and gleaming white. There are six on one side and five on the other. ’ ’

“Seek out the missing Sphinx. . .. Have you found it?”

“Yes. A fourfold line of toiling captives is Strung along the desert road which leads from the quarries of On. They are harnessed together like cattle — old men, young men, boys—all straining at the chains by which they drag the massive, sculp¬ tured monster to its appointed place. Tall, fierce-looking men walk up and



down the line of toilers, cracking their long whips and shouting threats and curses. On the statue’s base there stands a man clad in rich ves¬ ture, with a coronet of bright bronze upon his head and a three-thonged scourge of metal in his hand. It is Kephra-Ophis, Lord of the Lash, Keeper of the bond-slaves of YutehMelk. ”

“That man is yourself!” said Harland, and made a peculiar motion with his hands.

Instantly the voice of the hyp¬ notized man changed from his usual cultured accents to a raucous bellow so pregnant with cruelty and bloodlust that I felt my heart go cold.

“Yes, I am Kephra-Ophis!” he roared. “Lord of the Lash—Keeper of the Slaves! Ho-ho! Faster there— faster, you dogs! Ho-ho! Faster!”

The voice went on, but I was no longer listening. My attention had been attracted by a slight movement of the wrappings of the mummy. At first it was so slight that for a mo¬ ment I thought my eyes were deceiv¬ ing me. I looked again. No, I was not mistaken. The mummy was bathed in the narrow stream of white light that fell from the electric globe overhead; every detail was clear and distinct. And the bands of dis¬ colored linen which swathed the body of Kephra-Ophis were, slowly but surely, moving!

A sudden rigidity seemed to des¬ cend upon my limbs as I thought I realized the meaning of what I saw— that the hideous, dried-up caricature of humanity was about to wake to life. I could not move, or even cry out. I could only stare with dis¬ tended, horrified eyes at the gentle movement which agitated the mum¬ my’s breast.

Presently I was aware that a thin gap had appeared where the edge of one of the bands was lifted. Then, with slow and horrible deliberation there crawled from beneath a small scarabceus beetle. Its color was silverv

white, and it seemed to be semi¬ transparent, Whether it was its color or the apparent- feebleness of its movements 1 know not, but the impression it gave to my mind was one of almost incredible age.

Slowly, warily, as though it were testing its power of movement after awakening from centuries of inac¬ tion, it crawled toward the mummy’s shoulder, then to the padded rail of the couch on which Noel Drayle lay.

It was not the aimless running to and fro of an ordinary insect, but a steady, purposeful progress, and I could see that it was making its way toward the face of the sleeping man. As though I, too, were hypnotized, I watched it mount his shoulder. I could even distinguish its tiny shadow on the stiff linen as it passed across his collar, then upward over his throat toward the parted lips. . . .

A strangled scream from the door¬ way made me swing round. Esther Drayle had entered and was pointing a shaking finger at her unconscious husband.

“Look! the scarabceus —the Sacred Beetle of Egypt! Can’t you see it? Shake it off—kill it! ”

I looked in the direction of her pointing finger. The beetle had van¬ ished.

How it had disappeared, or where it was now, I did not have time even to consider, for at that moment Noel Drayle rose to his feet.

But it was a transformed Noel. His features were convulse.d with hatred; a ferocious glare was in his eyes. From his lips came harsh, guttural sounds—the voice of Keph¬ ra-Ophis.

‘ ‘ Noel! Noel, dearest — don’t you know me?”

The man paid not the slightest heed to her trembling question. Stooping swiftly, he lifted the bronze diadem from the mummy’s brow and placed it on his own. Snatching up the Scourge of Egypt, he aimed a savaerc blow at Esther.

THE SCOURGE OP EGYPT


“He’s mad!” she shrieked, and fled from the room, closely pursued by the frenzied man.

For a few seconds the unexpected outcome of our experiment seemed to deprive both Harland and me of the power of coherent thought. Then he leapt toward the door.

“After him—quick! He’ll murA sudden outburst of agonized screams guided our steps as we dashed up the stairs. They came from a room on our right. The door was locked.

“Force it,” gasped Harland, white to the lips.

Not once but many times did we throw ourselves against the panels before the lock gave way; and all the time the screams continued, broken now and again by a wild demoniacal laugh.

As we entered the room a terrible sight met our eyes. Esther, her dainty dressing-wrapper torn to rib¬ bons and soaked with blood, was crouching in the farther corner. Over her towered Noel Drayle, swinging the bronze scourge in his hand.

“Noel!” I cried as I ran forward. “What are you about-”

He shook off my grasp and turned with a snarl. I heard the swish of the loaded thongs as the whip descended within an inch of my face. Desperately I closed with him, en¬ deavoring to hold his hands. But he broke my grip with a madman’s strength and again raised his flail¬ like weapon.

Lucky it was for me that the com¬ motion by this time attracted the at¬ tention of the servants. Harland and a burly chauffeur threw themselves on him; a very distressed-looking butler hung grimly to his feet. In a few seconds he was being held down on the bed, while Harland rendered first aid to the girl and I telephoned for more effective means of restraint.

F or three days and nights Noel Drayle’s life hung in the balance. For the most part his hours of con¬ sciousness were spent in a stony silence, which he broke only to utter strange words, seeming to urge on gangs of slaves to the building of pyramids and temples which existed only in his own imagination. The doctors could only shake their heads and offer their opinion that his men¬ tal lapse had been caused by too deep a study of the history of an¬ cient Egypt. But Esther Drayle had another theory.

“Why do you not remove the mes¬ meric influence?” she demanded of Dr. Harland when we called together to inquire after her husband.

But he gave a helpless shrug.

“I would willingly give all I pos¬ sess to undo the mischief I have unwittingly done,” he answered sadly. “But I fear that the soul of Kephra-Ophis will never quit the body of your husband. ’ ’

“What makes you so positive on that point?” she asked, with, it seemed, a sudden suspicion.

Instead of answering, he turned to me with another question.

“Did you notice a strange, trans¬ parent beetle emerge from the wrap¬ pings of the mummy?”

I told him that I had seen it.

“Did you see where it went to?” was his next query.

I shook my head, and he went on impressively.

“It entered the parted lips of the sleeping man, and I verily believe that by doing so it has prevented me from recalling Noel to his own self. Strange as it may seem, I am forced to the theory that the white scarabcem was the soul of Kephra-Ophis.”

A loud and mocking laugh from Esther greeted his words.

“A very pretty little fairy-tale, but it does not deceive me!” she cried, stepping close to him and



speaking rapidly. “I know your reason for not allowing Noel to re¬ turn to his normal state of mind. A cheek, drawn in your favor and pur¬ porting to be signed by him, was pre¬ sented at his bank on the morning following your so-called experiment. The signature is very much like Noel’s writing, but I know for a fact that he would never give away such a huge sum without telling me. That cheek is a forgery, Dr. Harland, and you are keeping him under your in¬ fluence to prevent his denouncing you!”

The mesmerist gave a tolerant shrug.

“A wild and fantastic tale, and one the police will laugh at,” he sneered. “The check was in settle¬ ment of a long-standing loan. As for your unfortunate husband, it grieves me to have to tell you that he will never utter another sane word.”

Esther’s dark eyes hardened until they resembled two points of steel.

“I have asked—humbly asked— you to remove the influence which is clouding Noel's mind,” she said slowly. “But what I have asked in vain I must now compel.”

Harland’s deep-set eyes flickered with amusement.

“How?” he asked mockingly.

“With this!”

Her hand flashed forward, and I saw it held a small revolver aimed directly at his heart. One delicate finger was crooked over the trigger, and I could tell by the depression of the sinews of her wrist that the slightest additional pressure would launch the bullet on its deadly errand.

Apparently Harland saw it, too, for he bowed his head with a slow, sub¬ missive gesture which was in itself a confession that his deep-laid plot had failed.

“You win.”

As he made the curt admission, Harland waved his hand several times above the face of the uncon¬ scious man. Then he turned and passed from the room, a defeated and a ruined man.

And Esther Drayle, with a sob of

[THE END]

============================================================
TRANSFORMATION___HARVEY W
by Flink
============================================================
thanksgiving, threw herself into the eagerly outstretched arms of the man who had, all unknowingly, once wielded the dreaded Scourge of Egypt.

TRANSFORMATION

By HARVEY W. FLINK

We saw the island through the golden mists Of early dawn: our hearts beat high with hope;

And as we scrambled up the sandy slope We praised our gods until a serpent hissed.

We praised our gods until the leopards came

And licked our hands, and led us from the beach;

And we discerned, across a grassy reach,

A palace that was wreathed in living flame.

The leopards, leaping in the pallid shine,

Brought us to Ciree, daughter of the Sun:

We drank from goblets of rich Smyrna wine,

And groveled at her feet till day was done:

But when we rose and left her, one by one,

We crossed the floor red-bristled, squealing swine.

The Lost Room

By FITZJAMES O’BRIEN

I t was oppressively warm. The sun had long disappeared, but seemed to have left its vital spirit of heat behind it. The air rested; the leaves of the acacia-trees that shrouded my windows hung plumb-like on their delicate stalks. The smoke of my cigar scarce rose above my head, but hung about me in a pale blue cloud, which I had to dissipate with languid waves of my hand. My shirt was open at the throat, and my chest heaved laboriously in the effort to catch some breaths of fresher air. The noises of the city seemed to be wrapped in slumber, and the shrilling of the mos¬ quitoes was the only sound that broke the stillness.

As I lay with my feet elevated on the back of a chair, wrapped in that peculiar frame of mind in which thought assumes a species of lifeless motion, the strange fancy seized me of making a languid inventory of the principal articles of furniture in my room. It was a task well suited to the mood in which I found myself. Their forms were duskily defined in the dim twilight that floated shadowily through the chamber; it was no labor to note and particularize each, and from the place where I sat I could command a view of all my possessions without even turning my head.

There was, imprimis, that ghostly lithograph by Calame. It was a mere black spot on the white wall, but my inner vision scrutinized every detail of the picture. A wild, desolate, mid¬ night heath, with a spectral oak-tree in the center of the foreground. The wind blows fiercely, and the jagged branches, clothed 1 scantily with illgrown leaves, are swept to the left continually by its giant force. A formless wrack of clouds streams across the awful sky, and the rain sweeps almost parallel with the hori¬ zon. Beyond, the heath stretches off into endless blackness, in the extreme of which either fancy or art has con¬ jured up some undefinable shapes that seem riding into space. At the base of the huge oak stands a shrouded figure. His mantle is wound by the blast in tight folds around his form, and the long cock’s feather in his hat is blown upright, till it seems as if it stood on end with fear His fea¬ tures are not visible, Jor he has grasped his cloak with both hands, and drawn it from either side across his face. The picture is seemingly objectless. It tells no tale, but there is a weird power about it that haunts one, and it was for that I bought it.

Next to the picture comes the round blot that hangs below it, which I



know to be a smoking-cap. It has my coat of arms embroidered on the front, and for that reason I never wear it; though, when properly arranged on my head, with its long blue silken tassel hanging down by my cheek, I believe it becomes me well. I remem¬ ber the time when it was in the course of manufacture. I remember the tiny little hands that pushed the colored silks so nimbly through the cloth that was stretched on the embroideryframe—the vast trouble I was put to to get a colored copy of my armorial bearings for the heraldic work which was to decorate the front of the band —the pursings up of the little mouth, and the contractions of the young forehead, as their possessor plunged into a profound sea of cogitation touching the way in which the cloud should be represented from which the armed hand, that is my crest, issues—the heavenly moment when the tiny hands placed it on my head, in a position that I could not bear for more than a few seconds, and I, kinglike, immediately assumed my royal prerogative after the coronation, and instantly levied a tax on my only subject, which was, however, not paid unwillingly. Ah, the cap is there, but the embroiderer has fled; fof Atropos was severing the web of life above her head while she was weaving that silken shelter for mine!

How uncouthly the huge piano that occupies the comer at the left of the door looms out in the uncertain twi¬ light! I neither play nor sing, yet I own a piano. It is a comfort to me to look at it, and to feel that the music is there, although I am not able to ’ break the spell that binds it. It is pleasant to know that Bellini and Mozart, Cimarosa, Porpora, Gliick, and all such—or at least their souls— sleep in that unwieldy case. There lie embalmed, as it were, all operas, sonatas, oratorios, nottumos, marches, songs, and dances, that ever climbed into existence through the four bars that wall in melody. Once I was en¬

tirely repaid for the investment of my funds in that instrument which I never use. Blokeeta, the composer, came to see me. Of course his instincts urged him as irresistibly to my piano as if some magnetic power lay within it compelling him to approach. He tuned it, he played on it. All night long, until the gray and spectral dawn rose out of the depths of the midnight, he sat and played, and I lay smoking by the window listening. Wild, unearthly, and sometimes in¬ sufferably painful, were the impro¬ visations of Blokeeta. The chords of the instrument seemed breaking with anguish. Lost souls shrieked in his dismal preludes; the half-heard utter¬ ances of spirits in pain, that groped at inconceivable distances from any¬ thing lovely or harmonious, seemed to rise dimly up out of the waves of sound that gathered under his hands. Melancholy human love wandered out on distant heaths, or beneath dank and gloomy cypresses, murmuring its unanswered sorrow, or hateful gnomes sported and sang in the stagnant swamps, triumphing in unearthly tones over the knight whom they had lured to his death. Such was Blo¬ keeta’s night’s entertainment; and when he at length closed the piano, and hurried away through the cold morning, he left a memory about the instrument from which I could never escape.

Those snow-shoes that hang in the space between the mirror and the door recall Canadian wanderings—a long race through the dense forests, over the frozen snow, through whose brittle crust the slender hoofs of the caribou that we were pursuing sank at every step, until the poor creature despair¬ ingly turned at bay in a small juniper coppice, and we heartlessly shot him down. And I remember how Gabriel, the habitant, and Frangois, the halfbreed, cut his throat, and how the hot blood rushed out in a torrent over the snowy soil; and I recall the snow cdbane that Gabriel built, where we

THE LOST ROOM


all three slept so warmly; and the great fire that glowed at our feet, painting all kinds of demoniac shapes on the black screen of forest that lay without; and the deer-steaks that we roasted for our breakfast; and the savage drunkenness of Gabriel in the morning, he having been privately drinking out of my brandy-flask all the night long.

That long, haftless dagger that dangles over the mantelpiece makes my heart swell. I found it, when a boy, in a hoary old castle in which one of my maternal ancestors once lived. That same ancestor—who, by the way, yet lives in history—was a strange old sea-king, who dwelt on the extremest point of the southwestern coast of Ireland. He owned the whole of that fertile island called Inniskeiran, which directly faces Cape Clear, where between them the At¬ lantic rolls furiously, forming what the fishermen of the place call “the Sound.” An awful place in winter is that same Sound. On certain days no boat can live there for a moment, and Cape Clear is frequently cut off for days from any communication with the main land.

This old sea-king—Sir Florence O ’Driscoll by name—passed a stormy life. From the summit of- his eastle he watched the ocean, and when any richly laden vessels, bound from the south to the industrious Galway mer¬ chants, hove in sight, Sir Florence hoisted the sails of his galley, and it went hard with him if he did not tow into harbor ship and crew. In this way he lived; not a very honest mode of livelihood, certainly, according to our modem ideas, but quite reconcil¬ able with the morals of the time.

As may be supposed, Sir Florence got into trouble. Complaints were laid against him at the English court by the plundered merchants, and the Irish viking set out for London, to plead his own cause before good Queen Bess, as she was called. He had one powerful recommendation: he was

a marvelously handsome man. Not Celtic by descent, but half Spanish, half Danish in blood, he had the great northern stature with the regular fea¬ tures, flashing eyes, and dark hair of the Iberian race. This may account for the fact that his stay at the Eng¬ lish court was much longer than was necessary, as also for the tradition, which a local historian mentions, that the English queen evinced a prefer¬ ence for the Irish chieftain, of other nature than that usually shown by monarch to subject.

Previous to his departure, Sir Florence had intrusted the care of his property to an Englishman named Hull. During the long absence of the knight, this person managed to in¬ gratiate himself with the local authori¬ ties, and gain their favor so far that they were willing to support him in almost any scheme. After a pro¬ tracted stay, Sir Florence, pardoned of all his misdeeds, returned to his home. Home no longer. Hull was in possession, and refused to yield an acre of the lands he had so nefariously acquired. It was no use appealing to the law, for its officers were in the opposite interest. It was no use ap¬ pealing to the queen, for she had another lover, and had forgotten the poor Irish knight by this time; and so the viking passed the best portion of his life in unsuccessful attempts to reclaim his vast estates, and was eventually, in his old age, obliged to content himself with his castle by the sea and the island of Inniskeiran, the only spot of which the usurper was unable to deprive him. So this old story of my kinsman’s fate looms up out of the darkness that enshrouds that haftless dagger hanging on the wall.

It was somewhat after the forego¬ ing fashion that I dreamily made the inventory of my personal property. As I turned my eyes on each object, one after the other—or the places where they lay, for the room was now so dark that it was almost impossible



to see with any distinctness—a crowd of memories connected with each rose up before me, and, perforce, I had to indulge them. So I proceeded but slowly, and at last my cigar shortened to a hot and bitter morsel that I could barely hold between my lips, while it seemed to me that the night grew each moment more insufferably oppressive. While I was revolving some impossi¬ ble means of cooling my wretched body, the cigar stump began to bum my lips. I flung it angrily through the open window, and stooped out to watch it falling. It first lighted on the leaves of the acacia, sending out a spray of red sparkles; then, rolling off, it fell plump on the dark walk in the garden, faintly illuminating for a moment the dusky trees and breath¬ less flowers. Whether it was the con¬ trast between the red flash of the cigar-stump and the silent darkness of the garden, or whether it was that I detected by the sudden light a faint waving of the leaves, I know not; but something suggested to me that the garden was cool. I will take a turn there, thought I, just as I am; it can not be warmer than this room, and however still the atmosphere, there is always a feeling of liberty and spa¬ ciousness in the open air, that par¬ tially supplies one’s wants. With this idea running through my head, I arose, lit another cigar, and passed out into the long, intricate corridors that led to the main staircase. As I crossed the threshold of my room, with what a different feeling I should have passed it had I known that I was never to set foot in it again!

1 lived in a very large house, in which I occupied two rooms on the second floor. The house was oldfashioned, and all the floors communi¬ cated by a huge circular staircase that wound up through the center of the building, while at every landing long, rambling corridors stretched off into mysterious'nooks and corners. This palace of mine was very high, and its

resources, in the way of crannies and windings, seemed to be interminable. Nothing seemed to stop anywhere. Cul-de-sacs were unknown on the premises. The corridors and passages, like mathematical lines, seemed capa¬ ble of indefinite extensions, and the object of the architect must have been to erect an edifice in which people might go ahead forever. The whole place was gloomy, not so much be¬ cause it was large, but because an un¬ earthly nakedness seemed to pervade the structure. The staircases, corri¬ dors, halls, and vestibules all partook of a desert-like desolation. There was nothing on the walls to break the somber monotony of those long vistas of shade. No carvings on the wains¬ coting, no molded masks peering down from the simply severe cornices, no marble vases on the landings. There was an eminent dreariness and want of life—so rare in an American estab¬ lishment—all over the abode. It was Hood’s haunted house put in order and newly painted. The servants, too, were shadowy, and chary of their visits. Bells rang three times before the gloomy chambermaid could be in¬ duced to present. herself; and the negro waiter, a ghoul-like looking creature from Congo, obeyed the sumhnons only when one’s patience was exhausted or one’s want satisfied in some other way. When he did come, one felt sorry that he had not stayed away altogether, so sullen and savage did he appear. He moved along the echoless floors with a slow, noiseless shamble, until his dusky figure, ad¬ vancing from the gloom, seemed like some reluctant afreet, compelled by the superior power of his master to disclose himself. When the doors of all the chambers were closed, and no light illuminated the long corridor save the red, unwholesome glare of a small oil lamp on a table at the end, where late lodgers lit their candles, one could not by any possibility con¬ jure up a sadder or more desolate prospect.

THE LOST ROOM


Yet the house suited me. Of medi¬ tative and sedentary habits, I enjoyed the extreme quiet. There were but few lodgers, from which I infer that the landlord did not drive a very thriving trade; and these, probably oppressed by the somber spirit of the place, were quiet and ghost-like in their movements. The proprietor I scarcely ever saw. My bills were de¬ posited by unseen hands every month on my table, while I was out walking or riding, and my pecuniary response was intrusted to the attendant afreet. On the whole, when the bustling wide¬ awake spirit of New York is taken into consideration, the somber, halfvivified character of the house in which I lived was an anomaly that no one appreciated better than I who lived there.

I felt my way down the wide, dark staircase in my pursuit of zephyrs. The garden, as I entered it, did feel somewhat cooler than my own room, and I puffed my cigar along the dim, cypress-shrouded walks with a sensa¬ tion of comparative relief. It was very dark. The tall-growing flowers that bordered the path were so wrapped in gloom as to present the aspect of solid pyramidal masses, all the details of leaves and blossoms being buried in an embracing dark¬ ness, while the trees had lost all form, and seemed like masses of overhang¬ ing cloud. It was a place and time to excite the imagination; for in the im¬ penetrable cavities of endless gloom there was room for the most riotous fancies to play at will. I walked and walked, and the echoes of my foot¬ steps on the ungraveled and mossy path suggested a double feeling. I felt alone and yet in company at the same time. The solitariness of the place made itself distinct enough in the stillness, broken alone by the hol¬ low reverberations of my step, while those very reverberations seemed to imbue me with an undefined feeling that I was not alone. I was not, there¬ fore, much startled when I was sud¬

denly accosted from beneath the solid darkness of an immense cypress by a voice saying, “Will you give me a light, sir?”

“Certainly,” I replied, trying in vain to distinguish the .speaker amidst the impenetrable dark.

Somebody advanced, and I held out my cigar. All I could gather definite¬ ly about the individual who thus ac¬ costed me was that he must have been of extremely small stature; for I, who am by no means an overgrown man, had to stoop considerably in handing him my cigar. The vigorous puff that he gave his own lighted up my Havana for a moment, and I fancied that I caught a glimpse of a pale, weird countenanee, immersed in a background of long, wild hair. The flash was, however, so momentary that I could not even say certainly whether this was an actual impression or the mere effort of imagination to embody that which the senses had failed to distinguish.

“Sir, you are out late,” said this unknown to me, as he, with half-uttered thanks, handed me back my cigar, for which I had to grope in the gloom.

“Not later than usual,” I replied, dryly.

“Hum! you are fond of late wan¬ derings, then?”

“That is just as the fancy seizes me.”

“Do you live here?”

“Yes.”

“Queer house, isn’t it?”

‘ ‘ I have only found it quiet. ’ ’

“Hum! But you will find it queer, take my word for it.” This was ear¬ nestly uttered'; and I felt at the same time a bony finger laid on my arm, that cut it sharply like a blunted knife.

“I can not take your word for any such assertion,” I replied, rudely, shaking off the bony finger with an irrepressible motion of disgust.

“No offense, no offense,” muttered my unseen companion rapidly, in a



strange, subdued voice, that would have been shrill had it been louder; “your being angry does not alter the matter. You will find it a queer Rouse. Everybody finds it a queer house. Do you know who live there ? ’ ’

“I never busy myself, sir, about other people’s affairs,” I answered sharply, for the individual’s manner, combined with my utter uncertainty as to his appearance, oppressed me with an irksome longing to be rid of him:

“0, you don’t? Well, I do. I know what they are—well, well, well!” and as he pronounced the three last words his voice rose with each, until, with the last, it reached a shrill shriek that echoed horribly among the lonely walks. “Do you know what they eat?” he continued.

“No, sir—nor care.”

“O, but you will care. You must care. You shall care. Ill tell you what they are. They are enchanters. They are ghouls. They are cannibals. Did you never remark their eyes, and how they gloated on you when you passed? Did you never remark the food that they served up at your table? Did you never in the dead of night hear muffled and unearthly foot¬ steps gliding along the corridors, and stealthy hands turning the handle of your door? Does not some magnetic influence fold itself continually around you when they pass, and send a thrill through spirit and body, and a cold shiver that no sunshine will chase away? O, you have! You have felt all these things! I know it!”

The earnest rapidity, the subdued tones, the eagerness of accent, with which all this was uttered, impressed me most uncomfortably. It really seemed as if I could recall all those weird occurrences and influences of which he spoke; and I shuddered in spite of myself in the midst of the impenetrable darkness that surround¬ ed me.

“Hum!” said I, assuming, without knowing it, a confidential tone, “may

I ask how you know these things?”

‘ ‘ How I know them ? Because I am their enemy; because they tremble at my whisper; because I hang upon their track with the perseverance of a bloodhound and the stealthiness of a tiger; because—because—I was of them once!”

“Wretch!” I cried excitedly, for involuntarily his eager tones had wrought me up to a high pitch of spas¬ modic nervousness, “then you mean to say that you-”

As I uttered this wordj obeying an uncontrollable impulse, I stretched forth my hand in the direction of the speaker and made a blind clutch. The tips of my fingers seemed to touch a surface as smooth as glass, that glided suddenly from under them. A sharp, angry hiss sounded through the gloom, followed by a whirring noise, as if some projectile passed rapidly by, and the next moment I felt instinctively that I was alone.

A most disagreeable feeling instant¬ ly assailed me;—a prophetic in¬ stinct that some terrible misfortune menaced me; an eager and overpower¬ ing anxiety to get back to my own room without loss of time. I turned and ran blindly along the dark cypress alley, every dusky clump of flowers that rose blackly in the bor¬ ders making my heart each moment cease to beat. The echoes of my own footsteps seemed to redouble and as¬ sume the sounds of unknown pursuers following fast upon my track. The boughs of lilac-bushes and syringas, that here and there stretched partly across the walk, seemed to have been furnished suddenly with hooked hands that sought to grasp me as I flew by, and each moment I expected to behold some awful and impassable barrier fall across my track and wall me up forever.

At length I reached the wide en¬ trance. With a single leap I sprang up the four or five steps that formed the stoop, and dashed along the hall,

THE LOST ROOM

up the wide, echoing' stairs, and again along the dim, funereal corridors until I paused, breathless and panting, at the door of my room. Once so far, I stopped for an instant and leaned heavily against one of the panels, panting lustily after my late run. I had, however, scarcely rested my whole weight against the door, when it suddenly gave way, and I staggered in, head foremost. To my utter aston¬ ishment the room I had left in pro¬ found darkness was now a blaze of light. So intense was the illumination that for a few seconds while the pupils of my eyes were contracting under the sudden ehange, I saw absolutely nothing save the dazzling glare. This faet in itself, coming,on me with such utter suddenness, was sufficient to pro¬ long my confusion, and it was not until after several minutes had. elapsed that I perceived the room was not only illuminated, but oeewpied. And such occupants f -Amazement at the scene took such possession of me that I was incapable of either moving or uttering a word. All that I eould do was to lean against the wall, and stare blankly at the strange picture.

It might have been a scene out of Faublas, or Grarrrmont r s Memoirs, or happened m some palaee of Minister Fouque.

Round a large table in the center of the room, where I had left a student-like litter of books and papers, were seated a half a dozen persons. Three were men and three were wo¬ men. The table was heaped with a prodigality of luxuries. Luscious eastern fruits were piled up in silver filigree vases, through whose meshes their glowing rinds shone in the con¬ trasts of a thousand hues. Small silver dishes that Benvenuto might have designed, filled with succulent and aromatic meats, were distributed upon a cloth of snowy damask. Bot¬ tles of every shape, slender ones from the Rhine, stout fellows from Holland, sturdy ones from Spain, and quaint basket-woven flasks from Italy, abso¬


lutely littered the board. Drmkingglasses of every size and hue filled up the interstices, and the thirsty Ger¬ man flagon stood side by side with the aerial hubbies of Venetian glass that rest so lightly on their thread¬ like stems. An odor of luxury and sensuality floated through the apart¬ ment. The lamps that burned in every direction seemed to diffuse a subtle ineense on the air, and in a large vase that stood on the floor I saw a mass of magnolias, tuberoses, and jasmines grouped together, stifling eaeh other with their honeyed and heavy fra¬ grance.

The inhabitants of my room seemed beings well suited to so sensual an at¬ mosphere. The women were strangely beautiful, and all were attired in dresses of the most fantastic devices and brilliant hues. Their figures were round, supple, and elastic; their eyes dark and languishing; their lips full, ripe, and of the richest bloom. The three men wore half-masks, so that all I eould distinguish were heavy jaws* pointed beards, and brawny throats that rose like massive pillars out of their doublets. All six lay reclining on Roman couches about the table, drinking down the purple wines in large drafts, and tossing back their heads and laughing wildly.

1 stood, I suppose, for some three minutes, with my back against the wall staring vacantly at the bacchanal vision, before any of the revellers ap¬ peared to notice my presence. At length, without any expression to in¬ dicate whether I had been observed front the beginning or not, two of the women arose from their couches, and, approaching, took each a hand and led me to the table. I obeyed their motions mechanically. I sat on a couch between them as they indicated. I unresistingly permitted them to wind their arms about my neck.

“You must drink/’ said one, pour¬ ing out a large glass of red wine; “here is Clos Vougeot of a rare vin566


tage; and here,” pushing a flask of amber-hued wine before me, “is Lachryma Christi.”

“You must eat,” said the other, drawing the silver dishes toward her. “Here are cutlets stewed with olives, and here are slices of a filet stuffed with bruised sweet chestnuts; ’ ’ and as she spoke, she, without waiting for a reply, proceeded to help me.

The sight of the food recalled to me the warnings I had received in the garden. This sudden effort of memory restored to me my other faculties at the same instant. I sprang to my feet, thrusting the women from me with each hand.

“Demons!” I almost shouted, “I will have none of your accursed food. I know you. You are cannibals, you are ghouls, you are enchanters. Be¬ gone, I tell you! Leave my room in peace!”

A shout of laughter from all six was the only effect that my passionate speech produced. The men rolled on their couches, and their half-masks quivered with the convulsions of their mirth. The women shrieked, and tossed the slender wine-glasses wildly aloft, and turned to me and flung themselves on my bosom fairly sob¬ bing with laughter.

“Yes,” I continued, as soon as the noisy mirth had subsided, “yes, I say, leave my room instantly! I will have none of your unnatural orgies here!”

“His room!” shrieked the woman on my right.

“His room!” echoed she on my left.

“His room! He calls it his room!” shouted the whole party, as they rolled once more into jocular convulsions.

“How know you that it is your room?” said one of the men who sat opposite to me, at length, after the laughter had once more somewhat sub¬ sided.

“How do I know?” I replied, in¬ dignantly. “How do I know my own room? How could I mistake it, pray? There’s my furniture—my piano ’ *

“He calls that a piano!” shouted my neighbors, again in convulsions as I pointed to the corner where my huge piano, sacred to the memory of Blokeeta, used to stand. ‘ ‘ Oh, yes! It is his room. There—there is his piano!”

The peculiar emphasis they laid on the word “piano” caused me to scrutinize the article I was indicating more thoroughly. Up to this time, though utterly amazed at the entrance of these people into my chamber, and connecting them somewhat with the wild stories I had heard in the garden, I still had a sort of indefinite idea that the whole thing was a masquerading freak got up in my absence, and that the bacchanalian orgy I was witness¬ ing was nothing more than a portion of some elaborate hoax of which I was to be the victim. But when my eyes turned to the comer where I had left a huge and cumbrous piano, and be¬ held a vast and somber organ lifting its fluted front to the very ceiling, and convinced myself, by a hurried process of memory, that it occupied the very spot in which I had left my own instrument, the little self-posses¬ sion that I had left forsook me. I gazed around me bewildered.

In like manner everything was changed. In the place of that old haftless dagger, connected with so many historic associations personal to my¬ self, I beheld a Turkish yataghan dangling by its belt of crimson silk, while the jewels in the hilt blazed as the lamplight played upon them. In the spot where hung my cherished smoking-cap, memorial of a buried love, a knightly casque was suspend¬ ed, on the crest of which a golden dragon stood in the act of springing. That strange lithograph by Calame was no longer a lithograph, but it seemed to me that the portion of the wall which it had covered, of the exact shape and size, had been cut out, and, in place of the picture, a real scene on the same scale, and with real actors, was distinctly visible. The old oak

THE LOST ROOM


was there, and the stormy sky was there; but I saw the branches of the oak sway with the tempest, and the clouds drive before the wind. The wanderer in his cloak was gone; but in his place I beheld a circle of wild figures, men and women, dapping with linked hands around the bole of the great tree, chanting some wild frag¬ ment of a song, to which the winds roared an unearthly chorus. The snow-shoes, too, on whose sinewy woof I had sped for many days amidst Canadian wastes, had vanished, and in their place lay a pair of strange upeurled Turkish slippers, that had, perhaps, been many a time shuffled off at the doors of mosques, beneath the steady blaze of an Orient sun.

All was changed. Wherever my eyes turned they missed familiar ob¬ jects, yet encountered strange repre¬ sentatives. Still, in all the substitutes there seemed to me a reminiscence of what they replaced. They seemed only for a time transmuted into other shapes, and there lingered around them the atmosphere of what they once had been. Thus I could have sworn the room to have been mine, yet there was nothing in it that I could rightly claim. Everything reminded me of some former possession that it was not. I looked for the acacia at the window, and, lo! long, silken palmleaves swayed in through the open lattice; yet they had the same motion and the same air of my favorite tree, and seemed to murmur to me, “Though we seem to be palm-leaves, yet are we acacia-leaves; yea, those very ones on which you used to watch the butterflies alight and the rain pat¬ ter while you smoked and dreamed!” So in all things; the room was, yet was not, mine; and a sickening conscious¬ ness of my utter inability to reconcile its identity with its appearance over¬ whelmed me, and choked my reason.

“Well, have you determined wheth¬ er or not this is your room?” asked the girl on my left, proffering me a huge tumbler creaming over with

champagne, and laughing wickedly as she spoke.

“It is mine,” I answered, doggedly, striking the glass rudely with my .hand, and dashing the aromatic wine over the white cloth. “I know that it is mine; and ye are jugglers and en¬ chanters who want to drive me mad.”

‘ ‘ Hush! hush! ’ ’ she said, gently, not in the least angered at my rough treat¬ ment. “You are excited. Alf shall play something to soothe you. ’ *

At her signal, one of the men sat down at the organ. After a short, wild, spasmodic prelude, he began what seemed to me to be a symphony of recollections. Dark and somber, and all through full of quivering and intense agony, it appeared to recall a dark and dismal night, on a cold reef, around which an unseen but terribly audible ocean broke with eternal fury. It seemed as if a lonely pair were on the reef, one living, the other dead; one clasping his arms around the tender neck and naked bosom of the other, striving to warm her into life, when his own vitality was being each moment sucked from him by the icy breath of the storm. Here and there a terrible wailing minor key would tremble through the chords like the shriek of sea-birds, or the warning of advancing death. While the man played I could scarce restrain myself. It seemed to be Blokeeta whom I lis¬ tened to, and on whom I gazed. That wondrous night of pleasure and pain that I had once passed listening to him seemed to have been taken up again at the spot where it had broken off, and the same hand was continuing it. I stared at the man called Alf. There he sat with his cloak and doublet, and long rapier and mask of black velvet. But there was something in the air of the peaked beard, a fa¬ miliar mystery in the wild mass of raven hair that fell as if wind-blown over his shoulders, which riveted my memory.

“Blokeeta! Blokeeta!” I shouted, starting up furiously from the couch



on which I was lying, and bursting the fair arms that were linked around my neck as if they had been hateful chains; “Blokeeta! my friend! speak to me, I entreat you! Tell these horrid enchanters to leave me. Say that I hate them. Say that I command them to leave my room.”

T he man at the organ stirred not in answer to my appeal. He ceased playing, and the dying sound of the last note he had touched faded off into a melancholy moan. The other men and the women burst once more into peals of mocking laughter.

‘‘Why will you persist in calling this your room?” said the woman next to me, with a smile meant to be kind, but to me inexpressibly loath¬ some. ‘‘Have we not shown you by the furniture, by the general appear¬ ance of the place, that you are mis¬ taken, and that this can not be your apartment? Rest content, then, with us.. You are welcome here, and need no longer trouble yourself about your room.”

‘‘Rest content?” I answered, mad¬ ly; ‘‘live with ghosts! eat of awful meats, and see awful sights! Never, never! You have cast some enchant¬ ment over the place that has disguised it; but for all that I know it to be my room. You shall leave it!”

“Softly, softly!” said another of the sirens. “Let us settle this ami¬ cably. This poor gentleman seems ob¬ stinate and inclined to make an uproar. Now we do not want an up¬ roar. We love the night and its quiet; and there is no night that we love so well as that on which the moon is coffined in clouds. Is it not so, my brothers?”

An awful and sinister smile gleamed on the countenances of her unearthly audience, and seemed to glide visibly from underneath their masks.

“Now,” she continued, “I have a proposition to make. It would be ridiculous for us to surrender this room simply because this gentleman

states that it is his; and yet I feel anxious to gratify, as far as may be fair, his wild assertion of ownership. A room, after all, is not much to us; we can get one easily enough, but still we should be loth to give this apart¬ ment up to so imperious a demand. We are billing, however, to risk its loss. That is to say”—turning to me —“I propose that we play.for the room. If you win, we will immediately surrender it to you just as it stands; if, on the contrary, you lose, you shall bind yourself to depart and never molest us again. ’ ’

Agonized at the ever-darkening < mysteries that seemed to thicken around me, and despairing of being able to dissipate them by the mere exercise of my own will, I caught almost gladly at the chance thus pre¬ sented to me. The idea of my loss or my gain scarce entered into my cal¬ culations. All I felt was an indefinite knowledge that I might, in the way proposed, regain, in an instant, that quiet chamber'and that peace of mind of which I had so strangely been de¬ prived.

“I agree,” I cried, eagerly; “I agree. Anything to rid myself of such unearthly company! ”

The woman touched a small golden bell that stood near her on the table, and it had scarce ceased to tinlde when a negro dwarf entered with a silver tray on which were dice-boxes and dice. A shudder passed over me as I thought in this stunted African I could trace a resemblance to the ghoul-like black servant to whose at¬ tendance I had been accustomed.

“Now,” said my neighbor, seizing one of the dice-boxes and giving me the .other, “the highest wins. Shall I throw first?”

I nodded assent. She rattled the dice, and I felt an inexpressible load lifted from my heart as she threw fifteen.

“It is your turn,” she said, with a mocking smile; “but before you throw, I repeat the offer I made you

THE LOST ROOM


before. Live with us. Be one of us. We will initiate you into our mys¬ teries and enjoyments—enjoyments of which you can form no idea unless you experience them. Come; it is not too late yet to change your mind. Be with us!”

My reply was a fierce oath, as I rattled the dice with spasmodic nerv¬ ousness and flung them on the board. They rolled over and over again, and during that brief instant I felt a sus¬ pense, 'the intensity of which I have never known before or since. At last they lay before me. A shout of the same horrible, maddening laughter rang in my ears. I peered in vain at the dice, but my sight was so confused that I could not distinguish the amount of the cast. This lasted for a few moments. Then my sight grew clear, and I sank back almost lifeless with despair as I saw that I had thrown but twelve!

“Lost! Lost!” screamed my neigh¬ bor, with a wild laugh. 1 ‘ Lost! Lost! ’ ’ shouted the deep voices of the masked men. “Leave us, coward!” they all cried; “you are not fit to be one of us. Remember your promise; leave us!”

Then it seemed as if some unseen power caught me by the shoulders and thrust me toward the door. In vain I resisted. In vain I screamed and shouted for help. In vftin I implored them for pity. All the reply I had was those mocking peals of merriment, while, under the invisible influence, I staggered like a drunken man toward the door. As I reached the threshold the organ pealed out a wild, tri¬ umphal strain. The power that im¬ pelled me concentrated itself into one vigorous impulse that sent me blindly staggering out into the echoing cor¬ ridor, and, as the door closed swiftly behind me, I caught one glimpse of the apartment I had left forever. A

change passed like a shadow over it. The lamps died out, the siren women and masked men had vanished, the flowers, the fruits, the bright silver and bizarre furniture faded swiftly, and I saw again, for the tenth of a second, my own old chamber restored. There was the acacia waving darkly; there was the table littered with books; there was the ghostly litho¬ graph, the dearly beloved smokingcap, the Canadian snow-shoes, the ancestral dagger. And there, at the piano, organ no longer, sat Blokeeta playing.

The next instant the door closed violently, and I was left standing in the corridor stunned and despairing.

As soon as I had partially recovered my comprehension I rushed madly to the door, with the dim idea of beating it in. My fingers touched a cold and solid wall. There was no door! I felt all along the corridor for many yards on both sides. There was not even a crevice to give me hope. I rushed down stairs shouting madly. No one answered. In the vestibule I met the negro; I seized him by the collar, and demanded my room. The demon showed his white and awful teeth, which were filed into a saw-like shape, and, extricating himself from my grasp with a sudden jerk, fled down the passage with a gibbering laugh. Nothing but echo answered to my de¬ spairing shrieks. The lonely garden resounded with my cries as I strode madly through the dark walks, and the tall funereal cypresses seemed to bury me beneath their heavy shadows. I met no one—could find no one. I had to bear my sorrow and despair alone.

Since that awful hour I have never found my room. Everywhere I look for it, but never see it. Shall I ever find it?



The Eyrie

(Continued from page 438)

publish this collection of weird stories it would be very appropriate to do so under the title of Weird Tales , by Seabury Quinn, because that is just what they are. In fact, he has helped materially to make the weird tale famous.”

Martin M. Laibow, of Atlantic City, New Jersey, writes to the Eyrie: “I have been a reader of your extremely interesting and absorbing magazine for well over three years, and I can truthfully say it is the only magazine that affords me any sort of thrill at all. I am by no means blase but I am rather hard to get excited. My favorite authors are Seabury Quinn, who, with his excitable, mercurial Frenchman, Jules de Grandin, and the stolid, rather dense Dr. Trowbridge, has endeared himself forever in the hearts of all true weirdfiction lovers, and the inimitable Edmond Hamilton, the dean of weird-scien¬ tific fiction-writers. More life to both of them!”

“The Inn of Terror, by Gaston Leroux, is one of the weirdest stories I have ever read,” writes Jack Darrow, of Chicago. "Its horrible torture made it an eery, shuddcry story. But I picked out Edmond Hamilton's serial, Out¬ side the Universe, for first place because of its exciting weird adventures. Dur¬ ing the four years that I have been reading Weird Tales I have not read such a top-notch issue as the August number. Every story was good.”

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? It will help us to give you the kind of stories you want if you will let us know your likes and dislikes in each issue. The Shadow Kingdom, by Robert E. Howard, was the most popular story in the August issue.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE OCTOBER WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story RemarkB

( 1 )_ _

(2)_ _

( 3 )- -

I do not like the following stories:

(1) - Why?_

(2) - -

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Reader’s name and address:



The Gray Lady

(Continued from page 542)

“There seems a queer smell around. Mice, perhaps, after the bird seed.”

Bernard said nothing. It was not his business.

“No question of foul play here, sir,” said the policeman. “We might move the gentleman on to the sofa before we send for the doctor. Make him more decent-like.”

He stooped to take Mr. Robinson’s shoulders, and Bernard bent down to lift the ankles. As they half raised themselves with their heavy burden the policeman’s boot slipped on the parquet floor. He recovered himself with an effort but kicked heavily against the cupboard door. It flew open.

Maureen screamed.

Almost dropping the body, the two men turned. The cupboard was full, full of a box of unmistakable shape and size.

“My God 1” muttered Bernard.

“The gray lady,” said Maureen.

“A coffin,” the policeman whis¬ pered. “What’s this!”

He went over to it, and passed his hands gently along the wood. Sud¬ denly there was a wrenching, ex¬ panding sound. The air coming sud¬ denly from the open cupboard door, which had been hitherto hermetically sealed, forced the wooden planks apart.

The whole of the front of the coffin fell away. For a moment the three standing there saw the full-sized fig¬ ure of a woman in a gray dress, her face mercifully covered by a cloth.

Even as they looked the fresh air wreaked its vengeance.

Before any of them could take a step forward there was the sound of a lingering sigh, a little rustle, and all that remained m the coffin was a little heap of dust and rag.

IT IS NOT TOO LATEto read one of the most popular stories that has been printed in this mag¬ azine to date. But you will have to rush your orde? in if you want a copy because we are filling a great many orders every day and the edition is limited.

Through popular demand we have published a cloth-bound edition of “The Moon Terror,” by A. G. Birch, to satisfy those who were not for¬ tunate enough to read this startling story when it appeared serially in the early issues of Wyrao Talks.

SPECIAL OFFER

This book is beautifully bound in rieh blue cloth with attractive orangecolored jacket and is for sale direct from the publishers at the . special price of $1.50 postpaid.

Remember, this edition is limited and this offer is good only as long as tie supply lasts. Send for this fascinating hook now while it » fresh in your mind.

Wefrtt rules, Book Dept. 91-20,

84ft J«. Mir litem Ayr., C*ic»*<S IBfcofa.

Enclosed find fl.Sft for cloth-bound ropy of THE MOON- TERROR at publishers’ price.

Name Ad dr*

City



Skull-Face

(Continued from page 472)

wonder again as to the contents of the strange chests which lined the walls.

Four raps on the under side of the floor, and a moment later I stood in the idol-room. I gasped in amaze¬ ment—the fact that across a table from me sat Kathulos in all his hor¬ ror was not the cause of my exclama¬ tion. Except for the table, the chair on which the Skull-face sat and the altar—now bare of incense—the room was perfectly bare! Drab, unlovely walls of the unused warehouse met my gaze instead of the costly tap¬ estries I had become accustomed to. The palms, the idol, the lacquered screen—all were gone.

“Ah, Mr. Costigan, you wonder, no doubt.’'

The dead voice of the Master broke in on my thoughts. His serpent eyes glittered balefully. The long yellow fingers twined sinuously upon the table.

“You thought me to be a trusting fool, no doubt!’ ’ he rapped suddenly. “Did you think I would not have you followed? You fool, Yussef Ali was at your heels every moment! ’ ’

An instant I stood speechless, frozen by the crash of these words against my brain; then as their im¬ port sank home, I launched myself forward with a roar. At the same in¬ stant, before my clutching fingers could close on the mocking horror on the other side of the table, men rushed from every side. I whirled, and with the clarity of hate, from the swirl of savage faces I singled out Yussef Ali, and crashed my right fist against his temple with every ounce of my strength. Even as he dropped, Hassim struck me to my knees and a Chinaman flung a man-net over my shoulders. I heaved erect, bursting the stout cords as if they were strings, and then a blackiack in the

hands of Ganra Singh stretched me stunned and bleeding on the floor.

Lean sinewy hands seized and bound me with cords that cut cruelly into my flesh. Emerging from the mists of semi-unconsciousness, I found myself lying on the altar with the masked Kathulos towering over me like a gaunt ivory tower. About in a semicircle stood Ganra Singh, Yar Khan, Yun Shatu and several others whom I knew as frequenters of the Temple of Dreams. Beyond them— and the sight cut me to the heart—I saw Zuleika crouching in a doorway, her face white and her hands pressed against her cheeks, in an attitude of abject terror.

“I did not fully trust you,’’ said Kathulos sibilantly, “so I sent Yussef Ali to follow you. He reached the group of trees before you and fol¬ lowing you into the estate heard your very interesting conversation with John Gordon—for he scaled the house-wall like a cat and clung to the window-ledge! Your driver delayed purposely so as to give Yussef Ali plenty of time to get back—I have decided to change my abode anyway. My furnishings are already on their way to another house, and as soon as we have disposed of the traitor— you!—we shall depart also, leaving a little surprize for your friend Gor¬ don when he arrives at five-thirty.”

My heart gave a sudden leap of hope. Yussef Ali had misunderstood, and Kathulos lingered here in false security while the London detective force had already silently surrounded the house. Over my shoulder I saw Zuleika vanish from the door.

I eyed Kathulos, absolutely un¬ aware of what he was saying. It was not long until five—if he dallied longer—then I froze as the Egyptian spoke a word and Li Kung, a gaunt.



cadaverous Chinaman, stepped from the silent semicircle and drew from his sleeve a long thin dagger. My eyes sought the timepiece that still rested on the table and my heart sank. It was still ten minutes until five. My death did not matter so much, since it simply hastened the inevitable, but in my mind’s eye I could see Kathulos and his murderers escaping while the police awaited the stroke of five.

The Skull-face halted in some harangue, and stood in a listening attitude. I believe his uncanny in¬ tuition warned him of danger. He spoke a quick staccato command to Li Rung and the Chinaman sprang forward, dagger lifted above my breast.

The air was suddenly supercharged with dynamic tension. The keen dag¬ ger-point hovered high above me— lond and clear sounded the skirl of a police whistle and on the heels of the sound there came a terrific crash from the front of the warehouse!

Kathulos leaped into frenzied activity. Hissing orders like a cat spitting, he sprang for the hidden door and the rest followed him. Things happened with the speed of a nightmare. Li Rung had followed the rest, but Kathulos flung a com¬ mand over his shoulder and the Chinaman turned back and came rushing toward the altar where I lay, dagger high, desperation in his countenance.

A scream broke through the clamor and as I twisted desperately about to avoid the descending dagger, I caught a glimpse of Kathulos dragging Zuleika away. Then with a frenzied wrench I toppled from the altar just as Li Rung’s dagger, grazing my breast, sank inches deep into the darkstained surface and quivered there.

I had fallen on the side next to the wall and what was taking place in the room I could not see, but it seemed as if far away I could hear

MYSTICAL LAWS OFJJFE

REVEAL ASTOUNDING INNER POWERS

How much have you used your subjective partner? There are TWO at you—one the PHYSICAL, material side—the other, the INNER, PSYCHIC SELF. If you are one of the thousands who are searching for a way and a means of attaining PROS¬ PERITY. HEALTH and HAPPINESS, why not release that great force within, use that dormant self?

The Rosicrucian Brotherhood, a world-wide movement, has taught thousands of men and women how to use the simple, dignifled, occult principles in developing their latent powers. A few minutes a day devoted to the reading of these principles will re¬ veal startling facts to YOU. If you are sincere in your desire to MASTER LIFE, tius as the key.

Free Book Tells Story

An interesting book called "THE LIGHT OF EGYPT" will be sent free, without obligation, to those who are seeking to become a success in life. This book will be mailed, postpaid, to those who write a Utter (not a postcard) requesting it. AdLibtarian R.B. ROSICRUCIAN ORDER

(Amorc)

San Jose Calif.

Coming Soon

The

BIRD-PEOPLE

By

OTIS ADELBERT KLINE Here is something new in weirdscientific stories — a fascinating story in a different angle of vibra¬ tion, eery monstrosities and strange adventures.

Watch for this story in



men screaming faintly and hideously. Then Li Rung wrenched his blade free and sprang, tigerishly, around the end of the altar. Simultaneously a revolver cracked from the doorway —the Chinaman spun clear around, the dagger flying from his hand—he slumped to the floor.

Gordon came running from the doorway where a few moments earlier Zuleika had stood, his pistol still smoking in his hand. At his heels were three rangy, clean-cut men in plain clothes. He cut my bonds and dragged me upright.

“Quick! Where have they gone?”

The room was empty of life save for myself, Gordon and his men, though two dead men lay on the floor.

I found the secret door and after a few seconds’ search located the lever which opened it. Revolvers drawn, the men grouped about me and peered nervously into the dark stairway. Not a sound came up from the total darkness.

“This is uncanny!” muttered Gor¬ don. “I suppose the Master and his servants went this way when they left the building—as they are cer¬ tainly not here now!—and Leary and his men should have stopped them either in the tunnel itself or in the rear room of Yun Shatu’s. At any rate, in either event they should have communicated with us by this time.”

“Look out, sir!” one of the men exclaimed suddenly, and Gordon, with an ejaculation, struck out with his

pistol barrel and crushed the life from a huge snake which had crawled silently up the steps from the black¬ ness beneath.

“Let us see into this matter,” said he, straightening.

But before he could step onto the first stair, I halted him; for, flesh crawling, I began dimly to under¬ stand something of what had hap¬ pened— I began to understand the silence in the tunnel, the absence of the detectives, the screams I had heard some minutes previously while I lay on the altar. Examining the lever which opened the door, I found another smaller lever—I began to be¬ lieve I knew what those mysterious chests in the tunnel contained.

“Gordon,” I said hoarsely, “have you an electric torch ? ’ ’

One of the men produced a large one.

“Direct the light into the tunnel, but as you value your life, do not put a foot upon the steps.”

The beam of light struck through the shadows, lighting the tunnel, etch¬ ing out boldly a scene that will haunt my brain all the rest of my life. On the floor of the tunnel, between the chests which now gaped open, lay two men who were members of Lon¬ don’s finest secret service. Limbs twisted and faces horribly distorted they lay, and above and about them writhed, in long glittering scaly shimmerings, scores of hideous rep¬ tiles.

The clock struck five.

The astounding , horrifying revelation of who Kathulos was and what was his purpose will be made in next issue of WEIRD TALES



The Woman With the Velvet Collar

(Continued from page 449)

thanked heaven I had arrived in time and called out to him to hurry, that a terrible misfortune was about to fall, that I had seen Antonio—Antonio himself—alive, and that he was on his way to town.

“ ‘While questioning me he fell into step beside me and we both ran for his house at full speed and ar¬ rived there panting.

“ ‘ “Angeluccia! Angeluccia!” we called, flinging open the door.

“ ‘No answer.

“ ‘ “God help us if she’s gone for a walk,” Giuseppe groaned desper¬ ately.

“ ‘We went upstairs, still calling her, and he went into one room while I entered another. And it was there that I found her. She was seated by the window in a large armchair, her head resting against the cushion, and she seemed to be sleeping. As she was always extremely pale, the pallor of her beautiful face did not surprize me although it might have struck an¬ other.

“ ‘ “Come,” I cried to Giuseppe; “she is here.”

“ ‘In the meantime I had come closer, surprized that she did not awake. I touched her ... I touched the velvet band, which came loose in my hands, and her head rolled off!

“ ‘I fled with my heart pounding wildly from shock and fright, but on my way I slipped and fell in a hor¬ rible pool of blood, which I had not noticed on entering because of the shadows which darkened the room. I picked myself up with a yell and left the house madly. People ran from me in the streets as one runs from a wild beast.

“ ‘During the next few days I came near to going insane. Fortunately I completely recovered my senses, well enough, in fact, to be the present

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

“Clouds Dispelled ”

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. As« today! Write NOW 11

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT

Dept. O. Box 1525, Lot Angeles, Calif.

VftitBOOKl Of

o. Alio contali

mystifying tricks with indkcrchlefs, etc., you ilog of

is, and Imported Novelties from Foreign lands* Large assortment, luwn.t prices. You will amaze and mystify your friends I Send 10c today.

LYLE DOUGLAS,

Slatlon A-e Dallas, Taaaa

I CHALLENGE

----- - .MU teach you, by mall. In one lesion. Simplest, shortest method all for $1.00. Not telepathy. You can M.d on.-, mind h„ on ]j looking. In the

colleges; Thurston;

eyes of partner, chum, sweetheart,

York, Boston, Montreal Police chle Blackstone; etc. If fake, let them uu>.

A.HONIOMAN.BI l» ClarkaSI.,Deal.WT-1.Montreal,C.

•TOBACCO

Or snuff habit!

SONG POEM WRITERS—“HEAL” PROPOSItlon. Hibbeler, D-156, 2104 N. Keystone.

LET ME READ YOUR CHARACTER FROM

your handwriting. Sample reading 12c. Graph¬ ologist, 2309-CU Lawrence, Toledo. O.

INVENTIONS WANTED — PATENTED, UNpatented. If you have an idea for sale, write Hartley, Box 928, Bangor. Maine.

FOR 1929 NUMEROLOGICAI, FORECAST, SEND

20c and birth date. Martha Sanchez, 820 Howard St., Detroit, Mich. Detailed forecast 21.00.



Next Month

The

GRAY KILLER

By EVERIL WORRELL

A strange, horrifying creature slithered through the wards of a hospital? carrying dreadful sick¬ ness and shocking death to his vic¬ tims—a gray assassin, not entirely human, and yet indistinguishable from a man.

A sensational story is this, re- -**• plete with thrills—a story in which the horror creeps and crawls, and finally leaps full-grown upon the reader's consciousness. This un¬ usual weird tale, with its shuddery portents and vivid action, will be published in the

November issue of


On Sale October 1 Clip and Mail this Coupon Today l

WEIRD TALES,

840 North Michigan Ave.,

Chicago, m.

Enclosed And $1 for special five months subscription to "Weird Tales" to begin with the November issue ($1.25 in Canada). Spe¬ cial offer void unless remittance is accom¬ panied by coupon.

citymayor of Bonifacio. As you probably understand by now, sir, I had seen Antonio as be was returning from the deed! It was easy enough to figure the whole thing out then. He had entered the house, found Angeluccia alone, and killed her with a stab in the heart. Then, his mind haunted by what Ascoli had told him, he com¬ pleted the work which he had com¬ menced so clumsily ten years before. More certain of his Corsican dagger than of the mock-historical instrument which had failed him before, he had decapitated her and without shrink¬ ing from the atrocity of the deed had replaced her head on her shoulders and had tied it in position with the velvet ribbon!

“ ‘And now,’ concluded Pietro Santo, ‘ if you want news of Giuseppe you will have to go into the wilds for it. Two days after the murder, he disappeared into the mountains with a gun over his shoulder and Angeluc¬ cia’s head, which he had embalmed himself, in a sack around his waist. Giuseppe, Ascoli and Antonio have never been seen since, but they have probably met in the approved fashion and killed each other in some hidden comer of the woods.

“ ‘That, sir, is the only way in which the custom of vendetta will be done away with in this country: when everybody is dead!’ ”

Another weird crime-mystery story by

GASTON LEROUX

‘The Mystery of the Four Husbands”

Will appear shortly in

Watch for This Thriller

S ICK at heart the trembling girl shuddered at the words that delivered her to this terrible fate of the East. How could she escape from this Oriental monster into whose hands she had been given—this mysterious man of mighty power whose face none had yet seen?

Here is an extraordinary situation. What was to be the fate of this beautiful girl? Who was this strange emissary whom no one really knew? To know the answer to this and the most exciting tales of Oriental adventure and mystery ever told, read on through the most thrilling, absorbing, entertaining and fascinating pages ever written.

Masterpieces of Oriental Mystery

11 Superb Volumes by SAX ROHMER Written with his uncanny knowledge of things Oriental

TTERE you are offer^no ordinary mystery stor11 ies. In these books the hidden secrets, mysteries rr e ’ p rPs idant Wilson

and intrigues of the Orient fairly leap from the pages. ^Ilvllt and other greft Sfn read to help them relax

Before your very eyes spreads a swiftly moving panor- — to f oreet their burdens. rn ~ ---1—»

-.1—. +v. e Jtigh places tales of the 1 ' —

of society—from h

1 breathless from the high places

__._„ _mes of refinement and luxury to

sinister underworlds of London and the Far East—from Piccadilly and Broadway to incredible scenes behind idol temples in far off China—to the jungles of Malay, along strange paths to the very seat of Hindu sorcery.

11 Mystery Volumes Packed With Thrills!

Be the first in your community to own these, the most wonderful Oriental mystery stories ever published— books that have sold by the hundred thousand at i^uch higher prices—books you will enjoy reading '

This rare

This famous Gurkha Kukri of solid brass, 6 M" long, exact replica of that used by the Hindu soldiers in the ’.. —— War and so graphically described by Kipling in his stirring story “The Drums ofthe Fore and Aft." Exquisitely wrought on both sides in an ancient symbolical design. A rare curio to have a"- 1 useful as a letter-opener, a paper-weight or a protection occasion. A limited quan¬ tity on hand will be given without added cost as a premium for promptness —but you must act today!

! PREMIUM-YOURS

____ To read these absorbing

tales of the mysterious East is to cast your worries A into oblivion—to increase your efficiency. *|

Priced for Quick Sale f |

Printing these volumes by the hundred thousand when A _

paper was cheap makes this low price possib.e. f I

Only a limited number left. Don't lose a minute! * Depl.

Complete Sets Free on Approval * J ! 23 |

/ McKINLAY. g

immediately, allcharges prepaid. If it fails q STONE &

f t 0 t d „ e i!ln h & retUrn __ ^.MACKENZIE

114E.16thSt.,N.I.»

1 Please send me on ap- H

^v P ffi:^ u f s s g . e s 9 et pr r, *

& Masterpieces of Oriental ■ S T Mystery. In 11 handsomely ■ JO bound cloth volumes. If alter 10 .lays’free examination, I am ■ » delighted, I will send you *1.00 ■ „ promptly and *1.00 a month for » only 14 months: when you receive ■ my first payment you are to send me m V the Gurkha Kukri without extra cos,. _ Jv Otherwise. I will return the set in 10 davs ■ at^ymir expense, the examination to coi

w

Occupation....

— Oner 21? . Under 21T . ■

McKinlay,Stone&Mackenzie,^V.Vk I c^; 1 “t.'^- « - , for cash deduct s% ■■■■!

*7500

n WORTH OF PRIZES GIVEN O

i Can You Find the Twins;

There are twenty beautiful girls pictured here. To be sure, they all look alike, but, examine them closely. TWO and only TWO are exactly alike in both dress and features and all the rest are different. See if you can FIND THE TWINS.

Jl m P Th e beautiful twins are dressed just alike— B-a IlffffA. their hats and clothing are just the same. w " Some of the girls have beads on, others

wear earrings—the hats on some have a checker-board pattern, etc. The twins, however, who are alike are dressed identically the same in every way—so, study each girl carefully and if you can FIND THE TWINS send the numbers of them to me at once. YOU may become the winner of a Buick Sedan or $1825.00 CASH MONEY, —without one cent of cost to you. I will give away ABSOLUTELY FREE, a new Buick 4-door Master Six .Sedan and 9 other new Closed Cars, including 3 Coupes, 3 Sedans and 3 Coaches and the winners can have CASH MONEY instead of the automobiles if you prefer. 15 BIG FREE PRIZES will be given—totaling $7500.00 in CASH MONEY.

Or Win a Buick Sedan

Choice of this beautiful Buick automobile or $1825.00 CASH. We pay all the freight and tax in full on all the prizes and deliver them anywhere in the U. S. A. This is an AMAZING OPPORTUNITY to win an unusually BIG FREE PRIZE. ACT QUICK, and here is why—

$505 Cash-Extra for Promptness

I will pay $505.00 cash money extra just for promptness. In the event of a tie for any of the prizes offered, the full amount of the prize tied for will be awarded to each tying contestant. You can WIN THE BUICK SEDAN or-$1825.00 CASH MONEY. Answer quick.

You Cannot Lose!

BE REWARDED;—but HURRY—FIND THE TWINS (the two girls who are dressed just alike) and rush the numbers of them and your name and address to me today on a postal card or in a letter, and just say:—“Girls No. ... and No. ..... are the TWO who are iust alike and are therefore. TH* TWINS. Please tell me how I can get this MAGNIFICENT Buick Sedan—or—$1825.00 CASH MONEY, without obligation or one penny of cost to me.

C. A, LIST, Dept. 48 Chicago, HI.

[THE END]
