============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: June 1926
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Asphodel_Arthur J" by Burks
============================================================
============================================================
ASPHODEL_ARTHUR J
by Burks
============================================================
they found him next day.

Chally was seen no more of men.

A Story of Mystic Horror

ASPHODEL

By ARTHUR J. BURKS

THE old man’s hair, apparently ignorant of a comb’s caress, hung in wisps across his cadaverous face. I took him at first to be a crazy hermit of some sort, who had come to this little secluded valley in an effort to shun his fellow beings of the world outside. But when a vagrant breeze swept into the valley and blew the hair from before his eyes, I noted the high white forehead which I have come to recognize as the mark of the scholar. It did not take the stedfast, gently questioning regard of his eyes to tell me that this man was not insane.

For several moments he stood before me and stared into my face.

I imagine that he found much in that face to call for questioning. For I am a man who has seen much of the seamy side of life; who has suffered tortures such as stay-at-homes never experience; and, I whisper itj a I am not a man whose conscience is entirely clear.

I wonder if the old man did not read all of that in the few moments during which he stared unblinking into my face.

In any case he nodded shortly as, turning, he beckoned me to follow whither he led.

As I strode along at his heels I stared about me at this little Utopia into which, fleeing from the law, I had inadvertently stumbled. It was a natural amphitheater, the encircling walls forming an almost perfect oval. Its floor was lush with verdure and with many kinds of trees which, hitherto, I had encountered only in

the tropics, of which this little known valley potently reminded me. Certainly the Master of nature, looking down upon this place, must have smiled a sort of benediction—for its natural loveliness surpassed anything I had ever seen before.

And the old man seemed a very part of his secluded home. As he strode along I noted that his hands wandered now on this side of the path and now on that, and that his bloodless ringers seemed to caress the petals of the flowers and the lush blades of grass with which they came in contact. It was almost as though he sent them some message of love which I, being of the world outside, could neither understand nor interpret. It was as though this man was the veritable master of this vale and that these, his voiceless pupils, knew him and understood what he would have told them. As this quaint conceit came to me I felt suddenly very much out of place, as a beetlebrowed burglar must feel when he blunders into the boudoir of a princess.

I wished to ask him many things, wished to talk and thus free myself of the burden of silence which had so strangled me since the beginning of my flight from my justly outraged fellows; yet I found myself unable to think of a single thing to say to this gentle old stranger.

I don’t know just when I first felt the overpowering aura of menace. But it was sometime before we emerged from a gloomy aisle through



a patch of woods. I felt a chill of dread pass over me like a dash of cold water, and shivered slightly. Yet I find myself unable to explain adequately. The feeling was like no other I have ever experienced. I know what it is.to feel an enemy’s eyes upon my back; I know what it is to be shadowed through gloomy alleys when I haven’t the slightest idea of the exact location of the shadower; I know instinctively when I stand in a cemetery, even though it is so dark that I can not see the headstones. But the feeling which struck me with the force of a blow was like none of these sensations, yet partook somewhat of them all.

Without understanding why, I bent forward slightly and strove to see past the old man. There was nothing but a longish rectangle of bright sunlight which signaled the opening of this tunnel through the woods. Not a sign of a living person. Not a sound that could have caused dread to fasten about the heart of the vilest murderer. Yet I found my steps slowing as we neared that rectangle of light!

Long before we reached it, however, my nostrils began to twitch because of a strange odor which was presently borne down the tunnel toward us. I knew it to be the odor of flowers, and though it was like no perfume I knew, it nevertheless made me think of funerals I have attended!

This, then, I believed, was the aura which had so upset me! A faint, elusive suggestion of the presence of death!

When we finally quitted the tunnel through the woods I stopped short with a cry of astonishment. For we had entered a vast clearing in the center of a wood, and the clearing was alive with waving lilies! The odor which emanated from them was overpowering, intoxicating, causing one’s senses to reel with a strange exhilara-

tion. Lifting one out of one’s self, transporting one, filling one’s soul to bursting with beautiful thoughts which no tongue may utter, no pen truly portray. I had no desire to run and throw handsprings—it was not that sort of intoxication. Rather I had the desire to seat myself quietly, to still even my breathing lest it disturb the lilies in their divine distillation of heavenly perfume; I felt like a worldly materialist who, for the first time, enters a vast cathedral unawares and finds himself stricken dumb with a voiceless feeling of reverence. The old man, too, had stopped; had he not done so I truly believe that I would have felled him to the ground for unbalancing a picture such as I had never dreamed existed.

He did not remain motionless; but the movements of his hands, as they went forth to caress the petals of the nearest flowers, seemed to wave and undulate in unison with the gentle nodding of the waxen beauties.

Through all these thoughts, such as I have not known since my mother first taught me prayers at her knee, there still coursed the strange aura which had so upset me, though I strove to drive it from my mind as not belonging in a place so beautiful, so permeated with the obvious love and care of the Master Gardener.

But even though I strove to forget this aura, wipe it from my consciousness, it persisted in raising its head, like an invisible serpent, to threaten my peace of mind. What was it? And why did it make itself felt so plainly in this spot which I found so beautiful?

My God! That I had never lived to have these two questions answered! For those answers have filled my sleep with ghastly nightmares; have robbed me of all the peace that might ever have been mine! I know that,_ having answered them, I shall always feel the icy chill along the spine

ASPHODEL


which I felt in this little clearing the first time I entered it; shall always remember, when what I wish most is to forget entirely!

Finally I broke the almost holy silence with a scarcely audible question: “What are they, venerable stranger? ’ ’

I started violently as he whispered the answer.

“They are asphodels!”

Asphodels! Famed in song and fable as the floral symbols of death!

Arrant nonsense, you say 1 I grant you that. Yet why had I experienced that eery, almost intangible feeling of dread even before my startled eyes had gazed upon this clearing in all its surpassing beauty? And why was that feeling, however I strove to subdue it, momentarily growing stronger within my very soul? As though it were something outside of and beyond myself—something which my inner being saw and recognized for what it was?

Slowly I turned my head this way and that as I measured the clearing with my eyes. I searched the great field of waving lilies foot by foot throughout its whole extent, striving to see if there were not some other kind of flower in this place to relieve the waxen monotony of the picture.

There was not another kind of flower that I could see! Nothing but row on row of asphodels, rank upon rank, each rank pressing forward against the one ahead, like a parade of tiny nuns in faded robes—the heads nodding, nodding, nodding, as though the voiceless beings strove to lift their heads above those of their fellows to see what lay ahead of the motionless march along the path of the breeze. Is that incoherent? I make no apology, for there is no man in aH this world who can sit quietly amid such splendor and make his thoughts follow the usual grooves!

The old man arose slowly, as though he feared to startle his beau-

tiful little symbols and, with the motion blending easily into that of risings he beckoned me on again. We were almost across the clearing before I noted that I was walking softly on the very tips of my toes 1

TTis house was beyond the clearing, *■ in a second and smaller clearing, and it was a veritable bower of beautiful blossoms. Surely this old man was a great lover of beauty! As though, despairing of finding true beauty among human beings, he had brought himself hither to select such beauties of nature as pleased his eye and the unexplainable longings of his soul. He opened the door of his little house and motioned me to precede him. I found myself in a tiny room that was furnished luxuriously, that was a riot of sunlight which came through two windows in one side of the room. Once more, even though the place was as small as a doll’s house, I felt as the materialist must feel when he wanders, unawares, into a mighty cathedral. The cathedral was there, the feeling was the same; but I was a Gargantua enjoying it. Thus only can I account for the feeling in a place so small.

The old man motioned me to a seat and took another facing me. He had closed the door, shutting out the elusive odor of the asphodels; yet, even though I caught no odor at all, within my mind, limned on the retina of my consciousness, I seemed still to see that clearing of pallid asphodels waving in the breeze, and as the picture grew and took tangible form, moment by moment, I smelled the odor as plainly as though I had actually still been sitting in the midst of the waving army of loveliness!

Still with that strange effortlessness of movement, the old man arose at last and stepped to one of the windows, sliding it back silently on its ways. Instantly the scent of the asphodels came into the room, more



overpowering than ever before— bringing with it that aura which caused the chill to settle anew along my spine.

Yet I found myself unable to move hand or foot! I still had that feeling of wishing to hold my breath lest a single fragment of the divine emanation escape me. I did not note the movement of the old man until he stood before me with his body bent forward until his eyes stared stedfastly into mine. Then it was too late!

I would have cried out, had that feeling not still been upon me. I would have risen to my feet had not invisible hands seemed to hold me in my place. My eyes saw the vague movements of the old man’s hands as they arose gently from his side and began to move back and forth before my face; yet my mind seemed to register nothing. There seemed to be nothing in all this which was not as it should have been; it was as though it were the most natural thing in the world for the old man to be standing before me, his eyes gazing into mine, his hands making weird passes before my eyes. I could not have moved, even had I believed that those who had been pursuing me these many days past stood at the door, waiting for me to come out.

I do not know where waking merged into sleeping. What happened next I remember only as a strange transition which, at the time, I made no effort to explain.

TV/Ty next conscious memory is of finding myself once more in the midst of that clearing of the asphodels, looking up at a sky all studded with the twinkling stars of nighttime. The odor of the flowers of death was all about me, covering me like a cloak, strangling me as it rushed into my quivering nostrils, bearing me down like a great invisible weight, beating against my brain like a host

of unseen wings; pouring over me like a flood which I had no desire to resist.

Mingled with the odor, permeating it, dominating it, forming its very soul, was that intangible aura which had thrilled me so strangely and dreadfully when, afar off in the mouth of that tunnel I could barely discern in the darkness, I had first caught the odor of the asphodels.

I looked around me for the explanation. Would to God I had not found it!

Emerging from the pathway which I knew led to the house of the snowybrowed old recluse, came the old man himself, bearing a precious burden in his arms. Even that far away I recognized his burden.

It was a beautiful girl he carried cradled. A girl dressed in white that seemed to have the sheen of new snow in the moonlight. Her golden liair hung downward, brushing the petals of the asphodels as the old man bore her along. Watching the old man closely I saw his lips move ceaselessly, as though he prayed. The girl’s eyes were closed as though she slept gently. One arm hung limply, while the other lay like wax across the gentle slope of her white-clad bosom. Her feet were bare, and as delicate as the petals of the flowers among which I sat to watch—they seemed like the waxen feet of some goddess, bloodless, fragile—feet that it were sacrilege for the hand of a commoner to touch.

Before the old man would have reached me with his burden he turned abruptly aside and plunged into the very thick of the waving flowers. Presently he stopped. He never looked in my direction. With his beautiful burden still in his arms he raised his eyes to the stars and his lips moved for many minutes. Then, gently, he lowered the apparently sleeping girl to the ground. All I

ASPHODEL


could now see of the two was the bowed back of the old man.

Presently I saw an arm upraised in the moonlight—an arm and a white hand. And gripped in that white hand was a slender something that gleamed like silver where the rays of the moon fell upon it. For a moment only I saw it. Then it plunged straight down, out of sight among the waving asphodels! Once, twice, thrice, I saw the silvery gleam. Once, twice, thrice, it disappeared from view among the flowers, while the old man’s back straightened and bowed, straightened and bowed.

Was it imagination, or did I hear a faint sigh, like the breath of an imperceptible breeze, as it gently passed me, scarcely making an impression on my ears? Or did I really hear it with my ears? Or was it my soul that heard it? Or was there any sigh at all? I do not know. That I have never been able to answer. I only know that the old man came into the clearing of asphodels with a precious burden in his arms, that he lowered the burden to the ground, out of sight among the lilies; that his white hand rose and fell thrice; that his back seemed to straighten and bend, straighten and bend; that I at least fancied I heard a passing sigh, like the hurried soughing of a gentle breeze.

What, in the Virgin’s name, had I just witnessed?

Almost unconsciously my hand went forth Until the fingers touched the petals of a flower at my side. The petals were moist, as though a light dew had fallen. This I knew without thinking about it. Again unconsciously I brought my hand back, absently raising it and spreading the fingers before my eyes.

Then I screamed aloud in terror!

For there were crimson stains on the fingers, as though I had dipped them in fresh, warm blood!

Leaning forward, I closely scru-

tinized the flowers which nodded beside me. I discovered then that I had not touched the petals of the flower, but that my fingers had closed upon the stem, breaking it short off a few inches above the ground. The petals lay strewn upon the ground, while a red drop, like a tear of blood, oozed from the wound I had made in the stem. It was from this that I had received the stains upon my hand. For even as I looked, the red tear slipped over the side of the stem and trickled down its length to mingle with the soil at the base of the flower I had slain.

Then I noted that every flower I could see about me was tinged with crimson at its base, and that this tinge, moment by moment, was creeping slowly upward toward the flower at the top! Ever, as the crimson surged upward, it increased its speed, reddening the stem in its upward climb, creeping upward to assuage the thirst of the nodding asphodels. As it crept, the flowers above seemed to nod more swiftly, as though impatient to feel the caress of the crimson tide. And, as my eyes sped out across the waving flowers, I saw that, throughout the clearing, each and every asphodel seemed to nod the faster as the moments sped.

I must have gone quite mad then, for I opened my mouth in a great scream of mortal terror. Again and again I screamed.

But no one came to answer my poignant summons. I looked in vain for the old man. He had gone. I rose to my feet and ran to the spot where I had last seen him. I found his footprints and a spot in the soil where a burden had rested. But, though I searched diligently, I found no blood upon the ground.

I looked again at the asphodels. They were nodding more slowly now, nodding almost drunkenly, as though they had imbibed their fill and were sleepily bowing and bending.



I screamed again and ran, wildly, desperately, in what direction I do not know.

A gain that unexplainable transition. I awoke in the cabin of the old hermit and the sun was shining into the room, while the old man sat asleep in his chair, his hands clasped across his breast, the flower of an asphodel drooping between his waxen fingers. Gently his breast rose and fell with his soft breathing. A tender smile caressed his lips. As I stared at him he shifted in his chair, moving his hands on his breast—and a ruby drop fell from the wound in the stem of the flower which he clasped in his hand! I saw it fall and make a stain on his white cloak! Madly I rushed from the house. In

a frenzy I sought and found the pathway leading out. I feared to look to the right or the left as I passed through the clearing of the asphodels. But, blindly, I stooped and snapped one of the petals from its stem. I looked at it after I had entered the tunnel through the woods—to find that it appeared sickly and drooping, with the merest suggestion of redness at the extreme end of the broken stem!

Once only did I look back.

The asphodels were nodding in a sickly fashion, as though there were no life in them, and from the distance at which I viewed them their snowy petals made me think of girlish faces —dead white faces, drawn and chalky as those of virgins who have wept all their tears away.

The Derelict Mine

A Mystery Serial

By FRANK A. MOCHNANT

The Story So Far

JAMES gbraldton’s uncle is reported drowned in the sinking of the Titanic. The uncle’s death brings prosperity to the family, and James Is sent to technical school. He is completing his Course of training at the mine of which his father Is manager, in the heart of Australia.

The lode in the old mine peters out, the mine is abandoned, and landslips completely close it up. But strange clouds, with an odor as from a zinc plant, are seen over the old mine by superstitious minerB. Phantom whisperings are heard, and in the fading light of a winter afternoon a form is

Young Geraidton and his father see a light shining through one of the Assures of the derelict mine, but as they approach it, the light vanishes and peal on peal of blood-curdling laughter rings out all around them.

Old Sadler, the clerk, dies from shock at suddenly seeing young Geraldton’s uncle (the man who was reported drowned). A document is stolen from the elder Geraidton. that would spell —1_ m — «-■— «_ — e his supposedly dead brother

___it least three hours before the son

was called on the telephone! The son conceals the evidence of poison, thinking the father has committed suicide.

Then one night the youth is trapped in the mine by his frightful uncle, who has indeed returned, the report of his drowning being a mistake. The youth is held a prisoner underground by his uncle, who tells him that he must stay there until the uncle dies, and then bury the uncle in an underground grave, already prepared. The uncle promises to tell him how he can And his way back to the surface, but will not tell him until after he (the uncle) ia dead and properly buried!

rpHREE days I spent in that subterranean retreat. All told, there must have been some miles of underground passages. I wandered into several shafts, and looking up saw the



faint iiight of the nipper world with its'sprinkling Df stars.;But all means of.aseeiit had long since crumbled into decay. In one of the many underground excavations die old man had a storeroom from whose- larder wercould have thrived for a month at least. In another was a small, but by means of devices that I never fathomed, exceedingly powerful electric plant. Another formed a general workshop, and another an analytical laboratory, and I am convinced that there were other secret places whose entrance I did not discover. For several hours during the day the -whole place vibrated to the: throb of a huge oil engine, several features of which were unfamiliar to me. This was the driving power behind an effective system of dynamos, to say nothing of a storage plant. The air in some portions of the subways was oppressive, but in the chambers referred to and the passages leading to them, a simple electrical scheme of ventilation kept the atmosphere in a very tolerable condition. The fact that the old man placed no -restrictions upon my explorations, however, nerved to convince methat.the only exit lay behind the locked door. I wandered about for many hours and came across old stopes and drives, but only in rare instances was I able to proceed down these more than a few feet before my way would be blocked by a mass of rock. Indeed I was cut off in this manner from the far greater part of the old.mine, unless, as seemed more likely, the bulk of those underground works had suffered a general collapse.

The horror with which my uncle inspired me in -the first instance was steadily increasing; and I took every possible opportunity of avoiding him. In his presence I found that his eyes were always upon me, and he appeared to be gaining some inexplicable power over my will. How long I should have been able to'resist it I do

not know, but during the fourth night, after he had inveigled me into his weird domain, 'the Old man had a severe paroxysm fram whieh he never really'recovered.

!He was in a coma dll the next day, but toward evening he regained 'consciousness and signed to me -to bend over him. He then managed Jo gasp, “I’ve always held your father in the hollow of my hand.and four Attenuated.fingers and an emaciated thumb-crouched over, a shriveled palm that lay upward on the outside of-the bed. “He won the girl, but he paid. Smart engineer, your father, -but hopeless in business detail.”

Here the old reprobate -referred to things that I could not place at.all, but I gathered that through the years he bled my unfortunate father white. Then he mentioned the extension, and I concentrated my mind upon -his hardly uttered words.

“I sold 'the whole of my interest years ago, but the transfer was never registered. All he held -to indicate the transaction was my receipt. He missed ithis 'receipt 'the ■ other, day, and when I‘threatened to put in a claim as a shareholder and make it retroactive he bought the - document back from me for seventy 'thousand pounds. Whether he got off cheaply or not depends on whether he would have won or lost his case. I was not sure how it would go after the lapse of time, but I bluffed. Anyway -it virtually cleaned liim out,” and 'the gleam of a malicious satisfaction passed over the ghastly face. Then the astounding narrative was resumed.

“Your father never knew 'that when the old company sold nut, retaining the plant, the shares came into my hands. The whole of the old mine property is now virtually at my disposal. Mark you, the precincts of this mine contain some of the richest untapped resources on the line of


lode. It beats me how the dad came to miss it.”

After a short pause he went on, “Wrapped up in the old plan you will find a new one which you would do well to follow. When do you get your certificate? Due about now? Good! You will be appointed to the managership of the old mine within six months if you follow my instructions. Played out, indeed!” And the figure on the bed indulged in its last satirical laugh. “But look here,” the voice went on, “when you have buried me where I showed you, see that my bones are not disturbed. There’s no need to reopen that part of the mine.”

Another pause, and then with his next words my senses simply left me for some moments under the shock of astonishment.

“Everything I possess becomes Myrtle’s automatically when she reaches twenty-one.”

My head swam, and when I came to myself a little, the unutterably awful eyes of my uncle were fixed upon me more intently than ever. I closed my own, but it was stupefying to hear a voice to all intents my father’s saying, “Then you did not know that I was Myrtle’s father?” and I was glad to open them again.

For the next few minutes a thousand thoughts chevied each other through my brain. So this was the appalling mystery surrounding Myrtle! I screwed courage to focus my eyes upon the monstrous face before me and pondered the contrast. As if in answer the old man spoke.

“I never did have any looks to spare, but after a strange illness on the African mines more than fifteen years ago, old Aunt Maria was the only member of the family who was game to exhibit my picture.”

I shuddered involuntarily as I thought of my one visit to my greataunt Maria.

Though he was my father’s selfconfessed murderer, I did what I could for the old man during the few hours that remained to him. After drinking a cup of some beef extract he sank into a deep sleep. About 10 o’clock that night he awoke, and as I went over to him he seized me by the wrist and said clearly and earnestly, ‘ ‘ The door key and the dispatch box are together*. You will know where when you have lowered my coffin.”

Almost immediately he fell back on the pillow, and the mechanical regularity of his breathing indicated that the coma had returned. Those were his last words, and they were extraordinary. What instructions could I receive beyond those he had already given? Surely he did not intend to return and impart a post mortem addendum! Yet when he gave voice to this remarkable utterance he did not appear in the least delirious, and there he lay, jaw on breast and eyes agape!

T he whole thing began to impress me with a sense of the uncanny. I sat on the stretcher on the far side of the room and waited—waited; and all the time I felt that I was on the verge of a fearful nerve storm. Suddenly I became conscious of the loud ticking of the clock. Then I saw why it arrested me. It synchronized exactly with the old man’s breathing. The effect of this upon nerves already overwrought was diabolical in the extreme. Besides the locked door and the door on the opposite side of the chamber there was an aperture in one of the other walls. It was through this that I passed to my long subterranean wanderings, taking the lantern with me. Now rendered all but desperate, I was making up my mind to seek temporary relief from this grisly monotony by entering once again those passageways, and getting, if possible out of earshot of the depressing sound which the tall timeTHE DERELICT MINE


piece so weirdly accentuated, when I became aware that the electric lights were growing dim. Almost immediately they began to jump. Then I was in darkness. It was unthinkably horrible. Then, while I was searching my pockets for matches, the breathing stopped with startling abruptness, and the clock seemed to pound the eery silence.

I succeeded at last in striking a light and the feeble flare revealed the rigid features on the bed. As I was fumbling with the wick of the lantern, several deep-drawn breaths came from the bed, and after a pause another, and, though through the aggressive stillness during the next few hours I imagined the sound again and again, I knew that that was the last. I hardly more than staggered into the storeroom, where I fell into an exhausted sleep.

I awoke hours later to find that the lantern had burned itself out, but I had noted a drum of oil and soon replenished the reservoir. I then decided to get the body out of sight as soon as possible, and had it encoffined with but little difficulty, but it took me a good hour to get it down the stope to its queer grave, and it was with the utmost effort that I succeeded in getting the coffin ready for lowering. I managed at last, however, and the rest was simple, and as the weight descended, the rope unwound from the windlass. When it was nearly all run out something white gleamed through the remaining coils around the roller. I saw what it was as the coffin reached the bottom and the hook was released with a snap. It was a large sheet of parchment. I took possession of it and at a glance read in large letters the heading, “PINAL INSTRUCTIONS.”

I hastily wound up the rope—some twenty feet at least. Then perusing the document quickly in the light of the lantern I became acquainted with the contents.

“You are on the floor of a lift (hydraulic). Let yourself down. Key and box in cave behind coffin.’'

But I’d had enough, and lost no time in getting back to the inner room. It was 11 o’clock in the morning, and I spent hours in trying to find egress other than that suggested in the document that had been presented so ingeniously. I tried to find means to force the massive door, but I saw at last that it was hopeless. It was rather past midnight, though day and night are all the same in these subterranean regions, when I determined to go through with it. I knew something of hydraulics, and, arrived at the old shaft, soon discovered the valve control. I should have noticed it before, but it ran down a groove in the wall farthest removed from the windlass that had previously absorbed my attention.

Presently I commenced the descent. The valve was stiff, evidently through infrequent use. My downward movement was at first almost imperceptible, and continued to be phenomenally slow.

I was expecting it, of course, but nearly collapsed when it came. The head of the coffin as the lift descended seemed to protrude itself through the square hole in the floor. The glass portion of the lid was toward me, and the yellowish rays of the lantern shone through upon the ghastly face. The eyes were open and fixed upon my own, though they were closed when I had let him down. With a bump and a grind the lift rested upon its base, almost flush with the ground of the shaft.

I moved across the floor and made for a small opening in the wall behind the coffin, but as I moved the glassy eyes held my own and followed me till they peered at me through their comers, and the side of the coffin cut them off from my view. In a sort of daze I crawled into the cavern, and after a brief search found a small



box. Lifting the top, which was merely fastened by a clasp, I saw a large key and a number of papers. I closed the box and rushed with it out of the cavern, but instead of stepping upon the lift floor I found myself' on the earth bottom of the shaft, which had been filled in up to the top of the cylinder. The valves were leaking and the lift was already some distance up the shaft. I had an indescribable dread of getting in front of the coffin again, but to operate the lift it was unavoidable. A sort of fascination drew my eyes to the coffin head, and the hideous face behind the glass followed me as before, though now from edge to front. I tried to persuade myself that it was an illusion, but I was by now almost mad with horror, and blindly I jerked open the exhaust. Still my eyes were riveted on the face, which was now a hundred times more fiendish than before. Suddenly a light grinding sound made me look up, and a new terror pended. In my distraction I had forgotten the lift, and it was within a few feet of my head and coming down at normal speed. I darted to the controls, but either through my excessive panic, or through something’s having gone wrong with the mechanism, I could do nothing to arrest the descent of that massive floor. In a flash I saw my one chance. I could not reach the cavern in time for the lift to pass me. I dashed frantically at the coffin, hurled it down and stood erect immediately under the descending aperture. I retained my grasp of the box, but the lantern slipped from my fingers and fell over upon its side, and in its last flicker I saw the blood trickling down the now convulsing face of the old man as a piece of glass from the broken lid penetrated the flesh.

Darkness engulfed everything as the opening came over me, and I sprang through. But my unele had fully recovered from his trance, and

a moment later his screams curdled my blood as the coffin cracked like a nut, and during twenty eternal seconds the life was crushed out of his mangled form for good and all.

I felt my senses leaving me, but with a courage born of desperation set about to find means of escape. More by instinct than reason I tugged at the chains, which by the light of matches I found again in their groove. But tho lift was now completely out of action. It had become hopelessly jammed. Still only by instinct, I dragged at the chains till something seemed to give, and they sagged considerably from the wall. I put the key in my pocket, and the box I squeezed under my coat in front of me. Then hand over hand I scaled the wall by means of the sagging chains. Several times I paused to strike a match, and at last found myself on a level with the stope. Then began my real danger. I could just reach an upright at the mouth of the stope with one hand while I swung from the chain with the other, and there was more than twenty feet of darkness below me. Eventually I conceived the plan of throwing the box in the light of another match into the stope. This gave me greater freedom of movement, and I succeeded in half jumping, half scrambling after it, but as I approached safety the reaction became more and more intolerable. The air was becoming almost unbreathable, and I began to fear that I should suffocate before I could escape, for with the stopping of the engine the storage plant was soon drained, and the lighting and ventilating system had ceased together.

As I entered the chamber that had been the old man’s living room, the ticking of the clock thundered ominously through my head. Then I struck a match, and for one brainreeling moment I believed that I was mad, for there, but a few paces before me, standing erect in his coffin seemed


to be the old man I had left pulverized below! A piercing scream, my own, reverberated through the vault and subways. This awakened me as from a nightmare, and probably preserved for me my reason. Certain it was that as the match burnt itself out against my fingers I penetrated the illusion. The flare had fallen directly on the dial, and dimly lit up the outline of therclock!

I was gasping now, partly in frenzy and partly on account of the stagnant air. I staggered to the door, fitted the key as in a daze, swung open the door, and blundered on till I found my way through the tunnel and up the ladder, and removing the timbers re-entered the shack. I caught sight of the stars through the open doorway. A gust of wind revived me for a moment, but I knew that I was at the end of my physical resources. I could go no farther. Just why I did it I can not tell—possibly it was but blind instinct again; but the last thing I remember before a greater darkness than ever overcame me before is that I carefully and with my remaining strength replaced the timbers which concealed the subway at the back of the shanty. Then I seemed to be falling. The darkness had come.


"IX/hen consciousness dawned again * * after an interval that might have been seconds or decades, I became aware of a vaguely familiar figure moving silently about me in a wholly unfamiliar room. I was lying, too weak to stir, in a bed that in a hazy fashion I knew was not my own. In a state of dreamy wonder and contentment I dozed and awoke many times before memories began to jostle each other in my brain. I was still too weak to raise my head or speak when I first recognized in the face bending over me Myrtle’s mother. Then I remembered that it was not

Myrtle’s mother, but Mrs. Clysdale, the old nurse who had brought her up.

Within a couple of weeks I was convalescent and able to crawl about the place, and one evening after the heartiest meal I had taken since my terrible experience, the old lady who had pulled me through the crisis of the fever that supervened upon my swoon told me how I came into her competent hands, though she did not put it that way. She told me that she had been to the town one morning, and was walking along the main road home when die heard heavy but rapid steps behind her. On looking around she saw two men, one of whom she recognized at once as Lane, our foreman. The latter said “Good morning’’ as they passed, but they hurried by and almost immediately left the road and cut across to the shanty occupied by the old-age pensioner. She noticed them enter, and half a minute later Lane came out again and tore over to her, reaching her as she was about in a line with the structure. Lane told her that they had found me lying unconscious just inside the doorway, and he was hurrying off to fetch Dr. Harris. She went to the humpy and was met at the door by the other miner. I was then on the stretcher where he and Lane had placed me, and my hand was clenched around the handle of a small dispatch box. While they awaited the arrival of the doctor and Lane, the man informed her that when he heard the night before that I had been missed and had not been seen for several days, he immediately associated my disappearance with a stranger he had seen prowling around the office a few evenings back. He had at the time a notion that he had seen the fellow before, but could not place him till that very morning, when it flashed upon him who it was. He was not on before afternoon shift, and was taking a stroll down the street when his attention was atWEIRD TALES

tracted by, a number of old-age pensioners around the post office. Then it was that he remembered his man. It was the old-age pensioner who lived in that very humpy. He went at once to Lane, who was on the same shift, and together they came to the place, and found me as she saw me, except that I was on the ground.

When the doctor and Lane came soon after this, the former looked grave and said something about meningitis. Mrs. Clysdale wanted him to take me to her cottage and finally he agreed to do so.

My convalescence was rapid, and in a day or two I took leave of the old nurse to whom I no doubt owed my life, and was soon comfortably settled in my bachelor quarters. My illness had become pretty generally known, and, as Lane and Bob Trenoweth were loyal and did not reveal the peculiar circumstances under which I was discovered, was apparently regarded as sufficient explanation for my absence. Myrtle had not been told of the seriousness of my collapse, and my mother had been kept in ignorance altogether.

A few weeks later I received a wire from Melbourne informing me that I had secured my certificate, and almost directly I dropped into a vacancy caused by the retirement of one of our draftsmen. Let it not be supposed that a mine manager’s certificate is tantamount to an immediate managership. Rather has it been sagely observed that there are more mine managers than there are mines to manage.

Then came letters from my mother and Myrtle to say that the former, considerably recovered, was about to pay a prolonged visit to a maiden sister in Brisbane, and that the latter would be coming home. I could scarcely contain myself for excitement. I was longing to see Myrtle again for herself, but in addition to this I was wildly curious to go

through the dispatch box with her, for with the exception of the plan of the old mine that had been in my father’s safe, and the new plans to which the old man had referred, the other contents of the box were sealed. Of these there was a large envelope addressed to a firm of solicitors in London, and another somewhat similar directed to Myrtle. Besides this was a small package also addressed to Myrtle. It seemed to be a little cardboard box that had been placed at the bottom of a cartridge envelope, the surplus end of which was folded around it and heavily sealed. For its size it was remarkably weighty, and from the moment my eyes lighted upon it, it affected me strangely. I did not leave the dispatch box at the cottage, but retained it in my possession pending Myrtle’s return.

/"vn the morning of Myrtle’s arrival I slipped away from the mines and met her at the station. She stepped down from the train more beautiful than ever. The gleam of pleasure that lit up her eyes at her homecoming combined with the glow of health that she had acquired away had made her radiant. For the next few minutes, while I gathered her luggage till I committed her to the sober old cabby, Myrtle was the one glorious thing in the world; but that evening I went across to her home, and told her just sufficient of my experiences with her father to make the business of the dispatch'box intelligible.

First she opened the large envelope addressed to her. In it were another envelope a shade smaller, and an envelope of letter size.

“Better keep the letter till last,” said I. “It will probably explain the other things.”

She opened the big envelope and in it found twenty fifty-pound bank notes. That was startling enough, and caused its little sensation, but I


was eager to see the contents of the package, which still strangely fascinated me. Myrtle fumbled for a moment with the wrapping, tore off the thick envelope, and then, finding within a strong cardboard box tied firmly With string and a knot sealed with wax, she handed it to me and said, “You’d better open this with your pocket knife, Jim.”

I took the package, the outer wrapping of which had now gone, and a perceptible shudder passed over me as I did so. A nameless fear seemed to be taking possession of me, something akin to the horror I had experienced in the presence of my uncle in the bowels of the old mine. I made an effort to get myself in hand, however, and ripped open the package. In a moment I was gazing down aghast at something in the palm of my hand. It was a perfect model in ivory of the old man’s coffin in its pyramidal case. Behind the piece of mica which represented the glass at the head of the lid was a marvelously carved miniature skull. The lid itself was detachable and kept in place by perfectly wrought little thumbscrews. As I removed the lid I saw that the skeleton was complete.

Myrtle glanced at the hideous image and exclaimed, “How horrible!” Then she looked up at me and said, “Why, Jim, what is the matter? You are white as a ghost.”

I replaced the lid and put the thing face down on the table. Myrtle fortunately knew nothing of its grisly associations. I gave a forced laugh and replied, “Oh, I’m all right. Now read the letter, Myrtle.”

It was a brief note:

To my daughter, Myrtle Estella Geraldton, otherwise known as Myrtle Clysdale.

Post- without delay large sealed envelope addressed to my executors. By a prearranged code therein they will be informed of my death. You will enter into a considerable inheritance upon reaching the age of twenty-one years. The thousand you may use at your discretion. Pack ivory symbol

securely and forward to Omar Moonsha. [Here followed a minute East London address.] You will receive a valuable acknowledgment which, however, you will need to guard. Farewell.

Yoctj Fatheb.

Myrtle sat in a glow of excitement with the letter in her hand, and I leaned on the back of her chair and peered at the curious contents over her shoulder.

Presently she said, “I don’t like the Moonsha part of it. I have always been a bit afraid of these mysterious Orientals. Suppose you post it, Jim. We need not be in any hurry about it anyway.”

I turned my head casually toward the object of our consideration on the table, but the moment I caught sight of it I started back with astonishment, and I felt the blood leave my cheek, for the hideous thing, which I had purposely placed face down on the table, was up on end, and the small death’s head gleamed through the transparent part of the lid. I knew Myrtle had not touched it. It had been out of her reach all the while. There was about it something diabolically sinister, and although I soon discovered that its base was almost imperceptibly convex and loaded, causing it to assume very gradually the vertical, I could not elude the sense of fearsome repulsion that it had from the first inspired in me.

“We will get rid of the beastly thing at once,” I said, and that evening I took it home with me despite my aversion, and the next morning committed it to the registered post.

It may have been that my nerves had not yet recovered from their more than thousand shocks, but for a week or two I could not help putting to myself several awkward questions. What if Lane or Trenoweth, or even the doctor, should drop a hint concerning the circumstances of my discovery in the old pensioner’s crib? What if the old pensioner himself were missed, as it seemed certain he



would be? What if the entrance to the subways of the old mine were found and the indistinguishable body of ray uncle brought to light from the debris of its coffin? I could see the possibility of still more awkward questions arising. I was in increasing tbrture from these apprehensions.

/~\nk afternoon Myrtle and I were sauntering along the ridge above the old mine and toward her home. We came to the pile of timbers and sat down upon some of the projecting lower logs, as used to be our custom. It was our first walk together since my illness, and as I sat down I tried to shake off the depression that had been. gradually settling upon me, and I said gayly, “Here we are in the same old spot again.”

But Myrtle did not at once reply. She was looking around with a puzzled air. Then suddenly she caught hold of my arm, and with her free hand pointed excitedly straight below us and exclaimed: “Why, look at our poor old monster! Who could have pushed it over like that?”

And I saw that the old boiler of our earlier day dreams was no longer like a huge beast trying to rise, but was rather symbolic of “down and out,” for it was lying abjectly on its side. Then I glanced and saw that which confirmed the conclusion that was already dawning upon me. The remains of a shed had fallen, a heap of dobris on the ground, and here and there were signs of newly sunken earth. In a moment I saw what had happened and what it meant to me. No fear now of awkward discoveries. I

threw my hat m the air like a schoolboy, and yelled for Myrtle’s delectation and my own: “Hurrah!” The old mine had had another and tremendous ‘creep.’ The chances were now a thousand to one that my uncle’s subways were all filled in. His grave would not be disturbed in a thousand years.

The sun set and left behind him a glow of red and gold, and above us was the intense blue of what in the southern hemisphere we call our northern skies, as we sauntered home, Myrtle’s arm in mine.

“ One—two—three—four—five, ” she counted presently in girlish glee, and her left hand reaching across her breast kept tally on my wrist. “Five more months and I shall be twentyone. ’ ’

“And that’s our wedding day,” I informed her with sudden inspiration, and over her face spread that which rivaled the glorious blush of the west.

As we entered the gate, Mrs. Clysdale appeared on the veranda and beckoned as to tea. That was but a week or so ago.

It may be that my nerves are still a trifle disordered, yet it would be a certain relief to me to acknowledge that I have moments of vague apprehension concerning our mysterious mail to London, and especially that gruesome image which is obviously a secret token. It and the document should be about due at their respective destinations in the great metropolis almost any time now, but Myrtle, radiant and confident, is already preparing for our wedding day.

[THE END]

THE so-called “pseudo-scientific” tales have ever been popular with the readers of Weird Tales, and it is the intention of the editors to publish more and more of these. Pseudo-science is “false science;” but the “false science” of the past is the reality of today. Nicholas Copernicus ’ conception of our solar system, in which the Earth and the other planets revolved around the sun, was pseudo-science when it was promulgated. Benjamin Franklin’s dream of harnessing the lightnings was pseudo-science; Jules Verne’s “mad tale” of a submarine roaming beneath the seas was pseudo-science; but today these are everyday realities. Eapidly are the incredible dreams of yesteryear becoming the commonplaces of today. Edgar Allan Poe once wrote a story, The Thousand and Second Tale of Scheherazade, in which the heroine of The Thousand and One Nights tells the Sultan a tale of the scientific marvels of our own time, but so incredible is it that the Sultan repents him of having spared Scheherazade’s life, and orders her forthwith to the chopping block, thus giving a new ending to the Arabian Nights. And the realities of a thousand years from now would sound like fantastic fairy-tales to us of today, so rapidly are invention and science transforming the pseudo-science of today into the reality of tomorrow.

It was pseudo-science, in the Weird Tales story of The Moon Terror, for Chinese fanatics to attempt to pound the Earth to pieces; by timing the stroke of an electric hammer to the vibration of the Earth; but the pseudo-science of that tale was based on sound scientific principles. It was pseudo-science that imagined the aethir-torps and alc-blastors in When the Green Star Waned; it was pseudo-science that pictured the strange animal-vegetation which sprang from seeds brushed from a meteor passing through the Earth’s atmosphere, in The Abysmal Horror. But the writers of such tales are prophets. They are dreamers, whose dreams give solid food to the minds of inventors; and they are therefore benefactors of the world.

It is new tales of this type (the Jules Verne type) as well as the purely “weird” tales (the Edgar Allan Poe type) that you, the readers of Weird Tales, seem especially to want. A fascinating tale of this genre is A Runaway World, by Clare Winger Harris, in next month’s issue, based on the theory that our Earth is simply an electron in a vast cosmos, revolving with its fellow planets around the sun as electrons revolve around their proton in an atom, and subject to chemical experiments on the atom by the dwellers in that vaster cosmos. Pseudo-science, this, but based on sound scientific theory. In fact, the whole electronic theory was pseudo-science a


few years ago; and who can say that there is not a world of truth in this story of what would happen to our Earth if it were made the subject of experiment by beings so vast that they can not see our solar system through even their most powerful microscopes?

Weird Tales will also continue to print the best weird stories obtainable; ghost-stories; tales of stark horror; voodoo and black magic; tales of strange monsters; werewolves and devil-worship; in fact the whole realm of the bizarre and unusual will continue to be the province of this magazine.

The April issue was immensely popular with you, the readers. Your helpful letters and your use of the coupons at the end of The Eyrie can not fail to assist in keeping the standard of all future issues very high.

Writes Harold S. Famese, of Los Angeles: “I wish to congratulate you on your April number, particularly on the new serial story, The Derelict Mine, by F. A. Mochnant. Here is the type of weird story which pleases me most—interesting, refined, reasonable and yet weird and eery, written in a masterful, compelling way. I am fond of planetary stories and stories of lost civilizations.”

James Leboe, of Portland, Maine, writes to The Eyrie: “I want to congratulate you on your usual discriminating taste in publishing such a wonderfully fantastic tale as The Phantom Drug, by A. W. Kapfer. If you will publish more stories by the same author you will add to the ranks of your enthusiastic readers.”

Ray Cummings, himself an author of prominence, writes in a letter to the editor: “Who in blazes is H. P. Lovecraft? I never heard, the name before. If he is a present-day writer—which I can not imagine he is—he deserves to be world-famous. I read The Outsider and The Tomb. No need of telling you they are masterful stories' Quite beside their atmosphereall those fictional elements which go to make up a real story—I felt, and still feel, looking backward upon my reading of them—somehow ennobled, as though my mind had profited (which indeed it had) by the reading. Never have I encountered any purer, more beautiful diction. They sing; the true poetry of prose.”

Yes, H. P. Lovecraft is a living writer, and he resides in Brooklyn.

Writes Mrs. C. J. Esden, of Sidney, Iowa: “Of all the stories printed in Weird Tales (and I have read them all) I think H. P. Lovecraft’s The Outsider in the April issue was the most original in conception and the most artistic in treatment and finish. It affected me as much as did Stevenson’s Dr. JeTcyTl and Mr. Hyde: as something entirely new.”

August Derleth, Jr., of Sauk City, Wisconsin, writes: “If Lovecraft’s The Outsider does not get first place I shall be disappointed in the readers of Weird Tales. That story is worthy of Poe, and, if I may say so, I believe it to be better than any work of Poe, and I have read every bit of Poe except his letters. I can not find words to express my enjoyment of that superb tale. As I was engrossed in it, my sister at the piano played Rachmaninoff’s Prelude in C Sharp Minor, and its majesty was an excellent parallel to the story. Give us more, many more, by Lovecraft, please!”

Francis P. Mooney, of Brooklyn, New York, writes to The Eyrie: “I think Lochinvar Lodge in the March issue is one of the spookiest tales I ever read. Also, please give us more stories of the Blaek Republic. I consider Seabury Quinn your best author.”

“I have just finished Eli Colter’s On the Dead Man’s Chest,’’ writes Ruth E. Sapulos, of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, “and I consider it a


masterpiece. Having been a student of good literature for years, I feel quite competent in awarding it a place among the classics of literature with Scott, Poe, Kipling, and others. Weird Tales has kept faith with its readers in giving us the best.”

Mrs. Charles Brandenburg of Hot Springs, Arkansas, writes to The Eyrie: “The April edition of Weird Tales is the ‘Cat’s Meow.’ And The Hooded Death is the ‘Snake’s Hips.’ I like all the stories so well that it is hard to say which is best, although I greatly enjoyed The Vengeance of India. That de Grandin. knows his stuff and struts it; in fact all of Seabury Quinn’s stories are just great in my estimation. Keep ’em scary.”

Writes Elizabeth Adt Wenzler, of Brooklyn, New York: “Eli Colter’s story, On the Dead Man’s Chest, is truly wonderful; I have just read the last installment and must say this story is not likely to be forgotten by any reader.”

Carl J. Smith, of Port Felix, Nova Scotia, writes: “Every day in every way Weird Tales gets better and better. I always read The Eyrie first. The cover designs merit a special word, as they are beautiful; in fact, it was the cover design on the December issue that first attracted me to Weird Tales. I especially like stories of the planets, far-away places on the Earth, and futuristic stories; also about the lost continent, Atlantis.”

“I have tried many magazines,” writes Nell Warsavage, of Lafayette, Colorado, “but I have never found one that I like as well as I do Weird Tales. I can hardly wait till it comes out each month. I think that ever since I first started buying it, it has been getting better.”

Three stories are in a close race for first place among the April stories, as this issue goes to press. Again it is the weirdest story in the issuo that wins your votes for first place: The Outsider, by H. P. Lovecraft; but this is closely pressed by Wolfsh-ead, Robert E. Howard’s medieval adventure story; and by the last installment of On the Dead Man’s Chest, Eli Colter’s serial story of spirit return. What is your favorite story in the present issue?

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE JUNE WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

(1)- -

( 2 )-_ _

( 3 )- -

I do not like the following stories:

(1)-

(2)-

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out the coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 408 Holliday Building, Indianapolis, Ind.

Why?

Reader’s name and address:



The Foot Fetish

(Continued from page 731)

Three hours later Powell was closeted with Captain Brand. Soon the purser was summoned.

"Give Mr. Hubbard and Mr. Powell berths in my cabin,” the captain ordered. ‘‘Place them at my table, Mr. Sims. And send up the passenger list immediately... Most remarkable... Unbelievable. „.”

Little was gained from studying the passenger list. There were many Chinese aboard the Empress, Hoys, Sings, Moosoongs, Lees, Wus,—more than a hundred in all. If June’s abductors were aboard only a magician could pick out their names.

Nor did meal-time bring John Powell any nearer the solution; there were many Oriental men in the dining rooms; most of them answered the description, “tall, swarthy.”

“We’re stuck,” Powell admitted to Mr. Hubbard soon after noon. “It ought to be easy to find your daughter’s abductors, but it isn’t. We aren’t sure enough that they are here bo that the captain can order a general search of every room... Let me think the thing out...”

Half an hour later John Powell went to the captain to get permission to borrow the ship’s carpenter and the ship’s electrician.

Captain Brand issued a general order at dinner that night. Every person aboard must attend a meeting at 8 o’clock in the grand salon to be instructed in procedure in case of fire or accident, he announced, and his officers carried the word to every part of the ship.

A t 8 o’clock the first mate began a talk on the use of life-belts before a crowded salon. Every passenger aboard had been herded into the room. The mate talked rapidly, as-

signing positions, apportioning boats. Suddenly, in the middle of a sentence, the room was plunged into blackness. Every light was out.

Passengers huddled together in the salon; it was weird, fearful, the way the great vessel plunged through the darkness, blind, black. The uncanniness was increased when strains of music sounded somewhere, wild sounds from stringed instruments which grew insistently louder, like a wind gaining in volume. Then the weird climaxOverhead in the blackness a faint green light appeared. It seemed to float overhead, across the ceiling of the salon. Gradually it grew stronger, a ghastly, phosphorescent glow. It took outline—the outline of a great foot, a giant foot, green and terrible. Suddenly on its side a jagged spot shone, blood-red and shaped like a huge human tooth.

For the fraction of a minute the strange apparition glowed, then the ship’s lights flashed on again. For a dazed second the passengers remained staring at the great foot. Then they laughed uneasily. The foot was a wood-and-canvas affair, crude and rough, with a red tooth painted on its side, the whole thing strung with many wires. The spectral foot was a joke of the ship’s crew, of course 1 The passengers crowded forward to examine it. But not John Powell.

In the first flash of the lights he searched the crowded salon; in that second he saw what he had hoped to see and feared he would not see—a group of Chinese men, their heads touching the floor in worship of that great green foot. “There!” Powell called to Mr. Hubbard. “Keep an eye on them until I can get to them!”

But the Orientals quickly rose



from their worshiping position, their eyes blinking, their feces grave and mystical. Silently they Sid away from the crowd, below to the cabin deck. Close behind them poshed John Powell and after him Captain Brand and Mr. Hubbard. The Chinese turned into a stateroom on the main deck; the lock clicked shut.

Powell shook the door. “Open, up, there!” he ealled. “The eaptain wants to see you.. Open!”

There was no sound from behind the locked door. “Hurry!” pleaded Mr. Hubbard to the captain. “Don't give them time to hurt June if she’s in there!”

Without more parley John Powell crashed his weight against the door. It splintered before the impact and he fell into the room. Instantly three Orientals were upon him; three more threw themselves on Captain Brand and Mr. Hubbard. But it wasn’t a long fight. The three Americans had seen a white figure on the altarlike bed, the beautifully garbed, silent form of June Hubbard. They were fighting for a definite object now.

Blows, guttural exclamations, then the flashing of knives, the smack of fists and finally the bark of the captain’s revolver,—all in a few seconds. Then a moment of silence, broken only by rapid breathing and smothered cries of pain.

O x the bed, totally oblivious to the strange fight which had occurred, June Hubbard breathed almost imperceptibly. John Powell was the first to reach her side. The beauty of her, as she lay marble-white in her robe of doth-of-gdd upon silks of red and green, almost frightened him. She seemed a goddess of rare beanty, a queen of mankind. The long lashes of her eyes showed black against her white face; her hair was held back from her broad forehead by a string of many-colored jewels. A rope of pearls hung from her neck and were

passed around her. hands, which lay crossed on her breast. Her lips, contrasting vividly with her pallor, were opened in a slight, fixed smile. One foot, white and slender, was extended from the coverings. Lighted tapers surrounded it, revealing on the instep the odd, tooth-shaped mark.

AH this John Powell saw in a moment. Then Mr. Hubbard was at his side, seizing June’s hands, caressing her face with his fingertips. The more practical captain was already issuing orders. “Powell, take my gun and keep those three Chinese in the comer covered. Those on the floor won’t bother anyone again for a while. They’re badly hurt. I’ll get the ship’s surgeon and an officer with irons. Watch those birds, and if they move, shoot!”

The ship’s doctor examined June while a deck officer and Captain Brand took charge of the Chinese. The examination was brief. It ended when the doctor forced open June’s mouth and took from it a white, glutinous substance. “Hashish,” he said, “or bhang. Something of that nature which made her happily unconscious. Lucky thing, too. She’ll not remember the horror of what she’s been through... No, she’s uninjured as far as I can tell... She’ll be conscious shortly. We’d better get her into another room, out of this incense cloud, and put her in civilized clothes... Mr. Hubbard, I’ll send a stewardess. Mr. Powell and I will go up and have a bracer and he can tell me the story. I guess from the attitude of the Chinese that they have found a new goddess!... Come, Mr. Powell, we’ll go. I’ve heard many strange things on this steamship, but this-”

John Powell turned to go. Then irresistibly his eyes were drawn to the white figure on the bed. His eyes caressed the girl’s beauty; he felt a strong desire to take the slender foot in his hands, raise it to his lips and

WEIRD



Spider-Bite

(Continued from page 750) light burst out from within as the candle-light fell upon a great mass of wondrous gems, glistening with water and reflecting a rainbowlike radiance into the faces of the two men who leaned close, drinking in the beauty.

A sound from above caused them to look up. Instantly their surprize and delight were replaced by sudden terror, for upon the edge of the pit, his eyes blazing a maniacal red, stood Za, the scribe. He held aloft a heavy carved stand and slowly gathered himself to send it crashing down upon them. Seeing that he was observed, he paused. His dry, blackened lips writhed back from his yellow teeth in a fiendish mockery of a smile and the low cackle of a madman grated from between his set jaws.

Looking above and beyond him, Phil was conscious of something else —a huge, white, hairy something that twinkled across the ceiling and halted above the maniac. As Za drew himself to his full height and tightened his grip on his brutal weapon, the white, handlike thing upon the ceiling dropped, alighting tenacious as a burr on the back of the brown man’s neck. Za shrieked and dropped the stand to one side. He fell to his knees, clutching at the horror on his back.

Phil hastily tucked the little casket of jewels under his arm and scrambled up out of the pit after the professor. There both men stopped aghast at the horrible sight on the tomb floor before them.

A mighty tomb-spider, a giant of its kind, was clamped in a deathlike grip to the spot on Za’s neck that reeked of the odor of crushed leaves from the Mona bush. The huge thing’s thick, hairy legs twisted and

Next Month

Through the Vortex

A Complete Novelette By Donald Edward Keyhoe

A startling thrill-tale about one who was sucked through the vortex into a murky region where dwelt strange and terrible beasts and a race of green-hued men.

N ight after night a wild, eery cry resounded, always at the same time, until at last the young officer’s curiosity was aroused to fever heat, and he went in search of its source. Caught in the fierce current of air, he was drawn through into an unbelievably strange land where terrifying perils awaited him and death lurked at every turn of the way.

Y ou will be held spellbound by this fascinating narrative of weird adventures among the Tortas and the Vangse. It will be printed complete in the

July Issue of


The Unique Magazine

On Sale June 1

Clip and Mail this Coupon Today1

WKIRD TAXES 408 Holliday Bldg.. Indianapolis. Ind.

Enclosed find |1 for special live moi subscription to •'Weird Tales’* to begin wltn the July issue. (Special offer void uni remittance is accompanied by coupon.)


The Brotherhood of Light

”-*t complete stock ot books in ArnerOccultism, Psychic Phenomena, Spiritualism, Astrology, New Thought, Theosophy and Nature Study.

Sena tor "'Cioada Dispelled.” You

Are You Searching for theTruth?

Wbat Is your Zodiac Sign? What does it mean to your future 7 Success in marriage, business, sill undertakings? Your future Is governed by.Aatrology, th« Science that foretold events 3600 years ago (Isaiah, 47:13). Your astrological Interpretation is waiting for you. Slmpiy give name and birth date, and enclose twenty-five cents (coin). It will be sent in plain cover, postpaid.

MAGIC”

*6.00; Cards, *1.25; I j fl.50; Magic Fluid for Trans' m eats, 13.00; Slick Ace Cards, 31 Factory Readers, 31.00. Sales Boards, etc.

CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY 112 N. La Salle Street. Chicago, Ill.

I1P1B on the down grade If you lack pep. Hfll* M Strength, courage, ambition. Try Hlblw Castleberry’s Morning Glory Special Tablets, the wonder of the age. Mailed 31.00 for 10 days’ treatment. SAMPLE end wonderful testimonials FREE. A. F. CASTLEBERRY, Dept. W, Columbus, Go.




D-80, 2104 N. Keystone Av., Chicago

knotted themselves convulsively as its greedy fangs sank deep. The brown man writhed in agony, his glazing eyes rolling wildly in their sockets. One arm shot out and grasped Phil by the ankle, dragging him toward the edge of the empty pool. The young man screamed in mortal terror and kicked himself free. His glance swept down into the pit, and as if touched by a high-voltage wire his whole body suddenly stiffened. The color drained swiftly from Ills face, leaving it a ghastly gray. The case of jewels slipped unheeded from his fear-paralyzed arms and crashed to the floor, sending the glittering baubles rolling in the dust... Trooping up out of the foul subterranean darkness of the great square drainage hole at the bottom of the pit, came countless thousands of great white spiders! In an undulating tide of furry evilness they crept up from the lower chamber that had been their prison and from which the water had just driven them. The professor, too, saw the advancing horde of horror, and the two men’s eyes met in unutterable terror.

A low moan from the dying Za broke the spell. Snatching up a huge handful of the wondrous stones, Phil led the dash for the doorway, where for a moment he paused and looked back.

As Za, his spinal coTd severed, sank at last into the eternal rest which should have been his three thousand years before, he rolled limply over on his back, crushing under him the bloated form of the immense spider. With a noise like the bursting of a great oily bubble the creature’s thin skin split, and it spattered out into a formless blot. The blood from the lacerated neck swelled into the sticky puddle that had been a tomb-spider, and trickled out to meet the oncoming wave of glittering eyes and writhing legs that was flowing soundlessly over the edge of the pit.

LUCK

_ _ __? LUCKY

SEVEN" Secret Rules are free to all who wear this Rare and beautiful Talisman Ring. On each side of this Odd and Charming Ring is moulded the figure of Fortuna— The "Goddess of Luck”. Ancient ’ ” ' " ’ ' r emblem bringsluck to wearer in Love.

__ _everything. Genuine

14-K Antique Gold S. Ring, mounted with 01

Blazing Blue White Mexican Im. Diamond. <_

teed 20 years. Send strip of paper to show finger size and we will send you this wonderful ring. When it arrives pay the postman only $3.95. Nothing more "- pay. Yours to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Weal. days—follow the 7 rules that we send you. If not satisfied your money quickly returned. Address Radio-Flash Diamond Importing Co., St. Paul, Minn. Oepf. 37-L

Get One of These NOW

WRITING Increases 50,000 magaYOUR INCOME zines and

newspapers want short-stories, long stories, articles, jokes, poems, etc. Screen plays and clever songs are wanted to supply liberal demand. Send for- free copy PROFITABLE WRITING. Explains.

CO-OPERATIVE SERVICE COMPANY 317 N. 42nd St. Philadelphia


The Mighty ^ Unseen^ Powers are Yours

Do You Seek Happiness?

Has true love come into your life—or didn’t you recognize it when it came? Are you afraid now of the baffling, perplexing mysteries of marriage? Are you discontented with the stupid lies and furtive ashamed answers the world gives you in place of the naked, fearless truth you desire? Do you want some safe, sane, unashamed advice on personal questions? Clip coupon below, send it today without any money and in a few days you will receive the most startling surprise of your life.

Life’s Secrets

At last a book has been published that digs into personal matters without fear or beating around the bush. Thiswonderful 512-pagebook, “Safe Counsel,” written by Prof. B. G. Jefferies, M. D„ Ph. D., and Prof. J. L. Nichols, A. M., contains just the infor- ';ion you want. You will be amazed at its nkness. Words are not minced. “Polite” phrases forgotten—the right word is used in the right place. In this-volume are answered all the questions that growing children ask their parents. Subjects mentioned only in whispers are fearlessly

discussed. There is no shame — M — — ’-

on these pages. The Sto o yourself, to your happii ead this wonderful book.

Send No Money

—simply mail the coupon

Mail the CouponNOW!_ _

Are You Waiting for Your Ship to Come In?

. re you one of those who have been idly gazing out into the Sea of Literature wondering when the craft you are looking for will appear above the horizon?

_,hen come down to the harbor, for your vessel is making port.

L Twelve times a year WEIRD TALES comes in, a stately galleon laden with the treasures of fancy from the seven seas. Each month an argosy of bizarre and unusual tales — imaginative stories such as are offered nowhere else, rich treasures of the mind, sparkling jewels of literature, tales that lift you out of the humdrum workaday world into that deathless country of the imagination.

*-❖

_ T _ould you greet this splendid craft as it makes port each VV month? We will sail it right to your home once every month for a whole year for $2.50. Subscribe now while our address is before you. Don’t put it off another day!

Use the coupon


408 Holliday Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind.

Gentlemen: Enclosed find $ _ for 1 year’s subscription to WEIRD

TALES to begin with the _ number.

Address _

City - State -

(Price in Canada, $8.00)

[THE END]
