============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 37, Number 2
Date: November 1943
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Except for personal experiences the contents of this magazine is fiction" by Any use
============================================================
============================================================
EXCEPT FOR PERSONAL EXPERIENCES THE CONTENTS OF THIS MAGAZINE IS FICTION
by Any use
============================================================
Sharon?”

"Please. And stay there and talk to me until the sun rises again.”

“Until the sun rises again,” repeated John Thunstone.

By RA Y BRADBUR Y

T HE transport was loaded, ready to leave at midnight. Feet shuffled up long wooden gangplanks. A lot of songs were being sung. A lot of silent goodbyes were being said to New

York Harbor. Military insignia flashed in the loading lights. . . .

Johnny Choir wasn’t afraid. His khakiclad arms trembled with excitement and uncertainty, but he wasn’t afraid. He held

VJVW.V.V.

< Maybe it’s wrong to grow up believing in reality —

j| and things like bullets and death.

*V.V. , AV.V/.V.V«V.V.\WA , .V.V\SVAV.V.VA\V.W.VV.V.V.V.W.W^




on to the railing and thought. The thinking came down over him like a bright shell, cutting out the soldiers, the transport, the noise. He thought about the days that had slipped by him.

A few years before —

Days in the green park, down by the creek, under the shady oaks and elms, near the gray-planked benches and the bright flowers. The kids, he among them, came like an adolescent avalanche down the tall hillsides, yelling, laughing, and tumbling.

Sometimes they’d have carven hunks of wood with clothes-pins from the wash-line for triggers; rubber bands, snapped and flicked through the summer air, for ammunition. Sometimes they’d have capguns, exploding pointedly at one another. And most of the time when they couldn’t afford powder-caps, they just pointed their dime revolvers at one another and shouted:

"Bang! You’re dead!”

"Bang-bang — I gotcha!”

It wasn’t simple as all that, though. Arguments rose, quick, hot, short, and over in a minute.

"Bang, I gotcha!*'

"Aw, you missed me a mile! Boom! There, I got you!”

"Oh, no you didn’t either! How could you get me? You were shot. You were dead. You couldn’t shoot me.”

"I already said you missed me. I ducked.”

"Aw, you can’t duck a bullet. I pointed right at you.”

"I still ducked.”

"Nuts. You always say that, Johnny. You don’t play right. You’re shot. You gotta lay down!”

"But I’m the sergeant — I can’t die.”

"Well, I’m better than a sergeant. I’m a captain.”

"If you’re a captain, then I’m a general!”

f T m a major-general!”

I quit. You don’t play fair.”

. The eternal wrangling for position, the bloody noses and hoarse name-calling, the promised retribution of "I’ll tell my Dad on you.” All of it a part and parcel of being a wild horseling of eleven, with the bit out of your buck-toothed mouth all during June and July and August.

A ND only in autumn did the parents ride out after you and the other fiery colts, to rope you and brand you behind the ears with soap and water and chuck you off to that corral with the red-brick walls and the rusty bell in the tower. . . .

That wasn’t so long ago. Just — seven years.

He was still a kid inside. His body had grown, stretched, towered, tanned its skin, hardened its muscle, darkened its tawny shock of long hair, tightened its lines around jaw and eyes, thickened fingers and knuckles, but the brain didn’t feel as if it had grown in sympathy with the rest. It was still green; full of tall lush oaks and elms in summer; a creek ran through it, and the kids climbed around on its convolutions shouting, "This way, gang — we’ll take a short-cut and head them off at Dead Man’s Gulch!”

Boat whistles blew their tops. Manhattan’s metal buildings tossed back an echo of them. Gangplanks clattered up and away. Men’s voices shouted.

Johnny Choir was aware of it, suddenly. His wild, quick thoughts were stampeded by the reality of the ship nosing out into the harbor. He felt his hands trembling on the cold iron rail. Some of the boys sang "It’s a Long Way to Tipperary.” They made a lot of warm noise.

"Come out of it, Choir,” someone said. Eddie Smith came and brushed Johnny Choir’s elbow. "Penny for your thoughts.”

Johnny looked at all that dark, glittering water. "Whv ain’t I in 4-F?” he said simply.

THE DUCKER


Eddie Smith looked at the water, too, and laughed. "Why?”

Johnny Choir said, "I’m only a kid. I’m only ten years old. I like ice-cream cones and candy bars and roller skates. I want my mama.”

Smith rubbed his small white chin.

"You got the most distorted sense of humor, Choir. So help me. You say all you got to say with the perfect dead-pan expression. Someone else might think you were serious. ...”

Johnny spit slowly over the side, experimentally, to see how long it would take the spit to reach the water. Not long. Then he tried to watch where it landed to see how long he could still see it. Not long, either.

Smith said, "Here we go. Don’t know where, but we’re going. Maybe England, maybe Africa, maybe Who Knows?” "Do — do those other guys play fair, Private Smith?”

"Huh?”

Johnny Choir gestured. "If you shoot those other guys over there, then they got to fall down, don’t they?”

"Hell, yes. But, why — ”

"And they can’t shoot back if they get shot first.”

"That’s a basic fact of war. You shoot the other guy first, he’s out of the fight. Now, why are you — ”

"That’s all right then,” said Johnny Choir. His stomach eased down soft and nice inside him. Resting light and smooth, his hands didn’t twitch on the rail any more.

"As long as that is a basic rule, Private Smith, then I got nothing to be afraid of. I’ll play. I’ll play war good.”

Smith stared at Johnny.

"If you play war like you talk war, it’s gonna be a funny kind of war, I’ll say so.”

The sound of the boat whistle hit against the clouds. The ship cut out of New York Harbor under the stars.

And Johnny Choir slept like a teddybear all that night. . . .

T HE African landing was warm, fast, simple, uneventful. Johnny lugged his equipment in his big easy-swinging hands, found his assigned company truck and the long hot delivery inland from Casablanca began. He sat tallest in his row, facing another row of friends in the rear of the truck. They bounced, jiggled, laughed, smoked, joked all along the way, and it' was quite a bit of fun.

One thing Johnny Choir noticed was how nice the officers were to one another. None of the officers stomped their feet and cried, "I want to be general or I won’t play! "I want to be captain or 1 won’t play!” They took orders, gave orders, rescinded orders and asked for orders in a crisp military fashion that seemed, to Johnny, to be the finest bit of play acting ever. It seemed a hard thing to act that way all the time, but they did. Johnny admired them for it and never questioned their right to give him orders. Whenever he didn’t know what to do, they told him. They were helpful. Heck. They were okay. Not like in the old days when everybody argued about who was going to be general or sergeant or corporal.

Johnny said nothing of his thoughts to anyone. Whenever he had time he just kept them and mulled them over. It was so bewildering. This was the biggest game he had ever played — uniforms, bigger guns and everything and —

The long dusty trip inland over jolting roads and glorified cowpaths was little more than bumps, shouts and sweat to Johnny Choir. This didn’t smell like Africa. It smelled like sun, wind, rain, mud, heat, sweat, cigarettes, trucks, oil, gasoline. Universal odors that denied all the Dark menace of the old geography book Africa. He looked hard but he didn’t see any colored men with juju paint on



their black faces. The rest of the time he was too engrossed spooning food into his mouth, and coming down the hash-line for second helpings.

It was one hot noon one hundred miles from the Tunisian border, with Johnny just finishing his lunch, when a German Stuka fell out of tire sun, coming right for Johnny. It spit bullets.

Johnny stood there and watched it. Tin plates, eating utensils, helmets clattered, shining, on the hard-packed sand as the other company members scattered, yelling, and dug their noses into ditches and behind boulders, behind trucks and jeeps.

Johnny stood there grinning the kind of grin you always use when you look straight at the sun. Someone yelled, "Choir, duck!”

The dive bomber strafed, slugging, punching. Johnny stood straight up with his spoon raised to his mouth. Little pocks exploded dust into a showered line a few feet to one side of him. He watched the line tiptoe instantly by him and go spattering on a few yards before the Stuka lifted gilded wings and went away.

Johnny watched it out of sight.

Eddie Smith peered over the edge of a jeep. "Choir, you nut. Why didn’t you get behind the truck?”

Johnny ate again. "That guy couldn’t hit the side of a barn-door with a bucket of paint.”

Smith looked at him as if he were a Saint in a niche in a church. "You’re either the bravest guy I know or the dumbest.”

"I guess maybe I’m brave,” said Johnny though his voice sounded a bit uncertain, as jf he couldn’t make up his mind yet.

Smith snorted. "Hell. The way you talk.”

T HE inland movement continued. Rommel was entrenched at Mareth and the British 8th was drawing up, readying its

heavy artillery for a barrage that, rumor had it, would start in approximately five days. The long queque of trucks reached the Tunisian border, ground over and up into hill country. . . .

The Afrika Korps had stormed through Kasserine Pass almost to the border of Tunisia, and now they were retreating back toward Gafsa.

"That’s swell,” was all Johnny Choir would say. "That’s the way it should be.”

Choir’s infantry moved up at long last for their first engagement. Their first look at the way the enemy ran, fell down, got up or stayed down for a longer interval, flew, shot, yelled or just plain vanished in a cumulus of dust.

A certain laughing tenseness went through the members of his unit. Johnny felt it and couldn’t figure it out. But he pretended to be tense, too, once in a while. It was fun. He didn’t smoke (die cigarettes offered him.

"They make me choke,” he explained.

Now the orders were given. American units, coming down onto Tunisian plain, would drive toward Gafsa. Johnny Choir was going with them in his role as buck private.

Instructions were barked out, maps were supplied to company commanders, tank groups, anti-tank half-tracks, artillery, infantry.

The air arm swung, shining hard, overhead. Johnny thought they looked mighty pretty. '

Things started exploding. The hot plainland was running over with a lethal tide of snipers’ shots, machine-gun fire, artillery blasts. And Johnny Choir ran along behind a screen of advancing tanks with Eddie Smith about ten yards ahead of him.

"Keep your head down, Johnny. Don’t stand so straight!”

"I’ll be all right,” Johnny panted. “You get on. I’m fine.”

THE DUCKER


"Just keep that big head of yours low, that’s all!”

They ran. Johnny sucked breath out and in. It felt like a fire-eater must feel when he takes a mouth of flame. The African air was burning like alcohol gas fumes. It seared your throat and your lungs.

They ran. Stumbling over lakes of pebbles and up sudden hillocks. They hadn’t caught up with the contact fighting in full yet. Men were running everywhere, khaki ants scuttling over hot burned grass. Running everywhere. Johnny saw a couple of them fall down and stay down.

"Oh, they don’t know how,” was his comment to himself.

The stones, skittering underfoot, were just like that scatter of bright pebbles in the old dry creek at Fox River, Illinois. That sky was the Illinois sky, burned blueback and shimmering . He thrust his wet body forward with big leaps. Green, high, broad, strangely verdant in the midst of this swelter, a hill came into his vision. Any minute now the "kids” would come yelling down side of that hill. . . .

Gun fire broke out from that hill like the rash of some flaming disease. Artillery cut loose, from behind the hill. Shells curved down in an arced wail. Where they struck they lifted the earth and gave it the bumps, the bumps, the bumps! Johnny laughed.

The thrill of it got inside Johnny Choir. His feet pounding, his ear-drums pressured by the gonging of his blood in his head, his long arms swinging easy, holding his automatic rifle —

A shell came down out of the hot sky, buried its nose thirty feet from Johnny Choir and blew outward with fire, rock, shrapnel, force.

Johnny leaped wide.

"Missed me! Missed me!”

He jumped forward, one foot pounding right after the other.

"Keep your head down, Johnny! Drop, Johnny!” Smith yelled.

Another shell. Another explosion. More shrapnel.

Only twenty-five feet away this time. Johnny felt the mighty force, wind, thrust and power of it. He shouted, "Missed again! I fooled ya! Missed again!” and ran on.

Thirty seconds later he realized he was alone. The other men had flopped on their faces to dig in, because tire tanks that had protected them had to swerve and go around the hill. It was too steep for climbing with a tank. And without tank protection the men dug in. The shells were singing all around.

J OHNNY CHOIR was alone and he liked it. By Gosh, he’d capture that whole darned hill himself. If the others wanted to tag behind, then he’d have all the fun himself.

Two hundred yards ahead of him a machine-gun was nested and chattering. Noise and fire came out like the stream from a powerful garden hose. It whipped and sprayed. Richochets filled the warm, shivering air of the slope.

Choir ran. He ran, laughing. Opening his big mouth, showing his teeth, he jerked to a stop, aimed, fired, laughed, and ran on again.

Machine-guns talked. A bullet line knitted the earth together in an idiot’s crochet all around Johnny.

He danced and zigzagged and ran and danced and zigzagged again. Every few seconds he’d yell, "You missed me!” or "I ducked that one!” and then he’d pound like some special kind of new tank up the slope, swinging his gun.

He stopped. He aimed. He fired. "Bang! I gotcha!” he cried.

A German fell down in the gun nest.

He ran again. Bullets swept down in a solid, withering wall. Johnny slipped



through it, like an actor slipping through gray curtains, quiet, easy, calm.

"Missed me! Missed me, missed me! I ducked, I ducked!”

He was so far ahead of the others now that he could barely see them. Stumbling further, he fired three shots. "Gotcha! And you, and you! All three of you!”

Three Germans fell. Johnny cried out delightedly. Sweat glossed his cheeks, his blue eyes were bright, hot as the sky.

Bullets cascaded. Bullets flowed, slithered, ripped the stones over, around, about, under, behind him. He danced. He zigzagged. He laughed. He ducked.

The first German gun nest was silent. Johnny started for the second one. Way off somewhere he heard a hoarse voice shouting, "Come back, Johnny, you damn fool! Come back!” Eddie Smith’s voice.

But there was so much noise he couldn’t be sure.

He saw the expression on the faces of the four Germans who operated the machine-gun further up the hill. Their faces were pale under their desert tan, drawn tight and wild, their mouths open, their eyes wide.

They pointed their gun straight at him and cut loose.

"Missed me!”

An artillery shell from over the hill whistled down and landed thirty feet away.

Johnny catapulted himself. "Close! But not close enough!”

Two of the Germans broke, ran from the nest, yelling crazy words. The other two clung to the gun, white faced, pouring lead at Johnny.

Johnny shot them.

He let the other two go. He didn’t want to shoot them in the back. He sat down and rested in the machine-gun nest and waited for the rest of his unit to catch up to him.

He watched the Americans pop up like

jack-in-the-boxes all along the base of the hill and come running.

I N ABOUT three minutes Eddie Smith came stumbling into the nest. His face was full of the same look that the Germans had had on their faces. He yelled at Johnny. He grabbed him and pawed him and looked him over.

"Johnny!” he cried. "Johnny, you’re all right, you’re not hit!”

Johnny thought that was a funny thing to say. "Heck no,” replied, Johnny, "I told you I’d be all right.’

Smith’s jaw dropped. "But I saw artillery shells drop near you, and that machinegun fire — ”

Johnny scowled. "Hey, Private Smith, look at your hand.”

Ed’s hand was red. Sharpnel, lodged in the wrist, had drawn a quick flow of blood.

"You should have ducked, Private Smith. Darn, I keep telling you, but you never believe me.”

Eddie Smith gave him one of those looks. "You can’t duck bullets, Johnny.”

Johnny laughed. It was the sound of a kid laughing. The sound of a kid who knows very well the routine of war, and how it comes and goes. Johnny laughed.

"They didn’t argue with me, Private Smith,” he said, quietly. "None of them argued. That was funny. All the other kids used to argue about it.”

"What other kids, Johnny?”

“Oh, you know. The other kids. At the creek, back home. We’d always argue as to who was shot and as to who was dead. But just now, when I said Bang, you’re dead, these guys played the game right along. Not one of them argued. They didn’t any of them say, "Bang, I got you first. You’re dead!” No. They let me be the winner all the time. In the old days they used to argue so much — ”

“Did they?”

"Sure.”

THE DUCKER


"What was it, now, that you said to them, Johnny. Did you actually say, 'BANG, you’re dead?”

"Sure.”

"And they didn’t argue?”

"No. Isn’t that swell of them. Next time I think it’s only fair I play dead.”

"No,” snapped Smith. He swallowed and wiped sweat off his face. "No, don’t do that, Johnny. You — you just go on like you been going.” He swallowed again. "Now, about this business of your ducking those bullets, about them missing you .• . .”

"Sure they did. Sure I did.”

S MITH’S hands trembled.

Johnny Choir looked at him. "What’s wrong, Private?”

"Nothing. Just — just excitement. And,

I was just wondering.”

"What?”

"Just wondering how old you are, Johnny.”

"Me. I’m ten, going on eleven.” Johnny stopped and flushed guiltily. "No. What’s wrong with me? I’m eighteen, going on nineteen.”

Johnny looked at the bodies of the German soldiers.

"Tell them to get up now, Private Smith.”

"Huh?”

"Tell them to get up. They can get up now if they want to.”

“Yeah, well — you see, Johnny. That is. Uh. Look, Johnny, they’ll get up after we leave. Yeah, that’s it. After we leave. It’s against the — rules — for them to get up now. They want to rest awhile. Yeah — rest.”

"Oh.”

"See here, Johnny. I wanna tell you something right now!”

"What?”

Smith licked his lips and moved his feet and swallowed and cursed softly. "Oh, nothing. Nothing at all. Damn. Except that I’m envious of you. I — I wish I hadn’t grown up so hard and so fast. See, Johnny, you’re going to come out of this war. Don’t ask me how, I just feel you are. That’s the way the Book reads. Maybe I won’t come out. Maybe I’m not a kid. And not being a kid maybe I won’t have the protection that God gives a kid just because he is a kid. Maybe I grew up believing in the wrong things — believing in reality and things like death and bullets. Maybe I’m nuts for imagining things about you. Sure I am. Just my imagination for thinking that you’re — aw. Whatever happens, Johnny, remember this, I’m going to stick by you.”

“Sure you are. That’s the only way I’ll play,” said Johnny.

"And if anybody so much as tries to tell you you can’t duck bullets, you know what I’m going to do?”

"What?”

"I’m going to kick them square in the teeth!”

Eddie got up, jerking, nervous, a funny smile on his lips.

"Now, come on, Johnny, let’s move and move fast. There’s another — game — playing over this hill.”

Johnny got excited. "Is there?” "Yeah,” said Smith. "Come on.”

They went over the hill together. Johnny Choir dancing and zigzagging and laughing, and Eddie Smith following close behind, watching him with a white face and wide, envious eyes. . . .

Some. AMERICAN INDIANS CONSIDERED THE rattlesnake as a SUPERIOR being and took GREAT PAINS NEVER TO OFFEUD HIM# "THE CUEROKEt REGARDED HIM AS THE CHIEF OF THE SNARE TRIBE AND FEARED AND RESPECTED HIM ACCORDINGLY. -fEM) OF THEM WOULD VENTURE To KILL A RATTLE - SNARE UNLESS FORCED To 00 SO, AND THEN IT WAS NECESSARY TO ATONE FOR THEIR CRIME BY CRAVING PARDON OF THE SNARE'S GHOST EITHER THEMSELVES OR THROUGH THE INTERCESSION OF A PRIEST.

-T T WAS BELIEVED THAT IF THESE PRECAUTIONS WERE NEGLECTED, THE H/NSFOLk OF THE DEAD

shake Would avenge the death 3 y sending

ONE OF THE/R NUMBER TO TRACK DOWN THE MURDERER and STMG MM TO OG*\TH f

r


In Java a popular cure.

FOR GOUT OR RHEUMATISM IS TO RUB SPANISH PEPPER INTO THE NAILS OF THE FINGERS AND TOESOF THE SUFFERER/ T^E SHARPNESS OF THE PEPPER VS SUPPOSED TO BE TOO MUCH FOR THE GOUT OR RHEUMATISM, WHICH ACCORDINGLY DEPARTS VN HASTE Q

Montezuma, Emperor of me*i co,

NEVER SET FOOT ,

OH THE ground;

It was believed THAT HIS SANCTITY WOULD BE PROFANED \ F HE SO MUCH AS TOUCHED THE GrROUND WITH HIS FOOT. WE WAS always CARRIED on the shoulders

OF NOBLEMEN, AND IF HE LIGHTED ANYWHERE */C// TAPBSTM Ms LAID FCk HIM TO

walk upon r7


WMV^WA , AW.W.VA%V.\VV.V%VAV.W.V.V.V

reat Pan Is Here

.W^.V.V.V.V.V.V. V.V.V.V.V.V.V.VV.'.V.

By GREYE LA SPINA

.*Av.*»v.v.%v«v.v.v.w.v.v.v.v.v.v.w.vv.v.v.v.w.vr

L YING at the edge of the asphalt road just outside the gutter and far enough back so that passing car wheels could not crush it, lay a seven-reed pandean pipe. Incredible anachronism on a modern highway; I could hardly believe my eyes. It might have been dropped just before our car swung around the corner by my garden; I had an eerie feeling that the owner had dodged out of sight in the thicket of Shrubbery a fraction of a minute before.

I said quickly to Cecily: "Did you see that syrinx?”

Cecily insinuated delicately that I had had one cocktail too many. Although it lay on her side of the road, she had seen nothing.

First time I’d known her to miss anything out of the ordinary.

Aunt Kate was muttering vexedly from the rear seat. I’d been of half a mind to go back and pick up that shepherd’s flute just to prove to Cecily that five cocktails were well within my limit, but although I couldn’t distinguish a word I knew what Aunt Kate was saying. She doesn’t approve of late arrival at symphony concerts. I did hint loudly that I’d like to pick up the unusual object but she promptly blew the man down with a loud snort, adding that she didn’t intend to lose the first movement of the symphony just because I’d imagined something that, having no business to be

there, couldn’t have been there, consequently wasn’t there.

Cecily said she thought this was fairly conclusive reasoning, so between them I was dissuaded from returning. What I didn’t realize then was that neither Aunt Kate, who usually drove from the back seat directing our course for every bump orpuddle in the road, hadn’t seen that glaring anachronism. Nor had Cecily— -Cecily, who rarely misses seeing the wariest pheasant or the smallest couchant cottontail. I only, of the three of us, had seen those pipes. So we drove on, leaving the syrinx lying by the roadside. The symphony concert was, as usual, magnificent. One of the encores held undue significance for me that night; it was the piping entrance of the little fauns. It carried me completely out of myself and back to that object I had seen lying on the gravel at the turn in the road. I promised myself to watch for it and salvage it on the way home. I had a burning curiosity to handle it and an overpowering desire to lay it against my lips and sound its shrill, sweet notes.

But either the headlights — on the opposite side of the road when we returned — did not pick it out or it had already been seen and appropriated by someone else. Cecily insisted that my imagination was working overtime but I was so positive of that Pan-pipe’s reality that I even remembered a fine cord attached to it, as if it had

»;.v.v.v.vw.v.vv.v.v.v.v.v.%v.v.v.v«v.v.%v.v.w.v.w.w.v.v.v.v

;; "tit

Vav,

Here I have found tranquil peace under the same stars that light my old world, that world now closed by diabolic Man to the spirits of the woods !■

and seas and gardens jj




but recently hung about some little faun’s sun-browned neck. That last touch was too much for Cecily. She told me shortly that she thought it rather silly on my part to attempt embroidering a story that was obviously only a fabrication of my too-vivid imagination. We had what is euphemistically termed "words” and Cecily flounced into the house with Aunt Kate, disdaining to complete our tentative plans for a sail next morning in tire Sprite.

1 PUT up die car and followed Aunt Kale and my charming cousin into the house, hoping that Cecily had relented and that we would have a cigarette together before retiring for the night, but the house was as still as if a chatty old lady and a lively young girl had not preceded me five minutes before my own entrance. I went to the kitchen to see if they had gone there for sandwiches and drinks but it was deserted. Those "words” had cooked my goose as far as a half-hour alone with Cecily was concerned. I sometimes feared that my aunt’s strict, old-fashioned ideas had made Cecily too reserved, too cold. I had long wished ardently that something would rouse her to understand that a man in love cannot be held forever at a chilling distance.

I took some ice cubes to the library, mixed a highball, lighted a cigarette and went to the screened bay-window overlooking my sunken garden. There was a tender crescent moon hanging low in the sky with no cloud to dim the broad expanse of twinkling, starry attendants. I longed to share that beauty with Cecily. There was just enough light to make the garden an enchanted spot, high-lighted here and there against the deep shadows of the pine grove at the rear, beyond which boomed the sea. The nymph fountain I had brought from Italy sprinkled sparkling pearly spray against a background of shrubbery and farther down the graveled path I could see the

sun-dial on its marble pedestal surrounded by the sheen of white flowers whose heavy fragrance hung on the night air. Aunt Kate dearly loves a white garden because it is so lovely at night and when she took over the management of my household after my parents’ death, I had the white garden planted to please her.

I was just on the point of snuffing out my cigarette and going up to bed when I thought I detected a movement at the rear of the garden. I say a movement, because what I really saw I didn’t actually see. I mean, what I glimpsed was an apparent disappearance of the sun-dial on its gleaming marble pedestal. It was as if some obscuring shadow had passed between it and me, blotting it momentarily from sight. I was startled because I knew neither Aunt Kate nor Cecily would be strolling out there alone. By midnight, too, the servants were abed snoring comfortably, as we rarely kept anyone up on symphony nights because it was far more fun to raid refrigerator and pantry than to call a sleepy butler or dopyeyed maid to fetch sandwiches and drinks. Moreover, the intruder in the garden could not have been Aunt Kate or Cecily; their dresses would have shown up in the starlight. Aunt Kate had worn a light gray silk and Cecily had been in frilly dotted muslin, white as an October hoar frost, a charming cool frock for a hot summer night. Who the deuce, thought I, has taken the liberty of promenading in our garden at midnight without so much as a by-yourleave?

I took a last puff at my cigarette, crushed it out on an ash-tray, and went down the room to the French doors. Of course they were locked; Ashby would have seen to that on his nightly rounds. I unlocked them and went out on the bricked terrace and stood there quietly under the myriad stars. I sensed an inner suspense, as if something notable were about to happen. I listened, feeling that I must surely hear the sound of

GREAT PAN IS HERE


feet on the shifting gravel of the path but while I watched, the sun-dial again performed its disappearing act, unaccompanied by the merest whisper of sound. It was uncanny. I wanted to call, "Who’s there?” but knew that if I did I’d have my aunt out in the hall, Cecily at her window, Ashby prancing about in pajamas and quite probably cook and the maids uttering shrieks from the back stairs. So I held my peace.

A MOMENT later I was glad I had.

There came a whispered stirring of shrubbery somewhere in the garden. I couldn’t locate the sound but I heard it distinctly. It was an irregular rustle quite unlike the gentle urge of a night breeze. Then borne on the sweet night air sounded a series of distinct, if pianissimo, flute-like notes. As they fell upon my straining, grateful ears I stood stock-still, amazed and intrigued by what somehow seemed a mystical sequence to the syrinx lying by the roadside, the symphonic encore featuring the piping of the little fauns, the mysterious behavior of the sun-dial. The night silence pressed in upon me with a significance out of all proportion to its simple normality and in the midst of that heightened stillness, as if all Nature listened with me, I heard the notes again like drops of liquid gold and knew them for what they were. Someone had picked up that lost Pan-pipe and was trying the reeds one by one, under the magical young moon in my enchanted sunken garden.

My first sensation was one of outrage. I had wanted those pipes myself, as if they had been meant to fall into my hands. I felt that an unauthorized intruder had robbed me of something so much my own that he must have sensed it to be adding insult to injury by playing on those shepherd pipes in my garden. I was so angry that I threw aside my previous caution. I dashed down the steps from the terrace, my feet crunching over the gravel straight to the

pedestal where the dial stood. Of course, as I might have realized in my noisy advance, there would be no one there when I arrived. I did imagine for a moment that the shrubbery, in the spot where it was so thickly interlaced that it seemed a tangled wildwood, stirred ever so slightly as I approached. But when I rushed up, it had already stopped its swaying and I heard no sound save the rising murmur of a night breeze that might have caused that slight agitation of the leafy branches.

I stood perfectly still and listened intently. There was not an unfriendly sound drifting on the sweet fragrance of the air. There was only the faint incessant chirping of crickets and once a birdling uttered a small smothered twitter from its nest in the crotch of one of the pines bordering the garden. I told myself I must have imagined the whole thing, conjured it up out of the enchantment of the night. Yet returning slowly to the house I wheeled about twice and faced back, for I could have sworn that someone or something was following closely behind with noiseless, airy footsteps. I was uncomfortably conscious of faint, amused disdain impingeing on my consciousness as if someone were sardonically aware of my unease and enjoyed my discomfiture.

I closed and locked the French door so quickly upon my own wary entrance that not even an invisible entity could very well have followed me inside. Then I went out to the kitchen, got more ice cubes and back in the library I fixed a whopper of a highball. I needed a bracer. I felt strongly that I had happily escaped from something faintly, but none the less obviously, inimical. Also I could not persuade myself that I had imagined those flute-like, golden notes that had fallen out of the starlit night upon my astonished, ravished ears.

By next morning Cecily had apparently forgotten her vexation. She came to breakfast looking like a rather with76


drawn young goddess in that paucity of attire girls assume for sports wear. Of course she was as beautiful as the sun, moon and stars, and I told her so. She looked at me and smiled and I knew, as I always had when she smiled at me, that even if she wanted my heart to trample, it was hers for the asking. After breakfast we strolled down to the beach with a packed luncheon basket. I keep a rowboat with an outboard motor at our private wharf near the bathing pavilions.

Cecily protested, as I started the motor: "Don’t be in such a rush, Craig. Isn’t that Tommy Leatherman coming down the beach?”

I’d seen him. That was why I wanted to be off. I presume I must have looked sulky for Cecily pointed one finger at me derisively, wrinkling her nice straight nose.

"Etta’s in New York for the week-end and Tommy’s simply forlorn, Craig. Be humane and ask him along.”

"But I don’t want him along,” I objected. "You act as, if you didn’t want to be alone with me, Cecily. I like to have you to myself once in a while. Your mother’s such a strict duenna, and now you want Tommy to chaperone us.”

Cecily tried to look offended but failed. Her lips drew into a smile. She looked at me from under curling lashes and I was lost and she knew it.

I hailed Tom none too pleasantly. Of course he wanted to go along. Men always wanted to go along with Cecily. So that was the end of my plan for a day alone with my cousin. We climbed aboard the Sprite and I tied the small boat to her stern. Cecily disposed herself picturesquely where she needn’t move until it was time to open the luncheon hamper. Tom sat beside her. That left me to sail the boat. Ordinarily I wouldn’t have cared, for I love the wild abandon of the Sprite when she takes the wind in her sails and fairly flies. Aunt Kate once said that if the

Sprite had been a girl, she would have been of the type considered "fast.” I was busy with the boat and paid no attention to my passengers until I caught a few words that made me prick up my ears and almost stop what I was doing.

Tom said: " — so I went back and picked it up and it was a curious little reed instrument hanging on a brown string. It was the sort of thing nymphs and fauns used to play on, you know.”

"Well!” I heard Cecily exclaim in an amazed undertone. She turned her face to me and said sweetly, "Sorry, Craig! My error.”

Tom stared, brow puzzled into a scowl, but I knew she was apologizing for not having believed me when I’d told her about the Pan-pipe by the side of the road. Now she was hearing from Tom that it had been there and that he’d picked it up himself.

A strange resentment rose in me. The thing had little or no intrinsic value but it had impressed me as something closely associated with myself.

I said disgustedly: "So it was you piping in our garden last night. Rather a childish performance, Tom. You might have come in for a drink before slipping away as you did.”

Tom said he didn’t know what I was getting at.

"What I’m getting at is this,” said I, growing a little angry at his evasion. "What possessed you to come piping in my garden on those ridiculous reeds at midnight? I heard you, Tom. Every time you paraded past the sun-dial I knew it, too.”

"I was sound asleep in bed before midnight last night, Craig.”

I said, "Oh, yeah?” and let it go at that. I didn’t intend to get into an argument with him before Cecily; I had a feeling that she might side with him as she had with Aunt Kate the previous night.

Then she took the wind out of my sails by declaring: "But I heard the piping,

GREAT PAN IS HERE


Tom. If it wasn’t you, who could it have been? It was you who found the syrinx.” Tom stared at her, speechless. So did I. “It was a very disturbing sound. It reached ’way inside me,” said she in a troubled voice. "I thought it was you, Craig.”

“It wasn’t I. It was someone who had no business in my garden. Sure you’re not a somnambulist?” I asked Tom drily.

He snapped rather disagreeably that he had already told me he was home, asleep in bed, before midnight. "I certainly wasn’t making an ass of myself, prancing about your garden tootling on a silly, childish toy,” he growled.

“Of course you wouldn’t do anything like that,” agreed Cecily warmly.

I thought, "Drat the gal,” until I caught the sparkle of a sly twinkle in her eyes.

"I would like to know who was serenading,” she went on, her gray eyes dark with secret thoughts. “There was something eerie about those fragile, flute-like notes. They allured and frightened me. I wanted to follow the player and yet I was so terrified that the blood ran cold in my veins. Those notes were strangely haunting.”

I thought myself that they had seemed most unusual for a broken series of unlinked musical notes that carried no particular motif; they were at once plaintive and searching. It was as if someone had tried one reed after the other, moving the pipes slowly across his lips without actually playing the instrument. It was the golden quality of those notes that had made such a strong impression on me. There had been something almost magical about them as they fell with clarity on the night air. I had felt as if night and Nature had awaited those lovely sounds; that the silence had hushed to a deeper degree of summer stillness for their reception. It had sounded like the prelude to an enchanted musical rite. Magical. That was the proper word for those notes.

I ASKED Tom abruptly if he had any plans for the syrinx. He stared at me almost unpleasantly and then observed significantly that they weren’t going out of his hands.

"They seem to be in demand, Craig. What with one Pan-pipe lost by the highway, and a midnight musician tuning up on another under Cecily’s window at midnight, it — there’s something distinctly off about the whole situation and I don’t like it, if you ask me.”

Cecily flicked me a warning look. She knew I was about to retort that nobody was going to ask him. I withheld my goading comment. But for the rest of the day there wasn’t a moment I didn’t think about that shepherd’s flute and wish I’d gone back to pick it up. Cecily herself brought up the subject after we’d left Tom on the beach later that afternoon. We swung up through the back of the garden, the hamper in my right hand and Cecily’s arm twined about my left arm. I got a faint impression that she was glad she was with me, and I dared to say so boldly in the absence of her usual aloofness and reserve.

Her fingers tightened on my arm. "I’m always happiest when I’m with you, Craig. Even if we’re quarreling,” she admitted impishly. "But I’m especially glad not to be alone today. In the garden,” she explained oddly.

“Why the garden?” I quizzed, intrigued. "Because something is here now that wasn’t here yesterday, Craig. I can feel it and it terrifies me. I feel all panicky and I don’t know why. Silly, isn’t it?”

I didn’t want her troubled, so gave a short dry laugh of incredulity.

"Oh, it isn’t imagination, Craig. Truly it isn’t. It is something very frightening. It came last night. After that piping. I feel it doesn’t really mean to hurt — but if it has to, it won’t even realize it’s hurting It will have its way at any cost to — well, to lesser creatures.”



I said teasingly, "The hot sun must have affected you, darling.”

She pinched my arm until I yelped at the sharp pain.

"Don’t be horrid, Craig, or I’ll never tell you my innermost thoughts again.”

"That being a dire penalty,” said I, "I’ll not be horrid, for I felt something strange in the garden last night, myself. Although I must say I don’t feel it in broad daylight.”

And then we both stopped short where we stood at the opening of the shrubbery that gave upon the graveled path leading to the fountain; I with amazed resentment, Cecily with a sharp indrawing of breath and a pressure of her trembling body against me.

A strange, foreign looking man, who seemed at once like a seafaring person and a countryman from the back mountains, stood lean and angular between us and the sun-dial, his peaked brown face under the slouch hat complacently upon us as if he had known to the minute just when we would emerge to confront him. His jutting jaw bore a scanty, ragged beard like a he-goat’s scraggly chin-whiskers. Strangely vivid eyes peered at us from under bushy brows as might canny wood creatures from their shrubby hiding-places, missing nothing — piercing my startled discomposure and Cecily’s trembling apprehension as if their gaze penetrated flesh and entered unobstructedly the inner recesses of our minds. His widely curving, full-lipped mouth shaped a flickering, half-mocking smile. A kind of dark shawl draped in romantic fashion across his shoulders concealed his entire body; the fringes, trailing over the ground covered even his feet.

C ECILY shrank against me, clutching feverishly at my arm as she whispered in a shaky voice: "Craig, I’m afraid. I don’t know why, but I’m awfully scared. Something’s terribly wrong here. That man — ” she shuddered.

I pressed her clinging hand against my side with my arm and turned so that she was partly behind me.’

I said sharply, "What are you doing here? Don’t you know you’re trespassing?”

The stranger spoke to me but his eyes were on Cecily’s slender body clad in shorts and bra. "The maiden is fair,” he gloated.

I shook Cecily’s hand from my arm, set down the luncheon hamper, doubled up my fists and advanced toward him.

"Get out of here!” I grated, feeling my face whiten with repressed fury at his impudence.

He responded with a question. "Is this garden yours, youth?”

"The garden is mine and I’ll thank you to clear out of it.”

His flickering, mocking smile deepened into a more ingratiating expression. "Has your garden no welcome for its lord and master. Pan?” he inquired.

A warning tingle quivered down my spinal column at that sublime self-confidence. I heard my voice weakly echoing, "Pan?”

"I have spoken, youth. I am seeking quiet gardens in this New World where perchance a few still survive who know my name and will not fear to harken to the pipes of Pan, to the lilting notes that burn away the dross of human convention and open joyous paths of natural impulse. My groves in the Old World have been destroyed.

"Dryads and nymphs fear to follow the sound of my pipes for there is no more night since you mad, deluded human creatures began to fling Jove’s thunder-bolts and lightnings over the world. This garden you call yours has its good points; not every garden borders upon Neptune’s domain. I need your garden, youth.”

Sudden unreasoning, unwelcome panic seized upon me. I felt gooseflesh pricking my skin. Was the man mad? Or was I? His words seemed to mingle the vaporings

GREAT PAN IS HERE


of a deluded lunatic and the reasonable expression of sanity.

The stranger continued after a brief pause, his piercing eyes still upon Cecily.

"Be not afraid, youth. You and this maiden have come part way to my worship, since you do not cover your bodies with the ugly garments I have seen in your cities. Give me, then, the freedom of this fair garden and the word of release for my dancing nymph.”

One long hairy arm pushed out from under the clumsy drapery and a finger pointed.

Cecily and I exchanged a quick glance of wary puzzlement. That finger drew our eyes to the marble fountain we had had so much trouble bringing back with us from Italy on our last trip there before the global war.

We knew it had been dug up from the foundations of an ancient temple near Girgenti in Sicily. Had the Italian authorities known this, we could not have brought the marble to America, hence it had been billed to us by the finder as a copy only. Perhaps because it had cost us so much trouble, as well as because of its beauty, I valued my nymph fountain greatly.

It was a lovely thing in the trailing shadow of that late afternoon, but at night it was the center of my sunken garden’s enchantment. The nymph’s delicate figure was exposed where scant drapery did not swirl from one shoulder to dimpled knees. Above flying locks she held a large scallopshell into which splashed sparkling jets of crystal clear spring water from an opening in the rugged marble rock behind her. The water splashed from the shell over her body so that at times the flowing radiance created an illusion of movement as if the laughing girl were alive.

Said the strange being confronting us: "More than once she had danced down from her pedestal when I piped in the temple grove at Girgenti. Too long has

she lain under the earth. It is time she danced again.”

His vibrant voice was so akin to the soughing of early night breezes, twittering of sleepy birds, chuckles and squeaks of wee woodland creatures, that I was obliged to admit that I was in the presence of something alien to modern human experience, something about which my flying conjectures could tell me nothing as yet.

"Give me the freedom of your garden, good youth. You shall not regret it. Pan knows what your soul desires and will grant your wish.”

"And if I refuse?” I muttered, unable to free myself from the spell of that potent personality.

"I have the power to summon this maid if I so choose. You would not like that,” he said knowingly.

Cecily’s hand clutched at my shirt from where she stood behind me. I sensed her panicky terror and apprehension, and summoned my courage and good-sense; or so I thought it for the moment.

"The maiden,” I said boldly, "is mine. As is that nymph. Now will you kindly get off my property? I don’t know who you are and I like neither your silly masquerade nor your words and attitude.”

T HE brown face with its wipsy beard lowered upon me. The narrowed eyes seemed to emit fiery sparks. In that moment he made me know. . . . There was indeed something in my garden and it was not a purely impersonal power. If I attempted to thwart that strange being’s designs, he would crush me and my abortively launched obstacles ruthlessly. I knew deep within myself, suddenly, that he was tentatively, not actively, inimical, but that his power was far beyond my wildest imaginings.

"So the nymph is yours, youth, because to one who could never have owned her you gave your stupid gold? Have you paid



gold for this maiden you call yours?” His lull-lipped smile deepened. “I can offer more than a mortal’s gold, youth. A god can offer his worshipers far more than they can dream. Y our maiden may prefer a god to a mortal. Ask her; she knows.”

That long finger pointed again to the marble nymph. I cursed my too-vivid imagination that made me seem to see her laughing lips curl mockingly.

"In America we do not buy maids with gold,” I cried angrily in an outburst of daring.

"With what did you buy your maid, that you can call her yours?”

"I — we exchanged our love,” I muttered. "Then we belong to each other.”

T)AN regarded me with what I felt was a kindly expression, for the blaze left his eyes and a momentary tenderness lurked within them.

"That is well,” he said. "I like that in the New World. It is indeed very well. So the maiden has given you her love?” he probed with sly interest.

I felt misgivings. As yet I had not dared tell Cecily of my love in so many words and I feared that the bold declaration I had just made might tempt her into feminine contradiction. There was silence for a moment; then Cecily’s voice murmured from behind me.

"Yes,” it said softly. "Oh, yes!”

I turned and whipped her into my arms. "Darling,” I whispered.

Something very human flickered over my strange visitor’s face and I knew that he understood perfectly that Cecily and I had never before plighted our troth but that he was permitting us to believe we had fooled , him.

"Tonight is Midsummer Eve, youth,” he said abruptly.

From Cecily’s golden head that rested against my heart I turned my uncomprehending gaze although his words brought

vague recollections of childhood tales and superstitions.

"I marvel that your silly doctrines have not taught you that on this night all hidden powers above and below are loosened, youth. Alas, to be so ignorant and so blind!”

I remembered then that the morrow was Midsummer Day, the 23rd of June.

"Because I am in a strange new land where hitherto the gods have not foregathered because no worshippers called them, I must take advantage of every favorable circumstance, youth. Tonight I may best do this, in all the year. Here also have I found my playmate nymph in your sunken garden. I have found here wide spreads of grassy sward and a sheltered pine grove for my dryads. Here, too, I have found tranquil peace under the same stars that lighted my old world, that world now closed by diabolic Man to the spirits of the woods and seas and gardens.”

I listened, amazed and understanding. Cecily clung to me and I knew that all I wanted was the knowledge of her security in my arms.

"You fear lest an olden god take your maid from you, youth? Give me your sunken garden and your green lawns and your pine grove, and my lonely nymph, and the maid remains yours if such is her choice.”

Cecily’s trembling body pressed closer to me. "Give him anything,” she breathed, "but do not let him call me on his pipes for I fear him greatly. Nature can be relentlessly cruel, Craig, and Pan is the god of Nature.”

"Although by now you must have admitted my identity, I offer yet further credentials than those in your own heart,” offered the stranger and lifted the slouch hat from his straggling black locks, that tumbled over his forehead in wild confusion. His eyes never left mine as his hand brushed away that concealing hair from the small.

GREAT PAN IS HERE


polished black horns they had hidden. The incredulous truth gripped me with power beyond my will to believe.

"Name me!” said the brown man, his lips parting in a smile that mocked elfishly.

He moved ever so slightly. The fringes trailing about his feet parted; I saw that which was not a human foot. One hand half drew from his bosom the very syrinx,

I could have sworn, that I had seen and Tom Leatherman had salvaged; it hung suspended by a brown cord from his neck.

I said hoarsely, "So you found the syrinx. Pan! You are Pan!”

"You believe?”

"I believe,” I groaned unwillingly for my head spun with the tremendous truth.

"Bid the maiden leave us,” he commanded.

In obedience to my urgent whisper, Cecily left the refuge of my arms and fled up the garden path to the house. I watched her go in at one of the French doors.

I could no longer refuse to believe the evidence of my senses that an Immortal deigned to visit my garden, incredible though it might seem. I might be unwilling, but I knew I dared not refuse to an Immortal whatsoever he asked. Resentment gnawed at me as I humbly waited for Pan to state his demands.

"The garden will be yours under the sun, youth, but at night it must be mine alone until such time as I may find another better suited to my purpose. Tonight my brother gods will lend me their aid and I shall pipe to those dryads and nymphs in the Old World who loved me best and they shall come tonight to the New World to people the pine grove with little fauns and to worship Pan once more as in days agone. The nymph you have called yours shall live again under the stars tonight. And if perchance your newly-betrothed maiden dares share her rapturous moments with a god, she may enter my garden unafraid. As may you, youth, if you can worship Pan.”

I said in a choked voice that henceforth the garden would be closed to everyone at night.

With a lift of busy eyebrows and a sly quirk of full red lips Pan said, "Save to the maid, if she regret her present choice.”

H E THREW back his head, laughed, and nimbly stepped past me to the thick shrubbery and there in broad daylight he went out to it as it went out to him. He had gone into nothingness while I stared stupidly at the spot where he had melted before my eyes.

I ran up to the house, thankful to get away from my now haunted garden. Cecily met me as I reached the terrace.

"Craig, who and what is he? He is no common man. He is god-like and diabolical at once. He allures and terrifies »

me.

I was glad that the telephone interrupted at this moment and I went inside to answer it. Tom Leatherman’s voice asked me brusquely if I’d been to his house; he’d missed the syrinx. I said the owner had seen it and taken it. Then I hung up on Tom’s questionings.

"The owner?” asked Cecily pointedly.

I took her in my arms and told her what I had seen and heard and promised and believed in spite of myself.

"I knew it, Craig. It does sound incredible, but I knew he was not a real man. A god in our garden! Incredible.”

"Cecily, our visitor is a god from the Old World. I have to believe it. I don’t want to, and I don’t like the situation, but I have to believe it or consider myself quite mad. Look, darling, he can do things. ... Do you realize that I’ve beer trying for months to get up courage tc tell you I loved you? He made me saj it.”

I shook her gently and held her fron me that I might search her face. Had sh( feigned her confession of love?



"Cecily, did you really mean that you love me?”

She came back into my arms with a naturalness that I had never quite hoped to see from her, in whom spontaneous impulse had been so carefully pruned away by her mother’s prim ideas.

"Craig, Mother has always told me I mustn’t act on impulse. I’ve always been afraid to let myself go,” she admitted. "But I couldn’t pretend before him.”

I said to myself, Pan was indeed a potent god. In his presence Cecily’s inherited and carefully nourished ideas of prudery had died and her heart wakened to simple, natural impulse. My heart cried “Evohe, Pan!” as intuition told me my recognition of Pan’s power was worship and that I was helping establish himself in America by my very gratitude. I held Cecily so that her heart beat against mine. Let it be worship, I told myself joyfully.

We agreed that we would watch the garden in secret that very night. As in most psychic experience, we needed more convincing evidence than we had already received. Aunt Kate was to be told nothing; she would not have believed had we told her. She might even consider us deranged, and forbid the engagement we planned to announce that night at dinner. It was a bit ' of good fortune that Aunt Kate’s room was in an opposite wing from the sunken garden, although whether or not her stodgy materialism would enable her to see, hear, or even sense, anything unusual was questionable.

Ashby opened champagne by my special order after dinner. Aunt Kate seemed well pleased at the announcement of Cecily’s engagement to me and even gave Cecily permission to stroll in the garden in my company without chaperonage. We did not take advantage of this rare liberty but retired to a corner of the living room by ourselves after dinner. Aunt Kate played solitaire until almost midnight, when to our

vast relief she yawned widely, shuffled the cards into a neat pile and put them in the case.

She said as she rose, that even engaged young people should not be sitting around alone and bade Cecily say good night to me in ten minutes. Cecily looked at me archly and laughed softly, and the moment her mother disappeared from the room, the two of us hid behind the heavy velvet drapes at one of the library windows where we could observe what went on in the garden without ourselves being seen. We sat close together, hand in hand, and waited.

T HE night was still with that country quiet so full of sound. Crickets and sleepy birds and an owlet’s mournful hoohoo-hooing made a normal background that yet held something of strange magic on that mystic Midsummer Night’s Eve. I was conscious of these small night sounds without actually hearing them. The luminous hands of the library clock marked midnight and the bells chimed the hour. As they ceased, Cecily and I were so aware suddenly that something had changed, that something more than simple nature — above it, beyond it, yet containing it in some mysterious way — had come into the garden, that our hands tightened involuntarily.

A low, sweet note swung out upon the waiting night, to be followed by others that dropped into a silence hollowed to receive them. Nature, become receptive, withheld those night sounds that had filled space, and drew into her yearning heart all the golden beauty that dropped generously from the pipes of Pan. .Her patron god was abroad that night and well my garden knew it.

Cecily whispered, "Craig, I am not afraid any more. Pan calls tonight for love and laughter.”

I clung to her hand then, for it was I who was afraid, not for myself but for her.

GREAT PAN IS HERE


"Craig! The marble nymph! Look!”

The delicate notes followed each other like individual entities into the waiting silence like fays sporting from flowering spray to spray. Cecily stood up so that I must stand with her, since our lingers were tightly interlaced. She was listening with her head tilted to one side, exactly as the nymph had stood beneath the crystal spray of the fountain. I followed her gaze as she listened with almost painful intensity and I could not smother a low exclamation at what I saw.

The nymph no longer held the scalloped shell above her head; the shell lay on the base of the pedestal. The nymph was dancing down the garden like a wild woman in a Bacchic orgy. The gleaming snowy marble of her body moved with the freedom of living flesh. Her scanty drapery drifted in the air where she held it high above her head like a triumphal banner as she drifted, rather than danced, across the shadowy lawn under the stars.

A series of brief notes with strange intervals lilted upward to my ears. Cecily jerked her fingers from mine. I had felt the pull of that bold theme as well as she but I tried to restrain her, fearing as I did that Immortal who waited without.

"Let me go, Craig, my dearest. Do you hear that call? I am going to dance all night on the soft green grass. Are you coming? Come, come! If you do not, I must dance with him. Oh, dance with me, dearest!”

E CSTASY tingled in every passionate intonation of her joyous voice. I tried to seize her but she evaded me, laughing. As she ran, I followed, but she reached the French doors, which she flung wide before I could reach her side. I followed along a trail of draperies she discarded as she ran, and flung one way and the other carelessly. Before me, far lovelier than my wildest dreams could have imagined.

Cecily’s gleaming arms and throat shone like silver under the soft rays of the moon.

"Evohe, Pan, great Pan!” her voice floated back to me as she flitted past the strange god who stood piping before the sun-dial, no more disguised as an ordinary mortal.

The brown torso rose from hairy hips and thighs. His narrow dark face with wisp-like beard never left off following the two white figures dancing with abandon under the moon. Once, after a long roulade of thrilling enchantment, he dropped the syrinx from his lips, threw back his head and rocked with silent laughter. For all his alert attention, he was never still for a moment. Those goat-feet tripped lightly to and fro in time to the underlying rhythm of his piping and the unruly black bair tossed above pointed ears and little polished horns.

I approached that strange god without fear, sensing no antagonism toward me. As I approached, he took the reed-pipe from his red lips and called in friendly fashion.

"You leave your maiden to dance alone, youth? Do you not see that for the first time in her poor mortal experience she has become her natural self, uninhibited by silly conventions and prudish teachings? Go, fool. Dance with her. Else must she dance with a god and be lost to you forever.”

Thereupon the piping became eldritch and maddening. I found myself leaping across the greensward in great bounds, and I sprang to Cecily’s side, seizing upon the hand she extended. "Evohe, Pan!” I shouted madly as we danced and played across the lawn, while the clear moon and twinkling stars poured their rays full of the vital laughter of life upon our bodies abandoned to the ecstasy of that mad dance.

The music of the Pan-pipes went on and on and on and it seemed that our dance need never come to an end. The garden



was full of piping sound, chanting voices, soft laughter. Mysterious Others joined us, as if the dryads and nymphs of the Old World were drifting into my sunken garden in joyous groups. We swung across the grass in long lines, hand in hand, to the melodious magic of Pan’s weird music.

Then ... a sudden, abrupt silence. The golden notes were still. Only the dark pine grove seemed alive as it never had been before, endued with a livingness akin to, but apart from, the trees. Across the lawn the marble nymph flitted. I saw her spring lightly to the pedestal of the fountain and lean over to pick up the scallopshell. She flung her disheveled garment carelessly across her Shoulder. No shaggythighed Immortal tripped nimbly to and fro on doven hoofs before the sun-dial, piping unendurafoly alluring enchantments.

Cecily’s grasp on my fingers relaxed. Her body slipped down at my feet. The faint, luminous dawn touched her skin with rosy highlights. With the amazed mortification overcoming me as one who in a nightmare finds himself unclothed on a busy city street, I had a sensation as if I stood naked under the retiring stars. I knelt beside the girl who had danced with me since midnight with such mad abandon; her heart beat steadily but lightly. I knew she should be inside the house and safe in bed.

I lifted her in my arms and carried her there, kissing her lips as I laid her down and drew the silken sheet over her beautiful body. Then I slipped away, lest her mother waken and find me in Cecily’s room, and throw upon my sweetheart the vile suspicions of a so-called pure mind.

I WONDERED what conflict would arise in Cecily in the morning, between inherited and tutored tendencies, and the simplicity and naturalness of her behavior under the influence of Pan’s piping. I wondered how I could spare her blushes and, to speak truth, my own. But at breakfast that midsummer morn Cecily met my eyes across the table with an entire absence of self-consciousness. I felt almost regretful, because it seemed that she must have thought last night a dream known only to herself, and I — I cherished the memory.

Aunt Kate remarked, as she poured my coffee, that Ashby had reported a change in the posture of the marble nymph. "This being utterly absurd,” said she, "I felt that he must have had something to drink. When I accused him, he was most resentful. ~ He said the statue’s scarf, or whatever it is she seems to wear so raffishly, is hanging half off her shoulder.”

"Isn’t half a scarf better than none?” Cecily asked demurely and her eyes met mine clear and sweet, although the loveliest of blushes tinged her cheeks.

"I am still of the opinion that it is ridiculous for Ashby to insist that a marble statue has changed in any way,” Aunt Kate retorted. "I’ll take a look myself after breakfast.”

A tightness about her lips told me that Ashby would be in for a bawling-out if Aunt Kate noticed nothing different and scraped up the first excuse that occurred to me since I felt one must be made sooner or later.

"I sold the marble nymph,” said I. "She cost too much and I got a fat profit on the deal. I had a plastic copy made. They tell me the plastic is affected by moonlight,” I explained. "It will probably seem to change slightly from time to time. Interesting, isn’t it?”

Aunt Kate looked a trifle blank but Cecily broke into a gale of laughter.

I thought I heard a delicate roulade of echoing laughter drift to my ears from the sunken garden.

For a few thousand would you take a chance with an ungainly, stalking figure whose eyeless sockets glow with hellish light? This man did ... I

A Thin Gentleman With Gloves

AT FIRST glance you would have /\ thought Corbin Bellaman an old a . JL duffer who had long ago run to seed. At second, you would have considered him a benign and harmless fellow

W0P5(&-

Heading by FRED HUMISTON



who was somebody’s grandfather. As a matter of fact, Bellaman was distinctly on the shady side; he was a crafty barrister in his late fifties who had for better than twenty years been the last resort of fences, petty thieves, murderers, embezzlers, and eccentrics — like Alonzo Potter. Bellaman had done very well for himself in those two decades plus, but Alonzo Potter was his downfall. Not at all in the way one might suspect, however. He got along very well with Alonzo alive; but Alonzo dead was a different matter entirely.

Alonzo Potter, almost alone among Bellaman’s clients, was not a crook. That is to say, he was not obviously one; the fact is, no one knew very much about him, except that he had once written a book which 2 great many people had burned with a lot of public and private to-do, since it was a book purporting to tell the secrets of black magic, necromancy, sorcery, and the like. At the time Bellaman first knew his client, Potter was already an old man, a wizened, stooped figure of a man who got around with the aid of a cane, and was never without a tall, gangling companion, who walked a little behind him and to one side, like a mendicant, holding his head bowed and saying nothing. This might have occasioned considerable comment if Potter had gone out much but he did not; he kept to his out-of-the-way house in Soho, living quietly, despite the queer stories that got around about strange happenings in his house, and eventually dying quietly, leaving Bellaman to execute his will, which revealed that there was a little matter of fifty thousand pounds to be bestowed upon Miss Clarice Tregardis, an old flame of Potter’s.

Despite his dealings with the underworld, Bellaman had never in his life seen fifty thousand pounds all in one lump, and the prospect of having so much money under his control was an exciting one. However, it was not until he had seen Miss

Clarice Tregardis that any thought of appropriating the money entered his head. He had supposed that Miss Tregardis was most likely a chorus girl with a dubious past and a questionable present; but when she came to his office in response to his request, she turned out to be a pleasant old lady who was rather vague about the reason she had been sent for, and remembered Potter as an unsuccessful suitor — "A nice boy, to be sure, Mr. Bellaman, and for a long time we were very dear friends, very dear — but, time and events! Well, you know how it is. I’m sure, Mr. Bellaman.”

“Well, he's left you all his money. Miss Tregardis,” said Bellaman.

"Dear me! How surprising! But then, he always used to do such queer things! Is it very much?”

I T WAS then that the idea of appropriating some of Potter’s money for his own use occurred to Bellaman; he had been telling himself all along that he would charge a nice fat fee for acting as executor of the will; but now he realized; that Miss Tregardis had no idea at all how much Potter might have left, and, since she was obviously in poor circumstances, virtually any sum at all would be satisfactory. A chorus girl might have raised an immediate outcry and demanded to see the papers, but this old lady would be only too happy to leave it all in Bellaman’s hands and take whatever he cared to hand out to her.

“The exact sum hasn’t been computed as yet, Miss Tregardis,” said Bellaman cautiously, “but when the tax to the Crown has been deducted, I have no doubt it will leave you fairly comfortable for a while.”' That was putting it nicely, he thought. "Oh, really!” she said. “Then perhaps I could buy myself a few new dresses, and a coat, and perhaps I could even have my apartment refurnished. Yes, perhaps i could!”

A THIN GENTLEMAN WITH GLOVES


"I think you could,” agreed Bellaman — she might as well be assured of that much; it would not take a large percentage of the total sum left in his predatory hands. "Would you care to retain legal representation, Miss Tregardis, or are you content to leave the matter in my hands?”

"Oh, if Alonzo trusted you, I’m sure I can, too,” she said naively, and departed.

Bellaman had not expected it to be that easy.

He set about laying his plans at once. Of course, he did not intend to take any unnecessary chances; the old lady might like as not have some inquisitive relative who might poke his nose into the affair and demand a full accounting; so, to take care of any such contingency, Bellaman determined to rig up dummy papers and a plausible account of doctored expenses in connection with the disposal of the money for anyone to see on demand. He toyed with the idea of just decamping with the entire sum, but then there would be the tax collectors for the Crown, and besides, he was comfortable where he was, and there was no need of leaving his routine or his business, which was drawn largely from Whitechapel, Limehouse, Soho, and Wapping along the Thames; more unsavory areas of London could hardly be imagined.

His plans were laid with the care of an old master.

H E began by abstracting a modest sum — a thousand pounds — with which to play the races; he did this with the idea that if he could make a goodly sum by so doing, he need not deduct as much as he had planned from Potter’s hoard. Gambling was Bellaman’s weakness; he might have been the owner of a comfortable nest-egg if he had not insisted upon trying to double or triple every fee he took in, with the result that he was constantly living from hand to mouth.

He lost the thousand pounds.

Moreover, he had a most disagreeable experience at the races. Just after he had placed his money, he fancied that someone tapped him on the shoulder, and, turning around to look, he did not immediately see anyone he knew; but then, saw, standing a little distance away, a tall, thin gentleman wearing a bowler hat not unlike that Alonzo Potter had worn, and with a certain familiarity about him. He turned away, wondering where he could have seen him before; but in a flash he remembered. It was the silent companion who had always appeared with Potter, and who had vanished completely on the day that Potter was found dead. He looked back, but the fellow had gone. The disagreeable aspect of this trivial event lay not in the event itself but in the uncomfortable twinge it gave to his vestigial conscience, particularly after he had lost the money.

Before he dipped further into Potter’s funds, he determined to conduct an inquiry into the identity of Potter’s one-time companion, to discover for himself whether he might have any knowledge which could be brought to the attention of Clarice Tregardis.

He worked at it for a week, utilizing every source of underworld information that was his.

At the end of that time he was not one whit better informed than he had been before. No one knew anything whatever about Potter’s companion save that he was never known to speak, no one had ever seen his face, the fellow habitually wore gloves, he was thin to emaciation, and he shuffled along after Potter more like a dog than a fellow human being. That he had disappeared completely after Potter’s death, everyone was agreed. While the lack of information annoyed Bellaman, nevertheless, the unanimity of opinion about the fellow’s disappearance was reassuring.



He closed the incident by coming to the conclusion that he had mistaken someone else for the cadaverous companion of Alonzo Potter.

After the lapse of a week, he tried the races once more, this time with two thousand pounds, in that sublime confidence which always obsesses the gambler and leads him to believe that he can recoup previous losses as if by a magic windfall, convincing him each time he ventures anew that his luck must turn by that mythical law of chance, and that this is the time.

But this was not Bellaman’s time. Far from it.

He lost not only Potter’s two thousand, but also ten and six of his own. Moreover, all the way back to his office he could not shake himself of the conviction that he was being followed. Naturally, being guilty of such pecadillos, he imagined that the police might be keeping an eye on him, and kept looking for anything resembling an officer; but of course, the ludicrousness of this presently impressed him, and his range of vision became more general. It was then that he saw the thin man, with his gangling arms and his gloved fingers, shuffling along as unobtrusively as passible half a block behind him.

H E stopped the first passerby to whom he came, caught him by the arm, and said, "Pardon me. I’ve lost my glasses, and I’ve been expecting a friend. He’s a tall, thin fellow, who shuffles along, wears gloves, holds his head down so that his face is practically invisible. I thought I heard him behind me, but I can’t see well enough to be sure. Is there anyone fitting that description walking along behind me?”

After a moment of careful scrutiny, the passerby, looking askance at Bellaman, as if the barrister had been drinking, assured him that there was no one even remotely answering that description in sight.

His forehead beaded with cold perspiration. Bellaman went directly to his office and took out Potter’s will, thinking that perhaps he might have missed some reference to that mysterious companion in it, and hoping against hope that he would discover it without delay.

He did.

“As for Simeon Brown, who has been my constant companion for several years, he shall be considered released from the bondage I have put upon him, when the terms of this will shall have been carried out.”

“That was all, nothing more. After he had read it a dozen times, Bellaman was more mystified than ever. No matter how one looked at it, it did not make sense. What bondage? How could the dead Potter exercise any choice in the matter of “releasing” Simeon Brown — the thin gentleman with gloves who had manifested himself so curiously on these two occasions? No, the whole thing was fantastic.

All except the thin gentleman with gloves — Simeon Brown. Bellaman might have made a mistake the first time, but not the second. Bellaman was no fool. Clearly, there was more to this than met the eye. With a vague sense of uneasiness, the barrister laid his plans to go away for a while — in the company of as much of Miss Tregardis’s legacy as he could make away with.

He paid the tax to the Crown, made out a preposterous bill, and converted certain of his own securities into more cash — just in case he should take it into his head not to come back at all. Then he prepared, when the time was ripe, to send a check for a thousand pounds to Miss Ttegardis, supremely confident that she would be completely satisfied with this amount in lieu of what, unknown to her, she had coming.

However, he reasoned, before he did anything rash, there would be no harm in

A THIN GENTLEMAN WITH GLOVES


looking into the matter of Simeon Brown. Since that last disturbing glimpse of him hurrying down the street in his wake, Bellaman had seen nothing more of him; he did not connect with this fact the incident that he had kept his hands off Potter’s money throughout this time.

He pursued a careful inquiry, investigating Potter's papers to the last of them. He came upon a great many extremely strange references to subjects which Bellaman thought properly belonged in the Middle Ages, when people still had a healthy respect and fear for witches, warlocks, and the like, and when spells and enchantments and potions were the order of the day. Curious, how old recluses, male and female, seemed to go in for spiritualism, table-rappings, ouija, and the like.

T HE late Mr. Potter’s activities, however, did not come under any one of these heads.

He had been a warlock; in his modest way, he had been a good warlock. He knew how to adapt even the most difficult of the old spells to his own uses; and he had left behind him a great many of these old spells, most of them in Latin, so that Bellaman did not take the trouble to decipher them. However, it was among them that Bellaman caught sight of the name of Simeon Brown, and after it, what appeared to be an address: 37, 213 U pper Leshaway. At least, that is what it appeared to be; Bellaman could not be sure, for Potter’s writing was spidery and small and not very certain. There was nothing else.

And even this turned out to be a false lead, Bellamy thought, when he tracked down the address, for 213 Upper Leshaway was not a house address at all, but the number on the gate post of a cemetery. Obviously Potter’s script had been beyond Bellaman. There was a Latterby Lane, and there was also a Leshly Street — it might have been one of those; but both

were at such a distance from his office that Bellaman was loathe to go there.

However, before taking his final drastic step, he made caerful note of his findings, together with his suppositions as to where he had made a mistake, and set out for a meeting with three of his old cronies, two of whom were medical men of a sort and had known the late Potter. With a directness singular for him, he told them about his experiences with Simeon Brown.

Peter Benfield, who was the oldest among them, opined that this may have been the same Brown with whom Potter had once had so much trouble.

"No, Sim died years ago,” offered Pearson.

Benfield smiled oddly, and turned to Bellaman. "You know, Bellaman — you might be dealing with Potter’s familiar.”

The others took up the theme at once, making sport of the barrister. There was no doubt of it, they averred, with many a wink and sly joke, Bellaman was being hounded by Potter’s familiar. Stung, Bellaman suggested that someone might explain the meaning of the jest which was amusing them at his expense.

"Oh,” said Benfield, "a familiar was just halfpenny magic for an old wizard like Potter. A familiar was a companion summoned from outside somewhere, to attend the wizard and obey his commands. A spell was put upon him by the wizard — if you went in for that sort of thing.”

"A ghost?” asked Bellaman, with a poor attempt at concealing his ire at his companions.

"Well, I don’t think I’d call it a ghost exactly,” conceded Benfield. "But then, it might be that — nr a skeleton, an imp, maybe even a corpse.”

He cackled mirthlessly, much to Bellaman’s disgust, so that the barrister did not know whether Penfield was joking or not. Wouldn’t it have been just like old Potter, Benfield went on, to command



Simeon Brown? It certainly would. But Pearson, who had a literal mind, reflected again that poor Brown had passed on some years ago.

I NSTEAD of clarifying the matter, it seemed that Bellaman only got himself more perplexed. This was annoying to a man of his calibre, and it was inevitable that he should chuck the whole thing and go ahead with his plan.

The tax to the Crown had been straightforward enough.

The carefully doctored bill, preposterous as it was, Bellaman put into his files, for any curious person to see if any kind of investigation should follow in the wake of his absence from his usual haunts.

Then he dispatched the check by the late post, and that evening he set out for Paddington to entrain for Aldershot, from whence he would cross the Channel and lose himself somewhere in France or Switzerland.

Alas! for plans of mice and men! Bellaman had scarcely stepped from the building which housed his office when he was conscious of someone walking along behind him. It was a dark night, and he was not at first listening, being busy with a reconsideration of his plans; only when he had passed the streetlight did he become aware of the fact that the sounds coming along behind him were rather a steadily mounting shuffling than orthodox footsteps. He looked back.

It was the thin gentleman with gloves! A kind of panic seized Bellaman. He did not for an instant believe anything of the conversation he had had with Benfield and Pearson, but there was undeniably something uncanny about the appearance of old Potter’s companion at moments such as this. He felt frantically for the money which he carried in a stout wallet on the inside pocket of his coat; it was safe, for it bulked large there and filled his

questing hand. He increased his pace, his agile mind concerned now with some way of escape from Potter’s companion.

There was an alley which led out into a brightly lit street where he might take the subway to the Praed Street station; it was a short cut, and by vanishing into its dark maw, Bellaman’s Chance of outdistancing his pursuer was much greater. Accordingly, he slipped across the street, keeping to the shadows, and, at the appropriate moment, he darted skilfully into the alley.

If he had had the proper kind of imagination, he would have thought twice about doing what he did. His foresight, however, was limited, and when first he heard the shuffling sound behind him, he was only annoyed that the fellow had seen him enter the alley. Then he was conscious of the increased pace of his pursuer; indeed, all within an instant, it seemed, the fellow was directly behind him.

Could it be?

He turned, startled, and looked back.

Out of the alley’s darkness came a pair of long thin arms reaching for him with gloved fingers, and behind it came an utterly horrible, soul-searing travesty of a face, whose eyeless sockets seemed to gleam with a hellish light, whose lipless mouth seemed to work in drooling ecstasy.

Bellaman did not have time to scream.

In the morning Miss Clarice Tregardis received Mr. Bellaman’s check for a thousand pounds; there was also in her mailbox a well-filled wallet, the contents of which, added to the check, made up the precise sum which Miss Tregardis was legally entitled to receive from Mr. Potter’s fifty-thousand pound legacy, minus the tax to the Crown.

B ELLAMAN’S disappearance was more than a nine day wonder.

The police ultimately got around to disA THIN GENTLEMAN WITH GLOVES


covering that address he had written down and went out to investigate. Being possessed of far more imagination than the late Mr. Bellaman, they proceeded at once to the Upper Leshaway cemetery, and went directly to lot thirty-seven, whidi presumably had been meant.

So it had. Lot thirty-seven held the grave of one Simeon Brown. Moreover, there was evidence that the grave had been recently disturbed; so an exhumation order was got and the grave opened.

The grave contained the body of Corbin Bellaman, who had been strangled and otherwise badly mauled, together with the

remains of the said Brown, badly decayed and partly skeletal, a tall, thin gentleman apparently, whose bony black-gloved fingers were curiously closed about Belkin an’s neck.

It was a ghastly business, even for Scotland Yard. They issued a strongly worded statement in regard to the shocking vandalism accompanying the murder of the late Corbin Bellaman and hinted ominously that the entire mystery would soon be completely explained by the master minds behind the walls of that sacrosanct sanctuary of mysteries.

But, of course, it never was.

On Lake Lagore

By DOROTHY GOLD

O N Lake Lagore, when moonbeams glance And glimmer mi the black expanse. The deep-drowned shadows rise and dance Under the cypress trees.

Who passes on the road beneath The moss-hung branches holds his breath, As one who looks on grisly death Shudders at what he sees.

But when the other shadows wake.

My lover rises from the lake,

And comes to me for love’s sweet sake From out his watery bed.

So I, though others watch no more The moon on haunted Lake Lagore, Walk nightly there, and on the shore Keep vigil with the dead.

By JAMES CAUSEY

ammer of Cain and

BILL BLACKBEARD

Heading by JOHN GIUNTA

He told bow murderers walk the earth . And flames about their brain:

Beneath the curse of Cain For blood has left upon their soul

With crimson clouds before their eyes Its everlasting stain. —Hood


Have you ever wondered what became of that most famous hammer . . .!

R OGER CAIN came out of the hospital room very slowly. He stood . there, staring unseeingly down the hall. "One month,” he murmured.

He began walking stiffly down the corridor.

Sheila was down in the reception room waiting for him, and at sight of her standing there, golden hair like a coronal about her pale iovely face, Roger swallowed hard and, briefly, envied his brother.

"Roger!” She was standing in front of him, blue eyes wide. "Kirk! Is he — ”

She waited.

Roger forced a grin. "Swell, kid. This operation was it. He’ll be walking in a month, the doc said.”

" Without — canes? ”

He nodded.

The blue eyes were brimming with tears. She was smiling. She started past him. Roger said: "You’ve only got five minutes — ”

"Five minutes’ll be enough,” she whispered.

He could hear the sharp staccato of her footsteps as she broke into a run. He stared after her.

"Damn," Roger said very softly.

He put on his hat, went out.

It was damned hard to be jealous of your brother when he hadn’t walked in two years. But that clause in Dad’s will ... he appointed executor of the estate, until such time as Kirk would walk again. Why had Kirk liked riding horses anyway? Until he could walk again, neither he nor Roger could touch the principal, except for doctor bills, the servants’ salaries and so forth. The bank's monthly checkup took care of that.

He wondered, dully, if Sheila knew he loved her.

Go home, that was it! And then get drunk. Kirk’ll be walking again in four

weeks. Kirk — big, square-faced and handsome, with Sheila as his bride. While he ate his heart out —

"Oh, to hell with it,” he said aloud. Go home, sure — and have Banners inquire "if Marster Kirk will be home soon, sir? Ah, fine. And there were those house bills you were supposed to see to. Cook said to remind you. You mustn’t forget your responsibilities.”

Roger had a better idea.

Go and see Ronnie. Good old Ronnie Hawker, writer of horror fiction extraordinary. He always had a sympathetic shoulder to weep on.

"Rye — ” muttered Roger happily as he hailed a cab. "Straight!”

"Hi, Hawker, thou hack!"

“Hello old stench.” The big sandyhaired man at the table recommenced typing in machine-gun bursts. He waved affably at the wine-cabinet in the corner of the apartment. "Help yourself.”

Roger was already doing so.

Glug. Glug. The amber fluid gurgled pleasantly from the decanter. Roger felt better already.

"Ronnie.”

"Uh-huh?” Ronnie Hawker kept on typing.

"What would you do if you were in love, and — there was a guy going to marry the gal?”

"Kill him, of course,” Ronnie said absently.

Roger brooded blackly. "Uh-uh,” he said unhappily, pouring himself another drink. "Won’t do. He’s my brother.”

T aktaktak-ting! went the typewriter.

And so encouraged, Roger unburdened himself.

"Say!” He stood up, a good ten minutes, and half as many drinks later. "I don’t think you’re even listening.”

Taktaktak — brzzzp — ting!



"Damned tab,” muttered Hawker, pulling on his moustache and glaring at a halffilled page. Roger looked over the big man’s shoulder. He chuckled.

"What’s wrong?” Ronnie scowled.

"What a rotten way to make a living!”

"Huh?”

"Writing that tripe. Ronald, old man, you’ve degenerated into an amateur Damon Runyon. You can’t write supernatural stuff that way.”

"You’d be surprised, Mister. The incongruity of style makes it one helluva lot more effective than 'On that dark and stormy night with the wind howling across the plain like the plaint of a fiend, I went forth to keep a devil’s rendezvous’' — hey! You’re not listening.”

Ronnie leaned back in his chair. "See those?”

Roger Cain looked around the little apartment. At the rows of ancient moldy books lining the walls. He stepped over to one, blinking. He snorted. "Demonology. Vampirism.” He indicated a little dragon-shaped clock on the mantel. "I suppose a sorcerer gave you that.”

Hawker chuckled. "Suppose,” he said blandly, "if I were to tell you all my stuff — everything I write, is founded on truth. A fact basis — ”

Roger’s laughter cut him short.

"You might make your living that way, old bean. But don’t try to make me swallow that rot.”

“There are more things in heaven and earth — ”

"Nuts!” Roger took another drink.

Ronnie sat looking at him a moment.

"Skeptical, aren’t you?” His voice was very soft.

"Not skeptical. I just don’t believe in — ”

"Curses?”

"Well — yes.” Roger did not see Hawker’s eyes narrow. His smile. A curiously unpleasant smile.

"Collect old weapons, don’t you, Roger?”

"Primitive ones.” Roger nodded indifferently, then blinked. "Why? You’ve got . . .”

He broke off, staring, as Ronnie opened a drawer. He licked his lips, avidly.

"Guess how old it is,” Ronnie drawled.

"I don’t know. Gosh, early Paleothic?”

"Much, much older than that. Suppose I were to tell you that the first murder — the very first — was committed with this.”

Roger, however, was paying no attention. Almost reverently, he was examining the little flint hatchet. Its head, he noticed, was worn, age-blackened. More of a hammer than a hatchet, he observed professionally. The handle was doubtless a restoration job. This thing was old.

"Where’ d you get it?”

Hawker’s smile vanished abruptly. "Trade secret. You . . . ah . . . know of my reputation for authenticity in the fantasy field. Well — ” He looked furtive, started to say something else, then didn’t.

"Hope it looks good in your collection.”

"You — you mean — ”

"Sure. I want you to have it, old man. Ah . . . what’s your last name — Cain? Splendid. This should be a very noble experiment indeed — ”

But this last was in a whisper and Roger, absorbed in his new possession, scarcely heard it.

II

“pATCH, Banners.”

Roger threw his hat at the butler and started briskly up the stairs. Banners caught the hat with the ease born of long practice, and inquired imperturbedly: "How is Kirk, sir?”

Roger’s shoulder sagged. He remembered.

"Swell!” he said, trying to make it sound cheerful. "He’ll be home in a few days. And walking in a month. . .

HAMMER OF CAIN


At the top of the stairs an animated bundle of white fur, lolling red tongue, and shrill yelping, almost knocked him down. Tinker. Kirk’s Pomeranian. Roger, grinning, rubbed Tinker’s ears the wrong way, and went into his study.

The walls were lined with racks of weapons. The head of some long-dead Cro-Magnon’s spear, knives from the early Bronze Age, flint hatchets from the late Neolithic.

"Funny,” Roger murmured.

The little hatchet was cold. Like — well, not like ice. Imagination sure played some funny tricks on a guy.

Abruptly he felt the hairs on the back of his neck prickle, as of a cold wind. He glanced around the room. He went to the door, looked down the hall.

Nobody.

Feeling a trifle foolish, Roger took the little weapon and started to place it next to a beautiful American Indian Tomahawk. Strange, how when you held something like this that just seemed to fit your hand, you —

Roger Cain dropped the hatchet very quickly. He looked down at it and moistened his lips.

"Mustn’t get impulses like that,” he said to himself.

It was Monday. Monday afternoon, and Kirk was coming home.

The whole household bustled with activity. Mrs. Mulvaney, the cook, was buzzing about downstairs, making everything nice “for Mister Kirk’s bedroom." Banners was doing his part with great efficiency and dispatch. Only Roger was restless.

Kirk was a swell guy. Fine, strong cheerful Kirk. Who had never complained — but why should he complain? When he had a girl like Sheila in love with him!

Roger strode upstairs to his study, slowly, wearily.

"What the devil — ”

He swallowed hard, and took a step forward. He smiled then, decided it must be

some trick of the late afternoon sunlight.

No reason why the head of the hatchet should look as though it were carved out of blood.

There was the sudden clamor of Sheila’s horn outside, and Tinker’s frantic joyous barking downstairs. Roger put on a good face and went down to help bring his brother in.

Kirk was home.

T HAT night they had supper together.

The three of them. Kirk, handsome, smiling, in his wheelchair. Sheila beside him, her face radiant. Rogers' dark thin face was impassive, as he miserably thought that he had never seen her so beautiful. "... tell you yet?” Kirk was saying. Roger started. "What?”

"Sheila’s finally set our wedding date! Third Sunday in November!”

"Oh — fine,” Roger said with false heartiness, fiddling with his dessert, and watching Kirk scratch Tinker behind the ears. "Swell, old man!”

Kirk looked up at them, grinning bashfully, and set Tinker down on the floor. "Great little guy,” he said. "Somebody said once that Pomeranians are ignorant, but — ”

"But Tinker isn’t!” said Roger and Sheila in chorus.

"Nuts,” said Kirk defensively. "Dog’s man’s best friend — ”

He broke off, and he and Sheila were both looking at each other over the white tablecloth, and not saying anything.

Roger got up, unobtrusively. "I got some work to do, you guys. House expenses ... see that he gets to bed, Sheila. Not supposed to be hobbling around on those crutches any more’n he has to. ’Night, love birds — ”

And he started out, a smile on his lips, but an icy painful sensation gnawing deep inside him.

He looked back once. He could see



Tinker, gnawing industriously on a bone underneath the table.

So Kirk liked Tinker! Well.

Before going to bed, Roger Cain managed, without being seen, to filch a choice hunk of steak from the refrigerator and carry it upstairs, where he placed it in a strategic spot by the doorway.

And that was the night Roger slept with the hatchet under his pillow.

It was shortly after midnight when he awoke.

There was a quick, eager sniffing, and he saw Tinker come nosing past the doorway to stop, peer about inquisitively.

So Kirk liked Tinker.

Roger threw the covers back swiftly. The handle of the hatchet was warm and smooth against his palm.

Smiling, he shuffled across the floor on bare feet, closed the door.

"Here, Tinker. Come on, boy.”

Tinker looked up — and froze. He stood like that perhaps three seconds, head up, one paw half-raised. A low querulous whine came' from his throat.

"Come on fella,” whispered Roger. "Atta doggie — ”

He lunged. Tinker went backward. Fast. Whimpering, tongue half out, paws scrabbling on the floor.

Ah, this was living! To have something scrambling away from you, whining, afraid. To feel the blood coursing hot through your veins —

Roger swung the hatchet.

Tinker tried to dodge aside, paws skidding on the waxed wood, a howl beginning deep inside him that choked off . . ,

Roger stood up.

He looked down at the little Pomeranian, eyes bulging, still in death, a small furry bundle lying half in, half out, the patch of moonlight on the floor.

Roger Cain’s mouth twisted in revulsion. Why had he —

He strode to the window, tried to hurl

the hatchet out. He couldn’t. It wouldn’t leave his hand.

Instead, quite unconsciously and without his volition, he took the small stone hatchet and placed it gently in its rack with the rest of his collection.

Then, sweating — he took the dead dog and threw him out of the window, into the flower garden. After carefully wiping all noticeable stains from the floor he smiled and went to bed.

Ill

N EXT morning Roger went down to breakfast late, with not a care in the world. He was whistling. Once he swallowed, almost choked as he remembered, then laughed and went back to gouging the grapefruit with his spoon.

“Just a dream,” he said.

But after breakfast he went outside, and walked nonchalantly around the house by the garden.

He stopped, nodded affably to the gardener. "Morning, Simpson.”

The gardener, a broad hulking fellow with an ordinarily beet-red complexion, stared at him. His face was white. "What’s the matter?”

Simpson said nothing. He raised a small white Pomeranian by the hind leg for Rogers’ inspection. The dog’s skull was split open.

"I found him, Mister Cain,” Simpson said awkwardly. "In the flower bed.”

Roger moistened his lips. He tried to speak, but couldn’t. Simpson was staring at him.

"This was Mister Kirk’s pooch, wasn’t it?”

"Uh — yes,” Roger said. "Kirk’s pooch.” He turned, walked stiffly away, leaving Simpson staring after him.

"No dream,” he whispered.

That stone hatchet!

It was rather hard — telling Kirk about

HAMMER OF CAIN


the dog. His brother lay there, staring up at him tightly, his eyes big and dark, his mouth pinched.

"Who did it, Rog?”

Roger said he didn’t know, tried to look appropriately doleful. "He was probably outside in the street — maybe a car hit him,” he said.

"He didn’t go outside,” said Kirk, looking at him oddly.

Roger licked his lips. "Then maybe he fell out the window.”

He went out.

Later that morning he went out to see Ronnie. He talked about inconsequential things for awhile, and finally got up the courage to say: "Ronnie . .

"Yes?” The big man was sitting over by the fireplace, smiling lazily at him. Was there a faint hint of — mockery in his eyes?

"Well — ” He hesitated, went on "It’s about that hatchet.”

"What about it?”

"That’s what 1 want to know, dammit. What’s wrong with the thing — ”

"Eh?” Hawker’s face was bland, innocent. "What could be wrong with it, old man. Just an ordinary flint hatchet — old, but — ”

"It’s hexed!” Roger blurted out, and instantly felt like a fool.

"Oh, come now.” Roger could sense the laughter behind his friend’s voice. "You, the boy who doesn’t believe in witchcraft. Curses. Your nerves must be shot, old man. Too much worrying. You’re jealous — ”

"I’m not jealous!” Roger bit his lip. Hawker was making a fool out of him. "You made some funny cracks that other day — ”

"Did I?”

"Hell, yes, you did! Do you talk, or — ”

"Sure,” Ronnie said, suddenly amiable. "I’ll talk. But you won’t believe me.”

"Go on.”

Hawker went over to a bookshelf. He

brought an old dusty tome over to the table, flipped open its pages. "Here. Read aloud, Roger.”

"What’s this? A bible — ”

"One of many.” Hawker fingered his moustache urbanely. "You’d be surprised if I told you how many bibles exist. Read.”

Frowning, Roger read.

"... and while Abel was kneeling with folded hands before the altar of his Sacrifice, the smoke of his sacrifice ascended toward heaven and the savor thereof pleased God, while that of Cain — who made his offering with an unwilling heart, was scattered over the Earth.

"His heart burning with rage and envy, Cain took up a stone, and slew his brother Abel.”

"What’s this about a stone — ”

"That’s a very old bible,” said Hawker quietly. "You’d be quite surprised to learn how I obtained it.”

"But I fail to see — ”

"Quiet.” There were little mocking lights in Hawker’s eyes. "Suppose I were to tell you that the hatchet you possess was carved from the stone ivhicb Cain used."

Roger started to say "Rubbish” — and didn’t. Ronnie Hawker’s smiling face seemed a wooden mask. This wasn’t the friend he knew; it was some stranger.

Ancestral memory — curses. . . . Ancient, withered crones with toothless gums muttering strange rituals beneath a gibbous moon. Things of the darkness, of the night — there are more things in heaven and earth —

Somewhere, an auto horn honked. There were the distant sounds of noonday traffic, the shrilling of some cop’s whistle. With an effort, Roger grinned shakily, said: "Rot, Ronnie! This is nineteen-fortythree — -”

"Still skeptical, aren’t you? And suppose I pointed out the analogy — you, having a brother. Jealousy. And your last name. Cain. Supposing I told you that all



the descendants of Cain bearing his name are susceptible to the influence of that hatchet."

Roger glared at him, not quite sure whether or not he was joking.

"Got quite a sense of humor, haven’t your

“Quite.” Ronnie put the bible away carefully, blew thick dust from the bookshelf, then showed Roger to the door. "Now, if you’ll excuse me. I’m writing a yarn about a skeptical guy— just like you. You’ve just gotta read it when it comes out, and see what happens to the poor fellow. Very interesting.”

Out on the sidewalk Roger turned and looked back at the closed doorway. Ronnie was pulling his leg. Sure. Just his nerves. You did a lot of funny things, walking in your sleep —

That night, Roger did.

IV

I T WAS a strange dream. About Sheila, Kirk, and a sharp little hatchet. An ancient wailing of desolation and hatred. . . . There was something he had to do! Something about the hatchet — and Kirk. Roger Cain awoke.

The moonlight was silver on Kirk’s pillows, on his upturned, sleeping face, and what was he doing here, in Kirk’s bedroom. With the hatchet in his hand! Raising it over his brother’s head, and laughing, soundlessly —

God! And in that instant Roger swiftly threw the hatchet out of the window.

It was as if an intolerable weight had been lifted from his mind. He was free again, to think, clearly. An immensely relieved Roger Cain crept silently back to bed. He was free!

Things went along splendidly the next few weeks. Sheila was in the house constantly, and lavished infinite attention on Kirk. Roger found himself jealous no longer.

“Great pair of kids,” he told himself. “Deserve all the happiness they get.” He was trying to forget about Tinker. And the hatchet. Besides — you couldn’t be influenced by something you didn’t have.

Came the day when Roger came back from a visit with Kirk’s doctor. He was whistling, as he swung up the big stone steps to the house, tossed his hat to Meadows, and hurried to Kirk’s room.

“Kirk! Hey, wake up, boy!” He shook him awake and chuckled merrily as Kirk blinked, sat up and dug the sleep out of his eyes.

"Whatsa idea of waking a guy out of a sound sleep — Say, Rog! You been drinking?”

Roger Cain laughed, richly, warmly. "No, but it’s a good idea. Celebrate — -“ He broke off. "Guess what?”

"What?”

"You’ll be walking soon! Matter of days now. I talked with Van Horn at the hospital just an hour ago. Here — won't need these any more — ” And chuckling, he seized his brother’s canes in the corner of the bedroom, and broke them.

"Hey, dammit, I need those!”

"Nuts. Here.” And Roger threw the covers back, urged Kirk to a standing position. "Lean on me, old son . . .”

And supporting Kirk halfway, Roger marched him around the bed.

Gasping, Kirk sank back on the covers and stared up at him. "I walked.” His voice was awed, husky. "I — walked! Today’s my lucky day, all right.”

Kirk looked ruminatively at his big toe. "Sheila advanced our wedding date. A week sooner than we figured.”

"Oh,” Roger said faintly.

Kirk looked up at him and the pattern of freckles across his nose stretched wide as he grinned, embarrassedly. “Well — how about congratulating me?”

"Huh? Oh, sure. Sure! Best of everything. Look — ” He started out awkwardly.

HAMMER OF CAIN


"I got to see about some bills ’n stuff. ...”

"Sure,” Roger said softly to himself for the dozenth time. "I’m glad for him. Deserves a gal like Sheila — ”

He went into his study, sat down at the desk. He looked over at the vacant space in his collection of hammers and smiled.

"I am not jealous.”

He winced as he realized he’d spoken aloud.

Rapraprap.

"Come in.”

It was Banners. He was carrying a proud, half-apologetic smile, and —

Roger Cain stared, aghast.

And a little, flint-headed hatchet.

"Here, sir — ” Banners was saying. His words seemed loose, very disconnected. "... found it in the back yard. Undoubtedly yours — lost from your collection — ”

Roger Cain nodded. He licked his lips. The hatchet. Here on his desk. Small, sharp, old —

He did not even know when Banners went out. He only sat there, staring.

"Get a grip on yourself,” he whispered.

He took a deep breath and forced himself to move forward —

H1HE moment he touched the hatchet everything was changed. No more fear. Strange. He felt reassured. Confident.

He hefted the hatchet, swung it experimentally through the air, and, his heart pounding, stood up. He was thinking suddenly of Kirk. Kirk, whom he hated, who would take Sheila away from him!

Roger went downstairs quietly, opened the door to his brother’s room.

Kirk was standing there at the foot of the bed, grinning, trying his unsupported weight on his right foot.

"I can stand!” he was whispering. "I can sta — ”

He turned. He blinked, puzzledly.

Roger Cain stepped forward, gripping the hatchet tightly.

His arm rose and fell. Rose and fell —

Afterward, Roger Cain stood staring down at Kirk. At the hatchet in his hand. The heavy, helpful hatchet —

Walk.

Walk to Ronnie’s house. Good old Ronnie. The boy with the sense of humor. With the oh so splendid sense of humor! Teaching him about curses the hard way.

Roger hammered on the door.

Ronnie opened it a moment later, and quickly tried to slam it shut, but Roger stuck his foot in the crack. He forced his way in.

"Hello, Ronnie.”

Ronnie Hawker’s face was a sickly gray. He backed away slowly, eyes fixed on the red stains on Roger’s fingers. "What do you want?”

"You know what I want,” said Roger. He pulled the hatchet from beneath his coat.

"Don’t!” Hawker’s lips writhed. He was speaking very rapidly. "Don’t, Cain, I—”

"Cain. That’s right. Rub it in.” Roger’s grin was tight, set. He moved forward. "Well, Ronnie, you proved your point all right. Didn’t count on it backfiring, did you?

"I only did it for a joke! I had to find out — ”

"A joke,” said Roger. "Oh, fine!”

He heard the sudden laughter — the distorted, insane laughter, everywhere about him. His own laughter.

"I like jokes, old man!” he heard himself gasp. "You’ve no idea how I appreciate a good prank. Too bad this one’ll be on you — ”

"No!” The big man’s eyes were two shiny black marbles of fear. His face was contorted. "No — ”

"Oh, yes.”

Hawker tried suddenly to run, to dart past him to the door. So very funny.

After he fell down the first time Roger



beat over and systematically hacked Ronnie’s features into something quite unrecognizable.

“What a shame,” he murmured, looking sadly at the blood on Hawker’s clean gray tweeds.

He laid the hatchet delicately down on the table, and stepped into the bathroom. He found what he was looking for. Ronnie’s straight-edge razor. He opened the veins in his wrists. A matter of minutes, now.

He frowned at the hatchet. Get rid of it! Destroy, burn —

Roger heard sounds outside, and unsteadily made his way to the window. A refuse truck, stopping in front of the house! Two trash men, unloading the cans of junk on the curb.

Weakening, feeling his life drain away, drop by ruby drop, Roger still had enough wits about him to throw the hatchet.

He made it. He saw the hatchet fly fair and true, to bury itself deep in the refuse heaped high in the back of the truck.

Presently the truck rumbled on down the street. Roger Cain fell back with something like a smile on his lips.

The hatchet. Gone.

No one else would it influence, no other brother named Cain ... to destroy —

Roger’s eyes closed. In the little apartment there was silence.

V

C HARLEY KANE shifted his cud of tobacco to his left cheek, spat vigorously. He glanced sideways at Will, who jammed on the brakes and jumped to the ground. Charley sang out: "Ready, Will?” “Let ’er go!”

Charley pulled the lever, his faded old eyes surveying the vast dump heap in front of him. The truck shuddered as the mass

of assorted rubbish slid off. Will immediately attacked the pile with his shovel. Charley stepped down, took his own shovel and pitched in. For a time the two brothers worked in silence. Eleven years now, that Will and Charley had been on the same dump truck together. Working side by side.

But just now the smooth efficiency of the team was broken. Charley stopped shoveling a moment. Slowly, deliberately, he bent over and picked up a small object from the ashes.

"A hammer,” he muttered.

Oddly shaped head. Sharp, sort of. And strangely wet and sticky . . .

“Hey, loafer!” Will rubbed sweat from his brow. "You gonna help me or not?”

Without looking up, caressing the handle of the little hatchet, Charley said very softly: "Jest a minute, Will.”

His brother grunted, swore disgustedly and went back to his shoveling.

Presently the job was done. Will gave Charley a puzzled glance, went back to the side of the truck, where he hung up his shovel.

“You coming or not?”

Charley was smiling now.

“Yeah,” he said. “I’m coming.”

Will’s constant nagging — constant, biting insults. Funny, he hadn’t noticed them before . . . indeed, he hadn’t known what to do. But he knew now.

His breath hoarse in his throat, aware of the "hammer’s” weight, cool and comfortable in his right hand, Charley stepped around the side of the truck.

Will turned, hearing his brother’s quick, shuffling footsteps. He had time only to open his mouth wide and yell once, before Charley stepped forward, his right arm high.

He brought the hatchet down —

erbert West:

Reanimator

By

H. P. LOVECRAFT

Heading by RICHARD BENNETT

VI. The Tomb-Legions

W HEN Dr. Herbert West disappeared a year ago, the Boston police questioned me closely. They suspected that I was holding something back, and perhaps suspected even graver things; but I could not tell them the truth because they would not have believed it. They knew, indeed, that West

had been connected with activities beyond the credence of ordinary men; for his hideous experiments in the reanimation of dead bodies had long been too extensive to admit of perfect secrecy; but the final soul-shattering catastrophe held elements of demoniac phantasy which make even me doubt the reality of what I saw.

I was West’s closest friend and only confidential assistant. We had met years

Do not scoff at the tomb-legions . . . those beings who dwell in a subterranean vault of fabulous abominations.




For Beginner or Old Timer— a simple, practical training and reference set. See it now.

Examine this 3-Voi. Set of C0YNE ELECTRICAL BOOKS!

Say, do you like Electricity? Do you want to \ learn about Electricity,

' Radio and the developments and progress of ' ^Electronics ? Are you iniJ/terested in these subjects as a hobby, or as a vocation?

Would you like to have this knowledge at your finger tips, available to you so that you can quickly locate any branch of any of these subjects? Then you need the 3volume COYNE REFERENCE ENCYCLOPEDIA.

Contains over 2000 illustrations — over 2000 subjects all plainly indexed so you can locate any of them in a moment's time. It can add money to your pay check as well as keeping you up to date.

You can be the authority on any subject in Electricity — Radio — Television and Electronics covered in this remarkable set.

Doesn’t cost you a cent to see and examine it in your own home for 7 days.

Read the coupon below — then fill it in and send it to me. I’ll send you your set. If it isn’t something you’ll value all your life then s aid it back. It will not have cost you one penny to have seen it.

Do it right now before you lay this ad aside.

» Then you decide if you want it pt the low price I’m making and the very liberal terms I'm offering.

FREE

With This Training !

Big 8j£xll in. book of ISO Coyne Shop Prints. Actual wiring diagrams, motor windings, radio hook-ups, etc. For daily use on job. Limited quantity, so ACT N OW. 1 yr. Personal Technical Service by mail from the Coyne Staff on any Electrical or Radio problem, FREE with set.

1 K. C. LEWIS, Pres., Dept.73-K3 FREE TRIAL 1

f '.JOYNE ELECTRICAL SCHOOL COUPON ■

S S. Paulina St., Chicago 12, Illinois f

l Send me postpaid, the big 3 -volume NEW EDITION ■ a COYNE ELECTRICAL and RADIO REFERENCE ENCY- Z . CLOPEDIA, and 150 FREE COYNE SHOP PRINTS. Within J " 7 days after receiving the books, I ’ll either return them or send you ■ 1 $3.00 and then $3 a month until the total price of $13.95 is paid. B

I NAME I

J ADDRESS J

■ CITY STATE 1

! OCCUPATION AGE ... *

| e «,/C 1 f\07 Send cash price, *12.55, with order « IdAVL /O ■ if preferred— you save $1.40. Samel

■ 7-day free trial and return privilege. J

before, in medical school, and from the first I had shared his terrible researches. He had slowly tried to perfect a solution which, injected into the veins of the newly deceased, would restore life; a labor demanding an abundance of fresh corpses and therefore involving the most unnatural actions. Still more shocking were the products of some of the experiments — grisly masses of flesh that had been dead, but that West waked to a blind, brainless, nauseous animation. These were the usual results, for in order to reawaken the mind it was necessary to have specimens so absolutely fresh that no decay could possibly affect the delicate brain cells. >

This need for very fresh corpses had been West’s moral undoing. They were hard to get, and one awful day he had secured his specimen while it was still alive and vigorous. A struggle, a needle, and a powerful alkaloid had transformed it to a very fresh corpse, and the experiment had succeeded for a brief and memorable moment; but West had emerged with a soul calloused and seared, and a hardened eye which sometimes glanced with a kind of hideous and calculating appraisal at men of especially sensitive brain and especially vigorous physique. Toward the last I became acutely afraid of West, for he began to look at me that way. People did not seem to notice his glances, but they noticed my fear; and after his disappearance used that as a basis for some absurd suspicions.

West, in reality, was more afraid than I; for his abominable pursuits entailed a life of furtiveness and dread of every shadow.' Partly it was the police that he feared; but sometimes his nervousness was deeper and more nebulous, touching on certain indescribable things into which he had injected a morbid life, and from which he had not seen that life depart. He usually finished his experiments with a revolver, but a few times he had not been quick enough. There was that first specimen on whose rifled grave marks of clawHERBERT WEST: REANIMATOR


ing were later seen. There was also that Arkham professor’s body which had done cannibal things before it had been captured and thrust unidentified into a madhouse cell at Sefton, where it beat the walls for sixteen years. Most of the other possibly surviving results were things less easy to speak of — for in later years West’s scientific zeal had degenerated to an unhealthy and fantastic mania, and he had spent his chief skill in vitalizing not entire human bodies but isolated parts of bodies, or parts joined to organic matter other than human. It had become fiendishly disgusting by the time he disappeared; many of the experiments could not even be hinted at in print. The Great War, through which both of us served as surgeons, had intensified this side of West.

TN SAYING that West’s fear of his -*• specimens was nebulous. I have in mind particularly its complex nature. Part of it came merely from knowing of the existence of such nameless monsters, while another part arose from apprehension of the bodily harm they might under certain circumstances do him. Their disappearance added horror to the situation — of them all West knew the whereabouts ot only one, the pitiful asylum thing. Then there was a more subtle fear — a very fantastic sensation resulting from a curious experiment in the Canadian army in 1915. West, in the midst of a severe battle, had reanimated Major Sir Eric Moreland Clapham-Lee, D. S. O., a fellow-physician who knew about his experiments and could have duplicated them. The head had been removed, so that the possibilities of quasiintelligent life in the trunk might be investigated. Just as the building was wiped out by a German shell, there had been a success. The trunk had moved intelligently; and, unbelievable to relate, we were both sickeningly sure that articulate sounds had come from the detached head as it lay in a shadowy corner of the labo-

. . . War days are

OPPORTUNITY DAYS for YOU

in Accounting. . .

If you like to work with figures and are earnestly ambitious, accounting today offers you unparalleled opportunity— to serve your country and to profit.

For there just aren’t enough bookkeepers and accountants to fill the needs of government and industry. There are thousands of new and vacant jobs. These jobs pay well and they are open to both men and women. Moreover, this need will continue through the war and the post-war adjustment period.

Ask us to prove this — and to show you how you can grasp this opportunity quickly.

Ask for this

free

48-page

booklet

LASALLE

EXTENSION UNIVERSITY

A Correspondence Institution

Dept. 1075-H CHICAGO

I want to know what opportunity there is for me in Accounting now and how I can prepare for it. Send me your free booklet and any other pertinent information.

Name Age

Present Position.

Address.



WUSIH'S LARGEST MAKERS

On 60 Days’ Trial! a

from Our Laboratory Direct to You I $

Dental Plates ma de to measure— Indi- J ■OMHISH vidually— by MAIL. J J'ake ownimpreflaion I at home. Over

MONET-BACK

GUARANTEE!

Now

••by

Mail

Getting Up Nights Makes Many Feel Old

Do yon feel older than you are or suffer from Getting Dp Nights, Backache, Nervousness, Leg Pains, Dizziness, Swollen Ankles, Rheumatic PainB, Burning, scanty or frequent passages? If so, remember that your Kidneys are vital to your health and that these symptoms may be duetonon-organicand non-systemic Kidney and Bladder troubles — in such cases Cystex (a physician's prescription) usually gives prompt and joyous relief bv helping the Kidneys flush out poisonous excess acids and wastes. Tou have everything to gain and nothing to lose in trying Cystex. An iron-clad guarantee assures a refund of your money on return of empty package unless fully satisfied. Don’t delay. Get Cys_ tex (Siss-tex) from your drugf»i»i Milt (Klin gist today. Only 35*.

ratory. The shell had been merciful, in a way — but West could never feel as certain as he v/ished, that we two were the only survivors. He used to make shuddering conjectures about the possible actions of a headless physician with the power of reanimating the dead.

West’s last quarters were in a venerable house of much elegance, overlooking one of the oldest burying grounds in Boston, He had chosen the place for purely symbolic and fantastically aesthetic reasons, since most of the interments were of the Colonial period and therefore of little use to a scientist seeking very fresh bodies. The laboratory was in a sub-cellar secretly constructed by imported workmen, and contained a huge incinerator for the quiet and complete disposal of such bodies, or fragments and synthetic mockeries of bodies, as might remain from the morbid experiments and unhallowed amusements of the owner. During the excavation of

Asthma Mucus Loosened First Day

For Thousands of Sufferers

Choking, gasping, wheezing spasms of Bronchial Asthma ruin sleep and energy. Ingredients in the prescription Mendaco quickly circulate through the blood and commonly help loosen the thick strangling mucus the first day, thus aiding nature in palliating the terrible recurring choking spasms, and in promoting freer breathing and restful sleep. Mendaco is not a smoke, dope, or injection. Just pleasant, tasteless palliating tablets that have helped thousands of sufferers. Iron clad guarantee — money back unless completely satisfactory. Ask your druggist for Mendaco today.

Good News for

Colon Sufferers

The McCleary Clinic, H-1021 Elms Blvd., Excelsior Springs, Mo., is putting out an up-to-the-minute, 122-page book on Colon Disorders, Piles and Constipation and commonly associated chronic ailments. The book is illustrated with charts, diagrams and X-ray pictures of these ailments. Write today — a postcard will do — to the above address and this large book will be sent you KREE and postpaid.

you big money — steady! — in wholesale business of your own. No car necessary. Sell vitamins to stores of all kinds. New low retail price, T for lOtf. wens vast rich field. Handle this s&les-maker, plus 200 other quick profit items. Many nationally advertised. No experience needed. Amazine facts FREE. Write TODAY!

-e ^ WORLD’S PRODUCTS CO.

Dept 55K Spencer. Indiana

this cellar the workmen had struck some exceedingly ancient masonry; undoubtedly connected with the old burying ground, yet far too deep to correspond with any known sepulchre therein. After a number of calculations West decided that it represented some secret chamber beneath the tomb of the Averills, where the last interment had been made in 1768. I was with him when he studied the nitrous, dripping walls laid bare by the spades and mattocks of the men, and was prepared for the gruesome thrill which would attend the uncovering of centuried grave-secrets; but for the first time West’s new timidity conquered his natural curiosity, and he betrayed his degenerating fibre by ordering the masonry left intact and plastered over. Thus it remained till that final hellish night, part of the walls of the secret laboratory. I speak of West’s decadence, but must add that it was a purely mental and intangible thing. Outwardly he was the same to the last — calm, cold, slight, and yellowhaired, with spectacled blue eyes and a general aspect of youth which years and

HERBERT WEST: REANIMATOR

10?

fears seemed never to change. He seemed calm even when he thought of that clawed grave and looked over his shoulder; even when he thought of the carnivorous thing that gnawed and pawed at Sefton bars.

The end of Herbert West began one evening in our joint study when he was dividing his curious glance between the newspaper and me. A strange headline item had struck at him from the crumpled pages, and a nameless titan claw had seemed to reach down through sixteen years. Something fearsome and incredible had happened at Sefton Asylum fifty miles away, stunning the neighborhood and baffling the police. In the small hours of the morning a body of silent man had entered the grounds and their leader had aroused the attendants. He was a men acing military figure who talked without moving his lips and whose voice seemed almost ventriloquially connected with an immense black case he carried. His expressionless face was handsome to the point of radiant beauty, but had shocked the superintendent when the hall light fell on it — for it was a wax face with eyes of painted glass. Some nameless accident had befallen this man. A larger man guidec his steps; a repellant hulk whose bluish face seemed half eaten away by some unknown malady. The speaker had asked for the custody of the cannibal monster committed from Arkham sixteen years before; and upon being refused, gave a signal which precipitated a shocking riot. The fiends had beaten, trampled, and bitten every attendant who did not flee; killing four and finally succeeding in the liberation of the monster. These victims who could recall the event without hysteria swore that the creatures had acted less like men than like unthinkable automata guided by the wax-faced leader. By the time help could be summoned, every trace of the men and of their mad charge had vanished.

From the hour of reading this item until midnight. West sat" almost paraQmc£z, ea&y uxup £&

MACHINIST

MAIMING

7-DAY FREE TRIAL

FOR BEGINNERS & EXPERTS

WAR WORKERS & TRAINEES

P4RT/4L CONTENTS

Machine Tools Completely Described and Fully Demonstrated, Measurements and Gages.

Drill Press Operations.

Lathe Operations.

Milling Machines — All Typos. Shaper and Planer Set-ups.

Plain and Universal Grinders. Blueprint Reading & Drafting. Expert Mechanic— What He Must Know.

How to Lay Out Holes for Drilling. Shop Projects — Layout Fabrication. Lathe Cutting Tools and Grinding. Drill Jigs, Speeds and Feeds. Standard and Open-Side Planers. Vernier Caliper and Depth Gages. American Standard Machine Tapers.

NATIONAL SCHOOL!

Now, for the first time, the world of machinery is concentrated Into a complete. 3 -Volume Course. It is vitally necessary for all Machinists. It is also a Training Course for beginners who are employed or seek good pay job* in Machine Shop Work.

HUNDREDS OF DRAW! NGS — DIAGRAMS

• Written in easy-to-understand language by practical shop instructors.

• Profuse with iilustrationa, diagrams, charts and valuable tables.

© Easy-to-follow and understand. regardless of your previous work.

• All phases of modem machine shop work.

FROM RIGHT OUT OF NATIONAL’S SHOPS Tills training at homo is comparable to fundamentals learned by residential students at National Schools. Out of the experience in teaching thousands of students has come this simplified. easy - to - understand Machinists’ Course.

10 FREE GIFTS

If you mail Coupon immediately. we’ll give you absolutely Free, seven marvelous Drafting Lessons, and a complete Machinsts’ Dictionary of terms, etc., and two Practical Shop Mathematics Texts, which you will find essential in your daily work.

mmimm

■ I A RnSFNVRAW7 Di*a<

J. A. ROSEN KRANZ, president NATIONAL SCHOOLS. Dept. V-10 4000 So. Figueroa St., Los Angeles 37, Calif.

Yes, without obligating myself in any way, ship to me at once, your big 3- VOLUME MODERN MACHINE SHOP TRAINING COURSE. Within 7 days after receiving the Course (and marvelous Bonus Gift for promptness), I'll either return the shipment, and owe you nothing; or if satisfied. I’ll send you $3.00, and $3.00 a month until a total of $12.50 is paid (final payment. $3.50).

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY „ STATE

OCCUPATION AGE

You may deduct $1.25 if you enclose cash ($11.25) with this Coupon. Same return privilege and refund guaranteed.

SAVE 107 °



■When you pass on, your troubles are over. Bub how about lovetl ones you leave behind? Will they have to face struggle and hardship because of your neglect? Only a few pennies a day NOW will help provide for their future. TRIPLE INDEMNITY LIFE INSURANCE, backed by Legal Reserves, offers sound, dependable security. Policy pays maximum benefits, $3000.00 — costs only $1 a month. Generous 5 point protection pays for Death from (1) Natural Causes, (2) Sickness, <S) Ordinary Accidents, (4) Auto Accidents, (5) Travel Accidents. No restrictions on Occupation, Travel or Residence, as provided. Policy contains valuable Incontestability Clause. Men, women, children age 1 day to 70 years eligible. Easy to own! No Red Tape — No Medical Examination! No agent will call. Investigate now! SEND NO MONEY, write for Free details today! PIONEER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 84 4 C Pioneer Building • Rockford, Illinois

Feel Old? Get New Pep

The Strong IRON Way— with

IRON, VITAMINS Bi, A and D!

MEN, WOMEN who feel older than their years, who are constantly tired, pepless, nervous, irritable or suffer with minor aches, pains and frequent colds, here’s good news! Thousands sutler needlessly because of lack of IRON and Vitamins! Nowin one IRONITED VITAMIN TABLET taken daily you get IRON for building rich, red, strength-giviugblood as well as popular Vitamins Bl, A and D. Try them! See if you don’t feel better, years younger with more Pep, Vim and Energy than you thought possible. Send name and address on penny postcard for 8 weeks’ supply. Pay postman only $1 plus few cents postage. Money back if not pleased.

IRONITED VITAMIN PRODUCTS 6609 Cottage Grove Ave., Dept. 22K, Chicago, III.

POEMS WANTED

I —— For Musical Setting — I

Mother, Home, Love, Sacred, Patriotic, Comic I or any subject. Don’t Delay — Send us your B Original Poem at once — for immediate ex- B animation and FREE Rhyming Dictionary. fl

Richard Brothers 27 cSjc^oo^hlC

C33EZE

ToAnySuit

Double the life of your coat and vest with correctly matched pants. 100,000 patteiT Every pair hand tailored to your measure. Our match sent FREE for your O. K. before pants are made. Fit guaranteed. Send piece

°* 'ySPxSro^MAVcIfgANTS COMPANY 209 S. State St. . Dept. 487 Chicago

High School Course

at Home

Many Finish in 2 Years

Go as rapidly as your time and abilities permit. Course ifdenti

1 1 ,, .

entrance exams. Standard H.S. texts supplied. Diploma.

Credit ^or^U. S. subjects already completed. Single so

H

I equivalent to resident school work — prepares for college . Standard H.S. texts supplif ’

ibjects already completed. Single

education is very important for a - — — _

try and socially. Don't be handicapped all your ’ ’ - * * i. Start yoor training now. Free

I business and lnd__ —

1ife.*Ba a nigh School graduate,

“ st. Nt «-**—-*-

illetin on request. No obligation.

American School. Dept. H-739, Drexelat58«i,Chicag*37

lyzed. At midnight the doorbell rang, startling him fearfully. All the servants were asleep in the attic, so I answered the bell. As I have told the police, there was no wagon in the street; but only a group of strange-looking figures bearing a large square box which they deposited in the hallway after one of them had grunted in a highly unnatural voice, "Express- — prepaid.” They filed out of the house with a jerky tread, and as I watched them go I had an odd idea that they were turning toward the ancient cemetery on which the back of the house abutted. When I slammed the door after them West came downstairs and looked at the box. It was about two feet square, and bore West’s correct name and present address. It also bore the inscription, "From Eric Moreland Clapham-Lee St. Eloi, Flanders.” Six years before, in Flanders, a shelled hospital had fallen upon the headless reanimated trunk of Dr. Clapham-Lee, and upon the detached head which — perhaps — had uttered articulate sounds.

West was not even excited now. His condition was more ghastly. Quickly he said, "It’s the finish — but let’s incinerate — this.” We carried the thing down to the laboratory — listening. I do not remember many particulars — you can imagine my state of mind — but it is a vicious lie to say it was Herbert West’s body which 1 put into the incinerator. We both inserted the whole unopened wooden box, closed the door, and started the electricity. Nor did any sound come from the box, after all.

It was West who first noticed the falling plaster on that part of the wall where the ancient tomb masonry had been covered up. I was going to run, but he stopped me. Then I saw a small black aperture, felt a ghoulish wind of ice, and smelled the charnel bowels of a putrescent earth. There was no sound, but just then the electric lights went out and I saw outlined against some phosphorescence of the nether world a horde of silent toiling

HERBERT WEST: REANIMATOR


things which only insanity — or worse — could create. Their outlines were human, semi-human, fractionally human, and not human at all — the horde was grotesquely heterogeneous. They were removing the stones quietly, one by one, from the centuried wall. And then, as the breach became large enough, they came out into the laboratory in single file; led by a stalking thing with a beautiful head made of wax. A sort of mad-eyed monstrosity behind the leader seized on Herbert West. West did not resist or utter a sound. Then they all sprang at him and tore him to pieces before my eyes, bearing the fragments away into that subterranean vault of fabulous abominations. West’s head was carried off by the wax-headed leader, who wore a Canadian officer’s uniform. As it disappeared I saw that the blue eyes behind the spectacles were hideously blazing with their first touch of frantic, visible emotion.

Servants found me unconscious in the morning. West was gone. The incinerator contained only unidentifiable ashes. Detectives have questioned me, but what can I say? The Sefton tragedy they will not connect with West; not that, nor the men with the box, whose existence they deny. I told them of the vault, and they pointed to the unbroken plaster wall and laughed. So I told them no more. They imply that I am either a madman or a murderer — probably I am mad. But I might not be mad if those accursed tomb-legions had not been so silent.

Do You Make

these Mistakes

in ENGLISH?

Sherwin Cody's remarkable Invention has enabled more than 100,000 people to correct their mistakes in English. Only 15 minutes a day required to improve your speech and writing.

M ANY persons say, “Did you hear from him today?”

They should say, “Have you heard from him today?”

Some spell “calendar” “calender” or “calander.” Still others say “between you and I” instead ef “between you and me.” It is astonishing how often *who” is used for “whom,” and how frequently the simplest words are mispronounced. Few know whether to spell certain words with one or two “c’s” or “m’s” or “r’s,” or with “ie” or “ei.”

Most persons use only common words — colorless, flat, ordinary. Their speech and their letters are lifeless, monotonous, humdrum. Every time they talk or write they show themselves lacking in the essential points of English.

Wonderful New Invention

For many .years, Mr. Cody studied the problem of creating instinetive habits of using good English. After countless experiments h* finally invented a simple method by which you can acquire a better command of the English language in only 15 minutes a day. Now you can stop making the mistakes which have been hurting you. Mr, Cody's students have secured more improvement in five weeks than previously had been obtained by other pupils in two years t

Learn by Habit — Not by Rules

Under old methods rules are memorized, but correct habits are not formed. Finally the rules themselves are forgotten. Tho nmv Sherwin Cody method provides for tho formation of correct habits by calling to your attention constantly only the mistakes you yourself maka One of the wonderful things about Mr. Cody's course is the speed with which these habit-forming practice drills can be carried out. You can writ© the answers to fifty questions in 15 minutes and correct your work in 5 minutes more. The drudgory and work of copying have been ended by Mr. Cody! You concentrate always on your own mistakes until it bocomos “second nature" to speak and write correctly.

FREE — Book on English

A new book explaining Mr. Cody's remarkable method is ready. If you are ever embarrassed by mistakes in grammar, spelling, punctuation, pronunciation, or if you cannot instantly command the exact words with which to express your ideas, this new free book, "How You Can Master Good English — in 15 Minutes a Day," will Prove a revelation to you. Send tho coupon or a letter or postal card for it now. No agent will call. SHERWIN CODY SCHOOL OF ENGLISH. 1710 Searle Building, Rochester 4, N. Y.

SHERWIN CODY SCHOOL OF ENGLISH 1710 Searle Building, Rochester 4, N. Y.

Please send me, without any obligation on my part, your new free book, “How You Can Master Good I&igliah — In 15 Minutes a Day."

Please print plainly

Address

□ If 18 years or under check here for Booklet A



Start— and Grow

Plastics Is a new industry which the nation's wap needs is forcing to quick maturity. Already Plastics are indispensable in practically every branch of the Service — Aircraft, Ordnance, Chemical, Marine, Signal Corps, etc. Opportunities ? Nearly everything, from homes to clothing, from gadgets to tools, will be affected by Plastics.

Spare Time Training Now Ready

The time to get started is now. You can prepare at home, in your spare time, to take your place an, an infant industry that even now is leaping into prominence. A new, practical training plan ? 0 , w . rea( * y to 'help you realize your ambitions and build your future security. Act now. Don't delay. Mail this coupon today.

37, III.

Send mo FREE information covering special training in subjects checked below. No obligation on my part.

□ Plastics □ Aviation

□ Electrical Engineering □ AutomotiveEnglneerlng

□ Drafting and Design □ Architecture & Building _ for Men and Women □ Shipbuilding

S iv e ®?* Engineering □ Business Management

□ Mechanical Engineering □ Radio

□ Accounting & Auditing □ High School Course

Name —

Rectal Ailments Are Serious Threat

FREE BOOK — Explains Many Associated Conditions

Enter John Thunstone

M anly wade wellman, who,

through the years, has given us some of our best and weirdest "weird” tales, has uncovered a new character in John Thunstone, introduced in The Third Cry to Legba.

This Thunstone being a likeable chap we’re a bit worried on his account. To be sure, he’s resourceful, as all who seriously study the mysteries of occultism, magic and the supernatural must be. But Mr. Wellman tells us that Thunstone, a man well able to take care of himself in all ordinary circumstances, insists on getting into the most outre and macabre scrapes. We’ll hear of these in future issues of Weird Tales.

Says Wellman on the Legba story:

Backache, headache, constipation, dizziness, nausea, abdominal soreness, stomach and intestinal conditions are often caused by Piles, Fistula or Colon Troubles. You can understand how and why when you see the pictures and diagrams and read your copy of a 40-page FREE BOOK which explains the nature of these ailments. Write today — a postcard will do. Thornton & Minor Clinic, Suite C-1002, 926 McGee St., Kansas City, Mo.

want to STOP TOBACCO?

Banish the craving for tobacco ai thousands have. Make yourself fret and happy with Tobacco Redeemer Wnte for free booklet telling of in junous effect of tobacco and of i treatment which has re- _____ Iieved many men.

30 Years In Business

THE NEWELL COMPANY

60 0 Clayton Sta., St. Louis, Mo

All of the characters in my story — including Legba — are founded on people I know, and any resemblance to actual persons and occurrences is as vivid as I can make it. Nobody will sue, however, because John Thunstone and Sharon, Countess of Monteseco, are in favor of this story, and Rowley Thorne is much too busy and harassed these days to pick any fresh fights.

It is a fact that something appeared recently in New York newspapers that might be the public version of The Third Cry to Legba. Some may remember an account of how a certain singer chanted black magic songs and attracted big audiences, including at least one attentive being that she must have wished would stay away. We can’t check on that row, for the singer is untimely dead. I don’t intend to cite any moral, for if my story or the newspaper yarn have morals, they are too obvious to be pointed out.

THE EYRIE


I mention several books, all of which are in existence and within reach of my hand as I write. Hie voodoo pantheon, including Legba, is also very real indeed to its worshippers. As to the actual Legba invocation, that is garbled somewhat. When you read my story, you will know my reason for garbling it.

Manly Wade Wellman.

Bradbury on a Bat

W E THINK you’ll be interested in hearing something about the guy who has had stories in five of the last seven issues of Weird Tales. We like Ray Bradbury yarns and so, apparently do you readers. Here's this author’s lowdown on himself:

Some of my first memories concern going upstairs at night and finding an unpleasant beast waiting at the next to the last step. Screaming, I’d run back down to mother. Then, together, we’d climb the stairs. Invariably, the monster would be gone. Mother never saw it. Sometimes I was irritated at her lack of imagination.

I imagine I should be thankful for my fear of the dark, though. You have to know fear and apprehension in some form before you can write about it thoroughly, and God knows my first ten years were full of the usual paraphernalia of ghosts and skeletons and dead men tumbling down the twisting interior of my mind. What a morbid little brat I must have been to have around.

One of the earliest bits of art I conceived was a crayon sketch of a dancing skeleton. I showed this to the girl next door, hoping to set her all aquiver with terror. She simply laughed.

I don’t recall if I knocked her down, venting my disappointment, or whether I went off home to try and draw a more horrible sketch. Nevertheless, in the following years I became enamored of a stage play called The Bat. Borrowing the dark lining from an old opera cape of my grandmother’s, I affixed myself into an umbrella-contrived framework and flapped all over the neighborhood in the autumn, leaving cryptic little notes of dire warning on the doorsteps of the local bullies.

Somehow, the bullies always guessed who it was that left the cryptic notes, and the next morning on the way to grammar school,

FREE OFFER

for FALSE TEETH

TIGHTENS FALSE TEETH OR NO COST

just3srk!

Here’s new amazing mouth comfort without risking a single cent . . . enjoy that feeling of having your own teeth again.

Satisfy your desire for food . . , eat what you want. CROWN RELINER TIGHTENS FALSE TEETH OR NO COST. Perfect for Partial*, Lowers or Uppers.

Don’t suffer embarrassment and discomfort caused by loose dental Plates. Apply CROWN RELINER. In a jiffy your plate fits like new and stays that way up to 4 months. No old-fashioned heating to burn your mouth. Just squeeze CROWN from tube and put your teeth back in. They’ll fit as snugly as ever. Inventor is a recognized authority in dental field. A patent has been applied for CROWN RELINER to protect you from imitators. After you reline your plate with CROWN, take your false Sta ^ teeth out for cleaning without affect-

- ing the CROWN REUNER. CROWN

RE LINER is guaranteed ... It’s harmless. NOT A POWDER OR PASTE I Docs Not Burn or Irritate. If not satisfied, even after 4 months, return partly used tube for full refund.

SGVESSf?

CRdWN

FROM

PUYfiATt

m eaeuYH

SEND NO MONEY

You must be one hundred per cent delighted or no cost. Try it for four months and return for full refund if not satisfied. Order at once and we’ll include free with your order a tube of Crown’s Dental Plate Cleaner. Rush coupon. Pay postman one dollar for combination plus postage, or send cash and we pay postage. Act now.

READ THIS:

J. Clements of Aiqonac writes: “My plates were so bad they rattled when I talked. Now I can cat steaks, corn on the oob.” Reline your plates with CROWN. It's tasteless. lias that natural pink color. Order a tubo of CROWN RELINER today.

CROWN PLASTICS CO.

Dept. 5010

4356 W. Philadelphia A V 0 w Detroit, Mich.

Rend your wonderful Crown Dental Plate Reliner and Include the free Crown Dental Cleaner. I will pay postman one dollar plus postage on arrival. If I am not satisfied after four months, I may return partly used tube for full refund.

(□ I am enclosing one dollar In full payment, same guarantee.)

i Name

l

Q Address

EL* u* as ca



don’t WORRY

■ ABOUT |

[RUPTURE

Why put up with years of needless discomfort and worry? Try a Brooks Automatic Air Cushion. This marvelous appliance permits the opening to close, yet holds reducible rup ture securely, comfortably— day and night. Thousands report amazing results; Light, neat-fitting. No hard pads or stiff springs to chafe or gouge. Made for men, women and children. Durable, cheap. Sent on trial to prove it. Never sold in stores. Beware of imitations. Write for Free Book on Rupture, no-risk trial order plan, and proof of results. All correspondence confidential. BROOKS COMPANY, 152 F State St., Marshal), Mich.

i)

“Facts about EPILEPSY

This most interesting and helpful Booklet will be mailed to anyone while the supply lasts. I will send a free copy to anyone who writes for it.

C. M. SIMPSON

Address Dept. F-17, 1840 W. 44th Street, Cleveland, Ohio

NELSON CO.

Complete home-study courses

and self-instruction books, slightly used. Sold, rented, exchanged. All subjects. Satisfaction guaranteed Cash paid for used courses. Full d «* tails and 84 -page illustrated ba.' gain catalog FRETS. Write today 321 S. Wabash Dept. 226 Chicago

THE MOO ft TERROR

By A. G. BIRCH

HERE IS A STUPENDOUS WEIRD SCIENTIFIC NOVEL OF ORIENTAL INTRIGUE. ... A SUPER SINISTER BLUEPRINT TO GAIN CONTROL OF THE WORLD !

AND THIS SMASHING FULL LENGTH NOVEL IS NOT ALL; IN ADDITION THERE ARE THREE SHORTER STORIES, ALL BY WELL KNOWN SCIENCE FANTASY AUTHORS.

^.V.V.V.V.VAWAV.V.W.'.V, Write Now — Enclosing 50d — to; WEIRD TALES, Book Dept.,

9 Rockefeller Plana New York, N. Y., U. S. A. For Your Cloth Bound Copy of The Moon Terror

iV.v.^v.v.vv.v.vv.v.v.v.v.v.v.v:-

they usually punched my nose or pushed me into the creek.

The following evening, naturally, bristling with the urge for revenge, I’d haul out my contraption and make like a membraned mammal around the town; much to the dismay of mother, who had raised her child to ne a Baptist instead of a Bat.

In 1932, when I was twelve, my parents ^resented me with a toy dial-typewriter, which I kicked around. I couldn’t afford to buy many books, so I found it possible to read the sequels to Edgar Rice Burroughs’ many xioks, by a very simple method. I wrote the sequels myself. They were quite crude, admittedly; but what they lacked in style they made up for with large gobs of Freudian sex.

During those same years I did many haphazard things, none of which seems to fit into any logical pattern.

I’ve written something every day for the last seven years. It adds up to quite a stack, and perhaps explains the current paper shortage.

My urge for the unusual was stimulated first by the Oz books, then by Tarzan, then by Buck Rogers, and finally the weird and fantasy publications. Every action of my life thereafter seems to point inevitably to my writing the more outr6 kinds of fiction.

I’d like to continue writing along the line where I’ve begun my story series. I don’t particularly care about ghosts, vampires or werewolves ; they’ve been killed by repetition. Lovecraft, Poe and C. A. Smith are the rare ones who did a splendid job by them. There are plenty of good stories in neurotic psychology ready to be used. There are good stories in everyday things. Trains, crowds, motor-cars, submarines, dogs — the wind around the house. I’d like to use them more. And there’s much good stuff buried in the green leafs of childhood and the heaped dead leafs of old age. I want to get at that, too. I want to write about humans; and add an unusual, unsuspected twist.

That’s about all. Except that I’d like to thank Robert A. Heinlein, Henry Kuttner and Leigh Brackett for their friendly interest and helpful words.

And thanks to my mother, who, with unbelievable patience has tolerated the Bat’s continuance of life all these years.

■ Ray Bradbury.

THE EYRIE


TRIES CTOB

9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York N. Y.

WRITE TO MARTIN WARE, SECRETARY • This is your club — a medium to help you get together with other fantasy and science-fiction fans. Readers wanted it — they wrote in telling us how much they would enjoy meeting others of similar tastes.

RADIO

OPERATING ^ EIECIRINIGS

• Membership is very simple: just drop us a line, so that we can enroll you on the club roster, and publish your name and address in the magazine.

• A membership card carrying the above design — personal token of your fellowship with the weird and the fantastic — will be sent on request. (A stamped, addressed envelope should be enclosed.)

Formulas on Black Magic A short time ago a letter of mine appeared In this magazine. I asked for various formulas on Black Magic. I received many but in an accident my correspondence file was destroyed. Many of those who wrote, consequently, received no answer. Any of those whom I didn’t answer who wish to rewrite and enclose again the formulas they sent are invited to, and I promise to answer these. Any others who have such formulas or know of books I can secure that contain them are also asked to write.

There are also two or three other things I wish to secure. Three or four samples of Mandrake root, white resin and I need some bats’ blood. This may seem silly but the only way one can investigate these things is to try them out. So anyone who knows where I can get these please write.

Rodney Lee Stimson, D.B.A.,

17 Beacon Avenue, Auburn, Maine.

| READERS’ VOTE

THE VALLEY OF THE ASSASSINS DEATH WENT THAT WAY

SPEED THE PARTING GHOST

THE THIRD CRY TO LEGBA

THE DUCKER GREAT PAN IS HERE A THIN GENTLEMAN WITH GLOVES HAMMER OF CAIN HERBERT WEST: REANIMATOR

= Here's a list of nine stories In this issue. Won't you let m

™ us know which three you consider the best? Just place 5

5 the numbers: 1. 2, and 3 respectively against your three =

m favorite tale*— then clip it out and mall it in to us.

1 WEIRD TALES f

m 9 Rockefeller Plaza New York City =

^:aiiBiiaiiiiiiii«uiiiiuiuiiiiiii»«uiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^

NAME....

ADDRESS.

CITY

“Leara-by-Dsing” on Real Radio Apparatus!

Airports, radio stations, film studios, police short-wave, television, industrial electronics — all need TRAINED RADIO SPECIALISTS. Learn the quick practical way, on actual equipment in the great Coyne Shops. Not by correspondence, but personal training baaed on 44 years of "know-how”!

B’LL FINANCE Y©tJH TRAINING I

Don’t let lack of money hold you back. My plan lets you start now, pay tuition in easy monthly payments when you’re trained and on the job. I help you get part-time work to help pay living expenses while training, give you Lifetime Employment Service a 9 a Coyne graduate.

PreparesfcrGevLLIeense

Many of the better Radio jobs require government license. Coyne has enabled hundreds to pass this test successfully. You learn to send Code rapidly — do trouble-shooting — handle real transmitting equipment, etc., etc.

Dozens of Branches to Choose From

Why be satisfied with a narrow, nofuture line when by putting in a short time in my Shops, you can qualify for unlimited opportunities in RADIO AND ELECTRONICS, today’s fast-growing fields 1 These

E ictures show only a few of countess well-paid jobs for trained Radio Operators.

SEND FDR FREE BOOK

Fully illustrated with big pictures of my Shops — facts about your future. Mail coupon now. No obligation. No salesman will call. Act today!

19. C. LEWIS, Pres., RADIO DiV. COYNE ELECTRICAL SCHOOL 5C0 S. Paulina St. Dept. 73-BE

- s 2i T - E -



B

I

«


R

I!

J

I jou Gan Influence Others With Your Thinking !

T RY IT SOME TIME. Concentrate intently upon arti other person seated in a room with you, without his noticing it. Observe him gradually become restless and finally turn and look in your direction. Simple— yet it is a positive demonstration that thought generates a mental energy which can be projected from your mind to the consciousness of another. Do you realize how much of your success and happiness in life depend upon your Influencing others? Is it not important to you to have others understand your point of view— to be receptive to trour proposals?

Demonstrable Facts

How many times have you wished there were some way you could impress another favorably— get across to him or her your ideas ? That thoughts can be transmitted, teceived, and understood by others is now scientifically demonstrable. The tales of miraculous accomplishments of mind by tbe ancients are now known to be fact— not fable. The method whereby these things can be intentionally, not accidentally, accomplished has been a secret long cherished by the Rosicrucians— one of the schools of ancient wisdom existing throughout the world. To thour *andr everywhere, for centuries, the Rosicrucians have

privately taught this nearly-lost art of the practical ttse of mind power.

This Free Book Points Out the Way

The Rosicrucians (not a religious organization) Invite you to explore the powers of your mind. Their sensible, simple suggestions have caused intelligent men and women to soar to new heights of accomplishment. They will show you bow to use your natural forces and talents to do things you now think are beyond your ability. Use the coupon below and send for a copy of the fascinating sealed free book, “Tbe Mastery of Life/' which explains how you may receive this unique wisdom and benefit by Its application to your daily affairs.

T he ROSICRUCIANS

(AMORC)

Scribe X. N. L, The Roaicrnciona, AMORC, Rosicrudan Part, San Jose, California.

Kindly send me a free copy of lire toot, “The Mastery of Life.” I am interested in learning how I may receive instructions about the full use of my natural powers,

Name~.„ - ■■ - . ■ —

Address . — . — . — State

Please mention Newsstand Fiction Unit when answering advertisements

GEE what a Didn’t it take time to get those muscles?.

No SIR! - ATLAS Makes Muscles Grow \ Fast / P ffpwf^

S HOWI

What a ifference

5 inches of new Muscle

■v "Have put 3*/2" on chest (normal) and 21 / 2 " expanded.” — F. S.,

"My arms increased IV 2 "* chest 21 / 2 "* forearm Va"*” — C.

For quick results I recommend JL CHARLES ATLAS

Here’s what ATLAS 1 did for ME/ j

snapshot ful prog-

"Am sending Showing wonc

ress.”— w. Q

GAINED 29 , POUNOVi

"When f started, weighed only 141, Now 170.” T,

John Jacobs

John Jacobs

AFTER

LET ME START SHOWING YOU RESULTS LIKE THESE

Will You Let Me PROVE ICas Make

YOU a New

Here’s What Only 1 5 Minutes a Day Can Do For Yoi

I DON’T care how old or young you are, or how ashamed of your present physical condition you may be. If you can simply raise your arm and flex it I can add SOLID MUSCLE to your biceps — yes, on each arm — in doublequick time! Only 15 minutes a day — right in your own home — is all the time I ask of you! And there’s no cost if I fail.

I can broaden your shoulders, strengthen your back, develop your whole muscular system INSIDE and OUTSIDE! I can add inches to your chest, give you a vise-like grip, make those legs of yours lithe and powerful. I can shoot new strength into your old backbone, exercise those inner organs, help you cram your body so full pf pep, vigor and red-blooded vitality that you won’t feel there’s even "standing room” left for weakness and that lazy feeling ! Before I get through I’ll have your whole frame "measured” to a new beautiful suit of muscle!

What’s My Secret?

“Dynamic Tension l” That's the ticket! The identical natural method that I myself developed to change my body from the scrawny, skinny-chested weakling I was at 17 to my present super-nian physique! Thousands of other fellows are becoming

marvelous physical specimens — my way. I give you no gadgets or eontrapiions to fool with. When you have learned to develop your strength through “Dynamic Tension ” you can laugh at artificial muscle-makers. You simply utilize the DORMANT muscle-power in your own God-given body — watch it increase and multiply double-quick into real solid LIVE MUSCLE.

My method — “ Dynamic Tension ” — will turn the trick for you. No theory — every exercise is practical. And, man, so easy! Spend only 15 minutes a day in your own home. From the very start you'll be using my method of “Dynamic Tension ” almost unconsciously every minute of the day — walking, bending over, etc. — to BUILD MUSCLE and VITALITY.

CHARLES

ATLAS

Awarded the title of "The World's Most Perfectly Developed Man” in international contest-in compe. tition with ALL men who would consent to appear against him.

This is a recent photo of Charles Atlas showing how he looks today. This is not a studio picture but

I CHARLES ATLAS, Dept. ?io

I 115 E. 23rd Street. New York 10. N. Y.

I

FREE BOOK

"Everlasting Health and Strength"

In it I talk to you in straightfrom - the - shoulder language. Packed with inspirational pictures of myself and pupils — fellows who became NEW MEN in strength, my. way. Let me show you what I helped THEM do. See what I can do for YOU! For a real thrill, send for this book today, AT ONCE. CHARLES ATLAS. Dept. 910, 115 East 23rd St.. New York 10, N. Y.

I want the proof that your system of “Dynamic Tension ” will help make a New Man of me — give me a healthy, husky body and big muscular development. Send me your free book, "Everlasting Health and Strength”.

(Please print or write plainly)

City... State.........

□ Check here if under 13 for Booklet A

Here's the Greatest BILLFOLD BARGAIN in all America

Rush This Coupon For This Once-ln-A-Lifetime Bargain

Dept. 260-C, 54 W. Illinois St., Chicago. .

Tf vmi want a LODGE ARMY NAVY MARINE or AIR CORPS INSIGNIA, state name here, i ^Gentlemen: I enclose $1.98. Please send me a Genuine Leather Billfold with my name I and choice of Emblems emrraved In 23k gold. Include absolutely free, an Emereency Identiflcation I Plate carrying my full Name and Social Security Number, or Draft Number. Also inclu le I FREE an Identification Key Tag and Gilt Chain to match, all hand-engraved with my Name, • Addre.;s, City and State.

j My P “" Name (Please print clearly,

| Address

j City state

| Social Security Number Army Draft Number

Your LODGE Emblem or ARMY or NAVY and Name Engraved in 23K. Gold Absolutely FREE

Special Introductory Offer

These

Billfolds A re Made of Fine Leathers, Such As Calfskin, Morocco, Steerhide, Etc.

YOUR CHOICE OF EMBLEMS HERE

Genuine Highest Quality Select FINE LEATHER De Luxe VA L U E

Your FAVORITE Emblem, NAME, ADDRESS, and Social Security Number Engraved in GOLD— FREE!

Men: — Here, without a doubt, is positively the greatest Billfold and Pass Case Bargain that you’ll be likely to see for a good many years to come. For a high quality Leather Billfold, beautifully engraved in gold, with your LODGE Emblem or Army or Navy Insignia and Name, you would expect to- pay up to $4.50 and consider it a marvelous buy. If you take advantage of this sensational introductory offer, you can get this superb genuine Leather Wallet and Pass Case for only $1.98, and we will send you absolutely free a specially designed three-color Emergency Identification Plate, which carries your Social Security Number, your Name and Address or your Army Draft Number. This fine grain Leather Billfold must actually be seen to be fully appreciated. Besides the spacious compartment at the back which can be used for currency, checks, papers, etc., it has four pockets each protected by celluloid to prevent the soiling of your valuable membership and credit cards.

When closed, this handsome Billfold has the soft velvety feel you find only in select quality Leather. Your choice of Emblems and Initials are beautifully embossed in 23 karat gold on the face of the Billfold. Due to difficulty in obtaining choice leather because of war conditions, the supply of these Billfolds is limited. Remember if you send your order promptly, we will include absolutely FREE, a beautiful Identification Key Tag and Gilt Chain to match, all hand engraved with your Name, Address. City and State. If after receiving your Billfold and Free Gift, you don’t positively agree that this is the most outstanding bargain you have ever come across, return them to us and your money will bo cheerfully refunded in full. Send your order today, without fail, so you won’t be disappointed.

This beautiful three-color Emergency Identiflcation Plate carries your full name, address and social security or draft number.

YOUR INITIALS . HERE "

FREE!

A _ fTOCBT H you order at once w®

AlSO send v"- 1 this

Identiflcation Key Tag and Gilt Chain to match, hand engraved with your name, address, city and state. Will last a lifetime.

[THE END]
