============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 31, Number 3
Date: March 1938
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Hairy Ones Shall Dance (end) Cans T" by Field
  2. "The Head in the Window . ." by Roy Temple House
  3. "their possession" by The contents of this magaiine are fully prolecied by copyright and must not be reproduced either wholly or in
============================================================
============================================================
THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE (END) CANS T
by Field
============================================================
had visibly faded, and in the course of a few months it was hardly discernible with die naked eye.”

%

airy Ones Shall Dance

By CANS T. FIELD

^ novel of a hideous, stark horror that struck durhig ct spirit seance — a tale of terror and sudden death, and the frightful thing that laired in the Devil’s Croft

The Story Thus Far; ■s\-hefe, says Zoberg, lives a medium who

will prove the case for spiritism.

T albot wills, the narrator, is a The medium is an attractive girl, Susan former stage magician. Skeptical Gird. At a seance, a bestial shape appears of psychic phenomena, he goes in the darkened room and kills John with Doctor Zoberg to an isolated hamlet. Gird, the medium s father. The town

This story began In WEIBD TALES for Januarj- 339



constable accuses Wills, as the only person able to escape the manacles which confined everyone in the room. A mob gathers to lynch the supposed murderer, and he manages to escape from a cell, fleeing for shelter to a grove on the edge of town. This is called the Devil’s Croft, and custom and local law forbid anyone to enter it.

Once inside, he finds, though a blizzard rages without, the grove is as warm and green as the tropics. In its depths he encounters and fights with the same beastshape that killed John Gird. By a lucky blow he stuns it, and is horrified to see it turning gradually human. He flees from the grove and meets Judge Keith Pursuivant, a scholarly recluse, who shelters him and shows him, by logic and by quotation of distinguished authorities, that a werewolf can be explained by the spiritist theorj’ of ectoplasmic materialization.

The following day Judge Pursuivant goes to town to observe conditions, and sends Susan Gird to his home to talk to Wills. The two are beginning to be drawn to each other, though in Wills’ mind lingers the possibility that Susan Gird may have a complex personality that sometimes materializes the beast-thing.

Returning from town, the judge tells them that the mysterious monster, apparently still in the forbidden grove, has claimed another victim.

The story continues:

11. "To Meet that Monster Face to Face!"

I THINK that both Susan and I fairly reeled before this new's, like actors registering surprize in an old-fashioned melodrama. As for Judge Pursuivant, he turned to the table, cut a generous wedge of the meat pie and set it, all savory and steaming, on a plate for himself. His

calm zest for the good food gave us others steadiness again, so that we sat down and even ate a little as he described his day in town.

He had found opportunity to talk to Susan in private, confiding in her about me and finally sending her to me; this, as he said, so that we would convince each other of our respective innocences. It was purely an inspiration, for he had had no idea, of course, that such conviction would turn out so final. Thereafter he made shift to enter the Gird house and talk to Doctor Zoberg.

That worthy he found sitting somewhat limply in the parlor, with John Girds coffin in the next room. Zoberg, the judge reported, was mystified about the murder and anxious to bring to justice the townsfolk — there were more than one, it seemed — who had beaten him. Most of all, however, he was concerned about the charges against me.

"His greatest anxiety is to prove you innocent,” Judge Pursuivant informed me. ‘'He intends to bring the best lawyer possible for your defense, is willing even to assist in paying the fee. He also swears that character witnesses can be brought to testify that you are the most peaceable and law-abiding man in the country.”

“That’s mighty decent of him,” I said. “According to your reasoning of this morning, his attitude proves him innocent, too.”

“What reasoning was that?” asked Susan, and I was glad that the judge continued without answering her.

“I was glad that I had sent Miss Susan on. If your car had remained there, Mr. Wills, Doctor Zoberg might have driven oS in it to rally your defenses.”

“Not if I know him,” I objected. “Tlie whole business, what of the mystery and occult significances, will hold him right on the spot. He’s relentlessly

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE

54f

curious and, despite his temporary collapse, he's no coward."

"I agree with that," chimed in Susan.

As for my pursuers of the previous night, tile judge went on, th^ had been roaming the snow-covered streets in twos and threes, heavily armed for the most part and still determined to punish me for killing their neighbor. The council was too frightened or too perplexed to deal with the situation, and the constable was still in bed, with his brother assuming authority, when Judge Pursuivant made his inquiries. The judge went to see the wounded man, who very pluckily determined to rise and take up his duties again.

"I’ll arrest the man who plugged me,” O’Bryant had promised grimly, "and that kid brother of mine can quit playing policeman.”

The judge applauded these sentiments, and brought him hot food and w'hisky, which further braced his spirits. In the evening came the invasion by the younger O'Bry’ant of the Devil's Croft, and his resultant death at the claws and teeth of what prowled there.

"His throat was so tom open and filled with blood that he could not speak,” the judge concluded, "but he pointed back into the timber, and then tried to trace something in the snow with his finger. It looked like a wolfs head, with pointed nose and ears. He died before he finished."

"You saw him come out?" I asked.

"No. I’d gone back to town, but later I saw the body, and the sketch in the snow.”

He finished his dinner and pushed bade his chair. "Now,” he said heartily, "it’s up to us.”

"Up to us to do what?” I inquired.

"To meet that monster face to face,” he replied. "There are three of us and, so far as I can ascertain, but one of the

enemy.” Both Susan rffld I started to speak, but he held up his hand, smiling. "I know without being reminded that the odds are still against us, because the one enemy is fierce and blood-drinking, and can change shape and character. Maybe it can project itself to a distance — which makes it all the harder, both for us to face it and for us to get help.”

"I know what you mean by that last," I nodded gloomily. "If tliere were ten thousand friendly constables in the neighborhood, instead of a single hostile one, they wouldn’t believe us.”

"Right,” agreed Judge Pursuivant "We’re like the group of perplexed mortals in Dracula, who had only their own wits and weapons against a monster no more forbidding than ours.”

I T IS hard to show clearly how his constant offering of parallels and rationalizations comforted us. Only the unknown and unknowable can terrify completely. We three were even cheerful over a bottle of wine that William fetched and poured out in three glasses. Judge Pursuivant gave us a toast — "May wolves go hungry!” — and Susan and I drank it gladly.

"Don't forget what’s on our side,'* said tlie judge, putting down his glass. "I mean the stedfast and courageous heart, of which I preached to Wills last night, and which we can summon from within us any time and anywhere. The werewolf, dauntlessly faced, loses its dread; and I tliink we are the ones to face it. Now we’re ready for action.”

I said that I would welcome any kind of action whatsoever, and Susan touched my arm as if in endorsement of the remark. Judge Pursuivant’s spectacles glittered in approval.

"You two will go into the Devil’s Croft,” he announced. 'Tm going bade to town once more.”



"Into the Devil’s Croft!” we almost shouted, both in the same shocked breath.

"Of course. Didn’t we just get through with the agreement all around that the lycanthrope can and must be met face to face? Offense is tlie best defense, as perhaps one hundred thousand athletic trainers have reiterated."

‘Tve already faced the creature once,” I reminded him. "As for appearing dauntless, I doubt my own powers of deceit.”

"You shall have a weapon,” he said. "A fire gives li^t, and we know that such things must have darkness — such as it finds in the midst of that swampy wood. So fill your pockets with matches, both of you."

"How about a gun?" I asked, but he shook his head.

"We don’t want the werewolf killed. That would leave the whole business in mystery, and yourself probably charged with another murder. He’d return to his human shape, you know, the moment he was hurt even slightly."

Susan spoke, very calmly: "I’m ready to go into the Croft, Judge Pursuivant."

He clapped his hands loudly, as if applauding in a theater. "Bravo, my dear, bravo! I see Mr. Wills sets his jaw. That means he’s ready to go with you. Very well, let us be off.”

He called to William, who at his orders brought three lanterns — sturdy oldfashioned affairs, protected by strong wire nettings — and filled them with oil. We eadi took one and set out. It had turned clear and frosty once more, and the moon slione too brightly for my comfort, at least. However, as we approached the grove, we saw no sentinels; they could hardly be blamed for deserting, after the fate of the younger O’Bry'ant.

We gained the shadow of the outer cedars unchallenged. Here Judge Pursuivant called a halt, produced a match from

his overcoat pocket and lighted our lanterns all around. I remember that we struck a fresh light for Susan’s lantern; we agreed tliat, silly as the three-on-a match superstition might be, this was no time or place to tempt Providence.

"Come on," said Judge Pursuivant then, and led the way into the darkest part of the immense thicket.

12. "We Are Here at His Alercy."

W E FOLLOWED Judge Pursuivant, Susan and I, without much of a thought beyond an understandable dislike for being left alone on the brink of the timber. It was a slight struggle to get through the close-set cedar hedge, especially for Susan, but beyond it we soon caught up witli the judge. He strode heavily and confidently among the trees, his lantern lield high to shed light upon broad, polished leaves and thick, wet stems. The moist warmth of the grove’s interior made itself felt again, and the judge explained again and at greater length the hot springs that made possible this surprizing condition. All the while he kept going. He seemed to know his way in that forbidden fastness — indeed, he must have explored it many times to go stral^t to his destination.

That destination was a clearing, in some degree like the one where I had met and fought with my hairy pursuer on the night before. This place had, however, a great tree in its center, with branches that shot out in all directions to iiide away the s^ completely. By straining the ears one could catch a faint murmur of water — ^my scalding stream, no doubt. Around us were the thick-set trunks of the forest, filled in between with brush and vines, and underfoot grew velvety moss.

"This will be our headquarters position," said the judge. "Wills, help me

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


gather wood for a fire. Break dead branches from the standing trees — never mind picking up wood from the ground, it will be too damp.”

Together we collected a considerable heap and, crumpling a bit of paper in its midst, he kindled it.

"Now, then,” he went on, 'Tm heading for town. You two will stay here and keep each other company.”

He took our lanterns, blew them out and ran his left arm through the loops of their handles.

"I’m sure that nothing will attack you in the light of the fire. You’re bound to attract whatever skulks hereabouts, however. When I come back, we ought to be prepared to go into the final act of our little melodrama.”

He touched my hand, bowed to Susan, and went tramping away into the timber. The thick leafage blotted his lanternlight from our view before his back had been turned twenty seconds.

Susan and I gazed at each other, and smiled rather uneasily.

“It’s warm,” she breathed, and took off her cloak. Dropping it upon one of the humped roots of the great central tree, she sat down on it with her back to the trunk. ”What kind of a tree is this?”

I gazed up at the gnarled stem, or as much of it as I could see in the firelight. Finally I shook my head.

”I don’t know — I’m no expert,” I admitted. “At least it’s very big, and undoubtedly very old — the sort of tree that used to mark a place of sacrifice.”

At the word "sacrifice,” Susan lifted her shoulders as if in distaste. "You’re right, Talbot. It would be something grim and Druid-like.” She began to recite, half to herself:

Th.it tree in whose dark shadow The fjhastly priest doth reign,

The priest who slew the slayer And shall himself be slain.

"Macaulay,” I said at once. Then, to get her mind off of morbid things, "I had to recite The Lays of Ancient Rome in school, when I was a boy. T wish you hadn’t mentioned it.”

"You mean, because it's an evil omen?’* She shook her head, and contrived a smile that lighted up her pale face. "It’s not that, if you analyze it. 'Shall himself be slain’ — it sounds as if the enemy’s fate is sealed.”

I nodded, then spun around sharply, for I fancied I heard a dull crashing at the edge of the clearing. Then I went here and there, gathering wood enough to keep our fire burning for some time. One branch, a thick, straight one, I chose from the heap and leaned against the big tree, within easy reach of my hand.

"That’s for a club,” I told Susan, and she half shrunk, half stiffened at the implication.

We fell to talking about Judge Pursuivant, the charm and the enigma that invested him. Both of us felt gratitude that he had immediately clarified our own innocence in the grisly slayings, but to both came a sudden inspiration, distasteful and disquieting. I spoke first:

"Susan! Why. did the judge bring us here?”

"He said, to help face and defeat the monster. But — but ”

"Who is that monster?” I demanded. "What human being puts on a semibestial appearance, to rend and kill?”

"Y — you don’t mean the judge?”

As I say, it had been in both our minds. We were silent, and felt shame and embarrassment.

"Look here,” I went on earnestly after a moment; ’ 'perhaps we’re being ungrateful, but we mustn't be unprepared. 'Think, Susan; nobody knows where Judge Pursuivant was at the time of your father’s death, at the time I saw the thing in tliese woods.” I broke off, remember344


ing how I had met the judge for the first time, so shortly after my desperate struggle with the point-eared demon. “Nobody knows w'here he was w’hen die constable’s brother w'as attacked and mortally wounded.”

She gazed about fearfully. “Nobody,” she added breathlessly, “knows where he is now.”

I was remembering a conversation widi him; he had spoken of books, mentioning a rare, a supposedly non-existent volume. What w'as it? . . . tlie Wicked Bible. And what v/as it I had once heard about that work?

It came back to me now, out of the sub-conscious brain-chamber where, apparently, one stores everything he hears or reads in idleness, and from which such items creep on occasion. It had been in Lewis Spence’s Encyclopedia of Occultism, now on the sliclf in my New York apartment.

Tlie Wicked Bible, saipture for witclies and wizards, from which magic-mongers of the Dark Ages drew their inspiration and their knowledge! And Judge Pursuivant had admitted to having one!

What had he learned from it? How had he been so glib about the science — yes, and the psychology — of being a werew'olf?

"If what we suspect is true,” I said to Susan, “w'e are here at his mercy. Nobody is going to come in here, not tf horses dragged them. At his leisure he will fall upon us and tear us to pieces.”

But, even as I spoke, I despised myself for my w'eak fears in her presence. I picked up my club and was comforted by its weight and thickness.

“I met tha^ devil once,” I said, studying dieer and confidence into my voice this time. “I don’t think it relished the meeting any too much. Next time won’t be any more profitable for it.”

She smiled at me, as if in comradely

encouragement; then we both started and fell silent. There had risen, somewhere among the thickets, a long low whining.

I PUT out a foot, stealtliily, as though fearful of being caught in motion. A quick kick flung more w'ood on tlie fire. I blinked in the light and felt the heat. Standing there, as a primitive man might have stood in his flame-guarded camp to face the horrors of the ancient world, I tried to judge by ear the direction of that whine.

It died, and I heard, perhaps in my imagination, a stealthy padding. Then the whining began again, from a new quarter and nearer.

I made myself step toward it. My shadow, leaping grotesquely among the tree trunks, alnwst frightened me out of my wits. The whine had changed into a cnDoning w-ail, such as that with which dogs salute the full moon. It seemed to plead, to promise; and it was coming closer to die clearing.

Once before I had challenged and taunted the thing with scornful w'ords. Now I could not make my lips form a single syllable. Probably it was just as well, for I thought and watched the more. Something black and cautious was moving among the branches, just beyond the shrubbery that screened it from our firelight. I knew, without need of a clear view, what that black something was. I lifted my club to the ready.

The sound it made had become in some fashion articulate, though not human in any quality. There were no words to it, but it spoke to the heart. Tlie note of plea and promise had become one of command — and not directed to me.

I found my own voice.

“Get out of here, you devil!” I roared at it, and threw my club. Even as I let go of it, I wished I had not. llie bushes foiled my aim, and the missile crashed

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


among them and dropped to the mossy ground. The creature fell craftily silent. Then I felt sudden panic and regret at being left weaponless, and I retreated toward the fire.

"Susan,” I said huskily, "give me another stick. Hurry!”

She did not move or stir, and I rummaged frantically among the heaped dry branches for myself. Catching up die first piece of wood that would serve, I turned to her witli w'orried curiosity.

She w'as still seated upon the cloakdraped root, but she had drawn herself tense, like a cat before a mouse-hole. Her head was thrust forward, so far that lier neck extended almost horizontally. Her dilated eyes w’ere turned in the direction from which the whining and crooning had come. They had a strange clarity in them, as if tliey could pierce the twigs and leaves and meet there an answering, understanding gaze.

"Susan!" I cried.

Still she gave no sign that she heard me, if hear me she did. She leaned farther forward, as if ready to spring up and run. Once more tlie unbeastly W’ail rose from the place where our watcher w’as lurking.

Susan’s lips trembled. From them came slowly and softly, then louder, a long-draw’n answering howl.

"Aoooooooooooooo! Aooooooooooooooooooo!'*

The stick almost fell from my hands. She rose, slowly but confidently. Her shoulders bundled higli, her arms hung forw'ard as thougli they wanted to reach to tlie ground. Again she howled:

''Aoooooooooooooooooooor

I saw that she was going to move across the clearing, toward the trees — through the trees. My heart seemed to twist into a knot inside me, but I could not let her do such a thing. I made a

quick stride and planted myself before her.

"Susan, you mustn't!"

She shrank back, her face turning slow* ly up to mine. Her back was to the fire, yet light rose in her cj'es, or perhaps behind them; a green light, such as reflects in still forest pools from the moon. Her hands lifted suddenly, as though to repel me. They were half closed and the crooked fingers drawn stiff, like talons.

"Susan!" I coaxed her, yet again, and she made no answer but tried to slip sidewise around me. I moved and headed her off, and she growled — actually growled, like a savage dog.

With my free hand I clutdied her shoulder. Under my fingers her flesh was as taut as wire fabric. Then, suddenly, it relaxed into human tissue again, and she was standing straight. Her eyes had lost their w'eird light, they showed only dark and frightened.

"Talbot,” she stammered. "Wh — what have I been doing.^"

"Notliing, my dear,” I comforted her. "It was nothing that we weren't able to fight back.”

From the woods behind me came a throttling yelp, as of some hungry thing robbed of prey within its very grasp. Susan swayed, seemed about to drop, and I caught her quickly in my arms. Holding her thus, I turned my head and laughed over my shoulder.

"Another score against you!” I jeered at my enemy. "You didn't get her, not with all your filthy enchantments!”

Susan w’as beginning to cr)', and I half led, half carried her back to the fireside. At my gesture she sat on her cloak again, as tractable as a cliild w'ho repents of rebellion and tries to be obedient.

There were no more sounds from the timber. I could feel an emptiness there, as if the monster had slunk away, baffled.



23. "Vgbfs Our Best Weapon.”

N either of us said anything for a while after that. I stoked up the £re, to be doing something, and it made us so uncomfortably warm that we had to crowd away from it. Sitting close against the tree-trunk, I began to imagine something creeping up the blade lane of shadow it cast behind us to the edge of the clearing; and yet again I thought I heard noises, Club in hand, I went to investigate, and I was not disappointed in the least when I found nothing.

Finally Susan spoke. "This,” she said, *’is a new light on the thing.”

"It’s nothing to be upset about,” I tried to comfort her.

"Not be upset!” She sat straight up, and in the light of the fire I could see a single pained line between her brows, deep and sharp as a chisel-gash. "Not when I almost turned into a beast!”

"How much of that do you remember?” I asked her.

"I was foggy in my mind, Talbot, almost as at the seance, but I remember being drawn-— drawn to what was waiting out there.” Her eyes sought the thickets on the far side of our blaze. "And it didn’t seem horrible, but pleasant and welcome and — well, as if it were my kind. You,” and she glanced quickly at me, then ashamedly away, "you were suddenly strange and to be avoided.”

"Is that all?”

"It spoke to me,” she went on in husky horror, "and I spoke to it.”

I forbore to remind her that the only sound she had uttered was a wordless howl. Perhaps she did not know that — I hoped not. We said no more for another awkward time.

Finally she mumbled, "I’m not the kind of woman who cries easily; but I’d like to now.”

"Go ahead,” I said at once, and she

did, and I let her. Whether I took her into my arms, or whether she came into them of her own accord, I do not remember exactly; but it was against my shoulder that she finished her weeping, and when she had finished she did feel better.

"That somehow washed the fog and the fear out of me,” she confessed, almost brightly.

It must have been a full hour later that rustlings rose yet again in the timber. So frequently had my imagination tricked me that I did not so much as glance up. Then Susan gave a little startled cry, and I sprang to my feet. Beyond the fire a tall, gray shape had become visible, with a pale glare of light around it.

"Don’t be alarmed,” called a voice I knew. "It is I — Otto Zoberg.”

"Doctor!” I cried, and hurried to meet him. For the first time in my life, I felt tliat he was a friend. Our differences of opinion, once making companionship strained, had so dwindled to nothing in comparison to tlie danger I faced, and his avowed trust in me as innocent of murder.

"How are you?” I said, wringing his hand. "'They say you were hurt by the mob.”

”Ach, it was nothing serious,” he reassured me. "Only this.” He touched with his forefinger an eye, and I could see that it was bruised and swollen half shut. "A citizen with too ready a fist and too slow a mind has that to answer for.”

"I’m partly responsible,” I said. “You were trying to help me, I understand, when it happened.”

M ore noise behind him, and two more shapes pushed into the clearing. I recognized Judge Pursuivant, nodding to me with his eyes bright under his wide hat-brim. The other man, angular, falcon-faced, one arm in a sling, I had also seen before. It was Constable O’BryTHE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


ant. I spoke to him, but he gazed past me, apparently not hearing.

Doctor Zoberg saw my perplexed frown, and he turned back toward the constable. Snapping long fingers in front of the great hooked nose, he whistled shrilly, O’Bryant started, grunted, then glared around as though he had been suddenly and rudely awakened.

"What’s up.^" he growled menacingly, and his sound hand moved swiftly to a holster at his side. Then his eyes found me, and with an oath he drew his revolver.

"Easy, Constable! Easy does it," soothed Judge Pursuivant, his own great hand clutching O’Bryant's wrist "You’ve forgotten that I showed how Mr. Wills must be innocent."

"I’ve forgotten what we’re here for at all," snapped O’Bryant, gazing around die clearing. "Hey, have I been drunk or sometliing? I said that I'd never "

"I’ll explain," offered Zoberg. "The judge met me in town, and we came together to see you. Remember? You said you would like to avenge your brother’s death, and came with us. Then, when you balked at the very edge of this De\'irs Croft, I took the libert)' of hypnotizing you."

"Huh? How did you do that?” growled the officer.

"With a look, a w’ord, a motion of the hand,” said Zoberg, his eyes twinkling. "Then you ceased all objections and came in with us.”

Pursuivant clapped O’Bryant on the unwounded shoulder. "Sit down," he Invited, motioning toward tlie roots of the tree.

The five of us gathered around tlie fire, like picknickers instead of allies against a supernormal monster. There, at Susan’s insistence, I told of what had happened since Judge Pursuivant had left us. All listened with rapt attention, the constable

grunting occasionally, the judge clicking his tongue, and Doctor Zoberg in absolute silence.

It was Zoberg who made the first comment after I had finished. "This explains many things," he said.

"It don’t explain a doggone thing,” grumbled O’Bryant.

Zoberg smiled at him, then turned to Judge Pursuivant. "Your ectoplasmic theory of lycanthropy — such as you have explained it to me — is most interesting and, I think, valid. May I advance it a trifle?”

"In what way?” asked the judge.

"Ectoplasm, as you see it, forms the werew’olf by building upon the medium’s body. But is not ectoplasm more apt, according to the obsen'ations of many people, to draw’ completely aw'ay and form a separate and complete thing of itself? The thing may be beastly, as you suggest. Algernon Blackw’ood, the English writer of ps)’chic stories, almost hits upon it in one of his 'John Silence’ tales. He described an astral personality taking form and threatening harm while its physical body slept.”

"I know the stor)’ you mean,” agreed Judge Pursuivant. ”The Camp of the Dog, I think it’s called."

"Very well, then. Perhaps, while Miss Susan’s body lay in a trance, securely handcuffed between Wills and myself "

"Oh!” wailed Susan. "Then it was I, after all.’’

"It couldn’t have been you,” I told her at once.

"But it was! And, while I was at the judge’s home wdth you, part of me met the constable’s brother in this wood." She stared wildly around her.

"It might as well have been part of me," I argued, and O’Bryant glared at me as if in sudden support of that likelihood. But Susan shook her head.



"No, for which of us responded to the call of that thing out there?"

For the hundredth time she gazed fearfully through tlie fire at the bushes behind which the commanding whine had risen.

"I have within me," she said dully, "a nature that will break out, look and act like a beast-demon, will kill even my

beloved father "

"Please,” interjected Judge Pursuivant earnestly, "you must not take responsibility upon yourself for what happened. If the ectoplasm engendered by you made up the form of the killer, the spirit may have come from without"

"How could it?" she asked wretcliedly. "How could Afarthe Beraud exude ectoplasm that formed a bearded, masculine body?" Pursuivant looked across to Zoberg. "Doctor, you surely know the famous 'Bien Boa’ seance, and how the materialized entit)' spoke Arabic when the medium, a Frenchwoman, knew little or nothing of that language?"

Zoberg sat with bearded chin on lean hand. His joined brows bristled the more as he corrugated his forehead in thought. "We are each a thousand personalities," he said, sententiously if not comfortingly. "How can we rule tliem all, or rule even one of them?"

O ’BRYANT said sourly that all this talk was too high flown for him to understand or to enjoy. He dared hope, however, that the case could never be tied up to Aliss Susan Gird, whom he had known and liked since her babyhood.

"It can never do that,” Zoberg said definitely. "No court or jury would convict her on the evidence we are offering against her.”

I ventured an opinion: "While you are attempting to show that Susan is a w'erewolf, you are forgetting that something else was prowling around our fire, just out of sight."

*^Ach, just out of sight!" echoed Zoberg. "'That means you aren't sure what it was."

"Or even that there was anything,” added Susan, so suddenly and strongly that I, at least, jumped.

"There was something, all right," I insisted. "I heard it."

"You thought you heard a sound behind the tree,” Susan reminded me. "You looked, and there was nothing."

Everyone gazed at me, rather like staid adults at a naughty child. I said, ungraciously, that my imagination was no better than theirs, and that I was no easier to frighten. Judge Pursuivant suggested that we make a search of the surrounding woods, for possible dues.

“A good idea,” approved G)nstable O’Bryant. "The ground’s damp. We might find some sort of footprints."

‘ 'Then you stay here with Miss Susan," the judge said to him. "We others will drcle around.”

The gaunt constable shook his head. "Not much, mister. I'm in on whatever searching is done. I’ve got something to settle with whate\'er killed my kid brotlier."

"But there are only three lanterns,” pointed out Judge Pursuivant. "We have to carry them — light’s our best weapon."

Zoberg then spoke up, rather diffidently, to say that he would be glad to stay witli Susan. This was agreed upon, and the other three of us prepared for the seardi.

I took the lantern from Zoberg’s hand, nodded to the others, and walked away among the trees.

14. "IWas—JAm-^Wolf

D eliberately I had turned my face toward the section beyond the fire, for, as I have said repeatedly, it was there

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


that I had heard the movements and cries of the being that had so strongly moved and bewitched Susan. My heart whispered rather loudly that I must look for myself at its traces or lack of them, or for ever view myself with scorn.

Almost at once I found tracks, the booted tracks of my three allies. Shaking my lantern to make it flare higher, I went deeper among the clumps, my eyes quartering the damp earth. After a few moments I found what I had come to look for.

The marks were round and rather vague as to toe-positions, yet not so clearcut as to be made by hoofs. Rather they suggested a malformed stump or a palm with no fingers, and they were deep enough to denote considerable weight; the tracks of my own shoes, next to them, were rather shallower. I bent for a close look, then straightened up, looked everywhere at once, and held my torch above my head to shed light all around; for I had suddenly felt eyes upon me.

I caught just a glimpse as of two points of light, fading away into some leafage and in the direction of the clearing, and toward them I made my way; but there was nothing there, and the only tracks underfoot were of shod human beings, myself or one of the others. I returned to my outward search, following the round tracks.

They were plainly of only tv'o feet — there were no double impressions, like those of a quadruped — but I must have stalked along them for ten minutes when I realized that I had no way of telling whether they went forward or backward. I might be going away from my enemy instead of toward it. A close examination did me little good, and I further pondered that the creature w'ould lurk near the clearing, not go so straight away. Thus arguing within myself, I doubled back.

Coming again close to the startingpoint, I thought of a quick visit to the clearing and a comforting word or two with Susan and 2k>berg. Surely I was almost there; but why did not the fire gleam through the trees.? Were they out of wood.? Perplexed, I quickened my pace. A gnarled tree grew in my path, its low branches heavily bearded with vines. Beyond this rose only the faintest of glows. I paused to push aside some strands and peer.

The fire had almost died, and by its light I but half saw two figures, one tall and one slender, standing together well to one side. They faced eafh other, and the taller — a seeming statue of wet-looking gray — held its companion by a shoulder. The other gray hand was stroking the smaller one’s head, pouring grayness thereon.

I saw only this much, without stopping to judge or to wonder. Then I yelled, and sprang into the clearing. At my outcry the two fell apart and faced me. The smallest was Susan, who took a step in my direction and gave a little smothered whimper, as though she was trying to speak through a blanket. I ran to her side, and with a rough sweep of my sleeve I cleared from her face and head a mass of slimy, sliiny jelly.

"You!” I challenged tlie other shape. *'What have you been trying to do to her?”

For only a breathing-space it stood still, as featureless and clumsy as a halfformed figure of gray mud. Then darkness sprang out upon it, and hair. Eyes blazed at me, green and fearsome. A sharp muzzle opened to emit a snarl.

"Now I know you,” I hurled at it. "I’m going to kill you.”

And I charged.

Claws ripped at my head, missed and tore the cloth of my coat. One of my



arms shot around a lean, hairj’ middle with powerful muscles straining under its skin, and I drove my other fist for where I judged the pit of the stomach to be. Grappled, we fell and rolled over. Tlie beast smell I remembered was all about us, and I knew that jaw^s were shoving once again at my throat. I jammed my forearm between them, so far into the hinge of them that they could not close nor crush. My other hand clutched the skin of the throat, a great loose fistful, drew it taut and began to ts\’ist with all my strength. I heard a half-broken yelp of strangled pain, felt a slackening of the body that s^ggled against me, knew that it was trying to get away. But I managed to roll on top, straddling the thing.

’’You’re not so good on defense,” I panted, and brought my other hand to the throat, for I had no otlier idea save to kill. Paws grasped and tore at my wrists. There was shouting at my back, in Susan’s voice and several others. Hands caught me by the shoulders and tried to pull me up and away.

"No!” I cried. ‘‘This is it, the werewolf'”

“It’s Doctor Zoberg, you idiot,” growled O'Bryant in my ear. “Come on, let him up."

"Yes,” added Judge Pursuivant, "it’s Doctor 2k)b€rg, as you say; but a moment ago it was the monster we have been hunting,"

I had been dragged upright by now, and so had Zoberg. He could only choke and glare for the time being, his fingers to his half-crushed throat. Pursuivant had moved within clutching distance of him, and was eyeing him as a cat eyes a mouse.

"Like Wills, I only pretended to search, then doubled back to w'atch,” went on the judge. "I saw Zoberg and Miss Susan talking. He spoke quietly, rhythmically,

commandingly. She went into half a trance, and I knew she was hypnotized.

"As the fire died down, he began the change. Ectoplasm gushed out and over him. Before it took form, he began to smear some upon her. And Mr. Wills here came out of the woods and at him."

O’Bryant looked from the judge to Zoberg. Then he fumbled with his undamaged hand in a hip pocket, produced handcuffs and stepped forward. The accused man grinned through his beard, as if admitting defeat in some trifling game. Then he held out his wrists with an air of resignation and I, who had manacled them once, wondered again at their corded strcngtli. The irons clicked shut upon one, then the other.

"You know everything now,” said Zoberg, in a soft voice but a steady one. "I was — I am — a wolf; a wolf who hoped to mate with an angel.”

His bright eyes rested upon Susan, who shrank back. Judge Pursuivant took a step toward the prisoner.

"There is no need for you to insult her,” he said.

Zoberg grinned at him, with every long tooth agleam. "Do you want to hear my confession, or don't you?’’

"Sure we want to hear it," grunted O’Bry’ant. "Leave him alone, judge, and let him talk.” He glanced at me. "Got any paper, Mr. Wills? Somebody better take this down in w'riting."

I produced a wad of note-paper and a stub pencil. Placing it upon my knee, with the lantern for ligiit, I scribbled, almost word for word, the tale that Doctor Zoberg told.

15 . ‘'And That Is the End”

“T>crhaps I was bom what I am,” he i began. "At least, even as a lad I knew that there was a lust and a power for evil w'ithin me. Night called to me,,

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


where it frightens most children. I would slip out of my father's house and run for miles, under the trees or across fields, with the moon for company. This was in Germany, of course, before the war."

"During the war ” began Judge

Pursuivant.

"During the war, when most men were fighting, I was in prison.” Again Zoberg grinned, briefly and without cheer. "I had found it easy and inspiring to kill persons, with a sense of added strength following. But they caught me and put me in what they called an asylum. I was supposed to be crazy. They confined me closely, but I, reading books in the library, grew to know what the change was that ame upon me at certain intervals. I turned my attention to it, and became able to control the change, bringing it on or holding it off at will.”

He looked at Susan again. "But I'm ahead of my story. Once, when I W'as at school, I met a girl — an American student of science and philosophy. She laughed at my wooing, but talked to me about spirits and psychical phenomena. That, my dear Susan, was your mother. When the end of the war brought so many new things, it also brought a different viewpoint toward many inmates of asylums, ^me Viennese doctors, and later Sigmund Freud himself, found my case interesting. Of course, they did not arrive at the real truth, or they would not have procured my release.”

"After that,” I supplied, writing swiftly, "you became an expert psydiical investigator and journeyed to America.’*

"Yes, to find the girl who had once laughed and studied with me. After some years I came to this town, simply to trace the legend of this Devil’s Croft. And here, I found, she had lived and died, and left behind a daughter that was her image.”

Judge Pursuivant cleared his throat. "I suspect that you're leaving out part of your adventures, Doctor.”

Zoberg actually laughed. ‘']a, I thought to spare you a few shocks. But if you will have them, you may. I visited Russia — and in 1922 a medical commission of the Soviet Union investigated several score mysterious cases of peasants killed — and eaten." He licked his lips, like a cat who thinks of meat. "In Paris I founded and conducted a rather interesting night school, for the study of diabolism in its relationship to science. And in 1936 , certain summer vacationists on Long Island were almost frightened out of tlieif wits by a lurking thing that seemed half beast, half man.” He chuckled. "Your Uterary Digest made much of it. The lurking thing was, of course, myself.”

We stared. "Say, why do you do these things,^” the constable blurted.

Zoberg turned to him, head quizzically aslant. "Why do you uphold your local laws? Of why does Judge Pursuivant study ancient philosophies? Or why do Wilis and Susan turn soft eyes upon each other? Because the heart of ea^ so insists.”

Susan was clutching my arm. Her fingers bit into my flesh as Zoberg’s eyes sought her again.

"I found the daughter of someone I once loved,” he went on, with real gentl«iess in his voice. "Wills, at least, can see in her what I saw. A new inspiration came to me, a wish and a plan to have a comrade in my secret exploits.”

"A beast-thing like yourself?” prompted the judge.

Zoberg nodded. "A lupa to my lupus. But this girl — Susan Gird — had not inherited the psychic possibilities of her mother.”

"What!” I shouted. "You yourself said


WEIIO) TALES

that she was the greatest medium of all time!”

”1 did say so. But it was a lie.”

"Why, in heaven's name ”

"It was my hope,” he broke in quietly. "to make of her a medium, or a lycanthrope — call the phenomenon which you will. Are you interested in my proposed method?” He gazed mockingly around, and his eyes rested finally upon me. "Make full note^, Wills. This will be interesting, if not stupefying, to the psychic research committees.

"It is, as you know, a supernormal substance that is exuded to ^ange the appearance of my lx>dy. What, I wondered, would some of tiiat substance do if snieared upon her?”

I started to growl out a curse upon him, but Judge Pursuivant, rapt, motioned for me to k«ip silent.

"TJiink back through all the demonologies you have rc*ad,” Zoberg was urging. "What of the strange 'witch ointments' tliat, spread over an ordinary’ human body, gave it beast-form and beastheart? There, again, legend had basis in scientific fact.”

"By the tlumder, you're logical,” muttered Judge Pursuivant.

"And damnable,” I added. "Go on. Doctor. You were going to smear the change-stuff upon Susan.”

"But first. I knew, I must convince her that she had within her the essence of a wolf. And so, tlie seances."

"She was no medium,” I said again.

"I made her think she w’as. I hypnotized her, and myself did weird wonders dn the dark room. But she, in a trance, did not know'. I needed witnesses to convince her.”

"So you invited Mr. Wills,” supplied Judge Pursuivant.

"Yes, and her fatlier. They had been prepared to accept her as medium and me

as obser\'er. Seeing a beast-form, tliqr would tell her afterward that it was she.”

"Zoberg,” I said between set teeth, "you're convicted out of your own mouth of rottenness that convinces me of the existence of the Devil after whom this grove w'as named. I wish to heaven that I'd killed you when w’e were fighting.”

"Ach, Wills,” he chuckled, "you’d have missed this most entertaining autobiographical lecture.”

"He’s right,” grumbled O'Bryant; and, "Let him go on,” the judge pleaded w’ith me.

“/^NCE sure of this power within V-/ her,” Zoberg said deeply, "she would be prepared in heart and soul to change at touch of the ointment — the ectoplasm. Then, to me she must turn as a fellow-creature. Together, throughout the world, adventuring in a way unbelievable ”

His voice died, and we let it. He stood in the firelight, head throw’n back, manacled hands folded. He might have been a mart)T instead of a fiend for w’hom a death at the stake w'ould be too easy.

"I can tell what spoiled the seance,” I told him after a moment. "Gird, sitting opposite, saw that it was you, not Susan, who had changed. You had to kill him to keep him from telling, there and then.”

"Yes,” agreed Zoberg. "After tint, you were arrested, and, later, threatened. I was in an awkward position. Susan must believe herself, not you, guilty. That is why I have championed you throughout. I w'ent tlien to look for you.”

"And attacked me,” I added.

"The beast-self was ascendant. I cannot always control it completely.” He sighed. "When Susan disappeared, I went to look for her on the second evening. When I came into this wood, the W. T.— 6

THE HAIRY ONES SHALL DANCE


change took place, half automatically. Associations, I suppose. Constable, your brotlier happened upon me in an evil hour.”

"Yep,” said 0’Br)’ant gruffly.

"And that is the end,” Zoberg said. "The end of the story and, I suppose, the end of me.”

'You bet it is,” the constable assured him. 'You came with the judge to finish your rotten work. But we re finishing it for you.”

"One moment," interjected Judge Pursuivant, and his fire-lit face betrayed a perplexed frown. "The story fails to explain one important tiling.”

"Does it so?” prompted Zoberg, inclining toward him with a show of negligent grace.

"If you were able to free yourself and kill Mr. Gird ”

"By heaven, that's right!” I broke in. "You were chained, Zoberg, to Susan and to your diair. I’d go bail for tlie strength and tightness of those handcuffs.”

He grinned at each of us in turn and held out his hands with their manacles. "Is it not obvious?” he inquired.

We looked at him, a trifle blankly I suppose, for he chuckled once again.

"Another employment of the ectoplasm, that useful substance of change,” he said gently. "At will my arms and legs assume thickness, and hold the rings of the confining irons wide. Then, when I wish, they grow slender again, and ”

He gave his hands a sudden flirt, and the bracelets fell from tliem on the instant. He pi\-oted and ran like a deer.

"Shoot!” cried the judge, and O'Biyant whipped the big gun from his holster.

Zoberg was almost within a vine-laced clump of bushes when O’Bry'ant fired, I heard a shrill scream, and saw Zoberg falter and drop to his hands and knees.

We were all starting forward. I paused a moment to put Susan behind me, and in that moment O’Biyant and Pursuivant sprang ahead and came up on either side of Zoberg. He was still alive, for he writhed up to a kneeling position and made a frantic dutch at the judge’s coat. O'Bryant, so close that he barely raised his hand and arm, fired a second time.

Zoberg spun around somehow on his knees, stiffened and screamed. Perhaps I should say that he howled. In his voice was the inarticulate agony of a beast wounded to death. Tlien he collapsed.

Both men stooped above him, cautious but tliorough in their examination. Finally Judge Pursuivant straightened up and faced toward us.

"Keep Miss Susan there witli you,” he warned me. "He’s dead, and not a pretty sight.”

Slowly they came back to us. Pursuivant was thoughtful, while O’Biyant, Zoberg’s killer, seemed cheerful for the first time since I had met him. He even smiled at me, as Punch would smile after striking a particularly telling blow with his cudgel. Rubbing his pistol caressingly with his palm, he stowed it carefully away.

'Tm glad that’s over,” he admitted. "My brother can rest easy in his grave."

"And we have our work cut out for us,” responded the judge. "We must decide just how much of the truth to tell when we make a report.”

O’Brj-ant dipped his head in sage acquiescence. "You’re right,” he rumbled. "Yes, sir, you’re right.”

"Would you bclie\'c me,” said the judge, "if I told you that I knew' it was Zoberg. almost from the first?”

But Susan and I, facing each other, were beyond being surprized, even at that.

W. T.— 7

[THE END]

uarded

By MEARLE PROUT

'A brief tale of a murder and an attempted murder — by the author of ''The House of the Worm"

T he sound of a shot suddenly broke the stillness of the May morning, and echoed back from across the valley. A puff of blue smoke arose from a clump of green-briars and drifted away downwind. Out in the road, Abner Simmons dropped the bag of grain he was carrying and, with a look of dumb surprize, sank in a quivering heap to the ground. Half his side had been shot away.

The green-briars parted with a sudden life and Jed Tolliver emerged, straightening his long form as he shambled toward the road. As he walked he broke his double-barreled shotgun, flicked out the empty cartridge and blew through the barrel, sending a thin stream of acrid smoke out of the chamber. He stooped over his fallen enemy.

"Said I’d get you," he reminded the other brutally. He inserted a fresh cartridge and closed the gun with a snap.

The man in the road rolled over with a convulsive movement and stared up at him.

"That kid brother of yours is next — and last,” Jed continued. "Then I’ll be riirough with the lot of you."

Abner grinned. It is an awful thing to see a dying man grin. Jed shuddered in spite of himself.

' "You can’t, Jed — not Ezekiel "

It was not a pleading. Rather, it was calm, assured, as though the other were stating a known fact. Jed shuddered again, before he felt quick anger rising.

"I got you, didn’t I.^” he said, ejecting a thick stream of tobacco juice. "What makes you think I won’t get Ezekiel the same way.^”

"You won’t, Jed — ^you can’t — because — I won’t let you!”

He was fast weakening from the frightful flow of blood. Overcome from the effort of speaking, Abner closed his eyes and lay still. A second later a sudden convulsive movement shook his body, and his eyes opened again. This time they were fixed and staring.

With a grunt of satisfaction Jed shouldered his gun and started bade up the mountain, moving with tlie long effortless stride of the Tennessee mountaineer. He did not fear punishment for his crime. Here in the Tennessee mountains the long arm of tlie law seldom reached. The only thing to fear in a case of this kind was the dead man’s relatives, and now there was only one — Ezekiel, a slim lad of twenty, who could not even shoot expertly.

Yes, Jed reflected as his long strides carried him through the sparse growth of cedar and blackjack, this part of Tennessee would soon again be a decent, Godfearing community. . . . Foreigners, the Simmonses had been, from somewhere back East — Carolina, or Virginia, maybe. They hadn’t been like the mountainfolk. . . .

And what was that crazy talk Abner had made? He’d stop Jed from getting Ezdciel? How could he, if he was dead?

GUARDED


Jed chuckled to himself. Here in Tennessee, folk didn’t believe. . . .

M ore than a week passed before Jed a^ain took his well-oiled shotgun from its place on tlie wall and started over the mountain. He was in no great liurry about Ezekiel — instead, he rather enjoyed waiting. Ezekiel was the last of the three Simmons brothers, and knowing that the foreigner w'as over there, and tliat he was going to kill him, gave life a curious sort of zest. . . . Likely the kid didn’t even know who shot his brother. Jed laughed silently at the thought, adding to himself that the boy probably wouldn’t do anything about it if he did know. He wasn’t like the mountain people. . . .

But this morning all of Jed’s impatience had returned. The sun shone hotly on the Tennessee hills, and raised an almost visible veil of vapor from the tiny branch which flowed through the hollow. Well, he’d w’aited long enough. With a grimace of distaste at the threemile traipse across tw'O mountains, Jed swung his gun over his shoulder and started down the slope.

Wlien, an hour and a half later, he arrived at the small clearing which was the Simmons place, he was not as tired as he had expected to be. The nervous exhilaration of the man-hunt buoyed him up, made him tensely aware of things around him. He paused only a moment at the fringe of scrub oak that bordered the clearing; then, bending almost double, he sprinted a hundred feet to the grape-arbor.

Safe inside the leafy bower, Jed leaned his gun against a supporting post and looked about. Here the vines had been trained over a rude wmoden lattice so that a thick wall and roof of leaves now effectively hid him from anyone outside.

Jed parted the leaves carefully and peered out. A hundred feet behind him ■was the low wall of forest he had just left; tw'o hundred feet in fropt of him was the house — a rude two-room shade; tw'O hundred feet bej’ond that the w'all of the forest began again. Jed looked at the house more closely. There was no sign of movement, but the thin line of smoke which curled from the chimne)' told him that Ezekiel v/as inside, probably preparing his midday meal. With a sigh of contentment he sat down and leaned back closer to his gun, idly listening to the chatter of birds In the forest, and the rustling of tlie leaves in tlie arbor.

How long Jed sat there he did not know. He was suddenly aroused from a semi-stupor by the sound of a banging door. Startled into instant activity, he swung around to peer through the leaves. Ezekiel was leaving the house, swinging in his hand an empty water-bucket. Going to the spring, Jed reckoned. If so, his path would take him within fifty feet of the arbor. Jed gloated.

With hands suddenly unsteady, tlie man in the arbor laid his gun on the ground, the muzzle barely extending through the leaves. Why take a chance? He would wait — at fifty feet he couldn’t miss.

Unmindful of his danger, Ezekiel came slowly down the path, bearing diagonally nearer to the arbor. . . . Jed suddenly wondered why he no longer heard the aimless chatter of birds in the forest, why the light wind no longer stirred the broad leaves above him. It was uncanny, this noonday quiet. Impatiently, he shook off the feeling.

“So I can’t do'* it, Abner?” he whispered to the empty air, but somehow the words clutched at his throat, and he wished he hadn’t said it. No matter, a few seconds now

35 (>


Jed cuxsed the trembling of his hands as he aimed. What was the matter with him? He could see Ezekiel’s slender form now above the barrel of his gun; he neiA'cd himself to pull tlie trigger. The top of his head suddenly gone cold, Jed dropped the gun and looked quiily around him. No, the day was bright as ever — yet he could have sworn. . . , Halfheartedly now, he picked up tlie gun to sight at the form which had already passed the nearest point. He had not been wrong! A black nebulous cloud hovered over the barrel of his gun and created the illusion of darkest night!

Shrieking a curse, Jed Tolliver leapt upright and pointed, not aimed, the gun at where Ez^el should be. He snapped both triggers simultaneously, but as he fired something clutched at his arm, and the hot lead sizzled harmlessly through the air.

Shaking as with a chill, blind rage within him struggling with black fear, the mountaineer stood irresolutely within his leafy ambush. He was quickly aroused to activity by a loud report and the crash of lead against the wooden lattice. A sharp pain burned his left arm where one of the pellets had found its mark. Ezekiel had fled to the house and opened fire.

Without waiting to reload his gun, Jed crashed through the side of the bower and fled to the safety of the trees. As he entered, buckshot spattered harmlessly around him.

Safe within the sheltering growth, Jed halted to reload his gun.

"Damn you, Abner!” he shouted to the stunted oaks. ’Til get him yet!”

As he turned to go he thought he heard a low mocking laugh, but reasoned later that it was only a squirrel chattering a protest at the sound of his voice.

J ED reached home in a blue funk. *1110 long tramp aaoss the mountains in the early summer heat had melted away most of his fears, but his nerves were still badly shaken. Now that he could look at the incident in a sober light, he refused to credit his senses. As the distance between himself and the scene increased, he had come more and more to believe the occurrence an hallucination, brought on by the long walk througli the heat. After all, he recalled, he had almost fallen asleep in the arbor while waiting for Ezekiel to appear. Perhaps he had dreamed part of it? . . .

However logical Jed believed his explanation, he did not again go near the Simmons place. Weeks passed. Always he promised himself that he would soon finish the task so ingloriously begun, but day by day he waited, until nearly three montiis had gone. At first he had feared Ezekiel had recognized him in those few seconds it had taken to sprint from the grape-arbor to the cover of the woods. Later, as he heard nothing of it, he decided be was safe from that side. The end (^e in an unexpected manner. One afternoon early in August Jed had walked to the village. He stayed longer than he had intended, and shadows were already growing long when he started home. Not wishing to be out later than necessary, he took a short-cut through the woods which would take him within a half-mile of the Simmons place.

The sun was setting as he entered the Simmons hollow, a half-mile below the house. He felt vaguely uneasy. Tliough he told himself he was not frightened, he found himself wishing for the protection of his gun. Nervously, his hand strayed to the hunting-knife stuck in his belt, and tested the keen edge.

Walking diagonally across the hollow, which was largely devoid of trees, he

GUARDED


turned aside to go around a cluster of young cedars which was directly in his path. Suddenly he drew bade sharply. Again his hand tested the keen edge of that knife, but not this time from nervousness. Jed was not thinking now of defense.

Two hundred feet beyond the cedars, on the smooth unbroken grass floor of the hollow, was a man milking. His back was turned to the cedars, but Jed thought he recognized that slim youthful form. He believed it was Ezekiel.

Stepping lightly, one hand on his belt where he could immediately grasp die knife, Jed moved into the open. Halfway aaoss the level space, his hand moved yet closer to the knife, while the ghost of a grin curved his lips. Without a doubt it was Ezekiel Simmons. The man milking did not look up. The milk jetted into the half-filled budeet with a low murmur, just loud enough to mask Jed’s guarded footsteps.

Step by step Jed advanced. If only Ezekiel did not see him! If only the cow did not sense his presence and turn unexpectedly! Step by step further — Jed was tense with excitement. There was no midday sun this time to blind his e)’es and fill his soul with a nameless fear. Nor would he be imnerved by the twilight stillness; it was always still at sunset, here in these mountains. . . .

Ten feet now. The milk still swished into the pail uninterruptedly, the steady grinding of the cow’s molars never ^ased.

Suddenly Jed tugged at his belt and leapt forward.

"Got you!” he shouted aloud.

But the exultant cry died suddenly into a moan of horror. The arm bearing the knife poised high for the blow, Jed felt something like an electric shock course through its length. Instead of swinging foiw’ard to strike the man in front of him, the knife turned in his hand, his wrist and elbow bent at a crazy angle, and the razor-edge steel ripped through the cords of his neck.

Staggered more by his realization of the awful consequences than by present pain, Jed sank to the grass, while gouts of blood spurted from a torn jugular. His first mad terror past, he became aware that Ezekiel was standing over him, scorn darkening his features.

"So it was you, Tolliver. Abner warned me — about you.”

'Td have got you too — only Abner ”

"Abner was a good brother. He told me — weeks before he died — that if anything happened, he’d — guard me.”

Jed felt himself weaker. His head was strangely without weight, and objects around swam lazily in the pale twilight. He lay back on the grass.

"Should have got you, Ezekiel — shouldn’t have — missed,” he murmured sleepily as the shadows gathered.

He raised his head slightly to listen. Was that a light modcing laugh he heard in the grass beside him? He listened again, before the darkness came down. No — he could not be sure. . . .

Vhe

<i7e

eakwood Box

By JOHNS HARRINGTON

San Pedro Joe found the secret that was contained in that intricately carved Oriental box

ETTER pay the cash,” snarled ^llow San Pedro Joe into the telephone mouthpiece. The speaker jerked his head to one side and glanced from the cramped phone booth into the almost-deserted drug store, checking to see whether his conversation had been heard. It was late afternoon — a sultry and stuffy summer day.

'That teakwood box don’t mean much to me,” Joe continued in a hoarse tone. "And if you want it pretty bad. I’ll sell it— othenvdse the thing gets chucked out, see?”

Mrs. Floyd Wright’s tiny, ill-painted cottage in a smelly Los Angeles suburb had been ransacked a few days previously, leaving bedding overturned, furniture stuffings tumbling evetywhere. The teakwood box, to the fidgety old w'oman, far overshadowed in importance the amount of cash and the few pieces of silver which had also been stolen. Oddly carv'ed and strangely arresting, the prize had been a gift to Mrs. Wright from her husband, recently killed in a factory explosion where he had been night watchman. He had purchased the box during a vagabond trip to China in his boyhood days.

The teakwood container had never been opened by either Mrs. Wright or her husband, "Betty,” he used to say while dozing in the parlor and studying the box, "that thing is jinxed, just like I was told. It’s dangerous, leave it alone. There is a dreadful native curse on it.

"I got the box from a streetpeddler in

Shanghai, w'ho told me he bought it from a priest; he said there was a dire curse to anyone who opened the box, but that it would bring power and good luck to tlie owner as long as he did not try to do so. I always have said tliat the box was most likely stolen from a temple by the peddler, or by some other member of tlie street-scum parade,” Wright would conclude.

It W'ould have been difficult to open the box, even if someone did want to pry into it, because its lid was apparently operated by a complex series of springs and pivoting levers. The singularify of the object, its weirdness and strange delicacy, gave it a curious value. When it had been made and by whom — what exotic sights the contoiner had witnessed — ^w'ere unanswered queries which added to the living personality of the teakwood box. An evil power, dull and half asleep, yet again glowing, awakening, seemed inclosed within the meticulously decorated teakw’ood. Though the Wrights had been almost afraid of the box from the start, they had nevertheless believed that the spirit which might lie within it would not hurt them if they did not molest it. for they had lived good lives.

Some day, the spirit would awaken and strike, but it would not be at a time when they were about. Death, red, grinning, and yeliow-fanged, was a part of the exotic treasure; it was not the death of Godfearing men and women, but the bloody, merciless deity of those who belonged in the realm of evil. The little wooden

THE TEAKWOOD BOX


ghouls •which stuck forth from the sides appeared to be tireless, unearthly sentinels, waiting, watcliing for a suitable offering for tlieir drooling master within.

The stick-bodied widow, shut off in a little comer impervious to the noisy streets around her, had prized the sbcinch-high box much more than anything dse she owned, because of the eccentric affection her husband had placed on it ■when he was alive. Though he always feared the box, he would sit and watch it for hours, without uttering mpre tlian a phrase. One time when his wife had returned from shopping, she found him standing in tlie little yard, blanched and trembling.

“Never, nev’er, can "we sell or dispose of that box!” he cried. “The devil inside told me so; if we did, he would do something horrible!”

Mrs. Wright wondered whether her husband had concentrated for so long on the object that his imagination had given him that message, but because of the frightened look in his eyes she accepted what he said and did not question him about it. Wright never spoke about the teakwood box after that, but he sat with it oftener than before; his face, rather than appearing curious, had a grim, hypnotized look as he gazed in silence upon the treasure.

Carefully dusted several times a week, and kept glistening with polish, the curio had rested in a place of honor on the living-room mantelpiece, where it sometimes glowed a mysterious, uncanny luster when a few stray rays of the sun penetrated to it from the curtained windows.

B ut Mrs. Wright could not comply with the ransom demands of the thief who had snatched it and realized the esteem placed on the box by its

ow-ncr, because of the obvious care with which it was kept. The old woman was sniffling softly into a tiny, lace handkerchief which she clutched in thin, ivorycolored hands.

“One hundred and fifty bucks or nothin’!” sneered San Pedro Joe. 'These old people got on his nerves. 'They were so damned irritating and slow.

“But I can’t— can’t get that much money,” trembled Mrs. Wright, her fingers tightening around the phone receiver.

“You’re out of luck then, old woman,” deridingly returned the thief, and hung up. Ordinarily, he would have dickered to get the best price possible for the stolen object, even though it was lower than he first demanded. But in this case, it gave him a feeling of satisfaction to crush brutally the faltering woman’s happiness. San Pedro Joe slowly stepped out of the phone booth, and quickened his pace as he neared the store entrance. He spat at the curbing.

His pasty, selfish face was set off by thin, twisting lips. The black suit he wore was ill-kept, bulging in the wrong places. It was young Joe’s habit to drum his fingers on any surface convenient when he was uneasy, and that ■^■as most of the time. His watery, cold blue eyes were continually shifting, weighing people he encountered. Joe specialized in robbing ill-kept, run-down homes; there was nearly always something worth his troubles, and then his victims seldom could afford to have much investigation concerning their losses. He was like a cunning spider feeding on bewildered, fluttering moths caught in his net.

In half an hour Joe arrived at his apartment, located in a battered, twostory stucco in the southwest part of Los Angeles. A brief stretch of yellow, dry grass ran between the sidewalk and the



plaster-chipped structure. Light from tlic disappearing sun was shining on the cheerless front window's. Leaving his poorlp-kcpt coupe at the curb, he stepped quickly across the withered lawn and up die cement steps of the building to his rooms.

After a snack of cold beans and white bread, gulped with some warmed-over coffee, Joe brought tire teakwood box out from the place where he had hidden it under the messy sink. Darkness had come and the moon had not yet risen. Billows of black, angry clouds w'ere' scattered in the sky. Putting the box on the kitchen table, he stood back and regarded the thing. It appeared ominous and resentful on the scarred table-top under the white ceiling light. Joe tliought he sensed a feeling of unearthly life in the booty before him. Someone down the hall w’as coughing hoarsely, and the thief felt chilled.

Suddenly, Joe returned to himself and bc-came intensely curious about that box. He considered what he had found out about it from Mrs. Wright, who. in her desire to get her treasure badi, had breathlessly poured out tlie whole story when questioned. Maybe Mrs. Wright’s old man had cached some precious stones or money in the container, conjectured Joe, and had fabricated the yarn about the curse in qjdcr to keep people from trying to open the box. The thief, flamed by his greed, decided the teakwood curio deserved an investigation before he discarded it.

At first, he picked up a hammer which was kept in one of the dish-closet drawers, but after a moment's consideration, he determiried to try and open the box by its mechanism. Perhaps he could sell it to an antique-dealer after examining what might be inside. Yet had that been the real reason for his decision to use

care.^ Joe wished that fool down the hall would keep quiet; for the first time in his life he felt uncertain, confused.

San Pedro Joe was proud of his ability to do a neat job on breaking into houses, opening strong-boxes, and his conceit prompted him again to forget his forebodings and test his skill by attempting to discover tlie combination of the box; otherwise, being increasingly nervous, he probably w'ould not have taken the pains which he did to open it so carefully. His fingers trembled — he licked dry, swollen lips. After working for some minutes, he roughly pushed the box from him. Joe imagined tlie curse, the w'ords of evil, an idol guardian might have incanted on the one who pried into the sacred box, for perhaps it contained some treasured jewels or a temple secret, rather than being simply a hiding-place for Wright’s pennies.

T he investigator eagerly, impatiently, bent over the shining teakwood again, as though suddenly possessed, and continued his manipulation of the curio's carved knobs and queer levers. For a moment, he thought he detected a slight, shrill cry, followed by a tiny, penetrating whistle. Sweat broke out on Joe’s brow as he doggedly kept at his task, fascinated, now unable to pause. Shortly he pressed an unobtrusive bump which had been revealed by sliding a ghoulish little figure ornamenting the container’s front - to one side. Tlie lid slowly raised upward, as tliough controlled by a hidden spring. Tlie crook nervously pressed harder on the button he had discovered, in order to hasten the opening of the lid. He w-as waiting for something — his finger seemed frozen to the box, his whole body was stiffened. Sweat was trickling down his back, yet he was somehow cold. Suddenly, a sharp, biting flame burned

THE TEAKWOOD BOX


in his thumb, as though he had put it in a fire of hot coals. A strange numbness ran through his arm. He stared down at the table to sc-e a neatly-concealed needle, probably hollow, slowly retreating into the side of the box; in the same glance he saw that the teakwood curio was empt)', contained nothing.

Blood was on his tliumb, dripping from under the finger-nail, ^’here seemed to be an inflamed, tiny wound. He heard a peculiar, spine-stiffening cackle, on the same penetrating high key as the whistle.

First it came spasmodically, but broke dowm into a low gurgle, a sucking sound. The thief’s heart seemed to bloat and swell, yet tried to beat faster; Joe clutched at his hot brow with clammy, w^eak hands.

Young San Pedro Joe, a short time ago successful light-finger man, fell dead on the kitchen floor. The white light shone on his ill-proportioned, slight body. For a moment, there seemed a slight rustling. A dirt}’, filth-incrusted window ban^d open. But all was quiet outside in the hot, choking night air.

Howard Phillips

Lovecraft

Master-writer of the weird, essayist, poet, 1890-1937

By FRANCIS FLAGG

He lived — and now is dead beyond ail knowing Of life and death: the vast and formless scheme Behind the face of nature ever showing Has swallow^ed up the dreamer and the dream.

But brief the hour he had upon the stream Of timeless time from past to future flowing To lift his sail and catch the luminous gleam Of stars that marked his coming and his going Before he vanished: yet the brilliant wake His passing left is vivid on tlie tide And for the countless centuries will abide:


[THE END]

============================================================
THE HEAD IN THE WINDOW . .
by Roy Temple House
============================================================
The genius that no death can ev'er take Crowns him immortal, though a man has died.

in the Window

(Adapted from the German of Wilhelm von Schoh)

By ROY TEMPLE HOUSE

What strange prescience had the bearded man of his approaching death? An odd little story

I N THE art gallery of a North German city hangs a lurid oil painting which represents two Italians waylaying and attacking a third. I will tell you the history of the painting.

In the nineties of the last century, a young German painter was living in the outskirts of Rome, in an isolated little house surrounded by a vineyard. One fine, bright moonlight night, after sitting over the wine till a late hour with two or three friends down in the city, he came home about midnight. He had to walk some distance beyond the end of the street-car line, through a narrow road that ran between high walls. He never came through that lane late at night without a feeling of apprehension. He was a poor man, he never wore jewelry, his modest brown cape and dilapidated broad-brimmed hat were very much like the clothing of many of his modest neighbors, visibly not the appurtenances of a man of means, and he had had no love affairs in Rome; so that it did not seem as if any sort of ambush was likely. He thought a good deal about his fiancee back in Germany, and he almost always carried a letter from her in his left inside vest pocket, just over his heart. As he walked home he v-as in the habit of whistling to keep his courage up, of talking aloud to himself, bursting out every now and then with * 'That's certainly a fact!" or "Yes, I think that’s what I’ll do!" And he was likely to call out at intervals to his little dog, a Spitz who

never strayed far from his master's heels. He always carried a revolver on his person, although in all the years since he had acquired it, he had never once had occasion to fire it off.

But when he came near his garden gate, he never failed to find himself shivering with apprehension till his slightly trembling fingers had the gate unlocked. He could almost visualize a big fellow gliding around the comer and stepping out threateningly in front of him. He always had his key in his hand before he had reached the gate, and he always pushed the key into the lock w'ith nervous haste; on dark nights he would hold his lighted cigar toward the lock with the other hand. Then he would lock the gate behind him in a great hurry, unlock his house door just as nervously, light the candle which stood w'aiting for him to the left of the door on the uneven tile floor, try the door which led into the ground-floor rooms, all of them unoccupied except the kitchen and utilized as lumber-rooms to store his artist’s supplies, and climb the creaking stairs to the upper floor where were located his spacious studio and his little bedroom. The bedroom was scarcely more than an alcove, and it always stood wide open into tile studio, so that as he lay in bed he could see the great wide window and the starry heavens outside.

His trip home on this particular evening had not been without disquieting incidents. Nothing very definite had hapTHE HEAD IN THE WINDOW


pened, and he might have attached no importance to anything that had occurred if he had not been made a little apprehensive by the eery turn the conversation in the artist group had taken. His Spitz had stopped and barked furiously into a linden-tree alley a few hundred yards from his garden gate. It was true that the dog had a nervous streak in him and often grew excited over nothing at all. A little earlier, as the artist was getting off the street-car, a very suspicious looking and acting man in ragged workclothes had asked him how to reach the Valle San Giorgio, a lonely little valley with a chapel in the center of it, a sort of ravine which lay behind and below the eminence on which his house was built and which no human being in his senses would have thought of visiting at that hour of the night. Then, as he came through the narrow street between the high walls, he would have sv/om he heard steps on the hard ground behind him. The impression was so strong that he turned and looked back more tiian once. But no one was visible, and it was only while he himself was walking that he seemed to hear the steps. They must have been only the echo of his own steps in the uncanny stillness of the night.

Finally, at a turn of the crooked little street, he had come suddenly within a few feet of a man who was going in the same direction, but more slowly. The man turned and looked at him, then walked slowly away on a path that branched off from the little street. The painter had had only an indefinite impression of the man’s bearded face. But his artist eye had taken in the squat, heavy frame, which stood out plainly in the moonlight, the peculiar swing of the man’s walk, and even the wavering shadow wliich showed rather distinctly on the wall beyond him before he turned into

the foot-path. When he had himself come abreast the path and peered fearfully down it, the man had disappeared. There were no buildings along the path, and it was distinctly visible for some distance. It seemed as if the earth had swallowed the man. Or he might have dodged behind a clump of bushes. But why would he have done that? It was strange.

For a few minutes the young painter had been almost uneasy. Then all at once the artist in him had gained the upper hand. He realized that the shape and manner of the bearded pedestrian had been very much what he had had in mind for a figure in a violent night scene which he was planning to paint, and he regretted that he had not seen the man’s face more distinctly. He began to lay plans for sketching what he remembered of the face and figure before he v’ent to bed, and in his cheerful planning he completely forgot his apprehension — till his dog had begun to bark frantically at tlie entrance of the linden alley.

Arrived at home, the painter had hauled his preliminary sketch out of a corner, set it up on an easel and rapidly drawn in with charcoal the outlines of the man with the beard. He had originally planned to make this person the aggressor in an encounter. He had thought of him as rushing out from his concealment behind a wall and running with drawn sword at a favored rival who had just said good-bye to a lady at the gate of an imposing palazzo. But some mysterious influence seemed to guide him into a change of plan. He of the beard must needs be the victim, not the attacker, and he must be set upon by hvo men.

The painter took out a fresh sheet and sketched in the new idea. It was curious how' definitely the impression had come to him. He knew exactly where to place each Individual, how to direct each mo364


tion. But the face of the bearded defender, the man whose life was forfeit to these vicious assassins, would not come clear to him. Finally he grew tired of searching, undressed and went to bed. Tomorrow, he said to himself, when I am fresher, I shall be able to think the thing out better.

H e went to sleep at once and slept soundly. But in the course of the night — he had no idea how long he had been asleep — he started up in bed with the definite impression that he had heard something, a call, a cry, or voices talking together. He listened. Complete silence. If he had heard anything, it must have been in his dream. It did seem to him as if he had had a dream, and that he had dreamed about something disturbing, something alarming. But he could not remember what the dream had been about. He was in the act of lying down again, when he glanced into his studio, which lay bathed in the moonlight from the great window. He saw his dog standing erect in the center of the room, his head thrust forward and turned toward the window, watching and listening intently, without barking. He had never seen the animal act like that before. The painter called softly. The dog gave no sign of hearing him. He did not change in the slightest his attitude of absorbed interest. Then the painter raised his eyes to the window.

At first it seemed to him as if he must be dreaming still. He threw the beddothes aside, stared at the window, brushed his hands aaoss his eyes and gazed again. There was no doubt about it. The painter’s eyes were looking into the eyes of the bearded man whose conduct had puzzled him the night before. It looked as if the man had climbed up and stood on something that lifted him

breast-high before the second-story window. The rough-boned, carelessly kept face w’ith the tangled hair and beard w'as unmistakably the face he had caught a glimpse of on his way home a few hours before. It was frightfully distorted. The eyes were wide open and staring, the lips were open and drawn back from the teeth — it seemed almost as if the man were uttering a terrified cry for help, but not a sound was audible. On the left temple there was an ugly wound, with the hair matted over it but with the blood still trickling down over the face. There was no sign of the hands; the arms fell straight down from the shoulders. It almost seemed to the painter, as he studied the figure and its attitude a little more calmly, as if someone had pushed a dead man up into the window from below. 'Then, all at once, the horrible apparition disappeared, noiselessly, and the painter saw Ae trees and the quiet sky behind and above them.

At that moment the dog’s muscles relaxed from his position of tense watchfulness. He ran to his master, cowered against him as if he were seeking protection, turned his head back toward the window. Then he sat down expectantly before the painter, exactly as he was in the habit of doing when he saw the artist take down his hat and his caped cloak to go out.

For a moment the distracted artist could do nothing but stare at the rectangle of moonlight where the ghastly figure had been. Then he realized the changed attitude of the dog, and spoke to the animal. When the little creature saw that he had his master’s attention, he stood up, wagged his tail, and looked around expectantly toward the stairway. The artist took his revolver and went to the window. The moonlit landscape was calm and silent. Not a sight or a sound.

THE HEAD IN THE WINDOW


If a gang of assassins had held a murdered man up to his window, a minute or tw’o before, they could scarcely have made so complete a get-away in so short a time. The shutters on the window below were closed and locked. There was nothing to climb up by. And except for the feeling that he had heard something in his dream, the painter was sure that not a sound had reached him from outside the building.

The dog ran back and forth between the artist and the stairway. Animals have remarkable leadings, and the painter thought seriously of making the round of the garden. But it seemed to him, as he thought it over, that such a procedure would be useless at best, and that at worst it would be courting trouble. If bandits were about, what could one timid citizen, armed with an old revolver diat had never been fired in its life, do against them? All that could be expected of him, certainly, was to watch from inside his house till morning. He dosed his window, and ordered the dog back to his cushion.

Just before he drew the window down, he had had the impression that he heard steps run rapidly along the stone pavement that lay just below it. He raised it again, and looked down. No one was in sight, and not a sound was to be heard. He stood by the windoV, struggling to get a grip on himself. He wondered if he could be ill. He knew that various delusions come from physical causes within the one who experiences them. He had tried so desperately hard to visualize the head which he needed for his picture, that his effort, combined with the effect of the heavy Falemo wine he had drunk, might easily have produced a psychic effect which caused him to see visions and hear sounds that had transpired only in his imagination. He had almost convinced himself that he had found the k^ to the enigma, when his glance fell on his dog, obediently crouching on his cushion, but still wide-eyed and excited.- It seemed to him exactly as if someone spoke out from right behind him: "But what about tlie dog? Does your psychopathic theory explain the way tlie dog is acting?”

Suddenly the painter's mood of anxiety and puzzlement gave way to one of impatience. He was tired and nervous. He was disgusted with the whole annoying affair. He dropped on his bed again, and in a mood of something like defiance, he flung off the perplexity and dropped into a heavy sleep.

N othing happened till morning. When the bright sun shone into the window instead of the ghostly moon, he was ready to laugh the whole matter off as a half-tipsy dream, and to class the dog’s strange conduct with various other evidences of unaccountable nervousness which that animal liad shown at various times. He sat down at his easel and went seriously to work at his new sketch. He discovered that he knew the bearded face now, feature by feature, and the task went smoothly. It was marvelous how vividly tlie face and form of the heavy fellow came out under the artist’s eager fingers. This w'ould be his best picture, he was sure of that.

As he was w'orking, he heard somebody knock at the door downstairs. He made a few rapid strokes still, hastily kicked off his slippers and pulled on his shoes, and went down. It was doubtless the peasant woman, he thought, who brought him his milk every morning, but who brought it at the most unaccountably irregular hours. If she wasn’t willing to follow a fairly even schedule, there was no reason why he should discommode himself to keep her from waiting a minute or two.



When he opened the door, there was no woman there, and no milk-can. He strolled down the walk toward the fountain at which the milk-woman often stopped to water her donkey. As he came near the fountain he heard voices. When he passed the clump of bushes that had hidden the place from his sight, he discovered an excited group arguing and gesticulating about some object whicli lay on the ground. There w'ere tv^'O policemen in the group.

“Has something happened?” he inquired as he joined tlie circle.

"The)’- killed a man last night,” said one of the bystanders. One of the policemen asked the painter if he had seen or heard anything that might throw any light on the mystery. He was about to tell bis ghost-stor)', when it occurred to him how improbable it was, and he contented liimself ^^•ith replying that as he had walked home late at night a man in front of him had turned into the little side patli, and that before he had left the street-car, a man had asked the way to the Valle San Giorgio.

"Would you know the man in front of you if you saw him again?”

Tlie painter was not sure. But he thought he remembered certain things about him. For example, he remembered very distinctly that the man had a beard.

The policeman looked up quickly. "Is this the man?” he asked, and drew off the sack w'hicli had covered the head of the prostrate form.

The painter started back in terror, and for a moment his voice failed him completely. There was the head he had seen in the window, the e)*es still staring wide, the matted hair clinging about the wound over the left temple, the wild, saaggly beard. The look of anguish and appeal was still in the eyes that gazed up into the eyes of the painter, as if the deed

were not yet committed and the man were begging him to come to his aid. And as the living man gazed with fascinated horror into the e)'es of the dead man, the expression of the e)’es seemed to change to one of reproach. The little dog had been ready and anxious to dash out and help defend the victim of a band of assassins, but his master had been too stupid, too selfish, too cowardly to come to the succor of a fellow-being in distress.

Tlie painter recovered his self<ontrol and said dully to the policeman :

"Yes, I think that was the man.”

"Did you know him?” asked one of the neighbors with whom the German painter had a bowing acquaintance. And when the painter shook his head, the voluble Italian prattled on:

"It is much better that the bandits made away with this man than if they had killed a gentleman like you. He was ”

And he touched his finger compassionately to his forehead.

From tlie general discussion that followed, the artist learned that the dead man, who for a good part of his life had been a shepherd in the Alban Hills, was a strange dreamer of a fellow who claimed to have the gift of second sight, to be able to foretell the future, and to have the power to cure disease by prayer. Members of the group told various stories of strange proofs of his psychic powers, notably of one instance in whicli he had described in great detail a fire which w’as raging •at that same moment in a town a hundred miles away, and of which he had no possible means of knowledge.

"It is strange,” said one of the neighbors thoughtfully, "that he didn't foresee what would happen to him w'hen he came out here last night!”

"Perhaps he if/d’ foresee it,” said one

THE HEAD IN THE WINDOW


of the policemen, who had been looking through a handful of papers which had come from one of the dead man’s pockets. Among these papers, many of them old and worn from long friction in the pocket, was a dean sheet on which was printed out very carefully: "I AM GOING A HARD WAY. PERHAPS I SHALL NOT COME BACK. BUT I AM SAVING ANOTHER MAN’S UFE."

T he murderers were caught a few days later. They were two vagabonds of known evil habits, both of whom had already served prison sentences. When they were examined, th^

confessed that they had intended to kill the painter and plunder his isolated house at their leisure, but that in Aeir exdtement they had mistaken one man for another who was dressed very similarly. They had intended, they said, to break into the studio that same night, but had been so frightened when the dying shepherd had called their attention to their blunder and had warned them solemnly never to carry out their murderous plan against the painter, that they had taken to their heels in a panic.

And so it comes that the picture of the half-crazy Italian shepherd who saved the life of the young German painter is hanging today in a German art gallery.

From Samarcand*

By E. HOFFMANN PRICE

AS HER guest set the dainty bone diina cup on the onyx-topped, teak tabouret and sank back among the embroidered cushions, Diane knew to the syllable the words which were to filter forth with the next breath of smoke; for three years as Hammersmith Clarke’s wife had convinced hec that that remark was inevitable.

”My dear, where did you e\'ef get those perfectly gorgeous rugs?”

And Diane, true to form, smiled ever so faintly, and luxuriated in the suspicion of a yawn: the ennui of an odalisk hardened to the magnificence of a seraglio

* Proa WEIRD TALES for M»f, 1929.



carpeted with an ancient Fetaghan mg, and hung with silken w’itdieries from the looms of Kashan. Diane saw tlie wonder permeate her friend's soul and heard it surge into words.

■'The rugs? Why — well, I married them along with Ham, you might say. Yes, they are rather pretty, aren’t they? But tliey’re an awful pest at times ’*

"Naturally,” agreed Louise, w'ho lived in a loft in the Pontalba Building, where she could look down into the Plaza where Jackson reins in his brazen horse and lifts his brazen hat in salutation to tlie French Quarter of New Orleans. "You simply couldn’t let tlie maid clean ’’

"Maid? Lord help us, but I daren’t touch them myself! I tried it, once. That heaven-sent prayer-rug" — Diane indicated an ancient Ghiordes, a sea-green splendor w’orth more tlian his right eye to any collector — "looked a bit dingy. And Ham caught me at it. What was left of my hair just fell short of a close shingle. Do you know, one day I caught him filling the bathtub with milk ”

"Wliat?"

"Precisely. Seems some expert claimed a milk bath improves the luster. So the little Bokhara — that blood-red creature beneath your feet — got a treatment fit for a Circassian beauty. I’m just waiting for him to bring home a duster of bird-ofparadise plumes for this venerable wreck.”

Diane stroked what was left of the peachbiow', sapphire and gold nap of an age-old Senna wwen on a silken warp.

"The truth of it is,” continued Diane, "I feel guilty of bigamy. The man was married to liis rugs long before he ever met me, ’Member how we speculated on the pros and cons of polygamy the other day at Arnaud’s? Well, here I am, one lone woman competing with a dozen odd

favorites, and a new rival added to the harem every so often.”

"Good lord, Diane, what next! You are unique. Why, one would think you were jealous of them.”

"Well, I am!"

"Outlandish as that fantastic husband of yours. I don’t know which is the more outre, his mania for these beautiful things with the impossible names, or your — heavens abo\'e, it does really seem like resentment against them, Now, if you’d married Peter” — Louise laughed metallically — "he’d ne\’er have given you time to be jealous of a rug.”

"That’s just it,” flared Diane, "I could forgive flirtations and black ej’cs, and a reasonable degree of non-support. But these damned rugs — look at that!”

Diane dug her cobraskin toe into the closely worn nap of the Fcraghan carpet.

"Look at it! Just a rug, the first time. But live with it day after day. See the w'itchery sparkling in it at sunset. Catch yourself losing yourself in the thrill of its three hundred years, wondering tliat all the ecstasy e\’er lost in tlie entire world could be imprisoned in a rug. Then sec your one and only and otherwise adequ;^e husband sitting of an evening, hours at a stretch, staring at it and dreaming of all the richness and glamor he’s lost through becoming civilized, learning to wear shoes, and having only one woman, and she his wife, about tlie house. Yes, I called you up to have you listen to me get the indignation out of my soul. The trutli of it is, Lou, that if I don’t get out of this atmosphere soon, I’ll go utterly mad. Some day I’m going to move in on you in your attic — anything to get away from all this!”

"Do you mean to say,” began Louise with wide-spaced deliberation, "that you'd actually leave Ham because he likes to mess and poke round with his rugs, W. T.— 7

THE GIRL FROM SAMARCAND

3(>9

and spend most of his waking moments

talking about them? Honestly, now ”

"Good Lord, I could stand his talking about them. But” — Diane shuddered — "Lou, he loves them. Sits there, transfigured, like a saint contemplating the dewdrop glistening in the lotus cup.”

"When I suggested, over at the Iron Gate, that you move in. with me, I didn’t know that you were married — they all called you la belle Uvaudaise, and you were the life of ever)tliing — and least of all, I never suspected anyone had you enshrined in magnificence like this. Better think it over, Di — I’ve been through the mill, and I know.”

D iane from the first had been fascinated by tlie exotic atmosphere in which Clarke had planted her after their marriage; but in the end, seeing how they had become a part of him, she half consciously hated them and their everlasting song of Bokliara and Herat of the Hundred Gardens: an unheard song to whidi Clarke listened, and replied in unspoken syllables. And thus it was that Diane learned that to live in Clarke’s apartment would be to become an accessor)' to tliose precious fabria that were his hard-ridden hobby; for no W'oman would fit into the dim, smoky shadows of that titled salon unless bejeweled and diaphanously veiled she could dance with curious paces and gestures beneath the sullen glow of the great brazen mosque lamp as became the favorite of a khan in far-off Tartary. From the very beginning, Diane fought to keep her individuality untainted l:^ the overwhelming personality of those damnably lovely fabrics from Shiraz and the dusty plains of Feraghan.

And Diane was right; for diC)' dreamed, those old weavers, of tlie roses of Kirman, of tlie evening star that W. T— 8

danced on the crest of Mount Zagros, of dancing girls in the gardens of Naishapur, of fountains that sprayed mistily in the moonlit valley of Zarab-shan; and all this they wove into what we now learn to catalogue as Sixteenth Century Persian, or whatever our best guess may be, Into his masterwork the weaver w'ove his soul; so that whoever lives with one of those imperishable sorceries that come out of the East must in the end feel its presence unless he be somewhat duller than the very wood of the loom on w’hidi it w'as woven.

Look upon w'ine as often as you wish, but beware of a Bokliara when it is red — red as the blood of slaughter — red as the embers of a plundered city — a rednss charged with the quartered octagons of Turkestan — for in the end you will become enslaved to the silky splendor that once graced the tent floor of a Tekke prince. . . .

Diane w’as right; though Diane never suspected, even dimly, what in the end really did happen to Hammersmith Clarke. For, naturally enough, neither she nor anyone else saw or heard the Yellow Girl; that is, no one but Qarke: and he saw and heard too much.

Had she suspected — but she couldn’t have. For W’ho would imagine Fate riding to the crossroads in a trude of the American Express Company? It just Isn’t done; not until one looks back and sees that it could have happened in no other way.

But unheard-of things happen in Turkestan; and while one may pause for an evening’s glamor beside some moonkissed fountain in the valley of Zarabshan, and then march on, forgetting, there is tliat which does not forget, being undying and everlasting; so that though forgotten, it reaches forth across time and spice, not only clinging to the pile of a



rug from Samarcand, but resorting even to express trucks to carry it the last step toward capturing the forgetful one. . . .

All this Diane knew without knowing why she knew: and it seemed so reasonable that there was nothing incongruous in shuddering and saying as she often had, "I’m afraid of the damned things. . .

A s THE DOOR clicked behind the det parting expressman, Clarke clipped the leaden seals of the cylindrical bale, cut its stitching, and thrilled at the thought of the rug he was about to unwrap; for the bale was from Siraganian of New York, who by dint of persistent reaching into the East must finally have succeeded in executing Clarke’s impossible order.

A tawny, golden silkiness smiled from the gaping burlap sheath.

Just a glimpse of that wonder in buff and cream, with its lotus-bud border, and frets and meanders in blue and coral and peach, told Clarke that this of all things was as far as possible from what he had ordered Siraganian to get, cost what it might. For in place of Persian intricacies in deep wine reds and solemn green, florid magnificence that Isphahan had given to the world before the splendor died, Clarke was confronted by an ancient mg from Samarcand — silken Samarcand in tlie valley of Zarabshan — thick-napped and luxurious, mysterious with its Mongolian cloud bands and asymmetrical corner pieces, bats and dragons, and five-medallioncd firmaments of blue tliat could come from none but the vats of Turkestan.

"Good God! It’s silk!" marveled ■Qarke as he stroked the lustrous pile. "Silk, and by the Rod, on a linen warp!"

He wondered how Siraganian could have made that incredible mistake, sending him such a rug in place of what he

had ordered. If it were a case of sending something just as good — an unheard-of procedure with that Armenian merchantprince — ^he certainly had been crafty enough, for no connoisseur who once touched that ricli pile, whose eyes were once dazzled by those insinuant colors, whose senses were stricken by the sorcery of cabalistical designs, could ever return it and say that he had ordered something else. Rather would he thank Siraganian for his error.

A silk pile on a warp of blue linen, and woven in the days when Persian Hafiz was called to account by that fierce Mongol for a verse wherein the poet bartered the prince’s favorite cities, Samarcand and Bokhara, for the smile of a Turk} dancing girl, and the mole on her left breast: unbelievable fortune had sent him this incredible mg.

And then Clarke’s wondering, triumphant eyes clouded as he thought of a girl beside whom Samarcand and Bokhara were but the tinkle of brazen anklets — a very long time ago, when there was no Diane, when Clarke pursued mgs for that same Siraganian who now sought them for Clarke.

'*Egher ttn Turk} bedest ttred d'd} mara** muttered Clarke, forgetting all but the glamorous perils that had lured him far into lost cities and high adventure. Hafiz was right.

And for a moment the mg from Samarcand, its five by seven feet of tawny, silken perfection putting to confusion the priceless Feraghan on which it had been unrolled, gleamed unregarded as Clarke’s mind whirled to the sonorous accent with which the divine Hafiz had enslaved the East and its savage conquerors.

"Egher an Turk} "

Strange, how after all this time one would remember. It must be that one could never quite for^.

THE GIRL FROM SAMARCAND


The telephone rang; but Clarke ignored it until tlie jangling became too insistent, when he mufiied the bell with several towels and a small cushion.

"Too bad," he apologized, as he took the cord from his lounge robe and completed the throttling of the almost stifled annoyance, "but I simply can’t be disturbed.”

In which he was wrong: for to contemplate that wonder from Samarcand was more disturbing than any voice that could creep in over the wire. He Angered the rings of dull, hand-hammered gold that were sewed to one of the salvaged sides; he wondered what palace wall had been enriched by that precious fabric — and with it all came the knowledge that that very rug had been a part of his own past. The life that had been knotted into its pile and the sorcery that had been woven into its pattern were speaking to one of Clarke’s forgotten selves. Yet he was certain that he had nev-er before seen it; for one could never have forgotten such as tliis, though seen but for an instant. Truly, the rug was a stranger, but the presence that accompanied it was demanding recognition.

In the meanwliile, Diane tired of hearing the operator’s "They don’t answer," and abandoned her efforts to remind Clarke of an engagement.

"I wonder," she mused, as she finally set aside the useless telephone, "what deviltry my bhn aime is devising.”

And then she sought the render^'ous unattended, and made the customary apologies for Clarke's unaccountable absence.

He might have retreated into that dusky inner kingdom whidi from the very beginning he had held against Diane — a silenre into whidi he plunged unaccompanied, not lacking appreciative company, but loving solitude and electing sedusion rather than the sharing of the

fancies that tw'isted and the thoughts that writhed in his strange brain.

As Diane made her w'ell-rehearsed apologies and frothed behind her vivacious mask, Clarke noted the manila envelope that was fastened to the web of the rug from Samarcand, and addressed to him: a letter, doubtless from Siraganian.

"We regret," wrote the Armenian, "that thus far w’c have had no success in finding at any cost a rug of the w^eave you ordered. How'ever, we take pleasure in forw'arding you this rug which a caravan stopping at Meshed left with our agent in that city with instructions to forward it to our New York office and thence to you. We are pleased that your agent saw fit to use our facilities for forwarding it to you, and w’ish to congratulate you on having obtained sudi a priceless specimen. Should )’ou at any time care to dispose of it, be so kind as to give us an option on it, for we are in a position to offer you a better price than any dealer or collector in the United States. . . .”

The rug itself was improbable enough — but Siraganian’s letter! An insoluble riddle. It couldn't be a jest. Then who ?

True enough. Colonel Merbere’s expedition must have passed through Samarcand, Yarkand, and Kashgar on its w'ay into the unknown stretches of Chinese Turkestan; but his acquaintance with the colonel was slight, and he had no friend in the colonel’s train. And what obscure acquaintance of the "wish you were here" post-card banality would send a rug which in the old days served as a gift from one prince to another?

Diane’s arrival cut the thread of fancy.

"Oh, Ham, but it is gorgeous," enthused la belle UvauAmse as she entered the roseate duskiness of Clarke’s studio. And to herself, "Another rival. . .



Then she rehearsed the excuses she had offered for Ham’s absence, and hoped he’d absent-mindedly contradict her the first time he deigned to speak for himself. That done, one must consider the latest addition to the seraglio.

Clarke detailed the story of the rug and its riddle. ^

"But who in the world would send you such a gift.^’’ wondered Diane. "Exactly no one, trh cbere"

"Unless,” Diane pointed out, "it might be one of your lost loves in those Asiatic playgrounds you’ve never entirely left.”

Clarke laughed, but his derision was unconvincing, and Diane knew that he had been deep in the blacknesses of Asian nights; knew that her arrival had been an intrusion, that he was but a friendly stranger, babbling to her, a friendly stranger, of loveliness whose intoxication forced him to speak of it to anyone, even her.

The others were bad enough, with their everlasting song of Bokhara, and Herat of the Hundred Gardens — an unheard song to which Qarke listened, and replied in unspoken syllables; they were bad enough, they, and those monstrous fancies which at times he smilingly ecpressed with deliberate vagueness, but this yellow witch from Samarcand

D iane knew that more than a rug had emerged from that bale whose burlap winding-sheet still littered the floor.

At last it seemed that she was intruding on a tete-a-tete, eavesdropping on a monologue; so that when Clarke would emerge from his reveries, Diane resented the inevitable thought that he was robbing himself to keep her company. But patience reaches its limit, finally. . . .

She saw it, one night, twinkle and smile through a lustrous haze that played over its surface, smile the slow, curved smile of a carmine-lipped woman through

the veils of her mystery; saw Qarke sitting there, eyes shearing the veil and half smiling in return, a devotee in the ecstatic contemplation of a goddess shrouded in altar fumes. . . .

"Ham!”

"Yes,” answered Clarke’s lips. He had now perfected the trick of having his body act as his proxy.

"Are you taking me to that show tonight.^”

"What show?” Clarke the simulacrum stirred lazily in the depths of the cushionheaped lounge. "The truth of it is, my dear,” he resumed after a pause during which some memory of the proposed entertainment must have returned, "truth of it is I’m awfully busy tonight ”

"Busy sitting there staring at nothing and sipping Pernod!” flared Diane, the wrath of months flashing forth. Then, as she saw Clarke settle back into the depths: "Listen, once for all: this nonsense has lasted too long. I might as well have married a mummy! Either get that thing out of the house, or I’ll leave you to your pious meditations indefinitely ”

"What? Good Lord, Diane, what’s this?”

"You heard me. You used to be half human, but now you’re utterly impossible. And if you can’t show me a little attention. I'm leaving here and now. For the past many weeks you've acted like a model for a petrified forest. Ever since that yellow beast ”

"Yellow beast?”

"Exactly! That damned rug is driving me crazy ”

"Is, or has driven?” suggested Clarke.

"Lies there like a beast of prey just ready to wake. And you sit there, night after night, staring at it until you fall asleep in your chair. Does it go, or do I?”

THE GIRL FROM SAMARCAND


*'What do you want me to do? Throw it away?”

“I don’t care what you do with it. Only I won’t stay in the house with it. It gives me the creeps. You’ve said entirely too much in your sleep lately — first yellow rugs, and now it's a yellow girl. I’m through!”

Clarke's brows rose in Saracenic arches. And then he smiled with surprizing friendliness and a touch of wonder.

"Di, why didn’t you tell'me sooner? I could understand your craving alligator pears at 3 in the morning — I might have understood that, but hating a rug is really a new one on me ”

“No, stupid, it’s nothing like that! I just hate the damned thing, and no more to be said.”

"Well, lacking the infallible alibi” — Clarke glared and assumed his fighting face — "if you mean I choose between you and the rug. I'll call a taxi right now.”

"Don’t bother. I’ll walk.”

The door slammed.

Clarke twisted his mustache, and achieved a laugh; not merry, but still a laugh. And then he sank bade among the cushions.

"Yellow Girl, I thought you were fantastic. . ,

I E viEUX CARRE wondered when the J next morning it was rumored that la belle Dvaudaise had been seen hurrying down Saint Peter Street without speaking to any one of the several acquaintances she had met; but when at the Green Shutter and the Old Quarter Bookstore it was announced that Diane was living in a loft of the Pontalba Building, wonder ceased. For Diane’s friend Louise had been no less garrulous tlian she should have been, so that the habitues of tlie French Quarter were prepared for the news.

And then it was said that to gain admittance to Clarke’s studio one must know the code of taps whereby someone who at times left a certain side door bearing bottles of Pernod announced his arrival; for Clarke answered neither doorbell nor telephone. The vendor of Pernod was certainly a discreet person; yet even a discreet seller of absinthe could see no harm in mentioning that his patron found enormous fascination in watching the play of sunlight and the dance of moonbeams on the golden buff pile of a rug that was more a sleeping, breathing creature than any sane child of the loom.

Finally the courier failed to gain admittance, despite his tapping in code. And this he thought worthy of Diane’s ear.

"He starves himself, petite — since three days now he has not admitted me. All the while she lies there, gleaming in the moon, that awful rug — mordieu, it is terrible. . . .”

Diane had stedfastly denied that which had been clamoring for recognition. But when this last bit was added to what had gone before, logic gave way, and Diane's fears asserted themselves. 'That rug was haunted, was bewitched, was bedevilling Clarke; logic or no logic, the fact was plain.

Driven by that monstrous thought, Diane exhumed the little golden keyring and started up Royal Street, determined to cross the barrier before it became impassable. But her determination wavered; and before fitting the well-worn key into the lock, she applied her ear to the keyhole, listened, and heard Clarke’s voice.

Diane resisted the temptation to use her key and stage a scene that e\'en in the imperturbable Vieux Carre would be sensational for at least a week. 'Then her pride conquered, and she acliieved a most credible smile of disdain.

J74


"Sly dc\-il, pretending it was a rug lie was so absorbed in. . .

And, since it was but an amorous escapade, Diane’s unbelievable speculations were replaced by thoughts reasonable enough not to be terrifying.

T h.\t very night, Clarke was sitting cross-legged on the floor of his studio, full under the red glow of a tall bronze mosque lamp. Before him, shimmering in the moonlight that streamed in throu^ tlie French windows, lay the rug from Samarcand, mysterious and golden, with its pale sapphire corner pieces glittering like a distant sea viewed through a cleft between two mountain crests.

All the witchery and ecstasy that had c\'er been lost in the entire w'orld were reassembled, pulsing in the silken pile which he contemplated. And this was the night, the Night of Power, when Fate stalked tlirough tlie corridors of the world like a colossus just risen from an age-old throne of granite, resistless and unconquerable. Garke had spent so many nights and days of staring that it was ine\’itable that there must be such a night. He saw more than tlie w’onder before him; in place of the marvel woven by deft, forgotten hands, there gleamed enchantingly as through moon-touched mist a garden in the valley of Zarab-shan.

Then came a faint, oddly accented drumming and piping, music to whose tune dead years reassembled their bones and danced forth from their graves. And their ghosts as they danced exhaled an overwhelming s);seetness that made Clarke’s brain reel and glow, and his blood surge madly in anticipation of that which he knew must follow.

Then out of the blackness just beyond tlie range of the ruddy mosque lamp and full into the moonlight that marched slowly across the rug came a slim Yellow Girl, diaplianousiy garbed and veiled.

Her anklets clicked faintly; and ver)* faint was the tinkle of the pendant that adorned her unusual coiflfure.

"All these many days I have sought you, my lord,” she began, as she extended her arms in welcome. "But in vain, until tonight, when at last I parted the veil and crossed the Border.”

Clarke nodded understandingly, and looked full into her dark, faintly slanted eyes.

"And I have been thinking of you,” he began, "ev'er since someone sent me this rug on which you stand. It is strange how this rug could bridge the gap of twenty years and bring into my very house a glimpse of the valley of Zarabshan. And stranger yet that you could esecape from your father’s house and find me here. Thougli strangest of all, time has not touclied you, when by all reason you should be old, and leathery, and past forty. . . . Yet you are lovelier now than you were then, by that fountain in a garden near Samarcand.”

"It is not strange,” contradicted the Yellow Girl, as she pirouetted with dainty feet across the moon-lapped silk. "For you see me now as I was when I wove my soul into this very rug.”

Clarke smiled inaedulously: which was illogical enough, since, compared with the girl's presence, nothing else should be inaedible.

"How can that be, Yellow Girl, seeing tliat we two met one evening twenty years ago, whereas this mg w'as woven when the Great Khan sat enthroned in Samarcand and reproved the Persian Hafiz for his careless disposal of the Great Khan’s favorite cities. This was the joy of kings hundreds of years before you and I were born ”

"Before tlie last time we were boro/’ corrected the Yellow Girl. "But the first time — at least, the first time that I can (Please turn to page 376)

iiauiBi



Don't Take the Chance

While every live magazine dealer will have a supply each month, you may fi nd w hen you call for your copy of the current issue that WEIRD TALES is sold out. And you may have to call at several magazine stands before you find a copy.

INSURE YOURSELF

against any such calamity by seeing that your name is on our subscription list, and WEIRD TALES will come to you each month without the bother of searching the magazine stands for it. Subscribe — that's the safest way.

I SPECIAL MONEY-SAVING SUBSCRIPTION OFFER |

I One Year hs u«um @ zsc = $3 .oo-you save soc) $2.50 |

I Two Years (m imum @ jsc = ss.oo— you save siow $4.00 |

I Three Years (ss @ zsc = w-oo— you save $ 4 . 00 ) $5.00 |

§ To any address in the United States or possessions |

■ Central America Cuba Mexico. South America and Spain B

I — — ■ ' ' I

H For Canada Newfoundland and Labrador add 25c o year extra for g

g postage. To all other countries add 50c o year extra (or postage. S

— . ... — — , - ■ ■ . . j

I ^*^SE THIS COUPON FOR SUBSCRIBING^ |

I WEIRD TALES. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, BL, U. S. A. |

1 Enclosed find $ „...for v/hich please enter my subscription to i

I WEIRD TALES for .years to begin with the April issue. 1

Address |

City..._ State |

iaBiiBiliBimiaiiiUBiniimiBwiLinniiaiiimniimaiiwiniiBiiBiBmiliaiimniwiiMiiM

37(5


The Girl From Samarcand

( Continued jrom page 374 ) recollect — the barred windows of a prince’s palace failed to keep you from me. And eunuchs with crescent-bladed simitars likewise failed. But in the end — why must all loveliness have an end? — a bowstring for me, and a sword-stroke for you. ...”

Tlie Yellow Girl shuddered as she stroked her smooth throat with fingers tliat sought to wipe off the last lingering memory of a cord of hard-spun silk.

"And from the first,” continued the girl, "I knev.' what our doom would be. So I started weaving, and completed my task before they suspected us and the bowstring did its work. My soul, my self, being woven cunningly and curiously into silk rich enough to hang on the wall of the khan's palace, waited patiently and wondered whether you and I could have our day again. Tlius it was in the beginning—”

"Ah . . . now it does come back to me,” interrupted Clarke, "as in a dream dimly remembered. How compactly and stiflingly they would wrap me in a bale of silk and carry me past the guards and into your presence. And by what devious routes I would leave you . . . yes, and how painlessly swift is tlie stroke of a simitar. . .

The Yellow Girl shuddered.

”A simitar truly wielded is really nothing, after all,” continued Clarke. "I might have been sawn asunder between planks. . . . Well, and that meeting in the garden these short twenty years ago was after all not our first ... it seems that I knew then that it was not the first. Tliough but for an evening ”

"Yes. Just for an evening. So to what

end were we spared bowstrings and tlic stroke of swift simitars, since we had but an evening? ’’ And thinking of the empty years of luxurious imprisonment that followed, she smiled somberly. "For only an evening. And then you forgot, until this rug — this same rug I wove centuries ago — interrupted your pleasant adventuring, and reminded you.

"Death stared me in the face. The end of life more vainly lived than tlie first. I knew that I was leaving this avatar after having lived but one stolen evening. So I sent a trusted ser\'ant to carry this very rug to Meshed. For w hen we met in the garden, you were hunting rugs for him who now seeks tliem for your delight. And I knew that he would find you if you still lived. Thus it is that I have crossed the Border, and stand before you as I did once before — this time on tlut very rug which I w-ove centuries ago, while living in hope of anotlier meeting and in dread of tlie bowstring I knew would in the end find me.”

The moon patch had marched toward the end of the rug from Samarcand, and was cutting into tlie blue w’eb at its end. Clarke knew' that when there remained no more room for her tiny feet, she w'ould vanish, not ever to reappear. But Clarke hoped against knowledge.

"Yellow Girl," he entreated, "my door w’ill be barred to friend and acquaintance alike, if you will but return on whatever nights the moon creeps across our rug. . .

Had Diane, listening at the door, understood, she w'ould have used her key. But Diane merely heard:

"And I shall wait for these nights as long as life remains in me. For all that has happened since then is nothing and less tlian nothing; and all has been a dream since tliat one night in a gardea of Zarab-shan."

Very little remained of the mooft



patch. The Yellow Girl stepped a tiny pace forw-ard, to prolong her stay yet anoAer few moments. All but the moonlit strip of the rug from Samarcand glowed bloodily in the flare of the brazen mosque lamp.

"No, forgetful lover,” cliidcd the Yellow Girl, "I can not return. I can not cross the Border again. . In Samarcand, eight hundred years ago we mocked for a while the doom that hung over us, and in tile end called the bowstring but a caress of farewell. Again, In the garden of Zarab-shan we met, we parted, and you forgot: so this time I take no diances. While I can not return, you at least can follow- me ... if you wdll . . . for it is very easy. . . .”

She edged along the e^'C^ narrow'ing strip of moon-bathed silk, and with an embracing gesture, lured Clarke to rise and follow her.

"It is so easy . . . move lightly . . . but be careful not to disturb your body or overbalance it. . .

Had Diane not turned away from the door, w'ere she not even now strolling insouciantly dowm Royal Street

"Yellow- Girl, you and I have had enough of farew-ells!”

Something left Clarke, tottered perilously on the two handbreadths of moonlight that remained, then caught the Yellow Girl by the hand and took the lead.

The blue web of the rug from Samarcand gleamed for another moment in the moonlight, then sw-eltered in the red glow of the mosque lamp.

Coming soon —

Goetterdaemmerung

By Seabury Quinn A strange tale of the future, by die author of tiie de Grandin stories

Lose Unhealthy

FAT!

Quickly— Safely

USE SLENDARETTE

gCIENCE'S newest dlecovery to banish cxco»8 fat is now available to all fal folks who want to lose UKly. unhealthy fat. Meciicai studicb liave rceently roveu that cxiyHJs weight is a heavy burden on the orennH of the body. Insurance sta* tlatics prove Ih*- death rate of fal people far lends the death rate of normal weight people.

LOSE FAT WITHOUT STARVATION DIET SLEXDAEETTE will take away fatty surplus harmlessly and quiekly without ilemandine a star* vation diet or exhaustive cserciBes. ThouaaiidH are using SLEXDAR-

<laiiy

et¥e.

Lovely

PRESCRIBED FOR EMINENT DOCTOR'S PATIENTS

and manufactured by Begistered Pharmacists, whiclj meane that it is made under the moat ri|dd inppection and tine licalth cunditions.

REDUCE YOUR FIGURE OR MONEY REFUNDED

Si.ENDARETTE is ooneidereil absolutely safe and harmless and yet is amazingly effective as testified by thousands of users, many of whom gratefully repoit reductions of 6 lbs. per week and oven more, with gi-eui benefit to their health and general well-being. Send today for aSp<M'iallurge

MONEY BACK GUARANTEE

I )

, Certified Health Produott Company, Box 32 I SOT Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y. j

I _ fiend me a Special large treatment of BLEX- I HARETTE for which T enclose Sl.OO and will pay poetman $1.00 plus nostOTP oo delivery. I I understand that MOXET WILL BE CHEER- I I FULLY REFUNDED if I am not satisSed witli- , I in 30 daya. ]

Name .

A new thriller by i

SEABURY QUINN appears J in WEIRD TALES ^

every mouth I

T he enthusiastic reception of Seabury Quinn's story, Roads, in our January issue, has encouraged us to print further off-the-trail stories from time to time in this maga 2 ine. Tliis story was a reverent tale of the Crucifixion, a hetaera from the house of Mary of Magdala, and Santa Claus. Though there were a few dissident voices of those who thought the Santa Claus element diildish, the chorus of praise made the vote overwhelming in its favor.

Suited to a T

William F. Zuckert, Jr., of Washington, D. C., writes; "After ten years as a silent reader of WT, I take this opportunity to drop a line to the Eyrie. As a whole, I can find little or no criticism against our magazine, because personally it suits me to a T. Besides, on the very rare occasions when 1 do have an infinitesimal gripe, I say nothing because I realize tliat there must have been plenty of readers who did enjoy the piece; who am I to yelp? I like the high literary quality of tlie tales, with that subtle horror tliat sort of sneaks up on one. Now for a couple of orchids to the authors. In the December issue, I particularly enjoyed The Sea-Witch by Nietzin Dyalhis. In my humble estimation, this yarn constitutes one of the smoothest bits that I’ve ever read. It didn’t hold a dull moment nor an arid paragraph from beginning to end. This letter would be incomplete without a mention of my favorite author and character. 1 refer, of course, to Seabury Quinn with his inimitable Jules de Grandin — a grand pair whose adventures I hope to be able to follow as long as these old eyes can see the printed ge. Flames of Vengeance in the Decemr issue was grand, but when the January issue came out with Roads, I got a real sock ! What a story! i was almost on the last page

before it dawned on me just who Claudius really was! That idea was a real inspiration, and you gave it to us at exactly the proper time of year. Keep up the good work, Mr. Quinn, and I can personally guarantee you at least one family of very avid readers. I could go on for pages extolling the virtues of the various authors, but that isn’t very praaicaJ, because perhaps you would like to squeeze in a letter from some other reader. So I close now with a big cheer for Virgil Finlay. And thanks for listening."

The Light Was Green Richard F. Dehm writes from Los Angeles: "Thank you for John Speer’s story. The Light Was Green. A long time has passed since I have read any fiction as unusual and fascinating as the stories written

[THE END]

============================================================
THEIR POSSESSION
by The contents of this magaiine are fully prolecied by copyright and must not be reproduced either wholly or in
============================================================
by Mr. Speer. It is very evident he does not write until he is definitely sure of the ground from which his inspiration for his story sprung."

A Letter from Miss Ilemken Gertrude Hemken writes from Chicago: ''Roads! This is by far the lovelier Christmas story I have ever read. Quinn couples the Teutonic legends of the Nativity so beautifully. But one thing wonders me — Klaus, after a tricenoium, still had the fair hair and beard ; yet the Santa Claus we know is a white-haired, white-bearded old fellow. 'Course after tu’o thousand years most anyone would grow gray, but — never mind. Somehow or other I was a mite disappointed in Dorothy Quick this time. Her witch w'as somehow so very like another enchantress in a w.-k. story by an equally w.-k. author. I really don’t care for tiiese supple sirens and their frightening powers. Give me a couple of rip-snorters like Conan and Northwest Smith — brave lassies like Jircl of Joiry.



Finlay’s full page is much more to my caste this time. The spires and skyline look so otlier wocldish. Well, guess I’ll wait for another installment of The Hairy Ones Shall Dame before I comment — somehow that Devil’s Croft is enticing. Raggh — woof — grrr — 1 like so very much this Toean Aiat* jan, but I cannot pronounce such words satisfactorily. And so I am riled, in spite of a cat tale — and such a pretty white cat! I have often wondered if a tiger would make a good pet. And so the verruchter Austrian is now a block of ice in the black vastnesses of the void — and thus ends his The Voyage of the Neutralia. I found the closing installment rather flat, except for the Venusian centipedes and M>icano. Doaor Keller turned out a nice one with his Valley of Bones — such, 1 believe, is entirely possible in this strange land of Africa. I was pleased to see your reprint of Ethan Brand — I have read it so many times along with others of Hawthorne’s talcs.”

Both Lusty and Devout Manly Wade Wellman writes from New York Gt)‘: "Let me voce for Quinn’s Roads

as the most impressive tiling in the January W’T. It gives me to think thus: does not the world of fantasy hold its good powers as well as evil, its saints and angels as well as its fiends and devils? Roads was both lusty and devout, as a good Christmas tale should be.”

Finlay Frontispiece

Robert A. Madle wTites from Philadelphia: "Thanks exceedingly for inaugurating the new frontispiece department. Both picturi 2 ations whioi have appeared have been supreme. Virgil Finlay is unquestionably the modern master of weird art, as H. P. Lovecraft was the unque^ioned master of weird fiaion. Continue this deparunent, and have Finlay illustrate the entire interior of the magazine hereafter. His covers are also superb, but do not neglect Brundage entirely. She is one of the best artists of the decade."

Reprints

N. J. O’Neail writes from Toronto his seleaion of the fifteen best stories in Wi:ird Tales for 1937, and comments: "You may notice that five on my list — one diird of the

BACK COPIES

Because of the many requests for back issues of Wsnu> Tales, die publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers oo hand for sale;

UM


iflSS

193t

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Ape.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

May

May

May

May

June

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

Aug.

Sc^.

^t.

^pt.

Sept.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dee.

Dec.

Dec.

im

Jan.

Feb.

These beck numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:

WEIRD

840 N. Michigan Ave.

TALES

Chicago. Illinois, U. S. A. .



total — are reprints; probably not surprizing, since the reprints represent, in theory, and usually in praaise, the aeam of bygone issues. I shoxjJdn’t be surprized if a demand soon arose for a re-reprint section, in whidi some of the reprints of eight and nine years ago might reappear once more. . . / You h^gan reprinting from back numbers in 1928, ■when WT was only five years old. Now it has rounded out its fifteenth year; and it might be reasoned tliat a story whidi was worth reprinting once, five years after its first publication, might meric another such honor ten years later.”

Overrated

Richard Kraft, of Allenhurst, New Jersey, writes: "To my mind the most overrate story you have ever published was Quest of the Starstone. It was simply a cheap thriller and did not compare with Paul Ernst’s Dread Summons or Rex Ernest’s The Inn. In the December issue Edmond Hamilton again writ« a winner: Child of Atlantis. Hamilton is the best in the business and 1 enjoy his work immensely. The Sea-Witch was terrible — I can’t see what Weird Tales readers will find in it, as ic was slow and tiresome, nothing like that swell story of Mary Counselman’s in that issue, The Black Stone Statue^

Virgil Finlay’s Drawings

Doctor Karl K. Webber writes from Flora, Illinois: "This is the first time I have written you, although 1 have been an avid reader of Weird Tales for about six years. In the December 1937 issue. The Sea-Witch is ‘tops,’ with Flames of Vengeance a dose second, and Child of Atlantis hot on the latter’s heels. One tning must be kept in your publication and that is Virgil Finlay’s drawing. I’m a little bit of an artist myself and I recognize a masterful touch when I see it. No one can approach his subtle mastery of pen and ink. Orchids to Virgil!”

A Million Congratulations

Julius Hopkins writes from Washington, D. C: "Roms is one of the most high-class stories that WT has ever printed. Throughout, the language is elevating, and not the usual, pulpy kind prevalent in a great many tales written today. I truly believe that any magazine would have been glad to have this stoiy between its covers. WT should be mighty proud to have been privileged to

print it. A million congratulations to you, Mr. Quinn, for a really outstanding story.”

Norse ^Mythology

M. W. Schauffler, of Larchmont, .New York, writes: "The Howard and Quinn stories have been what I have bought the magazine for, and I have been buying it for eight years. One other thing which makes your magazine a pleasure is that almost always the mythology and other background data are accurate. ^ please speak to Nietzin Dyalhis, if you don’t mind, and ask him to check a little more carefully. I don’t know when I have liked a story better than The Sea-Witch. But the moment when his Witch and his hero both agreed that Ran was a god, not a goddess, wrecked the illusion of factuality for me to the end of the story. And there were two other minor slips: No viking was ever named Gudrun any more than he was named Eliza, and for the same reason — it is a woman’s name. Neither was Comnenus ever spelled with two n’s — though that’s a small matter. As for the viking’s refrain to the rowing-song, he probably knows more than I do about that — I am not an authority on Norse legends. But I have a feeling that it isn't entirely, or at least typically, a sea refrain.”

Quinn’s Masterpiece

Bernard Austin Dwyer writes from West Shokan, New York: "My first choice of stories in the January issue is Roads by Seabury Quinn. 'This is truly Quinn’s masterpiece; 1 have never seen anything even remotely so good by him. In my opinion, it far overtops even The Phantom Farmhouse. Apan from the story itself, which is delightful and wonderful — the fetching together of such ordinarily widely separated elements as Christ’s crucifixion, a blond heroic warrior from the North, a harlot from the house of Magdalene, the Eastern and Western dynasties, and the Middle Ages, the little carved sleighs, the dwarf faery, aniths of the mountains, and the legend of Santa Claus — the style itself is very beautiful. I love especially the last few paragraphs with their flavor of the iron and heroic North, the Valhalla-like feast; how Klaus laid aside his arms, and, the final piercing and beautiful paragraph. But I love everything — the story and the style, from beginning to end. . . . 'This story will go down as one of the very best, by any



author, ever to be published in Weird Tales. It is a masterpiece, fit to rank with Howard's Kings of the Night or Lovecraft’s Whisperer in Darkness. I feel impelled to thank Mr. Quinn heartily for giving me the opportunity to read so satisfactory, wonderfully imaginative and beautiful a story. That style is something to dream about. Next, I will mention a very short poem — Lost Dream, dedicated to our departed master Lovecraft, by Emil Petaja. May I express my appreciation of how that little poem coinades with one’s impressions of the works of Lovecraft? 'One fumbles in his scarlet cloak; I see his slender fingers move — ^he turns a key . . a silver key, of course. Congratulations to Mr. Petaja for his splendid little poem. May we hope for more? My next favorite story is Toean Matjan, by Vennette Herron — a very good story, well tied together, and beautiful style. It is ext^uisitely written. I don't know when I have read a more entertaining stor)', written in better style. In fact, I like the style quite as well as that of Roads, only that it is of course shorter. I am quite sure that I should not care to court that lady. I like The Witch’s Mark, and The Hairy Ones Shall Dance. In the latter, it is already rather obvious that the wolfish materialization came from Doctor Zoberg — i>ide his thick, sinewy wrists! It is right entertaining. Let me, too, commend most warmly The Inn, in a recent issue. Splendid atmosphere.”

Compliment and Complaint Wilfred Wright writes from Toronto: "During the last fifteen years that I have been a consistent reader of WT I have only written twi<« to the Eyrie, submitting my comments. But your January issue compels me to w'rice for the third time, to express a compliment and a complaint. First the compliment. Roads, by S^bury Quinn, stands out as the most beautiful piece of fanta.sy ever published in any magazine. From early in tile story the outcome was obvious, yet at no time did it decraa from the beauty or interest of the compelling and reverent treatment of a sacred theme. Mr. Quinn is indeed to be congratulated upon his ability, and I wish to extend to him my personal thanks for enriching my Christmas by his magnificent story. Now for the complaint — or perhaps I should say 'question.' Tlie story Toean Matjan by Vennettc Herron — while I

CLASSIHED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WORTH WATCHING

Authord Service

MANCSCRIPTS WANTED. Books, Stories, Plays and Articles for placement in U. S. and foreign countries. MoUon picture rights placed. Circular T-338 detcri1>- Ing UNIFIED SA1 .es PLAN free on request. OTIS ADE1.BERT KLINE. Authors' and Publishers' Representatlve, 430 W, 34th St.. New York City.

Books

A snnsr-MMEn ntoht’s dream— illustrated by Virgil Finlay. Containing twenty-flve exquisite Illustrations. A beautiful edition you wilt be proud to own. Price 35 cents. WRIGHT'S SHAKESPEARE LIBRARY. 840 N. hlichigan Ave., Chicago.

THE MOON TERROR — A stupendous welrd-sclenttfle novel of Oriental Intrigue to gain control of the world! Cloth-bound with handsome colored Jacket— 50 cents postpaid. WEIRD TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave.. Chicago.

Business Opportunities

NEWSP.\PER clippings pay. Write: Goodall Company. 742 Market St,, Saa Francisco.

Indian Relics

INDIAN RELICS. Beadwork. Coins. Stamps. Minerals. Books. Old West Photos. Weapons. Curios. Temple Motmd Birdpoint 15c. Knife, ancient. ISc. Catalogue 5c. Indian Museum. Northbrsneh, Kansas.’

Magazines

ORIENTAL STORIES (Vol. 1. No. 3) Fascinating 8ton« by Robert E, Hmvard. Frank Owen. G. G. I^ndarves, Paul Ernst, Otis Adelbert Kline, and othor Invorite writers. Price 25 cents. ORIENTAL STORIES MAGAZINE, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago. 111., U. S. A.

Magic Tricks

FREE I Magic catalog 500 tricks. Amaze, mystify friends. Write today! LYLE DOUGLAS, StaUoa A-3'f. Dallas, Texas.

Miscellaneous

i:l::Oi’],E having lofit hope or whose doctor has giv on up. who desire absent metaphysical help, write to: ABSENT METAPHYSICAL HELP, Box 420. S-.n Diego, California.

WHO IS TIDE MTSTERIOCS ''KWO'’? The solution to this baflllng my^tery Is thrlllingly told In one of the most startling sti*rles ever wTitten — THE MOON TERROR, In book form. Price 50c. WEIRD TALES, 840 North Michigan, Chicago. lUlnois.

The Cream of Weird Fiction

• Weird Tales prints the best weird fiction in the world today. The high literary quality of its stories is evidenced oy the comparatively large number of stories from Weird Tales that have been reprinted or awarded honorable mention in annual best fiction anthologies. You are assured of reading the best when you read Weird Tales, The Unique Magazine.



appreciate ic as a very splendid weird tale, it should have been entered as a reprint, as I read tlie same story in the magazine seaion of the Toronto Star Weekly three or four montljs ago. With the exception of the reprint stor)', I always had the impression chat all stories published in Weird Tales were original, and I would like to be informed regarding the editorial policy in this matter. As for my voting for the best stories in the airrent issue, it is on this occasion impossible, for with all appreciation for tlie other tales in this issue, Seabury Quinn’s Roads defies comparison.” [Toean I^iatjan was sold to us as a new scorj’’ w’hich had seen publication in England only. We did not know that it had been printed in Canada. Like many other publications, Weird Tales ocmsionaliy bu}’S outstanding stories that have already been printed in the British Isles, but we do not know'ingly use stories that have been published in North America. — ^T he Editor.]

Brickbats

J. Vernon Shea, Jr., w'rites from Pittsburgh: "I wish Seabury Quinn hadn’t written Roads, for tliat tale for children has no place in WT. It made me squirm. Of the stories in the January issue, I prefer Toean Matjau, a beautifully written version of a familiar tlieme. Miss Herron is a highly promising newcomer. Edmond Hamilton had a novel idea in The House of Living Music, but ruined it by his formula handling. The Witches Msxrk marks considerable of an advancement for Dorothy Quick, but I for one am pretty fed-up witli witchw'omen, especially when they go through their all-too-familiar routines. I wish you would caution your authors against topical subjects as applied to weird tales. They have not the immediacy die authors imagine them to have, but intrude unpleasantly in a nonrealistic field. Thus, the attempted lynching in The Hairy Ones Shall Dance, which seems to be taken from the motion picture Fury, seemed W’ildly incongruous in WT. Don’t misunderstand me; I am very fond of realism in a realistic story, but hardly consider much realism fitting for WT.”

A New Reader

Margaret H. Gray writes from Steubenville, Ohio: "Greetings from a comparatively new member of your circle of Weird Tales readers. I have been reading your

magazine for only one short year, much to my chagrin. I have just completed the January edition, and I say that there are entirely too many days to wait until February. The Witch's Mark was by far the best in this issue. Perhaps I am prejudiced, as I am brimful of Irish and &ottish folklore, but the translating of Deidre and Shamus into modern life, is in my eyes, a masterpiece. Some more stories just like it, please, Dorothy Quick! (By the way, is she Irisli.^) Virgil Finlay’s illustrations are still 'splendiferous* (that’s my own invention!) and M. Brundage’s cover piaure is grand. Toean Matjan, by Vennette Herron, rates second in my list. I love stories like this. May we have some more, if you please? I am colleaing all of those illustration passages from poetry so that I can frame diem. Couldn't you make them in color? I think I have asked too many questions already. Good luck, WT, and may the sun never set on your splendid magazine.”

A Posing Tiger

Michael Liene whites from Hazleton, Pennsylvania: "Toean Matjan, by Vennette Herron, was a strange little tale, beautifully written. The tiger in the illustration looks suspiciously like die one used to advertise Listerine mouth wash, or some such. Or did this tiger take up posing for advenisements, in the spare time he had, aside from jealously guarding our heroine of the story? Were it not for Quinn’s beautifully told stor)% Roads, I would have given Toean Matjan first place in the January issue — the story, I mean, not the tiger. . . . Gans T. Field’s The Hairy Ones Shall Dance serial has started out quite thrillingly. It leaves the reader all prepared for startling events, w'hidi wdll either make or ruin the story. But if the first installment is any indication of shudders, I just took my racoon coat out of storage.”

He Wants a Sequel

Alvin V. Pershing W’rltes from Anderson, Indiana: "Would it be proper to ask for a sequel to The Sea-Witch? That story w’as ft tremendous knock-out, amazing and weird. It was one of the best stories I have ever read. Virgil’s black-and-white frontispiece W’as a real addition to the magazine.”

Quinn and Howard

J. Mackay Tait writes from Bridgetown,



Nova Scotia: "In my humble opinion, the most thoroughly enjoyable stories that appear in WT are tliose by sucli writers as Seabury Quinn and Robert E. Howard (how 1 miss that boy!), in which there is a little humanity, a little humor, a little happiness. Poe’s works are abnormal, the produa (admittedly so) of a diseased mind. 'liiey aren’t true to life. They are literary lunacy, analogous in art to the works of Dali, or in sculpture to those of Epstein. Tliere is never any situation, no matter how desperate, in which all hope and humor are entirely absent. I served four years with the Canadian infantry during the war . . . and although we lived in terror a great deal of the time — particularly I — I never once found myself in a position where it was all fear and horror. In this month’s WT there is a story by Nietzin Dyalhis, The Sea-Witch, diat I believe to be one of the best ever to appear in our magazine. And my opinion is not influenced by the really splendid cover design by Virgil Finlay — a vast improvement over some of the raisproportioned females who have displayed their impossible charms on covers of the past, e\’en if the girl has misplaced her navel. The story d^s with the occult, it has horror, it has suspense; but it also has love, tenderness, humor (not funniness) , and a delightfully unexpected happy ending. . . . Another criticism (I might as well be hung for a slieep as a lamb) 1 have to make of a great many of your stories, although not only of the Poe style, is directed at the obviously labored attempt at maintaining an atmosphere of gloom and impending evil throughout the narrative. Why should this be necessary? Because a man walking along a lonely country road in a rainstorm is to encounter, half a mile farther on, a grisly werewolf is no reason, that I can see, for the limbs of the trees to appear like skeleton arms reaching out for him, or for the raindrops to fall with the sound of hissing snakes bent upon his destruction, or for the wind to howl at him with the voices of a thousand haunted spirits. Unless he is mentally abnormal, neurotic or a confirmed and industrious disciple of Bacchus, a country road w'ould be a country road and nothing more. It may be the tradition to write weird stories in that way, but it is illogical nevertheless. Horror rarely sets the stage before descending upon us. I wish it did! When it strikes, it strikes suddenly,

mXT MONTH

The Eyes of the Mummy

By Robert Bloch

►■T^HAT young writing marvel, Robert Bloch, has never written a stranger or more thrilling story than this. It is a story of Egypt, a gripping tale of flaming weird jewels in the eye-sockets of a withered mummy, an eery narrative that will hold your breathless interest to the end.

^TlHis story rises to a climax so im* * usual, so weird and fascinating as to make it unique in literature. This unforgettable tale will be published complete

in the April issue of


on sale March 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this

coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER. (YouSuveSSc)

840 N. Michietui Ave.

Chicago, ZU.

Eziclos«d find $1.00, for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the April Issue. (Speclul offer void unless remittance is accompanied b>* coupon.)

Kame

Address

aty State



without' warning. From happiness we are switdicd to misery and back again almost without knowing how it all happened. Tlie trouble with striving constantly for this kind of atmosphere is that it defeats its own purpose. You are plunged into gloom w'ith tlie story’s first paragraph and are mentally prepared for anything that may happen. When I bought a volume of Poe’s w’orks some years ago, I naturally w’aded through those dealing in horror first. 'Waded’ is the mot juste. By the time I had read three of them, I was 50 saturated with their atmosphere that they had lost all value as shockers. I have never finished the volume and I never w'ill. (This is sacrilege but I can’t help it.) People are constantly borrowing my books — sometimes they return them — but I have never had any one of them borrow the volume of Poe although it still retains its attractive red-andblack cover. I don’t believe pc-ople like that kind of literature. They like horror, mystery, even cruelty; but they like it dished up palatably. You can consign this to the editorial waste-basket if you like, but it is my sincere conviction that more stories of the Seabury Quinn type would sell more copies of WT.”

Concise Coninieuts

T. O. Mabbott writes from New York City: "My votes this month are for Roads, which has the trutli of a legend about it, tiiough curiously enough for Seabury Quinn, it struck me as deserving a cut or two to make the thing a little more compaa; second: Valley of Bones — ^simple and wholly credible while being read, and, third, Toean Matjan, where I wished for a stronger suggestion the tiger was sometimes a man, too.’’

James Whiting Saunders w’rites from Alexandria, Virginia: “In the January issue the best stor)' is Ethan Brasul. It is an almost timeless allegory, of course. Thank you for printing an American classic.’’

Paul L. McCieave writes from St. Petersburg, Florida: "The Sea-Witch was truly tlie ’cops’ in the December Weikd Tales. Nietzin Dyalhis (bow’d he ever get that name, anyw’ay?) must have a thorough knowledge of the old Norse mythology.’*

Seymour Kapetansky writes from Detroit: "Lovecrafe’s Hypnos is one of the late master’s obscure-weird pieces. A grand fictional yarn. I think that tlie reprint sliouid contain

a Lovecraft as often as possible, and ditto the early Robert E. Howards. These men were the be^ weird writers ; their w'ork should appear often. That w’ill be their best memorial.’’

Harold F. Keating writes from Quincy, Massacliusetts ; "The Black Stone Statue by Mary Counselman is gorgeous. Most of her stories are excellent; but tliis was the best yet."

Howard Brenton MacDonald writes from Yonkers, New York: "The Sea-Witch was an exceptionally fine story. I am glad to see some author making use of the vast treasury of Norse mythology. Let's have more.’’

H. W. Marian writes from Union City, Tennessee: "In the December number Virgil Finlay is superb. Words fail me, and I can only attempt to express my appreciation for this new feature. ’These first two I have already framed and they occupy a position of honor in my room.”

Andrew Galet wtites from New York City: "I now have a double incentive for buying WT, but, please have Virgil Finlay's full-page drawing inside the back cover of your magazine. Not only will his illustrations be more fully appreciated but one could always tear the cover off and have tlie draw'- ings framed.”

Grin S. McFarland w'rites from Washington, D. C: "I’ve read your magazine for the last six years and know there is nothing like it. Keep up the good work. Tliere are a few stories that don’t quite click, but so few diat all tlie good ones outshine, by far, any defea that your magazine may otherwise possess.”

Flo M. Post writes from Guthrie, Oklahoma: “Tales of robots with human minds are just gibberish — and not weird gibberish either — ^whether they inhabit Mars, Venus, the Moon, or an Atlantis.”

Tlie Most Popular Story

Readers, it will help us to keep diis magazine just as you like it to be, if you will let us know which stories you like best, and also w'hich ones you dislike. In the January issue, as shown by your votes and letters, Seabury Quinn’s strange tale about Santa Claus easily won first place. Vennette Herron’s story about the were-tiger came next

W. T.— 8

COMING NEXT MONTH

AT THE core of the strange garden, where a circular space was still vacant amid the /% crowding growths, Adompha came to a mound of loamy, fresh-dug earth. Beside 1 m. if, wholly nude, and pale and supine as if in death, there lay the odaliscjue Thulo* neah. Near her, various knives and other implements, together with vials of liquid balsams and viscid gums that Dwerulas used in his grafting, had been emptied upon tlie ground from a leathern bag. A plant known as the dedaini, with a bulbous, pulpy, whitish-green bole from whose center rose and radiated se^'eral leafless reptilian boughs, dripped upon Thuloneah’s bosom an occasional drop of yellowish-red ichor from incisions made in its smooth bark.

Behind the loamy mound, Dwerulas rose to view with the suddenness of a demon emerging from his subterrene lair. In his hands he held the spade with whicli he had Just finished digging a deep and grave-like hole. Beside the regal stature and ginh of Adompha. he seemed no more than a wizened dwarf. His aspect bore all the marks of immense age, as if dusty centuries had sered his flesh and sucked the blood from his veins. His eyes glowed in the bottom of pit-like orbits; his features were black and sunken as those of a long-dead corpse; his body was gnarled as some millennial desert cedar. He stooped incessantly, so that his lank, knotty arms hung almost to the ground. Adompha marveled at the strength of those arms; marveled that Dwerulas could have wielded the heavy shovel so expeditiously, could have carried to the garden on his back the burden of those victims whose members he had utilized in his experiments. The king had never demeaned himself to assist at such labors; but, after indicating from time to time the people whose disappearance would in no wise displease him, had done nothing more than watch and supefvi.se ^e baroque gardening.

"Is she dead?” Adompha questioned, eyeing the luxurious limbs and body of Thuloneah w’ithout emotion.

"Nay,” .said Dwerulas. in a voice harsh a.s a rusty coffin-hinge, "but I have administered to her the drowsy and overpowering juice-of the dedam. Her heart beats impalpably, her blood flows w’ith the sluggishness of that mingled ichor, She will not reawaken . . . save as a part of the gardenls life, .sharing its obscure sentience. I wait now your further instructions. WTiat portion . . . or portions?”

"Her hands were very deft,” said Adompha, as if musing aloud, in reply to the halfuttered question. "Tliey knew the subtle ways of love and were learned in all amorous arts. I would nave you preserve her hands , , . but nothing else.” . . .

A strange story indeed is this, written in the magic words of one of the greatest living masters of weird fiction. What happened to Thuloneah when her arms were grafted to the dedahn tree makes a fascinating and unusual weird story of immense interest and power. It will be printed complete in the April issue of Weird Tales:

THE GARDEN OF ADOMPHA

By Clark Ashton Smith

Also —

THE TEMPLE DANCER By Seabury Quinn

An unusual story abo® a white girl in a Hindoo temple .nnd the loving arms of the gracious lady that protected her on the night when she was to become the Bride of Siva.

THE EYES Oh' THE MLMMY FOREST OF EVIL

By Robert Bloch By John Murray Reynolds

A fascinating story of flashing jewels and an old A story of many thrills — a tale of weird advenEgypeian tomb — a story with a strange and terrible tures and dire perils in the Dead Forest of climax. SanaaJa.

THE DE>'n. DEALS By Carl Jacobi

An odd and curious story is this, about a fatal game of cards, played with a most peculiar deck containing neither spades, hearts, diamonds nor clubs.

April Issue WEIRD TALES Out March 1

Special Bargidn Offer

YOURS

While They Last At Reduced Price Only Fifty Cents

Beau/ifillly bound in nch blue (loth U’iih attraetive omngtcolored cover jacket.

T he moon terror, by A. G.

Birch, is a stupendous weird-scientific novel of Orientiil intrigue to gain coAtroI of the world.

ALSO-OTHER STORIES

DIMENSION, by Farnsworth Wright, is an uproarious skit on the four-dimensional theories of the mathematicians, and interplanetary stories in general.

LIMITED SUPPLY

In addition to the full-length novel, this bCok also contains three shorter stories by well-known authors of thrilling weird- -scientific fiction;

OOZE, by Anthony M. Rud, tells of a biologist who removed the growth limitations from an amceba, and the amazing catastrophe that ensued.

PENELOPE, by Vincent Starrert, is a fascinating tale of the star Penelope, and the fantastic thing that happened when the star was in perihelion.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE FOURTH

Mai* sure of getting your copy now before the close-out supply is exhausted. Send your order tod^ for this book at the special bargain price of cnly 50c.

Note: This book for sale from the publishers only. It cannot be purchased in any book store.

n^lBD TALES, Book D«pt.

I 340 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, lU., C. S. A.

Evlosed find 50e for cloth-bound ct^y of' THE I MO^ TERROR as per your special offer.

^ Name.

I

I Address

I City State

[THE END]
