============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 32, Number 5
Date: November 1938
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Recompense Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
plunged into the ghoul-peopled darkness of earth’s bowels; for behind the last of the creatures the great brazen door clanged shut with a deafening peal of metallic music whose reverberations swelled out to the distant world to hail the rising sun as Memnon hails it from the banks of the Nile.

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

I have not heard lutes beckon me, nor the brazen bugles call.

But once in the dim of a haunted lea I heard the silence fall.

I have not heard the regal drum, nor seen the flags unfurled.

But I have watched the dragons come, fire-eyed, across the world.

I have not seen the horsemen fall before the hurtling host.

But I have paced a silent hall where each step waked a ghost.

I have not kissed the tiger-feet of a strange-eyed golden god.

But I have walked a city’s street where no man else had trod.

I have not raised the canopies that shelter revelling kings,

But I have fled from crimson eyes and black uneartjrly wings.

I have not knelt outside the door to kiss a pallid queen.

But I have seen a ghostly shore that no man else has seen.

I have not seen the standards sweep from keep and castle wall.

But I have seen a woman leap from a dragon’s crimson stall,

And I have heard strange surges boom that no man heard before. And seen a strange black city loom on a mystic night-black shore.

And I have felt the sudden blow of a nameless wind’s cold breath. And watched the grisly pilgrims go that walk the roads of Death,

And I have seen black valleys gape, abysses in the gloom.

And I have fought the deathless Ape that guards the Doors of Doom.

I have not seen the face of Pan, nor mocked the dryad’s haste.

But I have trailed a dark-eyed Man across a windy waste.

I have not died as men may die, nor sinned as men have sinned.

But I have reached a misty sky upon a granite wind.

By EVERIL WORRELL

IAM writing this because I shall not long be able to write it. Why does one long for the understanding and sympathy of his fellow beings • — long to have that, even after the worst has befallen and he has gone from this life to that which awaits him? How many bottles laden wnth last messages float on lonely, unknown ocean surges, or sink to the bottom of the sea?

It will be so with this, my last message. That is, it will be uncredited, unbelieved, uncomprehended, although it will doubtless be read. But I have told my story many times, and heard them say that I am mad. I know they will say that, after I am gone — gone from behind these bars into the horrors of the fate that will overtake my spirit somewhere out in the open spaces and the blackness of night into which it will go. He will be there, one of the shadows that lurk in old cemeteries and sweep across lonely roads where the winds moan and wander homeless and hopeless across the waste spaces of the earth from dusk till dawn. Dawn!

But I will tell my story for the last rime.

Even now, my years arc those of a young girl. I am only seventeen, and they say I have been mad more than a year. When I was sixteen, my eyes were bright and my cheeks red with a color that did not come off when I washed my face. I lived in the counti-y, and I was an old-fashioned girl in many ways. I roamed freely over the countryside, and my wanderings Avere shared by my only close friend, or else were lonely. The name of my friend was Margaret. Mine was Leonora.

The two of us lived only a quarter of a mile apart, and between us ran a lonely little road crossed by another like it. Our parents believed that it Avas safe for us, or for any child, to traverse this road between our houses alone at any hour. We had done it from our youngest days. It should have been safe, for we were far from cities, and malefactors of any sort were utterly unknown in our secluded part of the country. There were disadvantages attendant on living in such isolation, but there were advantages, too. Mar62 ^

From AVEIRD TALES for January, 1927.



garet’s family were simple farmer folk of sterling worth. My father was a student of some means, who could afford to let the world go by.

On dark or stormy nights, sundown generally found me safe indoors for the night, spending the evening by the open fire. Moonlight nights I loved, and on nights when the moon was bright I often stayed at Margaret’s house, taking advantage of my freedom to wander home alone as late as midnight. Sometimes Margaret did this, too, staying late with me and going home without thought of fear; but I was the venturesome one, the one who loved to be abroad in the moonlight....

Do horrors such as come to me march toward one from the hour of birth, so that every trait, every characteristic is inclined to meet them?

Up to my sixteenth birthday, my life had been like a placid stream. It had been without excitement, and almost without incident. Perhaps its very calm had made me ready for adventure.

MY sixteenth birthday, Margaret dined at my house and I supped with her. It was our idea of a celebration. It was October, and the night of the full moon. I did not start home until nearly midnight. I would not reach home until a little after that, but that would not matter, because my father would be asleep in bed, and, in any case, not worried about me or interested in the hour of my arrival. The bright colors of autumn leaves, strongely softened and dimmed in the moonlight, rose all around me. Single leaves drifted through the still air and fell at my feet. The moon had reached mid-heaven, and the sky was like purple velvet.

I was happy. It was too beautiful

a night to go home. It was a night to enjoy to the fullest — to wander through, going over strange roads, going farther than I had ever gone. I threw out my arms in the moonlight, posing like a picture of a dancing girl which my father had — I had never seen a dancer! — and flitted down the road. As I reached the cross-road, the sound of our clock chiming midnight drifted to my ears, and I stopped.

A beautiful high-powered car stood just at the entrance to our road, its headlights off, its parking lights hardly noticeable in the brilliant moonlight.

I knew it was a fine car, because my father had one, and on rare occasions the fit took him to drive it. When he drove it I went with him, and I noticed cars, for I loved them. I loved their strength and speed, and their fine lines. I loved to rush through the air in my father’s car, and was never happier than when I could coax him to drive the twenty miles to the state road, and go fast on the perfect paving. But aside from my father’s car, I had never seen a good one on these little back country roads.

I stopped, although I knew I ought to go on. And as I stopped just short of the cross-road, the big car glided sofdy forward a few feet until it stopped, blocking the road to my father’s house. My father’s motor was a silent one; but this car actually moved without the slightest sound.

Until now I had not seen the driver. Now I looked at him.

His face was shadowy in the moonlight. Perhaps it did not catch the direct light. There was a suggestion of strong, vei’y sharply cut features, of a smile and a deep-set gaze....

My pen shakes until I can hardly write the words. But I heard the doctor say today that I had nearly reached

LEONORA


the end of my strength, and any night with its horrors may be the end. I must control myself and think of the things I am writing down as they seemed to me at the time.

I was just turned sixteen, and this was romance. And so I stopped and tallced to him, although we exchanged few words. That night he did not ask me to ride with him, and so I was less afraid. For with the romance was fear — but I answered his questions.

“What is your name?” he asked; and I answered, “Leonora.”

“It is music in my ears,” he said softly; and again, I felt that this was romance. I felt it again, when he added: “I have been looking for you for a long time.”

Of course, I did not dream — I did not think that he meant that. I had read novels, and love stories. I knew how to take a compliment.

“Do you often pass this way as late as this?”

Something made me hesitate. But something about him, something about our meeting alone in the moonlight, fascinated me. If I said “no,” perhaps I would never see him again.

“Very often, when the moon is full,” I said, and moved to go around the car. Ill a moment the gloved hand that rested on the wheel had touched the broad brim of his hat; another movement, and the car shot silently ahead and was gone.

IRAN home with a beating heart. My last words had almost made a rendezvous of the night of the next full moon. If I desired, there might be another encounter.

Yet it was two months later when we met again. The very next full moon had been clear, cloudless, frostily cold — and a lovely November night. But

that night I was so afraid that I even avoided the full light of the moon when I crossed our yard in the early evening to bring in a book I had left lying outside. At the thought of traversing the road that led to Margaret’s house, every instinct within me rebelled. At midnight, I was lying in my bed, with the covers drawn close around me, and my wide-open eyes turned resolutely away from the patch of moonlight that lay, deathly white, beneath my open window. I was like a person in a nervous fit^ — I, who had never known the meaning of nerves.

But the second month, it was different.

After all, it was a line thing to have mystery and romance, for the taking, mine. Or were they mine for the taking? Perhaps the man in the long, low car had never come again, would never come again. But his voice had promised something different. Would he be there tonight? Had he been there a month ago? Curiosity began to drive me before it. After all, he had made no move to harm me. And there had been something about him, something that drew and drew me. Surely my childish fears were the height of folly — the product of my loneliness.

I went to Margaret’s, and stayed late — almost, as on that other night, until the clock struck 12. At last, with a self-consciousness that was noticeable only to me, I wrapped my heavy coat around me and went out into the night.

The night had changed. It was bitterly cold, and there was a heavy, freezing mist in the air which lay thickly in the hollows. The shadows of the bare trees struck through the dismal vapors like dangling limbs of skeletons....

What am I writing, thinking of? The scream that pierced the night, I



could not suppress. I must control myself, or they will come and silence me. And I must finish this tonight. I must finish it before the hour of dawn. That is the hour I fear, worse than the hour of midnight.

It is the hour when Those outside must seek their dreadful homes, the hour Avhen striking fleshless fingers against my window-pane is not enough, but They would take me Avith Them where They go — where I, but not another living soul, have been before! And whence I never shall escape again.

I walked down, slowly, toward the cross-road. I would not have lingered. I would have been glad to find the cross-road empty. It was not.

There stood the car, black — I had not noticed its color before — low-hung, spectral fingers of white light from its cowl lights piercing the mist. The crossroad was in the holloAv, and the mist lay very heavily there — so hea^fily that I could hardly breathe.

He was there in the car, his face more indistinct in the shadow of his broad-brimmed hat than it had been before, I thought, his gloved hand resting as before upon the wheel. And again, with a thrill of fear, there went a thrill of fascination through me. He was different! — different from everyone else, I felt. Strangeness, romance — and his manner was that of a lover. In my inexperience, I knew it.

“Will you ride tonight, Leonora?”

It had come — the next advance — the invitation!

But I was not going with him. I had got the thrill I had come for. He had asked me, and that was enough. It Avas enough, noAV, if I never saw him again. This was a better stopping-point. (Remember that I was only sixteen.)

A stranger had come out of the night, had been mysteriously attracted

to me, and I to him. He had asked me to ride with him.

I do not knoAV what I said. SomehoAV, I must have communicated to him AA'hat I felt — my pleasure in being asked, my refusal.

His gloved hand touched his hat in the farewell gesture I remembered.

“Another night, Leonora. Leonora!”

The car glided forAvard and Avas gone. But the echo of his voice Avas in my ears. His voice — deep, strange, different — but the voice of a lover. My inexperience was sure. And already I doubted if, after all, this Avould be enough for me If I never saw him again. Another time, he would be as punctilious, as little urgent. But he might say — what would he say?

t

January moon we hardly saw, -®- so bitter Avere the storms of that Avinter, so unbreaking the heaA^y clouds that shut us from the sky.

The February full moon Avas crystalclear in a sky of icy light. The snoAVcovered ground sparkled, and the branches of the trees Avere ice-coated, and burned Avith Avhite fire. But I clung to the fireside, and again crept early Avithin my blankets, draAving them over my head. I Avas in the grip of the fear that had visited me before. I Avas like a person in the grip of a phobia, such as they say that I have noAV, shunning the moonlight and the open air.

It Avas March.

Next month would bring the spring, and then would follow summer. The Avorld would be a soft and gentle world again, in Avhich fear would have no place. Yet I began to long for a repetition of the meetings at the crossroad, a repetition that should have the same setting — the rigors of winter, rather tfian the entirely different surroundings of the season of new buds

LEONORA


and new life. My last attack of unreasoning terror had passed away again, and again it seemed as though it left behind it a reaction that urged me more strongly than ever toward adventure.

Had he been at the cross-road in the bitter storms of January, and on the sparkling white night which I spent close indoors? Would he be there on the night of the next full moon, the March moon?

There was still no breath of spring in the air on that night. The winter’s snow lay in the hollows, no longer whitely sparkling, but spoiled by the cold rains that had come since it had fallen.

The night sky was wild with windtorn clouds, and the moonlight was now clear and brilliant, now weirdly dim, and again swept away by great, black, sweeping shadows. The air was full of the smell of clamp earth and rotted leaves.

I did not go to Margaret’s. I sat by the fire, dreaming strange dreams, while the clock ticked the hours slowly by, and the fire sank low. At 11, my father yawned and went up to his room. At a quarter before 12, I took my heavy cloak, and wrapped it around me. A little later, I went out.

I knew that I would find him waiting. There was no doubt of that tonight. It was not curiosity that drove me, but some deeper urge, some urge I know no name for. I w'as like a swimmer in a dangerous current, caught at last by the undertow.

The car stood in the cross-road, low and dark. Although it was a finely made machine, I v^as sure, it seemed to me for the first time to be in some way very peculiar. But at that moment a cloud swept across the face of the moon, and I lost interest in the matter,

with a last vague thought that it must be of foreign make.

Then, suddenly, I was aware that for the first timiC the stranger had opened the door of the car before me. Indeed, this was the first time I had approached on the side of the vacant seat beside the driver.

“We ride tonight, Leonora. Why not? And what else did you come out for?”

That was true. For the first time I now met him, not on my way home, not on my way anywhere. I had met him, only to meet him. And he expected me to ride. He had never forced, or tried to urge me, but tonight he expected me to ride. Wouldn’t it seem silly to have come out only to exchange two or three words and go bade, and wouldn’t it be better to go with him? A less inexperienced girl might take the trouble to leave her house on a stormy March night for the sake of a real adventure — only a very green country girl would have come out at all for less. I would go.

I had entered the car. I sat beside him, and when the moon shone out brightly I tried to study his face as he started the car down the narrow road. I m^et with no success. I had become conscious of a burning anxiety to see more cleaidy what was the manner of this man who had been the subject of so much speculation, the reason of so many dreams. But here beside him I could see no more clearly than I had seen him from the road. The side of his face which was turned toward me, and which was partly exposed between the deep-brimmed hat and the turnedup collar of his cloak, was still deeply shaded by the car itself; so that I had the same elusive impression as before, of strong, sharp features, a deep-set gaze, a smiling expression.,..



TTT’e drove fast, over strange roads, ’ ’ So closely was my attention centered upon my companion, that I did not concern myself with the way we went. Later, I was to become uneasy over die distance we had traversed; but when I did, he reassured me, and I believed that we were then on our way home, and nearly there. I thought he meant by home, m}*' father’s house; and had I not thought that, my wildest nightmare could not have whispered to me what it was that he called “home”!

lie was very silent. I spoke little, and he seldom answered me. That did not alarm me as it might have done, because of my ever-present conviction of my childishness, my crudeness. I blamed myself because my remarks were so stupid that they were not worth a reply, and the taciturnity that so embarrassed me yet added to the fascination that made me sit motionless hour after hour, longing more than anything else in the world to get a good look at the face beside me, to arouse more interest in my companion.

Once only, he spoke of his own accord. He asked me why I was called Leonora.

I asked him if he did not think it was a pretty name, remembering how he had said at our first meeting that it was “music in his ears.” But I was disappointed, for he did not compliment my name again.

“Some wmuld say it w'as an ill-starred name. But, luckily, people are not superstitious as they used to be.”

“If that is lucky, you can not call it ill-starred.”

I wanted to provoke him into talking more to me. I wanted his attention. But he did not answer me.

I can not go on. I can not finish my stoi-y as I intended to do, telling things as they happened, in their right order.

There are things I must explain, things that people have said about me that I must deny. And the night is growing late, and the rapping I hear all night long upon my window-pane, between the bars that shut me in but that will soon protect me no longer, is growing louder — as the dawn approach£s. The pain in my heart, of which the doctor has said I -would die soon, is growing unendurable. And when I come to the end of my story — to the end, which 1 will set down — 1 do not know what will happen then. But that which I am to write of is so dreadful that I have never dared to think of it. Not of that itself, but of the horrible ending to the story I am telling.

1 must finish before the dawn, for it is at the da-wn that They must go, and it is then that They would take me — W’here he w'aits for me, always at dawn.

But to explain first — people say I am mad. You who will read this will doubtless believe them. But tell me this:

Where was I from the time I disappeared from my father’s house until I was found, “mad,” as they say, and clutching in my frenzied grasp — the finger of a skeleton? In what dread struggle did I tear that finger loose, and from what dreadful hand? And although I, a living -wmman, could not remain in the abode of death, if I have not been touched by the very finger of death, then tell me this:

Why is my flesh like the flesh of the dead, so that the doctors say it is like leprous flesh, although it is not leprous? Would God it -were!

Now, let me go on.

|WuR SILENT DRIVE continued through the flying hours. Flying hours, for I was unconscious of the lapse of time, excepting for the once when I vaguely

LEONORA


became uneasy at oui' long jouimey, and was reassured. Had he who sat behind the wheel refused to answer my questioning then, perhaps I would then have become frantic with terror. But his deep, soothing voice worked a spell on me once more; and in his reply I thought I could detect a real solicitude which comforted me. I was assured that we would shortly reach my father’s house; I would slip in before my father could possibly have waked, and avoid questioning.

As the night grew older, it became more dismal. The moon which had swung high overhead sent long shadows scurrying from every tree and shrub, every hill and hummock, as we dashed by. The wind had fallen, but yet blew hard enough to make a moaning, wailing sound which seemed to follow us through the night. The clouds that had swept in great masses across the sky had changed their shapes, and trailed in long, somber, broken streamers like torn black banners. The smell of dank, soggy earth and rotting leaves, of mold and decay, was heavier since the wind had sunk a little. Suddenly, I had a great need for reassurance and comfort. My heart seemed breaking with loneliness, and with a strange, unreasoning despair.

I turned to the silent figure at my side. And it seemed that he smelled of the stagnant odor of decay that filled the night — that the smell, and the oppression, were heavier because I had leaned nearer to him!

I looked — with a more intense gaze than I had yet turned on him — not at the face that bent above me now, the face that still eluded and baffled me — but down at the arm next me, at the sleeve of his cloak of heavy, black cloth. For something had caught my eye — something moved — oh, what was

this horror, and why was it so horrible? — a slowly moving worm upon his sleeve?

I shuddered so that I clashed my teeth together. I must control myself.

AND then, as though my deep alarm were the cue for the hidden event to advance from the future upon me, the car was gliding to a stop. I tore my horrified gaze from the black-clad arm, and looked out of the car. We were gliding into a cemetery!

“Not here! Oh, don’t stop here!”

I gasped the words, as one gasps in a nightmare.

“Yes. Here.”

The deep voice \Yas deeper. It was deep and hollow. There was no comfort in it.

The mask was off my fear, at least. I was face to face with that, though I had not yet seen that other face.

I leaped from the car, and fell fainting beside it. Black, low-hung, and long, and narrow — I had been to but one funeral in my life, but I knew it now. It was the shape of a coffin!

After that, I had no hope. I was with a madman, or

He dragged me — in gloved hands through which the hard, long fingers bruised my flesh — past graves, past tombstones and marble statues, and I was numb. I saw among the graves, or seemed to see — oh, let me say I saw strange things, for I have seen them since; and I was numb.

He dragged me toward an old, old, sunken grave headed by a time-stained stone that settled to one side, so long it had marked that spot. And suddenly the nightmare dreaminess that had dulled my senses gave way to some keener realization of the truth. I struggled, I fought back with all my little strength, till I tore the glove from his



right hand, and the finger of his right hand snapped in my grasp — snapped, and — gave way!

I struggled in the first faint rays of dawn, struggled as I felt the old, old, sunken earth give way beneath my feet. And the sun rose over the edge of the earth, and flamed red into my desperate eyes. I turned for a last time to the inscrutable face, and in those blood-red ra3's of the dawn I saw at last revealed — the grinning, fleshless jaws, the empty eye-sockets of

Statement by the Superintendent of St.

Margaret’s Insane Asylum

HIS DOCUMENT was found in the

room of Leonora, who was

pronounced dead of heart-failure by the resident physician. Attendants who rushed to the room on hearing Avild cries, and who found her dead, believe the fatal attack to have been caused by the excitement of writing down her extraordinary narration.

The doctor who had attended her considered her the victim of a strange form of auto-hypnosis. She undoubtedly disappeared from her home on the night of the eighteenth of March, and was found two days later in an old cemetery, three hundred miles away. When found, she v/as incoherent and

hysterical, and ‘was holding in her hand the finger of a skeleton. How and where she might have come by this, it was and is impossible to surmise.

It seems, however, that she must have been lured from her home by some stranger, and have escaped or been abandoned near the cemetery; that she must have read of the legend of Leonora, and that it must have made a morbid impression on her mind Avhich later, following the shock which caused her to lose her reason, dictated the form her insanity was to take.

It is true that her skin, from the time of her discovery in the graveyard, had a peculiar appearance suggestive of the skin of a leprous person, or even more of that of a corpse; and (which she does not mention) it also exuded a peculiar odor.

These peculiar phenomena were among those attributed by the doctor to the effects of auto-hypnosis; his theory being that, just as a hypnotized person may be made to develop a burn on the arm by the mere suggestion without the application of heat, Leonora had suggested to herself that she had been contaminated by the touch of death, and that her physical nature had been affected by the strength of the suggestion.

T he host of admirers of the late Robert E. Howard’s Conan stories in Weird Tales will be interested to learn that The H'jkorian Age has been published in mimeograph form by Forrest J. Ackerman and the other editors of that excellent weird story “fan” magazine, Imagination. The copy that has reached the editor’s desk informs us that the edition is limiited to one hundred copies. The forev/ord is taken from The Phoenix on the Sword (the first of the Conan stories, which appeared in "Weird Tales six years ago). A mournful touch is the inclusion of an introductory letter by the late H. P. Lovecraft, who last year followed Howard into the shadows. The booklet contains a full-page map, drawn by Hov/ard himself, showing the different countries that were the scenes of Conan’s weird adventures. A similar map has long been in possession of the editor of Weird Tales, who treasui'es it as one of his most valued possessions. The booklet ends with a resume of the Conan sagas in chronological order of occurrence with the date in which each appeared in Weird Tales.

Some Magnificent Jewel

Warr-en J. Oswald writes from Fort William D. Davis, Canal Zone; “Please pardon the interruption, but I just had to get in my two cents’ worth. I have just finished the August issue of WT, and think it’s swellegant, to use an ancient phrase. I’m not, at the present time, in the tomato business, but I just can’t resist the temptation to throw a few. Re Seabury Quinn’s The

Venomed Breath of Vengeance; it was a good story, but seemed rather prosaic for WT. On the other hand, every time Quinn goes off the beaten track (Jules de Grandin, to you) he picks up some magnificent jewel in the wastelands, polishes it up, and gives it to the readers in one splendid, coruscating, blinding flash. And, gee, do I love it! It just goes to show you what he can do. The Globe of Memories and Roads are among the more scintillating of these gems.... Other topics: The covei', for instance. Even though Mrs. Brundage’s covers are artistic and striking, I would like very much to see a scene from a city of the future, or some like subject. Just for a change, you know. And when are we going to get another Northwest Smith tale? C. L. Moore has been altogether too silent lately. We haven’t heard from this author since the story. Quest of the Starstone.”

A New Reader

Harry Warner, Jr., writes from -Hagerstown, Maryland: “I’m a new reader of Weird Tales, having been getting it only for the last two issues, but I’ve been reading this type of story, and enjoyed it, for a long time, and so I was very much pleased when I finally found a place here in town svhere WT might be bought. The real thing, I think, that caused me to start buying it was Dust in the House — for whenever I see Doctor Keller’s name I know that I will enjoy anything written by him. Dust in the House was, I think, the best thing in these two issues, followed very closely by Love635;



craft’s masterful short, The Tree. Clark Ashton Smith was of course masterful in Mother of Toads, but I definitely didn’t like Spawn of Dagon or The Fire Princess. The former somehow didn’t seem to belong in WT, and the latter would be much better as a movie serial for ten-year-olds. The Black Drama is my idea of what a weird story should be, and I only wish I hadn’t missed the first part. Finlay is a fine artist, and the July cover wasn’t too bad, but heaven forbid that we get any more like the August one!

... Your poetry is uniformly good, except for The Messenger which stands out heads and shoulders above the rest, and I read the Eyrie before anything else. Keep up reprinting old stories and try to use more by Lovecraft and Howard, won’t you? I think that they can be safely classed along with Poe, judging from what I’ve read of them. I have just one request to make— try to keep the magazine devoted exclusively to weird material. Science-fiction I enjoy tremendously, and a certain amount of it, as in He that Hath Wings, is all right, but when I buy Weird T.A.LES I expect something weird, and nothing more like Invaders from Outside, although that story would have been perfectly all right in a science-fiction magazine.”

A Gem of Sheer Fantasy

B. M. Reynolds writes from North Adams, Massachusetts: “Many thanks for printing that superb tale, The Fire Princess, by Edmond Hamilton. His work seems finer than ever of late. This new novel from his pen is a veritable gem of sheer fantasy, comparing favorably with his Child of the Winds, Fake of Life and Isle of the Sleeper. More power to you, Mr. Hamilton; may your work appear often in our magazine. A Thunder of Trumpets, by Robert E. Howard and his co-author is, likewise, a splendid contribution, well-written and compelling throughout. The character Ranjit embodies within himself the mysticism and witchery of the real India, which ever lurks brooding behind its civilized sham, to a greater degree than any other fiction character I have ever contacted. Other yams of

note were: The Cavern, A Witch’s Curse and The White Rat.”

Replete with Spooky Legends

Osmond Robb writes from Edinburgh, Scotland: “Just a short appreciation of your magazine, which has given me many hours of delightfully blood-curdling enjoyment. My first acquaintance with the work of your star authors was made not through the medium of WT itself but via the famous Not at Night series of carefully selected reprint shockers, published in England, many of which were from your magazine. Eli Colter — Seabury Quinn — H. P. Lovecraft — these names v/ere strange to me when I encountered them in the pages of the little red books with the gruesome titles, By Daylight Only, Not at Night, Grim Death, etc. I must confess that then, as now, the unvarnished blood-and-thunders which sought to revolt the reader by nauseous details of putrefaction and slimy abomination left me cold. I wanted other-worldly horror, the chill dread of what may lie beyond the farthest outposts of our cognizance, not the cheap revulsion of rotting cadavers. This eery, authentic thrill the late lamented H. P. L. provided, and the first story I ever read by this exquisite literary craftsman established me as one of his fans. The Horror at Red Hook, with its muttering crones, its vile incantations and its final glimpse into the shadows of an all-too-realistic inferno sent shivers up and down my spine. Since that date I have never been disappointed by a Lovecraft story. Your magazine today is well-nigh perfect.... Congratulations to Gertrude Hemken on her consistently amusing monthly letter; the slang she uses is so richly expressive that it recalls Elizabethan times. In this age of polite, stereotyped literary styles it is refreshing to find somebody who can invent words and phrases as she goes along. I imagine Drury would make an A- 1 correspondence-friend. I will close with an invitation to your authors. Why not read up the folklore of my home town, Edinburgh? I assure you it is replete with spooky legends that could be worked into shivery stories. ’Nuff said.”



From a l«yal Reader

Caroline Fcrber writes from Chicago: “Finlay’s Israfel is most startling with the blue — and the ‘giddy stars’ radiate like 4 th of July sparklers. Most unusual to me — it calls for further study and more study. The title As ’Twas Told to Me is really intriguing — and Quinn’s name, coupled with the drawing of that cavalier, are enough to make one want to dig into the yarn. Boy, did I ever feel I was Mary Popham being tried for witchcraft! Brrr — and grrr — such ignorance of a pioneering people! Blackwood’s Magic Mirror evidently does not deal with ‘The Man Who Broke the Bank’ — Poor feller — aren’t the best of us prone to gamble deeply at times? Sorta liked Tooke’s verse, The Wreck. Scientifically, The White Rat svas good reading — but rat tales get me down. Better — ^much better — I liked A

Thunder of Trumpets — ^this tale of a Hindoo — a Yogi — and the dazzling heights his mind traverses — as a matter of fact, it’s beautiful and fascinating, as was the handsome Ran jit. Tusk— -•tusk — Robert Bloch has almost a C. A. Smith quality in his — Mandarin’s Canaries — such subtle torture! Woo — ^The Fire Princess, she is either very brave, or very foolish — but what exciting fun it is to read! Like an old-time movie serial, we would be kept in suspense as to the outcome of the visit into the bowels of the earth to seek the Place of Power. Passively I wait for the next issue.... Your short tales are all mighty fine — making up an excellent issue. Wellman’s The Cavern had an amusing note even though it brought about the end of a daring explorer and adventurer — and how true it is! — a hippo really has a cavernous orifice in its head.... Paul Ernst’s reprint of A Witch's Curse fits in a bit with the front cover. It’s more intense than some of Ernst’s recent attempts. I’d like to see him do something real good again — something that won’t make one feel flat in the end. Glad to read that New 21ealanders enjoy my monthly nonsense. B. A. Dwyer’s suggestion of a de Grandin film meets with my approval — but I can’t see Menjou as the friendly Jules. Have no particular one in


MOEE LIVES THAN ©ME

By Seabury Quinn

XJERE is an unusual weird story that ■®- skips through the years and ends at last in the United States at the present day. Those of you who enjoyed reading the same author’s story, “The Globe of Memories” (and your names are legion, as “The Globe of Memories” was one of the most popular stories ever published in Weied Tales) will thoroughly enjoy this tale on a somewhat similar theme.

B eginning in the Netherlands under the Spanish occupation, the story takes the reader into the home of the rich burgher Pieter van Werff, whose son is shortly to be married to Lysbeth van de Doren, and shows us how that heroic girl accepted shame and disgrace to save those she loved, only to be betrayed by them. Through several lives runs the story, until the young van Werff at last gets the chance to atone for his treachery. This romantic and fascinating novelette will be published complete.

in the December issue of


on sale November 1

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for

t SPECIAL J.


WBIBD TABES & lElockefeller Plaza New York, K. T.

Enclosed find $1.00 for wKich send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES, to begin with the December issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name. *

Address

City State



mind, though. Too — I’d like a yarn of the ‘iron and heroic North’ — tales of Vikings and die Walkure — tall blond men and tall fair women. Gimme — and will I love it!”

Truant Illustrations

Misti Selkirk writes from La Oroya, Peru: “Imagine a splendid banquet, the tables loaded down with a countless variety of the most delicious viands, meats and pottages in endless array, fruits and cakes and sweets in profusion, what a feast for the eye! But imagine those steaming roasts, those heaping platters, without one grain of salt, those cakes, those jellies, those alluring desserts, entirely devoid of sugar, without one so small drop of flavoring essence, those green mountains of salad deprived of the last tiny drop of life-giving vinegar; certainly filling, nourishing beyond doubt, but lacking that piquant something beyond mere food that gives us the feeling of having truly dined. The feast without flavor was the August issue of our Magazine without the illustrations which have come to be so much a part of our monthly expectation. May I be one of the thousands who will petition for the printing of those truant illustrations, better late than never, in another issue? The tales in the August number were, as always, beyond comparison in their class. We do not censure the rice and duck from which is made our arroz con pato simply because the cook neglected that dash of aji which adds so much to our delight in the feast. Though slightly less than ‘tops,’ our meal was still miles above, over, and beyond the frijoles, yuca, y papas of our everyday diet. In his W olf-Girl of Josselin, Arlton Eadie quotes

his character as saying, ‘ and in addition

we find variants of the legend (that of the werewolf) in Asia, India, Africa, and South America.’ Perhaps Mr. Eadie may have known, as have I not long since, that strange alloy of incredulity and of horror that comes of seeing two crouching human figures slinking, under the leprous light of the rising moon, down into the ghostly white confines of a rocky defile, from which, seconds later, gallop two Things, four-footed, hairy and silent. But, indeed, had Mr. Eadie stood

with me that night, scant five weeks ago, upon that slope above the tombs of Tarmatambo and seen what then I saw, who knows he might not speak now of ‘legend’? Seabury Quinn gives us a slightly different version of the poison-accustomed Nemesis in his Venomed Breath of Vengeance. A dramatic tale, no doubt, but I was constrained to laughter by imagining his nitrobenzol-swilling Sepoy as coming off second best in a contest with one of us garlic-guzzling Spigs. Edmond Hamilton, in his latest serial. The Fire Princess, seems keeping to the same high level of excellence to which he has elevated his recent tales. If, now, he can but avoid the conflict between ‘the band with the red trappings and that with the black,’ then may he at last have reached the standard of the immortals of weird fiction. The culmination of The Black Drama was eveiything which the superb introductory chapters led us to expect. Please convey my congratulations to Mr. Field for a masterful piece of plotbuilding. May y'our years be as those of the walls of Ollantajtambo, Mr. Field, and may you give us each j'ear at least one more of S'our tales. Dead Dog and Three Gentlemen in Black are expressions of the conventional ghost story which yet achieve something beyond mere convention, something almost belief-compelling. That touch, by which the third Gentleman in Black is made to be the figure turning into the lane, that is the hairline that divides between an ordinary spook yarn and an imaginative masterpiece. Mr. Derleth has long compelled my silent admiration; may this be the breaking of that silence. Of course, anything I can say regarding The Tree can be but as the comments of the guttering candle upon the setting of the magnificent sun.”

Most Popular Story

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? As we go to press, two stories are in a tie for popular favor in the September issue, as shown by your votes and letters. These are Seabury Quinn’s tale of Salem witchcraft. As "Twos Told to Me; and the biological thrill-tale written by Earl Peirce and Bruce Bry'an, The White Rat.


T he great chapel, circular in shape, had walls that rose curving, darkly luminous, satin-smooth as the petals of a vast black tulip, to meet a vaulted roof — their polished surface broken by squat archways behind which darkness lay like a crouching beast of prey.

Above the huge slab of the altar-stone was a reredos of red alabaster, a screen some thirty feet by ten. It was powerfully illumined from behind, so that its carving stood out in bold relief and a trick in the lighting gave a sinister effect of constant movement.

This screen was a vivid presentment of a human sacrifice. Bound on the stone altar, a woman appeared to writhe and quiver. Her long bright hair rippled down to a deep trough about the altar-base. About the altar stood tall candles whose flames danced in frenzy. And behind the candles’ flare and flicker, at each of.the four corners of the altar, a veiled figure towered. Menacing, gigantic, these figures were the only immovable objects on the screen, and they achieved by their fateful stillness — in contrast with the surge and movement of all else in the picture — an effect of final inescapable doom. Dark crescent moons poised above each veiled head of these four attendant genii, bearing Hebrew characters which read — EAETH. WINTER. NIGHT. DEATH.

And now Sant saw the black-clad figure — the body of Stephen Lynn, torn and wrenched, trembling from head to foot in diabolic ecstasy, arms flung wide, head bent backward so that light from the suspended globe beat full and fiercely down upon the upturned face. Louder — ^louder rang the great triumphant organ voice, pealing out into the unclean silence of the chapel’s gloom, heating against the curved and shining walls which sent back clashing pjeans of tremendous harmony....

You cannot afford to miss this strange and powerful tale of possession and dual personality, by the author of Thing of Darkness. This fascinating novelette will be published complete in the December issue of Weikd Tales:


By G. G» F@iiilai?v@s

Als©-~—


By Seabuey Quinn By Eoeeet Bloch

An unusual weird story that skips through A tale of the ghastly fate that befell an

the ages and ends at last in present-day archeologist who had stolen an Egyptian

New York — a romantic and fascinating nov- mummy protected by the sacred Scarab, elette.


By Lokbtta Bukeough ^

Her first husband lay at the bottom of a deep crevasse in a Swiss glacier — but why should a snow image in his likeness strike her with such eery terror?

December Issue Weird Tales.

. Out November 1

BOX 21I4.G, SCRANTON, PENNA.

Without cost or obligation, please send me a copy of your booklet, “Who Wins and Why,” and full particulars about the subject before which I have marked X: TECHNICAL AND INDUSTRIAL COURSES

□ Commercial Eefriceration D Plumbing

□ HcoTans _

O Air Conditioning and Cooling D St<aam Engineer

□ Steam Electric Engineer C Toolmaker □ Marins Engineer

□ S. R, Locomotives

□ R. R. Section Foreman

'k

□ Axchitest

□ Architectural Drafteman

□ Building Estimating

P Contractor and Builder D Structural Draftsman

□ Structural Engineer

P Jlanagement of Inventions P Electrical Engineer P Elsctric Lighting P Welding, Electric and Gas P Resading Shop Blueprinta P Heat Treatment of Metals

□ Business Management P Industrial?/1 p.nagement P Traffic Mcnagement

P Accountancy

□ Cost Accountant D C. P. Accountant

P Home Dressmaking P Profcssicnal Dressmaking and

□ Sheet Metal Worker Q Boilermaker P Telegraph Engiueer

□ Telephone Work □ Radio

P Mechanical Engineering

D Slcchanioal Draftsm^

P Machinist

□ Patternmaker P Diesel Engines P Aviation Engines P u%.uto Technician D Auto Electrical Technician

D Survsying and Mapping Q Steam Fitting □ Bridge Engineer

□ V^tilation O Bridge and Bufldiag Foreman

□ Chemistry P Pharmacy

□ Coal Mining

P Mine Foreman □ Fire Boases O Navigation P Cotton Manufacturing

□ Woolen Manufacturing

□ Air Brakea □ ^ R. Signalmen □ Agriculture

□ Fruit Growing

□ Poultry Farming

O Kirrhway Engineering □ Civil Engineering BUSINESS TRAINING COURSES O Bookkeeping □ Service Station Saleemansbip

□ Secretarial Work □ First Year College Subjeota

P Spanish D Business Correspondence

P French □ Stenography and Typing^

□ Salesmanship ' D Civil Service DM

□ Advertiaing D Railway Mail C3erk


□ Advanced Dressmaking O Foods and Cookery

Designing □ Tea Room and Caieteria Management, Catering

...Age...

n Grade School Subjects P High School Subjects □ College Preparatory*

_. □ Illustrating

□ Mail Carrier P Cartooning

0 Lettering Show Cards O Signs

City State.^ J^resent Position — — —

If you reside in Canada, send this coupon to the Inteffnational CoTreepondenee Schools Canadian, Limited, Moatreal, Canada If i’Gti reside in Enptand, send coupon to 7. C. B., 71 Kingsway, London, C. S, England

Are you “going places” in this world? Places like A Better Job... Better Pay... A Brighter Future?

Not if lach of training is a permanent stop-light on your road through life!

The International Correspondence Schools have trained thousands of ambitious men and women for Jiigger, Letter paying jobs. Look around you — and you’ll see I. C. S. trained men holding donm high-salaried positions iu everv field of business and industry. By the same token, many of the I. C. S. students of today are tomorToid s successful men! Will you he numbered among them?

Please mention Newsstand Fiction Unit when answering advertisements


MAN-butNOT THE Lee

OVERALL^/

PROVE THEOtTRA WEAR.

IN Ease.SgiLif EeKiaa/

TOM.

Boyp's

KNEE iSRINP WAS EXACT OLYMPIC MARATHON DISTANCE -26 MILES, 385 VARPS/

AAMZ/Af6 PROOF OFJEirVBNm'S WBAKIMSSTPEUme

NOTWO OP THESE 6 MEN ARE BUILT ALIKETET TOUR Ige, DEALER CAN GIVETHEM ALL “TAILORED" FIT IN WAIST LEG LENGTH, CROTCH AND BIB-HEIGHT BECAUSE HS, CUTS EACH PART ESPECIALLY TO FIT EACtiBODY

measurement/

FRtE/ SEE HOW RIPLEY DOES It7

THE H.P, LEE MERC. COMPANY, DEPT. N-ll KANSAS CITY, MO.


BOB RIPLEY DRAWING THESE leg CARrOONS.i__,

ALSO MINIATURE CUT-OUT Jcg OVERAU AND MV NEAREST DEALERS NAME.

NAME

TOWN,

.STATE

RIPLEY’S EXPLANATION: 26 Mile Knee Crawl Over Untreated Concrete! The world’s longest foot-race is the Olympic Marathon — 26 miles, 385 yards. Tom Boyd went the distance on his knees, over untreated concrete, wearing unprotected Lee Jelt Denim Overalls, every step supervised by a Certified Public Accountant. He had to quit once, because the skin on his knees wore out! The “C. P. A.” sent me the certified report and the Lee Overalls. The denim looks as if it had miles of grueling wear left in it. The strong multiple-twist yarn puts amazing strength in this genuine Jelt Denim for the toughest job.

166,344 Trampling Feet — A strip of Jelt Denim, the identical special denim used in Lee Overalls, was put down in the entrance of a towering skyscraper. 83,172 people walked across it — taking an average of 3 steps each on the Jelt Denim! 249,516 steps altogether! The Jelt Denim, while showing some wear, didn’t have a hole or a break, still held its blue color! Here’s amazing proof of Lee Overalls extra wear for your money — Believe It Or Not!

Copr. 193S


Kansas City. Mo. Minneapolis, Minn. Trenton, N.J.

South Bend, Ind. San Francisco, Calif. Salina, Kans.

smmhiammmTMmmm

ItuA CiPT 'JEWELRY

lO MONTHS TO PAY

10 DAYS MONEY BACK

FREE TRIAL GUARANTEE^::/

•Wal o< vouf

„m chorg=

selection'

not solisftn 00 v/ll\ be I

ied. P« "'

,y omoonts yc lodoYA55t~Sworn Perfect diamond with 2 other die* monds in 14K yellow gold mounting. Affidovit of Perfection with purchase. Regular $75.00 volue.

$S.1S,a month

ASO-Brldol pair— engagement ond wedding ring designed to match in 14K yellow gold. Each set with 5 briiliont diamonds.

$5.25 a month

Al47— Sworn Perfect dJa* mond feature. Brilliant perfect dia« mond in 14K yellow gold mounting. Regularly $50.00.

$2.70 a month

l4$5“Massive UK yellow gold Initial ring for men. Diamond end initials on black onyx.

$1.90 a month

FREE TO ADULTS. Complete catalogue of Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry and Silverware on our 10 month deferred pay- ■"^^V^^ment terms. 4 \ Sent free

r \upon re- ^ \quest.

D8-2 diamonds and blue sapphire in massive UK yellow gold mounting for men. A real bargain.

$2.25 a month

W2-10K yellow gold cross with chain to match. Cross beautifully engraved. Splendid value.

$t.00 a month

[THE END]
