============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: June 1923
Cover Price: 25¢
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "-LOUAL B" by SUGARMAN
============================================================
============================================================
-LOUAL B
by SUGARMAN
============================================================
It Was a Frightful, Incredible Thing, Found in the Amazon Valley


By LOUAL B. SUGARMAN

TTNWAVERINGLY, my guest susI J tained my perplexed and angry stare. Silently, he withstood the battering words X launched at him.

— e appeared quite unmoved by my

crept up and flooded his face, as now and then I grew particularly bitter and bitAt length I ceased. It was like hitting into a mass of feathers—there was no resistance to my blows. He had made no attempt to justify himself. After a momentous silence, he spoke his first word since we had entered the room.

“I’m sorry, my friend; more sorry than you can imagine, but—I couldn’t help it. I simply could not touch her hand. The shock—so suddenly to come upon her—to see her as she was-r-I tell you, I forgot myself. Please convey to your wife my most abject apologies, will you? I am sorry, for I know I should have liked her very much. But—now I

“You can’t go out in this storm,’’ I answered. “It’s out of the question. I’m sorry, too; sorry that you acted as you did—and more than sorry that I spoke to you as I did, just now. But I was angry. Can you blame me? I’d been waiting for this moment ever since I heard froih you that you had come back from the Amazon—the moment

when you, my best frienjd, and my wife were to meet. And then—why, damn it, man, I can’t understand it! To pull back, to shrink hway as you did; even to refuse to take her hand or acknowledge the introduction! It was unbelievably rude. It hurt her, and it hurt

“I know it, and that is why t am so

myself, but I can tell you a story that -may explain.”

I saw, however, that for some reason

the whole matter, and in the morning you can make your amends to Laura. ” Anthony shook his head.

“It’s not pleasant to talk about, but that was not my reason for hesitating.

I was afraid you Would not believe, me if I did tell you. Sometimes truth strains one’s credulity* too much. But I will tell you. It may do me good to talk about it, and, anyhow, it will explain why I acted as I did.

“Your wife came in just after, we entered. She had ho yet removed her veil or gloves. They were gray. So was her dress. Her shoes—everything was gray. And she stood there, her hand outstretched—all in that color—a body covered with gray. I can’t help shuddering. I can’t stand gray! It’s the color of death; Can your nerves stand the dark?”

I rose and switched off the lights. The room was plunged into darkness, save for the flicker of the flames in the fireplace and the intermittent flashes of lightning. The rain beat through the leafless branches outside with a monotonous, slithering swish and rattled like ghostly fingers against the windows.

“The light makes it hard to talk— of unbelievable things. One needs the darkness to hear of hell.”

He paused. The swir-r-r of the rain crept into the stillness of the room. My companion sighed. The firelight shone on his face, which floated in the darkness —a disembodied face, grown suddenly haggard.

“A good night for this story, with the wind crying like a lost soul in the night. How I hate that aound! Ah, well!”

There was a moment of silence.

“It was not like this, though, that night when we started up the Amazon. No. Then it was warm and soft, and the stars seemed so near. The air was filled with scent of a thousand tropical blossoms. They grew rank on the shore.

“There were four of us—two natives, myself and Yon Housmann. It is of him I am going to tell you. He was a German—and a good man. A great naturalist, and a true friend. He sucked the poison from my leg once, when a snake had bitten me. I thanked him and said I’d repay him some day. I did—sooner than I had thought— with a bullet! I could not bear to see him

The man sat there, gazing into the flames—and I listened to the dripping rain fingering the bare boughs and ioptap-tapping on the roof above.

My friend looked up.

“I was seeing his face in the flames. God help him!.... We had traveled for days—weeks—how long does not matter. We had camped and moved on; we had stopped to gather specimens—always deeper into that evil undergrowth. And as we moved on. Von Housmann and I grew dose; one either grows to love or hate in such circumstances, and Sigmund was not the sort of man one would hate. I tell you, I loved that man!

“One day we struck into a hew place. Wo had long before left the tracks of other expeditions. We trekked along, unmindful of the exotic beauty of our surroundings, when I saw our native, who was up ahead, stop short and sniff

“We stopped, too, and then I noticed what the keener, more primitive sense of our guide had detected first”

“ TT WAS an odor. A strange odor, inA definable and sickening. It was filled with foreboding—evil. It smelt— gray! I can not describe it any other way. It smelt dead. * It made me think of decay—decay, and mould and—ugly things. I shuddered. 1 looked at Yon Housmann, and I saw that he, too, had noticed it.

“ ‘What is that smell?’ I asked.

“He shook his head.

“ ‘ Ach, dot iss new. I haf not smelled it before. But—I do not lige it. It iss not goot. Smells is goot or bat—und dbt is not goot I say, I do not lige dot

“Neither did I. We went ahead, cautiously now. A curious sense pervaded the air. It puzzled me. Then it struck me: silence. Silence, as though the music of the spheres had suddenly been snuffed out It was the utter cessation of the interminable chirping and chattering of the birds and monkeys and other small animals.

“We had become so accustomed to that multitudinous babel that is absence


"He wag holding out his hands, looking at them. They were gray. And they writhed and twisted, but his arms were still. He was not even trembling. My tongue clove to the roof of my mouth, and my throat was dry—but at last I called to him.

" ‘Sigmund—Sigmund!’ I cried. ‘PotGod’s sake—’

“He looked up, and, 1 tell you, 1 never want to see such a face again! I can never forget it. The face of a soul itt torture. He looked at me and held out his arms. His hands were gone— flaked off in largo, gray, writhing, drops to'the sand at his feet!

“He tried to smile, but couldn’t.

“Another gray-Thing—dropped off. I was dizzy with sickness. It was un-

believable. And then he spoke. His voice was well-nigh unrecognisable. It croaked and broke:

“ ‘Done for, my friendt. I feel it eating to my heart. Be merciful and help me. Slu/ot —quick, through the forcheadt!’

"His words beat’through the stupor clouding my brain, I started toward him—hands out-stretched. I could not

‘“list (lottos Witten, llcibt da! Stop! Stop!’

“The words brought me up to a stop.

“‘Sigmund! My friend! What—?’

“ ‘Do not come near me! Vould you also be so tormented? Vat dot Gray touches it consumes. Do not arguo, I

say, but shoot! Heilige Mutter! Vy do you not shoot?’

“His voice rose into a shriek of agony. What was loft of one arm had sloughed off—tho other was almost gone. A little mound of gray grew larger at his feet. His flesh was consumed; skin, blood and bone, absorbed by that vile gray Thing, and ho shrieked in agony and prayer. Both arms were gone, and the stuff at his fcot had already begun to cal through his boots.

“I shot him—between his eyes. I saw him fall, and I fainted. When 1 came to, there was only a mound of tiny gray fungi, greedily reaching their hellish tentacles for sustenance and slowly shriveling up into tiny light gray specks of dust on a glossy patch of sand.”

Savants No Longer Know All Things

“A/TEN in the business of knowing things have taken a tip from the plumbers, carpenters and plasterers,” announced Friar McCollister, one of the University of Chicago literati. “No longer is it possible to go to a hoary old gentleman with a pile of books and a skull on his desk and ask him any question, from the date of the birth of Copernicus to the conjugations of the verb ‘to know’ in Sanscrit, and get an answer. The scholar nowadays has learned to say what the plumber says when you ask him to fix the hole he has made in the wall: ‘That is not in my department.’ I found this out the other day when I tried to get some information on the discovery of a human skull three million

“First, I went to the information office of the University. There I encountered a sprightly young man who turned out to be a professor of sociology. But he didn’t know anything about men three million years old. He only studied living men, he said. ‘Better go over to Haskell Museum,’ he told me. ‘They have some skulls and mummies over there.’

“I ran up three flights of stairs and into a dusty old room where I saw a Dr. Edgerton. He was copying strange char-

acters out of a ‘book yellow with age. When I put my question he replied that the only ancients he knew were Egyptian mummies. He said I should see an anthropologist. Back to the information office to see where they kept the anthropologists.

“They sent me up to Walker Museum, where a bland young man said, ‘Freddie Starr is not in, but you don’t want an anthropologist, anyway. You want to see an ethnologist. ’

“When I found one, after dogging him all over the campus, he told me that the matter really belonged in the department of geology. From there they sent me to see the department of paleontology. At last I located it in a cubbyhole of a museum which I didn’t even know was there, although I have been on the campus three years.

“ ’But, my dear sir,’ replied the head of the department to my qnestion, ‘that is not in my department. What you want is a vertebrate paleontologist, and I am only a plain paleontologist. At present we have no vertebrate paleontologist at the University. The last one died a few years ago.’

“Well, I gave up my search,” said Mr. McCollister. “This age of specialization is too much for me.”

Ancient Legend Recalled When Misfortune Attends Tut’s Discoverers

THERE is an old legend to the effect that whoever moleets the final resting-plaoe of a Pharaoh will be afflicted with the curse of the anoient rulers; and recent events have revived this superstition.

After thirty-three years of patient, ceaseless toil, Howard Carter, the now famous Egyptologist, discovered the tomb of a powerful Pharaoh. He was a very sincere man, and devoted to his life work all of his energy. Just when success and reward for his labor Was within his grasp, he was stricken down with a baffling disease. His condition became very serious and physicians said that if he lived he would probably be an invalid for a long time. Shortly before Carter’s illness, Lord Carnarvon, who was financing the expedition, and who was personally supervising the work, suddenly died.

Nobody seems to know just what killed him. Borne attribute his death to the effects of an insect bite, some say that he was poisoned by some ancient death-potion with which he came in contact while in the tomb, and others declare that his death was the vengeance of King Tut-Ankh-Amen.

If such a legend could be credited anywhere, the Theban valley would be that place. By day nothing disturbs the place except the sound of the pick-axes and shovels of the native workmen. By night the stillness is broken only by the hooting of owls and the cries of jackals and wild-cats. The spectator is awed by the solemnity Of the great, precipitous sandstone cliffs that stand sentinel on either side of the valley. In the midst of the silence and solitude one feels himself standing on the brink of two worlds, gazing into a vista of the unknown.

The Author of “Whispering Wires" Offers Another Thriller to WEIRD TALES Readers—

The Voice in the Fog

By HENRY LEVERAGE

Mp"1HE SERIPEVS was a ten thou- The ordinary and usual—the up and I sand ton, straight how oCean down the trade routes—passed. away -*• tanker, and her history was the from the Seriphus when Ezra Morgan, common one of Clyde-built ships—a voy- senior captain in the service of William age here and a passage there, charters Henningay and Sou, took over the by strange oil companies, petrol for Bra- tanker and drove her bow into strange zil, crude petroleum that went to Asia Eastern seas, loading with oil at Cali- (for anointment purposes among the fornia and discharging cargo in a hunheathen) and once there was a hurried dred unknown ports, call to some unpronounceable Aegean port where the Seriphus acted against the Turks in their flare-up after the Great War.

of the Orient and traded with them, on the ride, for all that he could gain for s own personal benefit.

Trading skippers and engineers with an inclination toward increasing wage by rum-running and smuggling were common in the Eastern service. Ezra Morgan’s rival in that direction aboard the Seriphus ruled the engine-room and took pride in declaring that every passage was a gold mine for the skipper and

The chief engineer of the Seriphus saw no glory in steam, save dollars; he mopped up oil to save money. His name was Paul Richter—a brutal-featured man given to boasting about his daughter, ashore, and what a lady he was making of her.

Paul Richter—whom Morgan hated and watched—was far too skilled in any-, thing pertaining to steam and its ramiOf Ezra Morgan it was said that he fications to be removed from his position had the daring of a "Norseman and the aboard the Seriphus. Henningay, Senior, thrift of a Maine Yankee; he worked the believed in opposing forces on his many Seriphus for everything the tanker tankers—it led to rivalry and efficiency, could give William Henningay and Son; instead of closeheadedness and schemhe ranted against the outlandish people ing against owners.


pZEA MORGAN.hastened such re- *■' paira as Were required for making the Seriphus ready for sea; the tanker left the dry-dock, steamed out the Golden Gate, and took aboard oil at a Southern California port

All tanks, a well-lashed deck load of eased-lubricant—consigned to a railroad in Manchuri—petroleum for the furnaces, brought the Seriphus down to the PlimsoU Mark; she drove from shore and crossed the Pacific where, at three God-forsaken Eastern roadsteads, she unloaded and made agents for the oilpurchasers happy with shipments delivered on time.

Tlje romance of caravan routes, and pale kerosene lamps burning in Tartar tents, escaped both Ezra Morgan and Richter; they went about their business of changing American and English minted gold for certain contrabands much wanted in the States. The chief engineer favored gum-opium as a road to-riches; Ezra dealt in liquors and silks, uncut gems and rare laces.

Fortunately for the chief engineer’s peace of mind, the spare, double-end Scotch boiler was not used on the Russian voyage Gathright was forgotten and Hylda, safe in an eastern music school, was not likely to take up with another objectionable lover. Richter, relieved of 1 a weight, went about the engine-room and boiler-room humming a score of tunes, all set to purring dynamos, clanking pumps, and musical crossheads.

At mid-Paciftc, on a second voyage— this time to on oilless country, if ever there were one, Mindanao—a frightened water-tender came through the bulkhead door propelled by scalding steam, and there was much to do aboard the Seriphus. The port boiler had blown out a tube; the spare, midship boiler was filled with fresh water and the oil-jets started.

Rielitcr, stripped to the waist, it being one hundred and seventeen degrees hot on deck, drove his force to superhuman effort. Ezra Morgan, seven hours after the accident, had the steam and speed he ordered, in no uncertain tones, through the bridge speaking-tube.

Fergerson, a quiet man always, had occasion, the next day, to enter the chief’s cabin, where Richter sat writing a letter to Hylda, which ho expected to post via a homeward bound ship. Richter glared at the second engineer.

“That spare boiler—” began Ferger-

“What of it*”

“Well, mou, it’s been foamin’ an’ a gauge-glass broke, an’ there’s something

“We can’t repair th’ port boiler until we reach Mindanao.”

. Fergerson turned to go.

“Ye have m’ report,” he said acidly. “That boiler’s bewitched, or somethin*.”

“Go aftl” snarled Richter, who resumed writing his letter.

He hesitated once, chewed on the end of the pen, tried to frame the words he wanted to say to Hylda. Then he went on:

"—expect to return to San Francisco within thirty-five days. Keep up your music—forget Gathright — I’ll get you a good man, with straight shoulders and a big fortune, when I come back and have time to look around.”

Richter succeeded in posting the letter, along with the Captain’s mail, when the Seriphus spoke a Government eollier that afternoon and sheered close enough to toss a package aboard. Ezra Morgan leaned over the bridge-rail and eyed the smudge of smoke and plume of steam that came from the tanker’s squat funnel. He called for Richter, who climbed the bridge-ladder to the captain’s side.

“We’re only logging nine, point five knots,” said Ezra Morgan. “Your steam it low—it’s getting lower. What’s th’ matter? Saving oil?”

“That spare boiler is foaming,” the chief explained.

“Damn you and your spare boiler! What business had you leaving San Francisco with a defective boiler? Your report to Mr. Henninguy stated that everything was all right in engine-room and boiler-room.”

“Foam comes from soap or—something else in the water.”

. “Something else—”

Richter got away from Ezra Morgan on a pretense of going below to the boiler-room. Instead of going below, however, he went aft and leaned over

feared that spare boiler and the consequence of conscience.

Limping, with three-quarters of the necessary steam pressure, the Sbriphus reached Mihdanao and was forced to return to California without repairs to the port boiler. While repairs, new tubes and tube-sheet were put in place by boilersmiths, Richter saw his daiighThe change in her was pronounced; she spoke not at all of Gathright, whose disappearance she could not understand; and Richter, keen where his daughter

was concerned, realized that her thinness and preoccupation was on account of the missing electrician.

“I get you a fine fellow,” he promised Hylda.

He brought several eligible marine engineers to the house. Hylda snubbed them and cried in secret.

An urgent telegram called Richter back to the Seriphus. He made two long voyages, one down Chili-way, the other half around the world, before the tanker’s bow was turned toward California. Much time had elapsed from the night he had thrust Gathright into the spare boiler and turned on the oil-jets beneath its many tubes. Once, in Valparaiso, an under,engineer pointed out red rust leaking from the gauge-glass of the spare boiler.

“Looks like blood,” commented this engineer.

Richter scoffed, but that afternoon he drank himself stupid on kummel, obtained from an engineer’s, club ashore. Another time, just after the tanker left the port of Aden on her homebound passage, a stowaway crawled out from beneath the cold boiler and gave Richter the fright of his life.

“Why, mon,” said Fergerson, who was present in the boiler-room, “that’s only a poor wisp o’ an Arab.”

“I thought it was a ghost,” blabbered Riehter.

Barometer pressure rose when the, Seriphus neared mid-Pacifle. Ezra Morgan predicted a typhoon before the tanker was on the longitude of Guam. Long rollers came slicing across the Seriphus’ bow, drenched the forecastle, filled the ventilators and flooded the boiler-room.

Richter went below, braced himself in the rolling engine-room, listened to his engines clanking their sturdy song, then waddled over the gratings and ducked below the beam that marked the bulkhead door. An oiler in high rubberboots lunged toward the chief engineer.

“There’s something inside th’ spare boiler 1” shouted the man. “Th’boilerroom crew won’t work, sir.”

Richter waded toward a frightened group all of whom were staring at the spare boiler. A hollow rattling sounded when the tanker heaved and pitched— as if some one were knocking bony knuckles againt the -stubborn iron

“A loose bolt,” whispered Richter. “Keep th’ steam to th’ mark, or I’ll wipe a StiDson across th’ backs of all of you,” he added in a voice that they could hear and understand.

Superstition, due to the menacing storm and high barometer, the uncanny

■WEIRD TALES

noises in the racked boiler-room, Richter’s bullying manner, put fear in the hearts of the deck crew. Oil-pipes dogged, pumps refused to work, valves stuck and could scarcely be moved,

“I’ve noo doot,” Fergerson told his Chief, “there’s a ghost taken up its

THE BAROMETER became unsteady, the sky hazy, the air melting hot, and a low, rugged doud bank appeared over the Seriphus’ port bow.

Down fdl the barometer, a half-inch, almost, and the avalanche of rain and wind that struck the freighter was as if Thor was hammering her iron plates.

Ezra Morgan, unable to escape from the typhoon’s center, prepared to ride out the storm by bringing the Seriphus up until she had the sea oh. the bow, and he had hdd her there by going half Speed ahead. A night of terror ruled the tanker; the decks were awash, stays snapped, spume rose and dashed over the squat funnel aft the bridge.

Morning, red-hued, with greenish patches, revealed a harrowed ocean, waves of tidal height, and astern lay a battered hulk—a freighter, dismasted, smashed, going down slowly by the bow.

“A Japanese tramp,” said Ezra Morgan. “Some Marau or other, out of the Carolines bound for Yokohama.”

Richter, stupid from trade-gin was on the bridge with the Yankee skipper.

“We can’t help her,” the engineer said heavily. “I think we got all we can do to save ourselves.”

Ezra Morgan entertained another opinion. The sided, and the wind was lighter, but the waves were higher than ever he had known them. They broke over the doomed freighter like surf on a reef “Yon’s a distress signal flying,” said Ezra Morgan. “There’s a few seamen aft that look like drowned rats. We’ll go before tk’ sea—I’ll put th’ sea abart th’ beam, an well outboard oil enough to lower a small-boat an’ take those men off that freighter.”

The maneuver was executed, the screw turned slowly, oil was poured through the waste-pipes and spread magically down the wind until the freighter ’3 deck, from aft the forehouse, could be seen

Over the patch of comparative calm oars dipped, and a mate, in charge of the small boat lowered from the Seriphus, succeeded in getting off the survivors who were clinging to the freightat lived in a sea that had:

_„ drips. It returned to the

tanker’s bow; and the four men, bruised, broken, all half-dead from immersion, were hoisted to the forepeak and taken aft. Two were Japanese sailors and two ' ' ' operator

. The ei

sr bhd a

broken leg which required setting, and the wireless operator was in a bad fix; wreckage had stove in his features, and twisted his limbs.

Ezra Morgan was a rough and ready surgeon-doctor; he turned the Seriphus over to the first-mate and made a sick room out of Richter’s cabin. The chief protested.

“Get below to your damn steam!” roared Ezra Morgan. “You hated to see me bring aboard these poor seamen; you said I wasted fuel oil; your breath smells like a gin-mill. Below with you,

“Better stay near your boilers,” advised the captain. “Everything’s gone to hell, sir, since you changed from

“Are not th’ injured seamen well yeti”

“Th’ wireless chip’s doing all right —but th’ engineer of that Japanese freighter is hurt internally. You can’t have that cabin, this side of San Franand boiler-room of the tanker, she being in water ballast, was not unlike an inferno; the firstmate, acting on Ezra Morgan’s instructions, drove the Seriphus at three-quarthe ship rolled and yawed, tossed, settled down astern, then her screw raced in mingled foam and brine.

Richter’s stomach belched gas; he became sea-sick, climbed into a foul-smelling “ditty-box” of a cabin, aft the engine-room, and attempted to sleep off the effect of the gin. Pictnre-post-cards; mostly of actresses, a glaring electric over the bunk, oil and water swishing the metal deck below, and the irritating clank of irregular-running engines drove sleep away from him.

. the silent into the “ditty-box” at eight bells,

or jour o’clock. Fergerson’s --

jerked forward.

“IT1 have t’ use that spare 1

"Use it,” said Richter.

Steam was gotten up on the spare, double-end Scotch boiler; the starboard boiler was allowed to cool; Fergerson, despite the tanker’s rolling motion, succeeded in satisfying Ezra Morgan by keeping up the three-quarter speed set by the skipper.

Richter sobered when the last of the trade-gin was gone; the Seriphus was between Guam and ’Frisco; the heavy seas encountered were the afterkick of

“What were tv that cheap service?”

Ezra Morgan glanced sharply at Richter.

“Everybody isn’t money mad—like you. There’s many a good engineer, and mate, too, in th’ Japanese Merchant Marine. Nippon can teach us a thing or two—particularly about keeping Scotch boilers up to th’ steaming point.”

This cut direct sent Richter off the bridge; he encountered a bandaged and goggled survivor of the freighter’s wreck at the head of the engine-room ladder. The wireless operator, leaning on a crutch whittled by a bo’sain, avoided Richter, who pushed him roughly aside and descended the ladder, backward.

White steam, lurid oaths, Seotch anathema from the direction of the boilerroom, indicated more trouble. Fergerson came from forward and bumped into Richter, so thick was the escaping vapor.

“Out o’ my way, mon,” the second engineer started to say, then clamped his tongue.

“What’s happened, now!” queried Richter.

“It’s that wicked spare boiler—she’s aleak an’ foamin,’ an’ there’s water in th’ fire-boxes.”

Richter inclined his bullet shaped head; he heard steam hissing and oilers cursing the day they had signed on the Seriphm. A blast when a gasket gave way, hurtled scorched men between Richter and Fergerson; a whine sounded from the direction of the boiler-room, the whine rose to an unearthly roar: Richter saw a blanket of white vapor floating about the engine’s cylinders. This vapor, to his muddled fancy, seemed to contain the figure of a man wrapped in a winding shroud.

He clapped both hands over his eyes, hearing above the noise of escaping steam a call so distinct it chilled his blood.

“Eyldal”


NTOW there was that in the ghostly

' voice that brought Richter’s ginswollen brain to the realization of the thing he had done in disposing of Gathright by bolting him in the spare boiler.

No good luck had followed that action; Hylda was still disconsolate; trade and smuggling was at a low ebb; there was talk, aboard and ashore, of reducing engineers’ and skippers’ wage to the

Richter had a Teutonic stubbornness; Ezra Morgan had certainly turned against his cliicf engineer; the thing to do was to lay the ghostly voice, make what repairs were necessary in the boiler-room, and give (he tanker’s engines the steam they needed in order to make a quick return passage to San Francisco and please the Hcnningays.

An insane rage mastered Richter— the same red-vision he had experienced when he threw Gathright out of his daughter’s house. He lowered his bullet head, brushed the curling vapors from his eyes, and plunged through the bulkhead door, bringing up in scalding steam before the after end of the midship, or spare boiler.

Grotesquely loomed all three boilers. They resembled humped-camels kneeling in a narrow shed by some misty river. Steam in quantity came hissing from the central camel; out of the furnace-doors, from a feed-pipe’s packing, around a flange where the gange-glass was riveted.

The Seriphus climbed a long Pacific roller, steadied, then rocked in the trough between seas; iron plates, gratings, flue-cleaners, scrapers, clattered around Richter who felt the flesh on neck and wrist rising into water blisters.

No one had thought to close the globevalve in the oil supply line, or to extinguish the flres beneath the spare and leaking boiler. Richter groped through a steam cloud, searching for the handwheel on the pipe line. All the metal he touched was simmering hot.

A breath of sea air came down.a ventilator; Richter gulped this air and tried to locate the globe-valve with the iron wheel. Vision cleared, he saw the red and open mouth of the central camel— the flannel-like flames and he heard through toothed-bars a voice calling, “Hylda!”

Fcrgerson and a water tender drag-

ged their chief from the boiler room by the heels; blistered, with the skin peeled from his features, Richter’s eyes resembled hot coals in their madness- Blabbering nonsense, the engineer gave one understandable order:

“Put out th’ fire, draw th’ water, search inside th’ spare boiler—there’s something there, damitl”

Ezra Morgan came below, while the spare boiler was cooling, and entered Richter’s temporary cabin—the “dittybox” with the play actresses’ pictures glued everywhere. Fergerson had applied rude doctoring—gauze bandages soaked in petroleum—on face and arms.

“What’s th’ matter, man?” asked Ezra Morgan. “Have you gone mad?”

“I heard some one calling my daughter, Hylda.”

“Where do you keep your gint”

“It’s gone! Th’ voice was there inside th’ spare boiler. Did Fergerson look; did he find a skeleton, or—”

Ezra Morgan pinched Richter’s left arm, jabbed home a hypodermic containing morphine, and left the chief engineer to sleep out his delusions. Fergerson came to the “ditty-box” some watches later. Richter sat up.

“What was in th’ spare boiler?” asked the chief.

“Scale, soda, a soapy substance.”

“Nothing else?”

“Why, mon, that’s enough to make her foam.”

Richter dropped back on the bunk and closed bis lashless eyes.

“Suppose a man, a stowaway, had crawled through th’ aft man-hole, an’ died inside th’ boiler? Would that make it foam—make th’ soapy substance?”

“When could any stowaway do that?”

Richter framed his answer craftily; “Say it was done when th’ Seriphus was at Oakland that time th’ boilers were

in dry-dock.”

in drew on his memory. “Th’ time, mon, ye went aboard an’ tested th’ spare boiler? Th’ occasion when ye took th’ trouble to rig up a shore-hose in order to fill th’ boiler wi’ water?”

“Yes.”,

“Did ye ha’ a man-hole plate off th’ boiler?”

“I removed th’ after-end plate, then went for th’hose. We had no steam up,

motor-driven.”

“Ye think a mon might ha’.crawled through to th’ boiler during your ab-

“Yc may b’ right—but if one did he could ha’ escaped by th’ fore man-hole plate. I had that oft, an’ wondered who put it back again so carelessly. Ye know th’ boiler is a double-cnder—wi’ twa

Richter was too numbed to show surprise. Fergerson loft tho “ditty-box” and pulled shut the door. The tanker, under reduced steam, made slow headway toward San Francisco.

One morning, a day out from soundings, the chief engineer awoke, felt around in the gloom, and attempted to switch on tho electric light.

He got up and threw his legs over tho edge of the bunk. A msn sat leaning against the after plate. Richter blinked; the man, from the goggles on him and the crutch that lay across his knees, was the wireless operator who had been rescued from a sea grave.

“No need for light,” said tho visitor in a familiar voice. “You can guess who I am, Richter.”

“A ghost!” said the chief. “Gathright’s ghost! Come to haunt me!”

“Not exactly to haunt you. I assure you I am living flesh—somewhat twisted, but living. I got out of that midship boiler, while you were bolting me in so securely. I waited until you went on deck for a hose, and replaced the after man-hole cover. I was stunned and lay hidden aboard for two days Then I looked for Hylda. She was gone. I shipped as electrician for a port in Japan. I knocked around a bit—at radio work for the Japanese. It was chance that the Seriphus should have picked me up from the Nippon Mam."

“That voice calling for Hylda,” cried Richter.

“Was a little reminder that I sent through the boiler-room ventilator; I knew you were down there, Richter.”

The marine engineer switched on the electric light

“What do you.want?” he whined to Gathright.

“Hylda—your daughter!”

Paul Richter covered his eyes.

“If she will atone for the harm I have done you, Gathright, she is yours with her father’s blessing.”

The Invisible Terror

An Uncanny Tale of the Jungle

OLD MAN Jess Benson, eattldnmn and mine owner, rode across the high plateau, which divided the rich grazing lands between Kock Valley and Slater Canyon, and let his horse pick its way down the steep slope to Slater Creek. Here, as the sorrel slaked its thirst, the big man in the saddle filled and lighted his pipe, while his eyes roved slowly through the sprinkle of cottonwoods which fringed the creek.

About fifty feet upstream, close to a large bowlder and partly behind a dump of stunted plum bushes, half a dozen magpies were quarreling over something that the rider could not dearly distinguish. He could merely see a dark blotch behind the bushes—the carcass of a cow or steer probably—and he watched the beautiful black-and-white birds speculatively as they uttered thdr shrill, raucous cries, and fluttered about the thicket.

Since there was a possibility, however, that the dead animal might be carrying his own brand, Benson finally turned his horse in the direction of the birds. Half a minute later, having reached a spot from which he could command a dear view of the thing that lay behind the bushes, his tanned cheeks went ashen, and he swung himself to the ground with an exclamation of horrified surprise.

Close to the thicket, and five or six feet from the rock, the body of a man was huddled in the horrible posture of one who has met a violent end.

He was lying partly on his side, one leg drawn up, the other outstretched, while both arms were bent under him. His face and neck were terribly tom and mangled, and his flannd shirt had been ripped half off his body, which was bruised and covered with wounds. Several paces away was a trampled felt hat, and the muzzle of a revolver peeped from beneath the body, its butt evidently clutched in the stiffened fingers of one hand. For a dozen feet the ground was tom and trampled, as though a terrible straggle had taken place.

For several minutes Benson stood still and eyed the ghastly thing in horrified fascination. Long experience as a range rider told him that the body and the signs of conflict about it could not be

By HUGH THOMASON

mom than forty-eight hours old—the thing had happened since a heavy rain of two days before—and it slowly dawned on the cattleman that the dead man was Nathan Smith, a neighbor of his, who owned a small farm some five or six miles away.

For some time he studied the body and the surrounding soil very carefully, noting especially that the soft earth was covered with large, doglike tracks; then he went to his horse and untied his slicker from the back of the saddle. With this garment he managed to cover the body so that the magpies could no longer reach it. Then he mounted his horse and rode off toward Elktooth, ten miles away.

Sheriff Parker and Doctor Morse, the coroner, happened to be together in the latter’s office when Benson entered and told his story. Both men listened without any particular comment, and at the end the sheriff got to ins feet

“I’ll run you out in the car, Horace,” he informed the coroner. “We can reach the spot easily enough by following the old road up the creek From what Benson says, the thing does not look like a crime exactly—it seems more like the work of wolves, though I never heard of any attacking a man in this region; but you can never telL At any rate, we’d better look into it as soon as we can.”

It was about an hour later when the three men got out of the machine and walked the few feet which separated them from the scene of the tragedy. Lifting the slicker. Doctor Morse stooped over the gruesome object beneath it, while Sheriff Parker gazed at the trodden ground with interest While the coroner made his examination, the little officer paced around the thicket, eying the tracks thoughtfully; more than once he stooped to apply a pocket rule to some especially distinct impression, and twice he whistled softly to himself. By the time the doctor’s examination had ended, he was turning a speculative eye toward a dim trail which led off at right angles through the cottonwoods.

Returning from washing his hands at the edge of the stream, Doctor Morse looked at his friend in contemplative

silence, as he lighted a cigar and puffed at it nervously.

“Weill” fhe sheriff questioned, at length. “What was it? What killed him, Horace?”

“Bless me if I know, Bert, I never saw anything like this before in all my experience. It was an animal of some kind, I should say; a wolf, perhaps, although, as you said, the few wolves wc have hereabouts have never been known to attack humans. But the man is frightfully mangled, his jugular vein is quite torn out of him. Had his gun in his hand, too. It’s empty. He must have fought the thing hard, whatever it was. I wonder—could it have been the

Sheriff Parker nodded in an absent

trail through the trees and weeds.

“I think it was,” he said. “This spot is only a little way removed from where the creature has been in the habit of roaming, and poor Smith, I suppose, was caught here after dark. These tracks match those we found near Moore, and they look pretty fresh. How long should you say he has been dead?”

“Killed early last night, I should judge,” was the doctor’s answer. “He died hard; too, poor chap. Look ut that ground.”

Jess Benson, with horror written all over his honest features, had been staring at the two men as they talked. Big, burly, outdoor giant that he was, he seemed to be in the grip of a kind of terror—or was it awe?—that made him incapable of speech.

“Heavens, what an end I” he burst out at length. “What are we going to do, sheriff? How’ll we ever get the thing that killed him?”

Sheriff Parker made no answer. He merely continued to search the ground around the body for a few minutes longer, as though he wished to make doubly sure that his suspicions were correct; then he helped the others wrap the body in a blanket and stow it in the car. Five minutes later, save for the trampled ground and some dull-brown, ominous stains on the grass, there was no sign of the tragedy apparent.


Two lours later, seated at his own desk with a cigar between his teeth, Sheriff Parker squinted through his glasses at Doctor Morse, who sat oppo-

“I tell you, Horace,” the sheriff was saying, “it is such a thing as never has been known before. If I had not been studying the results of this creature’s work for the past six weeks, I could not believe that such a thing could be. Still, it must be sol Poor Jack Moore, he was the first victim; we were morally certain that the thing got him; then that strange waving of the alfalfa in Pollard’s moadow, and now this. I tell you, it’s awful, Horace 1”

“It,is; it’s more than that, Bert; it’s unnatural.” Doctor Morse puffed jerkily at his cigar. “And yet, science tells us that there arc sounds the ear cannot detect, why not colors the eye cannot see* Take the only time the beast, or the ‘plague;’ as we have begun, to call it, appeared in daylight. I mean that uncanny agitation in Pollard’s hayfield that afternoon, when some heavy creature thrashed about there. It could be heard, and the alfalfa, moved, but the thing itself could not be seen, though three different people stood watching.”

“You are quite right, Horace; and I have already spent a great many sleepless nights milling over that ‘neutral color’ theory. Recently I have read that at the end of the solar spectrum there are things known as actjnic rays. They represent colors—integral colors in the composition of light—which we are unable to discern with the naked eye. The human eye is, after all, an imperfect instrument. Undoubtedly there are colors which we cannot see, and this beast, this scourge of the neighborhood, is of some such color.”

'“Aside from its color,” the coroner mused, “the creature is tangible enough. It leaves a track in the ground larger by far than that of a full-grown timber wolf, and it certainly can fight Benson says his hounds were soundly thrashed by it last week, you know, and there is Smith. He was a very powerful man, and armed, but, so far as we know, the thing killed him and got away unscathed. The man’s body looked as if it had been struck by a train. The chest and sides might have been beaten in with a sledge, his clothes were tom to shreds, and’as for his throat—well, the less said about that the better.”

Sheriff Parker said nothing for several minutes. Getting to his feet, he began to pace slowly back and forth across the room, fingers interlaced behind his back

and head boWed in’the way he sometimes affected when in deep thought.

He was struggling with a problem the like of which he had never before tackled 1; and as he watched him, the coroner, in his turn, strove to devise some method of wiping out the creature which was terrorizing the entire valley.

ALMOST SIX weeks before. Jack **■ Moore, a stock inspector, whose duties often carried him far out into the thinly settled portions of the country, had been found dead under circumstances similar in every way to those surrounding Smith’s end.

At first, the authorities and general public had attributed the death to timber wolves, for the sole reason that they could attribute it to nothing else. The tracks about the body, though exceedingly largo, were shaped like a wolf’s, and the body itself had been tom and mangled as by some carniverous animal.

Soon after Moore’s death came the killing of a dozen sheep in their pasture, and, on the heels of this, Judson Pollard, a prosperous farmer whose word was beyond dispute, with two of his hired men, had seen something rush through an alfalfa meadow—something that they could not make out, though it was broad daylight, and they could see the tall hay wave and shake, and could even hear the creature a i it thrashed about there.

Then Jess Benson’s hounds, a pack of fourteen, which had never met its match in numerous encounters with wolves and coyotes, had been soundly whipped, and three of its number killed outright in a fight with some animal which their owner could not see, although he had witnessed the fight from a distance.

Now, as a climax to the whole business, bad come Nathan Smith’s horrible death; and no man could say who or what would be the next victim. No wonder the entire county could talk of little else, and that the creature, whatever it was, had been named the

As he thought over all these things for the hundredth time, Sheriff Parker cudgeled Ins' brain in an effort to form some plan for trapping and killing the beast. He knew that there must be a way, somehow, to make an end of the terror, even though the most skillful trappers and hunters in the district had failed to discover it The animal’s range was known. It seemed, for the most part, to frequent the country between Slater Creek and "White Horse Mountain, probably because this region contained plenty of timber and natural shelter; and it was in this region that

it must be cornered. For many years the little sheriff had studied the crimes

just cause to boast of outwitting him; but this was a different task.

“Horace,” the sheriff burst out finally, coming to an abrupt halt in front of his friend, “this butchery has gone far enough. We must put an end to it. What do you say to trying this very night 1 The beast seems to roam mostly at night, and tonight will be moonlight. We’ll try to trap it at tho Black Pool.”

Doctor Morse stared at the speaker in surprise.

“The Black Pool!” he repeated. “Arc you crazy, Bertf To be sure, we have discovered, so far as possible at any rate, that the beast seems to frequent tho pool more than any other one spot; but how can we trap it* That has already been tried more than once.”

“True, Horace; but we shall try in a different way. This thing, whatever it is, though it can’t be seen, can be felt and heard; therefore it must have a solid body, so to speak., It leaves a distinct trail, yon know, and its victims are Rroof enough that it is a creature of flesh and blood. My Bcheme is to moke it visible —then, if we are lucky, we can shoot it. ’ ’

The coroner jumped to his feet in his

"I see what you mean!” he cried. “Why haven’t we thought of that before! But how, Bert—how will you do itt”

“That remains to be seen.” Sheriff Parker smiled oddly as he looked at his companion. “If you are willing to risk the thing with me, I think I have a plan that will work. We’ll leave here in the car about four this afternoon; that will get us to the pool in plenty of time to set our trap before dark. Bring along your repeating shotgun—a heavy charge of buckshot is far more certain after dark than a rifle ball, and we can’t

ingly.

“I shall not fail you, Bert,” he said.

YEARLY DUSK found the two men in ^ the sheriff’s car slowly picking their way over the stony trail which led to the Black Pool. In the bottom of the tonneau was a ten-gallon keg, three or four short boards, and something wrapped in burlap, while the back seat held a pair of repeating shot guns and a box of cartridges. A hundred yards from the pool, at the foot of a little hill, Sheriff Parker killed his engine and stepped out onto the ground.

“We’d better leave the car here,” he remarked. “It is best not to make any



more disturbance in the immediate vicinity of the pool than we can help, and we can easily carry what we need from here. But let’s look around a bit first.”

Together, carrying their loaded guns in the manner of men who wish to be prepared against any sudden emergency, they made their way through a fringe of trees to the edge of the black, still water, which gave the pool its name. Even by daylight the place was far from cheerful. The pool, about seventy feet in diameter, was entirely surrounded by trees which grew to within a few feet of its oily

There was no sign of life about the place, not even a frog croaked, and the muddy banks bore mute testimony that none of the many cattle which roamed that region had been there to drink for many days. In one place only was the mud broken by fresh tracks; and when his eyes fell on this spot, the sheriff smiled grimly.

“Yoh see them, Horace,” he said, pointing. “The thing has been here recently—its trail is as plain as day; this must be its drinking place. Now for our little trap.”

Returning to the car, the two men, first earned the keg to the foot of a large tree which stood only a few yards from where the “plague” had approached the pool; then thoy got the boards apd the other articles, which, on being unwrapped, proved to be a brass hand pump, with a long spray nozzle, and about a dozen feet of hose.

Doctor Morse regarded this contrivance with considerable perplexity. He could not see of what use it could be in the task that lay ahead of them; but when he expressed his puzzlement, his companion laughed softly.

“It’s really very simple,” he explained, “although it is merely an experiment of my own, and may not work as I hope it will. The keg iB full of whitewash, and this pump will throw a steady stream for over thirty feet. If we can get the brute within range, my idea is to spray him with Whitewash until we can see enough of him to" shoot at. White always shows up fairly well in the dark. Catch the idea?”

Doctor Morse gazed at his friend in surprised admiration for an instant; then he impulsively caught his hand in a hard grip.

“You’re a wonder, Bert!” he exclaimed. “I don’t see how you ever thought of it, but the scheme looks good to me. I am honestly beginning to think we have a chance. But what are those boards for?”

“For a platform on the tree yonder,” replied the sheriff, nodding toward a

cotton wood. “For-obvious reasons I thought it would be safer to do our watching from above ground, and with these boards we can construct a support that will enable us to stay in the tree with some degree of safety. Of course, tHe thing may be able to climb, for all we know, but we must chance thpt. The tree is within easy range of the water, and those tall ferns and weeds, if we watch them closely, should give us warning of the beast’s approach. Now let’s get busy, for it will be dark before we know it.”

At the end of half an hour, just as it was actually growing dark wi thin the shadows of the trees, the two men had built a substantial platform in a fork of the cottonwood, some ten feet from the ground, and established themselves upon it. Sheriff Parker’s gun lay beside him, while he grasped the nozzle of the high-pressure pump in his hands; but the coroner’s weapon was ready for instant use.

Swiftly the day turned into night, and for an hour it was as dark as pitch at the edge of the pool; then the moon, surrounded by myriads of'stars, slowly climbed up over the hill-tops beyond the water. With eyes riveted upon the ferns, from the movements of which they expected to be warned of the beast’s approach, the two mm waited tensely.

For a long time nothing happened. From the blank darkness around them came merely the familiar noises of night in the wilderness—the long, wailing howl of a distant coyote; the chirping drone of the tireless insects in the trees; strange cries of night birds, so different from those of the birds of the day; the “plop” of muskrats diving in the still water, and all the mysterious chorus of

after night has fallen.

Seated on their narrow platform, the watchers were soon very uncomfortable,

hungry, and the men dared not smoke for fear the smell of tobacco would give warning to the thing they sought. Doctor Morse, eyes fixed on the top of a ridge which could be seen through a break in the trees, and beyond which the stars and the moon seemed to be grouped, was half dozing, when suddenly he straightened up with a little start.

A curious thing had taken placet The stars, rising above the crest of the ridge, had successively disappeared from right to left!

Each was blotted out for but an inat the same time, but along half the length Of the ridge, all that were within a few degrees of the crest were

eclipsed. Something had passed along between them and the coroner’s line of vision; but he could not see it, and the stars were not close enough together to define its shape. After a second of tense watching. Doctor Morse reached out and gripped the sheriff by the arm.

“Did you see it?” he whispered. “It’s

“Yes; but be quiet, for your Ufel” Sheriff Parker leaned forward and shifted his grip on the hose nozzle.

For several minutes all was silent, then, came a faint patter of stealthy feet,

hound sounded below them, while the ferns waved violently, although there was no breeze. Almost immediately came the sounds of lapping in the watersounds exactly like those made by a thirsty dog when drinking.

Taking careful aim with the nozzle, Sheriff Parker suddenly pumped out a steady stream of whitewash which began to splash and spatter on the edge of the pool and surface of the water. And, as the milky liquid began to fall, the two watchers saw a strange and wonderful thing. In a spot, which ten seconds before had been merely opaque darkness, an outline grew up and took shape out of the ground; a strange, monstrous, misshapen thing, squat and hairy, not unlike a huge wolf in general appearance, but broader and more powerful than any wolf either man had ever seen.

began to fall upon it, the thing turned a big-jawed,- hairy face in the direction of the tree; then, with a horrible snarl of fury, which both men plainly heard, it charged toward them.

“Shoot! Shoot, Horace!” Sheriff Parker yelled, dropping the useless nozzle and grabbing his gun.

The two heavy guns, charged with double loads of buckshot, roared out almost together. There was a coughing snarl from the thing on the ground, which save for a white patch or two, was almost invisible again, and the sound of convulsive struggling; then the sheriff fired a second time. Almost immediately there was a heavy splash in the water; then absolute silence.

Doctor Morse wiped the cold sweat from his forehead with a shaking hand.

“Did we get it?” he asked in a low

“Yes, I’m almost sure of it.” Sheriff Parker, though tremendously excited, began to lower himself to the ground. “No animal of the wolf type could stand up against three charges of buckshot at less than a dozen yards,” he declared. “I believe it is dead, Horace.”

(Continued on page 116,1

HELEN ROWE HENZE Spins a Compelling Yarn



dow. Donaldson straightened up, tightening his lips. Even this early they might see him. He must appear cashal, like a man of leisure out for a morning stroll.

But it was an effort, for an unreasoning fear possessed him. He wanted to run. Something behind him seemed to urge his footsteps faster. It seemed to him that his feet actually were going faster than the rest of his body, as though they obeyed the will hf that something behind him, while he himself was really moving only at a moderate

He had a detached sense of two entities. One was John Donaldson as ho appeared to the world, a slender, inconspicuous'man, walking somewhat timidly along the street, and the other was the coward, the terrified being, running from the.thing that followed him; alert, cunning to outwit his pursuer. Once, from do irresistible impulse, he dodged into an alley-way. Then, suddenly ashamed and realizing, he came out again, walking boldly, his eyes fixed on a passing horse, trying to appear unconcerned.

Toward noon he returned, and, remembering he had had no breakfast and that there was nothing to eat in the house, stopped at the comer grocery.store. The grocer was waiting on another customer when Donaldson came in, but he looked up and nodded.

“Be with you in a minute, Mr. Donaldson.” And then, “Why, what’s the matter? Are you sick?”

Donaldson had sat down suddenly on a flour-barrel, clutching his side, his face gone grey with pain. The groeer ran to get a glass of water.

“Here, better drink this I What’s the matter? Can I help you?”

But Donaldson only shook his head over his knees, unable to speak. They got him home a little later, when the pain had eased a little, and sent a doctor in to see him. Donaldson did not want a doctor, but the grocer was frightened by his pale face and paid no attention to his protests.

The verdict was what Donaldson had anticipated, appendicitis and the necessity of an immediate operation. He heard it, lying on the bed, from a strange doctor, with a feeling, in spite of the pain in his side, that it must be another man under sentence. He could not take that anesthetic! The pain might kill him; then let him die! It would be better than those awful chains. For he knew that once unconscious, the truth would come out, that all the poison which had been maddening him for years would flow from his lips in self-

exposure, once he was placed under an anesthetic. How many times had he already related it in the stillness of the night? What of his secret could the walls of his room not tell? They must have heard it'over and over.

The doctor repeated his statement and Donaldson nodded.

“Yes,” he said mechanically. He must appease this man, lest a refusal make him too insistent. When the doctor was gone, he was safe again. He would get well. Everybody had these attacks; they meant nothing.

“I’ll be back to see you tonight,” said the doctor, as he prepared to leave.

“No,” said Donaldson, “don’t come. I’ll be all right.”

“I’ll be here,” answered the doctor,

Suddenly a great fatigue came over the sick man, an overwhelming drowsiness, a desire for sleep, one of the primal, insistent, compelling things that would not be denied.

When he awoke it was quite dark. He did not know the time. Lights shown in the houses across the street. The ticking of the clock was the only noise to be heard. The darkness of the room seemed palpable, as though it floated over and around him, breathing. Then the dock struck eight. Donaldson remembered. The doctor was coming back. He might return any minute. Only he must not! There were footsteps on the walk. It was he, and the door was unlocked I Donaldson rose and started toward it. He had forgotten his Bide. He was only conscious of a difficulty in moving, like in a nightmare, as though weights were dragging on his feet. The doctor was on the porch. Donaldson struggled. What was holding his feet?

“Don’t come in,” he gasped. “I’m aU right!”

Then came the pain, like a sudden knife-blade, piercing him. He screamed, one awful, uncontrollable yell, and pitched forward.

npHERE WAS A queer, unfamiliar ^ smell, and stillness. Not the empty stillness of his own house, but the stillNausea possessed him. He opened his eyes for a moment and then closed them. He was in a white-walled room, darkened. Against the drawn blind he could feel the sunlight beating. A ray of it came in between the shade and the window-jamb an£ struck the opposite wall. It was broad day. Suddenly, quick and clear as an arrow released from a taut bow-string, Donaldson’s mind leaped up

He was in a hospital, and it was over —the operation. It was the anesthetic which had nauseated him. What had he said? Had he betrayed himself? Yet here he was, lying quietly in this room. However, they couldn’t take him away while he was sick.

They were waiting—waiting till he got well to put the'chains on him! He knew it. That was why they were so quiet, not to make him suspicious. He would ask the nurse. She could tell him whether he had talked.

But the nurse was not there. She did not know he was awake. Well, he would wait and ask her. Maybe he hadn’t talked. People didn’t always. The sun streamed against the' blind. Light, hope! It might be that he would see it again, free! That he would walk'along the streets in the open day.

The door opened and the nurse entered. She came to his bedside. He would smile at her easily, indifferently. She would think his question a casual

“Nurse,” he began. His voice sounded far away, weaker than it should

The nurse smiled. “How is my patient? Feeling better?”

“Nurse,” he strove valiantly to make his voice strong, casual. He even smiled weakly. “Did I—er—talk under the ether?”

“No, not a word. Now rest quietly and I’ll come back after a while.” And she went out.

Donaldson sighed. He was still safe. She had told him so. She would not deceive a sick man. And yet—wouldn’t she? He remembered reading somewhere that patients were always told they had not talked, lest the knowledge excite them and hinder their recovery.

. That was why she had said it They wanted him to get well, so they could put the chains on him. Hadn’t she hesitated a bit before she answered $ He had thought she looked at him a bit suspiciously. Now he was sure of it. And that was why. They didn’t want him to know they knew. They wanted to be sure they’d get him.

Just then Donaldson's thoughts were interrupted by a noise on the street. Some vehicle clattering over the pavement and the sound of a bell. The door was standing slightly ajar. Two nurses were passing in the hall, and Donaldson’s straining ear caught their voices:

“What is all the noise about?” asked

“I don’t know,” replied the other. “It sounds like a police patrol.”

(Continued, on page lli)


A Storiette That Is Different” By TARLETON COLLIER

WITH AN ABRUPT jerk, Joe Wilson, from lying on a cot in the little tent, lifted himself on his elbow in an attitude of intent listening. There was no sound except the hum of a sleepy breeze through.the pines, the sleepier contralto of a mocking bird, and the purring undertone of rippling water.

“That’s her!” he whispered. With an effort he sat erect, and again told himself: “That’s herl”

All at once there came the crackle of voices without, the sound of thudding footsteps. Joe flung himself back on the cot and closed his eyes with furious energy as the flap of the tent was lifted and the engineer and the doctor peered within.

“He’s asleep,” said the engineer in

“Bml” said the doctor. He was a wizened little man with spectacles. Then he let the flap drop, and his voice came to Joe' brusquely through the canvas. “Well, we’ll come back. I want to talk to him. He’s probably.not very sick, but—by God, man, you’ve got to keep your men from the water around here, or you’ll never finish your railroad!"

They were walking away as he spoke, and to Joe the voice seemed to fade.

“I tell you.... polluted....

Then they were gone, the sound of them swallowed up in the ripple of the little creek over the rocks. With a start, Joe again was erect, his eyes furtive, glancing about the little canvas chamber. He tiptoed to the flap, and lifted it a bare inch, peering out upon the receding figures of the two men as they passed beneath a water-oak.

With no less caution he crept to the other end of the tent, and stepped through the flap into the open. For a moment he stood irresolute, his eyes closed, as if he were dizzy.

“Keep away from the water, you fool I” he whispered.

There was no other sound of life in the woods now; the breeze had died and the mocking bird was silent. Only the prattle of a nearby stream over its

With a stumbling, nervous stride that was almost a run, Joe Wilson went to-

ward the sound of the water, and at last he plunged through a thick clump of willows and stood stiff, half-crouching, at the top of a bank of damp green moss that sloped steeply to a little stream with pools like black wells, still and silenfc Only the silver shallows between pools rippled with life.

At the foot of the bank was a shelf of rock, splotched green with moss, reaching into the stream barely an inch above the water. Upon it Joe’s glance rested, as if held by a power outside himself. He drew back into the willows; his sunken eyes closed in his pale face; then, with a sudden spring, he was over the bank and perched upon the rock.

Something like a smile lighted his face, as if with the leap he had settled a troublesome matter. He Sat down as easily and comfortably as he might, his legs doubled, his hands clasped about his knees; and stared intently into the black pool at his feet

And then, between a closing and an opening of his eyes, a woman was there where he had looked for her.

There was no sense of suddenness about the apparition; only, when he closed his eyes against a dizziness, there was the water and nothing else; when he opened them, an instant later/she was standing in the midst of the pool, almost where he could touch her. And it was as if she had been there all the while.

The water reached a little above her ankles. Her legs were bare to the knees, clothed above that, and her body as well, in a soft clinging garment of white that seemed a part of her; white throat and arms were bare. Her face was alive with a pleasant smile; her eyes, of green and gray together, were alive and pleasant, too.

“You are late,” she said. There was something of the stream’s bright ripple in her voice.

Joe Wilson could only smile, in answer; then his smile faded and his face was scornful and somewhat stubborn.

“Yes,” he said, “and I came near not coming at alL I swore I wouldn’t,”

“But you came,” she said, still smiling.

“Only to tell you that this is the last time.”

Her smile, merrier now, was accompanied by a sound that might have been the gurgle of a little whirlpool in

note of laughter.

"You didn’t mean it, then, that you love me,” she chided, coming nearer. It was not by a step that she moved, or by any perceptible effort The space between them all at once was lessened, nothing else.

Joe had lost his careless air and posture. He was on his knees, a fury in his words.

“I didn’t mean it? You can’t say that I have become less than a man, I love you so. You bring me here everyday to do as you will, and I would die if I didn’t come, I love you so. For you I have broken my word to my friends back there in camp. And I don’t know who you are or 'what you are.”

Again that gentle sound that might have been a sudden swirl of the water, or her laughter. Then she was nearer, and her pleasant eyes looked into his, mqckery in them.

“You don’t know who I ami” she asked softly. “And yet I am yours.”

The stubborn lines in Joe’s face vanished. A quick throb of blood choked into a gulp the word he would' have spoken, and he stretched out his arms. She was suddenly beyond his reach.

“Yourg,” she said again, and that she laughed there was no doubt this time.

Joe’s eyes were hungry. Joe leaned forward upon his stiffened arms, and stared at her like a wistful dog.

“I don’t know who you are,” he whispered. “I don’t know who you are.”

“I am whoever you want me to be,” she said.

“I’ll call you Sadie,” he said.

“Sadie!” Her lids drooped, veiling her eyes, but their narrow glimmer was keenly alive.

“Yes, there is a girl—”

Between two words she was dose before him at the edge of the rock.

“I am yours,” she said in a'fierce, low voice. “What do you care for any girl? I am all woman, and you have me. What do you care for the world? You have

He felt her breath on his face. There was warmth and fragrance in it Her



white beauty was greater than that of the dogwood blossoms showering there through the gloom under a sudden breeze; and a dizziness struck him, so that the trees swam before his eyes.

"‘I have you,” he repeated thickly, rising to his feet.

“And the girl.... Sadie!” she dsked.

“You are Sadie. Only you. X have forgotten....” He put out his arms, but she was beyond Eos reach again, her eyes mysterious.

With outstretched arms, he begged her

“I love you,” he said.

For a full breath she looked at him gravely. Then, “We shall see,” she said, plunging her hands into the stream. As she arose, her hands were cupped and brimming with water. She moved toward him, smiling.

Terror gathered in Joe’s white face.

“Drink,” she tempted him.

He whispered “No,” and the refusal

There was pain in his voice as he cried, “Don’t.... Sadie! I have promised.... the rule....”

It was she whose figure drooped now, and her face that was moumfuL “But you have broken the rules before this for

“I came today to say that X would no

“But it is so little I ask. And I—am

He pleaded: “Don’tl”

With sudden abandon, she flung herself against him, and for the first time his arms closed about her. She yielded to his fierce embrace, her head against his breast

“You do not love me,” she whispered.

“Sadie... 1" His arms tightened with his cry, and a red hoist blinded him as he felt her warm, vital body closer

“Drink,” he shouted it

she was beside him upon the rock, hei wet feet glistening silver upon its greenish-brown surface. Her eyes held fast his wide, frightened stare.

“Why!” she asked him, when she

warmth and fragrance of her person.

He answered her steadily:

“I will not, that’s why. I must not. I have told you I must not, every day that I have conic here, and yet X have always drunk this water. It has made me less than a man. It has made me

Once more her eyes were grave. “You must not!” she asked. Her voice might have been that of the purring shallows. There was no escaping her gaze, and before it his eyes wavered and shifted. His shoulders drooped.

“You will not!” the purring voice went on. “Not for me, and you say you love me! It is So little that I ask.”

She lifted her face and looked at him.

“You will!” she asked, smiling.

“No,” he said, almost with a moan.

She kissed him. “To drink, only to drink,” she said softly. “It is so little. I have given you myself.... isn’t that something!”

With one arm she clung to him as tightly as he held her; the other arm was free, and with her hand she stroked his face. Her kisses were hot upon his lips. His eyes were closed, and he swaypd with a dizziness that was mightier than, any other he had known.

“Only to drink,” she said. “Do you not care for me, and I have given you myself! What are those men in the camp to you, they and their rules! You will not drink.... yet I give you....

Her lips met his in an eternity of giving and taking.

“No!” he said again, but his voice quivered and broke, with the plain message of surrender.

With a little cry, she knelt at the edge of the pool, her arms still about him so that he was forced to kneel with her. She plunged her hands into the water,

and lifted them to him with their silver freight.

With an eager, moaning sound, he drank the cool water; and as he did so the red mist before his eyes thickened, and his ears roared with the thunder of blood within. To drink became then his passion, and he cupped his ow n hands, filled them with water, and drank.

For a moment the mist cleared and tho roaring ceased, and he saw that he was-alone on the rock.

“Sadie!” he called.

The answering sound might have been onty the prattle of the stream, or it might have been low laughter.

The thought came to him that perhaps she had fled to the bank, and with prodigious labor he clambered up the tiny slope. She was not there. He parted the soft-flowing curtain of the willows, and though the fronds were so light a bird might have flown through them, he gasped with the effort'it cost

Staggering into the sunlight beyond the fringe of trees, he found that she was not there, either. He tried to run, but only stumbled, lifting himself painfully to stagger onward. Then the mist of his delirium closed upon him, and the blood at. his ear drums pounded and a tumult came out of earth and sky to overwhelm him.

later. The former, wizened, spectacled little man, bent over him and studied him with eyes that seemed to see everything. He studied the young fellow’s pulse, loosened his shirt, stared into the pupils of his eyes. At last he turned to the other, frowning.

“Fever, and maybe t!

Men, Lost at Sea, Live Through Week of Horror

AHARROWING adventure that probably will never leave Harry Matthews—had only a small supply of water and a their minds befell two fishermen of Freeport, L. I, who few raw potatoes. On this they lived for the first two days, passed a week in the open sea in a small motor boat, without Then Matthews lost control of himself, drank sea water and water or provisions. Caught in a blizzard off the Long Island delirious. Ratdng in delirium, he urged Smith to

coast something went wromt with their enmnass and thev SpUt a bottle of lodlne ™ a suicide pact. Their boat began to. '.. f..... 00 p “ s leak, and they ripped the lining from their overcoats to calk

headed out to sea, where they dnfted for nearly a week be- the seams. Finally, after a number of ships had passed with, fore the, schooner, Catherine M„ saw their signals of distress out seeing them, they were rescued, more dead than alive, and picked them up. The two men—Capt. Bergen Smith and by the schooner.

A Night of Horror in the Mortuary


By HERBERT HIPWELL

PETER STUBBS has snow-white hair, and he is only twenty-eight. He mutters to himself as he pursues his lowly task of sweeping the streets in our little university town. Children gibe at him and goad him to rage and tears.

Peter once had raven black hair and was as fine and strong a young fellow as ever led the town forces in their frequent battles with our students. That was before the one night he spent as caretaker of our medical school. Only two of us know the real story of that night and why Peter was taken from the building next morning, a gibbering and whitehaired idiot.

We have remained silent for various and selfish reasons, but I can no longer keep to myself the story of that awful

Our medical college is a lonely, ramshackle old building. The town has grown away from it It is surrounded by musty old junk yards and infrequently used railway sidings, and it is miles from the fine old group of buildings which form the rest of the uniThere has always been difficulty in getting a suitable caretaker for it None of the many engaged could be relied on to come early enough to get the fires going properly and to keep the walks clear of snow. Our new dean, Dr. Towney, thought he had solved the problem by deciding to have a caretaker live permanently on the premises.

Peter Stubbs, on learning of this, applied for the post and had no difficulty in obtaining it The dean showed him around the building and explained the duties required of him. A more imaginative man might have been a little chilled by the gaunt skeletons arranged in the cases of some of our classrooms. Certainly he would not have been pleased with the sleeping quarters picked out for him. The only room available was a elosetlike place directly connected with our mortuary.

Frequently, bodies would be thero overnight, awaiting the purposes of the college. Most persons would not wel-

come these as night-time neighbors, but Peter scoffed and said he would as soon sleep there as in a brightly lighted hotel.

Chic Channing and I heard his foolish boast, and Chic and I had old scores to pay with Peter.

His sturdy fist had left a blue circle around my eye for a week, and Chic was minus a tooth as a result of a hot encounter between Peter’s followers and us

. Chic jumped at this brilliant opening for reprisal.

“Are you game for a little ghost-walking?” he whispered to me, as Peter and the Dean passed to another part of the building.

I asked for details.

“It’s the chance of a lifetime if we have the nerve,” he declared. “Let’s sneak-back into the building tonight crawl on to a couple of slabs in the mortuary and cover ourselves with sheets. We’ll look enough like corpses to fool Peter if he looks in. Then, when Peter goes to bed and it gets good and lonely, we can come to life with a few gentle moans, get Peter aroused, and then do a little ghost dance for his benefit. After we have him frightened stiff we can take off the sheets and give him the laugh. The story will get around quick enough, and poor old Peter won’t be troubling us freshies any

I could scent trouble in the wild scheme, and I hastily began to offer

“Peter knows there aren’t any bodies in there now,” I said.

“That’s all right,” Chic replied. “I heard the dean tell him that a couple might arrive late today. In fact, I know there will be one there for certain. One of the inmates at the government hospital for the insane died today, a poor beggar who was so wild they had to keep him locked up tight all the time. He had no friends, so the body is to come here and the undertaker has already gone for it”

I was still unconvinced, but I liad no plausible excuses. I felt my eye, which was still sore from Peter’s bruising, and I assented to the crazy plan.

/""iHIC was right about the body. The

1 undertaker’s car drew up to the college just as we were leaving. We were the last students to go, and the dean was the only other person there.

He asked our aid in bringing the body to the mortuary, and we laid it on a cold marble slab. Peter arrived from supper, to begin his first night’s stay, just as the dean and we were leaving..

True to my promise, I met Chic near the college about ten o’clock and we prepared to carry out our plan. My courage was oozing already. One of those wan yellow moons was the only light around the dreary building, and every rustle of a leaf or a disturbed pebble began to send shivers up my spine. But I eouldn’t turn back.

Silently, we pried open one of the loosely locked basement windows. Then we crept up dark stairs and through the classrooms, where I imagined I could see the skeletons standing out like white patches in the murky darkness.

We reached the mortuary room and groped our way in. I almost cried out as my hand suddenly came in contact with the dead maniac, but I recovered myself. Chic groped in the corners until he found two immense white sheets.

We climbed upon adjacent slabs, and stretched out on our backs and pulled the coverings over us. I managed to keep a small corner raised so that I had a partial view of the room as my eyes grew accustomed to the darkness.

The stillness grew intense. We heard the long, dreary hoot of a freight engine. I shivered involuntarily and thought of the real corpse a few feet

Footsteps echoed in the building. Peter was making a round of inspection before retiring. He switched on the lights in the mortuary and gave a little whistle of surprise at the three still, white figures lying there.

Then he began to whistle again, a little tremulously. Evidently he was not feeling as bold as when he accepted his post He went to his little room, but was soon back again.

In his hand he held a small coil ofrqpe, apparently a clothesline. He un108


wound it, and then, very gingerly, he approached the slab on which I lay.

I felt a light blow as one end of the rope fell across me. Peter was going to take no chances on midnight ghosts. He was going io tie tts ad firmly to the dabs!

Whistling to keep up his courage, he proceeded with his task. In a few minutes I was firmly bound. I could not have moved if I dared.

Then he cut away the remaining piece of rope and proceeded to truss up Chie in the same way. He had to struggle to make the two ends of the cord meet.

There wae none left for the real corpse, and, though he hunted diligently in all parts of the room, he oould find

He surveyed the two of us, bouud firmly to the slabs, and evidently felt reassured. He decided to take a chance on the third body remaining still and retired to his room, closing the door and leaving us alone in the creepy, moonlit mortuary.

How I cursed Chic as I lay there unable to move, listening to the gradually deepening breathing of Peter as ho dropped into a sound sleep. What if he should leave us bound until the professors arrived in the morning? What a fine row there would be!

These, and other unpleasant thoughts running through my mind, were suddenly checked by a slight sound which turned me cold from head to foot. Horrified, I gazed through the small chink in my covering I could not believe my eyes.

The corpse of the maniac had moved!

c-pHERE came a faint rustle of his ^ covering shroud, and the body moved again ever so slightly. I wanted to shriek in terror, but I was paralyzed.

The shroud moved again, this time more noticeably. My scalp tightened, and I could feel the gooseflesh rising all

Then, with one sudden motion, the maniac sat bolt upright and threw the shroud from him.

He was clothed only in a long, hospital nightgown. His thin hair stood up in tangled wisps, and his eyes blazed like those of a cat in a dark room.

Slowly he surveyed his surroundings, and then burst into the most hideous laughter I have ever heard. His big, yellow teeth seemed like the fangs of a wild animal. I could imagine them rending my flesh.

The echo of his hideous mirth had hardly died away when Peter burst from his room, clad in his night clothes. His knees almost gave way as he took in the dreadful scene. Horror was apparent in every line of his body, and I had an inexplicable desire to laugh. But by a supreme effort I fought off this hysteria.

Quite calmly the madman swung his legs down from the slab and Sat there on its edge, transfixing poor Peter with his terrible' gaze He chuckled.

Peter commenced to back toward his room. In an instant the madman was

Then commenced a wild chase around the room, of which I could only catch fleeting glimpses as they passed on one side of my slab. Once the maniac rested bony hands on my body as he prepared for a new rush at Peter, whom I could hear breathing near by.

Bound hand and foot, Chie and I were unable to make a move, even if terror had not prevented us.

Untiringly, cunningly, the madman pursued his prey. Peter dodged and squirmed in terror. Perspiration poured from his face. But his efforts were futile. He was penned in a comer, at last, where a door led directly to a stairway in the Corridor.

Step by step, the madman approached him, his long fingers outstretched like talons, and a low, gleeful laugh came from his lips. Peter backed desperately away from him, as though he hoped to press through the great oaken door. The maniac’s fingers were almost at his throat, when the door swung back suddenly and Peter tumbled from the room, his body bumping and thudding on the stairs outside.

Startled by the sudden disappearance of his victim, the madman halted a moment. The door automatically swung shut again, firmly this time. Apparently, it had not been tightly closed before.

The insane creature flung himself at it It repelled him. He shrieked and tore at it, but to no avail, and he finally

His eyes, now wilder than ever, swept the room. They rested on our bound figures. Swiftly, he passed over to where I lay. The rope puzzled him, and

Suddenly he grasped it and snapped it as though it had been thread. I was free, but' I did not move. I waited for him to seize me, but his footsteps shuffled away. He was beside Chie now. I heard the rope which bound him snap.

In desperation, I rolled from the slab and rose trembling to my feet. The noise attracted the crazed being. He tnyned and faced mo.

His features were distorted, into a horrible grin. His sharp, cruel teeth gnashed as if in expectation of a bloody feast. He leaped at me, clearing the slab, on which I had lain, at ouo bound.

I was too weak to dodge, but I tried grimly to clinch with him, as I had seen groggy boxers do when they were sparring for time. I was in his arms. His eyes blazed not a foot from mine. Foam flecked his mouth. His weight pressed against me. It grew heavier and

Then my overwrought nerves gave way, and I became unconscious.

VV/HEN I awoke I was outside in the ’ ' cool night air. Chic was bathing my brow with muddy water from a roadside pool. The madman had collapsed at the same moment as I had. In a daze, Chic had laid him again on the slab and had dragged me from the building.

Poor Peter we forgot, until he was found the next morning, haggard, whitehaired and unable to utter an intelligible

Too vivid an imagination, wrought into a frenzy by the uncanny surround-, ings, was the way the doctors diagnosed his strange case. Chic and I were too dazed to shatter the theory.

As for the madman, he had really died, after the short spell of suspended animation and temporary revival. I know this because his gaunt skeleton was one of the principal decorations at our graduation dance.

But, eyen with this assurance, I sometimes wake at night in a cold sweat, and feel for the butt of the revolver under my pillow.

Arrest Woman Accused of Witchcraft

POPULAR rumors of a sorceress in the Logan Square over her patients, and applied an evil-smelling salve, district of Ohioago led to the arrest of Mrs. Emily the composition of which is not known. Each visit cost Elbert for practising medicine without a license. The the patient two dollars, and Mrs. Elhert is said to have -woman styled herself a spiritualist and claimed the ability made very good money until the police interfered with to heal any disease. Bho would make mysterious passes her career.

hmm

An Electrocution, Vividly Described By An Eye Witness


By DR. HARRY E. MERENESS

Former Physician at Sing Sing Prison

r'vR. HARRY E. MERENESS, who wrote this realistic description of an electrocution, was attending physician at Sing Sing Prison for six years, and during that period he attended, in his official capacity, sixty-seven executions in the Electric Chair—a record that has never been equaled. Among the many noted executions he witnessed were those of Lieut. Beoker of the New York Police Department and the four gunmen in the Rosenthal case. Prior to their death, he attended the prisoners in the condemned cells.

“The average prisoner, approaching the moment of execution,” says Dr. Mereness, "is in a mental base or wild delirium produced by the fear of death. In two instances, however, this was lacking. Both men, after being strapped in the chair, said: ‘Good-by, Dool’ ”

'T'HE MINUTE HAND on my watch -*■ indicates 5:44 a. m. I am standing in a direct line with the chair.

My gaze is directed to the left side of the room and down a short, narrow, heavily-walled corridor that forms the communication between thq condemned cells and the execution chamber. There are a number of guards standing quietly about, and on my right, back of a rope stretched across the room, sit the wit

There is a tension in the very air of the chamber. Absolute quiet prevails. A few seconds pass, eternally long they

Then comes a sound—a muffled “Good-by, alL” The sound reaches the ears of the witnesses, and involuntarily they straighten up on their stools; there is some scuffling of feet, and one witness, possibly a trifle more,nervous than the rest, clears his throat. Everyone is now keenly alert.

I hear the chant of the priest—the response of the condemned man—the low, quavering and broken response, “Have mercy on me.”

The little procession now enters the corridor. I see the condemned man— stocking-footed, and with his right trou-; flapping, grimly ludicrous, for it len slit up to the knee in order to ate the application of the leg elecHe is between the deputy warden iis assistant, each supporting an is they slowly enter the death

room. His expression haunts one. You feel that it is both all-seeing and unseeing. The fear of death—a definite emotion—is here portrayed in a fashion that but few have beheld. There is utter finality in that look;

His eyes rest upon you. You feel that he sees you, but that you are simply one of the images in the general make-up of the last picture that is conveyed to his brain. There is no recognition in the glance—just a vague, hopeless and apparently vacant stare, but one which you feel discerns the sharp outlines of the persons and objects in the room, without recognizing features or details.

To me, that quick survey of his surroundings, that final glance of the unfortunate being on the very threshold of his meeting with his God, is the most harrowing of all the grewsome details connected with the administration of man-made Law’s decree.

My watch indicates 5:45 a. m. The condemned man is seated in the Chair. The guards work quickly, two at either side and one at the head of the Chair. The arm straps are buckled fast, the leg straps next, then the face strap, which has an opening for the chin, and the upper part of which mercifully blindfolds the eyes.

The cap, a soft, pliable thing made of a fine copper mesh and lined with sponge, which has been moistened in salt water, is placed upon the head and moulded to fit its contour. To a binding-post on the cap is adjusted the heavy wire that conveys the terrific cur-' rent from the dynamo in a distant part

Rare Music Disappears Mysteriously

The Cauldron

True Adventures of Terror PRESTON LANGLEY HICKEY


a

HE TIME has come to talk of cats and Chinamen, and rattlesnakes and skulls—and why it is these things abound in yarns for WEIRD TALES. Particularly cats and Chinamen. Believe it or not, every second manuscript we open, (and that’s placing the average rather low) is concerned with one or the other, or both, of these.

Why is this? Is it because a-eat and a Chinaman-suggest the mysticism of the Orient, and thus seem excellent “props” for weird fiction? Or is' it merely because both mind their own business, imperturbably pursue their destinies, and thereby create the impression that there’s some deep-laid mystery here? We ask you that.

Whatever the reason, it’s an odd and curious fact that when an author sets out to tell a weird tale his mind turns, as if instinctively, to cats and Chinamen. And then, for good measure, he not infrequently throws in a few rattlesnakes and a skull or two.

Sometimes the result is interesting. And sometimes it is awful! And again, sometimes, it is a ludicrous thing, unconsciously funny.

We have no prejudices against Chinese characters in fic-, tion, and we have none whatover against cats. For that matter, we haven’t any prejudices of any sort. We’ve published a good many stories about Chinese, and quite a large number about cats, and not a few that featured skulls and rattlesnakes.- You’ll find some in this June issue.

But we didn’t accept those stories because of the aforementioned features, nor yet in spite of them. We accepted them solely because they were GOOD stories. We observe one rule, and one rule only, in selecting stories for your entertainment. We think we’ve mentioned this before, but we’ll say again that our only requirement is: The thing MUST be interesting!

If a story interests us it will likewise interest others, or so we believe. And if it doesn’t—Thumbs Down! And it doesn’t matter a good gosh darn whether the hero, or villain, has yellow skin and oblique eyelids, or flaxen hair and skyblue eyes, or whether or not a green-eyed eat howls atop a grinning skull. The story’s the thing I

All the same, though, we would like to know why all these cats and Chinamen are slinking mysteriously through our manuscripts. We read eight before breakfast this morning (chosen quite at random), and we hope to die if there wasn’t a Chinaman in every last one of them!

and still the letters pour in from delighted readers— plenty of them! Manifestly, it is quite impossible to print more than a fractional part of them here, but we can’t refrain from quoting at least three that concern Paul Suter’s story, “Beyond the Door,” which appeared in the April WEIRD TALES.

We take it you remember this story and will therefore be interested in these comments. The first letter comes from R. E. Lambert, secretary of the Washington Square College -of New York University, New York, and reads as follows:

"Dear sir: Just as Woodrow Wilson used to say during his most trying days in the presidency that when he wanted

to get his mind completely off his work he would turn to a detective story, so I turn for my own relaxation to the horror

"X suppose it would take exhaustive questioning by a psychoanalyst to discover why this soft of literature appeals to me, but the fact is it does so appeal. While there are hundreds of others like me in this respect, I doubt whether the number is great enough to make such a venture as yours a considerable financial sucoess—therefore, the more praise to you for your coinage in launching WEIRD TALES.

“What particularly impelled me to write this letter is the story in the current issue, entitled 'Beyond the Door.' One reason why I single this one from such a congeries of thrilling, weird tales is that, with all its mystery and suggestion of the supernatural, the denouement and everything that leads up to it are discovered at the end to be logically and physioally ‘possible.’ So often, in mystery stories, we are called upon to accept much that simply is not naturally possible, and we turn from them, duly horrified, but unpersuaded that the tale is more than a figment of a morbid imagination.

“From the standpoint of construction, I have read few stories that so faithfully adhere to the trinity of short story tradition—unity, coherence and mass. Especially on the score of unity, the most important of the trinity, do I find this tale worthy of much praise. Not a situation, not a paragraph, nor a sentenoe, but which has a direct bearing on the unfoldment of the plot. And I find no single instance where the choice of words seems to have resulted from a straining for effect. Of how many stories, whether horrifio or any other kind, can this truly be said?

“Then, too, very few tales are really brought home to the reader’s own intimate experience of life. Yet here we shudder at the terrors created by a guilty conscience, and approve, while we shudder, of the terrible punishment that is meted out for the wrong-doing. How very real it thus becomes to all of us!

“Finally, the author dares to do, and admirably succeeds in doing, what so few writers of fiction attempt—and mostly bungle when they do attempt. I refer to the linking of his story in the closing paragraphs to man’s inevitable, age-old uncertainty as to what is to come in the hereafter. This alone elevates ‘Beyond the Door’ out of the ordinary run of fiction.

“Here’s wishing you a well-merited success!”

The next one was written by Rev. Andrew Wallace MacNeill, minister of the Bethlehem Congregational Church, International Falls, Minnesota:

“Gentlemen: I have read with much interest and pleasure the April number of your new magazine, which I believe will make a distinctive and acceptable place for itself in magazine literature.

“I am particularly interested in the story by a new writer, Paul Suter, ‘Beyond the Door’ proving exceptionally appealing and gripping. I hope you will publish more work by this writer, as I believe if he maintains the standard of this story your readers will make quite a popular response.”


And the third letter, which arrived in the same mail that brought the first two, eame from the author himself:

“Dear Mr. Baird: I take it that even editors enjoy an occasional pat on the back, in the midst of the many black looks they receive, so I am presuming to express my appreciation of the way in which you printed my story, ‘Beyond the Door,’ in your April issue.

“There is a story which might easily have been rendered monotonous by unintelligent press work—because the effect of slowly undermining horror, which I had to attain, is akin to monotony. You avoided that pitfall by change of type— and (this to me is the remarkable riling) I can tell by the way in which you ran in those changes that you got absolutely every subtle suggestion which I concealed in that story—and 1 buried quite a lot of them there. You must havfe read my manuscript with a microscope. May 1 take the liberty of expressing my opinion that as an editor you are emphatically THERE?

“Cordially yours,

“J. Paul Suter.”

We almost dislike to print this last one—it’s too much like pinning a medal on our coat—but we can plead, in extenuation, that the excellence of Mr. Suter’s story was mit due to our editing, or printer's directions, or anything of the sort, but solely to his splendid craftsmanship. He wrote a good story and wc published it, and no amount of editing could have made it any better.

If you failed to read “Beyond the Door” we earnestly recommend that you do so now. In either case, don’t miss' his next story: It is called “Tlic Ouard of Honor,” and is fully as “creepy” as the first—and you will find it in the next issue of WEIRD TALES.

Suter is a coming writer. No doubt of that And since

tiling else,” wc hope to publish the best of his work.

YT/’E’VE ransacked a bale of Letters to the Editor in an ” effort to find some not sweet with praise! and we’ve found only two, and here they are:

“Dear sir: I have purchased two copies of your new magazine,, have read the stories, and also the praise liberally supplied by friends and readers. I think it is time to offer a few words of criticism, since.applause and praise of this kind does not mean much. The public lauds any new effort; it applauds anything, even moving pictures.

“The stories you have printed so far can be grouped under three general headings: Ghost Stories, Snake Stories, Insanity Stories. In your first issue you printed a story called ‘Ooze’ which approached the type of semi-scientific stories that are liked intensely by all those who are fond of the unusual, and if you would publish at least one story of this type in each issue of your magazine I am sure that your efforts would register larger sales.”—Conrad A. Brandt, 563 West 150th Street New York City.

“My dear Mr. Baird: At last it arrived—that second volume. If you play that slow trick again on us we shall send one of our aviators to Chicago to get the so strenuously desired copy.

“Allow me to tell you whioh story in the April number I liked best and which I hate best. ‘The Scar’ by Dr. Carl Ramus was a gem. Plausible, scientifically correct, well told, no words wasted. ‘The Whispering Thing’ is the acme of foolish, silly, nonsensical, high-school girl, bucket-ofblood story. If you waste more paper on such rotten stuff


I predict failure in caps.”—Adeline Jtlgol, Covina Apartments, Los Angeles.

Luckily, though, not all our readers disrelished “Tho Whispering Thing.” For instance:

“Dear sir: Having recently read the second issue of WEIRD TALES, I cannot refrain from expressing my congratulations on your rare fiction taste as an editor. I enjoyed reading the novelette by Harold Ward, but the authors who wrote ‘The Whispering Thing’ have an imagination which is extraordinary. I. happened to read this story late at night, and I began to look for ‘spooks. ’ Talk about horror and terror combined! This story is nothing short of a

“I sincerely believe that you have an innate tendency for selecting stories of this type, and if you keep this class of stories running you will, without the least doubt, be a success.”—0. R. Hamilton, 4002 Avenue F, Austin, Texas.

With regard to the poetic effusion that follows, we're not sure whether “Witch Hazel” is spoofing us or having a spasm of ecstasy. At any rulo, we’ll take a chance and print the thing just as she wrote it:

“Dear Editor: No words can express how much I enjoy your magazine. Here is whit I think of it:

“Oh, what is more pleasure than a show,

A party, bon bons, or even a beau?

Well, here's the answer (all readers take heed); WEIRD TALES and a nioe quiet place to read!

“It’s my favorite magazine, and I can hardly wait for each number to come out. I think it is the most wonderful magazine in the world, as it is so different, so extremely interesting—but there! I can never say enough in its praise. As my little verse says, ‘I like it better than anything,' and I’ve often said I wished some editor would publish just such a magazine, and thank you, Mr. Baird (you Good Fairy) for doing so. I can hardly wait for the next issue. Thank you for filling a long felt need, and good luok!”—Witch Hazel of St. Louis.

XXfE’VE scores of flattering letters here, but we’re not

' ' going to print them all [prolonged and loud applause), because, for one thing, wc haven’t space, and, for another, we have a sneaking suspicion that our delight in reading them is not always shared by' others. So we’ll mn only five

“My dear Mr. Baird: I don’t mind admitting that I was a little leary about WEIRD TALES when I first heard of it. The fact of the matter is, I picked up the first copy with a good deal of prejudice against it. The reason for this prejudice is clear enough. I have always had a healthy respect for mystery stories and believe they are the hardest kind to write—and to judge.

“For this reason I am moved to write you and tell you how very much my view point has changed. You have not only sold me, you have enthused me. There is no question about your future. I’ve talked to many friends who have read the March issue, and I know.”—A. M. Oliver, 148 North Portage Path, Akron, Ohio.

“Dear sir: I asked my newsdealer for something different in the magazine line today, and he handed me a copy of the April WEIRD TALES. I’ve read many so-called mystery stories, but none can compare with those I found in your magazine. It is something altogether new and most fascinating. I especially enjoyed- ‘The Snake Fiend’ and ‘The


Conquering Will’ Those sort of stories appeal to me. For anybody that is looking for something different I heartily advise your magazine. May you prosper 1”—P. W. Burrows, Kearney, Nebraska.

“Dear sirs:... I was in the business section of Des Moines one evening recently when my eye fell upon a copy of WEIRD TALES. Struck by its unusual appearance, I bought one. When I arrived home it was rather early, and X sat down to read. Well, I had not finished a half dozen pages before I knew I had found a marvelous book—in fact, my ideal magazine. Before I had finished the second story I was as much in its power as our detective friend seems to be in the power of‘The Whispering Thing.’....

“But here I have been taking up your time with praise of the Wonder Magazine and haven’t spoken of the most vital thing—the thing whioh makes such mighty entertainment possible. Please find enclosed three dollars for which please enter me for a year’s subscription to WEIRD TALES, beginning with your third issue.”—J. 0. Wolquist, 1544 Walker Street, Des Moines, Iowa.

“Dear Mr. Baird: Three weeks ago I bought a copy of WEIRD TALES, and I am shaking yet, as yon probably can tell by my scribbling!... The first story I read was ‘The Thing of a Thousand Shapes.’ It happened to be eleventhirty when I finished the first installment, and I went to bed quaking in every limb, firmly resolved never to lay eyes on another copy of WEIRD TALES.

“A few days later I passed a news stand. There, glaring into my eyes, was the interesting cover of WEIRD TALES.

I was about to turn away when curiosity whispered in my ear, ‘What happened to Billy?'

“Being a woman, curiosity, of course, won, and home I went, with the copy tucked snugly under my arm... And now I look on WEIRD TALES as a friend indeed. I daren't let my little brother get the magazine before he does his lessons, or they would never get done, while such an absorbing magazine is around."—Miss Marguerite Nicholson, 636 North Frazier Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

“Dear Mr. Baird: Congratulations! Your new magazine is simply splendid. I have often wondered just when I would be able to go to a news stand and buy a real magazine. Now all my worry has ceased... There is one trouble with it, and that is that it doesn’t come weekly or semi-monthly.”—M. Nawroekj, 854 Robinson Avenue, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

“Dear Mr. Baird:... I have thoroughly enjoyed DETECTIVE TALES, every issue of it, and believe that there is more good reading matter in it than in any other magazine published, and when I saw a copy of WEIRD TALES at the news stand, with your name on it, I could not resist getting it. And it has lived up to my expectations. I could not put the magazine down until I had finished every story, and that was about three o’clock the next morning.”... —Mary Sharon, 1912 Main Street, Galena, Kansas.

And it’s now three o’clock hi the afternoon, and the printer is calling for copy; and—

That’ll be alL THE EDITOR.


(Continued from page 104,1

They were after him! What should he dot He threw back the bedclothes. His mind was working like lightning. They would never get him. He slipped to the floor. How he got to the door he never knew. Fear lends strength. He dosed it and stumbled back across the floor, half-falling against the bed.

He knew what he was going to do. He pulled up the bed-clothes from the foot of the bed with feverish haste. The sheet—that was what he wanted! He ripped open the hem a few inches, turning it back so that he could get the raw edge of the material. Then he tore off a strip the whole length of the sheet. He laughed excitedly. They’d never get him!

By this time, the. cut in- his side had reopened, but he did not notice it. He knew nothing but his one mad purpose. His senses seemed to have deserted him. It was as though he were in a dream. He felt as though his mind were standing off, directing his body to do these things, and as though he were putting a senseless aud inanimate other half of him through certain prescribed motions.

He tied one end of the strip, to one of the iron bed-posts, then he climbed into bed and lay down. He circled the

other end of the strip around his neck. The head of the b®d was looped between the posts with scrolls of white iron-work. He lifted his knees and pushed with his feet' till his head was through one of these openings, hanging down in the space between the bed and. the Comer of the room. His neck was now in a straight line between the bed-posts, bent backward, and as he breathed, he emitted from his lips little hoarse noises that seemed to struggle out protestingly from his strained throat. He knew that he could not strangle himself to death, for as soon as unconsciousness came, he would relax his hold. If he could tie the other end! That was sure and safe.

The blood rushed to his head. He pulled the knot tight, very tight, and gasped. He felt as though he were drowning. His temples throbbed, and his ears beat as though the waves were knocking against the inside of his head, now roaring, now singing with queer, unearthly hum. He relaxed his hand, and the noose slackened.

There! That was not so bad, but the blood rushed back from his brain, and the waves swirled around him now and made him fearfully dizzy. He felt like a little brig, tossed in the valley of a

tempestuous sea, beaten, dazed, apaHe recovered somewhat. The police! They must be on their way up! The waves were calling. Their restless surging hammered upon his brain, dulling its sensibility. There was peace beneath those waves. Unchanging peace!

But he must hurry. A cloud rose before his eyes, grey and inviting. He seemed to forget. What was he going to do? Where was that peace? Peace, something he had not known for aeons, aching, endless aeons of time. Where was it? Ah, yes I Beneath the waves, those heaving, restless, insistent waves

“I’m coming,” he murmured thickly. His tongue seemed swollen. There was need of haste. He shook himself to clear his mind for the final effort Then he pulled the noose tight with all his strength, and tied it quickly to the righthand bedpost.

The waves seemed to open and ho was going down. He saw a faint, opalescent light beneath hint. There was something precious down there. It was peace.

“I’m coming,” he muttered, struggling, his arms stretched out toward it “I’m coming!”

I Will Give You a Chance To Earn $200 a Week

pSP" *

J^IGHT NOW^ today,^

ml “iXwbafyoowa

^ These Are^Fact* ^

what J. H R < hSS iidta a 631 people. He was sick, brqke.

■>: rs.i h

an electrical

t

noney the^eame. da^ you take theorJ^

only six average orders a day. which youcan easily get, you will make $100

Maybe You Are Worth \ $1,000 [a.Month

Well, here is your chance to find out, for^thUjSothe ^am®proposition that profit of $40 r.S iifhia fira?day’« «£*

l r It h ' P/

rxa

srifiSwb ^MHIrnu

A Clean, High-Grade Dignified Businei

Coats? The, are advertised in a]

time he If you mail the coupon at the bob

ntha he tom of this ad I will show you the

$1,200 a month, easiest, quickest, simplest plan for making an I want to tell money that you ever heard of. If you are inv4 ~ * OAA “ teres ted in ^c^ce^eurn $20^a^we^ and

idES^sssrlra

take n,o risk, and this may be tht ling: opportunity of your life to earn • than you ever thought possible. Find Out Now!

^ ’to^ ^Sing^/ycm 5™^°!

»K wwtf °Getfufl d

^" W \ n 00MElL THE C(

Dept. 11-C, Day

JVST MAIL THIS NOW!

! Do You Need This Help?

w* 1 * ** *» * wW I JF4M0Jrwr

Be a Radio Experr

aa I fell, turning over and over.


(Continued from page 102,1 When they warily approached the edge of the pool, however, the two men conld find no sign of the thing they had shot at, beyond a number of footprints in the soft ground, and, in one spot, very close to the water, a large splotch of crimson, which made the little sheriff chuckle exultantly.

“He was hard hit, and he’s sunk in the pool,” he declared positively, “sunk in water that no man has ever yet found the bottom of—a fitting end for such a beast, although I won’t deny that I should have enjoyed a close look at the body. But it’s too late now, and, at any rate, the brnte is dead. Let’s be getting home, Horace.”

Seek Solution To Sahara Desert Mystery

A N attempt is being made this Spring to penetrate the heart of the great Sahara Desert and solve the mystery that envelops the savage Tribe of Tauregx, a band of wild Arabs who have never recognized any civilized authority., Both men and women members of the tribe always keep their faces veiled in black. The region where they dwell is known as the Land of Terror. The Chicago Tribune organized the expedition, which is making the 2,000mile journey across the hot sands on

Light is the fastest-moving thing in the universe. It travels at the speed of 186,326 miles a second. This tremendous speed would oany a person around the earth seven times in one second!




(Continued from page SO)

As he did so he tamed his eyes upon me—and the blood seemed to freeze within my veins! Not to my dying day shall I forget the awful power of that look!

But only for a second did this last— for I had already drawn another grenade and was in the act of hurling it. This time the bomb fell directly at the feet of the high priest and burst with deadly

Even while the old man’s eyes were boring through me with that unearthly fury, Kwo-Sung-tao was blown to fragAn instant later the sun vanished, and a ghostly semi-night fell like a thunderbolt!

TT WAS several days later when Dr. -*• Ferdinand Gresham, Ensign Hallock and myself returned to the Mare Island navy yard at San Franciseo.

And there, for the fltst time, we learned that the world remained intact and was out of danger.

When we had ascertained that we three were the only survivors of our expedition, we' had started wandering over the mountains through the semi-darkness until we found the destroyer. Unable to navigate the vessel, we had taken the hydroplane, which Hallock knew how to handle, and started south. Engine trouble had prolonged our trip.

Back from the grave, as it seemed, we listened with tremendous elation to the story of the wounded planet’s eonvalesThat last terrible upheaval,, just before the destruction of. the sorcerers’ power plant, had seemed for a time to be the actual beginning of the end. But, instead, it had proved to be the climaxafter which the earthquakes had begun rapidly to die out. Scientists now declared that before long the earth would regain its normal stability.

With our return, the story of the Seuen-H’sin was given to the public. So universal became the horror with which that sect was regarded that an international expedition proceeded into China and dealt vigorously with the sorcerers.

The tremendous changes that had been wrought in the surface of the planet presently lost their novelty.

And New York and other cities that had been destroyed, or partially so, speedily were rebuilt.

Here I must not omit one other strange incident connected with these

One evening, nearly two years after our encounter with the sorcerers, Dr. Gresham and I were Bitting at the window of his New York apartment, idly watching the moon rise above the range of housetops to the east of Central Park.

Suddenly I began to stare at the disk with rapt interest. Clutching the astronomer by the sleeve, I exclaimed excitedly:

"Look there 1 Odd I never noticed it before! The face of the Man in the Moon is the living image of that Chinese devil, Kwo-Sung-tao!”

“Yes!” agreed Dr. Gresham with a shudder. “And it makes my flesh creep even to look at it!”

Men Sing Hymn As They Go To Death

A/TAROONED on a floating ice cake hVA in the Missouri River, with all hope of rescue gone, Harvey McIntosh and his brother, Tom, of Mondamin, Iowa, bravely sang, “Nearer My God to Thee,” while the ice floe carried them to a swift and certain death. Their friends lined either side of the river, but were unable to reach them. Night came on, and from the darkness came the strains of the old hymn, which gradually grew, fainter and then ended in silence.


(Continued from page 85)

“Here,” said he, “is a cipher. It is the symbol of nothing, but, as a circular pencil mark, it is still something.”

He erased every trace, of the pencil and exhibited.the blank piece of paper.

“This,” he explained, “illustrates your status. In human affairs, you are a cipher with the rim rnbbed out. A man legally dead is lees than nothing.”

VII.

TUIGI ROMANO, who had succeeded Guisseppi in Rosina’s affections, was among the first to hear of the abduction.

Blazing with passion, he laid his plans with quick decision and took the trail. Without great difficulty, he traced the route of the taxicab, block by block, to its destination.

Depressed by Iris fruitless mission in search of a marriage license, Guisseppi was hurrying toward the building in which Rosina was imprisoned. His eyes were bent upon the ground in deep thought His face was white and drawn.

Luigi stepped from the shelter of a doorway with a sawed-off shotgun in his hands....

'VX/'HEN the police arrived, a little

’ ' crowd of Italians had gathered.

They shrugged their shoulders and spread their palms. Nobody had seen anything; nohody had heard anything; nobody knew anything. But one thing was plain—the dead man, sprawled on the sidewalk, was dead this time to stay dead.

“0 yes,” said Attorney Malato, who had looked after Luigi’s case, “they arrested Luigi all tight. But they turned him looSe. Why not? This boy Guisseppi could not be punished by the law, but neither could he claim in the slightest degree the protection of the law. Since he had no legal life, it was no crime to kill him. He was a legal problem, and Luigi solved it in about the only way it could bo solved—with a sawed-off shotgun.”-

It is often wondered why the earth is round instead of being some other shape. This is because of the attraction of gravity, which tends to pull everything toward the oenter of the world. It can be seen that even if the earth was originally some other shape, in the course of a few years this influence would have pulled it into its present

SsSES®

QUICK RESULTS-No Medicine

■‘‘SSSSSaS

Beauty Aid

1)000Reward

Bsmss^sssssss*^*-***

^ Just ^Ordinary Men ' ^

Course in inn WW Secret Service F JULIL

University of Applied Science, Dept.

For a limited time, we are making a special offer of a PROFESSIONAL FINGER PRINT OUTFIT absolutely

a brilliant career for you.

[THE END]
