============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 27, Number 4
Date: April 1936
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "They Shall Rise August W" by Derleth and Mark Schorer
  2. "The Call in the Night Chandler H" by Whipple
  3. "Cover Design M" by Brundage
============================================================
============================================================
THEY SHALL RISE AUGUST W
by Derleth and Mark Schorer
============================================================
By AUGUST W. DERLETH and MARK SCHORER

A weird and uncanny tale — a goose-flesh story about a dissecting-laboratory in which the cadavers would not stay dead

S ometimes I have tried to tell this story, but I have always failed. Even when I knew that it was all over, when I found myself strapped on a cot in the university hospital, perfectly cognizant of my surroundings, with all those eager faces leaning toward me and Doctor Montague standing near me, urging me to speak, I could not. Thoughts and words were all a hopeless jumble, and I knew that what I was saying was but incoherent fragments of sentences, words without meaning. I tried to tell the story as it happened, and in my mind the whole thing was clear as day, but I could not say

it. They thought I had lost my mind; for a while I, too, thought so. They gave me up as hopeless, in the end, and sent me home. They did not understand that men sometimes come through experiences so horrible that they are unable ever after to speak coherently of them. The last of that experience is now six months away, and I am going to write what I have never been able to say.

S TAN ELSON and I were fourth year medics at the University of Wisconsin. One night last spring we had been working fairly late in a Science Hall




laboratory, and when we had finished, Stan had gone out before me. It was raining. Just as I came out of the door and started running down the steps toward him, Stan was coming back up.

“Where the devil have you been, Valois?" he asked, as I came up to him. ‘Why didn’t you say it’d take you a while yet; I’ve been standing here in the rain, thinking you were on my heels. I might just as well have been inside.”

“It was the most extraordinary thing, Stan. I wasn’t more than eighty feet behind you — but, by the way, you must have passed the old boy.”

"Passed whom?”

'"nie old man who stopped me in die hail. I’d just turned the corner to take the stairs and almost ran into him; a tall, pasty-faced individual, dressed in oldfashioned clodies — long black frock coat, mufiSler^ beaver hat; carried an old green umbrella. You must have seen him.”

Elson shook his head. “I saw no one."

“That’s strange. I would have sworn that he passed you."

“He might have been in the building," said Elson a little sharply.

I shook my head. “No, I don’t think he was,” I said.

I put up the collar of my slicker and turned to walk at Elson’s side. We descended to the road and started up Langdon Street. 'The rain came down in sheets on the asphalt and ran along the gutters in swift streams. I said nothing, thinking of the stranger I had seen in the corridor. Finally my silence grated on Stan.

'Well, what about him?” he said almost irritably; “the man in the hall.”

“Oh, nothing exactly," I answered. “Struck me as rather queer, that’s all. Asked to look over the dissection laboratories, and mumbled something about his interest in anatomical fields. His face hit me, though — ^so damned white; looked

like a Frosh who'd stumbled into a lab by accident."

Elson chuckled. “What’d you tell him?”

“Said I didn’t have any authority; for all of me he could go ^ead. He was very grateful, and went. I repeated that I couldn’t be held responsible if he were found there. He only smirked and thanked me again. I didn't like the look of that fellow at all.”

“I wouldn’t hold his looks against him,” said Elson. “'That’s something none of us has much droice about.”

“I was thinking about something I read recently,” I began. Then I broke off and looked at Stan. "Have you read the Cardinal of late?”

Elson smiled. "Not since I was wearing the green, Valens. Why?”

“For the past few weeks it’s been carrying some mighty odd articles. And I think that an old man, dressed in oldfashioned clothes, and carrying a green umbrella, was mixed up in most of them.”

Elson stopped in the rain, grasping my arm abruptly. “Valens!” he exclaimed, "you don’t mean those laboratory disturbances?’’

"You’ve heard of them, then,” I said, “There’s been some strange talk.”

"Those horrible things that started at Columbia, and spread to Harvard and Yale, and all the Eastern universities and colleges. And they’ve been hushed up considerably, too, if I’m any judge.”

I nodded. "Yes. Two days ago they were at the University of Chicago, and at Northwestern, and at Illinois. Do you understand what that suggests?”

"Do you think ” began Bison, but

I read his question and cut him off.

“Two were killed at Columbia, seven at Harvard, five at Yale, four at Princeton — need I go on? I know them all, and needless to say, I did not get most of my information from the papers because I

THEY SHALL RISE


know that most of it was suppressed. Friends have written me most of it. Forty-seven students — medics — have died from mysterious causes since the trouble began in the East. Found cold and distorted, and no sign on them as to how they might have been killed! I’ve been watching the thing. And that's not all — it’s not only in this country, but for years — for years, it’s been all over the world! In 1873, at the University of Edinburgh. In 1880 at Guy’s in London. Not five years later in Vienna, then the Sorbonne, Heidelberg, Bonn — all over the Continent, in all the major institutions for medical research. And now it has come to America.”

Elson broke in. "But what’s behind it?”

"I don’t know, I’m going to try to find out!”

W E WALKED 'on in the rain, neither speaking. Then I began again, and I think I must have given away the repressed excitement I was feeling. "Do you know, Stan, I’ve seen that old man before, I think.”

"Where?”

"I don’t know. I haven’t the remotest idea. But I’m going to look him up.” I stopped suddenly, glancing abruptly at the row of houses along the street. I was about to say good-night to Elson, for we stood before the house in which I lived. Then I realized that I was without my notebook.

"Hell! Stan, I forgot my notebook.” "Don’t need it tonight, do you?”

"I do. I’ve got to get up that back work. It’s due tomorrow.”

"Going back?”

"I’ll have to. I’m afraid. Want to walk along?”

"Might as well. I haven’t anything better to do.”

We turned and started back up tire wet street. The rain was still coming down.

We had not gone far when we met two of our fellow-students who had been working in the laboratory when we had left it shortly before.

"Where to?” one of tliem asked.

"You didn’t notice my notebook on my table, did you, Asham? I left it up there somewhere.”

"Didn’t see it. Everybody’s gone now.”

"Lab’s not locked, is it?”

"Wasn’t when we left. But we saw the janitor down the hall,” said Dean, the younger of the two.

"We’ll have to make it before he leaves,” I said.

We went on up the street toward Science Hall, and Asham and Dean were lost in the rain.

"Suppose we’ll meet your pale friend?” asked Elson.

"I don’t know. The janitor has probably put him out if he’s been wandering around the building in the fashion he was when I met him.”

We mounted tlie stone steps leading up to Science Hall, and pulled open the heavy door. The dim hall lights of the building seemed to be the only ones burning. We started up the first of the five flights we had to climb, when, looking up suddenly, we saw the old man with the umbrella standing motionless bef ore us.

"Hello!” I cried. "Find tlie laboratories all right?”

The fixed smile on the man’s dead white face gave place to a frown. "No, no,” he said in a soft voice. "I have changed my mind.”

'We’re going up now,” offered Elson, "Don’t you want to come up with us?”

"No, no. Thank you. I will return in the morning.” He eyed us closely and brushed past down the stairs. His footsteps fell heavily, echoing in the stillness. Elson and I turned and followed him with our eyes



“Funny way of walking," observed Elson.

“Like a machine,” I suggested.

The retreating figure of the old man disappeared in the hall below. We heard the great outer door close after him.

“Well, let’s go on," said Elson.

We had just started up the stairs again when a voice behind us called loudly, “Where to, boys.^” Once more we turned. It was the janitor.

“Oh, I left my notebook in 500. I’ve got to have it. We were only going up to get it.”

“Well, I’m just going up there to lock up. I’ll go with you.”

The janitor joined us, and we went slowly up the five flights of steps. At last we came to the door of Room 500. Asham and Dean, the last to leave, had apparently turned oflF the lights, for all was dark. But the door was unlocked, and for a moment I fancied I heard a stealthy movement within. Then I opened the door and turned on the lights.

F or a minute I noticed nothing; then, abruptly, I stopped dead in my path across the room to my table, feeling the blood rush from my face.

"Stan! Mr. Brown!” I called, without moving.

The two came running into the room. “My God!” aied Elson.

The janitor stood speechless, his mouth open.

There before us were four cadavers, propped into peculiarly life-like positions, stiff and rigid, their opened eyes staring glassily before them. One of them was seated, his dead fingers gripped tightly on the arms of the chair. Another leaned against the wall, his knees bent, as if he would fall in another moment. Yet he did not fall. The other two were perhaps the most horrible. They sat on the edge of a table, side by side, as students sit when resting from their woric; but on the faces of these dead things were utterly shocking expressions — expressions not at all like those of people long dead, long preserved, but rather like those of people newly dead. Their lips were lifted above their teeth in frightful, unspeakably horrible leers.

The janitor was the first to find his voice. “This is Asham’s idea of a good joke,” he said.

"Nonsense!” I snapped. “No medical student would do anything like this. This is not our idea of a good joke. It’s some outsider, someone else.” And all the time I was thinking: this happened in Europe, in the East, at Illinois, Northwestern, Chicago. And now here. . . .

'Tm going to call Doctor Montague,” said the janitor, making for the door. “You two wait,” he called back.

Elson looked at me, incredulity on his face. "What does it mean?” he whispered.

I shook my head. “I don’t know. But I do know that it wasn’t Asham and Dean.” I turned quickly from Elson and the scene before us, determined to forget the horrible suggestions that rushed into my mind.

Elson said, "It’s lucky the 'stiff float* wasn’t open. No telling what might have happened if it had been.”

I nodded in agreement. A shudder of horror passed through my body at the thought. In a moment more the janitor was back in the room.

"This yours?” he asked curtly, picking up a notebook from my t^le. I went forward and took it from him. “Doctor Montague will be down in a little while. You boys want to wait? If not, )fOu can go."

"Let’s go,” suggested Elson hurriedly.

I pull^ myself together. “Yes, I've got to finish this work tonight.”

THEY SHALL RISE

Together we left the room. Maddening thoughts pushed thenaselves into my mind.

H alf of the four-hour laboratory period was over next morning before the whispered discussions of a Cardinal news-story about mysterious disturbances in Laboratory 500 during the previous night had died down. Finally, however, students were once more settling down to work. I was busy at my table, working at Stan’s side, when suddenly I saw the door of the room slowly pushed open.

In the broad light of day now, we saw tihe old man with the umbrella and the pasty face. He was in the act of removing an antiquated beaver hat from his head. From behind square-rimmed spectacles, strange hollow eyes looked curiously into the room. He walked forward a few steps, somewhat uncertainly, moving his tall thin body with short, jerky steps, not unlike those of an automaton. Then suddenly he was speaking to the student nearest the door, in a strikingly repulsive and hollowly gelatinous sort of bass voice. "Would you be so kind as to direct me to Doctor Montague?”

The student to whom he had spoken whirled around on hearing his voice. He backed instinctively away before this strangely repellent man, this man who, though he looked to be fifty, yet gave forth an impression of much greater age, age that could not be put into convincing numbers. "Over there,” murmured the student finally, pointing to Doctor Montague, who stood near the table at which I was working with Elson.

'The old man approached the professor with the same short, uncertain steps. Doctor Montague looked up.

"You are Professor Montague? You are head of the courses in anatomy here at Wisconsin?”

Mt

What a peculiar accent! flashed into my mind.

"Yes, I am Doctor Montague,” replied the professor.

"My name is Brock, Doctor Septimus Brock. My practise is in Scotland, though now I am touring your splendid country. As my interests are in medical research, I have naturally been seeking out those places in America which further such work.” He indicated the laboratory with a sweep of his hand. "I wonder if it would be possible for me to examine your different laboratories?”

Professor Montague, who had been eyeing his visitor with undisguised curiosity, came to himself suddenly, saying, "Certainly, Doctor Brock; let me call a guard to show you around.”

"Thank you, Professor,”

Elson and I had been standing at our table listening intently to this short conversation. 'The sudden appearance of an assbtant sent both of us quickly to woric. Elson, however, who was by nature nervous, in turning so suddenly to his cadaver and attempting to resume his work casually, as if nothing had happened, quite accidentally severed the tongue in the head of his specimen.

'Then something unaccountably strange occurred, 'The man with the umbrella, who had apparently observed the accident, jumped at once to Elson’s side. He looked at him sharply and said in a cold voice, "You deface the dead!” There was a surprizing malevolence in his glance, which escaped neither Elson nor me.

Elson, who was at once thoroughly upset, began to explain. "I’m sorry. I assure you, it was purely accidental.”

Professor Montague, who had been observing as well, said with a casual gesture, "It’s all right, Elson. Accidents will happen.”

He turned to the man at his side. "Your comment about defacing the dead.



Doctor Brock, seems to me somewhat strange coming from a medical man.”

The old man pulled himself up and made a careless motion with the hand that gripped the green umbrella. "Of course. Doctor Montague. I am losing the scientific attitude, I fear. It seemed needlessly careless.”

Doctor Montague nodded shortly. A guard had come forward at a motion from him. "Your guard. Doctor Brock. I hope )'0u will find the laboratories of sufficient interest to justify your visit. Please order the guard about at your pleasure.”

"Thank you, Doctor Montague. You are kind indeed.” With that he turned to the guard and spoke to him in a voice that could not be overheard. But in a moment the guard was leading the way to the short corridor leading to a group of smaller laboratories.

Then, for the second time that morning, something strange happened.

I T WAS Elson who first noticed it. "Look at Dean!” he whispered excitedly to me.

I looked up. Dean, a pale and very sensitive young man, stood staring at the approacliing Doctor Brock, his eyes wide and fixed. It flashed into my mind that something had powerfully upset him, for I had seen him react to strong mental stimuli, hypnotic stimuli, before. Dean had evidently been at work, for he still held tightly to a large dissecting-knife. The doctor passed his table with the guard, never once looking at Dean; the student turned his whole body and continued to regard our visitor with that unnatural stare.

Then suddenly it happened. Dean’s hand shot up, and, as if the arm had been loosed by a powerful spring, the knife went flying at the doctor’s back. It lodged there, thudding against his back

with a horrible dull sound. Dean screamed suddenly and collapsed limply in his chair.

Then his voice rang hysterically through the laboratory — "I couldn’t help it, I couldn’t! I had to do it!” He put his head on his arms and began to sob wildly.

But strangest of all was the attitude of Doctor Brock. He turned calmly around, apparently not noticing the affected student nor the rest of us standing aghast. He reached behind him and drew away the knife just as Doctor Montague ran forward.

"What’s wrong?”

Doctor Brock smiled his characteristic fixed smile. "Nothing at all,” he said suavely. "Fortunately, it lodged in my clothing.” He held the knife in his hand. It was as clean and spotless as it had been when Dean so suddenly threw it!

Doctor Montague took in the situation at a glance. "Buck up. Dean!” He clutched the student by the shoulder. "You’d better come along with me. Sorry this happened. Doctor Brock. I hope it hasn’t disturbed you unduly.”

"Not at all,” replied the old man, and turned abruptly to the guard. "Shall we go on?”

Leaning on the professor’s arm. Dean left the room, while Doctor Brock and his guard went on down the corridor. ’There was an excited babble among the students.

Elson turned to me in great agitation. "My God, I thought Dean got him!”

"I’d have sworn that knife went six inches into his back!” I said, grasping Elson’s wrist suddenly, holding it tight in my hand. I could feel myself trem^; bling.

Turning simultaneously, we saw the guard unlocking the metal-barred door to the "stiff” room, where all the cadavers of the medical school lined the walls and floated in the great preserving-vat.

THEY SHALL RISE


T hat night, at my request, Bison came to my room, I was sitting at my desk before a row of heavy medical books, a lamp with a green glass shade bent dose to the open book through which I was leafing. Bison sat in a deep chair in the gray ^rkness at the side of my desk, lost almost entirely in shadows, his eyes watching me. I dosed the book suddenly and turned to him. "I know I’ve seen him somewhere. If it’s a picture I saw, I’m almost positive it’s in one of my books. I haven’t used the library at ail this year, nor during most of the last.”

I pulled another book down before me — an out-of-print medical encydopedia — and again went quickly throu^ the pages.

"Got him,” I said, "Come here, Stan.” Bison rose and came over to the desk. He leaned over my shoulder, and together we read: "Brock, Septimus Asa, M. D., born, 1823, Duncardin, Scotland, Urunarried. Bducated at University of Edinburgh. Set up small practise there, and practised for about four years, during which time he wrote and published two small pamphlets and a monograph: The Dead: How Shall We Regard Them?; A Treatise on the Horror of Dissection; and When the Soul Has Gone, Shall the Body Die? These three works, especially the latter, though now out of print, were regarded as the product of a deranged mind, and after an examination, Doctor Brock was incarcerated in Denham Asylum for the Insane. From this asylum he disappeared in 1872, his disappearance being made doubly mysterious by the fact that he w^ at the time on his death-bed, and was certainly too weak to walk. He was never again heard from, and it is assumed that he met his death shortly after his miraculous escape. Doctor Brock’s case is mentioned as one of the world’s most startling disappearances,”

Bison looked down at me. "What do you make of it?” he asked.

"I don’t want to guess at it, but I think I’m beginning to see.”

‘This man with the green umbrella ”

"I have seen him before,” I cut in, "or his picture. It was probably his picture. And I think it was in his monograph, When the Soul Has Gone, Shall the Body Die? which I think I have on file somewhere.”

"Where?” asked Bison, interested now.

I motioned toward a file close to the wall In the darkness where he had been sitting, but I made no move to go toward it.

Bison said, "Why don’t you get it?”

Suddenly, inexplicably, I shuddered. A most peculiar feeling came over me abruptly, an odd feeling of fear, of warning, telling me not to go on. I turned quickly to Stan, explaining that sudden sensation.

"Nonsense!” he cut in sharply. "Your imagination’s working on your nerves, old man.”

I CAME to my feet with an effort and went stiffly to the file. There I pulled open the top drawer, and my fingers began to go swiftly through the miscellaneous papers it contained. The monograph was not there, nor was it in the second. It was half hidden in the third drawer, where I found it only when I went over the papers a second time. I drew it out hurriedly and brought it over to the desk, putting it down in the green glow of the desk lamp.

On the cover under the title there was a dim, poorly reproduced picture of a man with square-rimmed glasses, and the man was terrifyingly like the doctor who had visited the laboratory that morning, was indeed the same man, if I were any



judge. Yet that would place his age above one hundred years!

I sat down slowly, put out a hesitant hand, and turned the first two pages of the monograph. I was not eager to read what was printed therein. The text seemed to leap out at me, its first words flung across the page in heavy bladcface. "There is a use in life for bodies from which the soul has gone!”

Elson laughed unconvincingly. "How awkwardly he points out their use for anatomical purpose!” he said.

I looked at him. "Do you think so, Stan.?”

"Don’t you?”

I closed the monograph suddenly; once again I shuddered. "No,” I said. "I don’t. I remember this thing now — ^very distinctly.”

"Old man, I thirxk something’s the matter with you,” said Elson quickly. "Do you think a shot of gin would do us any good? You’re making me feel whatever it is you’re feeling.”

Impatiently, I brushed the suggestion aside. "A paper on the power of animation which certain little known aspects of blade magic have over dead bodies. And there is something about ways in which the soul can be driven from a living body and the body kept animate.” I was talking more to myself than to Elson, but suddenly, looking dosely at my friend, I said, "Was he mad, do you think?”

"Mad as a hatter,” said Elson quickly.

I went on, "He disappeared, they said, but he was never really found; they never recovered his body.”

"No, no, not that,” said Elson suddenly, his face revealing the feeling of terror suddenly gripping him. "The man could not be Brock. He’d be over a hundred years old. You don’t know what you’re suggesting.”

But I was not listening. Could it be —

was it possible that he had animated himself?

"Listen,” I murmured abruptly, taking Stan’s arm; "he wrote something about dead bodies rising against the living through the power of this weird hypnotic influence, great masses of dead rising.”

Once more I turned to the monograph, leafing rapidly through it, stopping on the last page. " T shall return, and lay hands upon them, and they shall become animate. And they shall rise in great numbers, they shall rise up against those who have defaced them, against those who have defiled their bodies for other men. They shall rise against all the living, and weapons shall be powerless against them. And they shall sweep over all the earth, slaying and destroying, and I shall be their lord and master; for without me, without the power that shall emanate from me, they die and shall be for ever dead. O dead, look for the day! I shall come, and you shdl rise against the living!’ ”

Elson shook my arm almost roughly. "That’s madness! It’s the raving of a madman!”

I put my hands on the table to steady myself. Elson went on, urgently, "Let’s drop this stuff, Valens. We’ve still got our notebooks to get up tonight, remember. We’ve set this night to finish the job.”

I nodded. "Of course,” I said. "I’d forgotten. We’d better hurry to the lab — it’s almost nine now.”

Elson was at the same time relieved and uneasy. I think he thought for a moment that I had let my nerves get the better of me, and felt glad at the same time that he had kept his own imagination so well under control. Yet he was oddly uneasy about returning to the laboratory, that same laboratory where Doctor Septimus Brock had walked that morning. He shrugged his shoulders and

THEY SHALL RISE


said nothing, fearing, no doubt, that he would excite me again.

W E ENTERED the laboratory with some trepidation, though neither of us showed his uneasiness. We went to work immediately, and yet felt not in the least like working, nor did we work particularly rapidly. After a while, Elson leaned back and lit a cigarette.

"What time is it.i*” he asked.

"Ten o’clock,” I told him, looking at my watch.

"On this dissection of the heart, do you have ”

"Listen!” I said, breaking into his sentence. I had heard something.

"What’s the matter?”

"Stan, didn’t you hear a noise just then?”

"No.”

"As if someone were talking, far away?”

"Not a thing. Valens, you’d better watch your nerves.”

"Yes. That must be it.” I shuddered. Elson turned again to his notebook, keeping an eye on me still. "In this dissect'on of the heart,” he began again, "do you have a cross of the left auricular ”

"Listen!” I said again, tense now, my body rigid in the chair.

There was a sound, and both of us heard it. And we were alone in the laboratory, alone on the flcxjr. Someone was talking in a deep voice, but the voice seemed to come from a great distance, away on the campus perhaps, or in a vault below the buildings; yet there was a curiously terrifying quality in the deep tones coming to us in the somber stillness. And there was an additional sound, a confused pattering, soft yet distinct, as if many people were running bare-footed here and there on a hard floor,

"Do you hear it?” I asked quickly.

Elson nodded. "I hear it. But where is it? And what is it?”

I got up and walked slowly toward the dcxir that opened on the locked and barred "stiff” room. I pressed my ear to the metal. Then as I turned to Elson I felt die blood drain from my face. My lips opened, trembling, eager to speak, but no sounds came. I had heard something within; those mysterious noises had come from behind the dcxir to the "stiff” room. Elson came toward me, but I motioned him away. Abruptly I spoke in a horror-strangled voice, and I felt the grotesque impression I made on Stan. "It’s in there — the stiffs — someone talking — walking on bare feet!”

I broke away from the door, breathing heavily.

Elson said, "We’ll get the janitor. I’ll get him. Someone ought to be here.”

I shook my head. "No, no,” I murmured. "No one else, Stan. No one would believe us, and besides, I think we can handle this better ourselves.”

"What do you mean?”

"No one else knows about Doctor Brock and that monograph.”

Elson made an uneasy movement witli his head. "What shall we do?” he asked.

"We’ve got to get a look into that room — whatever it is in there must not see us, must not know we are here. That means we can’t try the door.”

"'There’s another dissecting-room upstairs, over the float. 'There’s a panel in the floor. Perhaps we can look down through that?”

"Have you got a flashlight, Stan?”

"In my locker.”

Elson went to his lodcer and brought out a pocket flashlight that he kept there. With this, we found our way throu^ the now darkened hall of the building and up the wide stairs. "The sounds we had heard in the laboratory were silent now, but when we had reached the floor above,



when we lud crossed the threshold of the dissecting-room and were standing directly above the float-room, we heard again the deep, eery voice, but now the footsteps had stopped. I directed the light to the floor and moved it slowly to the center of the room, and then, in the compass of the ray, we saw the panel. We walked silently over and came down on our knees beside it. The voice was clear now, and the more clear it became, the more weird it grew — a chillingly hollow voice, a voice of deep yet flat tones, thrilling us with horror. It was saying something we could not understand, and every now and then there would be answers in cliorus.

I LAID the flashlight on the floor and we pressed our ears to the panel. Still the words were not clear, yet some of them came: ". . . defiled, abused . . . long have I been in coming . . . but I am come . . . others waited to feel my power calling to them again; once they, too, felt it, as you feel it . . . now. Tonight you have tasted strength; you have tried your limbs and found them not wanting , . . some have suspected, but they have died . . . our purpose is lost if I am gone, for in me lies the power that will raise you to the heights.”

"This is madness,” murmured Elson, his face strained, white.

"Not madness,” I whispered guardedly; "worse — sorcery, blade sorcery!”

The droning voice below went on. "Over all Europe they have felt my touch . . . they are waiting now for the call which I shall send out through space . . . and they shall rise up in great numbers and destroy . . . and death is powerless against them.”

My fingers crept silently over the panel, seeking to push it open. The crevice in the floor broadened into a slit-like opening. I opened it no more than six indies; then bo^ of us bent our heads over the

aperture. Exdted babble came from be* low, and by the light of the flash reflected dimly from the surface of the stifffloat below, we saw a crowd of dripping nude bodies, leaning eagerly forward, pressing around a fully clothed man who stood in their midst. The man was Doctor Septimus Brock, and the others . . . those others . . . had until today been floating in the now empty vats!

"Get that light out!” I growled.

Elson’s fingers dosed on die flashlight; it slipped, thudded to the floor. In that instant, below us, the head of Septimus Brock was suddenly thrown back, glassy eyes staring upward, an arm half raised to shield his face. We drew back. Had he seen us?

The light was out now, and I quickly pushed the panel to. We rose and aept silaitly from the room, the flash throwing its ray before us as we went down the stairs, into our own laboratory, where we took our notebooks, and out into the street. Neither of us spoke until we were well up Langdon Street.

"I’m not sure,” Elson said at last, "exactly what he’s aiming at."

"Wait," I told him. "That pamphlet tells it. I’ll show you.”

I N MY room once more, I took up the monograph and turned to Elson. "His general theory is that he has a power which enables him to animate dead bodies for his own use, and against these bodies no ordinary weapon has any power. I feel that his is a hypnotic power self -induced with the aid of sorcery, of which he seems to have been a student. His intention is simply to organize the dead of the world — and what better place to recruit them than dissecting-laboratories? — but it is necessary for him first to establish contact with them, or else he can have no future power over them. That is why he has taken so long, so many years since his

THEY SHALL RISE


escape from the asylum. He is looking forward to the day when tlie dead shall rise against the living, sent into the world to destroy, through his power.”

"But his motive.^” demanded Elson. "He’s mad, raving mad!”

"The motive is here, too,” I went on, everything suddenly clear now, and my thoughts collected after that last tremendous shock in the laboratories. I read from the monograph: " 'Men have called me mad. Even now there are some who contemplate my incarceration in an asylum. I am fully aware of all this. I wait for it, for my revenge on society will be more terrible, more awful, with this injustice rankling in my breast. For I, Septimus Brock, have power to give life to the dead. I shall give them life, and there will come a day when they shall rise up against the society which has looked upon my work as that of a madman, against the society which has mutilated and defiled those who have died!’ ” "My God!” Elson murmured in a strangled voice, clutching me by the arm. "'The way he looked at me yesterday when I cut out that tongue! The way he looked at me! . . .”

I WAS rudely awakened next morning by someone shaking me.

"Awake, Valens.?” I heard.

I pulled myself up, yawning, and nodded.

It was Stan. He was speaking. "Remember yesterday morning, Valens? , . . that guard . . , Septimus Brock?”

I nodded again, only half understanding. As I took the paper from Elson I saw that it was that morning’s Cardinal. Stan had marked a small paragraph on an inner page, circling it in heavy black crayon:

It is reported that Henry Petersen, a guard in the ScieiKe department, did not return home last night. Inquiries have brought no response. Anyone knowing of the possible whereabouts of Henry Petersen will please communicate at once with John Petersen, through the Cardinal.

Elson was looking at me inquiringly.

I said, hurriedly, "It was Petersen with Brock yesterday morning — Petersen went into the stiff-room with Brock. Did he come out?”

Elson shook his head. "I didn’t see him.”

"Nor I.” I paused, took up the paper, and looked at it again. "And I didn’t see Brock come out either,” I added.

Elson fidgeted. "Valens, did we see people in the stiff-room last night? Or was it, do you think, our imagination?”

I looked at him. "What do you think?”

I jumped from my bed before he could answer, and began to dress, leaving Elson agape near the bureau.

I turned to him abruptly and said, "Listen, Stan, I’m not coming to lab this morning. I’ve got something else to do — something more important.”

"May I know what it is?”

Should I tell Elson? I wondered. Then I said, "Only a silver bullet has any power against black magic, I understand.” I was trying to speak matter-of-factly. "I am definitely curious to know how a silver bullet would affect Doctor Brock.”

I was gone before Elson could say another word.

I T WAS already quite late that night when I returned to my room and found the note that Elson had left for me. I took it up and read:

Brock was in the lab again this morning. Doc Montague told me he had asked about us, asking especially about "that student who had cut the tongue yesterday”. Call me when you come in.

I read the note a second time, musingly, my hand straying unconsciously to my coat pocket, caressing the revolver hidden there. 'Then I went to the telephone and called Elson’s number. A strange voice answered me — certainly not Elson’s.



"This Asham?” I ventured.

"Yes. Who’s calling?"

"Valens. Where’s Stan?"

"He went out after he got your note."

I started. "My note? What’s that? Repeat that, Asham.”

"I said he went out after he got your note. Just a minute.”

There was a sound suggesting that Asham had left the telephone. What was this about a note from me? Good God, was it perhaps ... I thought quickly of something I had heard in that half-real conversation from the stiff-room the night before — "Some have suspected — they have died!” But Asham was back, reading:

" 'Stan, come pronto to 500 Science Hall. I’ve struck something.’ — Didn’t you send that, Valens? There’s a 'V’ or something at the bottom, like a signature."

I said, "I always sign notes to Stan like that, but I sent him no note tonight. You’re sure that came tonight?”

"Positive. Say, Valens, there’s nothing wrong, is there? You know, Stan’s been acting sort of queer, and I thought maybe — ^you know, a fellow can’t help thinking, Valens.”

I dropped the receiver, pushing the telephone away from me. There was no time to lose. Something had gone wrong. I ran from the house, and began to tear down Langdon Street toward Science Hall, rearing itself upward at its end.

The hall was dark, save for a faint illumination from the window of laboratory room number 500. I slunk silently into the building, paused to listen for sounds, and not hearing any, went softly along, up the stairs, one flight, two, holding my breath at each creak of the stairs. There was no light in the hall on the top floor. I paused uncertainly. Should I go on? There was no telling what I might encounter. The feeling of the revolver

and the memory of the silver bullet reassured me. I went on.

A daik figure loomed up suddenly beside the door to room 500. For an instant I drew back, then came forward again. It was Elson. I went on, more quickly now.

"Stan,” I whispered, "thank God you’re all right! What’s up?"

E lson did not answer. He put his finger to his lips, signing for silence. I ' came up to him.

“Nothing the matter, is there?” I asked, suddenly suspicious once more.

Elson waved one hand before him for silence, still pressing hb finger to his* colorless lips. Terror suddenly possessed me. I slipped my hand into my pocket, feeling the revolver close to my skin. Elson’s face was so white, hb eyes so unnaturally glassy, expressionless, as if he were dazed from a horrible fright.

Then he put hb hand suddenly on the knob of the door, indicating with his head that I should precede him. Still facing him, I edged through the partly open door. Then, just as I had crossed the threshold, I saw through Elson’s halfparted lips, saw a cavity which brought to me abruptly a terrifying vision of a tongueless cadaver, and two fierce blazing eyes boring at Elson from beneath a shock of white hair and an old beaver hat. God, what had happened to Elson . . . hb tongue?

Instantly warned, I whirled. Before me I saw what seemed to be an endless host of cadavers, and at their head a tall frock-coated figure — Doctor Brock. I understood. They had lured Ebon here, to punish him for mutilating his cadaver, to set him up as an example for the rest of the world. . . . Then Elson was . . . not living ... yet he walked! There was a slow movement toward me, the doctor smiling malevolently, hissing something

W.T.— 4

THEY SHALL RISE


at tne. ! felt what had been Elson advancing from behind, and in that moment I limged forward, grasping the wrist of the living dead man before me. At the same instant I pulled the trigger in my pocket, saw in a fleeting glance a frozen expression of terror on that malignant dead face peering into my own, and, amid the sounds of falling bodies dinning into my semi-conscious ears, there rose the welcome sound of quick-running footsteps on the stairs beyond. Then I knew no more, save an overwhelming blackness that pressed upon me from all sides.

I OPENED my eyes on the grim face of Doctor Montague, bending over the bed to which I was strapped. My ears were hearing a voice, my own voice, coming from far away:

. . lured him there, killed him . . . driving the soul from his body by their magic . , . Brock’s black sorcery, . . , But now they sliall never rise . . . never, that hellish throng ... he is dead for ever.”

I saw Doctor Montague’s face grow anxious. His voice came, suddenly; he was speaking to someone else. "Give me the paper, please; I want to see whether there is any reaction.”

I knew Doctor Montague, and I wanted to say, "Hello, Doc,” but somehow I couldn’t. They held a paper before me, but it did not register — it meant nothing to me. Again I heard my voice, clearer now, strained, trying to tell them coherently what had happened. I thought I spoke clearly enough, but I must only have babbled nonsense. Yet — did I? There were four days in that hospital.

four days during which my brain burned with the knowledge it possessed, a knowledge that my tongue could not release despite my awful desire to tell them everything. At last they sent me home.

Even now they say I am mad; yet they have never made an attempt to explain what happened. Nor have the papers. The cadavers were disturbed, said the papers; but surely they must have seen that all the cadavers had been taken from the “stiff” room by someone, that they had been standing in 500 before they were found collapsed on the floor.^ Surely they must have seen this.? And why did they not explain the finding of the corpse of Henry Petersen, stripped of its clothing, among those others.? They told of the finding of Stan's body, of the cutting away of his tongue. How they had been killed, they did not know. There were no signs of external injury.

Asham had pursued me, and found me there, the papers said; I was raving incoherently, in my hand a revolver from which one chamber had been emptied, and in one of the tables a silver bullet had been found embedded. Why did no one guess at the significance of the silver bullet.?

And why did they touch so lightly on the most damning facts of all.? The dis' tinct brownish dust on the floor near me, the odor of age-old decay, the fragments of old clothes, of a pair of antiquated square spectacles, and the remains of an M umbrella; and finally that conclusive evidence in my own hand, clenched tightly even in my delirium, the wrist and hand bones which were too old to have come from the laboratory itself!

of the Dragon

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

A surfing and vivid weird novel about a barbarian adventurer who made himself king, and the strange talismanic jewel that was known as the Heart of Ahriman

The Story Thus Far

C ONAN, a barbarian adventurer who has made himself king of Aquilonia, finds himself pitted against Xaltotun, an ancient sorcerer and adept of black magic who has been dead for three thousand years. The priests who poisoned Xaltotun had mummified his body, keeping all his organs intact. He is revived by means of a flaming jewel, known as the Heart of Ahriman, which had been stolen from the wizard during his life.

With Xaltotun’s aid, the conspirators who had brought him back from death place Tarascus on the throne of Nemedia and invade Conan’s kingdom. Xaltotun causes the cliffs to fall on Conan’s army and captures Conan with the aid of his dark arts. Valerius, one of the conspirators, ascends the throne of Aquilonia, and Conan is mourned as dead.

Conan, rescued from Xaltotun’s dungeons of horror by a girl of the king’s seraglio who has fallen in love with him, escapes to Aquilonia and attempts to rally his followers; but they fear Xaltotun’s magic too much. Meanwhile King Tarascus, alarmed by the growing power of the sorcerer Xaltotun, steals from him the Heart of Ahriman and sends one of his followers to throw the dread jewel into the sea.

By a heroic feat Conan rescues the Countess Albiona from the headsman’s ax in the Iron Tower, and is aided in making his escape by the weird priests of

Asura, whom he had befriended when he was king. Leaving the countess in safe hands, he starts for the coast, alone, in pursuit of the Heart of Ahriman. The jewel changes hands several times, and finally is taken aboard a Stygian galley by a priest of Stygia. Conan is set upon by hired assassins, and left for dead on the beach.

Shanghaied onto a pirate galley, Conan leads a mutiny and takes the ship southward in pursuit of the Heart of Ahriman. After a number of weird, blood-chilling adventures in Khemi, chief seaport of Stygia, Conan returns to his pirate ship and orders full sail to the northward for a quick return to Aquilonia, where he will try to wrest the throne from the usurping king, Valerius.

The story continues :

21. Out of the Dust Shall Acheron Arise

W INTER had passed from Aquilonia.

Leaves sprang out on the limbs of trees, and the fresh grass smiled to the touch of the warm southern breezes. But many a field lay idle and empty, many a charred heap of ashes marked the spot where proud villas or prosperous towns had stood. Wolves prowled openly along the grass-grown highways, and bands of gaunt, masterless men slunk through the forests. Only in Tarantia was feasting and wealth and pageantry.

Valerius ruled like one touched with madness. Even many of the barons who

This Btorr beraa In WEIBD TAUCS tor December

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


had welcomed his return cried out at last against him. His tax-gatherers crushed rich and poor alike; the wealth of a looted kingdom poured into Tarantia, which became less like the capital of a realm tlian tlic garrison of conquerors in a conquered land. Its merchants waxed rich, but it was a precarious prosperity; for none l>new when he might be accused of treason on a trumped-up charge, and his property confiscated, himself cast into prison or brought to the bloody block.

Valerius made no attempt to conciliate his subjects. He maintained himself by

means of the Nemedian soldiery and by desperate mercenaries. He knew himself to be a puppet of Amalric. He knew that he ruled only on the sufferance of the Nemedian. He knew that he could never hope to unite Aquilonia under his rule and cast off the yoke of his masters, for the outland provinces would resist him to the last drop of blood. And for that matter the Nemedians would cast him from his throne if he made any attempt to consolidate his kingdom. He was caught in his own vise. The gall of defeated pride corroded his soul, and he



threw himself into a reign of debauchery, as one who lives from day to day, without thought or care for tomorrow.

Yet there was subtlety in his madness, so deep that not even Amalric guessed it. Perhaps the wild, chaotic years of wandering as an exile had bred in him a bitterness beyond common conception. Perhaps his loathing of his present position increased this bitterness to a kind of madness. At any event he lived with one desire: to cause the ruin of all who associated with him.

He knew that his rule would be over the instant he had served Amalric’s purpose; he knew, too, that so long as he continued to oppress his native kingdom the Nemedian would suffer him to reign, for Amalric wished to crush Aquilonia into ultimate submission, to destroy its last shred of independence, and then at last to seize it himself, rebuild it after his own fashion with his vast wealth, and use its men and natural resources to wrest the crown of Nemedia from Tarascus. For the throne of an emperor was Amalric’s ultimate ambition, and Valerius knew it. Valerius did not know whether Tarascus suspected this, but he knew that the king of Nemedia approved of his ruthless course. Tarascus hated Aquilonia, with a hate born of old wars. He desired only the destruction of the western kingdom.

And Valerius intended to ruin the country so utterly that not even Amalric’s wealth could ever rebuild it. He hated the baron quite as much as he hated the Aquilonians, and hoped only to live to see the day when Aquilonia lay in utter ruin, and Tarascus and Amalric were locked in hopeless civil war tliat would as completely destroy Nemedia.

He believed that the conquest of the still defiant provinces of Gunderland and Poitain and the Bossonian marches would mark his end as king. He would then

have served Amalric’s purpose, and could be discarded. So he delayed the conquest of these provinces, confining his activities to objealess raids and forays, meeting Amalric’s urges for action with all sorts of plausible objections and postponements.

His life was a series of feasts and wild debauches. He filled his palace with the fairest girls of the kingdom, willing or unwilling. He blasphemed the gods and sprawled drunken on the floor of the banquet hall wearing the golden crown, and staining his royal purple robes with the wine he spilled. In gusts of blood-lust he festooned the gallows in the market square with dangling corpses, glutted the axes of the headsmen and sent his Nemedian horsemen thundering through the land pillaging and burning. Driven to madness, the land was in a constant upheaval of frantic revolt, savagely suppressed. Valerius plundered and raped and looted and destroyed until even Amalric protested, warning him that he would beggar the kingdom beyond repair, not knowing that such was his fixed determination.

But while in both Aquilonia and Nemedia men talked of the madness of the king, in Nemedia men talked much of Xaltotun, the masked one. Yet few saw him on the streets of Belverus. Men said he spent much time in the hills, in curious conclaves with surviving remnants of an old race: dark, silent folk who claimed descent from an ancient kingdom. Men whispered of drums beating far up in the dreaming hills, of fires glowing in the darkness, and strange chantings borne on the winds, chantings and rituals forgotten centuries ago except as meaningless formulas mumbled beside mountain hearths in villages whose inhabitants differed strangely from the people of the valleys.

The reason for these conclaves none

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


knew, unless it was Orastes, who frequently accompanied the Pythonian, and on whose countenance a haggard shadow was growing.

But in the full flood of spring a sudden whisper passed over the sinking kingdom that woke the land to eager life. It came like a murmurous wind drifting up from the south, waking men sunk in the apathy of despair. Yet how it first came none could truly say. Some spoke of a strange, grim old woman who came down from the mountains with her hair flowing in the wind, and a great gray wolf following her like a dog. Others whispered of the priests of Asura who stole like furtive phantoms from Gunderland to the marches of Poitain, and to the forest villages of the Bossonians.

However the word came, revolt ran like a flame along the borders. Outlying Nemedian garrisons were stormed and put to the sword, foraging parties were cut to pieces; the west was up in arms, and there was a different air about the rising, a fierce resolution and inspired wrath rather tlian the frantic despair that had motivated the preceding revolts. It was not only the common people; barons were fortifying their castles and hurling defiance at the governors of the provinces. Bands of Bossonians were seen moving along the edges of the marches: stocky, resolute men in brigandines and steel caps, with longbows in their hands. From the inert stagnation of dissolution and ruin the realm was suddenly alive, vibrant and dangerous. So Amalric sent in haste for Tarascus, who came with an army,

I N THE royal palace in Tarantia the two kings and Amalric discussed the rising. They had not sent for Xaltotun, immersed in his cryptic studies in the Nemedian hills. Not since that bloody day in the valley of the Valkia had they called

upon him for aid of his magic, and he had drawn apart, communing but little with them, apparently indifferent to their intrigues.

Nor had they sent for Orastes, but he came, and he was white as spume blown before the storm. He stood in the golddomed chamber where the kings held conclave and they beheld in amazement his haggard stare, the fear they had never guessed the mind of Orastes could hold.

"You are weary, Orastes," said Amalric "Sit upon this divan and I will have a slave fetch you wine. You have ridden hard "

Orastes waved aside the invitation.

"I have killed three horses on the road from Belverus. I cannot drink wine, I cannot rest, until I have said what I have to say.”

He paced back and forth as if some inner fire would not let him stand motionless, and halting before his wondering companions:

"When we employed the Heart of Ahriman to bring a dead man back to life,” Orastes said abruptly, "we did not weigh the consequences of tampering in the black dust of the past. The fault is mine, and the sin. We thought only of our ambitions, forgetting what ambitions this man might himself have. And we have loosed a demon upon the earth, a fiend inexplicable to common humanity, I have plumbed deep in evil, but there is a limit to which I, or any man of my race and age, can go. My ancestors were clean men, without any demoniacal taint; it is only I who have sunk into the pits, and I can sin only to the extent of my personal individuality. But behind Xaltohm lie a thousand centuries of black magic and diabolism, an ancient tradition of evil. He is beyond our conception not only because he is a wizard himself, but also because he is the son of a race of wizards.



*'I have seen things that have blasted soul. In the heart of the slumbering hills I have watched Xaltotun commune with the souls of the damned, and invoke the ancient demons of forgotten Acheron. I have seen the accursed descendants of that accursed empire worship him and hail him as their arch-priest. I have seen what he plots — and I tell you it is no less than the restoration of the ancient, black, grisly kingdom of Acheron!”

"What do you mean.^” demanded Amalric. "Acheron is dust. There are not enough survivals to make an empire. Not even Xaltotun can reshape the dust of three tliousand years.”

"You know little of his black powers,” answered Orastes grimly. "I have seen the very hills take on an alien and ancient aspect under the spell of his incantations. I have glimpsed, like shadows behind the realities, the dim shapes and outlines of valleys, forests, mountains and lakes that are not as they are today, but as they were in that dim yesterday — have even sensed, rather than glimpsed, the purple towers of forgotten Python shimmering like figures of mist in the dusk.

"And in the last conclave to which I accompanied him, understanding of his sorcery came to me at last, while the drums beat and the beast-like worshippers howled with their heads in the dust. I tell you he would restore Acheron by his magic, by the sorcery of a gigantic bloodsacrifice such as the world has never seen. He would enslave the world, and with a deluge of blood wash away the present and restore the past!”

"You are mad!” exclaimed Tarascus.

"Mari?” Orastes turned a haggard stare upon him. "Can any man see what I have seen and remain wholly sane? Yet I speak the trutli. He plots the return of Acheron, with its towers and wizards and kings and horrors, as it was in the long ago. The descendants of Acheron will

serve him as a nucleus upon which to build, but it is the blood and the bodies of the people of the world today that will furnish the mortar and the stones for the rebuilding. I cannot tell you how. My own brain reels when I try to understand. But I have seen! Acheron will be Acheron again, and even the hills, the forests and the rivers will resiune their ancient aspect. Why not? If I, with my tiny store of knowledge, could bring to life a man dead three thousand years, why cannot the greatest wizard of the world bring back to life a kingdom dead three thousand years? Out of the dust shall Acheron arise at his bidding.”

"How can we thwart him?” asked Tarascus, impressed.

"There is but one way,” answered Orastes. "We must steal the Heart of Ahriman!”

"But I ” began Tarascus involuntarily, then dosed his mouth quickly.

None had noticed him, and Orastes was continuing.

"It is a power that can be used against him. With it in my hands I might defy him. But how shall we steal it? He has it hidden in some secret place, from which not even a Zamorian thief might filch it. I cannot learn its hiding-place. If he would only sleep again the sleep of the black lotus — but the last time he slept thus was after the battle of the Valkia, when he was weary because of the great magic he had performed, and ”

T he door was locked and bolted, but it swung silently open and Xaltotun stood before them, calm, tranquil, stroking his patriarchal beard; but the lambent lights of hell flickered in his eyes.

"I have taught you too much,” he said calmly, pointing a finger like an index of doom at Orastes. And before any could move, he had cast a handful of dust on the floor near the feet of the priest, who

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


stood like a man turned to marble. It flamed, smoldered; a blue serpentine of smoke rose and swayed upward about Orastes in a slender spiral. And when it had risen above his shoulders it curled about his neck with a whipping suddenness like the stroke of a snake. Orastes’ scream was choked to a gurgle. His hands flew to his neck, his eyes were distended, his tongue protruded. The smoke was like a blue rope about his neck; then it faded and was gone, and Orastes slumped to the floor a dead man.

Xaltotun smote his hands together and two men entered, men often observed accompanying him — small, repulsively dark, with red, oblique eyes and pointed, rat-like teeth. They did not speak. Lifting the corpse, they bore it away.

Dismissing the matter with a wave of his hand, Xaltotun seated himself at the ivory table about which sat the pale kings.

"Why are you in conclave?” he demanded.

"The Aquilonians have risen in the west,” answered Amalric, recovering from the grisly jolt the death of Orastes had given him. "The fools believe that Conan is alive, and coming at the head of a Poitanian army to reclaim his kingdom. If he had reappeared immediately after Valkia, or if a rumor had been circulated that he lived, the central provinces would not have risen under him, they feared your powers so. But they have become so desperate under Valerius’s misrule that they are ready to follow any man who can unite them against us, and prefer sudden death to torture and continual misery.

"Of course the tale has lingered stubbornly in the land that Conan was not really slain at Valkia, but not until recently have the masses accepted it. But Pallantides is back from exile in Ophir, swearing that the king was ill in his tent

that day, and that a man-at-arms wore his harness, and a squire who but recently recovered from the stroke of a mace received at Valkia confirms his tale — or pretends to.

"An old woman with a pet wolf has wandered up and down the land, proclaiming that King Conan yet lives, and will return some day to reclaim the crown. And of late the cursed priests of Asura sing the same song. They claim that word has come to them by some mysterious means that Conan is returning to reconquer his domain. I cannot catch either her or them. This is, of course, a trick of Trocero’s. My spies tell me there is indisputable evidence that the Poitanians are gathering to invade Aquilonia. I believe that Troccro will bring forward some pretender who he will claim is King Conan.”

Tarascus laughed, but there was no conviction in his laughter. He surreptitiously felt of a scar beneath his jupon, and remembered ravens that cawed on the trail of a fugitive; remembered the body of his squire, Arideus, brought back from the border mountains horribly mangled, by a great gray wolf, his terrified soldiers said. But he also remembered a red jewel stolen from a golden chest while a wizard slept, and he said nothing.

And Valerius remembered a dying nobleman who gasped out a tale of fear, and he remembered four Khitans who disappeared into the mazes of the south and never returned. But he held his tongue, for hatred and suspicion of his allies ate at him like a worm, and he desired nothing so much as to see both rebels and Nemedians go down locked in the death grip.

But Amalric exclaimed; "It is absurd to dream that Conan lives!”

For answer Xaltotun cast a roll of parcliment on the table.



Amalric caught it up, glared at it. From his lips burst a furious, incoherent cry. He read;

To Xflltotun, grand fakir of Nemedia: Dog of Acheron, I am returning to my kingdom, and I mean to hang your hide on a bramble.

Conan.

"A forgery!” exclaimed Amalric.

Xaltotun shook his head.

*'It is genuine. I have compared it with the signature on the royal documents on record in the libraries of the court. None could imitate that bold scrawl.”

‘Then if 0)nan lives,” muttered Amalric, "this uprising will not be like the others, for he is the only man living who can unite the Aquilonians. But,” he protested, "this is not like Conan. Why should he put us on our guard with his boasting? One would think that he would strike without warning, after the fashion of the barbarians.”

“We are already warned,” pointed out Xaltotun. “Our spies have told us of preparations for war in Poitain. He could not CToss the mountains without our knowledge; so he sends me his defiance in characteristic manner.”

"Why to you?” demanded Valerius. "Why not to me, or to Tarascus?”

Xaltotun turned his inscrutable gaze upon the king.

"Conan is wiser than you,” he said at last. "He already knows what you kings have yet to learn — that it is not Tarascus, nor Valerius, no, nor Amalric, but Xaltotun who is the real master of the western nations.”

T hey did not reply; they sat staring at him, assailed by a numbing realization of the truth of his assertion.

'There is no road for me but the imperial highway,” said Xaltotun. "But first we must crush Conan. I do not know how he escaped me at Belverus, for

knowledge of what happened while I lay in the slumber of the black lotus is denied me. But he is in the south, gathering an army. It is his last, desperate blow, made possible only by the desperation of the people who have suffered under Valerius. Let them rise; I hold them all in the palm of my hand. We will wait until he moves against us, and then we will crush him once and for all.

“Then we shall crush Poitain and Gunderland and the stupid Bossonians. After them Ophir, Argos, Zingara, Koth — all the nations of the world we shall weld into one vast empire. You shall rule as my satraps, and as my captains shall be greater than kings are now. I am unconquerable, for the Heart of Ahriman is hidden where no man can ever wield it against me again.”

Tarascus averted his gaze, lest Xaltotun read his thoughts. He knew the wizard had not looked into the golden chest with its carven serpents that had seemed to sleep, since he laid the Heart therein. Strange as it seemed, Xaltotun did not know that the Heart had been stolen; the strange jewel was beyond or outside the ring of his dark wisdom; his uncanny talents did not warn him that the chest was empty. Tarascus did not believe that Xaltotun knew the full extent of Orastes’ revelations, for the Pythonian had not mentioned the restoration of Acheron, but only the building of a new, earthly empire. Tarascus did not believe that Xaltotun was yet quite sure of his power; if they needed his aid in their ambitions, no less he needed theirs. Magic depended, to a certain extent after all, on sword strokes and lance thrusts. The king read meaning in Amalric’s furtive glance; let the wizard use his arts to help them defeat their most dangerous enemy. Time enough then to turn against him. There might yet be a way to cheat this dark power they had raised.

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


22. Drums of Peril

C ONFIRMATION of the war came when the army of Poitain, ten thousand strong, marched through the southern passes with waving banners and shimmer of steel. And at their head, the spies swore, rode a giant figure in blade armor, with the royal lion of Aquilonia worked in gold upon the breast of his rich silken surcoat. Conan lived! The king lived! There was no doubt of it in men’s minds now, whether friend or foe.

With the news of the invasion from the south there also came word, brought by hard-riding couriers, that a host of Gundermen was moving southward, reinforced by the barons of the northwest and the northern Bossonians. Tarascus marched with thirty-one thousand men to Galparan, on the river Shirki, which the Gundermen must cross to strike at the towns still held by the Nemedians. The Shirki was a swift, turbulent river rushing southwestward through rocky gorges and canyons, and there were few places where an army could cross at that time of the year, when the stream was almost bank-full with the melting of the snows. All the country east of the Shirki was in the hands of the Nemedians, and it was logical to assume that the Gundermen would attempt to cross either at Galparan, or at Tanasul, which lay to the south of Galparan. Reinforcements were daily expected from Nemedia, until word came that the king of Ophir was making hostile demonstrations on Nemedia’s southern border, and to spare any more troops would be to expose Nemedia to the risk of an invasion from the south.

Amalric and Valerius moved out from Tarantia with twenty-five thousand men, leaving as large a garrison as they dared to discourage revolts in the cities during their absence. They wished to meet and crush Conan before he could be joined

by the rebellious forces of the kingdom.

The king and his Poitanians had crossed the mountains, but there had been no actual clash of arms, no attack on towns or fortresses. Conan had appeared and disappeared. Apparently he had turned westward through the wild, thinly settled hill country, and entered the Bossonian marches, gathering recruits as he went. Amalric and Valerius with their host, Nemedians, Aquilonian renegades, and ferocious mercenaries, moved through the land in baffled wrath, looking for a foe which did not appear.

Amalric found it impossible to obtain more than vague general tidings about Conan’s movements. Scouting-parties had a way of riding out and never returning, and it was not uncommon to find a spy crucified to an oak. The countryside was up and striking as peasants and countryfolk strike — savagely, murderously and secretly. All that Amalric knew certainly was that a large force of Gundermen and northern Bossonians was somewhere to the north of him, beyond the Shirki, and that Conan with a smaller force of Poitanians and southern Bossonians was somewhere to the southwest of him.

He began to grow fearful that if he and Valerius advanced farther into the wild country, Conan might elude them entirely, march around them and invade the central provinces behind them. Amalric fell baeJe from the Shirki valley and camped in a plain a day’s ride from Tanasul. There he waited. Tarascus maintained his position at Galparan, for he feared that Conan’s maneuvers were intended to draw him southward, and so let the Gundermen into the kingdom at the northern aossing.

T o AMALRic’s camp came Xaltotun in his chariot drawn by the uncanny horses that never tired, and he entered Amalric’s tent where the baron conferred



with Valerius over a map spread on an ivory camp table.

This map Xaltotun crumpled and flung aside.

"What your scouts cannot learn for you,” quoth he, "my spies tell me, though their information is strangely blurred and imperfect, as if unseen forces were working against me.

"Conan is advancing along the Shirk! river with ten thousand Poitanians, three thousand southern Bossonians, and barons of the west and south with their retainers to the number of five thousand. An army of thirty thousand Gundermen and northern Bossonians is pushing southward to join him. They have established contact by means of secret communications used by the cursed priests of Asura, who seem to be opposing me, and whom I will feed to a serpent when the battle is over — 1 swear it by Set!

"Both armies are headed for the crossing at Tanasul, but 1 do not believe that the Gundermen will cross the river. I believe that Conan will cross, instead, and join them.”

"Why should Conan cross the river?” demanded Amalric.

"Because it is to his advantage to delay the battle. The longer he waits, the stronger he will become, the more precarious our position. The hills on the other side of the river swarm with people passionately loyal to his cause — -broken men, refugees, fugitives from Valerius’s cruelty. From all over the kingdom men are hurrying to join his army, singly and by companies. Daily, parties from our armies are ambushed and cut to pieces by the country-folk. Revolt grows in the central provinces, and will soon burst into open rebellion. The garrisons we left there are not sufficient, and we can hope for no reinforcements from Nemedia for the time being. I see the hand of

Pallantides in this brawling on the Ophirean frontier. He has kin in Ophir.

"If we do not catch and crush Conan quickly the provinces will be in a blaze of revolt behind us. We shall have to fall back to Tarantia to defend what we have taken; and we may have to fight our way through a country in rebellion, with Conan’s whole force at our heels, and then stand siege in the city itself, with enemies within as well as without. No, we cannot wait. We must crush Conan before his army grows too great, before the central provinces rise. With his head hanging above the gate at Tarantia you will see how quickly the rebellion will fall apart.”

"Why do you not put a spell on his army to slay them all?” asked Valerius, half in mockery.

Xaltotun stared at the Aquilonian as if he read the full extent of the mocking madness that lurked in those wayward eyes.

"Do not worry,” he said at last. "My arts shall crush Conan finally like a lizard under the heel. But even sorcery is aided by pikes and swords.”

"If he crosses the river and takes up his position in the Goralian hills he may be hard to dislodge,” said Amalric. "But if we catch him in the valley on this side of the river we can wipe him out. How far is Conan from Tanasul?”

"At the rate he is marching he should reach the crossing sometime tomorrow night. His men are rugged and he is pushing them hard. He should arrive there at least a day before the Gundermen.”

"Good!” Amalric smote the table with his clenched fist. "I can reach Tanasul before he can. I’ll send a rider to Tarascus, bidding him follow me to Tanasul. By the time he arrives I will have cut Conan off from the crossing and destroyed

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


him. Then our combined force can cross the river and deal with the Gundermen,"

Xaitotun shook his head impatiently.

"A good enough plan if you were dealing with anyone but Conan. But your twenty-five thousand men are not enough to destroy his eighteen thousand before the Gundermen come up. They will fight with the desperation of wounded panthers. And suppose the Gundermen come up while the hosts are locked in battle.? You will be caught between two fires and destroyed before Tarascus can arrive. He will reach Tanasul too late to aid you.”

"What, then?” demanded Amalric.

"Move with your whole strength against Conan,” answered the man from Acheron. "Send a rider bidding Tarascus join us here. We will await his coming. Then we will march together to Tanasul.”

"But while we wait,” protested Amalric, "Conan will cross the river and join the Gundermen.”

“Conan will not cross the river,” answered Xaitotun.

Amalric’ s head jerked up and he stared into the cryptic dark eyes.

"What do you mean?”

"Suppose there were torrential rains far to the north, at the head of the Shirki? Suppose the river came down in sudi flood as to render the crossing at Tanasul impassable? Could we not then bring up our entire force at our leisure, catch Conan on this side of the river and crush him, and then, when the flood subsided, which I think it would do the next day, could we not cross the river and destroy the Gundermen? Thus we could use our full strength against each of these smaller forces in turn.”

V ALERIUS laughed as he always laughed at the prospect of the ruin of either friend or foe, and drew a restless hand jerkily through his imruly yellow

lodes. Amalric stared at the man from Acheron with mingled fear and admiration.

"If we caught Conan in Shirki valley with the hill ridges to his right and the river in flood to his left,” he admitted, "with our whole force we could annihilate him. Do you think — are you sure — do you believe such rains will fall?”

"I go to my tent,” answered Xaitotun, rising. "Necromancy is not accomplished by the waving of a wand. Send a rider to Tarascus. And let none approach my tent.”

That last command was unnecessary. No man in that host could have been bribed to approach that mysterious black silken pavilion, the door-flaps of which were always closely drawn. None but Xaitotun ever entered it, yet voices were often heard issuing from it; its walls billowed sometimes without a wind, and weird music came from it. Sometimes, deep in midnight, its silken walls were lit red by flames flickering within, limning misshapen silhouettes that passed to and fro.

Lying in his own tent that night, Amalric heard the steady rumble of a drum in Xaltotun's tent; through the darkness it boomed steadily, and occasionally the Nemedian could have sworn that a deep, croaking voice mingled with the pulse of the drum. And he shuddered, for he knew that voice was not the voice of Xaitotun. The drum rustled and muttered on like deep thunder, heard afar off, and before dawn Amalric, glancing from his tent, caught the red flicker of lightning afar on the northern horizon. In all other parts of the sky the great stars blazed whitely. But the distant lightning flickered incessantly, like the crimson glint of firelight on a tiny, turning blade.

At sunset of the next day Tarascus came up with his host, dusty and weary from hard marching, the footmen strag460


gling hours behind the horsemen. They camped in the plain near Amalric’s camp, and at dawn the combined army moved westward.

Ahead of him roved a swarm of scouts, and Amalric waited impatiently for them to return and tell of the Poitanians trapped beside a furious flood. But when the scouts met the column it was with the news that Conan had crossed the river!

’’What.^” exclaimed Amalric. "Did he cross before the flood?”

"There was no flood,” answered the scouts, puzzled. "Late last night he came up to Tanasul and flung his army across.”

"No flood?” exclaimed Xaltotun, taken aback for the first time in Amalfic’s knowledge. "Impossible! There were mighty rains upon the headwaters of the Shirki last night and the night before that!”

"That may be, your lordship,” answered the scout. "It is true the water was muddy, and the people of Tanasul said that the river rose perhaps a foot yesterday; but that was not enough to prevent Conan’s crossing.”

Xaltotun’s sorcery had failed! The thought hammered in Amalric’s brain. His horror of this strange man out of the past had grown steadily since that night in Belverus when he had seen a brown, shriveled mummy swell and grow into a living man. And the death of Orastes had changed lurking horror into aaive fear. In his heart was a grisly conviction that the man — or devil — was invincible. Yet now he had undeniable proof of his failure.

Yet even the greatest of necromancers might fail occasionally, thought the baron. At any rate, he dared not oppose the man from Acheron — yet. Orastes was dead, writhing in Mitra only knew what nameless hell, and Amalric knew his sword would scarcely prevail where the black wisdom of the renegade priest had

failed. What grisly abomination Xaltotun plotted lay in the unpredictable future. Conan and his host were a present menace against which Xaltotun’s wizardry might well be needed before the play was all played.

T hey came to Tanasul, a small fortified village at the spot where a reef of rocks made a natural bridge across the river, passable -always except in times of greatest flood. Scouts brought in the news that Conan had taken up his position in the Goralian hills, which began to rise a few miles beyond the river. And just before sundown the Gundermen had arrived in his camp.

Amalric looked at Xaltotun, inscrutable and alien in the light of the flaring torches. Night had fallen.

"What now? Your magic has failed. Conan confronts us with an army nearly as strong as our own, and he has the advantage of position. We have a choice of two evils; to camp here and await his attack, or to fall back toward Tarantia and await reinforcements.”

"We are ruined if we wait,” answered Xaltotun. "Cross the river and camp on the plain. We will attack at dawn.”

"But his position is too strong!” exclaimed Amalric.

"Fool!” A gust of passion broke the veneer of the wizard’s calm. "Have you forgotten Valkia? Because some obscure elemental principle prevented the flood do you deem me helpless? I had intended that your spears should exterminate our enemies; but do not fear: it is my arts shall crush their host. Conan is in a trap. He will never see another sim set. Cross the river!”

They crossed by the flare of torches. 'The hoofs of the horses clinked on the rocky bridge, splashed through the shallows. 'The glint of the torches on shields and breast-plates was refleaed redly in

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


the black water. The rock bridge was broad on which they crossed, but even so it was past midnight before the host was camped in the plain beyond. Above them they could see fires winking redly in the distance. Conan had turned at bay in the Goralian hills, which had more than once before served as the last stand of an Aquilonian king.

Amalric left his pavilion and strode restlessly through the camp. A weird glow flickered in Xaltotun’s tent, and from time to time a demoniacal cry slashed the silence, and there was a low sinister muttering of a drum that rustled rather than rumbled.

Amalric, his instincts whetted by the night and the circumstances, felt that Xaltotun was opposed by more than physical force. Doubts of the wizard’s power assailed him. He glanced at the fires high above him, and his face set in grim lines. He and his army were deep in the midst of a hostile country. Up there among those hills lurked thousands of wolfish figures out of whose hearts and souls all emotion and hope had been scourged except a frenzied hate for their conquerors, a mad lust for vengeance. Defeat meant annihilation, retreat through a land swarming with blood-mad enemies. And on the morrow he must hurl his host against the grimmest fighter in the western nations, and his desperate horde. If Xaltotun failed them now

H alf a dozen men-at-arms strode out of the shadows. The firelight glinted on their breast-plates and helmet crests. Among them they half led, half dragged a gaunt figure in tattered rags.

Saluting, they spoke: "My lord, this man came to the outposts and said he desired word with King Valerius. He is an Aquilonian.”

He looked more like a wolf — a wolf the traps had scarred. Old sores that only

fetters make showed on his wrists and ankles. A great brand, the mark of hot iron, disfigured his face. His eyes glared through the tangle of his matted hair as he half crouched before the baron.

"Who are you, you filthy dog?” demanded the Nemedian.

"Call me Tiberias,” answered the man, and his teeth clicked in an involuntary spasm. "I have come to tell you how to trap Conan.”

"A traitor, eh?” rumbled the baron.

"Men say you have gold,” mouthed the man, shivering under his rags. "Give some to me! Give me gold and I will show you how to defeat the king!” His eyes glazed widely, his outstretched, upturned hands were spread like quivering claws.

Amalric shrugged his shoulders in distaste. But no tool was too base for his use.

"If you speak the truth you shall have more gold than you can carry,” he said. "If you are a liar and a spy I will have you crucified head-down. Bring him along.”

In the tent of Valerius, the baron pointed to the man who crouched shivering before them, huddling his rags about him.

"He says he knows a way to aid us on the morrow. We will need aid, if Xaltotun’s plan is no better than it has proved so far. Speak on, dog.”

The man’s body writhed in his strange convulsions. Words came in a stumbling rush:

"Conan camps at the head of the Valley of Lions. It is shaped like a fan, with steep hills on either side. If you attack him tomorrow you will have to march straight up the valley. You cannot climb the hills on either side. But if King Valerius will deign to accept my service, I will guide him through the hills and show him how he can come upon King



Conan from behind. But if it is to be done at all, we must start soon. It is many hours’ riding, for one must go miles to the west, then miles to the north, then turn eastward and so come into the Valley of Lions from behind, as the Gundermen came.”

Amalric hesitated, tugging his chin. In these diaotic times it was not rare to find men willing to sell their souls for a few gold pieces.

"If you lead me astray you will die,” said Valerius. "You are aware of that, are you not?”

The man shivered, but his wide eyes did not waver.

"If I betray you, slay me!”

"Conan will not dare divide his force,” mused Amalric "He will need all his men to repel our attack. He cannot spare any to lay ambushes in the hills. Besides, this fellow knows his hide depends on his leading you as he promised. Would a dog like him sacrifice himself? Nonsense! No, Valerius, I believe the man is honest.”

"Or a greater thief than most, for he would sell his liberator,” laughed Valerius. "Very well. I will follow the dog. How many men can you spare me?”

"Five thousand should be enough,” answered Amalric. "A surprize attack on their rear will tlirow them into confusion, and that will be enough. I shall expect your attack about noon.”

"You will know when I strike,” answered Valerius.

As Amalric returned to his pavilion he noted with gratification that Xaltotun was still in his tent, to judge from the blood-freezing cries tliat shuddered forth into die night air from time to time. When presently he heard the clink of steel and the jingle of bridles in the outer darkness, he smiled grimly. Valerius had about served his purpose. The baron knew that Conan was like a wounded lion that rends and tears even in his death-throes. When Valerius struck from the rear, the desperate strokes of the Cimmerian might well wipe his rival out of existence before he himself succumbed. So much the better. Amalric felt he could well dispense with Valerius, once he had paved the way for a Nemedian victory.

T he five thousand horsemen who accompanied Valerius were hard-bitten Aquilonian renegades for the most part. In the still starlight they moved out of the sleeping camp, following the westward trend of the great black masses that rose against the stars ahead of them. Valerius rode at their head, and beside him rode Tiberias, a leather thong about his wrist gripped by a man-at-arms who rode on the other side of him. Others kept close behind with drawn swords.

"Play us false and you die instantly,” Valerius pointed out. "I do not know every sheep-path in these hills, but I know enough about the general configuration of the country to know the directions we must take to come in behind the Valley of Lions. See that you do not lead us astray.”

The man ducked his head and his teeth chattered as he volubly assured his captor of his loyalty, staring up stupidly at the banner that floated over him, the golden serpent of the old dynasty.

Skirting the extremities of the hills that locked the Valley of Lions, they swung wide to the west. An hour’s ride and they turned north, forging through wild and rugged hills, following dim trails and tortuous paths. Sunrise found them some miles northwest of Conan’s position, and here the guide turned eastward and led them through a maze of labyrinths and crags. Valerius nodded, judging their position by various peaks thrusting up above the others. He had kept his bearings in a general way, and he knew they.

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


were still headed in the right direction.

But now, without warning, a gray fleecy mass came billowing down from the north, veiling the slopes, spreading out through the valleys. It blotted out the sun; the world became a blind gray void in which visibility was limited to a matter of yards. Advance became a stumbling, groping muddle. Valerius cursed. He could no longer see the peaks that had served him as guide-posts. He must depend wholly upon the traitorous guide. The golden serpent drooped in the windless air.

Presently Tiberias seemed himself confused; he halted, stared about uncertainly.

"Are you lost, dog?” demanded Valerius harshly.

"Listen!”

Somewhere ahead of them a faint vibration began, the rhythmic rumble of a dnun.

"Conan’s drum!” exclaimed the Aquilonian.

"If we are close enough to hear the drum,” said Valerius, "why do we not hear the shouts and the clang of arms? Surely battle has joined.”

"The gorges and the winds play strange tricks,” answered Tiberias, his teeth chattering with the ague that is frequently the lot of men who have spent much time in damp underground dungeons. Listen!”

Faintly to their ears came a low muflled roar.

"They are fighting down in the valley!” cried Tiberias. "The drum is beating on the heights. Let us hasten!”

He rode straight on toward the sound of the distant drum as one who knows his ground at last. Valerius followed, cursing the fog. Then it occurred to him that it would mask his advance. Conan could not see him coming. He would be at the Qmmerian’s back before the noonday sun dispelled the mists.

Just now he could not tell what lay on either hand, whether cliffs, thickets or gorges. The drum throbbed unceasingly, growing louder as they advanced, but they heard no more of the battle. Valerius had no idea toward what point of the compass they were headed. He started as he saw gray rock walls looming through the smoky drifts on either hand, and realized that they were riding through a narrow defile. But the guide showed no sign of nervousness, and Valerius hove a sigh of relief when the walls widened out and became invisible in the fog. They were tlirough the defile; if an ambush had been planned, it would have been made in that pass.

But now Tiberias halted again. The drum was rumbling louder, and Valerius could not determine from what direction the sound was coming. Now it seemed ahead of him, now behind, now on one hand or the other. Valerius glared about him impatiently, sitting on his war-horse with wisps of mist curling about him and the moisture gleaming on his armor. Behind him the long lines of steel-clad riders faded away and away like phantoms into the mist.

"Why do you tarry, dog?” he de- . manded.

The man seemed to be listening to the ghostly drum. Slowly he straightened in his saddle, turned his head and faced Valerius, and tlie smile on his lips was terrible to see.

"The fog is thinning, Valerius,” he said in a new voice, pointing a bony finger. "Look!”

T he drum was silent. The fog was fading away. First the crests of cliffs came in sight above the gray clouds, tall and spectral. Lower and lower crawled the mists, shrinking, fading. Valerius started up in his stirrups with a cry that the horsemen edioed behind him.



On all sides of them the cliffs towered. They were not in a wide, open valley as he had supposed. They were in a blind gorge wall^ by sheer cliffs hundreds of feet high. The only entrance or exit was tliat narrow defile through which they had ridden.

"Dog!” Valerius struck Tiberias full in the mouth with his clenched mailed hand. "What devil’s trick is this?”

Tiberias spat out a mouthful of blood and shook with fearful laughter.

“A trick that shall rid the world of a beast! Look, dog!”

Again Valerius cried out, more in fury than in fear.

The defile was blocked by a wild and terrible band of men who stood silent as images — ragged, shock-headed men with spears in their hands — hundreds of them. And up on the cliffs appeared other faces — thousands of faces — wild, gaunt, ferocious faces, marked by fire and steel and starvation.

"A trick of Conan’s!” raged Valerius.

"Conan knows nothing of it,” laughed Tiberias. "It was the plot of broken men, of men you ruined and turned to beasts. Amalric was right. Conan has not divided his army. We are tlie rabble who followed him, the wolves who skulked in these hills, the homeless men, the hopeless men. This was our plan, and the priests of Asura aided us with the mist. Look at them, Valerius! Each bears the mark of your hand, on his body or on his heart!

"Look at me! You do not know me, do you, what of this scar your hangman burned upon me? Once you knew me. Once I was lord of Amilius, the man v/hose sons you murdered, whose daughter your mercenaries ravished and slew. You said I would not sacrifice myself to trap you? Almighty gods, if I had a thousand lives I would give them all to buy your doom!

"And I have bought it! Look on the men you broke, dead men who once played the king! Their hour has cornel This gorge is your tomb. Try to climb the cliffs; they are steep, they are high. Try to fight your way back through the defile: spears will block your path, boulders will crush you from above! Dog! I will be waiting for you in hell!”

Throwing back his head he laughed until the rocks rang. Valerius leaned from his saddle and slashed down with his great sword, severing shoulder-bone and breast. Tiberias sank to the earth, still laughing ghastlily through a gurgle of gushing blood.

The drums had begun again, encircling the gorge with guttural thunder; boulders came crashing down; above the screams of dying men shrilled the arrows in blinding clouds from the cliffs.

23. The Road to Acheron

D awn was just whitening the east when Amalric drew up his hosts in the mouth of the Valley of Lions. This valley was flanked by low, rolling but steep hills, and the floor pitched upward in a series of irregular natural terraces. On tlie uppermost of these terraces O)- nan's army held its position, awaiting the attack. The host that had joined him, marching down from Gunderman, had not been composed exclusively of spearmen. With them had come seven thousand Bossonian archers, and four thousand barons and their retainers of the north and west, swelling the ranks of his cavalry.

The pikemen were drawn up in a compact wedge-shaped formation at the narrow head of the valley. There were nineteen thousand of them, mostly Gundermen, though some four thousand were Aquilonians of the other provinces. They were flanked on either hand by five thouW.T.— S

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


sand Bossonian archers. Behind the ranks of the pikemen the knights sat their steeds motionless, lances raised: ten thousand knights of Poitain, nine thousand Aquilonians, barons and their retaitiers.

It was a strong position. His flanks could not be turned, for that would mean climbing the steep, wooded hills in the teeth of the arrows and swords of the Bossonians. His camp lay directly behind him, in a narrow, steep-walled valley which was indeed merely a continuation of the Valley of Lions, pitching up at a higher level. He did not fear a surprize from the rear, because the hills behind him were full of refugees and broken men whose loyalty to him was beyond question.

But if his position was hard to shake, it was equally hard to escape from. It was a trap as well as a fortress for the defenders, a desperate last stand of men who did not expect to survive unless they were victorious. The only line of retreat possible was through the narrow valley at their rear.

X ALTOTUN mounted a hill on the left side of the valley, near the wide mouth. This hill rose higher than the others, and was known as the King’s Altar, for a reason long forgotten. Only Xaltotun knew, and his memory dated back three thousand years.

He was not alone. His two familiars, silent, hairy, furtive and dark, were with him, and they bore a young Aquilonian girl, bound hand and foot. They laid her on an ancient stone, which was curiously like an altar, and which crowned the summit of the hill. For long centuries it had stood there, worn by the elements imtil many doubted that it was anything but a curiously shapen natural rock. But what it was, and why it stood there, Xaltotun remembered from of old. The familiars W.T.— «

went away, with their bent backs like silent gnomes, and Xaltotun stood alone beside the stone altar, his dark beard blown in the wind, overlooking the valley.

He could see clear back to the winding Shirki, and up into the hills beyond the head of the valley. He could see the gleaming wedge of steel drawn up at the head of the terraces, the burganets of the archers glinting among the rocks and bushes, the silent knights motionless on their steeds, their pennons flowing above their helmets, their lances rising in a bristling thicket.

Looking in the other direction he could see the long serried lines of the Ncmedians moving in ranks of shining steel into the mouth of the valley. Behind them the gay pavilions of the lords and knights and the drab tents of the common soldiers stretched back almost to the river.

Like a river of molten steel the Ncmedian host flowed into the valley, the great scarlet dragon rippling over it. First marched the bowmen, in even ranks, arbalests half raised, bolts nocked, fingers on triggers. After them came the pikemen, and behind them the real strength of the army — the mounted knights, their banners unfurled to the wind, their lances lifted, walking their great steeds forward as if they rode to a banquet.

And higher up on the slopes the smaller Aquilonian host stood grimly silent.

There were thirty thousand Nemedian knights, and, as in most Hyborian nations, it was the chivalry which was the sword of the army. The footmen were used only to clear the way for a charge of the armored knights. There were twenty-one thousand of these, pikemen and archers.

The bowmen began loosing as they advanced, without breaking ranks, launching thdr quarrels with a whir and tang.



But the bolts fell short or rattled harmlessly from the overlapping shields of the Gundermen. And before the arbalesters could come within killing range, the arching shafts of the Bossonians were wreaking havoc in their ranks.

A little of this, a futile attempt at exchanging fire, and the Nemedian bowmen began falling back in disorder. Their armor was light, their weapons no match for the Bossonian longbows. The western archers were sheltered by bushes and rocks. Moreover, the Nemedian footmen lacked something of the morale of the horsemen, knowing as they did that they were being used merely to clear the way for the knights.

The crossbowmen fell back, and between their opening lines the pikemen advanced. These were largely mercenaries, and their masters had no compunction about sacrificing them. They were intended to mask the advance of the knights until the latter were within smiting distance. So while the arbalesters plied their bolts from either flank at long range, the pikemen marched into the teeth of the blast from above, and behind them the knights came on.

When the pikemen began to falter beneath the savage hail of death that whistled down the slopes among them, a trumpet blew, their companies divided to right and left, and through them the mailed knights thundered.

They ran full into a cloud of stinging death. The dothyard shafts found every crevice in their armor and the housings of the steeds. Horses scrambling up the grassy terraces reared and plunged backward, bearing their riders with them. Steel-clad forms littered the slopes. The charge wavered and ebbed back.

Back down in the valley Amalric reformed his ranks. Tarascus was fighting with drawn sword under the scarlet dragon, but it was the baron of Tor who

commanded that day. Amalric swore as he glanced at the forest of lance-tips visible above and beyond the head-pieces of the Gundermen. He had hoped his retirement would draw the knights out in a charge down the slopes after him, to be raked from either flank by his bowmen and swamped by the numbers of his horsemen. But they had not moved. Camp-servants brought skins of water from the river. Knights doflfed their helmets and drenched their sweating heads. The wounded on the slopes screamed vainly for water. In the upper valley, springs supplied the defenders. They did not thirst that long, hot spring day.

O N THE King’s Altar, beside the ancient, carven stone, Xaltotun watched the steel tide ebb and flow. On came the knights, with waving plumes and dipping lances. Through a whistling cloud of arrows they plowed to break like a thundering wave on the bristling wall of spears and shields. Axes rose and fell above the plumed helmets, spears thrust upward, bringing down horses and riders. The pride of the Gundermen was no less fierce than that of the knights. They were not spear-fodder, to be sacrificed for the glory of better men. They were the finest infantry in the world, with a tradition that made their morale unshakable. The kings of Aquilonia had long learned the worth of unbreakable infantry. They held their formation unshaken; over their gleaming ranks flowed the great lion banner, and at the tip of the wedge a giant figure in black armor roared and smote like a hurricane, with a dripping ax that split steel and bone alike.

The Nemedians fought as gallantly as their traditions of high courage demanded. But they could not break the iron wedge, and from the wooded knolls on either hand arrows raked their closepacked ranks mercilessly. Their own

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


bowmen were useless, their pikemen unable to climb the heights and come to grips with the Bossonians. Slowly, stubbornly, sullenly, the grim knights fell back, counting their empty saddles. Above (hem the Gundermen made no outcry of triumph. They closed their ranks, locking up the gaps made by the fallen. Sweat ran into their eyes from under their steel caps. They gripped their spears and waited, their fierce hearts swelling with pride that a king should fight on foot with them. Behind them the Aquilonian knights had not moved. They sat their steeds, grimly inunobile.

A knight spurred a sweating horse up the hill called the King’s Altar, and glared at Xaltotun with bitter eyes.

"Amalric bids me say that it is time to use your magic, wizard,” he said. "We are dying like flies down there in the valley. We cannot break their ranks.”

Xaltotun seemed to expand, to grow tall and awesome and terrible.

"Return to Amalric,” he said. "Tell him to reform his ranlcs for a charge, but to await my signal. Before that signal is given he will see a sight that he will remember until he lies dying!”

The knight saluted as if compelled against his will, and thundered down the hill at breakneck pace.

Xaltotun stood beside the dark altarstone and stared across the valley, at the dead and wounded men on the terraces, at the grim, blood-stained band at the head of the slopes, at the dusty, steel-clad ranks reforming in the vale below. He glanced up at the sky, and he glanced down at the slim white figure on the dark stone. And lifting a dagger inlaid with archaic hieroglyphs, he intoned an immemorial invocation:

"Set, god of darkness, scaly lord of the shadows, by the blood of a virgin and the sevenfold symbol I call to your sons below the black earth! Qiildren of the

deeps, below the red earth, xmder the black earth, awaken and shake your awful manes! Let the hills rock and the stones topple upon my enemies! Let the sky grow dark above them, the earth unstable beneath their feet! Let a wind from the deep black earth curl up beneath their feet, and blacken and shrivel them ”

H e halted short, dagger lifted. In the tense silence the roar of the hosts rose beneath him, borne on the wind.

On the other side of the altar stood a man in a black hooded robe, whose coif shadowed pale delicate features and dark eyes calm and meditative.

"Dog of Asura!” whispered Xaltotun, and his voice was like the hiss of an angered serpent. "Are you mad, that you seek your doom.^ Ho, Baal! Chiron!”

"Call again, dog of Acheron!” said the other, and laughed. "Summon them loudly. They will not hear, unless your shouts reverberate in hell.”

From a thicket on the edge of the crest came a somber old woman in peasant garb, her hair flowing over her shoulders, a great gray wolf following at her heels.

"Witch, priest and wolf,” muttered Xaltotun grimly, and laughed. "Fools, to pit your charlatan’s mummery against my arts! With a wave of my hand I brush you from my path!”

"Your arts are straws in the wind, dog of Python,” answered the Asurian. "Have you wondered why the Shirki did not come down in flood and trap Conan on the other bank? When I saw the lightning in the night I guessed your plan, and my spells dispersed the clouds you had summoned before they could empty their torrents. You did not even know that your rain-making wizardry had failed.”

'466


"You lie!" cried Xaltotun, but the confidence in his voice was shaken. "I have felt the impact of a powerful sorcery against mine-^ut no man on earth could undo the rain-magic, once made, unless he possessed the very heart of sorcery.”

"But the flood you plotted did not come to pass,” answered the priest. "Look at your allies in the valley, Pythonian! You have led them to the slaughter! They are caught in the fangs of the trap, and you cannot aid them. Look!”

He pointed. Out of the narrow gorge of the upper valley, behind the Poitanians, a horseman came flying, whirling something about his head that flashed in the sun. Recklessly he hurtled down the slopes, through the ranks of the Gundermen, who sent up a deep-throated roar and clashed their spears and shields like thunder in the hills. On the terraces between the hosts the sweat-soaked horse reared and plunged, and his wild rider yelled and brandished the thing in his hands like one demented. It was the torn remnant of a scarlet banner, and the sun struck dazzlingly on the golden scales of a serpent that writhed thereon.

"Valerius is dead!” cried Hadrathus ringingly. "A fog and a drum lured him to his doom! I gathered that fog, dog of Python, and I dispersed it! I, with my magic which is greater than your magic!”

"What matters it.^” roared Xaltotun, a terrible sight, his eyes blazing, his features convulsed. "Valerius was a fool. I do not need him. I can crush Conan without human aid!"

"Why have you delayed?” mocked Hadrathus. "Why have you allowed so many of your allies to fall pierced by arrows and spitted on spears?”

"Because blood aids great sorcery!” thundered Xaltotun, in a voice that made the rocks quiver. A lurid nimbus played about his awful head. "Because no wizard wastes his strength thoughtlessly. Because I would conserve my powers for the great days to be, rather than employ them in a hill-country brawl. But now, by Set, I shall loose them to the uttermost! Watch, dog of Asura, false priest of an outworn god, and see a sight that shall blast your reason for evermore!"

Hadrathus threw back his head and laughed, and hell was in his laughter.

"Look, black devil of Python!”

His hand came from under his robe holding something that flamed and burned in the sun, changing the light to a pulsing golden glow in which the flesh of Xaltotun looked like the flesh of a corpse.

Xaltotun cried out as if he had been stabbed.

"The Heart! The Heart of Ahriman!"

"Aye! The one power that is greater than your power!”

Xaltotun seemed to shrivel, to grow old. Suddenly his beard was shot with snow, his locks flecked with gray.

"The Heart!” he mumbled. "You stole it! Dog! Thief!”

"Not I! It has been on a long journey far to the southward. But now it is in my hands, and your black arts cannot stand against it. As it resurrected you, so shall it hurl you back into the night whence it drew you. You shall go down the dark road to Acheron, which is the road of silence and the night. The dark empire, unreborn, shall remain a legend and a black memory. Conan shall reign again. And the Heart of Ahriman shall go back into the cavern below the temple of Mitra, to bum as a symbol of the power of Aquilonia for a thousand years!”

Xaltotun screamed inhumanly and rushed around the altar, dagger lifted; but from somewhere — out of the sky, perhaps, or the great jewel that blazed in the hand of Hadrathus — shot a jetting beam of blinding blue light. Full against

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


the breast of Xaltotun it flashed, and the hills re-echoed the concussion. The wizard of Acheron went down as though struck by a thunderbolt, and before he touched the ground he was fearfully altered. Beside the altar-stone lay no fresh-slain corpse, but a shriveled mummy, a brown, dry, unrecognizable carcass sprawling among moldering swathings.

Somberly old Zelata looked down.

"He was not a living man,” she said. "The Heart lent him a false aspect of life, that deceived even himself. I never saw him as other than a mummy.”

Hadrathus bent to unbind the swooning girl on the altar, when from among the trees appeared a strange apparition — Xaltotun’s chariot drawn by the weird horses. Silently they advanced to the altar and halted, with the chariot wheel almost touching the brown withered thing on the grass. Hadrathus lifted the body of the wizard and placed it in the chariot. And without hesitation the uncanny steeds turned and moved off southward, down the hill. And Hadrathus and Zelata and the gray wolf watched them go — down the long road to Acheron which is beyond the ken of men.

D own in the valley Amalric had stiffened in his saddle when he saw that wild horseman curvetting and caracoling on the slopes while he brandished that blood-stained serpent-banner. Then some instinct jerked his head about, toward the hill known as the King’s Altar. And his lips parted. Every man in the valley saw it — an arching shaft of dazzling light that towered up from the summit of the hill, showering golden fire. ' High above the hosts it burst in a blinding blaze that momentarily paled the sun.

“That’s not Xaltotun’s signal!” roared the baron.

“No!” shouted Tarascus. “It's a signal to the Aquilonians! Look!”

Above them the immobile ranks were moving at last, and a deep-throated roar thundered across the vale.

"Xaltotun has failed us!” bellowed Amalric furiously. "Valerius has failed us! We have been led into a trap! Mitra’s curse on Xaltotun who led us here! Sound the retreat!”

"Too late!” yelled Tarascus. "Look!"

Up on the slopes the forest of lances dipped, leveled. ’The ranks of the Gundermen rolled back to right and left like a parting curtain. And with a thunder like the rising roar of a hurricane, the knights of Aquilonia crashed down the slopes.

The impetus of that charge was irresistible. Bolts driven by the demoralized arbalesters glanced from their shields, their bent helmets. Their plumes and pennons streaming out behind them, their lances lowered, they swept over the wavering lines of pikemen and roared down the slopes like a wave.

Amalric yelled an order to charge, and the Nemedians with desperate courage spurred their horses at the slopes. They still outnumbered the attackers.

But they were weary men on tired horses, charging uphill. ’The onrushing knights had not struck a blow that day. Their horses were fresh. They were coming downhill and they came like a thunderbolt. And like a thunderbolt they smote the struggling ranks of the Nemedians — smote them, splite them apart, ripped them asunder and dashed the remnants headlong down the slopes.

After them on foot came the Gundermen, blood-mad, and the Bossonians were swarming down the hills, loosing as they ran at every foe that still moved.

Down the slopes washed the tide of battle, the dazed Nemedians swept on the crest of the wave. Their archers had thrown down their arbalests and were fleeing. Such pikemen as had survived



the blasting charge of the knights were cut to pieces by the ruthless Gundermen.

In a wild confusion the battle swept through the wide mouth of the valley and into the plain beyond. All over the plain swarmed the warriors, fleeing and pursuing, broken into single combat and clumps of smiting, hacking knights on rearing, wheeling horses. But the Nemedians were smashed, broken, unable to re-form or make a stand. By the hundreds they broke away, spurring for the fiver. Many reached it, rushed across and fode eastward. The countryside was up behind them; the people hunted them like wolves. Few ever reached Tarantia.

The final break did not come until the fall of Amalric. The baron, striving in vain to rally his men, rode straight at tlie clump of knights that followed the giant in black armor whose surcoat bore the royal lion, and over whose head floated the golden lion banner with the scarlet leopard of Poitain beside it. A tall warrior in gleaming armor couched his lance and charged to meet the lord of Tor. They met like a thunderclap. The Nemedian’s lance, striking his foe’s helmet, snapped bolts and rivets and tore off the casque, revealing the features of Pallantides. But the Aquilonian's lance-head crashed through shield and breast-plate to transfix the baron’s heart.

A roar w'cnt up as Amalric was hurled from his saddle, snapping the lance that impaled him, and the Nemedians gave way as a barrier bursts under the surging impact of a tidal wave. They rode for the river in a blind stampede that swept the plain like a whirlwind. ’The hour of the Dragon had passed.

T arascus did not flee. Amalric was dead, the color-bearer slain, and the royal Nemedian banner trampled in the blood and dust. Most of his knights were fleeing and the Aquilonians were riding

them down; Tarascus knew the day was lost, but with a handful of faithful fol« lowers he raged through the melw, conscious of but one desire — to meet Conan, the Gmmerian. And at last he met him.

Formations had been destroyed utterly, close-knit bands broken asunder and swept apart. The crest of Trocero gleamed in one part of the plain, those of Prospero and Pallantides in others. Conan was alone. 'The house-troops of Tarascus had fallen one by one. Tii two kings met man to man.

Even as they rode at each other, the horse of Tarascus sobbed and sank under him. Conan leaped from his own steed and ran at him, as the king of Nemedia disengaged himself and rose. Steel flashed blindingly in the sun, clashed loudly, and blue sparks flew; then a clang of armor as Tarascus measured his full length on the earth beneath a thunderous stroke of Conan’s broadsword.

'The Cimmerian placed a mail-shod foot on his enemy’s breast, and lifted his sword. His helmet was gone; he shook back his black mane and his blue eyes blazed with their old fire.

"Do you yield?”

"Will you give me quarter?” demanded the Nemedian.

"Aye. Better than you’d have given me, you dog. Life for you and all your men who throw down their arms. 'Though I ought to split your head for an infernal thief,” the Cimmerian added.

Tarascus twisted his neck and glared over the plain. The remnants of the Nemedian host were flying across the stone bridge with swarms of victorious Aquilonians at their heels, smiting with the fury of glutted vengeance. Bossonians and Gundermen were swarming through the camp of their enemies, tearing the tents to pieces in search of plunder, seizing prisoners, ripping open the baggage and upsetting the wagons.

THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON


Tarascus cursed fervently, and then shrugged his shoulders, as well as he could, under the circumstances.

"Very well. I have no choice. What are your demands.^”

"Surrender to me all your present holdings in Aquilonia. Order your garrisons to march out of the castles and towns they hold, without their arms, and get your infernal armies out of Aquilonia as quickly as possible. In addition you shall return all Aquilonians sold as slaves, and pay an indemnity to be designated later, when the damage your occupation of the country has caused has been properly estimated. You will remain as hostage until these terms have been carried out.”

"Very well,” surrendered Tarascus. "I will surrender all the castles and towns now held by my garrisons without resistance, and all the other things shall be done. What ransom for my body?”

Conan laughed and removed his foot from his foe’s steel-clad breast, grasped his shoulder and heaved him to his feet. He started to speak, then turned to see Hadrathus approaching him. 'The priest was as calm and self-possessed as ever, picking his way between rows of dead men and horses.

Conan wiped the sweat-smeared dust from his face with a blood-stained hand. He had fought all through the day, first on foot with the pikemen, then in the saddle, leading the charge. His surcoat was gone, his armor splashed with blood and battered with strokes of sword, mace and ax. He loomed gigantically against a background of blood and slaughter, like some grim pagan hero of mythology, "Well done, Hadrathus!” quoth he gustily. "By Crom, I am glad to see your signal! My knights were almost mad with impatience and eating their hearts out to be at sword-strokes. I could not have

[THE

held them much longer. What of the wizard?”

"He has gone down the dim road to Acheron,” answered Hadrathus. "And I — I am for Tarantia. My work is done here, and I have a task to perform at the temple of Mitra. All our work is done here. On this field we have saved Aquilonia — and more than Aquilonia. Your ride to your capital will be a triumphal procession through a kingdom mad with joy. All Aquilonia will be cheering the return of their king. And so, until we meet again in the great royal hall — farewell!”

Conan stood silently watching the priest as he went. From various parts of the field knights were hurrying toward him. He saw Pallantides, Trocero, Prospero, Servius Galannus, their armor splashed with crimson. The thimder of battle was giving way to a roar of triumph and acclaim. All eyes, hot with strife and shining with exultation, were turned toward the great black figure of the king; mailed arms brandished redstained swords, A confused torrent of sound rose, deep and thunderous as the sea-surf: "Hail, Conan, king of Aquilonia!"

Tarascus spoke.

"You have not yet named my ransom.”

Conan laughed and slapped his sword home in its scabbard. He flexed his mighty arms, and ran his blood-stained fingers through his thick black locks, as if feeling there his re-won crown,

"There is a girl in your seraglio named Zenobia.”

"Why, yes, so there is,”

"Very well.” The king smiled as at an exceedingly pleasant memory. "She shall be your ransom, and naught else. I will come to Belverus for her as I promised. She was a slave in Nemedia, but I will make her queen of Aquilonia!” END]

Doom

By ROBERT BLOCH

Two dreadjul hands reached out hideously from the yawning pit beneath the Druid stone — a gripping tale of a grisly horror

T IS written in the chronicles of olden days that the elder lore shall never die. Many savants concur in ibis view, and though the world may scoff, occasionally there arises some strange and dreadful proof in the shape of a mystery that cannot otherwise be explained. The ancient legends still remain, and they are still believed by the poor and the humble. These will always believe, for there will always be unusual occurrences which neither science nor religion can adequately explain and combat. I do not profess to espouse one side of the argument or another — 1 can but tell a story which I heard long ago in a land where the dark fables still hold sway.

T hey say on the coast that when Sir Charles Hovoco came to Nedwick he was a proud and wilful man. He had trampled his way into the baronetcy as he had trampled his way in other affairs — business, political, and social. At thirty-eight this grubby, florid citizen was a "self-made” man. He was not, from the accounts I gathered, a likable sort of person. He was too beefy, too matter-of-fact and hard-headed. In his rise from Whitechapel slums to the pinnacle of industrial success there had been little of esthetic endeavor and much of greed and ruthless cunning. Consequently, upon his accession to the Nedwick estates, he had made no attempts to ingratiate himself with the local citizenry, but merely ignored their presence.


This lack of tact was not overlooked by the neighboring rustics in the village. A queer lot they were, steeped in archaic tradition, and not fond of outsiders. They disliked Sir Charles from the start, but they all seemed genuinely sorry for him when they learned of his fate. Some of them, however, seem to imply that there was an element of poetic justice in his tragic demise. If the man had not been so stupid, he would have heeded the warnings they had given him, and the tragedy might never have occurred. But poor Hovoco had merely laughed at their old wives’ tales and blundered on upon his predetermined way. Therefore he died, because he did not understand.

When Sir Charles came to Nedwick House he found it in a lamentable state of decay; a condition he proceeded to remedy by importing a crew of artizans from Birmingham and renovating the edifice completely, both without and within. He had the left gable completely demolished, and erected a new- wing jutting out from the main hall. Also he installed a heating-system and modern plumbing.

All this did not endear him to the country folk, who cherish the sacred memories of bygone days. To them this bustle of radical activity amounted to sacrilege, and insulted the Nedwickian traditions. The bland and confident way in which Sir Charles ignored their comments also met with their disfavor. He even had the temerity to order several of the more critical spectators off the premTHE DRUIDIC DOOM


nrh« bl«al of the faun <md the shiiQ squeal of the centaur were heard in the land.**

ises, as these worthies stood scrutinizing the laborer’s handiwork.

After that a distinct coolness manifested itself between the village and the manor. 'This coolness extended to the imported help as well, who were hard put to find board and lodging in the town below. Food for the new master was exorbitantly priced, and most carelessly delivered to the back door of the establishment. Sir Charles neither new nor cared. He knew nothing of the townsmen, and very little about his new estate.

Upon the completion of the restoration

and the subsequent departure of the laborers, Sir Charles proceeded to remedy his ignorance concerning his recent acquisition. He took long rustic rambles over the moor, and wandered down the narrow lanes that ran between the rocky, stunted acres of pasturage. What he saw did not altogether meet with his approval. 'The picturesque wildness of this rugged domain failed to please his practical eye. 'The gnarled trees and scrubby vistas of underbrush were merely impediments to profitable cultivation; the rocky meadows signified only the fact



that the land was not suitable for grazing.

He climbed to the top of a smokeringed hill and surveyed his kingdom with a discontented eye. This would never do! Tangled brush and boulderstrewn fields were all very well for the fox-hunting aristocracy, but Sir Qiarles Hovoco was made of more rational stuff. There was simply no reason for all this fertile land going to waste; with a little clearage these broad acres would yield him quite a tidy sum of money. The fact that he already had plenty of money did not figure in his calculations. Sir Qiarles did not countenance waste, in any form. Even he, blind as he was, realized the possibilities of objections from the peasantry. He was familiar enough with the time-honored customs which decreed the sacredness of the "right-of-way” through the land of a lord, and which held the violation of such privileges as nothing short of criminal. He vaguely understood how these folk were attached to the soil, and how the desecration of the familiar landmarks and alteration of the customary arrangements might lead to considerable annoyance. But this did not deter him. After all, precedent or no precedent, it was his land. He had paid a pretty price for his eminence, and would continue to render heavy tribute in the form of a sizable tax. The peasantry could go hang! He would go ahead.

B efore carrying out this somewhat rash resolution, he made several more inspection tours. It was on the third of these trips that he stumbled upon the altar.

It stood on a forest-ringed hilltop, very near to the moor. He came upon it late in the afternoon, at the conclusion of a long and arduous journey through the more adjacent portions of his property. The surroimding landscape held hints of

great antiquity. The tre^ in the small grove were very thick, and tremendously old. The hoary stumps in the clearing were even more aged. The soil, nevertheless, was incredibly rich; seemingly it had never been tilled. The little hill on which the altar was raised seemed to be particularly fertile, though at present it was given over to a lush crop of mushrooms and toadstools.

The sight of such extravagant laxity irritated Sir Charles. He would have both trees and altar removed immediately.

He climbed the sloping mound and examined the stone that was reared upon it. It was a large boulder, smooth and very white, with a flat, tabled top. This tabled top bore some rusty stains — ^probably the ravages of the years; for the stone, like the surrounding glade, was very old. Why Hovoco thought so he could not say; it simply seemed to exude a quality of age. It was very heavy, and the base was firmly sunk into the sod, but Sir Charles soon decided that the altar was artificially placed. It seemed much too heavy a rock to be indigenous to the spot; the other glacial boulders were much smaller, and were of a distinctly limestone formation. This had obviously been a quarried block, and had probably been moved to this hilltop at some remote date. Once again Sir Charles pondered as to why he believed the altar must be old. He could arrive at no definite conclusion; nor could he assign a reason for his opinion. There was no moss upon the smooth white sides, nor any sign of an inscription. He knelt and searched for one, but in vain.

Meanwhile the sun crept away across the hills, leaving the land in the clutch of a sinister twilight. A violet haze deepened into dusk, and the shadows of the rustling trees crawled slowly across the ground, The altar, once white, glowed

THE DRUIDIC DOOM


redly for a moment in the dames of an apocalyptic sunset, then purpled like congealing blood upon the advent of darkness. Hovoco’s eyes could peer no longer through the hazy gloom. He abandoned his search for an insaiption and rose to his feet. Stolidly he faced the sunset for a fleeting instant, then turned for a last look at the altar before descending and retracing his steps homeward. As he did so a shrill breeze arose and chattered mysteriously in the trees. Presently it sank to a slow, sobbing whisper, as if to mourn the dying day. In spite of himself, Hovoco was impressed. The sound was like a voice in a haunted land.

With the coming of darkness, the scene took on an unfamiliar look. The gloomy vistas seemed positively hostile to bis presence, as if the entire countryside knew of Sir Charles’ plans, and hated him because of what he meant to do. The doomed trees sighed, and stretched withered arms to the sky as if invoking vengeance against their enemy. The boulders loomed menacingly in the nig^t, and the pastures beckoned him off into mystic mazes whence he would never return.

'The very wind threatened him with its chill voice. Instinctively, the baronet shivered. Gloomy fancies! For a moment his eyes returned to the altar. It squatted there in the darkness, and seemed to brood like a sentient thing.

Sir Charles shrugged, then descended the hill and stalked off into the night. Once he glanced back over his shoulder. A last tiny ray of sunset light was leering over the top of the hill. It fell directly upon the center of the altar, and to Hovoco’s startled eye it looked like a pool of blood.

Hastily Sir Charles turned away. But he walked home very briskly, and he did not look back any more. He was getting nervous.


W ITH the coming of daylight, the new baronet recovered some of his accustomed aplomb. He spent the forenoon in the village, much to the natives’ surprize. He dropped into the local tavern and had a glass of stout, leaning nonchalantly against the bar and wholly disregarding the unfriendly stares of the loungers beside him. After a pointed silence, during which he was uncomfortably scrutinized by the poker-faced bartender, Sir Charles abruptly addressed that worthy, and inquired where he could procure some workmen in the village to assist him in putting his land in shape.

After an astonished bit of cogitation mine host asked him just what type of work he contemplated. Hovoco explained that he wanted to clear off his land to render it suitable for cultivation. He wanted some men to cut down the useless trees, and remove the numerous stones that encumbered the fields. After fliat there would be rabbit-warrens to be de« stroyed, and birds to be killed. And, of course, there was that queer old altar off by the moorland. He would have that removed immediately.

The bartender gazed at him for a moment in apoplectic silence. Then he bluntly informed the baronet that no man in the village would think of doing such things. 'They would not assist in the destruction of the old landmarks, and they most certainly would not go near the altar under any circumstances. Being a newcomer, Sir Charles would not know, but the altar was generally regarded as something to shun. It had an unhealthy reputation in these parts, and always had been looked upon as a blight and a curse. No one knew how long it had stood off in those woods, nor how many had died in the old days when the drums had sounded



from the hill. Wise folk said that the pagans had their dances there, and there was still talk of the old rites being celebrated on May Eve, and certain autumn nights. Bullocks had been led up that slope and given to Those who were worshipped, and some folk said that they still were. There always were a lot of farm people absent from their homes on special evenings, and without any excuses to offer the next day to the rest of the people, who had sense enough to stay indoors when the fire burned up on the hill. No, the altar was a good thing to stay away from. The grandsires could tell some wild stories on winter nights about disappearances and deaths that had never bwn rightly explained. They didn’t generally say much before outsiders, but even Reverend Dobson, the clergyman, knew about the hill. What he probably was not aware of was the fact that some of his most loyal parishioners attended the furtive conclaves around the altar on the special nights, and carried seaet charms that were handed down within their families from the days when the pagan folk ruled in the land. Therefore, the bartender was of the earnest opinion that Sir Charles should keep his hands off, and carefully avoid even the mention of the altar or hill-top, and that under no circumstances should he foolishly attempt to destroy it. There would be trouble if he did.

At the conclusion of the innkeeper’s advice. Sir Charles left the tavern, without saying a word. He was obstinate in his conviction, and he would not be balked by the ignorant chatter of these yokels. ’Their silly superstitious prattle disgusted him, and their obvious unfriendly attitude wounded his city-bred pride. He would show them! He marched up to the local drug-store and put through a telephone call to Birmingham. Here he

engaged two workmen to come out immediately and assist him in clearing off his property. This settled, he walked calmly out into the street. Tomorrow they would be here, and then he would give these country clods something to gabble about.

Meanwhile he was still human enough to entertain a keen curiosity concerning the details of the fantastic legendry which clustered about the altar on the hill. Accordingly he directed his footsteps toward the modest rectory where dwelt the local parson, the aforementioned Reverend Dobson.

H e found that gentleman in his study, and introduced himself. The Reverend was a tall, wiry sort of man, with a shrewd face that was curiously counterbalanced by keen and sensitive eyes. Looking at his features, one thought of a successful broker, but a glimpse of his eyes betrayed the dreamer and the saint. The Reverend also proved to be a courteous gentleman. He so pleasantly engaged the new baronet in conversation that Sir Qiarles nearly forgot his errand. It was suppertime when he brought the matter around to his problem, and the clergyman hospitably urged him to stay. Hovoco consented, and they passed a pleasant mealtime in the dining-room, served by the housekeeper in a style befitting the rank of the honored guest. Afterward the gentlemen adjourned once more to the study, and indulged in a glass of sherry.

The courtesy of this reception salved the baronet’s wounded ego, and in consequence he was very tactful in the way he broached the subject of the altar. He got it out at last, and managed to make his query seem merely the prompting of a curious interest he took in his estate.

THE DRUIDIC DOOM


The Reverend was very willing to help. He had spent a good deal of time in looking up local customs and bits of wayside legendry, and a little archeological research coupled with this knowledge had given him a good deal of the altar’s history. This he would gladly impart to his guest.

The altar, he informed his visitor, was extremely ancient. While no exact date could be discovered, the time of its erection could probably be determined correctly enough by the chronology of the legends concerning it. The first tales were of pre-Celtic antiquity. When the local migratory streams had converged and set up a village upon the land, the altar was already placed. The stories had been handed down almost directly from this very remote time to the present, in a steady stream. Early myths spoke of the altar as being the gathering-place of an extremely repulsive barbarian race — short, swarthy savages, whose dwarfed priests sacrificed to the moon. They had many ceremonials, and in their warfare with the Celtic invaders they used their captives for these sanguinary rites. Eventually, through tracing the stories a bit further, one finds the primitive dark people dying out and retiring to the hills. Eventually they abandoned their claims altogether, and disappeared. For a long while following, the altar stood deserted. Then came a curious survival.

The Druids rose. Bearded vates and garlanded bards chanted their litanies to the gods of the forest. Oaks and hemlocks rose beside the altar, and a crescent-shaped grotto was erected in the glade. Here dwelt the Wise Ones who knew the secrets of the hills and called strange voices out of the earth by beating upon the great drums, or scattering pungent incense before the night-fires. To the shrill pipings of lutes they did

adoration to the Daric Flame, and with the hemlock they invoked the hamadryads and the nymphs of the forest. They ruled supreme, and all the countryside bowed and obeyed. Their magical rites insured fertility, and increased the strength of their people. Rich offerings of blood were made in ever-increasing abundance, and the bleat of the faun and the shrill squeal of the centaur were heard in the land. Blood, blood, blood — ever the offering and the saaifice— crimson drops dripping from knife-blades, dabbling tire sacred robes and staining the gray beards of the elders, or trickling from the base of the altar to dye the earth with the color of life.

The iron legions of Rome thundered their way across the land. The gods of the forest were invoked in vain. They could not halt the legions. A garrison was stationed near by, and the Druids retired to their haunts in the moors. Roman customs were imposed, and the conquered ones began to turn from the old ways. Soon there was a gradual intermingling between the invaders and the natives, and a town sprang up around the garrison. Fresh arrivals came from Roman provinces across the sea, and they brought new gods to both the soldiers and the people. Cybele, Astarte, Aphrodite, and the Magna Mater were introduced, and the ways of their worship were explained and demonstrated.

Some of these rituals were very dreadful indeed, and there was need to hide them from over-curious official eyes. So the altar on the hill became a rendezvous once again. Here anthropomancy, hydromancy and animal-worship were carried out, and more blood tainted the nightwind from the hill. To the clashing of cymbals and the piercing ecstasy of the sacred conchs the nude worshippers danced in honor of the perverted gods



that came from the orient lands. There were obscene images on the altar now, and mad orgies followed the initial sacrifice.

For a time the new faith prospered, and its followers grew still more abandoned in their lewdness. But One night there came a thunder across the hills, and the moonlight suddenly faded into a howling darkness. Then, while the worshippers frantically fled from that accursed and awful hilltop, a Voice shrieked a dreadful sxunmons from afar, and the priests of the degraded cult saeamed and died. The rest of the frightened congregation, men and women, soldiers and townsfolk alike, rushed into the forest. Here horror barred their way, for as the echo of that monstrous voice died away, the trees suddenly came alive! They swooped down upon the fugitives with tentacled branches, seizing the terrified debauchees and raising them up to the midnight sky; then dropped them to the earth below. A sudden gale had arisen, which effectively muflled their hysterical screams; so that it was not until a few straggling, half-insane fellows rushed into the town that the catastrophe was made known. The storm had meanwhile risen to such fury that it was impossible for any of the troops to venture forth again, and the story that the escaping worshippers had to tell did not encourage them in attempting any such expedition.

T he next day dawned, and an immediate search was made, but no bodies were ever discovered. The trees were again in their proper places, and there were no indications of any violent upheaval. The altar was serene and silent, and there were no littered remnants of the sacrifices to be seen. The torches, gongs, and other symbols had disappeared, and the sun beamed down upon

a scene of pastoral tranquillity. Finally one of the searching soldiers happened to notice the top of the altar. There, squarely in the center of the tabled surface, lay a single sprig of hemlock.

After this incident, recorded in the chronicles by local saibes, but for political reasons never relayed back to Rome, there were no further disturbances about the altar. The missing people never returned, and the few survivors who retained their sanity were of the belief that it was for the best. Though the affair may have been a result of sympathetic mass-hallucination, nobody could deny that the disputed supernatural happenings had brought some hideously tangible results. The altar was best left alone, and the land about it was never encroached upon.

Thereafter they had a healthy respect for the Druids, and not a little fear of them. There were many things about these dark moorland ways that could not be satisfactorily explained, and many obscure caves and hidden glens that were wisely left unexplored. Bearded oldsters in white robes occasionally appeared in some of the outlying villages, and the foreign soldiers were very cautious not to molest them, or hinder them in their comings and goings. For now the pompous conquerors knew better than to scoff at the dark ways of a land they did not understand. When reports came to them about the drums and pipes that echoed from the inaccessible forests on the moor they turned deaf ears. They did not care to hear that awful Voice, or see all nature metamorphosed into a maze of menace.

At last the legions marched away, almost as suddenly as they had come. With their departure things once more assumed their normal condition. The town still remained, but when the bearded ones trickled back from their hidingTHE DRUIDIC DOOM


places, the old ways again held sway. The rites were resumed, and those who were sufficiently Romanized to object were mysteriously captured and burned in wicker cages upon the hills. After that the silent priestcraft reigned undisputed, and their gods did not lack for ruddy nourishment.

Gradually, however, the rites decayed. Fierce barbarian tribes ravaged the countryside. Anglo-Saxons ruled, and for the Druids they showed no mercy. They had their gods, too, and they were strong. There was no recurrence of the inexplicable phenomenon that had befallen the Roman devotees. What happened when the newcomers met the old ones in conflict has never been told. The manusaipts that Reverend Dobson possessed were strangely silent on this point. All that he had been able to learn was that in some curious way the Druidic priests suddenly disappeared. The grim invaders were unable to find them, though they were unafraid when it came to thoroughly exploring every portion of the forbiding countryside. There was one last mighty ceremony from the altar on the hill, and the next day they were gone. The tribesmen combed the moors in vain. Then they cut down the oaks and the hemlocks, destroyed the crescent-glade, and let matters rest. The altar they were unable to remove, though attempts were undoubtedly made. Accounts are unnaturally hazy on this point, also.

Centuries passed. Gradually Christianity was introduced. The refining influences of civilization descended upon the land. A priory was erected near by. It was the good monks who chronicled the history of the surrounding regions, and they had likewise recorded the history of the altar. The latter they seemed to have avoided, though now only legend remained to warn them away. There were

no repetitions ’of the archaic rites, and no disquieting evidences to encourage this avoidance, but nevertheless there were no attempts made to raze the pagan stone.

A new abomination rose and flourished later on. Returning knights from the Crusader citadels of Malta, Rhodes, and Cyprus established themselves in the priory. They brought with them the degenerate creeds of Satanism, and there were loathsome rumors of a Black Mass. By now the country-folk were pious, and their simple concepts of religious reverence were outraged by the warrior bishops who ruled from within the walls of the monastery and abbey. Once again there was talk of Pan, and satyrs and oreads haunted the gloomy groves, or tittered across the lonely moor at twilight. Once again there was blood on the altar, and queer processions visited the hill on sacred nights. Still the Druids were not forgotten. Though the oaks were gone, and other gods were worshipped at their sanctuary, the peasants remembered the old tales, and feared the ancient horror more than they did the new.

The new passed. Henry VIII’s minions swept down upon the robber bishops, and one night the priory disappeared in a red holocaust of flame. The next day the soldiers rode away, leaving only the dead behind them. They did not speak of what they found within the priory walls, nor did they venture near the altar, but it is recorded that their faces were deathly pale in the morning light.

The next night the villagers heard a faint drumming on the hilltop, and for a moment a tiny flame flickered and died. That was all, but it was enough. The Druids still reigned. Men might come and go, kingdoms rise and fall, but the old ways still remained in the secret places.



B aron nedwicx won his spurs and his land under good Queen Bess. A castle rose at Nedwick, and hunters galloped across the verdant fields. The Nedwick line had prospered, and won esteem from village and countryside alike. Part of this estimation was due to the fact that they asked no questions about the altar, and did not hunt too far upon the moorland.

By now the altar was being used once again, but this time by the rustics themselves. Certain old women were known to have the gift of prophecy, and the dubious repute of possessing the evil eye. Oftentimes they retired to rude huts upon the moor, and consulted their familiars before the altar on the hill. Sometimes there was need of blood, and those that came to them for help were not averse to donating a heifer or a goat. By now the place was known throughout the land for what it was, and none but the followers of witchcraft and sorcery ever ventured near it. On certain nights these people were known to make use of it, but there were other nights when it appeared deserted, and a queer drumming was faintly heard from afar. Then even the witches were afraid, for they too knew and respected the olden tales.

There is little more to say. The witches passed, and once again the altar came into its own. Every so often some old rumor was momentarily revived upon the discovery of fresh stains on the altar-top, or the fancied sound of nocturnal drumming from the hill; but in the opinion of the majority, it was now fairly safe to examine the spot. At certain seasons there were occasional sacrifices made quietly, but these were publicly disavowed by the more enlightened elements of the local population. Even so, the inhabitants still had their suspicions, and when the last of the Nedwidcs died there had been a seaet meeting on the hill.

The clergyman concluded his remarks by referring Sir Qiarles to the volumes he owned which dealt with the surrounding countryside; many of these contained references to the matter. Then he added a little advice. He was a man of God, he said, but even the Bible recognizes the Spirit of Evil. There was something wrong about that altar and the surrounding groves, something quite unsavory. There had been too much blood spilt, too many unhallowed prayers. Throughout all its history the ancient Druidic rites had played a part, and the vates were evil men. As a close student of the Stonehenge legend, and other such manifestations of the Druid powers. Reverend Dobson was led to believe that their sway had not yet altogether ceased. Somewhere, in some place, there was a survival. There was still worship under the horns of the crescent. For this reason, although he was not ordinarily a superstitious man, the clergyman earnestly warned Sir Charles that he would do best to keep away from that portion of his land upon which the stone stood.

Hovoco thanked him for his narrative, and turned the talk to other fields. An hour later he departed, bidding the Reverend Mr. Dobson a pleasant good-evening. As he strode off into the night, however, his face'became a mask of scowling determination. Druid humbug! The clergyman, for all his hospitality, was nothing but a credulous fool. The altar must go,


M orning heralded the arrival of the two workingmen from Birmingham. Mr. Joseph Gauer and Mr. Sam Williams were sturdy, matter-of-fact souls, with a hearty dislike of the rural simpletons anu their ways. Even so. Sir Charles thought it wise not to inform them as to the naW.T.— 6

THE DRUIDIC DOOM


hire of the stone he ordered them to destroy. He did, however, accompany them to the spot to superintend their work. They procured tools from the battered car in which they came, and started off at a brisk pace over the meadows. It was a beautiful day. When they came to the grove they saw the altar clearly outlined against the blue background of sky. There was nothing sinister or disturbing about it in the least, for which fact Sir Charles was secretly very glad.

The two men set to work with a will, Tlie task was difficult. First they dug around the base, spading up the firm earth until a narrow trench surrounded the stone. Then they began to use the pidcs, and finally the sp^es again. Sir Charles was surprized at the depth of the rock; it had been imbedded many feet. At last, however, their task was concluded. Using tlie picks as levers, they pried the great boulder loose, and with a tremendous heave, lifted it ponderously to one side. Then Sir Charles received a shock.

There was no ground beneath! Instead, a gigantic hole yawned where tlie stone had rested, and from it rose a putrid stench as of a thing long dead. The opening was circular, and very deep. A glimpse into the orifice did not reveal the bottom. A stone cast into the depths rebounded noiselessly from the earthen sides, and there was no sound to indicate how far it must have fallen.

Sir Charles bravely struggled to retain his composure at this unexpected revelation, and told the workmen to retire for the day. When they asked him about the hole, he informed them that in his opinion the thing was a former well, probably dry, whose shaft had been walled up. Then he hurriedly dismissed them, for he did not care to answer any further questions, or be asked to account for the W. T.— 7

nauseous odor that was still seeping from the gaping pit.

The men withdrew, and Sir Charles followed them at a distance. For the first time he was beginning to feel really afraid. He was forced to check a sudden impulse to recall the men and order them to replace the stone. Then he repressed the urge savagely. They would think him a fool, and he did not dare admit his fear, even to himself. Better to let them go. He watched them as they went off to find temporary lodging in the village, but all the while he was conscious of a black imp of anxiety tugging at his soul. At length he forced himself to go back to the manor and read, but he was far from feeling at his ease.

By midafternoon he was so restless that he decided to run down to the city for the evening. He got out the car and left in time to arrive before the last rays of sunset. He did not want to be alone after dark right now. He spent the evening at a cabaret, and the night at a hotel, taking great pains not to be unaccompanied.

It must have been close to noon when he at last drove back into the village, his former composure now completely restored. But not for long. There was horrible news for him at the little town.

Gauer and Williams were gone. Not just disappeared, but gone for ever. The story was simple. The tavern-keeper told him, with a touch of righteousness not unmixed with pity in his voice.

The two men had come into his place the afternoon before, to find rooms for a few days. The owner of the pub, not knowing, of course, the reason for their presence, had found room for them; though had he any inkling of their business he would have ordered them from his doors. The two men, once lodged, reappeared in the tavern below to get



their evening meals. At first they held themselves aloof from the local habitues of the establishment, but after their supper they indulged in a few glasses of ale, and a gin-and-bitters. This encouraged them to let down their barrier of reserve, and look with more tolerance upon the friendly gathering that assembled for a nightly session about eight that evening. Soon the two men had introduced themselves by name, and became absorbed in the general conversatiofl. One thing led to another, and by ten or so the jolly loungers were becoming tipsy. The two city men had bought several rounds for the assemblage, and the house had reciprocated in kind. All in all, it was a very pleasant and friendly little chat on things political, social, and economic.

The bar-keep admitted to having several stiff drinks under his belt by this time, and in consequence he could not rightly testify to the events immediately precipitating the quarrel. It is quite evident, however, that somehow one of the men had unwittingly let slip the casual information that he and his companion were here at the behest of Sir Qiarles Hovoco, for the purpose of reclaiming his land. They were, of course, totally ignorant of the general attitude on this affair, and were very surprized indeed by the reception accorded this statement. Several of their listeners had been among those present when Sir Charles had been there the afternoon before, and they took the lead in denouncing the two workmen for their contemplated part in the affair.

Here Gauer made another break. Testily he retorted that he, for one, didn’t see what all this fuss was about — why, all they had done today, for example, was to dig up an old stone on a hill, and uncover some kind of abandoned well.

I MMEDIATELY following this shocking revelation came a storm of horrified denunciation. No good would come of such doings; the Old Ones were not to be disturbed, nor their dwellings violated. A foul murrain upon such doings! There was a good deal of excited conjecture over the discovery that there was a shaft beneath the altar. God alone knew how old the stone was, and only the Devil could tell who burrowed the pit beneath it. Some wheezing oldster whispered a bit of ancient gossip about the Druidic days; his grandsire had once spoken about the Druids worshipping before the altar a5 a gateway, and what could they mean but the passage or fissure beneath its base? The story about the Voice was revived, too — ^had it not come out of the earth? When the bards had disappeared, where had they gone to? The old ways still remain. It was a dangerous sacrilege that these men had committed, and only ill would come of it.

To this and similar statements the two laborers retorted in words of scorn and contempt. They would not be frightened by such bogy-man tales as these. 'They were not simple, superstitious country Reubens; they came from the city, where such foolish fancies were properly ignored. They did not believe in the stories, and furthermore they boldly expressed their crude opinions of any yokels who upheld such obvious falsehoods. 'The Druids, or whatever they were called, were nothing but myths. Perhaps some ignorant rustics had sacrificed animals on the altar? What of it? They were not afraid.

This drunken bickering continued to its tragic conclusion. One of the farmers, a grizzled simpleton named Leftwich, challenged the visitors’ bluff. He offered to put up a pound note that the two of them would not dare to venture that very night upon the hill where the altar stood.

THE DRUIDIC DOOM


The bet was immediately taken, despite the warnings that the aroused innkeeper oflfercd. The dangers of such an undertaking were ridiculed by the intoxicated noa-bclicvets, and after anotlier round of drinks they started off, accompanied to the pasture neatest the hilltop by the farmer who had made the proposal. From there the two went on alone, teetering slowly across the field with borrowed lanterns in their hands and a ribald song upon their lips.

The farmer stood watdiing them for a moment; then, suddenly, the moon went bdiind a cloud and tlie wind gave a sudden peal of mocking laughter. A strange horripilation assailed the now-sobered man, and unable to control his inexplicable terror, he hastily withdrew. As he did so he noticed that the faint not« of the song had died away, and the figures were lost to view in the blackness of the clouded night. All at once he found himself racing back in the direction of the village to get help. As he panted down the road he heard a booming from behind him, like the voice of muffled thunder. After that there was a piercing scream, then silence.

Breathlessly he ran into the village street, and re-entered the tavern. Ten minutes later a band of grim and earnest mai streamed in a torchlight procession out of the little town and down the long road to the hills below the moor. The moon had reappeared, and when they reached the base of the pasture where the two workmen had cut across, they could see the top of the altar-mound quite plainly in the silver light. It was bare. The two men were nowhere to be seen. A few of the more daring volunteered to venture to the summit, while the rest combed the surrounding meadowland.

An hour later the party reassembled, and the delegation from the hill had a

report. The men were not there now, but they had been. Perhaps the best idea of what happened to them could be gathered from die fact that one of their hats had been discovered not three feet from the opening below the altar-piece. The grass upon the hilltop was curiously trampled, and though there were definite tracks in die dewy grass which led up to the summit, there were no footprints going down. That was all.

Sir Charles heard diis story with incredulous mien. "Dreadful," he said. "Dreadful, but perfectly natural. The two fools were drunk. They reached the top, overbalanced, and fell in. For that matter, you and Leftwich are almost legally responsible for countenancing such a stupid and oudandish wager. This affair will have to be thoroughly investigated and reported now, and may cause no end of trouble. I shall have t» summon the police tomorrow, and I warn you I shall hold you and your companions morally responsible for diis unfortunate occurrence. Good day!"

Tlie baronet turned on his heel and moved rapidly in the direction of Nedwick Hall. He was never seen in the village again.

T he rest of the story was told by the Reverend Dobson, and it is to this clergyman that the responsibility goes for its authenticity. Sir Charles disappeared into his study at the Hall immediately upon entering it. What went on in there between two in the afternoon and nine in the evening we shall never know. Did he at last come around to a belief in the macabre causes of the tragedy? Did his tormenting conscience urge him to make an atonement? Nobody can say. Whatever his feelings, he is known to have left the house at nine, hastily, without speaking to the servants or accounting for



his actions in any way. He was haggard and disheveled, but he almost ran down the road in the direction of the clergyman’s abode. He never went in. Whatever his purpose in coming, he changed his mind at the last moment.

It was then, as he stood hesitant upon the doorstep, that Dobson, glancing out of the window, saw his tortured face. He watched Sir Qiarles as he turned, and with a shudder of inward agony, began to hasten back down the road along which he had come. Thinking he might be ill, the clergyman hastily put on his hat and followed him. But even as he hurried after the retreating baronet, Dobson was forced to revise his opinion. No sick man could set so brisk a pace. For a moment the reverend gentleman was minded to retrace his steps, but the mystery of his guest’s peculiar behavior drove him on.

Suddenly Sir Qiarles left the road and began to cut across the open country behind the village. He no longer walked erect. Instead, he seemed to lope. It was as if he were ashamed of being seen, and yet in a hurry to reach his destination. It was frightening to see him scurry across the fields, like some great, misshapen animal. When he saw this, Dobson was prompted to call out to Hovoco, but he refrained. For a long while they continued in silence.

Sir Qiarles skulked ahead, never once looking back. His eyes were set upon the grove of trees and the little hill, and his body moved as if under the spell of some unnatural compulsion. Was he going to investigate the rumors for himself? Or was he being forced to go? He seemed unable to stop, and now, lanternless, and without a guide, he was racing over the rocky field that led to the trees.

Dobson followed as speedily as he could. He was still several hundred yards

behind, however, when the hurrying figure of the baronet disappeared amid the grove of twisted trees. The Reverend strained his muscles in pursuit, striving to overtake his man before Hovoco reached the top of the hill; for it was by now hideously evident that that was his objective. As Dobson entered the little glen, the moon disappeared, and his quarry faded from sight. He strained his ears to detect the sound of footsteps in the darkness ahead, but in vain. Instead there was another sound.

A drumming in the earth. 'The ground beneath his feet began to seethe with muted sound; a hellish drone of mufiSed beats rose upon his ears. He stumbled through the blackness, the ghastly thunder raging in the very depths of his being. If only he could reach that hill in time! Sir Qiarles was being lured to his doom, just as the blundering workmen had been snared. The Old Ones were about to claim their own!

Qioking and gasping for lack of breath, the clergyman emerged at last at the base of the little hill on which the altar lay. His eyes pierced the blackness and sought out the blurred form of the baronet. He was nearly at the summit now, and the drums were yammering from within the very hillside itself. To Dobson’s watching eyes came the maddening vision of Sir Qiarles Hovoco on all fours, frantically running up the slope with a bestial eagerness apparent in the very outlines of his body. As he covered the final slope the drums suddenly ceased.

For a moment there was silence, and Dobson saw the baronet, risen to his full height, gazing as if entranced into the black pit at his feet. Then came a single nightmare scream from Sir Qiarles’ foaming lips, and a second later his feet began to slide along the ground toward the great gaping mouth of the opening. Then, as the scream died in his throat, the

THE DRUIDIC DCX)M


moon came out, and for an instant his straining body was clearly outlined against the leering s^. Then it toppled forward and disappeared into the black burrow below. But in that instant the Reverend Dobson had seen that which sent him reeling from the accursed spot; had seen in the silvery moonlight the clutching hands from the pit that had grasped Sir Charles by his ankles and were dragging him to his doom.

T hat’s the story. Dobson swears to it, and those in the village who know are indined to believe. Outsiders have been told that the three deaths were due to accidental suicide, and this plausible

and sane surmise has been officially accepted. Another man occupies the Hall today, and he knows enough to keep his hands off what he does not understand. The natives have relapsed into a careful silence, and discourage all references to the altar, the glade on the hillside, or the legends of the Druids. They hope, in time, that the affair will be forgotten, and already they are beginning to deny any belief in the truth of the ancient lore.

But this has not prevented them from carefully replacing the altar over that ominous opening on the hill, and carefully bathing it from time to time with fresh, rich blood.

ick Muse

By CHARLES P. BAUDELAIRE*

Alas for thee, poor Muse! Thy cavemed eyes at dawn With visions from the baleful night are peopled still.

And I by turns behold, across thy pallor drawn.

Thy folly and thy horror, taciturn and chill.

Have the rose goblin and the greenish succubus Poured on thee fear and fearful passion from their um?

Or has the nightmare’s arm, stubborn and tyrannous,

Too deeply drowned thee in some fabulous Mintume?

I would an odor of health and happiness exhaled

From out thy breast, whereon strong thoughts alone prevailed;

I would thy Christian blood, thy pulses wild or weak.

Ran like the numbered sound of syllables antique.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE CALL IN THE NIGHT CHANDLER H
by Whipple
============================================================
When Phoebus, lord of song, maintained in alternation With Pan the harvest-lord his equal domination.

* TramlMcd b; Dark Aibton Smith from the French.

Call in the Night

By CHANDLER H. WHIPPLE

XT bo was the grinning figure that sat in George Beldor^s chair and calmly talked with the man who had come to murder him?

An eery tale of two racketeers

I T WON’T do any good to tell you this now, and I know I must have been kind of sctewy that night> and maybe for a whole week before; but Tve got to tell it, anyhow, just the way it happened to me. . . .

It was all dark in the room, and from right beside my bed the sound came, shrill and jangling, making me shake all over and setting the hairs of my head on end. It was my telephone ringing — after a minute I knew that — but that didn’t calm me much. There’s a way a phone has of ringing, out of darkness and night, that stops your heart and tightens every nerve you’ve got.

After a second I reached over and answered it. I didn’t recognize the voice. It sounded hollow and hoarse, unnatural.

"You’d better clear out, Joe Clemens," the voice said. "Somebody just murdered George Beldon — and they’ll blame it on you. . .

After that, the phone clicked off. I shouted into it, screamed into it — but the owner of that voice had hung up on me. I was shaking like a leaf and cold as ice.

Good God! They couldn’t kill Beldon! If they got him — no matter who — I’d bum for it. 'Those records he had in his safe . , , no alibi I could think up would do me any good. . . . And the deal Beldon and I were working — it was going to leave me sitting pretty. It was going to fix me for life. Better than that, it would ruin Sam Howerton. It had to go through. But it couldn’t if Beldon was dead.

Then, all at once, I thought I knew whose voice that had been on the phone, I was sure it was Sam Howerton's.

That last shock woke me up. . . .

W HEN I first came awake, I didn’t know I’d been dreaming. I was sweating all over, and my breath was still choked up in my throat. I looked into the darkness of my bedroom; the thin shafts of moonlight were horrible, moving shapes. For a minute I didn’t dare move; I lay there waiting — waiting as if I knew something was coming for me and would get me if I made a sound.

'Then I got my senses back. I kind of sunk back on the pillow and drew a long breath. I laughed. The laugh sounded sort of hollow, but it did me good. I’d dreamed the whole thing, I knew now; it had been just another nightmare. I’d had a few of them already, that week, and it wasn’t any wonder — not with as much at stake as I had right now. . . ,

Still, I wasn’t quite sure. . . . Hadn’t I heard the telephone jingle, like it does right after you hang up, just as I came awake.^ Couldn’t I still hear that voice in my ears?

Or maybe the phone had rung, evai though I hadn’t answered it Maybe its ringing was what woke me up, and in a sort of backward fashion had caused the dream. Maybe it was even Beldon, calling me up about the traction deal, for some reason or other. I ought to find out I reached over and picked up the phone, half hoping there’d be someone

THE CALL IN THE NIGHT


on at the other end of the wire, and at tlie same time afraid there would be. But if anyone had been trying to get me, they had given it up. The wire was singing, and right off Central started yelling at me. I hung up.

I lay there awhile, thinking about it. I felt shaky, again; and the words of that voice in the dream kept ringing in my ears: "You’d better clear out, Joe Clemens. Somebody just murdered George Beldon, and they’ll blame it on you.’’

Supposing somebody had murdered Beldon.^ ... Or supposing somebody was going to, tonight, and I had dreamed the thing as a warning? . . . I’m not superstitious, much, but you hear these stories about how a person gets a warning sometimes, in a dream, and it turns out to be straight — and when you wake up in the middle of the night, all clammy cold and with an eery voice still ringing in your ears, it’s not hard to believe that such things happen.

I got up and turned on the light. I began to dress. I had to go over and see Beldon, anyhow. . . .

I T WAS a long way to be walking from my apartment-house to Beldon’s, especially at three o’clock in the morning; but I didn’t call a cab. I didn’t go up to the next block and get my car out of the ^age, either. It wasn’t the time to do anything like that. Supposing something had happened to Beldon — I didn’t want anybody identifying me next day as having gone to see him, or having even left my house. I walked.

I had plenty to think about during that walk. It wasn’t that I had any kind feelings toward Beldon. I hated him. 'There was only one man I hated worse, and that was Sam Howerton; I’d hated him ever since we were kids together down at P. S. Fourteen, and he was the one that got the girl I wanted.

'This business of Beldon had to do with Howerton, too. Beldon, you see, was my lawyer. He was my fixer, and a damned clever one. I had rigged up that traction deal, but he was the one that could put it through, right past the sanctimonious noses of the Gty Fatliers. Why, the thing would make me rich, and never a comeback from the town — not with Beldon doing the fixing. Why, after that I could clean up and clear out of town and live off the fat of the land the rest of my days! That was what I aimed to do, too — ^t^e it easy and have no more worries like this one. . . .

Better tlian that even, though, was what it would do to Sam Howerton. It would ruin him. Sanctimonious fool that he was, he figured that the new lines would go through where they ought to go — and he’d sunk every cent he had in property out that way! ^ while I was cleaning up, at the same time I’d fix the one man 1 hated worst of all. It was worth a lifetime’s work — and it hadn’t taken but two months! . . .

Of course, I wouldn’t really clean up as big as I figured. Beldon would see to that. He always did. Just as I thought I was in the money, and had paid him what he’d said would be his share, he always came up to me, quiet and smooth and leering-like, and said: "Well, Joe, just between friends, I could use, say, about ten thousand. . . .’’

"Damn you!’’ I’d snarl; "didn’t you get your cut? Didn’t I give you all you asked?”

He’d spread his wide hands and wrinkle up his oily face, as if he was really mighty sorry. "But this deal,” he’d say; "expenses have run so high. I simply can’t make ends meet, Joe — I simply can’t, just between friends. . . .”

"Friends!” I’d say. "Why, damn you, Beldon!” I’d be hot all over, and I’d sneak up to him with my hands twisting



and untwisting, blinking of how I could put those hands around his throat.

He’d laugh in tny face. "You know, Joe," he'd say, "good friends as we are, sometimes I tliink you’d like to kill me. Yes, sir, sometimes I do. But it would go hard witli you, Joe — it would go mighty hard with you. . . .’’ He’d smile, very soft, and, if we were in his apartment, point to his combination safe tliat had a time-lock on it, that nobody could open but him. "You see, Joe,’’ he’d say then, “you’ve done a lot of things that I know about. I’ve got them all written down there, in blade and white. If I were to die suddenly, the police would have to have a look at the papers in that safe. It would look bad for you, Joe — mighty bad. ► . And then he’d laugh again, that high, horrible sort of laugli that he had.

He’d said something like that again, just the other day; then he’d added: "Well, Joe, sometimes I wonder — whidi one of us will get the other first.?’’

He’d laughed then, like it was a big Joke — but it made me plenty nervous. Was he aiming to pull a fast one when the deal was finished — just when I was figuring to dear out of the whole mess.?

It wasn’t any wonder I’d been having nightmares lately. This deal had to go through; in spite of Beldon I’d dean up plenty, and it would finish Howerton; it had to work. Afterward, maybe, I could find a way to settle with Beldon for good. . . .

Hdl, they couldn’t kill Beldon now! Supposing they had, witli those things in the safe! Supposing they were trying to, and that message had come as a kind of spiritual warning! I started walking faster. . , ,

T hsre was only once on that walk that I stopped short. I almost turned back then as a thought struck me. Supposing the thing had really happ«ied? Supposing Sam Howerton had killed Beldon, or had him killed, and then called me up, figuring I’d run over there, right into a trap?

But I laughed that off, shaky as I felt. Sam Howerton wouldn’t ever kill anybody. He wouldn’t even frame anybody. He was too much of a churchman foe that. . . .

I didn’t like it, though, walking over there. I never could figure why Beldon, with all the money he had salted down, kept on living over by the river in that dingy old brownstone. Here the streets are narrow and dark. Between the wharves and the El they don’t worry much about street-lamps — and even the cops are pretty far apart. I guess they figure the place isn’t any too safe for them. . . .

What with the dream I’d had and the thoughts I’d been thinking, I could imagine a lot of things, and all of them spooky. There might be a heist guy in most any one of those doorways. I was glad I’d stuck a rod in my topcoat podeet, and a blackjack too. I kept my hand on the rod all the time.

When I finally got to the doorway of the brownstone where Beldon lived, I guess I was actually trembling. Maybe, for that matter, I hadn’t really stopped since I woke up with that voice ringing in my ears.

I rang the bell and waited. Beldon had the first floor of the house, and I expeaed it would be him that opened the door. I squinted through the glass, thinking I’d see him shuffling up to turn the knob; but it was all dark in there and I couldn’t see a thing. He could have come around the stairs from the rear door that led to the kitchen, anyway, and 1 wouldn’t have seen him; but now, I couldn’t even have seen him if he had

THE CALL IN THE NIGHT


come out the front door, right by the eatrance.

I didn’t even hear a sound. I rang again, hard. I waited a long time. Still nobocfy showed up, and no lights came on.

I began to get pretty scared. Supposing the whole thing had been true.^ Supposing Beldon was

Quiet as I could, I turned the knob of the door.

It opened. I shoved it back a little farther.

Then, suddenly, I got all cold again. I could feel the hairs on the back of my neck standing up straight. Because all at once / knew there was somebody behind that door! , . ,

At first I didn’t see him or hear him; but I knew he was there, just as if it had been whispered to me — and I knew he was waiting for me. After that, I could hear his breathing — or at least I thought I could. It came short and sharp, anxiouslike.

I had a bad minute. I was shaking all over. I felt like I was trapped — like the whole thing had been planned to get me here and trap me. But I calmed myself down finally. After all, I couldn’t stop now; I couldn’t turn and run. Because whatever else was true, I knew now that what r d dreamed had really happened — that someone had killed George Beldon. And I knew that it was his murderer, just making a getaway, that stood behind that door.

I had to get him. I had to lay him out, so I’d have him for evidence. Otherwise, those things in Beldon’s safe would make me burn. ... I shifted my hand from gun to blackjack and brought it out. At close quarters it would work better. I moved (he door farther back, this time fast. . . .

H e came for me, just as I went for him. He could see me, a little, and I couldn’t sec him at first, and that gave him some advantage; but at the same time he didn’t figure I knew he was there — and that gave me some advantage. I used it.

I hit him hard, driving him back toward the wall. At tlie same time, my blackjack swished down toward his skull.

He must have hit the wall at the same time that the blackjack hit him. I heard a cracking noise. Yanking at the blackjack, I realized that it had kind of stuck between his head and the wall — but his head hit the wall just the same, and hard.

I hadn’t figurcxl to drive him back so hard. I steppcxl back, sort of startled. He slumped straight down to the floor. I knew then that I’d killed him.

I was scared for a minute. I’d never killed a man before. But I looked around and felt a little better. The thing hadn't taken any time, and we hadn’t made much noise; it was still dark in the hall, and nobody’ d ever be tlie wiser.

Besides, the thing that made me feel good all at once, kind of warm all over, was that for some reason I was certain right then that the man I’d killed, Beldon’s murderer, was Sam Howerton. Somehow, he’d got up nerve enough to kill Beldon, thinking he could pin it on me — and I’d caught him red-handed! . . .

First off, I thought the best thing to do was to light out. If Beldon was dead and they found Howerton dead here right by his door, that ought to dear me all right. Then I got to thinking. . . . Those papers were still in the safe. I’d better go into Beldon’s place, if I could, and see if there wasn’t some way I could get my hands on them. Besides, maybe Beldon wasn’t dead yet; maybe Howerton had thought he’d killed him, or hadn’t even finished the job because I came and rang the bell. In that case, things would be fixed mighty



pretty for me. I might even bargain with Beldon for the papers, then finish killing him. . . . However it was, it would work out fine for me. . . .

I left the body right where it was. There was no time to find a place to hide it. Besides, if Beldon was dead, in a few minutes I’d want it. I’d drop it inside the door, right near him, and that would clear me. They couldn’t hang anything on me then. . . .

I knocked on Beldon’s door. 'There wasn’t any answer. He’s dead, all right, I thought; but I’ve got to go in anyway.

Then, for the first time, I noticed that there was a faint crack of light showing through the keyhole. Beldon must have been up when Howerton came. ... I tried the door.

I was sort of startled when it opened. The front door wasn’t always lodced — but Beldon didn’t usually figure to let anybody that wanted to walk right into his living-room — not without knowing their business.

Anyhow, I walked in. I blinked my eyes. 'The whole room was bright as day. And I started back.

There, right in the chair by the table where he always sat, was George Beldon — reading a book!

He was sitting there, fully dressed, and he was reading some sort of Greek history book. He was always reading some book like that. And the funny thing w'as, that he didn’t seem a bit scared, nor even surprized, to see me coming in. He just looked up and smiled, with that leering smile of his. It was almost as if he had been expecting me. It gave me the kind of eery feeling, with chills up and down my back, like I had had after the dream. . . .

"Well, well,” he said, "if here isn’t my good friend Joe Qemens, come to pay me a nocturnal visit! Very nocturnal, I should say. It’s mighty nice of you, Joe,

to come here to keep me company in the wee, lonely hours — and mighty glad I am to see you! And what can I do for you tonight, Joe.?”

'That’s what he said; but glad as he pretended to be, he didn’t get up to shake hands with me, or anything like that; he just sat there, smiling. Still, I didn’t think there was anything funny about that; he never did get up to shake hands when I came into the room. I always thought he probably had a rod stuck somewhere in that chair, and stayed there ready to use it; but I guess maybe he didn’t, after all. He knew he was safe from me, and he didn’t need any rod. ...

I guess I acted kind of nervous. "I — I just come over to talk to you,” I said. "About — about nothing particular. . . .”

"Well, well,” he came bade, with that nasty grin of his, "so my old friend Joe has just come over to talk to me — about nothing in particular. Just come over for a friendly diat. . . . Well, Joe, draw up a chair, then, and we’ll chat. . . .”

I DREW up the chair and sat down.

There was something about his eyes that made me do it, though I didn’t want to sit down. I wanted to get out of there, now, just as quick as I could.

I figured it all out, though, right away. For a minute I’d had a bad start. Maybe it wasn’t Howerton out tliere in the hall. Maybe it was just somebody in the house that thought 1 was jumping them. But now I knew, just from Beldon’s way of acting, that it must have been Howerton. He had come here, aiming to kill Beldon and blame it on me, and it hadn’t worked. Beldon was ready for him, so he had sneaked away. And Beldon had figured the whole thing out, and looked on it as a big joke. He would look on it that way; I’ve never seen anybody that cared so little about his own hide. And in a way, it was kind of a joke between him and me;

THE CALL IN THE NIGHT


he saw that, too, and for once, I thought, he wasn’t just laughing at me; he was laughing with me, too. . . .

Seeing that, I felt a little better. I was pretty sure he wouldn’t know I’d killed Howerton; and as long as I could keep him from knowing that, I was sitting okajr. As soon as things worked right for k, I’d get out of here and stow away Howerton’s body in a safe place, and I’d be in the clear again. Meanwhile, though, I had to watch myself, because I was pretty nervous.

We sat there facing each other for a little bit, and I couldn’t think of anything to say. Finally, Beldon smiled a little broader. "Now, Joe,” he said, "you’re sure you didn’t come on ««friendly business? Or you didn’t come, say, on business which has to do with a mutual friend of ours?”

I thought quick that time. I was beginning to get my nerve back, in spite of the creepy way he was grinning at me.

"As far as I know, George,” I came back — I’d never called him George before, so you can see I was getting my nerve up — "we’ve never had any mutual friends. I guess we run to different likes.”

He chuckled then. He opened his moi^ and chuckled out loud, and I could hear him chuckle. "Yes, sir, Joe, that is a fact!” he said. "We have few, if any, mutual friends! As the Greeks would have said . .

I didn’t get what it was the Gredcs would have said, because he said it in Greek — or maybe it was Latin, I don’t know. I don’t know what it was in what he said that made me feel all nervous and creepy again; but I did, all at once. Maybe it was his acting as if the whole thing was . a big joke; because the more he acted that way, the less I thought it was a joke. I had just killed a man, and

now I began to think that maybe he was wise to me, after all.

He kept on talking, and I got more and more nervous; and 1 realized finally that all the time he was trying to make me feel that way. It wasn’t a joke between us at all; he was trying to draw me out, make me spill the story so he’d have something more on me — something final, this time. . . .

He couldn’t make me spill anything, though — even though he kept smiling, and talking, and asking me questions. But at the same time, I couldn’t seem to get away from him. I wanted to, bad enough; but it was like he had me hypnotized.

It was horrible. I began to feel things closing in on me. There was Howerton’s body out there in the hall — and it must be pretty near daylight already. There was those papers in the safe. And here I sat listening to Beldon talk, with the whole thing sounding queer and unnatural, and me not able to get away.

"Listen, George,” I busted out finally, "those papers you got — I got to have them. George, you can have everything we make on that traction deal if you’ll give me those papers.”

He looked at me for a minute, and kind of smiled. "Why, Joe,” he said, "aren’t you being just a little bit rash? Are you sure — tlie entire prcKceds of that deal?”

'"rhe whole thing,” I told him. *Tm sick of it. I want to clear out.”

He leered at me. "Joe,” he said, "I’d like to believe you — yes, sir, I would. But how would I know you’d give it all to me? How do I know you wouldn’t get rid of me when you had the papers?”

"Listen,” I said; "if I ever talked straight I’m doing it now. All I want is to get those papers and get out. I’ll sign everything I got over to you and you can finish the traction deal yourself.”



, He shook his head. He seemed to kind of settle back in his chair. “It’s too bad, Joe,” he said. "It’s really too bad. But you’re too late. I can’t help you now, Joe.”

Something snapped in my head. I started toward him. “Too late!” I snarled. "Damn you, Beldon!”

He knew I was going to kill him, but he didn’t move! He sat there, and he was smiling — actually smiling!

It was the most horrible smile I’ve ever seen. And his eyes — it seemed like they were afire — like hell was alive and burning in them. Looking at them, I began to shake all over. I stopped in my tracks.

He waited a second for me to calm down. “You migfit as well be going, Joe,” he said then. "It won’t do you any good to stay here. You might as well get away from the scene of your aime. But if I were you, Joe, before I go I’d get rid of that bloody blackjack you’re carrying ht your band!”

I GUESS I screamed, then, as I pocketed the thing that I didn’t know I was still carrying; but if I did, nobody could have heard me, because Beldon laughed at the same time. It wasn’t a chuckle this time; it was that high, horrible laugh of his — only now it was even worse than before. It seemed like he was swallowing blood when he laughed.

I did saeam, all right. And I put my hand over my eyes, becaiwe I couldn’t stand it to look at him any more. He looked hideous. . . .

When I took my hand away, half a second later, I realized that daylight was seeping in through the drawn blinds. It was morning. And when I looked at Beldon’s chair, he wasn’t there! It was Just like he had faded away with the coming of daylight.

For a second I stood there and couldn’t

move. 'Then, suddenly. It all came to me. 'The old devil knew I’d killed Howerton, and he wanted to pin it on me. In that half-second he’d slipped past me — ^slipped past me and run out the door to call the cops.

I whirled and started after him. He’d closed the door, but I busted it open. I busted out into the hall, and the light streamed after me and onto the body of the man I’d killed an hour or more ago.

I stopped short then. There were funny whimpering noises sounding in my throat. I guess I was white as a ghost.

'The body that lay there, staring up at me, was George Beldon’s!

After a minute I knelt down. I was trying to tell myself that the first corpse must have come to and killed Beldon when he ran out on me; but it didn’t hold. 'The body was already partly cold. He’d beat dead since right after I came into the house. . . .

I guess I went kind of batty then. I couldn’t seem to move. I just sat there, making those funny scared noises in my throat again.

That was the way the cops found me when they busted in a minute later.

It seems they’d been hanging around the place all evening, because Beldon had asked them to. 'They’d missed the killing, but after I went in they peeked in through the blinds and saw me in Beldon’s apartment. I tried to tell them that that cleared me, if they’d seen me in there talking. They just laughed.

“Qears you, hell!” one of them said. “Not that, it don’t. Not standin’ in there for an hour, talkin’ to an empty chair!”

I stopped talking, then; and I’m telling you this now because it don’t make any difference anyhow, any longer. You don’t have to believe me; but I was the one.

THE SEANCE


these things happened to and I guess I ought to know. You can’t make me think that chair was empty; I saw him.

But like I said, it don’t make any difference anyhow, 'They’re going to bum me for killing Beldon, and there’s no wav I can get out of it.

Hell, I killed him, didn’t I?

Vhe r

/eance

By RONAL KAYSER

A strange tale about a spirit-seance held by a fake medium, and

the terrible doom that

EAR. ...

Ever since it happened, these queer, maggoty thoughts have been crawling inside my skull, and I can’t get rid of them. Did you ever stop to wonder what pure Fear — absolute, unadulterated — would be like? A man could quite easily go mad thinking about that.

I’ve come as close to such Fear as a living person can. And I don’t know what it was like. None of us do, or ever will; because those who have experienced the supreme terror can’t come back and tell us how it felt. ... Or can they?

Do the dead ever come back?

God forgive me, but I was egotist enough to fancy that I might find out about that. 'That night, I thought I had my hands on the very veil of the Unknowable. And instead, I met up with this other tiling. Fear, so pure and absolute that it killed! Like a noose around the neck. Like a knife in the heart.

I was told what to expect. But, you see, I thought Swami Singh’s warning was just part of his act, like his costume and make-up. He wore a dirty yellow

struck from the dark

silk turban and had a faded red dressing-' robe swathed around his fat, squat body. Artificial dye, or maybe berry juic^ stained his round face the color of mahogany. Beads of Mascara sooted his eyelashes. When he spoke, you couldn’t help catching the faked, stagy way he whistled the s-sounds.

'"There iss sso great a danger,’’ Swami Singh intoned, "when we sstand on the thresshold of Death. . . . And Death is mosst jealouss when we peer into hiss realm! Perhapss Death will claim one of uss — it hass happened sso before, in the sseance.”

One of us! Which one did he mean? My eyes jerked to June Darling, the gorgeous girl swathed in a fur cloak; to Henri Patou, a frail and elderly man tapping his cigarette with a nervous, almost transparent, beautifully tended finger; to Larry Stevens, the picture of a solid, successful business man. Or did he mean me, the hard-boiled reporter?

Then I remembered that Singh was putting on an act. Hell, he’d never seen India. His real name would be as or494


dlnaty as Smith or Brown or Jones. And his act wasn’t even a good fraud.

You may wonder why I bothered to go to the seance at all, then. I’ll tell you. I sensed that Swami Singh was something more than just a bum actor. Behind the mascaraed lashes, his eyes were blackest carbon. Beneath all this cheap, faked make-up lay a core of reality.

Psychic power. Maybe Singh didn’t even know that he had it. Possibly he didn’t know how to use it, or maybe was afraid to; but he had it.

There was another angle, too. Suppose Myra Desola could come back from the grave — she had promised to try. . . .

I had a hunch that Myra could do this thing, if anybody could. She’d spent her life doing the things everyone else called impossible.

Can you imagine a woman without any fingers on her right hand becoming the most famous dancer of her time? Myra did. And for twenty years, no one ever guessed that her famous shawls were clutched by pitiful, maimed stumps. . . .

We, the very few who did know, never told. Because there is something about deformity — especially deformity in a beautiful woman — that turns the public away. That’s why Myra led a life more lonely than Gary’s. The very people who worshipped her would have turned on her with hate, if they’d known.

I can’t tell you anytliing more about Myra Desola, for fear you’d guess her real name. . . .

But I did have this hunch: that she’d be able to use this power of Singh’s, even if he couldn’t.

OSST horrible and awful peril for

i-vJLall of uss,” Singh hissed. "Death, perhapss. . . .’’

We had tied him into the grandfather’s chair behind the table in the seance room. We knotted his wrists to its wooden arms

with our handkerchiefs, and bound his ankles to the chair-legs with our neckties. We had wrapped leather straps around the bottom rungs of the chair and had nailed the straps onto the floor.

On top of that, I was to sit in a chair behind his, and hold his arms throughout the seance.

And on the other side of the table, Patou and Stevens and June Darling sat in ordinary kitchen chairs.

"There iss a key on the table,’’ Singh whispered to me, "and the sswitch iss on the wall behind uss. Turn out the light.’’

I picked up the key and walked to the back of the room. It isn’t necessary to go into details about this room, except to say that we had made sure there was but one possible entrance — the door, and we had pasted brown paper over that.

This wasn’t an ordinary switch, though. One had to have the key to turn tlie lights on or off.

"Hell!” I blurted.

I don’t know why I shivered, then. I had turned the switch, and the chandelier blinked out, leaving us in darkness. Any kid would have expected that. . . . But they ought to invent a special name for Jhis kind of utter, absolute dark. It was as if my eyeballs had been painted with ink — ink the color of fresh lampblack, drear, caliginous, soot-black.

It wasn’t until I had fumbled my way through that solid murk, not until I was crouched in the chair behind Swami Singh and had my hands on his arms, that I realized. I, with the key, alone could switch up the light again. And the swami alone knew where I was — by the grip of my hands on him. Now I knew why he had insisted on our bringing no matches into this room!

I knew then that he was a fake.

And I knew that he wasn’t.

How could that be? Surely a man can’t have two absolutely contradictory

THE SEANCE


emotions at the same time. You can’t believe a thing, and not believe it, with the same thought.

But I did, as if there were two brains, entirely separate, inside my skull, each grinding out entirely different ideas — Kke two radios, tuned in on different stations, playing in one room.

“Bunk!” one brain sneered.

"God, this is real!” the offier brain whispered.

Five minutes passed; ten.

Every few moments, Swami Singh jerked. And after each jerk he got more rigid. I suddenly dug my fingers into his biceps, hard, and felt the muscle ffinch. So this trance of his was a fake.

And underneath was something else. Power. It beat through the silk sleeves of his robe in hot, weird waves. Not like the prickle of a concealed electric battery. These emanations of his were psychic, occult. 'That some people do have such "influence” is a scientifically provable fact. Many of the early saints had it, so powerfully that it fairly shone through their flesh.

Every few moments he fetched a long, stagy groan, like a ham Romeo dying with one eye cocked open to see how the audience was taking it.

Rasputin had power like this, I remembered. In his case, it was evil. I didn’t think it could be either good or evil in Swami Singh . . . because he couldn’t harness it. The “influence” simply blew through him like wind through a tree. Or it was like juice in a high-voltage wire. He couldn’t any more switch it on or off than the wire can.

“It’ss coming!” he suddenly yelled. And I knew that he lied; there was nothing.

But there was something.

Now a whitish speck swam into sight. It had a very dim and faint phosphorescence — an earthly phosphorescence, I felt

sure. It hovered some eight or nine inches above the floor, possibly three feet to the left of us.

'The thing which I felt had nothing to do with this whitish speck.

I would say that this luminous speck had about the size of a walnut when I first noticed it. It very quickly swelled to the largeness of a baseball; though it didn’t resemble a baseball, being very wrinkled.

“The firsst materialization iss very difficult for the sspirit,” Swami Singh hissed. "A full figure at tlie firsst, iss sso rare. . .

T he wrinkled shape smoothed out as it elongated into form. It became a woman’s face; dim and blurred and scarcely visible, it might have been taken for almost any woman, of any age. But it wasn’t Myra Desola.

All the same, Myra had come into this room. I felt her watching us. I couldn’t he mistaken.

“Who are you, sspirit?” the swami hissed.

“It is I,” came a soprano reply. “It is Myra.”

Bunk! Her voice had been contralto. I knew what was going on here. The swami changed his voice and threw it down toward the face — ^ventriloquism.

“Do you recognize anyone here?” Singh asked.

“Yes,” the soprano hesitated. “'There is June. And it’s Glen, isn’t it?”

Glen meant me; and that was more bunk. Myra Desola would have spoken to Patou first. Lord, she’d been his mistress for twenty years. She would have greeted June next, because she’d raised the girl from a street waif to womanhood; and then, Larry Stevens, for he’d managed her tours.

But our precious swami didn’t know all that. All he had to go on was our



names, and the fact tliat we wanted to talk to a certain "Myra”.

He played it smartly, though. "Would any of you folks like to ask her some questionss about the Great Beyond.^” he inquired.

Yeah. He would like to answer questions about that. Something we couldn’t chedc up on.

June Darling’s voice floated through the intense dark. "Myra, will you tell me the brand of perfume you always used? I’ve forgotten, and I wanted to buy some.”

Perfume. Myra's perfume. God, it was in this room. That trail of strange, glamorous scent. . . .

Singh was trying to wriggle out of it. He had the soprano voice saying, "I do not remember — it seems so long ago ”

That heady draft of perfume in the darkness! It didn’t come from the face. It had nothing to do with the face.

By this time, I had pretty well deduced where that face came from. He couldn’t be using his hands, for I had a grasp on the arms. It didn’t come from his garments, for Stevens and I had searched through those. It had to be the chair. The rungs of the chair. He could press against them with his legs.

Instantly I saw what the layout must be. One of the rungs at the front of the chair would be hollowed out. There would be a piston inside the rung, and a spring to shoot it out. This rung could not be made to fit into the chair-leg on the left side, but only appeared to do so. The pressure of Singh’s legs would release it, move it back an inch or so, and finally allow the piston to slide forth.

This accounted for the position of the face, its distance above the floor, and its distance from tlie cliair.

But what accounted for the perfume,

and the feeling that Myra had come into the room?

The logical part of me refused to believe in the perfume. I concentrated on the fake face. There would be a hollow chamber in the end of the piston. A rubber bag, painted to resemble a facepainted with luminous paint — would be fiirmly cemented there. And a concealed air chamber would supply the pressure to force this mask out at the piston’s end. . . ,

Abruptly, I snatched my hands away from Singh’s arms, and I dived. Damn! There wasn’t any face. I sprawled on the floor.

The swami had been too fast for me. Obviously, mask and piston shot back into place the instant he released the pressure of his legs against the rung. But wait! I’d switch on the lights and tear that chair to pieces with my bare hands. . . .

A soft, woman’s laugh bubbled through the dark. A contralto laugh! A contralto voice said: "But I haven’t forgotten, June, The perfume teas called ’Spring Breeze’, and it was put up for me specially by Lodi, in Paris."

And this was the real thing. I knew that even before I twisted over on the floor and saw her. (There was only one mind, then, from the moment I looked on her. I had no doubt at all.)

“Myra!” came Larry Stevens’ sob, "God, it is Myra!”

There was a sound of feet stumbling on the floor, and somehow I knew that would be Patou groping toward her.

Of them all, I was closest to her, so close that I could almost have dipped my fingers in the luminous, azure haze that clothed her.

It was as if a radium thread limned her nude limbs and magnificent breasts. About her face the glow thickened to a positive halo. The wide lips smiled.

Curiously, this ardent blue aura made no Impression whatever upon the proW. T.— 7

THE SEANCE


foand darkness. It shed no pool of radiance upon the polished floor, nor could 1 see the table — or the chair, where Swami Singh sat and fetched great, racking breaths. The illumination seemed to turn inward, so that it gleamed upon the marble-white of her flesh and the vivid scarlet of shawl wrapped around her hips and caught loosely over the right forearm.

And this, I sensed, was the way she would have chosen to come back. In costume. Ready for the show to go on. . . .

"Myra," Henri Patou whispered. •'WiR you give me your hand?”

I COULD not see him at all. But her arm rose in its luminous flowing line, and then her hand vanished — was blotted out — as he fondled it.

There was no sound now but the harsh, luutried breathing of Swami Singh in his chair.

Then Patou laughed; or perhaps he wept

*Tl is Myra,” he said. "Come, Laxry — and you, Glen, and June — take her hand. . .

I got up from the floor. I went to her, and I lode her hand. Dread rushed through me; I trembled; my knees wedcened. You see, I had somehow expected or thought that her flesh would be warm.

And it wasn’t. No — cold, and limp; but I touched it, and there couldn’t be any mistake. My hand groped over the piteous stamps where her fingers had been hacked off — close to the palm, with less than an inch of each remaining.

"Do not cry, my poor Henri,” she said tenderly. For he wept, now — the terrible tears of a man who cries without shame. "It does not matter any more,” she said, "The sidmess and the pain, the loneliness, not even Death. , . . All that is behind me. It is gone, quite gone.”

'This was nothing for me to hear. Nor Larry, nor June. But we could not do W. T.— 8

otherwise. We knew somehow that to have opened tire door and let the faintest ray of light into this room would have shattered the spell . . .

"It is gone," she said. "Like (hose poor fingers of mine for which you once wept such bitter tears.”

Beliind us, in the tenebrous lamp-soot black, Singh aied out in a broken voice of terror; "The light! In God’s name, turn on the li^t!”

I groped toward his chair, and slapped —twice — with my open palm against his bleating mouth. "Shut up!" I. said. "Leave them alone — those two."

The feel of his flesh against my hand was snaky, iizard-like. I hated him for this power that he had, and we could not ever have — the power to call her back from Death.

And I hated him, that he should hear these words. "I loved you, Myra,” aied Patou. "And you would never marry me. You never told me — why ”

So I knew why he wept. It was for his memory of her, and the single flaw that made the memory less than perfect.

"I will tell you now." The contralto voice throbbed. "'There need not be any seaets between us, any more. My poor Henri, but did you never guess?"

Patou whispered, '"That there was someone else? 1 guessed that, 'There was a time when I suspected Larry. . . . And afterward, I thought pahaps, the stage — yom art ”

"None that I loved but you,” said Myra, "Not since that day in the old Greatnoble 'Theater — the day when you took me into your arms. ... Do you remember, Henri? You kissed my hands — my beautiful hands, you called them. Can you remember tlic words you said then? You talked of hands. You said you could not love a woman whose knuckles were red and ugly. . . . You spoke of the slender, trailing fingees of



Eleanore Duse, and you said that mine were yet more beautiful. There was a song — 'Pale hands 1 loved’ — and you called it my song. , . .

“You thought we were alone in the theater, Henri. But there was one other — hidden backstage — my husband— — ”

T he silence! The blackness of the room!

"Husband!” cried Patou. “I never knew. , .

Through the haze of blue the wide lips smiled sadly. “No, I never told you. I was young when I married Hugo Singer — ^young, and stage-struck, and not knowing what marriage meant. He fascinated me in some strange way. . . . But I had learned to hate him — as he must have hated me.

"For, that night, he forced his way into my dressing-room. You were on the stage at the time. There was a New York theatrical agent in the audience; and it meant much to you — a successful performance, that night.”

Her low, sad contralto laugh!

"I did not spoil it for you, Henri. I did not cry out. Not even w'hen I saw the knife — the butcher knife — in his hand! Not even when he seized me. He was drunk — intoxicated with his rage. 'Pale hands that he loves!’ he said, between his teeth. 'I will fix your pretty hands!’

“There stood a great, metal-bound trunk in the comer of the room. I fought, and he was too strong for me. He placed my hand on the edge of the

trunk, and he struck ”

She sobbed. All the horror of a woman’s mutilated beauty and wasted years curdled in that sound. Hearing it, I felt my skin knit up into points of exquisite dread. God, how she must have hated that monster of a husband — with a hate that not even the grave had been able to quench.

“I would have killed him, if I had known!” Patou said. Abysmal rage stirred in his voice.

“Yes, you would have ruined your career — and mine,” said Myra. "I couldn’t tell you, then. But now it is different . , . I have no career, now, and they can’t lock up a dead woman.”

Something flashed in her hand. Something that she had snatched from the folds of her shawl — a knife. A huge; ugly butchering-knife. . . .

She moved swiftly, and her luminous limbs swam as a bird in flight, the knife shining as she raised it before her terrible, glowing eyes.

A scream! A most horrible, ghastly, and unhuman scream!

I shuddered as I lurched toward the back wall. In the darkness I could not find the switch. The rough, unpapered plaster rasped my fingers as I sought for it.

There was a sound of wild, contralto laughter. Frantically, I pawed the wall as another shriek rang out. It reverberated, as the last cry tliat goes up when a great ship with all on board is swallowed into the sea. It gibbered, like the wild wail of an alpinist hurtling down a thousand-foot cliff. So First Man must have cried out when the claws of the sabertooth tiger ripped his flesh. There waS; agony in it, and terror, and despair. ,

Often now in the night I live over that unendurable instant before I found the' switch, and my numbed finger forced the key into it, and the light in the chandelier flashed up. '

I tum^, then, and stared. There was the solid, small room and the door w-e had pasted shut with brown paper. . . .

And the lingering fragrance of an exotic perfume. . . .

And the four of us — Patou, Larry Stevens, June Darling, and I — peering at the man trussed in the chair.

THE SEANCE


The swami was dead. We knew that. His eyes, wide-staring and bulging like fat prunes in their sockets, were sightless; the fat face had the grayness of death nnder the mahogany dye; and his Caouth hung open and slack.

( Blood dripped from his manaded bands. . . . And for a crazed moment I tbought that his fingers had been hacked off. Actually, the blood came from the palms, lacerated by the nails of those

fingers which were so tightly curled up th^ the mortician had to scissor through the tendons to open the hands.

I SAW the name which was written on the death certificate; and it was not Singh, but Sbger. On the next line below, for cause of deatli, tiiey wrote beiort failare.

I know better.

It was Fear. . , ,

jf^jah’s Gift*

By E. HOFFMANN PRICE

S TRANGE tdes are told of the rajah o£ Lacra-Kai, of the justice he dealt, of the rewards he gave; but the strangest of ail these many tales is that of the gift he gave to Zaid, the Persuut who had served him long and well. A crafty man was the rajah, an eastern Maditavelli who by his devices had retained the sovereignty of his petty state aloaost unimpaired by British rule; a keen, shrewd diplomat, a polished cosmopolitan, an Orierrtd wearing a thick veneer of Etttopean culture. In short, he was an enlightened monarch, a tributary prince

f — — •

* Pfon WEIRD TALCS f<ir Jaamry, I929,

iHho left quite to his own devices u regarded the internal administration of his state. But it is of his gift to 21akl whereof we are to deaL

In the privacy of his palace, screened from the view of his people, the rajah was quite European, dispensing with the pomp and glitter and formality that is supposed to surround all Eastern potentates at all times. Therefore it was that Zaid the Persian, who had served his master long and well, not only sat, but also smoked in the royal presence.

"Zaid,” the prince was saying, *’but for your courage and fiddity I would



siireiy have been assassinated; therefore have I summoned you this afternoon so that you may receive some token of my gratitude. Name whatsoever you desire and it shall be yours, for I mean to reward you richly.”

"My lord,” replied Zaid, "there is but one request that I would make, and that is mad beyond all conception of madness.”

"Nevertheless, let me hear it; tell me what is on your mind. Forget that I am rajah of Lacra-Kai, and consider me but as your friend who is indebted to you; therefore speak freely.”

"For ten years I have been favored by your munificence,” began Zaid, speaking slowly. "For ten years I have been the friend of kings; but all that is nothing.”

Zaid paused. A far-away look had crept over his features; he seemed to be gazing through and beyond the rajah, and back to some dimly remembered, almost forgotten episode of the past. And then, picking his words as one groping in the dark picks his steps, he told how, twenty years before, he had stood on the edge of the crowd in the square before the great temple of Kali, awaiting the arrival of the procession at whose head the present rajah would be riding. Zaid, a boy scarcely a dozen years old, ragged, dirty, half starved, part of the scum of an Eastern city, stood that day to watch the rajah ride past in state. All the color and magnificence, all the barbaric pomp of that Oriental court was there, dazzling, the concentrated, fiery splendor that marked a prince’s accession to his throne. And all this the boy saw, yet saw not, for he had eyes for none but the rajah. High above the crowd, on the back of a great elephant he sat, dark, calm, impassive, and arrogant as a god. 'The prince was oblivious of the pomp and splendor, oblivious of the tumult and applause; on that day it seemed to Zaid that he was

not a tTian, but destiny itself in march. And as the rajah drew near, the great temple gong clanged with a reverberation that seemed to shake the very base of the universe; a strange, unearthly vibration that mingled with the resonance of brass the hiss of serpents and the rustle of silk; a soimd that rose and fell,, resonant, sonorous, awful. Through all this the rajah sat calm and inscrutable, above all exultation, above all human emotion. But at the sound of that gong, at the sight of that hard, impassive face, a great madness possessed Zaid, so that his blood became as a stream of flame. And he swore that he, too, would some day ride in such a procession, would bear himself with that same god-like hauteur, that same superb arrogance; he, Zaid, hungry beggar lad and scum of flie streets, dared have such a vision.

Silent were the gongs; vanished the procession; and the new rajah ruled in Lacra-Kai. But with Zaid the vision remained, following him over half the earth, and returning with him to LacraKai, where, ten years later, he entered the service of that same rajah, and, by strange turns of fortune, rose to rank and power in that same court; for in the East all things are possible. Who has not heard of the blacksmith who founded the Sassanian dynasty that once ruled Persia?

Such was the tale Zaid told the rajah.

“As STRANGE a tale as I have ever ■ajLheard,” mused the prince. "You have indeed prospered.” Then, suddenly, "And all this is apropos of what?”

Zaid started, as one waking from a dream, then laughed oddly.

"Hear my desire, then deal with me as you will. For twenty years that vision hiM haunted me. Much has happened since then; much have I seen and experienced, but through it all, this mad desire has per- ( Phase turn to page >02)

COMING NEXT MONTH

I .DASHED to the door, and out, slammed it shut behind me, leaned against it, panting, and looked about me, ashamed lest someone see how badly frightened I was. Someone did see: a woman, through the crack in an adjoining door that stood ajar, I spotted the door, flung myself toward it as it started shut, struck it savagely, sprawled on the floor of a strange room.

"May I ask the meaning of this intrusion?” said a cold voice.

I stared at the woman, and my heart turned a somersault. There was no mistaking her. She was the woman of the black sash. But in her eyes there was no slightest sign of recognition, not even a flicker.

Cold, distant, aloof. Obviously she considered me an intruder. But one thing she couldn’t hide, one thing that made us kin in spite of anything that could have happened: abysmal fear, deep down in her black eyes.

I clutched her shoulders.

"Tell me about it! Tell me, do you hear? What about the dogs in that room?” The coldness left her, the fear took possession, ghastly, horrible fear. She would have fallen if I hadn’t clutched her, lowered her into a chair.

"Oh, my God!” she moaned. "The little things are hack! The little things are hack!” . , .

This story is warranted to send icy fingers of horripilation up your back, as the ghastly horror unfolds itself. Don’t read it late at night, unless your nerves are made of steel; for it may induce nightmares, or keep you from sleep. But those of you who love to revel in a powerful, horrifying and utterly fascinating weird story will find tihis vivid novelette exactly to your taste. It will be published complete in the May Weird Tales:

THE ROOM OF SHADOWS

By Arthur J. Burks

^AIbo

STRANGE INTERVAL By Sbabuhy Quinn

A cuiious and thiilling tale of pirates, and a man who was yet not a man, and an old obeah-woman who worked a strange witchery.

THE FACELESS GOD By Robert Bloch

A tremendous story of a fearful trek across the Egyptian desert, and the malignant stone idol that waited for the doctor’s return.

THE DEVIL’S DOUBLE By Paul Ernst

A powerful, spine-chilling thrill-tale about ibe Blue Death, and an unscrupulous fiend in bunian form, who called himself Doctor Satan — the world’s weirdest criminal.

CHILD OF THE WINDS By Edmond Hamilton

A tender and fascinating story about a strange plateau in Turkistan where the winds from all over Earth converge.

May WEIRD TALES

Out May 1


WBKD TALES

The Rajah’s Gift

\Continutd from page 500)

^led. And «t last it happened tiiat I entered foor service, and that, having served you well, it has pleased you to grant me whatsoever I might desire. Therefore, seeing that this great madness has haunted me all these years, I make this request: that I be permitted to ride ia state as I saw you ride twenty years ago, so that 1 may fulfill the oath 1 then swore."

Whereat the rajah replied in the tone of one who denies some child a dangerous toy: "Fool! To grant you that favor woidd be to sign your death-warrant. Were you to ride thus at noon, poison or dagger would find you before dawn; for no man may enjoy such a mark of favor and live. Whah* Have you lived in this land all these years and do not realize the penalty you would pay? Consider a moment: my son is dead; the succession to the throne lay among my three nephews. One of them sought to hasten his succession. The plot was discovered, and the plotter I punished by showing him a mark of extraordinary favor. Immediately it was rumored about that I had select- ^ him as my heir; and within ten days he died, but not by my command, for thsd wa* superfluous. The princes of the Mood, and Ae lords of the court . .

The rajah made a suggesttve, sweeping gestuK with his hand, then continued, "hie you were able to save from assassination; yourself you could not save, nor could I save you. You would ride in state; tofoors would drift dx>ut And you know the rest,”

"Even so, toy lord; I know the rest. But I will take my chance. It is not good for a man to cherish a vision, however mad, without having made some effort to attain it.”

"'Htiok again, Zaid, think again! Cast

aside your insanity. Choose whatsoever eiseyouwill . . . a lakh of rupees . . . ten lakhs if you will ... jewels the like of which you have never clreamed . . . and I have a dancing-girl whose equal is not to be found in the entire world . . . all this, and more, is yours, for you have served me vtrell; it is to you that 1 owe my life. Be reasonable, friend.”

"Be reasonable? That is the one command I cannot obey, for in me there is no reason. This mad vision has haunted me entirely too long. So thou^ it may cx>st me my life, as surely it may, let me see it to a finish. For there at least would be a roundness, a completeness to my career that in no way else could I attain. In the square before the great temple of Kali 1 found the inspiration that led me to enter your service, to attain your favor, to serve you well; and in that same square, if need be, I will meet my doom. The cycle will be complete. After that, let come what may, for I shall have cheated destiny of the rare gift of satisfaction, the gift so often denied to kings. And after all, is the assassin so sure of finding me? Is that conclusion inevitable?”

The rajah smiled as one upon whom great understanding has suddenly descended

"Zaid,” he said, “you are more than ever a man after my own heart. Mad you are, starfe mad and raving; I understand, for I, too, have been haunted by visions. But none has understood my thoughts, even as none would imderstand your mad desire. It would be misconstrued, and » . . you know the result.”

S ooDBNLY the rajah arose.

"Come, Zaid, letrae tempt you with the things I have but named."

And Zaid was led through sabterranean vaults, tieasiure vaults full M gilded



arms and armor, trays of flaming jewels, great chests of age-old coins, dinars and mohurs of gold, the secreted plunder of a hundred generations.

"All this leaves you unmoved? Then let me try again.”

The Persian accompanied his master to the very heart of the palace, to a hall overshadowed with twilight — a broad, spacious hall whose walls were curioxisly carved with strange figures in unnamably odd postures, engaged in unmentionable diversions. And then his ears were : caressed by the soft, sensuously waib'ng notes of reed and stringed instruments: his senses were stirred by the dull pulsing of atabals, throbbing like a heart racked with passion. And through the purple gloom of incense fumes he saw the lithe, swaying bodies of dancing girls, slim and beautiful. One, emerging from the figtires of the dance, slowly advanced and made obeisance before the rajah.

"And this is Nilofal, the matchless bayadere, she whose equal is not to be found in the entire world. Should she please you . . .”

The Penian, lost in admiration, saw that she was perfection incarnate, outstripping the maddest flight of the most voluptuous fancy. But when he turned to reply, the rajah had disappeared; and the door tiirough which they had entered was barred.

What allurements, what sorceries, what fascinations Nilofal used to entice the fancy of Zaid during those three days, we shall never know. Suffice it to say that she failed in her efforts to separate the Persian from his madness.

LONESOME?

Leimeamnige a romantio wnreBpondenoe for ^ you. Find youi^ a aweetheart thro America’f foremost eeleet social oorreepondeoee club. A friend* _ _ltip letto* gociet y for lood^ ladies and i^tiemen. Ileabsrs OONFIDENTIAL uitroductlonB letter:

fffii^ent, dumlwd aud eontinoous service. I have made tbo^nds of

ioneW bap{q^--vrby notyou? Write for sealed partieulars,

RaroXM MCK80NVHXE» FtomoA

CvAn MOow P. i

FANTASY LOVERS

Read

H. P. LOVECBAFT’S Latest Novel in Book Form

"THE SHADOW OVER INNSMOUTH"

ThrlUlBg . , . Weird . . . Bizarre . . . Fantastic. The story of an ancient sea-port beset by unknown horrors. Were Us mysterious, malformed Inhabitants fuUy human? What was their connection with the repulsive denizens of the ocean Hoor?

Heavy Book Paper . . . Cloth-Bound

$ 1.00

VlSIONABy FUBUSniNG CO. isverett, V*.

REMINGTON —

Portable Typewriters. Low prices. Model 8 Only $35.00. Write for folder and free copy "Key to Business Opportunities." Goodall Agency, 742 Market St., Desk T., San Francisco, Calif.

BKCEIVB GIGANTIO HAILS, MAGAZINES, SAMPLES. Your name In 1,000 matlins lists, 10c. Fairbanka, Dept. 10-B, 100 Fors)^ St.. New York City.

FRil

BOOK

If you haven’t read this thrilling Qiinesc story you have missed one of the strangest stories ever told. Exciting incidents follow in such quick succession that the interest in the , story is at white heat all of the time.

W E HAVE had many requests adting us to reprint THE MOON TERROR in the magazine. This popular story appeared as a serial in WEIRD TALES in 1923, and is too long to republish in the magazine consistent with our policy. To fulfill the wishes of many readers who have not had the opportunity to read this story, we have had it printed in book form and offer a copy free with each six months’ subscription to WEIRD TALES.

WEIRD TALES, Dept. 436.

840 N. Mlchigau Ave., Chicago, Di.

I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid, the book "The Moon Terror,” and enter my sutwcripUaB to WEIRD TALES for six months to begin with the May issue. It is understood this $1.50 is paymeid in full.

Name

Address

aty Slate



Ooce again Zaid stood before the rajah, who smiled with the air of one whose cleverness has just reaped its reward in the solution of a diffiadt problem.

••What now, Zaid? Was Nilofal to your taste? Surely she must have been; and certainly she is worth all the dreams tiiat have haunted men since the beginning of time.”

"My lord,” rq)lied the Persian, "you have tempted me as man was never before twnpted,* yet am I to sacrifice the vision of twenty years in favor of a treasure vault and a lupanar? Althougli you m^ refuse it, I nevertheless hold fast to my first desire."

•'So be it then; and tomorrow at noon you shall see it satisfied."

And diea and there were pteparatiofts made for Zaid to ride in royal state throogh the streets of Lacra-Kal.

N oon the next day. The tajah, watchmg from the roof of his palace, saw Zaid in the gilded howdah, mounted on the great elephant that carried none but princes of the blood. Calm and serene add god-like sat the Persian: a king he seemed, and the descendant of a hundred kin^, for at that moment he was about to fulfill his destiny. Once again a great understanding descended upon the rajah.

"It was wrong indeed that I tried to dissuade him," reflected the rajah, "for whatever the end may be, k will be as nothtag; Zaid is about to accomplish that whidi he set out to do when he was a beggar, a hungry, nameless urchin. There is something great and heroic in this madness . . . but what will happen when he passes the temple of Kali? Can he ever become a man again? ... for in his madness he is more than a man; he has overturned destiny to fulfill a childish fancy. . . ."

And the prince, watching the procession get under way, was lost in admiration of the man who for half an hour would be rajah.

•'And having attained his dream, will not the man Zaid have died, though he live a hundred years thereafter in security? And what would life mean to him?"

Tlie procession, turning, had taken Zaid from the rajah’s view. Bestirring himself from his revery, he whispered a few words to A1 Tarik, his trust^ servant.

••. . . And do not fail me in the slightest detail."

The rajah repeated his Instructions. A1 Tarik d^arted. And in the meanwhile^ Zaid rode to the fulfilment of his dream.

Through the streets of Lacra-Kal the procession wound. The Persian, as In a dream, bore himself not as a man but as the avatar of some god returning to judge the world. Vanity? A love of pomp? No; surely not that. Rather was it that strange madness that overwhelms men when they snatch from fate die aciiievement of a vision. On and on he rode, like the slow, sure march of destiny, immutable, irresistible. And but one thought flitted through his brain, die words of some long-forgotten sage: "When indeed they do grant to a man the realization of his dream, they straightway reach forth to snatch from him his prize, lest in his triumph he become godlike and gayly toss them from their lo%; thrones." His lips curled in the shadow of a smile, for swift indeed would have to be tfieir envy to defeat him; die great temple of Kali was at hand. He was approaching the square where, twenty years ago, an obscure nobody, a starving beggar, a mere boy,, he had seen the vision that now was materializing. And then the great gong in the temjde rang, reverberating like the crash of doom, ffllihg die entire universe with its shivering , resonance — fall-throat, coloesalt dial



hissing with the rustle of silk — a. sound tiut swelled, and died, and rose again.

As slowly as some animated Juggernaut the royal elephant advanced, pace by pace, deliberately, majestically, as though each step took him from world to world. And again the gong, touched to life by (he mallet wielded by a temple slave, mlled forth its sonorous, vibrant crash.

A few more steps, and Zaid, the Persian, whom the rajah loved to honor, was before the temple of Kali. High and arrogant was he, as Rama going forth to conquer the world; no longer a man, but transfigured beyond recognition. Again the temple gong gave forth its vibrant note, reverberant, awful; diminishing, then rising and SAvelling again. And the god, who but half an hour before had been Zaid, (he Persian, toppled forward ijti (he gilded howdah. The last roll of die gong had masked the smacking report of a high-powered rifle.

T hat evening the rajah gazed at die body of the man who had served him well, the man he had esteemed and loved as a friend. Pity and sorrow were on his lean, hard features; but regret was absent.

“A king and more than a king,’’ he soliloquized, as he regarded the still, transfigured face of the Persian. "A madman, perhaps — or the avatar of a god, for by his own efforts he rounded his destiny. The cycle is complete, from the temple of Kali, and back again; the circle has closed upon itself. Yes, it is well that I commanded A1 Tarik to fire before Zaid endured tfie agony of becoming mortal again. . .

Such was the gift of the rajah of LacraKat. Yet once, at least, though he did not know it, the rajah had made a futile ncKive.- die shot of A1 Tarik had missed, and there was no wound on the Persian's bndy.

BRAIN MAGIC

g6 0orpledge# or iu

Seeuritjr li the probtoim modem elviUsatlon. In eolr* log Uite pr<fl)ieiu, S«v*>miBMits ere hemperud by eriml^ powere end pubito indifference: Rolloione fell becauae they dMi with reUh and the inimuterlet: Seienee prorea inedeuut^ altioe U U suhaerrienl to big buainesa end huge poratieoi. The only instUutlea in the world which plei itself to aiueUerate Che mental and flaancial status meuibert U— TtfH ITUTUUiiiT

Members ot the ruturlst ftoelety are many years ahead ef tlielr time. They know more, earn mote» and lira more fully than most other groups of people. Dyjoioing them, you follow an adraneed trail of evolution, you learn how to solve your money problems. In knowledge, you wilt eur* »tas the iverage college graduate. Instead of a slare, yod beoonae a ruler of this planet. Write today for our senseUooai loformallen. asicing for CerUfloete 4d3.

VOTUBIST SOOlBTYt Dept. 0-7

ftSl Flatmie# Bid*. CUrwla«4 OUd

Home Art Movies

' 8 and 16 mm. ‘

E NJOV the THRILI, of hwtajr REAL MOTION FICTUIUS3 Ul your own home. Pictures that will delight you and your friends. We can furnish you movies and profectws of all types at prices from S1.90 up.

Catalog FREE

Write today for catalog of our latest motion picture releases, home movla projectors, etc. Sample roil art Slav tl.OP; with handy pr^eetoc^ (AW.

Home Movie Produeere

tZ E* Van Buren Street Ohlcaic*

? ? ?

Tour character and vocational analysis based on your birthdate reveals your true vocation for succeu and happiness, whom to marry, astral colors and hnScy dates. Scientiflcally compiled. Send birthdate' end only 25 cents for 4-page reading. SatisfacUan guarMODERN SERVICE CO.

Box 113 Oonunerce Station Minneapolis, Mfaa.

Trade Guns & Goods lot $1

CUT-BATE FBICE3

Trsde mr (fhstguu. Blfle «r soythlng ef rtlue fat the Qua you w»ni. No cash dlffereaee generaily. betxlllog only.

Tour Ouns soU fer £•% eonnlsslon. Write vrtut you here what roe want. 8^ for tdt Models Trade a^ Cut-Bet# Qua Sale Cetalog and Big Deed Con Sala List.

NKW Tt)RK OON CO. 18$«-CD Park Bow BldgM New Tork

Save


Bny yonr Drug Sundries. Specialties, Supplies, Novelties, ede., direct from nuuintactnrer through our Mail-Order Dept, Alt personat items are mailed postpaid by us in plain scaled package. We have everytlilng. Send (or FREE, lUustrated

THE N-R MFC. CO.

Box 353 Hamiltoa, Ontario

PRETTY GIRLS

Want pew-pals and sweethearts. Their de«ndpttoet aed hetftone reproductlom froni photos appear la ^'Oupld'f CoIoiubb*'' the aiodiTe slassis natrlaiooUl raanBim. Oopr ef einec^ Issue ■latlad fer a dime. Oct youn today.

Address OBFOXB COIdVMNB* Bt. PMtfg Wue

T here have been several inquiries, in letters to the Eyrie, as to what medium our artists work in; especially as to Margaret Brundage’s covers. Mrs. Brundage draws her famous nudes and nearnudes with pastel crayons. This method makes it possible to obtain more delicacy than water-colors or oils, but the pastel drawings are so fragile that we are afraid to sneeze in the same room with them, for fear that the pictures will disappear in a pu£F of dust. We are always glad when the color plates of Mrs. Brundage’s exquisite drawings come from the engraver’s hands; for then we know that no harm has befallen the piaures. James Napoli’s illustrations are made with pen and ink {The Hour of the Dragon, etc.). Andrew Brosnatch also works with pen and ink (art heading for the Eyrie) . Hugh Rankin’s medium is grease-pencil, which requires a special kind of paper to draw on {The Ruler of Fate, and art heading for the Weird Story Reprint) . Virgil Finlay has developed a technique of his own, using both white and black inks, and combining line drawing with stipple to obtain his unique effects {The Face in the Wind, The Druidic Doom, etc.). This is the same technique that he used in the twenty-five exquisite drawings that illustrate the Wright’s Shakespeare Library edition of A Midsummer Night’s Dream, which is the first of a series of Shakespeare plays in the form of beautifully illustrated magazines.

Satan Improves witli Age

Sidney Slomich, of Dorchester, Massachusetts, writes: "Tlie January issue shows a great improvement over the November number. 'The only lemon was the cover. 'The best stories in order of their merit are The Satin Mask, Horror Insured, and The Dark Land. At first I didn’t care for the Doctor Satan series, but now I am really enthusiastic 5W

about them. I first read The Man Who Chained the Lightning and The Consuming Flame and thought them terrible. But Hoh lywood Horror and Horror Insured were swell.”

Revive King Kull

Mrs. John A. Heller, of Long Beach, California, writes: “Robert E. Howard’s stories are always fascinating from start to finish and I know this new serial will never be a disappointment. I notice in the Eyrie someone asks to have Howard’s stories about King Kull revived. Come to think of it, I think the King was a more fascinating character than Conan. I remember I was bitterly disappointed when he dropped the King for Conan. However, Conan has won his spurs with me, and I do not want him to be dropped entirely in favor of further stories about King Kull. I would like him to give ns stories of each in sort of a rotating schedule. Still the King will have to go places to win back the place he used to have and lost to Conan; yet he only lost it because Howard dropped him entirely.”

Left to the Imagination

Paul S. Smith, of Orange, New Jersey, writes: "Congratulations on Visitor from Far Away, by Loretta G. Burrough. It is one of the most successful weird tales I have ever read. The atmosphere of high-pitched terror is admirably created and sustained throughout by the author ; and the grim and terrible climax is finely in keeping with the rest of this skilfully written story. Coils of the Silver Serpent is certainly an exciting yarn and a good one, though scarcely weird. It is what I would call a borderline story — that is, one that makes us wonder whether the proper place for it is in WEIRD Tales or in a detective story magazine. However, Mr. Editor, I am inclined to think that your decision to acWEIRD TALES


aad publish diis story was a wise one. A few wor^ regarding The Temple, by Lovecraft, which was your reprint for February: Lovccraft is an outstanding literary artist, but it really seems to me that he might have cartied this story a little further, I, for one, would like to have at least an inkling of what happened to Karl Heinrich when he entered the temple. Of course, we can let our imagination build up an ending based on whatever hints the story supplies. This, however, seems hardly satisfaaory to me, though 1 can easily understand that Loveaaft's belief may have been that the final raisode would be stronger if left to die reader’s imaginatioa than if actually related by die author.”

Man Alivel

Eugene Benefiel, of Los Angeles, writes: “Just another line adding to the rapidly swelling chorus to keep prosaic detectives out of Wbiri) Tales. Even Doctor Satan and his arch-nemesis Keane can be deleted with no anesthedc needed. By all means continue to use those little fillets ; both poetry and short ^ort-stories are excellent, and no mistake. The covers are okay, as are the imeriot illustratioos, and the authors for the most part are fine. Over a long period lay choices for the best writers would be C. L. Moore, C. A. Smith, Robert E. Howard, and Seabury Quinn. Let’s have more tales of reincamaoon, cndent magic, voodoo, vampires, and any^ng but those lousy detecdve stories that on e can get in any of several bad imitations of WT ^at are on die market. Your February number contains some very good tales, and one very bad one. Yvala by C L. Moore rates alongside of Shambleau in its simple though very striking desaiption and narrative. Moore consistently ^ves us top-notdi tales, and I for one vote him a rousing cheer for his efforts. Noth takes the rest of the field for a ride, and Nelson’s posthumous poem, Jorgds, rates third. The only story I definitdy did not like was Coils of the Silver Serpent. Even that would not have mated on my nerves so badly if only the hero had picked up some ex^ession to punctuate his Man Alive!’ with. I never got so tick of one word in my life as I did of the word 'man' in that story. 'Thanks for listening.”

Old-Time Weird Stories

Idward B. Smffh, of Hillsdale, Michigan, writES: "Since in the Eyrie you reouest readers’ opinions, I mi^ as well take mis c^porEM

ypiil 'l SOlUt STOMACH— BOWELS tlwRL| CAUSBO nr ovxb acidity

COLITIS

MUCOUS OR S R A ST t C

CNTROMUL )iM iatittied such a host ot users, &at we are gled to offer a FREE trial paclege end tllustreted booklet to people sincerely; interested. ENTROMUl is compounded of li^redients, all of which have been tested under clinical observatioA ^roughout the world and found to be effective in giucous or spastic Colitis of non specific origin and mtendant symptoms, such as: INOIOESTION, OAS. tLOATINO, CONSTIPATION and other STOMACH and INTESTINAL AGGRAVATIONS following diet abuse end eicess acid reactions within the digesfJve tract. ENTROMUL neutraliies excess acid: coating protects bowel end intestinal mucous membrenet adds easy moving mass to the bowel content: ab. sorbs sulphur gases and IVxic digestive by-productsi lessens need of hebif forming harsh cathartics and enemas. Send today for FREE Acquaintance peck^e of Entromul end lllustreted booklet. No obligation. Simply Address: ENTROMUL CO., Dept. K-e.

1M7 W« Washington Uvd., Let Angeles, Calitotnto

AKTUSSONS

BecoM Ttltaied AitisI witk Bt keeme

TMi tborcMtak eourM by AlaEBodar MarTBy. (amooB Art InBtructor. fn»kaa It aaay to Ifans asi a

BOBS At oacA— no waft&f for next leaapo. Ow 81S id* BtraoMoB iJluatrAttono. 125 Banea of drBWIiur papar

XS!lrS

fSTAKfaHa

and Bareaiti Book of CAMKRAB & BUPPLIBSI ExpUina iBtBBt Inveot^as znofbodt ' iq Fbotafpmphy a<^ Hooie MotIo Makliur Jforlan wid promt* OflacB

handNOB of snuu' “

InK BBCgBkhB In

IJamaraB, K^DBaa, FUina,ate.UMd

ISCNTRAl. CAMERA CO., Sot. 1099 SM 8. Wobaobe Dopt.2a74« CMcacOeU. 8.A.

DIRECT from FRANCE

Sara and curious French books translated inte Snsllsh. Ask for oor new Illustrated catalogue )usc Issued. Two sanuile books with our oatalogne toe Sl.OO bill. Catalogue only I5c <stamps). NOUVHIAUTBS PROtTVB, Bureau rastant, Pavillons-soudBols (Seine), FrancA

Get Acquainted Club

OonOdeatisd Introductions by letter, STembers la ovary State seeking oongental mates. Manr wealthy. It lonely, write

P. O. BOX IWl DHNVBB, COLORADO

' Tliis Huge Book Contains thel J Strangest S^tsand Weirdest! J Peoples on Earth! Strangel jLove and Marriage Custon^ JSacred Forbidden Places.! fSecret CannSnl Practices. Etc.j

AMERiciiN EXPioim sootn, 70 nm tVL, LT.

9 Please send me your FReg illustrated bradiiae ! on THE SeCKCT MUSEUM OF MAlSKIMh.

j .

i AddPe$5^



tuoi^ to cast one vote against detective stories; and in favor of more of your real old-time weirJ stories, with perhaps an occasional top-notch interplanetary yarn of really stirring pseudo-science (often, and quite improperly, dubbed scientific fiction) . On the whole, however, 1 want to compliment you on the job of editing you are doing. Tlie fact that my name has remained so long upon your subsaiption list shows that I am a satisfied customer: but more than that, I want to say that Weird Tales fills a niche in my reading that nothing else will satisfy, and I hope to continue enjoying it for many more years.”

About Our Covers

B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes: "As usual, I found the February Weird Tales very interesting. Your best stories were The Temple by Lovecraft, Yvala by Moore, Wife of the Dragon-fly by Ernst and The Hour of the Dragon by Howard. Coils of the Silver Serpent would have been O. K. in one of the many detective or adventure story magazines, but it certainly had no place in Weird Tales. Nom was a most unusual story with a startling climax, but I believe it could have been made much more effeaive if the author had condensed it somewhat. Congratulations, Henry Kuttner, on your Ball^ of the Gods. A darn good poem in any man’s language. It seems to me that your covers have been poorer of late. They seem to lack something of the artistry which they previously possessed. Your best recent cover illustrated The Avenger from Atlantis in last July’s issue. Your best cover of all time was by St. John, illustrating Golden Blood. Brundage is good, but I have never seen anyone capable of depirting the fantastic and imaginative as perfectly as St. JohiL He is in a class by himself. Am glad to see that Weird Tales continues on as a monthly, when other science-fiction magazines are going <mto a bi-monthly policy. Perhaps, in time. Weird Tales will eliminate all opposition and stand alone once more in the fantastic field. I, for one, hope so.”

Ooooh!

Gertrude Hemken, of Chicago, writes: "Uh-guh— ooh! I don’t lak snekks — speshly big ones, but I read Coils of the Silver Serpent anyhow. And was it great — or was it ? The narsty zoologist was so perfect

— even to being pot-bellied. I’m kinda disappointed in Mrs. Brundage’s cover conception of the story. 'The faces of the men don’t look so very natchrel-like and the girl’s eyes aren’t just so. Her (the artist’s) women are usually such perfect ideals — in my conception. Yvala was so surprizing — I hadn’t expeaed anything quite like it. She was something of a mirage — it’s there and it isn’t — now you see it now you don’t — ^presto — change — ^it’s magic! Such surprizes are welcome, C. L. Moore. Mean ole husband — serves him right for being slapped down as a spider in Wife of the Dragon-fly. I don’t like bugs. Conan is getting better 'n better. I always save that for the last, as I always save the best for the last, so that it can ^ thoroughly enjoyed. Norn is a werewolf tale I guess — and as such — ^my eyes were thaaaat big! The introduction of the cousin as a small yellow fox is a new one on me. The Temple, your reprint story, was a perfect portrayal of an arrogant Prussian. I know only too well their bold swaggering cruelty — my father is a Prussian and mere are many relatives — equally srabborn and bull-headed. My compliments to Mr. Lovecraft. 'The story itself was good, satisfying my morbid curiosity for undersea revelations and lost Atlantis. 'That’s all this time.”

What a Cover!

William Blackfort, of Hawaii, writes: ’’Have just received my copy of WT for January, and what a cover, what a cover! The Brundage covers are swell. I am colleaing them for my scrap-book. I now have ten of them. Have been reading WT since 1924. I left off for a while but found I was lost without my copy of good old WT. My favorite authors are Qark Ashton Smith, Seabury Quinn and Robert E. Howard, 1 do not care for the Doctor Satan stories at all ; they are not weird. Give me some stories of lycanthropy and vampires, something with tea l hor ror and chills. One of the best stories in WT recently was In a Graveyard by E. Binder, and The Way Home by Stern. Please don’t ruin WT by having space-ships or anything else on WT covers but the Brundage nudes or semi-nudes.”

Scarcer than Hens* Teeth

Grant Vail Wallace, of Berkeley, California, writes: "I haven’t missed an issue of WT since 1930, and hope I never have to. As you know, iMck issues other than those



you ofFer for sale are scarcer dian hens’ teeth.

. . . Here’s a nice big bunch of sure-enough, non<arnivorous terrestrial orchids to C. L. Moore for Yvala and all the other lovely bits of imagery from his prolific brain. . , . Am not so sure about featuring Coils of the Silver Serpent. It seems that a pot-bellied zoologist with high heels was lugging an anaconda around in a trunk, and siccing him onto vatious poor, innocent people for no reason at all, by aid of some imaginary ophidian catnip (or snake-nip!). He was run to earth, somehow or other, by a dumb egg of an Irish cop with Semitic features and a vocabulary of two words: 'Man, di man!’ If Mr. Parkhill ever sees this, he’ll probably challenge me to a duel”

Northwest Smith, Conan, de Grandin

Edgar Hurd writes from CCC headquarters at Sacramento, California: "I have just finished the February issue and I wish to salute you for the good work. I have long cherished Weird Tales as the best fiction magazine on the market and each issue seems to bear out my belief. I much enjoyed die fliird installment of The Hour of the Dragon by Robert E. Howard; Conan is one of my favorite characters. May we have adventures of Conan until doomsday. I’ll never get tired of him. The reprint by Lovecraft, The Tent’ pie, was a masterpiece. It goes along so mildly but with strange under-currents you do not quite see; then all of a sudden it ends and it almost knocks one over. Why don’t we have more of Lovecraft? I bow down and bump my forehead on the floor to C L. Moore. I must say that Moore’s character. Northwest Smith, is superb. Yvala was a story that will remain in my mind long. I grant it 'first place in the issue, it was great. I again put in my appeal for fantastic and strange stories, like The Cold Gray God and Yvala by Moore, The Six Sleepers by Hamilton, and Vulthoom by C. A. Smith. I do not like stories of vampires, werewolves and other stories on that order. ... I enjoyed Satan in Exile by Bernal ; give us more like it, but keep them weird or fantastic. I also enjoy the Doctor Satan series, but don’t let Paul Ernst get into a rut. 'They have been weird and different so far; may fliey stay that way! Don’t let any readers try to knex^ the Conan stories on the count dm they are not weird. In their scene of action and events they are sheerest fantasy, and the humanness

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WORTH WATCHING

Agents Wanted

BIO HONBV APPLVINO GOLD INTTIALS on Automobiles. Easiest thing today. No experience needed. Free samples. "RALOO," WT— 1084 Washlngtan, Boston, Maas.

Business Opportunities

DOLLARS DAILY I OPERATE PROFITABLE

Home Mall Order Business. Details. W. Duffy Co.. Covington, Ky.

SELL BY MAILI BOOKS, NOVELTIESI BABgainsl Big profits! Particulars Free! K. ELFOO, 625 South Dearborn, Chicago. .

Correspondence

IXINESOME? Make friends through our Letter Club, many whom you would be pleas^ to know. Send lor our Magazine to Ekustem Agency (22), Brldgeport. Conn.

Female Help Wanted

ADDRESS ENVELOPES AT HOME SPARE TDOB.

weekly. Experience unnecessary. Send stamp for particulars. Hawkins, Box 7S-7S, Hammond, Ind.

Miscellaneous

BUCCESBFin. BRAINS, THE GUIDE TO A FULL pocketbook. New ideas, original business plans. Money making secrets and much valuable information. Free particulars. OR£(X>NSER. 420 E. Jarrett, Portland. Oreg.

MONEV MAKING SECRETS EXPOSED. Shows the way to freedom from wage slavery. Points the way to prosperity. 60c. Getz, 127 Brick St, Dickson, Pa.

POCKET GOODS — Adults write lor descriptive chculars. Frank Shilling, 1017-S Dueber, Canton, Ohio.

Personal

LONESOME— BOOK OF PHOTOS AND DESCRIPtions of wealthy members sent free in plain wrapper. The Exchange, AE-3827 Main. Kansas City, Ma

LONESOME? Join Old reliable correspondence club.' (Established 1924.) Nationwide mesnbersMp. (Ck)nfldaitlal.) Dependable, personal service. Some Christian, wealthy members. Free particulars, list, photos, testimonials, descriptions sealed. (Write.) Lois X.. Reeder, Box 549, Palestine, Texas.

LOVABLE LADY, romantic, with money, craves friendship. Won't you please write? Gladys Fora S-CIub, Oxford, Fla.

LONELY? Join reliable church Get Together Club. (9th year.) Select friends for you. (Confidential. Stamp, age. Rev. Jones, Box 2359, Kansas City, Mo.

MARRY BICH. 2(X) Girls’ addresses, photos, d.OO. 100, 50c. 50, 2Sc. Voxco, B-933-F, Denver.

FOB AN AFFECTIONATE, WEALTHY SWEETHEART, write: Mary Lee, 445-W. BoUa, Missouri.

FOB A LOVELY, CHUMMY PAL, write Nancy Bell, Box 773, Philadelphia, Pa. (Stamp, please.)

HARRY RICH. Send 10c for photos and P. O. addresses of rich and beautiful women desiring marriage. Jane Fuller Club, Box 18^, Milwaukee, Wls.

REFINED GENTLEMAN with money wants sweetheart Martin Rowan, Box 1797, MOwaukae, Wis.

Subscribe to Weird Tales



of Conan makes them so much the better. I dtso enjoy the Jules de Grandin adventures. Hurrah for the little Frenchman!”

A New Canadian Reader R. C R. Taunton, of Montreal, writes; '"I am not an old reader like some ; in faa I was lust initiated into reading Weird Tales in the January issue. 1 certainly think they are sweU. The more weird the story the letter I like k. For my first selection 1 think A Wvat from the Grave deserves high honors; ules de Grandin is a lovable character. Next choose Horror Insured, and as I'm thinking of continuing to read Weird Tales, I hope to see more of Ascott Keane and Doctor Sataa. Next I think comes The Satin Mask, simply because it’s creepy. . . . 'The weird story reprint, Da^on, was pretty good, but I like the long stories beuet, and I don't care much for seriab.”

Smithy Jirely Conaziy et aL

'A. Coffey, of Nehalem, Oregon, writes: "Once more 1 want to express my appreciation for Weird Tales. I have read each issue for years and although they are often hard to get in the northwest logging camps 1 get my WT some way, often by money order. I do like the stories by C. L. Moore; Northwest Smith and Jirel of Joiry are very hitetestifig characters. And always, the Conan stories by Howard are very entertaining. His short stories about the barbarian are really the best. We all love Jirel of Joiry and admite the mighty Conan, while Northwest Smith takes us into the days of the future^"

Dru^ed or Half Asleep Joseph Robinsky, Jr., of Elizabeth, New Jersey, writes: 'T am amazed, even insulted. How conld you thrust sudi an imbecile thing as Co^s of the Silver Serpent on the readers of Wkbd Tales? Really, editor, you must have been drugged or half asleep when you let such tripe get into your magazine. It wasn't worth taking the time to read. I have always defended the high standard of Weird Tal^ stories; I certainly would be embarrassed if my word happened to be tested by a reading of your latest cwtrage. The title was altc^cther mbleading, It was a typical Wauto Tales title and I had expeaed the story to be of the same nature. Instead, I found it to be an inane ‘thriller’ written in a cheap and slangy style. The expressions, ‘Man,’ ‘Man alive,' etc., were so often repeated that thw became trite and tedious, obvious signs of poor writing. The use of a profane phrase, as: 'Drive like hell,’ only further cheapens your magazine. What has happened to your immaculate policy? Are you becoming lax or merely trying to oomr pete with the trashy magazmes and descend to their level?”

The Dark Land

JuOus Hopkins, of Washington, D. C,

[THE END]

============================================================
COVER DESIGN M
by Brundage
============================================================
writes: "The Dark Land by C. L. Moore is utterly different from anything 1 have ever read. It almost ranks with Shambleau, and that's saying a lot. A story would certainly have to be super-excellent to rate on a par with Shambleau, for that story b a cla^ic that will prdsably remain unequaled for an indefinite length of time. Horror Insured by Paul Ernst is a Doctor Satan story that b truly weird. If the forthcoming tales of this secies are free of unusual scientific devices, as thb one is, I will eagerly welcome thenu’*

Pointed Paragraphs

Henry Kuttner, of Beverly Hilb, California, writes: "The February bsue b exedLlent, with C. L. Moore, H. P. Lovecraft, and Monet’s grand Norn stealing the honors. Ernst’s yarn, too, was really dever. What's happen^ to Robert Bloch ? Surely he hasn’t petexed out after such an auspidous startl I also missed Derleth, one of my favorites.” {[No, neither Bloch nor Derleth has petered out. Both are r^resented in this issue, and we have some excellent tales by them Kheduled for early bsues. — The Editor. J

James G. Merriman, of Dyersburg, Tennessee, writes: ‘“nie February reprint. The Temple, by H. P. Lovecraft, was second onlf to RcJ^uc B. Howard’s The Hour of the Dragon, in die same issue. I like anything with even the faintest whiff of archeolc^ ia it. It sort of gives me a feeling of revta-- ence, lonesomeness, homesickness and awe. My only kick is that the author stopped outside the Tanple, and let the German go ia and have all the real thrills alone.”

Thompson Youngs of Kalamazoo, Michigan, writes; 'May I ask why in the name of the combined gods of Lord Dunsany, H. P. Lovecraft and James Branch Cabell you printed Coils of the Silver S^pent ot The Blue Womans I cannot imagine anyone's finding them weird — Tm sorry, bur as a de^ TOtee m Wbibd Tales such stories give «e



a fearful let-down. Of course Norn and Yvala and The Temple were enough to make an unusually fine issue, and The Hour of the Dragon is proceeding splendidly.”

Robert A. Madle, of Philadelphia, writes: "Although Coils of the Silver Serpent was an excellent story, it did not belong in Weird Tales. It was written well, but 1 did not find a solitary weird episode in the entire story. The other stories were all good, especially Yvala by C. L. Moore.”

F. P. O’Connor, of Philadelphia, writes: "In the February issue, Conan was good, as usual. Yt'ij/ia was Moore at his best. Coils of the Silver Serpent was purely a detective story with a pseudo-weird atmosphere; it had nice aaion, though.”

Pugh C. Smith, of Los Angeles, writes: "I have been a constant reader of Weird Tales for more than ten years, and the magaaine continues to intrigue me. Seldom have 1 read a story in your magazine that did not appeal to me. Even the poetry is so entirely different from that found in most of the other magazines, that it is in a class all to kself."

Valerie L. Schultz, of Chicago, writes: "Coils of the Silver Serpent, by Forbes Parkhill, was grand. Give us more of his work. I would also appreciate some more voodoo stories.”

Blonds vs. Redheads

Lillian Kaltz, of Philadelphia, writes: "M. Brundage, I have a bone to pick with you — most of your girls are blonds. Why don’t you give the redheads a break? In the last two years (I’m a covet coUeaor — so 1 know) you have done maybe three redheads. I’m tired of seeing pale golden beauties and would like to see some mming-haired or dark ones for a change. The February installment of The Hour of the Dragon is the best 1 have ever read; and that Conan is truly a superman.”

A Superb Issue

T. Torbett, of Marlin, Texas, writes: "I’ve just read with appreciation the February issue of WT. As far as I am concerned, a story each month by C. L. Moore and Robert E. Howard would constitute a complete issue. Howard’s Hour of the Dragon is superb and so was Moore’s Yvala. Moore’s The Dark Land in the January number I also found to be of excellent literary quality and 1 liked the author’s accompanying illustramXT MONTH

The Devil's Double

By Paul Ernst

TT ERE is the most thrilling tale yet -*• written about that strange genius of crime who boastfully calls himself Doctor Satan — the world’s weirdest criminal.

^"T^his is a tale that will hold you spellbound, a tale of the ghastly Blue Death, and the underground cave where Doctor Satan and his minions scheme to release madness onto the peaceful streets of Louisville. This gripping and powerful story will be printed complete

in the May issue of

WEffiD TALES

on sale May 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCmPTION OFFER. (You save 26c)

WKIRD TALKS,

940 N. Mlriiisaa Chica^ 111.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next five issues uf WEIRD TALES to begin with the May issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.)

Name

Address

City State


.WEIRD TALES

tion also. I might also add that I like Seabury Quino, Clark Ashton Smith, Paul Ernst, Frank Owen and most all authors who contribute to WT."

Hair-raising Stories M. H. Darter, of Chicago, writes: "'Weiro Tali^ is my favorite magazine. I especially like hair-raising stories such as The Hour of the Dragon, by Robert E. Howard. I think the most truly interesting story of the December issue is Dancing Feet by Paul Ernst. The Hedge, while not exactly a weird tale to my notion, was certainly very good and quite well written. I could go on and on, but suffice it to say that I enjoy every bit of your OMigazine/'

The February Stories John V. Baltadonis, of PhiladelfAia, writes: “Having just finished the February issue I wish to make the following comments on it, First of all, the cover was excellent, I liked die violet background very much. Two stories. Wife of the Dragon-fly and Norn, in my estimation, tied for first place, with Ypaia doscly following. Coils of the SUver Serpent was not so good. In the first place ffiere was no weird plot in the story; in the second place, if one did not read Horn, Yvald and the others, he would think that he was reading an ordinary mystery thriller magaziae. In other words. I'm trying to tell you that Hiat story doesn’t belong in Weird Talbs, Ihc rfiort stories were all fine. . . .

I am looking forward to more stories about Jules de Grandin. I also look forward to more stories by Edmond Hamilton such as The Avenger from Atlantis and The Six Sleepers."

A Reader for Twelve Years Getty B. Cadi, of Gaffney, South Carolina, writes: “Have been reading Weird Tales for twelve years and take pl^ure in saying that I believe that the January issue is the best I have read yet (and that is saying plenty), because every story in it has that weird and interesting nature which makes WT unique and superior to all other magazines. Keep the good work up. My favorite stories are A Rival from the Grave by Seabury Quinn, Horror Insured, and The Hour of the Dragon. The rest are not fat behind, and as long as you continue to print stories like these 1 will continue to read Weird Tales. The cover designs are very artistic and beautiful. By all means let M. Brundage continue to give us pictures of beautiful girls, nude or otherwise, on the backs of our magazine.”

Your Favorite Story Readers, let us know whidi stories you like best in this issue. Write a letter, or fill out the coupon at the bottom of this page, and mail it to the Eyrie, Weird Tales. Your favorite story in the January issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was Yvala, C. t. Moore's utterly fantastic and imaginative story of Northwest Smith..

( 2 );.

( 3 ).

(!)•

( 2 )-

I do not like the following storiest Why?

It will help us to know what kind of xeries you want in Wbird Tales if you win fiU out this coupon and mail it to ITic Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Avc., Chicago, 111.

Reader's name and address:

W.T.— 8

NUDISM EXPOSED

At last the inside facts about the nudist movement. Tolls the truth about nudists, their aims, their hopes, and their practices. Explains effects on modesty, health, emotions and morals. Only book of its kind. Price. 10c.

POPULAR FORMULAS Ten thousand receipts, formulas and processes telling how to make cement, inks, paints, waterproofing, cosmetics, extracts, hair preparations, perfumes, soaps, liquors, etc. Start a business of your own. 809 pages.

Price. $4.00.

MODERN LOVE LETTERS Contains 4 7 model love letters covering almost every conceivable situation from the first acquaintance to marriage — letters of invitation, reqtiest for photograph, proposal of marriage, patching up a quarrel. sending and acknowledging gifts, etc. Most complete manual of its kind ever published. Gives confidential advice, explains how to make your love letters fairly breathe love. Price, 25c.

SCIENCE OF HYPNOTISM

Learn the secrets of this magic power. Overcome all obstacles, make people obey your commands, strengthen your memory, develop a strong magnetic personality, banish fear and worry, increase your salary, etc. Discusses mesmerism. magnetic healing, mental telepathy. 265 pages. Price, $1.98.

SEX AND MARRIAGE

Answers all your questions about love and sex such as : Sexual Magnetism, True Love vs. Sexual Love, Sex Determination. Birth Control. Frigidity. SelfAbuse, Venereal Diseases. Prostitution, Organs of Reproduction. Pregnancy, etc. 256 pages, 32 chapters, vividly illustrated. Clear, scientific. Price. $1.98

AMONG THE NUDISTS

Frank answers to queslion.s Nudism has raised. Intimate experiences of young American man and woman who tried it. Tells truth about motive, mixed companions, eifeots on modesty, health and emotion. 22 unchanged photographs.

Price, $1.00.

25 LESSONS IN HYPNOTISM

Tells in simple language how to hypnotise, how to produce sleep, how to awaken a subject, magnetic healing, telepathy, mind reading, mesmerism, thought transference, etc. Illustrated.

r^ice, 25c.

DECAMERON TALES

The classic of the ages ! Boccaccio exposes human life and love as it existed in the 14thCentury Italy. Once forbidden — now awaiting to thrill you. Most vivid picture of human passions that can be painted In words. 256 pages. Price. 39c. FRENCH LOVE _

AND PASSION Collection of ten most thrilling stories ever written by Guy de Maupassant, the famous French author. He deals with love and passion in a way that no other author ever dared. His tales abound in vivid characterization. startling dramatic incidents and intense emotional power.

He grips like a vise. He stirs the blood. He gladdens. saddens, fascinates, thrills, baffles, intrigues, and excites as no other writer has done before or since. Each story is complete, faithfully translated, absolutely unexpurgated. Price, 25c.

ONE OF CLEOPATRA’S NIGHTS

Intimate account of a night of orgy spent by Cleopatra and Meiamoun, a young Egyptian. Cleopatra was the heiress of legalized license, cultured sensuality and refined cruelty. With her auburn hair and languorous eyes, a sweet breath, a slender, seductive body. Cleopatra wa.s an enchantress of men. To know the real Cleopatra, you must read this book. Price, 25c.

10c Bargains

Size 4x5 inches, 64 pages, bound in attractive colored covers. Price lOc each; 6 for 50c or 12 for $1.00.

How to Make Love

Book of Flirtations

Up-to-Date Letter Writer

Popular Toasts

Ventriloquism Manual

Fortune Telling by Cards

How to Play Checkers

The Pinochle Primer

145 Parlor Games

How to Entertain Guests

153 Parlor Tricks

84 New Card Tricks

Book of 596 Riddles

Egyptian Dream Book

Vaudeville Jokes

200 Baffling Puzzles

Book of Coin Tricks

Magic Made Easy

.Burlesque Jokes

THE ART OF KISSING

One of the most unusual books ever published. Discusses origin of kissing, why kissing is pleasant, how to kiss, how to handle the girl who claws and struggles, kissing parties, different kinds of kisses, etc. Price, 25c.

10,000 DREAMS INTERPRETED

What do your dreams mean? Does he love you? Will you be lucky? Will you be married soon? Will you be rich? This book gives the meaning of 10,000 different dreams. Take no chances 1 Heed your dreams. 617 pages. Price. $1.25.

NERVE CONTROL Are you timid? Bashful? Selfconscious? Do your fears, emotions, moods, likes and dislikes control your actions? Don’t be miserable, unhappy — just because you lack nerve control. Gain new courage, new daring, new self - confidence with this book. Price, 75c.

BOOK OF ETIQUETTE What to do. what to say, what to write, what to wear — under all conditions. Covers wedding etiquette, street etiquette. dinner etiquette, dance etiquette; answers endless questions. Gives you poise, ease, dignity, self-confidence. Price, $ 1 . 00 .

LOVE LIFE OF A FRENCH MISTRESS

An intimate account of the love life of Nana, a French Mistress who lived by her wits and physical charm. The whole gay life of Paris is laid before you — from the lowest dens of despicable vices to the smart homes on the boulevards. Written as only Emil Zola, the famous French author, knows how to.

Price, $1.00,

SEND NO MONEY

You don’t need to send one cent with your order. Just pay postman when books arrive. However, if you do send your money with your order, you save the small PostofTice collection charges. Remittance must accompany all orders under 50c. No. C.O.D. shipments sent outside of the United States. Satisfaction guaranteed or your money refunded.

84 CARD TRICKS

Latest and most mystifying card tricks now explained in new, illustrated hook.

Tells how to make the "pass.” deceptive shuffles, forcing a card, etc. Be popular at parties or earn money in spare time. Price, 10c.

GENUINE MEDIUMSHIP

Explains various methods, for

developing occult power. Discusses Trances, Inspirational Speaking, Spirit Rappings.

Trumpet Talking. Slate Writing, Table Tilting, Public Seances, etc. Price, $1.98.

ASTROLOGICAL READINGS Were you born under a lucky star? What is your greatest desire — money, success in love, marriage or business? Our DeLuxe Readings reveal your character, talents, suitable occupation, congenial life partner, etc. Let your Star of Destiny guide you. Send birthday for trial reading of over 2000 words. Price, 10c.

MODERN BALLROOM) DANCING How to learn all the modern dances — latest Tango steps. Fox Trots, dreamy Waltzes, smart Collegiate, and Society Steps at home, easily and quickly. New chart method makes dancing simple as A-B-C.

256 pages. Price,

$1.98.

LOVE AND MARRIAaE

Turns spot-light on most intimate relations of men and women. Tells how to win in love, seem of sex attractions, reviving dead love, "borrowing" nusbands, problems of infidelity, popping the question, magnetic personality, physical compatibility. how to stay alluring, the gold digger, love letters, questions and answers, etc. 256 pages, 16 chapters. Price. 39e.

CHARACTER READING FROM HANDWRITING

Explains how to analyze any handwriting and tell characteristics of your friends. Price, 25o.

FRANKLIN PUBLISHING COMPANY

800 NORTH CLARK STREET - - DEPT. G-200

CHICAGO, ILL.

SHAKESPEARE LIVES AGAIN

— ■ in new modern book-magazine form

# the features :

Press Comment

Shakespeare’s Plays In Magazine Form

A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM By W illiam Shakespeare. Edited by Farnsworth Wright. Chicago: Wright’s Shakespeare Library, 35 cents.

H ere is a brand-new idea in publishing the Shakespeare plays, this being the first of the series. In this magazine-like publication, the complete authentic text is printed in large and beautiful type on good paper with ample margin, with 25 drawings by Virgil Finlay. The purpose is to make Shakespeare as attraaive to everybody as he should be. Both the editor and the illustrator are Shakespeare enthusiasts, and they are realizing a life-long dream in thus presenting the plays in the most readable form at a popular price. Only the spelling and the punctuation have been modernized, and at the end there is a glossary and a series of comments.

— The Columbus Dispatch.

A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM. By William Shakespeare. Wright’s Shakespeare Library. A de luxe edition with authentic text, large print and 25 excellent illustrations.

— The Milwaukee Journal.

A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM. By William Shakespeare. Magazine form edition. Wright’s Shakespeare Library, Chicago, 35 cents.

An edition of the classic at a price within reach of all. Authentic text, lavish illustrations, good paper, designed to sell on the magazine stands.

— Tampa Morning Tribune.

• A de luxe edition.

• Twenty-five exquisite illustrations.

• Complete and most authentic text.

• Large, graceful type.

• Ample artistic margins.

• Good book paper.

• Modernized spelling and punctuation.

• Attractive cover design.

• Only 35 cents.

• A beautiful Shakespeare you will be , proud to own.

A Midsummer Mghts Dream

hi WILLIAM SKAXCSPEARE

WRIGHT'S SHAKESPEARE LIBRARY

Illustrated

Edition

Now on sale

35c

Wright's Shakespeare Library

840 North Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois, U. S.A,

[THE END]
