============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 25, Number 3
Date: March 1935
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Jewels  of  Gwahlur Robert  E" by Howard
  2. "The  Sealed  Casket  . . . . ’ Richard  F" by Searight
  3. "small  platform  covered  with  an  embroidered handkerchief" by The  boys  were  chanting in  a higher  and  livelier  tone  than
============================================================
============================================================
by Howard
============================================================
of strength I possessed into that throttling grip.

"For Joan!” I gasped, digging my blunt fingers deeper into his gullet.

When they pried me loose, he was dead.

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

The tale of a weird, fmgle-hidden palace and a strange weird people — and the marvelous sacred jewels that were known as the Teeth of Gwahlur.

1. Paths of Intrigue

The cliffs rose sheer from the jungle, towering ramparts of stone that glinted jade-blue and dull crimson in the rising sun, and curved

away and away to east and west above the waving emerald ocean of fronds and leaves. It looked insurmountable, that giant palisade with its sheer curtains of solid rock in which bits of quartz winked dazzlingly in the sunlight. But




the man who was working his tedious way upward was already half-way to the top.

He came of a race of hillmen, accustomed to scaling forbidding crags, and he was a man of unusual strength and agility. His only garment was a pair of short red silk breeks, and his sandals were slung to his back, out of his way, as were his sword and dagger.

The man was powerfully built, supple as a panther. His skin was bronzed by the sun, his square-cut black mane confined by a silver band about his temples. His iron muscles, quick eyes and sure feet served him well here, for it was a climb to test these qualities to the utmost. A hundred and fifty feet below him waved the jungle. An equal distance above him the rim of the cliffs was etched against the morning sky.

He labored like one driven by the necessity of haste; yet he was forced to move at a snail’s pace, clinging like a fly on a wall. His groping hands and feet found niches and knobs, precarious holds at best, and sometimes he virtually hung by his finger nails. Yet upward he went, clawing, squirming, fighting for every foot. At times he paused to rest his aching muscles, and, shaking the sweat out of his eyes, twisted his head to stare searchingly out over the jungle, combing the green expanse for any trace of human life or motion.

Now the summit was not far above him, and he observed, only a few feet above his head, a break in the sheer stone of the cliff. An instant later he had reached it — a small cavern, just below the edge of the rim. As his head rose above the lip of its floor, he grunted. He clung there, his elbows hooked over the lip. The cave was so tiny that it was little more than a niche cut in the stone, but it held an occupant. A shriveled brown mummy, aoss-legged, arms folded on the withered breast upon which the shrunken head was sunk, sat in the little cavern. The limbs were bound in place with rawhide thongs which had become mere rotted wisps. If the form had ever been clothed, the ravages of time had long ago reduced the garments to dust. But thrust between the crossed arms and the shrunken breast there was a roll of parchment, yellowed with age to the color of old ivory.

The climber stretched forth a long arm and wrenched away this cylinder. Without investigation he thrust it into his girdle and hauled himself up until he was standing in the opening of the niche. A spring upward and he caught the rim of the cliffs and pulled himself up and over almost with the same motion.

There he halted, panting, and stared downward.

It was like looking into the interior of a vast bowl, rimmed by a circular stone wall. The floor of the bowl was covered with trees and denser vegetation, though nowhere did the growth duplicate the jungle denseness of the outer forest. The cliffs marched around it without a break and of uniform height. It was a freak of nature, not to be paralleled, perhaps, in the whole world: a vast natural amphitheater, a circular bit of forested plain, three or four miles in diameter, cut off from the rest of the world, and confined widiin the ring of those palisaded cliffs.

But the man on the cliffs did not devote his thoughts to marveling at the topographical phenomenon. With tense eagerness he searclied the tree-tops below him, and exhaled a gusty sigh when he caught the glint of marble domes amidst the twinkling green. It was no myth, then; below him lay the fabulous and deserted palace of Alkmeenon.

Conan the Cimmerian, late of the Barachan Isles, of the Black Coast, and of



many other climes where life ran wild, had come to the kingdom of Keshan following the lure of a fabled treasure that outshone the hoard of the Turanian kings.

Keshan was a barbaric kingdom lying in the eastern hinterlands of Kush where the broad grasslands merge with the forests that roll up from the south. The people were a mixed race, a dusky nobility ruling a population that was largely pure negro. The rulers — princes and high priests — claimed descent from a white race which, in a mythical age, had ruled a kingdom whose capital city was Alkmeenon. Confliaing legends sought to explain the reason for that race’s eventual downfall, and the abandonment of the city by the survivors. Equally nebulous were the tales of the Teeth of Gwahlur, the treasure of Alkmeenon. But these misty legends had been enough to bring Conan to Keshan, over vast distances of plain, river-laced jungle, and mountains.

He had found Keshan, which in itself was considered mythical by many northern and western nations, and he had heard enough to confirm the rumors of the treasure that men called the Teeth of Gwahlur. But its hiding-place he could not learn, and he was confronted with the necessity of explaining his presence in Keshan. Unattached strangers were not welcome there.

But he was not nonplussed. With cool assurance he made his oflfer to the stately, plumed, suspicious grandees of the barbarically magnificent court. He was a professional fighting-man. In search of employment (he said) he had come to Keshan. For a price he would train the armies of Keshan and lead them against Punt, their hereditary enemy, whose recent successes in the field had aroused the fury of Keshan’s irascible king.

This proposition was not so audacious as it might seem. Conan’s fame had preceded him, even into distant Keshan; his exploits as a chief of the black corsairs, those wolves of the southern coasts, had made his name known, admired and feared throughout the black kingdoms. He did not refuse tests devised by the dusky lords. Skirmishes along the borders were incessant, aflfording the Cimmerian plenty of opportunities to demonstrate his ability at hand-to-hand fighting. His reckless ferocity impressed the lords of Keshan, already aware of his reputation as a leader of men, and the prospects seemed favorable. All Conan secretly desired was employment to give him legitimate excuse for remaining in Keshan long enough to locate the hidingplace of the Teeth of Gwahlur. Then there came an interruption. Thutmekri came to Keshan at the head of an embassy from Zembabwei.

Thutmekri was a Stygian, an adventurer and a rogue whose wits had recommended him to the twin kings of the great hybrid trading kingdom which lay many days’ march to the east. He and the Cimmerian knew each other of old, and without love. Thutmekri likewise had a proposition to make to the king of Keshan, and it also concerned the conquest of Punt — which kingdom, incidentally, lying east of Keshan, had recently expelled the Zembabwan traders and burned their fortresses.

His offer outweighed even the prestige of Conan. He pledged himself to invade Punt from the east with a host of black spearmen, Shemitish archers, and mercenary swordsmen, and to aid the king of Keshan to annex the hostile kingdom. The benevolent kings of Zembabwei desired only a monopoly of the trade of Keshan and her tributaries — and, as a pledge of good faith, some of the Teeth of Gwahlur. These would be put to no base usage, Thutmekri hastened to explain to the suspicious chieftains; they



would be placed in the temple of Zembabwei beside the squat gold idols of Dagon and Derketo, sacred guests in the holy shrine of the kingdom, to seal the covenant between Keshan and Zembabwei. This statement brought a savage grin to Conan’s hard lips.

The Cimmerian made no attempt to match wits and intrigue with Thutmekri and his Shemitish partner, Zargheba. He knew that if Thutmekri won his point, he would insist on the instant banishment of his rival. There was but one thing for Conan to do: find the jewels before the king of Keshan made up his mind, and flee with them. But by this time he was certain that they were not hidden in Keshia, the royal city, which was a swarm of thatched huts crowding about a mud wall that enclosed a palace of stone and mud and bamboo.

While he fumed with nervous impatience, the high priest Gorulga announced that before any decision could be reached, the will of the gods must be ascertained concerning the proposed alliance with Zembabwei and the pledge of objects long held holy and inviolate. The oracle of Alkmeenon must be consulted.

This was an awesome thing, and it caused tongues to wag excitedly in palace and bee-hive hut. Not for a century had the priests visifed the silent city. 'The oracle, men said, was the Princess Yelaya, the last ruler of Alkmeenon, who had died in the full bloom of her youth and beauty, and whose body had miraculously remained unblemished throughout the ages. Of old, priests had made their way into the haunted city, and she had taught them wisdom. The last priest to seek the oracle had been a wicked man, who had sought to steal for himself the curiously cut jewels that men called the Teeth of Gwahlur. But some doom had come upon him in the deserted palace, from which his acolytes, fleeing, had told tales of

horror that had for a hundred years frightened the priests from the city and the oracle.

But Gorulga, the present high priest, as one confident in his knowledge of his own integrity, announced that he would go with a handful of followers to revive the ancient custom. And in the excitement tongues buzzed indiscreetly, and Conan caught the clue for which he had sought for weeks — the overheard whisper of a lesser priest that sent the Cimmerian stealing out of Keshia the night before the dawn when the priests were to start.

Riding hard as he dared for a night - and a day and a night, he came in the early dawn to the cliffs of Alkmeenon, which stood in the southwestern corner of the kingdom, amidst uninhabited jungle which was taboo to common men. None but the priests dared approach the haunted vale within a distance of many miles. And not even a priest had entered Alkmeenon for a hundred years.

No man had ever climbed these cliffs, legends said, and none but the priests knew the secret entrance into the valley. Conan did not waste time looking for it. Steeps that balked these black people, horsemen and dwellers of plain and level forest, were not impossible for a man born in the rugged hills of Cimmeria.

Now on the summit of the cliffs he looked down into the circular valley and wondered what plague, war or superstition had driven the members of that ancient white race forth from their stronghold to mingle with and be absorbed by the black tribes that hemmed them in.

This valley had been their citadel. 'There the palace stood, and there only the royal family and their court dwelt. The real city stood outside the cliffs. Those waving masses of green jungle vegetation hid its ruins. But the domes that glistened in the leaves below him



were the unbroken pinnacles of the royal palace of Alkmeenon which had defied the corroding ages.

Swinging a leg over the rim he went down swiftly. The inner side of the cliffs was more broken, not quite so sheer. In less than half the time it had taken him to ascend the outer side, he dropped to the swarded valley floor.

With one hand on his sword, he looked alertly about him. There was no reason to suppose men lied when they said that Alkmeenon was empty and deserted, haunted only by the ghosts of the dead past. But it was Conan’s nature to be suspicious and wary. The silence was primordial; not even a leaf quivered on a branch. When he bent to peer under the trees, he saw nothing but the marching rows of trunks, receding and receding into the blue gloom of the deep woods.

Nevertheless he went warily, sword in hand, his restless eyes combing the shadows from side to side, his springy tread making no sound on the sward. All about him he saw signs of an ancient civilization; marble fountains, voiceless and crumbling, stood in circles of slender trees whose patterns were too symmetrical to have been a chance of nature. Forestgrowth and underbrush had invaded the evenly planned groves, but their outlines were still visible. Broad pavements ran away under the trees, broken, and with grass growing through the wide cracks. He glimpsed walls with ornamental copings, lattices of carven stone that might once have served as the walls of pleasure pavilions.

Ahead of him, through the trees, the domes gleamed and the bulk of the structure supporting them became more apparent as he advanced. Presently, pushing through a screen of vine-tangled branches, he came into a comparatively open space where the trees straggled, unencumbered by undergrowth, and saw before him the wide, pillared portico of the palace.

As he mounted the broad marble steps, he noted that the building was in far better state of preservation than the lesser structures he had glimpsed. The thick walls and massive pillars seemed too powerful to crumble before the assault of time and the elements. The same enchanted quiet brooded over all. The catlike pad of his sandaled feet seemed startlingly loud in the stillness.

Somewhere in this palace lay the efiigy or image which had in tunes past served as oracle for the priests of Keshan. And somewhere in the palace, unless that indiscreet priest had babbled a lie, was hidden the treasure of the forgotten kings of Alkmeenon.

CONAN passed into a broad, lofty hall, lined with tall columns, between which arches gaped, their doors long rotted away. He traversed this in a twilight dimness, and at the other end passed through great double-valved bronze doors which stood partly open, as they might have stood for centuries. He emerged into a vast domed chamber which must have served as audience hall for the kings of Alkmeenon.

It was octagonal In shape, and the great dome up to which the lofty ceiling curved obviously was cunningly pierced, for the chamber was much better lighted than the hall which led to it. At the farther side of the great room there rose a dais with broad lapis-lazuli steps leading up to it, and on that dais there stood a massive chair with ornate arms and a high back which once doubtless supported a cloth-of-gold canopy. Conan grunted explosively and his eyes lit. The golden throne of Alkmeenon, named in immemorial legendry! He weighed it with a practised eye. It represented a fortune in



itself, if he were but able to bear it away. Its richness fired his imagination concerning the treasure itself, and made him bum with eagerness. His fingers itched to plunge among the gems he had heard described by story-tellers in the market squares of Keshia, who repeated tales handed down from mouth to mouth through the centuries — jewels not to be duplicated in the world, mbies, emeralds, diamonds, bloodstones, opals, sapphires, the loot of the ancient world.

He had expected to find the oracleeffigy seated on the throne, but since it was not, it was probably placed in some other part of the palace, if, indeed, such a thing really existed. But since he had turned his face toward Keshan, so many myths had proved to be realities that he did not doubt that he would fimd some kind of image or god.

Behind the throne there was a narrow arched doorway which doubtless had been masked by hangings in the days of Alkmeenon’s life. He glanced through it and saw that it let into an alcove, empty, and with a narrow corridor leading off from it at right angles. Turning away from it, he spied another arch to the left of the dais, and it, unlike the others, was furnished with a door. Nor was it any common door. The portal was of the same rich metal as the throne, and carved with many curious arabesques.

At his touch it swung open so readily that its hinges might recently have been oiled. Inside he halted, staring.

He was in a square chamber of no great dimensions, whose marble walls rose to an ornate ceiling, inlaid with gold. Gold friezes ran about the base and the top of the walls, and there was no door other than the one through which he had entered. But he noted these details mechanically. His whole attention was centered on the shape which lay on an ivory dais before him.

He had expected an image, probably carved with the skill of a forgotten art. But no art could mimic the perfection of the figure that lay before him.

It was no effigy of stone or metal or ivory. It was the actual body of a woman, and by what dark art the ancients had preserved that form unblemished for so many ages Conan could not even guess. The very garments she wore were intact — and Conan scowled at that, a vague uneasiness stirring at the back of his mind. The arts that preserved the body should not have affected the garments. Yet there they were — gold breast-plates set with concentric circles of small gems, gilded sandals, and a short silken skirt upheld by a jeweled girdle. Neither cloth nor metal showed any signs of decay.

Yelaya was coldly beautiful, even in death. Her body was like alabaster, slender yet voluptuous; a great crimson jewel gleamed against the darkly piled foam of her hair.

Conan stood frowning down at her, and then tapped the dais with his sword. Possibilities of a hollow containing the treasure occurred to him, but the dais rang solid. He turned and paced the chamber in some indecision. Where should he search first, in the limited time at his disposal.^ The priest he had overheard babbling to a courtezan had said the treasure was hidden in the palace. But that included a space of considerable vastness. He wondered if he should hide himself until the priests had come and gone, and then renew the search. But there was a strong chance that they might take the jewels with them when they returned to Keshia. For he was convinced that Thutmekri had corrupted Gorulga.

Conan could prediaThutmekri’s plans, from his knowlege of the man. He knew that it had been Thutmekri who had proposed the conquest of Punt to the kings of 2^mbabwei, which conquest was but

w. T.— a



one move toward their real goal — the capture of the Teeth of Gwahlur. Those •wary kings would demand proof that the treasure really existed before they made any move. The jewels Thutmekri asked as a pledge would furnish that proof.

With positive evidence of the treasure’s reality, the kings of Zembabwei would move. Punt would be invaded simultaneously from the east and the west, but the Zembabwans would see to it that the Keshani did most of the fighting, and then, when both Punt and Keshan were exhausted from the struggle, the Zembabwans would crush both races, loot Keshan and take the treasure by force, if they had to destroy every building and torture every living human in the kingdom.

But there was always another possibility: if Thutmekri could get his hands on the hoard, it would be characteristic of the man to cheat his emplc^ers, steal the jewels for himself and decamp, leaving the Zembabwan emissaries holding the sack.

Conan believed that this consulting of the oracle was but a ruse to persuade the king of Keshan to accede to Thutmekri’ s wishes — for he never for a moment doubted that Gorulga was as subtle and devious as all the rest mixed up in this grand swindle. Conan had not approached the high priest himself, because in the game of bribery he would have no chance against 'Thutmekri, and to attempt it would be to play directly into the Stygian’s hands. Gorulga could denounce the Cimmerian to the people, establish a reputation for integrity, and rid Thutmekri of his rival at or>e stroke. He wondered how 'Thutmekri had corrupted the high priest, and just what could be offered as a bribe to a man who had the greatest treasure in the world under his fingers.

At any rate he was sure that the oracle would be made to say that the gods W. T.— S

willed it that Keshan should follow Thutmekri’s wishes, and he was sure, too, that it would drop a few pointed remarks concerning himself. After that Keshia would be too hot for the Cimmerian, nor had Conan had any intention of returning when he rode away in the night.

The oracle chamber held no clue for him. He went forth into the great throne-room and laid his hands on the throne. It was heavy, but he could tilt it up. The floor beneath, a thick marble dais, was solid. Again he sought the alcove. His mind clung to a secret crypt near the oracle. Painstakingly he began to tap along the walls, and presently his taps rang hollow at a spot opposite the mouth of the narrow corridor. Looking more closely he saw that the crack between the marble panel at that point and the next w’as wider than usual. He inserted a dagger-point and pried.

Silently the panel swung open, revealing a niche in the wall, but nothing else. He swore feelingly. The aperture was empty, and it did not look as if it had ever served as a crypt for treasure. Leaning into the niche he saw a system of tiny holes in the wall, about on a level with a man’s mouth. He peered through, and grunted understandingly. That was the wall that formed the partition between the alcove and the oracle chamber. Those holes had not been visible in the chamber. Conan grinned. 'Tliis explained the mystery of the oracle, but it was a bit cruder than he had expcaed. Gorulga would plant either himself or some trusted minion in that niche, to talk through the holes, and the credulous acolytes, black men all, would accept it as the veritable voice of Yelaya.

Remembering something, the Cimmerian drew forth the roll of parchment he had taken from the mummy and unrolled it carefully, as it seemed ready to fall to



pieces with age. He scowled over the dim characters with which it was covered. In his roaming about the world the giant adventurer had picked up a wide smattering of knowledge, particularly including the speaking and reading of many alien tongues. Many a sheltered scholar would have been astonished at the Cimmerian’s linguistic abilities, for he had experienced many adventures where knowledge of a strange language had meant the difference between life and death.

These characters were puzzling, at once familiar and unintelligible, and presently he discovered the reason. They were the characters of archaic Pelishtim, which possessed many points of difference from the modem script, with which he was familiar, and which, three centuries ago, had been modified by conquest by a nomad tribe. This older, purer script baffled him. He made out a recurrent phrase, however, which he recognized as a proper name: Bit Yakin. He gathered that it was the name of the writer.

Scowling, his lips unconsciously moving as he struggled with the task, he blundered through the manuscript, finding much of it untranslatable and most of the rest of it obscure.

He gathered^ that the writer, the mysterious Bit-Yakin, had come from afar with his servants, and entered the valley of Alkmeenon. Much that followed was meaningless, interspersed as it was with unfamiliar phrases and charaaers. Such as he could translate seemed to indicate the passing of a very long period of time. The name of Yelaya was repeated frequently, and toward the last part of the manuscript it became apparent that BitYakin knew that death was upon him. With a slight start Conan realized that the mummy in the cavern must be the remains of the writer of the manuscript, Ihe mysterious Pelishtim, Bit-Yakin. The

man had died, as he had prophesied, and his servants, obviously, had placed him in that open crypt, high up on the cliffs, according to his instructions before his death.

It was strange that Bit-Yakin was not mentioned in any of the legends of Alkmeenon. Obvioizsly he had come to the valley after it had been deserted by the original inhabitants — the manuscript indicated as much — but it seemed peculiar that the priests who came in the old days to consult the oracle had not seen the man or his servants. Conan felt sure that the mummy and this parchment were more than a hundred years old. Bit-Yakin had dwelt in the valley when the priests came of old to bow before dead Yelaya. Yet concerning him the legends were silent, telling only of a deserted city, haunted only by the dead.

Why had the man dwelt in this desolate spot, and to what unknown destination had his servants departed after disposing of their master’s corpse?

CONAN shrugged his shoulders and thrust the parchment back into his girdle — ^he started violently, the skin on the badcs of his hands tingling. Startlingly, shockingly in the slumberous stillness, there had boomed the deep strident clangor of a great gong!

He wheeled, crouching like a great cat, sword in hand, glaring down the narrow corridor from which the sound had seemed to come. Had the priests of Keshia arrived? This was improbable, he knew; they would not have had time to reach the valley. But that gong was indisputable evidence of human presence.

Conan was basically a direct-actionist. Such subtlety as he possessed had been acquired through contact with the more devious races. When taken off guard by some unexpected occurrence, he reverted instinaively to type. So now, instead of



hiding Of slipping away in the opposite direction as Ae average man might have done, he ran straight down the corridor in the direction of the sound. His sandals made no more sound than the pads of a panther would have made; his eyes were slits, his lips unconsciously asnarl. Panic had momentarily touched his soul at the shock of that unexpeaed reverberation, and the red rage of the primitive that is wakened by threat of peril, always lurked close to the surface of the Gmmerian.

He emerged presently from the winding corridor into a small open court. Something glinting in the sun caught his eye. It was the gong, a great gold disk, hanging from a gold arm extending from the crumbling wall. A brass mallet lay near, but there was no sound or sight of humanity. The surrounding arches gaped emptily. Conan crouched inside the doorway for what seemed a long time. There was no sound or movement throughout the great palace. His patience exhausted at last, he glided around the curve of the court, peering into the arches, ready to leap either way like a flash of light, or to strike right or left as a cobra strikes.

He reached the gong, stared into the arch nearest it. He saw only a dim chamber, littered with the debris of decay. Beneath the gong the polished marble flags showed no footprint, but there was a scent in the air — a faintly fetid odor he could not classify; his nostrils dilated like those of a wild beast as he sought in vain to identify it.

He turned toward the ardi — ^with appalling suddenness the seemingly solid flags splintered and gave way under his feet. Even as he fell he spread wide his arms and caught the edges of the aperture that gaped beneath him. The edges crumbled off under his clutching fingers. Down into otter darkness he shot, into

black icy water that gripped him and whirled him away with breathless speed.

2. A Goddess Awakens

The Gmmerian at first made no attempt to fight the current that was sweeping him through hghtless night. He kept himself afloat, gripping between his teeth the sword, which he had not relinquished, even in his fall, and did not even seek to guess to what doom he was being borne. But suddenly a beam of light lanced the darkness ahead of him. He saw the surging, seething black surface of the water, in turmoil as if disturbed by some monster of the deep, and he saw the sheer stone walls of the channel curved up to a vault overhead. On each side ran a narrow ledge, just below the arching roof, but they were far out of his reach. At one point this roof had been broken, probably fallen in, and the light was streaming through the aperture. Beyond that shaft of light was utter blackness, and panic assailed the Cimmerian as he saw he would be swept on past that spot of light, and into the unknown blackness again.

Then he saw something else: bronze ladders extended from the ledges to the water’s surface at regular intervals, and there was one just ahead of him. Instantly he struck out for it, fighting the current that would have held him to the middle of the stream. It dragged at him as with tangible, animate slimy hands, but he buffeted the rushing surge with die strength of desperation and drew doser and closer inshore, fighting furiously for every inch. Now he was even with tihe ladder and with a fierce, gasping plunge he gripped the bottom rung and hung on, breathless.

A few seconds later he struggled up out of the seedling water, trusting hb weiglit dubiously to the corroded rungs



They sagged and bent, but they held, and he clambered up onto the narrow ledge which ran along the wall scarcely a man’s length below the curving roof. The tall Cimmerian was forced to bend his head as he stood up. A heavy bronze door showed in the stone at a point even with the head of the ladder, but it did not give to Conan’s efforts. He transferred his sword from his teeth to its scabbard, spitting blood — for the edge had cut his lips in that fierce fight with the river — and turned his attention to the broken roof.

He could teach his arms up through the crevice and grip the edge, and careful testing told him it would bear his weight. An instant later he had drawn himself up through the hole, and foimd himself in a wide chamber, in a state of extreme disrepair. Most of the roof had fallen in, as well as a great seaion of the floor, which was laid over the vault of a subterranean river. Broken arches opened into other chambers and corridors, and Conan believed he was still in the great palace. He wondered uneasily how many chambers in that palace had underground water directly under them, and when the ancient flags or tiles might give way again and precipitate him back into the current from which he had just crawled.

And he wondered just how much of an accident that fall had been. Had those rotten flags simply chanced to give way beneath his weight, or was there a more sinister explanation? One thing at least was obvious; he was not the only living thing in that palace. That gong had not sounded of its own accord, whether the noise had been meant to lure him to his death, or not. The silence of the palace became suddenly sinister, fraught with crawling menace.

Could it be someone on the same mission as himself? A sudden thought occurred to him, at the memory of the mysterious B!t-Yakin. Was it not possible that this man had found the Teeth of Gwahlur in his long residence in Alkmeenon — that his servants had taken them with them when they departed? The possibility that he might be following a will-of-the-wisp infuriated the Cimmerian.

Choosing a corridor which he believed led back toward the part of the palace he had first entered, he hurried along it, stepping gingerly as he thought of that black river that seethed and foamed somewhere below his feet.

His speculations recurrently revolved about the oracle chamber and its cryptic occupant. Somewhere in that vicinity must be the clue to the mystery of the treasure, if indeed it still remained in its immemorial hiding-place.

The great palace lay silent as ever, disturbed only by the swift passing of his sandaled feet. 'The chambers and halls he traversed were crumbling into ruin, but as he advanced the ravages of decay became less apparent. He wondered briefly for what purpose the ladders had been suspended from the ledges over the subterranean river, but dismissed the matter with a shrug. He was little interested in speculating over unremunerative problems of antiquity.

He was not sure just where the oracle chamber lay, from where he was, but presently he emerged into a corridor which led bade into the great throneroom under one of the arches. He had reached a decision; it was useless for him to wander aimlessly about the palace, seeking the hoard. He would conceal himself somewhere here, wait until the Keshani priests came, and then, after they had gone through the farce of consulting the orade, he would follow them to the hiding-place of the gems, to which he was certain they would go. Perhaps they would take only a few of the jewels with



them. He would content himself with the rest.

Drawn by a morbid fascination, he re-entered the oracle chamber and stared down again at the motionless figure of the princess who was worshipped as a goddess, entranced by her frigid beauty. What cryptic secret was locked in that marvelously molded form?

He started violently. The breath sucked through his teeth, the short hairs prickled at the back of his scalp. The body still lay as he had first seen it, silent, motionless, in breast-plates of jeweled gold, gilded sandals and silken skirt. But now there was a subtle difference. The lissom limbs were not rigid, a peach-bloom

touched the cheeks, the lips were red

With a panicky curse Conan ripped out his sword.

"Crom! She’s alive!”

At his words the long dark lashes lifted; the eyes opened and gazed up at him inscrutably, dark, lustrous, mystical. He glared in frozen speechlessness.

She sat up with a supple ease, still holding his ensorcelled stare.

He licked his dry lips and found voice. "You — are — are you Yelaya?” he stammered.

"I am Yelaya!” The voice was ridi and musical, and he stared with new wonder. "Do not fear. I will not harm you if you do my bidding.”

"How can a dead woman come to life after all these centuries?” he demanded, as if skeptical of what his senses told him. A curious gleam was beginning to smolder in his eyes.

She lifted her arms in a mystical gesture.

"I am a goddess. A thousand years ago there descended upon me the curse of the greater gods, the gods of darkness beyond the borders of light. The mortal in me died; the goddess in me could

never die. Here I have lain for so many centuries, to awaken each night at simset and hold my court as of yore, with specters drawn from the shadows of the past. Man, if you would not view that which will blast your soul for ever, get hence quickly! I command you! Go!” The voice became imperious, and her slender arm lifted and pointed.

G)nan, his eyes burning slits, slowly sheathed his sword, but he did not obey her order. He stepped closer, as if impelled by a powerful fascination — without the slightest warnirig he grabbed her up in a bear-like grasp. She screamed a very ungoddess-like scream, and there was a sound of ripping silk, as with one ruthless wrench he tore off her skirt.

"Goddess! Ha!” His bark was full of angry contempt. He ignored the frantic writhings of his captive. "I thought it was strange that a princess of Alkmeenon would speak with a Corinthian accent! As soon as I’d gathered my wits I knew I’d seen you somewhere. You’re Muriela, Zargheba’s Corinthian dancing-girl. ’This crescent-shaped birthmark on your hip proves it, I saw it once when Zargheba was whipping you. Goddess! Bah!” He smacked the betraying hip contemptuously and resoundingly with his open hand, and the girl yelped piteously.

All her imperiousness had gone out of her. She was no longer a mystical figure of antiquity, but a terrified and humiliated dancing-girl, such as can be bought at almost any Shemitish market-place. She lifted up her voice and wept imashamedly. Her captor glared down at her with angry triumph.

"Goddess! Ha! So you were one of the veiled women Zargheba brought to Keshia with him. Did you think you could fool me, you little idiot? A year ago I saw you in Akbitana with that swine, Zargheba, and I don’t forget faces — or women’s figures. I think I’ll ”



Squirming about in his grasp she threw her slender arms about his massive neck in an abandon of terror; tears coursed down her cheeks, and her sobs quivered with a note of hysteria.

"Oh, please don’t hurt me! Don't! I had to do it! Zargheba brought me here to act as the oracle!”

• "Why, you sacrilegious little hussy!” rumbled Conan. "Do you not fear the gods? Ctom! is there no honesty anywhere?”

"Oh, please!” she begged, quivering with abject fright. "I couldn’t disobey Zargheba. Oh, what shall I do? I shall be cursed by these heathen gods!”

"What do you think the priests will do to you if they find out you’re an impostor?” he demanded.

At the thought her legs refused to support her, and she collapsed in a shuddering heap, clasping Conan’s knees and mingling incoherent pleas for mercy and protection with piteous protestations of her innocence of any malign intention. It was a vivid change from her pose as the ancient princess, but not surprizing. 'The fear that had nerved her then was now her undoing.

"Where is Zargheba?” he demanded. "Stop yammering, damn it, and answer me.

"Outside the palace,” she whimpeted, "watcliing for the priests.”

"How many men with him?”

"None. We came alone.”

"Ha!” It was much like the satisfied grunt of a hunting lion. "You must have left Keshia a few hours after I did. Did you climb the cliffs?”

SHE shook her head, too choked with tears to speak coherently. With an impatient imprecation he seized her slim shoulders and shook her until she gasped for breath.

"Will you quit that blubbering and answer me? How did you get into the valley?”

"Zargheba knew the secret way,” she gasped. "The priest Gwarunga told him, and 'Thutmekri. On the south side of the valley there is a broad pool lying at the foot of the cliflfs. There is a cave-mouth under the surface of the water that is not visible to the casual glance. We ducked under the water and entered it. 'The cave slopes up out of the water swiftly and leads through the cliffs. The opening on the side of the valley is masked heavy thickets.”

"I climbed the cliffs on the east side,” he muttered. "Well, what then?”

"We came to the palace and Zargheba hid me among the trees while he went to look for the chamber of the oracle. I do not think he fully trusted Gwarunga. While he was gone I thought I heard a gong sound, but I was not sure. Presently Zargheba came and took me into the palace and brought me to this chamber, where the goddess Yelaya lay upon the dais. He stripped the body and clothed me in the garments and ornaments. Then he went forth to hide the body and watch for the priests. I have been afraid. When you entered I wanted to leap up and beg you to take me away from this place, but I feared Zargheba. When you discovered I was alive, I thought I could frighten you away.”

"What were you to say as the oracle?” he asked.

"I was to bid the priests to take the Teeth of Gwahlur and give some of them to Thutmekri as a pledge, as he desired, and place the rest in the palace at Keshia. I was to tell them that an awful doom threatened Keshan if they did not agree to 'Thutmekri’s proposals. And (A, yes, I was to tell them that you were to be skinned alive immediately.”

"TTiutmekri wanted the treasure where he — or the Zembabwans — could lay hand



on it easily,” muttered Conan, disregarding the remark concerning himself. "I’ll carve his liver yet — Gorulga is a party to this swindle, of course?”

"No. He believes in his gods, and is incorruptible. He knows nothing about this. He will obey the oracle. It was all Thutmekri’s plan. Knowing the Keshani would consult the oracle, he had Zargheba bring me with the embassy from Zembabwei, closely veiled and secluded.”

"Well, I’m damned!” muttered Conan. "A priest who honestly believes in his oracle, and can not be bribed. Crom! I wonder if it was Zargheba who banged that gong. Did he know I was here? Could he have known about that rotten flagging? Where is he now, girl?”

"Hiding in a thicicet of lotus trees, near the ancient avenue that leads from the south wall of the cliffs to the palace,” she answered. Then she renewed her importunities. "Oh, Conan, have pity on me! I am afraid of this evil, ancient place. I know I have heard stealthy footfalls padding about me — oh, Conan, take me away with you! Zargheba will kill me when I have served his purpose here — I know it! The priests, too, will kill me if they discover my deceit.

"He is a devil — ^he bought me from a slave-trader who stole me out of a caravan bound through southern Koth, and has made me the tool of his intrigues ever since. Take me away from him! You can not be as cruel as he. Don’t leave me to be slain here! Please! Please!”

She was on her knees, clutching at Conan hysterically, her beautiful tear-stained face upturned to him, her dark silken hair flowing in disorder over her white shoulders. Conan picked her up and set her on his knee.

"Listen to me. I’ll protect you from Zargheba. ’The priests shall not know of your perfidy. But you’ve got to do as I tell you.”

She faltered promises of explicit obedience, clasping his corded neck as if seeking security from the contact.

"Good. When the priests come, you’ll act the part of Yelaya, as Zargheba planned — it’ll be dark, and in the torchlight they’ll never know the difference. But you’ll say this to them: 'It is the will of the gods that the Stygian and hisShemitish dogs be driven from Keshan. The>’ are thieves and traitors who plot to rob the gods. Let the Teeth of Gwahlur be placed in the care of the general Conan. Let him lead the armies of Keshan. He is beloved of the gods.’ ”

She shivered, with an expression of desperation, but acquiesced.

"But 2Jargheba?” she cried. "He’ll kill me!”

"Don’t worry about Zargheba,” he grunted. "I’ll take care of that dog. You do as I say. Here, put up your hair again. It’s fallen all over your shoulders. And the gem’s fallen out of it.”

He replaced the great glowing gem himself, nodding approval.

"It’s worth a roomful of slaves, itself alone. Here, put your skirt back on. It’s tom down the side, but the priests will never notice it. Wipe your face. A goddess doesn’t cry like a whipped schoolgirl. By Crom, you do look like Yelaya, face, hair, figure and all! If you act the goddess with the priests as well as you did with me, you’ll fool them easily.”

"I’ll try,” she shivered.

"Good; I’m going to find Zargheba.”

At that she became panicky again.

"No! Don’t leave me alone! 'This place is haunted!”

"There’s nothing here to harm you,” he assured her impatiently. "Nothing but Zargheba, and I’m going to look after him. I’ll be back shortly. I’ll be watching from close by in case anything goes wrong during the ceremony; but if you



play your part properly, nothing will go wrong.”

And turning, he hastened out of the oracle chamber; behind him Muriela squeaked wretchedly at his going.

Twilight had fallen. The great rooms and halls were shadowy and indistinct; copper friezes glinted dully through the dusk. Conan strode like a silent phantom through the great halls, with a sensation of being stared at from the shadowed recesses by invisible ghosts of the past. No wonder the girl was nervous amid such surroundings.

He glided down the marble steps like a slinking panther, sword in hand. Silence reigned over the valley, and above the rim of the cliffs stars were blinking out. If the priests of Keshia had entered the valley there was not a sound, not a movement in the greenery to betray them. He made out the ancient broken-paved avenue, wandering away to the south, lost amid clustering masses of fronds and thick-leaved bushes. He followed it warily, hugging the edge of the paving where the shrubs massed their shadows thickly, until he saw ahead of him, dimly in the dusk, the clump of lotus-trees, the strange growth peculiar to the black lands of Kush. There, according to the girl, Zargheba should be lurking. Conan became stealth personified. A velvet-footed shadow, he melted into the thickets.

He approached the lotus grove by a circuitous movement, and scarcely the rustle of a leaf proclaimed his passing. At the edge of the trees he halted suddenly, crouched like a suspicious panther among the deep shrubs. Ahead of him, among the dense leaves, showed a pallid oval, dim in the uncertain light. It might have been one of the great white blossoms which shone thickly among the branches. But Conan knew that it was a man’s face.

And it was turned toward him. He shrank quickly deeper into the shadows. Had Zargheba seen him.^ The man was looking direaly toward him. Seconds passed. That dim face had not moved. Conan could make out the dark tuft below that was the short black beard.

And suddenly Conan was aware of something unnatural. Zargheba, he knew, was not a tall man. Standing erect, his head would scarcely top the Cimmerian's shoulder; yet that face was on a level with Conan’s own. Was the man standing on something? Conan bent and peered toward the ground below the spot where the face showed, but his vision was blocked by undergrowth and the thick boles of the trees. But he saw something else, and he stiffened. Through a slot in the underbrush he glimpsed the stem of the tree under which, apparently, Zargheba was standing. The face was directly in line with that tree. He should have seen below that face, not the tree-trunk, but Zargheba’s bod)f — but there was no body there.

Suddenly tenser than a tiger who stalks his prey, Conan glided deeper into the thicket, and a moment later drew aside a leafy branch and glared at the face that had not moved. Nor would it ever move again, of its own volition. He looked on Zargheba’s severed head, suspended from the branch of the tree by its own long black hair.

3. The Return of the Oracle

CONAN wheeled supplely, sweeping the sliadows with a fiercely questing stare. There was no sign of the murdered man’s body; only yonder the tall lush grass was trampled and broken down and the sward was dabbled darkly and wetly. Conan stood scarcely breathing as he strained his ears into the silence. The trees and bushes with their great pallid



blossoms stood dark, still and sinister, etched a^nst the deepening dusk.

Primitive fears whispered at the back of Conan’s mind. Was this the work of the priests of Keshan? If so, where were they? Was it Zargheba, after all, who had struck the gong? Again there rose the memory of Bit-Yakin and his mysterious servants. Bit-Yakin was dead, shriveled to a hulk of wrinkled leather and bound in his hollowed crypt to greet the rising sun for ever. But the servants of Bit-Yakin were unaccounted for. There was no proof they had ever left the valley.

Conan thought of the girl, Muriela, alone and unguarded in that great shadowy palace. He wheeled and ran back down the shadowed avenue, and he ran as a suspicious panther runs, poised even in full stride to whirl right or left and strike death blows.

The palace loomed through the trees, and he saw something else — the glow of fire reflecting redly from the polished marble. He melted into the bushes that lined the broken street, glided through the dense growth and reached the edge of the open space before the portico. Voices reached him; torches bobbed and their flare shone on glossy ebon shoulders. The priests of Keshan had come.

They had not advanced up the wide, overgrown avenue as Zargh^a had expected them to do. Obviously there was more than one secret way into the valley of Alkmeenon.

They were filing up the broad marble steps, holding their torches high. He saw Gorulga at the head of the parade, a profile chiseled out of copper, etched in the torch glare. The rest were acolytes, giant blade men from whose skins the torches struck highlights. At the end of the procession there stalked a huge negro with an imusually wicked cast of countenance, at the sight of whom Conan scowled. That was Gwarunga, whom Muriela had named as the man who had revealed the secret of the pool-entrance to Zargheba. Conan wondered how deeply the man was in the intrigues of the Stygian.

He hurried toward the portico, drcling the open space to keep in the fringing shadows. They left no one to guard the entrance. The torches streamed steadily down the long dark hall. Before they reached the double-valved door at the other end, Conan had qnounted the outer steps and was in the hall behind them. Slinking swiftly along the column-lined v/all, he reached the great door as they crossed the huge throne-room, their torches driving back the shadows. They did not look back. In single file, their ostrich plumes nodding, their leopardskin tunics contrasting curiously with the marble and arabesqued metal of the ancient palace, they moved across the wide room and halted momentarily at the golden door to the left of the throne-dais.

Gorulga’s voice boomed eerily and hollowly in the great empty space, framed in sonorous phrases unintelligible to the lurking listener; then the high priest thrust open the golden door and entered, bowing repeatedly from his waist, and behind him the torches sank and rose, showering flakes of flame, as the worshippers imitated their master. The gold door closed behind them, shutting out sound and sight, and Conan darted across the throne-chamber and into the alcove behind the throne. He made less sound than a wind blowing across the chamber.

Tiny beams of light streamed through the apertures in the wall, as he pried open the secret panel. Gliding into the niche, he peered through. Muriela sat upright on the dais, her arms folded, her head leaning back against the wall, within a few inches of his eyes. The delicate per314


fume of her foamy hair was in his nostrils. He could not see her face, of course, but her attitude was as if she gazed tranquilly into some far gulf of space, over and beyond the shaven heads of the black giants who knelt before her. Conan grinned with appreciation. "The little slut’s an aaress,” he told himself. He knew she was shriveling with terror, but she showed no sign. In the uncertain flare of the torches she looked exactly like the goddess he had seen lying on that same dais, if one could imagine that goddess imbued with vibrant life.

Gorulga was booming forth some kind of a chant in an accent unfamiliar to Conan, and which was probably some invocation in the ancient tongue of Alkmeenon, handed down from generation to generation of high priests. It seemed interminable. Conan grew restless. The longer the thing lasted, the more terrific would be the strain on Muriela. If she snapped — ^he hitched his sword and dagger forward. He could not see the little trollop tortured and slain by black men.

But the diant — deep, low-pitched and indescribably ominous — came to a conclusion at last, and a shouted acclaim from the acolytes marked its period. Lifting his head and rai^g his arms toward the silent form on the dais, Gorulga cried in the deep, rich resonance that was the natural attribute of the Keshani priest; "Oh, great goddess, dweller with the great one of darkness, let thy heart be melted, thy lips opened for the ears of thy slave whose head is in the dust beneath thy feet! Speak, great goddess of the holy valley! Thou knowest the paths before us; the darkness that vexes us is as the light of the midday sim to thee. Shed the radiance of thy wisdom on the paths of thy servants! Tell us, oh mouthpiece of the gods: -what is their will concerning Thutmekri the Stygian?”

The high-piled burnished mass of hair that caught the torchlight in dull bronze gleams quivered slightly. A gusty sigh rose from the blacks, half in awe, half in fear. Muriela’s voice came plainly to Conan’s ears in the breathless silence, and it seemed cold, detached, impersonal, though he winced at the Corinthian accent.

"It is the will of the gods that the Stygian and his Shemitish dogs be driven from Keshan!” She was repeating his exact words. "They are thieves and traitors who plot to rob the gods. Let the Teeth of Gwahlur be placed in the care of the general Conan. Let him lead the armies of Keshan. He is beloved of the gods!”

There was a quiver in her voice as she ended, and Conan began to sweat, believing she was on the point of an hysterical collapse. But the blacks did not notice, any more than tliey identified the Corinthian accent, of which they knew nothing. They smote their palms softly together and a murmur of wonder and awe rose from them. Gorulga’s eyes glittered fanatically in the torchlight.

"Yelaya has spoken!” he cried in an exalted voice. "It is the will of the gods! Long ago, in the days of our ancestors, they were made taboo and hidden at the command of the gods, who wrenched them from the awful jaws of Gwahlur the king of darkness, in the birth of the world. At the command of the gods the Teeth of Gwahlur were hidden; at their command they shall be brought forth again. Oh star-bom goddess, give us your leave to go to the secret hiding-place of the Teeth to secure them for him whom the gods love!”

"You have my leave to go!” answered the false goddess, with an imperious gesture of dismissal that set Conan grinning again, and the priests backed out, ostrich



plumes and tordies rising and falling with the rhythm of their genuflexions.

The gold door closed and with a moan, the goddess fell back limply on the dais. ’’Conan!” she whimpered faintly. ”Conan!”

"Shhh!” he hissed through the apertures, and turning, glided from the niche and closed the panel. A glimpse past the jamb of the carven door showed him the torches receding across the great throneroom, but he was at the same time aware of a radiance that did not emanate from the torches. He was startled, but the solution presented itself instantly. An early moon had risen and its light slanted through the pierced dome which by some curious workmanship intensified the light. The shining dome of Alkmeenon was no fable, then. Perhaps its interior was of the curious whitely flaming crystal found only in the hills of the black countries. The light flooded the throne-room and seeped into the chambers immediately adjoining.

But as Conan made toward the door that led into the throne-room, he was brought around suddenly by a noise that seemed to emanate from the passage that led off from the alcove. He croudied at the mouth, staring into it, remembering the clangor of the gong that had echoed from it to lure him into a snare. The light from the dome filtered only a little way into that narrow corridor, and showed him only empty space. Yet he could have sworn that he had heard the furtive pad of a foot somewhere down it.

While he hesitated, he was electrified by a woman’s strangled cry from behind him. Bounding through the door behind the throne, he saw an unexpected spectacle, in the crystal light.

The torches of the priests had vanished from the great hall outside — ^but one priest was still in the palace: Gwarunga. His wicked features were convulsed with

fury, and he grasped the terrified Muriek by the throat, choking her efforts to scream and plead, shaking her brutally.

"Traitress!” Between his thick red lips his voice hissed like a cobra. "What game are you playing? Did not Zargheba tell you what to say? Aye, Thutmekri told me! Are you betraying your master, or is he betraying his friends through you? Slot! ril twist off your false head-^ut first I’ll ”

A widening of his captive’s lovely eyes as she stared over his shonlder warned the huge black. He released her and wheeled, just as Conan’s sword lashed down. The impact of the stroke knocked him headlong backward to the marble floor, where he lay twitching, blood oozing from a ragged gash in his scalp.

Conan started toward him to finish the job — for he knew that the black’s sudden movement had caused the blade to strike flat — but Muriela threw her arms convulsively about him.

"I’ve done as you ordered!” she gasped hysterically. "Take me away! Oh, please take me away!”

"We can’t go yet,” he grunted. "I want to follow the priests and see where they get the jewels. There may be more loot hidden there. But you can gp with me. Where’s that gem you wore in your hair?”

"It must have fallen out on the dais,” she stammered, feeling for it. "I was so frightened — when the priests left I ran out to find you, and this big brute had stayed behind, and he gr^bed me ”

"Well, go get it while I dispose of this carcass,” he commanded. "Go on! That gem is worth a fortune itself.”

She hesitated, as if loth to return to that cryptic chamber; then, as he grasped Gwanmga’s girdle and dragged him into the alcove, she turned and entered the oracle room.



CONAN dumped the senseless black on the floor, and lifted his sword. The Cimmerian had lived too long in the wild places of the world to have any illusions about mercy. The only safe enemy was a headless enemy. But before he could strike, a startling scream checked the lifted blade. It came from the oracle chamber.

"Conan! Conan! She’s come back!” The shriek ended in a gurgle and a scraping shuffle.

With an oath Conan dashed out of the alcove, across the throne dais and into the oracle chamber, almost before the sound had ceased. There he halted, glaring bewilderedly. To all appearances Muriela lay placidly on the dais, eyes closed as if in slumber.

"What in thunder are you doing?” he demanded acidly. "Is this any time to be playing jokes ”

His voice trailed away. His gaze ran along the ivory thigh molded in the closefitting silk skirt. That skirt should gape from girdle to hem. He knew, because it had been his own hand that tore it, as he ruthlessly stripped the garment from the dancer’s writhing body. But the skirt showed no rent. A single stride brought him to the dais and he laid his hand on the ivory body— snatched it away as if it had encountered hot iron instead of the cold immobility of death.

"Crom.f” he muttered, his eyes suddenly slits of bale-fire. "It’s not Muriela! It’s Yelayal”

He understood now that frantic scream diat had burst from Muriela’s lips when she entered the chamber. The goddess had returned. 'The body had been stripped by Zargheba to furnish the accouterments for the pretender. Yet now it was clad in silk and jewels as Conan had first seen it. A peculiar prickling made itself manifest among the short hairs at the base of Conan’s scalp.

"Muriela!” he shouted suddenly. ”Muriela! Where the devil are you?”

The walls threw back his voice mockingly. There was no entrance that he could see except the golden door, and none could have entered or departed through that without his knowledge. This much was indisputable: Yelaya had been replaced on the dais within the few minutes that had elapsed since Muriela had first left the chamber to be seized by Gwarunga; his ears were still tingling with the echoes of Muriela’s scream, yet the Corinthian girl had vanished as if into thin air. There was but one explanation, if he rejected the darker speculation that suggested the supernatural — somewhere in the chamber there was a secret door. And even as the thought aossed his mind, he saw it.

In what had seemed a curtain of solid marble, a thin perpendicular crack showed and in the crack hung a wisp of silk. In an instant he was bending over it. That shred was from Muriela’s tom skirt. 'The implication was unmistakable. It had been caught in the closing door and torn off as she was borne through the opening by whatever grim beings were her captors. The bit of clothing had prevented the door from fitting perfectly into its frame.

'Thmsting his dagger-point into the crack, Conan exerted leverage with a corded forearm. The blade bent, but it was of unbreakable Akbitanan steel. 'The marble door opened. Conan’s sword was lifted as he peered into the aperture beyond, but he saw no shape of menace. Light filtering into the oracle chamber revealed a short flight of steps cut out of marble. Pulling the door back to its fullest extent, he drove his dagger into a aadc in the floor, propping it open. Then he went down the steps without hesitation. He saw nothing, heard nothing. A dozen steps down, the stair ended in a



narrow corridor which ran straight away into gloom.

He halted suddenly, posed like a statue at the foot of the stair, staring at the paintings which frescoed the walls, half visible in the dim light which filtered down from above. The art was unmistakably Pelishtim; he had seen frescoes of identical characteristics on the walls of Asgalun. But the scenes depicted had no connection witli anything Pelishtim, except for one human figure, frequently recurrent: a lean, white-bearded old man whose racial characteristics were unmistakable. They seemed to represent various sections of the palace above. Several scenes showed a chamber he recognized as the oracle chamber with the figure of Yelaya stretched upon the ivory dais and huge black men kneeling before it. And there behind the wall, in the niche, lurked the ancient Pelishtim, And there were other figures, too — figures that moved through the deserted palace, did the bidding of the Pelishtim, and dragged unnamable things out of the subterranean river. In the few seconds Q)nan stood frozen, hitherto unintelligible phrases in the parchment manuscript blazed in his brain with chilling clarity. The loose bits of the pattern clicked into place. The mystery of Bit-Yakin was a mystery no longer, nor the riddle of Bit-Yakin’s servants.

Conan turned and peered into the darkness, an icy finger crawling along his spine. Then he went along the corridor, cat-footed, and without hesitation, moving deeper and deeper into the darkness as he drew farther away from the stair. The air hung heavy with the odor he had scented in the court of the gong.

Now in utter blackness he heard a sound ahead of him — the shuffle of bare feet, or the swish of loose garments against stone, he could not tell which.

But an instant later his outstretched hand encountered a barrier which he identified as a massive door of carven metal. He pushed against it fruitlessly, and his sword-point sought vainly for a crack. It fitted into the sill and jambs as if molded there. He exerted all his strength, his feet straining against the floor, the veins knotting in his temples. It was useless; a charge of elephants would scarcely have shaken that titanic portal.

As he leaned there he caught a sound on the other side tliat his ears instantly identified — it was the creak of rusty iron, like a lever scraping in its slot. Instinctively action followed recognition so spontaneously that sound, impulse and action were praaically simultaneous. And as his prodigious bound carried him backward, there was the rush of a great bulk from above, and a thunderous crash filled the tunnel with deafening vibrations. Bits of flying splinters struck him — a huge block of stone, he knew from the soiuid, dropped on the spot he had just quitted. An instant’s slower thought or action and it would have aushed him like an ant.

CONAN fell back. Somewhere on the other side of that metal door Muriela was a captive, if she still lived. But he could not pass that dcx)r, and if he remained in the tunnel another block might fall, and he might not be so lucky. It would do the girl no good for him to be crushed into a purple pulp. He could not continue his seardb in that direction. He must get above ground and look for some other avenue of approach.

He turned and hurried toward the stair, sighing as he emerged into comparative radiance. And as he set foot on the first step, the light was blotted out, and above him the marble door rushed shut with a resounding reverberation.



Something like panic seized the Qmmerian then, trapped in that black tunnel, and he wheeled on the stair, lifting his sword and glaring murderously into the darkness behind him, expecting a rush of ghoulish assailants. But there was no sound or movement down the tunnel. Did the men beyond the door — if they were men — believe that he had been disposed of by the fall of the stone from the roof, which had undoubtedly been released by some sort of machinery?

Then why had the door been shut above him? Abandoning speculation, Conan groped his way up the steps, his skin crawling in anticipation of a Imife in his back at every stride, yearning to drown his semi-panic in a barbarous burst of blood-letting.

He thrust against the door at the top, and cursed soulfully to hnd that it did not give to his efforts. Then as he lifted his sword with his right hand to hew at the marble, his groping left encotmtered a metal bolt that evidently slipped into place at the closing of the door. In an instant he had drawn this bolt, and then the door gave to his shove. He bounded into the chamber like a slit-eyed, snarling incarnation of fury, ferociously desirous to come to grips with whatever enemy was hounding him.

The dagger was gone from the floor. The chamber was empty, and so was the dais. Yelaya had again vanished.

"By Crom!” muttered the Cimmerian. "Is she alive, after all?”

He strode out into the throne-room, baffled, and then, struck by a sudden thought, stepped behind the throne and peered into the alcove. There was blood on the smooth marble where he had cast down the senseless body of Gwarunga — that was all. The black man had vanished as completely as Yelaya.

4. The Teeth of Gwahlur

Baffled wrath confused the brain of Conan the Cimmerian. He knew no more how to go about searching for Muriela than he had known how to go about searching for the Teeth of Gwahlur. Only one thought occurred to him — to follow the priests. Perhaps at the hiding-place of the treasure some clue would be revealed to him. It was a slim chance, but better than wandering about aimlessly.

As he hurried through the great shadowy hall that led to the portico he half expeaed the lurking shades to come to life behind him with rending fangs and talons. But only the beat of his own rapid heart accompanied him into the moonlight that dappled the shimmering marble.

At the foot of the wide steps he cast about in the bright moonlight for some sign to show him the direction he must go. And he found it — petals scattered on the sward told where an atm or garment had brushed against a blossomladen branch. Grass had been pressed down under heavy feet. Conan, who had tracked wolves in his native hills, found no insurmountable diflEculty in following the trail of the Keshani priests.

It led away from the palace, through masses of exotic-scented shrubbery where great pale blossoms spread their shimmering petals, through verdant, tangled bushes that showered blooms at the touch, until he came at last to a great mass of rock that jutted like a titan’s castle out from the cliffs at a point closest to the palace, which, however, was almost hidden from view by vine-interlaced trees. Evidently that babbling priest in Keshia bad been mistaken when he said the Teeth were hidden in the palace. This trail had led him away from the place where Muriela had disappeared, but a belief was growing in Conan that eadi



part of the valley was connected with that palace by subterranean passages.

Crouching in the deep velvet-black shadows of the bushes, he scrutinized the great jut of rock which stood out in bold relief in the moonlight. It was covered with strange, grotesque carvings, depicting men and animals, and half-bestial creatures that might have been gods or devils. The style of art differed so strikingly from that of the rest of the valley, that Conan wondered if it did not represent a different era and race, and was itself a relic of an age lost and forgotten at whatever immeasurably distant date the people of Alkmeenon had found and entered the haunted valley.

A great door stood open in the sheer curtain of the cliff, and a gigantic dragon head was carved about it so that the open door was like the dragon’s gaping mouth. The door itself was of carven bronze and looked to weigh several tons. There was no lock that he could see, but a series of bolts showing along the edge of the massive portal, as it stood open, told him that there was some system of locking and unlocking — a system doubtless known only to the priests of Keshan.

The trail showed that Gorulga and his henchmen had gone through that door. But Conan hesitated. To wait until they emerged would probably mean to see the door locked in his face, and he might not be able to solve the mystery of its unlocking. On the other hand, if he followed them in, they might emerge and lock him in the cavern.

Throwing caution to the winds, he glided through the great portal. Somewhere in the cavern were the priests, the Teeth of Gwahlur, and perhaps a clue to the fate of Muriela. Personal risks had never yet deterred him from any pmpose.

Moonlight illumined, for a few yards, the wide tunnel in which he found himself. Somewhere ahead of him he saw a faint glow and heard the echo of a weird chanting. The priests were not so far ahead of him as he had thought. The tunnel debouched into a wide room before the moonlight played out, an empty cavern of no great dimensions, but with a lofty, vaulted roof, glowing with a phosphorescent encrustation, which, as Conan knew, was a common phenomenon in that part of the world. It made a ghostly half-light, in which he was able to see a bestial image squatting on a shrine, and the black.mouths of six or seven tunnels leading off from the chamber. Down the widest of tliese — the one directly behind the squat image which looked toward the outer opening — he caught the gleam of torches, wavering whereas the phosphorescent glow was fixed, and heard the chanting increased in volume.

Down it he went recklessly, and was presently peering into a larger cavern than the one he had just left. There was no phosphorus here, but the light of the torches fell on a larger altar and a more obscene and repulsive god squatting toad-like upon it. Before this repugnant deity Gorulga and his ten acolytes knelt and beat their heads upon the ground, while chanting monotonously. Conan realized why their progress had been so slow. Evidently approaching the secret crypt of the Teeth was a complicated and elaborate ritual.

He was fidgeting in nervous impatience before the chanting and bowing were over, but presently they rose and passed into the tunnel which opened behind the idol. Their torches bobbed away into the nighted vault, and he followed swiftly. Not much danger of being discovered. He glided along the shadows like a aeature of the night, and the black priests were completely engrossed in their ceremonial mummery. Apparently they



had not even noticed the absence of Gwarunga.

Emerging into a cavern of huge proportions, about whose upward curving walls gallery-like ledges marched in tiers, they began their worship anew before an altar which was larger, and a god which was more disgusting, than any encountered thus far.

Q)nan crouched in the black mouth of the tunnel, staring at the walls reflecting the lurid glow of the torches. He saw a carven stone stair winding up from tier to tier of the galleries; the roof was lost in darkness.

He started violently and the chanting broke off as the kneeling blacks flung up their heads. An inhuman voice boomed out high above them. They froze on their knees, their faces turned upward and a ghastly blue hue in the sudden glare of a weird light that burst blmdingly up near the lofty roof, and then burned with a throbbing glow. That glare lighted a gallery and a cry went up from the high priest, echoed shudderingly by his acolytes. In the flash there had been briefly disclosed to them a slim white figure standing upright in a sheen of silk and a glint of jewel-crusted gold. Then the blaze smoldered to a throbbing, pulsing luminosity in which nothing was distinct, and tliat slim shape was but a shimmering blur of ivory.

" y elaya!” screamed Gorulga, his brown features ashen. "Why have you followed us? What is your pleasure?”

That weird unhuman voice rolled down from the roof, re-eclioing under that arching vault that magnified and altered it beyond recognition.

"Wo to the unbelievers! Wo to the false children of Keshia! Doom to them which deny tlieir deity!”

A cry of horror went up from the

priests. Gorulga looked like a shocked vulture in the glare of the torches.

"I do not understand!” he stammered. "We are faithful. In the chamber of the oracle you told us ”

"Do not heed what you heard in the chamber of the oracle!” rolled that terrible voice, multiplied until it was as though a myriad voices thundered and muttered the same warning. "Beware of false prophets and false gods! A demon in my guise spoke to you in the palace, giving false prophecy. Now harken and obey, for only I am the true goddess, and I give you one chance to save yourselves from doom!

"Take the Teeth of Gwahlur from the crypt where they were placed so long ago. Alkmeenon is no longer holy, because it has been desecrated by blasphemers. Give the Teeth of Gwahlur into the hands of Thutmekri, the Stygian, to place in the sanctuary of Dagon and Derketo. Only this can save Keshan from the doom the demons of the night have plotted. Take the Teeth of Gwahlur and go; return instantly to Keshia; there give the jewels to Thutmekri, and seize the foreign devil Conan and flay him alive in the great square.”

There was no hesitation in obeying. Chattering with fear the priests scrambled up and ran for die door that opened behind the bestial god. Gorulga led the flight. They jammed briefly in the doorway, yelping as wildly waving torches touched squirming black bodies; they plunged through, and the patter of their speeding feet dwindled down the tunnel.

Conan did not follow. He was consumed with a furious desire to learn the truth of this fantastic affair. Was that indeed Yelaya, as the cold sweat on the backs of his hands told him, or was it that little hussy Muriela, turned traitress after all? If it was

Before the last torch had vanished

W. T.— 8



down the black tunnel he was bounding vengefuily up the stone stair. The blue glow was dying down, but he could still make out that the ivory figure stood motionless on the gallery. His blood ran cold as he approached it, but he did not hesitate. He came on with his sword lifted, and towered like a threat of death over the inscrutable shape.

"Yelaya!” he snarled. "Dead as she’s been for a thousand years! Hal”

From the dark mouth of a tunnel behind him a dark form lunged. But the sudden, deadly rush of unshod feet had reached the Cimmerian’s quick ears. He whirled like a cat and dodged the blow aimed murderously at his back. As the gleaming steel in the dark hand hissed past him, he struck back with the fury of a roused python, and the long straight blade impaled his assailant and stood out a foot and a half between his shoulders.

"So!” Conan tore his sword free as the victim sagged to the floor, gasping and gurgling. The man writhed briefly and stiffened. In the dying light Conan saw a black body and ebon countenance, hideous in the blue glare. He had killed Gwarunga.

Conan turned from the corpse to the goddess. Thongs about her knees and breast held her upright against a stone pillar, and her thick hair, fastened to the column, held her head up. At a few yards’ distance these bonds were not visible in the uncertain light.

"He must have come to after I descended into the tunnel,” muttered Conan. "He must have suspected I was down there. So he pulled out the dagger”— Conan stooped and wrenched the identical weapon from the stiffening fingers, glanced at it and replaced it in his own girdle- — "and shut the door. Then he took Yelaya to befool his brother idiots. That was he shouting a while ago.

W. T.— 4

You couldn’t recognhe his voice, under this echoing roof. And that bursting blue flame — I thought it looked familiar. It’s a trick of the Stygian priests. Thutmekri must have given some of it to’Gwarunga.”

The n>an could easily have reached this cavern ahead of his companions. Evidently familiar with the plan of the caverns by hearsay or by maps banded down in the priestcraft, he had entered the cave after the others, carrying the goddess, followed a circuitous route through the tunnels and chambers, and ensconced himself and his burden on the balcony while Gorulga and the other acolytes were engaged in their endless rituals.

The blue glare had faded, but now Conan was aware of another glow, emanating from the mouth of the one of the corridors that opened on the ledge. Somewhere down that corridor there was another field of phosphortos, for he recognized the faint steady radiance. The corridor led in the direction the priests had taken, and he decided to follow it, rather than descend into the darkness of the great cavern below. Doubtless it connected with another gallery in some other chamber, which might be the destination of the priests. He hurried down it, the illumination growing stronger as he advanced, until he could make out the floor and the walls of the tunnel. Ahead of him and below he could hear the priests dianting again.

Abruptly a doorway in the left-hand wall was limned in the phosphorous glow, and to his ears came ffie sound of soft, hysterical sobbing. He wheeled, and glared through the door.

He was looking again into a chamber hewn out of solid rock, not a natural cavern like the others. The domed roof shone with the phosphorous light, and the walls were almost covered with arabesques of beaten gold.



Near the farther wall on a granite throne, staring for ever toward the arched doorway, sat the monstrous and obscene Pteor, the god of the Pelishtim, wrought in brass, with his exaggerated attributes reflecting the grossness of his cult. And in his lap sprawled a limp white figure.

"Well, I’ll be damned!” muttered Conan. He glanced suspiciously about the chamber, seeing no other entrance or evidence of occupation, and then advanced noiselessly and looked down at the girl whose slim shoulders shook with sobs of abject misery, her face sunk in her arms. From thick bands of gold on the idol's arms slim gold chains ran to smaller bands on her wrists. He laid a hand on her naked shoulder and she started convulsively, shrieked, and twisted her tearstained face toward him.

"Conan!" She made a spasmodic effort to go into the usual clinch, but the chains hindered her. He cut through the soft gold as close to her wrists as he could, grunting: "You’ll have to wear these bracelets until I can find a chisel or a file. Let go of me, damn it! You actresses are too damned emotional. What happened to you, anyway?”

"When I went back into the oracle chamber,” she whimpered, "I saw the goddess lying on the dais as I’d first seen her. I called out to you and started to run to the door — then something grabbed me from behind. It clapped a hand over my mouth and carried me through a panel in the wall, and down some steps and along a dark hall. I didn't see what it was that had hold of me until we passed through a big metal door and came into a tunnel whose roof was alight, like this chamber.

"Oh, I nearly fainted when I saw! They are not humans! 'They are gray, hairy devils that walk like men and speak a gibberish no human could understand. They stood there and seemed to be waiting, and once I thought I heard somebody trying the door. Then one of the things pulled a metal lever in the wall, and something crashed on the other side of the door.

"Then they carried me on and on through winding tunnels and up stone stairways into this chamber, where they chained me on the knees of this abominable idol, and then they went away. Oh, Conan, what are they?”

"Servants of Bit-Yakin,” he grunted. "I found a manuscript that told me a number of things, and then stumbled upon some frescoes that told me the rest, Bit-Yakin was a Pelishtim who wandered into the valley with his servants after the people of Alkmeenon had deserted it. He found the body of Princess Yelaya, and discovered that the priests returned from time to time to make offerings to her, for even then she was worshipped as a goddess.

"He made an oracle of her, and he was the voice of the oracle, speaking from a niche he cut in the wall behind the ivory dais. The priests never suspected, never saw him or his servants, for they always hid themselves when the men came. BitYakin lived and died here without ever being discovered by the priests. Crom knows how long he dwelt here, but it must have been for centuries. The wise men of the Pelishtim know how to increase the span of their lives for hundreds of years. I’ve seen some of them myself. 'Why he lived here alone, and why he played the part of oracle no ordinary human can guess, but I believe the oracle part was to keep the city inviolate and sacred, so he could remain undisturbed. He ate the food the priests brought as an offering to Yelaya, and his servants ate other things — I’ve always known there was a subterranean river flowing away from the lake where the people of the Puntish highlands throvir



their dead. That river runs under this palace. They have ladders hung over the water where they can hang and fish for the corpses that come floating through, Bit-Yakin recorded everything on parchment and painted walls.

"But he died at last, and his servants mummified him according to instructions he gave them before his death, and stuck him in a cave in the cliffs. The rest is easy to guess. His servants, who were even more nearly immortal than he, kept on dwelling here, but the next time a high priest came to consult the oracle, not having a master to restrain them, they tore him to pieces. So since then — until Gorulga — ^nobody came to talk to the oracle.

"It’s obvious they’ve been renewing the garments and ornaments of the goddess, as they’d seen Bit-Yakin do. Doubtless there’s a sealed chamber somewhere where the silks are kept from decay. 'They dothed the goddess and brought her back to the oracle room after Zargheba had stolen her. And, oh, by the way, they took off Zargheba’s head and hung it up in a thidcet.’’

She shivered, yet at the same time breathed a sigh of relief.

"He’ll never whip me again.’’

"Not this side of hell,’’ agreed Conan. "But come on. Gwarunga ruined my chances with his stolen goddess. I’m going to follow the priests and take ray chance of stealing the loot from them after they get it. And you stay close to me. I can’t spend all my time looking for you.”

"But the servants of Bit-Yakin!” she whispered fearfully.

"We’ll have to take our chance,” he grunted. "I don’t know what’s in their minds, but so far they haven’t shown any disposition to come out and fight in the open. Come on.”

Taking her wrist he led her out of the chamber and down the corridor. As they advanced they heard the chanting of the priests, and mingling with the sound the low sullen rushing of waters. 'The light grew stronger above them as they emerged on a high-pitched gallery of a great cavern and locked down on a scene weird and fantastic.

Above them gleamed the phosphorescent roof; a hundred feet below them stretched the smooth floor of the cavern. On the far side this floor was cut by a deep, narrow stream brimming its rocky channel. Rushing out of impenetrable gloom, it swirled across the cavern and was lost again in darkness. The visible surface reflected the radiance above; the dark seething waters glinted as if flecked with living jewels, frosty blue, lurid red, shimmering green, an ever-changing iridescence.

Conan and his companion stood upon one of the gallery-like ledges that banded the curve of the lofty wall, and from this ledge a natural bridge of stone soared in a breath-taking arch over the vast gulf of the cavern to join a much smaller ledge on the opposite side, across the river. Ten feet below it another, broader arch spanned the cave. At either end a carven stair joined the extremities of these flying arches.

Conan’s gaze, following the curve of the arch that swept away from the ledge on which they stood, caught a glint of light that was not the lurid phosphorus of the cavern. On that small ledge opposite them there was an opening in the cave wall through which stars were glinting.

But his full attention was drawn to the scene beneath them. The priests had reached their destination. There in a sweeping angle of the cavern wall stood a stone altar, but there was no idol upon it. Whether there was one behind it, Co324

.WEIRD TALES

nan could not ascertain, because some trick of the light, or the sweep of the wall, left die space behind the altar in total darkness.

The priests had stuck their torches into holes in the stone floor, forming a semicircle of fire in front of the altar at a distance of several yards. Then the priests themselves formed a semicircle inside the crescent of torches, and Gorulga, after lifting his arms aloft in invocation, bent to the altar and laid hands on it. It lifted and tilted backward on its hinder edge, like the lid of a chest, revealing a small crypt.

Extending a long arm into die recess, Gorulga brought up a small brass chest. Lowering the altar back into place, he set the chest on it, and threw back the lid. To the eager watchers on the high gallery it seemed as if the action had released a blaxe of living fire which throbbed and quivered about the opened chest. Conan’s heart leaped and his hand caught at his hilt. The Teeth of Gwahlur at last! The treasure that would make its possessor the richest man in the world! His breath came fast between his clenched teeth.

Then he was suddenly aware that a new element had entered into the light of the torches apd of the phosphorescent roof, rendering both void. Darkness stole around the altar, except for that glowing spot of evil radiance cast by the Teeth of Gwahlur, and that grew and grew. 'The blacks froze into basaltic statues, their shadows streaming grotesquely and gigantically out behind them.

The altar was laved in the glow now, and the astounded features of Gorulga stood out in sharp relief. Then the mysterious space behind the altar swam into the v/idening illumination. And slowly with the crawling light, figures became visible, like shapes growing out of the night and silence.

At first they seemed like gray stone statues, those motionless shapes, hairy, man-like, yet hideously human; but their eyes were alive, cold sparks of gray icy fire. And as the weird glow lit their bestial countenances, Gorulga screamed and fell backward, throwing up his long arms in a gesture of frenzied horror.

But a longer arm shot across the altar and a misshapen hand locked on his throat. Screaming and fighting, the high priest was dragged back across the altar; a hammer-like fist smashed down, and Gorulga’s cries were stilled. Limp and broken he sagged across the altar, his brains oozing from his crushed skull. And then the servants of Bit-Yakin surged like a bursting flood from hell on the black priests who stood like horrorblasted images.

Then there was slaughter, grim and appalling.

Conan saw black bodies tossed like chaff in the inhuman hands of the slayers, against whose horrible strength and agility the daggers and swords of the priests were ineffective. He saw men lifted bodily and tlieir heads cracked open against the stone altar. He saw a flaming torch, grasped in a monstrous hand, thrust inexorably down the gullet of an agonized wretch who writhed in vain against the arms that pinioned him. He saw a man torn in two pieces, as one might tear a chicken, and the bloody fragments hurled clear across the cavern. The massacre was as short and devastating as the rush of a hurricane. In a burst of red abysmal ferocity it was over, except for one wretcli who fled screaming back the way the priests had come, pursued by a swarm of blood-dabbled shapes of horror which reached out their redsmeared hands for him. Fugitive and pursuers vanished down the black tunnel, and the screams of the human came back dwindling and confused by the distance.



Muriela was on her knees clutching Q)nan’s legs; her face pressed against his knee and her eyes tightly shut. She was a quaking, quivering mold of abject terror. But Conan was galvanized. A quick glance across at the aperture where the stars shone, a glance down at the chest that still blazed open on the blood-smeared altar, and he saw and seized the desperate gamble.

“I’m going after that chest!” he grated. "Stay here!”

“Oh Mitra, no!” In an agony of fright she fell to the floor and caught at his sandals. “Don’t! Don’t! Don’t leave me!”

“Lie still and keep your mouth shut!” he snapped, disengaging himself from her frantic clasp.

He disregarded the tortuous stair. He dropped from ledge to ledge with reckless haste. There was no sign of the monsters as his feet hit the floor. A few of the torches still flared in their sockets, the phosphorescent glow throbbed and quivered, and the river flowed with an almost articulate muttering, scintillant with undreamed radiances. The glow that had heralded the appearance of the servants had vanished with them. Only the light of the jewels in the brass chest shimmered and quivered.

He snatched the chest, noting its contents in one lustful glance — strange, curiously shapen stones that burned with an icy, nonterrestrial fire. He slammed the lid, thrust the chest under his arm, and ran back up the steps. He had no desire to encounter the hellish servants of Bit-Yakin. His glimpse of them in action had dispelled any illusion concerning their fighting ability. Why they had waited so long before striking at the invaders he was unable to say. What human could guess the motives or thoughts of these monstrosities.^ That they were possessed of craft and intelligence equal

to humanity had been demonstrated. And there on the cavern floor lay crimson proof of their bestial ferocity.

The Gjrinthian girl still cowered on the gallery where he had left her. He caught her wrist and yanked her to her feet, grunting: “I guess it’s time to go!”

Too bemused with terror to be fully aware of what was going on, the girl suffered herself to be led aaoss the dizzy span. It was not until they were poised over the rushing water that she looked down, voiced a startled yelp and would have fallen but for Conan’s massive arm about her. Growling *an objurgation in her ear, he snatched her up under his free arm and swept her, in a flutter of limply waving arms and legs, across the arch and into the aperture that opened at the other end. Without bothering to set her on her feet, he hurried through the short tunnel into which this aperture opened. An instant later they emerged upon a narrow ledge on the outer side of the cliffs that circled the valley. Less than a hundred feet below them the jungle waved in the starlight.

Looking down, Conan vented a gusty sigh of relief. He believed that he could negotiate the descent, even though burdened with the jewels and the girl; although he doubted if even he, unburdened, could have ascended at that spot. He set the chest, still smeared with Gorulga’s blood and clotted with his brains, on the ledge, and was about to remove his girdle in order to tie the box to his back, when he was galvanized by a sound behind him, a sound sinister and unmistakable.

“Stay here!” he snapped at the bewildered Corinthian girl. “Don’t move!” And drawing his sword, he glided into the tunnel, glaring back into the cavern.

Half-way across the upper span he saw a gray deformed shape. One of the servants of Bit-Yakin was on his trail.



There was no doubt that the brute had seen them and was following them. Ojnan did not hesitate. It might be easier to defend the mouth of the tunnel — but this fight must be finished quickly, before the other servants could return.

He ran out on the span, straight toward the oncoming monster. It was no ape, neither was it a man. It was some shambling horror spawned in the mysterious, nameless jungles of the south, where strange life teemed in the reeking rot without the dominance of man, and drums thundered in temples that had never known the tread of a human foot. How the ancient Pelishtim had gained lordship over them — and with it eternal exile from humanity — was a foul riddle about which Conan did not care to speculate, even if he had had opportunity.

Man and monster; they met at the highest arch of the span, where, a hundred feet below, rushed the furious black water. As the monstrous shape with its leprous gray body and the features of a carven, unhuman idol loomed over him, Conan struck as a wounded tiger strikes, with every ounce of thew and fury behind the blow. That stroke would have sheared a human body asunder; but the bones of the servant of Btt-Yakin were like tempered steel. Yet even tempered steel could not wholly have withstood that furious stroke. Ribs and shoulderbone parted and blood spouted from the great gash.

There was no time for a second stroke. Before the Cimmerian could lift his blade again or spring clear, the sweep of a giant arm knocked him from the span as a fly is flicked from a wall. As he plunged downward the rush of the river was like a knell in his ears, but his twisting body fell half-way across the lower arch. He wavered there precariously for

one blood-chilling instant, then his clutdiing fingers hooked over the farther edge, and he scrambled to safety, his sword still in his other hand.

As he sprang up, he saw the monster, spurting blood hideously, rush toward the cliff-end of the bridge, obviously intending to descend the stair that connected the arclies and renew the feud. At the very ledge the brute paused in midflight— and Conan saw it too — ^Muriela, with the jewel chest under her arm, stood staring wildly in the mouth of the tunnel.

With a triumphant bellow the monster scooped her up under one arm, snatched the jewel chest with the other hand as she dropped it, and turning, lumbered back across the bridge. Conan cursed with passion and ran for the other side also. He doubted if he could climb the stair to the higher arch in time to catch the brute before it could plunge into the labyrinths of tunnels on the other side.

But the monster was slowing, like clockwork running down. Blood gushed from that terrible gash in his breast, and he lurched drunkenly from side to side. Suddenly he stumbled, reeled and toppled sidewise — pitched headlong from the arch and hurtled downward. Girl and jewel chest fell from his nerveless hands and Muriela’s scream rang terribly above the snarl of the water below.

Conan was almost under the spot from which the creature had fallen. The monster struck the lower arch glancingly and shot off, but the writhing figure of the girl struck and clung, and the chest hit the edge of the span near her. One falling object struck on one side of Conan and one on the other. Either was within arm’s length; for the fraction of a split second the chest teetered on the edge of the bridge, and Muriela clung by one arm, her face turned desperately toward Conan, her eyes dilated with the fear of



death and her lips parted in a haunting cry of despair.

CONAN did not hesitate, nor did he even glance toward the chest that held the wealth of an epoch. With a quickness that would have shamed the spring of a hungry jaguar, he swooped, grasped the girl’s arm just as her fingers slipped from the smooth stone, and snatched her up on the span with one explosive heave. The chest toppled on over and struck the water ninety feet below, where the body of the servant of BIt-Yakin had already vanished. A splash, a jetting flash of foam marked where the Teeth of Gwahlur disappeared for ever from the sight of man.

Conan scarcely wasted a downward glance. He darted across the span and ran up the cliflf stair like a cat, carrying the limp girl as if she had been an infant. A hideous ululation caused him to glance over his shoulder as he reached the higher arch, to see the other servants streaming back into the cavern below, blood dripping from their bared fangs. They raced up the stair that wound up from tier to tier, roaring vengefully; but he slung the girl unceremoniously over his shoulder, dashed through the tunnel and went down the cliffs like an ape himself, dropping and springing from hold to hold with breakneck recklessness. When the fierce countenances looked over the ledge of the aperture, it was to see the Cimmerian and the girl disappearing into the forest that surrounded the cliffs.

"Well,” said Conan, setting the girl on her feet within the sheltering screen

of branches, "we can take our time now. I don’t think those brutes will follow us outside the valley. An5nvay, I’ve got a horse tied at a water-hole close by, if the lions haven’t eaten him. Crom’s devils! What are you crying about now?’’

She covered her tear-stained face with her hands, and her slim shoulders shook with sobs.

"I lost the jewels for you,” she wailed miserably. "It was my fault. If I’d obeyed you and stayed out on the ledge, that brute would never have seen me. You should have caught the gems and let me drown!”

"Yes, I suppose I should,” he agreed. "But forget it. Never worry about what’s past. And stop crying, will you? 'That’s better. Come on.”

"You mean you’re going to keep me? Take me with you?” she asked hopefully.

"What else do you suppose I’d do with you?” He ran an approving glance over her figure and grinned at the tom skirt which revealed a generous expanse of tempting ivory-tinted curves. "I can use an actress like you. There’s no use going back to Keshia. There’s nothing in Keshan now that I want. We’ll go to Punt. The people of Punt worship an Ivory woman, and they wash gold out of the rivers in wicker baskets. I’ll tell them that Keshan is intriguing with 'Thutmekri to enslave them — which is true — and that the gods have sent me to protect them — for about a houseful of gold. If I can manage to smuggle you into their temple to exchange places with their ivory goddess, we’ll skin them out of their jaw teeth before we get through with them!”

"Smith looked down at what he still giipped between his hands.”

A thrilling tale of Northwest Smith, outlaw of three worlds, who tasted cosmic sensations never known before to mortal man — a superb story by the author of "Shambleau.”

The tale of Smith’s scars would make a saga. From head to foot his brown and sunburnt hide was scored with the marks of battle. The eye of a connoisseur would recognize the distinctive tracks of knife and talon and ray328

bum, the slash of the Martian drylandet cring, the clean, thin stab of the Venusian stiletto, the crisscross lacing of Earth’s penal whip. But one or two scars that he carried would have baffled the most discerning eye. That curious, convoluted red

JULHI


circlet, for instance, like some bloody rose oil the left side of his chest just where the beating of his heart stirred the sundarkened flesh...

IN THE starless dark of the thick Venu-; sian night Northwest Smith’s pale steel eyes were keen and wary. Save for those restless eyes he did not stir. He crouched against a wall that his searching fingers had told him was stone, and cold; but he could see nothing and he had no faintest idea of where he was or how he had come there. Upon this dark five minutes ago he had opened puzzled eyes, and he was still puzzled. The dark-piercing pallor of his gaze flickered restlessly through the blackness, searching in vain for some point of familiarity. He could find nothing. The dark was blurred and formless around him, and though his keen senses spoke to him of enclosed spaces, yet there was a contradiction even in that, for the air was fresh and blowing.

He croudied motionless in the windy dark, smelling earth and cold stone, and faintly — ^very faintly — a whiff of something unfamiliar that made him gather his feet under him noiselessly and poise with one hand against the chili stone wall, tense as a steel spring. There was motion in the dark. He could see nothing, hear nothing, but he felt that stirring come cautiously nearer. He stretched out exploring toes, found the ground firm underfoot, and stepped aside a soundless pace or two, holding his breath. Against the stone where he had been leaning an instant before he heard the soft sound of hands fumbling, with a queer, sucking noise, as if tliey were sticliy. Something exhaled with a small, impatient sound. In a lull of the wind he heard quite distinctly the slither over stone of something that was neither feet nor paws nor serpent-coils, but akin to all three.

9 When C. L Moore burst upon the literary firmament a year and a half ago with "Shambieou," the author was compared to a brilliant new star bursting info view in the sky. But unlike a novo, this author's light did not go out, but on the contrary it grew and grew, until now C. L Moore is acknowledged throughout the En* glish-speaking world as one of the supreme masters of fontostie fiction. Northwest Smith, the doughty hero of "Shambleau" and several stories thot followed it, is a literary sensation. The author now returns to this fascinating character in the present strange tale, "Julhi." If you have not heretofore experienced the thrili of reading a Northwest Smith story, you will enjoy making that strange outlaw's acquaintance in this story. We recommend it to you.

Smith’s hand sought his hip by instinct, and came away empty. Where he was and how he came there he did not know, but his weapons were gone and he knew that their absence was not accidental. 'The something that was pursuing him sighed again, queerly, and the shuflling sound over the stones moved with sudden, appalling swiftness, and something touched him that stung like an electric shock. There were hands upon him, but he scarcely realized it, or that they were no human hands, before the darkness spun around him and the cjueer, thrilling shock sent him reeling into a blurred oblivion.

When he opened his eyes again he lay once more upon cold stone in the unfathomable dark to which he had awakened before. He lay as he must have fallen when the searcher dropped him, and he was unhurt. He waited, tense and



listening, until his ears ached with the strain and the silence. So far as his bladekeen senses could tell him, he was quite alone. No sound broke the utter stillness, no sensation of movement, no whiff of scent. Very cautiously he rose once more, supporting himself against the unseen stones and flexing his limbs to be sure that he was unhurt.

The floor was uneven underfoot. He had the idea now that he must be in some ancient ruins, for the smell of stone and chill and desolation was clear to him, and the breeze moaned a little through unseen openings. He felt his way along the broken wall, stumbling over fallen blocks and straining his senses against the blanketing gloom around him. He was trying vainly to recall how he had come here, and succeeding in recapturing only vague memories of much red segir whisky in a nameless dive, and confusion and mioffled voices thereafter, and wide spaces of utter blank — and then awakening here in the dark. The whisky must have been drugged, he told himself defensively, and a slow anger began to smolder within him at the temerity of whoever it was who had dared lay hands upon Northwest Smith.

Then he froze into stony quiet, rigid in mid-step, at the all but soundless stirring of something in the dark near by. Blurred visions of the unseen tiling that had seized him ran through his head — some monster whose gait was a pattering glide and whose hands were armed with the stunning shock of an unknown force. He stood frozen, wondering if it could see him in the dark.

Feet whispered over the stone very near him, and something breathed pantingly, and a hand brushed his face. There was a quick suck of indrawn breath, and then Smith’s arms leaped out to grapple the invisible thing to him. The surprize

of that instant took his breath, and then he laughed deep in his throat and swung the girl roimd to face him in the dark.

He could not see her, but he knew from the firm curves of her under his hands that she was young and feminine, and from the sound of her breath that she was near to fainting with fright.

"Sh-h-h,” he whispered urgently, his lips at her ear and her hair brushing his cheek fragrantly. "Don’t be afraid. Where are we?”

It might have been reaction from her terror that relaxed the tense body he held, so that she went limp in his arms and the sound of her breathing almost ceased. He lifted her clear of the ground — she was light and fragrant and he felt the brush of velvet garments against his bare arms as unseen robes swept him — and carried her across to the wall. He felt better with something solid at his back. He laid her down there in the angle of the stones and crouched beside her, listening, while she slowly regained control of herself.

When her breathing was normal again, save for the faint hurrying of excitement and alarm, he heard the sound of her sitting up against the wall, and bent closer to catch her whisper.

"Who are you?” she demanded. "Northwest Smith,” he said under his breath, and grinned at her softly murmured "Oh-h!” of recognition. Whoever she was, she had heard that name before. Then,

"There has been a mistake,” she breathed, half to herself. "They never take any but the — the space-rats and the scum of the ports for Julhi to — I mean, to bring here. They must not have known you, and they will pay for that mistake. No man is brought here who might be searched for — afterward.”

Smith was silent for a moment. He had

JULHI


thought her lost like himself, and her fright had been too genuine for pretense. Yet she seemed to know the secrets of this curious, unlit place. He must go warily.

"Who are you?” he murmured. "Why were you so frightened? Where are we?”

In the dark her breath caught in a little gasp, and went on unevenly.

"We are in the ruins of Vonng,” she whispered. "I am Apri, and I am condemned to death. I thought you were death coming for me, as it will come at any instant now.” Her voice failed on the last syllables, so that she spoke in a fading gasp as if terror had her by the throat and would not let her breathe. He felt her trembling against his arm.

Many questions crowded up to his lips, but the most urgent found utterance.

"What will come?” he demanded. "What is the danger?”

"The haunters of Vonng,” she whispered fearfully. "It is to feed them that Julhi’s slaves bring men here. And those among us who are disobedient must feed the haunters too. I have suffered her displeasure— and I must die.”

"The haunters — what are they? Something with a touch like a live wire had me awhile ago, but it let me loose again. Could that have been ”

"Yes, one of them. My coming must have disturbed it. But as to what they are, I don’t know. They come in the darkness. They are of Julhi’s race, I think, but not flesh and blood, like her. I — I can’t explain.”

"And Julhi?”

"Is — well, simply Julhi. You don’t know?”

"A woman? Some queen, perhaps? You must remember I don’t even know where I am.”

"No, not a woman. At least, not as I am. And much more than queen. A

great sorceress, I have thought, or perhaps a goddess. I don’t know. It makes me ill to think, here in Vonng. It makes me ill to — to — oh, I couldn’t bear it! I think I was going mad! It’s better to die than go mad, isn’t it? But I’m so afraid — — ”

Her voice trailed away incoherently, and she cowered shivering against him in the dark.

Smith had been listening above her shuddering whispers for any tiniest sound in the night. Now he turned his mind more fully to what she had been saying, though with an ear still alert for any noises about them.

"What do you mean? What was it you did?”

"There is a — a light,” murmured Apri vaguely. "I’ve always seen it, even from babyhood, whenever I closed my eyes and tried to make it come. A light, and queer shapes and shadows moving through it, like reflections from somewhere I never saw before. But somehow it got out of control, and then I began to catch the strangest thought-waves beating through, and after awhile Julhi came — through the light. I don’t know — I can’t understand. But she makes me summon up the light for her now, and then queer things happen inside my head, and I’m ill and dizzy, and — and I think I’m going mad. But she makes me do it. And it grows worse, you know, each time worse, until I can’t bear it. 'Then she’s angry, and that dreadful still look comes over her face — ^and this time she sent me here. The haunters will come, now ”

SMITH tightened his arm comfortingly about her, thinking that she was perhaps a little mad already.

"How can we get out of here?” he demanded, shaking her gently to call back her wandering mind. "Where are we?”



"In Voong. Don’t you understand? On the island where Vonng’s ruins are.”

He remembered then. He had heard of Vonng, somewhere. The ruins of an old city lost in die tangle of vines upon a small island a few hours off the coast of Shann. There were legends that it had been a great city once, and a strange one. A king with curious powers had built it, a king in league with beings better left unnamed, so the whispers ran. The stone had been quarried with unnamable rites, and the buildings were very queerly shaped, for mysterious purposes. Some of its lines ran counterwise to the understanding even of the men who laid them out, and at intervals in die streets, following a pattern certainly not of their own world, medallions had been set, for reasons known to none but the king. Smith remembered what he had heard of the strangeness of fabulous Vonng, and of the rites that attended its building, and that at last some strange plague had overrun it, driving men mad... something about ghosts that flickered through the streets at midday; so that at last the dwellers there had deserted it, and for centuries it had stood here, slowly crumbling into decay. No one ever visited the place now, for civili2ation had moved inland since the days of Vonng’s glory, and uneasy tales still ran through men’s minds about the queer things that had happened here once.

"Julhi lives in these ruins?” he demanded.

"Julhi lives here, but not in a ruined Vonng. Her Vonng is a splendid city. I have seen it, but I could never enter.”

"Quite mad,” thought Smith compassionately. And aloud, "Are there no boats here? No way to escape at all?”

Almost before the last words had left his lips he heard something like the humming of countless bees begin to ring in

his ears. It grew and deepened and swelled until his head was filled with sound, and the cadences of that sound said,

“No. No way. Julhi forbids it.”

In Smith’s arms the girl startled and clung to him convulsively.

"It is Julhi!” she gasped. "Do you feel her, singing in your brain? Julhi!”

Smith heard the voice swelling louder, until it seemed to fill the whole night, humming with an intolerable volume.

"Yes, my little Apri. It is I. Do you repent your disobedience, my Apri?”

Smith felt the girl trembling against him. He could hear her heart pounding, and the breath rushed cliokingly throu^ her lips.

"No — no, I do not,” he heard her murmur, very softly. "Let me die, Julhi.”

"The voice hummed with a purring sweetness.

"Die, my pretty? Julhi could not be so cruel. Oh no, little Apri, I but frightened you for punishment. You are forgiven now. You may return to me and serve me again, my Apri. I would not let you die.” The voice was cloyingly sweet.

Apri’s voice crescendoed into hysterical rebellion.

"No, no! I will not serve you! Not again, JuUii! Let me die!”

"Peace, peace, my little one.” That humming was hypnotic in its soothing lilt. "You will serve me. Yes, you will obey me as before, my pretty. You have found a man there, haven’t you, little one? Bring him with you, and come.”

Apri’s unseen hands clawed frantically at Smith’s shoulders, tearing herself free, pushing him away.

"Run, run!” she gasped. "Climb this wall and run! You can throw yourself over the cliff and be free. Run, I say, before it’s too late. Oh, Shar, Shar, if I were free to die!”

JULHI


Smitfi prisoned the clawing hands in one of his and shook her with the other.

"Be still!" he snapped. "You’re hysterical. Be still, I say!"

He felt the shuddering slacken. The straining hands fell quiet. By degrees her panting breath evened.

"Come,” she said at last, and in qiiite a different voice. "Julhi commands it. Come.”

Her fingers twined firmly in his, and she stepped forward without hesitation into the dark. He followed, stumbling over debris, bruising himself against the broken walls. How far they went he did not know, but the way turned and twisted and doubled back upon itself, and he had, somehow, the curious idea that she was not following a course through corridors and passages which she knew well enough not to hesitate over, but somehow, under the influence of Julhi’s sorcery, treading a symbolic pattern among the stones, tracing it out with unerring feet — a witchpattern that, when it was completed, would open a door for them which no eyes could see, no hands unlock.

It may have been Julhi who put that certainty in his mind, but he was quite sure of it as the girl walked on along her intricate path, threading silently in and out among the unseen ruins, nor was he surprized when without warning the floor became smooth underfoot and the walls seemed to fall away from about him, the smell of cold stone vanished from the air. Now he walked in darkness over a thick carpet, through sweetly scented air, warm and gently moving with invisible currents. In that dark he was somehow aware of eyes upon him. Not physical eyes, but a more all-pervading inspection. Presently the humming began again, swelling through the air and beating in his ears in sweetly pitched cadences.

"Hm-m-m... have you brought me

a man from Earth, my Apri? Yes, an Earthman, and a fine one. I am pleased with you, Apri, for saving me this man. I ■shall call him to me presently. Until then let him wander, for he can not escape.”

The air fell quiet again, and about him Smith gradually became aware of a dawning light. It swelled from no visible source, but it paled the utter dark to a twilight through which he could see tapestries and richly glowing columns about him, and the outlines of the girl Apri standing at his side. The twilight paled in turn, and the light grew strong, and presently he stood in full day among the queer, rich furnishings of the place into which he had come.

He stared round in vain for signs of the way they had entered. The room was a small cleared space in the midst of a forest of shining pillars of polished stone. Tapestries were stretched between some of them, swinging down in luxuriant folds. But as far as he could see in all directions the columns reached away in diminishing aisles, and he was quite sure that they had not made their way to this place through the clustering pillars. He would have been aware of them. No, he had stepped straight from Vonng’s stonestrewn ruins upon this rug which carpeted the little dear space, through some door invisible to him.

He turned to the girl. She had sunk upon one of the divans which stood between the columns around the edge of the circular space. She was paler than the marble, and very lovely, as he had known she would be. She had the true Venusian’s soft, dark, sidelong eyes, and her mouth was painted coral, and her hair swept in black, shining clouds over her shoulders. The tight-swathed Venusian robe clung to her in folds of rose-red velvet, looped to leave one shoulder bar^



and slit, as all Venusian women’s garments are, to let one leg flash free with every other step. It is the most flattering dress imaginable for any woman to wear, but Apri needed no flattery to make her beautiful. Smith’s pale eyes were appreciative as he stared.

She met his gaze apathetically. All rebellion seemed to have gone out of her, and a strange exhaustion had drained the color from her face.

"Where are we now?’’ demanded Smith.

She gave him an oblique glance.

"This is the place Julhi uses for a prison,’’ she murmured, almost indifferently. “Around us I suppose her slaves are moving, and the halls of her palace stretch. I can’t explain it to you, but at Julhi’s command anything can happen. We could be in the midst of her palace and never suspect it, for there is no escape from here. We can do nothing but wait.’’

"Why?” Smith nodded, toward the columned vistas stretching away all around them. ’What’s beyond that?”

"Nothing. It simply extends like that until — until you find yourself back here again.”

Smith glanced at her swiftly under lowered lids, wdndering just how mad she really was. Her white, exhausted face told him nothing.

"Come along,” he said at last. "I’m going to try, anyhow.”

She shook her head.

"No use. Julhi can find you when she is ready. There is no escape from Julhi.”

"I'm going to try,” he said again, stubbornly. "Are you coming?”

"No. I’m — tired. I’ll v/ait for you here. You’ll come back.”

He turned without further words and plunged at random into the wilderness of pillars surrounding the little carpeted

room. The floor was slippery under his boots, and dully shining. 'The pillars, too, shone along all their polished surfaces, and in the queer light diffused throughout the place no shadows fell; so that a dimension seemed to be lacking and a curious flatness lay over all die shining forest. He went on resolutely, looking back now and again to keep his course straight away from the little clear space he had left. He watched it dwindle behind him and lose itself among the columns and vanish, and he wandered on through endless wilderness, to the sound of his own echoing footsteps, with nothing to break the monotony of the shining pillars until he thought he glimpsed a cluster of tapestries far ahead through the unshadowed vistas and began to hurry, hoping against hope that he had found at least a way out of the forest. He reached the place at last, and pulled aside the tapestry, and met Apri’s wearily smiling eyes. The way somehow had doubled back upon him.

He snorted disgustedly at himself and turned again to plunge into the columns. This time he had wandered for no more than ten minutes before he found himself coming back once more into the clearing. He tried a third time, and it seemed had taken no more than a dozen steps before the way twisted under his feet and catapulted him back again into the room he had 'just left. Apri smiled as he flung himself upon one of the divans and regarded her palely from under knit brows.

"There is no escape,” she repeated. "I think this place is built upon some different plan from any we know, with all its lines running in a circle whose center is this room. For only a circle has boundaries, yet no end, like this wilderness around us.”

"Who is Julhi?” demanded Smith abruptly. "What is she?”

JULHI


"She is — a goddess, perhaps. Or a devil from hell. Or both. And she comes from the place beyond the light — I can’t explain it to you. It was I who opened the door for her, I think, and through me she looks back into that light that I must call up for her when she commands me. And I shall go mad — mad!"

Desperation flamed from her eyes suddenly and faded again, leaving her face whiter than before. Her hands rose in a small, futile gesture and dropped to her lap again. She shook her head.

"No — not wholly mad. She would never permit me even that escape, for then I could not summon up the light and so open the window for her to look backward into that land from which she came. That land ”

"Look!” broke in Smith. "The light—”

Apri glanced up and nodded almost indifferently.

"Yes. It’s darkening again. Julhi will summon you now, I think.”

Rapidly the illumination was failing all about them, and the columned forests melted into dimness, and dark veiled the long vistas, and presently everything clouded together and black night fell once more. This time they did not move, but Smith was aware, remotely, of a movement all about them, subtle and indescribable, as if the scenes were being shifted behind the curtain of the dark. The air quivered with motion and change. Even under his feet the floor was shifting, not tangibly but with an inner metamorphosis he could put no name to.

And then the dark began to lift again. Light diffused slowly through it, paling the black, until he stood in a translucent twilight through whose veil he could see that the whole scene had changed about him. He saw Apri from the corner of his eye, heard her quickened breathing

beside him, but he did not turn his head. Those columned vistas were gone. The limitless aisles down which he had wandered were closed now by great walls uplifting all around.

HIS eyes rose to seek the ceiling, and as the dusk lightened into day once more he became aware of a miraculous quality about those walls. A curious wavy pattern ran around them in broad bands, and as he stared he realized that the bands were not painted upon the surface, but were integrally part of the walls themselves, and that each successive band lessened in density. 'Those along the base of the walls were heavily dark, but the rising patterns paled and became less solid as they rose, until at half-way up the wall they were like layers of patterned smoke, and farther up still bands of scarcely discernible substance more tenuous than mist. Around the heights they seemed to melt into pure light, to which he could not lift his eyes for the dazzling brilliance of it.

In the center of the room rose a low black couch, and upon it — ^Julhi. He knew that instinctively the moment he saw her, and in that first moment he realized nothing but her beauty. He caught his breath at the sleek and shining loveliness of her, lying on her black couch and facing him with a level, unwinking stare. Then he realized her unhumanity, and a tiny prickling ran down his back — for she was one of that very ancient race of one-eyed beings about which whispers persist so unescapably in folklore and legend, though history has forgotten them for ages. One-eyed. A clear eye, uncolored, centered in the midst of a fair, broad forehead. Her features were arranged in a diamond-shaped pattern instead of humanity’s triangle, for the slanting nostrils of her low-bridged nose were



set so far apart that they might have been separate features, tilting and exquisitely modeled. Her mouth was perhaps the queerest feature of her strange yet somehow lovely face. It was perfectly heartshaped, in an exaggerated cupid’s-bow, but it v/as not a human mouth. It did not close, ever. It was a beautifully arched orifice, the red lip that rimmed it compellingly crimson, but fixed and moveless in an unhinged jaw. Behind the bowed opening he could see the red, fluted tissue of flesh within.

Above that single, clear, deep-iashed eye something sprang backward from her brow in a splendid sweep, something remotely feather-like, yet no such feather as was ever fledged upon any bird alive. It was exquisitely iridescent, and its fronds shivered with blowing color at the slight motion of her breathing.

For the rest — well, as the lines of a lapdog travesty the clean, lean grace of ^ racing greyhound, so humanity’s shape travestied the serpentine loveliness of her body. And it was definitely humanity that aped her form, not herself aping humanity. Somehow she was so right in every flowing, curving line, so unerringly fashioned toward some end he could not guess, yet to which instinctively he conceded her perfect ^fitness.

There was a fluidity about her, a litheness that partook more of the serpent’s rippling flow than of any warm-blooded creature’s motion, but her body was not like any being, warm-blooded or cold, that he had ever seen before. From the waist up she was human, but below all resemblance ended. And yet she was so breatli-takingly lovely. Any attempt to describe the alien beauty of her lower limbs would sound grotesque, and she was not grotesque even in her unnamable sliape, even in the utter weirdness of her face.

That clear, unwinking eye turned its ga2e upon Smith. She lay there luxuriously upon her black couch, ivory-pale against the darkness of it, the indescribable strangeness of her body lolling with a serpent’s grace upon the cushions. He felt the gaze of that eye go through him, searching out all the hidden places in his brain and flickering casually over the lifetime that lay behind him. The feathery crest quivered very gently above her head.

He met the gaze steadily. There was no expression upon that changeless face, for she could not smile, and the look in her single eye was meaningless to him. He had no way of guessing what emotions were stirring behind the alien mask. He had never realized before how essential is the mobility of the mouth in expressing moods, and hers was fixed, immobile, for ever stretched into its heart-shaped arch — like a lyre-frame, he thought, but irrevocably dumb, surely, for such a mouth as hers, in its immovable, imhinged jaw, could never utter human speech.

And then she spoke. The shock of it made him blink, and it was a moment before he realized just how she was accomplishing the impossible. The fluted tissue within the arched opening of her mouth had begun to vibrate like harp-strings, and the humming he had heard before went thrilling through the air. Beside him he was aware of Apri shuddering uncontrollably as the humming strengthened and swelled, but he was listening too closely to realize her save subconsciously; for there was in that humming something that — that, yes, it was rounding into the most queerly uttered phrases, in a sort of high, unutterably sweet singing note, like the sound of a violin. With her moveless lips she could not articulate, and her only enunciation came from the varied intensities of that musical tone.

W. T.— 4

JULHI


Many languages could not be spoken so, but the High Venusian’s lilt is largely that of inflection, every word-sound bearing as many meanings as it has degrees of intensity, so that the exquisitely modulated notes which came rippling from her harp-like mouth bore as clear a meaning as if she were enunciating separate words.

And it was more eloquent than speech. Somehow those singing phrases played upon other senses than the aural. From the first lilted note he recognized the danger of that voice. It vibrated, it thrilled, it caressed. It rippled up and down his answering nerves like fingers over harpstrings.

"Who are you, Earthman.^” that lazy, nerve-strumming voice demanded. He felt, as he answered, that she knew not only his name but much more about him than he himself knew. Knowledge was in her eye, serene and all-inclusive.

"Northwest Smitli,” he said, a little sullenly. "Why have you brought me here?”

"A dangerous name,” she hummed murmurously. "A dangerous man.” There was an undemote of modcery in the music. "You were brought to feed the dwellers of Vonng with human blood, but I think — yes, I think I shall keep you for myself. You have known much of emotions that are alien to me, and I would share them fully, as one with your own strong, hot-blooded body. Northwest Smith. Aie-e-e" — the humming wailed along an ecstatic upward note that sent shivers down the man’s spine — "and how sweet and hot your blood will be, my Earthman! You shall share my ecstasy as I drink it! You shall — but wait. First you must understand. Listen, Earthman.”

HE humming swelled to an inarticu- -l late roaring in his ears, and somehow his mind relaxed under that soxmd, W. T.— 5

smoothed out, pliantly as wax for the recording of her voice. In that queer, submissive mood he heard her singing,

"Life dwells in so many overlapping planes, my Earthman, that even I can comprehend but a fraction of them. My plane is very closely aldn to your own, and at some places they overlap in so intimate a way tliat it takes little effort to break through, if one can find a weak spot. This city of Vonng is one of the spots, a place which exists simultaneously in both planes. Can you understand that? It was laid out along Certain obscure patterns in a way and for a purpose which are stories in themselves; so that in my own plane as well as here in yours Vonng’s walls and streets and buildings are tangible. But time is different in our two worlds. It moves faster here. The strange alliance between your plane and mine, through two sorcerers of our alien worlds, was brought about very curiously. Vonng was built by men of your own plane, laboriously, stone by stone. But to us it seemed that tlirough the magic of that sorcerer of ours a city suddenly appeared at his command, empty and complete. For your time moves so much faster than ours.

"And though through the magic of those strangely matched conspirators the stone which built Vonng existed in both planes at once, no power could make the men who dwelt in Vonng accessible to us. Two races simultaneously inhabited the city. To mankind it seemed haunted by nebulous, imponderable presences. That race was ourselves. To us you were tantalizingly perceptible in flashes, but we could not break through. And we wanted to very badly. Mentally, sometimes, we could reach you, but physically never.

"And so it went on. But because time moved faster here, your Vonng fell into ruins and has been deserted for ages,,



while to our perceptions it is still a great and thronging city. I shall show you presently.

"To understand why I am here you must understand something of our lives. The goal of yoxir own race is the pursuit of happiness, is it not so,? But our lives are spent wholly in the experiencing and enjoyment of sensation. To us that is food and drink and happiness. Without it we starve. To nourish our bodies we must drink the blood of living creatures, but that is a small matter beside the ravenous hunger we know for the sensations and the emotions of the flesh. We are infinitely more capable of experiencing them than you, both physically and mentally. Our range of sensation is vast beyond your comprehension, but to us it is an old story, and always we seek new sensations, other alien emotions. We have raided many worlds, many planes, many dimensions, in search of something new. It was only a short while ago that we succeeded in breaking into yours, through the help of Apri here.

"You must understand that we could not have come had there not been a doorway. Ever since the building of Vonng we have been mentally capable of entering, but to experience the emotions we crave we must have physical contact, a temporary physical union through the drinking of blood. And there has never been a way to enter until we found Apri. You see, we have long known that some are born with a wider range of perceptions than their comrades can understand. Sometimes they are called mad. Sometimes in their madness they are more dangerous than they realize. For Apri was bom with the ability to gaze in upon our world, and though she did not know this, or understand what the light was which she could summon up at will, she unwittingly opened the door for us to enter here.

"It was through her aid that I came, and with her aid that I maintain myself here and bring others through in the dark of the night to feed upon the blood of mankind. Our position is precarious in your world, and we have not yet dared make ourselves known. So we have begun upon the lowest types of man, to accustom ourselves to the fare and to strengthen our hold upon humanity, so that when we are ready to go forth openly we shall have sufficient power to withstand your resistance. But soon now we shall come.”

The long, lovely, indescribable body upon the couch writhed round to front him more fully, the motion rippling along her limbs like a wavelet over water. The deep, steady gaze of the eye bored into his, the voice pulsed with intensity.

"Great things are waiting for you, Earthman — before you die. We shall become one, for a while. I shall savor all your perceptions, suck up the sensations you have known. I shall open new fields to you, and see them through your senses with a new flavor, and you shall share my delight in the taste of your newness. And as your blood flows you shall know all beauty, and all horror, and all delight and pain, and all the other emotions and sensations, nameless to you, that I have known.”

The humming music of her voice spun through Smith’s brain soothingly. Somehow what she said held no urgency for him. It was like a legend of something which had happened long ago to another man. He waited gravely as the voice went on again, dreamily, gloatingly,

“You have known much of danger, O wanderer. You have looked upon strange things, and life has been full for you.

JULHI


and death an old comrade, and love — and love — those arms have held many women, is it not so?... Is it not so?”

Unbearably sweet, the voice lingered murmurously over the vibrant query, something compelling and irresistible in the question, in the pitch and the queer, ringing tone of it. And quite involuntarily memories flashed back across the surface of his mind. He was quiet, remembering.

The miik-white girls of Venus are so lovely, with their sidelong eyes and their warm mouths and their voices pitched to the very tone of love. And the canal-women of Mars — coral pink, sweet as honey, murmurous under the moving moons. And Earth’s girls are vibrant as sword-blades, and heady with kisses and laughter. There were otliers, too, He remen^ered a sweet brown savage on a lost asteroid, and one brief, perfume-dizzied night under the reeling stars. And there had been a space-pirate’s wench in stolen jewels, flame-gun belted, who came to him in a camp-town on the edge of Martian civilization, where the drylands begin. There was that rosy Martian girl in the garden palace by the canal, where the moons went wheeling through the sky.... And once, very long ago, in a garden upon Earth — he closed his eyes and saw again the moonlight of home silvering a fair, high head, and level eyes looking into his and a mouth that quivered, saying—

He drew a long, unsteady breath and opened his eyes again. The pale steel stare of them was expressionless, but that last, deep-buried memory had burnt like a heat-ray, and he knew she had tasted the pain of it, and was exulting. The feathery crest that swept backward from her forehead was trembling rhythmically, and the colors blowing through it had

deepened in intensity and were changing with bewildering swiftness. But her moveless face had not changed, although he thought there was a softening in the brilliance of her eye, as if she were remembering too.

When she spoke, the sustained, fluting note of her voice was breathless as a whisper, and he realized anew how infinitely more eloquent it was than a voice which spoke in words. She could infuse into the vibrant lilt blood-stirring intensities and soft, rich purrs tliat went sweeping along his nervesT like velvet. His whole body was responding to the pitch of her voice. She was playing upon him as upon a harp, evoking chords of memory and sending burring thrills down his back and setting the blood athrob in his pulses by the very richness and deepness of her tone. And it strummed not only upon the responses of his body but also upon the chords of his very mind, waking thoughts to match her own, compelling him into the charuiels she desired. Her voice was purest magic, and he had not even the desire to resist it.

"They are sweet memories — sweet?” she purred caressingly. "The women of the worlds you know — the women who have lain in those arms of yours — ^whose mouths have clung to yours — do you remember?”

There was the most flagrant mesmerism in her voice as it ran on vibrantly over him — again he thought of fingers upon harp-strings — evoking the melodies she desired, strumming at his memories with words like hot, sweet flames. The room misted before his eyes, and that singing voice was a lilt through timeless space, no longer speaking in phrases but in a throbbingly inarticulate purr, and his body was no more than a sounding-board for the melodies she played.

Presently the mesmerism of her tone



took on a difiFerent pitch. The huxnraing resolved itself into words again, thrilling through him now more clearly than spoken phrases.

"And in all these remembered women” — it sang — "in all these you remember me.... For it was I in each of them whom you remember — that little spark that was myself — and I am all women who love and are loved — ^my arms held you — do you not remember?”

In the midst of that hypnotic murmuring he did remember, and recognized dimly through the reeling tumult of his blood some great, veiled truth he could not understand.

The crest above her forehead trembled in slow, languorous rhytlim, and rich colors flowed through it in tints that caressed the eyes — velvety purples, red like embers, flame colors and sunset shades. When she rose upon her couch with an imnamable gliding movement and held out her arms he had no recollection of moving forward, but somehow he was clasping her and the outstretched arms had coiled like serpents about him, and very briefly the heart-shaped orifice which was her mouth brushed against his lips.

Something icy happened then. The touch was light and fluttering, as if the membrane that lined that bowed and rigid opening had vibrated delicately against his mouth as swiftly and lightly as the brush of humming-birds’ wings. It was not a shock, but somehow with the touch all the hammering tumult within him died. He was scarcely aware that he possessed a body. He was kneeling upon the edge of Julhi’s couch, her arms like snakes about him, her weird, lovely face upturned to his. Some half-formed nucleus of rebellion in his mind dissipated in a breath, for her single eye was a magnet to draw his gaze, and once his pale

stare was fixed upon it there was no possibility of escape.

And yet the eye did not seem to see him. It was fixed and glowing upon something immeasurably distant, far in the past, so intently that there was no consciousness in it of the walls about them, nor of himself so near, staring into the lucid depths wherein vague, cloudy reflections were stirring, queer shapes and shadows which were the images of nothing he had ever seen before.

H e bent there, tense, his gaze riveted upon the moving shadows in her eye. A thin, high humming fluted from her mouth in a monotone which compelled all his consciousness into one straight channel, and that channel the clouded deeps of her remembering eye. Now the past was moving more clearly through it, and he could see the shapes of things he had no name for stirring sluggishly across a background of dimness veiling still deeper pasts.

Then all the shapes and shadows ran together in a blackness like a vacuum, and the eye was no longer dear and lucid, but darker than sunless space, and far deeper... a dizzy deep that made his senses whirl. Vertigo came upon him overwhelmingly, and he reeled and somehow lost all hold upon reality, and was plunging, falling, whirling through the immeasurable, bottomless abysses of that dark.

Stars reeled all about him, streaks of light against a velvet black almost tangible in its utter dark. Slowly the lights steadied. His giddiness ceased, though the rush of his motion did not. He was being borne more swiftly than the wind through a dark ablaze with fixed points of brilliance, starry and unwinking. Gradually he became aware of himself, and knew without surprize that he was no

JULHI


longer of flesh and blood, a tangible human creature, but something nebulous and diffused and yet of definite dimensions, freer and lither than the human form and light as smoke.

He was riding through the starry dark a something all but invisible even to his keen new eyes. That dark did not muffle him as it would have blinded a human being. He could see quite clearly, his eyes utilizing something other than light in their perception. But this dim thing he rode was no more than a blur even to the keenness of his dark-defying gaze.

The vague outlines of it which were all he could catch as they flashed and faded and formed again, were now of one shape and now of another, but most often that of some fabulous monster with heavenspanning wings and a sinuous body trailing out to incredible length. Yet somehow he knew that it was not in reality any such thing. Somehow he knew it for the half-visible manifestation of a force without name, a force whicli streamed through this starry dark in long, writhing waves and tides, taking fantastic shapes as it flowed. And those shapes were controlled in a measure by the brain of the observer, so tliat he saw what he expected to see in the nebulous outlines of the dark.

The force buoyed him up with a heady exhilaration more intoxicating than wine. In long arcs and plunges he swept on through the spangled night, finding that he could control his course in some dim way he managed without understanding. It was as if he had wings spread out upon conflicting currents, and by the poise and beat of them rode the air more easily than a bird — yet he knew that his strange new body bore no wings.

For a long while he swept and curved and volplaned upon those forces which flowed invisibly through the dark, giddy with the intoxicating joy of flight. He

was aware of neither up nor down in this starry void. He was weightless, disembodied, a joyous ghost breasting the aircurrents upon unreal wings. Those points of light which flecked the blackness lay strewn in clusters and long winnowed swaths and strange constellations. They were not distant, like real stars, for sometimes he plunged through a swarm of them and emerged with the breathless sensation of one who has dived into a smother of foaming seas and risen again, yet the lights were intangible to him. That refreshing sensation was not a physical one, nor were the starry points real. He could see them, but that was all. They were like the reflections of something far away in some distant dimension, and though he swung his course straight through a clustering galaxy he did not disarrange a single star. It was his own body which diffused itself through them like smoke, and passed on gasping and refreshed.

As he swept on through the dark he began to find a tantalizing familiarity in the arrangement of some of those starry groups. There were constellations he knew... surely that was Orion, striding across the sky. He saw Beteleguese’s redly glowing eye, and Rigel’s cold blue blaze. And beyond, across gulfs of darkness, twin Sirius was spinning, blue-white against the black. The red glimmer in the midst of that wide swath of spangles must be Antares, and the great clustering galaxy that engulfed it — surely the Milky Way! He swerved upon the currents that bore him up, tilted wide, invisible pinions and plunged through its sparkling froth of stars, intoxicated with the space-devouring range of his flight. He spanned a billion light-years with one swoop, volplaned in a long steep curve across a universe. He looked for the tiny sun round which his native planets spun, and could



not find it in the wilderness of splendor through which he was plunging. It was a giddy and joyous thing to know that his body dwelt upon some light-point too small to be seen, while here in the limitless dark he soared heedlessly through a welter of constellations, defying time and space and matter itself. He must be swooping through some airy plane where distance and size were not measured in the terms he knew, yet upon whose darkness the reflections of familiar galaxies fell.

Then in his soaring course he swept on beyond the familiar stars, across an intervening gulf of dark, and into another spangled universe whose constellations traced strange and shining patterns across the sky. Presently he became aware that he was not alone. Outlined like wraiths against the blackness, other forms went plunging down the spaceways, sweeping in long curves upon currents of flowing force, plunging into smothers of starry brilliance and bursting through a-sparkle with it to go swinging on again down swooping arcs of darkness.

And then reluaantly he felt the exhilaration begin to fade. He fought against the force that was drawing him backward, clinging stubbornly to this new and intoxicating pleasure, but despite himself the vision was paling, the constellations fading. The dark rolled suddenly away, curtainwise, and with a jerk he was bade again in Julhi’s queerly walled room, solid and human once more, and Julhi’s lovely and incredible body was pressing close to his, her magical voice humming again through his head.

IT WAS a wordless humming she sang now, but it chose its pitch unerringly to play upcm the nerves she sought, and his heart began to hammer and his breath came fast, and the noise of war was roaring in his ears. That singing was a Valkyrie battle-chant, and he heard the crash of conflict and the shouts of struggling men, smelled burnt flesh and felt the kidc of the ray-gun’s butt against his gripping hand. All the sensations of battle poured over him in unrelated disarray. He was aware of smoke and dust and the smell of blood, felt the pain of ray-burns and the bite of blades, tasted sweat and salt blood, knew again the feel of his fists crashing into alien faces, the heady surge of power through his long, strong body. The wild exhilaration of battle flamed through him in deepening waves to the sorcery of Julhi’s song.

It grew stronger then, and more intense, until the physical sensation faded wholly and nothing was left but that soulconsuming ecstasy, and that in turn intensified until he no longer stood upon solid ground, but floated free through void again, pure emotion divorced from all hint of flesh. Then the void took nebulous shape around him, as he passed upward by the very intensity of his ecstasy into some higher land beyond the reach of any sense he possessed. For a while he floated through cloudy shapes of alien form and meaning. Little thrills of perception tingled through the calm of his exultation as he brushed by the misty things that peopled the cloudland to which he had penetrated. They came swifter, until that calm was rippled across and across with conflicting thrills and ecstasies that ran at cross-currents and tossed up little wavelets, and clashed together, and

Everything spun dizzily and with breath-taking abruptness he leaned once more in Julhi’s embrace. Her voice lilted through his brain,

"That was new! I’ve never gone so high before, or even suspected that such a place existed. But you could not have

JULHI


endured that pitch of ecstasy longer, and I am not ready yet for you to die. Let us sing now of terror...

And as the tones that went humming over him shivered through his brain, dim horrors stirred in their sleep and lifted ghastly heads in the lowest depths of his consciousness to the awakening call of the music, and terror rippled along his nerves until the air dimmed about him again and he was fleeing unnamable things down endless vistas of insanity, with that humming to hound him along.

So it went. He ran the gamut of emotion over and over again. He shared the strange sensations of beings he had never dreamed existed. Some he recognized, but more he could not even guess at, nor from what far worlds their emotions had been pilfered, to lie hoarded in Julhi’s mind imtil she evoked them again.

Faster they came, and faster. They blew over him in dizzy succession, unknown emotions, familiar ones, strange ones, freezingly alien ones, all hurrying through his brain in a blurred confusion, so that one merged into another and they two into a third before the first had done more than brush the surface of his consciousness. Faster still, until at last the whole insane tumult blended into a pitch of wild intensity which must have been too great for his human fiber to endure; for as the turmoil went on he felt himself losing all grasp upon reality, and catapulting upon the forces that ravaged him into a vast and soothing blankness which swallowed up all unrest in the nirvana of its dark.

After an immeasurable while he felt himself wakening, and fought against it weakly. No use. A light was broadening through tliat healing night which all his stubbornness could not resist. He had no sensation of physical awakening, but without operiing his eyes he saw the room

more clearly than he had ever seen it before, so that there were tiny rainbows of light around all the queer objects there, and Apri

He had forgotten her until now, but with this strange awareness that was not of the eyes alone he saw her standing before the couch upon which he leaned in Julhi’s arms. She stood rigid, rebellion making a hopeless mask of her face, and there was agony in her eyes. All about her like a bright nimbus the light rayed out. She was incandescent, a torch whose brilliance strengthened' imtil the light radiating from her was almost palpable.

He sensed in Julhi’s body, clinging to his, a deep-stirring exultation as the light swelled about her. She luxuriated in it, drank it in like wine. He felt that for her it was indeed tangible, and that he looked upon it now, in this queer new way, through senses that saw it as she did. Somehow he was sure that with normal eyes it would not have been visible.

Dimly he was remembering what had been said about the light which opened a door into Julhi’s alien world. And he felt no surprize when it became clear to him that tbe coudi no longer supported his body — that he had no body — that he was suspended weightlessly in midair, Julhi’s arms still clasping him in a queer, unphysical grip, while the strangely banded walls moved downward all about him. He had no sensation of motion himself; yet the walls seemed to fall away below and he was floating freely past the mounting bands of mist that paled and brightened swiftly until he was bathed in the blinding light that ringed the top.

There was no ceiling. The light was a blaze of splendor all about him, and out of that blaze, very slowly, very nebulously, the streets of Vonng took shape. It was not that Vonng which had



stood once upon the little Venusian island. The buildings were the same as those which must once have risen where their ruins now stood, but there was a subtle distortion of perspeaive which would have made it clear to him, even had he not known, that this city stood in another plane of existence than his own. Sometimes amidst the splendor he thought he caught glimpses of vinetangled ruins. A wall would shimmer before his eyes for an instant and crumble into broken blocks, and the pavement would be debris-strewn and mossy. Tlien the vision faded and the wall stood up unbroken again. But he knew he was looking through the veil which parted the two worlds so narrowly, upon the ruins which were all that remained of Vonng in his own plane.

It was the Vonng which had been shaped for the needs of two worlds simultaneously. He could see, witliout really understanding, how some of the queerly angled buildings and twisted streets whicli could have no meaning to the eyes of a man were patterned for the use of these gliding people. He saw in the pavement the curious medallions set by the long-dead sorcerers to pin two planes together at this point of intersection.

In these shimmering, unstable streets he saw for the first time in full light shapes which must be like that of the creature which had seized him in the dark. They were of Julhi’s race, unmistakably, but he saw now that in her metamorphosis into a denizen of his own world she had perforce taken on a more human aspect tlian was normally her own. The beings that glided through Vonng’s strangely altered streets could never have been mistaken, even at the first glance, as human. Yet they gave even more strongly than had Julhi the queer impression of

being exquisitely fitted for some lofty purpose he could not guess at, their shapes of a perfect proportion toward which mankind might have aimed and missed. For the hint of humanity was there, as in man there is a hint of the beast. Julhi in her explanation had made them seem no more than sensation-eaters, intent only upon the gratification of hunger. But, looking upon their perfect, indescribable bodies, he could not believe that the goal for which they were so beautifully fashioned could be no njore than that. He was never to know what that ultimate goal was, but he could not believe it only the satisfaction of the senses.

The shining crowds poured past him down the streets, the whole scene so unstable that great rifts opened in it now and again to let the ruins of that other Vonng show through. And against this background of beauty and uncertainty he was sometimes aware of Apri, rigid and agonized, a living torch to light him on his way. She was not in the Vonng of the alien plane nor in that of the ruins, but somehow hung suspended between the two in a dimension of her own. And whether he moved or not, she was always there, dimly present, radiant and rebellious, the shadow of a queer, reluctant madness behind her tortured eyes.

In the strangeness of what lay before him he scarcely heeded her, and he found that when he was not thinking directly of the girl she appeared only as a vague blur somewhere in the bade of his consciousness. It was a brain-twisting sensation, this awareness of overlapping planes. Sometimes in flashes his mind refused to encompass it and everydiing shimmered meaninglessly for an instant before he could get control again.

Julhi was beside him. He could see her without turning. He could see a great many strange things here in a great msmjr

JULHI


queer, incomprehensible ways. And though he felt himself more unreal than a dream, she was firm and stable with a different sort of substance from that she had worn in the other Vonng. Her shape was changed too. Like those others she was less human, less describable, more beautiful even than before. Her clear, unfathomable eye turned to him limpidly. She said,

"This is my Vonng,” and it seemed to him that though her humming thrilled compellingly through the smoky iramaterialism which was himself, her words, in some new way, had gone directly from brain to brain with no need of that pseudo-speech to convey them. He realized then that her voice was primarily not for communication, but for hypnosis — a weapon more potent than steel or flame.

She turned now and moved away over the tiled street, her gait a liquidly graceful gliding upon those amazing lower limbs. Smith found himself drawn after her with a power he could not resist. He was smokily impalpable and without any independent means of locomotion, and he followed her as helplessly as her shadow followed.

At a corner ahead of them a group of the nameless beings had paused in the onward sweep which was carrying so many of Vonng’s denizens along toward some yet unseen goal. They turned as Julhi approached, their expressionless eyes fixed on the shadow-wraith behind her which was Smith. No sound passed between them, but he felt in his increasingly receptive brain faint echoes of thoughts that were flashing through the air. It puzzled him until he saw how they were communicating — by those exquisitely feathery crests which swept backward above their foreheads.

It was a speech of colors. The aests quivered unceasingly, and colors far beyond the spectrum his earthly eyes could see blew through them in bewildering sequence. There was a rhythm about it that he gradually perceived, though he could not follow it. By the vagrant echoes of their thoughts which he could catch he realized that the harmony of the colors reflected in a measure the harmony of the two minds which produced them. He saw Julhi’s crest quiver with a flush of gold, and those of the rest were royally purple. Green flowed through the gold, and a lusciously rosy tinge melted through the purple of the rest. But all this took place faster than he could follow, and before he was aware of what was happening a discord in the thoughts that sounded in his mind arose, and while Julhi’s crest glowed orange those of the rest were angrily scarlet.

Violence had sprung up between them, whose origin he could not quite grasp though fragments of their quarrel flashed through his brain from each of the speakers, and wildly conflicting colors rippled through the plumes. Julhi’s ran the gamut of a dozen speara in tints that were eloquent of fury. The air quivered as she turned away, drawing him after her. He was at a loss to understand the suddenness of the rage which had swept over her so consumingly, but he could catch echoes of it vibrating through his mind from her own hot anger. She flashed on down the street with blurring swifmess, her crest trembling in swift, staccato shivers.

She must have been too furious to notice where she went, for she had plunged now straight into that streaming crowd which poured through the streets, and before she could win free again the force of it had swallowed her up. She had no desire to join the torrent, and Smith



could feel her struggling violently against it, the fury rising as her efforts to be free were vain. Colors like curses raved through her trembling crest.

But the tide was too strong for her. They were carried along irresistibly past the strangely angled buildings, over the patterned pavements, toward an open space which Smith began to catch glimpses of tlirough the houses ahead of them. When they reached the square it was already nearly filled. Ranks of crested, gliding creatures thronged it, their one-eyed faces, heart-mouths immobile, were lifted toward a figure on a dais in the center. He sensed in Julhi a quivering of hatred as she faced that figure, but in it he thought he saw a serenity and a majesty of bearing which even Julhi’s indescribable and lovely presence did not have. The rest waited in packed hundreds, eyes fixed, crests vibrating.

When the square was filled he watched the being on the dais lift undulant arms for quiet, and over the crowd a rigid stillness swept. The feathery crests poised motionless above intent heads. Then the plume of the leader began to vibrate with a curious rhythm, and over all the crowd the antenna-like plumes quivered in luiison. Every ripple of that fronded crest was echoed to the last shiver by the crowd. There was something infinitely stirring in the rhythm. Obscurely it was like the beat of marching feet, the perfea timing of a dance. They were moving faster now, and the colors that swept through the leader’s crest were echoed in those of the crowd. There was no opposition of contrast or complement here; the ranks followed their leader’s harmonies in perfect exactitude. His thoughts were theirs.

Smith watched an exquisitely tender rose shiver through that central crest, darken to crimson, sweep on through

richness of deepening tones beyond infrared and mount in an eloquence of sheer color that stirred his being, even though he could not understand. He realized the intense and rising emotion which swept the crowd as the eloquence of the leader went vibrating through their senses.

He could not have shared that emotion, or understood a fraaion of what was taking place, but as he watched, something gradually became clear to him. There was a glory about them. These beings were not innately the sensationhungry vampires Julhi had told him of. His instinct had been right. No one could watch them in their concerted harmony of emotion and miss wholly the lofty ardor which stirred them now. Julhi must be a degenerate among them. She and her followers might represent one side of these incomprehensible people, but it was a baser side, and not one that could gain strength among the majority. For he sensed sublimity among them. It thrilled through his dazzled brain from that intent, worshipping crowd about him.

And knowing this, rebellion suddenly surged up witliin him, and he strained in awakening anger at the mistiness which held him impotent. Julhi felt the pull. He saw her turn, anger still blazing in her crest and her single eye glowing with a tinge of red. From her rigid lips came a furious hissing, and colors he could not name rippled through the plume in surges eloquent of an anger that burned like a heat-gun’s blast. Something in the singleminded ardor of the crowd, the message of the orator, must have fanned the flame of her rage, for at the first hint of rebellion in her captive she turned suddenly upon the crowd which hemmed her in and began to shoulder her way free.

They did not seem to realize her presence or feel the force of her pushing

JULHI


them aside. Devoutly all eyes were riveted upon the leader, all the feathery crests vibrated in perfect unison with his own. ' They were welded into an oblivious whole by the power of his eloquence. Julhi made her way out of the thronged square without distracting a single eye.

SMITH followed like a shadow behind her, rebellious but impotent. She swept down the angled streets like a wind of fury. He was at a loss to understand the consuming anger which blazed higher with every passing moment, though there were vague suspicions in his mind that he must have guessed rightly as he watched the crested orator’s effect upon the throng — ^that she was indeed degenerate, at odds with the rest, and hated them the more fiercely for it.

She swept him on along deserted streets whose walls shimmered now and again into green-wreathed ruins, and took shape again. The ruins themselves seemed to flicker curiously with dark and light that swept over them in successive waves, and suddenly he realized that time was passing more slowly here than in his own plane. He was watching night and day go by over the ruins of that elder Vonng.

They were coming now into a courtyard of strange, angular shape. As they entered, the half-forgotten blur at the back of his mind which was Apri glowed into swift brilliance, and he saw that the light which streamed from her was bathing the court in radiance, stronger than the light outside. He could see her vaguely, hovering over the exact center of the courtyard in that curious dimension of her own, staring with mad, tortured eyes through the veils of the planes between. About the enclosure shapes like Julhi’s moved sluggishly, the colors dull on tlieir crests, their eyes filmed. And he sav/, now th^ a suspicion of the truth had

entered his mind, that Julhi herself did not have quite the clear and shining beauty of those who had thronged the square. There was an indescribable dullness over her.

When she and her shadowy captive entered the court those aimlessly moving creatures quickened into sudden life. A scarlet the color of fresh blood flowed through Julhi’s crest, and the others echoed it with eager quiverings of their plumes which were somehow obscene and avid. And for the first time Smith’s dulled consciousness awoke into fear, and he writhed helplessly in the recesses of his mind away from the hungry shapes around him. The crowd was rushing forward now with quivering plumes and fluttering, wide-ar^ed mouths that had flushed a deeper crimson as if in anticipation. For all their strangeness, their writhing shapes and weird, alien faces, they v/ere like wolves bearing down hungrily upon their quarry.

But before they readied him something happened. Somehow Julhi had moved with lightning swiftness, and vertigo seized Smith blindingly. The walls around them shimmered and vanished, Apri vanished, the light blazed into a dazzle and he felt the world shifting imponderably about him. Scenes he recognized flashed and faded — the black rains he had awakened in, Julhi’s cloud-walled room, the wilderness of pillars, this curiously shaped courtyard itself, all melted together and blurred and faded. In the instant before it vanished he felt, as from far away, the touch upon the mistiness of his bodiless self of hands that were not human, hands that stung with the shock of lightning.

Somehow in the timeless instant while this took place he realized that he had been snatched away from the pack for some obscure purpose. Somehow, too, he



knew that what Apri had told him had been true, though he had thought her mad at the time. In some vague way all these scenes were the same. They occupied the same place, at the same time — ruined Vonng, the Vonng that Julhi knew, all those places he had known since he met Apri in the dark — they were overlapping planes through which, as throu^ open doors, Julhi had drawn him.

He was aware of an innominable sensation then, within himself, and the mistiness which had prisoned him gave way before the returning strength of his fleshand-blood body. He opened his eyes. Something was clinging to him in heavy coils, and a pain gnawed at his heart, but he was too stunned at what surrounded him to heed it just then.

He stood among the ruins of a court which must once, long ago, have been the court he had just left — or had he? For he saw now that it too surrounded him, flickering through the ruins in glimpses of vanished splendor. He stared round wildly. Yes, shining through the crumbled walls and the standing walls that were one and the same, he could catch glimpses of that columned wilderness through whicli he had wandered. And rising above this, one with it, the mistywalled chamber where he had met Julhi. They were all here, occupying the same space, at the same time. The world was a chaos of conflicting planes all about him. There were other scenes too, intermingling with these, places he had never seen before. And Apri, incandescent and agonized, peered with mad eyes through the bewildering tangle of worlds. His brain lurched sickeningly with the incredible things it could not comprehend.

Around him through the chaotic jumbling of a score of planes prowled strange forms. They were like Julhi — ^yet unlike her. They were like those figures which

had rushed upon him in that other Vonng — but not wholly. They had bestialized in the metamorphosis. The shining beauty was dulled. The incomparable grace of them had thickened into animal gropings. Their plumes burned with an ugly crimson and the clarity of their eyes was clouded now with a blind and avid hunger. They circled him with a baffled gliding.

All this he was aware of in the flashing instant when his eyes opened. Now he looked down, for the first time consciously aware of that pain which gnawed at his heart, of the clinging arms. And suddenly that pain stabbed like a heatray, and he went sick with the shock of what he saw. For Julhi clung to him, relaxed in avid coils. Her eyes were closed, and her mouth was fastened tightly against the flesh of his left breast, just over the heart. The plume above her head quivered from base to tip with long, voluptuous shudders, and all the shades of crimson and scarlet and bloody rose that any spectrum ever held went blowing through it.

Smith choked on a word half-way between oath and prayer, and with shaking hands ripped her arms away, thrust against her shoulders blindly to tear loose that clinging, agonizing mouth. The blood spurted as it came free. The great eye opened and looked up into his with a dull, glazed stare. Swiftly the glaze faded, the dullness brightened into a glare behind which hell-fires flamed scorchingly, to light up the nameless hells within. Her plume whipped erect and blazed into angry red. From the arched mouth, wet now, and crimson, a high, thin, nerve-twanging hum shrilled agonizingly.

That sound was like the flick of a wire whip on raw flesh. It bit into his brainJULHI


centers, sawed at his quivering nerves excruciatingly, unbearably. Under the lash of that voice Smith wrenched away from her clinging arms, stumbling over the stones, blundering anywhere away from the punishing shrill of that hum. The chaos spun about him, scenes shifting and melting together maddeningly. The blood ran down his breast.

Through his blind agony, as the world dissolved into shrilling pain, one thing alone was clear. That burning light. That steady flame. Apri. He was blundering unimpeded through solid walls and columns and buildings in their jumble of cross-angled planes, but when he came to her at last she was tangible, she was real. And with the feel of her firm flesh under his hands a fragment of sanity rose out of that piercing anguish which shivered along his nerves. Dully he knew that through Apri all this was possible. Apri the light-maker, the doorway between worlds.... His fingers closed on her throat.

Blessedly, blessedly that excruciating song was fading. He knew no more than that. He scarcely realized that his fingers were sunk yet in the softness of a woman’s throat. The chaos was fading around him, the crazy planes righting themselves, paling, receding backward into infinity. Through their fragments the solid rocks of Vonng loomed up in crumbling ruins. The agony of Julhi’s song was a faint

shrilling from far away. And about him in the air he sensed a frenzied tugging, as if impalpable hands were clutching at his, ghostly arms pulling ineffectually upon him. He looked up, dazed and uncertain.

Where Julhi had stood among the tumbling planes an expanding, cloudy image hovered now, bearing still the lovely outlines that had been hers, but foggy, spreading and dissipating like mist as the doorway closed between planes. She was scarcely more than a shadow, and fading with every breath, but she wrenched at him yet with futile, cloudy hands, striving to the last to preserve her gate into the world she hungered for. But as she clawed she was vanishing. Her outlines blurred and melted as smoke fades. She was no more than a darkening upon the air now, tenuous, indistinguishable. In less time than it takes to tell, the fog that had been lovely Julhi had expanded into nothingness — the air was clear.

Smith looked down, shook his dulled head a little, bent to what he still gripped between his hands. It needed no more than a glance, but he made sure before he released his grasp. Pity clouded his eyes for an instant — Apri was free now, in the freedom she had longed for, the madness gone, the terrible danger that was herself banished. Never again through that gate would Julhi and her followers enter. The door was closed.

ulers of the Future

“Savagely the thing worked of the pointed stick.”

to rid its mouth

By PAUL ERNST

The story of an incredible race of monsters that rule over mankind hundreds of million years from now.

The Story Thus Far

PLANNING a trip to Alpha Centauri, the nearest star to our solar system, the astronomers Ticknor and Brock find themselves thwarted by a rival scientist, Gorse, who calls in the police to prevent what he calls certain suicide. While Brock and a newspaper reporter named Raymond Woodward hold off the police. Professor Ticknor makes his calculations and points the space-ship toward

Alpha Centauri; and the three men tumble into the craft and are launched on theiir voyage through space.

Owing to haste in making his calculations, Ticknor aims the space-shell wrongly, and die space-travellers find that they have travelled in a huge circle and have come bade to their starting-point. The voyage has taken several hundred million years; but, since they have travelled with the speed of light, by which absolute



time is measured, the journey seems to them as if it were instantaneous, and they have grown no older.

They find the land-surface of the globe covered with ice, for the Earth is gripped in the frozen clutch of a glacial epoch. They land in a green oasis in the icefields where was once the Sahara Desert.

Leaving the space-shell to explore the oasis, they are gripped by the tentacle-like tendrils of a man-eating tree with purple flowers, from which they are rescued by the people of the oasis. These are kindhearted, primitive folk, without weapons of any kind, and with few tools. They are beset by a haunting fear of the beings who rule them, and for whom they collect great quantities of fish. These rulers collect the tribute of fish every thirty-five days, and usually take one or more of the humans with them to feed their "god”.

A number of the rulers arrive to collect the tribute, and cut the scientists off from their space-shell. They are lizardmen, resembling enormous crocodiles, walking on two legs and possessing an articulate language and brains of good intellectual capacity. The rulers take the three men with them, together with Gayta, a girl of the oasis, to feed to their "god”. They first wreck the time-machine of the space-shell.

Woodward tells Gayta to instruct all her people how to make wooden spears and harden their points by fire. Meanwhile the three men are thrown into a pool as sacrifices to the lizard-men’s "god” — a terrible creature like an incredibly enormous octopus. Ticknor throws a steel-jacketed trinitele bullet into the creature’s mouth, and the resulting explosion shatters the "god”.

'The men make their escape through underground caverns inhabited by enormous snakes, but when they emerge in the daylight Ticknor is no longer with

them. After a fruitless search for Ticknor, the two are attacked by a small company of the lizard-men, from whom they are rescued by Gayta and a contingent of the forest folk, armed with the wooden spears.

The story continues;


WE REACHED Gayta’s village next noon, and found it a seething beehive of activity. Thirty-four himdred men (the count taken later on the fighting list we made) were camped in a place that till now had contained only the few hundred men, women and children of the village.

The reception they gave Brock and me was a flattering one. 'The folk of the village who already knew us crowded up to touch us shyly as if to make sure we were flesh and blood and not ghosts. The newcomers, who seemed to have heard something to the effect that we were minor gods ourselves, actually bowed down to us as they acknowledged our leadership over them.

In every face we saw fierce gayety, and sure purpose. These forest people were apparently as certain of winning the coming war against the lizard-men as though the battle were already fought and won!

It was a marvelous example of how tyrannically an idea can enslave a people — how propaganda can bind a race more surely than steel chains. For generations the humans in this island in the ice had been told that the lizard-men’s god made the lizard-men unbeatable. For generations the fear of that ominous god had kept them from rising against their monstrous masters. Now they were told the god was dead — and they swarmed to fight their saurian masters. Same number of lizard-men to fight; same conditions;



only the death of an idea to rouse them to revolt.

Their optimism was a fine asset, with a struggle to the death approaching all of us. But Brock and I did not quite share it.

"True,” he summed it up, "we outnumber the things nearly twenty to one. And back in the woods there, about eighty humans killed twenty of the monsters at a cost of less than half their own number. But the coming fight won’t be like the one in the woods.”

He ticked off the dififerences on his fingers.

"First, we will be attacking a city; the lizard-men will be behind fortifications from which we will have to dislodge them.

"Second, they can get along without food for longer periods of time than we can; which means that if we can not storm their city at once we will have to split our force in half — one half to fight and the other to find food for the lot of us.

’”rhird, the lizard-men will no doubt have some sort of arms themselves. They’re intelligent enough to have some kind of weapons held in reserve for this very thing; a revolt of their slaves.”

"On the food proposition,” I began hopefully. "There’s an idea there. Qjuldn’t we simply surround the mound city and starve them out?”

Brock shook his head. "Don’t you remember? Three fair-sized rivers nm through the city, not counting the one that empties into the black pool. They could fish those for enough starvation-rations to last a long time.”

'The exultant chattering and shouting of the men in the camp came to our ears. Brock sighed.

"Fine spirit — fine morale,” he said. "But I’m afraid a great many of them will

never live to see next week’s sun. Hello — what’s this?”

We had been holding the above talk in a large bark hut set aside for our use. Now three men stooped to enter the doorway, and respectfully approaclied us. After them came Gayta, her eyes shining.

"We have held a great meeting,” she said, "and in it we have elected you our leaders, not only in fighting, but afterward when the fighting is done. These men have come to ask if you will rule over us and all the land when the lizardmen are killed.”

Brock and I looked at each other. "Nice jobs — if they last,” he said in English.

We accepted, of course. King! It has a nice sound. We would be twin kings over thousands of people with a domain as large as one of our own former states. If

We dismissed fantasy, and got to practical things, the first of which were hasty training of our army and preparation of a plan of attack.

We split the thirty-four hundred men into two forces; and subdivided these, in turn, into bands of one hundred each, with chosen men to lead each band. Then we trained for two days in formation and use of arms. We drilled the men in attack— where they would march shoulder to shoulder with spear-points presenting an unbroken and deadly line. And we drilled them in defense, where they were to ground their spears at a forty-five degree forward slant.

During this time we kept an alert and far-.fiung guard duty, lest the lizard-men surprize us by attacking first. But no sign of them was seen. Either they were still unaware of the movement forming against them, or their continuing lethargy from the feasting was keeping them at home.

W. T.-d



ON THE morning of the third day we started our march. We made a brave showing — thirty-four hundred fighting-men, spears over shoulders at a martial slant, and about five hundred women who had insisted on coming along to care for the wounded and prepare food. Among the latter was Gayta, but she didn’t stay among them often; she was constantly by my side.

'ITie hope that filled the hearts of all was that the lizard-men would be taken completely by surprize. Now that their god was dead, and its omnipotent mindreading powers denied the monsters, how would they know rebellion was being planned.^

But Brock and I took little stock in that. We were too convinced of the truth of our first theory; that the lizard-men had never been informed of uprisings by their god, but by the spy duties of certain contemptible humans ever ready to curry favor by betraying their fellows. It was probable that some of these spies had reported the coming attack days before now, and that the lizard-men were prepared for our charge.

The hours passed as we streamed through the forests toward the mound city. And at length, as it became obvious that we would meet with no resistance till we had reached the dome city itself, I turned over my army to the intelligent, stalwart little man Fd picked as my immediate subordinate, and dropped behind with Gayta. I might never come out of the forthcoming struggle alive; and I wanted a last hour or two alone with my little beauty of the blue wood-flower.

Insensibly we lagged farther and farther behind, till the forest where we walked was still, echoing no longer to the noise of thousands of marching men.

We talked little as we walked bdween the majestic trees, over the springy, turfW. T.— 6

smooth ground. There was a lot to be said, but strangely we found it required few words.

We came to one of the gem-like little lakes, and started around its shore in the trail of the rest. And then I was treated to one of the weirdest sights I’d seen since we landed here.

Ahead of us, a few yards offshore, the water suddenly rippled and heaved as some large thing neared the top. Gayta and I stopped, fearing it might be one of the lizard-men. But it was not a saurian head that finally thrust up from the waters of the lake.

It was a fish head. Something like a shark’s head. There was a long, pointed snout, with a gash of a mouth underneath like a shark’s mouth. The mouth, which opened and closed rhythmically, was studded all over with teeth about two inches long.

Farther and farther the head and torpedo-shaped body rose from the water, while the fish eyes, bright orange with dull blue pupils, regarded us. Then the thing propelled itself through the water toward lis, and began to climb out on shore on four flapper-like fins.

"What in heaven’s name is it.^’’ I half whispered to Gayta, as we backed along the shore away from the advancing, twenty-foot thing that so resembled a walking shark.

"It is a sarregg,” she whispered back. "I have heard of them, but never before have I seen one. They are very rare.’’

"And very unattractive-looking,” I added, glancing again at the ferocious, toothed mouth that was snapping after us as we slowly retreated.

Another instance of how cold-blooded life had ascended the scale of evolution, I mused. This species had changed fins for flippers tliat had eventually grown strong enough to support its weight on



land like legs. Its gill structure, too, no doubt, had altered radically to allow it to breathe air for short periods away from its native element. Given enough more millions of years it might become wholly a land animal....

At this point my reflections were abruptly turned to amazement — an amazement which was quickly succeeded by deadly fear.

The thing had looked clumsy on those formless flippers, waddling awkwardly as a seal waddles on dry land. I didn’t dream it could move quickly. Neither did Gayta; and both of us had kept only a few yards from its pointed snout in our slow retreat away from it.

But though it looked clumsy it could move with lightning speed. Without seeming to gather itself in any way for a leap, it suddenly lunged at us like a thunderbolt.

Gayta screamed and leaped aside. I essayed the same move — but my foot turned on a stone, and I fell in front of the giant fish.

"Wodewah!” I heard Gayta’s despairing shriek. Then the torpedo shape was on me, the tooth-studded mouth gaping for my head.

I heard flying feet beside me, saw Gayta pick up the spear I’d dropped. Next instant she had thrust the spear up into the roof of that cavernous mouth as it snapped shut.

The great jaws stopped half-way open as the lower jaw forced the spear-point clear up through the pointed snout. Savagely the thing worked to rid its mouth of the pointed stick, but not so savagely that it didn’t see me try to roll away from it.

Like a cat’s paw, one great flipper came crushingly down on me, to hold me while the fish tried to spew out the agonizingly placed spear.

Unable to move a muscle under the crushing weight of the monster’s flipper,

I could only stare up at the dripping, ferocious jaws. How soon would the rapidly splintering spear be broken off, allowing the great jaws to close without that excruciating pain? Or — how soon would they close anyhow, pain drowned in growing, cold-blooded fury?

I heard Gayta scream again, crying for help. But I only heard her faintly. Unconsciousness, that blessed anesthetic administered by Nature herself in too painful crises, was closing down over me. I ceased to feel the weight that crushed me down, ceased to see the huge jaws worrying with the fast splintering spear.

I fainted.


IN ORDER to keep this history more or less in order, I will have to go back a bit at this point, back to the moment when Brock and I reached the end of the tunnel leading from the black pool — and found that Professor Ticknor was no longer with us. I tell this part of his story, to the place where it branched back into the main stream of our destinies, just as he told it to me.

When the three of us saw tliat blessed daylight, after leaving the cave of the snakes. Brock and I drew a little ahead of Ticknor in the race for it. He was not as young as we; and the long distance we had come, wading against the current every foot of the way, had badly winded him.

We did not notice that we were leaving him behind. And, as the distance was only a dozen yards or so between us, Ticknor did not call out.

It never occurred to him that there might be more dangers threatening us before we left the tunnel for upper earth. Also it never occurred to him to be careRULERS OF THE FUTURE


ful where he planted his feet. He saw that Brock and I were striding along evenly, and assumed that the creek bed was level from wall to wall.

He must have walked off the line we followed, however, for he suddenly stepped into a deep hole in the creek bed that we had missed, and went down.

There was no time for him to cry out. At one moment he was running along after us in waist-high water; at the next he was down and over his head, floundering to get back to the surface.

Still he was not alarmed, only confused. But that confusion grew into a deadly fear an instant later.

Something suddenly clamped around his ankle and started drawing him down to even greater depths.

That something felt gruesomely like a hand — but a hand of iron, a hand with strength such as no htunan ever had.

Ticknor fought with all his fading strength to break loose, and to claw his way back to the top. His lungs, straining for the air denied them, felt as though they must burst. There was a roaring in his ears, bursting light before his eyes.

Involuntarily his mouth opened at last and his starving lungs gulped for oxygen. The strangling water filled them, and he knew all the horror of drowning.

A long time later he opened his eyes, to become aware that someone was giving him a crude first-aid treatment. He was lying face down over a smooth boulder, while hands pressed against his back in an effort to free his lungs of water.

He finally coughed; and the noise was a signal for the massaging and poimding to stop. A soft hand gripped his shoulder and helped him to turn over and finally to sit up.

He found himself staring stupidly into the face of a strikingly handsome woman — quite evidently one of the forest folk.

Even at the time, he noticed that her

face was terribly pale and drawn, and that her eyes were gla2ed with terror. But her first words were unselfish ones.

"Are you all right now?”

Ticknor managed to gasp out that he was. Meanwhile he was gazing into her clear, beautiful eyes with growing wonder.

Surely this wasn’t the being that had trapped him in the creek and dragged him here! Surely that hand wasn’t the one that had clamped his ankle in a grip of steel, to hold him under water until he could struggle no longer!

"You ”

"We’re both prLsoners,” the woman anticipated his question. She whispered the words, and glanced fearfully over her shoulder as she spoke.

Ticknor looked around. It was very dark. More by instinct than by actual eyesight, he could make out that he was in another cave — like that of the snakes but smaller. There was only a little, here, of the phosphorescent stuff that had lit the other cavern so brightly.

His gaze went bade to the woman’s white, set face, a dim blur in the murky’ dusk.

"How did you get here?”

"I was swept down from the forest above,” she said. "A friend and I were wading across the stream that leads in here. We were crossing just above the spot where the water plunges down into a hole in the earth. We stepped into a deep place, and were dashed over the fall before we could get to shallow water again. Outside, in the dark where the stream runs underground, we were caught as you were caught. We were held under water till we ceased to struggle, and were then brought here.” She shuddered. "I... I was all right. I but held my breath, feigning stillness. But my friend ”

She pointed. Ticknor saw another woman. But this one was lying in a piti356


ful sprawl on the rock. All his rescuer’s skill had not brought back life to her.

"But what dragged us here?” Ticknor a-sked at this point. "The great serpents?” "No.”

"The lizard-men?”

"They are not lizard-men. But they are very like them.”

"Where are they now?”

"They have all gone out to the stream to fish for more humans. I think it has been a long time since so much warmblooded food came down the black stream they live by.”

Ticknor was very much recovered by now. He felt weak and sick; but he got to his feet, and even tottered about a few steps.

Then he saw the mouth of the cavern, and heard rushing water just outside it. This cave immediately adjoined the tunnel he had been traversing, as a black room might adjoin an even blacker corridor.

He glanced eagerly at the woman, and then at the exit. But she shook her head hopelessly.

"They — our captors — are just outside. And they have great eyes that see in the dark. We could never slip past them.”

She stared at Ticknor intently in the dimness. "You are one of the three who came from the sky?”

Ticknor nodded.

"Ah! What a misfortune! Our people need you to lead us in the fight against our masters. Yet you must die here in this deep, secret place.... Ssh!”

Ticknor stared at the exit, his gaze following hers. Their captors, the creatures that had trapped them and brought them to this grim lair, were coming back from the stream.

At first, as Ticknor saw them in the dimness, he thought he had misunderstood the woman and that the things were

lizard-men after all. But as they came closer he saw the curious truth.

The things of the cave were compara* ble to the lizard-men as prehistoric man is comparable to civilized man. They were, in a word, the evolutionary ancestors of the lizard-men, of the same parent stock, but far, far lower in the scale.

Their crocodilian jaws were longer and sharper, and their teeth larger. Their tails dragged on the ground, and now and then one of their number dropped to all fours, resembling for all the world an ordinary crocodile crawling on a river bank. Their eyes were different, too; at least four inches in diameter and gleaming dimly with a sheen of their own in the darkness to whicli they had grown accustomed.

Yet the things, abysmal as they were, had reached the state where they obeyed some vague community interest. That was indicated by the fact that they had dragged the humans there to be shared by ail instead of devouring them on the spot, as they caught them in the stream.

Croaking incoherently, the primitive caricatures of the lizard-men stalked toward their captives. Neither surprize nor emotion of any sort was displayed at the discovery that two out of three of their victims were still alive.

Ticknor’s hand went out to grasp a rough stone, the only weapon the place afforded. But the things did not at once approach the far corner where he and the woman cowered. First they went to the dead woman.

Ticknor turned his head away, and covered his ears with his hand.

Then a high-pitched scream from the woman beside him, and a chorus of startled croakings from tlieir captors made him whirl around toward the mouth of the cave.

Waving in the cave mouth, slowly swaying back and forth, was a triangular.



grayish, q^eless head — a serpentine head as big as a nail-keg, from the jaws of which darted a vicious, forked tongue. Behind the head a tree-like body trailed out to the tunnel beyond, to disappear there in darkness. One of the monstrous water snakes that Ticknor was already only too well acquainted with!

Croaking hoarsely, the lizard-things darted for the cave mouth. There, rolled to one side, was a great round boulder which was evidently used as a barrier across the door to exclude precisely such visitors as the present one. This time — perhaps too eager to get at the succulent feast the stream had yielded them — they had negleaed to block the portal.

The woman started to scream again. Ticknor clapped his hand over her mouth.

"Make no noise, on your life! This thing is blind, and there is a chance ”

The lizard-things had got to their boulder too late. Ten feet of the serpent was inside. There was no keeping it out, now.

The huge head swept low, brushed against one of the scurrying lizard-things, pinned it against the rock wall. There was an almost human scream as the great jaws opened for the saurian monster.

The head glided on, more yards of body following. Back and forth the lizard things ran, in blind, insensate panic, the humans all forgotten now in the terrible moment of their own peril....

Nine of die lizard-things had come to the feast a few moments before the snake slid into their cave. Two managed to squeeze out the exit alongside the terrific coils of the serpent. The rest went down that yawning throat.

Inquisitively, not yet sated, the serpent nosed blindly around the cavern. Twice the awful, triangular head came within a foot of touching the two humans. Then — the monster glided out, its great scales rasping dryly over the stone of the floor.

Ticknor picked up the woman, and carried her out to the stream as soon after the snake had left as he dared. There he brought her to widi the cold water; and they stumbled to the end of the tunnel — and out into sunlight again.

Almost the first thing they saw was tire dead bodies of the lizard-men that had captured Brock and me. Ticknor was completely at sea; but the woman read the riddle correctly. She told of the massing of all the forest people for an uprising, and guessed that one of the bands, marching towaijd Gayta’s village where all were to meet, had encountered and killed this score of lizard-men.

They rested then, these two tliat had helped each other through so terrible an experience, and afterward hurried to Gayta’s village. They got lost half a dozen times, the woman being unfamiliar v/ith this part of the country; and so did not reach the village till some hours after Brock and I had left with our fighting bands.

They followed at once, and after a long, unbroken journey came out at the shores of a lake — ^to see a strange and dreadful thing:

A few yards from the water’s edge was something that looked like a fourlegged fish, with a spear placed upright between its gaping jaws which it strove to dislodge, and with one great flipper covering a limp man’s body while about the torpedo-shaped monster a girl screamed and danced in terror.

"A sarregg,” breathed the woman. "Come away quickly.”

But Ticknor had seen a blue woodflower in the lustrous hair of the girl.

"That’s Gayta! And the man the thing has caught must be ”

He did not stop to finish the sentence. He began running toward the grotesque fish, with his spear levelled to strike. 'ITie woman followed. She too had got a spear



at the village, and fearlessly she joined Ticknor in stabbing and slashing at the tough-hided flanks of the sarregg.

The harassed fish floundered savagely, first at one and then the other of them — meanwhile freeing my body at last from the pressure of that great flipper. Gayta, with hysterical strength, dragged me away; and eventually the monstrous amphibian waddled back to the water to flounder in and disappear.

So it was that I opened my eyes to see a plump little gray-haired man dressed fantastically in ripped blue trousers and tattered shirt, and to see, keeping always remarkably close to his side, a strikingly handsome woman armed in a warlike way with a spear — but having in her eyes a most unwarlike glow when those eyes rested on the professor.

Our greeting can be imagined. But we cut it short, to start after the army. We found Brock just ready to turn back and search for Gayta and me; and after a short rest, rejoined again, we recommenced our march on the mound city.


At about three in the afternoon Brock and I, who were travelling far in advance, leaving the body of the army to Ticknor’s direction, stopped at the edge of the forest and peered out at the mound city. It was a quarter of a mile away, over cleared ground. We had at last reached our objective.

There it lay, looking like a gigantic trayful of half-eggshells forty feet high and placed roughly in a circle. And now, as we stared from behind the shrubbery of the forest we appreciated more fully than ever the difliculty there would be in storming the city.

The mound buildings were placed wall to wall, so that the outer walls of the buildings on the edge were fused into a

solid barrier, like a surrounding hedge of stone.

This stone barrier was pierced in only eight places in its whole circumference, the breaks being the narrow, stoneflagged streets that meandered through the town. Thus the lizard-men had only to guard those eight street entrances and they could stay protected behind the rockslab fortifications of their outer building walls for ever. Furthermore, even if we could finally break down their guard and swarm into the streets, we would be faced with the still harder task of storming the thick-walled mound buildings one by one.

Brock sighed and shook his head. "We’ll never take that city,” he said prophetically.

I was of the same opinion.

"But we’ve got to try.”

"Yes, we’ve got to try. Perhaps never again will the enslaved humans band together with this same higjh courage to overthrow their masters. I have a feeling that this will be their last effort.”

Awhile longer we stared out at the ominous city, seeming to sleep deserted in the late sun. Then we went back to the band of forest folk.

"We will attack the two street openings on this side of the city,” Brock ordered tersely. "One army to each street. March in close formation, with the first two ranks presenting levelled spears and the rear ranks ready to fill any... gaps... that may occur.”

He gazed around at the white, determined faces. No need for exhortations; the spirit of fight was obviously shared by all.

"Forward — march,” snapped Brock.

And thirty-four hundred men followed Ticknor and Brock and me, rank on rank, througji the outer fringe of the forest and across the cleared area toward the mound city.

Several hundred yards from the outec



ring of buildings, we split into two bands, each marching toward one of the two street openings facing- our side of the town. And as we executed the move, we saw for the first time the deadly lizardmen file out of the interior of dieir city and take up positions of defense. And as we saw them a sort of moan came from all the humans.

Intelligent.^ These things, neither lizard nor man, were certainly that. For in the interval of our arming and banding together they had contrived defensive armament against our spears, and offensive weapons to make the spears even more futile.

Six-foot, massive wooden shields the lizard-men were bearing before their hides, which nature had already made tough enough to act in a measure as armor. And in addition each lizard-man was swinging a ponderous war-club, a five-foot sledge of wood ending in a ball twice the size of a man’s head, studded thickly with flint-like blades of rock.

Across each of the two street entrances, a living gate, formed bands of the tenfoot monsters with their shields and clubs. And there, phlegmatic and unblinking, they waited the attack of the contemptibly puny creatures they had ruled for so many centuries.

But though the moan of imcertainty had risen from the advancing men, there was no check to their attack. At a quick wallc, increasing to an orderly run as they neared the street entrances, they charged.

Lizard-men held their shields closer together. Men gripped their levelled spears more tightly. And then the two bodies came together.

The shock of the contact rang deafeningly through the clear thin air. And the crash of wood on wood was swelled in confusion by the shouts of men and the saurian croakings of the defenders.

I heard Brock’s war-like bellowing a hundred yards down the city wall as he led the attack on his street. Then I was too busy with my own section to heed anything else.

A wave battering against a breakwater. That was the way my band hurled itself against the stolid line of lizard-men before us.

The monsters squatted behind their shields. We charged with levelled lances against the oblong wood slabs. Here and there a lizard-man was toppled over backward. Here and there searching spearpoint found a scaled throat. But the second line of lizard-men filled in the holes in the first.

Then, with our spears either broken or out of attacking line for the moment, we were attacked in our turn.

The terrible war-clubs began to whirl about us. The lizard-men, nearly twice as tall as we were, stalked among us like walking towers, beating down at our close-packed ranks with those enormous, stone-studded clubs.

Man after man went down, with his head crushed beyond recognition. And man after man, in the rear ranks of our band, struggled forward over writhing bodies to get at the lizard-men.

I saw my first lieutenant wrench a lizard-man’s shield aside just far enough and for long enough to thrust his spear into a swollen paunch. The wounded monster’s lidless eyes flamed green. He dashed the man to the ground, raised his great club. I plunged in, sending my own spear into the thick throat of the thing.

I struggled to dislodge the spear from the thrashing monster, couldn’t, stopped to pick up another.

The man I had rescued shouted and I whirled to see two other lizard-men leaping toward me.

Their clubs flashed up, far over my head, and whistled down toward me. But



as they fell I squirmed aside like a frightened eel; and the rocky war-clubs hit only the stone flagging of the street with a force that struck sparks.

The lizard-men stumped after me; but now my men had swarmed to them, and they were forced to turn to save their own lives.

The narrow lane had been transformed into a shambles. To get at the lizard-men the forest folk had to climb over a barrier of their own dead, slipping and floundering among them as they strove, with spears that seemed frail as straws, to get past the heavy shields and pierce the foe before they got their own heads beaten in.

Reluctantly the humans began to give back before that unbroken front of shields and whirling, terrific war-clubs. And as they retreated, the lizard-men followed in a solid phalanx, crushing and killing all before them.

The retreat became a rout, with the humans running to get away from the invincible horror behind them.

Half-way to the forest the lizard-men pursued us. Then, still in compact formation, they turned and stumped back to their defending position by the street entrance. They were too cunning to separate even for a moment; one by one they could be overcome, but while they kept together they were unbeatable.

And now we saw the other half of the band, under Brock, come streaming back from the gate they had attacked, battered as sorely as we had been. And in every face was reflected the bitterness of coming defeat.

Brock came over. He was naked from the waist up, his muscular torso streaming blood — both his own and that of man and lizard-man that had gone down beside him. Ticknor joined us, and the three of us talked it over.

"How many went down in your band?” asked Brock.

"I haven’t called a roll,” I answered. "But I must have lost at least a hundred killed and wounded.”

“Our losses were about the same. More if an3^hing. And I don’t think more than half a dozen of the damned two-legged lizards went down. We’ll never get anywhere like this.”

"The trouble,” said Ticknor, still panting heavily, "is that the streets are too narrow for our numbers to have any effect. That’s all we’ve got — the odds of numbers. We must find some way to use those odds.”

"What can we do?”

Ticknor reflected. ’Then: "Suppose we charge the streets again — but with only half our number and with the idea of keeping the lizard-men occupied more than of really beating them back. Then the other half of our bands could scale the walls at other points and close in on the defenders from the rear.”

Brock nodded quickly. "Good! We’ll try it.”

In the blood-red sunset we told out respective subordinates of the new plan. And then half of each of the two armies went back to the hopeless task of charging the narrow bottle-necks of streets so effectively corked by the ferocious lizardmen. The other half of our number approached the walls.

UNBROKEN and grim the walls loomed above us, the abutting domes of the roofs forming a scalloped line against the sky. The bottoms of the V-shaped troughs formed ty the intersecting domes were fifteen feet above our heads. The problem of scaling that fifteen feet and dambering over the roofs to drop into the streets behind the defending lizardmen was no simple one.

We solved it fay climbing over the



pynunided bodies of our own tanks, as acrobatic tumblers form living pyramids in a circus, with the top man continually clambering upon the roof and being replaced by another. I went up first, and kept a lookout to be sure none of the crocodilian monsters saw our new angle of attack.

There was no outcry of any kind. It seemed our move might be successful. And when fully a hundred men had made the shaky ascent, I gave the signal and we all dropped into the near street.

At once we started to run toward the gate, to catch the guards there from the rear and annihilate them between two opposing forces of humans.

And at once, from every building entrance before us, came dozens of the towering lizard-men — to surround us as hunters surround corraled wild animals, and to club us down at their leisure. Our move had not only been anticipated, it had been permitted — with a generalship diabolic in its cleverness.

Some few of us escaped, by leaping for the spears lowered to us by our fellows still on the roofs, and being hauled up by them. But nine out of ten of the forest men who had climbed the outer rampart stayed in the grisly street, so battered that they were almost beyond recognition as human beings.

Then the lizard-men began climbing the walls to get at us; and so unnerved were the humans that they did not try to beat them down again, but simply jumped over the outer edge and raced for the shelter of the woods.

And there, once more limping back from the street entrances, came the remnants of the second attacking bands.

"Listen to them,” said Brock, waving his hand around at the scattered knots of men. "We’re through. They’ll not face another attack.”

And, indeed, it was plain enough that he was right. Qjnviction of defeat stared from every face, rang hollowly in every voice. ’The humans were beaten by their lizard antagonists; and the humans knew it. And there in the purple twilight,, we heard talk on every side of disbanding and slinking back to the far corners of the island in the ice, to kneel down again to the oppression of the saurian monsters — and to hope that the punishment meted out to them would not be that of utter extinction.

An army of men, armed and fired by war-like eagerness for the first time in centuries, had marched with almost hysterically gay confidence to battle. Now, in less than two hours, it was plain to the most stupid that the venture had been hopeless from the outset.

"God, it was terrible — the utter invincibleness of the things,” said Ticknor dully. And Brcxk and I nodded wearily.

"We can’t qczit fighting,” said Brock at last. "Death would be preferable to life under these beasts, now that rebellion has been tried and has failed. It looks like death either way. I can’t see that we have a chance.”

"I think we have,” said Ticknor slowly. "It’s a long chance, a twenty-to-one shot, and if it fails we’re through for good. But it’s certainly worth trying.”


Bewilderedly, we stared at him. "A chance? Twenty-to-one shot? What ate you talking about?”

"Our chance lies in the space-shell.” "The space-shell!” repeated Brock. '"That’s wrecked utterly. And we have no guns ”

"We have the false bottom of the shell,” explained Ticknor. "The superseardilight we depended on to shoot us back to Earth from Alpha Centaiuri. la



that searchlight arrangement, which is still unliarmed and ready at a touch to propel the space-ship like a shot out of a cannon, there is immense power — if we can find a way to use it.”

"Do you mean to drag it here, and discharge the remnants of the shell at the city walls like a cannon bali?”

Ticknor shook his head.

“No, that would give us but a single shot. Only a few of the lizard-men would be killed, and the breach made in the walls would be no larger than the street gates which we have already failed to storm. The light itself is the only thing that can really help us.”

"I see,” whispered Brock, his eyes flaming.

And, remembering back to my first meeting with the sober little scientist, I saw too. What had he said when I asked him the secret of producing the enormously powerful light that was to propel his space-ship through the skies?

"That... I do not wish to make public. The super-searchlight, as I have developed it, would be too ghastly an engine of war, if someone got hold of its secret and abused it. By training it on a body of men one could rip them to pieces, smash them to bits!”

Those had be^ his words. And I saw now exactly what he had meant by his present speech.

“Why, it’s as good as done!” I exclaimed.

But both Brock and Ticknor smiled mirthlessly at my optimism.

“If we don’t get the majority of the lizard-men in one sweep, we’re finished,” Brock pointed out. “We have no way of getting more radium to recharge our gun.”

“If we don’t get all the lizard-men we’re finished,” Ticknor corrected quietly. “For in spite of every precaution we can take, the lot of us will be temporarily

blinded by the terrific burst of light that will ensue for some five seconds after I switch on the searchlight. And while we’re blundering around like blind slugs, a handful of the lizard-men could kill our whole army!”

But that possibility — or, rather, probability— swiuig no weight. There was nothing left to do but try Ticknor’s scheme. So we discussed ways and means.

“It will take days to drag the searchlight here,” said Ticknor. “In many places the trails are too narrow to accommodate it. Trees will have to be felled, or new trails made.”

But here Brock came in with his more practical turn of mind. “We won’t try to get it here — we’ll take the lizard-men there!” he said.

“If they’ll allow themselves to be decoyed out of their city,” I said pessimistically.

“I think that can be worked. If they can be convinced that our strength is broken, and that by following our retreat they can finally overtake us and smash the backbone of the revolt in one blow, they’ll follow all right!”

And now it was time to turn our attention to the men. Already some few dozens had slunk away into the woods, ready to give up and take whatever fate their newly enthroned masters wished to deal them. The rest were obviously on the point of deserting too. And surely none could blame them....

We called together the “squad leaders” we had picked to keep discipline under us. And then came the difiicult task of trying to explain to them what we meant to do.

'Their spirit was utterly gone; but eventually we managed to infuse some of our own faint hope into them; and by some wizardry of oratory they got the men back in hand.

We settled down to a dreary night.



widi guards posted to make sure there was no counter-attack in the darkness, and with half a hundred fires twinkling in the blackness of the forest where the women that had accompanied us prepared a meal for their beaten men.

WITH the first light of dawn Ticknor, and a hundred men, commenced the long march back to Gayta’s village, and the space-shell. They were to prepare the shell for the lizard-men’s reception — while we centered all our efforts on decoying the monsters from their impregnable city.

Brock called for a volunteer for dangerous duty. A young forest man approached.

"We are about to attack the city once more,” he said. The youngster turned pale. Brock went on. "But this attack is not a real one. We are going to charge one of the streets, fight but a little while, and then fall back to the forest. You are to drop among the dead and wounded, and allow yourself to be captured. You know the lizard-men’s language.^”

"Yes.”

"Very well. You will let them find out from you that we are beaten at last, and are retreating to Gayta’s village, there to wait in a last stand against the lizardmen. We want them to follow us through the forests to the village — and we want all of them to follow. You understand?” "Yes.”

Brock laid his hand on the man’s shoulder for an instant. The lizard-men might dispatch him without waiting for him to give his message — or they might kill him once they had got a "betrayal” from him. In any event the job he had volunteered for led almost certainly to death; and no one knew it better than he did himself.

He went back to the ranks, his face a mask, and we started again from the fringe of the forest toward the two city

gates that had already seen such carnage.

In the lightening gold of dawn we saw that the entrances had been cleared of the heaps of bodies, and that — drawn up as invincibly as before — the ranks of lizard-men awaited us with shield and war-club.

Again, nerving ourselves desperately for the fight, we charged that grim line. Again there was the deafening shock of the wave of humans battering against the breakwater of the lizard-men’s shields.

For minutes the fierce fighting continued. And then our lines broke as before, and we gave way, a step backward at a time, toward the forest. As befcnre, the defenders followed us a part of the distance across the clearing, tlien stopped.

We went on, to halt when the fringe of the woods hid us. Brock and I turned back — ^to watch.

Would the misinformation we had hatched reach the proper ears? Would our volunteer have the chance to tell of our route, and our plan to make a last stand in the village?

Tensely we peered out of the imderbrush to find an answer to that question in the monsters’ actions.

They had started to turn back to their city as before; and our faces fell. Then one of their number approached the gigantic leader dragging a man — the volunteer we had coached.

There were excited croakings, and we saw the leader listen absorbedly to the words of the captive. Finally, the leader dispatched two lizard-men back to the mound city.

And then we could have shouted for joy!

From the city began to march rank after rank of the bmtes, headed by their king himself. Dozens of the lizard-men, finally scores of them! They had got the false message and had swallowed the bait whole.



We hurried forward to where the main band of forest folk waited our coming. And then we started our retreat, the march that should end by the little lake where the space-shell — and the enormously powerful super-searchlight in which it was cupped — might perhaps prove our deliverance.

It was a nightmare, that ordered retreat. No need to simulate the despair of men marching to their last stand. That despair was a real and justified one.

Ahead, following back along the trail over which we had marched so determinedly the day before, straggled we humans. Behind, always in sight of us and moving with grim sureness of our coming destruaion, stalked the lizardmen.

Gigantic, scale-armored and shield-protected, swinging their terrific war-clubs as lightly as if they had weighed but a few ounces, the lizard-men had reason for the contempt in which they held their comparatively feeble adversaries. We might have been an unarmed mob of civilians, back in 1990, fleeing before the slow, steady advance of two or three hundred armored war-tanks, for all the resistance we could offer.

Nevertheless, we did show resistance now and then. • Occasionally in that grim retreat we stopped and fought. But it was sheer theatrics, to keep the main band of the lizard-men intent on our trail. The theatrics cost a tragic number of lives....

All day that slow retreat continued. And all night.

The night was truly horrible. The lizard-men could see in the dark to some extent. We humans could not. And so we stumbled and fell, and got up to run and rejoin tire rest of our fellows before the lizard-men could catch us; while they, steadily moving monsters, stalked surefootedly among the trees.

Dawn found us haggard, exhausted, a doomed band staggering red-eyed onward toward the village. But it found the lizard-men as untired, seemingly, as when they started. They were in better shape, really: the marching and fighting had taken down their bellies, which were now only a little distended with their gargantuan five-day feasting. They were beginning to be their quick-moving selves again.

But now at last we were approaching the lake beside which rested what was left of the space-shell. And we pondered. Brock and I, as to how best we could draw the lizard-men on to expose themselves to the devastating ray of that terrific searchlight.

"We’ve got to sidestep them somehow, so they will march toward it while we stay off to one side,” said Brock. "And how we can keep them from promptlyfollowing after us if we march to the right, or to the left, is more than I can figure out.”

"A lot depends on which way Ticknor has pointed the thing,” I said.

We were both so used up by nervous strain and physical fatigue that we could hardly think straight. As for our men — some of them had even gone so far as to throw away their spears, the slight burden of them being more intolerable than the thought of being left defenseless against the lizard-men.

"He’ll probably have the shell pointed directly back along the trail we’re following,” said Brock.

"We might march directly at it, split to right and left when we get to within a few yards, and leave the main army of lizard-men walking in its path.”

"I doubt if the beasts would continue to advance straight at it,” said Brock. "Even if they weren’t clever enough to sense the trap, brute fear of the unknown would keep them from marching straight



into the face of so strange and mysterious a contrivance.”

It was my own thought; but I said nothing more. Our course seemed decided for us: all we could do was emerge into the clearing by the lake, see how the searchlight was pointed, and then try to draw the lizard-men across its path in such a way that the destroying beam would reach the lot of them.

The trees began to thin out. In the distance we caught a glint of sunlight on serene blue water. We all insensibly quickened our steps....

Brock and I gazed behind. A himdred yards or so away were the lizard-men, split into single files as they moved among the trees but keeping close together all the same. Expressionless, machine-like, unhuman, they stumped after us on their powerful legs, intent on stamping all spirit from these their rebelling slaves and grinding to more complete serfdom the few they might spare for selfish reasons. The sunlight filtered through the leaves above to fleck with gold the greenish gray of their crocodilian bodies, and to reflect dully from their cold, rmwinking eyes.

We burst out of the fringe of the woods into the clearing by the lake. And there we halted — turned to stone, paralyzed.

Dumfounded, we stared along the shore of the little lake — at the spot where the shell had first let us down into this weird world so many millions of years older than our own — at the place where we had first got out of it to explore the surrounding forests.

It was the spot, all right. There was no doubt of that. That was the place where we had left the shell — the goal of our awful, twenty-four hours’ retreat.

But die shell itself was gone.

The shock of that discovery lingers

with me still. How fiercely had we hugged to our breasts the dim faint hope given to us by Ticknor’s plan! How our tired eyes had been straining for the sight of that shell! How the thought of the tremendous power in the false bottom behind the shell — ready for devastating release when it should spew the shell itself out of its path — had sustained our failing nerve!

And now — to get here at last, with the lizard-men successfully decoyed all this way — and find no shell here!

Nor was there a sign of Ticknor or the hundred he had taken with him.

Silently Brock and I stared at each other. And then our hands went out, to meet in a silent, hard grip of farewell.

"I think the shore of the lake, where the shell... used to be... is the best place to meet them,” was all Brock said.

No need to give orders to the men! The lizard-men had already caught up to us as we stood there rigid in our consternation. All of us rushed forward, to the shore of the lake, and turned there at bay.

The lizard-men, at a croaked order from their king, formed into a long triple line as they came from the woods. In solid, compact array they came after us, shoulder to shoulder, shield touching shield, with their war-clubs poised high to beat down upon us. And in those cold, dull eyes of theirs was death.

The message our volimteer had given the lizard-men had been all too true. We had come back here to make our last stand. To die!

On they came, the towering monsters, in their straight triple line, cutting off all thought of flight. Even the lake at our backs offered no way out. These lizardthings were as mucli at home in water as on land. On they came, the green fire of cold fury in their eyes.



"Ground your spears,” said Brock hoarsely.

The humans, wordless in the face of doom, rested their crude lances butt down on the earth, with the points presented at a forty-five degree angle to the relentlessly moving enemy.

"Second and third ranks, close in.”

Those of us behind the first line of levelled spears moved forward till our bodies touched their, and grounded our spears so that the points bristled almost on a line with their own. And there we waited, our triple line of spears slanted to receive the triple line of the enemy.

"Get set!” snapped Brock; and I saw his eyes go up, once, to the calm beauty of the sky, as though to say farewell to it.

I too glanced around for a fleeting second. Ah, it was beautiful, this little world in the larger world of slowly receding ice. The air had a thin purity which made it like an elixir. The trees and shrubs were almost tropic in their lush growth. And the heat of the sun, tempered with the damp coolness of the ice fields several hundred miles away, gave the oasis a kind of everlasting spring.

But now the straight, long, triple line of crocodilian, heads had blotted out the land before me. They — death — stalked less than fifty yards away....

''Into the lake — and close your eyes!"

From the woods to our right came the vibrant hail.

Tidoior’s voice! Freighted with deadly urgency!

"Quick! Dive!”


Ticknor's first thought when he completed the march back to the spaceshell was for the batteries. There would be still enough of a charge in them, he felt sure, to break down the little lump

of radium in the bowl of the searchlight into which the shell was cupped — if they had not been smashed with the rest of the things in the interior of the cabin.

With his heart thudding in his throat, then, he had stepped into the shell — for the first time since we three had left it, days ago, to fall into the clutches of the lizard-men.

He felt sick and faint as he viewed for the first time at close range the damage the saurian beasts had done.

The interior of the space-ship was a total wreck. Each of the carefully fitted metal drawers in the walls had been smashed to bits, together with all their contents. The rocket motor was half twisted from its bed-plates, and so caved in that a whole machine-shop could not have set it running again. The crate in which was packed the miniature timemachine and the special camera it contained—

His knees felt weak as he gazed at it. The lizard-men had not stopped to rip the case open; one of them had simply raised it up and dashed it, with its fragile contents, onto the metal floor. Probably it was smashed to fragments.

However, he had no time for close examination of what, for the moment at least, were irrelevant details. The batteries! They were the main concern.

He went to the rear of the cabin. There, in a special vault-like compartment let into the rear wall, were the batteries.

Ticknor pried up the inconspicuous, combination handle and opening-lever, and swung the covering trap-door open. Thank heaven! They, at least, had been spared. Either the lizard-men had not noticed that rear compartment, or our insane attack on them had diverted their attention before they’d had time to investigate it. Anyhow, the batteries were untouched.



He set about preparing his doubtful trap.

Ticknor wanted the shell moved; but he wanted no trace of its removal, such as a crushed trail of grass and earth that might result if it were dragged, to show.

He ordered long, slender trees to be felled. The forest folk, obeying him implicitly although they could not have helped but wonder about the purpose of it all, cut the trees, trimmed them of branches, and rolled half a dozen of them under the shell.

Then by sheer strength of numbers, they lifted the little space-ship bodily and carried it to a spot carefully selected by Ticknor.

This spot was in the edge of the forest off to one side of the trail leading from the lake to the dome city, so that it would remain hidden from any who marched back along that trail — and it was at the base of a low hill.

Ticknor had remembered a fact that, obvious as it was, had escaped Brock and me. That was that the super-searchlight, like any other great gun, must be backed against something solid to take up its enormous recoil.

Working with all haste, the men dug away at the hillside till a flat, sheer surface resulted. Against this, propped firmly by earth itself, the false bottom of the shell was rammed home, with the nose of the ship pointing in a line paralleling the shore of the little lake.

Ticknor removed the big main switch from the smashed control board, and carried it outside to an alcove made by throwing up earthen breastworks next the ship. Then he wired it to the gap in the cable leading from batteries back through the rear of the shell into the false bottom.

Now he was ready. His monster stream of light, with the throwing of the switch, would rip out through the concealing

screen of trees to fell all that stood in its path. If the lizard-men were decoyed here as planned, and if kindly fortune should guide them across the line that would be taken by the released beam

But only time would answer that question.

As an afterthought, he stripped the cabin of all metal from the rocket motor down, and dumped the resulting pile of scrap beside the crate in which was the time-machine — or whatever was left of it — in a safe spot behind the hill. Also he took out the glass windows.* There might possibly be a use for these things some day....

Then there was nothing to do but wait — to see whether chance would favor us or whether we were all irrevocably lost.

Dawn deepened into early morning;

and Ticknor’s outpost came running toward him.

"They come — our brothers, and all the lizard-men!”

"On the trail we followed to their city.^”

"Yes.”

Ticknor gnawed at his knuckles. The game — on which everything was placed on the board — was about to open. All or nothing! A hope of life against sure death if the tenuous scheme fell through!

The crackling of twigs from afar heralded the near approach of hunted and hunters. Peering from the concealment of trees and shrubs, Ticknor saw us, wildeyed, exhausted rabble that we were, come stumbling from the trees — to stop in a frenzy of despair as we saw no shell where we had counted on its being.

A reassuring shout to us stuck in his throat. The lizard-men would be warned as well by any betraying noise.

In an agony of suspense he watched us. Would we break and scatter, with



the lizard-men scattering after us and all hope lost? Would we stay where we were, far out of the line of his searchlight, and fight it out?

Then commenced our rush to the lake shore, and the relentless, ordered advance of the lizard-men in their straight triple line.

Ticknor crouched behind his earthen barrier, and bit his lip till the blood came. Across the open area, tramping grimly after our disordered retreat, went the straight line of the lizard-men. Would they keep that line? Would they hold that direction?

If they wheeled so that their lines slanted across his line of fire, or if they scattered formation

But they didn’t. Ticknor’s breath hissed between his clenched teeth as he saw them stalk like a many-headed machine-straight on before him!

Nearer, a little nearer, just a few more feet....

He saw us ground our spears in our last stand by the blue lake, saw the lizardthings swing their clubs high over their hideous heads. And then

"Into the lake — and close your eyes!”

All the force of his lungs went into that glad shout, as the lizard-men unconsciously stalked into the line of death before the snout of the space-shell.

"Quick. Dive!”

And he threw the switch.

Like a crowd of puppets, jerking to the taut string of that ringing cry, we dived. We tumbled over one another to get to the sanctuary of the lapping water a few feet behind us.

And even as we splashed into it, the world seemed to blast to pieces all around us.

There was a shridcing roar as though *11 the winds of heaven had turned loose

in this spot. The ground trembled so that great waves formed in the little lake — waves which now buried us many feet deep, now left us cowering naked and exposed on the dry lake bed.

The hurricane roar persisted; and with it was an enormous, a titanic blaze of light filling all the universe around us. Through water and clenched eyelids, through hands cupped over faces, it beat; to strike agonizingly on eyeballs it was impossible fully to protect from it.

Men shrieked in agony, their shouts forming a little whisper against the mad bellowing of the world about us. All of us writhed face down in the mud of the lake bottom, trying to hide from that awful, blasting light.

And then the light ceased. The titanic shrieking of elements in pain died out. In the distance trees could be heard crashing to the ground, the last one falling fully a minute after the cataclysm had stopped.

The waters of the lake sullenly smoothed out; and ab5rsmal silence beat at our ears.

Slowly, by twos and threes, the men crawled from the water to dry land. Like wounded, enfeebled slugs we must have been — slugs that felt this way and tliat as they wormed their way back to safety — ^slugs that now and then missed the direction and wound back into the Isdce again.

For every one of us in that slow-crawling, racked mob was blind.

Blind! Helpless! Defenseless! With scores of the lizard-men — for all we knew — still left alive to lay about them with their deadly clubs!

But no clubs crashed among us. And gradually the paralyzing fear of being slau^tered like sheep while we scrabbled weakly on the ground, left us. The gods of war must have been with us. Either

W. T.— 6



the lizard-men had been destroyed, or they had been blinded as we had been.

There is no telling how long that blindness lasted. Probably not more than ten minutes. But it seemed ages that we felt about in a pitch-black universe, before our tortured eyes began to function dimly again.

And then, as images and colors began again to be perceived, what a sight we saw!

Off to our left, extending off and away beyond the range of eyesight, was a great, straight road through the thick forest. Like a broad highway, laid out in a ruler line, it went toward the horizon; and in that roadbed nothing grew. Smooth and bare the oozing black earth showed in it, stripped of all vegetation from humble marsh grass up to mighty trees. Here and there a tree had toppled across it from the sides; but save for those the way was clean as a hound’s tooth.

How far did that weird highway extend.? Well, later we went down it; and we found that it shot clear across the island— and half a mile straight into the solid ice of the glacial wall. And there at its end we also found a fused, jagged ball of metal, like a meteorite, that was all that was left of the space-shell.

The lizard-men? Not one was left. Squarely, full blast, Ticknor had caught them when he shot home his switch, enfilading them with deadly precision.

It is probable that the stripped hull of the space-shell, shot into their midst with the speed of light, annihilated them all. If a few had happened to survive, the ensuing beam of light smashed them to atoms an instant later. At any rate, no least trace of one was ever found in that vicinity.

The sun of the lizard-men had set. The few their ruler had left to guard their city were hunted out and killed a few

W. T.— 7

days later. In a week not one was left to poison the little Eden in the ice.


There is no more to tell about save our plans for the future. And those plans are uncertain. We haven’t yet chosen our course.

Yes, chosen! We are, we think, in a position to choose.

Out of the materials stripped from the cabin of the space-shell, Ti^nor has repaired the small time-machine we brought with us, and has built a big machine along the same lines. He is positive that the larger machine will bear the three of us back to our born place among the ages and among you who, I hope, will read these words.

In a little while we shall experiment with the small machine. We shall try to send it back to 1990. We can not set it to run backward for a certain definite period, because we do not know exactly how far in the future we are living. But the professor thinks he can set the controls so the machine will run indefinitely till it reaches the proper era, when it will stop automatically.

I shall take advantage of the experiment to send to our world this story, wrapped and sealed against the unguessable exposures of its long flight through time.

But though we are certain we can go back to our world whenever we please — we don’t know yet whether we do please.

It is lovely, this five-hundred-mile circle in the ice. We are absolute rulers over it and all the gentle, fine folk who dwell in it. Besides, Brock has all the adventure his heart craves — shunting the great serpents in the caves near the black pool, and exterminating the last of the deadly sarreggs (this thick bundle of bark paper shall be wrapped in the hide of one of the curious walking fish). And Profes370


sor Ticknor has as wife the brave and beautiful woman who saved his life in the caverns.

And I have Gayta..,.

I think perhaps we’ll stay.

* « * * #

Note: This manuscript, sewed in a bit of tough hide rather like sharkskin, was found in a tangle of glass and metal coils

in the Sahara sands south and west of Touggourt. Lieutenant Chavannes, of the Foreign Legion, who found the hidewrapped bundle, did not of course know the significance of that tangle of machinery— which was so accurate that it missed its time-destiny by only half a century. He rode away and left it; and to date it has not been re-found in the boundless area of the desert.

[ THE END ]

of the Congo

By KATHERINE VAN DER VEER

A freighter’ll soon be sailing to the shores of Zanzibar,

To isles of pungent spices where pearls and sapphires are.

Beyond the seas are coco-palms and frangipani flowers,

Red temples swing their golden bells to measure out the hours —

But brejJdng through these reveries an ancient rhythm comes,

I can hear the urgent throbbing of the Congo drums.

BOM-M-M, bom-m-m, while the jungle holds its breath,

BOM-M-M, bom-m-m, they call to war or death.

Beating, beating, on the hollowed wood.

Ghost-drums summon a ritual of blood.

The fishing-schooner Abigail goes out of port today.

To plow her long green furrow in a lonely arctic bay.

Where seals can bask on icebergs, and wind blows through the spars On men in shining oil-skins beneath the frosty stars.

But louder than the gull’s cry, overhead and under.

Piercing through the shaking sky with a voice of thunder:

BOM-M-M, bom-m-m, calling war or death,

BOM-M-M, bom-m-m, till the jungle holds its breath.

From the sounding-board of Africa insistent rhythm comes,

'The unforgotten throbbing of the Congo drums.

K

hat Waits in Darkness

By LORETTA BURROUGH

A grim story of a woman’s happiness that was menaced by a dreadful, recurrent dream

WITH a thick, choking sob, Qiristy Tenniel woke in the silvery coolness of early morning. The pigeons that the Jones boys kept on the roof were airing their flute throats in the dawn as Roger lumbered out of sleep beside her, making startled sounds.

"What is it, Chris.? What’s the matter,?’’ He circled her shaking body roughly with his soft, fat arm. "That damn dream?”

Its trembling bloody mists began to float away from her; their commonplace room came clear, with the picture of Roger’s mother smiling dimly from the opposite wall.

"Again. I can’t stand it much longer,” Night after night, in the thickets of darkness, it waited for her. For months now she had fought sleep until she was haggard and thin.

He reached for a package of cigarettes on the bedside table. She could imagine the angry bewilderment in his eyes; he did not like his wife to be in any way abnormal. And she saw it as the match flared, lighting puckers of annoyance about his mouth.

"That nerve specialist didn’t help much,” he said. " 'Some hidden fear, or hatred.’ Expensive bunk, that’s all. You’ve got no fears or hatreds.” He snorted, and sucked on the cigarette so hard that bright red sparks flew.

Roger’s talk was all very well, but Doctor Wilks had said softly, watching her from opaque brown eyes — "Do you love your husband, Mrs. Tenniel?”

She had answered, "Of course.”

Then Wilks had frowned, glowering at his clean fingernails. "You must tell me the truth, not lie. Otherwise I can not help you.”

She had stared durrfbly at his desk, shining with wax, and then suddenly the words had pushed their burning way out of her. "No, I do not love him. I loved another man, my husband’s best friend. He was killed in an accident, a week before he was to marry me.”

Duncan, light-hearted, quick, warm, like the old song — "Duncan, Duncan, tender and true.” She could have spared the lumbering dull Roger so much more easily. And then, two years after Duncan had died, she had married Roger, since he was always around, since she could talk of Duncan with him. A wrong sort of marriage, all wrong.

Doctor Wilks had thought so too. "Better for you to separate,” he had suggested.

"But how could not loving Roger make me have this dream?” She had looked at Doctor Wilks’ face with numb bewilderment in her own. "Why should I always dream” — she had repeated it again — "that I am standing in a drafty hall. There is a night-light burning in a little crystal bowl, and rain pouring down a black window-pane. I am in a night-dress — there is blood on my bare feet, down the side of my gown, and dripping from the end of a knife I hold in my right hand.” She had stumbled




then, and hidden her eyes with her gloved fingers.

And if she separated from Roger, who would wake and hold her when she started up trembling and crying? Doctor Wilks believed she would no longer have the dream, if they were apart. But how did he know?

"Here, I’ve got an idea!” Roger had been smoking cigarettes furiously beside her, while she sat and shivered. "My vacation’s coming next week. What say we go up to my aunt’s place in Maine, where we had our honeymoon? She’s not using it this year. She’s bought new things, fixed it up nicely, and that sun and air’ll cure you in a hurry.”

"No, not there!” Every nerve in her body had shuddered at the suggestion. It had been such a dreadful honeymoon, with Roger never suspecting that it was a dead man she desired at her side.

"Why not?” Placidly, he squashed the cigarette. "It’s quiet, but it’ll be good just for that reason. Better than a noisy hotel. I’ll phone Auntie tomorrow. We will go there.”

Impossible to turn as an avalanche when he had fastened to an idea — she knew that they would go.

OZY, huh?’.’ Roger thumped down V-4 the bags and shook his big shoulders. He went about thumbing the light switches, and the little oblong room suddenly blinked back at them, as though surprized. The wife of a near-by farmer had cleaned it and left a fire laid; Roger stooped above the long logs and touched a match to kindling.

"My aunt’s changed it a lot, hasn’t she? Nifty. What say?” He looked at her.

"Very nice, Roger,” she answered mechanically, spreading her palms to the warmth that began to trickle from the

fire. Even on the train she had dreamed, and wakened suffocating, in the coffinlike berth. "Shall we get the bags upstairs?”

He pounded up before her, making the small house shake. "Same room we had — I told the woman in my letter. Looking out on the bay.”

Wearily, she made the twin beds and set the new cottage furniture to rights. Down in the kitchen, with unusual good humor and a great clatter, Roger was getting supper ready. She unpacked the bags and hung their clothes in a closet that smelled of salt air and mice, then went to the window and looked out. Night was curving like a gentle hood over everything; stars shone, tiny candles in a great dark room. But nothing had seemed beautiful to her since Duncan died; it was a curiously empty world.

"Q)me and get it!” Roger called, and she walked out into the quiet, still hall. She stopped instantly, while her heart thudded in bad, false beats, and the air turned to lead within her lungs.

It was a narrow passage, paneled in ugly dark wood, with a big dormer-window at the end of it. Because of the dormer it had a queer effect of closing in; it was like a tunnel ending in the black panes sprinkled with starlight. On a small table to the side was a night-light in a crystal bowl, and beneath her feet a rough, thick carpet splotched with roses like pink blisters. She had seen it all many times. She stared a moment longer, and she felt as though the darkness outside the window were entering her brain. Then she ran down the stairs.

He was setting a little table in the living-room, with food they had bought in the village as they passed through.

"Roger!” she cried. "Roger!”

He stared at her, startled. "What’s



the matter now?” he asked, with a peevish undertone to the words.

"Roger” — she slipped into a chair at the table; life was beginning to flow in her again — "we must leave here. Right away. That hall upstairs, the hall ”

He put a hand on her shoulder, shaking her a little. "Talk sense, Qiristy,” he said irritably. "Why must we leave here? And what about the hall?”

With a spasmodic effort, she controlled herself. "Roger, that hall is the one I see in my dream. Always. I did not notice it when we carried up the bags, but I saw, just now. The one I see in my dream,” she repeated. "The same dark panels, the same dormer-window, the same carpet on the floor.”

"Is that all?” He sat down opposite her, picked a bit of pink ham from the plate and chewed the edge of it reflectively. "You’ll go nuts if you don’t watch out. It’s nothing but a dream, and to let yourself get in such a stew about it ”

"But you see that of course we must leave here?” Leave the place where the dream’s setting had become real. Leave it before — before what? In silence, she pleaded with the stubborn blue eyes across the table.

"Of course nothing.” He wiped his greasy fingers on the edge of a napkin. "Pull up your chair and have a go at this. 'The ham’s good.”

"Roger!”

He laid a slice of meat on her plate, and heaped salad beside it, his thick mouth drawing close in determined lines. "If you think I’ve paid those walloping train fares for nothing, just to give in to a silly woman’s whim!... We’re here, and here to stay imtil my vacation’s over.”

He ate a forkful of potato with a look of deep relish.

"Roger ”

She stared at him; she felt cold and frightened.

OUEERLY enough, although she expected it that night, although she went to bed with her mind darkly open to receive it, the dream did not come. And clear night after clear night dropped with its stars into day and never did she wake trembling, the sweat of fear freezing on her.

"You see,” said Roger complacently, the evening before they were to leave; almost two weeks had slipped by, smooth, happy enough — "What did I tell you?” He was standing by the small table in the dining-room, sharpening a knife with quick, hard strokes of his hand, downward and upward. "All you needed was to get away from the city. Fresh air, exercise, sun, they cure anything. Look at this knife — isn’t it a beaut? Going to take it home with me — Auntie’ll never miss it.”

"Where did you find it — let’s see,” she said absently, thinking: "Perhaps he’s right. I was overwrought — I needed rest.”

"In the attic.” He turned toward her; the smooth gleaming blade came into view and the handsome carved handle. "It was all rusted, but it’s a peach now. Good steel.”

Her eyes straining at it, aching beneath the delicate skin of her lids; her breath rushed from her limgs in a gasp. Beneath her, knees went to boneless putty.

"Roger,” she moaned, "I’ve seen that before.”

She leaned against the wall for support, her stare still held to the long, curving line of metal; all the light in the room seemed to stream toward her from the shining steel.

He dropped the blade, snatched a glass of water from the table and held it to her



mouth. "What’s the matter?” His heavy features sharpened with bewilderment.

She sipped the water, cold and flat, then pushed the glass away. "Oh, take me seriously,” she begged, clasping one hand on his arm. "That knife — it is the one I see in my dream. Just like that,

except ” Except that blood ran

down the thin sharp steel, dripping from the tip to the floor, spreading in a small still pool on the patterned rose carpet.

She was aware as she watched him, terror freezing in her fingers, in her breast, that rain was beginning outside in the darkness; the first drops touched the panes like soft wet feathers.

'We must get away, now,” she said, "tonight,” and saw his eyes grow bright with anger. He took up the small whetstone and the knife; the blade made a weak, shrill sound, faster and faster as the speed of his strokes increased.

"We will not.” His hard face concentrated on the whetting. "You little fool, to give a second thought to a dream!”

She was a wave beating against rock, and knew it. "Duncan would have listened to me. Duncan would have been patient, kind, not like you....” She slipped into a chair and dropped her face into her cold hands. Where was Duncan? Gone beyond reach and touch, lost in a lightless world.

She heard her husband’s footsteps coming dimly toward her; her eyes as she lifted her head rested again on the knife that he still held in his blunt fingers.

"I’m going to tell you something,” he said sharply. A bleak malice shrilled a little in his words — he was angry. "You’re still thinking of him, aren’t you? Still loving him. I was only the second best. Duncan would have been the perfect lover, 'patient, kind,’ not like me.”

He sent the knife spinning across the table with a fling of his wrist. "I’ll tell you what he said to me, a few days before he was killed.”

She waited, her heart drained of everything but a trembling apprehension. He could not touch her memory of Duncan, he could not hurt it, could he?

"He said ” He leaned toward her,

face blind with jealousy of a dead man. "He was very intimate with me, you know. He said that he wished to (^d he could get out of his engagement to you; he said he was tired of you.”

She got up clumsily. She had forgotten the dream; she had forgotten everything but his words. But was it the truth? Often had Roger lied to her. But if it were not a lie? Always now, between her and Duncan, would be this dull veil of doubt. She stood there, beginning to see herself as a loving fool, discarded by Duncan. Within her skull, a sharp little pain flickered and went and came again.

Into the trembling, nervous silence of the room Roger’s conciliating laugb plunged. "Let’s forget it all,” he said, "dreams — and Duncan. He’s dead; it’s done with. Now we’ll eat, and then we’ll go to bed early and get a good night’s sleep. A good sleep,” he said again.

Down the back window of the hall, the rain was pouring with a wild, gushing sound. Into the dark regions of unconsciousness the noise flooded, together with the buffeting screech of wind. Her eyes, although they had been staring dully before her for many minutes, began really to see; she raised her head and looked about her, with a strange heavy feeling of pain and suffering.

First she saw the window; it seemed



to move slightly imder the press of rain streaming beyond it. "I have known all tiiis before,” she thought, and then her cold stupefied glare fell to the nightlight, flickering a little in its small crystal bowl.

Within the house was a thick, petrified stillness that troubled her ears. "Where is Roger?” she wondered, touching her left hand to her head where it lingered upon the shooting ache beneath damp sweaty curls. Always in the night his hoarse, asthmatic breathing had been somewhere near her. "Where am I now?” she puzzled wearily.

Just under the fringe of blankness that veiled her mind was a dreadful meaning; it was like the wind about the house — now it came nearer with a leap, now it whirled away into the distance.

Something touched her bare foot, a soft, cool drop, and another. "The roof is leaking,” she thought dully, and looked down at her naked ankle, her long white foot. Not quite white now, for on it were spreading little red circles, dripping from the knife she held clumsily in her hand.

She could feel the skin crawling on her skull, her mouth widened in silence, as her eyes aept to the knife. The blade no longer gleamed; it was slippery, wet — the bright red stain went on, past her wrist; down her night-dress, over her thigh, was a dark clinging splash.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE SEALED CASKET.... ’ RICHARD F
by Searight
============================================================
She fell to her knees; she could hear the wind and the rain. Within her head was the breaking down of all thought. She was alone with the silent house. The dream come true.

(Scaled Casket

By RICHARD F. SEARIGHT

The icy fingers of a fetor that was old when the world was young reached fot^. the life of the scheming Wesson Clark — a strange little story

For nearly an hour Wesson Clark had been studying the sealed casket, his shrewd black eyes feasting avidly on its crudely carved metal contours. It lay before him in the pool of light from the desk lamp; the light which illumined his classic, calculating features with a pallid glow, while making a shadowy obscurity of the cavernous, book-lined study. Outside, the high March wind shrilled, and plucked with icy fingers at the cornices and gables of the old house. It gave Clark a pleasing, luxurious sense of security to relax in the overheated gloom

of the upstairs study and listen to the rising moan without. Careless, slipshod old Simpkins had gone for the night, after stoking the ancient furnace to capacity; and Clark was alone in the house, as he had wished to be for this occasion.

He smiled slightly and hummed a snatch from the latest Gershwin hit, as his gaze returned to his prize. The casket was small and compact, perhaps sixteen inches long by six or seven wide, and formed of a dull, age-tarnished metal that defied casual identification. The crude, writhing images carved into its sur376


face offered no aid to classification; Clark failed to assign them to any known period of early art.

A gratifying legacy to a connoisseur of antiques was this ancient box. Old Martucci had never suspected, then. There had been times when Clark had wondered— and feared — as he carried on his surreptitious affair with Martucci’s youthful wife. Not that it mattered now — the sinister old scientist, with his perverted sense of humor, was dead; and Nonna, though filled as ever with Latin fire, seemed much less fascinating, now that legal barriers were removed. Also, she was growing a bit proprietary, a little too assured. Clark knew the signs. He smiled ironically as he studied the casket. While Martucci lived, Clark had cultivated his friendship and enjoyed the conquest of Nonna at stealthy assignations, employing the greatest caution. But now there was nothing to fear. For the moment, at least, he was surfeited with Nonna’s charms; and he felt free to discard her as he saw fit, without the haunting dread of discovery and vengeance by the suspicious old archeologist. Besides, he needed freedom to reel in his new catch; one more alluring than the Italian girl had ever been, and endowed with a fortune that ran into almost mythical figures. His intentions were very serious here.

His smile deepened as he recalled the peculiar clause that formed a part of the codicil to the last testament of Martucci — the clause which was the instrument conveying the casket:

"And I do hereby bequeath to my onetime friend. Wesson Clark, the ancient coffer of Alu-Tor; and urge him only to leave the leaden seal thereon intact, as I have done for thirty years.”

Clark chuckled softly. Martucci had been a naive fool in spite of his dubious

reputation in scientific circles, where certain ruthless and unethical practises attributed to him were frowned on heavily. He had kept the seal intact, had he? And no guessing what rare treasures of antiquity might be hidden inside! He had spent his life delving in the earth and incidentally acquiring the meager fortune (now almost dissipated) with which he had retired, while, quite possibly, real wealth waited in the casket. But then, the Italian had been a strange character — one of those rare, incomprehensible creatures who appear to place little importance on the mere possession of money. The aggrandizement of his name in scientific discoveries, the search for the forbidden in hidden occult lore, the cynical study of human nature, had seemed to mean much more to him. Certainly he had never opened the casket, for the splotch of melted lead that sealed it was black with age and bore no signs of having been tampered with.

WITH all the leisurely indolence of his sybaritic nature, Clark lay back and gloated over his acquisition. He scrutinized more closely the cryptic, wavering symbols, vague and spidery, which had been impressed at some remote time on the leaden seal, no doubt while the metal was still hot. They were quite tmfamiliar in that they resembled nothing he could recall having seen before; but there was something indefinably disturbing in their almost sentient lines. They brought to mind some utterly impossible living thing. He laughed at the absurdity of the impression.

But whatever they represented, the symbols were very old. 'Their primitive crudeness suggested an antiquity antedating the Phenician alphabet, or even the Mayan inscriptions. Clark regretted his scanty knowledge of such things; for



here, he half suspected, might lie a specimen of the very first primal writing; the groping pictorial attempt to transcribe thought, from which had developed the earliest known written characters. He would preserve the seal intact and have it examined by an authority. Possibly it possessed a definite intrinsic value of its own. Martucci must have known; his knowledge of epigraphy had been profound, and it was whispered that all his developments in that field had not been turned over to science. It was even possible that he had deciphered the inscription, if inscription it were. But in the meantime Clark intended to open the thing.

Certainly he was going to open it. It was quite characteristic of Martucci that, because of some squeamish eccentricity or other, he had refrained from doing so himself. But had he really thought the new owner would use such illogical restraint? Clark chuckled again.

Still, it was odd that the Italian had never spoken of the casket, especially as he must have decided on its disposal some months before. The date of the codicil showed that. No doubt a little surprize for the "one-time friend” — but odd, just the same, for it was an object over which the failing scientist, with his wide knowledge of antiquities, and Clark with his dilettante love for them, might have had many of the discussions the archeologist had so seemed to enjoy.

And that was a strange wording — "one-time.” It almost suggested that Martucci had suspected when he dictated the sentence. But that was impossible. The very assignment of such a rare relic was proof in itself of complete trust and good feeling. After all, the import of the words, intended for reading after the writer’s death, was plain enough.

Well, there was no need for further

delay. He had gloated long enough. His black eyes sparkled greedily as he picked up the heavy brass paper-knife from his desk and dug tentatively at the seal. The leaden smear was surprizingly hard; perhaps it was some strange alloy. He pried harder, finally succeeding in inserting the knife-point between the seal and the age-blackened metal of the box itself. The lead refused to bend further; it clung tenaciously to its age-old moorings. At length Clark left it to rummage about the house for tools. He returned with a hammer, and carefully relocked the study’s only door before he sat down.

He used the knife as a wedge, and at the first blow the lead peeled neatly away, disclosing a patch of dully shimmering metal beneath. He had not expected to find that the seal covered a keyhole, and nothing of the sort was visible. Evidently the box was far too ancient for that contrivance.

His heart was pounding. He drew an anticipatory breath, and pried the knifepoint under the lid. A little leverage and it was done. The cover came up. The casket was empty.

Clark was genuinely surprized. Strange that the box should be so tightly sealed when it held no contents to be guarded. This lacked plausibility.

As he stared in puzzled bewilderment at the burnished inner surface, he became aware of a faint, fetid odor creeping into his nostrils. He sniffed, his nose wrinkling in distaste. Slight though it was, the smell suggested vaguely the charnel emanation from some long-closed tomb.

Then came the cold draft.

Through the close air of the study, which was gradually becoming oppressively hot, it breathed against his face in a single icy gust, laden with a sudden augmentation of the nauseating odor of putrescence. Then it was gone, and the



heated air had closed about him as if nothing had disturbed it.

Clark started up, then sank back in the chair. He frowned, staring hard at door and windows half hidden in the shadowy gloom beyond the circle of lamplight. He knew them to be locked securely, and an uneasy disquiet stirred in his breast as his probing eyes verified the fact.

His attention was drawn back to the subtle odor of corruption which had gradually grown stronger. It permeated the room now — a dank, mephitic fetor, grotesquely out of place in the quiet study. He rose slowly to his feet, alarm spreading over his features. And as he did so, the icy, noisome chill puffed again upon his face like a breeze from some glacial sepulcher. His head jerked back, and fear dawned in his eyes. Here, in a locked room on the top floor of the old house he had lived in for years, something utterly uncanny, something entirely beyond the realms of sanity, was taking place. Clark started slowly across the study toward the door, then stopped abruptly.

A faint sound had come from the shadows at the far side of the room where the heavy Sarouk rug stopped short a foot from the wall. It was an insidious, barely audible, rustling noise — such a noise as might be made by a great snake writhing along the uncarpeted strip. And it came from between him and the door!

CLARK had prided himself, in the past, on his cold-blooded imperturbability; but his breath came quickly now, and the wild, unreasoning fear of a trapped animal flooded his mind. Whatever the nature of the Thing in the room with him — could he doubt its presence? — it was intelligently cutting off his escape. It must be watching his every

movement with malignant, brooding eyes. A shudder of stark horror convulsed him at the realization.

He stood very still in the center of the study, his mind racing in frenzied, terror-driven circles. A sense of the crowding presence of some bestial, primordial depravity, of overwhelming defilement, surged with paralyzing certainty through his brain. Thoughts of escape were crowded out — the imminence of the danger routed reasoning power. And yet, through the waves of terror that beat through his consciousness, he realized that his life — yes, his very soul — was menaced by an unspeakable cosmic malevolence.

With a tremendous effort he checked the rising, smothering hysteria and succeeded in regaining a partial control of his thoughts. His eyes pierced the gloom ahead and about him. Nothing stirred. What hideously ancient entity had been imprisoned in the casket? He could not guess, nor did he wish to know. But Martucci had known — Martucci, the authority on ancient writings; the delver in hidden lore! Martucci had known everything. He had schemed — oh, so cunningly! — for revenge, and this was the result. If the dead could know, how the old man must be gloating to see his crafty trap closing about his victim!

Now Clark felt cold vibrations beating upon him; vibrations of inhuman, impersonal evil. His nerves crawled and shrank as from a loathsome physical contact. He shifted luieasily, and there came the sound of a stealthy, slithering movement toward him across the rug. He backed away, until his shoulders bumped against the wall behind him. Still the soft noises continued, slowly drawing near. They detoured to one side, then to the other; then they were back in front of him, and much closer. His eyes searched



the shadows desperately. Empty, formless, mysterious, they were; but nothing moved that his physical sight could detect. The lurking menace, its presence proclaimed by every taut nerve in his body, was still invisible. If he could trust his eyes, he was alone in the room. But he felt the close proximity of something cold and yet alive; something which was a definite physical presence, manifesting itself to him through pre-human senses, semi-atrophied by eons of disuse. Whatever it was, it was aborbing the suffocating heat of the room, actually lowering the temperature, and at a rapid rate.

Quite suddenly, the utter horror of the impossible, incredible situation broke through the dam of desperate resistance his mind had built up. Something snapped, and he laughed — a high-pitched cachinnation of rising hysteria that echoed wildly from lips drawn back in a grinning frenzy of terror. He cringed, flinging up his arms in an abject surrender to fear. A torrent of gibbering incoherency pushed the terrible laughter from his lips. The dusky room swam about him and he did not know that his knees had buckled and that he had plumped forward on them, his arms rigid before his face to ward off the approaching danger.

Again came the icy breath, rank with primeval filth, terrifying in its nearness. It passed lightly over his face, making him retch with its overpowering fetor. Then he shrieked once in paralyzed despair, as slender, groping tentacles, cold as outer space, caressed his throat and body, their deathly chill striking through his clothing as if he had been naked. A vast, flabby, amorphous coldness enveloped him. Repulsively soft and bulky it was, but as he struggled it gripped him with the resistless strength of chilled steel. He

could feel the regularly spaced vibrations of some utterly alien, incomprehensible life — a life so frightful that he shrieked again and again as its purpose became apparent.

Then the murky room whirled about him — he had been whisked up, was staring with starting eyes at the ceiling, through which little flames were eating, while the fetid horror gradually compressed its icy folds.

He was falling down, down, through endless shafts of icy blackness into a bottomless quagmire of prinJordial slime. A vast roaring filled his ears. Monstrous fantasms leered through the bursts of flame that punctuated the rushing descent. Then all was silence and blackness and oblivion.

Fanned by the high wind, the flames had gutted the old house when firemen arrived. Little remained to aid the coroner in his investigation. Naturally, he discounted heavily the fantastic testimony of certain early arrivals regarding a high-pitched, agonized whistling sound which they claimed had proceeded from the upper part of the building, and the belching clouds of foul-smelling smoke which had found an exit after the upper floors collapsed and the whistling stopped. Simpkins’ admission that he had neglected to close the drafts of the furnace cleared up the cause of the fire; but, privately, the coroner was exceedingly puzzled by certain peculiarities that the post-mortem disclosed in the charred and blackened corpse, identified by a dentist as Wesson Clark’s. It was surely a matter of wonder that virtually every bone in this body had been broken, as if in the embrace of some gigantic snake of th.e constrictor species; and it was an insoluble mystery how the veins and organs had been drained of every drop of blood!

Vhe T

/udge’s House

By BRAM STOKER

WHEN the time for his examination drew near, Malcolm Malcolmson made up his mind to go somewhere to read by himself. He feared the attractions of the seaside, and also he feared completely rural isolation, for of old he knew its charms, and so he determined to find some unpretentious little town where there would be nothing to distract him. He refrained from asking suggestions from any of his friends, for he argued that each would recommend some place of which he had knowledge, and where he already had acquaintances. As Malcolmson wished to avoid friends, he had no wish to encumber himself with the attention of friends’ friends, and so he determined to look out for a place for himself. He packed a portmanteau with some clothes and all the books he required, and then took ticket for the first name on the local time-table which he did not know.

When at the end of three hours’ journey he alighted at Benchurch, he felt satisfied that he had so far obliterated his tracks as to be sure of having a peaceful opportunity of pursuing his studies. He went straight to the one inn which the

sleepy little place contained, and put up for the night. Benchurch was a market town, and once in three weeks was crowded to excess, but for the remainder of the twenty-one days it was as attractive as a desert. Malcolmson looked around, the day after his arrival, to try to find quarters more isolated than even so quiet an inn as "The Good Traveller’’ afforded. 'There was only one place which took his fancy, and it certainly satisfied his wildest ideas regarding quiet; in fact, quiet was not the proper word to apply to it — desolation was the only term conveying any suitable idea of its isolation. It was an old, rambling, heavy-built house of the Jacobean style, with heavy gables and windows, unusually small, and set higher than was customary in such houses, and was surrounded with a high brick wall massively built. Indeed, on examination, it looked more like a fortified house than an ordinary dwelling. But all these things pleased Malcolmson. "Here,” he thought, "is the very spot I have been looking for, and if I can only get opportunity of using it I shall be happy.” His joy was increased when he realized beyond doubt that it was not at present inhabited.

THE JUDGE’S HOUSE


From the post-office he got the name of the agent, who was rarely surprized at the application to rent a part of the old house. Mr. Carnford, the local lawyer and agent, was a genial old gentleman, and frankly confessed his delight at any one being willing to live in the house.

"To tell you the truth,” said he, "I should be only too happy, on behalf of the owners, to let any one have the house rent free for a term of years if only to accustom the people here to see it inhabited. It has been so long empty that some kind of absurd prejudice has grown up about it, and this can be best put down by its occupation — if only,” he added with a sly glance at Malcolmson, "by a scholar like yourself, who wants its quiet for a time.”

Malcolmson thought it needless to ask the agent about the "absurd prejudice”; he knew he would get more information, if he should require it, on that subject from other quarters. He paid his three months’ rent, got a receipt, and the name of an old woman who would probably undertake to "do” for him, and came away with the keys in his pocket. He then went to the landlady of the inn, who was a cheerful and most kindly person, and asked her advice as to such stores and provisions as he would be likely to require. She threw up her hands in amazement when he told her where he was going to settle himself.

"Not in the Judge’s House!” she said, and grew pale as she spoke. He explained the locality of the house, saying that he did not know its name. When he had finished she answered:

"Aye, sure enough — sure enough the very place! It is the Judge’s House sure enough.” He asked her to tell him about the place, why it was so called, and what there was against it. She told him that it was so called locally because it had been

many years before — how long she could not say, as she was herself from another part of the country, but she thought it must have been a hundred years or more — the abode of a judge who was held in great terror on account of his harsh sentences and his hostility to prisoners at assizes. As to what there was against the house itself she could not tell. She had often asked, but no one could inform her; but there was a general feeling that there was something, and for her own part she would not take all the money in Drinkwater’s Bank and stay in the house an hour by herself. Then she apologized to Malcolmson for her disturbing talk.

"It is too bad of me, sir, and you — and a young gentleman, too — if you will pardon me saying it, going to live there all alone. If you were my boy — and you’ll excuse me for saying it — you wouldn’t sleep there a night, not if I had to go there myself and pull the big alarm bell that’s on the roof!”

The good creature was so manifestly in earnest, and was so kindly in her intentions, that Malcolmson, although amused, was touched. He told her kindly how much he appreciated her interest in him, and added:

"But, my dear Mrs. Witham, indeed you need not be concerned about me! A man who is reading for the Mathematical Tripos has too much to think of to be disturbed by any of these mysterious ’somethings,’ and his work is of too exact and prosaic a kind to allow of his having any corner in his mind for mysteries of any kind. Harmonical Progression, Permutations and Combinations, and Elliptic Functions have sufficient mysteries for me!”

Mrs. Witham kindly undertook to see after his commissions, and he went himself to look for the old woman who had been recommended to him. When he re382


turned to the Judge’s House with her, after an interval of a couple of hours, he found Mrs. Witham herself waiting with several men and boys carrying parcels, and an upholsterer’s man with a bed in a cart; for she said, though tables and chairs might be all very well, a bed that hadn’t been aired for mayhap fifty years was not proper for young bones to lie on. She was evidently curious to see the inside of the house; and though manifestly so afraid of the 'somethings’ that at the slightest sound she clutched on to Malcolmson, whom she never left for a moment, went over the whole place.

After his examination of the house, - Malcolmson decided to take up his abode in the great dining-room, which was big enough to serve for all his requirements; and Mrs. Witham, with the aid of the charwoman, Mrs. Dempster, proceeded to arrange matters. When the hampers were brought in and unpacked, Malcolmson saw that with much kind forethought she had sent from her own kitchen sufficient provisions to last for a few days. Before going she expressed all sorts of kind wishes; and at the door turned and said:

"And perhaps, sir, as the room is big and drafty it might be well to have one of those big scAens put round your bed at night — though, truth to tell, I would die myself if I were to be so shut in with all kinds of — of 'things,’ that put their heads round the sides, or over the top, and look on me!’’ The image which she had called up was too much for her nerves, and she fled incontinently.

Mrs. Dempster sniffed in a superior manner as the landlady disappeared, and remarked that for her own part she wasn’t afraid of all the bogies in the kingdom.

’’I’ll tell you what it is, sir,” she said; "bogies is all kinds and sorts of things — except bogies! Rats and mice, and beetles; and creaky doors, and loose slates, and broken panes, and stiff drawer handles, that stay out when you pull them and then fall down in the middle of the night. Look at the wainscot of the room! It is old — hundreds of years old! Do you think there’s no rats and beetles there? And do you imagine, sir, that you wont see none of them? Rats is bogies, I tell you, and bogies is rats; and don’t you get to think anything else!”

"Mrs. Dempster,” said Malcolmson gravely, making her a polite bow, "you know more than a Senior Wrangler! And let me say, that, as a mark of esteem for your indubitable soundness of head and heart, I shall, when I go, give you possession of this house, and let you stay here by yourself for the last two months of my tenancy, for four weeks will serve my purpose.”

"'Thank you kindly, sir!” she answered, "but I couldn’t sleep away from home a night. I am in Greenhow’s Charity, and if I slept a night away from my rooms I should lose all I have got to live on. The rules is very strict; and there’s too many watching for a vacancy for me to run any risks in the matter. Only for that, sir, I’d gladly come here and attend on you altogether during your stay.”

"My good woman,” said Malcolmson hastily, "I have come here on purpose to obtain solitude; and believe me that I am grateful to the late Greenhow for having so organized his admirable charity — whatever it is — that I am perforce denied the opportunity of suffering from such a form of temptation! Saint Anthony himself could not be more rigid on the point!”

The old woman laughed harshly. "Ah, you young gentlemen,” she said, "you don’t fear for naught; and belike you’ll get all the solitude you want here.” She set to work with her cleaning; and by

THE JUDGE’S HOUSE


nightfall, when Malcolmson returned from his walk — ^he always had one of his books to study as he walked — he foimd the room swept and tidied, a fire burning in the old hearth, the lamp lit, and the table spread for supper with Mrs. Witham’s excellent fare. "This is comfort, indeed,” he said, as he rubbed his hands.

When he had finished his supper, and lifted the tray to the other end of the great oak dining-table, he got out his books again, put fresh wood on the fire, trimmed his lamp, and set himself down to a spell of real hard work. He went on without pause till about eleven o’clock, when he knocked off for a bit to fix his fire and lamp, and to make himself a cup of tea. He had always been a tea-drinker, and during his college life had sat late at work and had taken tea late. The rest was a great luxury to him, and he enjoyed it with a sense of delicious, voluptuous ease. The renewed fire leaped and sparkled, and threw quaint shadows through the great old room; and as he sipped his hot tea he revelled in the sense of isolation from his kind. Then it was that he began to notice for the first time what a noise the rats were making.

"Surely,” he thought, "they can not have been at it all the time I was reading. Had they been, I must have noticed it!” Presently, when the noise increased, he satisfied himself that it was really new. It was evident that at first the rats had been frightened at the presence of a stranger, and the light of fire and lamp; but that as the time went on they had grown bolder and were now disporting themselves as was their wont.

How busy they were! and hark to the strange noises! Up and down behind the old wainscot, over the ceiling and under the floor they raced, and gnawed, and scratched! Malcolmson smiled to himself as he recalled to mind the saying of

Mrs. Dempster, "Bogies is rats, and rats is bogies!” The tea began to have its effect of intellectual and nervous stimulus; he saw with joy another long spell of work to be done before the night was past, and in the sense of security which it gave him, he allowed himself the luxury of a good look round the room. He took his lamp in one hand, and went all around, wondering that so quaint and beautiful an old house had been so long neglected. The carving of the oak on the panels of the wainscot was fine, and on and round the doors and.windows it was beautiful and of rare merit. There were some old pictures on the walls, but they were coated so thick with dust and dirt that he could not distinguish any detail of them, though he held his lamp as high as he could over his head. Here and there as he went round he saw some crack or hole blocked for a moment by the face of a rat with its bright eyes glittering in the light, but in an instant it was gone, and a squeak and a scamper followed. The thing that most struck him, however, was the rope of the great alarm bell on the roof, which hung down in a corner of the room on the right-hand side of the fireplace.

He pulled up close to the hearth a great high-backed carved oak chair, and sat down to his last cup of tea. When this was done he made up the fire, and went back to his work, sitting at the corner of the table, having the fire to his left. For a little while the rats disturbed him somewhat with their perpetual scampering, but he got accustomed to the noise as one does to the ticking of a clock or to the roar of moving water; and he became so immersed in his work that everything in the world, except the problem which he was trying to solve, passed away from him.

He suddenly looked up; his problem



was still unsolved, and there was in the air that sense of the hour before the dawn, which is so dread to doubtful life. The noise of the rats had ceased. Indeed it seemed to him that it must have ceased but lately and that it was the sudden cessation which had disturbed him. The fire had fallen low, but still it threw out a deep red glow. As he looked he started in spite of his sang-froid.

TTiere on the great high-backed carved oak chair by the right side of the fireplace sat an enormous rat, steadily glaring at him with baleful eyes. He made a motion as though to hunt it away, but it did not stir. Then he made the motion of throwing something. Still it did not stir, but showed its great white teeth angrily, and its cruel eyes shone in the lamplight with an added vindictiveness.

Malcolmson felt amazed, and seizing the poker from the hearth ran at it to kill it. Before, however, he could strike it, the rat, with a squeak that sounded like the concentration of hate, jumped upon the floor, and, running up the rope of the alarm bell, disappeared in the darkness beyond the range of the green-shaded lamp. Instantly, strange to say, the noisy scampering of the rats in the wainscot began again.

By this time Malcolmson’s mind was quite off the problem; and as a shrill cock-crow outside told him of the approach of morning, he went to bed and to sleep.

He slept so sound that he was not even waked by Mrs. Dempster coming in to make up his room. It was only when she had tidied up the place and got his breakfast ready and tapped on the screen which closed in his bed that he woke. He was a little tired still after his night’s hard work, but a strong cup of tea soon freshened him up and, taking his book, he went out for his morning walk,

bringing with him a few sandwidies lest he should not care to return till dinner time. He found a quiet walk between high elms some way outside the town, and here he spent the greater part of the day studying his Laplace. On his return he looked in to see Mrs. Witham and to thank her for her kindness. When she saw him coming, through the diamondpaned bay window of her sanctum, she came out to meet him and asked him in. She looked at him searchingly and shook her head as she said:

"You must not overdo it, sir. You are paler this morning than you should be. Too late hours and too hard work on the brain isn’t good for any man! But tell me, sir, how did you pass the night? Well, I hope? But, my heart! sir, I was glad when Mrs. Dempster told me this morning that you were all right and sleeping sound when she went in.’’

"Oh, I was all right,’’ he answered smiling; "the 'somethings’ didn’t worry me, as yet. Only the rats; and they had a circus, I tell you, all over the place. There was one wicked-looking old devil that sat up on my own chair by the fire, and wouldn’t go till I took the poker to him, and then he ran up the rope of the alarm bell and got to somewhere up the wall or the ceiling — I couldn’t see where, it was so dark.’’

"Mercy on us,’’ said Mrs. Witham, "an old devil, and sitting on a chair by the fireside! Take care, sir, take care! There’s many a true word spoken in jest.’’

"How do you mean? ’Pon my word I don’t understand.’’

"An old devil! The old devil, perhaps. There! sir, you needn’t laugh,’’ for Malcolmson had broken into a hearty peal. "You young folks think it easy to laugh at things that makes older ones shudder. Never mind, sir! never mind! Please God, you’ll laugh all the time. It’s what I wish

W. T.— 7

THE JUDGE’S HOUSE

you myself!” and the good lady beamed all over in sympathy with his enjoyment, her fears gone for a moment.

"Oh, forgive me!” said Malcolmson presently. "Don’t think me rude; but the idea was too much for me — that the old devil himself was on the chair last night!” And at the thought he laughed again. Then he went home to dinner.

This evening the scampering of the rats began earlier; indeed it had been going on before his arrival, and only ceased while his presence by its freshness disturbed them. After dinner he sat by the fire for a while and had a smoke; and then, having cleared his table, began to work as before. Tonight the rats disturbed him more than they had done on the previous night. How they scampered up and down and under and over! How they squeaked, and scratched, and gnawed! How they, getting bolder by degrees, came to the mouths of their holes and to the chinks and cracks and crannies in the wainscoting till their eyes shone like tiny lamps as the firelight rose and fell! But to him, now doubtless accustomed to them, their eyes were not wicked; only their playfulness touched him. Sometimes the boldest of them made sallies out on the floor or along the moldings of the wainscot. Now and again as they disturbed him Malcolmson made a sound to frighten them, smiting the table with his hand or giving a fierce "Hsh, hsh,” so that they fled straightway to their holes.

And so the early part of the night wore on; and despite the noise Malcolmson got more and more immersed in his work.

All at once he stopped, as on the previous night, being overcome by a sudden sense of silence. There was not the faintest sound of gnaw, or scratch, or squeak. The silence was as of the grave. He remembered the odd occurrence of the previous night, and intuitively he looked W. T— 8

m.

at the chair standing close by the fireside. And then a very odd sensation thrilled through him.

There, on the great old high-backed carved oak chair beside the fireplace sat the same enormous rat, steadily glaring at him with baleful eyes.

Instinctively he took the nearest thing to his hand, a book of logarithms, and flung it at it. The book was badly aimed and the rat did not stir, so again the poker performance of the previous night was repeated; and again the rat, being closely pursued, fled up the rope of the alarm bell. Strangely, too, the departure of this rat was instantly followed by the renewal of the noise made by the general rat community. On this occasion, as on the previous one, Malcolmson could not see at what part of the room the rat disappeared, for the green shade of his lamp left the upper part of the room in darkness, and the fire had burned low.

On looking at his watch he found it was close on midnight; and, not sorry for the divertissement, he made up his fire and made himself his nightly pot of tea. He had got through a good spell of work, and thought himself _ entitled to a cigarette; and so he sat on the great carved oak chair before the fire and enjoyed it. While smoking, he began to think that he would like to know where the rat disappeared to, for he had certain ideas for the morrow not entirely unconnected with a rat-trap. Accordingly he lit another lamp and placed it so that it would shine well into the right-hand corner of the wall by the fireplace. Then he got all the books he had with him, and placed them handy to throw at the vermin. Finally he lifted the rope of the alarm bell and placed the end of it on the table, fixing the extreme end under the lamp. As he handled it he could not help noticing how pliable it was, especially for so



strong a rope, and one not in use. "You could hang a man with it,” he thought to himself. When his preparations were made he looked around, and said complacently:

"There now, my friend, I think we shall learn something of you this time!” He began his work again, and though as before somewhat disturbed at first by the noise of the rats, soon lost himself in his propositions and problems.

Again he was called to his immediate surroundings suddenly. This time it might not have been the sudden silence only which took his attention; there was a slight movement of the rope, and the lamp moved. Without stirring, he looked to see if his pile of books was within range, and then cast his eye along the rope. As he looked he saw the great rat drop from the rope on the oak armchair and sit there glaring at him. He raised a book in his right hand, and taking careful aim, flung it at the rat. The latter, with a quick movement, sprang aside and dodged the missile. He then took another book, and a third, and flung them one after another at the rat, but each time unsuccessfully.

At last, as he stood with a book poised in his hand to throw, the rat squeaked and seemed afraid. This made Malcolmson more than ever eager to strike, and the book flew and struck the rat a resounding blow. It gave a terrified squeak, and turning on its pursuer a look of terrible malevolence, ran up the chair-back and made a great jump to the rope of the alarm bell and ran up it like lightning. The lamp rocked under the sudden strain.

Malcolmson kept his eyes on the rat, and saw it by the light of the second lamp leap to a molding of the wainscot and disappear through a hole in one of the great pictures which hung on the wall, obscured and invisible through its coating of dirt and dust.

"I shall look up my friend’s habitation in the morning,” said the student, as he went over to collect his books. '"The third picture from the fireplace; I shall not forget.”

He picked up the books one by one, commenting on them as he lifted them. "Conic Sections he does not mind, nor Cycloidal Oscillations, nor the Principia, nor Quaternions, nor Thermodynamics. Now for the book that fetched him!”

Malcolmson took it up and looked at it. As he did so he started, and a sudden pallor overspread his face. He looked round uneasily and shivered slightly, as he murmured to himself:

"The Bible my mother gave me! What an odd coincidence!”

He sat down to work again, and the rats in the wainscot renewed their gambols. 'They did not disturb him, however; somehow their presence gave him a sense of companionship. But he could not attend to his work, and after striving to master the subjea on which he was engaged gave it up in despair, and went to bed as the first streak of dawn stole in through the eastern window.

He slept heavily but imeasily, and dreamed much; and when Mrs. Dempster woke him late in the morning he seemed ill at ease, and for a few minutes did not seem to realize exactly where he was. His first request rather surprized the servant.

"Mrs. Dempster, when I am out todays I wish you would get the steps and dust or wash those pictures; — especially that one the third from the fireplace — I want to see what they are.”

Late in the afternoon Malcolmsoa.^worked at his books in the shaded walk, and the cheerfulness of the previous day came back to him as the dajr wore on, and he found that his reading was progressing well. He had worked out to a satisfactory conclusion all the


THE JUDGE’S HOUSE

problems which had as yet baffled him, and it was in a state of jubilation that he paid a visit to Mrs. Witham at "The Good Traveller.” He found a stranger in the cozy sitting-room with the landlady, who was introduced to him as Doctor Thornhill. She was not quite at ease, and this, combined with the doctor’s plunging at once into a series of questions, made Malcolmson come to the conclusion that his presence was not an accident; so without preliminary he said:

"Doaor Thornhill, I shall with pleasure answer you any question you may choose to ask me if you will answer me one question first.”

The doctor seemed surprized, but he smiled and answered at once, "Done! What is it?”

"Did Mrs. Witham ask you to come here and see me and advise me?”

Doctor Thornhill for a moment was taken aback, and Mrs. Witham got fiery red and turned away; but the doctor was a frank and ready man, and he answered at once and openly:

"She did: but she didn’t intend you to know it. I suppose it was my clumsy haste that made you suspect. She told me that she did not like the idea of your being in that house all by yourself, and that she thought you took too much strong tea. In fact, she wants me to advise you if possible to give up the tea and the very late hours. I was a keen student in my time, so I suppose I may take the liberty of a college man, and without offense, advise you not quite as a stranger.”

Malcolmson with a bright smile held out his hand. "Shake! as they say in America,” he said. "I must thank you for your kindness, and Mrs. Witham, too, and your kindness deserves a return on my part. I promise to take no more strong tea — no tea at all till you let me — and I shall go to bed tonight at one o’clock at latest. Will that do?”

"Capital,” said the doctor. "Now tell us all that you noticed in the old house,” and so Malcolmson told in minute detail all that had happened in the last two nights. He was interrupted every now and then by some exclamation from Mrs. Witham, till finally when he told of the episode of the Bible the landlady’s pentup emotions found vent in a shriek; and it was not till a stiff glass of brandy and water had been administered that she grew composed again. Doctor Thornhill listened with a face of growing gravity, and when the narrative was complete and Mrs. Witham had been restored he asked:

"The rat always went up the rope of the alarm bell?”

"Always.”

“I suppose you know,” said the doctor afer a pause, "what the rope is?”

"No!”

"It is,” said the doctor slowly, "the very rope which the hangman used for all the victims of the Judge’s judicial rancor!” Here he was interrupted by another scream from Mrs. Witham, and steps had to be taken for her recovery, Malcolmson having looked at his watch, and found that it was close to his dinner hour, had gone home before her complete recovery.

When Mrs. Witham was herself again she almost assailed the doctor with angry questions as to what he meant by putting such horrible ideas into the poor young man’s mind. "He has quite enough there already to upset him,” she added.

Doctor Thornhill replied:

"My dear madam, I had a distinct purpose in it! I wanted to draw his attention to the bell rope, and to fix it there. It may be that he is in a highly overwrought state, and has been studying too much, although I am bound to say that he seems as sound and healthy a young man, mentally and bodily, as ever I saw — but then the rats — and that suggestion of the devil.” The doctor shook his head and



went on. "I would have offered to go and stay the first night with him but I felt sure it would have been a cause of offense. He may get in the night some strange fright or hallucination; and if he does I want him to pull that rope. All alone as he is it will give us warning, and we may reach him in time to be of service. I shall be sitting up pretty late tonight and shall keep my ears open. Do not be alarmed if Benchurch gets a surprize before morning.”

"Oh, Doctor, what do you mean.? What do you mean.?”

"I mean this; that possibly — nay, more probably — we shall hear the great alarm bell from the Judge’s House tonight,” and the doctor made about as effective an exit as could be drought of.

WHEN Malcolmson arrived home he found that it was a little after his usual time, and Mrs. Dempster had gone away — the rules of Greenhow’s Charity were not to be neglected. He was glad to see that the place was bright and tidy with a cheerful fire and a well-trimmed lamp. The evening was colder than might have been expected in April, and a heavy wind was blowing with such rapidly increasing strength that there was every promise of a storm during the night. For a few minutes after his entrance the noise of the rats ceased; but so soon as they became accustomed to his presence they began again. He was glad to hear them, for he felt once more the feeling of companionship in their noise, and his mind ran back to the strange faa that they only ceased to manifest themselves when that other — the great rat with the baleful eyes — came upon the scene. The readinglamp only was lit and its green shade kept the ceiling and the upper part of the room in darkness; so that the cheerful light from the hearth spreading over the floor and shining on the white cloth laid

over the end of the table was warm and cheery.

Malcolmson sat down to his dinner with a good appetite and a buoyant spirit. After his dinner and a cigarette he sat steadily down to work, determined not to let anything disturb him, for he remembered his promise to the doaor, and made up his mind to make the best of the time at his disposal.

For an hour or so he worked all right, and then his thoughts began to wander from his books. The actual circumstances around him, the calls on his physical attention, and his nervous susceptibility were not to be denied. By this time the wind had become a gale, and the gale a storm. The old house, solid though it was, seemed to shake to its foundations, and the storm roared and raged through its many chimneys and its queer old gables, producing strange, unearthly sounds in the empty rooms and corridors. Even the great alarm bell on the roof must have felt the force of the wind, for the rope rose and fell slightly, as though the bell were moved a little from time to time, and the limber rope fell on the oak floor with a hard and hollow sound.

As Malcolmson listened to it he bethought himself of the doctor’s words, "It is the rope which the hangman used for the victims of the Judge’s judicial rancor,” and he went over to the corner of the fireplace and took it in his hand to look at it. 'There seemed a sort of deadly interest in it, and as he stood there he lost himself for a moment in speculation as to who these victims were, and the grim wish of the Judge to have such a ghastly relic ever under his eyes. As he stood there the swaying of the bell on the roof still lifted the rope now and again; but presently there came a new sensation — a sort of tremor in the rope, as though something was moving along it.

THE JUDGE’S HOUSE


Looking up instinctively, Malcolmson saw the great rat coming slowly down toward him, glaring at him steadily. He dropped the rope and started back with a muttered curse, and the rat, turning, ran up the rope again and disappeared, and at the same instant Malcolmson became conscious that the noise of the rats, which had ceased for a while, began again.

All this set him thinking, and it occurred to him that he had not investigated the lair of the rat or looked at the pictures, as he had intended. He lit the other lamp without the shade, and, holding it up, went and stood opposite the third piaure from the fireplace on the right-hand side where he had seen the rat disappear on the previous night.

At the first glance he started back so suddenly that he almost dropped the lamp, and a deadly pallor overspread his face. His knees shook, and heavy drops of sweat came on his forehead, and he trembled. But he was young and plucky, and pulled himself together, and after the pause of a few seconds stepped forward again, raised the lamp, and examined the picture which had been dusted and washed, and now stood out clearly.

It was of a judge dressed in his robes of scarlet and ermine. His face was strong and merciless, evil, crafty, and vindictive, with a sensual mouth, hooked nose of ruddy color, and shaped like the beak of a bird of prey. The rest of the face was of a cadaverous color. The eyes were of peculiar brilliance and with a terribly malignant expression. As he looked at them, Malcolmson grew cold, for he saw there the very counterpart of the eyes of the great rat. The lamp almost fell from his hand, he saw the rat with its baleful eyes peering out through the hole in the comer of the picture, and noted the sudden cessation of the noise of the other rats. However, he pulled himself

together, and went on with his examination of the picture.

The Judge was seated in a great highbacked carved oak chair, on the righthand side of a great stone fireplace where, in the corner, a rope hung down from the ceiling, its end lying coiled on the floor. With a feeling of something like horror, Malcolmson recognized the scene of the room as it stood, and gazed around him in an awestruck manner as though he expected to find some strange presence behind him. Then he looked over to the corner of the fireplace— and with a loud cry he let the lamp fall from his hand.

There, in the Judge’s armchair, with a rope hanging behind, sat the rat with the Judge’s baleful eyes, now intensified and with a fiendish leer. Save for the howling of the storm without there was silence.

The fallen lamp recalled Malcolmson to himself. Fortunately it was of metal, and so the oil was not spilt. However, the practical need of attending to it settled at once his nervous apprehensions. When he had turned it out, he wiped his brow and thought for a moment.

"This will not do,” he said to himself. "If I go on like this I shall become a crazy fool. This must stop! I promised the doctor I would not take tea. Faith, he was pretty right! My nerves must have been getting into a queer state. Funny I did not notice it. I never felt better in my life. However, it is all right now, and I shall not be such a fool again.”

Then he mixed himself a good stiff glass of brandy and water and resolutely sat down to his work.

Nearly an hour later he looked up from his book, disturbed by the sudden stillness. Without, the wind howled and roared louder than ever, and the rain drove in sheets against the windows, beating like hail on the glass; but within there was no sound whatever save



the echo of the wind as it roared in the great chimney, and now and then a hiss as a few raindrops found their way down the chimney in a lull of the storm. The fire had fallen low and had ceased to flame, though it threw out a red glow. Malcolmson listened attentively, and presently heard a thin, squeaking noise, very faint. It came from the corner of the room where the rope hung down, and he thought it was the creaking of the rope on the floor as the swaying of the bell raised and lowered it. Looking up, however, he saw in the dim light the great rat clinging to the rope and gnawing it. The rope was already nearly gnawed through — he could see the lighter color where the strands were laid bare. As he looked, the job was completed, and the severed end of the rope fell clattering on the oaken floor, while for an instant the great rat remained like a knob or tassel at the end of the rope, which now began to sway to and fro.

Malcolmson felt for a moment another pang of terror as he thought that now the possibility of calling the outer world to his assistance was cut off, but an intense anger took its place, and seizing the book he was reading he hurled it at the rat. The blow was well aimed, but before the missile could reach him the rat dropped off and struck the floor with a soft thud. Malcolmson instantly rushed over toward it, but it darted away and disappeared in the darkness of the shadows of the room.

Malcolmson felt that his work was over for the night, and determined then and there to vary the monotony of the proceedings by a hunt for the rat, and took off the green shade of the lamp so as to insure wider-spreading light. As he did so the gloom of the upper part of the room was relieved, and in the new flood of light, great by comparison with the previous darkness, the pictures on the

wall stood out boldly. From where he stood, Malcolmson saw right opposite to him the third picture on the wall from the right of the fireplace. He rubbed his eyes in surprize, and then a great fear began to come upon him.

In the center of the piaure was a great irregular patch of brown canvas, as fresh as when it was stretched on the frame. The background was as before, with chair and chimney-corner and rope, but the figure of the Judge had disappeared.

Malcolmson, almost in a chill of horror, turned slowly round, and then he began to shake and tremble like a man in a palsy. His strength seemed to have left him, and he was incapable of action or movement, hardly even of thought. He could only see and hear.

There, on the great high-backed carved oak chair sat the Judge in his robes of scarlet and ermine, with his baleful eyes glaring vindictively, and a smile of triumph on the resolute, cruel mouth, as he lifted with his hands a black cap. Malcolmson felt as if the blood were running from his heart, as one does in moments of prolonged suspense. There was a singing in his ears. Without, he could hear the roar and howl of the tempest, and through it, swept on the storm, came the striking of midnight by the great chimes in the market place. He stood for a space of time that seemed to him endless still as a statue, and with wide-open, horrorstruck eyes, breathless. As the clock struck, so the smile of triumph on the Judge’s face intensified, and at the last stroke of midnight he placed the black cap on his head.

SLOWLY and deliberately the Judge rose from his chair and picked up the piece of the rope of the alarm bell which lay on the floor, drew it through his hands as if he enjoyed its touch, and then deliberately began to knot one end of it.


THE JUDGE’S HOUSE

fashioning it into a noose. This he tightened and tested with his foot, pulling hard at it till he was satisfied and then making a running noose of it, which he held in his hand. Then he began to move along the table on the opposite side to Malcolmson, keeping his eyes on him until he had passed him, when with a quick movement he stood in front of the door. Malcolmson then began to feel that he was trapped, and tried to think of what he should do. There was some fascination in the Judge’s eyes, which he never took off him, and he had, perforce, to look. He saw the Judge approach — still keeping between him and the door — and raise the noose and throw it toward him as if to entangle him. With a great effort he made a quick movement to one side, and saw the rope fall beside him, and heard it strike the oaken floor. Again the Judge raised the noose and tried to ensnare him, ever keeping his baleful eyes fixed on him, and each time by a mighty effort the student just managed to evade it. So this went on for many times, the Judge seeming never discouraged nor discomposed at failure, but playing as a cat does with a mouse.

At last in despair, which had reached its climax, Malcolmson cast a quick glance roimd him. The lamp seemed to have blazed up, and there was a fairly good light in the room. At the many rat-holes and in the chinks and crannies of the wainscot he saw the rats’ eyes; and this aspect, that was purely physical, gave him a gleam of comfort. He looked around and saw that the rope of the great alarm bell was laden with rats. Every inch of it was covered with them, and more and more were pouring through the small circular hole in the ceiling whence it emerged, so that with their weight the bell was beginning to sway.

Hark! It had swayed till the clapper had touched the bell. The sound was but

a tiny one, but the bell was only beginning to sway, and it would increase.

At the sound the Judge, who had been keeping his eyes fixed on Malcolmson, looked up, and a scowl of diabolical anger overspread his face. His eyes fairly glowed like hot coals, and he stamped his foot with a sound that seemed to make the house shake. A dreadful peal of thunder broke overhead as he raised, the rope again, while the rats kept running up and down the rope as though working against time. This time, instead of throwing it, he drew close to his victim, and held open the noose as he approached. As he came closer there seemed something paralyzing in his very presence, and Malcolmson stood rigid as a corpse. He felt the Judge’s icy fingers touch his throat as he adjusted the rope. 'The noose tightened — tightened. Then the Judge, taking the rigid form of the student in his arms, carried him over and placed him standing in the oak chair, and stepping up beside him, put his hand up and caught the end of the swaying rope of the alarm bell. As he raised his hand the rats fled squeaking, and disappeared through the hole in the ceiling. Taking the end of the noose which was round Malcolmson’s neck, he tied it to the hanging bell-rope, and then descending pulled away the chair.

* * * « #

WHEN the alarm bell of the Judge’s House began to sound, a crowd soon assembled. Lights and torches of various kinds appeared, and soon a silent crowd was hurrying to the spot. They knocked loudly at die door, but there was no reply. Then they burst in the door, and poured into the great dining-room, the doctor at the head.

There at the end of the rope of the great alarm bell hung the body of the student, and on the face of the Judge in the picture was a malignant smile.

Brilliant new star flames out in sky — nova in constellation Hercules believed result of collision between suns.... Earth losing its air — scientist discovers that our atmosphere is slowly leaking away into space.... Cooling sun to end all life in solar system — astronomers try to estimate how long our sun can last.... Farmers war against insect hordes that threaten destruaion of crops.... What a field for the imagination or writers these suggestions offer! Is mankind doomed to annihilation before the increasing legions of insect life? Is our race to be slowly suffocated by the constant depletion of its life-giving air? Are we to perish slowly of cold as our sun dies? Or are we to evolve into super-beings, whose golden age will be as far above the present imperfea state of man as we are above the reptiles, only to have the brilliant achievements of the future smashed into ruin by a cosmic cataclysm, with mankind becoming just another noble experiment ending in failure? It is such cosmic themes as these that make weird-scientific stories the brilliant tours de force of imagination that they are, compared to which most other literature becomes flat and stale. Such imaginative fantasies, appearing from time to time in Weird Tales, have helped to make the high reputation of this maga2ine. This type of imaginative fiction can be truly classed as weird, and we will use such stories in the future, as in the past.

A Cup of Sparkling Joy

Ed. Camille, of Erie, Pennsylvania, writes: "Old, doddering 1934 brought, at least, one happiness to me, and that cup of sparkling joy is Weird Tales. I have been a reader of sdence-fiaion for four years, and lately I have tired of it because of its selfsame plots

and monotonous yarns. Then lo and behold! I encountered WT and in it I found what I have been searching the science-fiction magazines for all those futile four years in vain. You say you want to know what sort of stories your readers prefer; well, for my part give me stories of ancient civilizations (such as the Conan stories); ultracosmic dimensions {Through the Gates of the Silver Key); weird mystery {The Trail of the Cloven, Hoof); weird-interplanetary {Vampires of the Moon); and anything that C. L. Moore writes.... Occasionally I enjoy a horror yarn or a story of dark magic. Such stories that I have read and liked are Revelations in Black by Carl Jacobi; The Master of Souls by Harold Ward. It seems to me that a horror yarn has to be written by a master to be good; so I suggest that you print horror and vampire yarns only when they are written by one who thoroughly understands them — H. P. Loveaaft for instance — ^he has written such horror yarns that were perfect gems.”

The Trail of the Cloven Hoof

Carroll Wales, of Denmark, Maine, writes: "Each succeeding issue of your grand magazine seems better than the one before it. This summer I have been in the hospital, and it was there that I read your August issue. It sure helped to pass the time away and provide hours of great enjoyment. The Trtul of the Cloven Hoof is one of the best serials you have ever published. Keep up the good work.”

Best Stories of 1934

Donald V. Allgeier, of Mountain Grove, Missouri, writes: "Why not ask your readers to let you know what stories they liked best

(Please turn to page 394)^

Coming Next Month

ON A certain evening, Nushain the astrologer pored over his horoscope, which he had drawn with sundry-colored inks on a sheet of papyrus. He was much startled when, on the blank lower margin of the sheet, he saw a curious charaaer which was no part of his own scribbling. The character was a hieroglyph written in dark bituminous brown, and seeming to represent a mummy whose shroudings were loosened about the legs and whose feet were set in the posture of a long stride. It was facing toward that quarter of the chart where stood the sign indicating the Great Dog, which, in Zothique, was a house of the zodiac.

Nushain’s surprize turned to a sort of trepidation as he studied the hieroglyph. He knew that the margin of the chart had been wholly clear on the previous night; and during the past day he had not left the attic at any time. Mouzda, his servant, would never have dared to touch the chart; and, moreover, the negro was little skilled in writing. Among the various inks employed by Nushain, there was none* that resembled the sullen brown of the character, which seemed to stand out in a sad relief on the white papyrus.

Nushain felt the alarm of one who confronts a sinister and unexplainable apparition. No human hand, surely, had inscribed the mummy-shapen character, like the sign of a strange outer planet about to invade the houses of his horoscope. Vainly, for many hours, he sought to unriddle the mystery: but in all his books there was naught to enlighten him; for this thing, it seemed, was wholly v/ithout precedent in astrology....

This intense story, written in Clark Ashton Smith’s most fascinating style, is one of the strangest stories ever told, a tale of inexorable destiny, and a grim figure that strode like the approach of doom through the houses of the astrologer’s horoscope, This story will be printed complete in the April Weird Tales:


By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

— ALSO—

THE MAN WHO WAS TWO MEN By Arthur Willum Bernal

An amazing weird-scientific story that will hold your intense interest — probably the most entertaining story about radio ever written.


By Hazel Heald

A tale of Elder Magic and a monstrous idol — a shuddery tale of primordial evil.

THE HAND OF THE O’MECCA

By Howard Wandrei

A strange, uncanny story about the weird figures that beset Elof Bocak one night in the fog, and the courting of a witch-woman.

SHADOWS OF BLOOD By Eando Binder

A grim story of torture in the cruel days of the Roman Emperor Caligula.

. Out April 1


April Weird Tales

• • •



The Eyrie

{ Continued from page 392 )

during 1934? I believe the answers would be quite interesting. I am giving my classification of the best stories of the year: best novel — The Trail of the Cloven Hoof; best novelette — Black Thirst; best short story — The Satanic Piano; best ultra-short story — The Marvelous Knife; best reprint — The Dead Man’s Tale. In case you are interested in second choices, I may as well admit that it was very hard to decide in every case. The second-best novel was The Solitary Hunters, closely followed by The People of the Black Circle. The runners-up in novelettes were The Golden Glow and A Witch Shall Be Born. The Sapphire Goddess, Scarlet Dream and The Isle of Dark Magic stand out just a trifle below. As to short stories, Old Sledge is second and Naked Lady third. In the very short group. The Three Marked Pennies is right behind The Marvelous Knife; and The Parasitic Hand is the other outstanding reprint."

Uniformly Good Stories

John R. Small, of Washington, D. C., writes: "Allow me to wish you a happy and prosperous New Year in return for all the many happy hours I have spent enjoying Weird Tales, a great medium for an hour or so’s escape from monotonous reality every month. 1934 was a year during which, it seems to me, your stories were uniformly good. C. L. Moore’s work has been outstanding. But every once in a while a real gem pops up. In my humble opinion, two outstanding masterpieces were printed during 1934. They were the poem. Sic Transit Gloria by Brooke Byrne, and that remarkable but apparently little appreciated tale. The Three Marked Pennies by Mary E. Counselman. The Three Marked Pennies was one in a million. I honestly consider it one of the best short stories I have ever read. It was so different from anything which has appeared in recent years that it fairly took my imagination for a delightful journey to that small town. I have read the story seven times since it came out.” [We have received more favorable comment on Miss Counselman’s little story than any previous story as short as this one has received. Though this was only a "filler” story in

length, it made a ten-strike with our readers.— 'The Editor.]

Jornado’s Fate in “Black Bagheela”

A reader from Baltimore, who signs herself "a lover of Conan the Cimmerian,” writes to the Eyrie: "I am a reader of Weird Tales and so is my daughter. We certainly like every story in the magazine. It seems a pity to me to let Jornado stay in the shape of an ape. I wonder if the writer of these good stories couldn’t give Jornado back his real shape and make everybody happy. Of all stories in WT I like the Conan stories best. He is what I call a man the bravest and the best. Please have more stories about Conan. Weird Tales is lost without them.”

A Champion Team

Eugene Benefiel, of Los Angeles, writes: "Football season having ended, and the nation having been deluged by All-American teams, the urge became too strong for me to resist. Have an All-Time All-WT team! My selections are as follows: right end — Hul Jok of Venhez (When the Green Star Waned by Dyalhis). A fast-moving fellow for such a big man. Could and did handle tough opposition. Right tackle — Northwest Smith (Shambleau, Black Thirst, etc. by Moore). Powerful and aggressive in all games. Willing to tackle anything. Right guard — Yarol of Venus (Shambleau, Scarlet Dream, etc. by Moore). A perfect guard. Covers Smith’s opponent as well as his own, and does it well, too. Center — Price Durand (Golden Blood by Williamson). No equal while he played. Held the center of attraction with little effort. Left guard — Jules de Grandin (Seabury Quinn). Another perfect guard. A defensive wizard and powerful on offense. Plays at top form every time. Left tackle — Robert Grandon of Terra (Buccaneers of Venus by Kline). Like Smith, willing to tackle anything. One of the most aggressive players on the squad. Left end — Jirel of Joiry (The Black God’s Kiss and Black God’s Shadow by Moore). Here is an end who can cover ground! A wildcat on defense and afraid of no opponent. Quarterback and captain — Solomon Kane (Robert E. Howard). A smart field general and



an offensive terror. Right halfback — Lilith of Lilin {Queen of the Lil'tn by Price). Without doubt the most elusive back of the decade. Caught only once. Left halfback — Ralibar V002 {The Seven Geases by Smith). They are still talking about his long marches. A tireless and willing back. Fullback — Conan of Cimmeria (Robert E. Howard). Could always be depended upon to provide the scoring punch. Rated the most powerful player in WT history. Well, there they are! Wonder what changes ye editor and readers would make in the above line-up.”

WT at Midnight

J. Walter Briggs, of Rhinebeck, New York, writes: "As a reader of Weird Tales I take pleasure in stating that I have not missed a half-dozen copies since the first issue. During all this time I have never written to the Eyrie, for I have had no fault to find with the stories, make-up, or covers. If I had been displeased with Weird Tales I could easily have refrained from buying it. Naturally one has preferences; otherwise one would be a nitwit, and I don’t think nitwits read your magazine. I like my stories weird, not horrible and nasty as some magazines seem to think a weird story must be. Your covers are superlative; nude or otherwise they are not surpassed by any other publication. I do not care for reprints, as I have read about all the stories you have published before, and some of the old masterpieces are not worth reading at all, compared with the work your authors of today can turn out. I enjoy Conan, Northwest Smith and Jules de Grandin above all other heroes that live within your pages. I am glad The Trail of the Cloven Hoof is finished, as that was the poorest yarn ever wished on your readers. Please don’t do it again. Did you read the ms. before buying it? or flip a coin, perhaps? The best story in the January issue was Hands of the Dead by Quinn. The Dark Eidolon by Smith comes next, beautifully conceived and written, although perhaps a bit too verbose. As I have remarked, I like ’em weird. I have just finished my January copy. It is 12:25 a. m., ten below zero, and outside a dog is howling. Frost is doing things to the house, rats are sharpening their teeth on the plaster inside the walls, but somehow I can’t shiver. Tell the boys to speed ’em up. Wish I were able to make all the weird plots that enter

. WHICH COI4TROLS TOTTS

Science taya that the diemtcal dements compos ing a man's body may be bought for sixty cents at « pharmacy shop. But the real pact of you is the Inilmce, creative power withu»--tt makes YOU m living, vital being.

By the proper use pf this creative, deeping force within you, you can POMINATE YOUR LIFE and MASTER THE CONOmONS WHICH SURROUND YOU. The Rosicrudans have shown thousands of thinking men and tjromen how to use this infinite power. Learn Co direct the inner gicocesses of your mind.

Hils Free Book Explains

The Roscicruciana will send the SINCERE SEEKER e free copy of dw new book, **The Wisdom of the Sages,** whidi cdls how you may becMne a student d these age-old truths. Addcese « lettcc.foot • postcard of curiosity) tot Scribe B. F» J.

ROtKtlKIAN BROTHERHOOD

AM^RC


The only onranization in America perpctuaC* ing: the original Kosicmciuu teachings.

LONESOME?

Let me arrange a romantic correspondence for ^ you. Find yourself a sweetheart thru America’s foremost select social correspondence club. A frieod-..mrariip letter society for lonely ladies and gentlmen. Members everywhere; CONFIDENTIAL IntroducUoss by letter; efficient, dignified and continuous sendee. I have made thousands of lonely people happy— why not yon? Write for FltKR sealed partioularB. -VAN MOORE P. 6. BOX 928 JACKSONVILLE, aORIDA


Enormous savings on Hygienic Sanitary Products of all kinds for men and women. Write today for our FREE Illustrated list of GUARANTEED PRODUCTS.

RELIABLE PRODUCTS Dept. 235

504 S. Crawford Ave.

Chicago, HL


Privately Printed

tHC LARGEST PUBUSHERS IN TH8 UNITED STATES of privaUly print«li books on Oriental Love, Uncensored Exoticsj Amatory Adventures and other Curious Sex CustomLSend for free Catalogs. '

< 11803

PANURGE PRESS, 70 Fifth Ave.. New York) Please send me your illustrated brochure* FREE «n curious, privately printed books.

Name

Addictt



my mind 'jell’. I should like to send in a yarn that would send your staff of readers to the crazy-house. They must be a casehardened lot; otherwise they would have departed to that haven long ago. Best wishes for a weirder Weird Tales.”

A New Weird Tales Fan

A reader from Oak Park, Illinois, who asks that we use only his initials, E. W. E., writes CO the Eyrie: "I am writing this note, the first fan letter I ever attempted, in form of an apology, criticism, etc. But first I want to assure you that you have added me to the list of steady readers. Although I have been a constant 'magazine fiend’ for several years, I had never even bothered to look at Weird Tales, as I thought it was 'just another magazine’. That was up until your January 1935 issue came out. But now — well, it’s Weird Tales first, last and always.... Just a word about your new and young author who wrote The Feast in the Abbey, Robert Bloch. I am waiting with great anticipation for more of his stories, for he is a very promising writer. Keep your eyes on him. You’ll hear from him in the near future — and he won’t be second best, either.”

Bloch’s Attacks on Howard

Kirk Mashburn writes from Houston, Texas: "A word about Robert Bloch’s attacks on Howard’s Conan stories: A reader who buys the magazine for entertainment, and has no personal stake at issue, has every right to offer whatever adverse criticism he thinks justified by what he considers the failure of any \yriter to come up to expeaations. But for one writer, while seeking to establish his own footing, to attack another to the editor — that smacks to me of questionable ethics. Polecat ethics is what I mean; but I hope you print the above paragraph in the Eyrie — there are other offenders besides Brother Bloch — and I know you won’t, if I use the words I want to. Please take note that I comment upon Mr. Bloch’s ethics, and not upon his story in the January issue.”

New Ideas in Science-Fiction

B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes: "The January Weird Tales was even better than last month’s, and that is saying a good deal. Continue the new year as you have begun and you’ll get mighty few kicks from me. Bassett Morgan again

takes first honors with his Black Bagheela, and I sincerely hope that he will soon see fit to bring back Jornado, Daunt, Bibi-ti and Ti-Fong in another sequel. Second place goes to Eulers of the Future by Paul Ernst, who brings forth some truly remarkable new ideas in science-fiaion, while third seems to be about equally divided between Laurence J. Cahill’s Charon and Terrill’s The Supreme Witch, which, since it was first printed eight years ago, stands alone as a perfect example of that type of story. Incidentally, after reading The Feast in the Abbey by Robert Bloch, I must confess that I missed Robert E. Howard and Conan, despite Mr. Bloch’s slanderous assertions regarding both. Nevertheless, I believe Mr. Bloch shows promise along weird lines, and would like to see more of his work, though I fear he will never be another Howard.”

Without a Gas-Mask

H. A. Harris, of Santa Rosa, California, writes to the Eyrie: "Your magazine gave me quite a surprize when I started to read it for the first time yesterday, as I thought it was probably filled with piffle. I bought it for the artist’s conception of an Indian maiden (probably Lupe Velez) posing with black leopards on rhe cover, fully expecting to tear off the picture and throw the rest of the magazine into the fire. But I found I could read the stories without a gas-mask and that they were quite as plausible and more inspiring than the usual scientific thrillers. I was most interested in the short story. The Feast in the Abbey.”

In Praise of Quinn

Michael Liene, of Hazleton, Pennsylvania, pans most of the stories in our January issue, but has this to say about Quinn: "Seabury Quinn’s Hands of the Dead gets my vote for the best story in the January issue. It is well told, as usual. ’Those long flowing sentences, so well written, the splendid choice of words, with no pretense of eye-shattering adjectives and tongue-twisting words such as Clark Ashton Smith attempts. Mr. Quinn is Weird Tales’ greatest story-teller even though there are many faults to find with his writings, too. Two paragraphs in the story, one describing the heroine’s playing of the Londonderry Air on the piano; and the second, telling how she is arrayed in night attire, are almost the exact descriptions



used in one of Mr. Quinn’s earlier stories, entitled The Chapel of Mystic Horror. And, too, Mr. Quinn often uses the same description for his heroines — and the descriptions of beautiful rooms. However, his descriptions are so beautiful that it is a pleasure to reread them.... The idea in Hands of the Dead is rather far-fetched, but the story is very interesting, beautifully written — and it has de Grandin braving dangers as usual. What more can one want?... Robert Bloch’s The Feast in the Abbey is a fine short story. It gets my second choice. Robert E. Howard’s fans will criticize Mr. Bloch’s story, to get even with him for doing the same with Mr. Howard’s stories. But this is unfair. I am a Robert E. Howard fan, but can not say anything against Mr. Bloch’s fine story. Indeed, I think it one of the finest that Weird Tales has ever published. When shall we see more of Mr. Bloch’s works?” [We are glad to say that you are wrong about Mr. Howard’s fans cracking down on Mr. Bloch’s little story. On the contrary, many of the letters received give unstinted praise to The Feast in the Abbey, short though that story is; and as this issue goes to press, there have been only two adverse votes. We will shortly publish another brief tale by Mr. Bloch, entitled The Secret in the Tomb. — ^The Editor.]

Better and Better

Mrs. A. G. Edwards, of Wewoka, Oklahoma, writes: "I have just finished Weird Tales for January, and I think the stories are getting better and better. I can’t decide which story I like best, for I liked them all so well. I have eagerly awaited e^4^ue of Weird Tales ever since The Trail of the Cloven Hoof started. It was breathlessly interesting to the last chapter and last vivid word. 'The new serial. Rulers of the Future by Paul Ernst, promises to be a good story, and I can hardly wait for February’s issue of Weird Tales. Hands of the Dead was another of Seabury Quinn’s masterpieces. I surely like that fellow. His stories have given me many pleasant evenings.”

Conan and Jirel and Smith

Fritz Stough, of York, Pennsylvania, writes: "I am by no means a letter writer, but I’ll endeavor to write what I mean to say. I have been reading Weird Tales magazine since 1925 and I think I can truthBRAIN MAGIC

Security Is the problem of modem elTlllzatlon. In soly1ns this problem, Qovernmanls are hampered by criminal powers and public iDdlfference; RallQlons fail because they deal with faith and the immaterial; Solenoa proves Inadequate since it is subservient to big business and huge corporations. The only Institution in the world which pledges itself to ameliorate the mental and financial status of its members is — THE FUTURIST SOCIETY.

‘Members of the Futurist Society are many years ahead of their time. They know more, earn more, and live more fully than most other groups of people. By joining them, you follow an advanced trail of evolution. You learn how to solve your money problems. In knowledge, you will surpass the average college graduate. Instead of a slave, you become a ruler of this planet. Write today for information, asking about our Clearing-House of Knowledge. A charge of 25o has been established to eliminate curiosity seekers. FUTURIST SOCIETY

416 Frankfort Axe., Clereliuid* Ohio


GAIN LOVE, FAME AND FORTUNE— CONTROL OTHERS. Complete Course of Instruction, Oriental Secrets, 26 lessons. Become a Master of Colossal Power. Limited time only, $1.50.


4611 Maple Way

Seattle, Wash,

^ Brow Mushrooms in your cellar ^

or shed. Exclusive new process. Bigger, better, Qulckercrops. More money for you 1 Enormous/ new demand. Write for Free Book. American i Mushroom IndustrieaDept. ii5. Toroato,OQt.i

l^ffpfrk TTf> Has a Sweetheart For You!

Are you seeking Wealth, Happiness, Love, Adventure! Meet your affinity, through Cupid Club! For particulars, and actual photos of Members, Write — BOX 1342, ALLENTOWN, PA.


Prostate gland acute or chronic, rheumatism, kidney and bladder sufferers send for free trial package, amazing results. Endorsed by doctors. PROSTEX COIMP ANY, Dept. 53, Miami, Oklahoma

PERFUME. High quality imported French extract, special offer full % oz. bottle 30c. Send post card for list of 12 exquisite odors.


Box 674 Terre Haute, Ind.

WB PUKCHASB AX.!, rNDIANHEADtPENNIES. Prices range 5c — $25. Send 10c for purchasing lista Photocent, 100 Forsyth, N. Y. C.

Stammering and Stuttering cured quickly at home. Easy Talk Method. Low cost. Write— Hiram Colwell, Manawa, Wis. ^


“KWO”


For farther details and FREE BOOK OFFER see back cover of this issue



fully say that here of late you are printing better and better stories. I think that Conan and Jirel and Northwest Smith are the most interesting charaaers that could be put into a story. Would it be too mucli to ask for copies of the poems from which some of these stories are taken, such as The Song of Xeethra, found on page 93 of the January issue? If you can not send them, I would like to have information as to how to get them.” [The Song of Xeethra, which appeared at the beginning of Clark Ashton Smith’s story. The Dark Eidolon, was written by Mr. Smitli himself. The poetry that Robert E. Howard so often uses to introduce his chapters is also written by the author himself, except when due credit is given to the poet from whose works they are taken. — ^The Editor.}

Precious Space Wasted

Joseph Robinsky, of Elizabeth, New Jersey, writes to the Eyrie: “I can see no sense in Weird Tales using stories from back issues for the reprint seaion. In doing so, the magazine is only repeating itself and a' lot of precious space is wasted. I highly approve of, and recommend your printing of the odd weird stories, foreign, obscure, and otherwise little known in the reprint section as in the past. Use only stories that have not appeared in the magazine. Let readers

retain their copies if they feel they would like to reread a story in the future.... I know of no other magazine that features ‘repeat’ stories.”

The January Issue

Julius Hopkins, of Washington, D. C., writes: "The January issue is one of the best all-around numbers in a long time. There is a good variety of stories and each one is superb. It is a hard task to pick the best story in this issue, so I will just have to resort to using details. Rnlers of the Future by Ernst has a very exciting beginning. Charon by Cahill is a story with an idea that heretofore, to my knowledge, has not been used. Hands of the Dead by Quinn brings us Jules de Grandin in a good hypnotic story. Black Bagheela by Morgan is exciting all the way and needs a sequel in which the cruel aas of Ti-Fong will be brought to an end. I am glad to read the conclusion to The Trail of the Cloven Hoof by Arlton Eadie. It is an excellent ending and the serial is good, but I do not think that serials in a monthly magazine should have more than four parts. Clark Ashton Smith is at his best describing horrors in The Dark Eidolon. 'That magician certainly had some of the weirdest servants this author has yet described. Robert Bloch makes his bow to WT readers with an excellent tale,

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE MARCH WEIRD TALES ARE;

Story Remarks

(1)

(2)

(3)

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

(2)

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

r

I Reader’s name and address:

I

I

,

I



despite all the discussion about him in the Eyrie. The other three tales are all splendid, and so I am sure that everybody has enjoyed reading this issue. So after carefully considering each story, I have decided that the three best in the January number are as follows: The Dark Eidolon, Black Bagheela, and Hands of the Dead.”

The Music of Erich Zann

Robert Nelson, of St. Charles, Illinois, writes: "I was deeply disappointed to see no note of comment whatsoever on H. P. Lovecraft’s The Music of Erich Zann, which appeared in the reprint section for last November. This is one of the finest of eery short stories ever written, and is included in at least one of our leading anthologies. Few know and can realize the terror and anguish and sadness and unnamable visions which the powers of music can evoke. All of this is ably suggested in The Music of Erich Zann. And rereading this tale, the suggestions grow and mount on one, with the result that the entire aspect becomes something

[THE END]

============================================================
by The boys were chanting in a higher and livelier tone than
============================================================
of a very serious nature. The Dark Eidolon by Clark Ashton Smith seems to me even to surpass his The Colossus of Ylourgne — a magnificent living piece of work.”

Comments From California

Fred Anger, of Berkeley, California, writes: "Three cheers for Laurence J. Cahill’s swell little story, Charon. It’s this type of thing that makes me keep on buying WT. Give Cahill my vote for first place. Hands of the Dead was truly a Quinn masterpiece. It should by all rights have second vote. Rulers of the Future by Paul Ernst starts with a thrilling account of the voyage into the future and I feel that it is going to keep up the pace. In closing, I think I’ll comment a bit on Robert Bloch’s The Feast in the Abbey. May I remark that Mr. Bloch’s attempt at showing ofif his ability with big words failed miserably in my estimation? All that this story convinced me of was the fact that Mr. Bloch reads the diaionary. I enjoyed seeing The Supreme Witch in your reprint seaion; it was well worth reading over again.”

Robert Bloch’s Story

Mrs. L. E. Goodman, of Chicago, writes: "My son Robert, who is sixteen years old.



Business Opportunities

SEXU BY MAIT.! BOOKS, NOVKI-TIES! BARgains! Big profits! Particulars Free! K. BLFCO, 625 South Dearborn, Chicago.

Photo Finishing

FILMS DKVKLOPED, ANY SIZE, 25c COIN, ineluding two enlargoraenta. Century Photo Service, Box 829, LaCrussc, Wiscon.sin.

Songwriters

WRITERS! POEMS, MELODIES. AMAZING offer. Hibbeler, D-166, 2167 North Avers, Chicago.

Female Help Wanted

I.ADIES: WE WANT NFaEDLEWORKERS. Good pay. No canvas.sing. Stamped envelope brings particulars. ROiTAIi NOVELTY CO., Portsmouth, Ohio.

Perfume

SPUING BLOSSOMS perfume; a marvelous new perfume of excellent quality; a sweet, lovely flowery odor; very lasting; you’ll love Its enchanting fragrance. Send 25c for generous trial bottle. J. D. Royer, Box 254, Haverhill, Mass.

Instruction

CUSTOMS, CLERKS, STENOS. Join CIVIL SERVICE. Good pay, easy work. Get out of the rut. Take our complete course of instruction, coaching, examinations. One dollar. Box 2, 24 West 20 Street. New York City.

HYPNOTISM. Lieam to hypnotize in ten easy lessons. Anyone can become a forceful personality, attract opposite sex. Send one dollar for complete instruction. Box 2, 24 West 20 Street, New York

City^

Coins

TWO COINS, 3 BILLS AND COIN GUIDE 26« postpaid. O. X. Durso, 26 Mulberry, N. Y. City,

Personal

WORLD’S GREATEST MATRIMONIAL MAGAZINE 10c. Thousands seeking correspondence. Some wealthy. 30 halftone photos, 160 latest name% addresses, descriptions, complete, 60c. Western Heart, B-6335-W, Portland, Oregon.

LONESOME-BOOK OF PHOTOS AND DESCKIPtions of wealthy members sent free in plain wrapper. The Exchange, AE-3827 Main, Kansas City, Mo. WHY BE LONELY? — 26 names and addresses of both sexes. 25c and postage. Mrs. W. H. Wood, 312 Connecticut St., Buffalo, N. Y.

LONESOME! <let 150 Descriptiims people wishing

marriage. Many wealthy. For 10c and Stamp. W. H. Beeson, Box 769, Houston, Texas.

LONELY MEXICAN BEAUTIES. Some Means. Wishing correspondents. ‘‘Confidential Service.” FREE particulars. International Agency, Box 137-S, Tampa, Fla.

Miscellaneous

30 YEARS DELINEATING, THREE CONTINENTS, Six questions, reading, $1.00. Australian Seer, 461 Fayette. Hammond. Indiana.

NATURAL SEX LIFE, by Liicina E. I. Brown. A book for everyone, old and young. Only $1.00 postpaid. A. Dowling, General Delivery, Dunellen, New Jersey.

**BOOK OF FORBIDDEN KNOWLEDGE” Tells All. First time in print. (Adults only.) Price $1.00. Jones & Jones, Chambersburg, Fa.




The Man Who Was Two Men

By Arthur William Bernal

ASENSATIONAL and startling weirdscientific novelette by the author of "Vampires of the Moon” — an ama2ing story of what might happen in the near future — a striking tale of the next forward step in radio after television.

This masterpiece of science-fiction is an intensely human story, presenting a very real dilemma. What would you do if you were suddenly, in the interest of science, changed into two men, each complete with the body, the brains, the emotions and the memories that you have now? This novelette does not attempt to answer that question, but it does tell in a fascinating way how Harry Freest met that problem when a radio experiment split his personality into two identical beings. This utterly different novelette will be published complete

in the' April issue of

WEffiD TALES

on sale April 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WBIRD TAUBS 840 N, Michigan ATe.f CliicagOj 111.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the April issue <$1.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name — — - — -

Address.... —

City State

has been reading your magazine. Weird Tales. Naturally I am interested in the literature he is reading, and so I glanced through the magazine and have become very much interested in it myself. I enjoyed reading the story. The Dark Eidolon by Clark Ashton Smith, and was particularly impressed by the one written by Robert Bloch, The Feast in the Abbey. Could you tell me if Bloch has written any other stories, as my son would like to read them?” [Another story by Mr. Bloch, entitled The Secret in the Tomb, will appear in Weird Tales soon. — The Editor.]

Pithy Comments

Edith M. Olsen, of Chicago, writes: I have just finished reading the January Weird Tales, and must let you know how much I enjoyed it. I thought The Dark Eidolon and The Feast in the Abbey were outstanding. Here’s hoping that 1935 will bring us many more stories as fine as these.”

Alice Hilton, of Chicago, writes: "I noticed a name new to me in the January issue of your magazine — Robert BloA. His tale. The Feast in the Abbey, was interesting and I hope we will have more of his stories.”

W. C. Flack, of Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, writes: "I have enjoyed Weird Tales for many years, because of the varied and unusual type of fiction it presents — fiaion pleasingly different from that found in any other magazine.”

Alvin Earl Perry, of Rockdale, Texas, writes: "The Trail of the Cloven Hoof ended well, as did Ernst’s tale begin. I’ve noticed you never fail on good serials — ^keep up their high class.”

Your Favorite Stories

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Write a letter, or fill out the coupon on page 398, and send it to the Eyrie, Weird Tales. In the January issue, the voting was so close that four stories are in a neck and neck race for first place as this issue goes to press. "They are Hands of the Dead by Seabury Quinn, Charon by Laurence J. Cahill, The Dark Eidolon by Clark Ashton Smith, and The Feast in the Abbey by Robert Biodi.

W. T.— 8

Back Copies

• •

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established early in 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:








Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

^

_ _ _

Feb. -Mar.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

—

—

Apr. -May

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

—

—

—

—

May

May

—

June

June-July

June

June

June

—

July

—

July

July

July

—

Aug.

—

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

—

—

—

—

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

—

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

— — — —

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 25c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois

A Mysterious Message from

the Ether!

"To All Mankind;

"I am the dictator of human destiny. Through control of the earth’s internal forces I am master of every existing thing. I can blot out all life — destroy the globe itself. It is my intention to abolish all present governments and make myself emperor of the earth.

"Communicate this to the various governments of the earth:

"As a preliminary to the establishment of my sole rule throughout the world, the following demands must be complied with:

"First: All. standing arrnies shall be disbanded, and every implement of warfare, of whatsoever nature, destroyed.

"Second: All war vessels shall be assembled — those of the Atlantic fleets midway between New York and Gibraltar, those of the Pacific fleets midway between San Francisco and Honolulu — and sunk.

"Third: One-half of all the monetary gold supply of the world shall be collected and turned over to my agents at places to be announced later.

"Fourth: At noon on the third day after the foregoing demands have been complied with, all existing governments shall resign and surrender their powers to my agents, who will be on hand to receive them.

"In my next communication I will fix the date for the fulfillment of these demands.

"The alternative is the destruction of the globe.

"KWO”

Who was this mysterious "KWO,” and was his message actually a momentous declaration to the human race, or merely a hoax perpetrated by some person with an over-vivid imagination?

Newspapers and scientific journals began to speculate upon the matter, advancing all manner of theories to account for this strange summons. In Europe, as well as in America, vast throngs of excited people filled the streets in front of the newspaper offices, watching the bulletin boards for further developments. Was this really the beginning of the dissolution of our planet! Read The Moon Terror.

FREE

BOOK

For a limited time, the publishers of WEIRD TALES are giving this book away with each six months’ subscription to the magazine. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book will be sent to you without further cost.

Address:


Dept. S-56 840 N. Michisan Ave. Chicago, III.

[THE END]
