============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: March 1927
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Specter---Miles J" by Breuer
============================================================
============================================================
THE SPECTER---MILES J
by Breuer
============================================================
This hospital gives me the creeps. .

Guess I’ll see if I can’t get another job.

The Specter

By MILES J. BREUER

I dwell alone, behind the stone,

In the Shadow’s grisly gloom;

My watch I keep when flesh-folk sleep, Before Grohrishou’s tomb.

At dank midnight in sulfur light My pallid shape I show;

And those that see, in terror flee,

Nor ever respite know.

I glide among the staring throng Of gravestones in the dark,

For here I reign; ’tis my domain,

This ghoulish Dead Men’s Park.

And in the rooms of ghastly tombs I rattle dead men’s bones;

My shrieking laughs ’neath epitaphs Are heard ’mid sighs and groans.

In every storm I show my form,

The timids’ blood to freeze;

I haunt their halls, their ruined walls;

I leer from out the trees.

I live alone behind the stone,

Whose gray top reeks with gore;

Each thing that runs my presence shuns— Alone forevermore!

‘She GREATEST .GIFT

“The young queen turned swiftly, and witnessed the lips of the galley slave caressing the print of her foot in the dust.”

O VER the face of the earth it was night, and in the soul of Lenore Andless it was night. But between the two nights there was a difference. The night that cov¬ ered the earth was cool and dim, rippled with the intermittent songs of solitary birds, chased in a thou¬ sand lines of beaten silver by a great moon. The night in the soul of Lenore Andless was hard, black and hot with agony; there were no liquid sallies of melody from feathered throats to pierce the ter¬ rible silence; there was no moon.

She raised her drooped head to stare wordlessly into the face of the man who sat dumbly before her, then closed her eyes in a convulsive at¬ tempt to restrain futile tears; but the tears forced their way through her tight-shut lids and plashed upon her folded hands.

“Lenore—I’m sorry! What an asinine, weak, comfortless word—sor¬ ry! I’d give anything on earth if it wasn’t like this. It’s the wildest thing that ever happened on the crazy globe. I like you better than any woman I know. I’d hate like the devil not to see you again. But I don’t love you. Why lie? And I can’t love you. I’ve tried. That’s the craziest part of it. I want to love you, I’ve tried, and I can’t!”

“Don’t, Tony!” The woman’s face quivered and Antony Roe quickly turned away his eyes.

He rose to his feet and strode hastily to the window, where he stood rigid, staring out into the blue-white moonlight. He set his teeth savagely to control the tumultuous emotions raging within him. Three months be¬ fore he had first seen Lenore Andless. Prom that time on he had known no


peace. They two had been drawn to¬ gether by some involuntary attraction that held them as helpless as twigs drifting toward a whirlpool. He * knew she had loved him instantly, but he had found himself unable to love in return.

Instead of love, he had swiftly be¬ come prey to emotions, urges and im¬ pulses that gripped him, dismayed him, frightened him till he felt him¬ self shaken to the depths. He didn’t flatter himself that he had ever been any parlor saint; he was no different from any other man of strong pas¬ sions, ambitions and ideals. But the thing that had driven him since he first met Lenore Andless angered, stung and shamed him.

He knew he had hurt her to the quick; battered her sensitive spirit under the hammer-blows of hard, in¬ voluntary words.. He had hated the words as he said them, and hated himself for being forced to speak them, yet he had been powerless to stay them. He had hard work stay¬ ing his hands. He was conscious of the fact that he had wanted to hurt her, wanted to hurt her now. There had been times when he fought a wild desire to break her bones with his powerful fingers: breaking her heart with his denial of love was not enough. And again he had raged to beat her; to flog her with a cutting thong, to tear her flesh and see the crimson blood drip from her wounds. The manhood of which he had been not a little proud revolted at the hor¬ ror which held him in a vise. He had determined he would conquer it, and found himself helpless.

Then he had tried to break loose from her, to get away and stay away. And he had found that effort as use¬ less as the other. He was bound to her, bound by something more strong, more determined, more enduring than he. Weirdly, insensibly, he felt that it emanated from her. Possibly without her knowledge, possibly with¬

out possessing the slightest inti¬ mation of it, she held him. Only she could release him. And even if she realized it, he felt sure that she loved him too desperately to let him go. He remained bound, helpless as a man trussed hand and foot. And as he remained, gradually but with ghastly certainty the wild ungodly impulses were riding him to a fall. He had come within the aura of the final foe—Fear.

He feared for what was happening to him. He feared for his own san¬ ity. He was no longer Antony Roe. He was some unholy fiend, swayed and tortured by the drive of some nameless terror that threatened to batter down his resistance and make of him that hideous anomaly—a male human that is less than a man. He wondered if she too had come under the influence of those wild currents. He had withheld from her, as a mat¬ ter of course, the feral thoughts that raced through his brain. He knew she had found him increasingly si¬ lent. He had caught her watching him when he dared not speak for fear of what he might say. He knew she had seen him clench his hands and walk away from her. Intuition must tell her that he was in an agony of mind to be gone from her vicinity— yet she held him and would not let him go.

“Tony—what’s the matter with us?” He felt her gaze on his back, but he did not move. Her voice rasped on raw strings down deep in¬ side of him somewhere. “This is a wild, abnormal situation. What are we working out? What’s got us? Why can’t we beat it off?”

Beat—that word, beat. Roe wheeled from the window and walked toward her, his face white, his eyes half maniacal.

“I don’t know what’s got us, Le¬ nore, but by God, something has!” He paused before her, his hands clenched at his sides. “Is there any

THE GREATEST GIFT

God ruling this universe? Ruling our lives and allowing mad currents to drive us to insane things? Is there any quality of mercy to help us through? Docs He, does anybody, care what happens to us? Hell, no! We’re only so many little ants crawling around on our little particu¬ lar heap of dirt. If we go berserk and kill a few other ants, what does any God care? That much less work for Him—so many less ants for Him to bother about. So many-”

“Tony!” Lenore sprang to her feet and backed away from him, thrusting out her hands as though to ward off his words. “Tony—we’re mad!”

“Yes—we’re mad.” Roe shook from head to foot as he caught him¬ self into control with racking effort. “I am, at least. That’s the only ex¬ planation. And I am going now, be¬ fore I do something that will haunt me to suicide.”

‘ ‘ Tony! ’ ’ Lenore held out a plead¬ ing hand. “Tony—it may be for¬ ever ! ’ ’

Roe caught her hand in both of his, and stood staring at her like a man straining his eyes through impen¬ etrable blackness. In one split sec¬ ond he knew what life might have meant could he love this woman as she loved him—and knew he could not. With a smothered oath he dropped her hand, pushed her from him and rushed out the door.

jC'OR three hours after, Lenore Andless knew pain. There are no words with which to designate what type of pain, nor to describe the pitch of agony through which she passed before she finally threw her¬ self exhausted on her bed. Exhaust¬ ed by the travail itself. Exhausted by her wild effort to burst from the chaos into a glimmer of understand¬ ing. She stilled her mind and delib¬ erately tried to imagine the world— her world—-without Antony Roe.

Hers was an intense nature. To her a thousand little things were conduit for delight or pain that to others were less than conduit for a slight smile or a trivial annoyance. To a hundred others what was the passing in and out, the casual asso¬ ciation, of Antony Roe? The sound of his voice—and her pulse leaped. The step of his foot on the stair— and the air sang. The touch of his hand—and the world lived. He had left a little heap of cigarette ash on the shining mahogany table-top: she would have frowned at the act in an¬ other. But it was Antony who had done it this time. She swept the ash¬ es off into her palm with an indulgent smile, and tossed them out the tall window to the breeze. Where his shoulder had leaned against the wall her hand lingered a moment as she passed. The world was no world without Antony Roe. There was no giving him up. Hold him she must, or living were a silly farce.

She drifted to sleep. She never knew when. It was a deep sleep, and with its first wings brushing her weary eyes she slipped into a mighty, poignant, unearthly dream. She found herself in a strange country, of flat rolling fields, checkered with groves in which great buildings reared mountain-high into the ether. As though drawn by some invisible, irresistible power, she turned auto¬ matically toward one massive struc¬ ture standing in a towering grove of eucalypts. The pungent odor of the spicy buds filled the air as she drew nearer. As she approached the build¬ ing itself she saw that the high entrance door was standing open. She walked up to it and stepped within.

She found herself in a mighty domed room, and the roof was arch¬ ing and blue and dim—like the sky; and the walls were shimmering and incorporeal—like banked clouds. Then her eyes strayed down the room, at the far end of which she saw a



great, exquisitely carven alabaster throne. Upon the throne sat a man, watching her, evidently awaiting her coming.' Still drawn by that in¬ visible force, she walked onward till she stood before him and looked up into his face.

It was like no face site had ever visioned. It might have been carven :'rom the same alabaster as the throne; it was so purely flawless, so unearthly in beauty. The wide, un¬ winking eyes, as deep as all mystery and as compassionate as a child’s dream of God, were the color of a priceless sapphire in a pool in the shade. The silk-spun hair, rippling to his shoulders, was the shade of a ripe com-tassel in the sun. His gar¬ ment was as delicately toned as the new leaves on an apple tree in spring. And all about him there was a shim¬ mering, gleaming, golden glow. Even his alabaster skin shone with the molten light, as though that light came from within.

He spoke: ‘‘All those who have reached the pinnacle of pain turn to me. I, too, was crucified.” His voice startled her. It was cool, liquid, deep; like the sound of a great bell under fathoms of water. “We reach the pinnacle of pain by one road— the road of Karma.” The golden light played over his face as he re¬ peated, “Karma.”

“But what is Karma?” The girl drew back, as though a chill wind had blown across her forehead.

“The Great Law of Readjustment. No more—no less.” The voice of the Shining One was like the tone of a pipe in the wind. “Men come to earth young souls untried, unproved, bom equal in the beginning. Each infant soul is given its share of strength, faith, love and hope. Ev¬ ery thought, every dream, every emo¬ tion man knows as he passes through life sends forth a thread of vibrating energy. As each thread spins out, each man weaves his pattern of love

or hate, mercy or vengeance, anger or pity, passion or pain. And he weaves also his future lives and his ultimate destiny. He “comes back to earth again and again—with each life ac¬ cruing something of attainment or failure, something of nobility or grossness. And death comes, and the body rots, and the soul goes into the higher planes to review the past life, to segregate the best from the experi¬ ences, to weigh the weakness and fol¬ ly, to count the mistakes and heed the lessons learned. Then he is bom again upon the earth, picks up . the old trails and begins again. Every debt of act and deed must be paid over in double coin. And so it goes from life to life till the score is paid. And that—is Karma.

“But listen.” The Shining One bent toward her, and his voice, was as little silver chimes in a deep well. “There are times when, through some act of folly or cruelty in an¬ other life, the human finds things be¬ come too heavy for his soul’s grace. And he may bi’eak. I grieve to see men break. I would that they should see, and trust, and fight through. So much is lost when humans break!” The voice of the Shining One was like the wail of a cello in the night in the rain. “But see! Evolution elim¬ inates waste. You were near to break¬ ing. 1 called you here that you might find faith, and strength, faith in the hour of misunderstanding. Mercy. Have you forgotten who died—for mercy?”

Mercy! What wild dream was this? Even in her sleep, Lenone re¬ membered that Tony had cried out for mercy.

‘ ‘ There—see! There is the Curtain of Memory. ’ ’ The Shining One point¬ ed to the far side of the room at the left, and Lenore turned her head. Across the wide space of the ala¬ baster wall hung a great curtain of silver tissue. “Look back two thou¬ sand years, and remember.” The

THE GREATEST GIFT


voice of the Shining One was like a temple bell on the top of a mountain,

O n the silver curtain shifting shadows began to appear, assume form and color. Then before the girl’s eyes grew a scene so like to life that the silver curtain faded and nothing was there but a wide flat river flowing sluggishly between sandy banks. Down the river, straight toward her, came a huge barge. It was decked in all the panoply of a royal house, shaded by striped awn¬ ings, propelled by thirty oars rising and falling rhythmically as one, each oar wielded by a slave chained in the galley to his bench.

On the silk-strewn and cushionmatted deck stood several women, waving fans, arranging pillows, striv¬ ing constantly to insure the comfort of the young queen lolling indolently among them. As the barge came within the foreground the young queen pointed to a spot on the sandy bank.

“We shall pause there to rest. I hunger. ’ ’ Her voice came faintly, as from a great distance, yet clearly so that Lenore heard every word.

One of the serving women spoke sharply to a great black slave stand¬ ing in the-bow of the barge. He wheeled to call an order to the thirty white slaves at the oars. The nose of the barge swung slowly, the pace of the boat slackened, the young queen rose among her cushions and the barge touched the bank. The huge negro called to three others, and be¬ tween them the four blacks raised a wide gangplank and carried it across to the low flat side of the boat where entrance and exit was made. They laid the plank from barge to bank and stepped back two on either side, arms folded across ebony chests.

The women lifted the young queen to her feet, filling their arms with silks and cushions to make for her a bed of ease on the sand, and waited

her bidding. She paused a moment, swaying gracefully on her slender sandaled feet. She yawned idly, one pink palm over her mouth. Then she walked slowly toward the gangplank, her women proceeding and following her.

The slaves in the galley bowed their heads that they might not see her face as she passed. Near the cut-in exit-way one white slave sat so near, holding aloft his oar, head up¬ on his breast, that he could have reached out and touched her as she passed. For an instant his eyes flashed up at her, and in them was the look of a man who had wor¬ shiped the sun, hopelessly, from afar. Then he dropped his gaze. None had seen the look. In the lap of the meandering current the barge lurched. The young queen swayed and stumbled, her foot missed the velvet carpet spread for her and she caught at the galley stanchion to steady herself. The white slave w-ineed and caught his breath, but he did not move. The young queen caught her balance, replaced her foot upon the velvet carpet and started to pass on.

But the eyes of the white slave had followed her foot as it stumbled, and where she stepped he saw that she had left the print of her sandaled foot in the dust at the edge of the galley stall. His body shook, he leaned swiftly and kissed the print of her heel. But as he did so the stanchion dug harshly into his side, and he caught his breath in a low exclamation of pain. The young queen turned as swiftly as he had bent, just in time to grasp the thing he had done—to witness the lips of a galley slave caressing the print of her foot in the dust. Her face went hard with anger, she drew herself to her slender height, turned to the slave nearest her and commanded:

“The scourge!”


Over the barge settled a silence, a void of shocked suspense. Scarcely breathing, the other slaves held their faces low, and the women stared in horror at the man who had dared to kiss the footprint of a queen. The negro to whom the queen had spoken crossed the deck to return with a long knotted whip in his powerful hands. The young queen pointed to the offender, commanding sharply:

“Twenty lashes! Twenty stripes across the back!”

The huge negro braced himself, the muscles of his arms bulged, the knot¬ ted thong swung high in the air, and as it whistled downward, stinging across the bare back of the galley slave, it cut the white flesh like a dull knife, leaving a crimson stripe in its wake. Again it rose and fell, and again, and yet again. The young queen stood watching coolly, count¬ ing the slow, brutal slashes. And her eyes were contemptuous, and her face was cold, and her red lips moved as though she were savoring something sweet to the taste.

When she had counted twenty, the white slave was unconscious in his chains, his back one blood-sodden lacerated wound, and the ugly thong dripped crimson drops into the print of the sandal in the dust. The young queen issued a low command. The negro stooped, roughly seized the beaten man’s chin in his hand and raised the fallen head that all might witness the humiliation of one who had dared kiss the footprint of a queen. Then there was visible for the first time the face of the flogged white slave.

“Tony!” Lenore cried, wincing in sharp pain. The young queen turned, starting as though she had heard, and Lenore Andless looked straight into her own features. “No!” The girl shivered, grasping at the arm of the Shining One. “No! I never did that to Antony!”

“Two thousand years ago,” he an¬

swered her, as the picture faded, leaving only the alabaster wall and a singing silence.. “And being the first cruelty, it is the last to be paid— after the way of humans. And be¬ ing the cruelty of Pride, it was wan¬ ton. Why will a soul be proud? Why will even a fool be proud—when God is not?” The voice of the Shin¬ ing One was like the sighing of a harp-string in an utter void. “Prom conquered Pride comes Humility. Out of Pain is bom Compassion. There is no royal road to peace—but only a stony path of the pilgrim’s progress and atonement. When we have crossed the Hills of Pain, when we have returned to life in love all we took from it in selfish greed, when we have traversed the Pit of Dark¬ ness to find Faith and come out un¬ afraid, when we have laid upon the altar of Renunciation the Greatest Gift—the score is paid. And what for you is the Greatest Gift? The Ultimate? The All? The most you have to offer Life?” The Shining One’s face was a pitying mask, mold¬ ed out of the sorrow of all the world.

“Antony!” Lenore shrank back¬ ward, whispering the word starkly. “Antony! Take everything else—but don’t ask me to give up Antony!”

“I ask nothing. I may not ask!” The voice of the Shining One was like the thin picked notes of a mellow mandolin. “You must do as you will. But in only one way lies peace. Two thousand years ago you took from him love and the homage of his spirit—took it contemptuously, as the due mead of your royal station, and when it broke its bounds that others might see—you gave in return hu¬ miliation and pain. Is not the one course for you obvious?” His chal¬ lenging voiee was like a trumpet sounding the last rally.

“Lord—forgive!” Lenore raised her hands in supplication, but her cry was only a whisper in all space.

THE GREATEST GIFT


“From . those whom we have wronged must we ask forgiveness.” The voice of the Shining One was like the reed of a mighty organ roll¬ ing down through the corridors of Time. “To those from whom we have taken, must we make return. Two thousand years ago he was chained. He is still chained. The way is clear. Go in peace.” The light that radiated from the Shining One grew to such blinding intensity that she cried out and hid her face.

T hen Lenore Andless suddenly awoke in her bed, and knew' nothing of how she got there. She rose, turned on the light and paced the floor, recalling in detail her wild, strange dream. Was it a dream? Something hovered over her, close, like the thin threads of memory, reaching back into dead ages, and she felt the warm sun on her bare shoulders, the sway of a barge under her feet. It was no dream—the way was clear. She shivered in agony at the thought of seeing Antony Roe pass from her, yet in the resolve of renunciation and restitution came the steady calm of peace.

All through the rest of the night she paced the floor, readjusting her balance, growing used to the barren plane of life without Antony Roe. And when morning came, and the dawn broke in her window, she went and stood with her face to the light and knew that she had the strength to set him free. Strange now, to think she had ever been so narrowsouled as to want to hold him chained when he was in torment to go. She sighed, a little sigh of relief, the sigh of one grateful for the close of a ter¬ rible battle, went to the telephone on the wall and called him.

Strained and groping his voice came over the wire: “Yes? Lenore? What is it?”

“I want you to come here—for the last time. I have one thing to say to

you—and then I shall not ever see you again. Can you come immedi¬ ately?”

“Immediately.”

The telephone clicked in her ear, and she hung the receiver back in place, turned and walked into the other room where they had so often sat and talked. How to tell him? What to tell him? Dare she simply say that she had come to the con¬ clusion that they were of more trouble to each other than they were pleasure, and he had best go his way? She caught herself, smiling grimly. The eternal female! Seeking to send him away from her baffled, hurt, ob¬ viously to himself the offender—to save her face and leave her right of woman-pride unmarred. Pride— Pride, mocking, futile—fighting the ignominious defeat of crying, ‘ ‘ I was wrong. Forgive!”

One way, the Shining One had said. One way. One way to pass, to extend the Greatest Gift. Out of Conquered Pride—she began pacing the floor, setting her teeth on the flame of hot shame for the last hold of littleness. Then she heard his rap on the door, heard the door open, heard his step across the hall, heavily ascending the stairs, saw him throw open the door and come toward her. She stopped and stood very still. Barely three feet from her he halted, peering into her face. In her eyes there was an unearthly light. He did not know it, but it was the light of supreme sacrifice. Something in her face startled him.

“Antony—you are free.” Her words startled him, yet even as they reached his ears he knew that he was free. “I shall not hold you any more. I did not know I was holding you. Go wherever you will—across the world—to the farthest planet. Nothing matters save that you find peace. But before you go, look back. Antony —look back two thousand years—and forgive!”


Roe did not move. His mind shook under her words, steadied, careened upward, searching through the fog of time. Something began to sing in his ears, like the humming sound of great wheels spinning in space. He felt like a man in a dream. Strange feel¬ ings and thoughts bore down on him. Remember? What? What was that upon his ankle? A chain. What was that falling from his hands ? An oar. What was that whistling through the air? A bloody thong. What was that burning, biting, tearing his flesh ? A knotted rope. What was that she had said? “Twenty stripes across the back.”

He swayed on his feet, staring at the carpeted floor. But he saw no carpet and no twining design. His starting eyes saw only dust—dust— and the print of a sandaled foot.

“Antony— can’t you forgive?”

What was it she had said? “Nothing mattered but that he find peace.” Compassion for his cruelty now, humility for her own cruelty then, renunciation of the love that had meant better than life. Sacrifice seeking to bestow the greatest gift in atonement.

Roe lifted his head, staring into her face. His hands clenched at his sides. The sting of the lash across tortured flesh passed. And suddenly strife and terror were gone, and nothing re¬ mained but a strange sense of having at last attained what he had hungered for two thousand years. One step and she was in his arms. His voice was crying incoherently in her ears:

“My queen! There is nothing to forgive —I love you.”

WOLF

By A. LESLIE

Eyes of flame and a heart of hell,

Voice like the toll of a funeral bell;

Thews of steel, and velvet paws,

Rapier fangs and dagger claws.

A soul? the ravished soul of a man,

Bound by the arts of the devil clan;

Seared and chained by blood and lust,

Its draggled wings trailed in the dust:

A howling thing ’neath prison bars,

Choked in the shadow of the stars; Wallowing in the crimson feast,

Befouled by the fetid stench of the beast

As out of the awful eyes it glares

While the white-fanged monster rips and tears.

Oh moonlight trail and panting breath!

Oh wolf! wolf! wolf!—Gray shaft of death 1

T HE house was an. ancient, rambling affair, set well back from the road, and hidden from the view of the casual passer¬ by by a tall and moldering brick wall, overrun- with dank vines and covered, on the shady sides, with a patina of moss and obscene lichens that seemed to emit a sickly, musty odor of decay.

The beautiful lawn that had at one time been the pride of some garden¬ er’s heart was now a rank and gro¬ tesque jungle of noxious weeds. What had once been a beautiful whitepebbled drive, but was now little more than a weed-grown path, swung through the grounds in a sweeping, graceful curve to the porte-cochere and hence to the cupolaed stable, which was now but a vine-covered shell of decay that hesitated on the very brink of utter ruin.

But it was the occupant of the ancient country estate, rather than the place itself, that interested me most. In my strolls along the lonely road that led by the place, I not in¬ frequently saw him walking moodily along the grassy and desolate drive, or sitting in solitary and contempla¬ tive grandeur on the great circular porch, now warped and wavering, that nearly encircled the massive, rambling pile.

Once, as I had passed, he had been standing close to the rusted, grilled iron gates that sagged from two weary pillars, guarding the entrance to the grounds, and I was struck most exceedingly with the power of the old man’s personality.

His skin was rather dark, and his face in shape was reminiscent of some portraits of Shakespeare: wide across the forehead, which bulged



slightly, tapering down to a long and extremely pointed chin. The eyes were set deeply in their sockets, and were cold and piercing blue. His mouth was large and thin of lip, and he seemed to smile a continuous and sardonic smile that had nothing of mirth and very little of humanity in it. It was like the smile one sees on masks; carved, impersonal, sneering.

He studied me as I approached, re¬ turned my salutation civilly enough, and rather to my surprize, made some comment on the weather. Willing indeed to chat with my mysterious neighbor, I stopped, and we con¬ versed idly for several minutes.

It was evident instantly that he was well bred and well educated, and his voice, while possessed of a pecu¬ liarly dry and unmusical quality, held the subtle inflection that is a characteristic of the voice of those who speak with authority.

“Since we are nearly neighbors, then,” he concluded our chat, “you must drop in and see me some even¬ ing. You must be lonesome, up there in your big house”—and he nodded toward my country place, the roofs of which were just barely visible in the distance as they glimmered in the level rays of the downing sun—“and I am sure it is very lonely here. I shall look forward to a visit, sir!”

That was the beginning of the odd friendship that for several months existed between Joseph Morton and myself. I found that he lived utterly alone, using but three or four of the many rooms in the monstrous old house, doing his own cooking and housekeeping, and doing it with a meticulous and painstaking niceness that bespoke years of bachelor ex¬ perience.

I could never induce him to allow me to play the host; so far as I know, he never left the grounds of his ancient and festering estate.

“I am here for a reason, Clarke,” he would say when I pressed him to

allow me to return his many cour¬ tesies. ' ‘ It gives me pleasure to have you here, and I trust that pleasure is reciprocated. Some day I may tell you more; for the present I know you will excuse me if I decline.”

There was a constant air of mys¬ tery about the man. His almost re¬ volting appearance was so utterly at variance with the splendid breadth and beauty of his words and thoughts.

He would gaze at me with his hard, almost malignant eyes, his lips curl¬ ing in that eternal sneering smile, and give voice to the most splendid of sentiments. We discussed art, history and literature, but never in their modem aspects. He seemed to know nothing of the living artists and writers, and nothing of modem his¬ tory or politics. Religion; a prolific subject for discussion always in such talks as ours, Morton invariably side¬ stepped, and once when I deliberately put a question to him on this subject, in such a way that he could not avoid an answer, he said merely, “You will have to pardon me if I do not discuss that,” and passed smoothly on to some other subject.

I was sorry I could not inveigle the old man into an argument on the subject of religion, for it is one in which, I have been long interested. Finally, in order to see if I could not in some way open up such a discus¬ sion, I one evening voiced the senti¬ ment that I was an utter atheist, be¬ lieving in neither God nor devil, heaven nor hell.

“When you’re dead, you’re dead, and there’s an end to it!” I stated flatly.

I had rather expected my host to take instant exception to my state¬ ment. Instead, he merely studied me carefully, his lids half closed, and in his hard and oddly baleful eyes a thoughtful light, as though hfe weighed a momentous problem in his mind.

GUARDED


“What time is it?” he asked ab¬ ruptly.

I looked at my watch. “Three after 10,” I said.

“I thought it was later than that; I am glad it isn’t, for I want to tell you a story, Clarke. A long story, that I think will interest you, who believe that after life there are the worms—and nothing more. A true story, too, Clarice!”

'"pHE old man leaned back comfortably, as though tired, in his chair. His head rested against the faded, worn velvet back, and his eyes were closed, almost as though he slept.

“Once upon a time, as all stories begin, there were two brothers. Let us call them George and Harry. George was the older; a serious, studious, rather silent lad, the exact opposite of his brother. Harry, even as a child, took an inhuman delight in torturing his pets, and in perform¬ ing various small acts of vandalism. He grew up into a licentious, cruel, roistering bully of a man, who even in his teens had a reputation such as few men would care to bear.

“The mother of the two boys had died in giving birth to Harry, and on her death-bed the mother had giv¬ en the baby in charge of George, al¬ though at the time he was only a lad himself, barely old enough to remem¬ ber. The father was but the mold in which Harry’s evil personality had been cast; that he died a few years later was but a blessing.

“Harry was constantly on the mind of the older brother. The dy¬ ing mother’s charge rested heavily on the lad’s studious shoulders, but despite all he could say or do, his evil-living, drunken brother went hell-bent on his way. It almost drove George insane, but his every effort proved fruitless.

‘ 4 George was twenty-seven, and

Harry nineteen, when the older brother, coming down-stairs one night in the dark, in search of a forgotten book, slipped and crashed to the bot¬ tom of the polished oaken stairs. They found him the next morning, his head bent back under his body— dead.

“That is, the body was dead. George himself was not dead. He felt the crashing impact of his body on the stairs, felt a flaming wave sear his body as he struck the floor below. For an instant his brain seemed bathed in a flashing, kaleidoscopic flood of colors; new colors, out of the eye’s range of sensitivity; odd, weird colors that blazed with unearthly and terrifying beauty. Then he ’ ’

“But my dear Morton!” I inter¬ rupted. “You speak of things of which you can not know. You ex¬ pect me to believe all this?”

He opened his eyes, but did not move his head.

“Let me finish my little story, Clarke; then you can decide for your¬ self,” he said evenly. “Surely you find the tale interesting?”

I nodded; something in the blazing intentness of the man’s eyes subdu¬ ing the mocking, jeering words that were just behind my lips. “Go on, please,” I said. “I’ll not interrupt again.”

“Then he rose from the floor, and, impelled by some strange instinct, looked down at his feet. He stood looking down at his own still figure on the floor.

“It took him some seconds to real¬ ize the truth, and then it came in a flash that sent him reeling back into the shadows of the room. He was dead!

‘ ‘ The death that was his I shall not speak of. It is not well to prema¬ turely prepare those who must fol¬ low in the way of all flesh. It is a journey one best takes without charts or guides, for no man travels the same trail.



"George remained there in his home. In life he had worried con¬ tinually about his brother and his wild, dissolute ways, and this same solicitude seemed to tie him to Harry even after he had passed out of this world.

"For a long time, George could discover no way to help. He saw his father die, a few months after his own death, but, strange as it may seem, he never saw him after he passed over. Harry, coming into possession of the family estate, went rapidly from bad to worse. On sev¬ eral occasions he nearly killed com¬ panions with whom he went fighting, for Harry in those days had the strength of an ox, and a fiery and evil temper that rode him haglike.

"George had learned that'the sins of the earth are punished when the earthly body is discarded, and he knew his brother Harry was jeopard¬ izing his very soul. Some day he would commit murder, the unforgiv¬ able sin, and then-. Knowing

what he knew, things too horrible to pour into human ears, he tried frantically to find some way to check the mad and evil activity of his brother. And at last he found a way.

‘ ‘ One night as Harry was sleeping, George concentrated all the power that was in him on an idea that he wished to penetrate Harry’s con¬ sciousness. He had read something of thought transference, the power of suggestion, and other kindred sub¬ jects, and he was trying, in a crude way, to put his meager knowledge to a good purpose.

"Instead of doing what he had in¬ tended, he found himself drawn, somehow, to the sleeping figure of his brother. He never knew just what force guided him in his actions. He came close to the restless, tossing fig¬ ure on the bed, bent over it. Some¬ thing seemed to be pressing from above; he felt strangely heavy and a

smothery feeling overcame him. He seemed engaged in a sort of night¬ mare struggle with somebody or something that he could not see nor feel, and then he seemed to sink in¬ to a warm and yielding blackness.

“For a moment he rested, and then he opened his eyes. He found him¬ self gazing up at the ceiling, barely discernible in the faint gray light that was filtering in from the east windows of the room.

" Startled, he leaped up. He struck the floor with a resounding thud of bare feet, and gazed around wildly, down at his body, his hands, his feet. He rushed to a great pier-glass that stood at one end of the room, and peered eagerly into its shining depths. Out at him stared, not the nothingness that would have greeted him a few minutes before, not the pale and ascetic features of his own earthly body, but the sneering, cyn¬ ical, vice-impressed face of his broth¬ er ! Somehow, he had driven out the vital part of Harry’s own person¬ ality, and supplanted it with his own! He had switched souls!

"For months George held posses¬ sion of his brother’s body.. The change was the wonder of all who knew him. The servants grew afraid of him; they thought he must be crazed. His boon companions, neglected now, sought him and grew angry when he—or George, as you choose!—would have none of them.

"George was conscious, at times, of an intangible outside influence beating in the air around him, as a bat flutters at the shutters of a closed window. But he was resolved that his brother’s evil personality should never again invade his body. George would shut out his brother’s wicked soul and leave it disembodied, so that it could harm no one, no longer foul the family name, and at last might pass to the testing without at least the black spot of murder upon it.

GUARDED


“T)ttt George figured without the evil forces of the world that surrounds us here on earth, invisible and intangible, yet powerful and very real. He awoke one night in the midst of a terrible and ghastly night¬ mare, gasping for breath and with a deathly chill creeping over him. He knew what was happening, and he fought with all the energy that was in him, but it was useless. There was a sensation of sudden expansion, of great cold, and he was beside the bed looking down at his brother. Harry was sitting up, looking wildly about the room, and the house rang with his shoutings and cursings. He knew what had happened, and he was afraid.

“I will not weary you, nor tax your belief by telling you the strug¬ gle that George waged. Suffice to say that at last he won out; he could enter the body of his brother at will. All save the body became George, not Harry.

“There was only one thing that he found had to be considered. He could not remain in permanent possession of the body. If he tried to, his own ego, worn down by the cares of the body, grew weak, while the ego of his brother, waxing angry and powerful in the outer darkness, could come in for a time and drive George out for a few hours, until he had regained his strength.

“He got into the habit, therefore, of relinquishing his hold on this poor body every night at 12 o’clock, turn¬ ing it over to his brother’s own ego until the dawn. It was safe to do so, because when he was outside his body, Harry was in utter darkness, and he was horribly afraid of dark¬ ness when in the body. He slept only in a brilliantly lighted room, and since George flouted Harry’s friends during the daylight hours, they nev¬ er sought him out at night, and he dared not brave the black night to go to them. George dismissed all the

servants, so that Harry could not wreak his vengeance upon them, and so while Harry’s evil and malignant soul for a few hours every night held full possession of his own gross body, he could do none of the evil that was in his mind.

“And so it was, Clarke, that a dead man kept the pledge he had made his dying mother. Yet you say that after this life there is naught but the worms!’’ .

There was a ring of sincerity, a deep undertone of conviction, in my host’s voice that could not be ignored, yet the weird and impossible story he had related failed to make an impression on me. It simply transcended belief.

“Your story is interesting, my dear Morton, but you could hardly expect me to accept it as proof of your own ideas regarding life after death,” I shrugged smilingly. “It is too far¬ fetched; it deals with material you could not by any chance know about; it-”

My host leaped from his,chair, his eyes blazing.

“You fool!” he shouted, and his dry, harsh voice rang like the screech of a carrion bird. “You utter fool! The real names were not George and Harry, but Thaddeus and Joseph— and the last name was Morton! This evil body you see before you is that of Joseph Morton, but the mind that directs it is that of-”

He stopped short as the mellow voice of a church bell in the distant village came stealing through the air. The blood drained suddenly from his face, and he made a quick gesture of despair.

“God! Your watch was slow, Clarke; it’s midnight! Go! Go, man, before it is too late. It is his hour, and I can not resist him! Oh, you fool, go! Can’t you see-”

His voice died in a harsh rattle, and he swayed, staring at me with glassy, lifeless eyes.



Terror-stricken, I had leaped away from my crazed host, but seeing his present condition, I paused for an instant. Would to God I had gone, and never seen what next greet¬ ed my eyes!

A sudden and horrible change came over the man’s face; it was as though all the evil lineaments of his features were subtly deepened, ac¬ cented, made more hellishly repulsive. His glassy eyes lit up with the light of an accursed intelligence, and his voice, raised but an instant before in desperate warning, now sank to a throaty murmur.

“My dear Clarke,” he said fawningly, “I am sorry I startled you so. It is a—a little weakness of mine, this fear of midnight!” He chuckled evilly, and came slowly closer to me, his eyes alight with a hungry and menacing gleam that caused me to shrink from him, speechless with sur¬ prize and fright.

I had the distinct impression that this was not the man I knew at all. He wore the same clothes, had the same face and figure, and the transi¬ tion, if transition there had been, had occurred before my very eyes, yet I could not force my senses to accept this gloating, leering figure as the kindly old man who had, four or five hours ago, so courteously bidden me welcome.

My God! Could it be possible that the story was true ? It was unbeliev¬ able, but— God! He was coming closer, his arms dangling like a goril¬ la’s, and his bestial head thrust for¬ ward ominously. And for the instant, my nerveless legs refused to obey my commands.

“Sit down! What are you afraid of?” he commanded gruffly.

Instead of doing as he ordered, I bolted for the door. Morton leaped after me, curses showering from his slavering mouth.

I flung the door open just in time, slammed it in the face of my pursuer, and spuming the gravel of the drive with flying feet, fairly flew toward the outer gate.

As I swung the rusty and creaking halves of the ancient gate together, I paused for a moment with beating heart to look back at the gloomy old pile I had just quitted.

Morton was standing in the door¬ way, his figure clearly silhouetted by the streaming yellow light. He had his hands on his hips, and he was shouting and roaring with obscene mirth, like some malicious demon standing on the edge of hell’s yawn¬ ing pit and laughing at the anguish of the damned.

Co far as I am concerned, this is the ^ end of the story. I have never called on Morton since that night. At times, when I drive by his place, I see him wandering aimlessly, a piti¬ ful figure, along the desolate and weed-choked drive, or sitting, motion¬ less and alone, on the sagging, rotting porch.

Probably you will not believe the story Morton told me. I do not blame you. Sometimes, I doubt whether I believe it myself.

But when I recall the hideous meta¬ morphosis that changed a friend into a demon seeking my very life, and all in less than the time it takes a church bell to toll the hour of 12— when I live that moment over again, I tell you, friend, I know!

onto the palm-roofed house.”

D ENNIS, district officer of the Labuk district in British North Borneo, had been spending a few days “local leave” on Tingling Estate, for Walkely, the manager, and he were great friends. The night before his departure the two men had sat together in the lat¬ ter’s mosquito room, fitted up like a “den,” and with pipes well lit had roamed in desultory manner over many fields of conversation.

For the last ten minutes or so there had been silence between them —the silence of friends in complete accord. Dennis broke it.

“Throw me a match, Walley,” he said.

Walkely moved as though to com¬ ply, then stopped as his “boy” en¬ tered, carrying a tray containing whisky and soda, which he placed on a table near his master. He was about to depart when Walkely spoke. “The Tuan is leaving tomorrow be¬

fore breakfast, Amat. Tell Cookie to make some sandwiches and see the Thermos flask is filled with hot tea.”

“Tuan.”

“And hand these to the Tuan.” Walkely pointed to the matches.

Amat obeyed and went out.

Walkely rose from his long chair, mixed the drinks and held out a glass to Dennis.

“To our next meeting,” he said, and raised his glass.

Dennis followed suit.

Then, yawning, Dennis rose, and stretching his arms well above his head, looked sleepily in the direction of his bedroom.

Walkely nodded assent and held open the mosquito door.

A few minutes later the house was in darkness, save for the lights that shone through the open windows of the two bedrooms.

The rooms were on either side of a large dining room, which in turn



opened out from the main veranda, off one side of which was built the mosquito room. At the far end of the dining room were two folding doors that led to a passage and pantry, and thence down some steps to the kitchen and “boys’ ” quarters at the rear of the house.

As Dennis undressed he sleepily hummed the latest fox-trot record re¬ ceived from England. Then dim¬ ming the light he got into bed.

From where he lay he could hear Walkely moving about his room, and could see the reflection his light cast on the exposed attap (dried sago leaves) roof of the house. As he idly watched, speculating dreamily on Walley’s success as a manager, Walkely *s lamp in turn was lowered. Followed the creaking noise of a body turning on a spring mattress—then silence.

Dennis rolled from his left to right side preparatory to sleep.

“Nighty-night, Old Thing,” he grunted.

“Night,” came back the sleepy re¬ ply.

Then all was quiet save for the gentle rustling of the rubber trees and the occasional hoot of an owl.

Presently Dennis awoke to full alertness. He was not strung up; no sound nor fear nor nightmare had aroused him. He was simply and quietly awake. Turning on his side he looked at his watch. The hands pointed to 2 a. m. He closed his eyes, but sleep would not be wooed.

For a long time Dennis lay in the nearly darkened room, watching the waving branch of a rubber tree out¬ side the window, that moved gently to the sighing of the breeze.

Suddenly he heard the sound of feet ascending the steps that led from garden to veranda doors.

But half awake, he listened.

S lowly the footsteps mounted the stairs; then came the lifting of the latch that fastened the low wooden gates, and the creaking of moving hinges. The footsteps entered,' con¬ tinued the full length of the veranda, to pass into the dining room beyond. Here for a moment they halted. Then they moved again, shuffling uncer¬ tainly—forward, backward, sideways —as those of a person trying to locate something in the dark.

Again they moved with steady tread and reached the intervening doors that shut off the passage.

Dennis listened and waited. What the devil was old Walley doing, he sleepily wondered.

A sudden rush of cool air struck on him over the top of the bedroom wall, billowing out his mosquito net.

Creak—creak—creak—the doors were opening. The footsteps went along the passage and came to a standstill at the end.

“Boy.”'

The call was clear and decisive, but Dennis failed to quite recognize the voice, though he realized it was an European’s.

There came no answer.

“Boy!”

This time the call was sharper, and impatience was in its tone. Still no reply.

In the silence Dennis, wondering greatly, waited, for he was still un¬ certain whether the voice was Walke¬ ly’s or another’s.

The footsteps sounded again as they descended the stairs that led to the servants’ quarters. On the bot¬ tom step they halted.

“Boy!”

The call was long, loud and angry. Yet still no answer came.

Up the stairs the footsteps re¬ turned. They strode along the pass¬ age, paused as the doors were closed and the latch clicked, then swiftly moved through the dining room out

THE SACRED JARS


on to the wide veranda. Here for a moment they rested.

Sounded the fumbling for a latch, the squeak of a faulty hinge, and from the sharp banging of a door Dennis knew the footsteps had en¬ tered the mosquito room.

He sprang out of bed, and sitting on its edge hurriedly pushed his feet into slippers. Then, as he was about to move, the lamp in the room went out.

“Damn!” he muttered, and fum¬ bled for his matches, but before he found them he was listening to the opening and shutting of drawers.

He struck a match, and by its light crossed to the lamp, the wick of which, however, refused to bum, though he wasted many matches up¬ on it.

In the gathering darkness, for the moon was setting, he moved toward the door, but with his hand upon the knob stood still, for the footsteps were shuffling again and the sharp banging to of the mosquito door made him jump.

Through the veranda the footsteps went, gaining sureness with every stride. The gates creaked and the latch fell to. Down the stairs the footsteps clumped, the sound growing fainter till it became lost in the night.

Three deep-toned notes from the office gong boomed on the air. Den¬ nis shivered, kicked off his slippers and returned to bed. The air was cold, so he drew his blanket well around him.

“Old Walley’s walking in his sleep or else indulging in a midnight prowl,” he muttered. Half a minute later he was sound asleep.

A s Dennis’ eyes opened to the beau¬ ties of a tropic dawn, the clink of silver spoons against china reached his ears and the scent of a cigarette crept into the room.

He plunged his head into a basin

of cold water, brushed his-hair, and still in his sarong and kabaiah (sleep¬ ing garments) went out on to the veranda where Walkely paused in the act of conveying a cup to his mouth.

“Morning, Dennis,” he grunted and continued drinking his tea.

He was never very talkative the first thing in the morning.

Dennis answered and busied him¬ self with the teapot. Then, under cover of meticulously choosing a piece of toast, he studied Walkely, who showed no signs of having spent a sleepless night.

Suddenly Walkely looked up and caught Dennis’ eye upon him.

“Well?” he asked; “what is it?”

“Nothing,” Dennis curtly replied.

“Then why look at me like that?”

“Sorry, Old Thing,” Dennis stam¬ mered. “I was only wondering-”

“Yes?”

“What the devil were you up to last night?—walking all over the house and shouting for your boy.”

“Then you heard it too?” Walke¬ ly asked the question with relief.

“It? What’s it?” Dennis retort¬ ed. “Didn’t I hear you come up the veranda steps, open the gates and w r alk to the back? You called ‘Boy’ three times but got no answer. Then you walked back through the house and down the steps. What was wrong, Walley?”

Walkely looked Dennis full in the eyes as he slowly answered.

“Nothing! Nothing was wrong and I never moved from my room till this morning. ’ ’

“But—then who the-?”

“I never moved,” Walkely repeat¬ ed. “ What you heard was Glister. ”

“Glister! What on earth do you mean? Who’s Glister?”

“You know. The chap who was manager here before Bellamy. He shot himself. Died in your room— on your bed. He’s buried in the gar¬ den at the foot of the hill below your



window. Great pity but—drink and a native woman—nice chap too. ’ ’

Walkely ceased as the light of recollection shone on Dennis’ face.

“Yes, I remember,” he spoke al¬ most to himself. ‘ ‘ I met him once at a Jesselton Race Meeting. A tall, good-looking fellow?”

Walkely nodded and Dennis con¬ tinued.

“He was awfully keen on a beau¬ tiful native woman—a Dusun named Jebee.”

“Yes. She was lured away from Glister by another man. It was a dirty thing to do.”

‘ ‘ The swine! I only hope-’ ’

“You needn’t worry,” Walkely in¬ terrupted. ‘ ‘ He rues the day all right, I’ll bet, for she’s got him body and soul—doped to the eyes—and her temper is that of a fiend incarnate. She is priestess, too* of the Gusi, and he daren’t call his soul his own.”

“So poor old Glister’s loss was really his gain, if only he’d known!” Dennis’ words were gently spoken.

“Yes. But he felt her absence, and in the loneliness that followed, the drink got him again.”

For nearly a minute there was silence between the two. It was as if their memories had recalled Glister’s spirit to his old home, almost as if he were sitting at the table with them, while the tinkling of Jebee’s anklets sounded from an adjoining room. . . .

Dennis broke the silence.

“And you mean that—that was he, last night ? ” he asked.

“Yes.” The word seemed drawn reluctantly from Walkely’s lips.

“But, good Lord, man!—you don’t mean?—you can’t—it’s preposter¬ ous.”

“I know.” Walkely spoke slowly. “It sounds absurd, doesn’t it? But Old Bellamy went through it, saw him and spoke to him and once even shot at him.”

‘ ‘ Bellamy! Bellamy shot him ? ’ ’

“Yes., And there isn’t much mysti¬ cism about him—he’s as much imag¬ ination as a turnip.”

“But-”

“All the ‘buts’ in the world won’t alter matters. Bellamy’s seen him. I’ve seen him, and you’ve heard him. He’s there—and it happens, and it’s always the same—only ”

“What?” The word was wrung from Dennis.

“He’s never entered the mosquito room before.”

“You think-?”

“I don’t know! How can I? I’m only wondering why he went there— what he was searching for.”

‘ ‘ Drink, perhaps ? ’ ’

Walkely shook his head.

‘ ‘ No, ’ ’ he said. ‘ ‘ The room wasn’t built in his days. No; there’s some¬ thing worrying him, something that’s caused this variation of his usual walk.”

His eyes met Dennis’s and he gave a short, half-ashamed laugh. Then:

“Get on with your tea. When you’ve finished we’ll go and look at his grave. I always inspect it twice a month and put a coolie on cleaning it up and looking after the flowers. We’ll have a look today.”

A s dennis dressed with unusual slowness, his mind was full of the tragedy so strangely recalled. “Poor old Glister!” he muttered. “What an end!”

An impatient call roused Dennis from his revery and he hastened to the veranda, to find Walkely already on the garden steps conversing with Gaga, the head mandor (overseer) of many years’ standing.

The three at once set off. Down well-laid cement steps, along a broad path that wound among a profusion of bright-colored flowers they went. Overhead a flaming sun rode in an azure sky, and a faint breeze fanned their faces with its cooling breath, perfumed with the scent of dew and

THE SACRED JARS


the fragrant, elusive blossoms of the rubber trees.

At the foot of the hill they turned and went in single file along a nar¬ row path that followed the winding contour of the hill.

The three walked in silence, for speech was difficult along that narrow track. Suddenly the path, dipping down, turned sharply, and Walkely, who was leading, became for an in¬ stant lost to view. Dennis, humming a Dusun love song, followed close be¬ hind, but as he reached the turn the tune died abruptly on his lips and he stood stone-still.

‘ ‘ Good Lord! What can it mean ? ’ ’

The words were gasped by Walke¬ ly, who stood transfixed, staring with horror-struck eyes straight before him..

Instinctively Walkely turned to Dennis, who, like himself, stood with gaze fixed and staring eyes.

“What can it mean?” he gasped a second time.

For they had reached the grave, and it was open. Heaped under the railings surrounding it, which were intact, were piles of fresh-dug earth, and all round lay the scattered flow¬ ers, withered and trampled into twisted shapes.

The eyes of Dennis and Walkely met. In each there lurked a question that neither dared to ask. Each heard again the shuffling footsteps of the previous night, and the opening and shutting of the drawers in the mosquito room.

A shadow fell across them as they stood. There came a startled cry, the quick pattering of bare feet, and Gaga flung himself upon his knees, burying his hands in the earth.

“Gaga!”

The word was a sharp command of outraged wrath. But the man’ did not heed, and his hands continued fumbling, fingering, searching.

Walkely stooped down to seize the kneeling mandor by the shoulder,

then straightened up as the latter rose and turning, showed a face, pal¬ lid under the yellow of his skin, from which stark horror shone.

“The pandang (buckle). Tuan,” he gasped. “The pandang! It has gone!”

Walkely looked at him in stupefac¬ tion..

“Gaga,” he began, but got no fur¬ ther, for the man, heedless of Walke¬ ly’s upraised hand, broke in:

“The pandang, Tuan, the silver pandang, the Jebee used to wear as token of her priesthood of the Gusi, has gone. The silver pandang is no more!”

He ceased, and for a moment there was silence among the three.

On Walkely’s face there showed a blank amazement, but Dennis’ brows had gathered in a frown and his lips had closed in a deep, straight line. He was the first to speak.

“Walley,” he said, “may I ask Gaga questions?”

Walkely nodded his assent, and Dennis turned to Gaga.

“Gaga, tell me, what makes you say the silver pandang is no more?”

“Because,” Gaga stammered in his emotion, “because—when Tuan Glis¬ ter was buried, the pandang was hur¬ ried too—and—now ”

His gaze sought for the coffin for a moment and he fingered a charm of monkey’s teeth that hung around his neck.

“Tell me, Gaga,” Dennis’ voice was very gentle, “all you know. Be¬ gin at the beginning.”

G aga looked relieved, for a native resents questioning and loves to tell a story his own way.

“The Tuans know,” he began, “that Tuan Glister had a nyai (a na¬ tive housekeeper) named Jebee. She came to him when she was very young, but vowed by the oaths of her parents to the priesthood of the Gusi, the sacred jars we Dusans worship,


which only our womenkind may tend. But she was young and beautiful and full of life. Her beauty was un¬ matched in all this land of Sabah (Borneo); her form was lithe, her footsteps light; her waist was small; yet she was vowed in wifehood to a jar, the sacred Gusi\ Her lips and eyes, though warring with her blood, were innocent of love, till Tuan Glis¬ ter visited the village in search of coolies for the Estate.

“Then”—Gaga paused, seeming for a moment at a loss to find his words—“then—the Tuan was tall and handsome, and possessed golden hair. He had a laughing, winning way and eyes that darted here and there and made the warm blood race within your veins when once his glance had rested on you. His eyes discovered Jebee, and-”

Gaga looked nervously from Den¬ nis and Walkely as he shuffled his feet, frightened of saying too much concerning a white man before others of his race.

Dennis read the meaning of his glance.

“Yes, Gaga. You may speak,” he said, “for the Tuan Besar (manager) and I are friends and we would give Tuan Glister’s wandering spirit peace. Say all that is in your heart. We understand.”

“Tuan!” Gaga’s tone conveyed a depth of grateful meaning. “That night there was dancing and feasting in the village, and pitcher after pitcher of tapai (fermented liquor) was consumed. The Tuan drank too, but none could stand against him, and one by one they sank into a heavy sleep. Only the Tuan remained, fie left' the headman’s house, and go¬ ing through the village reached Je¬ bee’s home.

“It was that darkest hour before ■lawn when the chill wind blows, yet she was seated on the topmost step. The light of the dying moon seemed focused on the silver buckle that she

wore, hung from a rotan girdle round her waist.

“Their eyes met. No word was said. The Tuan stretched out his arms and Jebee went to him, and the Tuan’s arms enfolded her.”

Gaga ceased. The silence length¬ ened till the office gong, booming eight deep notes, shattered the spell.

“How do you know all this, Ga¬ ga?” Walkely asked at length. “You never mentioned it before!”

A look of surprize flitted over the mandor’s face, then he quietly re¬ plied:

“The Tuan never asked me my story before, nor is it customary for the white man to discuss others of his race with natives. How do I know? Why, Tuan Besar, was I not present on that night, and is not Je¬ bee my sister, though of a different mother?

‘ ‘ The Tuan had saved my life, and Jebee was young. The warm blood danced in her veins, and her heart

cried out for a mate. And soThe river, Tuan, flowed far from the the village. The Tuan’s boat was there. All in the village slept. The Tuan led her to the boat, while I stole up the steps, entered the house and made a bundle of her clothes. Then to the waiting boat I followed. The Tuan had covered Jebee with his coat and she was sleeping, but the silver buckle hung round his neck. And from that day it never left him. We three were alone in the boat. The Tuan and I picked up the paddles, and as their blades in silence touched the water the moon slipped beneath the earth and the Burong hantu (owl) hooted thrice. An evil omen, which the Tuan heeded not and Jebee did not hear.

“Till the sun was high we paddled and by noon were far beyond pur¬ suit, for the river flowed very swift¬ ly and one does not wake early from such a sleep as those in the village were sleeping.”

THE SACRED JARS


Gaga paused, then he added.

“The rest of the story the Tuans know. For a little while the Tuan and Jebee were happy. But the omen of the Burong hantu and the dying moon would not he denied.

“And the shadow of the Gusi lay between them. So though the Tuan loved her he drank too deeply, and she found favor in another’s sight and went away. But the Tuans know the rest. I buried him—there was no white man on the Estate—and as he died, he made me promise to bury the buckle with him, hanging round his neck. It was the only thing of Jebee’s that he kept.”

“And now?”

Dennis put the question sharply and his eyes held Gaga’s gaze.

“I am afraid, Tuan —sore afraid.”

“Of what?”

“I do not know; and the silver pandang has been stolen, though its hiding place was unknown. * To none has it value, save to my people, and for years now they have let it rest. But, Tuan, they never forget, and the Gusd is most sacred. In the great blue jar that Jebee used to tend, and should have wedded, Mabago, the bad Spirit, dwells. Of late evil has be¬ fallen my people: the buffalos bring forth no young, and the crops refuse to ripen; so, Tuan, I am afraid.”

/'"''aga ceased, and once again a ^ silenee fell upon the three.

Suddenly it was broken by the hur¬ rying footsteps and labored breathing of a man who ran, and round the bend appeared an opas.

All three looked up at his approach and saw stark fear upon his face.

“Tuan! Tuan!” he gasped. “Tuan Glister can not be found. His house is empty, and his bedroom disar¬ ranged, and on the floor is a pool of blood-”

His eyes caught sight of the open grave. The words faltered on his

tongue, then ceased, and he stood silent, trembling like a leaf.

At the mention of that name Den¬ nis started, but before he could speak Walkely answered the question hov¬ ering on his lips.

“Young Glister’s my new assist¬ ant, Dennis,” he spoke in a queer, strained voice; “he came only last month; you haven’t met him yet.”

“But-”

“He’s a younger brother of-”

Walkely looked toward the grave. “It’s horrible!” he muttered.

In a flash the meaning of the rifled grave and Glister’s disappearance grew plain, and the frown on Den¬ nis’ face grew deeper and his lips grew more compressed. Heedless of Walkely’s questionings of the gib¬ bering opas he turned to Gaga.

“Gaga,” he said, “I see the hand of Maboga stretching out, seeking re¬ venge for the insult of years ago. His arm is long. It stretches from the Tuan’s grave to a village in the hills. Is it not so?”

“Tuan?” Gaga answered.

“It stretches,” Dennis continued, “from the village to the new Tuan’s house as well, for what the white man took must be repaid with interest. What think you, Gaga?”

“That the Tuan is wise and reads the Dusun as a book.”

‘ * Dennis! ” Walkely had dismissed the opas, and putting out his hand grasped Dennis’ arm. “Dennis,” he cried, “what do you mean? Glis¬ ter has disappeared, there’s blood up¬ on his floor and we stand here, while heaven knows what devil’s work is being done! What do you mean— with interest?”

“Listen, Walley,” Dennis weighed his words and spoke with slow con¬ viction. “I’m in the dark almost as much as you—but I know the Du¬ stins and the fetish of their Gusi worship. When Glister took Jebee from her people, she broke their vows and outraged the sacred jars;



but while the years were plentiful and their calves were strong they did not worry; when, as now, the inevit¬ able lean year comes they seek a reason for their troubles.”

“You mean-?” asked Walkely,

still perplexed.

“That reason is Maboga. They think he will not be appeased un¬ less-”

Dennis did not finish, but his glance wandered to the open grave and back to Walkely’s strained white face, on which the dawning light of comprehension showed.

‘ ‘ Good heavens! ” he muttered; “you really think?”

Dennis nodded; then turned to Gaga.

“Gaga,” he said, “tell me exactly what happens at the Feast.”

“The silver buckles of the priest¬ esses, Tuan, are hung upon the Gusi’s lips. Then when the dying moon is half-way set, the mateless wives say prayers and wash the sacred jars, and call upon the spirits to come forth and give their judgment on the village for the yean This year I think Maboga’s jar will once again be decked. But who will cleanse the sacred lips I can not think, for while Jebee lives the pandang may be worn by no one else. Tuan Glister dared, and paid the price.”

“And Maboga?” Dennis’ voice was low, almost a whisper.

For a moment Gaga hesitated, then he replied: ‘ ‘ The Tuan, himself, has said: ‘What the white man took must be repaid—with interest’.”

He paused; then he added: “A white man’s head has never yet hung in a Dusun house, but three days hence Maboga will decide.”

The eyes of Dennis and Walkely met. Both seemed to hear again the shufflings in the night, the opening and the shutting of the drawers. Both understood the object of that search.

“Ill borrow Glister’s revolver, Walley, for we’ll go alone with only Gaga as our guide, and attend this Feast, ” said Dennis.

F or hours the booming of gongs had been borne upon the breeze, yet though the three had been stead¬ ily ascending, the deep-toned notes still sounded far away.

On the crest of a hill Dennis and his companions halted for a brief rest, and then onward and upward the trio climbed, while the track grew narrower and stonier and the jungle pressed closer on every side, and long trailing- thorn-edged creepers, hang¬ ing from the trees, whipped their faces and tore their clothes.

The leading beast stopped and Gaga raised his hand. Without a word the two white men drew level, for the path had widened out and they stood upon the border of a glade, dissected by a muddy stream, whose banks were scored with a myriad hoofmarks.

Gaga slipped from his animal and softly spoke.

‘ ‘ We are nearly there, Tuan. This is their grazing ground, but all the animals are at the village, for all have ridden to die Feast.”

Dennis nodded and proceeded like the others to tether his beast.

Then on foot the three moved for¬ ward, but with a quicker pace, for the gongs were loudly booming with a beat that would not be denied. Even as they crossed the muddy stream, the swaying rhythmic time, rising and falling with the cadence of a dance, gave place to an insistent note that rose and rose, till only one intense vibration, one single throb¬ bing note, beat on the heavy air with a malignant strength, sapping all kindly thoughts and fanning to flame the primal lusts of hate and vengeance.

A little farther and the path rose with a sudden preeipitousness that

THE SACRED JARS

forced them to mount the well-worn stones as though they climbed a stair. They reached the top, to stand upon a tiny plain, on which the shadows of the encircling trees were slowly lengthening.

Even as they rested to regain their breath that one insistent note ceased, and for an instant silence reigned.

Then from the glade's farther end arose a cry, faint at first, then 1 slowly louder, harsher, stronger, swelling to a mighty peean, to a tumultuous cry, “Maboga; Maboga! Aki (Fa¬ ther) Maboga!’’ And stillness once again, save for the hurried padding of running feet as the three raced across the shadow-flecked glade.

Panting, they reached a wall of jungle, pierced by a sunken path that twined its short length through the heart of a moss-clad hill, whose riv¬ en sides were lit with weird, fantastic lights, thrown from countless torches that burned upon a plateau at its end.

In the shadow of a belt of trees they paused to take stock of their surroundings.

The plateau formed a horseshoe, and at its apex stood a native house built eight feet off the ground, whose length stretched three hundred feet. At either end, leading to the only doors, were rough-hewn steps, carved from solid logs of timber, and from these steps arose two poles, six feet in height, between which was stretched a length of knotted rotan. From this, like a gruesome necklace, hung two rows of ghastly human heads—blackened and dried from the smoke of years—save at each end. And there hung two heads with staring sightless eyes, and bared lips exposing whitened teeth; and from them the red blood dripped.

Upon the ground, placed in a semi¬ circle, stood the jars — the sacred Gusi — ranged in accordance with their height and rank. From either end they tapered up toward the

central spot, where side by side rose two of flaming blue, that reached the height of a man’s shoulder.

The rim, or lip, of each was of a different hue—one black, one white— while from the neck of those whose lip was black grew four large ears, and in the lobes of each was placed a human skull.

Behind each jar, save one, a wo¬ man stood; her thick black hair piled high upon her head, framing her lime-washed face from which her dark eyes shone; her figure swathed from chin to toe in shrouded black, girt at the waist with a girdle of mice and monkey’s teeth.

A silver pandang hung under the lip of every jar but one, and resting on its swelling shoulder shimmered and winked in the torches’ fantastic light.

Facing the jars, the Dusuns sat in rows, immobile and intent. There shone upon the face of every one a strained expectancy, showing in the taut muscles of the back and the restless, twining fingers of the hands. Thus they waited—in that strange, uncanny silence—for the answer to their cry, “Maboga, Maboga, Aki Maboga!’’

Almost forgetful of the purpose of their errand, Dennis and Walkely watched, fascinated by the scene be¬ fore them, lit by the waning moon and the lurid flickering torches. Something of its primeval instincts and the tension of the squatting na¬ tives crept into their veins and held them spellbound as they gazed upon the colored jars, with their glittering shining buckles, each with its dumb attendant, white-faced woman, backed by the long, unbroken shadow of the palm-roofed house.

While the moon sank slowly in the west, until its lower rim began to kiss the topmost ridge of the roof, the silence lengthened, till it seemed as if nature slept and those rows of squat384


ting natives were graven images de¬ void of breath.

But all at once there came a creak¬ ing sound and the tension snapped. A long, rippling murmur, half sigh, half gasp, filled the air and Gaga’s hand gripped Dennis’ arm.

“Look, Tuan, look!” he whispered, and pointed to a hut which stood alone and almost hidden in the shade of a mighty billian tree.

The two men obeyed, following the line of Gaga’s pointing finger.

The hut door opened slowly as the noise increased. But though no light burned within, a shadowy form was faintly visible moving toward the glade. Slowly, silently, though still half-hidden by the shade, the form drew near. Then as all eyes were turned upon it a glinting speck of Sight winked in the gloom. And as the figure moved the winking light moved too.

Slowly, steadily from the shade in¬ to the flickering fringe of torches; from the fringe into the full lurid glare moved the figure and the light.

A quick intake of many breaths; a long, loud gasp of terrified sur¬ prize. Then silence—and a woman, with a silver buckle hanging from a girdle round her waist, stood before the great blue sacred jar, from under whose deep black lip no silver buckle hung.

Over the silence, that like a living spirit lay upon the glade, Gaga’s ex¬ cited whisper just reached Dennis’ and Walkely’s ears.

“ Tuan, it is Jebee, and she wears the silver pandang that I buried in Tuan Glister’s grave! Tuan, Tuan, I am afraid!”

Even as he spoke the woman raised her rounded arms, on which no gleaming bangles shone, and with a single gesture unloosed the coils of her high-wound hair. The long, thick tresses fell around her like a black cloak.

Again she raised her arms, this time in supplication, and her low, clear voice went chanting through the glade.

“AM Maboga of the Sacred Gusi, Spirit of Evil who dwelleth in the great blue jar, hear now thy erring daughter, thy forsworn priestess, and forgive. Here in my shame I stand before thee and the assembled people, bearing the silver pandang, symbol of thy might and power, which in my youth and wilful love I disgraced.

‘ ‘ Thou, who for long has been neglected, till thy just wrath burst into flame, so that the crops no long¬ er ripen and the herds cease to bring forth young, lift, I beseech Thee, AM Maboga, the shadow of thy anger from off my race.

“Through me and for my sin my people have been punished; through me, oh AM, pronounce the penance thou dost claim.”

She ceased, and as a wailing cry rose from the assembled natives, slipped slowly to her knees, and flinging her arms round the great jar’s neck, rested her lips upon its blackened rim.

Walkely stirred, but Dennis’ warn¬ ing hand bade him keep still. Gaga, speechless and with bulging eyes, stared at the kneeling figure.

A wind was stirring in the trees. The moon had sunk completely out of sight, and here and there a flicker¬ ing torch gutted and burnt out.

Thus in the creeping darkness they waited, while the moments grew to minutes burdened with suspense— waited for Maboga’s answer that his deep black lips would whisper in Je¬ bee’s listening ear.

At length with infinite grace she rose, and stood clothed in her long black hair behind the great blue jar; for on its swelling shoulders glinting against its deep black lip, the silver pandang lay.

THE SACRED JARS


The wind was sighing in the trees. The rustling leaves made soft accom¬ paniment to her voice, which trem¬ bled with emotion.

“My lips have kissed the sacred Gusi —my tears have washed its deep black lip. The silver pandang has returned to deck the shrine of the' Great Spirit, who has spoken, for my ears have caught his whispering breath.”

A murmur rose, then faded, and she continued.

“Rejoice, oh people, for I see the crops on all the hillsides ripening and herds with their young. But for his clemency, Maboga asks a price.”

She paused; then stretching out her arms cried in a ringing voice: “What will you give, my people, to allay your desperate plight?”

Quick as the summer lightning, swift as an adder’s tongue, came the answer from those rows of waiting natives.

“What the white man took, let him repay, with interest. The head of the white man’s brother we will give, as a make-peace to Maboga, and as thy wedding gift.”

She raised her hand, and there was silence.

‘ ‘ Thy words are good; thy offering acceptable unto-”

Her words were drowned in a great shout of fear, as a lighted torch fell from its bamboo socket on to the palm-roofed house.

Like running water, fanned by the rising breeze, the flames spread rap¬ idly, till in the twinkling of an eye the wooden house was nothing but three hundred feet of sheeted flame.

Then pandemonium reigned and terror stalked the glade.

But to the watching three, the fire was providential, for the burning house lit up the hut, till now hidden in the gloom, and at its single window they beheld young Glister’s blood¬ stained face.

Under the shadow of the trees, skirting the edge of the tiny plain, they raced. A few more yards and they would reach the door; another second—out of the shadows by the hut a naked figure sprang, her long black hair streaming in the breeze, a glittering, sharp-edged sword in her hand.

With an oath, Walkely forged ahead, but missing his footing on a twisted root, stumbled and fell.

The sudden, instinctive tightening of his fingers, a flare and a sharp re¬ port ; a cry of pain, a sagging, droop¬ ing form—and Jebee lay a crumpled figure across the threshold of the hut.

A year of plenty had elapsed since the Feast of the Gusi, and Den¬ nis was going “on leave.”

Lolling over the taffrail of the steamer which would take him to Singapore, he talked to Walkely, who had come to see him off.

For a few minutes the two smoked in friendly silence. Then Walkely spoke.

“By the way, Old Thing,” he said. “I mustn’t forget to give you Gaga’s greetings, and young Glis¬ ter’s best salaams.”

Dennis grunted thanks. Then his hand fell on Walkely’s arm.

“And you, Walley?” he asked. “Fit as a fiddle,” came the ir¬ relevant reply, “for the flowers are growing again on Glister’s grave and he no longer haunts the house.”

W. T.—3

The White Ship

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

1 AM Basil Elton, keeper of the North Point light that my father and grandfather kept before me. Far from the shore stands the gray lighthouse, above sunken slimy rocks that are seen when the tide is low, but unseen when the tide is high. Past that beacon for a century have swept the majestic barques of the seven seas. In the days of my grandfather there were many; in the days of my father not so many; and now there are so few that I sometimes feel strangely alone, as though I were the last man on our planet.

From far shores came those whitesailed argosies of old; from far East¬ ern shores where warm suns shine and sweet odors linger about strange gardens and gay temples.. The old captains of the sea came often to my grandfather and told him of these things which in turn he told to my father, and my father told to me in the long autumn evenings when the wind howled eerily from the East. And I have read more of these tilings, and of many things besides, in the books men gave me when I was young and filled with wonder.

But more wonderful than the lore of old men and the lore of books is the secret lore of ocean. Blue, green, gray, white or black; smooth, ruffled, or mountainous; that ocean is not si¬ lent. All my days have I watched it and listened to it, and I know it well. At first it told to me only the plain little tales of calm beaches and near ports, but with the years it grew more friendly and spoke of other things; of things more strange and more distant in space and in time. Sometimes at twilight the gray vapors of the hori¬

zon have parted to grant me glimpses of the ways beyond; and sometimes at night the deep waters of the sea have grown clear and phosphorescent, to grant me glimpses of the ways be¬ neath. And these glimpses have been as often of the ways that were and the ways that might be, as of the ways that are; for ocean is more ancient than the mountains, and freighted with the memories and the dreams of Time.

Out of the South it was that the White Ship used to come when the moon was full and high in the heav¬ ens. Out of the South it would glide very smoothly and silently over the sea. And whether the sea was rough or calm, and whether the wind was friendly or adverse, it would always glide smoothly and silently, its sails distant and its long strange tiers of oars moving rhythmically. One night I espied upon the deck a man, beard¬ ed and robed, and he seemed to beck¬ on me to embark for fair unknown shores. Many times afterward I saw him under the full moon, and ever did he beckon me.

Very brightly did the moon shine on the night I answered the call, and I walked out over the waters to the White Ship on a bridge of moon¬ beams. The man who had beckoned now spoke a welcome to me in a soft language I seemed to know well, and the hours were filled with soft songs of the oarsmen as we glided away in¬ to a mysterious South, golden with the glow of that full, mellow moon.

And when the day dawned, rosy and effulgent, I beheld the green shore of far lands, bright and beauti¬ ful, and to me unknown. Up from

THE WHITE SHIP


the sea rose lordly terraces of ver¬ dure, tree-studded, and shewing here and there the gleaming white roofs and colonnades of strange temples. As we drew nearer the green shore the bearded man told me of that land, the Land of Zar, where dwell all the dreams and thoughts of beauty that come to men once and then are for¬ gotten. And when I looked upon the terraces again I saw that what he said was true, for among the sights before me were many things I had once seen through the mists beyond the horizon and in the phosphorescent depths of ocean. There too were forms and fantasies more splendid than any I had ever known; the vi¬ sions of young poets who died in want before the world could learn of what they had seen and dreamed. But we did not set foot upon the sloping meadows of Zar, for it is told that he who treads them may nevermore re¬ turn to his native shore.

As the White Ship sailed silently away from the templed terraces of Zar, we beheld on the distant horizon ahead the spires of a mighty city; and the bearded man said to me, “This is Thalarion, the City of a Thousand Wonders, wherein reside all those mysteries that man has striv¬ en in vain to fathom. ’ ’ And I looked again, at closer range, and saw that the city was greater than any city I had known or dreamed of before. In¬ to the sky the spires of its temples reached, so that no man might behold their peaks; and far back beyond the horizon stretched the grim, gray walls, over which one might spy only a few roofs, weird and ominous, yet adorned with rich friezes and allur¬ ing sculptures. I yearned mightily to enter this fascinating yet repellent city, and besought the bearded man to land me at the stone pier by the huge carven gate Akariel; but he gently denied my wish, saying, “Into Thalarion, the City of a Thousand Wonders, many have passed but none

returned. Therein walk only daemons and mad things that are no longer men, and the streets are white with the unburied bones of those who have looked upon the eidolon Lathi, that reigns over the city.” So the White Ship sailed on past the walls of Tha¬ larion, and followed for many days a southward-flying bird, whose glossy plumage matched the sky out of which it had appeared.

Then came we to a pleasant coast gay with blossoms of every hue, where as far inland as we could see basked lovely groves and radiant arbors beneath a meridian sun. From bowers beyond our view came bursts of song and snatches of lyric har¬ mony, interspersed with faint laugh¬ ter so delicious that I urged the row¬ ers onward in my eagerness to reach the scene. And the bearded man spoke no word, but watched me as we approached the lily-lined shore. Suddenly a wind blowing from over the flowery meadows and leafy woods brought a scent at which I trembled. The wind grew stronger, and the air was filled with the lethal, charnel odor of plague-stricken towns and uncovered cemeteries. And as we sailed madly away from that dam¬ nable coast the bearded man spoke at last, saying, “This is Xura, the Land of Pleasures Unattained.”

So once more the White Ship fol¬ lowed the bird of heaven, over warm blessed seas fanned by caressing, aro¬ matic breezes. Day after day and night after night did we sail, and when the moon was full we would listen to soft songs of the oarsmen, sweet as on that distant night when we sailed away from my far native land. And it was by moonlight that we anchored at last in the harbor of Sona-Nyl, which is guarded by twin headlands of crystal that rise from the sea and meet in a resplendent, arch. This is the Land of Fancy, and we walked to the verdant shore upon a golden bridge of moonbeams.



In the Land of Sona-Nyl there is neither time nor space, neither suffer¬ ing nor death; and there I dwelt for many seons. Green are the groves and pastures, bright and fragrant the flowers, blue and musical the streams, clear and eool the fountains, and stately and gorgeous the temples, castles, -and cities of Sona-Nyl. Of that land there is no bound, for be¬ yond each vista of beauty rises an¬ other more beautiful. Over the coun¬ tryside and amidst the splendor of cities can move at will the happy folk, of whom all are gifted with unmarred grace and unalloyed happiness. For the aeons that I dwelt there I wan¬ dered blissfully through gardens where quaint pagodas peep from pleasing clumps of bushes, and where the white walks are bordered with delicate blossoms. I climbed gentle hills from whose summits I could see entrancing panoramas of loveliness, with steepled towns nestling in ver¬ dant valleys, and with the golden domes of gigantic cities glittering on the infinitely distant horizon. And I viewed by moonlight the sparkling sea, the crystal headlands, and the placid harbor wherein lay anchored the White Ship.

I t was against the full moon one night in the immemorial year of Tharp that I saw outlined the beck¬ oning form of the celestial bird, and felt the first stirrings of unrest.. Then I spoke with the bearded man, and told him of my new yearnings to de¬ part for remote Catliuria, which no man hath seen, but which all believe to lie beyond the basalt pillars of the West. It is the Land of Hope, and in it shine the perfect ideals of all that, we know elsewhere; or at least so men relate. But the bearded man said to me, “Beware of those peril¬ ous seas wherein men say Cathuria lies. In Sona-Nyl there is no pain nor death, but who can tell what lies beyond the basalt pillars of the

West?” Natheless at the next full moon I boarded the White Ship, and with the reluctant bearded man left the happy harbor for untraveled seas.

And the bird of heaven flew be¬ fore, and led us toward the basalt pillars of the West, but this time the oarsmen sang no soft songs under the full moon. In my mind I would often picture the unknown Land of Cathuria with its splendid groves and palaces, and would wonder what new delights there awaited me. “Cathu¬ ria,” I would say to myself, “is the abode of gods and the land of un¬ numbered cities of gold. Its forests are of aloe and sandalwood, even as the fragrant groves of Camorin, and among the trees flutter gay birds sweet with song. On the green and flowery mountains of Cathuria stand temples of pink marble, rich with carven and painted glories, and hav¬ ing in their courtyards cool fountains of silver, where purl with ravishing music the scented waters that come from the grotto-bom river Narg. And the cities of Cathuria are cinc¬ tured with golden walls, and their pavements also are of gold. In the gardens of these cities are strange orchids, and perfumed lakes whose beds are of coral and amber. At night the streets and the gardens are lit with gay lanthoms fashioned from the three-colored shell of the tortoise, and here resound the soft notes of the singer and the lutanist. And the houses of the cities of Cathuria are all palaces, each built over a fragrant canal bearing the waters of the sacred Narg. Of marble and porphyry are the houses, and roofed with glittering gold that reflects the rays of the sun and enhances the splendor of the cities as blissful gods view them from the distant peaks. Fairest of all is the palace of the great monarch Dorieb, whom some say to be a demi¬ god and others a god.. High is the palace of Dorieb,' and many are the

THE WHITE SHIP


turrets of marble upon its walls. In its wide halls may multitudes as¬ semble, and here hang the trophies of the ages. And the roof is of pure gold, set upon tall pillars of ruby and azure, and having such carven figures of gods and heroes that he who looks up to those heights seems to gaze up¬ on the living Olympus. And the floor of the palace is of glass, under which flow the cunningly lighted waters of the Narg, gay with gaudy fish not known beyond the bounds of lovely Cathuria.”

Thus would I speak to myself of Cathuria, but ever would the bearded man warn me to turn back to the happy shores of Sona-Nyl; for SonaNyl is known of men, while none hath ever beheld Cathuria.

And on the thirty-first day that we followed the bird, we beheld the ba¬ salt pillars of the West. Shrouded in mist they were, so that no man might peer beyond them or see their summits—which indeed some say reach even to the heavens. And the bearded man again implored me to turn back, but I heeded him not; for from the mists beyond the basalt pil¬ lars I fancied there came the notes of singer and lutanist; sweeter than the sweetest songs of Sona-Nyl, and sounding mine own praises; the praises of me, who had voyaged far under the full moon and dwelt in the Land of Fancy.

So to the sound of melody the White Ship sailed into the mist be¬ twixt the basalt pillars of the West. And when the music ceased and the mist lifted, we beheld not the Land of Cathuria, but a swift-rushing re¬ sistless sea, over which our helpless barque was borne toward some un¬ known goal.. Soon to our ears came the distant thunder of falling wat¬ ers, and to our eyes appeared on the far horizon ahead the titanic spray of a monstrous cataract, wherein the

oceans of the world drop down to abysmal nothingness. Then did the bearded man say to me, with tears on his cheek, “We have rejected the beautiful Land of Sona-Nyl, which we may never behold again. The gods are greater than men, and they have conquered.” And I closed my eyes before the crash that I knew would come, shutting out the sight of the celestial bird which flapped its mocking blue wings over the brink of the torrent.

Out of that crash came darkness, and I heard the shrieking of men and of things which were not men.. From the East tempestuous winds arose, and chilled me as I crouched on the slab of damp stone which had risen beneath my feet. Then as I heard an¬ other crash I opened my eyes and be¬ held myself upon the platform of that lighthouse whence I had sailed so many aeons ago. In the darkness below there loomed the vast blurred outlines of a vessel breaking up on the cruel rocks, and as I glanced out over the waste I saw that the light had failed for the first time since my grandfather had assumed its care.

And in the later watches of the night, when I went within the tower, I saw on the wall a calendar which still remained as when I had left it at the hour I sailed away. With the dawn I descended the tower and looked for wreckage upon the rocks, but what I found was only this: a strange dead bird whose hue was as of the azure sky, and a single shat¬ tered spar, of a whiteness greater than that of the wave-tips or of the mountain snow.

And thereafter the ocean told me its secrets no more; and though many times since has the moon shone full and high in the heavens, the White Ship from the South came never again.

DROME

A Weird-Scientific Serial

By JOHN MARTIN LEAHY

The Story So Far

TV/r ILTON RHODES and Bill Carter, following an "angel” and her ape-bat “demon” (which has killed Rhoda Dillingham on Mount Rainier), pen¬ etrate into the subterranean caverns beneath the mountain. There they are attacked by the apebat, which they slay, and they rescue the "angel” from being dragged down to her death by its death-struggles. In company with the "angel” and four of her companions from some under¬ ground city, they begin the descent to Drome.

CHAPTER 24 WHAT NEXT?

F OR a mile or more, the way led amongst pillars and stalagmites. Oh, the wonders that we saw in that great cavern! The exigencies of space, however, will not permit me to dwell upon them. There is, I may remark, no deposition of sinter going on now; undoubtedly many centuries have rolled over this old globe since the drip ceased, perhaps thousands upon thousands of years. Who can say? How little can scientists ever know, even when their knowledge seems so great, of those dim lost ages of the earth!

“One thing that puzzles me,” I remarked, “is that each of these Hypogeans has nothing but a can¬ teen. So far as I can see, the whole party hasn’t the makings of a lunch for a ladybug. Can it be that we have not far to go, after all?”

“I think, Bill, that we’ll find the way a long one. My explanation is that, on starting for the bridge, they disencumbered themselves of the pro¬ vision-supply (if they were not in camp) so that, of course, they could make greater speed. That the angel had a companion back there, we

know. We know, too, that that com¬ panion—in all likelihood it was one of the girls—went for help.”

“What on earth were they doing there, with the men off some place else?”

“I wish I could tell you, Bill. And what was the angel doing up in the Tamahnowis Rocks all by her lovely lonesome? I wish you could tell me that.”

“I wish that I could. And that isn’t the only thing that I wish I could tell you. What on earth are they doing here f And what at the Tamahnowis Rocks?”

“What, Bill, are we?”

“But women!” said I. “Our ex¬ plorers don’t take women along.”

“Lewis and Clark took a woman along and took her papoose to boot. And this isn’t our world, remember. Things may be very different here. Maybe, in this subterranean land, the lady is the boss.”

“Where,” I exclaimed, “isn’t she the boss? You don’t have to come down here to find a—what do you call it?—a gynecoeracy. Which reminds me of Saxe.”

“What does Saxe say, sweet mis¬ ogynist?”

“This, sweet gyneolator:

“Men, dying, make their •wills,

But wives escape a work so sad;

Why should they make, the gentle dames,

What all their lives they’ve had?”

“Bravo!” cried Milton Rhodes.

And I saw the angel, who, with the older man, was leading the way, turn and give us a curious look.

DROME


“And that,” said Rhodes, “re¬ minds me.”

“Of what?”

“Who is the leader of this little party—that man or our angel?”

“I’d say the angel if I could only understand why she should be the leader. ’ ’

At length we passed the last pillar and the last stalagmite. All this time we had been descending at a gentle slope. The way now led into a tunnel, rather wide and lofty at first. The going was easy enough for a mile or so; the descent was still gen¬ tle, and the floor of the passage was but little broken. The spot was then reached where that tunnel bifurcates; and there were the packs of our Hypogeans—or, rather, their knapsacks. There were five, one for each, the men’s being large and heavy.,

“You see, Bill?” queried Milton. “Evidently our little hypothesis was correct.”

“I see,” I nodded. “We have far to go.”

“Very far, I fancy.”

Also, in this place were the phos¬ phorus-lamps of the Dromans, one for each. These were somewhat simi¬ lar to the ones that Rhodes and I carried, save that the Droman lamps could be darkened, whereas the only way we could conceal the light of ours was to put them into their cylinders. As was the case with our phials, the light emitted by these ves¬ sels was a feeble one. Undoubtedly, though, they would remain luminous for a long period, and hence their real, their very great value. Besides the lanterns, oil-burning, of which the Dromans had three, the phos¬ phorus-lamps were pale and sorry things; but, when one remembered that they would shed light steadily for months perhaps, while the flames of the lanterns were dependent upon the oil supply, those pale, ghostly lights became very wonderful things.

“The light,” I said as we stood ex¬ amining one of these objects, ‘ ‘ is cer¬ tainly phosphorescent. But what is that fluid in the glass?”

“I can’t tell you, Bill. It may be some vegetable juice. There is, by the way, a Brazilian plant, called Euplxorhia phosphorea, the juice of which is luminous. This may be something similar. Who knows?”*

The men unbent their bows and thrust them into the, quivers; each took up his or her knapsack, and we were under way again. It was the right branch of the tunnel into which the route led us. That fact Rhodes put down in his notebook. I could see no necessity for such a record, for surely we could not forget the fact, even if we tried.

“We’ll record it,” said Milton, “certitude to the contrary notwith¬ standing. And we’ll keep adding to the record as we go down, too. There’s no telling, remember. It may not be so easy to find the way out of this place as it seems.”

“You said,” I reminded him, “that we may never want to return.”

“And I say it again. But I say this too: we may be mighty 1 glad in¬ deed to get out!”

Soon the slope of the passage was no longer gentle. An hour or so, and the descent was so steep and difficult that we had to exercise every caution and care in going down it. “Noon” found us still toiling down that steep and tortuous way. We then halted for luncheon. The Dromans ate and

* “One dark night, about the beginning of December, while passing along the streets of the Villa de Natividada, I observed some boys amus¬ ing themselves with some luminous object, which I at first supposed to be a kind of large firefly; but on making inquiry, I found it to be a beau¬ tiful phosphorescent fungus, belonging to the genus Agarieue. . . . The whole plant gives out at night a bright phosphorescent light, of a pale greenish hue, similar to that emitted by the larger fireflies, or by those curious soft-bodied marine animals, the Pyrosomac. From this cir¬ cumstance, and from growing on a palm, it is called by the inhabitants ‘Flor de Coco.’ The light given out by a few of these fungi in a dark room was sufficient to read by.”—George Gardner.



drank very sparingly—though this work gives one a most remarkable ap¬ petite. Rhodes and I endeavored to emulate their example.

As we sat there resting, the Dromans held a low and earnest colloquy. The girls, though, had but very little to say. The subject of the dialogue was an utter mystery to us. Only one thing could we tell, and that was that the matter which they were re¬ volving was one of some gravity. Once and only once did we hear the word “Drome.”

Also, it was then that we first heard the name of our angel. We could not be certain at the time that was her name, but there was no uncer¬ tainty about the name itself—Drorathusa. Ere the afternoon was far advanced, however, we saw our be¬ lief become a certitude. Drorathusa! I confess that there was in my mind something rather awesome about that name, and I wondered if that awe¬ some something was existent only in my mind. Drorathusa. It seemed to possess some of that Sibylline qual¬ ity which in the woman herself was so indefinable and mysterious.

Drorathusa. Sibylline certainly, that name, and beautiful too, I thought.

In our world, it would, in all like¬ lihood, be shortened to Drora or Thusa. But it was never so here. No Droman, indeed, would be guilty of a barbarism like that. It was always Drorathusa—the accent on the pe¬ nultimate and every syllable clear and full. Drorathusa. Milton Rhodes declared it was the most beautiful name he had ever heard in all his life!

It was about 4 o’clock when we is¬ sued from that passage, .steep to the last, and found ourselves in a great broken cavern. The rock was gran¬ ite, the place jagged and savage¬ looking as though seen in some strange and awful dream.

Here we I’ested for a while, and I,

for one, was glad enough to do so. I was tired, sore and stiff from head to foot—especially to foot.

Just by the tunnel’s mouth, there was some writing on the wall. Before this, Drorathusa and the older man (his name, we had learned, was Narkus) ' stood for some moments. This examination, and the short dia¬ logue which followed it, left them, I noticed, even more grave of aspect and demeanor than we had ever seen them. I wondered what it could mean. I felt a vague uneasiness; a nameless forboding was creeping over me.

It was futile to think and wonder what it meant, and yet I could not help doing it. Glad had I been to stop, but, strangely enough, glad I was to get under way once more. For ’twas only so that we could hope to get the answer.

Well, we got it—an answer that I wish never to know again.

CHAPTER 25 THE LABYRINTH—LOST

TI7e soon saw that we had entered

* ’ not a cavern but a perfect labyrinth of caverns. I could never have imagined a place like that. It was bewildering, dreadful, forsooth, in the possibilities that it limned on the canvas of one’s imagination. How on earth could anyone ever have found his way through it? But some¬ body had, for these were the inscrip¬ tions and signs on the wall. For these Dromans kept a keen watch, and the relief evinced whenever one was sighted showed what a frightful thing it might be to lose the way.

An hour passed, another, and still we were moving in that -awful maze.

“Great Erebus,” said I, “do you think that we can ever find our way back through this?”

“I’ve got it all down here, Bill,” returned Rhodes, tapping his noteDROME

book. “The angel, the leader now, is finding her way through it: what she can do can’t we do also?”

“She isn’t through it yet! It is some time, too, since we saw one of those directions on the wall. The fact is, unless I am greatly mistaken, our Dromans are becoming uneasy. ’ ’

‘ ‘ Think so, Bill ? I confess I thought that myself, but I was not sure that it wasn’t only a fancy.”

“I wish that I could believe so.”

As Rhodes had remarked, Drorathusa was the leader now. And a striking sight it was—her tall white figure leading the way, the shadows quivering, swaying, rushing over the broken, savage walls and deepening to inky blackness in the secret places we passed.

Farther and farther we went, deep¬ er and deeper; but never another in¬ scription was seen. The advance be¬ came broken, irresolute. Then sud¬ denly there was a halt.. And at that instant the last vestige of uncertain¬ ly vanished: Drorathusa had lost the way.

There was a sudden panicky fear in the eyes of the girls, but it soon was gone. The little party met this most unpleasant truth with exem¬ plary philosophy. There was a short consultation, and then we began to retrace our way. The object was, of course, to return to the last mark on the wall. If we missed it, then heav¬ en help us!

“Perhaps,” I thought, “it will be heaven help us, anyway!”

And it was.

We reached our objective without misadventure, and then a new start was made. Rhodes and I were great¬ ly puzzled, for it was patent that neither the angel nor anyone else knew how they had gone astray. And, not knowing that, how could anyone tell which way to go?

“Better get it clear in that note¬ book,” I admonished Rhodes. “It’s

a queer business, and I don’t pretend to understand it at all.”

We came along for a half-mile or so, carefully and with no little appre¬ hension, and then, hurrah, there was a sign on the wall! The route to Drome again! But for how long?

Drorathusa quickened her pace. She was moving along now as though in confidence, certitude even. I have never been able to explain what fol¬ lowed. For a time, an hour or more, that confidence of hers certainly was fully justified. Then came the change. Suddenly we became aware of an unpleasant fact—there was something wrong. Not that we re¬ mained in doubt as to what that something was which was wrong. A few minutes, and we had a fact even more unpleasant presented to our contemplation—again we had gone astray.

Once more there was a consulta¬ tion, and once more we retraced our steps—I mean we started to retrace them. Neither I, nor anyone else, could tell how it happened. Not that I marveled at our failure to return, even though I could not explain just how we had missed the way. How¬ ever, it was no longer possible to blink the fact that we were utterly lost in this maze of passages, caverns and chambers.

I raised my canteen and shook it; my heart sank at that feeble wishwash sound. The canteen was almost empty. Nor was any one of the others, in this respect, much more fortunate than myself. Our position truly was an unpleasant one—appal¬ ling even in the grisly possibilities which it presented to the mind.

CHAPTER 26

THROUGH THE HEWN PAS¬ SAGE

could set down no adequate rec¬ ord of those hours which followed. It was late now, and yet on and on


WEIED TALES

wo went, mile after mile, deeper and deeper, but only, it seemed, to in¬ volve ourselves the more hopelessly in the dread mysteries of that fear¬ some place. I wondered if it was my imagination that made it so, but cer¬ tainly the confusion of those cham¬ bers and caverns seemed to become only confusion worse confounded.

At last and suddenly came the dis¬ covery..

We had entered a long and nar¬ row chamber and were drawing near the end, wondering if we should find an exit there. Of a sudden there was a sharp exclamation from the lips of Drorathusa, who was some distance in advance—an exclamation that fetched me up on the instant. She had stopped and was pointing toward the left-hand wall, her attitude and the look upon her face such that I started and a sudden fear shot through me.

“What on earth can it be?” I said.

Rhodes made no answer. He was moving forward. I followed. A mo¬ ment, and he was beside the Dromans, his light turned full upon the wall.

“Look at that, Bill!” said he.

I moved to his side, and we stood there gazing, for some moments mo¬ tionless and silent.

“Well, Bill,” he queried at last, “what do you think of that? We are not the first humans to stand in this spot.”

“But probably thousands of years have passed since any human being stood here and gazed upon that entrance—went into it. I wonder what it leads to. Why should men have cut that passage into the living rock? In such a horrible place!”

The entrance was about four feet in width by eight in height. Above it there was some striking sculptur¬ ing, evidently work of a mystical character. Its meaning was an utter mystery to Rhoc. >r.d me but not, 1 thought, to our Dromms. Very lit¬ tle dust had accumulated, though,

I had good reason to believe, many, many centuries had passed since that spot was abandoned to unbroken blackness and silence.

Many were the pictures that came and went as we stood there and looked and wondered. Who had cut this passage into the living rock? In what lost age of a people now perhaps lost as well? And for what purpose had they hewn it?

Well, probably the answer to that last awaited us there within.

Rhodes and I moved over and peered into the tunnel.

“About fifty feet long,” he ob¬ served, “and evidently it enters an¬ other chamber.”

We started in, but when we had taken a few steps we stopped and turned our look to the Dromans. Why did they stand hesitant, with that strange look in their eyes and upon their faces? Even the angel was af¬ fected. Affected by what ? The mere mystery of the place?

‘ ‘ I wonder what is the matter with them,” I said.

“Superstitious dread or something, I suppose,” returned Rhodes. “Well, it ill becomes a scientist to let super¬ stition stay his steps, and so on we go.”

And on we went into the passage. When we were nearly through it, I glanced back. The Dromans had not moved.

“Look here!” said I, coming to an abrupt stop.

“What is it now, Bill?”

“Maybe this is a trap.”

‘ ‘ A trap ? How can it be a trap ? ’ ’

“How on earth do I know that? But to me the whole business has a queer and suspicious look, I tell you.”

“How so?”

“How so? Why, maybe they brought us to this hole. We don’t know what’s in there. Maybe they do. Maybe ’hey aren’t lost at all. Why didn’t they come in, too? Wnat

DROME


are they standing out there for, standing and waiting—waiting for what? Probably for their chance to steal away and leave us to our fate! ’ ’

“My gosh, Bill,” said Milton, “your imagination goes like a jump¬ ing-jack !’ ’

“Heaven help us if that’s what you think when a. man would be cau¬ tious and watchful!”

“Cautious and watchful. Yes, certainly we want to be cautious and watchful. After all, there may be something in what you say. But not much, I think. No, Bill; this is not a trap. There is no faking about it: they are lost.”

“I don’t like it,” I told him. “Why won’t they come in?”

‘ ‘ Goodness knows, Bill. Why won’t some people .sit down to the table if the party numbers thirteen? And why should we stand hesitant? Sup¬ pose that they do plan to steal away from us. I don’t believe it, but sup¬ pose that they do. What then ? Are we going to run after them, like lambs after little Bo-peep? Not I, old tiUicum. If they are as treacher¬ ous as that, the quicker we part com¬ pany the better. For, sooner or later, their chance would come.”

* ‘ There may be something in that, ’ ’ I admitted. “Lead on, Maeduff.”

A second or two, and we had stepped from the passage out into a great and lofty chamber.

“Great heaven!” I cried, my right hand going to my revolver. “What is that thing?”

Rhodes made no answer. He stood peering intently.

“Look out!” I cried, pulling out my weapon and drawing back to¬ ward the entrance. “ It’s moving!”

CHAPTER 27 THE MONSTER hodes made no response. Still he stood there, peering toward the end of the chamber. Then of a sud¬

den, to my inexpressible surprize and horror, he began' moving forward — moving toward that monstrous thing which reared itself up out of the gloom and the shadows, up and up, almost to the very roof itself.

“What are you doing?” I cried. “I tell you, I saw it move!”

Rhodes paused, but he did not look back.

‘ ‘ It didn’t move, ’ ’ he said. ‘ ‘ How could it move? It must have been only the shadows that you saw, Bill.”

‘ ‘ Shadows! ’ ’

“Just so—shadows.”

He moved his light slowly back and forth.

“See that? A certain way you look at it, that thing up there seems to be moving instead of the shad¬ ows. ’ ’

“But what on earth can it be?” I asked, slowly advancing to his side. “And what is that white which, though so faint, yet gleams so hor¬ ribly? It looks like teeth.”

“It is teeth,” said Milton, whose eyes were better than mine. “But the thing, of course, is not animate, even though you did think that you saw it move. It is simply a carven monster, like the great Sphinx of the Pyramids or the Colossi of Thebes.”

We were moving toward it now.

“And look at all those horrors along the walls,” I said, “dragons, serpents, horrors never seen on land, in air or in the sea. And look there. There is a demon—I mean a sculp¬ tured demon. And that’s what the colossus itself is—a monstrous apebat.”

“Not so, Bill. See, it is becoming plainer, and it is unequivocally a dragon.”

Yes; it was a dragon. And a mon¬ ster more horrible than this thing be¬ fore us never had been fashioned by even the wildest imagination of artist or madman.

The dragon (not carven from the rock but made of bronze) crouched



upon a high rock, its wings out¬ spread. At the base of this rock— upon which base rested the hind claws of the monster—was a plat¬ form some twenty feet square and raised five or six feet above the floor of the cavern. In the front and on either side of this platform there were steps, and, in the center of it, a stone of curious shape—a stone that sent a shudder through me.

And up above rose the colossal dragon itself, its scaly fore claws gripping the edge of the rock, twen¬ ty-five feet or so above the platform. The neck curved forward and down. The head hung over the platform, forty feet or more up in the air—the great jaws wide open, the forked tongue protruding hungrily, the huge teeth and the huge eyes sending back the rays from our lights in demoni¬ acal, indescribably horrible gleams.

‘ ‘ Talk about Gorgons, Chimeras and Hydras dire!” I exclaimed, and it was as though unseen things, phan¬ tom beings, so eery were the echoes, repeated the words in mockery and in gloating. ‘ ‘ Why should men create such a Gorgonic nightmare? And worship it—worship the monster of their own creating? Look at that stone there in the center of the plat¬ form. Ugh! The things that must have taken place in that spot—the thought makes the flesh creep and the blood itself turn cold in one’s veins!”

“What a dark and fearsome cav¬ ern, after all, is the skull of man,” said Milton Rhodes, “a place where bats flit and blind shapes creep and crawl!”

I turned toward him with a look of surprize.

“That from the man whom I have so often heard sing the Song of the Mind; that from a scientist, one who reveres Hipparchus, Archimedes, Galileo, Newton and Darwin; from one who so often has said that the only wonderful tiling about man is

his-mind and that that mind, in its possibilities, is simply godlike.”

“And so say I again, and so shall I always say. In its possibilities, remember! But man is a sort of dual creature, a creature that achieves the impossible by being in two places at the same time: his body is in this the Twentieth Century, his mind is still back there in the Pleisto¬ cene, with cave-bears, hyenas and saber-toothed tigers.”

I uttered a vehement dissent.

“But ’tis so, Bill,” said Rhodes, “or at least back there beyond the year 1492. The w orld knows but one Newton, one Archimedes, one Galileo, one Darwin, one Edison; but heaven has sent the world thousands. ’ ’

“I don’t believe it. There are no mute, inglorious—Shakespeares. ’ ’

“No; there are no mute, inglorious Shakespeares, no mute, inglorious Newtons: the world, this glorious mind that we hear so much about de¬ stroyed them.”

“Or,” said I, “they destroyed themselves.”

“You are not making the mind’s case any the brighter, Bill, by put¬ ting it that way. Yes, the mind, the glorious human mind destroyed them and turned forthwith to grovel in the dust before monsters like this one before us—before Prejudice, Ignor¬ ance, superstition and worse.”

“What a horrible piece of work, then, is man!”

“Take the average of the human mind,” went on Milton Rhodes, “not the exceptions, so brilliant and so wonderful, but the average of all the human minds in all the world today, from our Newtons—if we have any now—to your savage groveling in the dust before some fetish or idol made of mud; do that, and the skull of man is found to be just what I said—a dark and fearsome cavern, a habitat for bats and ghostly nameless things.”

DROME


“What a strange, a horrible idea!” I exclaimed.

“The world is proud of its New¬ tons now,” said Rhodes. “But was it proud of them when they came? Whenever I see a man going into ec¬ stasy over the wonders of the beau¬ ties and the glories of the human mind, I think of these words, written by the Philosopher of Ferney: ‘When we reflect that Newton,! Locke, Clarke and Leibnitz would have been perse¬ cuted in France, imprisoned at Rome, and burned at Lisbon, what are we to think of human reason?’ ”

“Alas, poor, poor humans,” said I, “you are only vile Yahoos!”

Milton Rhodes smiled wanly.

“Don’t misunderstand me, Bill. The mind of man is a fearful thing, but it is wonderful too, as wonderful as it is dreadful—and the more won¬ derful, perhaps, than it intrinsically is because of the very grossness and sordidness that it has to conquer. We are prone, some of us, to think the record of the intellect a shabby one; but, after all, the record is not, all things considered, so bad as it may seem at a first glance. It might have been better; but we should rejoice that it is not worse, that the mind, the hope of the world, has made even the slight advance that it has. Mind is on his way at last! And, with Sci¬ ence on his right hand and Invention on his left, he can not fail to conquer the ape and the tiger—to win to a future brighter even than the most beautiful of our brightest dreams.”

“Well,” said I, turning and seat¬ ing myself on one of the steps, up which steps perhaps many victims had been dragged to sacrifice, “this is a fine time truly and a fine place indeed in which to discuss man and the glorious destiny that may await him, in view of the fact that some spot in these cursed caverns may soon be our tomb.

“And,” I added, “there come the Dromans.”

Never shall I forget that look of awe and horror upon their white faces when at last they stood there in a huddled group before, almost un¬ der, the great dragon. Rhodes had seated himself beside me, and it was obvious that this temerity on our part was a source of astonishment to the Dromans. What dread powers they feared the monster might pos¬ sess, I can only conjecture; but I do know that we could never have in¬ duced even Drorathusa herself to thus, on the very steps of his altar, hazard the wrath of an offended deity.

CHAPTER 28 I ABANDON HOPE

A t last Milton and I arose and pro¬ ceeded to examine carefully this chamber of earven horrors. By the altar, another passage was discov¬ ered. Like the great chamber itself and the passage by which we had en¬ tered, this tunnel had been hewn out of the living rock by the hand of man. It was some sixty feet in length and conducted us into a small but most remarkable grotto—or, rather, a se¬ ries of grottoes. We advanced, how¬ ever, but little way there; a few minutes, and we were again in the hall of the dragon.

We continued, and finished, our examination of the place. Another passage was discovered, in the roof and leading to we knew not where. Then there were those stone horrors ranged along either wall; but I shall not attempt to describe those night¬ mare monstrosities, some of which, by the way, had two heads.*

* “The Chevalier d’Angos, a learned astronomer, carefully observed, for several days, a lizard with two heads, and assured himself that this lizard had two wills independent of each other, and possessing nearly equal power over the body, which was in one. When a piece of bread was presented to the animal, in such a manner that it could see it with one head only, that head wished to go toward the bread, while the other head wished the body to remain still.”—Voltaire.



The Dromans had drawn back some distance from the altar, and all had sunk down to a seat upon the floor, all save Drorathusa.

Our examination ended, we moved toward the little group, Milton looked at his watch.

“Midnight,” said he.

As we drew near, Drorathusa sud¬ denly raised a hand and made a sig¬ nificant motion toward the entrance. Those seated rose from the floor with an alacrity that astonished me. Evi¬ dently they were very anxious to quit this chamber of horrors. I was not sorry to do so myself.

“Shades of the great Ulysses,” said I as we moved along in the rear, “are we going to keep up this wan¬ dering until we drop?”

“Just what I was wondering my¬ self, Bill. I fancy, though, that our Dromans are beginning to think that a rest would not be inexpedient.”

Shortly after issuing from the pas¬ sage, the party came to a halt, and Drorathusa, to my profound thank¬ fulness, announced that the time for rest and sleep had come.

‘ ‘ Sleep ? ’ ’ said I to myself. * ‘ Who can sleep in such a place and at such a time?”

From his pack, Narkus took a small silklike bundle; like the tent that Captain Amundsen left at the South Pole, one could have put it in¬ to a fair-sized pocket. The whitehaired girl handed Narkus the sort of alpenstock which she carried, and, lo and presto, there was a tent for the ladies!

Rhodes and I betook ourselves off to a hollow in the wall, where we halted and disposed ourselves for rest. This disposition, however, was a very simple affair: we simply re¬ moved our packs and sat down on the floor—the softness of which by no means vied with that of swan’s-down.

I drank a little water, but it seemed to augment rather than as¬ suage my burning thirst. For a time I

sat there, my aching body leaning back against the rock wall, my fevered, tortured mind revolving the grisly possibilities that confronted us. Meditation, however, only served to make our situation the more ap¬ palling. With an exclamation of de¬ spair, I lay down, longing for sleep’s sweet oblivion. At this moment Nar¬ kus and the young man—whose name, by the way, was Thumbra—were seen approaching. They laid themselves down near by, their lanterns extin¬ guished. We had shut off the electric lights, but our phosphorus-lamps, and those of the Dromans, shed their pale and ghostly light around.

Rhodes was sitting up, engaged in bringing his journal forward, as care¬ fully and coolly as though he were in his library at home, instead of in this mysterious and fearful abode of blackness and silence, thousands of feet below the surface of the earth, far—though how far we could only guess—below the level of the sea it¬ self.

When I closed my eyes, pictures came and went in a stream—pictures swaying, flashing, fading. The amaz¬ ing, the incredible things that had happened, the things that probably were to happen—-oh, was it all only a dream?

I opened my eyes and raised my¬ self up on an elbow. I saw Milton Rhodes bent over his book, writing, writing; I saw the recumbent forms of the two Dromans, whose heavy breathing told me that already they slept; over there was the tent, in it the beautiful, the Sibylline Drora¬ thusa and her lovely companions— and I knew, alas, that it was not a dream!

I sank back with an inward groan and closed my eyes again. Oh, those thoughts that came thronging! If I could only go to sleep! A vision of treachery came, but it was not to trouble me now. No; Rhodes was right; our Dromans were lost. If

DROME

only those other visions could be as easily banished as that one!

Ere long, however, those thronging thoughts and visions became hazy, confused, began to fade; and then suddenly th&y were blended with the monsters and the horrors of dreams.

It was 6 o’clock when I awoke. Rhodes was sitting up. He had, he told me, just awakened. One of the Dromans was stirring in his sleep and muttering something in cavernous and horrible tones. As I sat there and listened, a chill passed through me, so terrible were the sounds.

“I can’t stand that,” I exclaimed. “I’m going to wake him up. It’s time we were moving, anyway. ’ ’

“Yes,” nodded Milton. “Surely, though, we’ll find water today.”

“Today! Where is your day in this place? It’s night eternal. And for us, I’m afraid, it is good-night with a vengeance.”

Ere long we were again under way. My canteen was now as dry as a bone, and I felt mighty sad. However, since I could not banish them, I en¬ deavored to mask those dark and dire forebodings. When we set forth, it was with the hope that we might find, and be conducted by it to safety, the road by which those old worshipers had journeyed to and from that hall of the dragon. But not a vestige of such a route could we discover.

Hours passed. On and on we went, deeper and deeper. Noon came. No change. No one had a drop of water now. Rhodes and I estimated the distance traveled since quitting the temple of the dragon at ten miles and the descent at something like four thousand feet. This estimate, or rather guess, may, however, have been wide of the truth. We still were in¬ volved in the maddening intricacies of the labyrinth.

I confess that our situation began to assume an aspect that made my very soul turn sick and cold. Rhodes, however—divining perhaps what was

in my mind—pointed out that we had not been lost very long, and that sure¬ ly we would find water some place. A man, said he, in the equable tem¬ perature of this subterranean woi'ld, could live for quite a time without water. I had no doubt that a man could—if he were lying in bed! But we were not doing that; we were in constant motion. The arduous exer¬ cise that we were undergoing, our fatigue, the anxieties and fears that preyed upon the mind—each was con¬ tributing its quota to the dire and steady work of enervation.

No, I would fight against despair; but certainly I could imbibe no con¬ solation, no strength, either mental or physical, from a deliberate blinking of facts. And one of the facts was that, unless we soon found water, ours would be that fate which has overtaken so many of those who have gone forth to search out the secrets of mysterious places.

Touring that halt for lunch—and •*-' what an awful lunch that was! —Milton brought forward his jour¬ nal, and Drorathusa, by means of pictures drawn in the book, made it clear to us that they would never have missed the route had it not been for the loos of their beloved demon. That, of course, made Rhodes and me very sorry; but, if the demon had not been killed, we certainly should have been even more sorry—and, I’m afraid, in a worse place than this in which we now found ourselves.

This strange intelligence, too, re¬ minded me of Grandfather Scran¬ ton’s wonder as to how his angel and her demon had journeyed over rock, snowfield and glacier to the Tamahnowis Rocks through that, dense, blinding vapor. I understood that now—they were guided by the wonderful instinct of the ape-bat. How truly wonderful that instinct is, we were yet to learn. Little won¬ der that Drorathusa mourned the



loss of her dear, beloved and hideous demon!

The bat has in all ages been the personification of repulsiveness, gloom and horror; and yet it is in many ways a very wonderful crea¬ ture. For instance, it can fly through intricate passages with ease and cer¬ titude when blinded, avoiding any obstacle in or across its way as though in possession of perfect vision. No marvel, therefore, that some scien¬ tists have declared that the bat must possess a sixth sense! The accepted explanation, however, is that the creature discovers the objects, in the words of Cuvier, “by the sole diver¬ sity of aerial impressions. ’ ’

However that may be, this wonder¬ ful faculty is possessed by the great ape-bats of Drome. Not that it is for this that they are valued by the Dromans. It is because it is impos¬ sible for an ape-bat to get lost. It matters not how long, how devious, how broken, savage, mysterious the way; the demon is never uncertain for one single moment. And a singular feature of this most singu¬ lar fact is that the creature does not have to retrace the route itself, and it does not matter what time has elapsed. It may be a month, years; it is all the same to the demon. He may return to the point of departure by the outward trail, or he may go back in a bee-line or in a line as closely resembling a bee-line as the circumstances will permit.

From this it may easily be inferred how greatly the Dromans value these dreadful, repulsive creatures. When venturing out into the “lands of shadows” or into the caverns of ut¬ ter darkness, these beasts are simply invaluable. In the “lands of shad¬ ows, ’ ’ they never fail to give warning of the approach of the wild ape-bats (those wolves of the air) or of other monsters; whilst, in the dark caverns —into which the wild bats sometimes wander for considerable distances^—a

man, though he may be utterly lost himself, knows that his demon will guide him safely back to the world of light.

In other ways, however, save as veritable Cerberi, they are of little use, are, indeed, objects of distrust and not a little dread. For they are, as a rule, of a most savage and uncer¬ tain temper. Not that the owner fears attack upon himself, though instances are not wanting in which master or mistress has been set upon. To its owner, a demon is truly dog¬ like; but other people had better be careful.

‘ ‘ Since the loss of a demon on such a journey as this may spell disaster, I wonder,” I said, “why they didn’t bring along more than one.”

“Food, Bill, food,” returned Rhodes. “I am no authority, of course, on demonian dietetics, but I don’t imagine that they feed the monster on canary-bird seed.”

On we went, blindly and in des¬ peration, on and on and deeper and deeper into the earth. At length there was a change, whether for good or ill we could not know; but we welcomed it, nevertheless — simply because it was a change. At last we were emerging from the labyrinth. But what lay ahead?

Yes, soon we were no longer in a maze of caverns, grottoes, passages, but in a wide and lofty tunnel. We had made our way down it but a lit¬ tle distance when an inscription was discovered on the right-hand wall. The discovery was made by Rhodes, who happened to be in the rear. A rectangular space, perhaps three feet by six, had been hewn perfectly smooth, and upon this rock tablet were many chiseled characters, char¬ acters utterly unlike any we had seen. Before this spot we clustered in hope and questioning. It was at once pat¬ ent, however, that our Dromans could make nothing whatever of the writ¬ ing. But we regarded this discovery

DROME


as a happy augury and pressed on with a lighter step. On to bitter dis¬ appointment.

Hours passed. We were still toil¬ ing down that awful tunnel.

At last—it was then 9 o’clock—the way became very difficult. The rock had been broken, rent, smashed by some terrible convulsion. The scene was indescribably weird and savage. And there we halted, sank down up¬ on the rocky floor. Rhodes and Drorathusa evinced an admirable nonchalance, but in the eyes of the others burned the dull light of de¬ spair. And perhaps, too, in my own. I tried to hide it, but I could not dis¬ guise it from myself—the numbing, maddening fact that I had abandoned hope.

For a time I lay watching Rhodes, who was writing, writing in his jour¬ nal. How could he do it? Who could ever find the record? At any rate, even though found, it could never be read, for the finder would be a Droman. It made me angry to see a man doing a thing so absurd. But I bridled speech, curbed that rising and insensate anger of mine, rolled over, closed my eyes and, strange to say, was soon asleep.

But that sleep of mine was an un¬ broken succession of horrors—hor¬ rors at last ended by an awakening as horrible.

Once more I was in that hewn chamber, once more I stood before the great dragon. But we had been wrong: the monster was alive. Down he sprang as I turned to flee, sank his teeth into my shoulder, raised his head high into the air and shook me as a cat shakes a mouse. Then sud¬ denly I knew that it was not all a dream.

Teeth had sunk into my shoulder. I struggled madly, but the jaws only closed the harder. And, horror of horrors, the spot in which I had lain down was now in utter blackness. Then I was wide-awake: the teeth

were Rhodes’ fingers, and I heard his voice above me in the darkness:

“Not a word, Bill—unless guard¬ ed.”

“What is it?” I whispered, sitting up. “And where are our phos¬ phorus-lamps?”

“In their cylinders,” was Rhodes’ low answer. “We want to see with¬ out being seen, that is why. I can turn on the electric, of course, at any instant. I wish the Dromans had been nearer, on this side of that rock mass; I would have darkened theirs too.”

“Without being seen?” I queried. "In heaven’s name, Milton, what does it mean?”

“I don’t know. Got your revolver handy?”

“Yes.”

“Good! Keep it so!”

“But what is it?”

“Did you,” said he, “notice that passage in the opposite wall, a few yards back?”

I whispered that I had.

“Well,” said Milton Rhodes, “there is something in there. And it’s coming this way!”

CHAPTER 29 THE GHOST

'117’e waited, listening intently;

^ ' but the place was as silent as the tomb.

“What,” I asked, “did you hear?”

“I have no idea, Bill, what it is.”

“What were the sounds like?”

“I don’t know.”

“Were they loud or faint?”

‘ ‘ Faint—mysterious. ’ ’

“Great heaven!” said I; “what can it be? How long since you first heard it?”

“Only a few minutes. I can’t imagine why the sounds have ceased. I wonder if it has discovered our presence.”



“Hadn’t we better wake the Dromans?”

“I see no necessity for it. When the thing comes—and it was coming, I know—they may be awakened sud¬ denly enough. The men are farther from the passage than we are, the ladies farther still. It must pass us before it can reach them; and we have our revolvers.”

“Yes; we have our revolvers. But we don’t know what’s coming.”

“There!” Rhodes exclaimed, his voice a whisper. “We’ll soon know. Did you hear that?”

“I heard it. And there it is again!”

“It’s coming, Bill!”

It was coming. What were we to see issue from that passage? I gripped my revolver and waited in a suspense that was simply agonizing. The sound ceased—came again. It was a pad-pad, and once or twice an¬ other sound was heard—as though produced by something brushing along the wall.

“Look!” I said, crouching for¬ ward. “Light!”

The rays grew stronger, casting long shadows — shadows swaying, shaking, crawling. Then of a sudden the light itself appeared and a tall figure came gliding out of the pas¬ sage.

“Drorathusa!” exclaimed Milton Rhodes.

This sudden lurch from agonized suspense and Gorgonic imagination to glad reality left me for some sec¬ onds speechless.

“Well, well,” laughed Milton Rhodes, pressing the button and flooding the place with light, “isn’t imagination a wonderful thing?”

“But,” said I, “what on earth does this mean?”

“Look there, Bill, look!” cried Rhodes. * * Look at that! ’ ’

Drorathusa was moving straight toward us, a strange smile on that Sibylline face of hers.

“What do you mean?”

“The canteen! Look at her can¬ teen ! ’ ’ Milton cried, pointing ex¬ citedly.

Drorathusa stopped and raised the canteen, which was incased in can¬ vaslike stuff. It was wet—yes, wet and dripping.

“Water!” I cried, springing up and rushing toward her.

“Narranawnzee!” said Drorathu¬ sa, reaching the canteen toward my clutching fingers.

Great Pluvius, how I did drink! I’d be drinking yet if Rhodes hadn’t seized the vessel and wrested it from me.

“You must be careful,” said he. “We mustn’t drink too much at first.”

And he raised the canteen forth¬ with and proceeded to swallow a couple of quarts.

“For heaven’s sake,” I told him, “leave some for the others!”

“Yes,” said Rhodes, handing the water to Drorathusa. “We have been kind of ungallant, Bill—hoggish. But I was as dry as a burnt cork. ’ ’

Ere he had ceased speaking, Drora¬ thusa was moving toward her com¬ panions. How wonderful was that change, that rush from out the black depths of despair! And yet our situ¬ ation was still truly a terrible one, for we were lost. But we did not think of that. Water, water! We had water now, and we rejoiced as though we had been caught up and set down in the loveliest of all the lovely glades of Paradise.

A few minutes, and we all (with tent and packs) were following Droi*athusa through the passage, were hurrying toward the stream or pool that she had discovered. What whim, what freak of strange chance had led that mysterious woman forth whilst others slept the sleep of de¬ spair, forth into that particular pas¬ sage? Even now I do not know the answer.

DROME


After following its sinuosities for several hundred feet, we suddenlystepped out of the passage and into a great chamber. This, like our sleep¬ ing place, was weird and savage in the extreme. Broken rock masses rose up, in all directions. There were distorted pyramids, fantastic pin¬ nacles, spires, obelisks—even pillars, but they were pillars grotesque and awful as though seen in a dream.

Wider and wider grew the place, more and more broken and savage. Soon even the walls were involved in darkness. The roof, as we advanced, became more and more lofty. Clear¬ ly this cavern was one of enormous extent. I began to glance about with some apprehension. How had Drorathusa found her way into such a place—and out again? I marveled that she had not got lost. But she had not, and evidently there was no likelihood that that could happen. She was moving forward, into that place of savage confusion, with never a sign of hesitation, with the certi¬ tude of one following a well-beaten path.

Suddenly Drorathusa stopped, and, after making a sign of silence, she said, pointing into the blackness be¬ fore us: ‘* Narranawnzee.”

Narranawanzee! Yes, there it was, the faint murmur and tinkle of water.

We hurried forward, the wall of the cavern merging from out the darkness. And there it was, a large spring of the purest, coolest water gushing out from the base of the rock, to fall in a gentle cascade and then flow away to a great pool gleaming dark and sullen in the feeble rays that found their way to it.

Tt was near 9 o’clock of the day following when we left that spot. Rhodes and I were smooth-shaven again; yes, he had brought along a razor—one of your old-fashioned,

antediluvian scrapers. Narkus and Thumbra too had gladly availed themselves of this opportunity to get rid of their beards, which, however, they had kept trimmed close with clippers. Your Droman has a horror of mustaches, beard or whiskers. As for the ladies, they were now radi¬ ant and lovely as Dians.

We were following the stream. An hour passed, another. We had ad¬ vanced five miles or so and had de¬ scended probably half a thousand feet. And then we lost our guide; the stream flowed into a cleft in the rock, to burst forth again perhaps far, far down, in some black cavern that has never known, and indeed never may know, the tread of any human foot.

For some minutes we lingered there, as though reluctant to quit the spot; and then, with a last lingering look at those pellucid waters, flashing dark and sullen, however, as the light moved from them, we pressed grimly on and soon were involved in a cav¬ ern so rugged and smashed that we actually began to despair of ever getting through it. But we did get through, to step suddenly out into a place as smooth almost as a floor. The slope was a gentle one, and we pressed forward at a rapid rate.

We had gone perhaps a mile and a half when Rhodes, who was walking in advance with Drorathusa, abrupt¬ ly halted, cried out and pointed.

Something white was dimly visible off in the darkness. We moved to¬ ward it, the Dromans evincing a tense excitement. A cry broke from them, and they made a rush forward.

It was a mark upon the wall, a mark which they themselves had placed there. We had found the way to Drome.

“And let us hope,” said I to Rhodes in the midst of the rejoicing, “that we don’t lose it again.”



Drorathusa turned her look upon Rhodes and me and pointed down the cavern.

“Narranawnzee,” she said.

We understood that and took a drink upon it.

Again Drorathusa pointed.

“Drome,” said she.

That too we understood—that is, we thought we knew what she meant by Drome.

It was a few minutes past 7 (p. m.) when we reached the narranawnzee, a fine deep pool without any discover¬ able inlet or outlet, and there we halted for the night.

In this spot the Dromans had left a food-depot, and right glad were we to see this accession to the larder. There was also a supply of oil.

That evening (I find it convenient to use these inaccurate terms) I fished out my journal and carefully brought it forward, up to the hour, to the very minute. I felt blithe as a lark, and so, indeed, did everybody else, everybody save Drorathusa, and even she was somberly happy. I thought that our troubles were over!

Of a sudden Rhodes slapped down his journal and, to the surprize of the Dromans and, forsooth, to my own, made a dive at an oil-container, which Narkus had just emptied.

“At last—our depth, Bill!” he cried.

And he proceeded to ascertain the boiling point of water, the heat being furnished by Drorathusa’s lamp and that of Siris, the older of the young women. Delphis, by the way, was the name of the other, the whitehaired girl.

It was a strange, a striking picture truly—Milton Rhodes bending over his improvised hypogemeter, the Dromans looking on with curiosity, perplexity and strange questionings in their looks.

At last Rhodes was satisfied with the result, that it was as near accu¬ racy as the circumstances would per¬ mit.

“We are,” said he after computing for some moments in his journal, “at a depth of a little more than twelve thousand feet. The exact figures are 12,260 feet—though we can not, of course, claim for our determination any high degree of accuracy. I feel confident, however, that it is near the truth. Call it twelve thousand feet.”

‘ ‘ Twelve thousand feet! Below the level of the sea?”

“Yes, Bill; below the level of the sea.”

“Great Erebus, I knew that we had descended a long way, but I would never have believed that we had gone down over two miles. Two miles be¬ low sea-level. That is a recordsmasher. ’ ’

“Rather,” Milton smiled. “Be¬ fore us, no man (of our sunlit world) had penetrated into the crust of the earth to a greater depth than 3,758 feet below the level of the sea. That is the depth of the mine at St. John del Rey, Minas Geraes, Brazil.”

“Two miles—over two miles down!” said I.

“And probably we are only start¬ ed.”

“But the pressure. We can’t go down very far into this steadily in¬ creasing pressure, increasing in a geometrical ratio whilst the depth in¬ creases only in an arithmetical one.”

“But,” Milton said, “I showed you that there is something wrong with the law.”

“Then how do you know that we have reached a depth of twelve thou¬ sand feet and over—if the law breaks down?”

“I don’t believe that it has broken down yet. It will hold good for this slight descent which we have made. And, of course, if fact is found to

DROME


coincide with theory, then our de¬ scent will be arrested at no great depth.”

“And,” I said, “unless the dis¬ crepancy between fact and theory is a remarkable one, we will have no means of knowing whether the law has broken down or not.”

“We shall have no means of know¬ ing, Bill—unless, as you say, truth and theory are remarkably divergent. Of course, in that case, we should not long remain unaware of the fact. Of the depth, then, we can not be cer¬ tain; but the boiling point will al¬ ways give us the atmospheric pres¬ sure.”

“That isn’t what is worrying me,” I told him; “ it is the pressure itself. ’ ’

“The pressure itself,” Milton re¬ turned, “would produce no dire ef¬ fects. It is not the diminution of pressure that produces the dreaded mountain sickness, as was clearly shown by Dr. Paul Bert. Of edu¬ cated people, nine hundred and nine¬ ty-nine out of every thousand will tell you that the acceleration of the pulse as one ascends to lofty heights, the short, troubled breathing, the dis¬ ordered vision, extreme weakness, nausea, vertigo, bleeding at nose and lungs, in short, all the symptoms of the terrible mal des montagnes, are caused by the diminution of the at¬ mospheric pressure. The average human being—such is their explana¬ tion—having a surface of about fifteen square feet, sustains an at¬ mospheric pressure of more than thirty thousand pounds; at an ele¬ vation of eighteen thousand feet, the pressure is but one-half of that; is it any wonder, then, that a man gets mountain sickness ? ’ ’

“Shades of ten thousand Gulli¬ vers,” I exclaimed, “do you mean to say that those nine hundred and ninety-nine are wrong?”

“Certainly they are wrong, so wrong as to cause Dr. Bert to write:

'It is amazing to find a theory so plainly at variance with elementary physical laws accepted by eminent men.’ ”

“Well, well,” was my sage re¬ mark, “I suppose the next thing on the program will be the statement that it is not the fire that makes the pot boil; it is the heat.”

“If it doesn’t rain, Bill, tomorrow will be Monday. However, Dr. Bert (Professor in the Paris Faculty of Sciences) proved ‘that the lessening of the barometric pressure, ’ to use his own words, ‘is of no account, mechan¬ ically, in the production of the phenomena.’ Yes, he proved that, to use his own words again, ‘it is not the .lowering of mechanical pressure that produces the symptoms, but the low tension of the oxygen of the di¬ lated air, which low tension prevents the oxygen from entering the blood in sufficient quantity.’ Dr. Bert not only experimented on sparrows but entered the air-chamber himself. As the pressure was reduced, he experi¬ enced all the symptoms of mountain sickness. ‘But,’ he says, ‘all these symptoms disappeared as by en¬ chantment as soon as I respired some of the oxygen in the bag; returning, however, when I again breathed the air of the cylinder.’

“In one of his experiments, the pressure was reduced to 246 milli¬ meters—9.7 inches. ‘This,’ he says, ‘is exactly the pressure on the high¬ est summit of the Himalayas—the same degree of pressure which was so near proving fatal to Glaisher and Coxwell; I reached this point without the slightest sense of discomfort, or, to speak more accurately, the un¬ pleasant sensations I felt at the be¬ ginning had entirely disappeared. A bird in the cylinder with me was lean¬ ing on one side, and vary sick. It was my wish to continue the experi¬ ment till the bird died, but the stenmpurnp, conspiring, as I suspect, with



the people who were watching me through glass peep-holes, would not work, and so I had to return to nor¬ mal pressure.’

“So, you see, Bill, it is the low ten¬ sion of the oxygen and not the dim¬ inished pressure that produces the distress and suffering and even death.”

“All this is very interesting, but our problem is not one of rarefied air; the atmosphere here is com¬ pressed.”

“And, in compressed air,” said Milton Rhodes, “it is the oxygen again that produces the symptoms. Subject a sparrow to a pressure of twenty atmospheres, and the bird is thrown into convulsions, stronger than those produced by tetanus or strychnin, convulsions which soon end in death. If pure oxygen is used, a pressure of only five atmos¬ pheres kills the sparrow. But—and mark this—if the air be deficient in oxygen, the pressure of twenty at¬ mospheres does not produce even a tremor. So, you see, Bill,” he con¬ cluded, “we could descend to a very great depth in an atmosphere poor in oxygen.”

“But how do we know that the at¬ mosphere down there is poor in oxy¬ gen? It may be nothing of the kind. It may be saturated with it-”

“Of course, we don’t know. All we know is that we know nothing. And that reminds me of Socrates. That is what he said—that all he knew was that he didn’t know any¬ thing. Arcesilaus declared that Socrates didn’t even know that! However, hope is as cheap as despair. And, remember, here are our Hypogeans. They can ascend to our world, to a height of eight thousand feet above the level of the sea, and that, so far as we know, without suf¬ fering the slightest inconvenience.”

“Something queer about that,” was my comment.

“It is queer, Bill. However, we know that they can live in the (to them) rarefied air of our world; why, then, think that conditions down there, whether five miles down or fifty miles, will prove fatal to ms?”

/"\n the following morning, we ^ were under way at an early hour. The route led down a great tunnel; we could not have got lost now if we had tried. Shortly before noon, the welcome sounds of narranawmee were heard, and there was a large stream gushing out of the wall. At times, as we advanced, the stream would move along dreamy and silent; then it would be seen rushing and glancing and again growling and foaming in lovely cascades.

Steadily, save for the noon halt, we toiled our onward and downward way. It was half past 7 when we halted—the eery silence of the place broken by the soft, musical murmur¬ ing of the narranawnzee. Again Rhodes ascertained the boiling-point of water. It was 251° Fahrenheit. We were, therefore, under a pressure of two atmospheres; we had reached the depth of 18,500 feet. In other words, we were three miles and a half below the level of the sea!

It seems strange that I awoke, for I was dreaming the loveliest dream— a dream of fairy landscapes, birds and flowers, with lovely Cinderella in the midst of them. Nor do I know why I turned over onto my right side, for I was very comfortable as it was. But turn I did. And I was just going to close my eyes, to return to the dreamland of the fairies. But I did not close them. Instead, my heart gave a wild leap, and I opened them wide. The next instant I was sitting up, straining my eyes as I

DROME


looked into the darkness. Pear had its grip upon me, and I felt my hair begin to stand on end.

For there was something in that blackness, something visible— mov¬ ing!

Scarcely had my eyes fallen upon this amorphous, ghostly thing when it rose into the air, slowly and with¬ out the faintest sound. Up it rose and up, whilst I sat watching, im¬

movable, speechless, as though in the clutch of some uncanny charm.

Up! Up to the very roof of the cavern! Of a sudden there was a fearful change in its form. Then the ghost, now of monstrous shape, was coming down —coming down straight toward me!

Fantastic adventures, terrific dangers, strange and horrible monsters, loopmukca and gogrugrons, make the next installment of "Drome” one of eery thrills and shivery fascination.-

WEIRD STORY REPRINT

Lazarus'

By LEONID ANDREYEFF

W HEN Lazarus left the grave, where for three days and three nights he had been un¬ der the enigmatical sway of death, and returned alive to his dwelling, for a long time no one noticed in him those sinister things which made his name a terror as time went on. Glad¬ dened by the sight of him who had been returned to life, those near to him made much of him, and satisfied their burning desire to serve him, in solictude for his food and drink and garments. They dressed him gor¬ geously, and when, like a bridegroom in his bridal clothes, he sat again among them at the table and ate and drank, they wept with tenderness. And they summoned the neighbors to look at him who had risen miracu¬ lously from the dead. These came and shared the joy of the hosts. Strangers from far-off towns and hamlets came and adored the miracle

in tempestuous words. The house of Mary and Martha was like a bee¬ hive.

Whatever was found new in Laza¬ rus’ face and gestures was thought to be some trace of a grave illness and of the shocks recently experienced. Evidently the destruction wrought by death on the corpse was only ar¬ rested by the miraculous power, but its effects were still apparent; and what death had succeeded in doing with Lazarus’ face and body was like an artist’s unfinished sketch seen un¬ der thin glass. On Lazarus’ temples, under his eyes, and in the hollows of his cheeks, lay a deep and cadaverous blueness; cadaverously blue also were his long fingers, and around his fin¬ ger-nails, grown long in the grave, the blue had become purple and dark. On his lips, swollen in the grave, the skin had burst in places, and thin reddish cracks were formed, shining as though covered with transparent


mica. And he had grown stout. His body, puffed up in the grave, retained its monstrous size and showed those frightful swellings in which one sensed the presence of the rank liquid of decomposition. But the heavy corpselike odor which penetrated Lazarus’ grave-clothes and, it seemed, his very body, soon entirely disap¬ peared, the blue spots on his face and hands grew paler, and the reddish cracks closed up, although they never disappeared altogether. That is how Lazarus looked when he appeared before people, in his second life, but his face looked natural to those who had seen him in the coffin.

In addition to the changes in his appearance, Lazarus’ temper seemed to have undergone a transformation, but this circumstance startled no one and attracted no attention. Before his death Lazarus had always been cheerful and carefree, fond of laugh¬ ter and a merry joke. It was because of this brightness and cheerfulness, with not a touch of malice and dark¬ ness, that the Master had grown so fond of him. But now Lazarus had grown gi'ave and taciturn, he never jested, nor responded with laughter to other people’s jokes; _and the words which he very infrequently uttered were the plainest, most or¬ dinary and necessary words, as de¬ prived, of depth and significance as those sounds with which animals ex¬ press pain and pleasure, thirst and hunger. They were the words that one can say all one’s life, and yet they give no indication of what pains and gladdens the depths of the soul.

Thus, with the face of a corpse which for three days had been under the heavy sway of death, dark and taciturn, already appallingly trans¬ formed, but still unrecognized by anyone in his ne'w self, he was sit¬ ting at the feast-table among friends and relatives, and his gorgeous nup¬ tial garments glittered with yellow gold and bloody scarlet. Broad waves

of jubilation, now soft, now tempes¬ tuously sonorous surged around him; warm glances of love were reaching out for his face, still cold with the coldness of the grave; and a friend’s warm palm caressed his blue, heavy hand. Music played—the tympanum and the pipe, the cithara and the harp. It was as though bees hummed, grasshoppers chirped and birds war¬ bled over the happy house of Mary and Martha.


O ne of the guests incautiously lift¬ ed the veil. By a thoughtless word he broke tfre serene charm and uncovered the truth in all its naked ugliness. Ere the thought formed it¬ self in his mind, his lips uttered with a smile: “Why do you not tell us what happened yonder?’’

All grew silent, startled by the question. It was as if it occurred to them only now that for three days Lazarus had been dead, and they looked at him, anxiously awaiting his answer. But Lazarus kept silence.

“You do not wish to tell us,” won¬ dered the man; “is it so terrible yon¬ der?”

And again his thought came after his words. Had it been otherwise, he would not have asked this ques¬ tion, which at that very moment op¬ pressed his heart with its insuffer¬ able horror. Uneasiness seized all present, and with a feeling of heavy weariness they awaited Lazarus’ words, but he was sternly and coldly silent, and his eyes were lowered. As if for the first time, they noticed the frightful blueness of his face and his repulsive obesity. On the table, as if forgotten by Lazarus, rested his bluish-purple wrist, and to this all eyes turned, as if it were from it that the awaited answer was to come. The musicians were still playing, but now the silence reached them too, and even as water extinguishes scattered

LAZARUS


embers, so were their merry tunes extinguished in the silence. The pipe grew silent; the voices of the sonorous tympanum and the murmuring harp died away; and as if the strings had burst, the cithara answered with a tremulous, broken note. Silence.

“You do not wish to say?” repeat¬ ed the guest, unable to check his chattering tongue. But the stillness remained unbroken, and the bluishpurple hand rested motionless. And then he stirred slightly and everyone felt relieved. He lifted up his eyes, and lo! straightway embracing ev¬ erything in one heavy glance, fraught with weariness and horror, he looked at them—Lazarus who had arisen from the dead.

It was the third day since Lazarus had left the grave. Ever since then many had experienced the pernicious power of his eye, but neither those who were crushed by it forever, nor those who found the strength to re¬ sist in it the primordial sources of life, which is as mysterious as death, never could they explain the horror which lay motionless in the depth of his black pupils. Lazarus looked calmly and simply with no desire to conceal anything, but also with no intention to say anything; he looked coldly, as one who is infinitely in¬ different to those alive. Many care¬ free people came close to him with¬ out noticing him, and only later did they learn with astonishment and fear who that calm stout man was that walked slowly by, almost touch¬ ing them with his gorgeous and dazzling garments. The sun did not cease shining, when he was looking, nor did the fountain hush its mur¬ mur, and the sky overhead remained cloudless and blue. But the man under the spell of his enigmatical look heard no more the fountain and saw not the sky overhead. Some¬ times he wept bitterly, sometimes he tore his hair and in frenzy called for help; but more often it came to pass

that apathetically and quietly he be¬ gan to die, and so he languished many years, before everybody’s eyes, wasted away, colorless, flabby, dull, like a tree silently drying up in a stony soil. And of those who gazed at him, the one who wept mad¬ ly sometimes felt again the stir of life; the others never.

“So you do not wish to tell us what you have seen yonder?” repeated the man. But now his voice was impas¬ sive and dull, and deadly gray weari¬ ness showed in Lazarus’ eyes. And deadly gray weariness covered like dust all the faces, and with dull amazement the guests stared at each other and did not understand wherefore they had gathered here and sat at the rich table. The talk ceased. They thought it was time to go home, but could not over¬ come the weariness which glued their muscles, and they kept on sit¬ ting there, yet apart and torn away from each other, like pale fires scat¬ tered over a dark field.

But the musicians were paid to play, and again they took their in¬ struments, and again tunes full of studied mirth and studied sorrow began to flow and to rise. They unfolded the customary melody, but the guests harkened in dull amazement. Already they knew not why it is necessary, and why it is well, that people should pluck strings, inflate their cheeks, blow in thin pipes, and produce a bizarre, many-voiced noise.

“What bad music!” said someone.

The musicians took offense and left. Following them, the guests left one after another, for night was al¬ ready eome. And when placid dark¬ ness encircled them and they began to breathe with more ease, suddenly Lazarus’ image loomed up before each one in formidable radiance: the blue face of a eorpse, grave-clothes gorgeous and resplendent, a cold look, in the depths of which lav mo410

WEIKD TALES

tionless an unknown horror. As though petrified, they were standing far apart, and darkness enveloped them, but in the darkness blazed brighter and brighter the super¬ natural vision of him who for three days had been under the enigmatical sway of death. For three days had he been dead: thrice had the sun ris¬ en and set, but he had been dead; children had played, streams mur¬ mured over pebbles, the wayfarer had lifted up hot dust in the highroad, but he had been dead. And now he is again among them, touches them, looks at them, and through the black disks of his pupils, as through dark¬ ened glass, stares the unknowable Yonder.


N o one was taking care of Lazarus, for no friends, no relatives were left to him, and the great desert, which encircled the holy city, came near the very threshold of his dwell¬ ing. And the desert entered his house, and stretched on his couch, like a wife, and extinguished the fires. No one was taking care of Lazarus. One after the other, his sisters—Mary and Martha—forsook him. For a long while Martha was loth to abandon him, for she knew not who would feed him and pity him. She wept and prayed. But one night, when the wind was roaming in the desert and with a hissing sound the cypresses were bending over the roof, she dressed noiselessly, and secretly left the house. Lazarus probably heard the door slam; it banged against the side-post under the gusts of the desert wind, but he did not rise to go out and look at her that was abandon¬ ing him. All the night long the cypresses hissed over his head and plaintively thumped the door, letting in the cold, greedy desert.

Like a leper he was shunned by everyone, and it was proposed to tie

a bell to his neck, as is done with lepers, to warn people against sudden meetings. But someone remarked, growing frightfully pale, that it would be too horrible if by night the moaning of Lazarus’ bell were sud¬ denly heard under the windows, and so the project was abandoned.

And since he did not take care of himself, he would probably have starved to death, had not the neigh¬ bors brought him food in fear of something that they sensed but vaguely. The food was brought to him by children; they were not afraid of Lazarus, nor did they mock him with naive cruelty, as children are wont to do with the wretched and miserable. They were indifferent to him, and Lazarus answered them with the same coldness; he jiad no desire to caress the black little curls, and to look into their innocent shin¬ ing eyes. Given to Time and to the desert, his house was crumbling down, and long since had his fam¬ ishing goats wandered away to the neighboring pastures. His bridal garments became threadbare. Ever since that happy day when the musicians played, he had worn them unaware of the difference of the new and the worn. The bright colors grew dull and faded; vicious dogs and the sharp thorns of the desert turned the tender fabric into rags.

By day, when the merciless sun slew all things alive, and even scor¬ pions sought shelter under stones and writhed there in a mad desire to sting, he sat motionless under the sun’s rays, his blue face and the un¬ couth, bushy beard lifted up, bathing in the fiery flood.

When people still talked to him, he was once asked: ‘ ‘ Poor Lazarus, does it please you to sit thus and to stare at the sun?”

And he had answered: “Yes, it does.”

So strong, it seemed, was the cold of his three days’ grave, so deep the

LAZARUS


darkness, that there was no heat on earth to warm Lazarus, nor a splen¬ dor that could brighten the darkness of his eyes. That is what came to the mind of those who spoke to Lazarus, and with a sigh they left him.

And when the scarlet, flattened globe would lower, Lazarus would set out for the desert and walk straight toward the sun, as if striv¬ ing to reach it. He always walked straight toward the sun, and those who tried to follow him and to spy upon what he was doing at night in the desert, retained in their memory the black silhouette of a tall stout man against the red background of an enormous flattened disk. Night pursued them with her horrors, and so they did not learn of Lazarus’ do¬ ings in the desert, but the vision of the black on red was forever branded on their brains. Just as a beast with a splinter in its eye furiously rubs its muzzle with its paws, so they too foolishly rubbed their eyes, but what Lazarus had given was indelible, and Death alone could efface it.

But there were people who lived far away, who never saw Lazarus and knew of him only by report. With daring curiosity, which is stronger than fear and feeds-upon it, with hidden mockery, they would come to Lazarus who was sitting in the sun and enter into conversation with him. By this time Lazarus’ ap¬ pearance had changed for the better and was not so terrible. The first minute they snapped their fingers and thought of how stupid the in¬ habitants of the holy city were; but when the short talk was over and they started homeward, their looks were such that the inhabitants of the holy city recognized them at once and said: “Look, there is one more fool on whom Lazarus has set his eye;” and they shook their heads regret¬ fully, and lifted up their arms.

There came brave, intrepid war¬ riors, with tinkling weapons; happy

youths came with laughter and song; busy tradesmen, jingling their mon¬ ey, ran in for a moment, and haughty priests leaned their crosiers against Lazarus’ door, and they were all strangely changed, as they came back. The same terrible shadow swooped down upon their souls and gave a new appearance to the old familiar world.

Those who still had the desire to speak, expressed their feelings thus:

“All tilings tangible and visible grew hollow, light and transparent, similar to lightsome shadows in the darkness of night;

“For that great darkness, which holds the whole cosmos, was dispersed neither by the sun nor by the moon and the stars, but like an immense black shroud enveloped the earth and like a mother embraced it;

“It penetrated all the bodies, iron and stone, and the particles of the bodies, having lost their ties, grew lonely; and it penetrated into the depth of the particles, and the par¬ ticles of particles became lonely;

“For that great void, which en¬ circles the cosmos, was not filled by things visible, neither by the sun, nor by the moon and the stars, but reigned unrestrained, penetrating everywhere, severing body from body, particle from particle;

“In the void, hollow trees spread hollow roots threatening a fantastic fall; temples, palaces, and houses loomed up and they were hollow; and in the void men moved about rest¬ lessly, but they were light and hol¬ low like shadows;

“For time was no more, and the beginning of all things came near their end: the building was still be¬ ing built, and builders were still hammering away, and its ruins were already seen and the void in its place; the man was still being born, but already funeral candles were burning at his head, and now they were extinguished, and there was the

412 ■


void in place of the man and of the i'uneral candles;

“And wrapped by void and dark¬ ness the man in despair trembled in ihe face of the horror of the infinite.”

Thus spake the men who had still a desire to speak. But, surely, much more could those have told who wished not to speak, and died in silence.


At that time there lived in Rome a renowned sculptor. In clay, marble and bronze he wrought bodies of gods and men, and such was their beauty that people called them im¬ mortal. But he himself was discon¬ tented and asserted that there was something even more beautiful, that he could not embody either in marble or in bronze. “I have not yet gath¬ ered the glimmers of the moon, nor have I my fill of sunshine,” he was wont to say, “and there is no soul in my marble, no life in my beautiful bronze.” And when on moonlight nights he slowly walked along the road, crossing the black shadows of cypresses, his white tunic glittering in the moonshine, those who met him would laugh in a friendly way and say:

“Are you going to gather moon¬ shine, Aurelius? Why then did you not fetch baskets?”

And he would answer, laughing and pointing to his eyes:

“Here are the baskets wherein I gather the sheen of the moon and the glimmer of the sun.”

And so it was: the moon glimmered in his eyes and the sun sparkled therein. But he could not translate them into marble, and therein lay the serene tragedy of his life.

He was descended from an ancient patrician race, had a good wife and children, and suffered from no want.

When the obscure rumor about Lazarus reached him, he consulted

his wife and friends and undertook the far journey to Judea to see him who had miraculously risen from the dead. He was somewhat weary in those days and he hoped that the road would sharpen his blunted senses. What was said of Lazarus did not frighten him: he had pondered much over Death, did not like it, but he disliked also those who confused it with life. “In this life are life and beauty,” thought he; “beyond is Death, and enigmatical; and there is no better thing for a man to do than to delight in life and in the beauty of all things living.” He had even a vainglorious desire to con¬ vince Lazarus of the truth of his own view and restore his soul to life, as his body had been restored. This seemed so much easier because the rumors, shy and strange, did not ren¬ der the whole truth about Lazarus and but vaguely warned against something frightful.

Lazarus had just risen from the stone in order to follow the sun which was setting in the desert, when a rich Roman, attended by an armed slave, approached him and addressed him in a sonorous voice: “Lazarus!”

And Lazarus beheld a superb face, lit with glory, and arrayed in fine clothes, and precious stones sparkling in the sun. The red light lent to the Roman’s face and head the appear¬ ance of gleaming bronze: that also Lazarus noticed. He resumed obedi¬ ently his place and lowered his weary eyes.

“Yes, you are ugly, my poor Laza¬ rus,” quietly said the Roman, play¬ ing with his golden chain; “you are even horrible, my poor friend; and Death was not lazy that day when you fell so heedlessly into his hands. But you are stout, and, as the great Cassar used to say, fat people are not ill-tempered; to tell the truth, I don’t understand why men fear you. Permit me to spend the night in your

LAZARUS


house; the hour is late, and I have no shelter. ’ ’

Never had anyone asked Lazarus’ hospitality.

“I have no bed,” said he.

“I am somewhat of a soldier and I can sleep sitting,” the Roman an¬ swered. “We shall build a fire.”

“I have no fire.”

“Then we shall have our talk in the darkness, like two friends. I think you will find a bottle of wine.”

“I have no wine.”

The Roman laughed.

“Now I see why you are so somber and dislike your second life. No wine! Why, then we shall do with¬ out it: there are words that make the head go round better than the Falemian. ’ ’

By a sign he dismissed the slave, and they remained alone. And again the sculptor started speaking, but it was as if, together with the setting sun, life had left his words; and they grew pale and hollow, as if they staggered on unsteady feet, as if they slipped and fell down, drunk with the heavy lees of weariness and despair. And black chasms grew up between the words, like far-off hints of the great void and the great darkness.

“Now I am your guest, and you will not be unkind to me, Lazarus!” said he. “Hospitality is the duty even of those who for three days were dead. Three days, I w T as told, you rested in the grave. There it must be cold . . . and thence comes your ill habit of going without fire and wine. As to me, I like fire; it grows dark here so rapidly. . . . The lines of your eyebrows and forehead are quite, quite interesting: they are like ruins of strange palaces, buried in ashes after an earthquake. But why do you wear such ugly and queer garments? I have seen bridegrooms in your country, and they wear such clothes—are they not funny?—and terrible? . . . But are you a bride¬ groom?”

The sun had already disappeared, a monstrous black shadow came run¬ ning from the east, it was as if gigantic bare feet began rumbling on the sand, and the wind sent a cold wave along the backbone.

“In the darkness you seem still larger, Lazarus, as if you have grown stouter in these moments. Do you feed on darkness, Lazarus? I would fain have a little fire—at least a little fire, a little fire. I feel somewhat chilly, your nights are so barbarously cold. Were it not so dark, I should say that you were looking at me, Lazarus. Yes, it seems to me you are looking. . . . Why, you are looking at me, I feel it—but there you are smiling.”

Night came, and filled the air with heavy blackness.

“How well it will be, when the sun will rise tomorrow anew. ... lama great sculptor, you know; that is how my friends call me. I create. Yes, that is the word .. . . but I need day¬ light. I give life to the cold marble, I melt sonorous bronze in fire, in bright hot fire. . . . Why did you touch me with your hand?”

“Come,” said Lazarus. “You are my guest.”

They went to the house. And a long night enveloped the earth.

' The slave, seeing that his master did not come, went to seek him, when the sun was already high in the sky. And he beheld his master side by side with Lazarus: in profound silence they were sitting right under the dazzling and scorching rays of the sun and looking upward. The slave began to weep and cried out: “My master, what has befallen you, mas¬ ter?”

The very same day the sculptor left for Rome. On the way Aurelius was pensive and taciturn, staring atten¬ tively at everything—the men, the ship, the sea, as if trying to retain something. On the high sea a storm burst upon them, and all through it



Aurelius stayed on the deck and eagerly scanned the seas looming near and sinking with a dull boom.

At home his friends were fright¬ ened at the change which had taken place in Aurelius, but he calmed them, saying meaningly: “I have found it.”

And without changing the dusty clothes he wore on his journey, he fell to work, and the marble obediently resounded under his sonorous ham¬ mer. Long and eagerly he worked, admitting no one, until one morning he announced that the work was ready and ordered his friends to be summoned, severe critics and connois¬ seurs of art. And to meet them he put on bright and gorgeous garments, that glittered with yellow gold—and scarlet byssus.

“Here is my work,” said he thoughtfully.

His friends glanced, and a shadow of profound sorrow covered their faces. It was something monstrous, deprived of all the lines and shapes familiar to the eye, but not without a hint at some new, strange image.

On a thin, crooked twig, or rather on an ugly likeness of a twig, rested askew a blind, ugly, shapeless, out¬ spread mass of something utterly and inconceivably distorted, a mad heap of wild and bizarre fragments, all feebly and vainly striving to part from one another. And, as if by chance, beneath one of the wildly-rent salients a butterfly was chiseled with divine skill, all airy loveliness, del¬ icacy, and beauty, with transparent wings, which seemed to tremble with an impotent desire to take flight.

“Wherefore this wonderful butter¬ fly, Aurelius?” said somebody falteringly.

“I know not,” was the sculptor’s answer.

But it was necessary to tell the truth, and one of his friends who loved him best said firmly: “This is

ugly, my poor friend. It must be de¬ stroyed. Give me the hammer. ”

And with two strokes he broke the monstrous man into pieces, leaving only the infinitely delicate butterfly untouched.

From that time on Aurelius creat¬ ed nothing. With profound indif¬ ference he looked at marble and bronze, and on his former divine works, where everlasting beauty rest¬ ed. With the purpose of arousing his former fervent passion for work and awakening his deadened soul, his friends took him to see other artists’ beautiful works, but he remained in¬ different as before, and the smile did not warm up his tightened lips. And only after listening to lengthy talks about beauty, he would retort wearily and indolently: “But all this is a lie.”

By day, when the sun was shining, he went into his magnificent, skilfully built garden, and having found a place without shadow, he exposed his bare head to the glare and heat. Red and white butterflies fluttered around; from the crooked lips of a drunken satyr, water streamed down with a splash into a marble cistern, but he sat motionless and silent, like a pallid reflection of him who, in the far-off distance, at the very gates of the stony desert, sat under the fiery sun.


And now it came to pass that the great, deified Augustus himself summoned Lazarus. The imperial messengers dressed him gorgeously, in solemn nuptial clothes, as if Time had legalized them, and he was to remain until his very death the bride¬ groom of an unknown bride. It was as if an old, rotting coffin had been gilded and furnished with new, gay tassels. And men, all in trim and bright attire, rode after him, as if in bridal procession indeed, and those

LAZARUS


foremost trumpeted loudly, bidding people to clear the way for the em¬ peror’s messengers. But Lazarus’ way was deserted: his native land cursed the hateful name of him who had miraculously risen from the dead, and people scattered at the very news of his appalling approach. The solitary voice of the brass trum¬ pets sounded in the motionless air, and the wilderness alone responded with its languid echo.

Then Lazarus went by sea. And his was the most magnificently ar¬ rayed and the most mournful ship that ever mirrored itself in the azure waves of the Mediterranean Sea. Many were the travelers aboard, but like a tomb was the ship, all silence and stillness, and the despairing water sobbed at the steep, proudly curved prow. All alone sat Lazarus exposing his head to the blaze of the sun, silently listening to the murmur and splash of the wavelets, and afar seamen and messengers were sitting, a vague group of weary shadows. Had the thunder burst and the wind attacked the red sails, the ships would probably have perished, for none of those aboard had either the will or the strength to struggle for life. With a supreme effort some mariners would reach the board and eagerly scan the blue, transparent deep, hoping to see a naiad’s pjink shoulder flash in the hollow of an azure wave, or a drunken gay centaur dash along and in frenzy splash the wave with his hoof. But the sea was like a wilderness, and the deep was dumb and deserted.

With utter indifference Lazarus set his feet on the street of the eternal city, as if all her wealth, all the magnificence of her palaces built by giants, all the resplendence, beauty, and music of her refined life were but the echo of the wind in the wil¬ derness, the reflection of the desert quicksand. Chariots were dashing, and along the streets were moving

crowds of strong, fair, proud build¬ ers of the eternal city and haughty participants in her life; a song sounded; fountains and women laughed a pearly laughter; drunken philosophers harangued, and the sober listened to them with a smile; hoofs struck the stone pavements. And surrounded by cheerful noise, a stout, heavy man was moving, a cold spot of silence and despair, and on his way he sowed disgust, anger, and vague, gnawing weariness. Who dares to be sad in Rome? the citizens wondered indignantly, and frowned. In two days the entire city already knew all about him who had miracu¬ lously risen from the dead, and shunned him shyly.

But some daring people there were, who wanted to test their strength, and Lazarus obeyed their imprudent summons. Kept busy by state af¬ fairs, the emperor constantly delayed the reception, and seven days did he who had risen from the dead go about visiting others.

And Lazarus came to a cheerful Epicurean, and the host met him with laughter: “Drink, Lazarus, drink!” he shouted. “Would not Augustus laugh to see you drunk?”

And half-naked drunken women laughed, and rose petals fell on Laza¬ rus’ blue hands. But then the Epi¬ curean looked into Lazarus’ eyes, and his gayety ended forever. Drunkard remained he for the rest of his life; never did he drink, yet forever was he drunk. But instead of the gay revery which wine brings with it, frightful dreams began to haunt him, the sole food of his strick¬ en spirit. Day and night he lived in the poisonous vapors of his night¬ mares, and Death itself was not more frightful than its raving, monstrous forerunners.

And Lazarus came to a youth and his beloved, who loved each other and were most beautiful in their pas¬ sions. Proudly and strongly embrac416


ing his love, the youth said witli se¬ rene regret: “Look at us, Lazarus, and share our joy. Is there anything stronger than love?”

And Lazarus looked. And for the rest of their life they kept on loving each other, but their passion grew gloomy and joyless, like those funeral cypresses whose roots feed on the de¬ cay of the graves and whose black summits in a still evening hour seek in vain to reach the sky. Thrown by the unknown forces of life into each other’s embraces, they mingled tears with kisses, voluptuous pleasures with pain, and they felt themselves doubly slaves, obedient slaves to life, and patient servants of the silent Nothingness. Ever united, ever sev¬ ered, they blazed like sparks and like sparks lost themselves in the bound¬ less Dark.

And Lazarus came to a haughty sage, and the sage said to him: “I know all the horrors you can reveal to me. Is there anything you can frighten me with?”

But before long the sage felt that the knowledge of horror was far from being the horror itself, and that the vision of Death was not Death. And he felt that wisdom and folly are equal before the face of Infinity, for infinity knows them not. And it van¬ ished, the dividing-liiie between knowledge and ignorance, truth and falsehood, top and bottom, and the shapeless thought hung suspended in the void. Then the sage clutched his 'ray head and cried out frantically:

■ ‘ I can not think! I can not think! ’ ’

Thus under the indifferent glance for him, who miraculously had risen from the dead, perished everything that asserts life, its significance and joys. And it was suggested that it was dangerous to let him see the em- . >eror, that it was better to kill him, ;nd having buried him secretly, to ell the emperor that he had disap¬ peared no one knew whither. Al¬ ready swords were being whetted and

youths devoted to the public welfare prepared for the murder, when Augustus ordered Lazarus to be brought before him next morning, thus destroying the cruel plans.

If there was no way of getting rid of Lazarus, at least it was possible to soften the terrible impression his face produced. With this in view, skilful painters, barbers, and artists were summoned, and all night long they were busy over Lazarus’ head. They cropped his beard, curled it, and gave it a tidy, agreeable appearance. By means of paints they concealed the corpselike blueness of his hands and face. Repulsive were the wrinkles of suffering that furrowed his old face, and they were puttied, painted, and smoothed; then, over the smooth background, wrinkles of good-tem¬ pered laughter and pleasant, carefree mirth were skilfully painted with fine brushes.

Lazarus submitted indifferently to everything that was done to him. Soon he was turned into a becoming¬ ly stout, venerable old man, into a quiet and kind grandfather of nu¬ merous offspring. It seemed that the smile, with which only a while ago he was spinning funny yams, was still lingering on his lips, and that in the comer of his eye serene tenderness was hiding, the companion of old age. But people did not. dare change his fluptial garments, and they could not change his eyes, two dark and frightful glasses through which the unknowable Yonder looked at men.


L azarus was not moved by the magnificence of the imperial pal¬ ace. It was as if he saw no difference between the crumbling house, closely pressed by the desert, and the stone palace, solid and fair, and indifferent¬ ly he passed into it. The hard marble of the floors under his feet grew similar to the quicksand of the desert,

LAZARUS


and the multitude of richly dressed and haughty men became like void air under his glance. No one looked into his face, as Lazarus passed by, fearing to fall under the appalling influence of his eyes; but when the sound of his heavy footsteps had sufficiently died down, the courtiers raised their heads and with fearful curiosity examined the figure of a stout, tall, slightly bent old man, who was slowly penetrating into the very heart of the imperial palace. Were Death itself passing, it would be faced with no greater fear: for until then the dead alone knew Death, and those alive knew Life only—and there was no bridge between them. But this extraordinary man, although alive, knew Death, and enigmatical, appalling, was his cursed knowledge. “Wo!” people thought; “he will take the life of our great, deified Augustus; ’ ’ and then sent curses after Lazarus, who meanwhile kept on advancing into the interior of the palace.

Already did the emperor know who Lazarus was, and prepared to meet him. But the monarch was a brave man, and felt his own tre¬ mendous, unconquerable power, and in his fatal duel with him who had miraculously risen from the dead he wanted not to invoke human help. And so he met Lazarus face to face.

“Lift not your eyes upon me, Lazarus,” he ordered. “I heard your face is like that of Medusa and turns into stone whomsoever you look at. Now, I wish to see you and talk with you, before I turn into stone,” he added in a tone of kingly jesting, not devoid of fear.

Coming close to him, he carefully examined Lazarus’ face and his strange festal garments. And al¬ though he had a keen eye, he was de¬ ceived by his appearance.

“So. You do not appear terrible, my venerable old man. But the worse for us, if horror assumes such a re¬

spectable and pleasant air. Now let us have a talk.”

Augustus sat, and questioning Lazarus with his eye as much as with words, started the conversation: “Why did you not greet me as you entered?”

Lazarus answered indifferently: “ I knew not it was necessary. ’ ’

“Are you a Christian?”

“No.”

Augustus approvingly shook his head.

‘ ‘ That is good. I do not like Christians. They shake the tree of life before it is covered with fruit, and disperse its odorous bloom to the winds. But who are you?”

With a visible effort Lazarus an¬ swered: “I was dead.”

“I had heard that. But who are you now?”

Lazarus was silent, but at last re¬ peated in a tone of weary apathy: “I was dead.”

“Listen to me, stranger,” said the emperor, distinctly and severely giv¬ ing utterance to the thought that had come to him at the beginning, “my realm is the realm of Life, my peo¬ ple are of the living, not of the dead. You are here one too many. I know not who you are and what you saw there; but, if you lie, I hate your lies, and if you tell the truth, I hate your truth. In my bosom I feel the throb of life; I feel strength in my arm, and my proud thoughts, like eagles, pierce the space. And yonder in the shelter of my rule, under the protec¬ tion of laws created by me, people live and toil and rejoice. Do you hear the battle-cry, the challenge men throw into the face of the future ? ’ ’

Augustus, as if in prayer, stretched forth his arms and exclaimed solemn¬ ly: “Be blessed, O great and divine Life!”

Lazarus was silent, and with grow¬ ing sternness the emperor went on: “You are not wanted here, miserable remnant, snatched from under



Death's teeth, you inspire weariness and disgust with life; like a cater¬ pillar in the fields, you gloat on the rich ear of joy and belch out the drivel of despair and sorrow. Your truth is like a rusty sword in the hands of a nightly murderer, and as a murderer you shall be executed. But before that, let me look into your eyes. Perchance only cowards are afraid of them, but in the brave they awake the thirst for strife and vic¬ tory ; then you shall be rewarded, not executed. . . . Now, look at me, Laza¬ rus.”

At first it appeared to the deified Augustus that a friend was looking at him, so soft, so tenderly fascin¬ ating was Lazarus’ glance. It prom¬ ised not horror, but sweet rest, and the Infinite seemed to him a tender mistress, a compassionate sister, a mother. But stronger and stronger grew its embraces, and already the mouth, greedy of hissing kisses, inter¬ fered with the monarch’s breathing, and already to the surface of the soft tissues of the body came the iron of the bones and tightened its merciless circle, and unknown fangs, blunt and cold, touched his heart and sank in¬ to it with slow indolence.

“It pains,” said the deified Au¬ gustus, growing pale. “But look at me, Lazarus, look.”

It was as if some heavy gates, ever closed, were slowly moving apart, and through the growing interstice the appalling horror of the Infinite poured in slowly and steadily. Like two shadows entered the shoreless void and the unfathomable darkness; they extinguished the sun, ravished the earth from under the feet, and the I’oof from over the head. No more did the frozen heart ache.

“Look, look, Lazarus,” ordered Augustus, tottering.

Time stood still, and the beginning of each thing grew frightfully near to its end. Augustus’ throne, just erected, crumbled down, and the void

was already in the place of the throne and of Augustus. Noiselessly did Rome crumble down, and a new city stood on its site and it too was swal¬ lowed by the void. Like fantastic giants, cities, states and countries fell down and vanished in the void dark¬ ness, and with uttermost indifference did the insatiable black womb of the Infinite swallow them.

‘ ‘ Halt! ’ ’ ordered the emperor.

In his voice sounded already a note of indifference, his hands dropped in languor, and in the vain struggle with the onrushing darkness his fiery eyes now blazed up, and now went out.

“My life you have taken from me, Lazarus,” said he in a spiritless, feeble voice.

And these words of hopelessness saved him. He remembered his peo¬ ple, whose shield he was destined to be, and keen salutary pain pierced his deadened heart. “They are doomed to death,” he thought wearily. “Serene shadows in the darkness of the Infinite,” thought he, and horror grew upon him. “Frail vessels with living, seething blood, with a heart that knows sorrow and also great joy,” said he in his heart, and tenderness pervaded it.

Thus pondering and oscillating between the poles of Life and Death, he slowly came back to life, to find in its suffering and in its joys a shield against the darkness of the void and the horror of the Infinite.

“No, you have not murdered me, Lazarus,” said he firmly, “but I will take your life. Begone.”

That evening the deified Augustus partook of his meats and drinks with particular joy. Now and then his lifted hand remained suspended in the air, and a dull glimmer replaced the bright sheen of his fiery eye. It was the cold wave of Horror that surged at his feet. Defeated, but not undone, ever awaiting its hour, that Horror stood at the emperor’s bedside, like a black shadow all

LAZARUS


through his life, it swayed his nights, but yielded the days to the sorrows and joys of life.

The following day, the hangman with a hot iron burned out Lazarus’ eyes. Then he was sent home. The deified Augustus dared not kill him.

T azarus returned to the desert,

' and the wilderness met him with hissing gusts of wind and the heat of the blazing sun. Again he was sit¬ ting on a stone, his rough, bushy beard lifted up; and the two black holes in place of his eyes looked at the sky with an expression of dull terror. Afar off the holy city stirred noisily and restlessly, but around him every¬ thing was deserted and dumb. No one approached- the place where lived he who had miraculously risen from the dead, and long since his neigh¬ bors had forsaken their houses. Driv¬

en by the hot iron into the depth of his skull, his cursed knowledge hid there in an ambush. As if leaping out from an ambush it plunged its thousand invisible eyes into the man, and no one dared look at Lazarus.

And in the evening, when the sun, reddening and growing wider, would come nearer and nearer the western horizon, the blind Lazarus would slowly follow it. He would stumble against stones and fall, stout and weak as he was; would rise heavily to his feet and walk on again; and on the red screen of the sunset his black body and outspread hands would form a monstrous likeness of a cross.

And it came to pass that once he went out and did not come back. Thus seemingly ended the second life of him who for three days had been under the enigmatical sway of death, and rose miraculously from the dead.

Fairy Lullaby*

By WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

(Reprint)

You spotted snakes, with double tongue,

Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen; Newts, and blindworms, do no wrong,

Come not near our fairy queen.

Weaving spiders, come not here: Hence, you long-legg’d spinners, hence;

Beetles black, approach not near; Worm, nor snail, do no offense.

CHORUS Philomel, with melody,

Sing in our sweet lullaby;

Lulla, lulla, lullaby; lulla, lulla, lullaby: Never harm, nor spell, nor charm,

Come our lovely lady nigh:

So, good night, with lullaby.

From "A Midsummer Night’s Dream."

W E SURELY started something when we put the question to you, the readers, in The Eyrie for January: “.Shall we continue to use one re¬ print story in each issue, or do you wish nothing but new stories? 5 ’ The answer is decidedly in favor of a continuance of the reprints—one in each issue. The quotation from Peter O’Dactylle’s letter in The Eyrie of the same issue has made the Edgar Allan Poe fans writhe and chew up several lengths of the parlor carpet. “For the sake of a long-suffering public,” wrote Mr. O’Dactylle, “please don’t print any more of Poe’s tales, as they leave us with a taste in our mouth like a yellow dog. If Ligeia is his best, then God have pity on his worst! ’ ’

“Please do not ever discontinue the Weird Story Reprint department,” writes Harvey W. Flink, of Centre Hall, Pennsylvania. “This is the de¬ partment in your wonderful magazine that I like best. Almost every writer of note has tried his hand at writing a weird tale. Some of these are medi¬ ocre; some are very good. One of the missions of Weird Tales is to sort out the good ones and publish them. Only in this way can the magazine help us to become familiar with the world’s best weird fiction. I suggest that you discontinue including Poe’s stories; there are many others, not as well known, but just as good.”

A contrary view is expressed by Charles T.. Hamilton, of Leavenworth, Kansas, who writes: “As to the reprints, for God’s sake, stop them! They only take up valuable space that could be used to better advantage.” And he adds: “We have formed a club here in Leavenworth called ‘The Weird Tales Club’ to discuss the stories in Weird Tales, and in our opinion The Last Horror is a wonderful piece of work, one of the best, if not the best, that Colter ever wrote, so give it first place in the January issue.”

W. L. Mason, Jr., of St. Louis, writes: “I would like to suggest that in¬ stead of having Weird Story Reprints you would have a section in which readers might exchange weird experiences, such as weird dreams, etc. I think such a column would find great favor with Weird Tales readers.”

Writes Carlisle I). Scott, of Colfax, Illinois: “I have never written to The Eyrie before, but when I saw the ‘rap’ made by a certain gentleman in De¬ troit about Poe’s story, Ligeia, I decided to write right away, at once, imme¬ diately. If he has read Poe’s stories and does not like them he is perfectly free to ‘rap’ (for himself), but I do not think that he has any license to make any statement about ‘a suffering public,’ for I am sure that I can find as many people who do like some of his stories as he can find people who do

THE EYRIE


not like any of them. I am sure that Poe was one of the greatest story writers who ever wrote in English. Continue the reprints, by all means. Some of the stories that have made the greatest impression with me have been your re¬ prints. Among the best that you have printed I will mention The Upper Berth by Crawford, The Mask of the Bed Death by Poe, and The Horla by Guy de Maupassant. The Horla was my introduction to Maupassant, and since reading it I have been looking up his works and now have three books of his short stories in my possession. I think the reprints should be con¬ tinued because of their great literary value.”

A. Bumard, of Providence, Rhode Island, complains that “the December reprint would not have frightened an elderly spinster—and I am a 16-yearold bookworm. ,Think that over! Remember the war-cry of your readers— Keep Them Weird! I certainly like Jules de Grandin with that little ex¬ planatory ‘I say to me’ of his. I can find but one fault with the January W. T.—you do not make your ‘favorite’ section of your readers’ ballot large enough.”

Writes Ernest Francis, of Hampton Bays, New York: “I have read your magazine for almost twelve months and have never had cause to regret it. I write today because of the special enchantment of reading The Last Hor¬ ror, by Eli Colter. Let me congratulate you on printing that truly marvel¬ ous story. I like it for its utter magnificence. ’ ’

H. C. Newman, of San Diego, California, writes to The Eyrie: “Two short years ago I first bought Weird Tales, and I’ve not missed a copy since. I’ve taken the magazine to logging camps, citizens’ military training camps, and now I am in the Navy. Everywhere I go, your magazine is popular, from the way my ‘buddies’ grab it after I have read every story. I don’t like The Star Shell for the reason that it is such an interesting story that I can hardly wait for the installments. Give us more animal and insect stor¬ ies like The City of Spiders.”

Writes Lennart Larson, of Seattle: “Your readers have sent letters to The Eyrie saying they want Weird Tales to stay weird. I’m with them. Although I am only thirteen years old I like stories that are different and imaginative. My vote for the best story in Weird Tales for the last twelve issues is Wolfshead, by Robert E. Howard. As one of your readers, I ask for more werewolf stories. Quinn, I think, is the best of all your authors.”

Charles C. Hampel, of Los Angeles, sends to The Eyrie a letter in verse. We are sorry that we have not room to print all of it, but a quotation will give you the gist of the poem:

‘ ‘ Tales of witchcraft, tales of horror,

Tales that make your blood rim cold,

Tales that fairly chill your marrow,

Tales the weirdest ever told;

In the dead of night I read them,

Jump at every little sound,

In the rustlings and the creakings,

In my thoughts, there, ghosts abound.”

“Speaking of good stories,” writes E. Hoffmann Price, author of The Pea¬ cock’s Shadow, “I nominate for the 1926 hall of fame The Supreme Witch in the October issue, for it combined the weirdness essential to the magazine with the difficult trick of making the characters human, and acting and think422


ing like human beings. There you have the quintessence of art. If the author can duplicate that feat, let him try it; but first threaten him with crucifixion if he tries and fails.”

“In the January magazine you gave us a modern version of Leonora,” writes Mrs. Ray E. Adcock* of Willcox, Arizona, and adds: “Why not give us the original legend sometime in the near future? In The Horror at Red Hook the author mentions Lilith several times. Why not give us the full story or legend of Lilith, too ? I know nothing of her except that she was the first wife of Adam, and I should like to know all about her.”

Writes Grace Stiles, of Minneapolis: “I think that Drome is a thriller. I can hardly wait to receive the next copy. The man who wrote that story must have a master-mind. ’ ’

“Give us more poems,” writes John B. Woodhouse, of Washington, D. C. “Such poems as The Dance of Death, Starkey Strang, The Caves of KooliKan, Grave Chains and The Ballade of Phantom Ships are as good as the stories. Please cut out the reprint stories. They are not as good as the new stories. I am an admirer of your scientific and weird-scientific stories; they are the best. The Night Wire is just about the best story you have published since I have been reading W. T.”

“I have been reading Weird Tales from the first issue published,” writes Helmuth B. Stiller, of Milwaukee. “It was always great reading and is be¬ coming greater still, inasmuch qs it adapts itself to the wishes of the readers in giving them the kind of stories they want. The Horror at Red Hook, by H. P. Lovecraft, is in my opinion the best in the January issue, with The Last Horror, by Eli Colter, a close second; the new serial, Drome, also prom¬ ises to be excellent. You can never give me too many of Lovecraft’s yarns.”

Readers, your favorite story in the January issue, as shown by your bal¬ lots, was The Last Horror, by Eli Colter, with the new serial, Drome, by John Martin Leahy, in second place. What is your favorite stoiy in the present issue?

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE MARCH WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )- -

( 2 )---

(3)--- -

I do not like the following stories: - Why? _

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 450 E. Ohio St., Chicago, Ill.

Reader’s name and address:

THE BLOOD-FLOWER

The Blood-Flower

(Continued from page 330)

ly till it was nearly twice its normal size, her nose seemed lengthening, becoming more pointed, and crooking sharply at the end. Her eyes, of sweet cornflower blue, were widening, be¬ coming at once round and prominent, and changing to a wicked, phosphor¬ escent green. I stared and stared, unable to believe the evidence of my eyes, and as I looked she raised her hands from beneath the covers, and I went sick with the horror of it. The dainty, flowerlike pink-and-white hands with their well-manicured nails were transformed into a pair of withered, corded talons armed with long, hornlike, curved claws, sabersharp and hooked like the nails of some predatory bird. Before my eyes a sweet, gently bred woman was be¬ ing transfigured into a foul hell-hag, a loathsome, hideous parody of her¬ self.

“Quickly, Friend Trowbridge, seize her, bind her!” de Grandin called, thrusting a handful of the limber withes into my grasp and hurling himself upon the monstrous thing which lay in Edith Evander’s place.

The hag fought like a true mem¬ ber of the wolf pack. Howling, claw¬ ing, growling and snarling, she op¬ posed tooth and nail to our efforts, but at last we lashed her wrists and ankles firmly with the wooden cords and bore her. struggling frantically, down the stairs and placed her within the mystic circle de Grandin had drawn on the dining room floor.

“Inside, Friend Trowbridge, quick¬ ly!” the Frenchman ordered as he dipped the hyssop into the boiling liquid in the kettle and leaped over the chalk marks. “Mademoiselle Os¬ trander, Monsieur Evander, for your lives, leave the house!”

Reluctantly the husband and nurse left us and de Grandin began show¬ ering the contorting, howling thing on the floor with liquid from the boil¬ ing kettle.

Swinging his hyssop in the form of a cross above the hideous change¬ ling’s head, he uttered some invoca¬ tion so rapidly that I failed to catch the words, then, striking the wolfwoman’s feet, hands, heart and head in turn with his bundle of twigs, he drew forth a small black book and began reading in a firm, clear voice: “Out of the deep have I called un¬ to Thee, 0 Lord; Lord hear my voice. . . .”

And at the end he finished with a great shout: “I know that my re¬ deemer liveth . ... I am the resurrec¬ tion and the life, saitli the Lord: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live! >>

As the words sounded through the room it seemed to me that a great cloud of shadow, like a billow of black vapor, rose from the dark cor¬ ners of the apartment, eddied toward the circle of lamps, swaying their flames lambently, then suddenly gave back, evaporated and disappeared with a noise like steam escaping from a boiling kettle.

“Behold, Trowbridge, my friend,” de Grandin ordered, pointing to the still figure which lay over the sign of Mercury at his feet,

I bent forward, stifling my repupiance, then sighed with mingled relief and surprize. Calm as a sleep¬ ing child, Edith Evander, freed from all the hideous stigmata of the wolfpeople, lay before us, her slender hands, still bound in the wooden ropes, crossed on her breast, her sweet, delicate features as though



they had never been disfigured by the curse of the blood-flower.

Loosing the bonds from her wrists and feet the Frenchman picked the sleeping woman up in his arms and bore her to her bedroom above stairs.

“Do you summon her husband and the nurse, my friend,” he called from the turn in the stairway. “She will have need of both anon.”

“mn— why, she’s herself again!”

» ' Evander exclaimed joyfully as he leaned solicitously above his wife’s bed.

“But of course!” de Grandin agreed. ‘ ‘ The spell of evil was strong upon her, Monsieur, but the charm of good was mightier. She is released from her bondage for all time. ’ ’

“I’ll have your fee ready tomor¬ row,” Evander promised diffidently. “I could not arrange the mortgages today—it was rather short notice, you know.”

Laughter twinkled in de Grandin’s little blue eyes like the reflection of moonlight on flowing water. “My friend,’’ he replied, “I did make the good joke on you last night. Parbleu, to hear you agree to anything, and to announce that you did trust to my methods, as well, was payment enough for me. I want not your money.. If you would repay Jules de Grandin for his services, continue to love and cherish your wife as you did last night when you feared you were about to lose her. Me, morbleu! but I shall make the eyes of my con¬ freres pop with jealousy when I tell them what I have accomplished this night. Sang d’u.i poisson, I am one very clever man, Monsieur!”

“Tt’s all a mystery to me, de Gran-

*- din,” I confessed as we drove home, “but I’m hauged if I can un¬ derstand how it was that the man was transformed into a monster al¬ most as soon as lie wore those flowers,

and the woman resisted the influence of the things for a week or more. ’ ’

“Yes,” he agreed, “that is strange. Myself, I think it was because werewolfism is an outward and visible sign of the power of evil, and the man was already steeped in sin, while the woman was pure in heart. She had what we might call a higher im¬ munity from the virus of that sinful blood-flower.”

“And wasn’t there some old legend to the effect that a werewolf could only be killed with a silver bullet?”

“Ah bah,” he replied with a laugh. “What did those old legend-mongers know of the power of modem fire¬ arms? Parbleu, had the good St. George possessed a military rifle of today, he might have slain the dragon without approaching nearer than a mile! When I did shoot that wolfman, my friend, I had something more powerful than superstition in my hand. Morbleu, but I did shoot a hole in him large enough for him to have walked through!”

“That reminds me,” I added, “how are we going to explain his body to the police?”

“Explain?” he echoed with a chuckle. “Nom d’un bouc, we shall not explain: I, myself, did dispose of him this very afternoon. He lies buried beneath the roots of an ash tree, with a stake of ash through his heart to hold him to the earth. His sinful body will rise again no more to plague us, I do assure you. He was known to have a habit of disap¬ pearing. Very good.. This time there will be no reappearance. We are through, finished, done with him for good.”

We drove another mile or so in silence, then my companion nudged me sharply in the ribs. “This cur¬ ing of werewolf ladies, my friend,” he confided, “it is dry work. Are you sure there is a full bottle of brandy in the cellar?”


Different Stories

T O THOSE who like stories that are utterly different, WEIRD TALES offers a rich feast of wonderful reading. Weird stories such as Poe used to write; bizarre and fantastic tales of unearthly beauty; imaginative weird-scientific tales that peer into the marvels of the future; stories that take one out of the humdrum environment of everyday life into a death¬ less world of the imagination. In this commonplace world of ours, you can still thrill to romance and high adventure in the pages of WEIRD TALES. Among the many fascinating stories in the next few issues will be: "

THE MASTER OF DOOM, by Donald Edward Key hoe

A weird tale that sweeps 600 years Into the future, when the vaulting ambition of an evil genius remakes the world to his own liking—a tale of startling possibilities.

THE VEILED PROPHETESS, by Seabury Quinn

An eery, tale about the fascinating little French doctor, Jules de Grandin, that shows the intrepid ghost-breaker in an adventure of dark intrigue and occult dangers.

A SUITOR FROM THE SHADES, by Greye La Spina

The story of a jealous lover who reached back from the grave to blight the happiness of his sweetheart, using the life forces of a frail girl to materialize himself.

THE ARCTIC DEATH, by Wilford Allen

Out of the North it came, that dread death that touched every living thing with a killing cold—till a great scientist went forth to fight it.

THE ENDOCRINE MONSTER, by R. Anthony

She dwelt alone and unharmed by a South American river, a beautiful girl, affable and well-liked; but those who came too near her cabin were found in the jungle with the life crushed out of their bodies.

THE CASTLE OF TAMARA, by Maria Moravsky

A weird romance of the Caucasus Mountains, through which runs an eldritch thread of horror—a dramatic love-tale, replete with eery thrills.

THE DARK CHRYSALIS, by Eli Colter

Here we have, at last, the epic of the microbe-hunters—a scientific thrilltale of gripping interest and dramatic suspense built around the dread scourge of cancer—by the author of “The Last Horror.”

T HESE are but a few of the many super-excellent stories in store for the readers of WEIRD TALES. To make sure of getting your copy each month, and thus avoid the embarrassment of finding your favorite news stand sold out, just fill out the coupon below and let us send it right to your home. That’s the safest way.

WEIRD TALES, 460 E. Ohio St., Chicago, HI.



HEALING THE UNSEEN WAY

The Mighty Unseen Powers are Yours Even as You Will

Let them heal, comfort and prosper you Do It Now!

Give symptoms or desires. Name, address and Free Will Offering for Demonstration r~* Instruction and Be Convinced. Aquarian Circle,

PERSONAL

Appearance

The City of Glass

(Continued from page 316) ing, followed by a tremendous crack¬ ling.

Looking down the avenue I saw a huge smudge rising between the houses. Almost at once there came an indescribable stench which filled our little chamber and sent us chok¬ ing and gasping to the doors.

“We can burn it out,” said the professor, “but this gaseous matter produced by the burning fungi will soon smother us.. If we could create a draft of some sort or provide a means for the smudge to escape—ah, I have it; we’ll cut a few holes in the great glass dome which surrounds Atlantis.”

I had forgotten for the time being that Atlantis was enclosed in glass. Between us and the heavens above was a thick dome of solid glass barely visible in the thick, steamy Atlantean atmosphere. For a moment I won¬ dered what new idea he had hit upon; the glass was quite out of reach so far as we were concerned. But his trained scientific mind had seen the possibility immediately. Without another word he began pulling the levers anew, and I saw the great lens slowly swing about. But the concentrated beam, instead of shoot¬ ing upward, had turned down. Then I noticed for the first time a series of huge glass prisms which were built into a steel framework just beneath the lens. These, as I was shortly to see, would bend the ray until it could be played against the skies.

The ray was now turned toward the heavens. For a moment it rested there and then the professor swung it around in a great circle. Presently there came an ear-splitting crash not unlike that which comes on the heels of a bright flash of lightning. Some¬ thing hurtled down out of the air be¬ fore us, smashing against the roofWEIRD TALES


tops with the sound of a thousand cymbals. The ray had cut a circular piece from the dome above us. On the heels of the crash there came a light pattering on the pavement out¬ side.

“Why, it’s raining,” I shouted, running to the door.

“Don’t go out,” admonished the professor. “That isn’t rain; it’s molt¬ en glass falling from the dome. Luckily we’re protected.”

Six more disks the professor cut from the dome before turning the force of the beam back upon the spreading fungi. By this time the stuff was gathering like great drifts of soiled snow in the square below us. We had found our weapon none too soon! The beam from the lens now turned back into the street leading to the bridge; there came another hissing and crackling, followed by the same stench. This time, however, the smudge rolled upward and dispersed in the heavens.

Professor Lome held the beam in the same spot for three hours before we could see our way clear to the bridge, moving it only occasionally to bum back die stuff which threat¬ ened to creep and engulf us from below.

“I think we had better be starting now,” he announced, finally. “These Atlanteans were great chemists. I have no doubt there are vast stores of chemicals situated in different parts of the city. The fungus to the west is now dried up to the point where it is slowly burning. Should it reach some of these stored chem¬ icals we might be all blown into the heavens. And the road to the bridge is now open. ’ ’

With that we climbed quickly down the ladder and made our way through a veritable canyon of burnt fungi to¬ ward the bridge of the city. On either side there was a hissing and roaring as the dried fungi smoldered away without the aid of the sun-glass.

Are you lovable? Are you kind or cruel ? Industrious and energetic? Is your dis¬ position attractive? Are you well liked by your friends or are you unpopular? Have you the <> 4 ® makings of success and wealth ?

AGENTS $6 A DAY

, taking orders for Non-Alcohol¬ ic Pood Flavors. Every variety. Put up in collapsible tubes. Always fresh. Three times the strength of bottled flavors. Not sold in stores. Past repeaters. Big income every day.

. Men and Women

Hme can make 10 to $9 a day.

rASUM

Learn the Truth !\

BIG 20c BARGAIN

only 20c. Just Bay "Sand Big Bargain.”

HOWARD SALES CO.,

Dank B, 11 ea-Fol.om st. San Francisco, Cal,



A3 T Beautifully made 7 shot automatic with improved safety, 25 cal. . . . * 7.35 y/*J\

PAY POSTMAN ON DELI VERY, plus postage. &J/I Consumers Co., Dept. 21, 34 W.28th St.,N.Y.

mmsssm

j;

r gar«t Sanger, 7 sreat Birtb^Controf Advocate. 3BND NO MONEY. Par peatman «2.89 and SINCERE PUB. CO.. 24 UMt 21ST, I.V.C. 0EPT.544

WHY PAY THE PRICE ?

D. D. PEP!

-For a quick pick-up, in 15 minutes—ImParts Vigor—Strength—Vitality

Comes in plain wrapper. Guaranteed refunded. $1.00 cash

YOUTH!'

53 South Oiford St..

h or money ord

L LABORATORIES

Ivoryite Handles FREE

*iii i

si’nTWSS&i™ _

EDWAKDS IMPORT TRADING CORP.

358 Broadway, Dept. G-l, New York, N. X.

t

>,32cal MILITARY AUTOMATIC

Note the price $7.89

250 B roX% E : S St^A , CO «.w York

UNDERGROUND TREASURES. Simple sci— tiflc method for locating. Free booklet explains. 1. Santschi, Glen Ellyn, Ill.

The heat was well-nigh unbearable. Undoubtedly all of us would have perished were it not for the chem¬ ically treated garments in which the Atlanteans had clothed us from the beginning. As it was, we reached the bridge that spanned the moat, the professor and I carrying Constance between us.

‘‘Hurry,’’ he urged. “We can not pause, even here. Should the fire reach the chemicals we would surely be destroyed.”

And he was right! Scarcely had we reached the rim of encireling hills when a huge ball of white vapor, clearly discernible in the thick smudge, arose over the doomed city. For an instant it hovered there and then shot upward like a gigantic rub¬ ber ball pushed by some unseen hand from the inferno below.

PIMPLES

cleared up—often in 24 hours. To prove you can be rid of pimples, blackheads, acne eruptions on the face or body, barbers’ itch, eczema, enlarged pores, oily or shiny skin,

n‘“ P oMI S Xn.“°Cli«H-TofE m «“ d 7veT 100,000

cases— used like toilet water—is simply magical in prompt results. You can repay the favor by telling yonr friends; if not

E.S. GIVENS, 466 Chemical Bldg., Kama.City, Mo.

Stop Whiskey

An Odorless and Tasteless Treatment Any lady can give it secretly at home in tea, coffee or food, and It costs nothing to try! If you have a husband, son, brother, father or friend who Is a victim of whiskey, beer or wine, send your name and address to Dr. J. W. Haines Co., 1211 Glenn Bldg., Cincinnati, Ohio, and they will send you absolutely free, in plain wrapper, a trial package of this wonderful treatment. Write today and be thankful all

r life.

4or6®,

Barrel

6-Shot_

Long Range Revolt'

This gun "free'’ If V

,

caliber. Powerful,accurate,hard v hitting. Money backguarantce.

Pay on delivery $E>.75. Federal Rail Order, 561 Broadway. New York, Dept. X-110



Quickly on the heels of it there came a terrific explosion which rocked the earth about us until we reeled drunkenly against the rocks. Then came a blast of livid air that hurled us over backward on the sands. In the short second between the shock and the blast I had my last picture of Atlantis—a picture well in keeping with the horrors of that thrice-accursed land. The monster pall of smoke had mushroomed out in the heavens until it took on the form of a gigantic cobra, upraised on its scaly belly, the hood outspread and menacing. The crash came, the hooded head struck at the heavens.

When I arose and looked again, only a thin veil of black vapor on the horizon marked the spot where once had flourished this, the strangest of cities. And as I gazed, even this faded against the blue and was lost forever.

I might continue my account in a description of the hardships that were yet to be our lot before we were finally picked up, almost dead from thirst, by a caravan in the desert. But these events were of so prosaic and commonplace a nature compared with what we had just been through that I have seen fit to end my story here.

So far as I know, no one but us es¬ caped from Atlantis. Oddly enough we could find not a single trace of the debris when we returned on a second expedition, though in one of the gullies which must have been un¬ der the palace walls we came upon a skeleton, the bones of which were curiously tom and mangled. Luck¬ ily, Constance, who had now become Mrs. Garth, was not a member of our party, and so Professor Lome and I buried the bones in the gully where we found them, raising a cairn of stones above the spot, on which we marked the name of Colin Penfield.

LUCK

All around you therejis abundant Success, Wealth and Happiness. Get Your Share. The “LUCKY SEVEN” Secret Rules are free to all who wear this Rare and beauti¬ ful Talisman Ring. On each side of this Odd and Charming Ring ia moulded the figure of Fortuna — The "Goddess of Luck” symbolic of Success Triumphant. Ancient belief, that her emblem brings —

_wearer in Love. Games

Business, Health and everything. Genuine 14-K Antique Gold 8. Ring mounted with 32 facet, one carat Radio-Flash Mexican Diamond type gem. Wonderful reproducion of a $500 Genuine Diamond in brilliancy. Cut and Flashing Rainbow Fire. Guaranteed 20 years. Send strip of paper to show finger sise and we will Bend this wonderful ring. On arrival pay the post¬ man only $3.68. plus postage. Nothing more to pay. Yours to keep, wear and enjoy forever. Wear 7 days and 7 nights—follow the 7 rules that we send you.- If not satisfied your money quickly returned. Address Radio-Flash Gem importing Co.. Si. Paul. 1110. Dapt. 37-LX.

What Do You Want?

Whatever it is we can help you get it. Just give us the chance by writing for

“Clouds Dispelled"

Absolutely Free. You will be delighted. Aet today! Write NOW!!

THE BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT

Dept. O, Box 1523, Los Angeles, Calif.

GOVT.

POSITIONS

office clerk, carrier and field clerk positions. $1500 to $4500 year. Write for free particulars.

DEPT. 80$, DENVER, COLO.

PICTURES Sffi£

CATALOG 10c

D SALES CO.. Dept. 7. 1188 Folssm Street

SAN FRANCISCO. CAL.

MAGIC:;

i Dice. $5.00: Cards, $1.25; Inks, .50; Magic Fluid for Transpar- —its, $3.00; Slick Ace Cards. $1.25; Factory Readers, $1.00. Sales Boards, etc.

CENTRAL NOVELTY COMPANY 118 N. La Salle Street, Chicago, Ill.

OLD MONEY WANTED *g«

dreds of Old or Odd Coins. Keep All Old Mon¬ ey, it may be very valuable. Send 10 cents for New Illustrated Coin Value Book, 4x6. Guaran¬ teed Prices. Get Posted. We pay cash.

CLARKE COIN CO., — " “— ~-— —



Hand - Engraved Gold Gun

This Hand Ejector has the popular 6 shot 1 swing-out cylinder with cylinder lock. Made with great precision; mechanism of the cylin¬ der is perfectly balanced and cannot clog or get out of line. Cannot be discharged acci¬ dently. ^Note the^extra locking device under.

t('Sit'd; written pTnranteo Boes'with every sun 5 Pearl Handles can also be had in $3.00 extra. FREE HOLSTER GIVEH if you send remittance with order. Blue or Nickel Finish

plusPpostage** 5 SEND NO MONEY UPWARDS IMPORT TRADING CORP. 268 Broadway Dept. G-l

WANT NEW PEP QUICK?

SEX EXPLAINED!

“THE SCIENCE OP A NEW IAFE,” Dr. Cowan’s book tells in plain language sex secrets worth hundreds of dollars. Explains the truth about love, marriage, childbirth, health, hy¬ giene, diseases, sexual anatomy and physiology, birth control, etc. Over 310 pages. Illustrated. Cloth-bound. Price, including two other valu¬ able sex books, $2.50 postpaid. (C. O. D. 19c extra.) Mailed in plain wrapper. Satisfaction guaranteed.

Globe Publishing Co., Div. 206, Syracuse, N. T.

$055

SPECIALLY PRICED

LATEST MODEL

Extra pair genuine white boneite h cleaning brash andohfree for a; limit(

Nickelor-...

All same price. S6.M. WrtttMICI calibre. Send no money, pay po.man on oenvory.

Consumers Co., Dept. 8CE, 34 W. 28th St. NX City

r short barrel.’

TODACCO&MW

600(000 Meo and Wool


The Seventh Symphony

(Continued from page 336)

then, without waiting for any reply, he resumed his walk, muttering to himself all the while. We covered some six blocks more. Again the doc¬ tor stopped. He clapped his hands to his head, dislodging his hat, but made no effort to recover it. When I handed it to him he clapped it on wrong side foremost. Suddenly he rushed at me, grasped my hands in his, and began working them like a pump-handle in his excitement. I had never seen him in so exuberant a mood before.

“ ‘And the children shall be wise,’ ” he cried, “ ‘and the wise men shall be as children. ’ How does the quotation run?” Then, linking his arms through mine, he solemnly turned me round, as though upon parade, and we started back again at a prodigious rate of speed.

~“Wll 4 t is it? Have yoa solved the problem:?” I asked.

The ddetor came to a full JvtAt nnce more. \

‘i&oyou iftemn to tell me you don’t know?” he erica.- .And when I ad¬ mitted my ignorance he burst into peals of mighty laughter. He hur¬ ried me along breathlessly. And yet I knew in my heart that his happi¬ ness was not for the solution which he had found, but for the sake of Celaye. We reached the apartment at last, and the astonished elevator boy, more sleepy than ever, took us up and deposited us at Celaye’s door. We rang six times before Celaye came out, wild-eyed and haggard. He stared at us, not in anger, but amaze¬ ment.

“You—you were here before— were you not?” he gasped. “My mind must be unhinged. Yes, I re¬ member it. You could not help me.


NEXT MONTH

Explorers Into Infinity

By RAY CUMMINGS 'T'his is without doubt the most original interplanetary story ever written. Ray Cummings is v^idely known as a writer of start¬ ling pseudo-scientific fiction, being the, author of “The Girl in the Golden Atom” and other books; but he has surpassed himself in this new story.

A tale of a madcap adventure, a voyage through space—and what a voyage! Whole starry uni¬ verses flash through this story; meteors explode against the sides of the interstellar craft; giants dwindle down out of unfathomable bigness—beings so vast that a sec¬ ond of their time takes whole yeai*s of ours. The tale gives a sensa¬ tional glimpse into the scientific development of the future. An astounding plot, but so convincing¬ ly told that the story seems utter¬ ly real. This amazing weirdscientific tale will begpfc.

in the

April issue of


The Unique Magazine

On Sale March 1

Clip and Mail this coupon today l

Chicago, Ill.

Enclosed find $1 for special 5 months sub¬ scription to “Weird Tales” to begin with the April issue. (Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon).

And what was it I said to you, doc¬ tor? Something unpleasant? If so, forgive me.”

The doctor flung his arm around the young man’s shoulder and fairly dragged him into the room. The cello still stood propped against the wall.

“You wouldn’t let me touch it this evening,” cried Brodsky, snapping his fingers playfully in the man’s face. “A fig for your whims. Play it yourself. Play the piece your wife loved so well—play her transcription of the ‘Heartbeat March’ from the seventh symphony.” He swung Celaye round until he faced him. ‘ ‘ Play it,” he repeated, looking into his eyes.

Celaye’s face grew fixed. He could no longer resist. Mechanically he walked across the room, took the bow from the floor, where it still lay, drew up a chair, and settled himself before the instrument. He drew the bow across the strings.

And again that rush of thunderous discords broke from the cello. *t squeake-d. and groaned, and/the bow -rattled an! scraped and whined. Ce¬ laye’s eyes opened almost, -us wide as mine; he dtopped thos’bow and sprang from his ehf. : n us though there were a nail in it.

“Well, sir,” said Brodsky slowly, though his eyes twinkled, “ghosts have been blamed and doctors called impostors for better reasons than that. How in thunder do you expect even the grandest living player to bring forth music when you forget to tune your cello? And look at that bow! You’ve left them for months, sir, and expect them to prove service¬ able. Get a new bow, sir, and tune those strings, and don’t blame your own negligence upon those who are not responsible.”

NOTE.—The next story in this series, The Chairs of Stuyvesant Baron, will be published in Weird Tales next month.

Missing Advertisement Page

gz^

r «ln On • Orta

CfirW. im- '• mXi>«

•r. A. C ?“S! *? . t ,

ife(*Y* * < * v ‘* t •**» *■

M Mil** On P« <MOo«m

ijiigpr °- • r -"-

With This Amazing Device

I Drove 1300 Miles

Without Buying Gasoline

vnlton on mr I^«U* W»<o Hn.wn.»ill*. TrMi *»d Tunv- ,.ko. MrxW-T. L. Brown.

INTER NATIONAL

TRUCKS *•»*• 41%

••I rind II Ml. r than >••«. .* ooimrnd ll On th. lnt.m»- llonnl TnKk »* u«*. »* *»

Min.ll W «e»t O 1“^

uu< kn* <*l." Crwit Bell.

I. T. C. 8tm«£y. VWe-riy.1-

<tent. J.

liwnitoo ■ n-l aylk*i tk*

ynMlkii'tl tf^lwonUli I" w Mtlnflnl u*<r» nil owr In.

««U. .

(Slxn.tl) 1-0 S<r»n-V'

Vk*0’rv-|.\nt k.iB-nlUd nnd nw.'rn to b*- fn... ....• |M« ;>^h d«> of NomoUr. IM*

lKlk-r,.d> 1'rt.mt ll.nes* .

NoU.y Pub);..

$75 to $200 In A Week!

The STRANSKY £232222215221

VAPORIZER I

Saves Gasoline i

J k SIRAXSKY. MFC. CO.. F*wMa. 1 »- I

DtFT. C-IM 0 -n I ***“-

Resource. S 500 , 000.00 | ...-- i —-

[THE END]
