============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 25, Number 5
Date: May 1935
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Yellow Doom Robert H" by Leitfred
  2. "The Bronze Casket Richard H" by Hart
  3. "Beyond the Black River Robert E" by Howard
  4. "Muggridge’s Aunt August W" by Derleth
============================================================
============================================================
YELLOW DOOM ROBERT H
by Leitfred
============================================================
bar and have a night-cap!”

lord in the world?”

3 ?

ellow Doom

By ROBERT H. LEITFRED

A thrill-tale of the final war against the invading hordes of Asia — a tale of super-science, and death and destruction raining down out of the sky

A luminous streak of flame curved It fell with a hissing rush toward the

down the slant of sky toward a scattered buildings of the United States ^ rocky headland that jutted out naval station at San Diego. No one in the into the Pacific Ocean. immediate vicinity saw from where it



came. Nor did anyone see it strike. But a bare second after that small streak of flame had exploded into a larger flame, men saw with startled eyes the miracle of burning metal.

Licking flames gathered at the base of the steel mast nearest the ocean, crawled insidiously up the latticed frame of steel, turned it red, then white. The glowing heat sapped the strength of the metal. The mast collapsed, dragging the antenna wires with it. The strange flame followed the copper wires to the second mast, enveloped it from the top, and burned swiftly downward to its concrete base. A matter of minutes, and there was nothing but the tangled wreckage of the broadcasting towers.

No one from the ground had seen the swift descent of the luminous streak of flame. Yet two pairs of eyes had seen it from across the breadth of a continent, from a high-flung tower in New York, thousands of miles away. Ether-vision had accomplished the miracle.

"It’s come, Karl,” proclaimed Aaron Carruthers in a tense voice. "The thing we have watched for. The menace we have warned our Government against. Look! San Diego is without its air communication. And it’s my guess that the same thing is happening to the other naval bases along the west coast.”

The speaker surged to his feet before the complicated mechanism of the ethervision panel. This young scientist was a little above medium in height, and his eyes were those of a dreamer, a searcher. 'They were also those of a man who had seen strange and startling things. At present they were grim, thoughtful.

"Sit down, Aaron,” spoke his assistant, Karl Danzig. "We haven’t traced that fireball yet.”

Carruthers sat down, and slowly began to twist the dial controlling the directional

antenna. His eyes burned feverishly at what he saw.

Out of the blue above the glowing steel masts, at such altitude as to be invisible from the naval station, a tiny, wasp-like plane circled slowly. 'Through powerful binoculars its pilot observed the blighting eflfect of his strange bomb.

Apparently satisfied that his task had been completed according to the desire of the powers he served, he masked his slant, oriental eyes in a glow of satisfaction, and headed his wasp-like plane out to sea.

Across the magnetic screen of the ethervision ray flowed other scenes, all alike as to detail — naval stations at San Pedro, San Francisco, and the inland air base at Seattle. Without warning they had been cut off from the outside world.

"Karl!” Carruthers’ voice was tense. "Try again, will you, and see if you can get me Langham’s secretary in Washington. In the meantime I’ll try to trace these strange planes so as to locate the carrier ship at sea.”

As Danzig picked up the electronic phone, the commercial broadcasts of a continent, from the Panama Canal to Alaska, shifted automatically to Federal control as the Intelligence chiefs of the various nations clamped down hard in a sudden censorship.

T hings seemed normal for a time, but for a short time only.

There was a restless murmur in the air. It was like the rustle of waves moving over the sands at high tide. It began at the nation’s capital in Washington and spread fanwise north, south and west. It was the cry of a people confronted with catastrophe, with fear.

Sirens moaned along the grand trunk highway between Washington and New York. 'The nation seethed with turmoil. Men with gaunt faces peered anxiously

W. T.— 2

YELLOW DOOM


into the crowded airways above the city’s high towers. Men with hollow eyes crouched before the screens of television news that flashed the faces and voices of men who controlled the destinies of several nations — ambassadors from Central America, Mexico and Canada. Long ago had these nations absorbed the creed of their sister republic, a nation on whom they could depend in a crisis — the United States of America.

The year was 2000. The day was the seventh of Jupiter, the thirteenth month of the earth’s new calendar. The hour was late in the afternoon as the sun dropped westward in a blood-red haze. A faint afterglow lingered in the sky like the portentous shadow of doom.

What had happened.^ No one knew exactly except the young scientist, Aaron Carruthers. He had known what was coming and had warned official Washington. The Government had ignored his warnings. It had scoffed at what he called his ether-vision ray. Even in the year 2000 men were skeptical of the revolutionary advances being made in science.

Carruthers thought of his past rebuffs, as he climbed aboard a stream-lined rocket ship bound for Washington. He was still thinking about it a half-hour later as he paused before the building on Pennsylvania Avenue wherein the Government of a great nation was centered. And while he waited in the outer offices of the Bureau of Intelligence, destiny moved forward.

In a room high above the avenue, in the same building, twelve dignified men had assembled. They represented the super-cabinet Government. The old order bad passed. Congress and Senate no longer existed. As a relic of the past the two Houses had been discarded for a smaller group. And these twelve men W. T.— 3

were the Government, subject only to the will of the President.

They sat aroimd a long table, in the center of which was built a television saeen. Wordlessly they awaited their chief, who had summoned them into executive session.

He came, through a panel door in the wall, quietly and unannounced, a tall, gaunt man, smooth of jaw, sharpfeatured, with a mane of iron-gray hair brushed severely back from his intellectual forehead. He acknowledged with a slight nod their courtesy’ in rising.

"Be seated, gentlemen.” His voice was low, soft, a Southern drawl.

In turn he faced each man of his cabinet — the conservative, the liberal, the reactionary. But whatever their beliefs, he read the same thought in the eyes of every man — a determination to stand shoulder to shoulder against the menace shadowing their country.

"The day of reckoning has arrived,” began the President. "War? It came without any ultimatum until after the first blow had been struck. Yellow doom overshadows our nation.”

He rustled a single sheet of paper held between his fingers. "We’ll discuss the contents of this ultimatum in a few moments. But first I want to acquaint you with the situation. . . .”

His voice trailed away.

The screen of the Continental newsvision glowed whitely. A shadowy figure began to form. It changed rapidly to the head and shoulders of an Asiatic war lord. There was no mistaking the cold, slanting eyes, the cruel lips, and the needle-pointed mustaches. The face emerging from the electrical impulses of the television screen was nwie c^er than that of Marshal Huen Feng Zaryoti.

The war lord’s thin lips twisted sardonically as he spoke. "To the President,



his super-cabinet, and to the peoples of the United States,” he bowed, "I extend greetings.”

He paused for a moment, then continued.

"The time has arrived when the coffers of our Asiatic dynasty need replenishing. We have come to you for what we need. It will be quite useless to rise up in arms against us. Our armies are like the sands of the sea, our air service like black clouds. Our ships, vast fleets, are already at your doors.”

His second pause was more significant.

"Your President has our ultimatum. Ten hours we give him to comply with our demands. Should he fail to do so, destruction and death will be loosed such as the world has never witnessed. Ten hours. That is positively the limit of time we will allow.”

Once more he bowed. "Then his slant eyes, his cruel lips, and his needle-pointed mustaches faded into cold silver as the screen went dead.

"A clever man,” shrugged the President. "Using our Gjntinental broadcast band. By now nearly everyone in the country should know the danger we are in, . . . Listen, gentlemen, now that Marshal Zaryoti has finished, to a gist of his ultimatum.”

He tapped the desk with finger tips. "First, he demands eighty percent of die gold in our treasury. Second, eighty percent of the gold In National, State and Federal Reserve banks. Third, he seeks full control of our oil, ore, steel and automotive industries. And,” he finished, "he insists on a puppet president to head our Government while I go into voluntary exile.”

F arnsworth, Secretary of the Navy, lunged to his feet. “Not while I head the navy, Mr. President. We’ll crush this thing. . .

An automatic message recorder began to click. The President tore the printed words from the paper roll. "There's your answer, Farnsworth.”

Secretary Farnsworth paled as he read the message aloud. “Fleet steamed out of San Pedro and San Diego at two a. m. on the morning of the seventh day of Jupiter as per secret orders. Signed: Admiral Young, commanding.”

"Well?” demanded the President.

Farnsworth chewed impatiently on his lower lip. "I issued no such order, gentlemen.”

'The President shrugged. "Undoubtedly. Probably the same thing happened to our Air Service at about the same time.”

Gettering, grizzled seaetary of the Eastern and Western air fleets, jumped to his feet. "Mr. President,” he shouted. “I received the order signed by you "

"Never mind finishing,” snapped the President. "I sent no order regarding air maneuvers. Where are our air fleets?”

“The Eastern fleet is scattered over the Atlantic. The Western has been ordered to hold secret maneuvers at Hawaii and the Philippines.”

“The Western fleet can be recalled, can’t it?”

“No, sir.”

"Why not?”

"According to the orders I received, they were not to use their wireless. For twenty-four hours they were to keep in touch with each other by a system of flare lights. It was supposed to be a practise long since abandoned. Anyhow, those were the orders I received.”

The President smiled bleakly. "Well, we still have our old-fashioned army, such as it is, and I have every reason to" believe our soldiers can still shoot.”

“'The use of rifles was abandoned three years ago,” informed the Secretary of

YELLOW DOOM

56J

War. “Most of the men were transferred to tank, transport and chemical service.”

The eyes of the chief executive closed wearily. "I had forgotten. Will someone call in the Qiief of Intelligence? Ten hours is a short time. Prompt action is essential if we are to survive.”

Langham, tall, morose, Qiief of the Bureau of Intelligence, entered the conference room. With him was Aaron Carruthers. No one paid the slightest attention to the young scientist. All eyes were riveted on the sphinx-like face of Langham.

The President spoke. “Did your screen pick up Zaryoti?”

"It did, Mr. President.”

"You are aware, of course, what conversation took place in this council chamber?”

Langham nodded. "It’s my business to hear everything.”

"Very well. We have less than ten hours to prepare for war with a mighty power — ten hours before the enemy begins to close in on us along the Pacific seaboard. The bulk of our air force, the powerful Western fleet, is thousands of miles away and out of radio communication. And our sea fleet is seventeen hours from land.”

“I understand, perfectly.”

"It is also apparent, Langham, that you have not properly guarded this building. Orders have been stolen, signatures forged — all inside work. Zaryoti has outwitted us at the very start.”

Girruthers made a sudden gesture. It was an instinctive reflex, the sort of movement one would make in the darkness to ward off an object he could not see, but could almost feel. His eyes at that moment were on the floor. Suddenly they lifted upward. He backed away from the spot, his clenched hands qnivering, his

breath snagging somewhere in the back of his throat.

His fingers closed over Langham’s arm. "Wait!” he cautioned, tensely. "Say nothing. Not now.” His deep-set eyes were veiled with warning shadows.

'Who is this man?” demanded the President.

"Aaron Girruthers,” answered Langham. "He wired in the first news of disaster. He’s the one man who knows ”

"Nonsense,” brusked the President. "Get him out of this room. This discussion ”

"Sorry to interrupt,” broke in Langham, imperturbably, "but we need him in this crisis. Once we turned him down. That was a grave mistake. To do so now would be to invite disaster of the first magnitude.”

"Enough,” snapped the President, irritably. "My orders are to send him from this room. At once.”

The eyes of Aaron Carruthers hardened. "I’m sorry, Mr. President. I should have known better than to offer my services a second time. I’ll leave as you have ordered. But ”

His voice held a threat of menace to come. "I want to warn you, Mr. President, and also the members of your supercabinet, that there is an agent of Marshal Huen Feng Zaryoti present in this room.”

The President and his cabinet eyed the speaker as if he had suddenly gone mad.

"I hope I’ve made myself clear,” finished the young scientist. "If I haven’t. I’ll repeat my words. There is an agent of Marshal Zaryoti present in this room listening to everything being said and planned. No. Don’t glare at me or at one another. The man I refer to can not be seen — he’s invisible.”

"Lan^aro?” The President’s drawling voice cut through ffie dazed silence fol564


lowing Carruthers’ last words. "Are you certain this man hasn’t lost his reason?”

The sphinx-like face of Langham had not changed in the slightest. If the news came as a shodc to him, his face revealed no sign of it. "I know Carruthers quite well, Mr. President. As I remarked before, he was the man who gave my office the first news of the destruction of the wireless stations along the Pacific. I know, also, because of his help, how the destruction was accomplished, and the nearest base of operations being used by Zaryoti. He beat my own operatives both in time and in value of information. I hope that answers your question.”

T he President turned his eyes full upon Carruthers for the first time. It was plain that he was trying to gain control of himself during a very trying period.

"What made you think, Carruthers, that Zaryoti has an agent in this room?”

The young scientist was staring queerly into space. His lips moved slightly. "Lock the doors, Langham. Quidc!” With three quick strides he stood before the President. "I saw his shadow, Mr. President, when he passed in front of one of these wall lighfs. He’s still in this room, I tell you. Within inches of all of us.”

"Langham, get this maniac out of the room,” thundered Farnsworth. "We’re wasting valuable time. There are only nine hours left. Get him out, I tell you.”

Carruthers moistened his lips. "And the remaining nine hours will be worse than wasted, Farnsworth, if you discuss your plans against Zaryoti in this room — now!”

'The faces of several cabinet members blanched. ’They turned questioning eyes on the face of their leader. But before he could speak, something materiali2ed out

of thin air — a long, narrow blade of shining steel.

A claw-like hand was visible gripping its hilt. That was all that could be seen. The blade struck downward in a jerking movement toward the heart of the President.

Carruthers leaped. There followed a soft thud, then a harder one as the young scientist collided with the invisible body. The members of the cabinet drew ba^ in horror at something they could not see or understand.

Thqr could see Carruthers struggling violently with empty air. To all appearances he had gone stark mad. They started toward him, Langham leading.

Then they saw the President stagger, clap his hands to a aimson spot below his heart, and slump to the floor.

"Langham! Quick!” Carruthers’ voice was muflied. "Here. I’ve got him!”

There was a ripping snarl like tearing silk, and the body of the President’s assailant was revealed from the waist up.

A blunt object in Lang^am’s hand swished downward. It struck a smoothshaven head with stunning force. The agent of Marshal Huen Feng Zaryoti collapsed with a grunt.

Carruthers rose slowly to his feet, ripping the invisible folds of cloth from the lower part of the oriental’s body. His eyes were bright with the excitement of cUsoovery. In his absent-mindedness he almost forgot the prisoner.

But Langham hadn’t. Two of his own men appeared in an open doorway. "Lock; this spy up,” he ordered. “And keep a strong guard over him. He’s tricky. Don’t let him escape. I’ll question him later.”

He turned to the wounded chief executive. The President was unconscious. Langham summoned a surgeon. 'The

YELLOW DOOM


President, still unconscious, was carried to his own private chambers.

"Well,” shrugged the Intelligence Chief. 'We still have our problem to face.”

Farnsworth pounded the table for order. "According to the terms of our new constitution, Langham, I immediately assume control of the chief executive’s power in the event of sickness or death.”

Langham nodded. "That is the law.”

"Very well. Now listen. Your job is to obey any orders I issue. Is that clear?”

"Quite.”

"Furthermore, I consider myself and my associates quite capable of handling the present situation. The President and myself turned down this man Carruthers’ crazy inventions some time ago. And we’re turning them down a second time. Carruthers, you can go. My word is final.”

"Don’t be bull-headed, Farnsworth,” snapped Langham. "If you’ve got a grain of sense in your head, you’d know that our nation is licked right now. There isn’t a thing we can do to stop Zaryoti.”

"We’ve got our sea fleet.”

"I’ll not deny that. But where is it? Miles away at sea. Before you could get your ships back to the west coast, Zaryoti’s own fleet would have anchored in our harbors. And what would happen to our port cities of San Diego, San Pedro and San Francisco?”

"I’m recalling the fleet at once,” gritted Farnsworth.

Langham swung on Gettering. "What about the silly order you passed on to your air squadrons? Bah! You may be a super-cabinet but you act like a lot of morons. Try and get your air fleet back and see how far you get.”

"I had no idea those orders were forged,” replied Gettering.

"Enough!” snapped Farnsworth.

'We’ll get along without their wireless equipment. We'll send a rocket ship ”

"If you know anything at all, Farnsworth,” broke in Langham, "you’d know that even a rocket ship couldn’t make contact, even under perfect conditions, in less than six hours. Six hours for the air fleet to return would make twelve. We have less than nine before Zaryoti strikes.”

F arnsworth’s face purpled. With a visible effort he held his temper in check. "For the benefit of the rest of our cabinet, Langham, I’ll put it this way. What is it you demand of us?”

"That you listen to me as Qiief of War Intelligence.”

"All right. We’re listening.”

"There are two things we can do,” continued Langham. “We can surrender and agree to the terms of Marshal Huen Feng Zaryoti, which means our utter subjugation, or,” he paused significantly, "we can place the country’s defense in the hands of this young scientist, Aaron Carruthers. Whatever he demands must be granted.”

Farnsworth grunted sarcastically. "And what are this man’s demands?”

"I demand,” armounced Carruthers, "the co-operation of the Secretaries of Ait and Navy fleets. Also I’ll want all this scare-broadcasting by television stopped at once. The two secretaries and Langham will return with me to my laboratory in New York. From that spot we’ll conduct our defense of America.”

"Impossible,” shrugged Farnsworth, glaring at Langham. "What does this scientist know about national defense?”

"What do any of you know?” countered the Chief of Intelligence. "We’re up against a shrewd, cunning military genius employing the most modern of ideas and weapons. Carruthers holds the



key — and the only key — to the situation now confronting us.”

Farnsworth and the others jumped to their feet. As they did so there was a scraping noise outside the door. It sagged open. One of Langham’s operatives leaned weakly against the door-frame. His face was drawn with pain, and there was a crimson bruise on his forehead. His eyes sought Langham’s.

"Sorry, Chief,” he whispered huskily. "He . . . the prisoner . . . got away. Killed Jerry. And I ... I couldn’t hold ” 'The voice faded into a confused jumble of words. Abruptly the man collapsed in a crumpled heap — stone dead.

There followed a confused jumble of voices.

Farnsworth rapped for order. "Gentlemen, it must be obvious to you that Langham’s men allowed one of Zaryoti’s spies to escape, and it cost them their lives. His men, though keen and capable, can not cope with these Asiatics. Why, then, should we turn over all authority and initiative to this scientist who knows even less Of their cunning, and expect to save our nation from disaster?”

Langham’s drawl cut through the babel of voices around- the long table. "Do whatever you please, Farnsworth. But heaven help you if you fail!”

He turned to the young scientist. "You may go now, Carruthers. Your country does not need your services. Sorry I wasn’t able to convince the others,”

Carruthers rose to his feet. "Thanks, Langham. Good evening, gentlemen.”

H ardly had Aaron Carruthers left to return to his laboratory in New York, when the television screen on the long table glowed, and the yellow face of the Asiatic war lord. Marshal Huen Feng Zaryoti, became visible to every member

of the assembled cabinet. His voice crackled shrilly as he hurled a fresh challenge over the ether:

"People of the United States. Zaryoti, Emperor of a combined Asia, is ready to strike. Eight hours remain for you to submit to my ultimatum. But to prove I have the power to destroy, I will begin at once, striking simultaneously in three places, Los Angeles, Washington and the great power projects of Niagara. Zaryoti has spoken.”

High in the air above the capitol whined a siren of alarm. Its strident scream penetrated the room where the super-cabinet faced its first major crisis.

"Bluff!” thimdered Farnsworth. He seized a telephone and spoke briefly. "Chief of Naval Operations. Hurry!”

There was a succession of clicks. Farnsworth resumed. "Recall the red and blue fleets out in the Pacific. Order them to steam coastward at full speed. Definite orders will be sent to the admiral in command during the next hour. If there is any question ”

The lights in the room went suddenly black. Farnsworth felt the instrument in his hands grow useless. He shouted. He pounded it against the table. But nothing he could do would restore its usefulness. The wires were dead.

A clamor of bells, whistles and human voices profaned the night. The moan of the sirens increased. Then the city began to rock as if in the throes of an earthquake.

Jamming and pushing, the members of the super-cabinet blundered out into the corridor. At the far end of it were French doors leading to an iron balcony. Onto this balcony they crowded, staring at the wild confusion below.

It was a night never to be forgotten. Overhead were blackness and shifting clouds with only a few stars visible.

YELLOW DOOM


Lights from passing cars weaved jerkily as the pavement buckled under the terrific pressure of explosions. Men and women cried out in panic. A building crashed. A second followed it in a cloud of smoking debris. There was a grating rasp of concrete sliding from the walls of a near-by building.

Langham pushed forward to the railing. His eyes were hard. His lips were twisted into a sardonic smile. They parted after a moment. Two words escaped them. "Atomic bombs.”

"Eh.>” grunted Farnsworth.

"Atomic bombs,” repeated the Intelligence Chief. "I thought the invention had been lost. But no. Zaryoti has it. We, our Government, turned it down. You remember, Farnsworth. You were against it. Too powerful. Too fantastic. Well, it looks as if the inventor sold it to the Asiatics. Another blunder.”

Farnsworth turned away. "Get me a page, somebody,” he ordered. "I’ve got to get a message through to the Chief of Naval Operations.”

"Listen, Farnsworth.” Langham grabbed the Acting President by the arm. "Are you altogether blind and deaf.^ Listen to the mob surging along the avenue. Those people are headed for the open spaces if they can find them. They’re terror-stricken. Our machinery of defense has broken down.”

"Shut up!”

"It’s my job to point out these things. Do you understand what’s happened? Our power system has failed. That means no communication of any sort except by courier. And where will we find couriers? They went out of date fifty years ago.”

"The fleet!” insisted Farnsworth. "They must be recalled. A way must be found to communicate with them. At once. We must send a rocket ship ”

Gettering’s harsh laugh broke in.

"We’re licked, Farnsworth. There’s not a chance in the world of getting in touch with them. Amateur television sets will soon be reporting the same disaster from the west and north — that is, if they have the power to operate.”

Several others of the cabinet added their voices to Gettering’s. "Gettering and Langham are right, Farnsworth. We’ve got to do something, and do it at once before the whole country is destroyed.”

Farnsworth’s huge bulk weaved threateningly toward those members who were siding in with Langham. "You men listen to me. I know ”

"You know very little,” cut in Langham. "I tell you the country is headed for a smash unless you act reasonable. Either run up the white flag and give in to Zaryoti, or ”

"Or what?”

"Carruthers. He’s the one man who has the power to squelch this thing. We lost the atomic bombs by your opposition. We may lose Carruthers and his ether-vision ray. Don’t make the same mistake twice. . . .”

A ball of fire curved down the sky scarcely a hundred yards away. It strudc the pavement. There was no sharp explosion such as men were accustomed to hear when cordite or TNT let loose. There was only a dull first explosion, followed by a deeper and still deeper rumbling as the bomb forced its way down to bedrock.

Abruptly the building housing the cabinet and executive offices began to sway, first to the east, then to the west. There was something breath-taking in the way the structure weaved on its foundations. Men clung to the railing with wan faces and staring eyes.

"Get inside,” shouted Langham.

They followed him like cattle. Lang568


ham found a clerk with a flashlight and took it from him. They returned to the conference room. It was impossible to talk intelligibly. Their minds were too upset by the constant jarrings of the atomic bombs.

The strain on the steel framework of the building must have been enormous, but though it weaved dangerously, it did not collapse. Time became an eternity of tortured minutes that extended into the longest hour these men had ever passed through. And to the inhabitants of the nation’s capital, time was endless. It was as if the world had come to an end.

Then power came surging through the cables as workers repaired the line breaks. The lights of the city glowed dimly on desolation and ruin. Men and women moved through the ruins like jackals, searching for lost ones, fearing the nearness of the Asiatics, not knowing what to do or which way to turn to escape the wrath of the Asiatic war lord.

Seven hours till doom — the yellow doom of destruction.

F arnsworth sat at the end of a long table. In place of the super-cabinet were two men- — Langham and Gettering. The message recorder was clicking off catastrophes. Los Angeles was in flames. Her great aqueducts had been bombed, and flood waters were raging throughout the city. The capital was in a state of chaos. Of the power projects of Niagara, no news sifted in. They had evidently escaped.

And there was nothing these men could do but wait for their television call to get through to the red and blue fleets at sea. The call came through. A light glowed momentarily on the switchboard close to the screen. The three men leaned forward. The screen began to brighten with

the projected image of the person soon to speak.

"Operator, operator,” called Farnsworth. "Attention. Keep every channel open for incoming reports. All right. We’re waiting.”

A cloud moved over the television screen. There was a faint click, then the crash of waves against the steel plates of a ship far out in the Pacific. Abruptly the interior of the chief radio officer’s headquarters on the flagship melted into the panel.

"Admiral Young,” crisped Farnsworth. "At once.”

The scene shifted as the officer plugged in on the fleet commander’s line. Almost at once the clean-shaven face of Admiral Young appeared in the glowing screen. He was sitting before an exact duplicate of the screen before Farnsworth. Both men could see each other plainly as they talked.

"Invasion has begun,” said Farnsworth. "Zaryoti, and a combined Asia. We have his ultimatum. Less than seven hours before hostilities. He’s closing in on us. It’s the end, I fear. We’ll need you. Turn around. Break the fleet into squadrons. Hurry! How long before ”

"Just a moment, Farnsworth.” The fleet commander issued a brief order to a subordinate. "All right. We’ll be heading for land in five minutes. We lost eight hours owing to a breakdown of one of the first-line ships. That makes us just that much nearer.”

"Roughly, how many hours away?”

"Seven hours from San Diego. Longer to San Pedro and San Francisco.”

"Good. Can you raise the air fleet from your present position?”

"Tried to an hour ago. No answer to our signals.”

"Could you reach them with a scout plane?”

YELLOW DOOM


"Not in the darkness unless we had their exact bearings.”

"Very well. Keep your operators alert. If we can locate the Asiatic fleet, we’ll so inform you. Good-night.”

Farnsworth’s face was haggard as he turned from the television screen. His ace card had failed him. He had to admit himself beaten unless

"Langham," he admitted. "I’ve been a fool.”

"Meaning?”

"Regarding Carruthers. I’ll take a chance. Everything is organized as well as could be expeaed. Land batteries ready. Detector crews at thdr stations. All available navy planes of the Atlantic fleet mobilized and ready to take the air.”

His eyes narrowed with worry. "Zaryoti has the edge on us with his atomic bombs. In a pinch our system of artificial fog will help. But what we need most are fighting-ships of the first rank.”

"And they are all headed toward the Philippines,” finished Gettering, "with special orders not to use their wireless sets. Part of their training. Designed to keep their movements secret from those who might listen in.”

Langham spoke briefly into a message recorder machine, then stood erect. "I’ve commandeered a rocket ship from the Southern Transport. We’ll leave for New York and Carruthers’ laboratory at once.”

M idnight found die three men ascending to the top floor of a towering skyscraper close to the Hudson River. Carruthers met them as they emerged from the cage that had whisked them upward.

"The gentlemen have changed their minds,” announced Langham.

Carruthers nodded. "I understand. I heard everything that occurred in the cabinet room. I also witnessed the action

of the atomic bombs. But the time grows short. This way, please.”

Carruthers’ friend and assistant, Karl Danzig, was waiting beside an enormous steel door as the four men filed down a long corridor. A moment later it closed behind them.

The eyes of the Government o66cials became wide with surprize at the paneled whiteness of the room. Most of the far side was taken up with electrical and atomic machines, dynamos, generators and enclosed motors of an advanced and unknown type.

Overhead, concealed lights made the room glow with the same brightness as the sun. And there wasn’t a window in any of the walls to mar their smoothness.

Deftly, swiftly, Carruthers seated his guests around the complicated mechanism of the ether-vision machine. In the hands of each man he placed an instrument similar to a microphone.

"These instruments, gentlemen,” he told them, "are electronic phones. Keep them away from your mouths. 'They’re extremely sensitive. The moment you raise them to your face to speak your call number, you are immediately connected with the main trunk lines of the city. You will notice the complete absence of wires. And they’re fool-proof.”

He glanced at his watch and frowned. "Attention now. We’re going out into space. Not to fixed limits of wireless antennae, but into the limitless space of ether.”

He seated himself before the complicated dials of his etiier-vision panel, thrust a switch forward with his foot, clicked two with his fingers, and slowly began to revolve a dial.

To his left croudied Karl Danzig, eyes and ears alert to the smooth perfection of strange motors. A strange experiment



was about to start. How it would end no one could guess.

The silver surface of a magnetic vision screen became clouded as if actuated by a miniature whirlwind of flying dust particles. Slowly its brightness faded into dull gray, and from gray to a greenish blue.

Strange noises came out of the soundproducer — the dull pound of waves, the throb of engines, and the swishing of parted waters as they flowed along the prow of a battleship. Owing to the darkness, the image was barely visible — a mere blob of shadow. Carruthers switched on the current generated by the strange motors. Below the screen a battery of infrared tubes glowed sullenly. Almost at once the greenish-blue on the screen faded.

The blob of a shadow took on a definite form as the blackness of night was flung back. And before the amazed eyes of the watchers appeared the ponderous bulk of a fighting battleship. Every line of her great bulk stood out clearly.

Farnsworth clutched at Langham’s arm. "The Texas. Unbelievable.”

Carruthers’ fingers contracted on the direaional antenna. The Texas faded from the panel. Miles and miles of choppy waves flowed into the screen and dissolved away. The tension increased. Other things became visible.

At first they seemed mere splotches of shadow. Tlien, as the ether-vision ray brought them closer, the hulls and steellatticed masts of the Asiatic fleet became clearly recognizable.

Farnsworth was breathing hard. "Zaryoti’s ships!” he gasped. "But . . . but where are they? Quick! I’ve got to know.”

Carruthers made a rapid computation of figures on the antenna dial. "Roughly, those ships are five hours away from the Texas, but between oiu: own fleet and the mainland.”

“Find the air fleet!” broke in Gettering. "You’re wasting time.”

Carruthers ignored him and wrote several symbols on a sheet of paper which he handed to Farnsworth. '"Ihere’s the latitude and longitude of Zaryoti’s sea fleet. They’re massed in a solid phalanx, and from the brownish hue discoloring the screen, I would say that they are concealed, not by fog, but by an ingenious and continuous flow of smoke.”

Farnsworth nodded and raised the electronic phone to his lips. In a low yet clear voice he began to give orders to the Chief of Naval Operations that would start the American fleet to where Zaryoti’s ships lay hidden in the brown smoke-screen.

S LOW minutes dragged as anxious eyes stared into the cloudiness of the magnetic screen. Farnsworth had finished giving orders and was hunched forward close to the screen once more. Gettering was breathing harshly, clasping and unclasping his hands.

A faint drumming emanated from the sound-producer beneath the ether-vision panel. The screen became agitated with what looked like whirling nebulae. Scarlet lightnings crisscrossed its surface.

Carruthers locked the direaional antenna in place, and the revealing beam of the ether-vision concentrated on a single point. Into this field floated a dark mass.

'The lightnings crisscrossing the magnetic screen were recognizable now as signal flares. ’Through them, the far-flung squadrons of planes were contacting one another as they shouldered through the night.

'The long fingers of Carruthers made a slight adjustment on the control keys. At once the infra-red tubes flung back the darkness, and the wings of the closest ship became visible to the watchers.

Again a swift adjustment on the conYELLOW DOOM


trol board. The plane on which the beam was focused melted into the screen until there was nothing to be seen except its glistening body.

The quartz windows of the observer’s lookout glowed brightly; then they disappeared and the startled watchers found themselves peering into a lighted cabin.

Carruthers broke the spell. “Gettering, who’s in command.?”

Gettering leaned forward. "General Reilly.”

"This his ship.?”

The Air Secretary shook his head. His hands clasped and iznclasped a second time. "No. You’ll find Reilly at the very top of the formation flying at point.”

"East or west on the screen?”

Gettering studied the markings on the plane. "This is a third-group plane. Its position should be on the right. I’d say move slightly to the east and get your ray higher up.”

More slow minutes dragged as the anxious search for the commanding officer of the missing air fleet continued. Cabin after cabin was examined in a long, careful search. And when they had almost despaired of finding the lead ship of the Western air fleet, the grim face of a middle-aged oflicer flowed into the magnetic screen.

'"rhere he is,” breathed Gettering. "That’s General Reilly.”

The general sat behind a metal table bolted to the floor. He was staring downward at a map. Except for an aide, a younger ofl5cer, he was alone in the forward cabin.

Gettering leaned forward. "Warn him, Carruthers. Quick! A television message.”

"Quiet!” snapped Langham. "He had orders not to use his wireless instruments. He might as well be on Mars as far as television waves are concerned.”

Gettering sank glumly bade in his chair. "But how the devil are we to warn •”

"By positive thought control,” announced Carruthers. "What I shall do now is to create electrically induced telepathy.”

He turned to his assistant, Danzig "All right, Karl. Warm up the secondary-band control tubes. If Reilly is the type of officer I think he is, his mind should activate the quartz rod somewhere between the seventeen and nineteen thousand meter range.”

Danzig dicked a switch and made a slight adjustment on one of the strange motors beside him. From beneath the control table came the sound as of a mighty wind.

"Cut down the power,” ordered Carruthers, "to about six volts.”

The sound of the wind faded into a cat-like purr. Carruthers listened intently. All good so far. He turned again to the dials controlling the ether-vision rays.

To the left of the panel, fastened in place with two bands of non-conductive material, was a twelve-inch hollow tube of quartz partly filled with a yellowish liquid chemical. Carruthers’ eyes were on the tube. He saw the chemical change from yellow to orange, and from orange to a fiery crimson. Abruptly the liquid in the tube boiled into a smother of bubbles. Then the whole mass inside die quartz rod settled and became the same clear color as the quartz itself.

"What is the dial reading, Karl?”

"Seventeen ninety.”

"Seventeen ninety,” repeated Carruthers. "Lock the inflow switch so that nothing can happen, and keep a sharp eye on your motors.”

Gettering coughed impatiently. "We’re wasting time.”

"I thought so an hour ago,” grunted Farnsworth, "bat it didn’t help matters



any. We’re helpless any way you look at it unless ”

The snap of an electrical switch silenced their voices. 'The voice of Carruthers cut in. "I’m going to stimulate my mind till it reaches the same mental frequency as that of General Reilly’s. There’s a tremendous risk involved, so I’m asking you men not to interrupt me during the experiment.’’

He twisted the dials on the lower edge of the ether-vision panel to the reading given him by Danzig, seventeen hundred and ninety meters. Beside him rested a band of burnished metal shaped something like a headphone set. Carefully he placed this over his head, making certain that the contact points were on the back of his head, and his forehead.

This done, he switched on the current from the motor Danzig was controlling. His body quivered for a moment as strange electrical currents pulsed through every nerve of his body. He was now ready.

H e waited for a moment to adjust himself to the quivering impulses shooting through his body, then with parted lips began to speak in a slow monotone.

"Commander Reilly! Commander Reilly! Listen. Forget whatever you’re doing at this moment. Forget everything and listen. Lookup!’’

The general lifted his head and spoke sharply to his aide. "Please don’t interrupt me.”

'The second officer looked blank. "I said nothing. General.”

Reilly frowned and returned to his work.

The voice of Carruthers continued, monotonously. "Danger, danger, danger! Do you hear, General Reilly?”

The watdiers saw a strange light flash

into General Reilly’s eyes as he raised his head a second time.

"Queer,” they heard him mutter. "I don’t understand.”

"You must understand,” insisted Carruthers, putting all the power of his will behind every spoken word. "Concentrate. Listen.”

General Reilly’s eyes probed space. His jaw twitched.

Carruthers intoned his warning before the officer had a chance to think or speak.

"Your orders are false. You’ve been tricked. Understand? Tricked into leaving your country at the mercy of the invaders. Get in communication with your superiors at once. Hurry! Hurry! Hurry!”

Reilly’s face paled and he shook his head as if to rid it of something unpleasant. The watchers saw him rise slowly to his feet, stare frowningly about him, then heard him speak.

"Captain,” he called to his aide. "I’m worried. Something inside me warns of disaster ahead. Unbidden thoughts fill my mind that have come there without any effort of my own. It’s as thou^ these thoughts were being forced upon me.”

"Better get some sleep,” shrugged the other officer.

"Sleep?” mused the bewildered general. "I wonder.”

The face of Aaron Carruthers broke out with told sweat. He must not fail. He dared not fail. Once more he forced his will out into space on the mind of this officer.

"Listen, General Reilly,” he droned. "Grave danger confronts your country. Upon you alone rests the responsibility of saving it in its hour of need. Marshal Huen Feng Zaryoti is moving eastward with his yellow invaders. 'The menace of a combined Asia is threatening our country. Break tfiose orders you received.

YELLOW DOOM


They’re false. Washington commands you to obey.”

General Reilly turned suddenly on his aide. "Send in the chief radio operator, Captain.”

“Sorry, General, but the chief operator and his assistant were assigned to another ship of the fleet. Not until we reach the Islands ”

The lights in the laboratory flickered. The remainder of the speaker’s words failed. Carnithers twisted uneasily in his chair. Intruders! In the corridor outside the door. His lips twisted to a thin line as he clicked off the switch controlling the ether-vision ray.

"Someone coming down the corridor, Karl. Watch out!”

Danzig lurched to his feet. As he did so the door swung softly inward. A man entered — a man with a shaven head, and with tom clothes. There was no mistaking him. He was the spy who had invaded the cjJjinet room and who had escaped from Langham’s operators.

In his right hand he held a tube of metal. It was thrust in front of his body as he kicked the door shut with his foot.

Carmthers felt his heart constrict. Never had be seen a face so utterly cmel and ruthless. How the spy had reached the top of the building he could not determine, but the fact remained that he was here, and in the room, his beady black eyes gleaming malevolently,

"So!” The man’s voice was cultured, smooth, and filled with menace. "I find the brain trust all in one spot. That makes my task easier.” He laughed thinly.

Simultaneously Karl Danzig and Gettering sprang forward to seize the intruder. The metal tube whirled in a swift arc, pointing in turn at the body of each man. A blinding violet spark lanced from the tube’s hollow core. As if

stricken with paralysis, both men sagged to the floor, senseless.

The tube waved menacingly on Farnsworth and Carmthers. "If I have not made my intentions clear,” warned the yellow intmder, "it’s because you haven’t given me time. Make no mistake. I will suffer no interference. I am here to destroy, but not until I have learned the secrets you possess.”

Aaron Carmthers leaned back in his chair, his heart hammering painfully. Success had been so close. Now everything looked black and hopelfess.

His mind quickened. How could he disarm this man? How?

"What are your demands?” he asked, stalling for time.

The oriental spoke thinly. "Complete stoppage of all information going out of this laboratory.”

C ARRUTHERS appeared to consider the proposal, '^^at he really did was something entirely different. His eyes swerved momentarily to the wall close to the ether-vision machine. There was an emergency switch — an electrical cut-off to be used in case of a short-circuit.

If he could pull this switch, he might, under cover of darkness, which would immediately follow, get that powerful weapon from his enemy’s yellow fingers.

His arms meanwhile were hanging limp at his sides. He worked the ri^t one behind him. As he did so he heard a faint rustle. The cloth of invisibility. It wasn’t much, just a torn fragment. But if he could contrive to use it as a shield to cover the movement of his right arm, he might pull that switch. His jaw hardened. He decided to risk the chance. His eyes swerved to Langham in mute appeal.

Langham nodded — a barely percqjtible inclination of the head. He smiled grimly on the agent of Zaryoti. "The Marshal is



fortunate in having so determined and resourceful a man in his service. Some day he will rule the world.”

"You think so?” The spy seemed for the moment to have forgotten his intention to destroy.

Langham continued to talk against time. "Like your master, you too have brains, and — please point that tube some other direction. It makes me nervous. See. We three men are sitting perfectly quiet. What is it you wish to know?”

Carruthers heard the drone of their voices, but he couldn’t sense the meaning. His mind was concentrated on the thing he was trying to do.

Six hours till doom.

He had the cloth from his pocket now. It was hanging limp in his fingers. He wondered if the spy could see the motions of his twitching shoulders. Slowly and with painstaking effort he began to wrap it around his right arm.

Exactly three minutes had elapsed since the spy had entered. To the young scientist it seemed that many hours. He was ready.

Slowly he extended his arm toward the switch. His heart pounded heavily. Were his arm and fingers completely covered with the cloth off invisibility? He dared not look for fear of disclosing his intentions.

Closer and closer to the wall switch moved the arm of the young scientist. In another second he could feel the hard rubber handle barely grazing his finger tips.

The spy’s sharp eyes swerved from Langham to Carruthers. The young scientist checked all movement. But he was too late. 'The cloth of invisibility slipped from his extended arm. 'The spy saw and understood.

With an inarticulate cry he jerked around. Carruthers lunged sideways. His

fingers foimd the switch, jerked it downward, and followed it with his body.

'ITirough the blackness shutting down upon the laboratory stabbed the flame of destruction. Carruthers felt a devitalizing shodc numb his right shoulder. But it failed to halt him.

Gathering his legs beneath him he lunged toward the spot where he had last seen the spy. They crashed to the floor in a tangled heap.

Desperately the young scientist reached for the spy’s wrist. 'The metal tube cracked out a hot spark, missing his face by inches. His fingers closed hard over a yellow hand. Slowly, inexorably, he twisted the spy’s wrist.

There came a brittle snapping as of live wires coming in contact with each other. The metal tube crackled three times. Then there was silence except for hard breathing.

Langham’s voice cut through the dark. "Carruthers!”

"Okay, Langham. The switch. It’s on the wall to the right of my chair.”

Langham fumbled for a moment. 'Then the lights snapped on.

Carruthers staggered to his feet. "Look him over. See if he’s still alive. He took three jolts.”

"Dead,” pronounced Langham. "Gettering and Danzig are merely shocked. Danzig is beginning to show signs pf life.”

Carruthers took the precaution to lock the door leading to the corridor. Then he hurried to his chemical laboratory and mixed a strong stimulant which he forced between the lips of the stricken men.

Danzig was the first to recover his senses. He looked around him in sudden alarm. "What a shock!” he husked. "Felt as if a million volts passed through my body.”

A moment later Gettering shuffled to

YELLOW DOOM


his feet. Bewildered for the first few seconds, he stared at the others.

"You were shocked with what looks like a nerve-ray gun,” said Carruthers. "Feeling better?”

Gettering peered at the cold body of Zaryoti’s spy on the floor, sighed and turned to the young scientist. "Have we still a chance?”

"I think so.” Carruthers turned to his assistant. "Feel equal to returning to your controls, Karl?”

Dan2ig forced himself to his feet. "Sure.” He lurched to his former position beside the strange motors.

For the first time since the spy had entered, Farnsworth spoke. "I think we’re too late. The air fleet couldn't possibly ”

T here came a sharp exclamation from Gettering’s lips. He had picked up the electronic phone, heard its summons and switched it on. Into the quiet of the laboratory broke the voice of General Reilly.

"Commander of the Western air fleet calling Washington.” Then speaking in the code: "Breaking orders believed to have been forged. Just passed over Wake Island. Midway Islands ahead and to port. Instructions requested.”

The electronic phone sizzled as Gettering snapped his orders out into space. And there was a hopeful glint in his eyes when he had finished.

The electronic phone in Langham’s hands buzzed its summons. He listened stonily to the report, grunted, and clicked the receiver to its hook.

"Head of the Meteorological Bureau,” he stated. "He reports all compasses thrown off during the atomic bomb bombardment. At a loss to account for it. Thinks the release of atomic energy overcame the pull of the magnetic poles.”

"Interesting,” commented Carruthers, "but hardly important in view of the larger things happening. Our next move is to ”

"To locate Zaryoti,” broke in Langham, "and destroy him.”

Carruthers nodded. "It’s our only chance.”

Once more he faced the panel of the ether-vision machine. He shoved a foot switch and clicked two with his fingers. Then he slowly revolved the control dial.

"Watch out, Karl. I’m all ready."

Danzig nodded, and crouched above the strange motors.

The silver surface of the magnetic screen became cloudy as before. The same miniature whirlwind of flying dust particles whipped across its glittering surface. Slowly it brightened from gray to greenish-blue.

There was a moment of vast silence, then the hissing flow of waves, the beat of engines, and the pound of waters as they lashed the hull of a fast-moving ship.

Carruthers switched on the current generated by the strange motors. Into action went the infra-red tubes. The darkness shrouding a far-away battle-ship dissolved. For a tense second it seemed as though the steel prow pointing into the ether-vision was going to smash into the laboratory,

A twist on the directional antenna and the revealing ray slithered along the gleaming hull. It wasn’t the flagship. Across miles of gentle rollers moved the ether-vision ray, searching in its mysterious way for the rest of the Asiatic fleet.

After a half-hour’s search it came upon the main fleet, dim and brownish in the smoke screen. Ship after ship was examined. Battle-cruisers, destroyers, submarines — all were searched, but the headquarters of the wily Asiatic chieftain was not discovered.



Grimly Aaron Oirruthers widened his search through space for the headquarters of the Asiatic master mind, Marshal Huen Feng Zaryoti. Time moved inexorably onward. The hand of doom was closing down. Would they find him before it was too late?

Suddenly acting on a hunch, Gurruthers widened his seardi and turned the ether-vision ray into cloud space above the United States. No trace of Zaryoti anywhere. He moved out over the Pacific again and picked up the Western air fleet under Reilly’s command. It was moving shoreward in ten compact wings.

A thousand miles to the north the ray disclosed the wasp-like planes of the Asiatics, swimming in slow drcles as if waiting for orders. Gettering’s funereal voice broke the silence.

"Look!” he gasped. "They outnumber us more than two to one!”

Carruthers said nothing. As he watched the planes he saw them separating into distinct formations. They were about to move. But where? How was he to warn Reilly?

Langham seemed to read his thoughts. "Message interception. It’s a long chance, and it might work.”

'The invisible ether-vision ray swept along the glistening bodies of the wasplike planes and settled on a ship covered with streamers. Here was authority. The ray probed the inside of its cabin.

An operator with an inscrutable face was just handing a message to an oflicer wearing the uniform insignia of a commander. The commander studied the written words. Simultaneously, the ray moved closer to the paper.

It was Langham who translated. His knowledge of Asiatic languages, while rudimentary, was enough to grasp the significance of Zaryoti’s message to his combined air fleet.

"The time has come to strike,” wrote Langham so that the others might see. "The American fleet has been reached and ordered shoreward. Your orders are to destroy it. Use the saaificial method. One life for each ship of the air. The plan can not fail.”

As Langham scribbled his translation, Farnsworth, speaking over an electronic phone, was issuing counter-orders. "Zaryoti is planning to use the saaificial method,” he was telling the fleet commander. "Bring out the steel nets. Attack comes from above.”

"Squadrons one and two,” wrote Langham, "will converge upon the coast cities of the Pacific. The time has been moved up five hours. Strike and strike hard, using the atomic bombs.”

The Air Secretary lost no time in contacting the fortified cities along the Pacific. "Ultimatum of ten hours has been abandoned,” he warned each defense commander. "Zaryoti is preparing to strike at once.”

Orders and counter-orders flashed the length and breadth of the United States. The ether-vision ray centered on the flagship of the Asiatic fleet. More orders were intercepted. It looked for a time as though this little band of men had solved Zaryoti’s strategy.

But the military genius of the Asiatic war lord was not so easily thwarted. Zaryoti, sensing the Americans were intercepting his messages, switched to an involved cipher.

Langham pocketed his pencil. His face was white. Defeat stared him in the face. "Even with an expert cipher man working on these messages we couldn’t hope to get them solved under days. It looks — it looks, gentlemen, as though we are a defeated nation.”

Girruthers smiled wanly. "Gentlemen, I refuse to accept defeat. I’m going to

W7 T ^

YELLOW DOOM


find Zaiyoti. He’s somewhere above. And having found him, I’U find a way to destroy him. Don’t leave this room. I am going to need you when the time comes.”

He returned to the panel of the ethervision machine and began slowly to search dcy space for the lair of the Asiatic war lord. But though he stuck to his task throughout the night, in the end he had to bow to defeat. Zaryoti’s headquarters couldn’t be found.

D awn came up on the Atlantic coast.

Then the Middle West. Then on the Pacific coast. Dawn and the red haze of the Armageddon in the disastrous year 2000. And with the coming of dawn came the first heart-breaking news of disaster. The entire Blue Fleet of the United States navy had been wiped out of existence.

San Diego had fallen. San Pedro had been entered and the inner harbor destroyed. For all time the long-range guns of Fort MacArthur had been silenced. And the huge bridge connecting San Francisco with the mainland had been reduced to ashes.

Slowly the yellow tide of invasion tolled eastward, leaving death and destruction in its wake. A protecting screen of fog hovered above the great air and war centers in the Middle West. Above, in the blue, waited the Atlantic air fleet, outnumbered doubly by the vast clouds of wasp-like planes of the Asiatics.

Worn and weary by the night-long vigil, Aaron Carruthers picked up scattered combats in the sky. His face was haggard. So were the faces of the other watchers as they saw their own countrymen going down to desperate defeat in flaming ships.

In desperation Carruthers tuned in on the Continental broadcast band of news. There was no late news, merely a review W. T.— 4

of what had taken place the ni^t before. But one item claimed his attention, confirming Zaryoti’s threat of the evening before to show his power to strike when and wherever he wished. None of the others had noticed what seemed an unimportant piece of news. Perhaps their thoughts were elsewhere, of things more immediate.

Carruthers spoke slowly as he tried to think his way along. "You gentlemen will remember,” he began, "that Zaryoti warned us he was going to bomb Washington, Los Angeles and the great power projects of Niagara?”

Th^ nodded, dully.

"Well,” continued Carruthers, "Washington and Los Angeles got everything in the way of destruction that Zaryoti intended they should. But the great power projects of Niagara and the surrounding territory remained absolutely untouched. Instead, the city of Toronto, across Lake Ontario, was destroyed utterly by atomic bombs. 'The report has jtist been released.”

Farnsworth scoffed at the news. "Who said th^ bombed Toronto? Zaryoti is too great a military genius to risk open conflict with Canada.”

The others nodded in agreement. Zaryoti couldn’t be that stupid.

"Nevertheless,” Carruthers went on, "someone in his organization made a hideous blunder. There was fog over the region of the Great Lakes last night. And you recall the meteorologist’s report of compasses being rendered useless owing to the release of atomic energy and their effect on the magnetic poles? Well, it’s just possible that Toronto was destroyed, not because of Zaryoti’s orders, but because the Asiatic bombers were thrown off their course in the fog, flew by compass, and picked up the north side of Lake Ontario instead of the south. At tihat time.



Washington was an inferno of atomic explosions.”

"I get your point,” agreed Langham, "but what effect it will have on Canada’s parliamentary body can not be foretold.”

Farnsworth shook his head gloomily. He was thinking of the Blue Fleet somewhere at the bottom of the Pacific.

Gettering broke the silence. "Try the Pacific again, will you? I want to see what is happening to the Western air fleet.”

The ether-vision ray probed space once more. Into its luminous screen flowed a panorama of darting and falling planes above the battleships of two great nations.

As they watched the tremendous battle they became aware of something queer taking place before their eyes. The low, blackish ships of the Asiatic sea squadrons were being wiped out. Even as the watchers searched for the reason, they saw with their own eyes a sad spectacle of heroism.

American pilots of General Reilly’s air fleet had borrowed a leaf from the book of the Asiatics. They were sacrificing their lives and planes with a devotion equal to that of the yellow men. They knew they could not hope to overcome the vast numbers wiping them from die air. To die meant nothing. But to die without destroyirtg at least two enemy planes was not to be thought of.

'They made their decision against the orders of their leader. General Reilly. And having made their decision, they hurled their winged steeds downward, took their air enemies in midstride, and when they knew their bullet-riddled planes would never fly again, hurled them against the decks of the battleships below.

'The Pacific became a shambles. But still the yellow men fought on, taking their enormous toll of destruction. And when things looked blackest, a strange thing happened.

Out of the slqr dropped a cloud of bright-winged planes. ’They came with the speed of rockets. Reinforcements for Zaryoti? The white-faced men in the laboratory didn’t know. General Reilly’s air fleet was half wiped out. If these were Zaryoti’s ships of the air, then the war was over. Victory would go to the Asiatics.

Tensely the little band of men waited, their hearts hammering. 'They had done all they could. They had signaled every move made by Zaryoti. They had sent out exact reports of the positions of air and sea fleets. They could do no more. Zaryoti had played his ace card when he opened hostilities by setting his war machine into motion five hours before the time specified in his ultimatum.

A WASP-LIKE plane came sagging down through the air. A second and a third followed. Something was happening in the sky above.

"Up, up!” urged Gettering. "Get closer to those silver planes.”

The ether-vision ray moved up. The silver planes grew larger. Then the watchers knew they were seeing, not silver planes, but armored airships. And painted on the wings were golden maple leaves. Carruthers spokehuskily. "Canadians!” 'There was a new sound coming from the ether-vision — a brittle thunder that drowned the roar of motors. The armored planes were boring into the Asiatic squadrons like oxygen flame into steel.

'This was the Canadian way of avenging the destruction of Toronto. Unknown to the world she had made her decision and had joined the United States against the common enemy menacing her borders.

Slowly the tide of destruction began to run in the other direction. With the coming of the maple leaf planes, Zaryoti had met his match in numbers on the Pacific.

YELLOW DOOM


His next move, as everyone knew, would be to gather his scattered forces from America’s interior.

Carruthers’ eyes were bloodshot from staring into the luminous panel. The world was a seething mass of falling planes and exploding fortresses. Wherever he looked there was a hovering shadow of death.

He twisted the directional antenna slightly, and became aware of a lone ship wheeling in a circle above the Asiatic squadrons. He knew this ship. He knew that Zaryoti was not inside. He knew it to be a message center, and therefore in direct touch with Zaryoti himself. As he thought of these things, something clicked in his brain. And suddenly he had solved the problem of how to find the master brain of all this carnage.

"I’ve got it,’’ he called to the others. "Zaryoti is doomed. Look! 'This enemy plane circling all by itself. See that steel mast.^ There is a short antenna fastened to it. The whole thing revolves as the plane circles so that it is always horizontal to a fixed spot out in space."

"A single beam unicycle type?” breathed Langham.

"Exactly. Now, see, we’re going inside its cabin and take a reading of the dial at which it is set.”

'The interior of the cabin flowed across the panel. Carruthers scanned the dial and set down the following figures: 817.04. These figures he checked against the reading of his own dials.

"We’ll check these from another point,” he went on. "The flagship down below.”

He shifted the beam to the wavecrested Pacific and searched for the flagship. After some moments he found it. 'The powerful beam of the ether-vision moved through its steel hull to the radio cabin. Again Carruthers made a note of

the figures: 891.9. He also checked these figures against those of his own dial.

"Now,” he continued, "I won’t need their figures. I’ve transposed them to my own numerals of the ether-vision dial.”

With a compass he drew a circle the size of the figured dial before him; then he marked in the points coinciding with the figure readings, halved the distance, and with a ruler, held to the exact center of the circle and touching the point midway of the two readings, he drew a straight line.

"’There,” he finished. "Somewhere on this line we’ll find Zaryoti.” He placed the drawing against a plotted map of the United States, checked the angles of the two panel readings and smiled knowingly. "The line runs shoreward to San Francisco, continues northeastward through Omaha, Akron and New York. We’ll begin at this end and trace it westward.”

He turned to Gettering. "Contact General Reilly as well as the commander of the Canadian ships. Have planes made ready to leave at a second’s notice to a spot I’ll designate.”

'The silence that followed was broken only by the hiun of motors as the ethervision ray moved southwestward along the invisible line Carruthers was following.

M ile after mile flowed into the luminous panel, every one of them empty. Westward moved the beam, searching, searching, searching. Slow minutes dragged on to an eternity of time. Carruthers’ eyes aclied from the strain. His shoulders slumped, but his sensitive fingers never for a single moment faltered on the dials.

And suddenly, out of the mist above San Francisco, appeared a giant plane, one that the watchers had never seen before. Carruthers chedred its position.


iWEIRD TALES

The ether-vision beam brought it closer. Its outer walls disappeared. The interior became visible, and then the stiff, military figure of the Marshal himself.

Except for his radio operators, he was alone, staring with cruel slanting eyes a* a report one of his operators had handed him. Whatever he thought, whatever he felt was hidden beneath a yellow, serene face.

Carruthers turned to the Air Secretary. "All right, Gettering. Get in touch with the air fleets. Half a dozen planes ought to be enough. Location, approximately ten miles above San Francisco. Hurry!”

But Gettering was already talking into the electronic phone. "In the name of humanity. General Reilly, I command you to destroy Marshal Huen Feng Zaryoti. I’ve given you the location of his plane. Act at once in conjunction with the Canadian air commander.”

Carruthers turned momentarily to the battle out on the Pacific. Reilly had gathered his fleet into a compact wedge and had driven it into the inferno of Asiatic sky fighters. The Canadian armored planes were close behind. Like a destroying cloud, their combined strengtii swarmed over the battle-ships below. The Asiatic sea fleet had already started away under cover of a smoke screen.

'They were helpless against the attack. Gun crews were driven from their stations. Masts were shattered. Antenna wires were destroyed. The retreat was turning into a rout.

The message centers of the scattered Asiatics turned to the high command for orders. They were helpless. They needed leadership. Otherwise their fleets on sea and in the air would be destroyed. Frantically they signaled their leader for orders that would bring an end to the chaos engulfing them.

But the orders never came, and diaos engulfed them.

The ether-vision beam had focused once more on Zaryoti’s giant cabin plane. The Asiatic war lord was leering contemptuously at the war-torn world below him.

Did these misguided fools of the United States think their opposition would hold back his highly eflicient machines of air and sea? Did they for a moment think they could defy the greatest war lord in the world?

His face was no longer serene. A shrill laugh crackled from his lips. He half turned around to snap out an order to one of his operators when the laugh froze on his lips.

A brittle staccato drummed against his ears. The giant plane trembled as if shaken by a mighty wind. Two of the operators slumped against the dials of their machines.

The startled leader of the Asiatics moved snakily across the cabin and peered through the quartz portholes into space. His eyes, black as obsidian, became flecked with dangerous lights. The saffron hue of his skin changed to a dirty gray. His lips worked soundlessly.

Realization smote him like a blow between the eyes. It hadn’t seemed important at the time, but now he saw it all too clearly. He remembered the report. A squadron of his bombers had become lost in the fog owing to a compass deflection. Against his orders they had destroyed Toronto. A little mistake in itself, but Zaryoti had hoped to smash his way to victory before Canada could act.

As he looked through the portholes he knew that the shadow of death was upon him. His secret place in the sky had been ferreted out. Three swift American planes were circling the giant cabin plane. There

YELLOW DOOM


were also three armored planes blazoned with the gold maple leaf of Canada flying beside them. Their concealed machineguns were chattering savagely.

Pellets of explosive metal were erupting about his head, his arms, his feet. The last of his operators had crumpled over his dials, his head rocking grotesquely with the roll of the plane.

And then Marshal Huen Feng Zaryoti thought and saw no more. The exploding pellets reached his body. Stinging pains lanced his heart. He died standing up, a sneer of contempt on his lips, his face working crookedly.

But as he fell, his arm reached out and closed around a switch in a death grip. The weight of his falling body threw the breaker points together, completing

the circuit. There came a blinding burst of red flame, and before the amazed eyes of the watchers, the giant cabin plane of the Asiatic war lord, and the six destroying planes surrounding it, vanished from sight. Nothing remained but a cloud of white powder that sifted down like snow into the waters of the Golden Gate.

The white civilization of America had again survived the menace of a combined Asiatic attack. When would the next come? No one in Aaron Carruthers’ laboratory knew. They knew only that their country had beep saved at the last moment. They knew that victory had come at the darkest hour, and that Marshal Huen Feng Zaryoti had passed into oblivion. Beyond that they dared not think.

nder the Tomb

By ROBERT NELSON

Dread beings grope and sport in gory lakes,

A foul mist creeps and feeds on swollen slugs; From beds of perfumed plants squirm fetid snakes, And like a flower grown from sable drugs,

A moon of steel drips blood upon a sky Darkened by what mad phantoms prophesy.

But this hath ceased and passed, and now in that Mephitic, crumbling woodland ’neath the tomb The dead sup with the dead o’er flowing vat. And searing candles cleanse the rotting gloom; And they who stood in sorrow’s joy and pain. Tread now through hell’s ecstatical refrain.

Far still beneath, where bloated babes are kept In glacial rooms, and skulls are lit as lamps To guide through life beyond, and where are swept Green veils of oozing slime and deadly damps.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE BRONZE CASKET RICHARD H
by Hart
============================================================
There is an everlasting resonance Pealed by the tomb in glad deliverance.

Vhe [7

i_^ron2,e Casket

By RICHARD H. HART

A strange tale of the Wandering Jew, and the weird experience of an American art student who was stranded in Paris

ILBERT NYSMITH strove desperately to free himself from the embraces of a nightmare. Out late with fellow-students the night before, he had looked once too often upon the vin rouge; his senses seemed drugged. His mind struggled convulsively until, suddenly, it won back aaoss the borderline to consciousness. Someone was knocking upon the door of his room.

Suppressing a groan, he tore his heavy lids apart and forced himself to rise. He stepped into his trousers and went to the door.

It was the concierge with a letter. Gilbert took it, managed to squeeze out a word of thanks, and closed the door. Standing in the middle of the room, he tore open the envelope and drew out the message. It read:

Mr. Gilbert Nysmith,

18-Bis Rue Agneau Sacr^,

Paris (Seine), France.

Dear Sir:

As you doubtless know, your uncle, Obediah Nysmith, died on March 30th, last. It now develops that your uncle left a will in which your name was not mentioned. As a consequence, we are compelled to discontinue the allowance heretofore made you for the purpose of prosecuting your studies in Paris.

Unfortunately, the intelligence of your uncle’s demise did not reach us in time to forestall the mailing of your remittance of April 1st, which it now develops was without authority. Will you kindly let us have check to reimburse us for this unauthorized payment at your earliest convenience?

Yours very truly,

Guardian Trust Company By J. P. Cullinan, Secy.

The scowl with which he read the opening paragraph of the letter changed to a sardonic grin as Gilbert came to the


concluding sentence. His check, indeed! He ran a hand into his pocket and produced its total contents: three half-franc pieces.

He had known for two weeks of his uncle’s death, and had even in some degree expected his studies to terminate on that account. But to find himself suddenly cut oflF, "without a shilling,” in a foreign country, was something he was not in the least prepared for.

Mentally he enumerated the coins that were his sole wealth: breakfast, luncheon, dinner. There was today taken care of, but how about tomorrow? He got up from the bed and began to pace the floor of the room in perplexity. With his uncle, his last blood tie had been dissolved, and as for friends — ^well, he had always been too busy, somehow, to cultivate friendship. He had acquaintances in plenty, yet no intimates. But — wait a minute. How about Bob Andrews? He had done a great deal for Bob — there was the matter of that thesis, for one thing — and Andrews had always sworn eternal gratitude. Here was a chance to put that often-avowed gratitude to the test.

G ilbert completed his toilet, and went down the three flights of stairs to the street. Entering a little restaurant next door, he exchanged one of the halffranc pieces for croissants and coffee. He hurriedly downed the slight breakfast, then set out on foot for the lodgings of his friend Andrews in the Rue Bonaparte.

THE BRONZE CASKET


It was only when he had interviewed the old concierge at Andrews’ pension that Gilbert realized the true depth of his calamity. His friend had left the week before for Nice, and would not return until the end of summer. And this was early May!

He had walked three blocks in a semidaze when he realized that he had not even asked for his friend’s new address. He hurried back to the pension in the Rue Bonaparte, only to find that the concierge had gone out, leaving no word as to when

he would return. Mechanically, he turned and walked away.

Alone in Paris, and dead-broke! It was a predicament to wring tears from any but a hardened soldier of fortune. Those casual acquaintances of his — why hadn’t he cultivated them more? As things stood, he could borrow a couple of francs from one, five from another, and perhaps ten from a third. Such borrowings could do him no real good; they would enable him to live precariously for a week or so, and at the end of that time he would find



himself in worse condition than ever: friendless, penniless, and thousands of miles from home.

Sauntering dejectedly along through the bright Paris sunlight, which seemed now to have taken on a queer, morbid tint, Gilbert chanced to pass a cafe near the intersection of the street with the Boulevard Saint Germain. As he absently threaded his way among the tables set upon the sidewalk, he suddenly found himself tripped and thrown to hands and knees. Brought abruptly to his senses, he rose and whirled about, uncertain whether to offer or to demand an apology.

The only person near him was a welldressed, han^ome man who seemed past the middle age and was decidedly foreign in appearance. He was just draining a cup of fragrant cafS-cognac, As Gilbert glared at him, he set down his cup and smiled.

"Do not apologize, I beg of you. Monsieur," he said with an indefinable trace of accent. "I have not been discommoded in the least.”

Saying which, he extended his hand, and, half abashed, Gilbert put out his own. Instead of clasping it, as Gilbert had expected, he laid in his outstretched palm two pieces of paper, the uppermost of which was a twenty-franc note on the Bank of France.

"You will not mind performing a little errand for me, I am sure,” he said rapidly but smoothly. "Have the goodness to take that pawn-ticket to the shop which issued it and redeem the pledge which it calls for: a little, empty casket. I shall expect you tomorrow at this hour, at number 18 -Bis, Rue Agneau Sacre, room fourteen.”

"But,” remonstrated Gilbert, "that’s my own room!”

"I know it,” said the other, and winked deliberately. Then he rose from

his table, turned about, and walked rapidly away.

Gilbert stared after him, of two minds whether to run him down and decline the errand. Did the stranger take him for a gutter-snipe? But, on second thought, he paused. After all, he had plenty of time — his studies at tlie university were certainly ended — and he was badly in need of a friend. Too, the stranger seemed to know him; knew his address, at any rate. There could surely be no harm in accommodating him in such a simple matter as he had named.

His resolution thus taken, Gilbert examined the pawn-ticket curiously. A close scrutiny revealed that it had been issued only three days earlier to some person whose name he was unable to decipher, by a shop in the Rue des Archives. Tlie amount of the loan was ten francs, and the pledge described as "one metal box.”

Why the stranger did not himself redeem the pledge, Gilbert could not imagine. Of course, it might be stolen property, but in view of the other facts in tlie matter this seemed very unlikely. There was something decidedly queer about the whole transaction, but, strangely enough, now that he was embarked in it he felt no wish to withdraw. On the contrary, he set off toward the Rue des Archives as fast as his feet would carry him. Crossing the Seine by the Pont au Change, he turned to the right and followed the Rue de Rivoli to the Hotel de Ville. A left turn and a half-minute more of walking brought him to the pawn-shop.

T he shop was very old and dingy, and without show-windows of any kind. As he let himself in, a little bell on the door tinkled dispiritedly, but he found no one inside. He waited for several minutes in the semi-darkness, and was just about to raise his voice in a halloo when a doo*

THE BRONZE CASKET


cqiencd at tfie rear and an old Auvergnafc in velveteen trousers and carpet-sEppers shuffled in.

He looked at Gilbert sharply when he presented the ticket, but all he said was: “Fifteen francs.”

Gilbert produced the twenty-franc note, and after taking it and rattling it suspiciously, and even smelling it, the Auvergnat went to a safe in the corner of the shop and brought bade a five-franc note and a small metal casket, no larger than his two thumbs.

■'Wasn’t there a key for it?” asked Gilbert.

The pawn-broker’s expression did not change by a hair.

"Non, Monsieur," he said.

His tone did not invite argument, and Gilbert pocketed the casket, together with the five francs change, and left the shop.

When he had turned the comer of the Rue de Rivoli, curiosity impelled him to draw out the casket and examine it. It proved to be of bronze, almost black with age, and apparently of exceedingly antique design. On its top was an inscription in queer characters that to Gilbert’s inexperienced eye seemed a cross between Hebrew and Arabic. He shook the box, but heard nothing to indicate its contents. Then he remembered that the stranger had said that it was empty, and returned it to his pocket.

It was now nearly noon, and being almost penniless he naturally discovered that he was ravenously hungry. Nothing short of a whole loaf of bread, he thought, would stay his hunger. He accordingly turned down a side street and made for the nearest bakery.

He selected a large, appetizingly fresh loaf, and exchanged for it one of his predous half-franc pieces. 'Then he left the bakery and hurried to his lodgings in the Rue Agneau SaaA

The sight of his room recalled to mind die discouraging letter he had received, which in turn brought a train of reflections that led him, one by one, over the events of the morning, and finally to the bronze casket in his podeet. The queer inscription on the box provoked his curiosity afresh, and it suddenly occurred to him to copy it off and try to get it deciphered at the Biblioth^ue Nationale.

Forgetting the importunity of his hunger for the moment, he set down his loaf, then drew the little casket from one pocket while he fumbled for a pencil in another. In his preoccupation, the box sEpped from his fingers and crashed to die floor.

Whether it was his imagination, a passing cloud, or whatever, the room seemed to darken for a moment. The lid of the casket flew open from its impact with the bare floor, and Gilbert’s ejaculation of dismay was cut short by the apparition of a cloud of golden bubbles which streamed from the little box.

The golden cloud expanded, then contracted and took on a vague resemblance to human shape. At the same instant, Gilbert seemed to hear a deep voice speaking in a tongue utterly strange to him. Then the voice ceased, and the bubbles vanished into the air like steam on a warm day.

Although the room was again as bri^t as ever, Gilbert stood for a full minute with dropped jaw while a prickling of awe coursed and recoursed along his spine. But, gradually, his self-possession returned, and he was soon able to assure himself that the whole incident was a figment of an over-stimulated imagination.

He bent over to pick up the little box, and received another shock. On the floor, beside the casket, lay a ring.



His first thought, naturally, was that the ring had come out of the box. Then he remembered that the stranger had said that it was empty, and that he had unsuccessfully attempted to discover any contents by shaking it.

But there was no doubting his eyes: the ring was there. He collected his wits by an effort of will-power, and picked up the ring and casket. Both seemed warm to his touch, as if they had just been exposed to considerable heat.

The casket was unlined, and he reflected that, if the ring had been in it, most certainly it should have rattled when he shook it. He closed the lid, and was startled to find that it refused to open again; that it was, in fact, as tightly locked as when he had received it from the old Auvergnat.

This circumstance caused him perforce to abandon his half-formed intention of putting the ring in the box and saying nothing about it to the stranger when the time came to deliver the casket; it was out of the question, of course, to tempt Providence by dropping it again with the hope of reopening it.

After all, he asked himself, had the ring really been in the box.? It seemed logical to think that it had, yet equally logical to believe that it had not. In the hope of settling the question, he gave his attention to an examination of the ring itself.

It was of antique yellow gold, chased all around in the swastika pattern, but its most striking feature was the setting: a fire-opal cut in the form of a T-shaped cross with a ring at the top. On the cross were inscribed characters different from, but bearing a slight resemblance to, those on the casket. They seemed to form two words, one vertical and the other horizontal.

Something impelled Gilbert to slip the

bit of jewelry upon the middle finger of his left hand, and to his surprize he found that it fitted perfectly. He stretched out his arm for a better perspective. The ring was an admirable piece of workmanship, ancient though it might be, and he fancied that it looked especially well on his finger. It somehow made him feel rich and powerful to see it there, and he enjoyed the sensation so much that he let it remain while he attacked the loaf of bread he had bought for his luncheon.

T he bread was really excellent, and needed only a little wine to make a satisfying meal. "Too bad,” he said to himself, "that I was so prodigal with that Chateau Rouge I had last week. I wish I’d saved a bottle for time-o’-need.”

At that moment a golden bubble seemed to rise from the table before him, and he followed it with his eyes. It sailed leisurely across the room and vanished in a corner. At the point where it disappeared was a wine-bottle which he certainly did not remember having put there. He crossed the room and picked it up. It was full and tightly corked, and bore the well-known Chateau Rouge trade-mark.

It was very strange. There was no plausible explanation of the bottle’s being there. "Still,” he reflected, "I thought my supply had vanished a little too quickly. I must have set this bottle in the corner when I was straightening things around, without remembering having done so.”

He was too hungry to bother long with what seemed only a petty mystery, and soon had the bottle open, washing down his bread with its zestful contents.

The wine was potent, and his stomach otherwise none too full. He felt lifted up, exhilarated.

“I wish,” he said to himself, "that I had a hundred francs or so. I feel just like picking a winner at Auteuil.”

THE bron2:e casket


He had barely uttered the words when there came a knock at his door. He opened it and found an acquaintance named Brenner in the hallway.

'That miserable cadge,” he thought to himself; "I wonder what he wants now!” Then he smiled, for he was beyond the reach of the most practised borrower.

"Hello, Nysmith,” greeted Breimef; "how are you today?"

Gilbert replied that he was in low spirits.

"Maybe this will cheer you up,” returned Brenner. "I’ve just had a remittance from my lawyer; he sold some property for me. Here are the two hundred francs I owe you. I’m in a big hurry, or I’d stop and chat a bit."

Almost stunned, Gilbert took the money. He was barely able to murmur his thanks. Then Brenner turned and vanished down the stairs.

Gilbert closed the door and sat down to think. It was hard to convince himself that the wine had not affected his brain — was not causing hallucinations. But the bank-notes were convincingly real. Suddenly he recollected his recent declaration about going out and betting on the races. The idea now appeared foolish, but he might as well admit that he had an unreasonable prejudice against changing his mind; most gamblers have the same superstition. Luck should be pressed.

"If I only knew what horse to bet on!” he muttered, closing his eyes th^ better to concentrate his thoughts. As he did so, he seemed to see against his eyelids a number of the golden bubbles which were becoming so familiar. They darted back and forth as he watched, then suddenly grouped themselves to form the number " 21 ”.

*'Vingl-et-un," he repeated to himself. "That is the name of a horse which is to run in the second race at Auteuil, today.

I remember noticing it in yesterday’s Revue Sportive. Looks as if Fm being dared to make a bet,”

It may have been the ring on his finger which influenced his decision, for every time his gaze fell on it he had a return of the sensation of being rich and powerful. At any rate, he dressed himself carefully, then went downstairs and took the Metro to Auteuil.

Only a few moments remained for making bets on the second race when he arrived and paid twenty francs for admission. He wagered a hundred francs on Vingt-et-un to win, and turned to go to the stands. As he pushed through the crowd, he heard one man say to another:

"Vingt-et-un will win, certainly.”

Swayed by an impulse, Gilbert turned back and placed his remaining eighty francs on the horse he had scarcely heard of the day before. Too late, he reflected that if he lost he would either have to walk back from Auteuil or go empty to bed.

"What are the odds on Vingt-et-un?" he asked.

"Forty to one,” was the reply.

Gilbert was horror-struck. Somehow or other he had gained the impression that he was betting on the favorite. And now he learned that he had put his entire fortune on an unknown — a forty-to-one shot! Sick with disgust at himself, he made his way to the stands.

It was a close race. Surprizingly, Vingtet-un ran Prince Hebert, the favorite, a close second. But the favorite was first under the wire by a nose.

Gilbert’s interest in the races was completely killed. Cursing himself for a brainless fool, he arose, left his place in the stands, and made for the nearest exit. He was within a few feet of it when he heard a babel of shouts. Turning about, be distinguished the words;



"Prince Hebert is disqualified!”

Gilbert felt the earth rock. If the favorite was disqualified, then the race belonged to Vingt-et-un!

Dazedly, he forced his way to the betting-booth where he had made his wager and displayed his tickets. The bookmaker’s clerk grumbled and swore under his breath, but counted out his winnings and shoved them under the wicket. Although his senses almost refused to credit the fact, Gilbert had suddenly become possessed of more than seven thousand francs.

W ALKING in a golden haze, one forearm pressed tightly against the breast-pocket which contained his winnings, he left the race-track. Through force of habit, he made his way to the entrance of the Metro station, but fear of pickpockets in the subway brought a moment of lucidity, and he flagged a taxicab instead.

"Place de I’Opera,’’ he directed the chauffeur.

With seven thousand francs, he reflected, he might remain in Paris and continue to prosecute his studies for many months, or even for a year or so. But the feeling of having been snatched from the brink of an abyss was too strong. His one overpowering impulse was to flee. From the Place de I’Opera, he went on foot to the office of a steamship company in the Rue de la Paix, where by good luck he found there was a boat sailing from Le Havre for New York on the following night. He would have just sufficient time to hand over the casket to the polite stranger at the appointed hour, then to catch the boat-train to Le Havre.

That evening, with his steamer ticket and traveler’ s-checks for several hundred dollars stowed safely in his pocket, Gilbert made an attempt to celebrate his good fortune. He ordered and ate an excellent dinner at his favorite restaurant in Montmartre, and afterward attended the Comedie Fran^aise. But the dinner sat heavily upon his stomach, and the play seemed dull and stupid, so that he could scarcely sit through it. Something weighed upon his spirits: something which seemed either a feeling of guilt or a foreboding of disaster, although he could assign no reason for either. When the play had ended, he went at once to his room.

Sleep seemed a thing remote. He sat down upon the edge of his bed without undressing, and began to review the events of the day. There was something weird, something uncanny, in so much good luck. Perhaps that explained his feeling of unease. It had all happened, he remembered, after his encounter with the stranger at the caf^.

His eyes fell upon the antique ring upon his finger, and it suddenly occurred to him that the jewel had in some way influenced his fortune. All tommyrot, of course, he told himself. Still, it had been upon his finger when he had wished for the money which had been almost miraculously provided him, and when he had wished to know the name of the winner at Auteuil, so providentially supplied by his queer "hunch.’’ Although feeling slightly foolish, he determined to make a test.

He dr^ a twenty-franc note from his pocket, looked at the ring, and said distinctly:

"I wish this twenty francs would become a thousand.’’

Nothing happened. He saw no golden bubbles. The twenty-franc note was still a twenty-franc note. Grinning sheepishly, and convinced that there could have been nothing supernatural in the day’s events.

THE BRONZE CASKET


he pulled off the ring and put it, together with the bank-note, in his pocket, then went to bed.

G ilbert’s trunk had gone to the Montparnasse station, the next morning, and he was ready to follow it, when the stranger rapped on the door of his room.

"Good morning,” he said, when Gilbert had opened to him. “I hope you have a pleasant voyage.”

“Thank — you — Monsieur,” Gilbert stammered, his almost-forgotten forebodings of the night before returning with a rush. "How — ^how did you know I was going away?”

"I know many things,” said the stranger, with an odd smile. "You had no trouble in obtaining the casket?”

"None,” answered Gilbert. “Here it is. The pawnbroker said there was no key.”

"He was right. There has never been a key to this casket.”

"No key! Then, how does one open it?”

"That is a secret which I discovered many — that is to say, some time ago. Thank you very much for your kind ofl&ces. You may keep the five francs change, if it will be of any service.”

"Thanks,” returned Gilbert with a smile, "but I don’t need it. Here it is.”

The stranger returned the smile, rather wryly, but pocketed the bank-note. Then, after thanking Gilbert again, he departed.

It was only after he was on the boattrain that Gilbert remembered that neither of them had mentioned the ring.

He reached Le Havre without incident and boarded his steamer, finding that he was to share a stateroom with a college professor just returning from several years of research in the Levant. His cabin-mate had not yet appeared, and Gilbert was

just washing away the traces of his journey on the train when a steward rapped on the door. The steward handed him a card and informed him that a gentleman wished to see him in the smoking-salon. Wondering who his visitor could be ( for the card gave him no light) , Gilbert hastily completed his toilet and made his way to the appointed salon. There, pacing nervously up and down, was the stranger who had employed him to redeem the bronze casket.

"So sorry to disturb you, Mr. Nysmith,” he began with a polite but evidently forced smile, "but I must ask you a few questions, at once. You don’t mind?”

"Not at all,” said Gilbert. “Anything you like.”

"Then, if you please, be good enough to relate just how you passed the remainder of yesterday, after redeeming my casket — with especial reference to tlie casket itself.”

Gilbert gave a fairly complete outline of his program, beginning with his purchase of the loaf of bread, mentioning his finding of the ring, and ending with his visit to the theater. Of his half-skeptical test of the ring with the twenty-franc note, he could not force himself to speak.

The stranger shook his head sadly.

"My mistake,” he said. "I should have been more frank. I should not have told you that the box was empty. ’The ring which it contained, my young friend, belonged to Shelomoh— that is to say, Solomon — and is the most powerful talisman which the world has yet seen. The words which you may have noticed engraved upon it are the Sc hem hammphorasch, the Incommunicable Name, which it happens I am the only man now living able to decipher.

"The golden bubbles of which you speak were the manifestations of a djinn, the slave of the ring. Once in every thou590


sand years he is forced to perform three tasks for the wearer of it. You wished yesterday for three things, and the djinn gave them to you. The second of these wishes was for money, the third to know the name of the winning horse at Auteuil; both are understandable. But the first wish — think of it! — was for a trifling bottle of wine which might have been purchased anywhere for a few francs! On the other hand, my first and only wish would have been to fall asleep and remain so until a curse under which I labor should have been lifted.”

The stranger’s demeanor was so sad, so hopeless, that, although fully convinced that his visitor was crazed, Gilbert could not help sympathizing with him.

'"This curse,” he asked, "is it some painful disease?”

"You might call it that,” returned the stranger, gravely. "In fact, one of your American poets has called it a fever.”

"TTiat’s bad,” said Gilbert. "But, you spoke of sleeping imtil the curse had been lifted. Couldn’t the — the djinn have lifted the curse?”

The stranger shook his head again, more sadly than ever.

"No,” he said. "It was pronounced by One far more powerful than he — as I learned to my cost.”

"I’m sorry,” said Gilbert. "At least, you will allow me to return the ring.”

"I will take it, yes,” replied his visitor, apathetically, "although it will be useless for another thousand years. And to think that I followed the last holder for fifty years, across three continents, only to become possessed of it too late! However, what is to be, will be. I must go, now. Thank you. Monsieur, and good-bye.”

"But,” objected Gilbert, "you can’t go, now. We’re almost out of sight of land, and the pilot has already been dropped.”

"It makes no difl[erence, unfortunately,” returned the other, leaving the salon and walking to the starboard rail.

"Wait!” cried Gilbert. "You’ll be drowned!”

The stranger turned for a moment and smiled sadly.

"No such good fortime,” he muttered, and leaped over the rail into the sea.

Gilbert started to shout: "Man overboard,” but something seemed to restrain him. Although the stranger was apparently making no effort to swim, he was not sinking. Gilbert watched his head bobbing up and down in the steamer's wake until it disappeared in the gathering twilight.

Thoughtfully, he went below, where he encountered his cabin-mate. 'The professor was a quiet man with grave, inscrutable eyes and a curly Assyrian beard. When they had become somewhat acquainted, Gilbert unburdened his mind of the disconcerting happenings of the past thirty-six hours. 'The other listened attentively, and to Gilbert’s surprize did not seem at all incredulous or inclined to scoff.

"What was the stranger’s name?” he asked, at last.

"I don’t remember,” said Gilbert. "But, hold on. Here’s his card: 'I. Lak’- dion.’ Ever hear of him?”

"Yes — and I think you have, too,” returned the professor, softly. "You remember a certain heavily laden procession which made its way toward Golgotha, nearly two thousand years ago? And that, when a bystander adjured One of the Condemned to make haste, the Crossbearer replied: 'I go — but stay thou

[THE END]

============================================================
BEYOND THE BLACK RIVER ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
until I return’? 'The name of that rash bystander was Isaac Lak’dion — the Wandering Jew."

“A hut wall buckled under the ram-llke impact."

eyond the Black River

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

A thrilling novelette of the Piets and the wizard Zogar Sag — a startling weird saga of terrific adventures and dark magic

1. Conan Loses His Ax ears of the wayfarer, though he was movT HE stillness of the forest trail was the caution that

so primeval that the tread of a «iust be practised by any man who vensoft-booted foot was a startling hires beyond Thunder River. He was a disturbance. At least it seemed so to the young man of medium height, with an




open countenance and a mop of tousled tawny hair unconfined by cap or helmet. His garb was common enough for that country — a coarse tunic, belted at the waist, short leather breeches beneath, and soft buckskin boots that came short of the knee. A knife-hilt jutted from one boot-top. The broad leather belt supported a short, heavy sword and a buckskin pouch. There was no perturbation in the wide eyes that scanned the green walls which fringed the trail. Though not tall, he was well built, and the arms that the short wide sleeves of the tunic left bare were thick with corded muscle.

He tramped imperturbably along, although the last settler’s cabin lay miles behind him, and each step was carrying him nearer the grim peril that hung like a brooding shadow over the ancient forest.

He was not making as much noise as it seemed to him, though he well knew that the faint tread of his booted feet would be like a tocsin of alarm to the fierce ears that might be lurking in the treacherous green fastness. His careless attitude was not genuine; his ^es and ears were keenly alert, especially his ears, for no gaze could penetrate the leafy tangle for more than a few feet in either direction.

But it was instinct more than any warning by the external senses which brought him up suddenly, his hand on his hilt. He stood stock-still in the middle of the trail, unconsciously holding his breath, wondering what he had heard, and wondering if indeed he had heard anything. The silence seemed absolute. Not a squirrel chattered or bird chirped. Then his gaze fixed itself on a mass of bushes beside the trail a few yards ahead of him. There was no breeze, yet he had seen a branch quiver. The short hairs on his scalp prickled, and he stood for an instant undecided, certain that a move in

either direction would bring death streaking at him from the bushes.

A heavy chopping crunch sounded behind the leaves. The bushes were shaken violently, and simultaneously with the sound, an arrow arched erratically from among them and vanished among the trees along the trail. The wayfarer glimpsed its flight as he sprang frantically to cover.

Crouching behind a thick stem, his sword quivering in his fingers, he saw the bushes part, and a tall figure stepped leisurely into the trail. The traveler stared in surprize. The stranger was clad like himself in regard to boots and breeks, though the latter were of silk instead of leather. But he wore a sleeveless hauberk of dark mesh-mail in place of a tunic, and a helmet perched on his black mane. That helmet held tine other’s gaze; it was without a crest, but adorned by short bull's horns. No civilized hand ever forged that head-piece. Nor was the face below it that of a civilized man: dark, scarred, with smoldering blue eyes, it was a face as untamed as the primordial forest which formed its background. The man held a broadsword in his right hand, and the edge was smeared with crimson.

"Come on out,” he called, in an accent unfamiliar to the wayfarer. "All’s safe now. There was only one of the dogs. Come on out.”

The other emerged dubiously and stared at the stranger. He felt curiously helpless and futile as he gazed on the proportions of the forest man — ^the massive ironclad breast, and the arm that bore the reddened sword, burned dark by the sun and ridged and corded with muscles. He moved with the dangerous ease of a panther; he was too fiercely supple to be a product of civilization, even of that fringe of civilization which composed the outer frontiers.

W. T.— 4

BEYOND THE BLACK RIVER


T urning, he stepped back to the bushes and pulled them apart. Still not certain just what had happened, the wayfarer from the east advanced and stared down into the bushes. A man lay there, a short, dark, thickly-muscled man, naked except for a loin-cloth, a necklace of human teeth and a brass armlet. A short sword was thrust into the girdle of the loin-cloth, and one hand still gripped a heavy black bow. The man had long black hair; that was about all the wayfarer could tell about his head, for his features were a mask of blood and brains. His skull had been split to the teeth.

“A Piet, by the gods!” exclaimed the wayfarer.

The burning blue eyes turned upon him.

"Are you surprized?”

“Why, they told me at Velitrium, and again at the settlers’ cabins along the road, that these devils sometimes sneaked across the border, but I didn’t expect to meet one this far in the interior.”

"You’re only four miles east of Blade River,” the stranger informed him. "They’ve been shot within a mile of Velitrium. No settler between ’Thunder River and Fort Tuscelan is really safe. I picked up this dog’s trail three miles south of the fort this morning, and I’ve been following him ever since. I came up behind him just as he was drawing an arrow on you. Another instant and there’ d have been a stranger in Hell. But I spoiled his aim for him.”

The wayfarer was staring wide-eyed at the larger man, dumfounded by the realization that the man had actually tracked down one of the forest-devils and slain him unsuspected. That implied woodsmanship of a quality undreamed, even for Conajohara.

"You are one of the fort’s garrison?” he asked.

"I’m no soldier. I draw the pay and \w T_5

rations of an officer of the line, but I do my work in the woods. Valannus knows I’m of more use ranging along the river than cooped up in the fort.”

Casually the slayer shoved the body deeper into the thickets with his foot, pulled the bushes together and turned away down the trail. The other followed him.

"My name is Balthus,” he offered. "I was at Velitrium last night. I haven’t decided whether I’ll take up a hide of land, or enter fort-service.”

'"The best land near Thunder River is already taken,” grunted the slayer. "Plenty of good land between Scalp Creek — you crossed it a few miles back — and the fort, but that’s getting too devilish close to the river. ’The Piets steal over to burn and murder — as that one did. ’They don’t always come singly. Some day they'll try to sweep the settlers out of Conajohara. And they may succeed — probably will succeed. This colonization business is mad, anyway. ’There’s plenty of good land east of the Bossonian marches. If the Aquilonians would cut up some of the big estates of their barons, and plant wheat where now only deer are hunted, they wouldn’t have to cross the border and take the land of the Piets away from them.”

'"That’s queer talk from a man in the service of the Governor of Conajohara,” objeaed Balthus.

"It’s nothing to me,” the other retorted. "Tm a mercenary. I sell my sword to the highest bidder. I never planted wheat and never will, so long as tliere are other harvests to be reaped with the sword. But you Hyborians have expanded as far as you’ll be allowed to expand. You’ve crossed the marches, burned a few villages, exterminated a few clans and pushed back the frontier to Black River; but I doubt if you’ll even be able to hold what you’ve conquered, and you’ll never



push the frontier any further westward. Your idiotic king doesn’t understand conditions here. He won’t send you enough reinforcements, and there are not enough settlers to withstand the shock of a concerted attack from across the river.”

"But the Piets are divided into small clans,” persisted Balthus. "They’ll never unite. We can whip any single clan.”

"Or any three or four clans,” admitted the slayer. "But some day a man will rise and unite thirty or forty clans, just as was done among the Cimmerians, when the Gundermen tried to push the border northward, years ago. They tried to colonize the southern marches of Cimmeria: destroyed a few small clans, built a forttown, Venarium — ^you’ve heard the tale.”

"So I have indeed,” replied Balthus, wincing. The memory of that red disaster was a black blot in the chronicles of a proud and war-like people. "My uncle was at Venarium when the Cimmerians swarmed over the walls. He was one of the few who escaped that slaughter. I’ve heard him tell the tale, many a time. The barbarians swept out of the hills in a ravening horde, without warning, and stormed Venarium with such fury none could stand before them. Men, women and children were butchered. Venarium was reduced to a hiass of charred ruins, as it is to this day. The Aquilonians were driven back across the marches, and have never since tried to colonize the Cimmerian country. But you speak of Venarium familiarly. Perhaps you were there?”

"I was,’’ grunted the other. "I was one of the horde, that swarmed over the walls. I hadn’t yet seen fifteen snows, but already my name was repeated about the council fires.”

Balthus involuntarily recoiled, staring. It seemed incredible that the man walking tranquilly at his side should have been one of those screeching, blood-mad devils

that had poured over the walls of Venarium on that long-gone day to make her streets run crimson.

'"Then you, too, are a barbarian!” he exclaimed involuntarily.

'The other nodded, without taking offense.

"I am Conan, a Cimmerian.”

"I’ve heard of you.” Fresh interest quickened Balthus’ gaze. No wonder the Piet had fallen victim to his own sort of subtlety. 'The Cimmerians were barbarians as ferocious as the Piets, and much more intelligent. Evidently Conan had spent much time among civilized men, though that contact had obviously not softened him, nor weakened any of his primitive instincts. Balthus’ apprehension turned to admiration as he marked the easy catlike stride, the effortless silence with which the Cimmerian moved along the trail. The oiled links of his armor did not clink, and Balthus knew Conan could glide through the deepest thicket or most tangled copse as noiselessly as any naked Piet that ever lived.

"You’re not a Gunderman?” It was more assertion than question.

Balthus shook his head. "I’m from the Tauran.”

"I’ve seen good woodsmen from the Tauran. But the Bossonians have sheltered you Aquilonians from the outer wildernesses for too many centuries. You need hardening.”

That was true; the Bossonian marches, with their fortified villages filled with determined bowmen, had long served Aquilonia as a buffer against the outlying barbarians. Now among the settlers beyond 'Thunder River there was growing up a breed of forest-men capable of meeting the barbarians at their own game, but their numbers were still scanty. Most of the frontiersmen were like Balthus — more of the settler than the woodsman type.

BEYOND THE BLACK RIVER


T he sun had not set, but it was no longer in sight, hidden as it was behind the dense forest wall. The shadows were lengthening, deepening back in the woods as the companions strode on down the trail.

"It will be dark before we reach the fort,” commented Conan casually; then: "Listen!”

He stopped short, half crouching, sword ready, transformed into a savage figure of suspicion and menace, poised to spring and rend. Balthus had heard it too — a wild scream that broke at its highest note. It was the cry of a man in dire fear or agony.

Conan was off in an instant, racing down the trail, each stride widening the distance between him and his straining companion. Balthus puffed a airse. Among the settlements of the Tauran he was accounted a good runner, but Conan was leaving him behind with maddening ease. Then Balthus forgot his exasperation as his ears were outraged by the most frightful cry he had ever heard. It was not human, this one; it was a demoniacal caterwauling of hideous triumph that seemed to exult over fallen humanity and find echo in black gulfs beyond human ken.

Balthus faltered in his stride, and clammy sweat beaded his flesh. But Conan did not hesitate; he darted around a bend in the trail and disappeared, and Balthus, panicky at finding himself alone with that awful scream still shuddering through the forest in grisly echoes, put on an extra burst of speed and plunged after him.

TTie Ac|uilonian slid to a stumbling halt, almost colliding with the Cimmerian who stood in the trail over a crumpled body. But Conan was not looking at the corpse which lay there in the crimsonsoaked dust. He was glaring into the deep woods on either side of the trail.

Balthus muttered a horrified oath. It was the body of a man which lay there in the trail, a short, fat man, clad in the gilt- worked boots and (despite the heat) the ermine-trimmed tunic of a wealthy merchant. His fat, pale face was set in a stare of frozen horror; his thick throat had been slashed from ear to ear as if by a razor-sharp blade. The short sword still in its scabbard seemed to indicate that he had been struck down without a chance to fight for his life.

"A Pia?” Balthus whispered, as he turned to peer into the deepening shadows of the forest.

Conan shook his head and straightened to scowl down at the dead man.

"A forest devil. This is the fifth, by Crom!”

"What do you mean?”

"Did you ever hear of a Pictish wizard called Zogar Sag?”

Balthus shook his head uneasily.

"He dwells in Gwawela, the nearest village across the river. Three months ago he hid beside this road and stole a string of pack-mules from a pack-train bound for the fort — drugged their drivers, somehow. The mules belonged to this man" — Conan casually indicated the corpse with his foot — "Tiberias, a merchant of Velitrium. They were loaded with alekegs, and old Zogar stopped to guzzle before he got across the river. A woodsman named Soractus trailed him, and led Valannus and three soldiers to where he lay dead drunk in a thicket. At the importunities of Tiberias, Valannus threw Zogar Sag into a cell, which is the worst insult you can give a Piet. He managed to kill his guard and escape, and sent back word that he meant to kill Tiberias and the five men who captured him in a way that would make Aquilonians shudder for centuries to come.



"Well, Soractus and the soldiers are dead. Soractus was killed on the river, the soldiers in the very shadow of the fort. And now Tiberias is dead. No Piet killed any of them. Each victim — except Tiberias, as you see — lacked his head — which no doubt is now ornamenting the altar of Zogar Sag’s particular god.”

"How do you know they weren’t killed by the Piets?” demanded Balthus.

Conan pointed to tlie corpse of the merchant.

"You think that was done with a knife or a sword? Look closer and you’ll see that only a talon could have made a gash like that. 'The flesh is ripped, not cut.”

"Perhaps a panther ” began Balthus, without conviction.

Conan shook his head impatiently.

"A man from the Tauran couldn’t mistake the mark of a pantlier’s claws. No. It’s a forest devil summoned by 2k5gar Sag to carry out his revenge. Tiberias was a fool to start for Velitrium alone, and so close to dusk. But each one of the victims seemed to be smitten with madness just before doom overtook him. Look here; the signs are plain enough. Tiberias came riding along the trail on his mule, maybe with a bundle of choice otter pelts behind his saddle to sell in Velitrium, and the th^ng sprang on him from behind that bush. See where the branches are crushed down.

"Tiberias gave one scream, and then his throat was torn open and he was selling his otter skins in Hell. The mule ran away into the woods. Listen! Even now you can hear him thrashing about under the trees. 'The demon didn’t have time to take Tiberias’ head; it took fright as we came up.”

"As you came up,” amended Balthus. "It must not be a very terrible creature if it flees from one armed man. But how do you know it was not a Pia with some

kind of a hook that rips instead of slicing? Did you see it?”

"Tiberias was an armed man,” grunted Conan. "If Zogar Sag can bring demons to aid him, he can tell them which men to kill and which to let alone. No, I didn’t see it. I only saw the bushes shake as it left the trail. But if you want further proof, look here!”

'The slayer had stepped into the pool of blood in which the dead man sprawled. Under the bushes at the edge of the path there was a footprint, made in blood on the hard loam.

"Did a man make that?” demanded Conan.

B althus felt his scalp prickle. Neither man nor any beast that he had ever seen could have left that strange, monstrous three-toed print, that was curiously combined of the bird and the reptile, yet a true type of neither. He spread his fingers above the print, careful not to touch it, and grunted explosively. He could not span the mark.

"What is it?” he whispered. "I never saw a beast that left a spoor like that.”

"Nor any other sane man,” answered Conan grimly. "It’s a swamp demon — they’re thick as bats in the swamps beyond Black River. You can hear them howling like damned souls when the wind blows strong from the south on hot nights.”

"What shall we do?” asked the Aquilonian, peering uneasily into the deep blue shadows. The frozen fear on the dead countenance haunted him. He wondered what hideous head the wretch had seen thrust grinning from among the leaves to chill his blood with terror.

"No use to try to follow a demon,” grunted Conan, drawing a short woodman’s ax from his girdle. "I tried tracking him after he killed Soractus. I lost

BEYOND THE BLACK RIVER


his trail within a dozen steps. He might have grown himself wings and flown away, or sunk down through the earth to Hell. I don’t know. I’m not going after the mule, either. It’ll either wander back to the fort, or to some settler’s cabin.”

As he spoke Conan was busy at the edge of the trail with his ax. With a few strokes he cut a pair of saplings nine or ten feet long, and denuded them of their branches. Then he cut a length from a serpent-like vine that crawled among the bushes near by, and making one end fast to one of the poles, a couple of feet from the end, whipped the vine over the other sapling and interlaced it back and forth. In a few moments he had a crude but strong litter.

'"The demon isn’t going to get Tiberias’ head if I can help it,” he growled. "We’ll carry the body into the fort. It isn’t more than three miles. I never liked the fat fool, but we can’t have Piaish devils making so cursed free with white men’s heads.”

'The Piets were a white race, though swarthy, but the border men never spoke of them as such.

Balthus took the rear end of the litter, onto which Conan unceremoniously dumped the unfortunate merchant, and they moved on down the trail as swiftly as possible. Conan made no more noise laden with their grim burden than he had made when unencumbered. He had made a loop with the merchant’s belt at the end of the poles, and was carrying his share of the load with one hand, while the other gripped his naked broadsword, and his restless gaze roped the sinister walls about them. The shadows were thickening. A darkening blue mist blurred the outlines of the foliage. The forest deepened in the twilight, became a blue haunt of mystery sheltering unguessed things.

'They had covered more than a mile.

and the muscles in Balthus’ sturdy arms were beginning to ache a little, when a cry rang shuddering from the woods whose blue shadows were deepening into purple.

Conan started convulsively, and Balthus almost let go the poles.

"A woman!” cried the younger man. "Great Mitra, a woman cried out then!”

"A settler’s wife straying in the woods,” snarled Conan, setting down his end of the litter. "Looking for a cow, probably, and — stay here!”

He dived like a hunting wolf into the leafy wall. Balthus’ hair bristled.

"Stay here alone with this corpse and a devil hiding in the woods?” he yelped "I’m coming with you!”

And suiting action to words, he plunged after the Cimmerian. Conan glanced back at him, but made no objection, though he did not moderate his pace to accommodate the shorter legs of his companion. Balthus wasted his wind in swearing as the Cimmerian drew away from him again, like a phantom between the trees, and then Conan burst into a dim glade and halted crouching, lips snarling, sword lifted.

"What are we stopping for?” panted Balthus, dashing the sweat out of his eyes and gripping his short sword.

'"rhat scream came from this glade, or near by,” answered Conan. "I don’t mistake the location of sounds, even in the woods. But where ”

Abruptly the sound rang out again — behind them; in the direction of the trail they had just quitted. It rose piercingly and pitifully, the cry of a woman in frantic terror — and then, shockingly, it changed to a yell of mocking laughter that might have burst from the lips of a fiend of lower Hell.

"What in Mitra’s name ” Baltfius’

face was a pale blur in the gloom.

With a scorching oath Conan wheeled



and dashed back the way he had come, and the Aquilonian stumbled bewilderedly after him. He blundered into the Cimmerian as the latter stopped dead, and rebounded from his brawny shoulders as though from an iron statue. Gasping from the impact, he heard Conan’s breath hiss through his teeth. The Cimmerian seemed frozen in his tracks.

Looking over his shoulder, Balthus felt his hair stand up stiffly. Something was moving througjh the deep bushes that fringed the trail — something that neither walked nor flew, but seemed to glide like a serpent. But it was not a serpent. Its Outlines were indistinct, but it was taller than a man, and not very bulky. It gave off a glimmer of weird light, like a faint blue flame. Indeed, the eery fire was the only tangible thing about it. It might have been an embodied flame moving with reason and purpose through the bladcening woods.

Conan snarled a savage curse and hurled his ax with ferocious will. But the thing glided on without altering its course. Indeed it was only a few instants’ fleeting glimpse they had of it — a tall, shadowy thing of misty flame floating through the ffiickets. Then it was gone, and the forest crouched in breathless stillness.

With a snarl Conan plunged through the intervening foliage and into the trail. His profanity, as Balthus floundered after him, was lurid and impassioned. The Cimmerian was standing over the litter on which lay the body of Tiberias. And that body no longer possessed a head.

"Tricked us with its damnable caterwauling!’’ raved Conan, swinging his great sword about his head in his wrath. "I might have known! I might have guessed a trick! Now there’ll be five heads to decorate Zogar’s altar.’’

"But what thing is it that can cry like a woman and laugh like a devil, and

shines like witch-fire as it glides through the trees.^’’ gasped Balthus, mopping the sweat from his pale face.

"A swamp devil,” responded Conan morosely. "Grab those poles. We’ll take in the body, anyway. At least our load’s a bit lighter.”

With which grim philosophy he gripped the leathery loop and stalked down the trail.

2. The Wizard of Gwawela

F ort tuscelan stood on the eastern bank of Black River, the tides of which washed the foot of the stockade. The latter was of logs, as were all the buildings within, including the donjon (to dignify it by that appellation), in which were the governor’s quarters, overlooking the stockade and the sullen river. Beyond that river lay a huge forest, whidi approached jungle-like density along the spongy shores. Men paced the runways along the log parapet day and night, watching that dense green wall. Seldom a menacing figure appeared, but the sentries knew that they too were watched, fiercely, hungrily, with the mercilessness of ancient hate. ’The forest beyond the river might seem desolate and vacant of life to the ignorant eye, but life teemed there, not alone of bird and beast and reptile, but also of men, the fiercest of all the hunting beasts.

There, at the fort, civilization ended. Fort Tuscelan was the last outpost of a civilized world; it represented the westernmost thrust of the dominant Hyborian races. Beyond the river the primitive still reigned in shadowy forests, brush-thatched huts where hung the grinning skulls of men, and mud-walled enclosures where fires flickered and drums rumbled, and spears were whetted in the hands of dark, silent men with tangled black hair and the eyes of serpents. Those eyes often

BEYOND THE BLACK RIVER


glared through the bushes at the fort across the river. Once dark-skinned men had built their huts where that fort stood; yes, and their huts had risen where now stood die fields and log cabins of fairhaired settlers, back beyond Velitrium, that raw, turbulent frontier town on the banks of Thunder River, to the shores of that other river that bounds the Bossonian marches. Traders had come, and priests of Mitra who walked with bare feet and empty hands, and died horribly, most of them; but soldiers had followed, and men with axes in their hands and women and children in ox-drawn wains. Back to Thunder River, and still back, beyond Black River, the aborigines had been pushed, with slaughter and massacre. But the dark-skinned people did not forget that once Conajohara had been theirs.

The guard inside the eastern gate bawled a challenge. Through a barred aperture torchlight flickered, glinting on a steel head-piece and suspicious eyes beneath it.

"Open the gate,” snorted Conan. "You see it’s I, don’t you?”

Military discipline put his teeth on edge.

The gate swung inward and Conan and his companion passed through. Balthus noted that the gate was flanked by a tower on each side, the summits of which rose above the stockade. He saw loopholes for arrows.

The guardsmen grunted as they saw the burden borne between the men. Their pikes jangled against each other as they thrust shut the gate, chin on shoulder, and Conan asked testily: "Have you never seen a headless body before?”

The faces of the soldiers were pallid in the torchlight.

"That’s Tiberias,” blurted one. "I recognize that fur-trimmed tunic. Valerius here owes me five lunas. I told him Tiberias had heard the loon call when he

rode through the gate on his mule, with his glassy stare. I wagered he’d come back without his head.”

Conan grunted enigmatically, motioned Balthus to ease the litter to the groiuid, and then strode off toward the governor’s quarters, with the Aquilonian at his heels. The tousle-headed youth stared about him eagerly and curiously, noting the rows of barracks along the walls, the stables, the tiny merchants’ stalls, the towering blockhouse, and the other buildings, with the open square in the middle where thq soldiers drilled, and where, now, fires danced and men off duty lounged. These were now hurrying to join the morbid crowd gathered about the litter at the gate. The rangy figures of Aquilonian pikemen and forest runners mingled with the shorter, stockier forms of Bossonian archers.

He was not greatly surprized that the governor received them himself. Autocratic society with its rigid caste laws lay east of the marches. Valannus was still a young man, well knit, with a finely chiseled countenance already carved into sober cast by toil and responsibility.

"You left the fort before daybreak, 1 was told,” he said to Conan. "I had begun to fear that the Pias had caught you at last.”

"When tliey smoke my head the whole river will know it,” grunted Conan. "They’ll hear Pictish women wailing their dead as far as Velitrium — I was on a lone scout. I couldn’t sleep. I kept hearing drums talking across the river.”

"They talk each night,” reminded the governor, his fine eyes shadowed, as he stared closely at Conan. He had learned the unwisdom of discounting wild men’s instincts.

"There was a difference last night,” growled Conan. "There has been ever since Zogar Sag got back aaoss the river.”

"We should either have given him



presents and sent him home, or else hanged him,” sighed the governor. "You advised that, but ”

"But it’s hard for you Hyborians to learn the ways of the outlands," said Conan. "Well, it can’t be helped now, but there’ll be no peace on the border so long as Zogar lives and remembers the cell he sweated in. I was following a warrior who slipped over to put a few white notches on his bow. After I split his head I fell in with this lad whose name is Balthus and who’s come from the Tauran to help hold the frontier.”

Valannus approvingly eyed the young man’s frank countenance and stronglyknit frame.

"I am glad to welcome you, young sir. I wish more of your people would come. We need men used to forest life. Many of our soldiers and some of our settlers are from the eastern provinces and know nothing of woodcraft, or even of agricultural life.”

"Not many of that breed this side of Velitrium,” grunted Conan. "That town’s full of them, though. But listen, Valannus, we found Tiberias dead on the trail.” And in a few words he related the grisly affair.

Valannus paled. , "I did not know he had left the fort. He must have been mad!”

"He was,” answered Conan. "Like the otiier four; each one, when his time came, went mad and rushed into the woods to meet his death like a hare running down the throat of a python. Something called to them from the deeps of the forest, something the men call a loon, for lack of a better name, but only the doomed ones could hear it. Zogar Sag has made a magic that Aquilonian civilizatioa can’t overcome.”

To this thrust Valannus made no reply; he wiped his brow with a shaky hand,

"Do the soldiers know of this?”

"We left the body by the eastern gate.” "You should have concealed the fact, hidden the corpse somewhere in the woods. The soldiers are nervous enou^ already.”

"They’d have found it out some way. If I’d hidden the body, it would have been returned to the fort as the corpse of Soractus was — tied up outside the gate for the men to find in the morning.”

V ALANNUS shuddered. Turning, he walked to a casement and stared silently out over the river, black and shiny under the glint of the stars. Beyond the river the jungle rose like an ebony wall. The distant screech of a panther broke the stillness. 'The night pressed in, blurring the sounds of the soldiers outside the blockhouse, dimming the fires. A wind whispered through the black branches, rippling the dusky water. On its wings came a low, rhythmic pulsing, sinister as the pad of a leopard’s foot.

“After all,” said Valannus, as if speaking his thoughts aloud, "what do we know — what does anyone know — of the things that jungle may hide? We have dim rumors of great swamps and rivers, and a forest that stretches on and on over everlasting plains and hills to end at last on the shores of the western ocean. But what things lie between this river and that ocean we dare not even guess. No white man has ever plunged deep into that fastness and returned alive to tell us what he found. We are wise in our civilized knowledge, but our knowledge extends just so far — to the western bank of that ancient river! Who knows what shapes earthly and unearthly may lurk beyond the dim circle of light our knowledge has cast?

"Who knows what gods are worshipped under the shadows of that heathBEYOND THE BLACK RIVER


ai forest, or what devils crawl out of the black ooze of the swamps? Who can be sure that all the inhabitants of that black country are natural? Zogar Sag — a sage of the eastern cities would sneer at his primitive magic-making as the mummery of a fakir; yet he has driven mad and killed five men in a manner no man can explain. I wonder if he himself is wholly human.”

“If I can get within ax-throwing distance of him I’ll settle that question,” growled Conan, helping himself to the governor’s wine and pushing a glass toward Balthus, who took it hesitatingly, and with an uncertain glance toward Valannus.

The governor turned toward Conan and stared at him thoughtfully.

“The soldiers, who do not believe in ghosts or devils,” he said, “are almost in a panic of fear. You, who believe in ghosts, ghouls, goblins, and all manner of uncanny things, do not seem to fear any of the things in which you believe.”

'"There’s nothing in the universe cold steel won’t cut,” answered Conan. “I threw my ax at the demon, and he took no hurt, but I might have missed, in the dusk, or a branch deflected its flight. I’m not going out of my way looking for devils; but I wouldn’t step out of my path to let one go by.”

Valannus lifted his head and met Conan’s gaze squarely.

“Conan, more depends on you than you realize. You know the weakness of this province — a slender wedge thrust into the untamed wilderness. You know that the lives of all the people west of the marches depend on this fort. Were it to fail, red axes would be splintering the gates of Velitrium before a horseman could cross the marches. His majesty, or his majesty’s advisers, have ignored my plea that more troops be sent to hold the

frontier. They know nothing of border conditions, and are averse to expending any more money in this direction. The fate of the frontier depends upon the men who now hold it.

'You know that most of the army which conquered Conajohara has been withdrawn. You know the force left me is inadequate, especially since that devil Zogar Sag managed to poison our water supply, and forty men died in one day. Many of the others are sick, or have been bitten by serpents or mauled by wild beasts which seem to -swarm in increasing numbers in the vicinity of the fort. The soldiers believe Zogar’s boast that he could summon the forest beasts to slay his enemies.

“I have three hundred pikemen, four hundred Bossonian archers, and perhaps fifty men who, like yourself, are skilled in woodcraft. They are worth ten times their number of soldiers, but there are so few of them. Frankly, Conan, my situation is becoming precarious. The soldiers whisper of desertion; they are low-spirited, believing Zogar Sag has loosed devils on us. They fear the black plague with which he threatened us — the terrible black death of the swamplands. When I see a sick soldier I sweat with fear of seeing him turn black and shrivel and die before my eyes.

“Conan, if the plague is loosed upon us, the soldiers will desert in a body! The border will be left unguarded and nothing will check the sweep of the darkskinned hordes to the very gates of Velitrium — maybe beyond! If we can not hold the fort, how can they hold tlie town?

“Conan, Zogar Sag must die, if we are to hold Conajohara. You have penetrated the unknown deeper than any other man in the fort; you know where Gwawela stands, and something of the forest trails



across the river. Will you take a band of men tonight and endeavor to kill or capture him.^ Oh, I know it’s mad. There isn’t more than one chance in a thousand that any of you will come back alive. But if we don’t get him, it’s death for us all. You can take as many men as you wish.”

"A dozen men are better for a job like that than a regiment,” answered Conan. "Five hundred men couldn’t fight their way to Gwawela and back, but a dozen might slip in and out again. Let me pick my men. I don’t want any soldiers.”

"Let me go!” eagerly exclaimed Balthus. "I’ve hunted deer all my life on the Tauran.”

"All right. Valannus, we’ll eat at the stall where the foresters gather, and I’ll pick my men. We’ll start within an hour, drop down the river in a boat to a point below the village and then steal upon it through the woods. If we live, we should be back by daybreak.”

3. The Crawlers in the Dark

T he river was a vague trace between walls of ebony. The paddles that propelled the long boat creeping along in the dense shadow of the eastern bank dipped softly into the water, making no more noise than the beak of a heron. ’The broad shoulders of the man in front of Balthus were a blur in the dense gloom. He knew that not even the keen eyes of the man who knelt in the prow would discern anything more than a few feet ahead of them. Conan was feeling his way by instinct and an intensive familiarity with the river.

No one spoke. Balthus had had a good look at his companions in the fort before they slipped out of the stockade and down the bank into the waiting canoe. 'They were of a new breed growing up in the world on the raw edge of the

frontier — men whom grim necessity had taught woodcraft. Aquilonians of the western provinces to a man, they had many points in common. They dressed alike — in buckskin boots, leathern breeks and deerskin shirts, with broad girdles that held axes and short swords; and they were all gaunt and scarred and hard-eyed; sinewy and taciturn.

They were wild men, of a sort, yet there was still a wide gulf between them and the Cimmerian. They were sons of civilization, reverted to a semi-barbarism. He was a barbarian of a thousand generations of barbarians. 'They had acquired stealth and craft, but he had been born to these things. He excelled them even in lithe economy of motion. 'They were wolves, but he was a tiger.

Balthus admired them and their leader and felt a pulse of pride that he was admitted into their company. He was proud that his paddle made no more noise than did theirs. In that respea at least he was their equal, though woodcraft learned in hunts on the Tauran could never equal that ground into the souls of men on the savage border.

Below the fort the river made a wide bend. The lights of the outpost were quickly lost, but the canoe held on its way for nearly a mile, avoiding snags and floating logs with almost uncanny precision.

Then a low grunt from their leader, and they swung its head about and glided toward the opposite shore. Emerging from the black shadows of the brush that fringed the bank and coming into the open of the midstream created a peculiar illusion of rash exposure. But the stars gave little light, and Balthus knew that unless one were watching for it, it would be all but impossible for the keenest eye to make out the shadowy shape of the canoe crossing the river.

BEYOND THE BLACK RIVER


They swung in under the overhanging bushes of the western shore and Balthus groped for and found a projecting root which he grasped. No word was spoken. All instructions had been given before the scouting-party left the fort. As silently as a great panther Conan slid over the side and vanished in the bushes. Equally noiseless, nine men followed him. To Balthus, grasping the root with his paddle across his knee, it seemed incredible that ten men should thus fade into the tangled forest without a soimd.

He settled himself to wait. No word passed between him and the other man who had been left with him. Somewhere, a mile or so to the northwest, Zogar Sag's village stood girdled with thick woods. Balthus understood his orders; he and his companion were to wait for the return of the raiding-party. If Conan and his men had not returned by the first tinge of dawn, they were to race back up the river to the fort and report that the forest had again taken its immemorial toll of the invading race. The silence was oppressive. No sound came from the black woods, invisible beyond the ebony masses that were the overhanging bushes. Balthus no longer heard the drums. They had been silent for hours. He kept blinking, unconsciously trying to see through the deep gloom. The dank night-smells of the river and the damp forest oppressed him. Somewhere, near by, there was a sound as if a big fish had flopped and splashed the water. Balthus thought it must have leaped so close to the canoe that it had struck the side, for a slight quiver vibrated the craft. The boat’s stern began to swing, slightly away from the shore. The man behind him must have let go of the projection he was gripping. Balthus twisted his head to hiss a warning, and could just mdce out the figure of his companion, a slightly blacker bulk in the blackness.

The man did not reply. Wondering if he had fallen asleep, Balthus reached out and grasped his shoulder. To his amazement, the man crumpled under his touch and slumped down in the canoe. Twisting his body half about, Balthus groped for him, his heart shooting into his throat. His fumbling fingers slid over the man’s throat — only the youth’s convulsive clenching of his jaws choked back the cry that rose to his lips. His fingers encountered a gaping, oozing wound — his companion’s throat had been cut from ear to ear.

In that instant of horror and panic Balthus started up — and then a muscular arm out of the darkness locked fiercely about his throat, strangling his yell. The canoe rocked wildly. Balthus’ knife was in his hand, though he did not remember jerking it out of his boot, and he stabbed fiercely and blindly. He felt the blade sink deep, and a fiendish yell rang in his ear, a yell that was horribly answered. The darkness seemed to come to life about him. A bestial clamor rose on all sides, and other arms grappled him. Borne under a mass of hurtling bodies the canoe rolled sidewise, but before he went under with it, something cracked against Balthus’ head and the night was briefly illuminated by a blinding burst of fire before it gave way to a blackness where not even stars shone.

4. The Beasts of Zogar Sag,

F ires dazzled Balthus again as he slowly recovered his senses. He blinked, shook his head. Their glare hurt his eyes. A confused medley of sound rose about him, growing more distinct as his senses cleared. He lifted his head and stared stupidly about him. Black figures hemmed him in, etched against crimson tongues of flame.

Memory and understanding came in a



rush. He was bound upright to a post in an open space, ringed by fierce and terrible figures. Beyond that ring fires burned, tended by naked, dark-skinned women. Beyond the fires he saw huts of mud and wattle, thatched with brush. Beyond the huts there was a stockade with a broad gate. But he saw these things only incidentally. Even the cryptic dark women with their curious coiffures were noted by him only absently. His full attention was fixed in awful fascination on the men who stood glaring at him.

Short men, broad-shouldered, deepchested, lean-hipped, they were naked except for scanty loin-clouts. The firelight brought out the play of their swelling muscles in bold relief. Their dark faces were immobile, but their narrow eyes glittered with the fire that bums in the eyes of a stalking tiger. Their tangled manes were bound back with bands of copper. Swords and axes were in their hands. Crude bandages banded the limbs of some, and smears of blood were dried on their dark skins. There had been fighting, recent and deadly.

His eyes wavered away from the steady glare of his captors, and he repressed a cry of horror. A few feet away there rose a low, hideous pyramid: it was built of gory human heads. Dead eyes glared glassily up at tlie black sky. Numbly he recognized the countenances which were turned toward him. They were the heads of the men who had followed Conan into the forest. He could not tell if the Cimmerian’s head were among them. Only a few faces were visible to him. It looked to him as if there must be ten or eleven heads at least. A deadly sickness assailed him. He fought a desire to retch. Beyond the heads lay the bodies of half a dozen Piets, and he was aware of a fierce exultation at the sight. The forest runners had taken toll, at least.

Twisting his head away from the

ghastly spectacle, he became aware that another post stood near him — a stake painted black as was the one to which he was bound. A man sagged in his bonds there, naked except for his leathern breeks, whom Balthus recognized as one of Conan’s woodsmen. Blood trickled from his mouth, oozed sluggishly from a gash in his side. Lifting his head as he lidted his livid lips, he muttered, making himself heard with difficulty above the fiendish clamor of the Piets: "So they got you, too!’’

"Sneaked up in the water and cut the other fellow’s throat,’’ groaned Balthus. "We never heard them till they were on us. Mitra, how can anything move so silently.^’’

"They’re devils,” mumbled the frontiersman. "'They must have been watching us from the time we left midstream. We walked into a trap. Arrows from all sides were ripping into us before we knew it. Most of us dropped at the first fire. 'Three or four broke through the bushes and came to hand-grips. But there were too many. Conan might have gotten away. I haven’t seen his head. Been better for you and me if they’d killed us outright. I can’t blame Conan. Ordinarily we’d have gotten to the village without being discovered. They don’t keep spies on the river bank as far down as we landed. We must have stumbled into a big party coming up the river from the south. Some devilment is up. Too many Piets here. 'These aren’t all Gwaweli; men from the western tribes here and from up and down the river.”

Balthus stared at the ferocious shapes. Little as he knew of Pictish ways, he was aware that the number of men clustered about them was out of proportion to the size of the village. 'There were not enough huts to have accommodated them all. 'Then he noticed that there was a differBEYOND THE BLACK RIVER


ence in the barbaric tribal designs painted on their faces and breasts.

"Some kind of devilment,” muttered the forest runner. "They might have gathered here to watch Zogar’s magicmaking. He’ll make some rare magic with our carcasses. Well, a border-man doesn’t expect to die in bed. But I wish we’d gone out along with the rest.”

The wolfish howling of the Piets rose in volume and exultation, and from a movement in their ranks, an eager surging and crowding, Balthus deduced that someone of importance was coming. Twisting his head about, he saw that the stakes were set before a long building, larger than the other huts, decorated by hiunan skulls dangling from the eaves. Through the door of that structure now danced a fantastic figure.

"Zogar!” muttered the woodsman, his bloody countenance set in wolfish lines as he unconsciously strained at his cords. Balthus saw a lean figure of middle height, almost hidden in ostrich plumes set on a harness of leather and copper. From amidst the plumes peered a hideous and malevolent face. 'The plumes puzzled Balthus. He knew their source lay half the width of a world to the south. They fluttered and rustled evilly as the shaman leaped and cavorted.

With fantastic bounds and prancings he entered the ring and whirled before his bound and silent captives. With another man it would have seemed ridiculous — a foolish savage prancing meaninglessly in a whirl of feathers. But that ferocious face glaring out from the billowing mass gave the scene a grim significance. No man with a face like that could seem ridiculous or like anything except the devil he was.

Suddenly he froze to statuesque stillness; the plumes rippled once and sank about him. “The howling warriors fell silent. Zogar Sag stood erect and motionless,

and he seemed to increase in height — to grow and expand. Balthus experienced the illusion that the Piet was towering above him, staring contemptuously down from a great height, though he knew the shaman was not as tall as himself. He shook off the illusion with difficulty.

The shaman was talking now, a harsh, guttural intonation that yet carried the hiss of a cobra. He thrust his head on his long neck toward the wounded man on the stake; his eyes shone red as blood in the firelight. 'The frontiersman spat full in his face.

With a fiendish howl Zogar bounded convulsively into the air, and the warriors gave tongue to a yell that shuddered up to the stars. They rushed toward the man on the stake, but the shaman beat them back. A snarled command sent men running to the gate. 'Tliey hurled it open, turned and raced back to the circle. The ring of men split, divided with desperate haste to right and left. Balthus saw the women and naked children scurrying to the huts. They peeked out of doors and windows. A broad lane was left to the open gate, beyond which loomed the black forest, crowding sullenly in upon the clearing, unlighted by the fires.

A TENSE silence reigned as Zogar Sag turned toward the forest, raised on his tiptoes and sent a weird inhuman call shuddering out into the night. Somewhere, far out in the black forest, a deeper cry answered him. Balthus shuddered. From the timbre of tliat cry he knew it never came from a human throat. He remembered what Valannus had said — that 2^gar boasted that he could summon wild beasts to do his bidding. 'The woodsman was livid beneath his mask of blood. He licked his lips spasmodically.

The village held its breath. Zogar Sag stood still as a statue, his plumes trem606


bling faintly about him. But suddenly the gate was no longer empty.

A shuddering gasp swept over the village and men crowded hastily back, jamming one another between the huts. Balthus felt the short hair stir on his scalp. The areature that stood in the gate was like the embodiment of nightmare legend. Its color was of a curious pale quality which made it seem ghostly and unreal in the dim light. But there was nothing imreal about the low-hung savage head, and the great curved fangs that glistened in the firelight. On noiseless padded feet it approached like a phantom out of the past. It was a survival of an older, grimmer age, the ogre of many an ancient legend — a saber-tooth tiger. No Hyborian hunter had looked upon one of those primordial brutes for centuries. Immemorial myths lent the creatures a supernatural quality, induced by their ghostly color and their fiendish ferocity.

The beast that glided toward the men on the stakes was longer and heavier than a common, striped tiger, almost as bulky as a bear. Its shoulders and forelegs were so massive and mightily muscled as to give it a curiously top-heavy look, though its hind-quarters were more powerful than that of a lion. Its jaws were massive, but its head Vas brutishly shaped. Its brain capacity was small. It had room for no instincts except those of destruction. It was a freak of carnivorous development, evolution run amuck in a horror of fangs and talons.

This was the monstrosity Zogar Sag had summoned out of the forest. Balthus no longer doubted the actuality of the shaman’s magic. Only the black arts could establish a domination over that tinybrained, mighty-thewed monster. Like a whisper at the back of his consciousness rose the vague memory of the name of an ancient god of dadcness and primordial

fear, to whom once both men and beasts bowed and whose children — ^men whispered — still lurked in dark corners of the world. New horror tinged the glare he fixed on Zogar Sag.

The monster moved past the heap of bodies and the pile of gory heads without appearing to notice them. He was no scavenger. He hiznted only the living, in a life dedicated solely to slaughter. An awful hunger burned greenly in the wide, unwinking eyes; the hunger not alone of belly-emptiness, but the lust of death-dealing. His gaping jaws slavered. The shaman stepped back; his hand waved toward the woodsman.

The great cat sank into a crouch, and Balthus numbly remembered tales of its appalling ferocity: of how it would spring upon an elephant and drive its sword-like fangs so deeply into the titan’s skull that they could never be withdrawn, but would keep it nailed to its victim, to die by starvation. 'The shaman cried out shrilly, and with an ear-shattering roar the monster sprang.

Balthus had never dreamed of such a spring, such a hurtling of incarnated destruction embodied in that giant bulk of iron thews and ripping talons. Full on the woodsman’s breast it struck, and the stake splintered and snapped at the base, crashing to the earth under the impact Then the saber-tooth was gliding toward the gate, half dragging, half carrying a hideous crimson hulk that only faintly resembled a man. Balthus glared almost paralyzed, his brain refusing to credit what his eyes had seen.

In that leap the great beast had not only broken off Ae stake, it had ripped the mangled body of its victim from the post to which it was bound. The huge talons in that instant of contact had disemboweled and partially dismembered the man, and the giant fangs had tom away

BEYOND THE BLACK RIVER


the whole top of his head, shearing through the skull as easily as through flesh. Stout rawhide thongs had given way like paper; where the thongs had held, flesh and bones had not. Balthus retched suddenly. He had hunted bears and panthers, but he had never dreamed the beast lived which could make such a red ruin of a human frame in the flicker of an instant.

The saber-tooth vanished through the gate, and a few moments later a deep roar sounded through the forest, receding in the distance. But the Piets still shrank back against the huts, and the shaman still stood facing the gate that was like a black opening to let in the night.

Cold sweat burst suddenly out on Balthus’ skin. What new horror would come through that gate to make carrion-meat of his body.^ Sick panic assailed him and he strained futilely at his thongs. The night pressed in very black and horrible outside the firelight. The fires themselves glowed lurid as the fires of hell. He felt the eyes of the Piets upon him — hundreds of hungry, cruel eyes that reflected the lust of souls utterly without humanity as he knew it. They no longer seemed men; they were devils of this black jungle, as inhuman as the creatures to which the fiend in the nodding plumes screamed through the darkness.

Z OGAR sent another call shuddering through the night, and it was utterly unlike the first cry. There was a hideous sibilance in it — Balthus turned cold at the implication. If a serpent could hiss that loud, it would make just such a sound.

This time there was no answer — only a period of breathless silence in which the pound of Balthus’ heart strangled him; and then there sounded a swishing outside the gate, a dry rustling that sent chills

down Balthus’ spine. Again the firelit gate held a hideous occupant.

Again Balthus recognized the monster from ancient legends. He saw and knew the ancient and evil serpent which swayed there, its wedge-shaped head, huge as that of a horse, as high as a tall man’s head, and its palely gleaming barrel rippling out behind it. A forked tongue darted in and out, and the firelight glittered on bared fangs.

Balthus became incapable of emotion. The horror of his fate paralyzed him. That was the reptile that the ancients called Ghost Snake, the pale, abominable terror that of old glided into huts by night to devour whole families. Like the python it crushed its victim, but unlike other constrictors its fangs bore venom that carried madness and death. It too had long been considered extinct. But Valannus had spoken truly. No white man knew what shapes haunted the great forests beyond Black River.

It came on silently, rippling over the ground, its hideous head on the same level, its neck curving back slightly for the stroke. Balthus gazed with glazed, hypnotized stare into that loathsome gullet down which he would soon be engulfed, and he was aware of no sensation except a vague nausea.

And then something that glinted in the firelight streaked from the shadows of the huts, and the great reptile whipped about and went into instant convulsions. As in a dream Balthus saw a short throwingspear transfixing the mighty neck, just below tlie gaping jaws; the shaft protruded from one side, the steel head from the other.

Knotting and looping hideously, the maddened reptile rolled into the circle of men who strove back from him. The spear had not severed its spine, but merely transfixed its great neck muscles. Its furiously



lashing tail mowed down a dozen men and its jaws snapped convulsively, splashing others with venom that burned like liquid fire. Howling, cursing, screaming, frantic, tliey scattered before it, knocking each other down in their flight, trampling the fallen, bursting through the huts. The giant snake rolled into a fire, scattering sparks and brands, and the pain lashed it to more frenzied efforts. A hut wall buckled under the ram-like impact of its flailing tail, disgorging howling people.

Men stampeded through the fires, knocking the logs right and left. The flames sprang up, then sank. A reddish dim glow was all that lighted that nightmare scene where the giant reptile whipped and rolled, and men clawed and shrieked in frantic flight.

Balthus felt something jerk at his wrists, and then, miraculously, he was free, and a strong hand dragged him behind the post. Dazedly he saw Conan, felt the forest man’s iron grip on his arm.

'There was blood on the Cimmerian’s mail, dried blood on the sword in his right hand; he loomed dim and gigantic in the shadowy light.

"Come on! Before they get over their panic!"

Balthus felt the haft of an ax shoved into his hand. Zogar Sag had disappeared. Conan dragged Balthus after him until the youth’s numb brain awoke, and his legs began to move of their own accord. Then Conan released him and ran into the building where the skulls hung. Balthus followed him. He got a glimpse of a grim stone altar, faintly lighted by the glow outside; five human heads grinned on that altar, and there was a grisly familiarity about the features of the freshest; it was the head of the merchant Tiberias. Behind the altar was an idol, dim, indistinct, bestial, yet vaguely man-like in outline. Then fresh horror

choked Balthus as the shape heaved up suddenly with a rattle of chains, lifting long misshapen arms in the gloom.

Conan’s sword flailed down, crunching through flesh and bone, and then the Cimmerian was dragging Balthus around the altar, past a huddled shaggy bulk on the floor, to a door at the back of the long hut. ’Through this they burst, out into the enclosure again. But a few yards beyond them loomed the stockade.

It was dark behind the altar-hut. The mad stampede of the Piets had not carried them in that direaion. At the wall Conan halted, gripped Balthus and heaved him at arm’s length into the air as he might have lifted a child. Balthus grasped the points of the upright logs set in the sun-dried mud and scrambled up on them, ignoring the havoc done his skin. He lowered a hand to the Cimmerian, when around a corner of the altar-hut sprang a fleeing Pia. He halted short, glimpsing the man on the wall in the faint glow of the fires. Conan hurled his ax with deadly aim, but the warrior’s mouth was already open for a yell of warning, and it rang loud above the din, cut short as he dropped with a shattered skull.

Blinding terror had not submerged all ingrained instincts. As that wild yell rose above the clamor, there was an instant’s lull, and then a hundred throats bajred ferocious answer and warriors came leaping to repel the attack presaged by the warning.

Conan leaped high, caught, not Balthus’ hand but his arm near the shoulder, and swung himself up. Balthus set his teeth against the strain, and then the Qmmerian was on the wall beside him, and the fugitives dropped down on the other side.

Don't miss the utterly thrilling chapters diat bring tbis story to a weird and startliog conclusion in next month's issue of Weiso Tales.

W. T.— S

“Drawn by a power he could not resist, Tane stepped forward,”

of the Lamia

By OTIS ADELBERT KLINE

John Tane, archeologist, was not afraid of man or beast, but he faced a baffling, sinister mystery in ancient Cairo

The Story Thus Far

J OHN TANE, a young archeologist, rents a house in Cairo from Doctor Schneider, a German archeologist. A few minutes later, a Moslem funeral procession enters the courtyard, and the W. T.— 6

coffin, presumably containing the body of a welee, or saint, is walled up in one end of the reception room for burial.

That night Tane is drugged, but awakens at midnight, and on descending to the lower rooms, finds a strange Persian read609

This story beiraii in WKIRD TAT,KS for March



ing a scroll before a niche in the room next to the burial place. The man attacks him, then flees.

Tane examines the scroll, and reading it aloud, finds it is a magic formula for raising the dead. Then he notices a coffin inside the niche, behind two guttering candles. In the coffin he finds a mummycase containing a queen’s crown and a mummied cobra, which he unwraps. The serpent comes to life. One candle burns out and the snake knocks over the other. He hurls the crown at it, then lights a match, and finds that it has disappeared, but that Doctor Schneider is lying beneath a pile of rugs and cushions on the diwan, having been knocked out.

He and the doctor look for the serpent, and learn that the doorkeeper has been murdered. The doctor calls the police, who try to arrest Tane for murder, and insists that his story is false, as the niche has, in the meantime, been closed by some secret manipulation. Tane is arrested and taken to the house of Hagg Nadeem, an Egyptian official credited with magic powers. While in Nadeem’s house he is visited by a serpent which appears to change into a beautiful woman who calls him the "Lord of her Awakening.” She then resumes her serpent form and leaves.

Hagg Nadeem tells Tane that he has seen Lamia, the strange serpent-woman who once ruled Libya. Then the hagg releases him and he returns to his home. There he is captured, wrapped in a rug, and taken to an oasis in the desert, where the leader of his captors, Shaykh Ibrahim, demands that he read a magic formula ceding Lamia to himself, or die. Tane reads the formula, the Lamia appears and kills the shaykh, while his men flee. Then Lamia disappears, and Hagg Nadeem steps into the tent. He takes Tane back to Cairo on a swift camel.

On their return to Tane’s house they

find it has been completely furnished, as if by magic, and Tane’s frightened servant tells them this was done by Lamia and her slaves, whom he believes to be jinn. Hagg Nadeem leaves, promising to send Tane two servants on the morrow. That night Tane awakens in the dutches of a strangler, with a cord around his throat and knuckles pressed into the back of his neck.

'The story continues:

10. The Stranglers

W ITH the awful realization that death was upon him, Tane suddenly recalled the yatagan at his side. Still on the borderline of consciousness, he grasped it, wrenched it from its sheath, and with all his remaining strength, drove the point straight back over his shoulder at his unseen assailant. It encountered something solid, there was a gurgling gasp behind him, and the weapon stuck. 'Then the strangling cord about his throat relaxed and the pressure of those boring knuckles ceased.

For more than a minute Tane lay there, struggling to get his breath. Gradually his vision deared, and he sat up, swinging his feet over the edge of the diwan. They encountered the body of a man, lying on his back with the yatagan projecting upward from his face. The point had plunged through his right eye into the brain, and the blade had wedged in the bony orbit.

Suddenly Tane became conscious of the fact that there was a struggle going on in the majlis. He stood up dizzily. 'Then, placing his foot on the bearded face of his vanquished enemy, he wrenched the blade free and staggered to the door.

The moonlight revealed a sight that made his blood boil. Two assassins had dragged Ali from his diwan and spreadeagled him on the floor, each gripping a

LORD OF THE LAMIA


wrist. A third knelt on his back, holding a narrow strangling-cord which passed around the Syrian’s throat, his knuckles pressing the helpless servant’s cervical vertebrae.

With a shout of rage, Tane raised his yatagan and lurched toward them. The two men holding the Syrian’s arms instantly sprang erect, and whipping out their simitars, charged the American. Ali was apparently too weak to struggle further, for he lay quietly, the third man still kneeling on his back.

Tane parried a vicious head-cut from die foremost assailant, and countered with a swift shoulder-cut which, only partly deflected, slightly wounded his opponent. But while tlie American’s blade was still extended, the second assassin caught him unguarded with a swift neck-cut. Tane stepped back, but not far enough, and the point of the simitar raked his chest beneath his chin, making a long gash from which the blood spurted.

As he drew to avoid that blade, Tane saw something else — a sinuous, scaly somediing which darted up and fastened itself on the arm of the man who knelt on All’s back. As he came on guard again, Tane saw the strangler topple, then pitch sideways and roll over on his back beside his victim.

Tane’s two remaining opponents were circling now, to the right and left. Realizing that with this stratagem they would soon have him at their mercy, he reeled backward until his shoulders struck the wall. Had he been able to reach a comer he would have been better able to defend himself. As it was, the wall only afforded partial protection by keeping his enemies from getting behind him. Though he had recovered somewhat from the strangulation, he was losing blood rapidly, and felt himself growing weaker, ^th his assailants seemed to realize this, and sprang in together to the attack.

By simultaneously dodging one blade and parrying the other, Tane was able to maneuver himself into position for a lunge at the fellow on his right. The man leaped back, easily avoiding his point, then grunted, dropped his simitar, and pitched to the floor. For the scaly, serpentine thing had suddenly flashed upward and attached itself to the calf of his leg.

Now left with but one enemy, Tane, despite his weakened condition, forced the fight. His strength way ebbing fast, and although he knew that he was a better swordsman tlian the man he faced, he realized that he must win quickly, if at all. He raised his blade, and brought it down in a sweeping moulinet, as if he would lay the fellow’s head open. But as the simitar was raised to parry, he swiftly drew back his weapon and lunged straight for the hairy throat. 'The point went tme to the mark, and the last enemy collapsed, strangling in his own blood.

But Tane had reached the limit of his endurance. He staggered toward Ali, and fell on his face. By exerting every ounce of his remaining strength, he managed to get to his hands and knees, and crawl to the side of his servant. With trembling fingers, he undid the cord that was twisted around Ali’s neck. Then he collapsed beside him, conscious, but too weak even to sit up.

Suddenly he was aware, by the golden radiance which suffused the room, that someone had lighted a lamp. A soft musical voice was murmuring in his ear in the language of ancient Egypt, and the scent of an exotic perfume mingled with the tang of blood in his nostrils.

"Have no fear. Lord of my Awakening. It is I, Lamia, come to serve you.’’

A small hand readied beneath his shoulder, assisting him to turn over, and dimly.



through the swimming haze of his receding senses, he saw her. Behind her stood two giant negroes — or were they negroes? They wore the dress of harem guards of old Egypt — slaves who had been dust for five thousand years. And from each towering, woolly head sprouted a pair of horns.

From the negroes, Tane looked dazedly back at the slender, lovely girl who wore the ancient golden crown with its uraeus and nodding plumes. With deft, sure hands, she undid his slashed pajamas and examined the wound in his chest.

"The sponge and water, Anpu,” she said, without looking up.

Instantly, one of the giant blacks knelt beside her, saying: "To hear is to obey. Majesty,” and tendered a brass basin, in the center of which was a small sponge. She took it up, and the negro poured water on it from a brass ewer.

Gently she bathed the gaping wound. Then she called for ointment, bandages and gum, which the other black instantly tendered. The ointment, which had a pungent and not unpleasing smell, instantly stopped the bleeding and, at the same time, deadened the pain. Then she applied the bandages, fastening them in place with bits of the gum, which hardened almost instantly when exposed to the air.

"My servant. See to him, please,” said Tane, indicating Ali.

"Later, my lord,” she replied. "Do not worry about him. He is breathing, and unwounded.” She arose. "Carry my lord to his couch,” she ordered.

The two black giants lifted the six-foot American as easily as if he had been a child, and carried him into his bedchamber. The girl followed them, lighting the lamp in a manner which greatly puzzled him. For all he saw her do was point her index finger at it, whereupon it flamed

up as if a match had been applied. After the two blacks had lowered Tane to the diwan, they stood back, one at the head and the other at the foot, with arms folded.

"Now attend to the other,” she ordered them. "And, Anpu, bring me water and a cup.”

As the two negroes departed to do her bidding, she knelt beside the diwan and laid her hand on Tane’s forehead. "No fever,” she murmured. "That is good.”

Tane was thrilled by the touch of that soft, velvety palm, and by the look of concern in the big black eyes. Why, this girl was real — she was human! She must be. And yet, when he looked more closely, what he saw through the filmy veil she wore made him gasp. For the white skin of her arms and body was covered with tiny, glistening scales!

Anpu, the black giant, strode into the room carrying gugglet and cup, which he presented, kneeling, to the divine creature at Tane’s side.

"Fill the cup,” she commanded.

The black instantly complied.

Then she took a tiny phial from a small pouch that hung at her jeweled girdle. Carefully, she dropped five drops of the bright red liquid it contained into the cup of water. Then she took the cup from the negro, and held it to Tane’s lips.

"Drink, my lord,” she said. '"This will relieve your pain.”

Tane dra^ it oflf. He felt a pleasant, tingling sensation. Then it seemed that he was drifting away on a soft, billowy cloud — and oblivion claimed him.

11. Three-Cornered Combat

W HEN Tane awoke, the slanting rays of the morning sun were streaming in through the mashrabiyeh window above his diwan. His first thought was of the slender, beautiful creature who had been

LORD OF THE LAMIA


beside him when he drifted into unconsciousness. She had disappeared as mysteriously as she had appeared, but the memory of her presence lingered. And Tane found that memory far more attractive than he cared to admit, even to himself. Was he falling in love? He, an engaged man, falling in love with this strange creature? Preposterous! And yet, when he compared her with Shirley Blane, his plump, vivacious, red-headed English fiancee, he realized that she drew him far more powerfully.

Why, this was madness! He must rid himself of this creature, somehow. What was this mysterious spell she had cast over him, with her languorous glances and her slim, dark beauty?

He sat up, and was instantly conscious of a stiffness across his chest. Looking down, he saw the bandages, fastened with amber-yellow gum, which she had applied. Strangely enough, the wound did not pain him. The effect of the ointment she had applied was little short of magical. The only soreness that remained was that of his throat, where the strangler’s cord had come so close to finishing him.

He swung his bare feet over the edge of the diwan, then jerked the right one back with a start of surprize. It had come in contact with the stiffened fingers of a corpse. The dead strangler, evidently a Persian, lay where he had fallen, one eye staring glassily, the other a hideous, bloody mess.

Stepping gingerly over the cadaver, Tane strode across the deep-piled carpet into the majlis. There lay the other three assassins, Persians all, just as they had fallen. But Ali was sleeping heavily, and snoring most unmusically on his couch. Tane noticed a significant red line crossing his sharp Adam’s apple, where the strangler’s cord had been.

Suddenly conscious of a persistent

knocking on the street door, below, Tane thought at first to awaken his servant, then decided to let the poor fellow sleep, and hurried down to answer the summons himself.

Haag Nadeem, wearing his green turban, brown cloak and pensive smile, and leaning on his Malacca stick, was at the door. Behind him stood a large, broadshouldered negro.

’’Es salam aleykum," greeted the hagg. "I have brought you Isa, the bowab I promised. The Touareg cook will be here in time to prepare th'e noonday meal."

'"rhanks a lot,’’ Tane replied. "Isa is hired, and may take charge of the door at once. Can you spare a few minutes?’’

"Always, for my friend Tane Effendi.”

"Good! Then come upstairs with me. I have something to show you.”

Tane led the way upstairs. Ali was still snoring loudly on the diwan.

Hagg Nadeem regarded the dead men with a look of astonishment.

"Waha! All Persians!” he exclaimed "Maksoud has struck.”

One by one, he examined the cadavers.

"Two fell by the sword, and two by snake-bite,” he pronounced. "Tell me about it.”

Tane related his adventures of the night before, concluding with: "And now I suppose I’ll be held for murder, manslau^- ter, or something of the sort.”

"Nothing of the kind,” Nadeem replied. "Let me handle this.”

He went to the window, and taking a small whistle from beneath his sash, raised it to his lips and blew a shrill blast Instantly, there was a rush of footsteps below, then the sound of many men mounting the stairway. A moment later, twelve burly native policemen hurried into the room.

Hagg Nadeem pointed to the corpses, "Take them out,” he conamanded.



Three men lifted each stiffening body.

"Where to, s'tdi?" asked one.

"To the rug shop of Maksoud, the Persian,” Nadeem said, "and leave them there with the compliments of Tane Effendi.”

Ali, awakened by the noise, sat up and looked about him in bewilderment.

"Prepare breakfast for two, Ali," Tane said, "and serve it in the matidarah!'

"For one, only, if you please,” said Nadeem. "You’ll excuse me, effendi, I’m sure, for I have breakfasted and some urgent business claims my attention.”

"Why, of course, if you must go. But first, if you have time. I’d like you to show me that secret passageway.”

"With pleasure, my friend. Follow me.”

He led the way down the stairway, through the reception room and down the hallway toward the kitchen. A few feet beyond the kitchen door he paused, reached up into a small niche for utensils, and removing several pots and pans, pulled the ledge outward. A section of the wall three feet wide and seven feet hi^ instantly swung inward, revealing a flight of narrow stone steps.

N adeem took out his flashlight and descended the steps, Tane following closely behind him. 'They descended to a narrow underground passageway, which led to another flight of steps that ascended steeply. Climbing these, the hagg slid back the bolt of a door, and Tane saw they were in the narrow gangway between his house and the one just south of it, with easy access to the street.

"Seems as if you know all there is to know about this house,” said Tane.

"No, effendi. I wish I did. But, for some time past, I have been watching it for reasons of my own, and have learned a few of its secrets.”

They closed the door which, Tane observed, perfectly matched the surrounding wall, and returned to the reception room.

"And now, effendi/' said Nadeem, with his pensive smile, "I must leave you. I do not anticipate any danger for you today, but tonight, beware. Isa knows the Touareg cook, and will admit him when he arrives. He is absolutely trustworthy. Salam aleykum/'

"Wa aleykum sdam.”

Tane finished his breakfast of toast, grilled lamb chops and coffee, which Ali had prepared, and lighting a cigarette, made his way back to the kitchen. Opening the door to the secret passageway, he lighted a lamp and went through to the opposite door. After a careful examination, he found and disconnected the lever which operated the bolt from the outside. Then he returned to the door which led into the kitchen. But he could find no way of fastening it so that it could not be opened from the stairway; so he sent Ali out for some bolts, lumber and tools with which he was able to fasten it, so that nothing short of a battering-ram could move it.

He had just finished, and was contemplating the result of his labors, wh«i a strange figure shuflBed into the kitchen. The newcomer was swathed in a flowing burnoose and head-cloth of many folds, and his features were covered by a blue veil

"I am Akhamouk, the cook, sent by Hagg Nadeem,” he said in Arabic, his voice harsh and rasping. "You are Tane Effendi?”

"Yes.”

"I trust that your servant finds favor in your sight.”

"As much of you as is visible,” Tane replied. "You have honest eyes and capable-looking hands. But the main consideration is that the hagg reconunended you. You’re hired.”

LORD OF THE LAMIA


"Allah's bounty and his blessing upon you, s 'tdi,” rasped the veiled man, and he immediately set to work among the pots and pans.

Tane returned to the reception room and the eflScient Ali promptly brought him a narghile, with charcoal glowing. As he puffed fragrant wisps of smoke from the purring, bubbling pipe, the American ruminated on the odd and extremely dangerous situation in which he found himself. Despite her strange appearances and disappearances, despite even the tiny scales he had seen on her shapely body, he could not bring himself to believe Aat the lovely creature who had been weaving in and out of the strange fabric of his experiences, was other than a real flesh-and-blood human like himself. Suddenly, he realized that this was what he wanted to believe, and that his attitude was far from impersonal and scientific. The facts, weigh them as he would, pointed to the Lamia theory. And a true scientist must find according to the facts, regardless of how preposterous the conclusion might seem. It was obvious that Doctor Schneider and Maksoud the Persian both believed in the reality of the Lamia. And Shaykh Ibrahim believed so devoutly and wanted her so intensely that he had given up his life in an effort to possess her.

Then there was Hagg Nadeem, the mystic, the inscrutable. Where did he fit into this outre jigsaw puzzle.^ He had admitted, just this morning, that he had been watching the house of Doctor Schneider for some time. Why? Had he, also, been interested in gaining possession of the Lamia?

T ane finished his narghile and prowled about the house, examining the rare fabrics and furnishings, every one of which was a valuable collector’s piece in excellent condition.

Akhamouk cooked an excellent lunch, which Tane barely touched. Then he returned to a fresh narghile to ponder, and to make plans against the ominous coming of the night.

Isa, the new bowab, was armed with a heavy simitar and dagger. The Touareg, also, had a simitar and a pair of daggers. And he and Ali had their yatagans. Tane wore his, belted at his waist, and as evening approached, ordered the Syrian to do the same.

Dinner over, Tane again sought the solace of the water-pipe, and innumerable tiny cups of sirupy coffee. He resolved that this night he would remain awake. Tomorrow there would be time enough for sleep — if for him there was to be a tomorrow.

Midnight came without incident. Lighting a lamp, Tane made the rounds. Isa was sleeping on his mattress behind the street door. The Touareg was slumbering on the diwan in his small room just off the kitchen. And Ali, lying on his couch in the majlts, twitched in his sleep and muttered incoherently of jinn and houris.

Returning to the reception room, Tane refilled his pipe, and applying the charcoal, seated himself once more on the diwan. He had just gotten the tobacco well alight when he heard the sound of footsteps in the courtyard. Then the door swung open, and in waddled a rotund figure in burnoose and head-cloth, a corner of the latter drawn across the face. Despite the fact that the features were concealed, Tane recognized the figure and walk of Doctor Schneider.

The doctor advanced to the middle of the floor and stopped. Behind him marched a score of Bedouins, the lamplight glinting on the naked blades in their hands.

For a moment Tane was so astounded he was unable to speak. Then he gained the mastery of his voice.



"Good evening, Herr Doktor,” he said, pleasantly. “This is an unexpected pleasure.”

"So! You know me, eh? Veil, it don’t matter, anyvay. You von’t live long to do any talking.” Throwing back the corner of his head-cloth, he glared down at the American. The Bedouins advanced menacingly, but the doctor bade them halt.

"Just what is this all about, doctor?” Tane asked.

"You should ask! You robber! You snakc-in-the-grass! You stole Lamia from me — me who vorked und slaved und fought to bring her here — und you ask vot it is all about! I haff brought the scroll und the magic candles, und if you do not summon her und turn her over to me, my men vill cut you into small pieces!”

"Not so fast, traitor!”

Tane looked up in astonishment, at the sound of a strange voice. Maksoud, the hawk-nosed Persian, was just entering the reception room through the door used by the doctor and his Bedouins. And behind Maksoud there trooped a score of his countrymen, stout fellows all, with simitars in their hands.

Doctor Schneider started perceptibly, then looked around.

"Veil, Maksoud. Vot the devil do you vant?”

"O dog, and son of a dog, you know full well what I want and what I will have! You purchased my interest in certain other things, and all that is settled between us. But the Lamia was half mine, and for my interest in her you paid me nothing. In the dead of night, you stole away from our desert camp with her, and hired the accursed Shaykh Ibrahim, may Allah not accept him, to bring her here in a funeral procession.”

"Vait! Dot VOS a ruse to fool the bolice. I vould have divided rait you, later.”

"After you had made her yours? SubhanuUah! I know you too well for that!”

"Veil. Vat about you? Stole into mein house, broke mein head, und tried to raise her, yourself, before this American interfered, und cheated both of us.”

"It is that, and one other score I have come to settle with the American,” said Maksoud. "If he does not make me Lord of the Lamia, then will my men roast him in his own oven and feed his flesh to the jackals. As for you, depart in peace, leaving me this house, these furnishings and her, and I will consider the score settled between us.”

"Not on your life, Maksoud. It is you who vill leave, not 1. Come back tomorrow, und I vill see that the Lamia makes you more vealthy than the shah.”

"Or, perhaps, that she sends me to paradise. No, traitor, I do not trust you. But if you will leave now, peaceably, I will swear by the triple oath ”

"Vot do I care for your triple oaths? Vy should I trust you, who do not trust me?”

"Well, then we must fight. There is no other way.”

The two factions drew off on opposite sides of the room.

Maksoud issued a swift order to his men in Persian. Two of them sprang for Tane. The rest charged the doctor and his Bedouins.

Whipping out his yatagan, Tane stepped up on the diwan with his back to the wall, and awaited the attack.

Before he crossed blades with his two assailants, he was surprized to see the doctor draw his own simitar and leap into the fray. A moment later, he and Maksoud were engaged in a deadly combat, while the blades of their men clashed around them, mingled with shouts, groans, and cries of: "Persian pigs who pray without washing! Heretics! Defilers!” from the Bedouins. And: “HorseLORD OF THE LAMIA


thieves and robbers! Schismatics! Scum of the desert!” from the Persians.

But Tane had no time to view the general melee, for he found himself engaged with two skilled swordsmen, either of whom would have made a formidable antagonist for him alone.

12. The Cache

T ane managed to parry the first blow of the swordsman on his right, and counter with a return cut that gashed the fellow’s face. But in doing so, he was forced to catch the weapon of his other antagonist on a cushion he had snatched up from the diwan, and it proved but a poor shield. For though it softened the blow, the blade cut through and bit into the bone of his left arm so that it dangled uselessly.

Another moment and he must have succumbed, had it not been that, at this instant, a blue-veiled figure dashed in from the hallway and engaged one of his opponents. It was Akhamouk, the Touareg cook, who, fighting with simitar and dagger, instantly made the Persian on the right give ground.

Tane recovered and went after his remaining opponent, hammer and tongs. Then, at a shout from Maksoud, another Persian separated himself from the melee, and once more Tane found himself between two assailants. But this time it was Ali who dashed to his rescue, suddenly popping out from behind the curtains that concealed the stairway. After that, the American quickly dropped his man with a blow that split the skull.

During a moment’s breathing-space, Tane saw that more than half of the doctor’s Bedouins were on the floor, and the otliers were rapidly giving ground before the superior ability of the fierce Persian swordsmen. These desert men were doughty fighters when mounted, but here.

on foot, the Persian warriors had them at a disadvantage because they were out of their clement.

There was another sharp command from Maksoud, and four more of his men left the general scrimmage to attack Tane, Ali and Akhamouk.

Ali was cursing as he fought, but the Touareg was taunting his foes — laughing, jesting as he slashed and parried. Soon but a small handful of the Bedouins remained. In the midst of them stood the doctor, bleeding from half a dozen wounds, and still striving to reach his opponent, Maksoud, with his blade, while the latter’s men hemmed them in on all sides.

Suddenly Tane heard the shrill sound of a whistle beside him — a whistle that sounded strangely familiar. It seemed to issue from beneath tlie blue veil worn by the Touareg.

At the sound of that blast, Isa, the huge negro bowab, charged into the room swinging his long simitar. And behind him came a horde of native soldiers with rifles and fixed bayonets.

At sight of the rifles in the hands of the soldiers, the contestants instantly threw down their weapons and raised their hands in surrender.

Then, to Tane’s astonishment, the Touareg tore off his veil, shed his huge burnoose and cumbrous head-cloth, and stood revealed, a slender, suave, smiling figure in a brown burnoose and green turban.

"Hagg Nadeem!” exclaimed Tane.

An oflicer stepped up before the hagg and saluted respectfully.

"Place those brawlers under arrest,” ordered Nadeem. "See to the wounded, and carry the dead out into the courtyard.”

He turned to Tane. "Come, effendi. You have a pretty bad arm. Let’s go to



the bathroom and I’ll bind it up for you. I have some slight medical skill.”

"Slight, did you say? You are modest. I understand you have the right to place an M. D. after your name. But whether it’s true or not, I could stand some attention. 'The thing is beginning to throb like the very devil.”

T he efficient Ali placed a lamp for them in the bathroom and departed to the kitchen to brew coffee.

"You certainly fooled me neatly,” said Tane, when Nadeem was putting the final touches to his bandaged arm. "Why, you looked more like a Touareg than a Touareg does.”

"One of my favorite disguises,” smiled the "I pride myself on carrying it

off rather well. But I have not fooled you half so badly as this Doctor Schneider has fooled me.”

"Fooled you.^ What do you mean.^” "If I could only find that mummycase!”

"Why, it must have been carried off by the '/inn/ as Ali called them, when they brought in the furnishings and tore out the partition.”

"No, it wasn’t. I happened to know that the coffin they carried out of the alcove contained the baJly defunct corpse of Wardan, the bowab, and nothing else worth mentioning. The doctor evidently exchanged the corpse for the mummycase while I was taking you to my house.” "You know all this? How?”

"I leam many things in one way and another.”

Tane looked curiously at this slender, mysterious man, who knew so much and told so little.

"Very well, if it’s a secret,” he said. "Let’s go up into the ma///s for pipes and coffee. 'The reception room is a mess.”

"I have no time for smoking and chatting now. I must search.”

"For what?”

"For that mummy-case. It is concealed somewhere in this house. Of that I am positive. And in that place of concealment I expea to find something of the utmost importance to me.”

"Wait! Hold everything! I have an idea.” Tane suddenly fished in his pocket, and bringing out the gilded and lacquered sliver he had found in the bathroom two days before, handed it to the

Nadeem examined it intently for a moment. "Where did you find this?” he asked, excitedly.

"I picked it up right where you are standing, the day after I enjoyed your hospitality.”

"Wdlah! So the doctor brought it here. 'Then the entrance to the secret hiding-place that has eluded me for so long must be in this very room.” Swiftly, excitedly, he began a detailed examination of every part of the bathroom. Presently he aied out triumphantly and pointed to a tiny bit of red lacquer adhering to the edge of the tiles where they met the bottom of the built-in tub.

"It’s there, effendi/’he shouted. "There beneath the tub. Now to discover the secret of the mechanism.”

He examined the faucets, turned them, and water came forth. He closed them again and pulled on them, but nothing happened. Then his eye fell on the shower, fixed to the ceiling overhead. Stepping up on the edge of the tub, he grasped the shower and pulled. Instantly the tub began to rise.

Leaping to the tiles, Nadeem waited while the tub continued to travel upward imtil it stood about five feet above the floor on four thick iron pipes — evidently raised by hydraulic pressure. Beneath it,

LORD OF THE LAMIA


a flight of stone steps led downward into the darkness.

Snatching the lamp, Nadeem plunged down the steps, Tane at his heels. They found themselves in a large, square storeroom, stacked high with bales and boxes.

In the center of the room stood the mummy-case. But Nadeem did not even notice it. Instead, he rushed to one of the boxes, pried off the lid with his dagger, and reached inside. He pulled out a packet and tore it open, spilling part of its contents of dried leaves.

"What the devil!” asked Tane, bewildered.

"Hashish!” exclaimed Nadeem excitedly. "Bales of it! Boxes of it! Several tons of it, at the very least! The greatest hashish cache ever discovered by the secret police of any nation! And for this discovery and the apprehension of the smugglers, my friend, I owe much to you. But come, there is yet one thing to be done — one most important thing.”

"What is that.^” Tane asked.

*T must rid you of Lamia — send her back to that long sleep from which you todc her when you read the ancient scroll by the light of the two magic candles. I should destroy her, perhaps, for she is a terrible creature, a thing of evil, and so far as I can learn, the last of her kind to retain the corporeal link which makes her physical manifestation to mankind possible. But she has served my purpose well, and it would be base ingratitude on my part to destroy that last link for her.”

"But suppose I don’t want to be rid of her,” said Tane.

"Don't you?”

"No.”

"You mean you are in love with her?”

"I love her more than life itself — more tfian anyone or anything on this earth.”

"Ah! That complicates the matter.”

Nadeem lighted one of his long cigarettes and puffed reflectively for a moment. "But are you not engaged to marry a charming English girl, a Miss Shirley Mason?”

"I will break the engagement.”

"You are mad. Yet, after all, I might have expected this — the fatal charm of the Lamia b irresistible to mortal man, save to those few adepts and philosophers who really understand her.”

"Do you?”

"Yes, for I am both adept and philosopher.”

“Then, in God’s name, tell me! Who b she? What is she?”

"It were best,” said Hagg Nadeem, "that I show you, I have the power to destroy her corporeal existence, but not to send her back to her long sleep unharmed. Only you can do that, for you are her lord. She sleeps now, as her labors have been arduous and her awakening was but recent.”

13. Unweaving the Rainbow

N adeem raised the lid of the mummy-case with one hand, and held the lamp so that it lighted the interior. "Look,” he said.

Tane peered inside, and saw a snake which looked exactly like the one he had first seen in the same case. It seemed to be in a torpor, its long scaly body coiled limply, its head resting inside the rim of the brilliant white-plumed diadem whidi Lamia had worn.

Nadeem lowered the lid once more and set the lamp on a packing-case.

"She sleeps,” he said, “but she knows. Very shortly now, she will materialize and attempt to defeat my plans. For corporejd life is very sweet to her, and she has not had a human lover for three thousand years, though at her last awakening she loved and destroyed many.”



"I don’t care who she is or what she is — human, reptile or demon — or whether she has had a million lovers and killed them all,” said Tane vehemently. "I love her.”

Nadeem’s eyes suddenly flashed like sword-points.

"Subhanullah!” he exclaimed. "There is none so blind as a fool in love. Well then. I’ll test the integrity of your affection. Do you love her enough to keep her from being destroyed.^”

"Of course.”

"Very well. Then imderstand this. Either you will send her back to her long sleep, or I will destroy her utterly.”

He paused suddenly and looked at the mummy-case. Little scufiling noises were coming from inside it.

"We must work fast!” he exclaimed.

Hurriedly he dragged two packingboxes to positions at the head and foot of the coflSn. Then he drew two candles from his pockets, and Tane recognized that they were identical in size, shape and color, with the ones he had first seen in the niche. After lighting the candles, the hagg drew a ring from his pocket — a massive ring of yellow gold in which was mounted a tremendous ruby that flashed like fire in the artificial light. And Tane saw that on the face of the ruby was engraved a great six-pointed star formed from two equilateral triangles, while in the central, six-sided space was a word written in charaaers which he, linguist and archeologist though he was, could not decipher.

The rustlings in the casket grew louder, there were some thumping sounds, and once Tane thought he heard a suppressed moan.

Nadeem now jerked a flexible golden scroll from beneath his garments and handed it to Tane.

"After I order her bade,” he said, "you must read this. If you do so, she will only return to her long sleep. And if you do not, I will annihilate her utterly, for I have the power, here.” He tapp^ the great ruby on his finger significantly.

Tane imrolled the scroll and glanced at it.

"Read it over now, and you will see that although it is a command, it is gently and politely worded.”

Tane read:

"Hent-a nejer Lamia suten net sat neter nejer Re un heqt nebt taui Pilatre

He was interrupted by a sound from the mummy-case, as the lid suddenly heaved upward and crashed to the floor. Nadeem snatched the scroll from his hands as he looked toward the casket above the lid of which two dimpled white arms projeaed.

Tane stared, fascinated, as the nodding white plumes, the jeweled diadem, and then the lovely head and shoulders of Lamia appeared above the rim. She yawned prettily, stretched, and stood up, her clinging diaphanous garment revealing every ravishing charm of her slender, supple figure.

With pantherish grace, she stepped out of the casket, and pausing for a moment, smiled at Tane, completely ignoring the presence of the hagg.

And Tane, as he looked into those twin pools of loveliness, in whose depths were mirrored the sum total of all his desires and all his yearnings, forgot the presence of the Egyptian.

She did not advance, but stood there with arms held out to him, red lips tremulous, eyes starry, snowy bosom heaving.

"Take me, my lord,” she pleaded. "Save me — ^keep me for yourself — and 1 will be your slave, always.”

Mechanically, haltingly, yet drawn by

LORD OF raE LAMIA


a power which he could not resist, Tane stuped forward like a sleep-walker. And dimly, as in some elusive dream, he heard the voice of the hagg:

"I will permit you one minute of farewell, Tane Effendi. No more.”

Tane stood before her now, looking down into those love-lit eyes.

"Lamia, beloved!” he cried, and the cry was half a sob. Then he caught her to him, and was aware of a fiery pleasure in the touch of her slender body, her small firm breasts and the soft arms that clung around his neck. Eagerly he claimed her upturned lips, and found in them a passionate response that sent rivulets of fire surging through his veins and made him oblivious to all else.

For but a moment he was permitted to taste a bliss which had been vouchsafed to no other man of his day, but in that single moment he knew he had lived through an eternity of sweet passion. Then the voice of Nadeem broke sharply through to his consciousness.

"Enough, effendi. Release her if you would not have her destroyed in your arms.”

Tane let her go and stepped back, then gasped in amazement at sight of the change which had suddenly taken place in the lovely apparition. She was looking at Hagg Nadeem, and the eyes that had been starry with love now gleamed with venomous hatred, the hands that had been gentle and caressing were drawn up like rending claws, and the white teeth were bared in a bestial snarl.

"Away, meddling magician!” she shrieked, and her voice broke like that of a hag. "Away, or you will die as died the others who opposed my will in ages past! Think you that you can frighten me with your puny delving into the black arts? You and your talisman-hawking brethren have no power over such as I.”

"That is true,” replied Hagg Nadeem, "but there is One who has power over all creatures, who has been called by many names, but whose real name is engraved on this ring which I wear.”

He suddenly extended his right hand, exposing the great ruby on his finger. At sight of it Lamia paled, drew back trembling with fear.

"You can read it as well as I,” he continued. "Would you like to hear it pronounced by an adept?”

She clapped her hands over her eyes as if to shut out the brilliance of that great ruby.

"No! No!” she whimpered.

"I thought not,” he replied, "for this is the seal ring of Sulayman Baalshem, Lord of the Name, the ring which gave him power over the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, over men and angels and devils and jinn, and even over such creatures as you.”

"What do you want me to do?” she moaned.

"A feeling of gratitude has prompted me to withhold your destruction,” he said; "so I am permitting your lord to send you back to your long sleep, unharmed.”

He handed the scroll to Tane. "Read, effendi,” he directed.

T ane took the scroll and opened it, glancing for a moment at the ancient characters. Then he read slowly, sonorously, in the language of ancient Egj^t:

"Lamia, lovely slave of mine, daughter of the beautiful god Re, and of Pilatre, Princess of the Two Lands, I, your lord who bade you awaken, now bid you sleep once more. And by the power of the charm of Osiris, King of the Dead, conceived of the Lord of the Two Truths and known only to a chosen few, you will



sleep on for ever, unless or until I, or another of mjr enlightenment, shall once more bid you awaken.”

As he glanced up from his reading he was amazed to see that a change was already taking place in the slender figure before him. The tiny scales which he had once before noted on her white skin were rapidly enlarging. Her head was changing form, flattening above, elongating in front, and her arms and legs were shrinking. She took the diadem from her head and deposited it in the casket. Hagg Nadeem removed a small roll of linen bandage from a pocket and holding one end, tossed it to her so that it unrolled into a thin streamer.

"Your cerements,” he said.

She caught it in a rapidly shrinking hand, and suddenly rising on tiptoe like a ballet dancer, began whirling so rapidly that the long bandage formed a series of spiral loops around her, while her figure inside it was but a blur of motion.

"Farewell, dear lord,” she called, her voice sunken to a hissing whisper. "You know it not, but I loved you before, love you still, and will love you through all eternity.”

She was standing in the center of the mummy-case now, whirling with the speed of a spinning top. Swiftly the folds of the encircling linen drew closer together, until they formed a narrow, upright cylinder about two inches in diameter and four feet in height. Tane was reminded of a caterpillar spinning its cocoon. And like an inert cocoon, the cylinder presently ceased its whirling and dropped below the casket rim.

Tane sprang forward and saw the mummied serpent just as he had seen it when he had first opened the mummycase, its head resting on the inner rim of the diadem. He spoke huskily.

"What are you going to do with her,

haggr

"Tomorrow,” replied Nadeem, "I will load her upon the back of a camel and return her to her secret tomb in the Libyan Desert.”

"But what if someone else should find her — some archeologist, for instance.^”

"Only two men besides myself know the location of her tomb,” said the hagg, "and these two will spend the rest of their natural lives behind prison bars."

"You mean Doctor Schneider and Maksoud the Persian?”

"Precisely. For the past ten years I have been trailing the members of the biggest hashish syndicate this country has 'ever seen. Oh, I have caught the small fry, time and again. But I was never able to reach the principals. And until just recently I did not know who they were.

"Never mind how, but some time ago I discovered that this vast syndicate was controlled by two supposedly respectable individuals — Doctor Schneider the archeologist, and Maksoud the Persian rugdealer. I learned that these two men were close friends, closer than Damon and Pythias, and that they trusted each other, but no one else.

"Time and again I caught one or another of their subordinates with the deadly drug, and found ways to make them talk. But these petty criminals did not even know who paid them. I knew, but I had no legal proof. And I soon saw that unless I could find some means of separating these two fast friends — of making them hate each other — I should probably never be able to convict them or break up their illicit syndicate.

"I racked my brain for a plan, and it was while I was going through the ancient documents left me by my illustrious forebears that I hit upon a plan. Among the papyrus scrolls was one which told of

LORD OF THE LAMIA

the burial-place of the Lamia and the scroll which would awaken her. I knew that if these two fast friends were given something they could not divide it was inevitable that they should quarrel. The Lamia, more desirable than all the gold that either could amass, was something they could not divide.

“T MADE a copy of the scroll on some JL ancient blank papyrus and contrived to have it brought to the attention of the two friends when they were together, so there was no chance of either concealing the secret from the other. They took the Lamia from her ancient tomb, quarreled as I had foreseen, and as a result of that quarrel. Doctor Schneider bought out Maksoud’s half-interest in the hashish syndicate, but beggared himself in paying for it.

"Of course he had this tremendous cache of the drug here, but my men were watching this place so closely that he did not dare attempt to dispose of any great quantity of it. In the meantime, he had stolen away from the desert camp with the mummy-case, and devised the ruse with which you are familiar for bringing it here.

"But he needed money to pay for the false funeral and other current expenses, and in leasing this house to you, accomplished the double purpose of obtaining the gold and direaing suspicion away from his huge store of hashish, which, through a number of secret passageways known to him, he had the means of reaching at any time it pleased him to do so.”

"Then there are passageways other than the one you showed me?”

"The house is honeycombed with them.

I knew all the old ones because it happened that the house was once the property of my family, and the old plans

[THE


came into my hands. For instance, I can tell you that tonight the doctor and the Persian, finding the passageway through the kitchen blocked, came in through another which leads underground from one of their hiding-places and comes up under the foiuitain in the courtyard, which can be swung to one side by means of a pivot. But the bathroom was an innovation installed by the doctor. I should have been wise enough to look there first of all, but perhaps it was too obvious. Of course your coming on the scene was not within my calculations at all, but you worked along with me so well that it did not upset them. Had either the doaor or Maksoud become Lord of the Lamia, I should have been compelled to destroy her. But as things turned out, I am grateful both to you and her, and have refrained.”

"God knows it was bad enough to have to send her back to that serpentine form,” said Tane with a touch of bitterness, for every cell in his body still yearned for the lovely creature he had held in his arms.

"Come, come, my friend, you must be a true philosopher. You have escaped a great evil that would have destroyed your very soul.”

, "I can’t help feeling that it would have been worth it,” Tane retorted. "Besides, I’m afraid I am more of a poet than a philosopher, for I hold with Keats:

"Philosophy will clip an angePs wings, Conquer all mysteries by rule and line.

Empty the haunted air, and gnomed mine — Unweave a rainbow

"I can’t recall the rest of it, but let that sufiice — for you have unwoven my rainbow.”

Hagg Nadeem smiled pensively, and reached for a cigarette.

"Perhaps some day I shall weave you another,” he said.

END]

Uhe T-'

I lower' Women

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

A bizarre fantasy, about a race of vampiric flowers and an alien sorcerer on a far world warmed by three suns

A THLfi,” said Maal Dweb, "I suf- /■% fer from the frightful curse of omnipotence. In all Xiccarph, and in the five outer planets of the triple suns, there is no one, there is nothing, to dispute my dominion. Therefore my ennui has become intolerable.”

The girlish eyes of Athle regarded the enchanter with a gaze of undying astonishment, which, however, was not due to his strange avowal. She was the last of the fifty-one women that Maal Dweb had turned into statues in order to preserve their frail, corruptible beauty from the worm-like gnawing of time. Since, through a laudable desire to avoid monotony, he had resolved never to repeat again this particular sorcery, the magician had cherished Athl^ with the affection which an artist feels for the final masterpiece of a series. He had placed her on a little dais, beside the ivory chair in his chamber of meditation. Often he addressed to her his queries or nionologues; and the faa that she did not reply or even hear was to him a signal and unfailing recommendation.

"There is but one remedy for this boredom of mine,” he went on — "the abnegation, at least for a while, of that all too certain power from which it springs. Therefore, I, Maal Dweb, the ruler of six worlds and all their moons, shall go forth alone, unheralded, and without other equipment than that which any fledgling sorcerer might possess. In this way, perhaps I shall recover the lost charm of incertitude, the foregone en624

chantment of peril. Adventures that I have not foreseen will be mine, and the future will wear the alluring veil of the mysterious. It remains, however, to select the field of my adventurings.”

Maal Dweb arose from his curiously carven chair and waved bade the four automatons of iron, having the likeness of armed men, that sprang to attend him. He passed along the halls of his palace, where painted hangings told in vermilion and purple the dread legends of his power. Through ebon valves that opened noiselessly at the uttering of a highpitched word, he entered the chamber in which was his planetarium.

The room was walled, floored and vaulted with a dark crystal, full of tiny, numberless fires, that gave the illusion of unbounded space with all its stars. In midair, without chains or other palpable support, there hung an array of various globes that represented the three suns, the six planets and thirteen moons of the system ruled by Maal Dweb. The miniature suns, amber, emerald and carmine, bathed their intricately circling worlds with an illumination that reproduced at all times the diurnal conditions of the system itself; and the pigmy satellites maintained always their corresponding orbits and relative positions.

The sorcerer went forward, walking as if on some unfathomable gulf of night, widi stars and galaxies beneath him. The poising worlds were level with his shoulders as he passed among them. Disregarding the globes that corresponded to

W. T.— 6

THE FLOWER-WOMEN


“The Ispazats hurled themselves toward him."

Momoth, Xiccarph, Ulassa, Nouph and Rhul, he came to Votalp, the outermost, which was then in aphelion on the farther side of the room.

Votalp, a large and moonless world, revolved imperceptibly as he studied it. For one hemisphere, he saw, the yellow sun was at that time in total eclipse behind the sun of carmine; but in spite of this, and its greater distance from the solar triad, Votalp was lit with sufficient clearness. It was mottled with strange W. T.— 7

hues like a great cloudy opal; and the mottlings were microcosmic oceans, isles, mountains, jungles and deserts. Fantastic sceneries leapt into momentary salience, taking on the definitude and perspective of actual landscapes, and then faded back amid the iridescent blur. Glimpses of teeming, multifarious life, incredible tableaux, monstrous happenings, were beheld by Maal Dweb as he looked down like some celestial spy.

It seoned, however, that he found lit626


tie to divert or inveigle him in these outr6 doings and exotic wonders. Vision after vision rose before him, summoned and dismissed at will, as if he were turning the pages of a familiar volume. The wars of gigantic vvyverns, the matings of halfvegetable monsters, the queer algae that had filled a certain ocean with their living and moving labyrinths, the remarkable spawn of certain polar glaciers: all these elicited no gleam or sparkle in his dulled eyes of blackish emerald.

At length, on that portion of the planet which was turning slowly into the double dawn from its moonless night, he perceived an occurrence that drew and held his attention. For the first time, he began to calculate the precise latitude and longitude of the surrounding milieu.

"There,” he said to himself, "is a situation not without interest. In faa, the whole affair is quaint and curious enough to warrant my intervention. I shall visit Votalp.”

He withdrew from the planetarium and made a few preparations for his meditated journey. Having changed his robe of magisterial sable and scarlet for a hodden mantle, and having removed from his person every charm and talisman, with the exception of two phylacteries acquired during his riovitiate, he went forth into the garden of his mountain-builded palace. He left no instructions with the many retainers who served him: for these retainers were automatons of iron and brass, who would fulfill their various duties without injunction till he returned.

T raversing the curious labyrinth which he alone could solve, he came to the verge of the sheer mesa, where python-like lianas drooped into space, and metallic palms deployed their armaments of foliage against the far-flung horizons of the world Xiccarph. Empires and

cities, lying supine beneath his magical dominion, were unrolled before him; but, giving them hardly a glance, he walked along the estrade of black marble at the very brink, till he reached a narrow promontory around which there hung at all times a deep and hueless cloud, obscuring the prospert of the lands below and beyond.

The secret of this cloud, affording access to multiple dimensions and deeply folded realms of space conterminous with far worlds, was known only to Maal Dweb. He had built a silver drawbridge on the promontory; and by lowering its airy span into the cloud, he could pass at will to the farther zones of Xiccarph, or could cross the very void between the planets.

Now, after making certain highly recondite calculations, he manipulated the machinery of the light drawbridge so that its other end would fall upon the particular terrain that he desired to visit in Votalp. Then, assuring himself that his calculations and adjustments were flawless, he followed the silver span into the dim, bewildering chaos of the cloud. Here, as he groped in a gray blindness, it seemed that his body and members were drawn out over infinite gulfs, and were bent through impossible angles. A single misstep would have plunged him into spatial regions from which all his cunning sorcery could have contrived no manner of return or release; but he had often trod these hidden ways, and he did not lose his equilibrium. The transit appeared to involve whole centuries of time; but finally he emerged from the cloud and came to the farther end of the drawbridge.

Before him was the scene that had lured his interest in Votalp. It was a semitropic valley, level and open in the foreground, and rising steeply at the other

THE FLOWER-WOMEN


extreme, with all its multiform fantasies of vegetation, toward tiie cliffs and chasms of sable mountains horned with blood-red stone. The time was still early dawn; but the amber sun, freeing itself slowly from the occultation of the sun of carmine, had begun to lighten the hues and shadows of the valley with strange copper and orange. The emerald sun was still below die horizon.

The terminus of the bridge had fallen on a mossy knoll, behind which the hueless cloud had gathered, even as about the promontory in Xiccarph. Maal Dweb descended the knoll, feeling no concern whatever for the bridge. It would remain as he had left it, till the time of his return; and if, in the interim, any creatures from Votalp should cross the gulf and invade his mountain citadel, they would meet a fearful doom in the snares and windings of the labyrinth; or, failing this, would be exterminated by his iron servitors.

As he went down the knoll into the valley, the enchanter heard an eery, plaintive singing, like that of sirens who bewail some irremediable misfortune. The singing came from a sisterhood of unusual creatures, half woman and half flower, that grew in the valley bottom beside a sleepy stream of purple water. There were several scores of these lovely and charming monsters, whose feminine bodies of pink and pearl reclined amid the vermilion velvet couches of billowing petals to which they were attached. These petals were borne on mattress-like leaves and heavy, short, well-rooted stems. The flowers were disposed in irregular circles, dustering thickly toward the center, and with open intervals in the outer rows.

Maal Dweb approached the flowerwomen with a certain caution; for he knew that they were vampires. Their arms ended in long tendrils, pale as ivory,

swifter and more supple than the coils of darting serpents, with which they were wont to secure the unwary victims drawn by their singing. Of course, knowing in his wisdom the inexorable laws of nature, he felt no disapproval of such vampirism; but, on the other hand, he did not care to be its object.

He circled about the strange family at a little distance, his movements hidden from their observation by boulders overgrown with tall, luxuriant lichens of red and yellow. Soon he neared the straggling outer line of plants that were upstream from the knoll on which he had landed; and here, in confirmation of the vision beheld on the mimic world in his plMietarium, he found that the turf was upheaved and broken where five of the blossoms, growing apart from their companions, had been disrooted and removed bodily. He had seen in his vision the rape of tlie fifth flower, and he knew that tlie others were now lamenting her,

S UDDENLY, as if they had forgotten their sorrow, the wailing of the flower-women turned to a wild and sweet and voluptuous singing, like that of the Lorelei. By this token, the enchanter knew that his presence had been detected. Inured though he was to such bewitchments, he found himself far from insensible to the perilous luring of the voices. Contrary to his intention, forgetful of the danger, he emerged from the lee of the lichen-crested rocks. By insidious degrees, the melody fired his blood with a strange intoxication, it sang in his brain like some bewildering wine. Step by step, with a temporary loss of prudence for which, later, he was quite unable to account, he approached the blossoms.

Now, pausing at an interval that he deemed safe in his bemusement, he beheld plainly the half-human features of



the vampires, leaning toward him with fantastic invitation. Their weirdly slanted eyes, like oblong opals of dew and venom, the snaky coiling of their bronzegreen hair, the bright, baneful scarlet of their lips, that thirsted subtly even as they sang, awoke within him the knowledge of his peril. Too late, he sought to defy the captiously woven spell. Unwinding with a movement swift as light, the long pale tendrils of one of the creatures wrapped him round, and he was drawn, resisting vainly, toward her couch.

At the moment of his capture, the whole sisterhood had ceased their singing. They began to utter little cries of triumph, shrill and sibilant. Murmurs of expectation, like the purrings of hungry flame, arose from the nearest, who hoped to share in the good fortune of the sorcerer’s captrcss.

Maal Dweb, however, was now able to utilize his faculties. Without alarm or fear, he contemplated the lovely monster, who had drawn him to the verge of her velvet bed, and was fawning upon him with sinisterly parted lips.

Using a somewhat primary power of divination, he apprised himself of certain matters concerning the vampire. Having learnt the true, occult name which this creature shared ‘with all others of her kind, he then spoke the name aloud in a firm but gentle tone; and winning thus, by an elemental law of magic, the power of mastery over his captress and her sisters, he felt the instant relaxation of the tendrils. The flower-woman, with fear and wonder in her strange eyes, drew back like a startled lamia; but Maal Dweb, employing the half-articulate sounds of her own language, began to soothe and reassure her. In a little while he was on friendly terms with the whole sisterhood. These simple and naive beings forgot their vampiric intentions.

their surprize and wonderment, and seemed to accept the magician very much as they accepted the three suns and the meteoric conditions of the planet Votalp.

Conversing with them, he soon verified the information obtained through the mimic globe. As a rule their emotions and memories were short-lived, their nature being closer to that of plants or animals than of humankind; but the loss of five sisters, occurring on successive mornings, had filled them with grief and terror that they could not forget. The missing flowers had been carried away bodily. The depredators were certain reptilian beings, colossal in size and winged like pterodactyls, who came down from their new-built citadel among the mountains at the valley’s upper extreme. These beings, known as the Ispazars, seven in number, had become formidable sorcerers and had developed an intelleaion beyond that of their kind, together with many esoteric faculties. Preserving the cold and evilly cryptic nature of reptiles, they had made themselves the masters of an abhuman science. But, until the present, Maal Dweb had ignored them and had not thought it worth while to interfere with their evolution.

Now, through an errant whim, in his search for adventure, he had decided to pit himself against the Ispazars, employing no other weapons of sorcery than his own wit and will, his remembered learning, his clairvoyance, and the two simple amulets that he wore on his person.

"Be comforted,” he said to the flowerwomen, "for verily I shall deal with these miscreants in a fitting manner.”

At this, they broke into a shrill babble, repeating tales that the bird-people of the valley had told them regarding the fortress of the Ispazars, whose walls rose sheerly from a hidden peak unsealed by man, and were void of portal or window

THE FLOWER-WOMEN


save in the highmost ramparts, where the flying reptiles went in and out. And they told him other tales, concerning the ferocity and cruelty of the Ispazars. . . .

Smiling as if at the chatter of children, he diverted their thoughts to other matters, and told them many stories of odd and curious marvels, and queer happenings in alien worlds. In the meanwhile he perfected his plan for obtaining entrance to the citadel of the reptilian wizards.

T he day went by in such divertisements; and one by one the three suns of the system fell beyond the valley’s rim. The flower-women grew attentive, they began to nod and drowse in the richly darkening twilight; and Maal Dweb proceeded with certain preparations that formed an essential part of his scheme.

Through his power of second-sight, he had determined the identity of the victim whom the reptiles would carry away in their next raid on the morrow. 'This creature, as it happened, was the one who had sought to ensnare him. Like the others, she was now preparing to fold herself for the night in her voluminous couch of petals. Confiding part of his plan to her, Maal Dweb manipulated in a singular fashion one of the amulets which he wore, and by virtue of this manipulation, reduced himself to the proportions of a pigmy. In this state, with the assistance of the drowsy siren, he was able to conceal himself in a hollow space among the petals; and thus embowered, like a bee in a rose he slept securely through the short, moonless night of Votalp.

The dawn awakened him, glowing as if through lucent curtains of ruby and purple. He heard the flower-women murmuring sleepily to one another as they opened their blossoms to the early suns.

Their murmurs, however, soon changed into shrill cries of agitation and fear; and above the cries, there came a vibrant drumming as of great dragon-wings. He peered from his hiding-place and saw in the double dawn the descent of the Ispazars, from whose webbed vans a darkness fell on the valley. Nearer they drew, and he saw their cold and scarlet eyes beneath scaly brows, their long, undulant bodies, their lizard limbs and prehensile claws; and he heard the deep, articulate hissing of their voices. Then the petals closed about him blindly, shuddering and constriaive, as the flower-woman recoiled from the swooping monsters. All was confusion, terror, tumult; but he knew, from his observation of the previous rape, that two of the Ispazars had encircled the flower’s stem with their python-like tails, and were pulling it from the ground as a human sorcerer might pull a mandrake plant.

He felt the convulsive agony of the disrooted blossom, he heard the lamentable shrieking of her sisters. 'Then there came a heavier beating of the drum-loud wings, and the feeling of giddy ascension and flight.

Through all this, Maal Dweb maintained the utmost presence of mind; and he did not betray himself to the Ispazars. After many minutes, there was a slackening of the headlong flight, and he knew that the reptiles were nearing their citadel. A moment more, and the ruddy gloom of the shut petals darkened and purpled about him, as if they had passed from the sunlight into a place of deep shadow. The thrumming of wings ceased abruptly, the living flower was dropped from a height on some hard surface and Maal Dweb was nearly hurled from his hiding-place by the violence of her fall. Moaning faintly, twitching a little, she lay where her captors had flung her. The


WEIKD TALES

enchanter heard the hissing voices of the reptile wizards, the rough, sharp slithering of their tails on a stone floor, as they withdrew.

Whispering words of comfort to the dying blossom, he felt the petals relax about him. He crept forth very cautiously, and found himself in an immense, gloomily vaulted hall, whose windows were like the mouths of a deep cavern. Tlie place was a sort of alchemy, a den of alien sorceries and abhorrent pharmaceutics. Everywhere, in the gloom, there were vats, cupels, furnaces, alembics and matrasses of unhuman form, bulking and towering colossally to the pigmy eyes of Maal Dweb. Close at hand, a monstrous cauldron fumed like a crater of black metal, its curving sides ascending far above the magician’s head. None of the Ispazars was in sight; but, knowing that they might return at any moment, he hastened to make ready against them, feeling, for the first time in many years, the thrill of peril and expeaation.

Manipulating the second amulet, he regained his normal proportions. The room, though still spacious, was no longer a hall of giants, and tlie cauldron beside him sank and lessened till its rim rose only to his shoulder. He saw now that the cauldron was filled with an unholy mixture of ingredients, among which were finely shredded portions of the missing flower-women, together with the gall of chimeras and the ambergris of leviathans. Heated by unseen fires, it boiled tumultuously, foaming with black, pitchy bubbles, and putting forth a nauseous vapor.

With the shrewd eye of a past master of all chemic lore, Maal Dweb proceeded to estimate the cauldron’s various contents, and was then able to divine the purpose for which the brewage was intended. 'ITie conclusion to which he was driven

appalled him slightly, and served to heighten his respect for the power and science of the reptile sorcerers. He saw, indeed, that it would be hig^ily advisd)le to arrest their evolution.

After brief reflection, it occurred to him that, in accordance with chemical laws, the adding of certain simple components to the brewage would bring about an eventuation neither desired nor anticipated by the Ispazars. On high tables about the walls of the alchemy, there were jars, flasks and vials containing subtle drugs and powerful elements, some of which were drawn from the more arcanic kingdoms of nature. Disregarding the moon-powder, the coals of star-fire, the jellies made from the brains of gorgons, the ichor of salamanders, the dust of lethal fungi, the marrow of sphinxes, and other equally quaint and pernicious matters, the magician soon found the essences that he required. It was the work of an instant to pour them into the seething cauldron; and having done this, he awaited with composure the return of the reptiles.

The flower-woman, in the meanwhile, had ceased to moan and twitch. Maal Dweb knew that she was dead, since beings of this genus were unable to survive long when uprooted with such violence from their natal soil. She had folded herself to the face in her straitened petals, as if in a red and blackening shroud. He regarded her briefly, not without commiseration; and at that moment he heard the voices of the seven Ispazars, who had now re-entered the alchemy.

T hey came toward him among the crowded vessels, walking erect in the fashion of men on their short lizard legs, their ribbed and sabled wings retracted behind them, and their eyes glaring redly in the gloom. Two of them

THE FLOWER-WOMEN


were armed with long, sinuous-bladed knives; and others were equipped with enormous adamantine pestles, to be employed, no doubt, in bruising the flesh of the floral vampire.

When they saw the enchanter, they were both startled and angered. Their necks and torsos began to swell like the hoods of cobras, and a great hissing rose among them, like the noise of jetted steam. Their aspea would have struck terror to the heart of any common man; but Maal Dweb confronted them calmly, repeating aloud, in low, even tones, a word of sovereign protective power.

The Ispazars hurled themselves toward him, some running along the floor with an undulant slithering motion, and others rising on rapid-beating vans to attack him from above. All, however, dashed themselves vainly on the sphere of unseen force he had drawn about him through the utterance of the word of power. It was a strange thing to see them clawing vengefully at the void air, or striking futile blows with their weapons, which rang as if on a brazen wall.

Now, perceiving that the man before them was a sorcerer, the reptile magicians began to make use of their own abhuman sorcery. They called from the air great bolts of livid flame, python-shapen, which leaped and writhed incessantly, warring with the sphere of protective power, driving it back as a shield is driven by press of numbers in battle, but never breaking it down entirely. Also, they chanted evil, sibilant runes that were designed to charm away the magician’s memory, and cause him to forget his magic. Sore was the travail of Maal Dweb as he fought the serpent fires and runes; and blood mingled with the sweat of his brow from that endeavor. But still, as the bolts struck nearer and the singing loudened, he kept uttering the unforgotten word; and the word still protected him.

Now, above the snaky chanting, he heard the deep hiss of the cauldron, boiling more turbulently than before because of those matters which he had added to its contents. And he saw, between the ever-writhing bolts, that a more voluminous vapor, dark as the steam of a primal fen, was mounting from the cauldron and spreading throughout the alchemy.

Soon the Ispazars were immersed in the fumes, as in a cloud of darkness; and dimly they began to coil and twist, convulsed with a strange agony. 'The python flames died out on the air, and the hissings of the Ispazars became inarticulate as those of common serpents. Then, falling to the floor, while the black mist gathered and thickened above them, they crawled to and fro on their bellies in the fashion of true reptiles; and, emerging at times from the vapor, they shrank and dwindled as if hell-fire had consumed them.

All this was even as Maal Dweb had planned. He knew that the Ispazars had forgotten their sorcery and science; and a swift devolution, flinging them back to the lowest state of serpenthood, had come upon them through the action of the vapor. But, before the completion of the change, he admitted one of the seven Ispazars to the sphere that now served to protea him from the fumes. The creature fawned at his feet like a tame dragon, acknowledging him for its master. Then, presently, the cloud of vapor began to lift, and he saw the other Ispazars, who were now little larger than fen-snakes. Their wings had withered into useless frills, and they crept and hissed on the floor, amid the alembics and crucibles and athanors of their lost science.

Maal Dweb regarded them for a little, not without pride in his own sorcery. The struggle had been diflicult, even dangerous; and he reflected that his boredom



had been thoroughly overcome, at least for the nonce. From a practical standpoint, he had done well; for, in ridding the flower-women of their persecutors, he had also eradicated a possible future menace to his own dominion over the worlds of the three suns.

Turning to that Ispazar which he had spared for a necessary purpose, he seated himself firmly astride its back, behind the thick jointing of the vans. He spoke a magic word that was understood by the monster. Bearing him between its wings, it rose and flew obediently through one of the high windows; and, leaving behind it for ever the citadel that was not to be scaled by man, nor by any wingless creature, it carried the magician over the

red horns of the sable mountains, across the valley where dwelt the sisterhood of floral vampires, and descended on the mossy knoll at the end of that silver drawbridge whereby he had entered Votalp. There Maal Dwab dismounted; and, followed by the crawling Ispazar, he began his return journey to Xiccarph through the hueless cloud, above the multi-dimensional deeps.

Midway in that peculiar transit, he heard a sharp, sudden clapping of wings. It ceased with remarkable abruptness, and was not repeated. Looking back, he found that the Ispazar had fallen from the bridge, and was vanishing brokenly amid irreconcilable angles, in the gulf from whidi there was no return.

Hangman’s Hill

By ROBERT AVRETT

On Hangman’s Hill, at least so old men say.

The passers-by in broad daylight can hear The creak of chains upon a windy day.

And moaning sounds as though of those in fear.

And folks will tell you that a man one night, A stranger who was simply passing by.

Saw outlined clear against the moonlit sky A scene that drove him into maddened flight.

For on that barren hill the gallows tree

Groaned with the weight of three stark forms that swung Above a crowd that danced in revelry,


[THE END]

============================================================
MUGGRIDGE’S AUNT AUGUST W
by Derleth
============================================================
To wailing chants unknown to mortal tongue.

On Hangman’s Hill no green grass ever grows,

Nor are there birds except for flocks of crows.

uggridge’s Aunt

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

A story about a man who found it unwise to disobey the whims of a dying woman

M r. leander muggridge,

having perceived the doctor’s car at the curb, entered the house and stood waiting in the small vestibule until the medical man descended from his aunt’s room. Muggridge was a methodical man, and his well-ordered mind was at this moment concerned with the thought of his aunt’s always approaching but never imminent death. He stood, drawing off his gloves, having already placed his cane in the stand and hung his hat on the rack, and his thoughts were not kind.

It was useless to pretend any sort of sorrow over Aunt Edith. 'There had been no love lost between them, though it was probable that the old lady was not as conscious of it as he, since he could be pleasant, now that he was certain she must die. Then, too, there was the matter of having to support her and her old servant. True, it was not a large sum, considering his satisfactory income, but it was an annoying item to bother about. Besides that, her presence was an inconvenience in any number of ways. It was like her, he reflected, to take such a long time about dying.

Mr. Muggridge, despite the fact that he was very correctly attired in afternoon wear, was at heart intensely parsimonious, for whidi his aunt had frequently chidden him in those days when he had not taken the trouble to remind her of her dependence. In physical appearance, Muggridge was portly, with a fat, jovial face whidi

thoroughly belied his small soul. He had fat, almost puffy hands, and his jowls were porcine. Add to that his sunken little eyes, and Muggridge emerged from the superficial aspect df a London gentleman to the status of a vulgar, moneyed poseur which he really was. Perhaps fortunately for Muggridge, few of his acquaintances ever realized his emergence, since they paid him scant attention, neither disliking him nor liking him.

The doctor came down the stairs just in time to stem Muggridge’s rising impatience.

"Well, sir?’’ demanded Muggridge aggressively.

"She is sinking slowly, Mr. Muggridge,’’ said the doctor, depositing his bag at his side while he shrugged into his topcoat and clapped his hat to his head. "She can not last longer than,’’ and here he paused and cocked his head with his eyes fixed to a corner of the ceiling, "than tomorrow night, I should say.”

"Is there anything to be done?” inquired Muggridge then, with surprizing civility.

"Nothing at all,” replied the medical man, "unless it is to grant her anything she wishes, for she is certainly dying. She is, however, in no considerable pain; so rest easy on that score.”

Muggridge smiled woodenly, reminded the doctor to send his bill promptly, and bade him good-afternoon. 'Then he ascended the stair slowly to his aunt’s room, where he found the old lady deep in her




bed, with her servant at one side of the bed, holding her hand with all the devotion of the old to the old.

"Good afternoon. Aunt Edith,” he said with a false joviality which he never could have felt in the presence of the two old ladies.

Aunt Edith murmured his name weakly, but the servant said nothing. Then the sick old lady brought up once again a subject which he had forbidden her to speak about, the house in which she had lived and in which she now lay dying.

"It is, after all, my house,” she said in a whisper.

"You forget that I took it up after your bankruptcy. Aunt,” he said shortly.

"You had no right to change things the way you did,” the old lady went on unheedingly. "You might have left things the way they were until I died.”

"Really, Aunt Edith,” he said firmly.

"Are you going to remind me that I’ve lived the last years of my life on your generosity, and am now dying on it?’ ’ And the old lady turned her head and looked at him with such dark hatred in her dimming eyes that even the self-contained Muggridge quailed under it and mumbled a reply into his collar.

T here was an .uncomfortable silence for a while after that, with Muggridge increasingly aware of the bond between the two women, and the mutual hatred with which they regarded him. Presently, however, he asserted himself once more and sought to stare them down.

"Is there anything you would like me to do. Aunt Edith?” he asked.

At this, the old lady made an unsuccessful attempt to nod, and whispered, "Yes.”

"What is it?”

"I want you to let Elsie remain here until she dies.”

He felt sick at that, and looked briefly at the aging white head bent now above the servant’s hand, into which she was quietly sobbing. He stifled an impulse to deny this last request.

"Very well,” he said. "I will promise to keep Elsie with me. After all, she is our next of kin, is she not. Aunt Edith?”

"A very distant cousin, yes,” said the sick woman. "But all we have, since you never married, Leander.” Then there was a slight pause, before the old lady added, "Never let me hear of you speaking to her as you have spoken to me — reminding her of your kindness in allowing her

to live here. If you do ” But here

she was seized with a fit of coughing which prevented her from finishing her sentence, and afterward she had forgotten.

In the night, the old lady died.

M uggridge’s Aunt Edith had scarcely been buried before he was thinking of some way to rid himself of Elsie. 'This was all the more reprehensible of him because he was well able to afford the charwoman who did for him, and Elsie was not at all in the way, she being an unobtrusive little woman. But he could not get over the feeling that she hated him, and in this his impression was not in error. She had not witnessed his cruel mistreatment of Edith Muggridge without conceiving a lasting hatred for him, and she fostered this hatred now as the one thing that bound her eternally to the friend who now lay deep in the grave.

Muggridge presently convinced himself that he must harden his heart, which was a pleasant irony indeed, for his heart already had, figuratively speaking, a great many stony qualities, and force the old lady away through successive unkindnesses. Accordingly, that very evening Muggridge seized the first opportunity to reMUGGRIDGFS AUNT


mind Elsie that she was living here on his generosity. The old lady went off to her room in tears.

This result, while distasteful to him, nevertheless convinced Muggridge that his campaign against her would be entirely successful; he felt that Elsie would presently quit the house rather than endure such repeated reminders. He settled himself then to an evening with Compeers’ Legal Guide, in the course of which he learned that in the event of sudden death and the absence of a will, the next of kin inherited the deceased’s estate, subject, of course, to the usual tax for the Crown. This reminded him that he had not made a will, and he made a mental note to take care of that detail at his earliest convenience, since it seemed highly illogical to allow his estate to go to Elsie, presuming that by some accident his death should precede hers.

As he was going up the stairs that night he tripped and fell, and was able to avoid serious injury only because of the fortunate nearness of the banister, which he managed to seize and thus broke his fail. As it was, his shins were severely barked and one knee sustained a nasty bruise.

Having recovered momentarily, he thought that his accident was a curious one. There was nothing on the stairs to have upset his balance, and the rug was carefully tacked down. Upon mature reflection, it occurred to Leander Muggridge that his fall had been caused by his tripping over some object set in his way. But a search of the stairs and the hall below failed to reveal anything.

It was not until he was partly imdressed for bed that it came to Muggridge how like an outstretched foot had been the thing that tripped him up. At the same time he remembered hearing an infinitesimally small sound just before he fell — like the rustling of skirts.

The emergence of these thoughts made him exceedingly angry, and, after a hasty whisky and soda, Muggridge went to bed. That night he dreamed that Aunt Edith was sitting upon his chest lecturing him the way she used to do when, as a small boy, he had accompanied her to the beach or down into the country. It was a most severe lecture indeed, and he awoke in a sweat, violently upset, so much so, indeed, that he could have sworn to having heard her voice very clearly saying, "This is my house, and you had no right to change it so!’’ He got to sleep ag^n presently, feeling very unkindly toward the whisky and soda he had had.

In the morning he was inexpressibly rude to Elsie, but this time the old woman was vaguely defiant and did not burst into tears. This had the effect of upsetting Muggridge so much that he stamped off to the office leaving half his breakfast untouched, and convinced that he would have to be harsher than ever with Elsie. After he was gone, Elsie cried quite a bit, but of course Muggridge could not know that.

H IS return home that afternoon occasioned him, a severe shock. He had not had the opportunity to enter his library in the morning, so that his entrance now was his first for diat day. His shod: was due to the fact that someone had ravaged his library. Some of his books had been tom in half and thrown into the grate, though a fire had not actually been lit. All his imported figurines had been smashed, and two pieces of rather modernistic furniture could never be used except as kindling from that time on.

He took in the details of the room, seeing that almost everything smashable had been smashed, save for a few old chairs and an ormolu dock on the mantel, and then mardied off in a cold rage to uf^raid Elsie. Elsie, however, solemnly



said that she had not been in his library, and claimed that the damage, if there was any, had certainly been done the preceding night, for what other explanation could there be for the aashings and bangings which had kept her awake well into the morning?

He stared at her in amazement.

If he would entertain young women at that hour of the night, she went on, it was not surprizing what things could happen.

"Young women!” he exclaimed, almost beside himself with rage and disbelief.

"A woman, at least,” she replied then, still defiant, though now less sure of herself. “I heard her screaming at you,” she went on. "I heard some of her very words.”

"What were they?” he demanded bluntly.

“She said, 'This is my house, and you had no right to change it so!’ ” 'Then, suddenly realizing when she had last heard those words, Elsie collapsed in tears and hurried from the room.

As for Muggridge, he was most disagreeably upset. He had heard those words, too. But in a dreaqj. Or was it? He turned on his heel and hurried swiftly back into the library, as if to assure himself that the damage was not all the figment of a dream. Unfortunately, it was not. His parsimonious soul shuddered at sight of it. Then, with a catch in his throat, he considered the things that had not been destroyed.

It took him only a moment to discover that the ormolu clock and the few old chairs, together with the majority of the books which remained untouched, had been the property of his Aunt Edith before he had taken possession.

He salvaged what he could out of the wreckage, working all the time with an odd feeling of being watched. Once he

could have sworn that someone tittered; it was a sound imeasily like his Aunt Edith’s shrill laugh. Unnerved, he persuaded himself finally that rest was what he needed, and left the library for bed considerably earlier than usual.

He saved himself from falling when tripped on the stairs that night only because he had gone up with extreme caution, as if he had expected that the thing he could not see would again obstruct his ascent. There was the soimd of a skirt being drawn away, too; it was just like the sound made by the rustle of his Aunt Edith’s old black silk dress.

T hough Muggridge was not a nervous man, he locked his bedroom door that night. But never a lock can keep out dreams, and he dreamed again in the dark about his Aunt Edith, looking very harmless, indeed, but going at him like a vixen for what he had done to her garden after taking advantage of a poor old woman’s financial need and imposing his false generosity upon her. He woke again in a cold sweat and distinctly heard her voice dying away into the far comers of the room — "Carnations indeed! When you can have lobelias!”

His attempts to go to sleep after that were unsuccessful. In the morning, he maneuvered the stairs with a gingerliness that bordered upon the ridiculous. In the middle of his breakfast, he happened to look out into his garden, in which he took a proper English pride, and abmptly lost his appetite.

Hastily shoving away from the table, he strode from the house. 'The garden was indeed an unlovely mass of foliage. Someone had tom out all his lovely carnations and all the Holland tulips. 'The lobelias, however, and some primroses had remained untouched.

'This time he did not see Elsie, for fear of what she might say to him.

MUGGRIDGE’S AUNT


He felt father sick, and not a little afraid. When he went down the hall on the way to the office, he had Lincoln’s Inn on the telephone and made an appointment with his solicitor. He had an uncanny feeling that his unmade will would bear early attention.

He had a bad day at the office, and his return home late that afternoon was an uneasy one, for there was no telling what might have taken place during the day. Fortunately for his peace of mind, nothing had happened beyond the usual routine, and he settled down to a recent novel with somewhat more aplomb. At the supper table he managed to crush his uneasiness sufficiently to be unkind to Elsie, but she only sat and looked at him out of glittering eyes, so that he was conscious of the hatred in them. And for a few minutes he could have sworn that another pair of hate-filled eyes was regarding him alongside Elsie’s, though he could nee nothing to justify his impression.

Nevertheless, it was an uncomfortable thought. To his Aunt Edith’s memory he made this concession: that, after all, the garden could feature lobelias, inasmuch as they had been her favorite flower. This, of course, was an easy enough concession to make, since almost everything else had been effectively destroyed, and it was too late to grow anything of great beauty in the ruins of his flower-beds.

It would have been reasonable to suppose that, in the light of these curiously suggestive happenings, Muggridge would have given up his campaign against Elsie. But Muggridge, being what he was, refused to bade down in the slightest. He went to bed that night with the same caution that had characterized his descent of the treacherous stairs that morning. Once he could have taken oath that an attempt to trip him up had been made, and he

came away from tHe stairs with a faint sense of triumph at having escaped.

T hat night again he dreamed. He saw himself playing cards with Aunt Edith, who held noffiing but spade aces, half a dozen of them, with more in reserve. And Aunt Edith was saying with grim precision, "So now you have got to die, Leander. You were very unkind to me all the time — about the furniture and the lobelias and all. And I promised you that if you were unkind to Elsie you had got to die. And so you shall.” All this time she played out* those spade aces, which he knew very well were an absurd symbol of death for fortune-tellers, particularly gipsies. It was an unpleasant sort of dream, and how it might have gone on there is no knowing, for he was awakened out of his sleep by the conjuncture of the clock striking ten and the sharp skirling of the telephone bell.

The telephone sounded important, and, with the natural impulse of a trained business man, Leander Muggridge ran from his room and down the stairs. Half-way down, he tripped over something like an outflung foot and tumbled headlong. There was no mistaking the sound of Aunt Edith’s tittering.

The telephone kept on ringing, and finally Elsie had to answer it. The call was from Muggridge’s solicitor, who informed Elsie in an irate voice that Muggridge had failed to keep his appointment for that afternoon.

There was nothing, of course, that Elsie could do about that. For this time, because of the telephone, Muggridge had forgotten to be careful on the stairs, and had broken his neck.

Since there was no will, Elsie inherited Muggridge’s estate fittingly enough. She was exceedingly cautious about little things, particularly about the lobelias.

Vhe ^

j ecret in the Tomb

By ROBERT BLOCH

An eldritch tale of stark horror and a terrible rendezvous in a hidden mausoleum

T he wind howled strangely over a midnight tomb. The moon hung like a golden bat over ancient graves, glaring through the wan mist with its baleful, nyctalopic eye. Terrors not of the flesh might lurk among cedarshrouded sepulchers or creep unseen amid shadowed cenotaphs, for this was unhallowed ground. But tombs hold strange secrets, and there are mysteries blacker than the night, and more leprous than tlie moon.

It was in search of such a secret that I came, alone and unseen, to my ancestral vault at midnight. My people had been sorcerers and wizards in the olden days, so lay apart from the resting-place of other men, here in this moldering mausoleum in a forgotten spot, surrounded only by the graves of those who had been thdr servants. But not all the servants lay here, for there are those who do not die.

On through thf mist I pressed, to where the crumbling sepulcher loomed among the brooding trees. The wind rose to torrential violence as I trod the obscure pathway to the vaulted entrance, extinguishing my lantern with maleflc fury. Only the moon remained to light my way in a luminance unholy. And thus I readied the nitrous, fungus-bearded portals of the family vault. Here the moon shone upon a door that was not like other doors — a single massive slab • of iron, imbedded in monumental walls of granite. Upon its outer surface was neither handle, lock nor keyhole, but the whole

was covered with carvings portentous of a leering evil — cryptic symbols whose allegorical significance filled my soul with a deeper loathing than mere words can impart. There are things that are not good to look upon, and I did not care to dwell too much in thought on the possible genesis of a mind whose knowledge could create such horrors in concrete form. So in blind and trembling haste I chanted the obscure litany and performed the necessary obeisances demanded in the ritual I had learned, and at their conclusion the cyclopean portal swung open.

Within was darkness, deep, funereal, ancient; yet, somehow, uncannily alive. It held a pulsing adumbration, a suggestion of muted, yet purposeful rhythm, and overshadowing all, an air of black, impinging revelation. The simultaneous efiFect upon my consciousness was one of those reactions misnamed intuitions. I sensed that shadows know queer secrets, and there are some skulls that have reason to grin.

Yet I must go on into the tomb of my forebears — tonight the last of all our line would meet the first. For I was the last Jeremy Strange had been the first — he who fled from the Orient to seek refuge in centuried Eldertown, brining with him the loot of many tombs and a secret for ever nameless. It was he who had built his s^ulcher in the twili^t woods where the witch-lights gleam, and here he had interred his own remains.

THE SECRET IN THE TOMB


shunned in death as he had been in life. But buried with him was a secret, and it was this that I had come to seek. Nor was I the first in so seeking, for my father and his father before me, indeed, the eldest of each generation back to the days of Jeremy Strange himself, had likewise sought that which was so maddeningly described in the wi2ard’s diary — the secret of eternal life after death. The musty yellowed tome had been handed down to the elder son of each successive generation, and likewise, so it seemed, the dread atavistic craving for black and accursed knowledge, the thirst for which, coupled with the damnably explicit hints set forth in the warlock’s record, had sent every one of my paternal ancestors so bequeathed to a final rendezvous in the night, to seek their heritage within the tomb. What they found, none could say, for none had ever returned.

I T WAS, of course, a family secret. The tomb was never mentioned — it had, indeed, been virtually forgotten with the passage of years that had likewise eradicated many of the old legends and fantastic accusations about the first Strange that had once been common property in the village. The family, too, had been mercifully spared all knowledge of the curse-ridden end to which so many of its men had come. Their secret delvings into black arts; the hidden library of antique lore and demonological formulae brought by Jeremy from the East; the diary and its secret — all were undreamt of save by the eldest sons. The rest of the line prospered. There had been sea captains, soldiers, merchants, statesmen. Fortimes were won. Many departed from the old mansion on the cape, so that in my father’s time he had lived there alone with the servants and myself. My mother died at my birth, and it was a lonely youth

I spent in the great brown house, with a father half -crazed by the tragedy of my mother’s end, and shadowed by the monstrous secret of our line. It was he who initiated me into the mysteries and arcana to be found amid the shuddery speculations of such blasphemies as the Necronomicon, the Book of Eibon, the Cabala of Saboth, and that pinnacle of literary madness, Ludvig Prinn’s Mysteries of the Worm. There were grim treatises on anthropomancy, necrology, lycanthropical and vampiristic spells and charms, witchcraft, and *long, rambling screeds in Arabic, Sanskrit and prehistoric ideography, on which lay the dust of centuries.

All these he gave me, and more. There were times when he would whisper strange stories about voyages he had taken in his youth — of islands in the sea, and queer survivals spawning dreams beneath arctic ice. And one night he told me of the legend, and the tomb in the forest; and together we turned the worm-riddled pages of the iron-bound diary that was hidden in the panel above the chimney-corner. I was very young, but not too young to know certain things, and as I swore to keep the secret as so many had sworn before me, I had a queer feeling that the time had come for Jeremy to claim his own. For in my father’s somber eyes was the same light of dreadful thirst for the unknown, curiosity, and an inward urge that had glowed in the eyes of all the others before him, previous to the time they had announced their intention of "going on a trip’’ or "joining up’’ or "attending to a business matter.” Most of them had waited till their children were grown, or their wives had passed on; but whenever they had left, and whatever their excuse, they had never returned.

Two days later, my father disappeared.



after leaving word with the servants that he was spending the week in Boston. Before the month was out there was the usual investigation, and the usual failure. A will was discovered among my father’s papers, leaving me as sole heir, but the books and the diary were secure in the secret rooms and panels known now to me alone.

Life went on. I did the usual things in the usual way — attended imiversity, traveled, and returned at last to the house on the hill, alone. But with me I carried a mighty determination — I alone could thwart that curse; I alone could grasp the secret that had cost the lives of seven generations — and I alone must do so. The world had nought to offer one who had spent his youth in the study of the mocking truths that lie beyond the outward beauties of a purposeless existence, and I was not afraid. I dismissed the servants, ceased communication with distant relatives and a few close friends, and spent my days in the hidden chambers amid the elder lore, seeking a solution or a spell of sudi potency as would serve to dispel for ever the mystery of the tomb.

A hundred times I read and reread that hoary script — the diary whose fiendpenned promise had driven men to doom. I searched amid the satanic spells and cabalistic incantations of a thousand forgotten necromancers, delved into pages of impassioned prophecy, burrowed into secret legendary lore whose written thoughts writhed through me like serpents from the pit. It was in vain. All I could learn was the ceremony by which access could be obtained to the tomb in the wood. Three months of study had worn me to a wraith and filled my brain with the diabolic shadows of charnelspawned knowledge, but that was all. And then, as if in mockery of madness, there had come the call, this very ni^t.

I HAD been seated in the study, pondering upon a maggot-eaten volume of Heiriarchus’ Occultus, when without warning, I felt a tremendous urge keening through my weary brain. It beckoned and allured with unutterable promise, like the mating-cry of the lamia of old; yet at the same time it held an inexorable power whose potency could not be defied or denied. 'The inevitable was at hand. I had been summoned to the tomb. I must follow the beguiling voice of inner consciousness that was the invitation and the promise, that sounded my soul like the ultra-rhythmic piping of trans-cosmic music. So I had come, alone and weaponless, to the lonely woods and to that wherein I would meet my destiny.

The moon rose redly over the manor as I left, but I did not look back. I saw its reflection in the waters of the brook that crept between the trees, and in its light the water was as blood. Then the fog rose silently from the swamp, and a yellow ghost-light rode the sky, beckoning me on from behind the black and bloated trees whose branches, swept by a dismal wind, pointed silently toward the distant tomb. Roots and creepers impeded my feet, vines and brambles restrained my body, but in my ears thundered a chorus of urgency that can not be described and which could not be delayed, by nature or by man.

Now, as I hesitated upon the door-st^, a million idiot voices gibbered an invitation to enter that mortal mind could not withstand. Through my brain resounded the horror of my heritage — the insatiable craving to know the forbidden, to mingle and become one with it. A paean of hell-bom music crescendoed in my ears, and earth was blotted out in a mad urge that engulfed all being.

I paused no longer upon the threshold. I went in, in where the smell of death

W. T.— 7

THE SECRET IN THE TOMB


filled the darkness that was like the sun over Yuggoth. The door closed, and then came — what? I do not know — I only realized that suddenly I could see and feel and hear, despite darkness, and dankness, and silence.

I was in the tomb. Its monumental walls and lofty ceiling were black and bare, lichened by the passage of centuries. In the center of the mausoleum stood a single slab of black marble. Upon it rested a gilded coffin, set with strange symbols, and covered by the dust of ages. I knew instinctively what it must contain, and tlie knowledge did not serve to put me at my ease. I glanced at the floor, then wished I hadn’t. Upon the debrisstrewn base beneath the slab lay a ghastly, disarticulated group of mortuary remains — half-fleshed cadavers and desiccated skeletons. When I thought of my father and the others, I was possessed of a sickening dismay. They too had sought, and they had failed. And now I bad come, alone, to find that which had brought them to an end unholy and unknown. The secret! The secret in the tomb!

Mad eagerness filled my soul. I too would know — I must! As in a dream I swayed to the gilded coffin. A moment I tottered above it; then, with a strength born of delirium, I tore away the paneling and lifted the gilded lid, and then I knew it was no dream, for dreams can not approach the ultimate horror that was the creature lying within the coffin — that creature with eyes like a midnight demon’s, and a face of loathsome delirium that was like the death-mask of a devil. It was smiling, too, as it lay there, and my soul shrieked in the tortured realization that it was alive! Then I knew it all; the secret and the penalty paid by those who sought it, and I was ready for death, but horrors had not ceased, for W. T.— 8

even as I gazed it spoke, in a voice like the hissing of a black slug.

And there within the nighted gloom it whispered the secret, staring at me with ageless, deathless ^es, so that I should not go mad before I heard the whole of it. All was revealed — the secret crypts of blackest nightmare where the tomb-spawn dwell, and of a price whereby a man may become one with ghouls, living after death as a devourer in darkness. Such a thing had it become, and from this shunned, accursed tomb had sent the call to the descending generations, that when they came, there might be a ghastly feast whereby it might continue a dread, eternal life. I (it breathed) would be the next to die, and in my heart I knew that it was so.

I could not avert my eyes from its accursed gaze, nor free my soul from its hypnotic bondage. The thing on the bier cackled with unholy laughter. My blood froze, for I saw two long, lean arms, like the rotted limbs of a corpse, steal slowly toward my fear-constricted throat. The monster sat up, and even in the clutches of my horror, I realized that there was a dim and awful resemblance between the creature in the coffin and a certain ancient portrait back in the Hall. But this was a transfigured reality — Jeremy the man become Jeremy the ghoul; and I knew that it would do no good to resist. Two claws, cold as flames of icy hell, fastened around my throat, two eyes bored like maggots through my frenzied being, a laughter bom of madness alone cachinnated in my ears like the thunder of doom. 'The bony fingers tore at my eyes and nostrils, held me helpless while yellow fangs champed nearer and nearer to my throat. The world spun, wrapped in a mist of fiery death.

(Please turn to page 649)

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

1 IFE is a hideous thing, and from the background behind what we know ^ of it peer demoniacal hints of truth which make it sometimes a thousandfold more hideous. Science, already oppressive with its shocking revelations, will perhaps be the ultimate exterminator of our human species — if separate species we be — for its reserve of unguessed horrors could never be borne by mortal brains if loosed upon the world.

If we knew what we are, we should do as Sir Arthur Jermyn did; and Arthur Jermyn soaked himself in oil and set fire to his clothing one night. No one placed the charred fragments in an urn or set a memorial to him who had been; for certain papers and a certain boxed oh]ect were found, which made men wish to forget. Some who knew him do not admit that he ever existed.

Arthur Jermyn went out on the moor and burned himself after seeing the boxed oh)ect which had come from Africa. It was this object, and not his peculiar personal appearance, which made him end his life.

*Originall 7 published In WEIRD TALES for April, 1924, under the title The White Ape.


Many would have disliked to live if possessed of the peculiar features of Arthur Jermyn, but he had been a poet and scholar and had not minded. Learning was in his blood, for his great-grandfather, Sir Robert Jermyn, Bart., had been an anthropologist of note, whilst his great-great-great-grandfather. Sir Wade Jermyn, was one of the earliest explorers of the Congo region, and had written eruditely of its tribes, animals, and supposed antiquities. Indeed, old Sir Wade had possessed an intellectual zeal amounting almost to a mania; his bizarre conjectures on a prehistoric white Congolese civilization earning him much ridicule when his book. Observations on the Several Parts of Africa, was published. In 1765 this fearless explorer had been placed in a madhouse at Huntingdon.

Madness was in all the Jermyns, and people were glad there were not many of them. The line put forth no branches, and Arthur was the last of it. If he had not been, one can not say what he would have done when the object came.

The Jermyns never seemed to look quite right — something was amiss, though Arthur was the worst, and the old family

ARTHUR JERMYN


portraits in Jermyn House showed fine faces enough before Sir Wade’s time. Certainly, the madness began with Sir Wade, whose wild stories of Africa were at once the delight and terror of his few friends. It showed in his collection of trophies and specimens, which were not such as a normal man would accumulate and preserve, and appeared strikingly in the Oriental seclusion in which he kept his wife. The latter, he had said, was the daughter of a Portuguese trader whom he had met in Africa; and she did not like English ways. She, with an infant son born in Africa, had accompanied him back from the second and longest of his trips, and had gone with him on the third and last, never returning.

No one had ever seen her closely, not even the servants; for her disposition had been violent and singular. During her brief stay at Jermyn House she occupied a remote wing, and was waited on by her husband alone. Sir Wade was, indeed, most peculiar in his solicitude for his family; for when he returned to Africa he would permit no one to care for his young son save a loathsome black woman from Guinea. Upon coming back, after the death of Lady Jermyn, he himself assumed complete care of the boy.

But it was the talk of Sir Wade, espedally when in his cups, which chiefly led his friends to deem him mad. In a rational age like the Eighteenth Century it was unwise for a man to talk about wild sights and strange scenes under a Congo moon; of the gigantic walls and pillars of a forgotten dty, crumbling and vinegrown, and of damp, silent, stone steps leading interminably down into the darkness of abysmal treasure-vaults and inconceivable catacombs. Especially was it imwise to rave of the living things that might haunt such a place; of creatures half of the jungle and half of the impiousljr

aged city — fabulous creatures which even a Pliny might describe with skepticism; things that might have sprung up after the great apes had overrun the dying city with the walls and the pillars, the vaults and the weird carvings.

Yet after he came home for the last time Sir Wade would speak of such matters with a shudderingly uncanny zest, mostly after his third glass at the Knight’s Head; boasting of what he had found in the jungle and of how he had dwelt among terrible ruins known only to him. And finally he had spoken of the living things in such a manner that he was taken to the madhouse.

He had shown little regret when shut into the barred room at Huntingdon, for his mind moved curiously. Ever since his son had commenced to grow out of infancy he had liked his home less and less, till at last he had seemed to dread it. 'The Knight’s Head had been his headquarters, and when he was confined he expressed some vague gratitude as if for protection.

Three years later he died.

W ADE jermyn's son, Philip, was a highly peculiar person. Despite a strong physical resemblance to his father, his appearance and conduct were in many particulars so coarse that he was universally shunned. Though he did not inherit the madness which was feared by some, he was densely stupid and given to brief periods of uncontrollable violence. In frame he was small, but intensely powerful, and was of incredible agility.

Twelve years after succeeding to his title he married the daughter of his gamekeeper, a person said to be of gipsy extraction, but before his son was born he joined the navy as a common sailor, completing the general disgust which his habits and mesalliance had begun. After the



close of the American war he was heard of as a sailor on a merchantman in the African trade, having a kind of reputation for feats of strength and climbing, but finally disappearing one night as his ship lay off the Congo coast.

In the son of Sir Philip Jermyn the now accepted family peculiarity took a strange and fatal turn. Tall and fairly handsome, with a sort of weird Eastern grace despite certain slight oddities of proportion, Robert Jermyn began life as a scholar and investigator. It was he who first studied scientifically the vast collection of relics which his mad grandfather had brought from Africa, and who made the family name as celebrated in ethnology as in exploration.

In 1815, Sir Robert married a daughter of the seventh Viscount Brightholme and was subsequently blessed with three children, the eldest and youngest of whom were never publicly seen on account of deformities in mind and body. Saddened by these family misfortunes, the scientist sought relief in work, and made two long expeditions in the interior of Africa. In 1849, his second son, Nevil, a singularly repellent person who seemed to combine the surliness of Philip Jermyn with the hauteur of the Brightholmes, ran away with a vulgar dancer, but was pardoned upon his return in the following year. He came back to Jermyn House a widower with an infant son, Alfred, who was one day to be the father of Arthur Jermyn.

Friends said that it was this series of griefs which unhinged the mind of Sir Robert Jermyn, yet it was probably merely a bit of African folklore which caused the disaster. The elderly scholar had been collecting legends of the Onga tribes near the field of his grandfather’s and his own explorations, hoping in some way to account for Sir Wade’s wild tales of a lost

city peopled by strange hybrid creatures. A certain consistency in the strange papers of his ancestor suggested that the madman’s imagination might have been stimulated by native myths.

On October 19, 1852, the explorer Samuel Seaton called at Jermyn House with a manuscript of notes, collected among the Ongas, believing that certain legends of a gray city of white apes ruled by a white god might prove valuable to the ethnologist. In his conversation he probably supplied many additional details, the nature of which will never be known, since a hideous series of tragedies suddenly burst into being.

When Sir Robert Jermyn emerged from his library he left behind the strangled corpse of the explorer, and before he could be restrained, had put an end to all three of his children; the two who were never seen, and the son who had run away. Nevil Jermyn died in the successful defense of his own two-year-old son, who had apparently been included in the old man’s madly murderous scheme. Sir Robert himself, after repeated attempts at suicide and a stubborn refusal to utter any articulate sound, died of apoplexy in the second year of his confinement.

Sir Alfred Jermyn was a baronet before his fourth birthday, but his tastes never matched his title. At twenty he had joined a band of music-hall performers, and at thirty-six had deserted his wife and child to travel with an itinerant American circus.

His end was very revolting. Among the animals in the exhibition with which he traveled was a huge bull gorilla of lighter color than the average; a surprizingly tractable beast of much popularity with the performers. With this gorilla Alfred Jermyn was singularly fascinated, and on many occasions the two would eye each

ARTHUR JERMYN


other for long periods through the intervening bars.

Eventually Jermyn asked and obtained permission to train the animal, astonishing audiences and fellow-performers alike with his success. One morning in Chicago, as the gorilla and Alfred Jermyn were rehearsing an exceedingly clever boxing match, the former delivered a blow of more than usual force, hurting both the body and the dignity of the amateur trainer.

Of what followed, members of “The Greatest Show on Earth” do not like to speak. They did not expect to hear Sir Alfred Jermyn emit a shrill, inhuman scream, or to see him seize his clumsy antagonist with both hands, dash it to the floor of the cage, and bite fiendishly at its hairy throat. The gorilla was off its guard, but not for long, and before anything could be done by the regular trainer the body which had belonged to a baronet was past recognition.

A rthur jermyn was the son of Sir . Alfred Jermyn and a music-hall singer of unknown origin. When the husband and father deserted his family, the mother took the child to Jermyn House; where there was none left to object to her presence. She was not without notions of what a baronet’s dignity should be, and saw to it that her son received the best education which limited money could provide.

The family resources were now sadly slender, and Jermyn House had fallen into woful disrepair, but young Arthur loved the old edifice and all its contents. He was not like any other Jermyn who had ever lived, for he was a poet and a dreamer. Some of the neighboring families who had heard tales of old Sir Wade Jermyn’s unseen Portuguese wife, declared that her Latin blood must be showing itself; but most persons merely sneered at his sensitiveness to beauty, attributing it to his music-hall mother, who was socially unrecognized.

The poetic delicacy of Arthur Jermyn was the more remarkable because of his uncouth personal appearance. Most of the Jermyns had possessed a subtly odd and repellent cast, but Arthur’s case was very striking. It is hard to say just what he resembled, but his expression, his facial angle, and the length of his arms gave a thrill of repulsion to those who met him for the first time.

It was the mind and character of Arthur Jermyn whicli atoned for his aspect. Gifted and learned, he took highest honors at Oxford and seemed likely to redeem the intellectual fame of his family. Though of poetic rather than scientific temperament, he planned to continue the work of his forefathers in African ethnology and antiquities, utilizing the truly wonderful though strange collection of Sir Wade. With his fanciful mind he thought often of the prehistoric civilization in which the mad explorer had so implicitly believed, and would weave tale after tale about the silent jungle city mentioned in the latter’s wilder notes and paragraphs. For the nebulous utterances concerning a nameless, unsuspected race of jungle hybrids he had a peculiar feeling of mingled terror and attraction; speculating on the possible basis of sudi a fancy, and seeking to obtain light among the more recent data gleaned by his greatgrandfather and Samuel Seaton amongst the Ongas.

In 1911, after the death of his mother. Sir Arthur Jermyn determined to pursue his investigations to the utmost extent. Selling a portion of his estate to obtain the requisite money, he outfitted an expedition and sailed for the Congo. Arranging with the Belgian authorities for



a party of guides, he spent a year in the Onga and Kaiiri country, finding data beyond the highest of his expectations. Among the Kaliris was an aged chief called Mwanu, who possessed not only a highly retentive memory, but a singular degree of intelligence and interest in old legends. This ancient confirmed every tale which Jermyn had heard, adding his own account of the stone city and the white apes as it had been told to him.

According to Mwanu, the gray city and the hybrid creatures were no more, having been annihilated by the war-like N’bangus many years ago. This tribe, after destroying most of the edifices and killing the live beings, had carried off the Stuffed Goddess which had been the object of their quest; the white ape-goddess which the strange beings worshipped, and which was held by Congo tradition to be the form of one who had reigned as a princess among those beings. Just what the white ape-like creatures could have been, Mwanu had no idea, but he drought they were the builders of the ruined city. Jermyn could form no conjecture, but by close questioning obtained a very picturesque legend of the Stuffed Goddess.

The ape-princess, it was said, became the consort of a greit white god who had come out of the West. For a long time they had reigned over the city together, but when they had a son all three went away. Later the god and the princess had returned, and upon the death of the princess her divine husband had mummified the body and enshrined it in a vast house of stone, where it was worshipped. Then he had departed alone.

The legend here seemed to present three variants. According to one story nothing further happened save that the Stuffed Goddess became a symbol of supremacy for whatever tribe might possess it. It was for this reason that the N’bangus carried it off. A second story told of the god’s return and death at the feet of his enshrined wife. A third told of the return of the son, grown to manhood — or apehood or godhood, as the case might be — ^yet unconscious of his identity. Surely the imaginative blacks had made the most of whatever events might lie behind the extravagant legendry.

Of the reality of the old jungle city described by Sir Wade, Arthur Jermyn had no further doubt; and was hardly astonished when, early in 1912, he came upon what was left of it. Its size must have been exaggerated, yet the stones lying about proved that it was no mere negro village. Unfortunately, no carvings could be found, and the small size of the expedition prevented operations toward clearing the one visible passageway that seemed to lead down into the system of vaults which Sir Wade had mentioned. The white apes and the Stuffed Goddess were discussed with all the native diiefs of the region, but it remained for a European to improve on the data offered by old Mwanu. M. Verhaeren, Belgian agent at a trading-post on the Congo, believed that he could not only locate but also obtain the Stuffed Goddess, of which he had vaguely heard; since the once mighty N’bangus were now the submissive servants of King Albert’s government, and with but little persuasion could be induced to part with the gruesome deity they had carried off.

When Jermyn sailed for England, therefore, it was with the exultant probability that he would within a few months receive a priceless ethnological relic confirming the wildest of his great-greatgreat-grandfather’s narratives — that is, the wildest which he had ever heard. Countrymen near Jermyn House had perARTHUR JBRMYN


haps heard wilder tales handed down from ancestors who had listened to Sir Wade around the tables of the Knight’s Head.

A rthur jermyn waited very patiently L for the expected box from M. Verhaeren, meanwhile studying with increased diligence the manusaipts left by his mad ancestor. He began to feel closely akin to Sir Wade, and to seek relics of the latter’s personal life in England as well as of his African exploits. Oral accounts of the mysterious and secluded wife had been numerous, but no tangible relic of her stay at Jermyn House remained. Jermyn wondered what circumstance had prompted or permitted such an effacement, and decided that the husband’s insanity was the prime cause.

His great-great-great-grandmother, he recalled, was said to have been the daughter of a Portuguese trader in Africa. No doubt her practical heritage and superficial knowledge of the Dark Continent had caused her to flout Sir Wade’s tales of the interior, a thing which such a man would not be likely to forgive. She had died in Africa, perhaps dragged thither by a husband determined to prove what he had told. But as Jermyn indulged in these reflections he could not but smile at their futility, a century and a half after the death of both of his strange progenitors.

In June, 1913, a letter arrived from M. Verhaeren, telling of the finding of the Stuffed Goddess. It was, the Belgian averred, a most extraordinary object; an object quite beyond the power of a layman to classify. Whether it was human or simian only a scientist could determine, and the process of determination would be greatly hampered by its imperfect condition. Time and the Congo climate are not kind to mummies; especially when

their preparation is as amateurish as seemed to be the case here. Around the creature’s neck had been found a golden chain bearing an empty locket on which were armorial designs; no doubt some hapless traveler’s keepsake, taken by the N’bangus and hung upon the goddess as a charm. In commenting on the contour of the mummy’s face, M. Verhaeren suggested a whimsical comparison; or rather, expressed humorous wonder just how it would strike his correspondent, but was too much interested scientifically to waste many words in levity. ^ The Stuffed Goddess, he wrote, would arrive, duly packed, about a month after receipt of the letter.

The boxed object was delivered at Jermyn House on the afternoon of August 3, 1913, being conveyed immediately to the large chamber which housed the collection of African specimens as arranged by Sir Robert and Arthur. What ensued can best be gathered from the tales of servants and from things and papers later examined. Of the various tales, that of aged Soames, the family butler, is most ample and coherent. According to this trustworthy man. Sir Arthur Jermyn dismissed everyone from the room before opening the box, though the instant sound of hammer and chisel showed that he did not delay the operation. Nothing was heard for some time; just how long Soames can not exactly estimate, but it was certainly less than a quarter of an hour later that the horrible scream, undoubtedly in Jermyn’s voice, was heard.

Immediately afterward Jermyn emerged from the room, rushed frantically toward the front of the house as if pursued by some hideous enemy. The expression on his face, a face ghastly enough in repose, was beyond description. When near the front door he seemed to think of something, and turned back in his flight, final648


ly disappearing down the stairs to the cellar. The servants were utterly dumfounded, and watched at the head of the stairs, but their master did not return. A smell of oil was all that came up from the regions below.

After dark a rattling was heard at the door leading from the cellar into the courtyard; and a stable-boy saw Arthur Jermyn, glistening from head to foot with oil and redolent of that fluid, steal furtively out and vanish on the black moor surrounding the house. Then, in an exaltation of supreme horror, everyone saw the end. A spark appeared on the moor, a flame arose, and a pillar of human fire reached to the heavens. The House of Jermyn no longer existed.

The reason why Arthur Jermyn’s fragments were not collected and biuried lies in what was found afterward; principally the thing in the box. The Stuffed Goddess was a nauseous sight, withered and eaten away, but it was clearly a mummified white ape of some unknown species.

less hairy than any recorded variety, and infinitely nearer mankind — quite shockingly so.

Detailed description would be rather unpleasant, but two salient particulars must be told, for they fit in revoltingly with certain notes of Sir Wade Jermyn’s African expeditions and with the Congolese legends of the white god and the apeprincess. The two particulars in question are these; The arms on the golden locket about the creature’s neck were the Jermyn arms, and the jocose suggestion of M. Verhaeren about a certain resemblance as connected with the shriveled face applied with vivid, ghastly, and unnatural horror to none other than the sensitive Arthur Jermyn, great-great-greatgrandson of Sir Wade Jermyn and an unknown wife.

Members of the Royal Anthropological Institute burned the thing and threw the locket into a well, and some of them do not admit that Arthur Jermyn ever existed.

Drinkir^

By HUNG LONG TOM

Tea-drinking Is a gentle art Best practised In a room serene With open windows Through which drifts Breath of wisteria.

And from a cup

That blends in color

With the precious beverage*

In the aroma

Lies strange lasting peace.



The Secret in the Tomb

f Continued from page 641)

Suddenly the spell broke. I wrenched my eyes away from that slavering, evil face, and instantly, like a cataclysmic flash of light, came realization. This creature’s power was purely mental — by that alone were my ill-fated kinsmen drawn here, and by that alone were they overcome, but once one were free from the strength of the monster’s awful eyes — good God! Was I going to be the victim of a crumbled mummy?

My right arm swung up, striking the horror between the eyes. There was a sickening crunch; then dead flesh yielded before my hand as I seized the now faceless lich in my arms and cast it into fragments upon the bone-covered floor. Streaming with perspiration and mumbling in hysteria and terrible revulsion, I saw the moldy fragments move even in a second death — a severed hand crawled across the flagging, upon musty, shredded fingers; a leg began to roll with the animation of grotesque, luiholy life. With a shriek, I cast a lighted match upon that loathsome corpse, and I was still shrieking as I clawed open the portals and rushed out of the tomb and into the world

SAVE $$$ ON

CAMERAS

LENSES

SUPPLIES

Send at once for our big book listing hundreds of sensational money saving bargains in Cameras, Lenses, Optical Goods, and all kinds of still and movie equipment, imported and domestic. World’s greatest values. Unbelievable LOW PRICES. Your chance to get just what you want at greatly reduced cost. Don’t wait. LULL Save Money. This book is I ItLL

CENTRAL CAMERA CO., Est. 1899

D«pt. Z5 230 S. Wabash Ava., Chicago

PURE SPIRITUAL SCIENCE

Divine Metaphysics — Sclecflc Psychology. The Way how to acquire Spiritual Power. (Technique — “Secret Words/' “Secret Invocations," “Formulas") used by the ancient Egyptians, the first Christians, and Oriental Mystic Sages, to heal the sick, and to attract and keep— Health — Tjove — Success and Happiness. Ask for THE CRUSADERS CAIX — FREE! Writ e;

THB CRUSADBRS ACADEMY OF SCIENCE, INC. Dept. WT. 1857 Anthony Aye,, New York, N. Y.

TELL THE WORLD

ADVERTISE. 30 words in 26 magazines tl.OO. Three times $1.80. Write out your copy today and mail to:

OOODAIX ADT. CO.

Box 1598*T San Francisco* Calif.

LONESOME?

Let me arrange a romantlo correspondence for ^ you. Find your^ a eweetheart Anerlca’a foremost select social correspondence elub. A friendship letter society for lonely ladies and gentiemen.

Members everywbm; (X)NFIDENTIAL Introductions ny letter: efficient, dignified and continuous service. I have made thousands of 1 onely people happy— why not you? Write for FREE seated particulars. EVAN MOORE P. 0. BOX 988 JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA

of sanity, leaving behind me a smoldering fire from whose charred heart a terrible voice still faintly moaned its tortured requiem to that which had once been Jeremy Strange.

The tomb is razed now, and with it the forest graves and all the hidden chambers and manuscripts that serve as a reminder of ghoul-ridden memories that can never be forgot. For earth hides a madness and dreams a hideous reality, and monstrous things abide in the shadows of death, lurking and waiting to seize the souls of those who meddle with forbidden things.

yiCTORY OVER AGEING

Not by drugs; with a Cream Embrocation acting Instantly, bettor than all tonics. Result guaranteed. The tube only $1.00. Write for free booklet.

LUC PROUVESKY* M. D.

36 Ave. Danton. Livry-Oargan (S-et-O), France.

l^lous BOOKS

Privately Printed

The largest publishers in the

UNITED STATES of privately printe'd, books on Oriental Love, Uncensored ExoticsJ Amatory Adventures and other Curious Sex Custom*. Send for free Catalogs.

I PANORGE PRESS. 70 Ufth Ave., New vfiSv*

• Please send me your illustrated brochures ■ FREE on curious, privately printed books.

I Name jt,..

I Address -

W E HAVE received a number of letters asking who is the artist who signs J. D. to his drawings. His name is Joseph Doolin. He is represented in this issue by the illustration for Lord of the Lamia. Other artists who are doing and will continue to do illustrations for WT are James Napoli, who has done most of the drawings for this issue; Hugh Rankin, who has drawn the illustration for Beyond the Black River; and John R. Binder, who drew most of the illustrations in last month’s issue. Mr. Binder (better known as Jack) did the full-page illustration last montiti for Shadows of Blood, written by his talented brothers, Earl and Otto Binder, under the pen name Eando Binder. The art heading for the Weird Story Reprint was drawn by Hugh Rankin ; the art heading for the Eyrie is the work of Andrew Brosnatch.

Cheers for Mrs. Brundage

Michael Liene, of Ha2leton, Pennsylvania, writes: "The March issue of Weird Tales began tremendously -with the cover design. There has been on the cover of almost every magazine published, a beautiful damosel (and they are always blonds, too), abed and in terror of horrible clutching hands that reach out for her shrinking form through the draperies. BUT — Mrs. Brundage, your superb artist, depicted it with sudi an exquisite and soft-toned touch (as though everything is in hushed stillness), that it seems as though she were the originator of the idea for such a scene. A beautiful girl (as lovely as every reader wants the heroine of the story to be) — showing real fear and horror on her face — and well drawn and very artistically colored. Cheers! — for Mrs. Brundage. Never let her get away from conceiving pastel designs for

your magazine covers; if she does, half the enchantment of Weird Tales is lost. . . . Otis Adelbert Kline’s Lord of the Lamia certainly began thrillingly. 'Though not one of Mr. Kline’s fans, I will certainly become one if the first part of this new serial means that the succeeding installments are to be much more vivid. Mr. Kline always delved in stories of the interplanetary sort; and not caring for such stories, I always turned up my nose at his name. But Lord of the Lamia is certainly not a story to turn one’s nose up at. . , . And then — Julhi, by that writer of writers, C. L. Moore. The plot is terrible, yes — it smacks of his other stories — ^but oh ! the way in which Julhi is written! Of any stories of Mr. Moore’s I’ve read, Julhi — for its beautiful prose — certainly is a masterpiece. I’ve read it over several times, and every time I find more beautiftd phrases than before. Mr. Moore writes in such a quiet yet vivid style. One realizes that he is not showing off his use of an exceptional vocabulary, but that he writes naturally, easily and gracefully. I give Julhi my vote for first choice in the March issue of Weird Tales.”

Smith for Dessert

Alvin V. Pershing writes from Bloomington, Indiana: "Give us another story % Bloch. His first story went over big. . . . But no Smith story for two months! You have forgotten that for a large number of readers we must have a Clark Ashton Smith story for dessert each month. I feel fairly famished waiting for another refreshment from him.”

For Weird-Scientific Stories

A. S. Doan, of Fort Wayne, Indiana, writes: "Have just finished reading the March issue of and it is, I thinl^ dbe



best issue in years. Every story was good, and a larger range of subjects was covered than in any other issue I can recall. I confess myself unable to choose a ’best’ story from those appearing in the Mardi issue. Keep up the good work. Please do not print any more pseudo-weird stories such as On Top and Murder in the Grave. I enjoy reading the Eyrie quite as much as the stories. Am glad you have decided to continue publishing weird-scientific stories, as I am sure the majority of WT fans like them. While mentioning the Eyrie, I want to register a complaint against printing letters from authors who adversely criticize the work of other authors. Besides showing a lack of fairness and sportsmanship on the part of the writers, it indicates a lack of respect for the desires of the readers, who purchase the magazine and provide a market for their own stories. It is probable that Mr. Bloch wrote in haste and is repenting at leisure as regards his severe criticism of G)nan, the admirable barbarian of Robert E. Howard’s stories. Mr. Bloch’s story. The Feast in the Abbey, was a good story, with a good plot and well worked out as to detail. There was, however, one detrimental feature. 'Hiis was its verboseness.”

Robert Bloch^s Rejoinder

Robert Bloch, author of The Feast in the Abbey, writes to the editor: ”I have been highly interested in the comments anent my so-called ’attack’ on Howard in the Eyrie. Now, in all fairness to myself and such readers as Mr. Mashburn, allow me to rise in my own defense against the accusation of using 'polecat tactics’. I believe the following ^ints will serve to clear up the matter. 1st. — I did not attack Howard. On the contrary, my November letter contains only a pseudofrenzied tirade against one of his heroes, Conan. If you recall, my previous Eyrie letter of April 1934 praises Mr. Howard to the skies for his fine Valley of the Worm and his Solomon Kane stories. At no time have I ever, directly or indirealy, maligned Mr. Howard’s fine and obviously talented abilities as a writer ; I confined myself solely to a criticism of Conan’s career. 2nd. — I have no desire to ’rival’ Mr. Howard. I do not presume to pit my seventeen years and some months against his mature brain, nor shall I. 3rd. — I wholly agree with Mr.

DANCEl

Home Study Courses

TAP — BA1.I.UOOM— NO VELTY DANCES. Beginners Waltz and Porctrot — $1.00. Also Hositation, Canter, and Finale Hop Waltzes; Intermediate, syncopated and Finale Hop Foxtrots. Norelty Ballroom dances; Rumba, Tango. Continental, Carloca and La Cucharacha; 50c each. ENTIRE BET (13 dances) for $4.00.

Tap and Novelty Dances

Beg, Tap; Adv. Tap; Soft Shoe; Waltz Clog; Military Tap; Russian Solo; Gypsy Solo; $1.00 each; 4 for $3.00. Time-step 10c. Send for List

THE KINSELLA ACADEMY 1^36 May St. Cincinnati, Oliio

BOOKS on

CORPORAL PunisHinenT

Ilaaark(d)le stories ol Whippings inflicted on both sexes, disclosing the strange grip the Rod has had on men and women since the beginning of Time.

t / e

Also many other curious and absorbing volumes on strange amatory customs and practices, — uncdsridged.. privately printed and unusually illustrated.

ILLUSTRATED booklet, handsomely printed, deseriblna these I eolumee in great detail, sent free in seeded envelope to responsible 1 1 oduUi only. Send stamp. State age. Pastcards ignaradl 1

THE GARQOYLC PRESS ’

Dept. FC, 70 FlHh Ave.. New York I i

“HETQUAZ”

System oi Numerology.

Registered at Congressional Library of Washington, D. O.

The Hetguaz System Forecasts Important Monthly events.

Hetquaz Personal Numberscope charts, $3.60. Send full Birthdate, and any nine numbers in mind.

We teach you to give forecasts thru mall or in person, Diploma to Graduates. Apply for data form. “HETQUAZ” CORRESPONDENT SCHOOL OF NUMEROLOGY

P, O. Box 149 Marion, Ohio

BUY DIRECT

Enormous savings on Hygienic Sanitary Products of all kinds for men and women. Write today for onr FRHE: illustrated list of GUARANTEBD PRODUCra

REUABI.B PRODUCTS Dept. 435

604 8. Crawford Are. Chicago, lU.

READ THE VIGILANT

A paper of strange happenings that applies REASON to PSYCHICAL and SPIRITUAL NEWS. Sponsored by a great Humanitarian and Educational Organization. Send for your copy NOW. FR EE! Address: —

THE VIGILANT

Dept. WT. 1857 Anthony Are., New York, N. T,



Mashburn’s views regarding the unethical policy of criticizing a fellow-author. But at the time I wrote that letter I had never had anything printed in Weird Tales or any other magazine; consequently, when it appeared, I was not an author at all, but a plain reader, with a reader's rights of criticism. My letter was in November, my first tale in January. I had no intention of doing anything that might be construed as unethical, nor can I be considered so in view of these facts. And that, I hope, settles matters. I am glad that some readers liked my story.”

Anguish and Horror

Fred Anger, of Berkeley, California, writes: "Have consumed with the usual amount of ardor the March copy of WT and have a few remarks I would like to air. Kline’s Lord of the Lamia outshines ’em all and of course is first on the voting list. If the next installment is half as good I’ll certainly not register any kicks. I was fairly petrified with anguish and horror when I saw that Bloch’s The Feast in the Abbey tan tie for first place. ’This faa only goes to prove the old adage that some people are born crazy and others get that way. Clutching Hands of Death was not so hot as I expected, and I feel rather bad about it. ’The story was hackneyed, and it so closely resembled Quinn’s recent Hands of the Dead that I remarked that you would print two such similar tales in rapid succession. Rulers of the Future finished its three months secondbest.”

Two Fine Stories

L. K. Leftwich, 6f Inglewood, California, writes: "I don’t as a rule write letters to magazines but I must tell you about the two stories I enjoyed most in 1934 in your magazine. One was Dyalhis’ The Sapphire Goddess and the other was Thundering Worlds, whose author I have forgotten. ['The author was Edmond Hamilton. — The Editor.] I have read those two stories till I have fairly worn out the magazines they were in. ’The Northwest Smith stories are good — ■ I mean they are next ; then Jirel, and then — not much. You see, I don’t like the kind where blood and bones are piled on more bones and blood. I much prefer the aaively supernatural or the interspatial sort. I don’t like to be too critical, and after all. Weird Tales has been the only magazine of its

type that I’ve been able to keep on reading for more than two or three months. Since I can’t write weird stories myself. I’ll have to be grateful for what I can get; and I suppose, say six stories I like, is a pretty high average after all.”

A Sweet, Pleasant Plot

Henry Kuttner, of Hollywood, California, writes: "Your March issue is the best for a long, long time. Best story was the shortshort, What Waits in Darkness by Loretta Burrough. Second best is C. L. Moore’s yarn. I note especially the great part adjectives play in Moore’s stories. Oddly, while they help achieve a weird effect, I chose Burrough’s story for the simple, direct manner in which the good story was told. ’There was not a poor story in the issue. Kline’s came last in my estimation; oriental stories are not weird, in my opinion. . . . Parker White had a nice poem in the issue ; and the reprint was very good, although not from the old WT issues. Clutching Hands of Death was old stuff, but well handled, and 1 liked especially the neat way the author tied up the vengeance on the surgeon at the denouement. Too, Ernst’s Rulers of the Future was a pleasant surprize, for Bernal’s Vampires of the Moon had about destroyed my taste for weird-scientific stories. But Ernst had an unusually vivid and realistic story, bringing me back to the dear dead days when science-fiaion first became popular. ... I have often wondered why more writers haven’t used Arabian Nights incidents for their stories, as Searight does in his sealed casket story (the story of the fisherman who released the efrit from the bottle). ’There is a wealth of top-notch material waiting to be converted into modern stories, as Cahill did with an old legend in his recent yarn, Charon, Maybe I’ll write one myself and send it to you. After all, C. L. Moore was your 'find’ for 1934, and you’ll need a new find for the new year, won’t you? Speaking of stories, here’s one Mary Elizabeth Counselman should be able to write very nicely. A man is shipwrecked on a desert island, where there is potable water but no food. Desperate, he amputates his arms, then his legs, nibbles away until he is rescued or until there is nothing left to nibble. 'That should make Mr. Bloch envious!” [Ugh! — ^The Editor.]



The Psychological Story

Mrs. E. W. Murphy, of Washington, D. C., writes: "I particularly want to put in my vote for What Waits in Darkness, by Loretta Burrough. My whole vote is for it, and for the development of the psychological story. In the first place, it gives tiie hardest of all things to find — something new again. All these years ... I have bought WT as the treat of the month. And as time passed, I found, quite naturally, that it took more variety to please me, and more to surprize me. I have gotten so that I am even a little tired of the Old Ones, the whole family of them; and I am sincerely sorry, because so many of the best writers write about them. An exception is the Northwest Smith series; when Northwest encounters an elder race, it is not a formless, dark mind or a weird beast, but it is something unique. I meditated on the charm of the face laid out in a rectangular pattern, and the responsively glowing hair, for days. ... To me, the really weird has to look not so weird. In What Waits in Darkness, perfect art and perfect mastery of theme were displayed. The familiar commonplace atmosphere, into which intruded a black horror from the mind of a really nice, well-meaning wife — ^that was truly exquisitely done. I am going to look and look, and hope and hope, for a long future line of such stories in WT. It is, to me, like finding a new lode in a good old mine.”

Moore and Lovccraft

Lacy L. Harold, of Portsmouth, Ohio, writes: "This is my first letter to the Eyrie, although I have been a constant reader of Weird Tales for some twelve years or so. I ran aaoss the magazine about Ae third or fourth copy that was published, and since then I have missed only one copy. . . . Your new author, C. L. Moore, has certaiiJy got what it takes to put over a weird tale. His latest, Julhi, is to my mind by far the best of his work to date. I think his Northwest Smith stories are much better than tliose about Jirel of Joiry. Shambleau, Black Thirst and Scarlet Dream were so much better than either The Black God’s Kiss or Black God’s Shadow that there is no comparison. And that is strange, too, for ordinarily I don’t care much for the interplanetary type of stories. I much prefer those of horror, strange doom, vampires, and

BRAIN MAGIC

The only way to make money, to beeome a mental giant, la to keep centuries ahead of the rest of the world. Think I Pt^sess the brain of a superman I In three years, under our system, you will know ten times more than the average Ph.D. We con show you how to learn 10 to 50 jobs, trades, and pri^essions and laugh at all bosses. Be something! Learn something! Write today for information.

FUTURIST SOCIETY, 416 Frankfort Ave.. Cleveland, Obio.

Entertain and Make Money

THE GHOST MAKING BUSINESS NETS ITS PROmoters millions of dollars yearly. The most carefully guarded secrets of the racket clearly explained in — Behind The Scenes With A Spirit Mediom — It contains some of the most amazing secrets ever devised by human mind. New and different. Send one dollar for your copy today. You will never regret it.

MADAM HENSON

30 Xivnt S4. liOfayette, Indlann

SPANKING

STORIES

liOVING LASHES, SPANKER REJOICES. REAL SPANKING EXPER. in 3 volumes. HAND OF THE MASTER. All finely Illustrated. 42.00 ea. or 3 for 45.00.

Send stamp for illustr. bulletin o» other books dealing with sexual attraction of the md. State age. occupation. ABBEY PRESS. Dept T-3*

179 W. Washington. Chicago.

CONTROLS OF BLOOD

Amazing treatment drives disease out of blood. Use it at home. Proved for over 60 years. Whatever the cause, however far advanced, write for FREE Book.

JOHN STERLING REMEDY CO.

DEPT. 63 KANSAS CITY, Ma

PROSTATE SUFFERERS

Prostate gland acute or chronic, rheumatism, kidney and bladder sufferers send for free trial package, amazing rc.sults. Endorsed by doctors. PROSTEX COMPANY, Dept. 53, Miami, Okialioma

Former Episcopal minister will find you many marriageable correspondents for a fee of $1. State age and wishes. Write today.

JOHN HODSON, Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin.

LONESOME?

5*1

KVake Moneg g^Homp

brow musnruviRS m your cou&r or shed. Exclusive new process. Bigger, better, aoickercrops. More money for you I Enormous^ new demand. Write for Free Book. Ameriean ^ Mutbroon Industriee^Dept. 213 . Toronto^Oot.

WE PURCHASE ALL INDIANHEAD PENNIES. Prices range 5c — $25. Send 10c for purchasing lists. Photocent, 100 Forsyth, N. T. C.

THRILLS I MYSTERY 1 EXCITEMENT 1 “THE MOON TERROR"

(In Book Totm)

SEE BACK COVER



especially chose of elder evils, such as H. P. Lovecraft writes. Lovecraft is my favorite author, or has been until the advent of C. L. Moore. But Lovecraft has established himself so securely by his years of consistent fine work that Moore will have to hold up as well and for quite a while before he can supplant Lovecraft. Lovecraft’s first story to strike my fancy was The Hound, and Aen The Rats in the Walls. Both of these were masterpieces of weird literature, followed by Rickman’s Model, The Call of Cthulhu, and one after another so full of cosmic horror and creepy suspense that in my poor opinion he can not be surpassed. . . . Bram Stoker, Conan Doyle and Edgar Allan Poe will have to look to their laurels, horror stories have inyrovcd so greatly since their time. And this is due a good bit, I think, to Weird Tales magazine.”

Seconding Mr. Reynolds* Suggestion

G. H. January, of Memphis, Tennessee, writes: "Say, that was a great idea voiced by B. M. Reynolds in the February issue. Wiy not have a nation-wide poll among your readers as to the twelve best stories that have appeared in Weird Tales to date? Whew! I’d have to think a long time before deciding, but I’m certain, however, that A. Merritt’s The Woman of the Wood and Seabury Quinn’s The Phantom Farmhouse would be foremost among my selections. How many of your readers can remember that grand little story by Ralph Milne Farley, Abductor Minimi Digit? ’Twas great!”

Exc^eptionally Good Issue

B. M. Refolds, of North Adams, Massachusetts, writes: '"The March Weird Tales proved to be exceptionally good, coming as it did after a rather mediocre February issue. And I want to say, here and now, that if Robert Bloch ever turns out a story that will rate even one-half as good as Robert E. Howard’s latest. Jewels of Gwahlur, I will take off my hat to him and concede him a master of the weird story. Howard certainly deserves plenty of credit for that tale. As usual, C. L. Moore gave us a very remarkable story in Julhi. That author’s imagination seems boundless and the style of writing is peerless. It was with regret that

I came to the end of Rulers of the Future by Paul Ernst, as that was the best he has ever written. Otis Adelbert Kline’s Lord of the Lamia promises to come well up to the high standard we have come to expea from him. The only weak links were What Waits in Darkness and Stoker’s reprint. The Judge's House, which was dry and written in die uninteresting style of half a century ago. His stories might have pleased our ancestors, but I doubt dieir ability to supply so much as a shiver to the thrill-hardened readers of the present.”

Brief Comments

Henry Hasse, of Indianapolis, writes: ^'The Dinner Set by Fanny Kemble Johnson is a classic; one you should reprint in 1947. Without further ado, I vote it the best story in the February WT. It will lose out, though ; the very short stories, classics though some of them ate, never get the votes that the longer ones do.”

LaMarr Chapman, of San Angelo, Texas, writes: "I don’t like Quinn’s new hero, 'Thomas Carter. I want Jules de Grandin back.” [You’ll get him back diortly in a story called The Black Orchid. — ^The Editor.]

Miss Madaliene Cash, of Mechanic Falls, Maine, writes: "I have been a reader of Weird Tales for a long, long time and like it very much, particularly the reprints and the stories by C. L. Moore. Mote power to you! As long as it is as good as at present I won’t pass it up.”

M. E. ’Thomas, of Indianapolis, writes: "If C. L. Moore of Shambleau fame ever assembles his stories in a book. I’ll be one of the first customers. He’s in a class by himself. C. A. Smith is grand, too, if he’d only get over the idea he’s an artist. Whoever it was who compared his unspeakable demons to Doaor Suess’s Flit ads had the right idea.”

February Issue a Corker

E. L. Mengshoel, of Minneapolis, writes; "By the Immortal Beard of the Prophet I Your February issue is what you Americans so reverently call a 'corker’. Not merely because it appealed to my 50 pa. Romany nature but the faa that the dominant note in its rhapsody was orientalism; for the most outstanding stories in that issue had an eastWEIRD TALES


ward trend, suggesting Arabian, Hindoo and Ethiopian mysticism. But, in fact, every story in that ensemble was a square hit, each in its own way. Shall I name the one which, to my mind, took the foremost place, then I’m inclined to hand it to Seabury Quinn’s The Web of Living Death. However, I am not quite ready to acknowledge the adequacy of that deteaive Carter, with all his incredible nonchalance and inexhaustible supply of American slang, as a substitute for Jules de Grandin, even in spite of his downright impossible feat of strength and nerve in carrying, wrapped up in a cloak, a python weighing 250 pounds besides the additional weights of the two guards that it had just swallowed. But none of the other stories, long or short, were far behind this in interest. The Silver Bullet, by Phyllis A. Whitney, was very impressive in its thoroughly weird atmosphere and vivid picturing of the milieu. Robert Howard’s The Grisly Horror, with its black voodooism and oriental demonolatry, Frank Belknap Long’s The BodyMasters, and Paul Ernst’s Rulers of the Future — all were superb; though of course, the last named is 'all wet’ in regard to human or animal or any kind of life on this earth several million years hence. Every one of the short stories, as well as the reprint, was absorbing. And Edmond Hamilton was a real surprize this time. His Murder in the Grave was by far the best that I have seen from his pen. . . . His psychological depicting of the voluntary burial-faker’s sensations with the rattler as a bedfellow in his cof&n was masterful."

A Cover Story Contest

Good old Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes to the Eyrie: "I could say that the March issue of Weird Tales is the best you have put out, but I won’t. I could also say that it IS the worst you have put out, but I won’t. I will say that it was a mighty enjoyable issue. Imagine an entire issue written by C. L. Moore. What an issue that would be ! Anyway Julhi was great reading. One of the author’s best, in fact. How about an 80,000word novel, C. L. Moore? It is rare to be able to class a reprint so high, but The Judge’s House by Bram Stoker is well deserving of second place. It’s one of the few good reprints you’ve had in ages. (I don’t class reprints from past issues of Weird

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

SMALL ADS WORTH WATCHING

Agents Wanted

BIG MONEY APPLYING GOLD INITIALS on Automobiles. Kaslest thing* today. No experience needed. Free flamples. **RALCO,” WT — 1084 Washington, Boston. Mass.

Business Opportunities

SEXIi BY MAIL! BOOHS, NOVEXTIBSI BARgains! Big profits! Particulars Free! K. ELFCO, 626 South Dearborn, Chicago.

For Sale

WILL BEIX TWO HUI^RKD BOBBAR PSYCHOPHONE for Hundred. Reginald Berry, 528 Keystone Ave., Pockville, Pennsylvania.

STEER HORNS Six feet spread for sale. Lee Bertillion, Mineola, Texas.

Old Coins

WE BUY 1907 INDIAN-HEA1> CENTS. Full information one dime (coin). NEW MISS MATTICK CO., Dept. CWT, Altoona, Pennsylvania.

Outdoor Work

WANTED— NAMES OF >MEN desiring steady outdoor Jobs; 81,700-12,400 year; vacaton. Patrol parks; protect game. Write Modern Institute, M-43, Denver, Colo.

Personal

LONELY MEN AND WOMEN! Hundreds desire correspondence, marriage. Many state they are wealthy. Descriptions free. Write quickly! Box 370, 8t. Louis, Missouri.

LONESOME— BOOK OF PHOTOS AND DESCRIPtiona of wealthy members sent free in plain wrapper. The Exchange, AE-3827 Main. Kansas City. Mo.

LONESOME! Get 150 Descriptions people wishing marriage. Many wealthy. For 10c and Stamp. W. H. Beeson. Box 769, Houston, Texas.

TO LONELY FOLKS — and how many lonely ones there are! Write for confidential letter exchange to Mary Mayer, Box 47, Marion. Ohio.

LONELY? Join reliable church Get Together Club. (9th year.) Select friends for you. Confidential. Stamp, age. Rev. Jones, Box 2359, Kansas City, Mo.

LOVABLE LADY, ROMANTIC, WITH MONEY, CRAVES friendship. Please write today. Gladys Fore, Success Club, Oxford, Fla.

LONELY? BLUB? Join The Star Friendship Exchange, Box 1329. Roanoke, Va. (send stamp).

IF LONELY AND WISH CORRESPONDENCE, strictly confidential, write Box 106, Scranton, Pa.

Photo Finishing

FILMS DEVELOPED, ANY SIZE, 25c COIN, Including two enlargements. Century Photo Service* Box 829, Lacrosse, Wisconsin.


.WEIRD TALES

Tales among the other stories.) Lord of the Lamia starts off interestingly. You would stretch it out to three parts. The rest of the stories were nice reading also; Jewels of Gwahlur being one of the best of the Conan tales. Welcome back, Joseph Doolin; don’t go away again. Let’s have a cover story contest. Have a cover painted that does not illustrate a story, but portrays a weird scene that the fans can write a story around. Cash prizes can be given for the best stories, and honorable mentions can be paid for at the usual rates. Who knows but that you might discover new Lovecrafts and C. L. Moores ?” [How about it? Do the rest of you want such a cover story contest? — ^The Editor.]

A Few Dislikes

Carl A. Butz, of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, writes, in part: "I don’t care for C. L. Moore and I don’t like interplanetary stories. 'They invariably follow a set formula, they duplicate on interstellar worlds the familiar atmosphere of earth, and they are not weird. I doubt whether they appeal to anyone above the mental age of twelve years. After all, why compete with the funny papers? My dislike of Moore probably demonstrates my lack of taste, but I much prefer Howard. For one thing, I don’t care for metaphysics and psychological obscurities mixed up with brain vampires, soul vampires, primeval

slime and endless descriptions of beautiful women.”

Comments from an Author

Clark Ashton Smith writes from his home in Auburn, California: "Among the stories in the March WT, I really liked the Bram Stoker reprint and the little horror by Searight as well as any. Kline’s serial begins rather enticingly, and has a fine title. In reading over the Eyrie, I was surprized by the paucity of mention given to the reprint of The Supreme Witch, which seemed better to me than most of the new stories in the same issue. Lovecraft’s The Music of Erich Zann should have drawn more attention, too. . . . Well I recall Robert W. Chambers’ The King in Yellow, which seems to have taken much of its nomenclature from Bierce. I wish The Yellow Sign could be reprinted in WT.” [A good suggestion, this. — T he Dmtor.]

Your Favorite Story

Readers, which story do you like best ia this issue? Write us a letter, or fill out die vote coupon on this page, and mail it to the Eyrie, in care of Weird Tales. ’The most popular story in the March issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was the concluding installment of Paul Ernst’s weird-scientific story. Rulers of the Future.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE MAY WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 ) 1

( 2 )

( 3 )

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

It will help us to know what kind of stories you want in Weird Tales if you will fill out this coupon and mail it to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

r

i Reader’s name and address:

I

I

I L

W. T.— 8

NEXT MONTH

The Horror in the Studio

By Dorothy Quick

A DRAMATIC weird story of Hollywood and a soul-blasting horror out of hell. A gripping tale of the moving-picture industry and the bloodchilling monstrosity that was buried in the parchment pages of a medieval manuscript.

M any weird motion pictures have been filmed in Hollywood, but none told of any horror so soul-chilling as this story about the cinema industry itself. Dorothy Quick, its author, has made of this amazing story a great emotional and dramatic tale, which will hold you spellbound to the very end. You will find this tale, like a certain well-advertised coffee, "good to the last drop.” It will be published complete

in the ]une issue of


on sale fune 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WBIKD TALES 840 N. Micliig'an Ave.,

Chicago, III.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next five issue.s of WEIRD TALES to beerin with the June issue ($1.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name

Address

City

Man Can Talk

With God, Says Noted Psychologist

A new and revolutionary religious teaching based entirely on the misunderstood sayings of the Galilean Carpenter, and designed to show how we may And, understand and use the same identical power which Jesus used in performing His so-called Miracles, is attracting world wide attention to its founder. Dr. Frank B. Robinson, noted psychologist, author and lecturer. ‘‘Ps 3 ’’- chiana,’^ this New Psychological Religion, believes and teaches that it is today possible for every normal human being, understanding spiritual law as Christ understood it, to duplicate every work that the Carpenter of Galilee ever did — it believes and teaches that when He said, "the things that I do shall ye do also." He meant what He said and meant it literally to apply to all mankind, through all the ages.

Dr. Robinson has prepared a 6,000 word treatise on “Psychiana," in which he tells about his long search for the Truth, how he finally came to the full realization of an Unseen Power or force so dynamic in itself that all other powers and forces fade into insignificance beside it — how he learned to commune directly with the Living God, using this mighty, neverfailing power to demonstrate health, happiness and financial success, and how any normal being may find and use it as Jesus did. He is now offering this treatise free to every reader of this magazine who writes him. If you want to read this highly interesting, revolutionary and fascinating story of the discovery of a great Truth, just send your name and address to Dr. Frank B. Robinson, Dept. WT-S, Moscow, Idaho. It will be sent free and postpaid without cost or obligation. Write the Doctor today. — Copyright 1933, Dr. Frank B. Robinson. — Advertisement.

THE PRINCE OF PERIL

By OTIS ADELBEKT KUNE (Limited Autographed First Edition)

Price $2.00

WEIRD TALES BOOK DEPARTMENT

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, HI.

BACK ISSUES

For complete list and prices write to Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

State.

is on sale the 1st of every month

of all Mankind

A Phantom from the Ether

Threatens the Lives

THE PHANTOM

T he inside story of a tremendous threat engineered by a phantom from the ether — a threat to gain control of the world — is thrillingly told in "The Moon Terror,” the most enthralling fantastic mystery of the age. The gigantic powers and clever plans behind this super-dream will hold you spellbound.

Here Is How You Can Get This Amazing Book FREE For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours without further

T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether.

They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom tvere whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

OF THE ETHER

cost. You receive the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of books is limited. Send today!


840 N. Micliifiian Aw., Dept. S-58. Chicago, 111.

! WKIUn TAl.KS, Dept. S-58,

I 840 N. MichiK^aii Ave., Chicago, 111.

I I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid. I the book "The Moon Terror." and enter my subI scription to WEIRD TALE.S for six months to * begin with the June issue. It is understood this I $1.50 is payment in full.

Name —

City

State

[THE END]
