============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 15, Number 2
Date: February 1930
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "The Lilac Bush August W" by Derleth
  2. "Thirsty Blades Otis A" by Kline and E. Hoffmann Price
============================================================
============================================================
by Derleth
============================================================
to the touch. A hand wrenched o£E his neck-cloth... the top half of the collar was diul down....

A Gentle Weird Story Is

The Lilac Bush

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

T he lilac bush stood about seventy feet from the road on the top of Springfield Hill. It was a very large bush, and it almost covered one side of the old log building that was decaying just behind it. It stood in soggy marsh land, and here and there in the thick tufts of grass, little pools of water could be seen. Adjoining it was a thin strip of woodland, and beyond that, green fields stretched away into the distance. Wisconsin Highway Twelve ran past the spot, but nobody ever noticed the curious incongruity of the lilac bush.

The day was hot for May, and Mrs. Jones came to the door of the house to look at her children playing about the lilac bush across the road. Mrs. Jones was a thin, gaunt woman, with stem gray eyes. Just now an ordinary house apron hung loosely about her, and her hair wsis somewhat unkempt, as farmers’ wives’ hair is likely to be. She sighed as she brushed her hand across her forehead, and, raising her eyes, she gazed long and earnestly at her.children. They were standing quietly together. Ada was holding her younger brother’s hand. Both were gazing in rapt attention at the lilac bush. Mrs. Jones moved uneasily.

“Ada!” she called sharply. And again, “Ada!”

. But Ada apparently did not hear; nor did her brother. Both remained standing as before, with their backs to their mother. Mrs. Jones thought that something had got into the log ruins — a rabbit, perhaps, or a squirrel. Or maybe the children were playing a new game; that was more like it. She shrugged her shoulders and returned to her work.

At intervals she came to the door and looked out. The children were playing. But when she looked over at them an hour after, they stood again looking attentively at the lilac bush.

“Ada! ’ ’ Mrs. Jones called.

This time the child turned slightly, as if under stress, and turned back as quickly. Mrs. Jones walked swiftly to the gate and crossed the road. A car with a California license on it shot by, and she stopped a moment to look after it. It was not often she saw them from so far away; stUl, yesterday one from Maine had come through, and a week ago, one from somewhere in Canada. Then she began picking her way carefully over the soggy land to where the children were standing. The children turned before she reached them. Hand in hand they watched her come on.

“Mamma,” called Ada. “That’s oiir bush, isn’t it?” She pointed to the lilac Wsh.

“Of course,” said Mrs. Jones, almost slipping from a clump of grass into a pool of water. “Of course. Your grandpa planted that bush when he was a boy and lived in that old cabin his dad built.”

“Well, somebody was picking our lilacs. It looked like a man, mamma; I couldn’t see.”

“Man,” said the boy, looking at Her out of great blue eyes, opened wide. “Man,” he repeated, nodding his




head vigorously. His chubby face was flushed.

Mrs. Jones eyed her children, frowning. “What are you talking about? The sun’s got you, I guess. You better come into the house and rest. You’re tearing around here all day, and you need it. Come on. ’ ’

The ehildren obediently followed Mrs. Jones across the road and into the house. The boy was still very young, and he could just walk. Mrs. Jones noticed that Ada was getting too stout for her age.

They sat in the kitchen and watched their mother work. After a time Ada sat at the window and looked over at the bush. Her brother came over and sat beside her. Mrs. Jones stood with her arms akimbo and watched them for a moment. Then she stepped lightly over to them and bent her head to look out with them. Ada looked up at her mother.

“He’s there again, mamma. He’s picking our lilacs.’’

“Man,’’ said the boy, pounding the window with a small pudgy fist.

“What’s the matter with you, Ada?’’ asked Mrs. Jones. “There’s no one there.’’

“Yes, there is, mamma. An old man with a cane. He’s picking the lilacs, our lilacs. Stop him, mamma. Why don’t you stop him?’’

Mrs. Jones glanced curiously at Ada, and from her to the boy. She felt a sudden tightening at her heart. Then she went out of the door and started across the road. She picked her way over the soggy land as before, and drew up at the lilac bush. There was no one there. The wind went through the bush with a curious rustling sound. Mrs. Jones looked at the bush and down at the ground. There were no footprints but those of the children, and she looked back at the bush somewhat puzzled. Behind her a car went past, and immediately after, another. Mrs. Jones reached up and pulled down one of the tall, thin

branches. Among the leaves at the very top of the branch a broken twig stuck out. She looked at it in amazement. She had picked no lilacs for the last three days — and this twig was freshly broken, so freshly that she could discern the faintly glistening beads of sap that had oozed from the broken wood. She glanced suddenly back at the house. The ehildren sat as before, watching her. She pulled down another branch with an effort — she had to stand on tiptoe, and then she could barely reach it. From the top of this branch, too, a blossom had been freshly broken. She looked around her suspiciously. There was nothing that the children might have stood on — ^nor were the broken blossoms in evidence. She went back to the house, walking slowly.

A t evening Mrs. Jones took the ehildren and started down the road for the cows. On the way they had to pass one of the three cemeteries on Springfield Hill. There was a lurid flare of red in the western sky, as if someone had lighted great bonfires along the horizon. Mrs. Jones looked over the trees at the dying day, and back again. From down the road came the faintly acrid scent of last year’s dry leaves burning.

Suddenly she stopped dead. Out of the comer of her eye she caught an incongruous color in the cemetery. She shook Ada, taking hold of her shoulder.

“How many times have I told you not to go into the cemetery, Ada?”

“I didn’t.” Ada looked at her mother in childish astonishment.

“Don’t lie to me, Ada. Who put the lilacs on grandpa’s grave if you didn ’t? ” She shook her again.

“I didn’t, mamma.” Ada was close to tears.

But Mrs. Jones was no longer looking at Ada. Her eyes were fastened on a lilac blossom, half buried in the



earth ou the grave and at the same moment she saw herself standing on tiptoe, striving to reach upward toward the broken tndg. Almost roughly she pulled Ada with her as she moved on, a sudden paleness in her

cheeks. She turned and called after the boy.

“Come on, boy. Come on.”

“Man!” said the boy suddenly, throwing a stone with unexpected vigor in the direction of the lilac hush.

The Horror on Dagoth Wold

By FRANK BELKNAP LONG, JR.

‘ ‘ I have it here, ’ ’ he said and stroked the rust Upon his box, — his eyes were twin dark stars —

“Medusa’s head that turns desire to dust!

They buried it a fathom deep on Mars.

“I waited till the stars were right, and then I robed myself in ermine flaked with gold,

And with a silver spade, unwatched by men,

I crept to where it lay in Dagoth Wold.

“I crept to where it lay, and working fast,

I drew it from its red and sentient tomb;

From jellied earth that whispered in the gloom, And mired my feet until I woke at last. ’ ’

“You woke?” I stared at him in pained surprize, Forgetful of the star-glint in his eyes.

“To futile toil,” he said, “our race is bound.

And to the waking world it must retiun;

Some vileness in us makes us scorn and wound The shapes of flame for which our spirits yearn.

“But men go back again to dreams for things They left behind; perchance to fetch a cloak,

Or gather up a batch of stolen rings.

Or catch a word some sweet, soft woman spoke.

“I have it here,” he said, and tapped the lid

Upon his box, — his eyes were twin dark stars —

“When Perseus died they sought to keep it hid,

And buried it a fathom deep on Mars. ’ ’

A ^ah of Stark, Unreasoning T’ err or

*

The Fearsome Touch

of Death

^ By ROBERT E. HOWARD

As long as midnight cloaks the earth With shadows grim and stark,

God save us from the Judas kiss Of a dead man in the dark.

OLD Adam Farrel lay dead in the house wherein he had lived alone for the last twenty years. A silent, churlish recluse, in his life he had known no friends, and only two men had watched his passing.

Dr. Stein rose and glanced out the window into the gathering dusk.

“You think you can spend the night here, then?” he asked his companion.

This man. Faired by name, assented.

“Yes, certainly. I guess it’s up to me.”

“Rather a useless and primitive custom, sitting up with the dead,” commented the doctor, preparing to depart, “but I suppose in common decency we will have to bow to precedence. Maybe I can find some one who’ll come over here and help you with your vigil.”

Faired shrpgged his shoulders. “I doubt it. Farrel wasn’t liked — wasn’t known by many people. I scarcely knew him myself, but I don ’t mind sitting up with the corpse. ’ ’

Dr. Stein was removing his rubber gloves, and Faired watched the process with an interest that almost amounted to fascination. A slight,

involuntary shudder shook him at the memory of touching these gloves — slick, cold, clammy things, like the touch of death.

“You may get lonely tonight, if I don’t find anyone,” the doctor remarked as he opened the door. “Not superstitious, are you?”

Faired laughed. “Scarcely. To tell the truth, from what I hear of Farrel ’s disposition, I’d rather be watching his corpse than have been his guest in life.”

The door closed and Faired took up his vigil. He seated himself in the only chair the room boasted, glanced casually at the formless, sheeted bulk on the bed opposite him, and began to read by the light of the dim lamp which stood on the rough table.

Outside the darkness gathered swiftly, and finally Faired laid down his magazine to rest his eyes. He looked again at the shape which had, in life, been the form of Adam Farrel, wondering what quirk in the human nature made the sight of a corpse not only so unpleasant, but such an object of fear to many. Unthinking ignorance, seeing in dead things a reminder of death to come, he decided lazily, and began idly contemplating as to what life had held for this grim and crabbed old man, who had neither relatives nor friends, and who had seldom left the house wherein he had died. The usual tales of miser-hoarded wealth had aceumuOver the Moimtaiiis

ix<Mii Los Attires

Think of it! FIVE HUNDRED FIFTY-NINE MILES over rou^ mountainous country burning only ELEVEN GALLONS OF GASOLINE. Imagine more than FIFTY MILES to the GALLON. That is what the WHIRLWIND CARBURETING DEVICE does for D. R. Gilbert, enough of a saving on just one trip to more than pay the cost of the Whirlwind.

IkWnirlwind Saves Himsis

NiiuonsJf Dooms

Whirlwind users, rejorthig the resui£§ teSte, ttre amaz^ at the results they are getting* Letters

keep streaming into the office telling of mileages all the way from 22 to 69 miles on a gallon, resulting in a saving of from 25% to 60% in gas bHls alone.

Mark H, Estes writes: *‘I was making 17 miles to the gallon on my Pontiac Coupe. Today, with the Whirlwind, I am making 36 6/10 mfl®i to the gallon. Am I glad I put it on? 1*11 say so V*

P. P. Goerzen writes: “I made an actual test both with and without a Whirlwind, getting 13^ miles without and 34 6/10 miles with the Whirlwind, or a gain of 21 miles to the gallon. The longer the Whirlwind is in use on the machine the better the engine runs, has more pep and quicker starting. It makes a new engine out of an old one, and starts at the touch of the staiter button.'*

R. J. Tulp: *‘The Whirlwind increas^ the mileage on our Ford truck from 12 to 26 miles to gallon and 26% in speed. We placed another on a Willys-Knight and increased from 12 to 17 miles per gallon.** Arthur Grant: **I have an Oakland touring car that has been giving me 15 miles to the gallon average, but I can see a great difference with the Whirlwind, as it climbs the big hills on high and gives ma better than 23 miles to the gallon of gas, which is better than 69% saving in gas.**

W. A. Scott: “I had my Whirlwind for three years. Winter and summer it gives the same perfect service, instant starting, smoother running, and what I have saved in gasoline these last few years has brought other luxuries which I could not have afforded previously.**

Gar owners all over the world are saving money every day with the Whirlwind, besides having better operating motors. Think what this means on your own car. Figure up your savings— enough for a radio — a bank account— added pleasures. Why let the Oil Companies profit by your waste? Find out about this amazing little device that will pay for itself every few weeks in gas saving alone.


In just a few minutes the Whirlwind can be installed on any make of car, truck or tractor. It's actually less work than changing your oil or putting water in the battery. No drilling, tapping or changes of any kind necessary. It is guaranteed to work perfectly on any make of car, truck or tra<^or. large or small, new model or old model. The more you drive the more you will save.


Free Sample and $100.00 a Week Offer

Whirlwind men are making big profits supplying this fasl>.selling device that car owners can not afford to he without. Good territory is still open. Free sample offer and full particulars sent on request. Just check the coupon.


999 63-A. Third Street Milwaukee, Wis.


No matter what kind of a car you have— no matter how big a gas eater it is — the Whirlwind will save you money. We absolutely guarantee that the Whirlwind will more than save its cost in gasoline alone within thirty days, or the trial will cost you nothing. We invite you to test it at our risk and expense. You are to be the sole judge.

I


WHIRLWIND MANUFACTURING CO.,

999 63-A. Third Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

Gentlemen: You may send me full particulars of Whirlwind Carbureting device and free trial offer, does not obligato me In any way whatever.

Name

Address — —

County State

C 3 Check here If you are interested In full or part salesmen position.

your

This

time

f



lated, but Paired felt so little interest in the whole matter that it was not even necessary for him to overcome any temptation to pry about the house for possible hidden treasure.

He returned to his reading with a shrug. The task was more boresome than he had thought for. After a while he was aware that every time he looked up from his magazine and his eyes fell upon the bed with its grim occupant, he started involuntarily as if he had, for an instant, forgotten the presence of the dead man and was unpleasantly reminded of the fact. The start was slight and instinctive, but he felt almost angered at himself. He realized, for the first time, the utter and deadening silence which enwrapped the house — a silence apparently shared by the night, for no sound came through the window. Adam Parrel had lived as far apart from his neighbors as possible, and there was no other house within hearing distance.

Paired shook himself as if to rid his mind of unsavory speculations, and went back to his reading. A sudden vagrant gust of wind whipped through the window, in which the light in the lamp flickered and went out suddenly. Paired, cursing softly, groped in the darkness for matches, burning his fingers on the hot lamp chimney. He struck a match, relighted the lamp, and glancing over at the bed, got a horrible mental jolt. Adam Parrel’s face stared blindly at him, the dead eyes wide and blank, framed in the gnarled gray features. Even as Paired instinctively shuddered, his reason explained the apparent phenomenon: the sheet that covered the corpse had been carelessly thrown across the face and the sudden puff of wind had disarranged and flung it aside.

Yet there was something grisly about the thing, something fearsomely suggestive — as if, in the cloeiking dark, a dead hand had flung aside the

sheet, just as if the corpse were about to rise....

Faired, an imaginative man, shrugged his shoulders at these ghastly thoughts and crossed the room to replace the sheet. The dead eyes seemed to stare at him malevolently, with an evilness that transcended the dead man’s churlishness in life. The workings of a vivid imagination, Faired knew, and he re-covered the gray face, shrinking as his hand chanced to touch the cold flesh — slick and clammy, the touch of death. He shuddered with the natural revulsion of the living for the dead, and went back to his chair and magazine.

At last, growing sleepy, he lay down upon a couch which, by some strange whim of the original owner, formed part of the room’s scant furnishings, and composed himself for slumber. He decided to leave the light burning, telling himself that it was in accordance with the usual custom of leaving lights burning for the dead; for he was not willing to admit to himself that already he was conscious of a dislike for lying in the darkness with the corpse. He dozed, awoke with a start and looked at the sheeted form on the bed. Silence reigned over the house, and outside it was very dark.

The hour was approaching midnight, with its accompanying eery domination over the human mind. Faired glanced again at the bed where the body lay and found the sight of the sheeted object most repellent. A fantastic idea had birth in his mind and grew, that beneath the sheet, the mere lifeless body had become a strange, monstrous thing, a hideous, conscious being, that watched him with eyes which burned through the fabric of the cloth. This thought — a mere fantasy, of course — ^he explained to himself by the legends of vampires, undead, ghosts and such like — the fearsome attributes with which the living have cloaked the dead for

Are You Bashful?

NERVOUS?

EMBARRASSED?

SHY?

NO WONDER YOU ARE A “STAY-AT-HOME”

D O YOU ever feel embarrassed in the presence of strangers? Are you always bashful and confused when you meet people for the first time or when you are in company of the opposite sex?

A re you missing all the good things and good times in life just because you are BASHFUL i and SHY?

! Girls and Boys, Men and Women who are timid, nervous, self-conscious and easily embarrassed never have much fun. How do you expect anybody to seek your acquaintance and companionship if you lack confidence in yourself? It is not always the good looking attractive men and women that are showered with all the attention.

To be popular — always in demand at parties, and affairs and social gatherings one must be a good mixer and possess a pleasant personality. Why should you sit at home, feeling blue and out of sorts — no place to j go — ^nobody to see? Stop being bashful and embarrassed when you meet people for the first time or when you are in the company of the opposite sex.

You Are Self-Conscious!}'

Shame on you! There is no need for you to be nert'ous and embarrassed. Stop being shy. You can learn how to conquer the terrible fear of your superiors.

DO NOT BE DISCOURAGED!

Every individual now suffering frcnn Bashfulness (Self-Consciousness) will welcome this good news. Remarkable discovery used with great success — whereby you can quickly and easily overcome your faults. Be cheerful and confident of your future! If you’re Bashful — don’t vrait another day — Send 25e for my fascinating, amazing book. Tells how to master and overcome Self-Consciousness. Write today.


B'282 Flatiron Building* New Yoric City

Richard Blackstone,

B'282 Flatiron Building, New York City.

Please send me a copy of yonr book on Nervousness and Bashfulness. I am enclosing 25 cents in coin or stamps.

Name

Address

City —State

Kindly mention this magazine when answering advertisements



countless ages, since primitive man first recognized in death something horrid and apart from life. Man feared death, thought Faired, and some of his fear of death took hold on the dead so that they, too, were feared. And the sight of the dead engendered grisly thoughts, gave rise to dim fears of hereditary memory, lurking back in the dark corners of the brain.

At any rate, that silent, hidden thing was getting on his nerves. He thought of uncovering the face, on the principle that familiarity breeds contempt. The sight of the features, calm and still in death, would banish, he thought, all such wild conjectures as were haunting him in spite of himself. But the thought of those dead eyes staring in the lamplight was intolerable; so at last he blew out the light and lay down. This fear had" been stealing upon him so insidiously and gradually that he had not been aware of its growth.

With the extinguishing of the light, however, and the blotting out of the sight of the corpse, things assumed their true character and proportions, and Faired fell asleep almost instantly, on his lips a faint smile for his previous folly.

H e awakened suddenly. How long he had been asleep he did not know. He sat up, his pulse pounding frantically, the cold sweat beading his forehead. He knew instantly where he was, remembered the other occupant of the room. But what had awakened him? A dream — yes, now he remembered — a hideous dream in which the dead man had risen from the bed and stalked stiffly across the room with eyes of fire and a horrid leer frozen on his gray lips. Faired had seemed to lie motionless, helpless; then as the corpse reached a gnarled and horrible hand, he had awakened.

He strove to pierce the gloom, but the room was all blackness and all

without was so dark that no gleam of light came through the window. He reached a shaking hand toward the lamp, then recoiled as if from a hidden serpent. Sitting here in the dark with a fiendish corpse was bad enough, but he dared not light the lamp, for fear that his reason would be snuffed out like a candle at what he might see. Horror, stark and unreasoning, had full possession of his soul; he no longer questioned the instinctive fears that rose in him. All those legends he had heard came back to him and brought a belief in them. Death was a hideous thing, a brainshattering horror, imbuing lifeless men with a horrid malevolence. Adam Farrel in his life had been simply a churlish but harmless man; now he was a terror, a monster, a fiend lurking in the shadows of fear, ready to leap on mankind with talons dipped deep in death and insanity.

Faired sat there, his blood freezing, and fought out his silent battle. Faint glimmerings of reason had begun to touch his fright when a soft, stealthy sound again froze him. He did not recognize it as the whisper of the night wind across the window-sill. His frenzied fancy knew it only as the tread of death and horror. He sprang from the couch, then stood undecided. Escape was in his mind but he was too dazed to even try to formulate a plan of escape. Even his sense of direction was gone. Fear had so stultified his mind that he was not able to think consciously. The blackness spread in long waves about him and its darkness and void entered into his brain. His motions, such as they were, were instinctive. He seemed shackled with mighty chains and his limbs responded sluggishly, like an imbecile’s.

A terrible horror grew up in him and reared its grisly shape, that the dead man was behind him, was stealing upon him from the rear. He no longer thought of lighting the lamp;



he no longer thought of anything. Fear filled his whole being; there was room for nothing else.

He backed slowly away in the darkness, hands behind him, instinctively feeling the way. With a terrific effort he partly shook the clinging mists of horror from him, and, the cold sweat clammy upon his body, strove to orient himself. He could see nothing, but the bed was across the room, in front of him. He was backing away from it. There was where the dead man was lying, according to all rul^ of nature; if the thing were, as he felt, behind him, then the old tales were true: death did implant in lifeless bodies an unearthly animation, and dead men did roam the shadows to work their ghastly and evil will upon the sons of men. Then — great God! — ^what was man but a wailing infant, lost in the night and beset by frightful things from the black abysses and the terrible unknown voids of space and time? These conclusions he did not reach by any reasoning process; they leaped fullgrown into his terror-dazed brain. He worked his way slowly backward, groping, clinging to the thought that the dead man must be in front of him.

Then his back-flung hands encountered something — something slick, cold and clammy — ^like the touch of death. A scream shook the echoes, followed by the crash of a falling body.

next morning they who came to the house of death found two corpses in the room. Adam Farrel’s sheeted body lay motionless upon the bed, and across the room lay the body of Paired, beneath the shelf where Dr. Stein had absent-mindedly left his gloves — rubber gloves, slick and clammy to the touch of a hand groping in the dark — a hand of ohe fleeing his own fear — rubber gloves, slick and clammy and cold, like the touch of death.



By SEABURY QUINN

AGRIPPING, thrilling story of Haiitian voodoo, of the worship of the Snake Goddess, of bewildering murders; a stoiy replete with eery shivers and blood-curdling dangers. A tale of the weird West Indian obeah ritual transported to New Jei’sey; a narrative of forbidden rites and the sacrifice of “the goat without horns. ’ ’

T N THIS powerful stoiy of uncanny ^ happenings and forbidden mysteries is displayed to beautiful advantage the penetrating intelligence of that vain and lovable little French scientist, Jules de Grandin. If you have not yet made the acquaintance of this brilliant fictional character, here is your chance to meet him in this story, which will be published complete in the

March issue of


On Sale Fehruw'y 1st

Clip and UaU thia oowpon todayt

WBIRD TAI.BS 840 N. Michiirtui AtO.,

CtaeaEO, ni.

Enclosed find $1 lor special 6 months subscriptlon to “Weird Tales” to begin with the March issue ($1.25 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Nasne,

AAdraae -.

City



The Comet-Drivers

( Continued from page 192)

For even at that moment, as we stared dumfounded toward the place where the cube-ship fleet had vanished, there had come from beneath and beside us hundreds upon hundreds of crimson bolts, bolts that flashed seemingly out of empty space annihilating scores, hundreds, of our bewildered ships, bolts from the cube-ships which we could not see, but which were circling about us now loosing their terrific shafts of death upon us! A battle to the death between two mighty fleets, one invisible, the other a plain target! Out in all directions our black beams were wildly whirling, but we could loose them only by chance, while our own ships, a perfect target to the invisible cubes about us, were flaring in annihilation in ever-increasing numbers!

“That great projector-cube!” I shouted to Gor Han. “Our only chance is to get to it — destroy it! ”

I pointed down toward the spot of brilliant light beneath, which marked the position of the great cube that was projecting the vibrations that made our enemies invisible. But even as I did so a half hundred cruisers of our fleet had massed together, shooting downward in a great wedge, through a withering hail of crimson bolts, down, through invisible cubes through which they crashed, down until an instant later the score remaining of them had crashed squarely into the spot of brilliant light below, meeting annihilation with it in that collision. But the light vanished as they crashed, leaving but wreckage of cube and cruisers, and at the same moment the mass of cube-ships beneath us had suddenly flashed into full view once more!

OUR great fleet was gathering itself now for a last final rush downward through those opposing cubeships toward the comet-control. I could hear the wild victorious shouts of Gor Han and Jurt Tul and the crew beneath loud in my ears, could see the pyramid’s summit, the great control, close beneath, as I turned to the speech-instrument to shout the word that would send our fleet thundering down. But before ever my lips opened I had stiffened, stood motionless. For from the time-dial before me had come the low, metallic note of the passing hour, marking the end of the last moment in which the comet could have been turned aside! Marking the end for our universe, sounding in my stunned ears like a titanic knell of doom across the infinite for our galaxy! Nothing now in all the universe could turn the giant comet aside from that galaxy enough to save it! Motionless there, Gor Han and Jurt Tul and I heard echoing away that muted note that had struck for the galaxy’s doom!

“Lost!” Gor Han was saying it, strangely, slowly, uncomprehendingly. “We’ve lost!”

Lost! The galaxy — our suns — our myriad peopled worlds — all lost, all doomed to annihilation by the gigantic comet about us that was thundering on now irrevocably! It seemed, in that instant, that all things in existence, the cruisers about us, the cube-ships beneath us, the cometcreature hordes on the surface of the white-lit world below, had paused for one moment breathless, a moment that marked a galaxy’s doom. Then suddenly Gor Han was pointing downward, eyes starting, pointWEIRD TALES


ing to the eomet-ereature hordes on that world below, which were suddenly rushing crazily toward the pyramid beneath us, the cube-ships also racing wildly down toward the pyramid’s summit! For on that summit from the stair on the pyramid’s side a dark, erect figure had suddenly rushed, and before the comet-guards had glimpsed him had rushed to the great disk-dial and pointer of the comet -control! An erect, manylimbed dark figure who had seized the pointer in his grasp!

“Najus Nar!” Gor Han’s great scream held within it all our renewed faith, our sudden comprehension.

For the insect-man had grasped the pointer, the pointer that controlled the position of the giant comet’s tail, and had swung it half around the disk from the dial’s rear to its front! As he did so he straightened, arms upflung toward us in a last great gesture toward the distant opening through the coma, and then the comet-guards were upon him, the blasting crimson bolts from the darting cubes above had reached him, annihilating the pyramid’s summit, while in all the city beneath us liquid comet-creatures and great cubes were rushing crazily toward that pyramid, rushing too late toward the control which they had themselves built for their comet and which now had destroyed them!

For Najus Nar had reversed the comet-control!

Even as the bolts had blasted the pyramid’s top our cruisers had shot with the velocity of thousands of lightspeeds out from the central world and those about it, out across the comet’s heart toward the circular opening through the coma, through that passage of crimson death at awful speed and out into space behind the comet as the passage closed behind us, as the tail behind the comet waned swiftly! And as our cruisers shot up above the mighty comet, we saw that it had halted in space, the awful momentum with which the old tail

IT IS NOT TOO LATE—

to read one of the most popular stories that has been printed in this magazine to date. But you mil have to rush your order in if you want a copy because we are filling a great many orders every day and the edition is limited.

Through popular demand we have published a cloth-bound edition of ‘ ‘ The Moon Terror, ” by A. G. Birch, to satisfy those who were not fortunate enough to read this startling story when it appeared serially in the early issues of Weird Tales.


This book is beautifully bound in rich blue cloth with attractive orangecolored jacket and is for sale direct from the publishers at the special price of $1.50 postpaid.

Eemember, this edition is limited and this offer is good only as long as the supply lasts. Send for this fascinating book now while it is fresh in your mind.

Weird Tales, Book Dept. M-88,.

840 N. Miclugan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.

h^nclosed find $1.50 for cloth-bound copy of THE MOON TERROR at publiahera’ price.

Name — — —

Address — — —

City State — ^



at the rear had driven it on balanced, opposed, by the new tail shot from its front, toward the galaxy, when Najus Nar had reversed the control! Caught between the two cosmic pressures, between the momentum and terrific speed with which the old tail drove it forward and the power with which the new tail drove it backward, the mighty coma beneath us was bulging, was spreading! Bulging outward above and below, to right and to left, its giant crimsonglowing coma dilating and breaking up between the terrific pressures from front and rear I Changing from a great sphere to a gigantic shapeless crimson mass of electrical energy, bulging out in all directions, great flashes of leaping light inside it marking the end of the great comet-worlds caught and annihilated inside its tortured mass! Out — out — it swelled, our cruisers hanging far above it, watching it grow swiftly greater, thinner, until in moments more where the colossal crimson comet had been was nothing but a vast, far-flimg cloud of faint electrical radiance, the concentrated electrical energy that had been the giant comet and ‘its worlds dispersed out into that huge, faint-shining cloud!

The cosmic vampire that had threatened the life of our universe was gone forever! The comet-drivers had driven their comet and its worlds, at last, to death!


SWEEPING in toward the galaxy’s gathered suns, days later, our great cruiser fleet slowed, halted, hung motionless outside the galaxy’s edge once more. Before us flamed great white Rigel, as it had flamed — how long it seemed before! — when 6or Han and Jurt Tul and Najus Nar had gathered in the control room of my cruiser, at the start of our mad journey toward the comet. Now that comet was but a vast, faint cloud of

radiance far in the void behind us. And now, too, it was Gor Han and Jurt Tul that stood before me, in the cruiser’s silent control room.

The cruisers about us had massed into two great divisions, since here at the galaxy’s edge Gor Han and Jurt Tul were to leave me, taking up once more their duties in the ceaseless watch of the Interstellar Patrol, with for me my work as Chief in the headquarters at Canopus. The frantic joy that would be shaking the galaxy’s peoples to see the shadow of doom thus lifted from them, the frantic gratitude that we might claim — in these we had no interest now, wanting only to take up once more the great Patrol’s endless work. So now the cruisers of my two friends hung waiting beneath my own, as we paused in silence at the moment of parting.

Gor Han’s deep voice broke the silence at last. ‘ ‘ The end of the journey, for us,” he said. “And for Najus Nar?”

‘ ‘ For Najus Nar, too, ’ ’ I said. ‘ ‘ He dared and died, for the galaxy — ^pretending to join the comet-creatures that he might thwart their plans at the last — and he would have wished no other end.”

Jurt Tul nodded slowly. “Najus Nar would have wished it,” he said. “Yet strange it seems, that we four of the Patrol are three, at last.”

Silent we stood again, at that, and then Gor Han and Jurt Tul reached forth, Betelgeusan and Aldebaranian and earth-man clasping hands in a moment’s grip. Then they had turned, had saluted sharply, and were striding down through the cruiser toward their own ships, which with a clang of metal moved away from beneath my own. Gor Han’s to the right, Jurt Tul’s to the left, they moved, heading each the massed cruisers there, and then those cruisers were moving away, to right and left along the galaxy’s edge, passing and vanishing. My single cruiser hung alone



in the void, the pilot heside me with hands on its controls, but for a moment I paused still, g'azing back through the blackness of the great void toward a far, faint-shining cloud that glimmered in the blackness. A long moment I gazed toward it, then turned. And then our cruiser too was moving, in over the galaxy’s edge, in toward great Canopus through its gathered, flaming suns.

Thirsty Blades

(Contmued from page 171)

clang of a gong. The lower edge of the first full moon of spring had just cleared the horizon. Filing down Biban ul D jinni was a caravan of camels and horses, bearing at a steady gait toward a duster of shattered columns whose stumps towered skyward. As the light of the rising moon grew stronger, they eould pick out the figure of a warder on guard in the center of a circular courtyard.

‘ ‘ W orse and worse yet! ’ ’ exclaimed Ismeddin, as the Shareef drew up beside him. “Though I more than half expected as much. About forty of those sons of Satan.... You and I might have taken those seven by surprize ”

“Well, why not wait for the guard, Haaji?” demanded the Shareef.

‘“To late!” snapped Ismeddin. “You heard that gong? A warning signal. That caravan arrived just in time for the sacrifice. You and I must stop it.”

‘^Wallnh! But the odds are great.

... still ”

The Shareef drew his simitar.

After my own heart, saidi!” exclaimed the darvish. “But rash- Let them first get under ground ”

“But how about the sentiy?” demanded the Shareef. ^ ‘ He ’ll ^ve the alarm.”

* ‘On the contrary, uncle. Look!”

Ismeddin product from his capaMIND

POWER!


RESULTS


Tour destiny is NOT in the kands of Uie Goda of Luck or Chance. Don’t be a Blave to conditions — like chaff in the wind. You are blessed with mighty mental and psychic powers: these powers are lying dormant, unawakened within you. A few simple rules used every day wlU be the means of bringing about HEALTH, HAPPINESS and PROSPERITY.

THE WAY

A worM-wIde movement, the Roslcrucian •Order, for yeaxs has shown sincere men and women how to simply use their INNER FACULTIES to overcome LIFE’S OBSTACLES. Why look around you for help? — witlita is a solution.


Sincere seekers nmy secure, with no obligation, a new book — “THE LIGHT OP EGYPT." This book tells how you may team of the wonderful laws used by the Rosicruciaus, and how you. too, may put thesn into practl-ce. If thousands have been helped, why not you? Address a letter (not a postcard) as follows:


AMORC-ROSICRUCIAN ORDER Rosicrucian Park San Jose, Calif.


A Brothei^ood of Mystics

TEACHING

Ooiuitism, Psychology, Ancient Magic, Metaphysics and Comparative Eeligions.

For information address

SECRETARY GENERAL,

Bex 391, Plattstairg, N. T.

ASTBOXiOGT-^-EARN WHAT THE STABS

predict for 1930. Will yeu be lucky? WUl yon win in love? Will your investments prove profltable? Would a change in occupation give you a larger salary? Our Special IS-Page Astrological Reading gives predictions — ^month by mtmth — with exact days, dates and happenings for 19.30 based on your Sign of the Zodiac. Consult tt before making any change in home or business affairs, signing papers, leva courtship, m*rrlage, employment, travel, speculation, health, accidents, “lucky days,” etc. Send es&et hlrthdate with $1.00 for complete reading. Franklin PmbUsfaiag Oompany, tOO North dark eftroet. Dept. 328. Chicago.



cious wallet a small, glittering object: the effigy of a peacock ear\-ed of silver.

“Malik Tans! The damnation of Allah upon him! ’ ’ exclaimed the Shar reef as he recognized the symbol of the devil-worshipers.

“Follow me!” commanded Ismeddin, as he spurred his weary horse down the steep side of the valley.

They rode boldly now, making no attempt at concealment. The warder standing watch in the center of the ruined courtyard was taking an observation with his astrolabe, following the course of a star that flarhed bloodily overhead. Then he set aside his instrument and smote a brazen gong whose golden sheen they could plainly see in the white moonlight. The solemn, vibrant note rolled dreadfully across the valley. The tall figure of doom once more turned his astrolabe on the star whose altitude he was reading.

Ismeddin leaned forward in the saddle, chirping and muttering to his exhausted beast.

“Allah, what a horseman!” gasped the Shareef as he saw the asil mare, true to her breeding, stretch out again at a full gallop.

They clattered up the broad avenue, clearing fragments of monstrous columns at a bound, Ismeddin shouting in a language unknown to the Shareef.

The warder started, and turned to face them.

“Hurry, saidi\ The moment is almost here.” And then: “The sign and the symbol!”

Ismeddin extended the silver image of the peacock, and in response to the warder’s muttered formula, replied in that same obscure tongue.

The warder bowed, gestured toward the cavernous entrance to the vault, and turned to resume his obser\mtions....

The Shareef ’s blade flickered' in the moonlight.

Ismeddin seized one of the torches

that flared smokily at each side of the copper image, and plunged into the depths, three steps at a time.

‘ ‘ O NICK-SNICK-SNICK! ’ ’ whispered

^ the slender knife as Zantut continued the ceremonial whetting.

“Christ on the mountain tops!” despaired Rankin. “Sharpen that knife and be done with it!”

Rankin sighed, and relaxed as the diabolical whisper of steel against stone ceased, and Zantut, pacing about the altar, passed his hands and knife through each of the five streamers of violet flame. The Dark Prince would this time be victorious without even stepping from his throne. And this was the last chance....

Prom the depths came the ever-increasing volume of a beaten drum.

“Abaddon in the darkness beats his black di*um triumphantly!” intoned Zantut. And then he uttered a word of command, at which the assembled devil-worshipers knelt about the altar.

Zantut, knife in hand, stepped forward.

“Malik Taus, Lord and Master, accept the sacrifice that Thy servants offer!” he intoned, timing his words so that the last syllable would be coincident with the final stroke of the gong. “Malik Taus, the Night of Power is at liand. Malik Taus, the broad moon rises ”

“Halt!” commanded a voice that rang like sword against sword.

Zantut whirled about, knife in hand.

The adepts leaped to their feet.

Ismeddin, sword in one hand, torch in the other, stood in the entrance. Following him came the Shareef.

“Holy darvish! Oh, son of many pigs! ” roared the Shareef, and opened fire with his pistol. But the old man ’s rage was too much for his aim.

“Steady, uncle!” snapped Ismeddin. “You ’ll hit the girl! ’ ’

Zantut and his followers charged, swords drawn.



Ismeddin dashed his blade to the floor, drew from his djellab a slim tube the length of his forearm, and touched it with his torch.

The fuse sputtered... and then a cascade of sparks and flame.

“There is neither might nor majesty save in Allah, the hlereiful, the Compassionate! ’ ’ thundered Ismeddin. ‘ ‘ Out, sons of calamity! ’ ’

And as he sprayed the devil-worshipers i with his torrent of flame, he side-stepped to his right, flanking the howling, smoking, milling company of adepts, driving them toward the entrance, of the vault.

The devil- worshipers bolted, Zantut leading.

The Shareef opened fire with his pistol

Ismeddin tossed aside the dead signal rocket and retrieved his blade.

“Allah Akbar!” roared the Shareef as lie dropped his emptied pistol, drew his sword, and carved his way into the fugitives, cutting them down as they fought their way up the stairs.

Above the confusion and uproar of the slaughter, Ismeddin heard the clank of arms and the clatter of hoofs in the courtyard, far above them.

“If that’s the guard,” observed Ismeddin, as he paused to -wipe on his djellab the blood-drenched grip of his simitar, “all is well. But if it’s reinforcements for these sons of flat-nosed mothers, they’ll regain their wits... Drive hard, uncle! ’ ’

And the two graybeards resumed the pursuit, slashing and hacking as they took the steps three at a leap.

“Bismillahi!” exclaimed the Shareef, as he paused for breath. And then, listening to the increasing uproar from the courtyard: “Mamoun and the guard are at it!”

“ Wallah! But he made good time, ’ ’ agreed Ismeddin. “Do you blame me for stealing a few horses like those, Cousin of the Prophet? ’ ’

“Not after a night like this,” panted the Shareef.

“And now,” resumed Ismeddin,

Travel through strange, new lands in a strange, new world, the planet Venus, with Robert Grandon, ex-social lion

[THE END]

============================================================
by Kline and E. Hoffmann Price
============================================================
from dear old Terra Firma — in this thrilling yarn of strange ad* ventures — and virile imagination* It’s a trip worth taking.

Special First Edition Autographed hy Author

By Otis Adelben Kline

*****

Mail $2 to WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. K. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, and this book win be maiied to you postpaid.

A Fight Against Rupture


VS*

NEGLECT

Everyone should realize the seriousness of Rupture, even where the protrusion is small. The Brooks Appliance is the finest kind of mechanical sup* port for reducible rupture that it is possible to build. Hard pads and stiff \ springs are entirely eliminated. Our Automatic Air Cushion, light, cool and absolutely sanitary. Is protected by patents in the United States and all implant foreign countries.

Your name and address pinned to this advertisement will bring complete details of eur free trial plan in plain sealed envelope. No need to write a letter.

BROOKS APPIMNCE CR.. 94 State St.. MARSHALL, MICH

Bladder Irritation

If functional Bladder Irritation disturbs your sleep, causes Burning or Itching Sensation, Backache or Leg Pains, making you feel tired, depressed and discouraged, why not try the Cystex 48-Hour Test? Don't give up. Get Cystex today at any drug store. Put it to the test. See for yourself what It does. Money back if it doesn't bring quick improvement and satisfy you completely. Try Cystex today. Only 60c.


■WEIRD TALES

“let us attend to our work downstairs. Much is to be done, and there is little time. ’ ’

They retraced their steps, picking their way among the devil- worshipers that lay on the slippery stairs.

“Seven... eight,” counted Ismeddin as he led the way, “nine... son of a disease, how’ did I miss you?”

The old man’s blade drove home.

“Nine.,. ten... eleven,” continued the darvish. “And noAv, when we release Saidi Rankin, we will see some fighting. The Father of Lies must step from his black throne and meet Abdemon, sword to sword. And if Abdemon defeats him, the promise of Suleiman will at last be kept.”

“But he is a kaffir!” protested the Shareef. “And my brother’s daughter ”

“Be that as it may. If Saidi Rankin wins, it will only be because it so pleases Allah. Would you rather leave her spirit in the hands of Shaitan the Damned? Give me a hand, here, ’ ’ directed Ismeddin, as they halted at the black altar on which the prisoners lay bound.

T ogether they pushed the massive block a dozen paces from the throne, then cut the cords that bound Rankin, and removed from between his teeth the piece of wood with which he had been gagged.

‘ ‘ Ismeddin! ’ ’ gasped Rankin as he stretched his numbed limbs. “How much of this did you foresee? ’ ’

“All of it, saidi,” smiled the darvish. ‘ ‘ Except the final outcome. And that, inslialldh, depends on your sword. ’ ’

Rankin leaped to the tiled floor and flexed his cramped legs. He stared in wonder at the unveiled features of Azizah.

“Allah, and again, by Allah! Neferte... after all these centuries.... Then give me a sword!”

“Presently, my lord, presiently.” And then, to the Shareef; ” Kaffir or

true believer, she is his... for even Satan’s fortune can not last forever.”

Whereupon Ismeddin with a piece of chalk traced on the floor a circle some ten paces in diameter; and at three of the four cardinal points of the compass he inscribed a curious symbol, and several characters in the ancient Kufie script. Then from his knapsack he took a small box whose contents, a fine, reddish powder, he poured evenly in a circle that inclosed the first circle drawn in chalk, except for a yard-long gap precisely in front of the dark stranger’s throne.

“Saidi Rankin — Abdemon, as tonight you are — take your post, ’ ’ commanded the darvish, “Just a pace from the inner circumference, and facing that dark mocker on his lofty throne. Will you use my sword, or that of our lord, the Shareef? ’ ’

“Yours will bring me luck, Haaj Ismeddin, ’ ’ replied Rankin, ‘ ‘ Though all swords are alike tonight,” he concluded, as with a final glance at the sleeping loveliness on the porphyry block, he turned to belt Ismeddin ’s simitar to his waist.

“No scabbards tonight,” directed the darvish. “Take only the blade.”

As Rankin took his post, Ismeddin advanced to the foot of the dais. Extending his arms, Ismeddin began his invocation;

“Father of Mockeries, Master of Deceptions,” he intoned, “the diisty centuries are weary of your dominion. The word of Suleiman seeks its fulfilment, and the servant of Suleiman awaits your awakening. Dark Prince, Black Lord, the circle of your destiny has been drawn, and a doom awaits you with a sword. ’ ’

The darvish advanced a step of the ascent to the dais.

“I know your hidden name, and I can speak it to your ruin,” continued the darvish; and thus, step by step, he ascended. Biit on the last step, instead of speaking aloud, he leaned forward and whispered in the ear of the Dark Prince.



“Harkening and obedience,” growled the Presence, And like a doom that marches down the corridors of the w'orld, he strode down the steps of his dais and entered the circle, facing Rankin.

As he crossed the inner circumference, Ismeddin drew at the fourth cardinal point characters and sjunbols resembling those at the other three; and with a remnant of the red powder, he completed the outer circle. And all the while the Dark Presence stared at Rankin and beyond him cool and unconcerned, scorning even to smile his scorn.

Ismeddin then struck light to the circle of powder. A tall, unwavering green flame crept along the circumference, ruitil Rankin and his opponent w'ere inclosed in a waist-high wall of fire: and this incredible flame emitted an overpowering sweetness that made Rankin’s senses reel.

He saw nebulous forms gathering behind the Dark Prince, and crowding against the wall of flame. They muttered to each other, and with their left hands made curious signs. Then, from a great distance, Rankin heard the thump-thump of a drum, and the solemn voice of Ismeddin:

“ Abdemon, friend of Suleiman; and you, Iblis, bound to human form, stand in this circle which is neither earth nor high heaven, nor the house of everlasting fire: and this circle but one of you may leave,”

A pause; and then Ismeddin ’s command: “Strike!”

The drum resmned its savage muttering; and the opponents, swords advanced, circled warily, each seeking an opening in the other’s guard. Then swift as thought came a relentless whirlwind of steel that bore Rankin back, step by step. The green flames singed his kaftan. RanMn halted, flat-footed, parrying and returning, cut for cut. And from without the circle of quivering, leaping flame the little drum muttered fiercely the song pf doom which old Ismeddin 's knuckRUPTURE IS NOT A TEAR

Tour physician will tell you that hernia (rupture) is a muscular weakness in the abdominal wall. — Do not be satisfied with merely bracing these weakened muscles, with your condition probably growing worse every day! — Strike at the real cause of the trouble, and

WHEN—

The weakened muscles recover their strength and elasticity, and —

The unsightly, unnatural protrusion disappears, and —

You recover your vim, vigor and vitality,-— your strength and energy, — and you look and feel better in every way, — and your friends notice the difference, —

THEN —

You'll know your rupture is gone, and

You’ll know why for almost a quarter of a century numerous sworn statements report complete recovery and freedom from uncomfortable mechanical supports, without delay from work.

SEND NO mONEYI

A Test of the scientific self-treatment mentioned in coupon below is now available to you. whether you are young or old, man or woman. It costs you nothing to make this test. — ^For your own good mail the coupon NOW — TODAY.


Plapao Co., 60S Stuart Bldgr., St. Xiouis, i!Mo.

Send me a Free 10 day test supply of the remedial factor Plapao and 4 8 -page illustrated book on Rupture; DO charge for this now or later.

Name... —

Address.

DAM-ZINE

For Sick Glands Caused From Age, Abuse, Disease, Etc.

A product of medical research prescribed by Physicians in the treatment of starved glands. You take no chances and waste no money. Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded. We invite correspondence with Physicians. Packed 26 Dam-Zines, $1.00, 200 for $5.00. A $1.00 order pow means a $6.00 order later. Special Physicians offer 1,000 Dam-Zines for $21.25. All goods sent in plain sealed package postpaid. No C. O. D. Send cash or money order and expect Dam-Zines by first return mail. No delay. Write now. All correspondence confidential.


P. O. Box 101 Columbus, Ohio

SONG WRITERS; SCBSTANTIAL ADVANCE Royalties are paid on publisher’s acceptance. New booklet, ‘‘Song Requirements of Talking Pictures.” sent free. Newcomer Associates. 784 Earl Building, New York.

INVENTIONS WANTED — PATENTED, UNpatented. If you have an Idea for sale, writ* Hartley, Box 928, Bangor. Maine.



les and finger tips coaxed from its head of serpent hide.

“In four lives you have failed!” taunted the Dark Prince as he paused in his attack, and relaxed, point lowered.

Rankin’s blade wavered — groped — then sheared swiftly dovm and back in a drawing cut to the adversary’s forearm.

“You improve with practise!” mocked the Dark Prince as Rankin’s blade cut only the poison sweetness of the heavy air. “If you only had another life ”

Then he fell back before Rankin’s renewed' attack.

Clack-clack-click! Blade against blade, whirling, circling, yielding a step, gaining a step, traversing, dodging: parry, return, and cut again — an endless, deadly mill. The Dark Prince ceased smiling, and his breath came too fast for mockery. But Rankin’s tough arm ached to the very shoulder from the merciless, biting assault of steel upon steel. And his head whirled from the everlasting mutter of the snakeskin drum....

The figures crowding against the wall of green flame became more distinct. Their mumbled words became more plain. At times Rankin caught a word, and was glad that he could not understand all....

Steel against steel... strength against strength... but ages of cunning against the wits of one short life: for only the body of that terrific adversary was human.

The tall flames were diminishing. With them would perish the last chance. Those who had crossed the Border to aid their Prince crowded against the barrier that would soon give way. Rankin wondered if Suleiman’s shadowy presence was behind him; but he dared not glance back for even an instant.

The Dark Prince stood fast in the center of the circle, secure in his faultless defense. Rankin knew that when

he had exhausted himself against that flashing barrier of steel, the enemy would resume his deadly assault. Six to one in a side street... that was easy... but this thirsty blade would soon drink deep.... Rankin’s arm was numb, and his parry against those biting swift returns was ragged. Just one slip — and that would be any moment now....

The enemy’s eye shifted ever so slightly. He measured the height of the diminishing green flame, and smiled again.

Then Rankin cut to the head. The adversary parried, and the hungry blade flamed swiftly in return

Rankin could not parry. But stretched out in a full lunge, he passed beneath the shearing steel, and drove home with his point

The green flame flickered and died.

Rankin, still clutching his blade, lurched forward on his face as the Dark Prince crumpled in a heap on the tiles. But before the blackness descended, Rankin caught a glimpse of the shadowy figure of a bearded king who bowed and extended his arm in salutation. And this time the smiling loveliness of the girl at his side was not obscured by any veil....

A strong hand gripped Rankin’s shoulder, pulled him back to his knees, and lifted him to his feet.

Wallah!” marveled the Shareef.

Kaffir or not, he is the father of all swordsmen! I knew that his head would be clipped off. And then he stretched out and impaled that son of confusion.... Look! That stroke sheared off a bit of his turban. Allah, and again, by Allah!”

“Then give him his prize, saidi” replied Ismeddin. And to Azizah, who sat upright and wondering on the polished black sacrificial stone: “You need no veil, ya hint! After all these dusty centuries, you are his.”

Ismeddin turned to the Shareef: “As for me, saidi, I will be content



with but one of those asU mares you wagered against my cracked head."

“So be it," laughed the Shareef, as he led the way up the blood-drenched stairs. “Though doubtless you will steal the other in due course! ’ ’


A Ghost

By GUY DE MAUPASSANT

W E WERE speaking of sequestration, alluding to a recent lawsuit. It was at the close of a friendly evening in a very old mansion in the Rue de Grenelle, and each of the guests had a story to tell, which he assured us was true.

Then the old Marquis de la TourSamuel, eighty-two years of age, rose and came forward to lean on the mantelpiece. He told the following story in his slightly quavering voice.

“I, also, have witnessed a strange thing — so strange that it has been the nightmare of my life. It happened fifty-six years ago, and yet there is not a month when I do not see it again in my dreams. From that day I have home a mark, a stamp of fear — do you understand?

“Yes, for ten minutes I was a prey to terror, in such a way that ever since a constant dread has remained in my soul. Unexpected sounds chill me to the heart; objects which I can ill distinguish in the evening shadows make me long to flee. I am afraid at night.

“ No! I would not have owned such a thing before reaching my present age. But now I may tell everything. One may fear imaginary dangers at eighty-two years old. But before actual danger I have never turned back, mesdames.

“That affair so upset my mind.

SlihliliHlilihi

Shhhhhb)

What was the weird cry that made Gloria tremble? What phantom sought to lead the supposed Van Mortimer, king of Wall Street, to a weird cofto?

A mystep^ story that defies imagination in its tmusual treat of being truly unusual.

* ♦ * *

Mail $2 to WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. L, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, and this book will be mailed to you postpaid.

Anyone Interested in

Occult Sciences and Mysteries,

send us your name and address. Join new Mental Science League, no charge.

J. M. Simmons & Co.

109 Jf. Dearborn St. Chicago, ni.

Quit Tobacco

Don’t t37 tobsnigh osaidod Ae bold tobacco baa npon yoa.

TbooaaDdB of inveterate tobacco users have, with the aid of the Keeley Treatment, found it easy to Quit.


for over SO years. Write today for Ff^!E BOOK and our MONEY BACK GUARANTEE.

KEEUEY INSTITUTE. Dept. E-707. Dwieht, Illinois

WRITERS Of SONG POEMS

Write for Music Excerpts and testimonials and my genuine proposition. Ernest Shonfleld, W-11. 2236 Olive Ave., Pasadena, Calif.

FOR SALE

Complete sets (12 issues) of 1928 and 1929 issues of “Weird Tales” — $3.60 per set, or 30c per single copy for any issue In either 1928 or 1929. WEIRD TALES. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago. III.

♦Translated from the French.



filled me ■with such a deep, mysterious unrest that I never could tell it. I kept it in that inmost part, that comer •where we conceal our sad, our shameful secrets, all the weaknesses of our life which can not be confessed.

“I will tell you that strange happening just as it took place, with no attempt to explain it. Unless I went mad for one short hour it must be explainable, though. Yet I was not mad, and I will prove it to you. Imagine what you will. Here are the simple facts:

“It was in 1827, in July. I was quartered with my regiment in Rouen.

“One day, as I was strolling on the quay, I came across a man I believed I recognized, though I could not place him with certainty. I instinctively went more slowly, ready to pause. The stranger saw my impulse, looked at me, and fell into my arms.

“It was a friend of my younger days, of whom I had been very fond. He seemed to have become half a century older in the five years since I had seen him. His hair was white, and he stooped in his walk, as if he were exhausted. He understood my amazement and told me the story of his life.

“A terrible event had broken him do'wn. He had fallen madly in love with a young girl and married her iu a kind of dream-like ecstasy. After a year of unalloyed bliss and unexhausted passion, she had died suddenly of heart disease, no doubt killed by love itself.

“He had left the country on the very day of her funeral, and had come to live in his hotel at Rouen. He remained there, solitary and desperate, grief slowly mining him, so wretched that he constantly thought of suicide.

“ ‘As I thus came across you again,’ he said, ‘I shall ask a great favor of you. I want you to go to my chateau and get some papers I urgently need. They are in the writing-desk of my room, of our room. I can not send a servant or a lawyer, as the errand

must be kept private. I want absolute silence.

“ ‘I shall give you the key of the I’oom, which I locked carefully myself before leaving, and the key to the writing-desk. I shall also give you a note for the gardener, who will let you in.

“ ‘Come to breakfast with me tomorrow, and we’ll talk the matter over.’

“I promised to render him that slight service. It would mean but a pleasant excursion for me, his home being not more than twenty-five miles from Rouen. I could go there in an hour on horseback.

‘‘At ten o’clock the next day I was with him. We breakfasted alone together, yet he did not utter more than twenty words. He asked me to excuse him. The thought that I was going to visit the room where his happiness lay shattered upset him, he said. Indeed, he seemed perturbed, worried, as if some mysterious struggle were taking place in his soul.

“At last he explained exactly what I was to do. It was very simple. I was to take two packages of letters and some papers, locked in the first drawer at the right of the desk of which I had the key. He added:

“ ‘ I need not ask you not to glance at them. ’

“I was almost hurt by his words, and told him so, rather sharply. He stammered: ‘Forgive me. I suffer so much! ’

“And tears came to his eyes.

“T LEFT about one o’clock to accomplish my errand.

‘ ‘ The day was radiant, and I rushed through the meadows, listening to the song of the larks, and the rhythmical be^t of my sword on my riding-boots.

“Then I entered the forest, and I set my horse to walking. Branches of the trees softly caressed my face, and now and then I would catch a leaf between my teeth and bite it with



avidity, ftill of the joy of life, such as fills one without reascai, with a tumiiltuous happiness almost indefinable, a kind of magical strengtL

“As I neared the house I took out the letter for the gardener, and noted with surprize that it was sealed. I was so amazed and so annoyed that I almost turned back without fulfilling my mission. Then I thought that I should thus display over-sensitiveness and bad taste. My friend might have sealed it unconsciously, worried as he was.

“The manor looked as though it had been deserted the last twenty years. The gate, wide open and rotten, held, one wondered how. Grass fiU^ the paths; I could not tell the flower-beds from the lawn.

“At the noise I made kicking a shutter, an old man came out from a side door and was apparently amazed to ^ me there. I dismounted from my horse and gave him the letter. He I’ead it once or twice, turned it over, looked at me with suspicion, and asked: ‘Well, what do you want?’

“I answered sharply: ‘You must know, as you have read your master’s orders. I want to get in the house.’

“He appeared overwhelmed. He said: ‘So-— you are going in — ^in his room?’

“I was getting impatient. ‘Par- 'bUu! Do you intend to question me?’

“He stammered: ‘No — monsiextr — only — ^it has not been opened since — since the death. If you will wait five minutes, I will go in to see whether ’

“I interrupted angrily: ‘See here, are you joking? You can’t go in that room as I have the key! ’

“He no longer knew what to say.

“ ‘Then, monsieur, I will show you the way.’

“ ‘Show me the stairs and leave me alone. I can find it without your help.’

“ ‘But — still — m,onsieur ’

“Then I lost my temper. ‘Now be g.uiet! Else you ’ll be sorry! ’

Whether an experienced

Auto man or not— if you've had jQst common echooUng, 0nd out about this new^ easy, practical ** Tramicg. Leamhow

i my Employment Department I helps you get the som Jobs— ft all the details of my offer of

m a complete course in Aviatnm K Freeof Extra charge, and my 3 ■ Outfitsoffer.Sendcooponnowl

Compute

AVIATION

COURSE rnrr of Extra rKLC Charge

Also % TesciBC antf. Repair Ootfits -

Compute

AVIATION

COURSE rnrr rif Extra rntt Charge

Alsa j T«tin{ aai. Repair Oatfiu ■,

AT home/

I F YC^*R£ earning s cart teas than $60 a week, send for my Free Auto Book« See how yoa cao get complete tnetroction at, bomeg covering every branch of I Ante work* Lear* bow you can prepare for the big onportenities— jobs paying cp to ^,000 a year. Clip coupoB for foil particulara.

Earn np to $teo a Week

-».w. coofcc;

Diraettag Engfiseer ^ MOTOniNsriTUTEofAmeiica MotorlnstituteBldg.jPept. 3722 Evanatoog Hk

Send at once, ronr FBEB Book, *' Aoto Facta. Also toll Darticoiaro of * ‘ Job« Way*' Tfstning^, aaid ot roar Ariadoa Course SBO Worktog Outfits Oust. Mo obliswon on my part.

Name.

Addreso.

ifgs. Occ%tpcUion

He Stopped Whiskey!

Wonderful Treatment Helped i Faithful Wife to Save Husband When S All Else Failed

Try it FREE

Wives, mothers, ters, it is you that the man who drinks Whiskey. Wine or Beer to excess must depend upon to save him from a ruined life and a drunkard's grave. Take heed from the thousands of men going to luln dai^ through vfle boot* logger's Whiskey, and the horrible stuff called home brew from private stills. Once he gets It in his system he can't stop — but you can save him. What it has done for others is an example of what it should do for you. AU you have to do is to send your name and address and we will send absolutely FEEE, in E^ain wrapper, a trial package GOLDEN TREATMENT, You will be thanlrful as long as you live that you did it. Address

The Happy Reunion


3431 Glenn Building Cixkcinnati, CKaK>

TBANSFRR TOVR THOUGHTS TO OTHK&S. Send for free folder, •‘Telepathy or Mental Radio.** Floreace tt>. Hall. Box S, Rising Sun, Maryland.



“I roughly pushed him aside and went into the house.

“I first went through the kitchen, then crossed two small rooms occupied by the man and his wife. From there I stepped into a large hall. I went up the stairs, and recognized the door my friend had described to me.

‘ ‘ I opened it with ease and went in.

‘ ‘ The room was so dark that at first I could not distinguish anything. I paused, arrested by that moldy and stale odor peculiar to deserted and condemned rooms, of dead rooms. Then gradually my eyes grew accustomed to the gloom, and I saw rather clearly a great room in disorder, a bed without sheets, having still its mattresses and pillows, one of which bore the deep print of an elbow or a head, as if someone had just been resting on it.

‘ ‘ The chairs seemed all in confusion. I noticed that a door, probably that of a closet, had remained ajar.

“I first went to the window and opened it to get some light, but the hinges of the outside shutters were so rusted that I could not loosen them.

“I even tried to break them with my sword, but did not succeed. As thos§ fruitless attempts irritated me, and ^ my eyes were by now adjusted to the dim light, I gave up hope of getting mox’e light and went toward the writing-desk.

“I sat down in an armchair, folded back the top, and opened the drawer. It was full to the edge. I needed but three packages, which I knew how to distinguish, and I started looking for them.

** T WAS straining my eyes to decipher

A the inscriptions, when I thought I heard, or rather felt, a rustle behind me. I took no notice, thinking a draft had lifted some curtain. But a minute later, another movement, almost indistinct, sent a disagreeable shiver over my skin. It was so ridiculous to be moved thus even so slightly, that I would not turn

around, being a^amed. I had just discovered the second package I needed, and was on the point of reaching for the third, when a great and sorrowful sigh, close to my shoulder, made me give a mad leap two yards away. In my spring I had tximed round, my hand on the hilt of my sword, and surely had I not felt that, I should have fled like a coward.

“A tall woman, dressed in white, was facing me, standing behind the chair in which I had sat a second before.

“Such a shudder ran through me that I almost fell back! Oh, no one who has not felt them can imderstand those gruesome and ridiculous terrors! Your soul melts; your heart seems to stop; your whole body becomes limp as a sponge, and your innermost parts seem collapsing.

“I do not believe in ghosts; and yet I broke down before the hideous fear of the dead; and I suffered, oh, I suffered more in a few minutes, in the irresistible anguish of supernatural dread, than I have suffered in all the rest of my life!

“If she had not spoken, I might have died. But she did speak; she spoke in a soft and plaintive voice which set my nerves vibrating. I could not say that I regained my selfcontrol. No, I was past knowing what I did; but the kind of pride I have in me, as well as a military pride, helped me to maintain, almost in spite of myself, an honorable countenance. I was making a pose, a pose for myself, and for her, whatever she was, woman, or phantom. I realized this later, for at the time of the apparition I could tliink of nothing. I was afraid.

“She said: ‘Oh, you can be of great help to me, monsieur!’

“I tried to answer, but I was unable to utter one word. A vagme sound came from my throat.

“She continued: ‘Will you? You can save me, cure me. I suffer terribly. I always suffer. I suffer, oh, I suffer! ’



“And she sat down gently in my chair. She looked at me.

“ ‘Will yon?’

“I nodded my head, being still paralyzed.

“Then she handed me a woman’s comb of tortoise-shell, and murmured: ‘Comb my hair! Oh, comb my hair! That will cure me. Look at my head — how I suffer! And my hair — ^how it hurts! ’

“Her loose haii’, very long, very black, it seemed to me, hung over the back of the chair, touching the floor.

“Why did I do it? Why did I, shivering, accept that comb, and why did I take between my hands her long hair, which left on my skin a ghastly impression of cold, as if I had handled serpents? I do not Imow.

“That feeling still clings about my fingers, and I shiver when I recall it.

“I combed her, I handled, I know not how, that hair of ice. I bound and unbound it; I plaited it as one plaits a horse’s mane. She sighed, bent her head, seemed happy.

“Suddenly she said, ‘Thank you!’ tore the comb from my hands, and fled through the door, which I had noticed was half opened.

“Left alone, I had for a few seconds the hazy feeling one feels in waking up from a nightmare. Then I recovered myself. I ran to the window and broke the shutters by my furious assault.

“A stream of light poured in. I rushed to the door through which that being had gone. I found it locked and immovable.

“Then a fever of flight seized on me, a panic, the true panic of battle. I quickly grasped the three packages of letters from the open desk; I crossed the room running; I took the steps of the stairway four at a time. I found myself outside, I don’t know how, and seeing my horse close by, I mounted in one leap and left at a full gallop.

“I didn’t stop till I reached Rouen

p YEARS tom TODAY

We travel with Loto, the man who conquers time, as the Wright Brothers conquered the air — to a land that lives long after our own civilization lias died — to meet Azeele and Dianne —to attend the sensuous Flower Festival — and to return, but not alone, in this scientific yarn.

an Who astcred...Jime

By Ray Cummings

Mail $2 to WEIRD TALES, Book Dept. O. 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, and this book will be mailed to you postpaid.

777 FORMULA

Composed of ACTUAL GLAND MATERIALS and stimidative tonic in tablet form. Send $2 for a full strength package.

Msblatt Satltfsctlon GUARANTEED or Mossy RofuDded — ^You Tate No RItli.

2 Packages for $3.00 — also C. O. -D. CERES CB., PeBt. WT-IO 830 Arcli St., Philadeiphia, Pa.

^^BOOKIO/^

Explains many mystifying tricks with coins, cards, handkerchiefs, etc., you can do. Also contains complete catalog of Magic Tricks, Jokes, Puzzles, Escapes. Curios, and Imported Novelties from many Foreign lands. Large assortment, lowest prices. Tou will amaze and mystify your friends I Send 10c today,

LYLE DOUGLAS,

Stirtlon A-e Oallee, Texaa


you that I will teach you, by mail In one lesson, the simplest, shortest, method. Not telepathy. You can read one's mind to a dot by only looking In the eyes of partner, chum, sweetheart. etc. Praised by New York, Boston, Montreal Police Chiefs, colleges. Thurston. Blackstone, etc. If fake, let them arrest me. Send In all $1.00.

A. Honigman, Sta. E. P, 0. B. 85, Sec. WT-IO, Moptreal, Caa.

TOBAQCO

Over 500^ us«d i^terba Remedy to help stop Cij^krs. Cigarette Pipe. CheT5ng, Smiff Write for mil treatmez^ on trial C^ts $100 ^successful nothing if not SUPCR6AC0. H-50. Baitimorat^O




WANTED

We Paid $200

to J.D.MART1N of Virginia


$i00.0du pftynmt •eu 1 «B&t 1 aQssdatc4te toit

Mrou have jiven diia taauMcdoA. U b « teb— ore n ^ ba^ea 'wbfa • -fiND chat fc m i ia a M B t ea mjKm do. i aiab to b»i • ur« you dial It wlu be a plfawc to oa bo tell «B my fiimda your woaderftf «Ssr ^ <oba.*'

ICUAI9 tX MAJOVb

Poet yourself! Itfayel WepaidMt. Manning, NewYork, $2500 for a*injsle silver dollar. Mrs. a F. Adams. $740 for some old coins. W. F. Wilharm, Pennsylvania, $13,500 for his rare coins. lnthelaBt20 years we have paid hundreds of others handsome premiums.

An kinds of Old Coins.MedaU Bills and Stamps Wanted

Bight now well pay $50 for 1913 Liberty Head nickels (not Buffalo) $100 for 1894 dimes *‘S**Mint. $8,00forl853 quarters, no arrows. $200each forl884 and 1885 Silver Trade Dollars. lOc each for 1912 “S” Mint nickels, etc. Mg Oasis PreniHmaXor Hitnd* ndsadC^tesaiswOi^enlatlns We want thousands of edd coirts and will pay Big Cash Premiums to ga: them. We offiernp to $1,000 premium for certain eoios and lessee amounts far hundreds of others. Send 4 cents for our large, illustrated Com folder. Its contents will amaze you. Ko obligation on your part. It may mean much profit to you. Yon have nothing to lose and everything to gain.

Send

this

COUPON

fbbsCmatlC'BSnli BMg. EtiHlished Orrr 20 Years

NUMISMATIC COMPANY OF TEXAS, Dept. 260, Fort Worth, Texac.

Please send me your large Ulustrated Coin Folder for which I enclose 4 cents.

Name

Address

State—-,

and drew up in front of my house. Having thrown the reins to my orderly, I flew to my room and locked myself in to think.

'‘Then for an hour I asked myself whether I had not been the victim of an haJluemation. Certainly I must have had one of those nervous shocks, one of those brain disorders such as give rise to miracles, to which the supernatural owes its strength.

“And I had almost concluded that it was a vision, an illusion of my senses, when I came near to the window. My eyes by chance looked down. My tunic was covered with hairs, long woman’s bail’s which had entangled themselves around the buttons!

“I took them off one by one and threw them out of the window with trembling fingers.

“I then called my orderly. I felt too perturbed, too moved, to go and see my friend on that day. Besides, I needed to think over what I should tell him.

“I had his letters delivered to him. He gave a receipt to the soldier. He inquired after me and was told that I was not well. I had had a sunstroke, or something. He seemed distressed.

“I went to see him the next day, early in the moming, bent on telling him the truth. He had gone out the evening before and had not come back.

“I returned the same day, hut he had not been seen. I waited a week. He did not come hack. I notified the I>olioe. They searched for him everywhei«, but no one could find any trace of his passing or his retreat.

“A careful search was made in the deserted manor. No suspicious clue was discovered.

“There was no sign that a woman had been concealed there.

“The inquest gave no result, an3 so the search went no further.

‘ ‘ And in fifty-six years I have learned nothing more. I never found out the truth.”

Oity

She is Yours,

asterr

SICK at heart the trembling girl shuddered at the words that delivered her to this terrible fate of the East. How could she escape from this Oriental monster into whose hands she had been given — this mysterious man of mighty power whose face none had yet seen?

Here is an extraordinary situation. What was to be the fate of this beautiful girl? Who was this strange emissary whom no one really knew?

To know the answer to this and the most exciting tales of Oriental adventure and mystery ever told, read on through the most thrilling, absorbing, entertaining and fascinating pages ever written.

Masterpieces of Oriental Mystery

11 Superb Volumes by SAX ROHMER Written with his uncanny knowledge of things Oriental

H ere you are offered no ordinary mystery stories. In these books the hidden secrets, mysteries and intrigues of the Orient fairly leap from the pages. Before your very eyes spreads a swiftly moving panorama that takes you breathless from the high places of society — from homes of refinement and luxury to sinister underworlds of Loudon and the Far East — from Piccadilly and Broadway to incredible scenes behind idol temples in far off China — to the jungles of Malay, along strange paths to the very seat of Hindu sorcery.

11 Mystery Volumes Packed With Thrills!

Be the first in your community to own these, the most wonderful Oriental mystery stories ever published — books that have sold by the hundred thousand at much hi gher prices — books you will enjoy reading over a nd

~!PREMIUM-YOURS action ■

This famous Gurkha Kukri of solid brass, 6^' long. Is an exact replica of that used by the Hindu soldiers in the World War and so graphically described by Kipling in his stirring story "The Drums of the Fore and Aft.” Exquisitely wrought on both sides in an ancient symbolical design, A rare curio to have and useful as a letter-opener, a paper-weight or a protection on occasion. A limited quantity on hand will be given without added cost as a premium for promptness —but you must act today!

over again. Handsomely bound in substantial cloth covers, a proud adornment for your table or shelf. These are the sort of stories that President Wilson, Koosevelt and other great men read to help them relax — to forget their burdens. To read these absorbing tales of the mysterious East is to cast your worries into oblivion — to increase your efficiency.

Priced for Quick Sale

Printing these volumes by the hundred thousand when ^ paper was cheap makes this low price possible.

Only a limited number left. Dm'tlose a minute! ^ Oepi.

Complete Sets Free on Approval ^ 57

You needn’t send a cent. Simply mail the coupon and this amazing set will go to you Immediately, allcharges prepaid. If it fails

to delight you, return it in ten days at our expense.

2-30 ^ McKlNLAY. STONE &

MACKENZIE 114E.16thSt.,N.T.

^ Please send me on ap- ” proval, all charges prePaid, your special set of Masterpieces of Oriental Mystery, In 11 handsomely AS' bound cloth volumes. If ^ter ^ 10 days’ free examination, I »» A* delighted, 1 will send you $1.00 ^ promptly and $1.00 a month for -j only 14 months; when yod receive xy my first payment you are tv send me o the Gurkha Kukri without extra cost. Jy Otherwise. I will return the Mt in 10 days your expense, the examination to cost me ^nothing.

Name.

Occupation

-'a«e:Oow2lf Untur 2lf a

McKinlay,Stone&Mackenzie,N.'!||;Y][;kcu'^;N!’i^if« m m. for cash deduct 5% naaaJ

‘'yes, I cried, and til bet money lean do it/

“What? learn Music

by Mail?’ they laughed

ONE day after lunch the office crowd was in the recreatien-room, smoking and talking, while I thumbed through a magazine.

“Why so quiet, Joe," some one called to me. “Just reading an ad,“ I replied, “about a new way to learn music by mail. Says here anyone can learn to play in a ^w months at home, without a teacher. Sounds easy."

“Ha, ha,” laughed Fred Lawrence, “do you suppose they would say it was hard?”

“Perhaps not,” I came back, a bit peeved, “but it sounds so reasonable I thought I'd write them for their booklet.”

Well, maybe I didn't get a razzing then! Fred Lawrence sneered: “The poor fellow really believes he can learn music by mail!”

“Yes, and I'll bet money I can do it!” I cried. But the crowd only laughed harder than ever,, _,

During the few months that followed Fred Lawrence never missed a chance to give me a sly dig about my bet; And the boys always got a good laugh, too. But I never said a word. I was waiting patiently for a chance to get the last laugh myself.

My Chance Arrives

Then came the office outing at Pine Grove.

After lunch it rained, and we had to sit around inside.

Suddenly some one spied a piano In the corner. Fred Lawrence saw. a fine chance to have some fun at my expense.

“Ladies aiii gentlemen,” he cried, “our friend Joe, the music-master, has consented to give us a recital.”

That gave the boys a good laugh. Some of them got on either side of me and with mock dignify started to escort me to the piano.

■ ‘Play ‘ The Varsity Drag',** shouted Fred, thinking to embarrass me further. I

heard a girl say, “Oh, let the poor fellow alone; can't you see he's mortified to death?’*

The Last Laugh

I smiled to myself. This was certainly a wonderful setting for my little surprise party. Assuming a scared look, I began fingering the keys, and then... with a wonderful feeling of cool confidence... I broke right into the very selection Fred asked for. There was a sudden hush in the room as I made that old piano talk. But in a few minutes a fellow jumped to his feet and shouted. “Believe me. the boy is there! Let's dance.**

Tables and chairs were pushed aside, and soon the whole crowd was having a whale of a time. I played one peppy selection after another until I finished with “Crazy Rhythm,” and the crowd stopped dancing and singing to applaud me. As I turned around to thank them, there was Fred holding a tenspot under my nose.

“Folks,” he said, “I want to apologize to Joe. I bet him he couldn't learn to play by mail, and believe me, he sure deserves to win the money!” “Learn to play hy maiH^'enclaimed a dozen people. “That sounds impossible! Tell us how you did it!”

I was only too glad to tell them how I’d always wanted to play but couldn’t afford a teacher, and couldn't think of spending years in practice. 1 described how I had read the U. S. School of Music ad and how Fred bet me I couldn't learn to play by mail.

“Folks,” I continued, “it was the biggest surprise of my life when I got the first lesson. It was fun right from the start, everything as simple as A B-C. There were no scales or tiresome exercises. And all it required was part of my spare time. In a short time I was playing jazz, classical pieces, and in fact, anything I wanted. Believe me, that certainly was a profitable bet I made with Fred.”

Play Any Instrument

You, too, can t.each yourself to be an accomplished musician — right at home — in half the usual time — through this simple new method which has already taught over lialf a million people. Forget that oldfashioned idea that you need special “talent.” Just read the list of instruments in the panel, decide which one you want to play, -and the U. S. School will do the. ^st. And bear in mind, no matter which instrument you choose, the cost averages just a few cents a day.

Send for Our Free Booklet and Demonstration Lesson

If you are in earnest about wanting to play your favorite instrument — if you really want to gain happiness and increase your popularity — send at once for the Free Booklet and Free Demonstration Lesson which explain all about this remarkable method. The booklet will also tell you all about the amazing new Automatic Finger Control. No cost — no obligation. Sign and send the convenient coupon now. Instruments supplied when needed, cash or credit. U. S. School of Music, 4 62 Brunswick Bldg., New York City.

V. S. School of Music,

463 Brunswick Bldg-., New York City

Please send me your free book, “Music Lessons in Your Own Home,” with.- introduction by Dr. Frank Crane, Free Demonstration Lesson and particulars of yoiir easy payment plan. I am interested in the following course:

Have you

Instr'/

Name

Address

City State

What Instrument for You?

Piano Piccolo Organ Hawaiian Violin Steel

Clarinet Guitar Flute Drums and Harp Traps

Cornet Mandolin ’Cello Sight Singing Guitar Trombone Fkulele Piano Saxophone Accordion Italian and German Accordion

Banjo, (Plectrum, 5String or Teno’*) Voice and Speech Culture

Harmony and Composition Automatic Finger Control

[THE END]
