============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 22, Number 6
Date: December 1933
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Old Garfield’s Heart Robert E" by Howard
============================================================
============================================================
OLD GARFIELD’S HEART ROBERT E
by Howard
============================================================
'"The Mark is gone!” he cried. "By Allah and by Allah, thou art free! The Walker- through-the-centuries will walk no more!”

Old Garfield’s Heart

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

A strange occult story of a heart that continued to beat vigorously after its oumer was dead

IWAS sitting on the porch when my 'T thought you’d be goin’ to the grandfather hobbled out and sank dance,” he said.

down on his favorite chair with the "I’m waiting for Doc Blaine,” I a*- cushioned seat, and began to sbxflf tobacco swered. "I’m going over to old man in his old corncob-pipe, Garfield’s with him.”

OLD GARFIELD’S HEART


My grandfather sucked at his pipe awhile before he spoke again.

"Old Jim purty bad off?”

"Doc says he hasn’t a chance.”

"Who’s takin’ care of him?”

"Joe Braxton — against Garfield’s wishes. But somebody had to stay with him.”

My grandfather sucked his pipe noisily, and watched the heat lightning playing away off up in the hills; then he said: "You think old Jim’s the biggest liar in this county, don’t you?”

"He tells some pretty tall tales,” I admitted. "Some of the things he claimed he took part in, must have happened before he was bom.”

"I came from Tennessee to Texas in 1870,” my grandfather said abruptly. "I saw this town of Lost Knob grow up from nothin’. 'There wasn’t even a loghut store here when I came. But old Jim Garfield was here, livin’ in the same place he lives now, only then it was a log cabin. He don’t look a day older now than he did the first time I saw him.”

"You never mentioned that before,” I said in some surprize.

"I knew you’d put it down to an old man’s maunderin’s,” he answered. "Old Jim was the first white man to settle in this country. He built his cabin a good fifty miles west of the frontier. God knows how he done it, for these hills swarmed with Comanches then.

"I remember the first time I ever saw him. Even then everybody called him 'old Jim.’

"I remember him tellin’ me the same tales he’s told you — ^how he was at the battle of San Jacinto when he was a youngster, and how he’d rode with Ewen Cameron and Jack Hayes. Only I believed him, and you don't.”

"That was so long ago ” I protested.

"The last Indian raid through this country was in 1874,” said my grandfather, engrossed in his own reminiscences. "I was in on that fight, and so was old Jim. I saw him knock old Yellow Tail oflF his mustang at seven hundred yards with a buffalo rifle.

"But before that I was with him in a fight up near the head of Locust Creek. A band of Comanches came down Mesquital, lootin’ and burnin’, rode through Ae hills and started back up Locust Creek, and a scout of us were hot on their heels. We ran on to them just at sundown in a mesquite flat. We killed seven of them, and the rest skinned out through the brush on foot. But three of our boys were killed, and Jim Garfield got a thrust in the breast with a lance.

"It was an awful wound. He lay like a dead man, and it seemed sure nobody could live after a wound like tliat. But an old Indian came out of the brush, and when we aimed our guns at him, he made the peace sign and spoke to us in Spanish. I don’t know why the boys didn’t shoot him in his tracks, because our blood was heated with the fightin’ and killin’, but somethin’ about him made us hold our fire. He said he wasn’t a Comanche, but was an old friend of Garfield’s, and wanted to help him. He asked us to carry Jim into a clump of mesquite, and leave him alone with him, and to this day I don’t know why we did, but we did. It was an awful time — the wounded moanin’ and callin’ for water, the starin’ corpses strewn about the camp, night cornin’ on, and no way of knowin' that the Indians wouldn’t return when dark fell.

"We made camp right there, because the horses were fagged out, and we watched ail night, but the Comanches didn’t come back. I don’t know what went on out in the mesquite where Jim



Garfield’s body lay, because I never saw that strange Indian again; but durin’ the night I kept bearin’ a weird moanin’ that wasn’t made by the dyin’ men, and an owl hooted from midnight till dawn.

"And at sunrise Jim Garfield came walkin’ out of the mesquite, pale and haggard, but alive, and already the wound in his breast had closed and begun to heal. And since then he’s never mentioned that wound, nor that fight, nor the strange Indian who came and went so mysteriously. And he hasn’t aged a bit; he looks now just like he did then — a man of about fifty.’’

In the silence that followed, a car began to purr down the road, and twin shafts of light cut through the dusk.

"That’s Doc Blaine,” I said. "When I come back I’ll tell you how Garfield is.”

Doc Blaine was prompt with his predictions as we drove the three miles of post-oak covered hills that lay between Lost Knob and the Garfield farm.

"I’ll be surprized to find him alive,” he said, "smashed up like he is. A man his age ought to have more sense than to try to break a young horse.”

"He doesn’t look so old,” I remarked.

"I’ll be fifty, my next birthday,” answered Doc Blaine. "I’ve known him all my life, and he must have been at least fifty the first time I ever saw him. His looks are deceiving.”

OLD Garfield’s dwelling-place was reminiscent of the past. 'The boards of the low squat house had never known paint. Orchard fence and corrals were built of rails.

Old Jim lay on his rude bed, tended crudely but efiiciently by the man Doc Blaine had hired over the old man’s protests. As I looked at him, I was impressed anew by his evident vitality. His frame was stooped but unwithered, his

limbs rounded out with springy muscles. In his corded neck and in his face, drawn though it was with suffering, was apparent an innate virility. His eyes, though partly glazed with pain, burned with the same unquenchable element.

"He’s been ravin’,” said Joe Braxton stolidly.

"First white man in this country,” muttered old Jim, becoming intelligible. "Hills no white man ever set foot in before. Gettin’ too old. Have to settle down. Can’t move on like I used to. Settle down here. Good country before it filled up with cow-men and squatters. Wish Ewen Cameron could see this country. The Mexicans shot him. Damn ’em!”

Doc Blaine shook his head. "He’s all smashed up inside. He won’t live till daylight.”

Garfield unexpectedly lifted his head and looked at us with clear eyes.

"Wrong, Doc,” he wheezed, his breath whistling with pain. "I’ll live. What’s broken bones and twisted guts? Nothin’! It’s the heart that counts. Long as the heart keeps pumpin’, a man can’t die. My heart’s sound. Listen to it! Feel of it!”

He groped painfully for Doc Blaine’s wrist, dragged his hand to his bosom and held it there, staring up into the doctor’s face with avid intensity.

"Regular dynamo, ain’t it?” he gasped. "Stronger’n a gasoline engine!”

Blaine beckoned me. "Lay your hand here,” he said, placing my hand on the old man’s bare breast. "He does have a remarkable heart action.”

I noted, in the light of the coal-oil lamp, a great livid scar in the gaunt arching breast — such a scar as might be made by a flint-headed spear. I laid my hand directly on this scar, and an exclamation escaped my lips.

OLD GARFIELD’S HEART

[727

Under my hand old Jim Garfield’s heart pulsed, but its throb was like no other heart action I have ever observed. Its power was astounding; his ribs vibrated to its steady throb. It felt more like the vibrating of a dynamo than the action of a human organ. I could feci its amazing vitality radiating from his breast, stealing up into my hand and up my arm, imtil my own heart seemed to speed up in response.

"I can’t die,” old Jim gasped. "Not so long as my heart’s in my breast. Only a bullet through the brain can kill me. And even then I wouldn’t be rightly dead, as long as my heart beats in my breast. Yet it ain’t rightly mine, either. It belongs to Ghost Man, the Lipan chief. It was the heart of a god the Lipans worshipped before the Comanches drove ’em out of their native hills.

"I knew Ghost Man down on the Rio Grande, when I was with Ewen Cameron. I saved his life from the Mexicans once. He tied the string of ghost wampum between him and me — the wampum no man but me and him can see or feel. He came when he knowed I needed him, in that fight up on the headwaters of Locust Oeck, when I got this scar.

"I was dead as a man can be. My heart was sliced in two, like the. heart of a butchered beef steer.

"All night Ghost Man did magic, callin’ my ghost back from spirit-land. I remember that flight, a little. It was dark, and gray-like, and I drifted through gray mists and heard the dead wailin’ past me in the mist. But Ghost Man brought me back.

"He took out what was left of my mortal heart, and put the heart of the god in my bosom. But it’s his, and when I’m through with it, he’ll come for it. It’s kept me alive and strong for the lifetime of a man. Age can’t touch me. What

do I care if these fools around here call me an old liar? What I know, I know. But hark’ee!”

His fingers became claws, clamping fiercely on Doc Blaine’s wrist. His old eyes, old yet strangely young, burned fierce as those of an eagle under his bushy brows.

"If by some mischance I should die, now or later, promise me this! Cut into my bosom and take out the heart Ghost Man lent me so long ago! It’s his. And as long as it beats in my body, my spirit’ll be tied to that body, though my head be crushed like an egg underfoot! A livin’ thing in a rottin’ body! Promise!”

"All right, I promise,” replied Doc Blaine, to humor him, and old Jim Garfield sank back with a whistling sigh of relief.

H e did not die that night, nor the next, nor the next. I well remember the next day, because it was that day that I had the fight with Jack Kirby.

People will take a good deal from a bully, rather than to spill blood. Because nobody had gone to the trouble of killing him, Kirby thought the whole coimtryside was afraid of him.

He had bought a steer from my father, and when my father went to collect for it, Kirby told him that he had paid the money to me — which was a lie. I went looking for Kirby, and came upon him in a bootleg joint, boasting of his toughness, and telling the crowd that he was going to beat me up and make me say that he had paid me the money, and that I had stuck it into my own pocket. When I heard him say that, I saw red, and ran in on him with a stockman’s knife, and cut him across the face, and in the neck, side, breast and belly, and the only thing that saved his life was the fact that the crowd pulled me off.



There was a preliminary hearing, and I was indicted on a charge of assault, and my trial was set for the following term of court. Kirby was as tough-fibered as a post-oak country bully ought to be, and he recovered, swearing vengeance, for he was vain of his looks, though God knows why, and I had permanently impaired them.

And while Jack Kirby was recovering, old man Garfield recovered too, to the amazement of everybody, especially Doc Blaine.

I well remember the night Doc Blaine took me again out to old Jim Garfield’s farm. I was in Shifty Corlan’s joint, trying to drink enough of the slop he called beer to get a kick out of it, when Doc Blaine came in and persuaded me to go with him.

As we drove along the winding old road in Doc’s car, I asked: "Why are you insistent that I go with you this particular night? 'This isn’t a professional call, is it?’’

"No,’’ he said. "You couldn’t kill old Jim with a post-oak maul. He’s completely recovered from injuries that ought to have killed an ox. To tell you the truth, Jack Kirby is in Lost Knob, swearing he’ll shoot you on sight.”

"Well, for God’s sake!” I exclaimed angrily. "Now everybody’ll think I left town because I was afraid of him. Turn around and take me back, damn it!”

"Be reasonable,” said Doc. "Everybody knows you’re not afraid of Kirby. Nobody’s afraid of him now. His bluff’s broken, and that’s why he’s so wild against you. But you can’t afford to have any more trouble with him now, and your trial only a short time off.”

I laughed and said: "Well, if he’s looking for me hard enough, he can find me as easily at old Garfield’s as in town, because Shifty Corlan heard you say

where we were going. And Shifty’s hated me ever since I skinned him in that horse-swap last fail. He’ll tell Kirby where I went.”

"I never thought of that,” said Doc Blaine, worried.

"Hell, forget it,” I advised. "Kirby hasn’t got guts enough to do anything but blow.”

But I was mistaken. Puncture a bully’s vanity and you touch his one vital spot.

OLD JIM had not gone to bed when we got there. He was sitting in the room opening on to his sagging porch, the room which was at once living-room and bedroom, smoking his old cob pipe and trying to read a newspaper by the light of his coal-oil lamp. All the windows and doors were wide open for the coolness, and the insects whiA swarmed in and fluttered around the lamp didn’t seem to bother him.

We sat down and discussed the weather — which isn’t so inane as one might suppose, in a country where men’s livelihood depends on sun and rain, and is at the mercy of wind and drouth. The talk drifted into other kindred channels, and after some time. Doc Blaine bluntly spoke of something that hung in his mind.

"Jim,” he said, "that night I thought you were dying, you babbled a lot of stuff about your heart, and an Indian who lent you his. How much of that was delirium?”

"None, Doc,” said Garfield, pulling at his pipe. "It was gospel truth. Ghost Man, the Lipan priest of the Gods of Night, replaced my dead, torn heart with one from somethin’ he worshipped. I ain’t sure myself just what that somethin’ is — somethin’ from away back and a long way off, he said. But bein’ a god, it can do without its heart for awhile. But when I die — if I ever get my head

OLD GARFIELD’S HEART


smashed so my consciousness is destroyed — the heart must be given back to Ghost Man.”

"You mean you were in earnest about cutting out your heart.?” demanded Doc Blaine.

"It has to be,” answered old Garfield. "A livin’ thing in a dead thing is opposed to nat’er. That’s what Ghost Man said.”

"Who the devil was Ghost Man.?”

"I told you. A witch-doctor of the Lipans, who dwelt in this country before the Comandies came down from the Staked Plains and drove ’em south across the Rio Grande. I was a friend to ’em. I reckon Ghost Man is the only one left alive.”

"Alive? Now?”

"I dunno,” confessed old Jim. "I dunno whether he’s alive or dead. I dunno whether he was alive when he came to me after the fight on Locust Creek, or even if he was alive when I knowed him in the southern country. Alive as we understand life, I mean.”

"What balderdash is this?” demanded Doc Blaine uneasily, and I felt a slight stirring in my hair. Outside was stillness, and the stars, and the black shadows of the post-oak woods. The lamp cast old Garfield’s shadow grotesquely on the wall, so that it did not at all resemble that of a human, and his words were strange as words heard in a nightmare.

"I knowed you wouldn’t understand,” said old Jim. "I don’t understand myself, and I ain’t got the words to explain them things I feel and know without understandin’. The Lipans were kin to the Apaches, and the Apaches learnt curious things from the Pueblos. Ghost Man was — that’s all I can say — alive or dead, I don’t know, but he was. What’s more, he is."

"Is it you or me that’s aazy?” asked Doc Blaine.

"Well,” said old Jim, "I’ll tell you this much — Ghost Man knew Coronado.”

"Crazy as a loon!” murmured Doc Blaine. Then he lifted his head. "What’s that?”

"Horse turning in from the road,” I said. "Sounds like it stopped.”

ISTEPPED to the door, like a fool, and stood etched in the light behind me. I got a glimpse of a shadowy bulk I knew to be a man on a horse; then Doc Blaine yelled: "Look out!” and threw himself against me, knocking us both sprawling. At the same instant I heard the smashing report of a rifle, and old Garfield grunted and fell heavily.

"Jack Kirby!” saeamed Doc Blaine. "He’s killed Jim!”

I scrambled up, hearing the clatter of retreating hoofs, snatched old Jim’s shotgun from the wall, rushed recklessly out on to the sagging porch and let go both barrels at the fleeing shape, dim in the starlight. The charge was too light to kill at that range, but the bird-shot stung the horse and maddened him. He swerved, crashed headlong through a rail fence and charged across the orchard, and a peach tree limb knocked his rider out of the saddle. He never moved after he hit the ground. I ran out there and looked down at him. It was Jack Kirby, right enough, and his neck was broken like a rotten branch.

I let him lie, and ran back to the house. Doc Blaine had stretched old Garfield out on a bench he’d dragged in from the porch, and Doc’s face was whiter than I’d ever seen it. Old Jim was a ghastly sight; he had been shot with an oldfashioned.45-70, and at that range the heavy ball had literally torn ofif the top of his head. His features were masked with blood and brains. He had been directly behind me, poor old devil, and

.730


he had stopped the slug meant for me.

Doc Blaine was trembling, though he was anything but a stranger to such sights.

"Would you pronounce him dead.?’’ he asked.

’"That’s for you to say,’’ I answered. "But even a fool could tell that he’s dead.’’

"He is dead,’’ said Doc Blaine in a strained unnatural voice. "Rigor mortis is already setting in. But feel his heart!’’

I did, and cried out. The flesh was already cold and clammy; but beneath it that mysterious heart still hammered steadily away, like a dynamo in a deserted house. No blood coursed through those veins; yet the heart pounded, pounded, pounded, like the pulse of Eternity.

"A living thing in a dead thing,” whispered Doc Blaine, cold sweat on his face. "This is opposed to nature. I am going to keep the promise I made him. I’ll assume full responsibility. This is too monstrous to ignore.”

Our implements were a butcher-knife and a hack-saw. Outside only the still stars looked down on the black post-oak shadows and the dead man that lay in the orchard. Inside, the oil lamp flickered, making strange shadows move and shiver and cringe in the corners, and glistened on the blood on the floor, and the reddabbled figure on the bench. The only sound inside was the crunch of the sawedge in bone; outside an owl began to hoot weirdly.

Doc Blaine thrust a red-stained hand into the aperture he had made, and drew out a red, pulsing object that caught the lamplight. With a choked cry he recoiled, and the thing slipped from his fingers and fell on the table. And I too cried out involuntarily. For it did not fall with a soft meaty thud, as a piece of flesh should fall. It thumped hard on the table.

IMPELLED by an irresistible urge, I bent and gingerly picked up old Garfield’s heart. The feel of it was brittle, imyielding, like steel or stone, but smoother than either. In size and shape it was the duplicate of a human heart, but it was slick and smooth, and its crimson surface reflected the lamplight like a jewel more lambent than any ruby; and in my hand it still throbbed mightily, sending vibratory radiations of energy up my arm until my own heart seemed swelling and bursting in response. It was cosmic power, beyond my comprehension, concentrated into the likeness of a human heart.

The thought came to me that here was a dynamo of life, the nearest approach to immortality that is possible for the destructible human body, the materialization of a cosmic secret more wonderful than the fabulous fountain sought for by Ponce de Leon. My soul was drawn into that unterrestrial gleam, and I suddenly wished passionately that it hammered and thundered in my own bosom in place of my paltry heart of tissue and muscle.

Doc Blaine ejaculated incoherently. I wheeled.

The noise of his coming had been no greater than the whispering of a night wind through the corn. There in the doorway he stood, tall, dark, inscrutable — ^an Indian warrior, in the paint, war bonnet, breech-clout and moccasins of an elder age. His dark eyes burned like fires gleaming deep imder fathomless black lakes. Silently he extended his hand, and I dropped Jim Garfield’s heart into it. 'Then without a word he turned and stalked into the night. But when Doc Blaine and I rushed out into the yard an instant later, there was no sign of any human being. He had vanished like a phantom of the night, and only something that looked like an owl was flying, dwindling from sight, into the rising moon.

By E. F. BENSON

A strange, fantastic tale of a great English surgeon and the curse that attended the rifling of an Egyptian tomb

D octor hugh morris, while

still in the early thirties of his age, had justly earned for himself the reputation of being one of the most dexterous and daring surgeons in his profession, and both in his private practise and in his voluntary work at one of the great London hospitals his record of success as an operator was unparalleled among his colleagues. He believed that vivisection was the most fruitful means of progress in the science of surgery, holding, rightly or wrongly, that he was

justified in causing suffering to animals, though sparing them all possible pain, if thereby he could reasonably hope to gain fresh knowledge about similar operations on human beings which would save life or mitigate suffering; the motive was good, and the gain already immense. But he had nothing but scorn for those who, for their own amusement, took out packs of hounds to run foxes to death, or matcl^ed two greyhounds to see which would give the death-grip to a single terrified hare: that, to him, was wanton tor731



ture, utterly unjustifiable. Year in, year out, he took no holiday at all, and for the most part he occupied his leisure when the day’s work was over in study.

He and his friend Jack Madden were dining together one warm October night at his house looking on to Regent’s Park. The windows of his drawing-room on the ground-floor were open, and they sat smoking, when dinner was done, on the broad window-seat. Madden was starting next day for Egypt, where he was engaged in archeological work, and he had been vainly trying to persuade Morris to join him for a month up the Nile, where he would be engaged throughout the winter in the excavation of a newly discovered cemetery across the river from Luxor, near Medinet Habu. But it was no good.

"When my eye begins to fail and my fingers to falter,’’ said Morris, "it will be time for me to think of taking my ease. What do I want with a holiday? I should be pining to get back to my work all the time. I like work better than loafing. Purely selfish.”

"W’ell, be unselfish for once,” said Madden. "Besides, your work would benefit. It can’t be good for a man never to relax. Surely freshness is worth something.”

"Precious little if you’re as strong as I am. I believe in continual concentration if one wants to make progress. One may be tired, but why not? I’m not tired when I’m actually engaged on a dangerous operation, which is what matters. And time’s so short. Twenty years from now I shall be past my best, and I’ll have my holiday then, and when my holiday is over, I shall fold my hands and go to sleep for ever and ever. Thank God, I’ve got no fear that there’s an after-life. ’The spark of vitality that has animated us burns low and then goes out like a wind-blown candle, and as for my body,

what do I care what happens to that when I have done with it? Nothing will survive of me except some small contribution I may have made to surgery, and in a few years’ time that will be superseded. But for that I perish utterly.”

Madden squirted some soda into his glass.

"Well, if you’ve quite settled that ”

he began.

"I haven’t settled it, science has,” said Morris. "The body is transmuted into other forms, worms batten on it, it helps to feed the grass, and some animal consumes the grass. But as for the survival of the individual spirit of a man, show me one tittle of scientific evidence to support it. Besides, if it did survive, all the evil and malice in it must surely survive too. Why should the death of the body purge that away? It’s a nightmare to contemplate such a thing, and oddly enough, unhinged people like spiritualists want to persuade us for our consolation that the nightmare is true. But older still are those old Egyptians of yours, who thought that there was something sacred about their bodies, after they were quit of them. And didn’t you tell me that they covered their coffins with curses on any one who disturbed their bones?”

"Constantly,” said Madden. "It’s the general rule, in fact. Marrowy curses written in hieroglyphics on the mummycase or carved on the sarcophagus.”

"But that’s not going to deter you this winter from opening as many tombs as you can find, and rifling from them any objects of interest or value.”

Madden laughed.

"Certainly it isn’t,” he said. "I take out of the tombs all objects of art, and I unwind the mummies to find and annex their scarabs and jewelry. But I make an absolute rule always to bury the bodies again. I don’t say that I believe in the

MONKEYS


power of those curses, but anyhow a mummy in a museum is an indecent object.”

"But if you found some mummied body with an interesting malformation wouldn’t you send it to some anatomical institute?” asked Morris.

"It has never happened to me yet,” said Madden, "but I’m pretty sure I shouldn’t.”

’"Then you’re a superstitious Goth and an anti-educational vandal,” remarked Morris.... "Hullo, what’s that?”

He leant out of the window as he spoke. The light from the room vividly illuminated the square of lawn outside, and across it was crawling the small twitching shape of some animal. Hugh Morris vaulted out of the window, and presently returned, carrying carefully in spread hands a little gray monkey, evidently desperately injured. Its hind-legs were stiff and outstretched as if it was partially paralyzed.

Morris ran his soft deft fingers over it.

"What’s the matter with the little beggar, I wonder,” he said. "Paralysis of the lower limbs: it looks like some lesion of the spine.”

'The monkey lay quite still, looking at him with anguished appealing eyes as he continued his manipulation.

"Yes, I thought so,” he said. "Fracture of one of the lumbar vertebras. What luck for me! It’s a rare injury, but I’ve often wondered.... And perhaps luck for the monkey too, though that’s not very probable. If he was a man and a patient of mine, I shouldn’t dare to take the risk. But, as it is ”

JACK MADDEN Started on his southward journey next day, and by the middle 6f November was at work on this newly discovered cemetery. He and another Englishman were in charge of the excavation, under the control of the Antiquity Department of the Egyptian Government. In order to be close to their work and to avoid the daily ferrying across the Nile from Luxor, they hired a bare roomy native house in the adjoining village of Gumah. A reef of low sandstone cliff ran northward from here toward the temple and terraces of Deir-el-Bahari, and it was in the face of this and on the level below it that the ancient graveyard lay. There was much accumulation of sand to be cleared away before the actual exploration of the tombs could begin, but trenches cut below the foot of the sandstone ridge showed that there was an extensive area to investigate.

'The more important sepulchers, they found, were hewn in the face of this small cliff: many of these had been rifled in ancient days, for the slabs forming the entrance into them had been split, and the mummies unwound, but now and then Madden unearthed some tomb that had escaped these marauders, and in one he found the sarcophagus of a priest of the nineteenth dynasty, and that alone repaid weeks of fruitless work. There were nearly a hundred ushaptiu figures of the finest blue glaze; there were four alabaster vessels in which had been placed the viscera of the dead man removed before the embalming; there was a table of which the top was inlaid with squares of variously colored glass, and the legs were of carved ivory and ebony; there were the priest’s sandals adorned with exquisite silver filigree; there was his staff of office inlaid with a diaper-pattern of cornelian and gold, and on the head of it, forming the handle, was the figure of a squatting cat, carved in amethyst, and the mummy, when unwound, was found to be decked with a necklace of gold plaques and onyx beads. All these were sent down to the Gizeh museum at Cairo, and Madden re734


interred the mummy at the foot of the cliff below the tomb. He wrote to Hugh Morris describing this find, and laying stress on the unbroken splendor of these crystalline winter days, when from morning to night the sun cruised across the blue, and on the cool nights when the stars rose and set on the vaporless rim of the desert. If by chance Hugh should change his mind, there was ample room for him in this house at Gurnah, and he would be very welcome.

AFORTNIGHT later Madden received a - telegram from his friend. It stated that he had been unwell and was starting at once by long sea to Port Said, and would come straight up to Luxor. In due course he announced his arrival at Cairo and Madden went across the river next day to meet him; it was reassuring to find him as vital and active as ever, the picture of bronzed health. The two were alone that night, for Madden’s colleague had gone for a week’s trip up the river, and they sat out, when dinner was done, in the enclosed courtyard adjoining the house. Till then Morris had shied off the subject of himself and his health.

"Now I may as well tell you what’s been amiss with me,” he said, "for I know I look a fearful fraud as an invalid, and physically I’ve never been better in my life. Every organ has been functioning perfectly except one, but something suddenly went wrong there just once. It was like this.”

He paused a moment.

"After you left,” he said, "I went on as usual for another month or so, very busy, very serene, and, I may say, very successful. Then one morning I arrived at the hospital when there was one perfectly ordinary but major operation waiting for me. The patient, a man, was wheeled into the theater anesthetized, and

I was just about to make the first indsion into the abdomen, when I saw that there was sitting on his chest a little gray monkey. It was not looking at me, but at the fold of skin which I held between my thumb and finger. I knew, of course, that there was no monkey there, and that what I saw was a hallucination, and I think you’ll agree that there was nothing much wrong with my nerves when I tell you that X went through the operation with clear eyes and an unshaking hand. I had to go on: there was no choice about the matter. I couldn’t say 'Please take that monkey away,’ for I knew there was no monkey there. Nor could I say, 'Somebody else must do this, as I have a distressing hallucination that there is a monkey sitting on the patient’s chest.’ There would have been an end of me as a surgeon and no mistake. All the time I was at work it sat there, absorbed for the most part in what I was doing and peering into the wound, but now and then it looked up at me, and chattered with rage. Once it fingered a spring-forceps which clipped a severed vein, and that was the worst moment of all.... At the end it -was carried out still balancing itself on the man’s chest.... I think I’ll have a drink. Strongish, please: thanks.

"A beastly experience,” he said when he had drunk. "’Then I went straight away from the hospital to consult my old friend Robert Angus, the alienist and nerve-specialist, and told him exactly what had happened to me. He made several tests, he examined my eyes, tried my reflexes, took my blood-pressure: there was nothing wrong with any of them. 'Then he asked me questions about my general health and manner of life, and among these questions was one which I am sure has already occurred to you, namely, had anything occurred to me

MONKEYS


lately, or even remotely, which was likely to make me visualize a monkey. I told him that a few weeks ago a monkey with a broken lumbar vertebra had crawled on to my lawn, and that I had attempted an operation — binding the broken vertebra with wire — which had occurred to me before as a possibility. You remember the night, no doubt?”

"Perfectly,” said Madden. "I started for Egypt next day. What happened to the monkey, by the way?”

"It lived for two days: I was pleased, because I had expected it would die under the anesthetic, or immediately afterward from shock. To get back to what I was telling you. When Angus had asked all his questions, he gave me a good wigging. He said that I had persistently overtaxed my brain for years, without giving it any rest or change of occupation, and that if I wanted to be of any further use in the world, I must drop my work at once for a couple of months. He told me that my brain was tired out and that I had persisted in stimulating it. A man like me, he said, was no better than a confirmed drunkard, and that, as a warning, I had had a touch of a sort of delirium tremens. The cure was to drop work, just as a drunkard must drop drink. He laid it on hot and strong: he said I was on the verge of a breakdown entirely owing to my own foolishness but that I had wonderful physical health, and that if I did break down I should be a disgrace. Above all — and this seemed to me awfully sound advice — he told me not to attempt to avoid thinking about what had happened to me. If I kept my mind off it, I should be perhaps driving it into the subconscious, and then there might be bad trouble. 'Rub it in: think what a fool you’ve been,’ he said. 'Face it, dwell on it, make yourself thoroughly ashamed of yourself.’ Monkeys, too; I wasn’t to

avoid the thought of monkeys. In fact, he recommended me to go straight away to the 2k)6logical Gardens, and spend an hour in the monkey-house.”

"Odd treatment,” interrupted Madden.

"Brilliant treatment. My brain, he explained, had rebelled against its slavery, and had hoisted a red flag with the device of a monkey on it. I must show it that I wasn’t frightened at its bogus monkeys. I must retort on it by making myself look at dozens of real ones which could bite and maul you savagely, instead of one little sham monkey that had no existence at all. At the same time I must take the red flag seriously, recognize tliere was danger, and rest. And he promised me that sham monkeys wouldn’t trouble me again. Are there any real ones in Egypt, by the way?”

"Not so far as I know,” said Madden. "But there must have been once, for there are many images of them in tombs and temples.”

"That’s good. We’ll keep their memory green and my brain cool. Well, there’s my story. What do you think of it?”

"Terrifying,” said Madden. "But you must have got nerves of iron to get through that operation with the monkey watching.”

"A hellish hour. Out of some disordered slime in my brain there had crawled this unbidden thing, which showed itself, apparently substantial, to my eyes. It didn’t come from outside: my eyes hadn’t told my brain that there was a monkey sitting on the man’s chest, but my brain had told my eyes so, making fools of them. I felt as if some one whom I absolutely trusted had played me false. Then again I have wondered whether some instinct in my subconscious mind revolted against vivisection. My reason says that it is justified, for it

73<J


teaches us how pain can be relieved and death postponed for human beings. But what if my subconscious mind persuaded my brain to give me a good fright, and reproduce before my eyes the semblance of a monkey, just when I was putting into practise what I had learned from dealing out pain and death to animals?”

He got up suddenly.

’’What about bed?” he said. "Five hours’ sleep was enough for me when I was at work, but now I believe I could sleep the clock round every night.”

Y oung Wilson, Madden’s colleague in the excavations, returned next day and the work went steadily on. One of them was on the spot to start it soon after sunrise, and either one or both of them were superintending it, with an interval of a couple of hours from noon till two, until sunset. When the mere work of clearing the face of the sandstone cliflF was in progress and of carting away the silted soil, the presence of one of them sufficed; for there was nothing to do but to see that the workmen shovelled industriously, and passed regularly with their baskets of earth and sand on their shoulders to the dumping-grounds, which stretched away from the area to be excavated in lengthening peninsulas of trodden soil. But, as they advanced along the sandstone ridge, there would now and then appear a chiselled smoothness in the cliff and then both must be alert. There was great excitement to see if, when they exposed the hewn slab that formed the door into the tomb, it had escaped ancient marauders, and still stood in place and intact for the modem to explore. But now for many days they came upon no sepulcher that had not already been opened. 'The mummy, in these cases, had always been unwound in the search for necklaces and scarabs, and its scattered

bones lay about. Madden was always at pains to re-inter these.

At first Hu^ Morris was assiduous in watching the excavations, but as day after day went by without anything of interest turning up, his attendance grew less frequent: it was too much of a holiday to watch the day-long removal of sand from one place to another. He visited the Tomb of the Kings, he went across the river and saw the temples at Karnak, but his appetite for antiquities was small. On other days he rode in the desert, or spent the day with friends at one of the Luxor hotels. He came home from there one evening in rare good spirits, for he had played lawn tennis with a woman on whom he had operated for malignant tumor six months before and she had skipped about the court like a two-yearold. "God, how I want to be at work again!” he exclaimed. "I wonder whether I ought not to have stuck it out, and defied my brain to frighten me with bogies,”

The weeks passed on, and now there were but two days left before his return to England, where he hoped to resume work at once; his tickets were taken and his berth booked. As he sat over breakfast that morning with Wilson, there came a workman from the excavation, with a note scribbled in hot haste by Madden, to say that they had just come upon a tomb which seemed to be unrifled, for the slab that closed it was in place and imbroken. To Wilson, the news was like the sight of a sail to a marooned mariner, and when a quarter of an hour later Morris followed him, he was just in time to see the slab prized away. There was no sarcophagus within, for the rock walls did duty for that, but there lay there, varnished and bright in hue as if painted yesterday, the mummy-case roughly following the outline of the human form. By it stood the alabaster vases containing

W. T.— 5

MONKEYS


the entrails of the dead, and at each corner of the sepulcher there were carved out of the sandstone rock, forming, as it were, pillars to support the roof, thickset images of squatting apes. The munaray-case was hoisted out into the trench below the tomb, and carried away by workmen, on a bier of boards, into the courtyard of the excavators’ house at Gurnah, for the opening of it and the imwrapping of the dead.

They got to work that evening directly they had fed: the face painted on the lid was that of a girl or young woman, and presently deciphering the hieroglyphic inscription, Madden read out that within lay the body of A-pen-ara, daughter of the overseer of the cattle of Senmut.

"Then follow the usual formulas,” he said. "Yes, yes... ah, you’ll be interested in this, Hugh, for you asked me once about it. A-pen-ara curses any who desecrates or meddles with her bones, and should any one do so, the guardians of her sepulcher will see to him, and he shall die childless and in panic and agony; also the guardians of her sepulcher will tear the hair from his head and scoop his eyes from their sockets, and pluck the thumb from his right hand, as a man plucks the young blade of corn from its sheath.”

Morris laughed.

"Very pretty attentions,” he said. "And who are the guardians of this sweet young lady’s sepulcher? 'Those four great apes carved at the corners?”

"No doubt. But we won’t trouble them, for tomorrow I shall bury Miss A-pen-ara’s bones again with all decency in the trench at the foot of her tomb. They’ll be safer there, for if we put them back where we found them, there would be pieces of her hawked about by half the donkey-boys in Luxor in a few days. 'Buy a mummy hand, ladv?.. Foot of W.T.— «

a Gyppy queen, only ten piasters, gentleman!’... Now for the unwinding.”

It was dark by now, and Wilson fetched out a paraffin lamp, which burned unwaveringly in the still air. The lid of the mummy-case was easily detached, and within was the slim, swaddled body. The embalming had not been very thoroughly done, for all the skin and flesh had perished from the head, leaving only bones of the skull stained brown with bitumen. Round it was a mop of hair, which with the ingress of the air subsided like a belated souffle, and crumpled into dust. The cloth that swathed the body was as brittle, but round the neck, still just holding together, was a collar of curious and rare workmanship: little ivory figures of squatting apes alternated with silver beads. But again a touch broke the thread that strung them together, and each had to be picked out singly. A bracelet of scarabs and cornelian still clasped one of the fleshless wrists, and then they turned the body over in order to get at the members of the necklace which lay beneath the nape. The rotted mummy-cloth fell away altogether from the back, disclosing the shoulder-blades and the spine down as far as the pelvis. Here the embalming had been better done, for the bones still held together with remnants of muscle and cartilage.

Hugh Morris suddenly sprang to his feet.

"My God, look there!” he cried. "One of the lumbar vertebras, there at the base of the spine, has been broken and clamped together with a metal band. To hell with your antiquities, let me come and examine something much more modern than any of us!”

He pushed Jack Madden aside, and peered at this marvel of surgery.

"Put the lamp closer,” he.said, as if directing some nurse at an operation.



"Yes: that vertebra has been broken right across and has been clamped together. No one had ever, as far as I know, attempted such an operation except myself, and I have only performed it on that little paralyzed monkey that crept into my garden one night. But some Egyptian surgeon, more than three thousand years ago, performed it on a woman. And look, look! She lived afterward, for the broken vertebra put out that bony efflorescence of healing which has encroached over the metal band. That’s a slow process, and it must have taken place during her lifetime, for there is no such energy in a corpse. The woman lived long: probably she recovered completely. And my wretched little monkey only lived two days and was dying all the time.”

Those questing hawk-visioned fingers of the surgeon perceived more finely than actual sight, and now he closed his eyes as the tip of them felt their way about the fracture in the broken vertebra and the clamping metal band.

"The band doesn’t encircle the bone,” he said, "and there are no studs attaching it. There must have been a spring in it, which, when it was clasped there, kept it tight. It has been clamped round the bone itself: the surgeon must have saaped the vertebra clean of flesh before he attached it. I would give two years of my life to have looked on, like a student, at that masterpiece of skill, and it was worth while giving up two months of my work only to have seen the result. And the injury itself is so rare, this breaking of a spinal vertebra. To be sure, the hangman does something of the sort, but there’s no mending that! Good Lord, my holiday has not been a waste of time!”

Madden settled that it was not worth while to send the mummy-case to the museum at Gizeh, for it was of a very ordinary type, and when the examination was over they lifted the body back into it, for re-interment next day. It was now long after midnight and presently the house was dark.

H ugh morris slept on the groundfloor in a room adjoining the yard where the mummy-case lay. He remained long awake marvelling at that astonishing piece of surgical skill performed, according to Madden, some thirty-five centuries ago. So occupied had his -mind been with homage that not till now did he realize that the tangible proof and witness of the operation would tomorrow be buried again and lost to science. He must persuade Madden to let him detach at least three of the vertebra:, the mended one and those immediately above and below it, and take them back to England as demonstration of what could be done: he would lecture on his exhibit and present it to the Royal College of Surgeons for example and incitement. Other trained eyes besides his own must see what had been successfully achieved by some unknown operator in the nineteenth dynasty.... But supposing Madden refused? He always made a point of scrupulously re-burying these remains: it was a principle with him, and no doubt some superstitiouscomplex — the hardest of all to combat with because of its sheer unreasonableness — was involved. Briefly, it was impossible to risk the chance of his refusal.

H e got out of bed, listened for a moment by his door, and then softly went out into the yard. The moon had risen, for the brightness of the stars was paled, and though no direct ray shone into the walled enclosure, the dusk was dispersed by the toneless luminosity

MONKEYS


of the sky, and he had no need of a lamp. He drew off the lid, and folded back the tattered cerements which Madden had replaced over the body. He had thought that those lower vertebras of which he was determined to possess himself would be easily detached, so far perished were the muscle and cartilage which held them together, but they cohered as if they had been clamped, and it required the utmost force of his powerful fingers to snap the spine, and as he did so the severed bones cracked as with the noise of a pistol shot. But there was no sign that any one in the house had heard it; there came no sound of steps, nor lights in the windows. One more fractixre was needed, and then the relic was his. Before he replaced the ragged cloths he looked again at the stained fleshless bones. Shadow dwelt in the empty eyesockets as if black sunken eyes still lay tliere, fixedly regarding him; the lipless mouth snarled and grimaced. Even as he looked, some change came over its aspect, and for one brief moment he fancied that there lay staring up at him the face of a great brown ape. But instantly that illusion vanished, and replacing the lid he went back to his room.

The mummy-case was re-interred next day, and two evenings after Morris left Luxor by the night-train for Cairo, to join a homeward-bound P. & O. at Port Said. There were some hours to spare before his ship sailed, and having deposited his luggage, including a locked leather, dispatch-case, on board, he lunched at the Cafe Tewfik near the quay. There was a garden in front of it with palm-trees and trellises gayly clad in bougainvilleas; a low wooded rail separated it from the street, and Morris had a table close to this. As he ate he watched the polychromatic pageant of Eastern life passing by: there were Egyptian officials in broadcloth frock-coats and red fezzes; barefooted splay-toed fellahin in blue gabardines; veiled women in white making stealthy eyes at passers-by; half-naked gutter-snipes, one with a sprig of scarlet hibiscus behind his ear; travellers from India with solar topees and an air of aloof British superiority; dishevelled sons of the Prophet in green turbans; a stately sheik in a white burnoose; French painted ladies of a professional class with lacerimmed parasols and provocative glances; a wild-eyed dervish in an accordionpleated skirt, chewing betel-nut and slightly foaming at the mouth. A Greek bootblack with box adorned with brass plaques tapped his brushes on it to encourage customers; an Egyptian girl squatted in the gutter beside a gramophone; steamers passing into the Canal hooted on their sirens.

Then at the edge of the pavement there sauntered by a young Italian harnessed to a barrel-organ: with one hand he ground out a popular air by Verdi, in the other he held out a tin can for the tributes of music-lovers; a small monkey in a yellow jacket, tethered to his wrist, sat on the top of his instrument. The musician had come opposite the table where Morris sat: Morris liked the gay tinkling tune, and feeling in his pocket for a piesta, he beckoned to him. The boy grinned and stepped up to the rail.

Then suddenly the melancholy-eyed monkey leaped from its place on the organ and sprang on to the table by which Morris sat. It alighted there, chattering with rage, in a crash of broken glass. A flower- vase was upset, a plate clattered on to the floor. Morris’s coffeecup discharged its black contents on the table-cloth. Next moment the Italian had twitched the frenzied little beast back to him, and it fell head downward on the pavement. A shrill hubbub arose, the waiter at Morris’s table hurried up with



voluble execrations, a policeman kicked out at the monke7 as it lay on the ground, the barrel-organ tottered and crashed on the roadway. Then all subsided again, and the Italian boy picked up the little body from the pavement. He held it out in his hands to Morris.

"B morto,” he said.

"Serves it right, too,” retorted Morris. "Why did it fly at me like tliat.?”

H e travelled back to London by long sea, and day after day that tragic little incident, in which he had had no responsible part, began to make a sort of coloring matter in his mind during those hours of lazy leisure on shipboard, when a man gives about an equal inattention to the book he reads and to what passes round him. Sometimes if the shadow of a sea-gull overhead slid across the deck toward him, there leaped into his brain, before his eyes could reassure him, the ludicrous fancy that this shadow was a monkey springing at him.

One day they ran into a gale from the west: there was a crash of glass at his elbow as a sudden lurch of the ship upset a laden steward, and Morris jumped from his seat thinking that a monkey had leaped on to his table again. There was a cinematograph show in the saloon one evening, in which some naturalist exhibited the films he had taken of wild life in Indian jungles: when he put on the screen the picture of a company of monkeys swinging their way through the trees Morris involuntarily clutched the sides of his chair in hideous panic that lasted but a fraction of a second, until he recalled to himself that he was only looking at a film in the saloon of a steamer five miles from the coast of Portugal. He came sleepy into his cabin one night and saw some animal crouching by the locked leather dispatch-case. His breath

caught in his throat before he perceived that this was a friendly cat which rose with gleaming eyes and arched its back....

These fantastic unreasonable alarms W'ere disquieting. He had as yet no repetition of the hallucination that he saw a monkey, but some deep-buried "idea,” to cure which he had taken two months’ holiday, was still unpurged from his mind. He must consult Robert Angus again when he got home, and seek further advice. Probably that incident at Port Said had rekindled the obscure trouble, and there was this added to it, that he knew he was now frightened of real monkeys: there was terror sprouting in the dark of his soul. But as for it having any connection with his pilfered treasure, so rank and childish a superstition deserved only the ridicule he gave it. Often he unlocked his leather case and sat poring over that miracle of surgery which made practical again long-forgotten dexterities.

But it was good to be back in England. For the last three days of the voyage no menace had flashed out on him from the unknown dusks, and surely he had been disquieting himself in vain.... There was a light mist lying over Regent’s Park on this warm March evening, and a drizzle of rain was falling. He made an appointment for the next morning with the specialist: he telephoned to the hospital that he had returned and hoped to resume work at once. He dined in very good spirits, talking to his man-servant, and, as subsequently came out, he showed him his treasured bones, telling him that he had taken the relic from a mummy which he had seen unwrapped, and that he meant to lecture on it. When he went up to bed he carried the leather case with him. Bed was comfortable after the ship’s berth, and

MONKEYS


through his open window came the soft hissing of the rain on to the shrubs outside.

His servant slept in the room immediately over his. A little before dawn he woke with a start, roused by horrible cries from somewhere close at hand. Then came words yelled out in a voice that he knew:

"Help? Help!” it cried. "O my God,

my God! Ah — ^h ” and it rose to a

scream again.

The man hurried down and clicked on the light in his master’s room as he entered. The cries had ceased: only a low moaning came from the bed. A huge ape with busy hands was bending over it; then taking up the body that lay there by the neck and the hips he bent it backward and it cracked like a dry stick. Then it tore open the leather case that was on a table by the bedside, and with something that gleamed white in its dripping fingers it shambled to the window and disappeared.

A doctor arrived wiliiin Half an hour, but too late. Handfuls of hair with flaps of skin attached had been torn from the head of the murdered man, both eyes were scooped out of their sockets, the

right thumb had been plucked oflf the hand, and the back was broken across the lower vertebrae.

N othing has since come to light which could rationally explain the tragedy. No large ape had escaped from the neighboring Zoological Gardens, or, as far as could be ascertained, from elsewhere, nor was the monstrous visitor of that night ever seen again. Morris’s servant had only had the briefest sight of it, and his description of it at the inquest did not tally with that of any known Simian type. And the sequel was even more mysterious, for Madden, returning to England at the close of the season in Egypt, had asked Morris’s servant exactly what it was that his master had shown him the evening before as having been taken by him from a mummy which he had seen unwrapped, and had got from him a sufficiently conclusive account of it. Next autumn he continued his excavations in the cemetery at Gurnah, and he disinterred once more the mummy-case of A-pen-ara and opened it. But the spinal vertebrae were dl in place and complete: one had round it the silver clip which Morris had hailed as a unique marvel in surgery.

y ampire Master

By HUGH DAVIDSON

A thrilling novel of corpses that would not stay dead, and a gruesome horror in the hills of New York

, The Story Thus Far

AMPIRISM is going on in my village!” This statement has brought Doctor John Dale, specialist in evil, and his assistant, Harley Owen, who tells the story, to the village of Maysville in the New York Catskills. There with Doctor Henderson, who summoned them, they are fighting the visitation of vampires, dead men and women reanimated by evil forces and preying on the living by sucking their blood at night.

Two hundred years before, the Maysville region had been terrorized by a vampire, one Gerritt Geisert, who had been forced to flee. Now the evil is awake again. Allene Ralton, wife of James Ralton and mother of Olivia and Virginia Ralton, died some time before as a vampire victim. Her eldest daughter, Olivia, is now being vampirized also.

Doctor Dale, watching with James Ralton, Owen, Henderson and Edward Harmon, fiance of Olivia, in the sleeping girl’s room by night, see appear the vampire that has been preying on her. It is her own dead mother, Allene Ralton! Dying as a vampire’s victim, she has become a vampire herself after death and is preying on her own daughter!

She escapes the watchers, repelled by the power of their crosses. On the heels of this comes a caller, Gerritt Geisert. This Gerritt Geisert had recently returned to Maysville and described himself as a descendant of the vampire-Geisert of two

hundred years before, living in the ancient Geisert manor in the hills.

Strange in appearance, his age impossible to guess, Gerritt Geisert is wclconied as a friend by James Ralton and Doctor Henderson. But Doctor Dale unmasks him as the master vampire who has loosed the vampire evil, the Gerritt Geisert of two hundred years before, who has returned, still strong in vampire-life, to prey again on the region. Geisert escapes them, though, boasting that he was the one who vampirized Allene Ralton and that he will have many more victims.

Doctor Dale and the others go the next morning to the cemetery where Allene Ralton’s body was entombed, to stop her vampire-activities by driving a.stake through her body and severing her head. 'They find her coflSn and body gone, taken by Gerritt Geisert lest his womanvampire follower be thus destroyed. Also he has taken the coffin and body of young Arthur Newton, another of his victims. Doctor Dale and Owen and Harmon go into the hills to find and destroy the three vampires’ bodies.

They search the old Geisert manor but can not find the bodies. They hide in the loft of the manor-house, and at sxmset the three vampires, Geisert, Newton and Allene Ralton, wake and appear from a hiding-place in the cellar that holds their coffins and bodies by day. They go forth, and when they return near morning Geisert takes from Newton, his subject-vampire, the very blood th^ Newton

This st*ry begram in WEraD TAXJBS for Oo*«ber


74J

that night has taken from some living victim. Then with sunrise they go down to their hiding-place and coffins.

Dale and Owen and Harmon locate this hiding-place behind the cellar’s thick stone wall but can not break through the wall without tools. They return to the village, intending to return the next day with tools to break through the wall. They find that Dale’s safeguards have protected Olivia Ralton during that night, but Henderson has news of a girl in a neighboring estate, Alice Wilsey, who seems also a vampire victim. She was formerly the fiancee of the dead Arthur Newton.

Doctor Dale, Owen and Henderson call at the Wilsey estate and get Mrs. Wilsey’s consent to examine her daughter. Alice Wilsey, though, denies that she has had any vampire visitant and acts queerly when tliey question her. When Doctor Dale uncovers the telltale vampire-punctxires on her throat and asks whence they came, Alice Wilsey is seized with a paroxysm of fear and fury.

9. A Lover from the Dead

D octor dale stood up, his eyes fixed firmly upon the girl, who seemed half in convulsions as her mother bent over her.

"Come,” he said to Doctor Henderson and me. "We can do nothing more here now and we’ll only make her worse.”

We followed him bewilderedly down the stairs and paused in the drawingroom. Doctor Dale’s face was serious.

"What does it mean. Dale?” asked Henderson. "That girl is surely a vampire’s victim, so bloodless and with those marks on her neck.”

"I am sure myself that she is one,’* Dale said.

"But why dobs she deny it then.? —

why does she lie, as she did just now, about what she must at least feel?”

"I have an idea why, though I may be wrong,” Dale said. "We’ll try to find out — but here comes her mother.”

It was a much-agitated Mrs. Beatrice Wilsey who entered the drawing-room. "Doctor Dale, I had a terrible time calming Alice!” she exclaimed. "What on eartli is the matter with her?”

"The matter with her,” Dale said calmly, "is vampirism! Mrs. Wilsey, a vampire is undoubtedly preying on your daughter.”

"A vampire?” repeated Mrs. Wilsey, stupefied. "A person who comes ba^ from the dead?”

Doctor Dale nodded. "Yes, one who comes back from the dead to suck the blood of the living. Is it any wonder that your Alice is so lacking in blood that she is perilously near collapse?”

Mrs. Wilsey seemed stunned. "But it’s incredible, horrible! Who that is dead would prey upon my child?”

Dale’s face was very grave. "I fear that it is one who has not long been dead and who knew her well in life. I mean Arthur Newton.”

"Artliur Newton? Her late fiance? Good heavens, such a thing can’t be possible!”

"It can and is,” Doctor Dale said. "But there is a way, Mrs. Wilsey, by which Henderson and Owen and I can find out the truth, tonight. That is for us three to hide in Alice’s room, imknown to her, and see whether Newton or any other visitant does come to prey on her.

"Do not refuse!” he said as Mrs. Wilsey started to speak. "It means life or death to your daughter, I think, for she is now so bloodless and weak that to lose any more blood might cause her death at once. It is to protect her tonight that I propose this.”



"But how could you hide in Alice’s room without her knowing it?’’ Mrs. Wilsey asked bewilderedly.

"When you take up her dinner, as I suppose you do,’’ Dale said quickly, "we three could slip in while you distract her attention and hide inside the closet I saw in her roora. We could watdi from there.”

Mrs. Wilsey looked from Doctor Dale’s grave face to Henderson and me, then made decision. "I’ll do as you say! I’m sure you’re working to help Alice.”

"Good!” said Doctor Dale. "You won’t regret it, Mrs. Wilsey. It’s but a few hours until night — we can impose on your hospitality for dinner?”

D inner proved excellent but a rather somber meal, for Mrs. Wilsey was patently oppressed by our dread information, and Doctor Dale was thoughtful and silent. Henderson hardly touched anything, and I will admit that my own appetite was spoiled by the prospect of another vigil like that we had carried out two nights before in Olivia Ralton’s roona.

By the time dinner ended it was already becoming dark and was time for us to install ourselves in Alice Wilsey’s room. Mrs. Wilsey led the way upstairs, carrying a tray of dainty and tempting dishes prepared for her daughter. We followed. Dale carrying his black case.

With a nod to us she went into her daughter’s room with the tray, leaving the door a Little open. We heard her speaking to Alice and inquiring about her condition. When she coughed, the signal we had agreed on. Doctor Dale softly opened the door.

Alice Wilsey’s head was turned away from us, toward her mother, who was engaging her attention by a question. We slipped in noiselessly, over the silken rug.

and into the closet whose door Mrs. Wilsey also had opened under some pretext. Dale drew this door almost shut once we were inside, leaving a crack through which we could look out.

The chaise-longue on which Alice Wilsey reclined and the windows in the room’s outer wall, outside which was the roof of a porch, were in our line of vision. So was Mrs. Wilsey for a short time, but in a few moments she withdrew, after a nervous glance at the closet in which we were hidden. She left one hooded lamp burning in the room, which was otherwise in darkness.

We three sat silent in the closet and watched. Alice Wilsey lay back as though sleeping, her eyes closed, but stirring slightly now and then. Doctor Dale and I had ready in our hands the crosses which we had found to be the most potent weapons against Gerritt Geisert and his vampires. '

Time passed, and as the night grew on the sounds about the Wilsey house lessened as the servants retired. Alice Wilsey, though, was still awake, for now and then she moved restlessly and opened her eyes. Would our watching be fruitless for that reason, I asked myself? If Arthur Newton came and found her awake, would he enter to his victim despite that?

The minutes went slowly by. Dale and Henderson and I crouched silent in the closet, and nothing changed. But gradually the conviction grew on me that Alice Wilsey was staying awake deliberately. She was looking with a sort of nervous anticipation toward the window and porch-balcony beyond it Her face, as much as we could see it held combined eager expectation and a shrinking dread.

She was patently waiting, and we three waited also. Dale and Henderson



as tense and silent as myself. The radium dial of my watch told me it was after eleven. Alice Wilsq? lay facing the window, her back toward us. Somehow this weird waiting attitude of hers made our own vigil more tense.

There came a sound from outside. The low shuffle of a step on the porch-roof balcony, a form moving there. Doctor Dale’s hand closed on my wrist to bid me to be silent as we saw, through the glass, a hand reach and unfasten the windowlatch, and swing the window open.

It was Arthur Newton who stood in the window-opening — Newton as we had seen him on the preceding night in Gerritt Geisert’s ancient manor in the hills, dressed in the same dark clothes he had v/orn when buried. His face was as white and waxen as then, his eyes lit still with the red vampire-light!

IEXPfiCTSD a wild saeam of horror from Alice Wilsey as he appeared, for the girl was looking straight toward the window. But she did not scream. Instead she stretched out her arms toward Newton and on her face was a look of strange, dread-tinged happiness.

"Arthur!” she murmured. "You’ve come again — at last!”

Newton stepped into the room, the red vampire-light in his eyes seeming to soften as he looked at her. "I came as soon as I could, Alice,” he said, bending over her.

"Dale!” It was Henderson’s choking whisper. "Dale, she’s welcoming him —

she knows he’s dead but ”

"Quiet, Henderson!” hissed Doctor Dale fiercely. He was staring out with me at the incredible scene in the dimlit room.

Arthur Newton had stooped beside the chaise-longue and Alice Wilsey was lookink at him with an expression of utter

love. Her weak, white face seemed illumined by it. Newton was supporting her in his arms, and she ran her white fingers lingeringly through his dark hair.

I think the most dreadful element of that scene was that Newton’s own face showed his love for her. It was visible even through the diabolic waxen mask of his features, forcing itself outward on them.

"Alice, you know I am not now my own master,” he was telling her. "He rules me now and I can not come to you at will as when I was living.”

"When you were living!” Alice Wflsey repeated those terrible words in a sadly reminiscent manner. "Arthur, when you were living you could not have loved me any more than you do now. I know it.”

"It’s true.” Through Arthur Newton’s vampire-mask showed a strange sincerity. "I do love you, Alice, the same as then. And I know you love me. For had you not loved me utterly you’d surdy have shrunk from me in horror when I first came back this way to you — dead.”

"I was horrified, Arthur,” the girl told him, "the first time you came. You remember, it was the second night after your funeral, when I woke here and found you bending over me. I wanted to scream and call for help; I was terribly afraid, but all this was weaker than my love for you, and I loved you dead as well as ever I did when you lived.

"And in the times since then you’ve come, even up to tonight. I’ve felt dread too, but it’s been weaker than my love for you and my hope of your coming. But soon this will be over, soon we’ll be together, won’t we? I will be like you and we’ll come and go together?’”

"That will soon be,” Arthur Newton affirmed. "You grow weaker each time I come, Alice, and before long you wiH



die. But it will not really be death, for after it you will be as I now am.”

"To be as you are,” said Alice Wilsey dreamily, "I am so glad that it is I who have kept you living after death, Arthur — that it is my blood that you have taken and not another’s.”

It was horror insupportable to hear her utter those words. Terrible as had been the vampirism of Olivia Ralton by her own mother, this willing submission of the girl before us to her vampire-lover was more terrible. Doctor Dale was tense as iron beside me, and Henderson was shaking.

"Yes, my blood that has kept you living after death!” Alice Wilsey exclaimed exultantly. "And I’ve been only too glad to give it to you.”

"The blood,” said Arthur Newton in a low tone, his white mask changing now, eyes deeper red. He bent his dead face closer to the girl’s living one. "Alice, I must have it again tonight! takes from me almost all that I get from you — I thirst ”

"Take it, Arthur,” said Alice Wilsey, throwing her arms wide in a sort of terrible determination, "Take it all if you thirst for it! Every bit, every drop!”

Newton’s hand pushed aside her negligee to expose her neck and the red punctures on her throat. The hellish vampire-lust v/as crimson in his eyes as he bent down toward her neck, lips parted and showing his white teeth, his breath coming in panting sobs of anticipation.

The girl in his arms closed her eyes as though in a very ecstasy of dread anticipation. Newton’s head plunged to her throat, his mouth fastening on the punctures there! His eyes flamed with dreadful pleasure as there became audible a sucking sound, as with the fainting, submissive Alice Wilsey in his arms he drained her life-blood!

ICOULD stand tliat dreadful scene no longer, but at that moment Doctor Dale bounded out into the room, I following instantly, toward Arthur Newton and his willing victim.

"Back from her, Newton!” Dale cried, the cross in his hand outstretched. "You’ll get no blood from her tonighti” With a hoarse yell Newton sprang at us but bounded back as he struck the cross’s influence. Eyes blazing now with rage, he reached the window. "You!” he yelled. "What brings you here?”

His eyes shifted to the petrified Alice Wilsey. "So you brought them here?” he cried accusingly. "You hid them here to trap me?”

"Arthur, I didn’t!” she screamed, struggling up. "I didn’t know tliey were here!”

Doctor Dale made a leap to get behind Newton, to prevent him from escaping into the night, but Newton saw his purpose and jumped backward.

"You’ll not trap me so easily!” he cried. "And I thought you still loved me, Alice!”

With a bound he was gone into the darkness. "Arthur, come back!” screamed Alice Wilsey. "I didn’t know they were here!”

She flew at Doctor Dale in a wild fury. 'Y’ou’ve driven him away!” she cried madly. "I lost him once when he died, and now I’ll lose him again and it’s your fault!”

She clawed at Dale like a veritable tigress, then went suddenly limp and sagged in his grasp, her strength gone. Doctor Dale deposited her on the lounge, as Mrs. Wilsey burst into the room.

"What’s happened?” she cried. “What’s the matter with Alice?”

“Plenty,” said Dale succinctly, "Owen, get my case. She’s lost a little more



blood and we’ve got to give her a KleinLorentz injection.”

Swiftly we worked with Henderson, shot the brown fluid into her veins. She stirred a little.

"What happened,” Dale told Mrs. Wilsey then, "was that the person vampirizing her came again tonight, and that person was, as I feared, Arthur Newton. She knew all along Newton was really dead, but loves him so that that makes no difference to her, and has been giving her blood willingly to him to maintain his pseudo-life.”

"It’s too horrible!" Mrs. Wilsey exclaimed.

"It’s horrible enough,” Dale said, "but I think we can prevent it from going on."

Doctor Henderson, who had gone out of the room a few minutes before, burst back in with* white face.

"Dale, I called the Ralton place and they need us!” he cried. "James Ralton said they have been trying to get us — something terrible has happened to Olivia Ralton!’*

UO, What Olivia Told

“TTTI’Tl get over there at c«ice!’’

W Doctor Dale cried. "But we can’t leave her without making sure of this girl’s safety.”

"Doctor, for heaven’s sake don’t let there be any chance of Arthur Newton’s coming again!” said Mrs. Wilsey.

*'I don’t think he’ll cxjme back tonight, but we’ll make sure he can’t get in,” Dale said. "The case, Owen.”

From the case he took garlic branches, which we arranged hastily around the doors and windows of the room.

"Mrs. Wilsey, neither Newton nor any other vampire can pass these safeguards if they’re left in place,” he told her. "See that they’re not removed for any reason.”

"I will,” she said tremulously. "You’ll

be back, doctor, won’t you? I Can’t fight tills terrible thing by myself!”

"We’ve got to go now to others who need us,” Doctor Dale said, "but we’ll be back before tomorrow night if it’s at ail possible. Come, Owen!”

We hurried out. Doctor Dale carrying his case, to Henderson’s car, Henderson took the wheel, and the way the elderly physician whirled the car out from the Wilsey estate and over the roads toward the Ralton place showed how much fear the message from the Raltons had inspired in him.

The moon, well toward the west, was hidden almost wholly by clouds and only a feeble light filtered down on the sleeping countryside through which our car raced. That light was enough to show the dark hills brooding westward.

"James Ralton told me only that something terrible had happened to Olivia,” Henderson shouted over the motor’s roar. "He seemed half crazy.”

"We saw that Arthur Newton is out tonight, and that means Gerritt Geisert and Allene Ralton must also be abroad,” Dale said grimly. "But Harmon was supposed to be watching Olivia tonight.”

The stone pillars at the entrance of the Ralton estate showed in our headlights’ glare. Our car shot in between them. The lodge was alight, the dogs barking furiously, and as Henderson whirled the car through the grounds we saw that the big Ralton mansion also blazed with lights.

The butler. Smart, admitted us, and the first person to meet us inside was James Ralton, clad in a dressing-gown, his face again white with fear, Virginia was clinging beside him.

"Dale!” he cried, gripping nay companion’s arm. "It’s Olivia! She’s terribly worse — something awful has happened!”

l748


"What has happened, Ralton?” snapped Doctor Dale.

"We don’t know yet!” Ralton answered. "Edward was watching Olivia tonight and I had retired to get a little sleep. I woke again an hour ago and being nervous about Olivia went in to see if she was all right.

"She was lying in her bed white and terrible-looking, the window was open and the garlic branches torn down, and Edward Harmon was asleep in a chair. It took minutes to rouse him, he seemed in a sort of stupor. 'Then we tried to get you.”

But Dale was already running up the stairs, Ralton, Virginia, Henderson and I following. We burst in, Henderson keeping Virginia outside, and found Harmon bending over Olivia, trying frantically to revive her.

OLIVIA RALTON lay with her face and skin an absolute waxen white. Her lips were blue and were drawn back in a sort of grin from her teeth. She was breathing slowly, heavily.

"Dale, those hell- vampires have been here again!” Edward Harmon cried. "I was watching Olivia, and a sort of stupor descended on me that made me unconscious, though I fought against it.”

Doctor Dale bent over the girl, examining lips and eyes and throat, listening to her heart. Then he straightened.

"You’re going to give her a KleinLorentz injection?” I asked.

A strange chill came over us at Doctor Dale’s answer. "Olivia Ralton is dying,” he said solemnly. "No treatment now can save her and maybe we can not even bring her to consciousness before she dies.”

"Dying?” repeated Edward Harmon stupefiedly. "Dying? You can’t let her die! You’ve got to keep her living!”

"Dale, don’t let her die!” choked James Ralton. "For God’s sake don’t let her die!”

"I am not superhuman,” Dale told them. "Allene Ralton has drained almost the last of Olivia’s blood from her, and her heart is steadily slowing. But if we can bring her back to consciousness before she dies we can at least find out from her what happened.”

Doctor Dale swiftly took a box of capsules from his case, broke two beneath Olivia’s nostrils, then with a hypodermic made an injection above her heart. She stirred weakly as the powerful drugs coursed through her dying frame, and looked dazedly upward.

In that look was the bitterest fear and horror I had ever seen, a horror that struck home to my heart. She looked at Doctor Dale, seemed to recognize him; her eyes flickered as they made out James Ralton, and a faint smile crossed her features at sight of Edward Harmon.

"Mother!” she whispered almost inaudibly. "Mother came here tonight, from the dead — I remember now!”

Dale bent beside her. "Try to tell us what happened, Olivia,” he said gently.

"I feel so weak, so strange,” she whispered. "Yes, mother was here and it was terrible, what she did. And some one else was with her — it was one of father’s friends — Gerritt Geisert.”

"Gerritt Geisert!” Dale’s exclamation was a groan. "He came with your mother? How did they get in?”

"They came after the dogs barked,” she whispered. "I was lying awake and Edward sitting across the room, and then the dogs howled and a moment later Edward went to sleep as suddenly as though some one had commanded him to do so. Somehow I felt terribly afraid, and lay there as though waiting for something.

"In a moment I heard some one movTHE VAMPIRE MASTER


mg on the balcony outside my window and with an effort I turned my head and looked at the window. Two shapes were outside it. One I recognized as Gerritt Geisert, but with a terrible look now on his face that made me shudder. The other was mother, dressed in her shroud as I last had seen her in her coffin.

"Mother and Geisert were looking in at me. Their faces were white and strange and evil and their eyes red as fire. They saw Edward sleeping in a stupor in his chair and laughed at the sight, and I knew that somehow they had cast that stupor on him from outside. And as they looked at me it seemed that on their faces was a terrible desire.

"Geisert reached up to open the window but his hand recoiled as though repulsed by the garlic branches you had put around the windows and between them. They both tried to open the window and could not, nor the other windows, since they could not pass the branches. All that time I lay in a kind of helpless dread, unable to move a muscle or to scream at the top of my lungs as I wanted to do.

"Geisert and mother seemed foiled by the branches and a sort of hope sprang in me that they’d be unable to get in after all. But then Geisert pointed at me and said something to mother. Mother laughed evilly and nodded, then fastened her crimson-lit eyes full upon my own eyes.

"I seemed instantly to lose my own will and to have its place absolutely usurped by my mother’s will. I knew she wanted me to take down the branches and open the window to them, and I found myself getting stiffly out of bed, walking mechanically to the window and taking down the branches, and then opening the window and going back stiffly to lie down again in bed.

"I heard mother and Gerritt Geisert laugh as they came in. 'So they tried to keep us out!’ Geisert said mockingly. 'So much for their precautions!’

"He and mother came and looked down at me with red-lit, gloating eyes. Mother was bending down over me, her face alight with an evil eagerness, but Geisert thrust her aside.

" 'Your master comes first, Allene,’ he said. 'I can take this blood in person tonight and not through you.’

" 'But she is my victim!’ hissed mother furiously.

'' 'Never fear, I’ll leave you some,’ Geisert said. 'She has just enough left for both of us.'

"Geisert bent with the words, his crimson eyes on mine, his face working terribly and his bitter, hot breath strong on my own face. I sought to scream and still could move no muscle. His head plunged downward and his lips fastened on the punctures at my'throat!

"I felt his lips sucking, and as a terrible giddiness and weakness rushed over me I felt the blood draining out of my veins. It was horror beyond thought and yet somehow at the same time it was also delight, a strange joy mixed with loathing!

"I was losing consciousness entirely when Geisert at last straightened up, his lips dripping blood, his eyes blazing with hideous satiation.

" 'It is your turn now, Allene,’ he said, turning. 'I think I have left enough in her to satisfy you.’

"Mother leapt to my side, bent over me. 'Do not fear, Olivia,’ she said mockingly. 'After tonight you’ll be one of us and will know yourself the taste of young rich blood — ^warm blood '

"Her mouth fastened hotly upon my throat and then she too was sucking. I felt the last of my strength going, and



as consciousness left me the last sound I heard was Gerritt Geiscrt — laughing ”

Olivia Ralton’s whisper ceased, and she lay back motionless. Dale hastily broke another capsule under her nostrils. Her eyes re-opened.

"Mother dead — and coming back,” she whispered. "Dead and evil — taking my blood with Gerritt Geisert! And they said that I would be one of them, like them!”

"You’ll never be one of them, Olivia!” said Doctor Dale solemnly, rising. "Your mother has been caught in Gerritt Geisert’s dark web of evil, but she will be released from it and Geiscrt destroyed!”

Olivia Ralton looked fixedly at him. "I am dying, am I not, doctor.?” she asked in her weak whisper.

Dale lowered his head. "Yes, Olivia.”

"I want to see father and Virginia — and Edward,” she whispered.

As Dale stepped back I saw through the open window that streaks of gray were lighting the dark sky. Dawn was at hand. Henderson brought Virginia into the room. She flung herself upon her sister’s bedside in an agony of sobbing. "You’re not dying, Olivia — ^you can’t be!” she moaned.

Olivia’s hand rested on her hair, then on James Ralton’s trembling hand. "I’m not afraid,” she whispered. "It will all come right, I think — about mother, I mean.”

"Olivia, child!” cried James Ralton. Henderson, his own face deathly, helped him back.

Edward Harmon was bending over the girl, his expression wild. "Olivia, don’t die! I’ll send those hell-fiends to hell’s lowest pit for this!”

"Edward, you heard him say it was not mother’s fault,” whispered Olivia. "It’s

Gerritt Geiscrt’s but don’t risk yourself ”

She stopped, struggling up almost to a sitting position, and for one dreadful instant it seemed to me that Allene Ralton’s crimson eyes looked out of her face toward the first sunlight now streaming in through the northern windows.

"Gerritt Geisert!” she whispered, that dread light in her eyes, then fell back and lay naotionless.

11. The Quest in the Hills

D octor dale drew the sheet slowly over her face. James Ralton stared dazedly at him, while Henderson led the sobbing Virginia from the room. Edward Harmon’s face was wild, passionate, terrible.

"She named Gerritt Geisert as she died!” he said chokingly. "Dale, I’m going to destroy that hell-fiend if I live!”

'"That is what we must do, yes,” Doctor Dale said with voice steely. "But first we’ve work here with Olivia.”

"With Olivia.? What do you mean? She’s dead now!”

Dale shook his head. ‘ Y'ou forget that Olivia died here as a vampire’s victim and is now vampire herself! Did you not see her eyes as she died? Tonight unless we prevent it with stake and steel, she will rise and seek victims for herself!”

"You want to drive a stake through her heart and sever her head now?” Ralton cried, and Doctor Dale nodded sternly.

"It’s the one sure way to prevent her becoming vampire.”

"Dale, you can’t!” Ralton cried. "Dale, think how our hearts are torn now — that would crush them, to see her body so treated! Wait until after the funeral, at least, for heaven’s sake!”

"Don’t kill us all by doing this thing now!” Harmon pleaded. "I’ll watch



Olivia’s body tonight, Dale, to make sure it doesn’t rise. Tomorrow we can hold the funeral and after that you can do it.”

"It would be better to do the thing now and be sure,” Doctor Dale said, "but I know how you feel. Well, Owen and Henderson and I must get out to the old Geisert place and break through that stone wall behind which lies Gerritt Geisert and his vampires in the day, and use stakes and knives to end their activities for good.

"You, Harmon, can watch over Olivia until we return, to make sure she does not come to vampire-life tonight. Ihen after the funeral tomorrow we can end her pseudo-life also and, please God, the vampire menace here will be over.”

T he next two hours were hurried ones, for there were preparations and arrangements before Doctor Dale and Henderson and I could start out to the Geisert place.

A hurry-call to Maysville brought out from the village one of its two morticians with a coffin for Olivia Ralton. She was placed in it and it was placed in the Ralton library, which became thus the funeral cliamber for the next day’s ceremonies.

Doctor Dale fastened the coffin securely shut,, rubbed garlic leaves around the crack, and laid a cross on top of the coffin. Another cross he gave to Edward Harmon, whom he instructed to keep strict guard over Olivia’s coffin and not to open it for any reason.

While Dale was making these arrangements I had been getting from the village the tools we would need to break through the stone wall in the cellar of the Geisert house, heavy crowbars, chisels and sledges.

It was mid-morning when we were ready to start. We drove oflf in Doctor Henderson’s car, James Ralton looking

after us from the steps of his ill-fated house with a dazed expression on his white face that wrung my heart.

Henderson, who himself looked more or less stunned by the terrible sequence of events that had been unrolling so rapidly, drove westward at high speed over the bumpy roads, at Doctor Dale’s urging. The sacks containing our tools and stakes clanked in the car’s bottom at each lurch.

We left our car where we had hidden Harmon’s on our former visit, and with Dale and me carrying the sacks, pressed at once into the hills. Greatly as we hurried, though, through the dark hills and down that long narrow valley of ancient, deserted manors, it was well after noon by the time we pushed through the brush into the clearing v/hich held the old and rotting Geisert house.

Doctor Henderson looked with trepidation about the rooms as we entered, but wasting no time we descended at once into the dark cellar.

'The stone wall at tire south was unbroken as we had left it, but well we knew that it had opened since we left it to allow the three vampires to go forth, Gerritt Geisert and Allene Ralton on their fateful visit to Olivia, and Arthur Newton on the visit to Alice Wilsey that we had overseen and interrupted.

Doctor Dale and I began work at once on the wail. Our plan was to pry out one of the massive blocks near the floor, which would make an aperture large enough to permit us to crawl into the secret space behind, which must hold the cofiGins of the three vampires.

Dale held the chisel while I swung the sledge. It was monotonous and tiring work, and the blocks were of hard native granite that resisted our steel stoutly. The cellar rang with my sledge-blows on the chisel’s head, Henderson standing by and



holding the flashlight on which we depended for illumination.

After some minutes of this I was forced to let Dale take the sledge while I rested in holding the chisel. We alternated thus for some time, and soon both of us were sweating despite the dankness of the cellar. But what worried us was not the hardness of the toil but the slowness of our progres-s. At the end of two hours’ steady work we had not cut a third of the way through around the big block.

Dale glanced occasionally at his watch in a nervous manner as we worked on, and I knew what was in his mind. The afternoon was waning and we must break through before sunset; for at sunset the three who now lay inside stiff and helpless would awake to all their hideous vampire life. We drove our tired muscles to greater efforts as the afternoon drew near its end.

We were almost through around the block but it was evident that on its inner side it was faced with some hard cement, and we guessed that this joined it to the blocks around it so that they could move together when the secret method of opening was used. At last, though, our chisels drove through this also and the block had been freed completely from those around it.

Using the chisels and the crowbars we had brought as levers, we sought to pry the great block out of its place in the wall. Henderson lent his aid and the three of us tugged desperately at the bars. With a slow grating, the great stone slid outward, then tunabled to the cellar floor. A dark recess was disclosed behind!

We straightened, panting, and Doctor Dale glanced quickly at his watch. "An hour yet before sunset!” he said. "We’ll have time enough — give me the light, Henderson.”

He flashed the beam inside the recess,

which was itself stone-lined and about ten feet square. We stared.

"There are no coffins or bodies here!” I cried. "Dale, it’s empty!”

Doctor Dale was thunderstrude. He flashed the beam back and forth around the empty recess. "But they must be here!” he said desperately. "We heard them go down in here yesterday morning!”

A thought struck me. 'Dale, you remember we chipped at the stones here yesterday morning trying to get in!”

"Yes. But that doesn’t explain why the coffins and bodies of Geisert and Allene Ralton and Newton aren’t here.”

"It does!” I said. "When Gerritt Geisert came forth from here last night at sunset he must have seen the marks we left on the stones, despite our efforts to efface them. He’d know that some one knew where their bodies lay by day and was trying to get at them, and he’d ”

"He’d take his coffin and have the other two take theirs to some other hidingplace!” Dale finished. "You’re right, Owen, it’s what’s happened! Geisert has been too much for us again!”

"But what arc we to do?” asked Doctor Henderson tensely. "It will soon be sunset.”

Doctor Dale thought. "We must search for Geisert’s new hiding-place,” he said, "must find where the coffins of the three now lie. It can’t be terribly far from here.”

"What about the other old deserted manor-houses in this valley?” I suggested. Dale’s eyes lit.

"I believe you’ve hit it, Owen! Any one of them would make a good hidingplace for the three coffins and bodies.”

"But which one?” Henderson said. "Dale, there are a dozen of those old places along this valley.”

'We’ll search the nearest ones — the

W. T.— 6



ones at this end of the valley,” Dale said. "If we don’t find the cofiins in them we’ll go on to the others — we can’t give up now.”

We hastened up and out of the ancient Geisert house. The sun was sinking toward the western horizon, and sunset, the awakening time of the three vampires we sought, was not far off.

T he nearest of the other deserted manor-houses was one on the other side of the valley and a half-mile or more nearer the village. We headed toward it, still carrying our sacks of implements, Doctor Dale leading at a rapid rate and Henderson and I close behind him.

We pushed through brush and briars, across the overgrown road at the valley’s center and up the opposite slope toward the old house. When we arrived there we found it a rotting structure in even greater decay than the Geisert place.

Rapidly we searched through its rotting rooms and damp cellar and the broken ruins of its outbuildings. Dale even flashing our beam down the old, driedup well. But there was no sign of the coffins we sought. The sun was setting as we headed northeastward up the valley toward the next old place.

Henderson pointed to the crimson sunset. "Dale, even if we find the coffins now, Geisert and the rest will have awaked!”

"I know,” Doctor Dale said grimly, "but we’ll know where the coffins are and can wait until they come back to them, can wait until morning and then end the three.”

Twilight was darkening as we reached the second old house, and we had to use the flashlight to search its ruins. Its wooden walls had fallen in several places and we pulled aside enough of the decaying debris to make sure that what we W. T.— 7

sought was not concealed there, then went on up the valley to the next place.

Night lay black and heavy over the valley by then, the sky clouded and hiding the moon. We plunged on through the night, fighting through the thick brush with clothes and skin tom, having difficulty even in finding the places we sought, and more difficulty in searching them. And our search was the more tense because we knew that now Geisert and his two vampires must be fully awake and possessed of all their hideous powers.

More than four hours had passed and we had searched five of the valley’s deserted manors, those in its southwestern half, when Doctor Dale halted. We were out of breath, reeling from fatigue, with clothing in tatters and skins bleeding from countless scratches.

"There are still seven places we haven’t searched,” Doctor Henderson said. ’"The Van Broot and Salton and Elphin places and four others.”

"We’re not going to search them now,” Dale said. "It’s near midnight and I think we’d best get back to Ralton’s and the village. I’m uneasy.”

' 'Why.? Y ou think something’s wrong?’ ’ I asked quickly.

"I don’t know,” Doctor Dale said. "But we know Geisert and the other two must be awake tonight and abroad. We’ve not seen them in the valley here and if they’ve gone in again ”

"You’re right,” I said. "We’d better get back. We can come back in the morning and search the other places.”

So we headed out of the long valley, using our flashlight to guide us along the half-obliterated road. We looked continually about us for sight of the three vampires we knew must be abroad, but saw nothing of them.

In the darkness we could not hurry much, and it was after two in the morn754


ing when we finally emerged from the hills and reached Henderson’s car. Deadtired as we were, we wasted not a moment but started eastward, Doctor Dale driving.

"I’ve been thinking, Owen,” Dale said as he drove, "that what handicaps us most in our fight against these vampires is tliat we have no offensive weapon against them when they come against us by night in their pseudo-life. We can keep them out with the garlic repellent to all vampires and can repel them with the cross when they attack us, but have nothing to use against them in return.

"It’s occurred to me that we could use the powers of the cross more effectively against them by casting cross-shaped bullets, firing them from regular cartridges and regular pistols. The vampires would not be proof against them as against ordinary bullets, and if a cross-shaped bullet entered their bodies it would, I have no doubt, paralyze them completely and make them helpless.”

"It’s an idea, Dale!” I cried. "It would give us a chance against them by night, even if we could not find their coffins and bodies by day.”

"We’ll try it,” Dale said. "God knows we need all the weapons we can get; for so far the score in this struggle has been all on the side of Geisert and his vampires.”

I T WAS after three when our car turned in at the Ralton estate again, llie big house was quiet, only a few lights glowing.

A sleepy-looking Smart admitted us and James Ralton was just coming down the stairs into the dim-lit hall as we entered.

"You succeeded?” he cried eagerly. '’You found the coffins and bodies?”

Dale shook his head, and Ralton's haggard face became more drawn as he heard how Geisert had eluded us.

"We came back in because we feared Geisert might have come again,” Dale said. "Nothing’s happened, though? I mean to Olivia’s body?”

"No, Edward has been watching it and hasn’t left the library,” Ralton said. "I looked in on him two hours ago and was just coming down again when you came.”

He walked back with us to the door of the library and opened it. We started through the door, then cried out together.

The windo\l' of the dim-lit library was swinging open to the night! The coffin of Olivia Ralton was gone from the stand that had supported it! And Edward Harmon lay in a crushed, crumpled heap near the window, blood flowing from his mouth and nose.

We sprang across the room to him. Dale bending over him and raising him in his arms. Harmon stirred a little in Dale’s arms and opened his eyes. His lips moved, and from them came a choking whisper.

"Sorry — ^got me,” he whispered. "Came an hour ago — Geisert — Olivia ”

"Gerritt Geisert took Olivia’s body and coffin?” Dale asked him fiercely. "He did this to you?”

Harmon’s head nodded weakly. He seemed- to gather his strength to speak. "I was watching Olivia’s coffin,” he whispered. "Had a cross in my hand, and another cross lay on the coffin where you’d left it. I was thinking of Olivia as she’d been when alive, when I heard Olivia speaking, inside the coffin!

"She was crying out faintly to me from inside the coffin. 'Edward, let me out!’ she cried. Tm smothering here!’

"I sprang to the coffin. 'Good God, Olivia!’ I cried. 'Is it you that’s speaking?’

"Her faint voice came from inside.



'Yes, Edward — you must let me out, at once!’

"My hands flew to open the coffin when I remembered suddenly what you’d said about Olivia becoming vampire and waking tonight after death, and your orders not to open the coffin in any case.

" 'I can’t let you out, Olivia!’ I cried. 'You’re dead — Dale said you were dead!’

" 'He was wrong!’ her voice answered. 'Edward, I’m as alive as you are — I woke just now in this terrible thing and I’m stifling, suffocating! Edward, if you love me, save me, let me out!’

"I could stand it no more, for it was Olivia, whom I had loved, crying to me to save her from a horrible death. I unfastened the coffin’s bolts, flung open the lid, the cross on it falling to the floor and my own cross dropping from my, hand in my haste.

"Olivia sat up in the coffin! She seemed as alive as ever and in better health than I had seen her for weeks, her cheeks flushed and her eyes brilliant. Holding me with her eyes, she stepped to the floor. Then she put her arms round my neck, her face close to mine.

" 'Edward, my love, you have saved me from a terrible end,’ she said.

" 'Olivia, is it really you?’ I asked, dazed. 'Are you really alive?’

" 'Of course I am,’ she answered with a silvery laugh. 'See, I will kiss you and prove it to you.’

"Her mouth met mine, and it was icy cold! And somehow at its touch my strength seemed to leave me. I was aware that she was holding me in her arms and that her mouth was now on my neck, that her teeth were denting the skin of my throat as though to bite it in the next moment.

"But at that moment came an interruption. The window was flung open and Gerritt Gcisert and Allene Ralton entered, just the same in appearance as when we saw them out at the Geisert place. Olivia turned to them at the interruption, her eyes blazing.

" 'So you have awakened already and found a victim!’ Geisert said. 'But there’s no time for that now — later you will have victims in plenty but now we must be quick and get out of here with your coffin.’

" 'But his blood is mine — I won’t go until I have it!’ cried Olivia, still holding me, in a sort of daze, in her arms.

" 'I say no and I am master!’ thundered Geisert, his eyes hell- red. 'You will learn now to obey me as the others do.’

"Olivia cringed before his glare and let me go, Geisert closed her coffin and seized it. At that my daze left me and with a cry I sprang at him. He grasped me, hurled me like a doll toward the floor with terrific force, and I heard my bones crack as I struck.

"I lay there with consciousness going as Geisert again seized Olivia’s coffin, carrying it unaided, and then with Olivia and Allene Ralton following him, and a fiendish laugh from the two women, he was gone with it out the window! And I lay, unable to call and with my life going, imtil you came but now!’’

12. Stake and Steel

E dward harmon's eyes closed and for an instant I thought that death had come. But his eyelids flickered, opened again.

"Dale, I know I’m dying,” he whispered. "I felt my spine crack when I struck the floor. I wouldn’t care so much,

if I were not leaving Olivia ”

"Leaving Olivia one of Gerritt Geisert’s vampires,” Doctor Dale finished for him. "We’ll release her from that, Harmon, never fear, and end Geisert.” "But be careful with Geisert,” warned



Harmon in his weak whisper. "He is more powerful than we thought — is ”

Blood welled suddenly anew from his lips, he quivered violently, then lay limp in Dale’s supporting arms. Doctor Dale lowered him gently, then briefly examined his throat. There were no punctures in its skin.

Dale stood up. "At least he did not die as Olivia’s victim,” he said, "and is now of the truly dead and not the deadalive.”

"Harmon dead?” Ralton seemed unable to comprehend. "And Olivia’s body and coffin gone!”

"Yes, Gerritt Geisert’s subservient vampires now number three!” Dale exclaimed. "First Allene Ralton, then young Arthur Newton, now Olivia Ralton, and now some one else soon if we do not destroy this ever-widening circle of evil!”

He turned to Ralton, "You heard no disturbance an hour ago? Surely the dogs must have barked when Geisert and Allene Ralton came?”

James Ralton shook his head. "No, Dale, they made no sound, and I can understand that. For yesterday afternoon the lodge-keeper came in to tell me that the dogs would not leave their kennels and made no sound but continual low whines of terror.”

"They’ve been cowed to silence by these recurrent vampire visits,” Dale said. "That means we can no longer depend on their warnings.”

"Dale, what are we to do?” Doctor Henderson demanded desperately. "Olivia vampire — Harmon dead — is this horror to go on and on?”

"We can do nothing but keep fighting it,” Dale said sternly. "Our best course is to try the idea I spoke of as we were returning, the cross-shaped bullets. We’ll make some and as soon as we have them

will start out there into the hills, by day or night, and hunt down Gerritt Geisert and his vampires.

"In the meantime,” he added to James Ralton, "before leaving here I want you to call Miss Virginia. She must be told everything that has happened.”

"Everything?” Ralton said. "Dale, we can’t tell her how her own mother vampirized Olivia, how Olivia is now a vampire too?”

"We must,” Doctor Dale said firmly. "Don’t you see what I’m thinking of? Didn’t I tell you that the vampire comes back always to prey on its nearest kin? Allene Ralton came back to prey on Olivia, and what if Olivia now came ”

"To make a victim of Virginia?” Ralton cried. "Oh, Dale, this horror is unhinging my mind! But you’re right — she must be warned.”

When Virginia Ralton came she was so stunned to find Harmon dead that it took minutes for her to appreciate the horror of what Doctor Dale, as clearly as possible, told her of the way in which her mother and now her older sister had become vampires.

"So if you see Olivia seemingly living from now on you’ll know it is not really Olivia but a thing of evil in her shape,” Dale finished, "a thing infinitely to be feared.

"Keep crosses and sprays of garlic over all this house’s doors and windows from now on,” he added to James Ralton. "I’ll leave them here for you to put up — they only can repel vampire visitations.”

"Dale, the servants know that something ghastly has been going on here, and they’re whispering,” James Ralton said. "I’m afraid they’ll leave, they’re so fearful.”

"Well, if they do, get some one else here at once,” Dale said, '"rhat young Hugh Rillard would come, no doubt, and


757 ■

of course we’il come any time you want us.

"Henderson and Owen and I are starting back to the village now, and we’ll arrange to have them come for Edward Harmon’s body and take it to his home.’’

"Dale, on the way back hadn’t we better stop at the Wilsey place?’’ I said. "If Geisert and Allene Ralton were here it means that Arthur Newton too must have been abroad!”

"You’re right!” Dale exclaimed. "In the horror here I’d forgotten the Wilsey girl. We’d best get started now.”

D awn was breaking as our car turned out from the Ralton grounds and the sun was rising by the time we drove into the Wilsey estate.

Twice Doctor Dale rang without answer at the door and was reaching to ring again when the door was flung open and Mrs. Wilsey was disclosed, her face white and wild. She literally fell upon Dale.

"Doctor Dale!” she cried. "Thank God you’ve come! I didn’t know where

I could get you! Alice ”

"She’s worse?” Dale said, and then without waiting for Mrs. Wilsey’s answer, dashed up the stairs, we following in haste.

We burst into the girl’s room to find Dale bending over Alice Wilsey. One glance at her made my heart stand still — she was a replica in whiteness and waxenness, in the way in which her lips were drawn back and in her slow, heavy breathing, of Olivia Ralton when we had found her dying on the morning before!

Her blue eyes stared up at us unrecognizingly, her lips moving soundlessly. Doctor Dale swiftly tested her heart and lung action, then cast a glance around the room, noting as I had already done that the window giving on the porch-balcony swung a little open and that the garlic

sprays that had hung upon it had been torn down. He looked back down at the girl.

"She can live but for minutes,” he said slowly, heavily. "Her blood too has been drained almost entirely from her body.”

"Doctor, you can’t mean it!” cried Mrs. Wilsey, but Dale motioned silence suddenly as Alice Wilsey’s efforts to speak became faintly audible.

"Arthur,” she was murmuring in the faintest of whispers, "came in the night — I took down branches and opened to him — still thought I had tried to trap him the night before and was still angry.

"Still angry ” As her voice failed

a moment I wondered what terrible scene here in the night between the girl and her vampire-lover those words covered. "Said he’d — take all my blood this time — took and took — strength — Arthur ”

Her body jerked, then lay still, eyes closing, drawn bloodless face settling almost at once into more natural lines.

Mrs. Wilsey flung herself on the dead girl, sobbing, crying, striving futilely to restore her.

Dale stood up, his face like iron. "Get the sacks of tools from the car, Owen,” he said between his teeth.

"Dale, you’re going to ” Henderson began.

"We’re going to use stake and steel at once upon this dead girl who died a vampire’s victim!” Doctor Dale rasped. "We’re going to take no chance of her escaping us as Olivia Ralton did!”

"You’re going to mangle Alice’s body?” cried Mrs. Wilsey. "No, you can’f — ^you can’t!”

"We must and we will!” Dale exclaimed. "Unless we do, your Alice becomes tonight a fiend of evil like Arthur Newton himself, and goes forth dead in a terrible mockery of life!



"Get the sacks of tools, Owen!” he directed again, and I sped down to the car and in a moment was back with them.

"Take Mrs. Wilsey to another room, Henderson,” Dale ordered, and the physician, as though glad himself to escape, supported the half -conscious woman and led her from the room.

"Now, Owen,” said Dale, removing his coat and rolling up his sleeves, which example I followed. "One of the stakes and the sledge — ^you hold the stake and I’ll drive it.”

I handed him the sledge and then took the heavy wooden stake, one of the several Dale had prepared before. It was four feet in length, sharpened to a point at one end and that point hardened.

At Doctor Dale’s direction I set the point of the stake against the body of Alice Wilsey directly over the heart, holding it upright. An irrepressible shudder ran through me.

Dale placed a chair beside me and then stood upon it so that he was at a height at which he could effectively wield the sledge on the stake’s head. He paused with the sledge upraised, looking down at the motionless form. Alice Wilsey lay with closed eyes and peaceful face as though sleeping.

"Remember to hold the stake firm no matter what happens,” he warned me. "It must go through the heart.”

"I will — go ahead,” I said.

Dale swung the sledge back over his shoulder and then down with terrific force on the top of the stake. I felt the stake in my hands drive down through flesh and bone for inches into the girl’s body.

No blood streamed from that terrible penetration, but Alice Wilsey’s eyes opened, blazing up at us, and as her body writhed in mad, snake-like convulsions there came from her a terrible scream!

I held the stake steady despite her wild convulsions, and again Doctor Dale’s sledge fell upon it to drive it deeper. 'The girl twisted at the second blow so that I could hardly hold the stake, her body writhing like that of a snake transfixed by a spear! Steady screams, curses, entreaties came from her lips, her blazing blue eyes widened as though in utter agony.

Dale struck again, and this time the stake’s sharp end penetrated clean through her body. At once Alice Wilsey’s mad movements ceased, she lay motionless again with closed eyes, and with peace, a real peace this time, upon her drawn white face.

With the implements from our sacks we cut off the stake level with her breast, then severed her head. That done. Doctor Dale covered her motionless form, and with our sacks of tools, beads of sweat standing out on our foreheads, we went out of the room.

Mrs. Wilsey waited with Henderson downstairs, and Doctor Dale placed his hand on her shoulder.

"It’s done,” he told her simply, "and your Alice is now of the truly dead and not of the hideous dead-alive as she would have been.

"Do not go to look at her,” he said. "I’ll send an undertaker in from the village and explain things to him. But there is nothing further to fear — here.’'

We left her like a woman stunned, and drove through the morning sunlight to the village.

As we got out of the car at Henderson’s house. Dale swayed a little. "I’ve got to have sleep,” he said thickly, "and you too, Owen. We’ll have to put off the making of the cross-bullets until tonight.

"You see the undertaker, Henderson,”



he said. "Explain by any plausible story the condition of Alice Wilsey’s body, and also that of Edward Harmon’s. You’ll have to tell them something to account for the disappearance of Olivia Ralton’s body, too — tell them the funeral is being postponed or something like that.”

Doctor Dale and I slept heavily for hours that day, as much exhausted by the mental strain of the horrors through which we had passed as by the physical exertion of our watcli two nights before at the Wilsey house, our dash to the dying Olivia Ralton, our toilsome expedition to and search through the valley in the hills, and our return to the Ralton and Wilsey places.

In fact I was still sleeping deeply when Dale woke me, at six in the evening. He had already been up a few hours, I found, and had already begxm the fabrication of the cross-shaped bullets which we hoped would prove a more effective weapon against Gerritt Geisert and his vampire crew than any we had hitlierto had.

The vampire horror culminates in the excitinst chapters that bring this story to a close in next monUi's WEIRD TALES.

Uhe

^^sed Door

By HAROLD WARD

"Hhe hate of a dying man lingered in the room of death for years beforg it manifested itself — a brief story of a terrible retribution

D ying, Obie Marsh cursed his wife as he had cursed her every day of their wedded life.

"You’ve poisoned me!” he gasped, writhing in agony. "Yes, you’ve poisoned me, you she-devil!”

Lucinda, his wife, nodded dully.

"Yes, I poisoned you,” she answered without emotion. "You are going to die, anyway; the doctor said so. It’s just a matter of time — maybe years, maybe months. And I can’t stand this fightin’ any longer. Fifteen years of it! Fifteen years of hell!”

"Damn you!” Marsh snarled through his clenched teeth, his bearded face twitching as a spasm of pain shot through his vitals.

"We should have never got married,” the woman w’ent on quietly. "I never loved you and you never loved me. 'T was a case of your folks and my folks

stickin’ in between us and the bnes we loved. You’ve always hated me ’cause of Lizzie Roper, an’ God knows I wanted t” marry A1 Sides. Just ’cause they wanted the farms joined, they made us get married, me an’ you. Now we can’t get a divorce ’cause of the church and I’ve just got sick of it all, Obie — sick of it all.”

"You hellion!” he gasped, his body twitching spasmodically.

"I got the idee of poisoning you when you first took sick,” she went on in the same even tone. "Old Doc Plummer said that you might linger along for years. And I just couldn’t stand it, Obie — I just couldn’t stand it any longer, your constant bullyin’ an’ nmnin’ over me.”

"You’ll hang for it,” Marsh said huskily. "I hope they torture you in hell- — — ” "Probably they will,” Lucinda Marsh answered without emotion. "But it’s worth it t’ have a little peace here on



earth. It hasn’t been any heaven livin’ with you.”

Marsh twisted convulsively, his gnarled fingers closing and unclosing, his thick lips drooling. He pulled himself together with a mighty effort. He was a hard man and strong; hard men are difficult to kill.

"I’ll come back... from th’ grave, you hussy!” he gasped.

" ’T would be like you,” his wife answered.

"... Waitin’ for.,. you ” he

went on, trying to shake his fist in the woman’s face.

The effort was too great. He dropped back upon the pillow again, the sweat standing out on his forehead in beads, his body shaking with spasms.

"God, it hurts!” he whispered. "Just like a... knife.”

The woman suddenly lifted her head. She was listening.

"Somebody coming,” she muttered, moving swiftly to the window.

A roadster was entering the lane.

"It’s old Doc Plummer,” she said, half to herself, half to the dying man. "Th’ old fool’s earlier’n usual. An’ you c’n still talk.”

The man on the bed quivered. His fists clenched and his muscles tensed as he tried to drag himself back from the yawning pit that awaited him.

"... Getting... dark ”

"Doc’s liable to rcc’nize th’ symptoms,” the woman went on as she heard the car come to a stop in the front yard. A sheet had been thrown carelessly across the foot of the bed. Seizing it, she wadded it into a bundle and pressed it against the face of the dying man. He fought against the stoppage of his breath with a feeble effort. She threw her whole strength against him. Suddenly his limbs straightened jerkily. She knew that he was dead. She sat up with a sigh of relief.

T he outside screen door slammed shut. Leaping to her feet, she threw the sheet across the back of a chair and turned to meet the doctor.

"He just passed away in one of those spells,” she said without emotion. "Come on him all of a sudden. Both th’ kids are at school and I didn’t have nobody to send for you. ’Tain’t no use to say I’m sorry, for I’m not. I’m glad he’s dead.”

The physician shook his head sympathetically. Like all country practitioners, he was conversant with the family affairs of his patients. For a moment he stood looking down at the still form of Obie Marsh. Then he pulled a sheet over it and turned to the woman.

"Better sit down and take things easy, Mrs. Marsh,” he said, following her into the other room. "I’ll notify the undertaker and stop at the school and have the teacher send Mary and Jimmy home. Anybody else you want.^”

She shook her head negatively.

"Tell Bill Reynolds to come prepared t’ take th’ body back with him,” she said slowly. "This is my house, now — mine. That’s th’ way my pap and his pap fixed up th’ deeds. An’ the quicker I get him outen my sight, th’ better it’ll suit me. I never want t’ see him again ’till th’ day of th’ funeral, an’ I wouldn’t ’tend that if it wasn’t that people’d talk.

"He made life hell for me,” she went * on bitterly. "I’ve hated him from th’ day I married him. It’s my house now and I’m goin’ t’ lock that room as soon’s they take him away. I never want t’ see th’ inside of it again. There’s too many mem’ries hovering around it. I’d burn it to th’ ground if it wasn’t for burnin’ th’ rest of th’ house.”

She dropped into a rocking-chair and gazed at the doctor, her gaunt body quivering with unshed tears. The physician patted her on the shoulder sympathetically.



"You’re overwrought, Lucinda,” he said kindly, "overwrought and nervous. I’ll fix up a tonic and bring it over tonight.”

"I don’t need no tonic,” she responded. "Knowin’ he’s dead’ll be tonic enough for me.”

The physician wagged his head solemnly.

"Let’s not speak ill of the dead,” he said. "Everybody knows how he treated you. If there’s nothing else I can do, I’ll be getting along.”

In due time the undertaker and his assistant came with their narrow wicker basket. Lucinda Marsh stood beside the door and waited for them as they carried their burden out. They looked at her queerly as she turned the key in the lock, then, removing it, placed it in her pocket.

"I hope t’ God I never sec th’ inside of that room till my dyin’ day,” she said.

Bill Reynolds, the imdertaker, shook his head in agreement. He, too, knew the life that she had led with Obie Marsh.

T he passing years brought little change in the outward appearance of Lucinda Marsh. Gaimt, hard-featured, tight-lipped and unemotional, she moved alx>ut the farm as of yore, doing a man’s work in the field, adding to the dollars that were already in the bank, conducting her business along the lines to which she had been trained. She had never had friends; Obie Marsh had seen to that. She made none now.

Her children grew to manhood and womanhood. Little Mary married and moved to the adjoining township. Lucinda made no complaint and no comment. Jimmy took the place of the hired man, lifting a bit of the burden of labor from his mother’s shoulders. But she still held the reins of management. Then he, too, married and brought his wife to

the big, gloomy old house at the end of the lane. Children came, six in quick succession. If their happy laughter wrought any change in the heart of the grim, silent old woman, she never showed it. Emma, Jimmy’s wife, busy rearing her brood, was content to remain in the background; Lucinda Marsh was still mistress of the house.

Through all the years that one room just off from the parlor — Father’s room, they called it — remained closed, the key hidden away in Lucinda’s bureau drawer. It was never mentioned in the family circle. ’The children knew that there was something — some horrible taboo — that kept it from being talked about. Their childish imaginations did the rest. They passed it with baited breath; when darkness fell and shadows hovered outside the circle made by the big kerosene lamp on the center table, they always played on the other side of the room, casting furtive glances toward the dark panels behind which lurked they knew not what.

Then, with the passing of the years, came the hard times. First the grasshoppers destroyed the crops. Then came the drought. Prices went up; wages dropped. Factories closed.

Mary was the first to feel the blow. 'The bank foreclosed on her husband’s farm. Then came illness and another baby. Finally she was forced to come home with her sick husband and her little brood. Lucinda Marsh, as unemotional as ever, made room for them. Jimmy’s wife’s brother lost his place in the city. Destitute, he appealed to his sister. She told her troubles to Lucinda Marsh.

"Four more won’t make no difference at th’ table,” the old woman said grimly. "Write an’ tell ’em we’ll make room for ’em somehow. Goodness knows, though, where we’ll sleep ’em.”

They were sitting at the supper table



when this conversation took place. It was Mary who, with a quick glance at her brother, ventured to speak that which was in all of their minds.

"Father’s room,” she said timidly. "Couldn’t we open that up and air it before tliey come and let ’em sleep in there?”

For a moment there was an awed silence. Lucinda Marsh turned her sunken eyes on her daughter, then glanced at the faces of the others.

"I vowed that I’d never set foot in that room ’till my dyin’ day,” she said finally.

"But they — they wouldn’t be you, Mother,” Mary argued. "And we’re cramped for room right now. Where else can we sleep ’em?”

Lucinda Marsh quietly laid down her knife and fork, her thin lips set in a straight, grim line.

"If anybody sleeps in that room, ’t will be me,” she said finally. "I lived with your father for fifteen years, hatin’ him every day more’n more. And he hated me worse’n I hated him — if such a thing is possible. The room’s filled with our hatred — it’s locked up in there smolderin’ an’ ready t’ be fanned into flame again.”

"But, Mother ”

Lucinda Marsh straightened her bent old shoulders with a gesture of finality.

"I’ll move into it,” she said grimly.

"I wish that I hadn’t mentioned it,” Mary said regretfully. "I knew that there was some sort of sentiment attached to it, but ”

The old woman cut her off.

"Sentiment! Hate, you mean,” she snapped. "But maybe it’s for th’ best. I’m an old woman — ’way past seventy. I’m about due to die, anyway.”

She stopped, her aged eyes taking on a far-away look.

"Maybe it’s foreordained,” she said.

half to herself. "He said that he’d be... waitin’ for me. Maybe he is. Who knows?”

She rose from the table and took a step toward the door.

"I’ll open it up in the mornin.’ and let it air out,” she said.

She moved up the stairway to the upper floor, her lips straight and tight.

F or a long time Lucinda Marsh sat in the straight-backed chair beside her bed, her weary eyes gazing into vacancy while the panorama of the years unfolded itself. To her had come a great urge, a desire which she had kept in leash for close to half a century — ^the longing that comes to all murderers — a yearning to visit the scene of her crime.

A thousand times before, the same desire had swept over her and she had always fought it off. Now, however, with the fulfilment of her wish only a few hours away there had come to her a seeming need for haste. The closed room was calling to her. Within her brain a voice was shrieking: "Now! Now!” To her aged mind it was the voice of the man she hated — the man she had killed.

Getting up, she went to the bureau and, opening the drawer, found the key where she had hidden it so many years before. She held it in her gnarled fingers, fondling it, crooning over it.

Her room was at the head of the stairs. One by one, she heard the members of the household go to their rooms. Finally the gloomy old house was filled with an indescribable quietness.

Rising, she opened the door a tiny crack and peered out into the dark hallway. Satisfied that all were asleep, she picked up the small hand-lamp and tiptoed furtively down the creaking stairs.

A storm was in the air. She could hear the wind rising and shrieking through the



branches of the trees. There was something reminiscent about the mournful wail. She stopped a moment, her head bent forward. Then remembrance swept over her.

'' ’T was like this th’ night before — before he died,” she muttered to herself.

Her heart was beating a trifle faster as she reached the dark, grim door. She hesitated an instant. Then, transferring the lamp to her left hand, she inserted the key in the lock. It turned hard, as if reluctant to reveal the mysteries it hid. Then the tumbler shot back. For a moment she waited, her fingers on the knob. She was trembling now — shaking with an emotion she did not understand.

"He said that... he’d be... waitin’ forme,” she murmured. "I wonder... if he is.”

She turned the knob and pushed against the panel. The aged hinges squeaked protestingly. Then the door swung open. A wave of malignancy and hatred surged over her.

Slie stepped inside, her lips closed in a tight, grim line. Just inside the door she waited, the lamp held high above her head, her eyes taking in every detail. There was the bed, unmade, where he had died. The thought came to her that Bill Reynolds, the undertaker, the last person to step foot in the room, was gone, too. At the head of the bed was the little stand; on top of it was the glass in which she had administered the poison. Beside it was a bottle of medicine, half empty; the label, covered with old Doc Plummer’s crabbed hieroglyphics, was yellow and faded. Doc Plummer... he, too, had been festering in his grave for years. 'There was the pillow where Obie’s head had rested when he died; one corner was twisted where he had held it when the last spasm of agony had knifed its way through his vitals. Nothing was changed.

"He said that he’d... be waitin’ for me,” she said again.

The room was musty and mildewed, the dust of years over everything. She closed the door and set the lamp upon the little stand. Going to the window, she pushed it up to its full length. The wind swept in, howling and shrieking.

The lamp sputtered, causing queer, grotesque shadows to dance in the distant corners. Across the back of the chair where she had thrown it years before was the yellowed sheet with which she had smothered the dying breath out of her husband. There was a darker spot upon its mildewed surface; she knew it for the spittle that had drooled from his mouth.

She moved to the center of the room, still peering furtively into the shadows.

"He said that he’d come... back from th’ grave an’ be... waitin’ for me,” she said again and again.

A fresh gust of wind howled through the window. The lamp sputtered, smoked, flared up, then went out.

With the sudden darkness came a feeling of dread. For the first time in her life Lucinda Marsh was afraid.

Out of the darkness came a thing — a shapeless thing of white. For a moment it hung suspended in midair. It hovered over her, its long, shapeless arms reaching out for her. The wind shrieked witii merry gusto.

"... said that he’d be waitin’ ”

she murmured.

It swept over her, holding her in its folds, twisting about her, smothering

her....

"God!” she shrieked, clawing at tl^e enveloping tentacles. "He kept his word! He was... waitin’ ”

In the morning they found her. Twisted about her head and throat was a yellowed sheet — the sheet with which she had smothered her husband.

in Gray

By DONALD WANDREI

'An exquisitely told story is this — about the strange woman and the loathsome gray slug that came to the sleeper in his dreams

D uring the whole of my life, the hours from sunset to sunrise, when other people sleep, have been oppressive with fear. Since early childhood, I have been subject to terrifying dreams, from which neither physicians nor psychologists have been able to offer me the slightest relief. Doctors could find no organic derangement save for a few minor troubles such as are common to all men. My life has been singularly free of accidents, shocks, tragedies, and misfortunes. Financial worries have never beset me. I have pursued my career, at which success came steadily. Psycliiatrists have devoted months to analyzing me, probing my life, my emotional development, my conscious and subconscious minds, hypnotizing me, making innumerable tests, and searching for secret fears or obsessions that might account for my nightmares, but in vain. Sedatives, opiates, dieting, travel, rest: these have been urged upon me at one time or another, and I have tried them without success. To doctors, I am a healthy man of tliirty-four. To psychiatrists, I am a mentally sound, normal, and balanced person whose extraordinary dreams they either discount or discredit.

This is no comfort for me. I have come to dread the hours when night approaches. I would gladly expend my fortune if I could be relieved of the visions that possess my nocturnal mind, but the great diagnosticians of America and the foremost psychiatrists of Europe have alike labored in vain.


As I sit here now, writing these last words, a calm and a despair burden me, though my head seems clear as seldom before, despite the horror, the loathing, the terror, the revulsion, and the fear that combined in the first, and I believe final, profound shock which annihilated only a few minutes ago, and in full daylight, what hopes I had of fulfilling my life. The dreadful tiling is at my elbow while I write; and when I have written, I shall destroy.

Let me go back for many years. I have been, I repeat, subject since early childhood to hideous dreams. Disembodied heads that rolled after me; cities of colossal and alien statuary; fire that burned and beasts that leaped; falls downward from titanic precipices; fails skyward up from pits of ancient evil; the old ones, waiting and waiting; flights through eternal blackness from nothing or something I only sensed; the grind of infernal torture machines against my flesh; monsters all of flowers and animals, fish and birds and stones, wood and metal and gas united incredibly; the pale avengers; descent into necrophilic regions; the leering of a bodiless eye in the midst of vast and forlorn plains; a corpse that rose and turned upon me the visage of a friend, with tentacles and ribbons of tattered black flesh writhing outward as though blown by gusts of wind; tte little ones who pattered toward me with strange supplications; sunlight upon an oak-covered hill, sunlight whose malignance, nameless color, pulse, and odor instilled in me

THE LADY IN GiL^.Y


the unreasoning hate that is allied with madness; orchids lifting blooms like children’s faces, and sipping blood; the dead ones who came, and came again; that awful moment when I drowned, and a fat tiling swam out of the sea- depths to nibble; mewing blades of grass which purred avidly as my feet trod upon them; these and countless other such nightmares, inflicted through slumber as far back as I can remember, bred in me a deep and rooted aversion to sleep. Yet sleep I must, like all mortal men. And what shall I say of those darker dreams, those fantasmal processions tliat did not and do not correspond with any knowledge I possess.^ What of the city beneath the sea, all of vermilion marble and corroded bronze, in whose queerly curved geometry rest the glowing configurations of things that earth never bore.^ What of the whisperer in darkness, and the call of Cthulhu? I saw the seven deaths of Commoriom, and the twenty-three sleepers where Hali raises its black spires in Carcosa. Who else has witnessed the dead titans waken, or the color out of space, or the ichor of stone gods.?

These, these tormented me and wakened me to fever and to sweat in the hours past midnight, and the silence before the gray of dawn. But they were small things, old dreams, compared with those of late.

1 CAN not now narrate the events leading up to my acquaintance with Miriam, nor the brief but boundless love that we enjoyed, the eternal marriage we planned, and her tragic death when the airplane in which she was nearing the city from a visit to her parents fell upon the eve of our wedding. Perhaps the shock of that waking nightmare completed the slow devastation to which sleeping nightmares had almost' brought my mind. I am not

the one to say. Miriam was dead, all her strange beauty, the gray of her eyes, the gray and subdued mood of her personality, the pallor of her cheeks, the haunted and roving spirit prisoned within her, gone. I thought of her as the lady in gray, as she lay in her bier, like a woman from Poe, or an eery creature out of The Turn of the Screw. So lovely, so unreal, so alien, and yet so eerily sweet. Dead, and not for me. Even the day was gray, that wild, autumnal afternoon, and the leaves that the wind blew rustled with a dry, sad soimd, until the rain began falling later, and the world turned to a duller gray where the noise of slashing drops rivalled the sodden hov/1 of gusts, and I was alone with my loneliness.

In the sanctuary of my chamber that night, I dreamed a dream. I dreamed that Miriam came to me, and took my hand, and led me forth. Now we came to a great and slimy sea, whose frightful color appalled me more than its stench. The blackness of the sea, its viscidity, and the universal atmosphere of decay, made me sick before ever she led me into it, so tliat the touch of that fluid brought a double horror. Far out in the sea, as I struggled with choking lungs, the lady in gray, who floated luminous above its surface, turned without reason or warning, and guided me back.

I could not account, in the morning, for the awful stuff that coated me, or the mephitic smell in my chamber. Only after arduous labors was I able to remove it from my person, and I was compelled to bum every article that the slimy, sticky, nauseating stuff had stained.

That night, I dreamed merely of skies of flame, and lands whose sinister red masses of rock soared from sere valleys where nothing lived and no plant flourished toward a Cyclopean metropolis suspended in the heavens; and thus, for



many nights, my old dreams recurred, until there came a time when I visioned again the lady in gray; and in my sleep, she took me by the hand, and raised me from my bed. We walked across plains of dusty gray, and she led me to a pillar. Now there dwelt in this pillar a great white worm, yet not a worm; a fat thing, like a slug, all gray, and with the face, if I may call the hideous thing such, of a rational creature; a horned visage whose red, white and gray pulp sickened me; but Miriam commanded, and I obeyed. I strode to the pillar, and lo, it fell apart. Out of those shards rose the loathly worm, and I gathered it in my arms. It curled. Then my lady in gray led me across that tremendous and desolate plain to my chamber, where she left me, committing to my care the dweller of the pillar. Over me she bent, and the gray thing kissed the gray woman with its beaked mouth; and then she leaned above me and caressed my lips, and she drifted upon her way, like a fog, soundless, and without visible steps,

IWAS frightened in the morning when I discovered that huge and horrible slug beside me. As I remember, I leaped from bed and with the tongs for my fireplace I beat and crushed it to a froth. Then I wrapped the pulp in the stained sheets, and burned it in the furnace. Then I bathed. Then I foimd the gray dust on my shoes, as I was dressing, and fear came to me anew.

There is, indeed, in Afterglow Cemetery, where they had buried Miriam, a kind of ashy soil; and though the grass grows green, and tall grow the wild flowers, they have never conquered the soil; so that in spring the gray shows through, and in autumn the dust lies lightly upon dead leaf and dying blade. But I would not go there to find my

tracks; for if I found my prints, I would have the horror of somnambulism added to my delirium; and if I did not find my footsteps, I would have a more poignant fear. Where had I been? Whence came the gigantic worm?

Thereafter, for many nights, so many nights that the loss of Miriam became a dull ache partly obliterated in time and memory, I dreamed the old dreams, of falling and fleeing and cities beneath the sea; of torture, of unknown beasts, and of unsocketed eyes.

Then the lady in gray came again one night in early winter, when I was beginning to forget, as much as I could. That night was yesternight. All the day, the snow had been falling, and the northwest wind, with a prolonged wail, had driven it onward, and whipped it into drifts, while the branches of naked trees ground and soughed mournfully together, so that, as the bleakness of evening drew near, I became a prey to melancholy, and depressed by thoughts of Miriam, who was dead. The frozen scream of the wind shrilled higher, and to that far-away cry I fell asleep. And when I slept, she came to me, to lead me forth.

Through the desolate plains she led me, and into the shadows of a forest, whither we penetrated deeper and deeper with the boles of tremendous trees rising ever taller around us; and thus we reached the cavern that she entered; and I followed after, striving to approadi her, yet unable to close by one inch the distance between us. Now a strange thing happened, for the cavern swept sharply downward, until it became vertical, plunging toward the bowels of earth; and now a stranger thing happened, for we sank, as though falling gently, and yet we must make an effort, as though we were walking normally, but the horizontal had become the vertical. And slowTHE lADY IN GRAY


ly I drew closer at last to Miriam, until after age-long falling, we came to rest far, far, incredibly far beneath the surface of earth. And now I found us in the midst of a vault whose ceiling swept onward in arches of ever vaster scope and huger curves, while the walls receded like the naves of a cosmic and buried cathedral; and so I followed her down the aisle of that spacious edifice; and ghostly tapers, rising like giant torches beside our way, cast, iii the little damp gusts of wind which fretfully stirred them, grotesque and wavering shadows upon the floor; and the gray robes of Miriam, the gray death-garments, fluttered behind her, streaming almost to my face as the distance between us lessened. Thus we came to the blackwood door, which swung wide and silent upon its great hinges as we approached; and the lady in gray drifted within, and I followed. Now I found myself within a crypt, whose three red tapers, guttering to their end, cast a somber and sinister glow; one at her head, and one at her feet, and one dripping scarlet drops upon her breast. For there lay Miriam, my lady in gray, in repose upon everlasting marble. At her head, a bowl of the slime of the black sea; at her feet, the white worm resurrected; and in her hands, folded across her breast, one the taper, and one a gardenia, whose fragrance, spicy and virginal, overpowered the odor of the chamber of death.

Now in my dream, with the queer logic of dreams, I thought this natural and had no fear; so I went to my lady in gray, and lo, at my coming, the bowl spilled Over, but I brushed it aside, and the great worm rose, but I trampled it under, while the candles guttered out, and the gardenia glowed weirdly phosphorescent. By that luminescence, faint as it was, I saw that

Miriam stirred, and a sigh passed across her, and I lifted her in my arms. Now the gardenia palely lighted my way, and through the rustling darkness I carried her, and the gray of her robes swept downward and around my ankles as I walked; until I came to the gusty corridor, and the tapers that flared, and the stately march of arches in cathedralesque tiers. So, with the curious illogic of dreams, the vertical corridor disappeared, and I walked onward through the vast chamber, imtil I emerged upon the plain. The gray dust rose, but the gray robes of Miriam fell about me, and the dust passed away. The heavens were empty of stars. In blackness I walked, save for the single flower whose scent sweetened the air, and whose glow lighted a path. Thus I clung to Miriam, and carried my lady in gray to my chamber.

Only a little ago, I wakened from my dream.

I stared and stared for all eternity, with cycles of oppressive and wildly swirling circles of frozen blackness alternating with red holocausts of flame to shatter the tranquillity of my mind, and for ever. Not again for me the ways of man, or the mortal habitations of earth, or the transitory and ephemeral uncertainties of life. I have written, and now I shall die, of my own hand, and by my own choice.

For, when I wakened, I wakened to see the lady in gray seated beside my bed. In her face were the rotting vestiges of the grave, and her robes hung tattered and moldy; but these three things corrupted me from being: the fresh gardenia in her hands, her finger-nails, long and yellow, as only the finger-nails of those dead and buried six months or more have ever grown; and the dreadful way in which her hands were twirling the flower, while her black, liquescent eyes centered upon me!

of the Growing Gold

By BRAM STOKER

WHEN Margaret Delandre went to live at Brent’s Rock the whole neighborhood awoke to the pleasure of an entirely new scandal. Scandals in connection with either the Delandre family or the Brents of Brent’s Rock were not few; and if the secret history of the county had been written in full, both names would have been found well represented. It is true that the status of each was so different that they might have belonged to different continents — or to different worlds for the matter of that — for hitherto their orbits had never crossed. 'The Brents were accorded by the whole section of the country an unique social dominance, and had ever held themselves as high above the yeoman class to which Margaret Delandre belonged, as a blueblooded Spanish hidalgo out-tops his peasant tenantry.

'The Delandres had an ancient record and were proud of it in their way as the Brents were of theirs. But the family had never risen above yeomanry; and al768

though they had been once well-to-do in the good old times of foreign wars and protection, their fortunes had withered imder the scorching of the free trade sun and the "piping times of peace.’’ They had, as the elder members used to assert, "stuck to the land,’’ with the result that they had taken root in it, body and soul. In fact, they, having chosen the life of vegetables, had flourished as vegetation does — blossomed and thrived in the good season and suffered in the bad. Their holding. Dander’s Croft, seemed to have been worked out, and to be typical of the family which had inhabited it. 'The latter had declined generation after generation, sending out now and again some abortive shoot of unsatisfied energy in the shape of a soldier or sailor, who had worked his way to the minor grades of the services and had there stopped, cut short either from unheeding gallantry in action or from that destroying cause to men without breeding or youthful care — the recognition of a position above them

W. T.— 7



which they feel unfitted to fill. So, little by little, the family dropped lower and lower, the men brooding and dissatisfied, and drinking themselves into the grave, the women drudging at home, or marrying beneath them — or worse. In process of time all disappeared, leaving only two in the croft, Wykham Delandre and his sister Margaret. The man and woman seemed to have inherited in masculine and feminine form respectively the evil tendency of their race, sharing in common the principles, though manifesting them in different ways, of sullen passion, voluptuousness and recklessness.

The history of the Brents had been something similar, but showing the causes of decadence in their aristocratic and not their plebeian forms. They, too, had sent their shoots to the wars; but their positions had been different, and they had often attained honor — for without flaw they were gallant, and brave deeds were done by them before the selfish dissipation which marked them had sapped their vigor.

The present head of the family — if family it could now be called when but one remained of the direct line — ^was Geoffrey Brent. He was a type of a wornout race, manifesting in some ways its most brilliant qualities, and in others its utter degradation. He was certainly handsome, with that dark, aquiline, commanding beauty which women so generally recognize as dominant. With men he was distant and cold; but such a bearing never deters womankind. The inscrutable laws of sex have so arranged that even a timid woman is not afraid of a fierce and haughty man. And so it was that there was hardly a woman of any kind or degree, who lived within view of Brent’s Rock, who did not cherish some form of secret admiration for the handsome wastrel.

W. T.— 8

So long as Geoffrey Brent confined his dissipations to London and Paris and Vienna — anywhere out of sight and sound of his home — -opinion was silent. It is easy to listen to far-off echoes unmoved, and we can treat them with disbelief, or scorn, or disdain, or whatever attitude of coldness may suit our purpose. But when the scandal came close home it was another matter; and the feeling of independence and integrity which is in people of every commun/cy asserted itself and demanded that condemnation should be expressed. Still there was a certain reticence in all, and no more notice was taken of the existing facts than was absolutely necessary. Margaret Delandre bore herself so fearlessly and so openly, she accepted her position as the justified companion of Geoffrey Brent so naturally, that people came to believe she was secretly married to him, and therefore thought it wiser to hold their tongues lest time should justify her and also make her an active enemy.

T he one person who, by his interference, could have settled all doubts was debarred by circumstances from interfering in the matter. Wykham Delandre had quarrelled with his sister — or perhaps it was that she had quarrelled with him — and they were on terms not merely of armed neutrality but of bitter hatred. The quarrel had been antecedent to Margaret going to Brent’s Rock. She and Wykham had almost come to blows. There had certainly been threats on one side and on the other; and in the end Wykham, overcome with passion, had ordered his sister to leave his house. She had risen straightway, and, without waiting to pack up even her own personal belongings, had walked out of the house. On the threshold she had paused for a moment to hurl a bitter threat at Wykham that

|770


he Mrould rue in shame and despair to the last hour of his life his act of that day.

Some weeks had since passed; and it was understood in the neighborhood that Margaret had gone to London, when she suddenly appeared driving out with Geoffrey Brent, and the entire neighborhood knew before nightfall that she had taken up her abode at the Rock. It was no subject of surprize that Brent had come back unexpectedly, for such was his usual custom. Even his own servants never knew when to expect him, for there was a private door, of which he alone had the key, by which he sometimes entered without any one in the house being aware of his coming. This was his usual method of appearing after a long absence.

Wykham Delandre was furious at the news. He vowed vengeance — and to keep his mind level with his passion drank deeper than ever. He tried several times to see his sister, but she contemptuously refused to meet him. He tried to have an interview with Brent and was refused by him also. Then he tried to stop him in the road, but without avail, for Geoffrey was not a man to be stopped against his will. Several actual encounters took place between the tvi'o men, and many more were threatened and avoided. At last Wykham Delandre settled down to a morose, vengeful acceptance of the situation.

Neither Margaret nor Geoffrey was of a pacific temperament, and it was not long before there began to be quarrels between them. One thing would lead to another, and wine flowed freely at Brent’s Rock. Now and again the quarrels would assume a bitter aspect, and threats would be exchanged in uncompromising language that fairly awed the listening servants. But such quarrels generally ended where domestic altercations do, in reconciliation, axid in a mutual respect for the

fighting qualities proportionate to their manifestation. Geoffrey and Margaret made occasional absences from Brent’s Rock, and on each of these occasions Wykham Delandre also absented himself; but as he generally heard of the absence too late to be of any service, he returned home each time in a bitter and discontented frame of mind.

At last there came a time when the absence from Brent’s Rock became longer tlian before. Only a few days earlier there had been a quarrel, exceeding in bitterness an3i:hing which had gone before; but this, too, had been made up, and a trip on the Continent had been mentioned before the servants. After a few days Wykham Delandre also went away, and it was some weeks before he rc-tumed. It was noticed that he was full of some new importance — ■ satisfaction, exaltation — they hardly knew how to call it. He went straightway to Brent’s Rock, and demanded to see Geoffrey Brent, and on being told that he had not yet returned, said, with a grim decision which the servants noted:

"I shall come again. My news is solid — it can wait!” and turned away.

Week after week went by, and month after month; and then there came a rumor, certified later on, that an accident had occurred in the Zermatt valley. While crossing a dangerous pass, the carriage containing an English lady and the driver had fallen over a precipice, the gentleman of the party, Mr. Geoffrey Brent, having been fortunately saved as he had been walking up the hill to ease the horses. He gave information, and search was made. The broken rail, the excoriated roadway, the marks where the horses had struggled on the decline before finally pitching over into the torrent — all told the sad tale. It was a wet season, and there had been much snow



in the winter, so that the river was swollen beyond its usual volume, and the eddies of the stream were packed with ice. All search was made, and finally the wreck of the carriage and the body of one horse were found in an eddy of the river. Later on the body of the driver was found on the sandy, torrent-swept waste near Tasch; but the body of the lady, like that of the other horse, had quite disappeared, and was — what was left of it by that time — whirling amongst the eddies of the Rhone on its way down to the Lake of Geneva.

Wykham Delandre made all the inquiries possible, but could not find any trace of the missing woman. He found, however, in the books of the various hotels the name of "Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Brent.” And he had a stone erected at Zermatt to his sister’s memory, under her married name, and a tablet put up in the church at Bretten, the parish in which both Brent’s Rock and Dander’s Croft were situated.

There was a lapse of nearly a year, after the excitement of the matter had worn away, and the whole neighborhood had gone on its accustomed way. Brent was still absent, and Delandre more drunken, more morose, and more revengeful than before.

Then there was a new excitement. Brent’s Rock was being made ready for a new mistress. It was officially announced by Geoffrey himself in a letter to the vicar, that he had been married some months before to an Italian lady, and that they were then on their way home. Then a small army of workmen invaded the house; and hammer and plane sounded, and a general air of size and paint pervaded the atmosphere. One wing of the old house, the south, was entirely re-done; and then the great body of the workmen departed, leaving only

materials for the doing of the old hall when Geoffrey Brent should have returned, for he had directed that the decoration was only to be done under his own eyes. He had brought with him accurate drawings of a hall in the house of his bride’s father, for he wished to reproduce for her the place to which she had been accustomed. As the molding had all to re-done, some scaffolding poles and boards were brought in and laid on one side of the great hall, and also a great wooden tank or box for mixing the lime, which was laid in bags beside it.

WHEN the new mistress of Brent’s Rock arrived, the bells of the church rang out, and there was a general jubilation. She was a beautiful creature, full of the poetry and fire and passion of the South; and the few English words which she had learned were spoken in such a sweet and pretty broken way that she won the hearts of the people almost as much by the music of her voice as by the melting beauty of her dark eyes.

Geoffrey Brent seemed more happy than he had ever before appeared; but there was a dark, anxious look on his face that was new to those who knew him of old, and he started at times as though at some noise that was unheard by others.

And so months passed and the whisper grew that at last Brent’s Rock was to have an heir. Geoffrey was very tender to his wife, and the new bond between them seemed to soften him. He took more interest in his tenants and their needs than he had ever done; and works of charity on his part as well as on his sweet young wife’s were not lacking. He seemed to have set all his hopes on the child that was coming, and as he looked deeper into the future the dark shadow that had come over his face died gradually away.

[772


All the time Wykham Delandre nursed his revenge. Deep in his heart had grown up a purpose of vengeance which only waited an opportunity to crystallize and take a definite shape. His vague idea was somehow centered in the wife of Brent, for he knew that he could strike him best through those he loved, and the coming time seemed to hold in its womb the opportunity for which he longed. One night he sat alone in the living-room of his house. It had once been a handsome room in its way, but time and neglect had done their work and it was now little better than a ruin, without dignity or picturesqueness of any kind. He had been drinking heavily for some time and was more than half stupefied. He thought he heard a noise as of some one at the door and looked up. Then he called half savagely to come in; but there was no response. With a muttered blasphemy he renewed his potations.

Presently he forgot all around him, sank into a daze, but suddenly awoke to see standing before him some one or something like a battered, ghostly edition of his sister. For a few moments there came upon him a sort of fear. The woman before him, with distorted features and burning eyes, seemed hardly human, and the only thing that seemed a reality of his sister, as she had been, was her wealth of golden hair, and this was now streaked with gray. She eyed her brother with a long, cold stare; and he, too, as he looked and began to realize the actuality of her presence, found the hatred of her which he had had, once again surging up in his heart. All the brooding passion of the past year seemed to find a voice at once as he asked her:

‘Why are you here.^ You’re dead and buried.”

"I am here, Wykham Delandre, for no

love of you, but because I hate another even more than I do you!” A great passion blazed in her eyes.

"Him?” he asked, in so fierce a whisper that even the woman was for an instant startled till she regained her calm.

"Yes, him!” she answered. "But make no mistake, my revenge is my own; and I merely use you to help me to it.”

Wykham asked suddenly:

"Did he marry you?”

The woman’s distorted face broadened out in a ghastly attempt at a smile. It was a hideous mockery, for the broken features and seamed scars took strange shapes and strange colors, and queer lines of white showed out as the straining muscles pressed on the old cicatrices.

"So you would like to know! It would please your pride to feel that your sister was truly married! Well, you shall not know. 'That was my revenge on you, and I do not mean to change it by a hair’s breadth. I have come here tonight simply to let you know that I am alive, so that if any violence be done me where I am going there may be a witness.”

"Where are you going?” demanded her brother.

"That is my affair! and I have not the least intention of letting you know!”

Wykham stood up, but the drink was on him and he reeled and fell. As he lay on the floor he announced his intention of following his sister; and with an outburst of splenetic humor told her that he would follow her through the darkness by the light of her hair, and of her beauty. At this she turned on him, and said that there were others beside him that would rue her hair and her beauty too. "As he will,” she hissed; "for the hair remains though the beauty be gone. When he withdrew the linchpin and sent (Please turn to page 77 9 X

T he October Weird Tales seems to have been unusually well received by you, the readers, to judge by your letters. But you are of two minds as to whether we should always cover up the bodies of the beauteous women on our covers. The following letter from A. B. Leonard, of Portsmouth, Ohio, takes a stand in favor of unclad beauty on the covers:

"I would like to say a few words to some of the readers who object to the pictures which have appeared on WT the last few issues,” writes Mr. Leonard. "Now this letter is not a polemic, nor do I write in any spirit of malice, but with all the sympathy and understanding possible for those who object to the depicting of the naked female body on the cover. Now, Mr. Dilbeck, I looked back to the June and July issues which you mentioned in your letter to the Eyrie; so I shall ask you to get your June, July, August and September copies. You will notice that in each case the picture illustrates a scene from the main story. If you will turn to these stories you will find that all of the scenes that are pictured on the cover are unusually dramatic, the very kind that an artist would naturally wish to depict. In these scenes the women are described as naked — not nude, not imdraped, but as naked. Is that such an ugly word.? At least it is an honest word. Now take your September copy, for it has every element in it that has been used in argument in WT by the pros and cons on the question of pictures. On the cover are two women, one naked, the other partly clothed. If you will look at this picture in an unbiased manner you will agree that the brunette is more provocative than is the blond. The reason is that the brunette half conceals, half reveals, so that your imagination is fired; whereas the blond is merely naked and that is all. Now read the story: it is exciting, highly exciting; yet it is not a sex story. The difference between these pictures and those on so-called sexy magazines is that whereas these pictures illustrate a situation met with in the story, the pictures on other magazines are merely provocative with no bearing on any story, or even the general policy of the magazine itself. Well, this is all, and in closing I wish to send my compliments to the artist who drew the picture on page 701 of the June installment of Golden Blood.”

Writes Margaret Sylvester, of Denver, in a letter to the Eyrie: "Please, please dispose of the unclad ladies on your covers for good. They cheapen and degrade your otherwise splendid magazine. From the August issue — my first but by no means my last — I began to watch the stands for your magazine. ^ far, my favorite stories are The Vampire Airplane, Malay Horror, and The Seed from the Sepulcher. The latter just about congealed my blood, and Malay Horror made me look sideways at




the window several times before going to bed. But, I ask you, must Robert E. Howard go Tarzanish on us? He is beginning to sound like Edgar Rice Burroughs with all these Conan stories. For anyone who can write as well as Mr. Howard, it is best to stick to an individual theme.”

Louis C. Smith, of Oakland, California, writes to the Eyrie: "Here’s to a better and bigger Weird Tales — which it will be if you get more tales by Clark Ashton Smith, Edmond Hamilton and Francis Flagg (who wrote one of the strangest tales I ever read — The Picture). I would like to see them in every issue.”

"The story I liked best in the October issue,” writes William Nelson, of Delavan, Wisconsin, "is The Plutonian Terror, by Jack Williamson. I liked this story immensely, partly because of the arrangement of the events, and mostly because I have dreamed, and silly as it may seem, longed to be the last person on earth with one or two companions, boys. Altogether it is a splendid story.”

Duane W. Rimel, of Asotin, Washington, writes to the Eyrie: "As a rule I do not like interplanetary stories very well, but The Plutonian Terror by Jack Williamson is a refreshing exception. It has everything that makes a narrative gripping. The Festival by H. P. Lovecraft is a masterpiece in weird settings. The excerpts from the Necronomicon made it doubly impressive. Third place, I believe,, goes to The Mansion of Unholy Magic by Seabury Quinn. I am saving The Vampire Master till I get it all.”

Writes Harold F. Keating, of Quincy, Massachusetts: "My dictionary defines the word 'weird’ as supernatural and uncanny. I fail to see where these words apply to rotten corpses, slimy putrescence, or gushing entrails. A story can be weird without being disgusting. In the old days, the stories in your magazine dealt more with transmigration of souls, reincarnation, robots, brain transplanting, man-eating plants, voodoo, witchcraft, retribution, etc. Decay is just a process of nature, and there is nothing uncanny or supernatural about it, whether it be a corpse or a rotten tomato; but when you have two souls or spirits trying to gain control of a body, then it enters the sphere of the supernatural. It was stories of this type that built up Weird Tales. Please keep them weird. As to the form and general appearance of Weird Tales, it has certainly improved a thousand per cent over the old days; the illustrations, likewise, except for the pictures of naked women on the cover. No one can say there is anything supernatural or uncanny about a naked woman.”

"I have just finished my 81st issue of Weird Tales,” writes Lionel Dilbeck, of Wichita, Kansas. "I was certainly surprized to see my five favorite authors in the same issue; viz.. Long, Lovecraft, Smith, Quinn and Howard. I have two other favorites: Dyalhis and A. Merritt, but apparently they don’t write for you any more.” [We are reprinting A. Merritt’s remarkable story. The Woman of the Wood, in next month’s issue. A striking new story by Mr. Dyalhis, The Sapphire Goddess, will appear in our February number. — The Editors.]

Frederick John Walsen, of Denver, writes to the Eyrie: "Allow me to express my delight with the superfine October issue of the incomparable Weird Tales. It was beyond reproach in any way whatsoever. The Mansion of Unholy Magic, by Seabury Quinn, took first place for its excellent action and sheer beauty of words. Mr. Quinn’s tales are always to be admired; he is one of your very best authors. The Pool



of the Black One, by Robert E. Howard, claims second place for its wonderful descriptive qualities and fine narrative. The stories of Mr. Howard are always masterpieces.”

Jack Williamson writes from his home in New Mexico; "If I may be pardoned for presuming to comment before I have read all of it, The Vampire Master is deftly done, its treatment of the vampire material unusual, showing the operation of a nrind more strongly logical than is usual in writers of the supernatural. The cover is a masterpiece — and incidentally, I think, mucli better in accord with the spirit of the magaxine than some of the previous covers by M. Brundage, though they ail have been remarkable. It is unfortxmate that some readers should be offended by the beauty of the human body.... I was rather surprized at the brickbat aimed by Miss Sylvia Bennett at Howard’s Black Colossus, which struck me as a splendid thing, darkly vivid, with a living primitive power.”

"I have read your magazine for almost seven years,” writes Anders Stortroen, of Appleton, Wisconsin, "and have had no serious fault to fiind with any stories. How about another illustration in each story?”

Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes to the Eyrie: "Too much praise can not be given the stories in the October number of Weird Tales. It is easily the most superb collection of stories in one issue, in many months. Jack Williamson leads off with his xmxssmi. novelette. The Plutonian Terror. It is different from anything he has yet written — the eery beginning of finding the earth depopulated — the trip to Pluto and the encounter with the Brain — the surprize ending. The tale easily deserves first place. I am disappointed in that you did not give it a cover illustration. Seabury Quinn has surpassed all previous de Gran din stories with The Mansion of Unholy Magic. For third place I select The Pool of the Black One. 'The creepy weird adventure tales by Robert E. Howard never grow tiresome. The stort stories are the weirdest you have printed in a long time. If every issue of Weird Tales could have such a fine collection, you would never need to fear a competitor.”

Writes I. D. Arden, of Detroit; "It has always been my silent desire that some day Weird Tales would have a little department wherein the authors could be discussed intimately. 'The readers of Weird Tales must be interested in the authors who write the nifty stories that appear therein. Quinn, Lovecraft, Howard, Smith, and the host of others, all seem like old friends to me; that’s why I’d like to know something about them. A page each month would not be too much, but please do not use any Eyrie space, as this interesting little department is much too short now. I would suggest that you also have their photograph or sketch.”

Writes Blanche W. Schoonmaker, cf Philadelphia: "Ever since your magazine has been on the market I have found it an avenue of escape from the regular affairs of daily life. You have published a remarkably high percentage of good yarns. It is fine to be able to find som-ething which differs from the usual run of magazine tales. But why don’t you bring out Lovecraft’s stuff in book form? My husband and I would like to add such a volume to our quite extensive library of 'creepy’ fiction. It seems to me that Lovecraft has the same faculty that Arthur Machen has — that of suggesting unspeakable horrors without actually telling too much — which is the best basis on which to build the 'creeps’. When one becomes too explicit, the effect is



lost.” [We hope to have an important announcement to make soon about Lovecraft’s stories. — The Editors.]

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? Robert E. Howard’s fantastic story. The Pool of the Black One, took first place in your favor among the stories in the October issue, as shown by your votes and letters.

Weird Tales Welcomes a New Author

D ear editor; Well, I see that the interplanetary fight has spread from WT to the Magic Carpet. Now in the past I have always been against the interplanetary bunch, but I have changed my mind: they are right and I am wrong; so to make amends I have decided to write an interplanetary story and have it published in the Aerie. It is yours for the asking.

Now let’s see, the first thing that I must do is select a title that sounds very scientific and interplanetary, so how about "Chasing Around Chologogue, or A Brave Boy’s Fight for Fortune’’? Here goes. Typesetter, grab a stickful of exclamation points!

“/^uick!” cried Xaxax, "seven more ooks and we shall be in the galaxy of Chologogue!”

I looked at the ookmeter on my wrist and sure enough only seven ooks remained until our space-ship would fall into the gravitation-pull of great Chologogue, the central sun about which the four outlaw planets, Gahook, Gedunk, Heynonny-nonny and Hotchacha, the last especially, were revolving!

We entered the forbidden territory and swung once around great Chologogue! This took us 20,000 light years, but what are a few thousand light years more or less!

"Quick!” cried Xaxax, "here come some space-ships from Gahook! It is manned by Gahookians! 'They have death-ray guns!”

I looked at the Gahookians, and sure enough they were all heavily armed with deathray guns! They crowded forward on their space-ship eager to board our ship and grapple hand to hand! The Gahookians were of a greenish red color with bulging foreheads and globular bodies! Each had three eyes, red, white, and blue! Two arms hung on one side and three were on the other! They were octapodal, having four legs at the bottom of their bodies, one leg under their three arms and two legs under their two arms! One leg grew out of the top of their heads (this was to stand on when the other seven legs got tired!)!

I turned my disintegrating ray on them and soon disintegrated them together with the planet, Gahook! Then we were off to Gedunk!

"Quick!” cried Xaxax, "here come some space-ships from Gedunk! It is manned by Gedunldans! They have death-ray guns!”

I looked at the Gedunkians, and sure enough they were all heavily armed with deathray guns! They crowded forward on their space-ship, eager to board our ship and grapple hand to hand! The Gedunkians were striped with red and black, and had three eyes, red, yellow, and green (for stop, caution and go!)! 'Their bodies were partly protoplasmic, partly gaseous, and partly of some metal with which I was unfamiliar! TTiey had no feet but made their way about by rolling up in a ball and rolling wherever they wished to go!

(Please turn to page 778 )

Coming Next Month

Y ou mean that I am to allow myself to be sent as a life prisoner to Rose Crater?”

'Precisely!”

I rose from the chair and took my hat in my hand. But the man took me by

the shoulder.

"Don’t go,” he urged. "I am in earnest.”

"So am I,” I replied, rather angrily. "You must think that just because I am a college professor and out of work I am nothing but a fool! If you want to know about Rose Crater, why not ask the Government.^ I understand that it is a penitentiary for Federal prisoners convicted under the Interstate Criminal Act. Suppose you did want to make a private investigation? Why not hire a detective agency to do your work for you? Certainly not a college professor who is more interested in ants than in criminals and in butterflies than prisons. And to go there as a criminal! As a murderer! I may be poor, but I still have my good name.”

The man took me by both shoulders and jammed me into an overstuffed armchair. I was surprized to see the tremendous strength he had.

"You have to listen to me, Professor. I am supposed to be a gangster; in fact, I am supposed to be their leader, their brains in America. Guess I have some intelligence to be a free man today. If power or wealth or brute force couH have been employed so that I could find out what I want to about Rose Crater, I should have enough of all three. But it takes more than that. Someone has to go in there and come out, and so far the road to that prison is a one-way road. The prisoners go in, but they never come out. Not even after they die. I am looking for a man brave enough to go in, intelligent enough to find out what is going on in there and clever enough to escape.”...

This powerful weird novel of the blood-freezing horror that awaited the doomed men who were sent to a living death inside the crater of an extinct volcano will begin in the January Weird Tales.


By DAVID H. KELLER

— ALSO—

ROGUES IN THE HOUSE By ROBERT E. HOWARD A tale to make the blood tingle — the story of a barbarian soldier of fortune and a squatting monstrosity that sat in the chambers of death in the house of the wizard Nabonidus.

THE RED KNIFE OF HASSAN By SEABURY QUINN A vivid thrill-tale of a weird murder-mystery, and the exploits of the fascinating little French detective, Jules de Grandin — a tale of the Assassins of Syria.


By JACK WILLIAMSON

An astounding weird-scientific tale of the far-distant future, when the sun grows wan, and sentient creatures spawned by the frost make war upon the survivors of the human race.

THE WEAVER IN THE VAULT By CLARK ASHTON SMITH A story of the weird and ghastly-beautiful horror that came upon the searchers in the eery tombs of Chaon Gacca.

APHANTOM IN THE SKY By DALE CLARK

A strange tale of an aviator’s weird experience in a doomed airplane that fell from the sky — a fascinating story.

January WEIRD TALES Out January 1




(Continued from page 776)

I turned my disintegrating ray on them and soon disintegrated them together with tiie planet, Gedunk! Then we were off to Hotchacha!

"Quick!” aied Xaxax, "here come some space-ships from Hotchacha! It is manned by Hotchachagoans! They have death-ray guns!”

I looked at the Hotchachagoans, and sure enough they were all heavily armed with death-ray guns! They crowded forward on their space-ship, eager to board our ship and grapple hand to hand! The Hotchachagoans were an insea race, being composed of mantis head, spider eyes, cockroach legs, locust wings, and continually shouted "Katy did!”

I turned my disintegrating ray on them and soon disintegrated them together with the planet, Hotchacha! Then we were off to Heynonny-nonny!

"Quick!” cried Xaxax, "here come some space-ships from Heynonny-nonny!”

I looked and didn’t see anything!

"I see nothing!” I cried!

"That’s right!” cried Xaxax, "They are nothing-people!”

I knew that my disintegrating ray was useless on the Heynonny-nonnians for you can’t disintegrate nothing! So I rushed back into our space-ship and picked up an old cigar box that I kept old screws, nails, odd pieces of wire, and other odds and ends in and soon constructed an integrating ray!

I turned the integrating ray on them and soon integrated them together with the planet, Heynonny-nomiy!

Then taking a whirl about great Giologogue, Xaxax and I returned to our home studio!

I

[Finisf]

HAVE five exclamation points left over, so I will use them here! KEEP WEIRD

TALES WEIRD!!!!

Yours truly,

Alonzo Leonard.

My favorite stories in the December WEIRD TALES are:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

(3)-—

I do not like the following stories:

(1) Why?

( 2 )

r

It will help us to know what kind of ^ stories you want in Weird Tales if you I will fill out this coupon and mail it to |

The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan I Ave,, Chicago, 111. |

Reader’s name and address:



The Secret of the Growing Gold

(Continued from page 772)

us over the precipice into the torrent, he had little thought of my beauty. Perhaps his beauty would be scarred like mine were he whirled, as I was, among the rocks of the Visp, and frozen on the ice pack in the drift of the river. But let him beware! His time is coming!” and with a fierce gesture she flung open the door and passed out into the night.

1 ATER on that night, Mrs. Brent, who V was but half asleep, became suddenly awake and spoke to her husband:

"Geoffrey, was not that the click of a lock somewhere below our window?”

But Geoffrey — though she thought that he, too, had started at the noise — seemed sound asleep, and breathed heavily. Again Mrs. Brent dozed; but this time awoke to the fact that her husband had arisen and was partly dressed. He was deadly pale, and when the light of the lamp which he had in his hand fell on his face, she was frightened at the look in his eyes.

"What is it, Geoffrey? What dost thou?” she asked.

, "Hush! little one,” he answered, in a strange, hoarse voice. "Go to sleep. I am restless, and wish to finish some work I left undone.”

"Bring it here, my husband,” she said; "I am lonely and I fear when thou art away.”

For reply he merely kissed her and went out, closing the door behind him. She lay awake for awhile, and then nature asserted itself, and she slept.

Suddenly she started broad awake with the memory in her ears of a smothered cry from somewhere not far off. She jumped up and ran to the door and lisT hrough space to the most distant corners of the universe in the twinkling of an eye! When Scheherazade told her Sultan the tales that make up The Arabian Nights Entertainments, she told him of a Magic Carpet that flew through the sky and carried its human cargo to distant countries with the speed of thought.

The Magic Carpet Magazine, like the carpet of Scheherazade, carries its readers out of the humdrum life of our modern civilization to lands of romance, adventure, mystery and glamor. It will transport you quickly through the air to Timbukm, to Egypt, to the Vale of Kashmere, to Bagdad, to Suva, to Istanbul. It will even fly backward into the departed glories of past ages. And unlike the carpet of Scheherazade, our Magic Carpet will make an occasional trip to distant planets and far suns in the remote corners of the galaxy. Among the authors who contribute to The Magic Carpet Magazine are:

Seabury Quinn Edmond Hamilton Hugh B. Cave H. Bedford-Jones Warren Hastings Miller Otis Adelbert Kline E. Hoffmann Price James W. Bennett Robert E. Howard

Climb aboard and fly with us through space with the speed of thought and enjoy a wide variety of fascinating fiaion which expresses to the full the lure and mystery of far places.

See your magazine dealer today!

New Issue Now On Sale



tened, but there was no sound. She grew alarmed for her husband, and called out: "Geoffrey! Geoffrey!”

After a few moments the door of the great hall opened, and Geoffrey appeared at it, but without his lamp.

"Hush!” he said, in a sort of whisper, and his voice was harsh and stern. "Hush! Get to bed! I am working, and must not be disturbed. Go to sleep, and do not wake the house!”

With a chili in her heart — for the harshness of her husband’s voice was new to her — she crept back to bed and lay there trembling, too frightened to cry, and listened to every soimd. There was a long pause of silence, and then the sound of some iron implement striking muffled blows! Then there came a clang of a heavy stone falling, followed by a muffled curse. Then a dragging sound, and then more noise of stone on stone. She lay all the while in an agony of fear, and her heart beat dreadfully. She heard a curious sort of scraping sound; and then there was silence.

Presently the door opened gently, and Geoffrey appeared. His wife pretended to be asleep; but through her eyelashes she saw him wash from his hands something white that looked like lime.

In the morning he made no allusion to the previous night, and she was afraid to ask any questions.

F rom that day there seemed some shadow over Geoffrey Brent. He neither ate nor slept as he had been accustomed, and his former habit of turning suddenly as though some one were speaking from behind him revived. The old hall seemed to have some kind of fascination for him. He used to go there many times a day, but grew impatient if any one else, even his wife, entered it. When the builder's foreman came to inquire about continuing

his work Geoffrey was out driving; the man went into the hail, and when Geoffrey returned the servant told him of his arrival and where he was. With a frightful oath he pushed the servant aside and hurried up to the old hall. The workman met him almost at the door; and as Geoffrey burst into the room he ran against him. The man apologized:

"Beg pardon, sir, but I was just going out to make some inquiries. I directed twelve sacks of lime to be sent here, but I see there are only ten.”

"Damn the ten sacks and the twelve too!” was the ungracious and incomprehensible rejoinder.

The workman looked surprized, and tried to turn the conversation.

"I see, sir, there is a little matter which our people must have done; but the governor will of course see it set right at his own cost.”

"What do you mean?”

"'That ’ere ’arth-stone, sir: Some idiot must have put a scaffold pole on it and cracked it right down the middle, and it’s thick enough you’d think to stand hanythink.” Geoffrey was silent for quite a minute, and then said in a constrained voice and with much gentler manner:

"Tell your people that I am not going on with the work in the hall at present. I want to leave it as it is for a while longer.”

"All right, sir. I’ll send up a few of our chaps to take away these poles and lime bags and tidy the place up a bit.”

"No! No!” said Geoffrey, "leave them where they are. I shall send and tell you when you are to get on with the work.” So the foreman went away, and his comment to his master was:

"I’d send in the bill, sir, for the work already done. ’Pears to me that money’s a little shaky in that quarter.”



ONCE or twice Delandre tried to stop Brent on the road, and, at last, finding that he could not attain his object, rode after the carriage, calling out:

"What has become of my sister, your wife?”

Geoffrey lashed his horses into a gallop, and the other, seeing from his white face and from his wife’s collapse almost into a faint that his object was attained, rode away with a scowl and a laugh.

That night when Geoffrey went into the hall he passed over to the great fireplace, and all at once started back with a smothered cry. Then with an effort he pulled himself together and went away, returning with a light. He bent down over the broken hearth-stone to see if the moonlight falling through the storied window had in any way deceived him. Then with a groan of anguish he sank to his knees.

There, sure enough, through the crack in the broken stone were protruding a multitude of threads of golden hair just tinged with gray!

He was disturbed by a noise at the door, and looking round, saw his wife standing in the doorway. In the desperation of the moment he took action to prevent discovery, and lighting a match at the lamp, stooped down and burned away the hair that rose through the broken stone. Then rising as nonchalantly as he could, he pretended surpri2e at seeing his wife beside him.

For the next week he lived in an agony; for, whether by accident or design, he could not find himself alone in the hall for any length of time. At each visit the hair had grown afresh through the crack, and he had to watch it carefully lest his terrible secret should be discovered. He tried to find a receptacle for the body of the murdered woman outside the house, but some one always interrupted

Just a block or two from everywhere— one and one^ half blocks from Union Station and two blocks from Traction Terminal

All Outside Rooms and each with bath

RADIO


Sinste

$ 2-00 $ 2-50

Double

$3.00 S3.50


121 SOUTH ILLINOIS STREET



STATEMENT OP THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912,

Of Weird Tales, published monthly at Indianapolis, Indiana, for October 1, 1933.

State of Illinois \

County of Cook /

Before me, a notary public In and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Wni. R. Sprenger, who, having been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is the Business Manager of the Weird Tales and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption required by the Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 411, Postal Laws and Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business manager are:

Publisher — Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington 6t., Indianapolis, Ind.

Editor— Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Managing Editor — None,

Business Manager — William R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III.

2. That the owner Is; (If owned by a corporation, its name and address must bo stated and also immediately thereunder the names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its name and address, as well as those of each Individual member must be given.)

Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind.

Wm. R. Sprenger, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

Farnsworth Wright, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111.

George M. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

George H. Cornelius, 2457 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

P. W. Cornelius, 2467 E. Washington St., Indianapolis, Indiana.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so state). None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company, but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any Interest, direct or indirect, in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers during the six months preceding the date shown above

is (This information is required from

daily publications only.)

WM. R. SPRENGER, Business Manager.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 30th day of September, 1933. RICHARD S. GOULDEN,

[SEAL] Notary Public.

My commission expires May 3, 1934,

him; and once, when he was coming out of the private doorway, he was met by his wife, who began to question him about it, and manifested surprize that she should not have before noticed the key which he now reluctantly showed her. Geoffrey dearly and passionately loved his wife, so that any possibility of her discovering his dread secrets, or even of doubting him, filled him with anguish; and after a couple of days had passed, he' could not help coming to the conclusion that, at least, she suspected something.

That very evening she came into the hall after her drive and found him there sitting moodily by the deserted fireplace. She spoke to him directly.

"Geoffrey, I have been spoken to by that fellow Delandre, and he says horrible things. He tells to me that a week ago his sister returned to his house, the wreck and ruin of her former self, with only her golden hair as of old, and announced some fell intention. He asked me where she is — and oh, Geoffrey, she is dead, she is dead! So how can she have returned.^ Oh! I am in dread, and I know not where to turn!”

For answer, Geoffrey burst into a torrent of blasphemy which made her shudder. He cursed Delandre and his sister and all their kind, and in especial he hurled curse after curse on her golden hair.

"Oh, hush! hush!” she said, and was then silent, for she feared her husband when she saw the evil effect of his humor. Geoffrey in the torrent of his anger stood up and moved away from the hearth; but suddenly stopped as he saw a new look of terror in his wife’s eyes. He followed their glance, and then he, too, shuddered — for there on the broken hearth-stone lay a golden streak as the points of the hair rose through the crack.



"Look, look!" she shrieked. "Is it some ghost of the dead! Come away — come away!” and seeing her husband by the wrist with the frenzy of madness, she pulled him from the room.

That night she was in a raging fever. The doctor of the district attended her at once, and special aid was telegraphed for to London. Geoffrey was in despair, and in his anguish at the danger of his young wife almost forgot his own crime and its consequences.

In the evening the doctor had to leave to attend to others; but he left Geoffrey in charge of his wife. His last words were:

"Remember, you must humor her till I come in the morning, or till some other doctor has her case in hand. What you have to dread is anotlier attack of emotion. See that she is kept warm. Nothing more can be done.”

Late in the evening, when the rest of the household had retired, Geoffrey’s wife got up from her bed and called to her husband.

"Come!” she said. "Come to the old hall! I know where the gold comes from! I want to see it grow!”

Geoffrey would fain have stopped her, but he feared for her life or reason on the one hand, and lest in a paroxysm she should shriek out her terrible suspicion, and seeing that it was useless to try to prevent her, wrapped a warm rug around her and went with her to the old hall. When they entered, she turned and shut the door and locked it.

"We want no strangers amongst us three tonight!” she whispered with a wan smile.

"We three! nay we are but two,” said Geoffrey with a shudder; he feared to say more.

"Sit here,” said his wife as she put out the light. "Sit here by the hearth and

WmCH CONTROLS YOU?

/^Sctence wyt that die chetnical cfements cotapoa* tog a maii’a body may be bought ior aixty cents at « phatuiacy shop* But the real {Nut of you is tht inimite* creative power %irithin^t makes YOU ^ living, vital being*, • ^

By the proper use ot this creative, sleeping f orce, witlun you, * yoo eatt OOMINATB YOUR LIFB and MASTER THE CONDITION WHICH: SURROUND- YOU* The Rosicructans have showia tftouaends of thinking men and women how to use this infinite power* Learn Co direct the inner, procestea of your mind*

This Free Boole Explains

Th e Rosdcniciana wiK send the SINCERBI SEEKER a free copy of the new book, W'isdom of the Sages,’* which tells how you msyi become a student ^ these age>old truths. Addraap a letter (cot a postcard of curiosity) tot

Friar I-. C. A*

ROSKRUdAN BROTHERHOOD

AM^RC

SAN,JOSE. CALIFORNIA

Read oor monthly magrazine, “The Rosicraciao Diseat,” at your Ihiblic Ubrary.

Man Can Now Use


Have yoa wondered why many dream of saocess and happineM. but never attain it? Why they stri^gle through the deadly monotony of daily griod, for the few who seem to get AlX the S^d things of life? If you have had visions of wonderful adiievement and riches, it is proof that they are possible to obtain because they are part of yonr INNER POWER that can be tapped if you are given the Key. Yogi Alpha, IntemationaHy known I^yeboiogist and Philosopher, has discovered a new and revolutionary teaching which reveals this Inner Power.. within YOU.. 80 dynamic and forceful that it can carry you on to complete happiness, health and financial success almost overnight 1 The secret Key to this great power is so simple to understand...so easy to apply...that it is amazing that no one has found it before.

Write today for FREE copy of Yogi Alpl Inner Power'* which tells me fasdnatir

story of his discovery and reveals the astounding Secret which can unlock the reservoir of vast riches within YOU. Address Psycho-Logic Institute, Box 98, Dept.

San Diego, California.

•ha*8 “Key to Your ng

FREE

"K«y to Your innor Pow«r"

By Clark Ashton Smith

THE DOUBLE SHADOW & five other fantasies

For lovers of weird atmosphere and arabesque imagination. XTnpublished heretofore. Send 25c (eoin) to Clark Ashton Smith, Auburn, Calif., for postpaid copy.


For complete list and prices write to Weird Taibs, 840 N. Michigaa Ave., Chicago, 111,




Invaders oF the Ice World

By JACK WILLIAMSON

A n astounding weird-scientific tale t by the author of "Golden Blood” and "The Wand of Doom” — a story of the far-distant future, when the sun grows wan, and sentient creatures spawned by the frost make war upon the survivors of the human race.

T his is a veritable tour de force of the imagination — a striking and powerful tale, brilliantly conceived and fascinatingly told by a young American writer who has already proved himself to be one of the titans of sciencefiction. This marvelous story will be printed complete

in the January issue of


On sale January 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER.

WEIKD TAI.es 840 N. Michis;an Ave.,

CtaiGac:o, 111.

Enclosed find $1.00 for which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to be§rln with the January Issue ($1.75 In Canada). Special offer void unle.ss remittance is accompanied by coupon.

Name —

Address — — — _

City - - State

watdi the gold growing. The silver moonlight is jealous! See, it steals along the floor toward the gold — our gold!”

Geoffrey looked with growing horror, and saw that during the hours that had passed the golden hair had protruded further through the broken hearth-stone. He tried to hide it by placing his feet over the broken place; and his wife, drawing her diair beside him, leant over and laid her hand on his shoulder.

"Now do not stir, dear,” she said; "let us sit still and watch. We shall find the secret of the growing gold!”

He passed his arm round her and sat silent; and as the moonlight stole along the floor she sank to sleep.

He feared to wake her; and so sat silent and miserable as the hours stole away.

Before his horror-struck eyes the golden hair from the broken stone grew and grew; and as it increased, so his heart got colder and colder, till at last he had not power to stir, and sat with eyes full of terror watching his doom.

I N THE morning when the London debtor came, neither Geoffrey nor his wife could be found. Search was made in all the rooms, but without avail. As a last resource the great door of the old hall was broken open, and those who entered saw a grim and sorry sight.

There by the deserted hearth Geoffrey Brent and his young wife sat cold and white and dead. Her face was peaceful, and her eyes were closed in sleep; but his face was a sight that made all who saw it shudder, for there was on it a look of unutterable horror. The eyes were open and stared glassily at his feet, which were twined with tresses of golden hair, streaked with gray, which came through the broken hearth-stone.

W. T.— 8

Do You Read

The MAGIC CARPET Magazine?

The Shadow of the Vulture

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

A stirring tale of Suleyman the Magnificent, Sultan of Turkey, and the breath-taking events at the siege of Vienna, when Christendom stood at bay and a red-headed girl held the fate of Europe in her hands.

The Spider Woman

By SEABURY QUINN

A terrific adventure of Carlos the Tiger in the Netherlands, and a lovely woman spy who told him how to conquer a Spanish stronghold.

The River of Perfumes

By WARREN HASTINGS MILLER

She drove men to madness by her sheer beauty, this little maid of Indo-China — a fascinating Oriental tale of love, lust, and sudden death, and a wild adventure.

The Little Affair of the Eiffel Tower

By ARTHUR MORRIS CROSBY

Henri the Fox scorned to use the gross means of hired assassins, but his methods were just as effective — a tale of the Paris underworld.

Passport to the Desert

By G. G. PENDARVES

Algeria — a story of intrigue and a perilous adventure involving an American girl and an Arab bandit and slave-dealer.

Alleys of Darkness

By PATRICK ERVIN

A story of Singapore and Dennis Dorgan, hardest-fisted slugger in the merchant marine, and the maze of intrigue that enmeshed him.

Speed Planes for Moscow

By S. GORDON GURWIT

A thrilling tale of the Russian Five Year Plan and a romance that was surrounded with perils and death.

READ



T he first warning of the stupendous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night's aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the signals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

This Book Given Free

T he inside story of a tremendous threat engineered by a phantom from the ether — a threat to gain control of the world — is thrillingly told in "The Moon Terror,” the most enthralling fantastic mystery of the age. The gigantic powers and clever plans behind this super-dream will hold you spellbound.

Here Is How You Can Get This Amazing Book FREE For a limited time only, we offer this book to you without cost, with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ subscription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book is yours without further cost. You receive

the magazine for six months and this book is sent to you free of charge.

Limited Supply

This offer may be withdrawn at any time, so we advise you to order now. Remember, the supply of hooks is limited. Send today!


840 N. IMichigrain Ave., Dept, S-41, Chicag’O, III.

j" WEIRD TALES, Dept. S-41,

I 840 N. Michigran Ave., Chicago, III.

I I enclose $1.50. Send at once, postage prepaid. I the book “The Moon Terror,” and enter my subI scription to WEIRD TALES for six months to I begin with the January issue. It is understood this I $1.50 is payment in full.

NameCity-

[THE END]
