============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume 32, Number 2
Date: August 1938
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Lines Written in the Realization that I Must Die . ." by Robert E. Howard
  2. "The Black Drama (end) Gans T" by Field
  3. "Three Gentlemen in Black August W" by Derleth
  4. "their possession" by The contents of this magazine are fully protected by copyright and must not be reproduced either wholly or in
============================================================
============================================================
by Robert E. Howard
============================================================
You cannot afford to miss the next installment of this story, which tells of the descent of Gary and Shirani into the weird Place of Power where sleep the Ancient Ones.

csXnes Written in the Realisation That I Must Die

By ROBERT E. HOWARD

The Black Door gapes and the Black Wall rises;

Twilight gasps in the grip of Night.

Paper and dust are the gems man prizes — Torches toss in my waning sight.

Drums of glory are lost in the ages,

Bare feet fail on a broken trail —

Let my name fade from the printed pages; Dreams and visions are growing pale.

Twilight gathers and none can save me.

Well and well, for I would not stay:

Let me speak through the stone you grave me:’ He never could say what he wished to say.

Why should I shrink from the sign of leaving?

My brain is wrapped in a darkened cloud; Now in the Night are the Sisters weaving For me a shroud.

Towers shake and the stars reel under, Skulls are heaped in the Devil’s fane; My feet are wrapped in a rolling thunder. Jets of agony lance my brain.

What of the world that I leave for ever? ’ Phantom forms in a fading sight —

Carry me out on the ebon river Into the Night.

reen Horror

By H. THOMPSON RICH

What was that hideous apparition that lured Joan to the greenhouse and swayed beside her father as he worked?

A tale of horror

EAGERLY young Herbert Ames broke open the square feminine envelope. But one glance at its contents, in Joan’s fine, vertical script, and he went numb.

Others of her recent letters had disturbed him vaguely, with their veiled inklings that all was not right and she wished he were with her. But this was a direct, almost hysterical plea for help. She urged him as her best friend to come at once, to save her, save her father and herself from some nameless horror.

The letter bore the postmark of the little town of Harwood, in southeast Georgia, where they had been spending the summer — the distinguished biologist, Doctor Burton Kendall, and this charming, usually so poised but now so distraught daughter of his, with whom Herbert Ames was very much in love.

It was a dismal town, Harwood, according to Joan’s reports. Hovering on the north edge of Okefinokee swamp — a vast, mysterious morass of black gum and cypress that spread to the Florida border • — it was scarcely the ideal place for a summer outing. They had gone there not on a vacation but so that her father might conduct certain experiments on the plants of the region.

Just what these experiments were, young Ames didn’t know, though Joan had told him they had to do with mutations; which meant, it seemed, that Doctor Kendall was trying to effect some sort

of radical change that would result in a new species. Had he succeeded, and was this what she feared?

Eery tales of scientific monstrosities, hideous Frankenstein monsters that destroyed their creators, rose in Ames’ mind. But he shooed them from it as sheer nonsense, being a level-headed young man, and sought some more rational explanation of what might lie behind this panicky letter.

It was not forthcoming, however, though the fact remained that Joan was in some desperate trouble. Then there was the added fact of his personal feeling for her. Could he therefore, with these facts as premises, fail to deduce from them the logical conclusion? He could not.

So this young lawyer, junior partner in the prominent New York firm of Eaton, Ames & Ames, shunted his writs and processes to other desks and boarded the first train for Georgia.

A t twilight the next day, after a l change at Atlanta and another at Waycross, Herbert Ames was drawing into Harwood.

The view from the window toward the last, with its dreary wastes of marsh and quagmire, had been depressing. He was relieved when the creaking local dragged up to the little station — doubly so when there on the platform, in response to his telegram, stood Joan. Slim, appealing,



her dark hair merging with the dusk, the sight of her quickened his pulses.

"Oh, Herbert, I’m so glad you’re here!” was her fervent greeting.

Her hand was cold. It trembled in his. He wondered, as they stood there talking a moment, what this thing could be that had so obviously shaken her. He was soon to learn, in part.

She led him to an old Model T parked by the platform, and presently they were headed out over a rutty road that seemed to be leading straight into the swamp. As they drove on, she told him, calmly, yet with a tense note in her voice that spelled nerves taut to the breaking-point, of the strange house she and her father had been living in.

It had been the property of a certain Miles Denniston, eccentric retired merchant of Savannah, whose hobby had been growing orchids. He had died there the previous year, and her father had leased the place from the heirs for the summer, because of its isolated location and facilities offered for his work by its well-equipped greenhouse.

All this Joan had touched on before, in her letters. But now she struck a new note.

"Herbert, you may think I’m perfectly mad,” she said, "but the place is haunted — yes, and worse!”

"Haunted?” He gave a start. "Good Lord! By whom — old Denniston’s ghost?”

"Yes, among others,” she replied, slowly. "Don’t scoff, Herbert. You don’t know. Please — just wait!”

"Oh, I’ll wait!” he assured her. "Nothing I’d rather see than a genuine, practising ghost. But- seriously, dear, you don’t believe any such ”

"Nonsense!” she flared back. "Call it that, if you want. Call it anything. As I said, you may think I’m perfectly mad. But please, Herbert — wait! Don’t be

practical and hard-headed now, or you’ll surely fail me. Oh, can’t you understand? It’s this that has stood between us, all along.”

She was hysterical, beyond a doubt. But something had made her so. What? The loneliness of the place, probably, rather than its ghostliness. Still, he wasn’t going to fail her. No fear! So Herbert Ames adopted a conciliatory attitude.

"I’ll wait,” he said, pressing her hand on the wheel. "I’m willing to be shown, even if I’m not from Missouri. So tell me, tell me everything — or what you can.”

"You’re a darling!” she murmured, patting him on the arm.

And then, as they drove on through that dismal twilit swamp, she continued her narration about that strange house, and its effect on them, principally on her father.

He had been acting strangely of late, she said, working all day long and half the night at the greenhouse; working secretly, furtively, behind locked doors, and. behaving in other ways almost like a different person.

"You don’t mean,” Ames ventured, "that you think he, he’s ”

"No, not insane, but under a spell,” was the way she put it. "Oh, Herbert, something fearful is happening down there! This Miles Denniston was a fiend. They tell the most shocking tales about him. There was something he was trying to do when he died— something too hideous for words — and now he’s forcing father to go on with it.”

She trembled, was silent, and Ames sat silent too, as they drove along. A man under the spell of a ghost, he was thinking. What utter absurdity! Yet he had assured her he was willing to be shown. And in truth, he was eager to see — whatever there was to be seen.



Presently the road turned, skirted the edge of the swamp for half a mile. Then Joan swung the wheel and headed into a weed-grown drive to the right. It led through a long line of sycamores to a dim, old-fashioned house of the spire and gable type, set upon a slight rise some distance off. Beyond it, Ames could see the greenhouse, its whitewashed glass windows glowing with light from within.

Dusk had given way to dark and a dull half-moon hung in the summer sky, obscured by a miasmal mist that rose from the swamp. Ames shivered, but not with cold, for the air was warm, almost humid.

"Well, here we are,” said Joan presently, as she brought the car to rest under a wide portico.

That mist, he thought, as he glanced around uneasily. There was something uncanny about it! He began to wonder if perhaps there wasn’t some peculiar influence at work here, after all.

T he front door opened, as they stepped out, and an old negro hobbled toward them.

"The only servant we’ve been able to keep,” said Joan, under her breath, adding aloud: "Peter, this is Mr. Ames. Take his bag and show him to his room. I’ll put the car up.”

"Yes, sah, Mr. Ames, sah,” bowed the man. "This way, sah.”

"And Peter, I’ll go down and get Father. You may have dinner ready.” "Yes, Miss Joan.”

Whereupon the old negro led him inside, up a wide Colonial stairway, down a long hall and into a spacious room on the left.

"There you are, Mr. Ames, sah,” he bowed. “Ah hope you will be comfortable heah, sah.”

But his quavering voice bore no conviction and in his bleared eyes was a look

Herbert Ames would have sworn was terror.

"Thank you, Peter,” he said, as the man withdrew. “I’m sure everything will be quite all right.”

His voice, however, bore no more conviction than the other’s.

Nevertheless, as he dressed for dinner, he made a valiant effort to free his mind from the oppressive thoughts that were crowding in on it. He even whistled, or started to. But after a few bars he stopped, peered swiftly around, as though half expecting to see someone.

There was no one to be seen, of course. Yet something was in that room! He could have sworn it.

Cursing his nerves, he strode to an open window through which eddies of fetid mist whirled in, and slammed it shut. But the eery sense of some unseen presence persisted, and he hastened his dressing, eager to get below and rejoin Joan.

She was not there, when he descended at last, but her father was, and Ames was shocked by the way the man had changed.

Doctor Burton Kendall had been of distinguished appearance, tall and well set up, with piercing black eyes and thick brown hair with scarcely a streak of gray in it. But now he was stooped, worn, his eyes dull, his hair sprinkled with white. In fifteen weeks, the man had aged fifteen years.

“Glad to see you, Herbert my boy,” he quavered, extending a bony hand. "Glad to see you.”

But Ames sensed it was not the truth, fancied he saw in those dull eyes a light of smoldering resentment.

"Strange!” he mused. "The old bird would have been a lot better pleased if I’d stayed home and minded my business. Why?”

As he was pondering the question,



Joan joined them, and presently Peter appeared, announced that dinner was served.

T hat dinner! It was the weirdest meal Herbert Ames had ever sat down to. Not that there was anything strange about the food, which was excellent, considering the limited facilities. But the atmosphere contributed by Doctor Kendall, in his amazing discussion of his work, was bizarre in the extreme.

What he was trying to do, he confided, was find the common denominator between life and death. He had approached the subject first by a study of the essence of life, examining certain lowly forms from the near-by swamp, notably the slime molds — those repulsive ameboid growths, part plant and part animal, that are the parasites of rotten logs and decaying leaves.

"Curious little devils, the slime molds,” he smiled. "They develop in colonies — plasmodia — mere spreading masses of naked protoplasm, unlike the fungus molds, which are true plants. And like amebas, these voracious creatures engulf the tissues of whatever they attack, devouring their victims with the rapacity of animals.”

Ames shuddered, as Doctor Kendall paused. A singularly ill-chosen topic for dinner-table discussion! Glancing at Joan, he saw her shrink, though her eyes urged him to listen attentively.

"To facilitate my observations, I found it necessary to stimulate the growth of my plasmodia somewhat,” Doctor Kendall went on. "Then, once I had learned the essence of life, as expressed in the protoplasm of the slime molds, I sought to study the essence of death, as expressed in the ectoplasm of spirit emanation — which is provided abundantly hereabout,” he added slowly, then paused again.

Ames’ mental processes paused, too. He waited, scarcely daring to look at Joan now.

"In that research, too, I have been successful,” her father declared after a moment. "Protoplasm and ectoplasm embody a single basic principle, and I have found it. I have found, in short, what I set out to find — the common denominator between life and death!” His thin voice rose on a crescendo of triumph, as the smoldering light burned high in his dull eyes. "Yes, and I have produced that denominator — have succeeded, my dear Herbert, in combining protoplasm and ectoplasm in a mutation that is a being neither alive nor dead!”

Whereupon Ames’ mounting conviction of the past few minutes became settled. The man was mad, absolutely raving!

There was more of that weird discourse, but nothing to match what had gone before. Doctor Kendall seemed to draw into himself now, as though he had already disclosed too much.

A mes was relieved when the fantastic t meal was over at length and the man had gone back to the greenhouse. He wanted to talk with Joan, see what could be made of this insanity, what could be done to save her father from himself, save her too from whatever ghoulish thing was threatening.

As he had surmized, Doctor Kendall had come down here to perform quite different experiments.

"You see, Herbert, it’s as I told you,” said Joan, her voice strained. "He’s under a spell, the spell of Miles Denniston. It’s that fiend who was trying to do these terrible things, and now his ghost is making father do them for him.”

A man under the spell of a ghost! As before, the utter absurdity of it struck this logical-minded young lawyer, but not



quite so forcibly, now that he had sensed tiie eery atmosphere of the place and had heard Doctor Kendall talk. Still, the insanity theory was infinitely more comforting.

"Are you sure the whole matter couldn’t be explained,” he risked, "by — well, assuming that perhaps your father’s mind has become temporarily unbalanced from • overwork?”

But she shook her head.

"No, Herbert. It won’t do. Father isn’t any more insane than you are — and you’re really quite the most maddeningly sane person I know! He’s merely under a spell, the spell of Miles Denniston’s ghost. You must accept that, or at least assume it, if you are to help me.”

"But have you actually seen this ghost you speak of?”

A long pause, then:

"Yes, I have. You’ll see it, too, Herbert — and worse things!”

Something in the way she said it, more than the words themselves, gave him the shivers. He looked up swiftly, saw with a pang how pale, how tense she was. Poor girl! What she must have been through, these past few weeks! He longed to take her in his arms. Instead, since that had never been and now seemed no time for it, he pressed her hand instead.

"Weil, I’ll be prepared, at least!” he smiled. "And Joan, I want you to know I’ll do all in my power to help you and your father through this thing, no matter what.”

"I knew you would,” she smiled back, returning the pressure. "That’s why I asked you down, Herbert. I knew my — my best friend would never fail me.”

Was there in that little hesitation the thought that he might some day be more, if he didn’t? At any rate, it spurred him on, steeled him for what lay ahead.

T he air was close when Herbert Ames returned to his room that night, and he strode forward resolutely, flung open the window again, despite the feeling that had led him to shut it while dressing for dinner.

As he stood there, peering out into the night, he could see the greenhouse below, agleam with light through the mist. Doctor Kendall was down there. What diabolical experiment was he at work on?

Ames was half tempted to go down, find out. But no, he wouldn’t do that. Instead, he turned away, started undressing. And again, as the miasmal breath of the swamp whirled in on him, he wheeled, peered swiftly around, as though half expecting to see someone.

But as before, he saw no one. Yet something was in that room! He knew it now, and the knowledge sent chills up and down his spine. Then suddenly, out of nothingness, came a voice:

"Go down to the greenhouse!” It was an icy whisper. "See what Doctor Kendall is doing there!”

Rigid, and with goose-flesh prickling over him, Ames peered into every comer of the room. Still nothing. Yet actually nothing? That cigarette of his, smoldering on a tray — he fancied its wavering haze of bluish smoke was taking form. Sheer rot, of course, he told himself. Better buck up or he’d go off his bean too, for all Joan’s confidence in his sanity. But even as he tried to reassure himself, came again that icy whisper:

"Go, Herbert Ames! Go to the greenhouse!”

That was all. Though he waited through tense seconds that dragged into minutes, there came no more. But it was enough!

He re-dressed swiftly, stole down and out.

The mist was thick, ominous, and he shuddered as he made his way through



its clammy shroud to the greenhouse that glowed phosphorescent on the edge of the swamp.

Arriving near, he crept up on tiptoe, reluctant to spy on this madman yet led irresistibly on, almost as though he too were under some sinister spell.

Now he reached it, searched for some flaw in its coated glass panels that would let him see through, found at last a place where the whitewash had peeled off, and as he looked, he recoiled as though struck.

There stood Doctor Kendall, by a laboratory table littered with microscopes, test-tubes and other biological equipment — and at his side hovered a vague, translucent figure he knew intuitively was the ghost of Miles Denniston.

W ith a gasp, Ames backed off, beat a hasty retreat to the house. He had seen enough for one night — too much!

Once in his room again, he sank into a chair, tried to analyze his state of mind. Was he sane, or as mad as that madman down there? Had he, or had he not, seen a ghost? And how explain the whole episode?

Finally, after a period of ineffectual thinking, he undressed again, slipped into bed — and strangely enough, slept. But in the middle of the night he was awakened by a piercing scream — a quaver of horror, so long, so agonizing, that there seemed no doubt it marked some tragedy.

His heart in his throat, Ames leaped out of bed, struggled into a dressinggown, lunged into the hall, l The first person he confronted, to his relief, was Joan, in a negligee that in other circumstances would have been intriguing.

"Herbert!” she gasped. "What was

>?”

"God knows!” he replied. "Your father — where is he?”

"Right here, my boy,” came a voice at his back, as a door opened. "What is wrong?”

Turning, they both saw Doctor Kendall standing there, and Ames noted that he was fully dressed.

"That scream!” he exclaimed. "What was it?”

"Exactly what I would like to know,” declared the scientist, calmly. "But since we all seem to be here, why ”

"Father!” begged Joan, rushing up to him. "What has happened? Oh, I thought — thought ’ ’

"Steady yourself, my dear!” he urged her. "I am quite all right. Whatever it was, I am sure it will not trouble us again tonight. So since the hour is late, I suggest we all put it from our minds and try to get a little sleep.”

He gave her a fatherly pat, sent her off to her room, and urged Ames to return to his own.

Ames did so, but there was no more sleep that night.

N ext morning at breakfast they received another shock. Peter was not there to serve them.

They had searched his room, searched the premises, Joan explained, but could find no trace of the old negro. Something had evidently frightened him away in the night, as with the other servants. That long-drawn, piercing scream had been his.

But the agonizing horror of it! That was Ames’ thought. Had the poor devil

actually been frightened away, or

“You’ve notified the police, I suppose,” he said.

"No, not yet,” she replied, blanching* "You — think we’d better?”

"Yes, I think we had,” gravely* "But first ”

He told her hciw he had stolen out



last night, what he had seen in the greenhouse.

"Yes,” she admitted slowly. "I heard you go. And oh, Herbert — I know! For as I told you, I’ve seen it.” And when he made no comment, she added, "But the police, dear — they wouldn’t understand. Don’t you think we should keep that to ourselves, for the present?”

He acceded, though he wasn’t so sure he agreed.

So when the police came, they gave them only the fact of Peter’s disappearance, plus that mysterious scream in the night. And with nothing to work on, the police found nothing.

One clue they had, however, which might have led to something.

"Damn’ funny business!” Sergeant Griffin, the officer in charge, confided to Ames. "This is the third disappearance we’ve had from this place in less than three months. First there was a maid, then a cook, and now this nigger butler.”

"Yes, strange!”

"And get this. Before that fella Denniston died, we had half a dozen other cases of missing help from this same estate. Of course, we know as how the place is supposed to be haunted, and all that. But some say there’s something here does more than scare folks off. Some say there’s something here does away with ’em. You ain’t seen anything like that, Mr. Ames, have you?”

"Good God, no!”

But in his mind was the thought of that gruesome dinner-table discourse of the night before, and he wondered what connection there might be between this wild rumor and the facts — resolved he would not let another night go by without learning what fearful experiment Doctor Kendall and that specter were collaborating on.

T he hours passed slowly. Doctor Kendall was in a bad humor the rest of the day. The police investigation had affected him deeply. He seemed to feel that they held him in some way responsible for Peter’s disappearance, and no amount of persuasion could alter the conviction.

As for Ames, his persuasion was none too heartfelt. He could not shake the belief that this man, although the father of the girl he loved, was somehow bound up in the whole mysterious business.

There was a brooding menace, too, that seemed to hover over them all day, something sinister and evil from the swamp, for all the bright summer sunshine that poured down from the cloudless skies.

They almost felt relieved when night came at last and they retired to their rooms, after an admirable meal Joan had prepared and served by herself.

For a half-hour or more Ames waited, fully dressed — waited for a repetition of that peculiar icy command of the night before. At length, just as he was on the point of going to the greenhouse anyway, it came:

"Go, Herbert Ames! And do not come back alone tonight!”

r Whereupon, numb but resolute, he went.

If Joan heard him, well and good. He fancied she must have known all along he would go, voice or no voice. His le_gal mind, with its passion for the facts! Grimly he smiled, as he stole down the wide Colonial stairs.

Outside, he was engulfed once more in that eery mist. Strange, with the night so clear! He shuddered, and an ironic laugh burst from his taut lips. He had been so sure there was no such thing as this, yet now he was experiencing it, overwhelmingly.

At length he gained the greenhouse,



sought that panel where the whitewash had peeled off, peered in.

There stood Doctor Kendall, puttering around with his test-tubes. He was alone, and the sight of him thus innocently engaged was a shock. For an instant, Ames’ suspicions seemed to vanish. Then suddenly they reappeared in a new direction, as a step sounded behind him. Or was it only a sense, not a sound? At any rate he wheeled — and went cold with horror, at the sight that now met his gaze.

A vague, translucent figure had loomed out of the mist — the ghost of Miles Denniston! — and at its side, clearly under some occult spell, moved Joan.

Like a man in a nightmare, Herbert Ames stood beholding this harrowing scene. He tried to call out but had no voice. Paralyzed, he watched the helpless girl and her hideous escort draw near.

When they were scarcely ten feet off they turned slightly and headed toward the door of the greenhouse. There followed a scratching knock, and looking in, Ames saw Doctor Kendall stiffen, then advance like an automaton to the door, unlock it. He saw them enter, Joan and that malevolent ghost — saw the latter lift a skeleton hand, point commandingly at something out of sight — saw Doctor Kendall back off, utter a cry of protest at the gesture. But the phantom was adamant. It advanced like Nemesis, that fleshless hand still pointing, and the quaking scientist retreated helplessly before it.

To the far end of the greenhouse they went, Joan following with trance-like steps. Now the specter lowered its hand, indicating the ground; whereupon, to Ames’ amazement, Doctor Kendall bent, shoved aside a tray of slips, lifted a trapdoor.

What happened then was baffling, incredible. An emanation seemed to rise from the dark pit that yawned there — an emanation invisible at first but so powerful, so all-pervading that its evil breath reached Herbert Ames, chilled him, even where he stood — a vague, loathsome vapor that was the very stench of hell. Something was down in that pit, something horrible beyond all thought.

A wild conjecture leaped into Ames’ mind. Those disappearances! They were sacrifices, sacrifices to some hideous thing lurking there, something the fiend Denniston had created, or had forced Doctor Kendall to create for him.

Yes, and even now Joan was to be fed to that nameless horror! But not unless he died first, was his grim thought. And rushing to the door of the greenhouse, he burst in.

As Ames lunged forward, the specter loomed in his path, on its face an expression of such malignant fury that for an instant he paused, stunned. And as the smoldering phosphorescence of its hollow eyes fixed him, he felt himself swaying under its evil spell.

But the sight of Joan and her father standing there helpless beside that yawning pit gave him strength. By a supreme effort he rallied, flung off the spell, lunged on.

Reaching the trap-door, he seized it to hurl it shut. But too late! For already a vast protoplasmic form was oozing out — undulating from that foul pit like a tide of gray filth, weirdly vague, translucent.

Backing away with a cry of revulsion, Ames seized Joan, seized her father, staggered with them to the door of the greenhouse, that malevolent phantom protesting vainly.

"Quick!” he gasped. "This way!”

With an arm linked in the arm of each, he raced with them across the lawn toward the house, through that eery mist — and as they sped on, behind them rose the crash of breaking glass, mingled with a screeching, wailing sound that curdled the night.



Somehow he gained the house, got them inside, locked and bolted the door, stood waiting as though for doom. But nothing happened, and presently the hideous sounds outside died down.

Now Joan turned to him. She had recovered somewhat, and that dazed, trancelike look had gone from her face, but she was white as a sheet and still shaking with terror.

"Wh-what has happened?” she begged. "Oh, Herbert — am I going mad?”

It seemed to him as though they all were, but he curbed his own fears and assured her the worst was over. Then, turning to her father, he added:

"Tell me. Doctor, what is this thing? Let me know, so that we can fight it.”

The man lifted his dull eyes, opened his thin lips as though to speak; then slowly he shook his head, collapsed.

B etween them they managed to get him upstairs and to bed, where he lay for a while moaning and mumbling incoherently, then fell into a heavy sleep — leaving them alone in that house of horror, with only four frail walls between them and God knew what.

After a few moments they returned below, sat tensely waiting, scarcely daring to speak. But as time wore on and nothing happened, they began to breathe easier.

The atmosphere of the house seemed purged — the atmosphere of the whole estate, in fact. It was as though some evil spell that had long clung to it was dissipated. There was no longer the sense of ghostly presences among them. The mist outside seemed no longer to hold a menace.

Finally Joan spoke what was uppermost in her thoughts, urged Ames again to tell her what had happened. He said he would, but asked her first to tell him what she remembered.

"I’m not so sure,” she replied, with a shudder. "I was asleep, I think, when suddenly I woke to see that terrible ghost in the room. It was Miles Denniston, I knew. He told me to get up and follow him, and I did. Or perhaps I only dreamed I did. It’s all so vague, yet so terribly clear.”

"No, you didn’t dream it,” Ames assured her, "for I saw him leading you down to the greenhouse.” And he went on to explain how he had come to be there himself.

Together they pieced out a picture of that harrowing experience, a picture Ames softened in some of its stark details, to spare Joan a little.

"How awful!” she shuddered, when she had heard it all. "Oh, Herbert — if you hadn’t been there! I — I owe my life to you.”

“I only want your love, dear,” was his answer to that.

And her answer, in turn, was to slip her hand in his an instant. Then, as she removed it:

"Poor father! He is blameless. You believe that, Herbert, don’t you?”

"Yes,” he assured her. "He is absolutely so.”

"But the police?” voicing her inmost fear. "They may not think so. Oh, I’m so terrified at what they may find down there in that pit!”

Ames said nothing, though a sudden chill ran through him.

"Yet we must send for them, must we not?” she went on.

"Yes, I fear we must.” His voice was low, reluctant. "And I think we’d best send for a doctor, too.”

I N the early morning, both police and doctor arrived.

Leaving Joan with the latter and her father, Ames accompanied Sergeant Griffin and his men to the greenhouse.



As he had suspected, it was demolished, literally upheaved as though by an earthquake, and over it hung the reek of the grave. The odor was emanating from the pit, which still yawned open.

They made their way to it, through the debris, peered down into that foul hole, while Griffin flashed his light — and what they saw there filled Ames with nausea.

The pit was littered with bones — human bones.

Old Peter’s were among them, he. thought with a shudder, as they turned away. Yes, and Joan’s would have been there, too, had he not gone down to the greenhouse last night, had he not found strength to defy that phantom fiend.

But what would the police make of this? Would they hold Doctor Kendall on the evidence?

Fortunately, since the stricken man was still in a coma and could not be questioned, they made of it what police generally make of such matters.

"I figure something the old duffer was working on blew up,” was the way Sergeant Griffin put it. "Lucky for us, too, otherwise we’d never of got the lowdown on this fella Denniston. Wish it could of happened when he was alive. I’d of liked the pleasure of seeing him hang.”

"You and I, too!” said Ames fervently.

But at least the ghost of the fiend was laid, he reflected. With that grisly secret exposed at last, there would be no more of those hideous experiments. Yes, and the ghosts of his victims were laid, too. They had wreaked their revenge. That house would be haunted no longer.

On his return with the police, Ames

broke the news of their grim find to Joan as gently as possible, told her what Griffin thought; and the relief in her eyes, as they lifted to his, was eloquent.

But something more was in them than relief.

Herbert Ames learned what it was, in time. Joan is now his wife and those tragic days are behind them for ever.

Doctor Kendall recovered, moreover, mercifully remembering nothing of those fearful experiments he made in collaboration with a ghost.

As for that horror in the greenhouse, Herbert and Joan now know that it is laid for ever, that it will no longer throw terror into the hearts of men or wreak its vengeance on their bodies. For a group of hunters, emerging from the swamp some three days after its disappearance, brought back with them such nauseous evidences of the monster they had tracked there from the greenhouse as to leave no doubt in anyone’s mind that this hideous creation had succumbed as horribly as it had been born.

Naked, reeking masses of half-flesh they had brought back, asserting some huge animal had floundered there and perished — but no one could be found to believe them.

Only Herbert and Joan, and poor Doctor Kendall, knew what they were talking about, and none of them had any comments to make. As for Herbert and Joan, they have made none since, for they are too happy, too preoccupied with plans for the future to dwell much on that episode.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE BLACK DRAMA (END) GANS T
by Field
============================================================
Doctor Kendall, it is true, is preparing a technical thesis on the subject, but it may be some years before he is ready to reveal his findings to the public.

Drama

By GANS T. FIELD

51 strange weird story about the eery presonality known as Varduk, who claimed descent from Lord Byron, and the hideous doom that stalked in his wake

The Story So Far

GILBERT CONNATT, the narrator, once a film idol, now penniless, takes a role in Lord Byron’s newly-recovered play, Ruthven, opposite Sigrid Holgar, who has become a dramatic success since she and Connatt terminated their Hollywood romance.

Varduk, the brilliant but mysterious producer of the play, intends to present it for the first time in July at the Lake Jozgid Summer Theater, and the cast migrates to that remote, timber-girt spot. The party includes also Elmo Davidson, Varduk’s Man Friday, Jake Switz, Sigrid’s personal representative, and Martha Vising, character actress.

Judge Keith Pursuivant, eminent occultist and antiquary, who tries to rationalize the apparently authentic Byron handwriting of the play with the fact that it is written on paper less than ten years old, is vacationing near by.

The first unchancy happening is the narrow escape of Sigrid and Jake from strange, half-shaped entities in the dark near the theater building. Then, in a rehearsal, Connatt accidentally stabs Varduk with a sword — but does not hurt him. Pursuivant and Connatt, discussing these events, are warned by Davidson not to challenge Varduk, who is a man of tremendous and uncanny powers.

Later that night, Connatt and Switz find Pursuivant’s unconscious form near the forest road from the theater. At the

same moment, the half -shaped creatures that threatened Sigrid appear and surround them.

The story continues:

11. Battle and Retreat

1 doubt if any writer, however accomplished, has ever done full justice to the emotion of terror.

To mention the icy chill at the backbone, the sudden sinewless trembling of the knees, the withering dryness of throat and tongue, is to be commonplace; and terror is not commonplace. Perhaps to remember terror is to know again the helplessness and faintness it brings.

Therefore it must suffice to say that, as I turned and saw the closing in of those pale-glowing blots of menace, I wanted to scream, and could not; to run, and could not; to take my gaze away, and could not.

If I do not describe the oncoming creatures — if creatures indeed they were — it is because they defied clear vision then and defy clear recollection now. Something quasi-human must have hung about them, something suggestive of man’s outline and manner, as in a rough image molded by children of snow; but they were not solid like snow. They shifted and swirled, like wreaths of thick mist, without dispersing in air. They gave a dim, rotten light of their own, and they moved absolutely without sound.


This story began in WEIRD TALES for June



"It’s them,” gulped Jake Switz beside me. He, too, was frightened, but not as frightened as I. He could speak, and move, too — he had dropped Pursuivant’s head and was rising to his feet. I could hear him suck in a lungful of air, as though to brace himself for action.

His remembered presence, perhaps the mere fact of his companionship before the unreasoned awfulness of the glowshadowy pack that advanced to hem us in, give me back my own power of thought and motion. It gave me, too, the impulse to arm myself. I stooped to earth, groped swiftly, found and drew forth from its bed the sword-cane of Judge Pursuivant.

The non-shapes — that paradoxical idea is the best I can give of them — drifted around me, free and weightless in the night air like luminous sea-things in still, dark water. I made a thrust at the biggest and nearest of them.

I missed. Or did I? The target was, on a sudden, there no longer. Perhaps I had pierced it, and it had burst like a flimsy bladder. Thus I argued within my desperate inner mind, even as I faced about and made a stab at another. In the same instant it had gone, too — but the throng did not seem diminished. I made a sweeping slash with my point from side to side, and the things shrank back before it, as though they dared not pass the line I drew.

"Give ’em the works, Gib!” Jake was gritting out. "They can be hurt, all right!”

I laughed, like an impudent child. I felt inadequate and disappointed, as when in dreams a terrible adversary wilts before a blow I am ashamed of.

"Come on,” I challenged the undefinable enemy, in a feeble attempt at swagger. "Let me have a real poke

Pursuivant, apparently wakened by this commotion all around him, was struggling erect. "Here, Connatt, give me my sword.” He fairly wrung it from my hand, and drove back the misty horde with great fanwise sweeps. "Drop back, now. Not toward the lodge — up the driveway to the road.”

We made the retreat somehow, and were not followed. My clothing was drenched with sweat, as though I had swum in some filthy pool. Jake, whom I remember as helping me up the slope when I might have fallen, talked incessantly without finishing a single sentence. The nearest he came to rationality was, "What did... what if... can they ”

Pursuivant, however, seemed well re-. covered. He kicked together some bits of kindling at the roadside. Then he asked me for a match — perhaps to make me rally my sagging senses as I explored my pockets — and a moment later he had kindled a comforting fire.

"Now,” he said, "we’re probably safe from any more attention of that bunch. And our fire can’t be seen from the lodge. Sit down and talk it over.”

Jake was mopping a face as white as tallow. Plis spectacles mirrored the firelight in nervous shimmers.

"I guess I didn’t dream the other night, after all,” he jabbered. "Wait till I tell Mister Varduk about this.”

"Please tell him nothing,” counseled Judge Pursuivant at once.

"Eh?” I mumbled, astonished. "When the non-shapes ”

"Varduk probably knows all about these things — more than we shall ever know,” replied the judge. "I rather think he cut short his walk across the front yards so that they would attack me. At any rate, they seemed to ooze out of the timber the moment he and I separated.”

He told us, briefly, of how the nonW. T.— 5

"Hold hard,” said a new voice. Judge



shapes (he liked and adopted my paradox) were upon him before he knew. Like Jake two nights before, he felt an overwhelming disgust and faintness when they touched him, began to faint. His last voluntary act was to draw the blade in his cane and drive it into the ground, as an anchor against being dragged away.

"They would never touch that point,” he said confidently. "You found that out, Connatt.”

"And I’m still amazed, more about that fact than anything else. How would such things fear, even the finest steel?”

"It isn’t steel.” Squatting close to the fire, Pursuivant again cleared the bright, sharp bodkin. "Look at it, gentlemen — silver.”

It was two feet long, or more, round instead of flat, rather like a large needle. Though the metal was bright and worn with much polishing, the inscription over which Pursuivant and Varduk had pored was plainly decipherable by the firelight. Sic pereant omnes inimici tui, Domine... I murmured it aloud, as though it were a protective charm.

"As you may know,” elaborated Judge Pursuivant, "silver is a specific against all evil creatures.”

"That’s so,” interjected Jake. "I heard my grandfather tell a yarn about the old country, how somebody killed a witch with a silver bullet.”

"And this is an extraordinary object, even among silver swords,” Pursuivant went on. "A priest gave it to me, with his blessing, when I did a certain thing to help him and his parish against an enemy not recognized by the common law of today. He assured me that the blade was fashioned by Saint Dunstan himself.”

"A saint make a silver weapon!” I ejaculated incredulously.

W. T. — 6

P ursuivant smiled, exactly as though we had not lately feared and fought for our lives and souls. His manner was that of a kindly teacher with a dull but willing pupil.

"Saint Dunstan is not as legendary or as feeble as his name sounds. As a matter of fact, he flourished heartily in the Tenth Century — not long before the very real Norman Conquest. He was the stout son of a Saxon noble, studied magic and metal-working, and was a political power in England as well as a spiritual one.”

"Didn’t he tweak Satan’s nose?” I inquired.

"So the old poem tells, and so the famous painting illustrates,” agreed Pursuivant, his smile growing broader. "Dunstan was, in short, exactly the kind of holy man who would make a sword to serve against demons. Do you blame me for being confident in his work?”

"Look here, Judge,” said Jake, "what were those things that jumped us up?”

"That takes answering.” Pursuivant had fished a handkerchief from a side pocket and was carefully wiping the silver skewer. "In the first place, they are extraterrestrial — supernatural — and in the second, they are noisomely evil. We need no more evidence on those points. As for the rest, I have a theory of a sort, based on wide studies.”

"What is it, sir?” I seconded Jake. Once again the solid assurance of the judge was comforting me tremendously.

He pursed his lips. "I’ve given the subject plenty of thought ever since you, Connatt, told me the experience of your friend here. There are several accounts and considerations of similar phenomena. Among ancient occultists was talk of elementary spirits — things super-normal and sometimes invisible, of sub-human intelligence and personality and not to be confused with spirits of the dead. A more modern word is 'elemental’, used by sev210


eral cults. The things are supposed to exert influences of various kinds, upon various localities and people

"Again, we have the poltergeist, a phenomenon that is coming in for lively investigation by various psychical scholars of today. I can refer you to the definitions of Carrington, Podmore and Lewis Spence — their books are in nearly every large library — but you’ll find that the definitions and possible explanations vary. The most familiar manifestation of this strange but undeniable power is in the seeming mischief that it performs in various houses — the knocking over of furniture, the smashing of mirrors, the setting of mysterious fires ”

"I know about that thing,” said Jake excitedly. "There was a house over in Brooklyn that had mysterious fires and stuff.”

"And I’ve read Charles Fort’s books — Wild Talents and the rest,” I supplemented. "He tells about such happenings. But see here, isn’t the thing generally traced to some child who was playing tricks?”

Pursuivant, still furbishing his silver blade, shook his head. "Mr. Hereward Carrington, the head of the American Psychical Institute, has made a list of more than three hundred notable cases. Only twenty or so were proven fraudulent, and another twenty doubtful. That leaves approximately seven-eighths unexplained — unless you consider supernormal agency an explanation. It is true that children are often in the vicinity of the phenomena, and some investigators explain this by saying that the poltergeist is attracted or set in motion by some spiritual current from the growing personality of the child.”

"Where’s the child around here?” demanded Jake. "He must be a mighty bad boy. Better someone should take a stick to him.”

"There is no child,” answered the judge. "The summoning power is neither immature nor unconscious, but old, wicked and deliberate. Have you ever heard of witches’ familiars?”

"I have,” I said. "Black cats and toads, with demon spirits.”

"Yes. Also grotesque or amorphous shapes — similar, perhaps, to what we encountered tonight — or disembodied voices and hands. Now we are getting down to our own case. The non-shapes — thanks again, Connatt, for the expression — are here as part of a great evil. Perhaps they came of themselves, spiritual vultures or jackals, waiting to share in the prey. Or they may be recognized servants of a vast and dreadful activity for wrong. In any case they are here, definite and dangerous.”

Again I felt my nerve deserting me. "Judge Pursuivant,” I pleaded, "we must get Miss Holgar out of here.”

"No. You and I talked that out this afternoon. The problem cannot be solved except at its climax.”

He rose to his feet. The fire was dying.

"I suggest that you go to your quarters. Apparently you’re safe indoors, and just now the moon’s out from behind the clouds. Keep your eyes open, and stay in the clear. The things won’t venture into the moonlight unless they feel sure of you. Anyway, I think they’re waiting for something else.”

"How about you?” I asked.

"Oh, I’ll do splendidly.” He held up the sword of Saint Dunstan. "I’ll carry this naked in my hand as I go.”

We said good-night all around, rather casually, like late sitters leaving their club. Pursuivant turned and walked along the road. Jake and I descended gingerly to the yard of the lodge, hurried across it, and gained our boathouse safely.



12. Return Engagement

ONE of the most extraordinary features of the entire happening was that it had so little immediate consequence.

Judge Pursuivant reached his cabin safely, and came to visit us again and again, but never remained after dark. If Varduk knew of the attack by the nonshapes, and if he felt surprize or chagrin that Pursuivant had escaped, he did not betray it. By silent and common consent, Jake and I forbore to discuss the matter between ourselves, even when we knew that we were alone.

Meanwhile, the moon waned and waxed again while we rehearsed our play and between rehearsals swam, tramped and bathed in the sun. Not one of us but seemed to profit by the exercise and fresh air. Sigrid’s step grew freer, her face browner and her green-gold hair paler by contrast. I acquired some weight, but in the proper places, and felt as strong and healthy as I had been when first I went from the Broadway stage to Hollywood, eight years before. Even Jake Switz, whose natural habitat lay among theatrical offices and stage doors, became something of a hill-climber, canoeist and fisherman. Only Varduk did not tan, though he spent much time out of doors, strolling with Davidson or by himself. Despite his apparent fragility and his stiffness of gait, he was a tireless walker.

One thing Jake and I did for our protection; that was to buy, on one of our infrequent trips to the junction, an electric flashlight apiece as well as one for Sigrid. These we carried, lighted, when walking about at night, and not once in the month that followed our first encounter with the non-shapes did we have any misadventure.

The middle of July brought the full

moon again, ancf with it the approach of our opening night.

The theatrical sections of the papers — Varduk had them delivered daily — gave us whole square yards of publicity. Jake had fabricated most of this, on his typewriter in our boathouse loft, though his most glamorous inventions included nothing of the grisly wonders we had actually experienced. Several publishers added to the general interest in the matter by sending to Varduk attractive offers for the manuscript of Ruthven, and receiving blunt refusals. One feature writer, something of a scholar of early Nineteenth Century English literature, cast a doubt upon the authenticity of the piece. In reply to this, Judge Pursuivant sent an elaboration of his earlier statement that Ruthven was undoubtedly genuine. The newspaper kindly gave this rejoinder considerable notice, illustrating it with photographs of the judge, Varduk and Sigrid.

On July 20, two days before opening, Jake went out to nail signs along the main road to guide motor parties to our theater. He was cheerfully busy most of the morning, and Sigrid deigned to let me walk with her. We did not seek the road, but turned our steps along the brink of the water. An ancient but discernible trail, made perhaps by deer, ran there.

"Happy, Sigrid?” I asked her.

"I couldn’t be otherwise,” she cried at once. "Our play is to startle the world — first here, then on Broadway ”

"Sigrid,” I said, "what is there about this play that has such a charm for you? I know that it’s a notable literary discovery, and that it’s pretty powerful stuff in spots, but in the final analysis it’s only melodrama with a clever supernatural twist. You’re not the melodramatic type.”

"Indeed?” she flung back. "Am I a type, then?”

I saw that I had been impolitic and



made haste to offer apology, but she waved it aside.

“What you said might well be asked by many people. The pictures have put me into a certain narrow field, with poor Jake Switz wearing out the thesaurus to find synonyms for 'glamorous’. Yet, as a beginner in Sweden, I did Hedda Gabler and The Wild Duck — yes, and Bernard Shaw, too; I was the slum girl in Pygmalion. After that, a German picture, Cyrano de Bergerac, with me as Roxane. It was luck, perhaps, and a momentary wish by producers for a new young foreign face, that got me into American movies. But, have I done so poorly?”

“Sigrid, nobody ever did so nobly.”

“And at the first, did I do always the same thing? What was my first chance? The French war bride in that farce comedy. Then what? Something by Somerset Maugham, where I wore a black wig and played a savage girl of the tropics. Then what? A starring role, or rather a costarring role — opposite you.” She gave me a smile, as though the memory were pleasant.

“Opposite me,” I repeated, and a thrill crept through me. "Lavengro, the costume piece. Our costumes, incidentally, were rather like what we will wear in the t first part of Kuthven.”

“I was thinking the same thing. And speaking of melodrama, what about Lavengro? You, with romantic curly sideburns, stripped to the waist and fighting like mad with Noah Beery. Firelight gleaming on your wet skin, and me mopping your face with a sponge and telling you to use your right hand instead of your left ”

u "By heaven, there have been lots of worse shows!” I cried, and we both laughed. My spirits had risen as we had strolled away from the lodge grounds, and I had quite forgotten my half-formed resolve to speak a warning.

We came to a stretch of sand, with a great half -rotted pink trunk lying across it. Here we sat, side by side, smoking and scrawling in the fine sand with twigs.

“There’s another reason why I have been happy during this month of rehearsal,” said Sigrid shyly.

“Yes?” I prompted her, and my heart began suddenly to beat swiftly.

“It’s been so nice to be near you and with you.”

I felt at once strong and shivery, rather like the adolescent hero of an old-fashioned novel. What I said, somewhat ruefully, was, "If you think so, why have you been so hard to see? This is the first time we have walked or been alone together.”

SHE smiled, and in her own individual way that made her cheeks crease and her eyes turn aslant. "We saw a lot of each other once, Gib. I finished up by being sorry. I don’t want to be sorry again. That’s why I’ve gone slowly.”

“See here, Sigrid,” I blurted suddenly. "I’m not going to beat around the bush, or try to lead up diplomatically or dramatically, but — oh, hang it!” Savagely I broke a twig in my hands. "I loved you once, and in spite of the fact that we quarreled and separated, I’ve never stopped. I love you right this instant ”

She caught me in strong, fierce arms, and kissed me so soundly that our teeth rang together between lips crushed open. Thus for a second of white-hot surprize; then she let go with equal suddenness. Her face had gone pale under its tan — no acting there — and her eyes were full of panicky wonder.

"I didn’t do that,” she protested slowly. She, too, was plainly stunned. “I didn’t. But — well, I did, didn’t I?”

"You certainly did. I don’t know why, and if you say so I. won’t ask; but you



did, and it’ll be hard to retire from the position again.”

After that, we had a lot more to say to each other. I admitted, very humbly, that I had been responsible for our estrangement five years before, and that the reason was the very unmanly one that I, losing popularity, was jealous of her rise. For her part, she confessed that not once had she forgotten me, nor given up the hope of reconciliation.

"I'm not worth it,” I assured her. "I’m a sorry failure, and we both know it.”

"Whenever I see you,” she replied irrelevantly, "bells begin to ring in my ears — loud alarm bells, as if fires had broken out all around me.”

"We’re triple idiots to think of love,” I went on. "You’re the top, and I’m the muck under the bottom.”

"You’ll be the sensation of your life when Ruthven comes to Broadway,” rejoined Sigrid confidently. "And the movie magnets will fight duels over the chance to ask for you name on a contract.”

"To hell with the show business! Let’s run away tonight and live on a farm,” I suggested.

In her genuine delight at the thought she clutched my shoulders, digging in her long, muscular fingers. "Let’s!” she almost whooped, like a little girl promised a treat. "We’ll have a garden and keep pigs — no, there’s a show.”

"And the show,” I summed up, "must go on.”

On that doleful commonplace we rose from the tree-trunk and walked back. Climbing to the road, we sought out Jake, who with a hammer and a mouthful of nails was fastening his last sign to a tree. We swore him to secrecy with terrible oaths, then told him that we intended to marry as soon as we returned to New York. He half swallowed a nail, choked

dangerously, and had to be thumped on the back by both of us.

"I should live so — I knew this would happen,” he managed to gurgle at last. "Among all the men you know, Sigrid Holgar, you got to pick this schlemiel!”

We both threatened to pummel him, and he apologized profusely, mourning the while that his vow kept him from announcing our decision in all the New York papers.

"With that romance breaking now, we would have every able-bodied man, woman and child east of the Mississippi trying to get into our show,” he said earnestly. "With a club we’d have to beat them away from the ticket window. Standingroom would sell for a dollar an inch.”

"It’s a success as it is,” I comforted him. "Ruthven, I mean. The house is a sell-out, Davidson says.”

That night at dinner, Sigrid sat, not at the head of the table, but on one side next to me. Once or twice we squeezed hands and Jake, noticing this, was shocked and burned his mouth with hot coffee. Varduk, too, gazed at us as though he knew our secret, and finally was impelled to quote something from Byron — a satiric couplet on love and its shortness of life. But we were too happy to take offense or even to recognize that the quotation was leveled at us.

13. The Black Book

OUR final rehearsal, on the night of the twenty-first of July, was fairly accurate as regards the speeches and attention to cues, but it lacked fire and assurance. Varduk, however, was not disappointed.

"It has often been said, and often proven as well, that a bad last rehearsal means a splendid first performance,” he reminded us. "To bed all of you, and try to get at least nine hours of sleep.” Then



he seemed to remember something. "Miss Holgar.”

"Yes?” said Sigrid.

"Come here, with me.” He led her to the exact center of the stage. "At this spot, you know, you are to stand when the final incident of the play, and our dialog together, unfolds.”

"I know,” she agreed.

"Yet — are you sure? Had we not better be sure?” Varduk turned toward the auditorium, as though to gage their position from the point of view of the audience. "Perhaps I am being too exact,

He snapped his fingers in the direction of Davidson, who seemed to have expected some sort of request signal. The big assistant reached into the pocket of his jacket and brought out a piece of white chalk.

"Thank you, Davidson.” Varduk accepted the proffered fragment. "Stand a little closer center. Miss Holgar. Yes, like that.” Kneeling, he drew with a quick sweep of his arm a small white circle around her feet.

"That,” he informed her, standing up again, "is the spot where I want you to stand, at the moment when you and I have our final conflict of words, the swearing on the Bible, and my involuntary blessing upon your head.”

Sigrid took a step backward, out of the circle. I, standing behind her, could see that she had drawn herself up in outraged protest. Varduk saw, too, and half smiled as if to disarm her. "Forgive me if I seem foolish,” he pleaded gently.

"I must say,” she pronounced in a slow, measured manner, as though she had difficulty in controlling her voice, "that I do not feel that this little diagram will help me in the least.”

Varduk let his smile grow warmer, softer. "Oh, probably it will not, Miss

Holgar; but I am sure it will help me. Won’t you do as I ask?”

She could not refuse, and by the time she had returned across the stage to me she had relaxed into cheerfulness again. I escorted her to the door of her cabin, and her good-night smile warmed me all the way to my own quarters.

J udge pursuivant appeared at noon the next day, and Varduk, hailing him cordially, invited him to lunch.

"I wonder,” ventured Varduk as we all sat down together, "if you, Judge Pursuivant, would not speak a few words in our favor before the curtain tonight.”

"I?” The judge stared, then laughed. "But I’m not part of the management.”

"The management — which means myself — will be busy getting into costume for the first act. You are a scholar, a man whose recent book on Byron has attracted notice. It is fitting that you do what you can to help our opening.”

"Oh,” said Pursuivant, "if you put it like that — but what shall I tell the audience?”

"Make it as short as you like, but impressive. You might announce that all present are subpenaed as witnesses to a classic moment.”

Pursuivant smiled. "That’s rather good, Mr. Varduk, and quite true as well. Very good, count on me.”

But after lunch he drew me almost forcibly away from the others, talking affably about the merits of various wines until we were well out of earshot. Then his tone changed abruptly.

"I think we know now that the thing — whatever it is — will happen at the play, and we also know why.”

"Why, then?” I asked at once.

"I am to tell the audience that they are ’subpenaed as witnesses.’ In other words, their attention is directed, they must be part of a certain ceremony. I,


2.15

too, am needed. Varduk is making me the clerk, so to speak, of his court — or his cult. That shows that he will preside. 1 ’

"It begins to mean something,” I admitted. "Yet I am still at a loss.”

Pursuivant’s own pale lipes were, full of perplexity. "I wish that we could know more before the actual beginning. Yet I, who once prepared and judged legal cases, may be able to sum up in part:

"Something is to happen to Miss Holgar. The entire fabric of theatrical activity — this play, the successful effort to interest her in it, the remote theater, her particular role, everything — is to perform upon her a certain effect. That effect, we may be sure, is devastating. We may believe that a part, at least, of the success depends on the last line of the play, a mystery as yet to all of us.”

"Except to Varduk,” I reminded.

"Except to Varduk.”

But a new thought struck me, and for a moment I found it comforting.

"Wait. The ceremony, as you call it, can’t be all evil,” I said. "After all, he asks her to swear on a Bible.”

"So he does,” Pursuivant nodded. "What kind of a Bible?”

I tried to remember. "To tell the truth, I don’t know. We haven’t used props of any kind in rehearsals — not even the sword, after that first time.”

"No? Look here, that’s apt to be significant. We’ll have to look at the properties.”

\ We explored the auditorium and the stage with a fine show of casual interest. Davidson and Switz were putting final touches on the scenery — a dark blue backdrop for evening sky, a wall painted to resemble vine-hung granite, benches and an arbor — but no properties lay on the table backstage.

"You know this is a Friday, Gib?” demanded Jake, looking up from where

he was mending the cable of a floodlight. "Bad luck, opening our play on a Friday.”

"Not a bit,” laughed Pursuivant. "What’s begun on a Friday never comes to an end. Therefore ”

"Oi!” crowed Jake. "That means we’ll have a record-breaking run, huh?” He jumped up and shook my hand violently. "You’ll be working in this show till you step on your beard.”

We wandered out again, and Sigrid joined us. She was in high spirits.

"I feel,” she said excitedly, "just as I felt on the eve of my first professional appearance. As though the world would end tonight!”

"God forbid,” I said at once, and "God forbid,” echoed Judge Pursuivant. Sigrid laughed merrily at our sudden expressions of concern.

"Oh, it won’t end that way,” she made haste to add, in the tone one reserves for children who need comfort. "I mean, the world will begin tonight, with success and happiness.”

She put out a hand, and I squeezed it tenderly. After a moment she departed to inspect her costume.

"I haven’t a maid or a dresser,” she called over her shoulder. "Everything has to be in perfect order, and I myself must see to it.”

We watched her as she hurried away, both of us sober.

"I think I know why you fret so about her safety," Pursuivant said to me. "You felt, too, that the thing she said might be a bad omen.”

"Then may her second word be a good omen,” I returned.

"Amen to that,” he said heartily.

Dinnertime came, and Ptirsuivant and I made a quick meal of it. We excused ourselves before the others — Sigrid looked up in mild astonishment that I



should want to leave her side — and went quickly downstairs to the stage.

O N THE property table lay the. cudgel I was to use in the first act, the sword I was to strike with in the second, the feather duster to be wielded by Martha Vining as Bridget, a tray with a wine service to be borne by Davidson as Oscar. There was also a great book, bound in red cloth, with red edging.

"That is the Bible,” said Pursuivant at once. "I must have a look at it.”

"I still can’t see,” I muttered, half to myself, "how this sword — a good piece of steel and as sharp as a razor — failed to

kill Varduk when I ”

"Never mind that sword,” interrupted Judge Pursuivant. "Look at this book, this 'Bible’ which they’ve refused to produce up to now. I’m not surprized to find out that — well, have a look for yourself.”

On the ancient black cloth I saw rather spidery capitals, filled with red coloring matter: Grand Albert.

"I wouldn’t look inside if I were you,” warned the judge. "This is in all probability the book that Varduk owned when Davidson met him at Revere College. Remember what happened to one normal young man, ungrounded in occultism, who peeped into it.”

"What can it be?” I asked.

"A notorious gospel for witches,” Pursuivant informed me. "I’ve heard of it — Descrepe, the French occultist, edited it in 1885. Most editions are modified and harmless, but this, at first glance, appears to be the complete and infamous Eighteenth Century version.” He opened it.

The first phase of his description had stuck in my mind. "A gospel for witches; and that is the book on which Sigrid must swear an oath of renunciation at the end of the play!”

Pursuivant was scowling at the fly-leaf. He groped for his pince-nez, put them on. "Look here, Connatt,” he said.

I crowded close to his elbow, and together we read what had been written long ago, in ink now faded to a dirty brown:

Geo Gordon (Biron) his book

At 1 hr. befor midnt, on 22 July, 1788 givn him. He was brot to coeven by Todlin he the saide Geo. G. to be bond to us for 150 yers. and serve for our glory he to gain his title & hav ail he desirs. at end of 150 yrs. to give acctg. & not be releasd save by delivring anothr as worthie our coeven.

(Signed)

For coeven For Geo. Gordon (Biron)

Terragon Todlin

"And look at this, too,” commanded Judge Pursuivant. He laid his great forefinger at the bottom of the page. There, written in fresh blue ink, and in a hand somehow familiar:

This 22nd of July, 1938, I tender this book and quit this service unto Sigrid Holgar.

George Gordon, Lord Byron.

»

14. Zero Hour

P ursuivant closed the book with a loud snap, laid it down on the table, and caught me by the arm.

"Come away from here,” he said in a tense voice. “Outside, where nobody will hear.” He almost dragged me out through the stage door. "Come along — down by the water — it’s fairly open, we’ll be alone.”

When we reached the edge of the lake we faced each other. The sun was almost set. Back of us, in front of the lodge, we could hear the noise of early arrivals for the theater — perhaps the men who would have charge of automobile parking, the ushers, the cashier.

"How much of what you read was intelligible to you?” asked Pursuivant.

“I had a sense that it was rotten,” I said. "Beyond that, I’m completely at



"I’m not.” His teeth came strongly together behind the words. "There, on the flyleaf of a book sacred to witches and utterly abhorrent to honest folk, was written an instrument pledging the body and soul of a baby to a 'coeven’ — that is, a congregation of evil sorcerers — for one hundred and fifty years. George Gordon, the Lord Byron that was to be, had just completed his sixth month of life.”

"How could a baby be pledged like that?” I asked.

"By some sponsor — the one signing the name 'Todlin.’ That was undoubtedly a coven name, such as we know all witches took. Terragon was another such cognomen. All we can say of 'Todlin’ is that the signature is apparently a woman’s. Perhaps that of the child’s eccentric nurse, Mistress Gray ”

"This is beastly,” I interposed, my voice beginning to tremble. "Can’t we do something besides talk?”

Pursuivant clapped me strongly on the back. "Steady,” he said. "Let’s talk it out while that writing is fresh in our minds. We know, then, that the infant was pledged to an unnaturally long life of evil. Promises made were kept — he became the heir to the estates and title of his grand-uncle, 'Wicked Byron,’ after his cousins died strangely. And surely he had devil-given talents and attractions.”

"Wait,” I cut in suddenly. “I’ve been thinking about that final line or so of writing, signed with Byron’s name. Surely I’ve seen the hand before.”

"You have. The same hand wrote Ruthven, and you’ve seen the manuscript.” Pursuivant drew a long breath. "Now we know how Ruthven could be written on paper only ten years old. Byron lives and signs his name today.”

I felt almost sick, and heartily helpless inside. "But Byron died in Greece,” I said, as though reciting a lesson. "His body was brought to England and buried

at Hucknall Torkard, close to his ancestral home.”

"Exactly. It all fits in.” Pursuivant’s manifest apprehension was becoming modified by something of grim triumph. "Must he not have repented, tried to expiate his curse and his sins by an unselfish sacrifice for Grecian liberty? You and I have been over this ground before; we know how he suffered and labored, almost like a saint. Death would seem welcome — his bondage would end in thirtysix years instead of a hundred and fifty. What about his wish to be burned?”

"Burning would destroy his body,” I said. "No chance for it to come alive again.”

"But the body was not burned, and it has come alive again. Connatt, do you know who the living-dead Byron is?”

"Of course I do. And I also know that he intends to pass something into the hands of Sigrid.”

"He does. She is the new prospect for bondage, the 'other as worthie.’ She is not a free agent in the matter, but neither was Byron at the age of six months.”

The sun’s lower rim had touched the lake. Pursuivant’s pink face was growing dusky, and he leaned on the walking-stick that housed a silver blade.

"Byron’s hundred and fifty years will end at eleven o’clock tonight,” he said, gazing shrewdly around for possible eavesdroppers. "Now, let me draw some parallels.

"Varduk — we know who Varduk truly is — will, in the character of Ruthven, ask Miss Holgar, who plays Mary, a number of questions. Those questions, and her answers as set down for her to repeat, make up a pattern. Think of them, not as lines in a play, but an actual interchange between an adept of evil and a neophyte.”

"It’s true,” I agreed. "He asks her if she will 'give herself up,’ 'renounce formWEIRD TALES


er manners,’ and to swear so upon — the book we saw. She does so.”

"Then the prayer, which perplexes you by its form. The ’wert in heaven’ bit becomes obvious now, eh? How about the angel that fell from grace and attempted to build up his own power to oppose?”

"Satan!” I almost shouted. "A prayer to the force of evil!”

. "Not so loud, Connatt. And then, while Miss Holgar stands inside a circle — that, also, is part of the witch ceremony — he touches her head, and speaks ■words we do not know. But we can guess.”

He struck his stick hard against the sandy earth.

"What then?” I urged him on.

"It’s in an old Scottish trial of witches,” said Pursuivant. "Modern works — J. W. Wickwar’s book, and I think Margaret Alice Murray’s — quote it. The master of the coven touched the head of the neophyte and said that all beneath his hand now belonged to the powers of darkness.”

"No! No!” I cried, in a voice that wanted to break.

"No hysterics, please!” snapped Pursuivant. "Connatt, let me give you one stark thought — it will cool you, strengthen you for what you must help me achieve. Think what will follow if we let Miss Holgar take this oath, accept this initiation, however unwittingly. At once she will assume the curse that Varduk — Byron — lays down. Life after death, perhaps; the faculty of wreaking devastation at a word or touch; gifts beyond human will or comprehension, all of them a burden to her; and who can know the end?”

"There shall not be a beginning,” I vowed huskily. “I will kill Varduk ”

"Softly, softly. You know that weapons — ordinary weapons — do not even scratch him.”

T he twilight was deepening into dusk. Pursuivant turned back toward the lodge, where windows had begun to glow warmly, and muffled motor-noises bespoke the parking of automobiles. There were other flecks of light, too. For myself, I felt beaten and weary, as though I had fought to the verge of losing against a stronger, wiser enemy.

"Look around you, Connatt. At the clumps of bush, the thickets. What do they hide?”

I knew what he meant. I felt, though I saw only dimly, the presence of an evil host in ambuscade all around us.

"They’re waiting to claim her, Connatt. There’s only one thing to do.” "Then let’s do it, at once.”

"Not yet. The moment must be his moment, one hour before midnight. Escape, as I once said, will not be enough. We must conquer.”

I waited for him to instruct me.

"As you know, Connatt, I will make a speech before the curtain. After that. I’ll come backstage and stay in your dressing-room. What you must do is get the sword that you use in the second act. Bring it there and keep it there.”

"I’ve told you and told you that the sword meant nothing against him.”

"Bring it anyway,” he insisted.

I heard Sigrid’s clear voice, calling me to the stage door. Pursuivant and I shook hands quickly and warmly, like teammates just before a hard game, and we went together to the lodge.

Entering, I made my way at once to the property table. The sword still lay there, and I put out my hand for it.

"What do you want?” asked Elmo Davidson behind me.



"I thought I’d take the sword into my dressing-room.”

"It’s a prop, Connatt. Leave it right where it is.”

I turned and looked at him. "I’d rather have it with me,” I said doggedly.

"You’re being foolish,” he told me sharply, and there is hardly any doubt but that I sounded so to him. "What if I told Varduk about this?”

"Go and tell him, if you like. Tell him also.that I won’t go on tonight if you’re going to order me around.” I said this as if I meant it, and he relaxed his commanding pose.

"Oh, go ahead. And for heaven’s sake calm your nerves.”

I took the weapon and bore it away. In my room I found my costume for the first act already laid out on two chairs — either Davidson or Jake had done that for me. Quickly I rubbed color into my cheeks, lined my brows and eyelids, affixed fluffy side- whiskers to my jaws. The mirror showed me a set, pale face, and I put on rather more make-up than I generally use. My hands trembled as I donned gleaming slippers of patent leather, fawn-colored trousers that strapped under the insteps, a frilled shirt and flowing necktie, a flowered waistcoat and a bottle-green frock coat with velvet facings and silver buttons. My hair was long enough to be combed into a wavy sweep back from my brow.

"Places, everybody,” the voice of Davidson was calling outside.

I emerged. Jake Switz was at my door, and he grinned his good wishes. I went quickly on-stage, where Sigrid already waited. She looked ravishing in her simple yet striking gown of soft, light blue, with billows of skirt, little puffs of sleeves, a tight, low bodice. Her gleaming hair was caught back into a Grecianlooking coiffure, with a ribbon and a white flower at the side. The normal tan of her skin lay hidden beneath the pallor of her make-up.

At sight of me she smiled and put out a hand. I kissed it lightly, taking care that the red paint on my lips did not smear. She took her seat on the bench against the artificial bushes, and I, as gracefully as possible, dropped at her feet.

Applause sounded beyond the curtain, then died away. The voice of Judge Pursuivant became audible:

"Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked by the management to speak briefly. You are seeing, for the first time before any audience, the lost play of Lord Byron, Ruthven. My presence here is not as a figure of the theater, but as a modest scholar of some persistence, whose privilege it has been to examine the manuscript and perceive its genuineness.

"Consider yourselves all subpenaed as witnesses to a classic moment.” His voice rang as he pronounced the phrase required by Varduk. "I wonder if this night will not make spectacular history for the genius who did not die in Greece a century and more ago. I say, he did not die — for when does genius die? We are here to assist at, and to share in, a performance that will bring him his proper desserts.

"Ladies and gentlemen, I feel, and perhaps you feel as well, the presence of the great poet with us in this remote hall. I wish you joy of what you shall observe. And now, have I your leave to withdraw and let the play begin?”

Another burst of applause, in the midst of which sounded three raps. Then up went the curtain, and all fell silent. I, as Aubrey, spoke the first line of the play:

"I’m no Othello, darling....”



15. " Whither? 1 Dread to Think — ”

S igrid and I struck on the instant the proper note of affectionate gayety, and I could feel in the air that peculiar audience-rhythm by which an actor knows that his effort to capture a mood is successful. For the moment it was the best of all possible worlds, to be exchanging thus the happy and brilliant lines with the woman I adored, while an intelligent and sympathetic houseful of spectators shared our happy mood.

But, if I had forgotten Varduk, he was the more imposing when he entered. His luminous pallor needed no heightening to seize the attention; his face was set off, Eke some gleaming white gem, by the dark coat, stock, cape, books, pantaloons. He spoke his entrance line as a king might speak in accepting the crown and homage of a nation. On the other side of the footlights the audience grew tense with hightened interest.

He overpowered us both, as I might have known he would, with his personality and his address. We might have been awkward amateurs, wilting into nothingness when a master took the stage. I was eclipsed completely, exactly as Aubrey should be at the entrance of Ruthven, and I greatly doubt if a single pair of eyes followed me at my first exit; for at the center of the stage, Varduk had begun to make love to Sigrid.

I returned to my dressing-room. Pursuivant sat astride a chair, his sturdy forearms crossed upon its back.

"How does it go?” he asked.

"Like a producer’s dream,” I replied, seizing a powder puff with which to freshen my make-up. "Except for the things we know about, I would pray for no better show.”

"I gave you a message in my speech before the curtain. Did you hear what I said? I meant, honestly, to praise Byron

and at the same time to defy him. You and I, with God’s help, will give Ruthven an ending he does not expect.”

It was nearly time for me to make a new entrance, and I left the dressingroom, mystified but comforted by Pursuivant’s manner. The play went on, gathering speed and impressiveness. We were all acting inspiredly, maugre the bizarre nature of the rehearsals and other preparations, the dark atmosphere that had surrounded tire piece from its first introduction to us.

The end of the act approached, and with it my exit. Sigrid and I dragged the limp Varduk to the center of the stage and retired, leaving him alone to perform the sinister resurrection scene with which the first act closes. I loitered in the wings to watch, but Jake Switz tugged at my sleeve.

“Come,” he whispered. "I want to show you something.”

We went to the stage door. Jake opened it an inch.

The space behind the lodge was full of uncertain, half-formed lights that moved and lived. For a moment we peered. Then the soft, larval radiances flowed toward us. Jake slammed the door.

"They’re waiting,” he said.

From the direction of the stage came Varduk’s final line:

"Grave, I reject thy shelter! Death, stand back!”

Then Davidson dragged down the curtain, while the house shook with applause. I turned again. Varduk, back-stage, was speaking softly but clearly, urging us to hurry with our costume changes. Into my dressing-room I hastened, my feet numb and my eyes blurred.

"I’ll help you dress,” came Pursuivant’s calm voice. "Did Jake show you what waits outside?”

I nodded and licked my parched, painted lips.



"Don’t fear. Their eagerness is premature.”

He pulled off my coat and shirt. Grown calm again before his assurance, I got into my clothes for Act Two — a modem dinner suit. With alcohol I removed the clinging side-whiskers, repaired my makeup and brushed my hair into modem fashion once more.. Within seconds, it seemed, Davidson was calling us to our places.

The curtain rose on Sigrid and me, as Mary and Swithin, hearing the ancestral tale of horror from Old Bridget. As before, the audience listened raptly, and as before it rose to the dramatic entrance of Varduk. He wore his first-act costume, and his manner was even more compelling. Again I felt myself thrust into the background of the drama; as for Sigrid, great actress though she is, she prospered only at his sufferance.

Off stage, on again, off once more — the play was Varduk’ s, and Sigrid’s personality was being eclipsed. Yet she betrayed no anger or dislike of the situation. It was as though Varduk mastered her, even while his character of Ruthven overpowered her character of Mary. I felt utterly helpless.

I N the wings I saw the climax approach. Varduk, flanked by Davidson as the obedient Oscar, was declaring Ruthven’s intention to gain revenge and love.

"Get your sword,” muttered Jake, who had taken Davidson’s place at the curtain ropes. "You’re on again in a moment.”

I ran to my dressing-room. Pursuivant opened the door, thrust something into my hand.

"It’s the silver sword,” he told me quickly. "The one from my cane. Trust in it, Connatt. Almost eleven o’clock — go, and God stiffen your arm.”

It seemed a mile from the door to the wings. I reached it just in time for my entrance cue — Sigrid’s cry of "Swithin will not allow this.”

"Let him try to prevent it,” grumbled Davidson, fierce and grizzled as the devilconverted Oscar.

"I’m here for that purpose,” I said clearly, and strode into view. The sword from Pursuivant’s cane I carried low, hoping that Varduk would not notice at once. He stood with folded arms, a mocking smile just touching his white face.

"So brave?” he chuckled. "So foolish?”

"My ancestor killed you once, Ruthven,” I said, with more meaning than I had ever employed before. "I can do so again.”

I leaped forward, past Sigrid and at him.

The smile vanished. His mouth fell open.

"Wait! That sword ”

He hurled himself, as though to snatch it from my hand. But I lifted the point and lunged, extending myself almost to the boards of the stage. As once before, I felt the flesh tear before my blade. The slender spike of metal went in, in, until the hilt thudded against his breast-bone.

No sound from audience or actors, no motion. We made a tableau, myself stretched out at lunge, Varduk transfixed, the other two gazing in sudden aghast wonder.

For one long breath’s space my victim stood like a figure of black stone, with only his white face betraying anything of life and feeling. His deep eyes, gone dark as a winter night, dug themselves into mine. I felt once again the intolerable weight of his stare — yet it was not threatening, not angry even. The surprize



ebbed from it, and the eyes and the sad mouth softened into a smile. Was he forgiving me? Thanking me?...

S igrid found her voice again, and screamed tremulously. I released the cane-hilt and stepped backward, automatically. Varduk fell limply upon his face. The silver blade, standing out between his shoulders, gleamed red with blood. Next moment the red had turned dull black, as though the gore was a millennium old. Varduk’s body sagged. It shrank within its rich, gloomy garments. It crumbled.

The curtain had fallen. I had not heard its rumble of descent, nor had Sigrid, nor the stupefied Davidson. From beyond the folds came only choking silence. Then Pursuivant’s ready voice.

"Ladies and gentlemen, a sad accident has ended the play unexpectedly — tragically. Through the fault of nobody, one of the players has been fatally ”

I heard no more. Holding Sigrid in my arms I told her, briefly and brokenly, the true story of Ruthven and its author. She, weeping, gazed fearfully at the motionless black heap.

"The poor soul!” she sobbed. "The poor, poor soul!”

Jake, leaving his post by the curtainropes, had walked on and was leading away the stunned, stumbling Davidson.

I still held Sigrid close. To my lips, as if at the bidding of another mind and memory, came the final lines of Manfred:

"He’s gone — his soul hath ta’en its earthless flight — Whither? I dread to think — but he is gone.”

[THE END]

ead Dog

By MANLY WADE WELLMAN

A huge black dog it was, with but one reason for existence: to avenge its dead master

"Dead dogs may bite the careless feet. — Umbundu proverb.

THEY brought the rebel chief Kaflatala out of the jungle to Father Labossier’s mud-brick house, brought him in a tepoia because he still limped from a Portuguese bullet in his thigh. Twenty black warriors, clicking their spears respectfully, followed the hammock-litter and formed a row outside the stockade as Kaflatala dismounted and hobbled up the path.

Springing from his seat on the porch,

Father Labossier walked swiftly to meet his old friend. The chief was lean, taller by a head than the sturdy priest, and black as basalt save for a gray scar across his proud face from eye to nostril. The two men said the requisite Kalungu greetings and sat on a log under the broad-leafed fig-tree. Then Kaflatala spoke:

"Your advice came to me in my hiding. I cannot hope to win against the Portuguese soldiers; now I must surrender and save my people further punishment.”

DEAD DOG


"That is wise, Kaflatala,” nodded Father Labossier, smiling. Nine years in west Africa had not dulled the missionary zeal that had stirred him from a pleasant cure of souls near Antwerp, and moments like this repaid him for long toil. "The white man’s Savior, of whom I told you,” he continued, "will make your sentence a light one.”

The scar darkened on Kaflatala’s face and his wide lips tightened. "My people will suffer no more, that is all. Rodriguez, the Portuguese captain, will kill me.”

The priest held up a hand in protest. "Not all Portuguese are cruel. It is true that Captain Rodriguez’s heart is sick; he was sent here because he had sinned against the laws at home ”

"However he came here, he will kill me.” Kaflatala fairly jerked out the words, then apologized for interrupting. "Good-bye, my father. We shall meet again.”

Still Father Labossier argued. "A power will save you, Kaflatala.”

"A power may avenge me,” was the bleak reply. "That is all.”

Father Labossier brought notebook and pencil from his pocket and scribbled a note as he sat.

"This asks that you be treated kindly,” he explained. "My fastest servant will bear it to the fort ahead of you.”

The chief thanked him courteously, and rose. "One favor before I go.”

"Name it.”

Kaflatala emitted a chirping whistle. At once something black and swift sped from behind the row of warriors, dashed through the gate and up the path — a huge, shaggy hound, as black as thunder. It was as large as a calf, and its eyes shone with an uneasy greenish pallor. Yet it seemed gentle, thrusting its long, ugly head under the chief’s hand.

"Will you keep my dog for me?” asked Kaflatala.

"Until you come back,” agreed Father Labossier.

"I do not come back,” insisted the other, and Father Labossier changed the subject by asking how the beast was called.

"Ohondongela,” replied the master.

That word means "revenge” in the Umbundu, and Father Labossier, eyeing the dog, thought it as fierce as its name. Black, rough, lean, powerful of jaw and long of fang, it had something of the forbidding wild about it, almost like a forest beast; but all dogs were once forest beasts, at the beginning of time....

Kaflatala again excused himself for cutting the visit short, spoke commandingly to Ohondongela, and smiled when the brute curled himself obediently at the feet of Father Labossier. Then he stumped to the gate, crept into his tepoia and gave the signal for the march to continue,

T hree days later Father Labossier was wakened before dawn by the dismal howling of Kaflatala’s hound. He grumbled sleepily, then reflected that a man of God must not think unkindly, even of a beast. He rose, took an early breakfast, pottered among the lettuces in his garden and at noon read a marriage service over a giggling young couple that wanted white man’s magic for good luck in its new household. Afterward he wrote letters to a favorite nephew, to a group of fellow-priests at home, and to the Dutch trader who sent him supplies from Benguela. At about four o’clock in the afternoon a chorus of shouts from his servants betokened a stranger coming up the trail.

It was a runner, bare-legged and wearing a faded khaki shirt, who advanced to the porch, saluted in clumsy military fashion, and offered a parcel sewn in ricesacking.



"From the fort,” the runner told him. "Captain Rodriguez has sent it.”

"Thank you.” Some answer, of course, to his plea for mercy to Kaflatala. But why a package and no letter? There must be a note inside.

Producing a clasp-knife, the priest ripped the sacking.

A face looked up at him through the ragged hole — a black, dead face. Upon it a pallid gray scar ran from eye to nostril. Kaflatala had been right; Captain Rodriguez had made short work of him, and thus was answering Father Labossier’s recommendations of mercy.

Again rose the doleful wail of Ohondongela the hound. And just before sunset the great beast lay down and died, quietly, quickly and inexplicably.

T hree moons had waned and waxed again, and the same runner from the fort met Father Labossier just outside his stockade. It was midafternoon, as on the runner’s previous appearance, and again he had something from Captain Rodriguez — not a package this time, but a letter.

The priest took the envelope and gazed for a moment at the almost indecipherable characters that spelled his own name upon it. They had been set down by a shaking hand, a hand that he knew as the captain’s. He had written to Rodriguez on the same day that he had received Kaflatala’s head; he had stiffly indicted the officer as a cruel and cowardly murderer, and had sent a duplicate of the letter to the governor at Loanda. Nobody had replied — was this a belated acknowledgment of his message, perhaps a justification of Rodriguez’s action or a further sneer at the priest?

He opened the letter and read it, his kindly face spreading over with wonder. For Rodriguez was praying for help and comfort in the name of Christian mercy

and priestly compassion. The last phrase, in particular, was out of character: "I know I have sinned, yet ask for the aid I do not deserve.”

The priest lifted his eyes to the waiting runner. "Go back and say that I will come tomorrow.”

The native paused, embarrassed, then replied diffidently that his master was in dreadful case and that there was no white doctor to do magic for his healing. Could not Father Labossier come at once?

"It will be an all-night trek,” demurred the priest. Then he thought better of his hesitancy, and added, "But a moon will shine. I shall go with you.”

He changed into flannel shirt, walkingboots and a wide hat. Upon his shoulder he slung a canteen and a musette with medicines. In his pocket, were prayerbook and Bible. From his little arsenal he chose a hunting-rifle, for lions might be hunting along the night trail. Then, placing his oldest servant in charge of the house, he set off with the man from the fort.

I t was a wearying tramp by moonlight, and an eventful one. At sunrise he came to the fort, where, brooding in his quarters over untasted food, Captain Rodriguez waited for him.

Father Labossier was shocked at sight of the Portuguese. When they had last met, four months previously, Rodriguez had been florid, swaggering, vigorous. Now he sagged shrunkenly inside his dirty white uniform. The face he lifted was pale, its eyes wild, and his oncej aunty mustache drooped.

"Father,” he mumbled hoarsely, "I am ridden by devils.”

Father Labossier took the captain's hand. It trembled in his grasp. "I do not doubt you, my son,” he replied gravely. "Yours has been an evil life.”

Rodriguez grimaced in doleful acceptW. T — 6

DEAD DOG


ance of the reproof. "Come, let us sit on the porch — in the blessed moonlight.”

Outside, they took canvas chairs. Rodriguez sighed as if in exhaustion, gazed for a moment across the bare drill-ground toward the barracks of the native soldiers. Then:

"My sins crouch beside my bed at night.”

The priest waited for a moment. When his companion did not continue, he said tentatively: "Seek forgiveness from the Lord.”

"If I could!” Rodriguez leaned toward him, and his breath in Father Labossier’s face was the breath of a side man. "A Christian God cannot be invoked — only a savage devil, to spare me.”

Father Labossier fingered the silver cross that hung from his neck. ’’That thought is a transgression, my son. Unsay it.”

The captain clutched his face in wasted hands and his shoulders shook, as with sobs. Finally he forced himself to speak of what lay upon his soul.

Three nights before, he had retired, as usual, to his lonely bedchamber. He spoke of his habitual preparations; the examination of the windows to see if their gratings and mosquito nets were in place, his locking of the door against possible night prowlers, his placing of a service pistol beside the water glass on his bedside table. Nothing untoward had happened during the day; it had been even tiresome. His thoughts before slumber had taken the form of an idle review of his work and a wistful consideration of his chances to be forgiven certain indiscretions and called home to Portugal. Then he had dozed off, to wake suddenly and in fear.

At this point in his narrative, he hid his face again and shuddered uncontrollably. Father Labossier laid a hand on the W. T.— 7

captain’s arm, and strength flowed from him into that shaken frame.

"I looked toward the window, and there I saw it. Blood of the saints, I saw it! By the window — a great dog!”

"Dog?” repeated the other, leaning forward in his turn. "What sort of a dog?”

"Large — black and shaggy. It was sitting up, and its head and shoulders rose above the window-sill, making a silhouette against the moonlight. Its eyes, like green lamps of hell, stared at me. The hate in them!” Captain Rodriguez’s face twitched with the memory.

"I see. And then?”

"I screamed, a thing I have not done since I was a baby. A moment later, my orderly was pounding and calling at the door; and the dog — had gone.”

"Gone!” echoed the priest.

"Yes, vanished like a candle-flame snuffed.”

Father Labossier clicked his tongue. "Was it not a dream, that?”

Captain Rodriguez laughed, but not merrily. He had thought that very thing, he admitted, though he was too nervous to sleep any more that night. In the morning he had forced himself to forget the adventure and had gone about his duties with a heart that grew lighter as the day progressed. By nightfall the nervousness returned, and he lulled himself to sleep with a bromide.

"Again — mark me, Father — again I saw to windows, mosquito netting, lock. I put from me the troublesome vision of the night before. I slept.”

Father Labossier took a cigar from his pocket. "The dream ”

"It was no dream, I say. When does a dream come twice in two nights?” The captain’s lips twitched, showing teeth that were set as though to hold back a dreadful pain. "The dog returned. I woke in



sudden instinctive fear, and there it was as before. No, not as before.”

"What do you mean?” asked Father Labossier, biting the end of his cigar.

"It had been at the window the first time. Now it was at the foot of my bed, nearer to me by half the floor’s width.” Rodriguez laid his fist to his lips, as though to crush their trembling. "It was so large as to look over the footboard at me. Its green eyes burned into mine.”

Father Labossier said, very quietly, that a real dog could not have looked Rodriguez in the eye.

"No, and this was no real dog. It was my gaze that faltered, and I screamed aloud.”

"As before?”

"Yes, as before. And my orderly came, bearing a light that shed itself through the cracks of the door. At that beam, the thing was gone, completely and instantly. I rose to let the orderly in — never have I allowed a native to see me so upset.”

Father Labossier rubbed a match on the sole of his boot. "And then, my son?”

"In the morning I sent for you. But last night, while you were on the trail — last night, the dreadful dog from hell visited me yet again!”

He flung out a hand, palm vertical. "No farther away than that, it sat at my side. It breathed upon me, I heard the growl in its throat. And somehow I snatched up the pistol from my table and fired into its face — it vanished. But tonight — it will not vanish!”

H is voice had risen to a wail. Again the priest’s strong, steady hand clutched his companion’s quivering one, calming the frantic shivers.

"You have fancied these things, my son.”

"But I swear they are true, by every saint in the calendar. Come, Father, to my room. You shall see for yourself.”

Still murmuring set phrases of comfort. Father Labossier followed Rodriguez back into the house. The captain’s sleepingcompartment was comfortable and even luxurious beyond military requirements, appointed as he had described.

"See,” urged Rodriguez, laying an unsteady finger upon the door- jamb. "This round hole — my bullet made it.”

“I see it,” Father Labossier assured him.

"And you observe the gratings and nets at the window? The lock on my door? Well, then ”

Father Labossier cleared his throat. He was well-read, and something of an amateur psychologist. "My son, you knew, perhaps, that Chief Kaflatala had a great black hound.”

"Did he? I never saw it.”

"You had heard, perhaps, of the beast. Its name was Ohondongela.”

Rodriguez bit his lips. "Ohondongela — revenge.” He calmed himself and said that he might have heard of it.

"Ah, then,” said Father Labossier, "it has become a symbol with you, my son, of the wrong your heart’s core has admitted.”

Much more he said, drawing upon Freud and the gospels in turn. Captain Rodriguez listened carefully, nodding from time to time as though he comprehended the argument and was disposed to agree.

"But if this is the truth,” he said when the priest had made an end, "what am I to do?”

"You have begun by repenting and confessing,” Father Labossier told him. "Tonight ”

"Tonight!” gasped Rodriguez, turning pale.

"Do not fear. Go to bed as usual, composing yourself. I shall sit up in the parlor. If the dream returns, call me — softly. We will deal with it together.”

DEAD DOG


Rodriguez drew a deep breath, as of relief. "I am hungry,” he said suddenly. "You, Father, have not breakfasted. Forgive me my neglect, and be my guest.”

T oward nightfall Captain Rodriguez became nervous, meditative and boastful by turns. Once he spoke of native magic and twice of charms against the devil. Again, forgetting his abject admission of wrong, he loudly argued that he was justified in executing Kaflatala. He invited Father Labossier to drink with him and, when the priest refused, drank by himself. He drank entirely too much, and picked up his guitar to sing the sun down with a gay ballad. But as dusk fell he turned solemn once more and threw the instrument aside.

"Father,” he muttered, "are you sure all will be well?”

"I am sure of nothing,” Father Labossier felt obliged to reply. "I am very hopeful; that is all.”

Rodriguez lifted his shoulders, but the shrug ended in a shiver. "Let me sit up with you,” he begged. "We will talk.”

"We have already talked. The best way to solve this evil is to face it.”

Some time later the captain drank yet more, said good-night and went into his bedroom.

Sitting alone in the parlor, Father Labossier examined the bookshelf. It bore several weighty works on military science and tactics, and a row of Portuguese novels. From among these he selected Rhum Azul, by Ernest Souza. As he scanned the first page he sighed with relish. It was a mystery-adventure tale, and Father Labossier, though devout, was not disdainful of such fare. Indeed, after the Scriptures

and the writings of the saints, he enjoyed best Edgar Allan Poe, Maurice Leblanc and the Adventures of Sherlock Holmes. This story would help him while away the hours. He savored a chapter, a second, a third....

The calm night tore open before a blood-banishing scream of fear and agony.

Dropping the book. Father Labossier sprang to his feet. In three quick strides he crossed to the door of Rodriguez’s bedroom. Even as he reached it, the scream rose higher, died suddenly, and a spatter of pistol shots rang out. Then a second voice, inhuman and savage, the jabbering snarl of a beast at the kill

The door was locked. Father Labossier shook the knob futilely, then turned as a native orderly rushed in from the rear of the house. Together they flung their shoulders against the panel. A second time. The lock gave, the door drove in. The orderly paused to catch up a lamp, and the priest stepped across the threshold.

He shrank back, staring into the gloom. Something dark and hunched was squirming violently upon the bed. Then, as the orderly lifted the light above Father Labossier’s shoulder, that shape was gone.

The two men stared and wondered. The gratings and nets were in place. Nowhere along the tight walls could even a beetle find entrance or exit.

But Captain Rodriguez lay still among the tumbled sheets. His throat had been ripped out to the neckbone. One hand clutched his revolver, the other a tuft of

[THE END]

============================================================
by Derleth
============================================================
shaggy black hair — such hair as had grown upon Ohondongela, the long-dead hound of the long-dead Kaflatala.

Gentlemen

Black

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

Orto Harper felt safe in his country retreat, but he had not counted on the presence of three malevolent gentlemen in black

I T WAS odd, after the way he had been dissatisfied with everything he had so far looked at, that this house should appeal to him so much. An out of the way place, certainly. He would be safe enough there from any manner of pursuit: the police especially, if it came to that. He need see no one day in, day out; he could grow a beard, if necessary, in addition to the straggly mustache.

The house at the end of the country lane had something compellingly familiar about it: a dream place, with aspects emerging as from a distant past, indistinct and vague. He did not pause to analyze this, apart from thinking it strange. He had thought his search for a suitable house in the country would never end, but here it was: the perfect place. Snug as a bug in a rug, as Uncle Alexander might say. And safe, really safe: well away from London, well away from anyone who knew him. And here he could stay until Uncle Alexander was dead; then he could come forward as the modest heir, and, incidentally, the only heir.

So far, of course, Uncle Alexander was not dead. He had not thought he might be. He had been, in fact, far too careful. The poisoned capsule had been put well in the center of the second layer in the case of veronal capsules Uncle Alexander carried. So the old man would die sometime, somewhere, within the next month

or two. There was really no hurry; Orto Harper could afford to wait, and the thought of what an inheritance he would come into made waiting easy, the memory of how his Uncle Alexander had beaten him years ago — the big, ugly hands striking blindly at his young body; this memory made waiting a pleasure. To know that yours was the hand of Death, to know that sometime, somewhere, within the next two months, Uncle Alexander would die, that everybody he had known would testify about the old man’s constant worry about his heart, that Uncle Alexander’s considerable estate would shortly be yours! — Orto Harper felt a physical pleasure quite apart from intellectual pride in his work.

So he took the house and moved in — ■ alone; he wanted no one around to say that he had acted queerly when news of his uncle’s death reached him; and he set himself to planning a garden, thinking with amusement of the picture it made — a murderer busying himself among flowers. Not the first time, doubtless. But in the back of his mind, in the well of his thoughts, this thought stirred and rankled: this place was familiar, familiar from a distant past.

But try as he would, he could not place his finger on that familiarity. Sometimes certain aspects of the place struck him forcibly; he would come upon them — a brief vision of a distant valley among the


229.

trees, a comer in the house itself, the sunlight falling upon a stair — and know he had seen them before, know without question that these things had passed before his eyes at some distant time. Then again, he would feel all the freshness of something utterly new at certain other aspects of the rambling old country estate. Yet — there was something about the lake, dimly seen to eastward, that kept bothering him subconsciously.

N aturally enough, this feeling of vague familiarity irritated him; he had little enough to do — the garden and the press were his chief interests: the garden because it gave his hands something to do and took his mind off waiting; the press, to watch for the notice of his uncle’s death. He held the headline he would see already in mind: Death of Alexander Harper — and the story of how he died in London or Paris or perhaps somewhere in the country: preferably the latter, for a hurried provincial physician would be far more likely to snap at a diagnosis of heart failure. So he pondered this odd familiarity, he dwelt upon it in his leisure; it began to annoy him with each new-found familiar thing, and presently he began to recognize a nebulous uneasiness; he experienced the conviction that there was something he should know, something he should remember.

But all he could think about at first was his life with Uncle Alexander. A dog’s existence! He remembered how, not long after his father had killed himself, he had got into a little trouble, and Uncle Alexander had called him a "nasty wretch, likely to take after his father." And again, that first time his uncle had caught him abstracting an old book from his library with a view to pawning it, how the old man had stood looking balefully at him, his bushy brows pushed

down in a grave frown over his eyes, and explained to the man-servant over his head, "He comes by it naturally, I suppose. Unless he’s handled right, he’ll turn out a bad egg.” And then had come the ceaseless, painful beatings, the eternal punishment, the cruel humiliations.

For that, Orto Harper would shortly be repaid. Uncle Alexander took a veronal capsule every night, or almost every night, and one of these nights he would take the poisoned capsule so carefully prepared by his nephew. There was a savage, unholy joy in the thought.

Thinking thus, Orto Harper began to meditate suddenly upon the strange thrill he always got out of doing wrong, the unholy fascination of evil itself. Always, as long as he could remember, he had enjoyed wrongdoing: the first petty things — cruelty to others, bad temper, pilfering — the adolescent thefts, and now: murder! Ah, but he was sharp, he was a cute one! This was the burden of his thought, the theme that lay under it always. And he believed in himself.

H e had been a week in the house before he noticed anything wrong. And then he thought only that it was a matter of digestion, perhaps some physical disturbance, painless, but still capable of arousing in him a nervousness which was translated into apprehension. For he W apprehensive. He noticed, for one thing, the curious absence of visitors. True, the house was well down the lane from the road, and the lane itself, as well as the house, was overhung with old trees. But people did not come near the place. He found his groceries at the end of the lane next the road, and any protest he made over the telephone to the grocer in Willomead was met with an obstinate and aggravating silence.

This made him furious until the night on which he saw the two gentlemen in



black. It was just at the last of the dusk hour, at the boundary of night. He sat in the kitchen of the house, looking down the lane toward the road, when the two gentlemen in black appeared in the lane and came down toward him, walking briskly. Indeed, one of them seemed to be carrying an umbrella. Visitors, thought Orto. He sat still, watching. They came on to the small veranda. Momentarily, Orto expected their knock. It did not come. He peered out, mystified, but there was no one there.

He got up and went around to the front of the house, and almost walked into them. They were standing in the hall, and their aspects froze Orto Harper with terror. In the dim light there, he could see their lips move, but he heard no sound. He could see the bulk of them: fat, heavy men, the acme of British country respectability: but he could also see the outlines of window and door through them. And the door was still locked, as he had left it, his key hanging undisturbed in the lock!

Orto Harper may have been vain, but he was no fool. A man might say what he liked about the supernatural, but Orto Harper knew when he saw a ghost. At this moment, he saw two of them.

But it was not the fact that they were ghosts that frightened him; it was this: their faces were familiar! The same maddening familiarity reaching into the present from a distant past, too intangible to grasp, yet there. Somewhere, sometime, he had known these men; he had known them when they still lived. Indeed, he could swear to this: that at one time one of them at least — the one with the sideburns — had j ostled him on his knee! Even so, he could not place them, though he racked his memory, standing there, the edge of fright still impinging upon his. thought. As he sought to find a clue to their identity, the two of them parted, one

to walk soundlessly up the long stairs, the other to enter the study.

Orto waited a moment; then silently he crossed the hall and looked into the study. There was no one there.

He began to feel a cold horror mushrooming up inside him, but above this, he became aware of an intense, insatiable curiosity. Who were these men? Where was this place? Obviously, it was not enough to think of it as a house in the country outside Willomead. For him, at least, there was something more. He resisted an impulse to go upstairs and look for the other one, feeling certain that he, too, would have vanished in the growing darkness.

Whatever fresh questions their appearance may have brought into his mind, at least one thing was explained: the curious reticence of the near-by villagers. Orto felt that he had somehow accomplished something, and, thinking thus, the fear in him began to ebb away, slowly at first, and then with increasing swiftness, until only the odd, rankling sense of something forgotten, some misplaced memory, something he ought to know remained. He resolved to investigate the ghosts of this old house at the first opportunity, making of it a chore to be done at his convenience.

He was still a little nervous and upset when he went to bed that night, and he dreamed. He dreamed about his father, saw the thin, sharp-eyed man with his long predatory fingers he had known in his early years. He saw him in a boat with two gentlemen in black, and he heard him speak to them, calling one "Unde Robert,” the other, "Uncle Henry.” Out on the lake they went, despite wind and choppy water, with his father smiling an evil smile, and the clouds darkening, and the wind rising. "My boy, be careful; your uncle and I can’t swim.” So fast it happened that even as the old one spoke, the boat went



Over, and the sly face of the young man, his father, was under water, swimming swiftly toward shore, and the two older men were floundering helplessly, calling vainly, sinking, drowning.

When he woke, Orto knew the men in his dream, the men whose spectral visit had been paid him the evening before; they were his great-uncles, Robert and Henry. And of his dream he dared not think; he pressed himself with query after query: where was this place? Where had he sought the sanctuary he fancied he would need after his crime? As if he did not know! He did. He had been here as a very small child, two years or so. The Harperson place in the country. Harperson: that was his grandfather’s name, shortened by the old man’s sons. And the place? Sold before the old man’s death because of some obscure reason no one dared name.

He got up in the dark and looked out. A waning moon had risen and was shedding its pale orange glow over the landscape. Venus had preceded the sun into the eastern sky. Away off along the eastern horizon shimmered the lake. That would be the place, Orto thought, the place where it had happened. He wondered idly whether the two gentlemen in black were still waiting.

That was the first time he thought of them as waiting.

I N THE morning he went into the village, pausing at a pub that looked more aged than anything else to be seen along the hamlet’s principal street. Pelham’s Place. He bought himself some ale and sat down where he could talk. Wisely, he waited for the bluff, hearty, JohnBullish man behind the bar to say the first word. This he did presently.

"You at the old Harperson place?” A bit of curiosity in his question.

"Yes, I am,” replied Orto.

A grunt was his reply. He waited.

Presently Pelham said, "Quiet place, by the look of it.”

"Ah, you’ve seen it?” said Orto dryly.: "Judging by the number of people thereabouts, I’d think nobody’d know the place was there.”

Pelham rubbed industriously at a spot on the bar. "Yus,” he said, "a quiet place. Not many people go there. Stories about.”

"Won’t frighten me.”

Pelham looked more interested. "Nor me, neither,” he maintained stoutly, "But I got a house and no need to go out there. You seen anything?”

"Two men in black, if that’s what you mean.”

Pelham grinned and nodded. "That’s them. That’s the Harperson’s, all right. You seen ’em, then.”

"What’s the story?” asked Orto briskly.,

Pelham leaned toward him confidentially. "You see, I ain’t sayin’ anything, I’m not. You got that? It’s this way. They was drowned, them two, in the lake over eastward. You see? Couldn’t swim; went out in a boat with a nephew of theirs. Windy day, lake choppy, rough. Boat tipped. Nephew couldn’t save them. There you have it. But the nephew knew they couldn’t swim, and like as not he didn’t try to save ’em.”

Orto looked at him with a faint feeling of violent illness not unmixed with an equally faint awareness of the same unholy joy that always marked his own evil deeds. "You mean they were deliberately upset?”

Pelham nodded. "Everything aboveboard,” he said. "Everything clear. No doubt. Coroner’s jury said accident. Maybe it was. But a deliberate accident. You see? The two men were worth good plenty, yus indeed they were. Never married, but one of ’em was going to. That was the reason. That way his brother got



it all — Newman Harperson; that was the man. The nephew’s father.”

"And I suppose the nephew inherited after his father, is that it?” He asked; but he knew what the answer would be.

"Nah! not a bit of it. Reckon the old man guessed. At least, he wasn’t sure himself. He gave it all to his other son, Alexander; every shilling of it. Sold the place right after, too, and changed the family name.” He began to chuckle.

"And the nephew?”

"Ah, that was the joke of it, yus. He hung himself. He did it in his brother’s house in London. Gone there to beg a bit, I’d no doubt. But the brother was a shrewd one, and the other was going out of his mind, he was. Said they was after him, those two, his uncles — two men in black, he said. That was his story.”

Orto looked at him in alarmed surprize. "Was it in the papers?” he asked.

"Not much. My sister got it from a woman whose niece worked in Alexander Harper’s place.”

Orto left the pub remembering all he knew he should have remembered when first he had seen the old place. And above all his knowledge of why its familiarity should have struck him, he remembered how his Uncle Alexander had stood over him and said, "He comes by it naturally!”

He understood many things, but he was not afraid, stilling the small voice inside. Even if his plans in regard to Unde Alexander went wrong, he was confident that he could outwit the police. Still, he felt oddly cheated, as if this evil in him in which he had so long gloried was not, after all, entirely of his own doing.

Going down the lane, he began to think of what Pelham had said — that the two Harpersons had hounded his father, had driven him to suidde. Certainly he had made away with himself; there was no doubt whatever about that. Orto could remember that without difficulty. Now

that his doubts about the house had been settled, he began to think more about his spectral visitors of the preceding night. Why had he not seen them before? Would he see them again? He waited for night with a curious kind of apprehension, a breathless tension which he could recognize as if he were somewhere outside himself watching.

A s before, they came down the lane c that night: the two of them, talking, gesticulating: two gentlemen in black with the outlines of trees and shrubs seen through them. He sat where he was, in the kitchen, and waited. Presently they were there, in the room with him, their soundless talking constant, and he watched, fascinated. Once or twice they looked at him with a strange, speculative air; they knew him, but for some reason, they were waiting. He could not escape the conviction that they were waiting for something that concerned him.

It seemed to him several times as if he could hear them speak, but he knew he could not; he knew that words formed in his mind alone; but he knew also that somehow those words came from the two long-dead great-uncles Harperson. They were talking about his father, about him, about Uncle Alexander; it was as if he could feel their animated thoughts in the room with him. He began therefore, because he could not help it, to think of his father, how they had found him with his own hands about his neck in addition to the rope, how his father’s fingers and thumbs had been sunk into the flesh of his neck. And he shuddered, looking at the great, spectral hands before him, hands so much like Uncle Alexander’s. For the first time he thought of flight. But he could not flee. Not while Unde Alexander was alive and he wa,s secure here, could always be secure from prying eyes, until the time came to reply to adTHREE GENTLEMEN IN BLACK


vertisements for his whereabouts and he could come modestly forward to claim his uncle’s estate — he, a countryman then, isolated and unaware of his uncle’s death. He was too smart to do anything rash — not Orto Harper! And even if the police began to make inquiries!

But he need not have feared the police.

T he next night he found it in the paper, the small dark head: Death of Alexander Harper, and the story: A body, identified as that of the late Alexander Harper, K. C. B., was found last night in a first-class compartment in the Orient Express. Mr. Harper, it was asserted by several companions, had been complaining constantly of heart trouble, and had had two attacks within the preceding twenty-four hours. Death was attributed to failure of the heart, pending further examination. At the time of his death, Mr. Alexander Harper was engaged on a delicate mission for the Foreign Office....

Orto read the story through once and again, and he felt flowering in him that same deep-seated physical sense of evil power, the same thrill he had always known. He folded the paper almost reverently and hurried up the lane to the house. Now he need only wait. A few weeks, a month — and he could come forward, be rich, have all his uncle’s money. Now at last, at long last he was avenged for all the beatings, the cruel humiliations, the endless insults he had endured at the bestial hands of Uncle Alexander.

He came toward the porch in the evening half light and saw them: two middle-aged gentlemen in black, the acme of British country respectability. They stood on the back porch waiting for him, and when he paused, apprehensive, began to move toward him, slowly, patiently, like two great animals with all the time in the world. But this time there was no innocuousness about them; there was the sharp, clear aura of terror and death.

They did not take trouble to conceal their hatred and contempt, did not disguise their intentions, and Orto’s courage drained out of him. He stood for a frozen moment, conscious of the horrible fear beating up within him. He knew now how his father had died. He knew how those great spectral hands would catch hold of his own and fix them around his throat, force his own fingers and thumbs into the flesh of his neck. But in a second, his old confidence briefly rose. He could escape, he could run; they would not follow him into the road beyond th.e lane.

He dropped the paper and turned. He ran down the lane with a kind of fierce exultation pulsing through him, a last insane uprushing of his abnormal vanity, the thrill of working evil and evading punishment.

Looking ahead, he saw someone turn into the lane. He felt safer, even though the two behind him had lost no distance. He was tempted to raise his voice and shout, but in a moment he saw that he would be quite close enough to make shouting superfluous.

At that moment he saw that the figure ahead was a third gentleman in blade, nebulous as those other two, with the white line of the road clearly visible through his fragile substance.

He stopped, half turned, and saw his great-uncles waiting, grim, inexorable. He was frozen where he stood, but he felt his legs give, felt himself sinking to his knees, the ground rising to meet him. Slowly, slowly he turned his head and looked at the oncoming third.

It was his Uncle Alexander, grave, grim, determined; his Uncle Alexander coming at him as at the boy he had flogged in the library so often, flexing his great hands!

By H. P. LOVECRAFT

A brief weird fantasy by a late master of weird fiction

O N A verdant slope of Mount Maenalus, in Arcadia, there stands an olive grove about the ruins of a villa. Close by is a tomb, once beautiful with the sublimest sculptures, but now fallen into as great decay as the house. At one end of that tomb, its curious roots displacing the time-stained blocks of Pentelic marble, grows an unnaturally large olive tree of oddly repellent shape; so like to some grotesque man, or death-distorted body of a man, that the country folk fear to pass it at night when the moon shines faintly through the crooked boughs. Mount Masnalus is a chosen haunt of dreaded Pan, whose queer companions are many, and simple swains believe that the tree must have some hideous kinship to these weird Panisci; but an old beekeeper who lives in the neighboring cottage told me a different story.

Many years ago, when the hillside villa was new and resplendent, there dwelt within it the two sculptors Kalos and Musides. From Lydia to Neapolis the beauty of their work was praised, and none dared say that the one excelled the other in skill. The Hermes of Kalos stood in a marble shrine in Corinth, and the Pallas of Musides surmounted a pillar in Athens near the Parthenon. All men paid homage to Kalos and Musides, and marveled that no shadow of artistic jealousy cooled the warmth of their brotherly friendship.

But though Kalos and Musides dwelt in unbroken harmony, their natures were not alike. Whilst Musides reveled by night amidst the urban gayeties of Tegea,

Kalos would remain at home, stealing away from the sight of his slaves into the cool recesses of the olive grove. There he would meditate upon the visions that filled his mind, and there devise the forms of beauty which later became immortal in breathing marble. Idle folk, indeed, said that Kalos conversed with the spirits of the grove, and that his statues were but images of the fauns and dryads he met there — for he patterned his work after no living model.

So famous were Kalos and Musides, that none wondered when the Tyrant of Syracuse sent to them deputies to speak of the costly statue of Tyche which he had planned for his city. Of great size and cunning workmanship must the statue be, for it was to form a wonder of nations and a goal of travelers. Exalted beyond thought would be he whose work should gain acceptance, and for this honor Kalos and Musides were invited to compete. Their brotherly love was well known, and the crafty Tyrant surmised that each, instead of concealing his work from the other, would offer aid and advice; this charity producing two images of unheard-of beauty, the lovelier of which would eclipse even the dreams of poets.

With joy the sculptors hailed the Tyrant’s offer, so that in the days that followed, their slaves heard the ceaseless blows of chisels. Not from each other did Kalos and Musides conceal their work, but the sight was for them alone. Saving theirs, no eyes beheld the two divine figures released by skilful blows

THE TREE


from the rough blocks that had imprisoned them since the world began.

At night, as of yore, Musides sought the banquet halls of Tegea whilst Kalos wandered alone in the olive grove. But as time passed, men observed a want of gayety in the once sparkling Musides. It was strange, they said amongst themselves, that depression should thus seize one with so great a chance to win art’s loftiest reward. Many months passed, yet in the sour face of Musides came nothing of the sharp expectancy which the situation should arouse.

T hen one day Musides spoke of the illness of Kalos, after which none marveled again at his sadness, since the sculptors’ attachment was known to be deep and sacred. Subsequently many went to visit Kalos, and indeed noticed the pallor of his face; but there was about about him a happy serenity which made his glance more magical than the glance of Musides — who was clearly distracted with anxiety and who pushed aside all the slaves in his eagerness to feed and wait upon his friend with his own hands. Hidden behind heavy curtains stood the two unfinished figures of Tyche, little touched of late by the sick man and his faithful attendant.

As Kalos grew inexplicably weaker and weaker despite the ministrations of puzzled physicians and of his assiduous friend, he desired to be carried often to the grove which he so loved. There he would ask to be left alone, as if wishing to speak with unseen things. Musides ever granted his requests, though his eyes filled with visible tears at the thought that Kalos should care more for the fauns and the dryads than for him. At last the end drew near, and Kalos discoursed of things beyond this life. Musides, weeping, promised him a sepulcher more lovely than the tomb of Mausolus; but Kalos bade him speak no more of marble glories. Only one wish now haunted the mind of the dying man; that twigs from certain olive trees in the grove be buried by his resting-place — close to his head. And one night, sitting alone in the darkness of the olive grove, Kalos died.

Beautiful beyond words was the marble sepulcher which stricken Musides carved for his beloved friend. None but Kalos himself could have fashioned such bas-reliefs, wherein were displayed all the splendors of Elysium. Nor did Musides fail to bury close to Kalos’ head the olive twigs from the grove.

As the first violence of Musides’ grief gave place to resignation, he labored with diligence upon his figure of Tyche. All honor was now his, since the Tyrant of Syracuse would have the work of none save him or Kalos. His task proved a vent for his emotion and he toiled more steadily each day, shunning the gayeties he once had relished. Meanwhile his evenings were spent beside the tomb of his friend, where a young olive tree had sprung up near the sleeper’s head. So swift was the growth of this tree, and so strange was its form, that all who beheld it exclaimed in surprize; and Musides seemed at once fascinated and repelled.

Three years after the death of Kalos, Musides dispatched a messenger to the Tyrant, and it was whispered in the agora at Tegea that the mighty statue was finished. By this time the tree by the tomb had attained amazing proportions, exceeding all other trees of its kind, and sending out a singularly heavy branch above the apartment in which Musides labored. As many visitors came to view the prodigious tree as to admire the art of the sculptor, so that Musides was seldom alone. But he did not mind his multitude of guests; indeed, he seemed to dread being alone, now that his absorb236


ing work was done. The bleak mountain wind, sighing through the olive grove and the tomb-tree, had an uncanny way of forming vaguely articulate sounds.

T he sky was dark on the evening that the Tyrant’s emissaries came to Tegea. It was definitely known that they had come to bear away the great image of Tyche and bring eternal honor to Musides; so their reception by the proxenoi was of great warmth. As the night wore on, a violent storm of wind broke over the crest of Maenalus, and the men from far Syracuse were glad that they rested snugly in the town. They talked of their illustrious Tyrant, and of the splendor of his capital; and exulted in the glory of the statue which Musides had wrought for him. And then the men of Tegea spoke of the goodness of Musides, and of his heavy grief for his friend; and how not even the coming laurels of art could console him in the absence of Kalos, who might have worn those laurels instead. Of the tree which grew by the tomb, near the head of Kalos, they also spoke. The wind shrieked more horribly, and both the Syracusans and the Arcadians prayed to Aiolos.

In the sunshine of the morning the Proxenoi led the Tyrant’s messengers up the slope to the abode of the sculptor, but the night wind had done strange things. Slaves’ cries ascended from a scene of desolation, and no more amidst the olive grove rose the gleaming colonnades of that vast hall wherein Musides had dreamed and toiled. Lone and shaken mourned the humble courts and the lower walls, for upon the sumptuous greater peristyle had fallen squarely the heavy overhanging bough of the strange new tree, reducing the stately poem in marble with odd completeness to a mound of unsightly ruins. Strangers and Tegeans stood aghast, looking from the wreckage to the great, sinister tree whose aspect was so weirdly human and whose roots reached so queerly into the sculptured sepulcher of Kalos. And their fear and dismay increased when they searched the fallen apartment; for of the gentle Musides, and of the marvelously fashioned image of Tyche, no trace of which could be discovered. Amidst such stupendous ruin only chaos dwelt, and the representatives of two cities left disappointed; Syracusans that they had no statue to bear home, Tegeans that they had no artist to crown. However, the Syracusans obtained after a while a very splendid statue in Athens, and the Tegeans consoled themselves by erecting in the agora a marble temple commemorating the gifts, virtues, and brotherly piety of Musides.

But the olive grove still stands, as does the tree growing out of the tomb of Kalos, and the old bee-keeper told me that sometimes the boughs whisper to one another in the night wind, saying over and over again, "Oida! Oida! — I know! I know!”

L

nvaders From Outside

By J. SCHLOSSEL

A Tale of the Twelve Worlds

O N EVERY hand huge brilliant suns, single or multiple, flashed past with their retinue of small dark planets. Though there was no sound to mark their passage through the heavens, yet one felt that here, indeed, was a roaring inferno. Slowly and steadily did the solar system forge ahead through this veritable whirlpool of mighty blazing suns. It was nothing less than a miracle that the sun should be able to guide his charge of planets safely through this densely star-packed region near the center of the Milky Way. Even though the sun now shone with his greatest possible splendor, he was nothing but a tiny dwarf sun within a region where white-hot giants abounded.

The intelligent inhabitants of the solar system had for ages past been sweeping the heavens with their ponderous astronomical instruments, endeavoring to see farther, always farther. Their telescopes were gigantic. With the aid of those huge eyes that stared unblinkingly out into the starry regions of the night, they

were able to record, chart, and compare! nearly every star within the island universe of which they were an insignificant part.

It can almost be said that no phenomenon of the sky, great or small, escaped their keen-eyed vigilance. Hot glowing suns and cold dead worlds came equally under their curious, all-penetrating gaze. Their system of research was as near perfect as possible; besides, if one or more of the members of that great body known as the Scientific Society of the Twelve Confederate Worlds missed something through an unavoidable local condition, the other members did not.

Always did they keep watch, and though their instruments embraced the limits of the Milky Way, yet a large number of cold, dark worlds had slipped in past their vigilance, and one of these was now hurtling at an enormous velocity straight toward the solar system.

Ignorant entirely of its coming, of the curious zigzag course it followed, or of its desperate purpose, the inhabitants of those twelve civilized worlds went on con237

* From WEIRD TALES for January, 1925.



fidently with their researches and their dreams of eternal peace.

Peace? To the average inhabitant of the Twelve Confederate Worlds the meaning of the words peace and war was unknown. Those two words were met with only in the oldest archives on each planet. For the perfect and secure peace that the Twelve Confederate Worlds enjoyed had never been broken. They were the masters of the solar system. Peace was even older than the confederacy, and that was old beyond reckoning. No one knew or had the least conception when the Act of Confederation had been passed. It was forgotten in the bottomless seas of the past.

Not even the industrious inhabitants of Mars, though their civilization had reached its apex two hundred and fifty thousand Martian years before and their written records extended back twice that far, knew when that deathless compact had been agreed upon. Wrought deeply in the smooth, imperishable walls of adamant that surrounded the Moon’s capital city, Ishree, was the entire history of the ages that had so swiftly glided into the past; but even this greatest and oldest of all histories faded into a mass of crisscrossed lines of undecipherable script long in the ancient past dealing with that memorable event. The records of the other civilized worlds were just as illegible in regard to the period when the twelve worlds had confederated.

One hundred and twenty million miles > out beyond the orbit of Mars was the orbit of the next world belonging to the Confederacy. It bore no name, but was called No. 3. It was situated between Mars and the Jovian system of habitated moons. And then came Jupiter with his four civilized moons, each of which was a member of the Confederacy: Callisto and Ganymede, the two largest; Europa and Io, the two smallest. Far out beyond

the Jovian system, about four hundred million miles, lay the orbit of Saturn. Out there he was supreme. He owed allegiance to none but his parent, the Sun. He held continual sway over his five habitable moons: Japetus, the outermost; Titan, the largest; while Rhea, Dione, and Tethys came in order named. There were, of course, the moons of Uranus, but life there was still in the savage state.

The thrill that the first few fearless Martians experienced when they dared the unknown terrors of the vast airless seas in their flimsy crude craft can never be recalled. Bridging the space between the worlds was as common now as traveling from city to city. But there was no danger now, and neither was there any thrill in it. Even though the Confederacy was admitted to be old, very old, interplanetary travel was necessarily still older. It was the forerunner of the other.

T he very first trip from Mars was to the Moon, which circled the barbarous planet, Earth. Those intrepid Martian explorers expected to throw their lives away when they shot up into the absolute void of space. They never thought that they would return. And their folk waited season in and season out; still they did not hear from them. Years after all hope had been abandoned their craft was sighted in the clear sky. They were returning at last.

The Martians crowded around that ship after the initial shock and roar of its landing was past. As the captain stepped out of his frail craft he was cheered again and again by the admiring populace. Twenty had started out on that first trip into the infinite, yet only seven others besides the captain dragged themselves wearily on to the Martian soil. The other twelve lay buried in a strange world. They had for the most part succumbed to the frightful rigors of the trip over.



Their folk begged them, then and there, to tell of the terrible hardships and dangers that they must have gone through. Those daring pioneers first rested, and then they began their strange tales. That they were thickly garnished with wild imaginings was suspected, but no one then could tell positively.

The travelers told of the wonderful feeling of lightness that pervaded them as they stepped out of their vehicle; of the Moon’s strange vegetation, the great scarlet blossoms that were far larger than any vegetation on Mars. They described the smooth, unbroken plains; the great cities that dotted the lunar landscape; the civilization there that was even older than their own. They recounted in each detail the immense throngs that came to greet them; the perfect hospitality of the Moon dwellers; the genuine welcome.

They next told of the homesickness that had engulfed them and their inability to leave because they were short-handed. More than half of the crew had died and they could not work their vessel back. They had made many friends while they had sojourned there. They told their hosts of their yearning to return to their native soil and the reason why they could not. Their hosts volunteered to help them work their vessel back, and showered them with gifts when they took leave, and invited them to return.

When these first voyagers had told their tales and exhibited metals that were considered almost priceless on their own planet, but which could be had in any quantity on the Moon, their tale so fired the adventurous Martians that there was a stampede to sign on for the proposed expedition that their government was undertaking.

Other explorers started out in the direction of No. 5. They found the inhabitants there as far advanced as they were, but along different lines. The inhabitants

of No. 5 were esthetic, pleasure-loving and beauty-loving creatures.

Others went still farther out, to Jupiter and the Jovian system of habitated moons. Everywhere they found civilizations almost equal to their own. They returned to Mars, their home. They had been received with hospitality everywhere, and treated with the respect due to an envoy from one world to another.

The government of Mars entered into a trade compact with the governments of the other worlds. The situation on Mars prior to the return of the first exploring expedition had been critical. The local markets had been overcrowded, and to avoid grave industrial crises it had been absolutely necessary that new markets be found at once.

After the return of the explorers the traders started out. They went in droves. They went almost to the limits of the solar system to obtain markets for their surplus products. That they had found new markets and kept them could be proved by the enormous traffic that each world now carried on with the others. The ancient method of transportation, those old ships propelled by the rocket discharge principle, were too slow. Why, their limit of speed was only about twenty thousand miles an hour. So slow! It took their ancient ancestors from one to eight Martian years to make one round trip. Compared to the modern almost instantaneous method of wireless transmission of solid matter, the rocket-propelled ships were slow and crude.

Though the inhabitants of Mars were the most aggressive, they did not presume to the right of leadership or the right to dictate terms. They were too far advanced to entertain such useless dreams of conquest. What they had or knew they gave without stint to the younger civilizations of the union. All was instantly accessible to every member of those twelve worlds



through the Bureau of Knowledge and the Bureau of Means.

It seems like a paradox to say that they were civilized and still peaceful, that they did not understand the full significance of war. They knew what war was, but not through personal contact. War, they held, was for the savages that lived on the three outer moons of Uranus, or for the nameless four-legged things that so miserably existed on the planet Earth, but not for the highly intelligent beings who owed allegiance to the Confederacy.

That strange, alien world that was speeding toward them, meanwhile, remained totally unknown. Its small size and its tremendous distance might have been the reason why their mighty telescopes could not bring it into view, or perhaps the curious zigzag course it followed.

It made no difference how far advanced their civilization were, they could not read the future. That was admitted to be beyond the realms of possibility. But why couldn’t there be one, only one, out of the combined populations of the whole twelve worlds to warn them of the approaching danger, to tell them that a strange world was approaching out of the depths of space at an inconceivable velocity.

T he inhabitants of the Twelve Confederate Worlds were not individualists. They had advanced beyond that stage on the day when their separate worlds had united, for on that day each race had given up its deep-rooted dream that its own peculiar species had been created supreme above all others. It was the intelligence, not the form or color of their fellow creatures, that they held in high esteem.

Messages in the musical tinkling universal language of the solar system were hourly broadcast from the central broadcasting stations on each planet. The latest

news and all the improvements in the field of science throbbed through the ether on equal terms with the commercial matter that was being sent out continually.

It was strange that their instruments should be of such strength that they were able to search out and assign to its proper place the smallest and most minute star, yet not know of the approaching body.

A message came from Mars, the most industrious member of the Confederacy, that its scientists were working on an intricate instrument that would easily separate into its component parts the thousands of star clusters that dotted the region beyond the Milky Way. When this new instrument would be completed, the Martians promised, they would be able to see the surfaces of the dark bodies that attended the bright stars throughout the heavens.

The Confederacy was enjoying its golden era of peace and prosperity. There was no sign of war or strife. The tremendous advancements in every field of activity had long since eliminated the drudgery from existence. Life was very sweet, but not cloying. One question loomed up large: would not this perpetual peace and ease breed a race of cowardly degenerates?

The inhabitants of the twelve worlds had never been called upon to risk their lives against an invading force. They might be soft, as compared to their progenitors of the dark and bygone past, in the matter of muscles and in their ability to resist the naked elements. But what of it? Life was not so hard now. There really was no need of brawn. And besides, their science had made them practically immune to all the disease germs that bred within the solar system. Even though they were soft in the matter of muscle, their span of life was from twenty to fifty times the full life span of

W. T.— 7



their early ancestors. Who could foretell whether they would prove in a pinch to be a race of cowardly degenerates or not?

And then, entirely unexpected (for danger always comes unexpected), from one of the huge observatories on Japetus, the outer moon of Saturn, there came an imperious command that all broadcasting immediately cease. As the broadcasting died down a message was repeatedly flashed through the ether: "A large body of planetary dimensions is hurtling toward the solar system at a terrific velocity.”

The Martians worked night and day to complete their intricate half-finished instrument for long-distance observation. It was completed at last and ready to be tested. It lived up to their highest expectations. Without any further delay it was sent to Japetus and there set up for observation.

Nothing further could be learnt with the old instruments. The inhabitants of each world waited for something definite to come from the Martian observatory on Japetus.

Some frightened inhabitants of the Confederacy demanded that governments declare martial law and conscript every individual so that they could commence building and outfitting a fleet of great stellar transports large enough to give every one a chance to flee from the doomed solar system. A few, more learned but equally wild, suggested that the Scientific Society of the Twelve Confederate Worlds concentrate their combined energies toward finding a way to hurl Neptune, the outermost of the solar family, out to meet it. But most of the inhabitants waited quietly, numbed by the terrible threat of doom.

No attention was at first paid to those who let their emotions run away with them, but later, when the hysteria of the few was spreading like wildfire, it was W. T.— 8

decided to banish all who were inclined to excessive nervousness to some far-off spot until the crisis was either past or their fate definitely settled.

T he first reports, though not officially confirmed, came at last from Japetus. Its distance was estimated to be a little less than the distance that it takes light to travel in half a year. It was much farther away than the first wild reports had led them to believe. Later came its size, speed, and direction.

It was generally considered that it was a dead world — a piece of slag — hurtling through space at the incredible velocity of eighteen thousand miles a second, just one-tenth the speed of light! At that speed it would be upon them in less than five years!

Its diameter was ascertained to be about two thousand miles, or one-fourth the diameter of the planet Earth. It was nothing but a tiny speck, as stellar sizes go. Small as it was, at that rate of speed it was large enough to wreck the civilization of the solar system. The question that naturally came to the inhabitants of those twelve civilized worlds was: was it only a burnt-out cinder thrown off by some mighty sun with such unerring aim and such great force that it should flash through the heavens straight for the solar system? Or was it inhabited by sentient beings?

A reassuring official report was sent out. It said that there was absolutely no cause for alarm; that when the approaching body reached the spot in the heavens where the sun and his attending planets now were, the entire solar system would have moved on many hundred million miles away on its own course. At the rate of speed with which the approaching body was traveling, the attraction of our sun could not swerve it from its course;



no, not even if our sun were ten thousand times his own size.

The astronomers welcomed its coming. Its speed was an unexplainable phenomenon of the heavens. "Nothing but a head-on collision with some larger body could stop it,” they declared.

All its surface peculiarities were known by even the youngest inhabitant of the Twelve Confederate Worlds. It was as smooth as a billiard ball — proof of its great age. A snow-like substance covered its surface, probably to a depth of five hundred feet. But the knowledge concerning it extended no deeper than its surface.

If their instruments could have seen beneath the snow-like covering, seen what was going on there, the Confederate Worlds would have begun feverish preparations for one of the most desperate struggles that had ever been fought.

They thought of tracing it back. At that speed (so they reasoned) nothing could have turned it from its course, and so it must have come almost as straight as a ray of light. But they were wrong, very wrong, for its flight was not governed solely by the mechanical laws that govern matter. The Confederate Worlds made no allowance for such a thing as a directing will. If they had known of its curious zigzag course, could they have accounted for it? They knew no laws to explain why it should swerve sharply aside when it came into the neighborhood of some of the mighty suns that had dotted its course as it flashed on its way toward the solar system, and then, after passing them, resume its former course. Instead of repulsing, those mighty suns irresistibly attract any wandering bodies that chance to come within the field of their influence.

It was impossible to trace back its course, but if they could have done so, they would have been dumfounded at

the immense distance that the approaching body had covered.

It was a visitor from a far-off region, indeed. Out beyond the borders of the Milky Way the star clusters gleam as thick as the stars shine overhead on a clear, frosty night. But they do not shine with the sharp brightness of nearer stars. It is their distance, impossible to comprehend, that makes them appear nothing but a patch of soft, hazy light, notwithstanding the fact that each cluster shines with the combined light of fifty thousand to one hundred million huge flaming suns!

Everything must in time grow old. The living take their substance from the dead. The suns grow old and die. Everywhere in the heavens the ruins of dead star clusters can be seen — huge, shapeless masses that are absolutely dead-blade.

And that approaching world and many others had come from somewhere out there, not from a living, glowing star cluster, but from the outskirts of a dead, intensely black region; from a region, if such a region can be imagined, where all matter has nearly reached a state of perfect equilibrium, where all matter is nearly stable, and so all matter almost dead. There were no flaming suns there to give light to that terrible darkness. Each body within the borders of that lifeless region was breaking down. The molecules were disintegrating, the atoms flying free. In the boundless sea of ether the atoms were moving sluggishly away in vast, cloud-like masses. This was the end of a universe.

Like slinking rats from a sinking ship this approaching body had come from that region. It came with a grim, fixed purpose, nearer, still nearer. It was invisible to the naked eye. It was calculated to soon pass the solar system.

Some of the more hot-blooded members of the Scientific Society of the



Twelve Confederate Worlds requested permission to take one of the society’s interstellar vehicles, provision it for a lifetime, and go out to meet and board it. They painted in glowing pictures the advantages that the Scientific Society would gain from their sacrifice, and the perfect descriptions that they would be able to broadcast back.

Their request was refused on the grounds that the new Martian instrument for observation installed upon Japetus could easily follow its flight for ages to come. It would be only a useless sacrifice of life to attempt to board that strange object.

In the secret code of the Scientific Society word was sent out that this body had actually stopped in its headlong journey. It hung poised, motionless, then began to fall slowly toward the solar system. These new and terrifying facts were not given to the general public. It would not help matters if they knew, but might bring on another attack of hysteria. The Scientific Society could hardly believe the evidence of its observation instruments.

The body continued to drop slowly toward the sun, and then, as it neared the orbit of Neptune, it turned, and at an acute angle it began to head for old Neptune, who was crawling out of the west to meet it. A collision seemed imminent. Its speed was very slow, no more than eighteen hundred miles a minute — just a fraction of its former tremendous speed, and it became still slower. When the newcomer came within a quarter of a million miles of Neptune it began to circle him, as if it were a moon.

The Scientific Society heaved a sign of relief, and gave out the facts then to the public. The changing speed and the deliberate actions of this new member of the solar family were unexplainable; still, all the threatened danger seemed past.

T he instruments that had been brought to bear upon this new member showed that the snow-like substance that covered its surface was quickly evaporating under the warm, kindly glow emanating from old dying Neptune. In a little while all the snow-like substance had evaporated. It had turned into an almost transparent envelope of heavy, bluish gas.

The surface under the covering was then seen for the first time by the observers on the Twelve Confederate Worlds. Nearly the entire area of this new world was covered with square or oblong structures. In some places the square structures had been concentrated for reasons that were as yet unknown. In those places the foundations were truly massive; the structures had been built in tiers, each succeeding tier smaller than the one beneath it; and up, up they went until they formed pyramidal structures several miles in height.

Strange creatures that walked erect on only two feet next made their appearance. The inhabitants of the twelve worlds marveled. The two-legged creatures moved here and there, also seeing, it seemed, the surface of their world for the first time. They must have come up from beneath the surface. They were clad in a uniform, gray, hairy material that hung loosely upon their frames. Their movements were at first listless, but gradually they began to quicken. They looked around for a while and then went below the surface again.

It was not until the next day that they really began to come up in numbers. For the two succeeding days they poured up in a constant stream. In a little while the surface of their world was black with them. They must have hollowed out the very bowels of the planet to have accommodated such vast numbers. Like bees in a hive they were now swarming over their



huge pyramidal structures and the smaller oblong buildings, everywhere.

The Scientific Society now realized that it had not been blind chance that had steered this body toward the solar system. It was evident that those intelligent creatures had directed their world to this, a more favorable location.

Realizing that these creatures were intelligent, and thinking that they would probably need and appreciate aid after their long journey, the Twelve Confederate Worlds generously sent out a delegation to the newcomer to inquire if they could be of any assistance. Form or color meant nothing to the inhabitants of those twelve civilized worlds; it was intelligence that they held in high esteem.

No sooner did the party from the Confederate Worlds land than they were surrounded and killed! Neither a reason nor a warning had been given. They were killed with about as much compunction as one would kill some loathsome insects. After killing them, these strange twolegged creatures were seen to go about their tasks as if nothing had happened.

The inhabitants of the twelve worlds were startled, horrified. They actually did not know what to do. The act had no precedent in all their histories. Something must be done. But what? A reprisal? They did not even think of a reprisal, for they were essentially a peaceloving folk. It was unwise to send out another delegation to demand an explanation. They tried every means of interplanetary communication, but they elicited no response.

A few hours after the killing, a group of those strange creatures, but evidently in high command (for they were dressed in a bright red instead of the usual gray, and the gray-clad creatures prostrated themselves whenever the red-clad group came near them), had come up to view

the remains of the slaughtered delegation. They were seen to question in turn those who killed them. Those questioned were seen to point up toward the sun, and toward the Twelve Confederate Worlds. The red-clothed were next seen to go over and examine the interplanetary vehicle that the delegation from the twelve worlds had arrived in.

After the event of the red-clothed group the inhabitants of this strange world were seen to start building some new huge pyramidal structures and repairing the old ones.

Always before had it been the Confederate Worlds who were the masters of every situation, but now they were plainly bewildered. They decided to bide their time and wait. They did not fear the invader. It was quite a different matter, this killing of a few unsuspecting individuals, from attacking the twelve civilized worlds.

F rom the moment when the strange world so suddenly arrived, and with its first ruthless act took up its sullen position as a new member of the solar family, the watchful eyes of the Twelve Confederate Worlds did not leave it for an instant. Every act was viewed with suspicion. Intently did they watch the twolegged creatures repair and build the huge pyramidal structures that reared their heads several miles above the surrounding surface. With deep wonder they watched them bring out from the interior of their planet large, metal, box-like objects. They were not producing them one at a time, but by the thousands, and stacking them up near the huge pyramidal structures. On the very pinnacle of each pyramid there was a square opening that was exactly the size of those metal boxes, and each opening extended down to the very base of its pyramid. The Scientific Society, try as it would, could not disinvaders from outside

245;

cover to what use those boxes were being put.

The numbers of those strange twolegged creatures were seen to increase, and still increase. The Scientific Society had often discussed, wondering, how so many could exist on so small an area. There seemed hardly room for a fraction of their numbers. Where did they get their supply of food? They did not grow it on the surface, for there was no room. Did they manufacture artificial foods? Several times in past ages the Scientific Society had produced artificial foods, but the inhabitants did not seem to relish them, though they were as palatable and nutritious from the chemical standpoint as any of the foods that nature produced.

It was just three Martian years from the moment when they had arrived in the solar system until they began to leap the tremendous void that separated Neptune from the four moons of Uranus. From each square opening on top of the pyramidal structures a steady stream of metallic cubes flashed out into the bleak void of space on their journey toward the moons of Uranus. Each square box was large enough to accommodate one hundred of those queer two-legged beings.

They landed upon the four moons of Uranus, and with the cubes that had carried them across the void they formed a wall surrounding their first rude camp. They immediately set to work building a city. The structures that they put up were identical with those that covered the surface of their own world. After their first city was completed these ruthless twolegged creatures went out in their thousands and commenced slaughtering for their furs the wild life that had lived there prior to their coming — killed those living creatures just for the bit of skin or fur that covered their backs!

The world of their origin, now the moon of old Neptune, still continued to

send those metal cubes in a steady stream to the moons of Uranus. City after city sprang into existence. They flourished, growing so swiftly that the outskirts of each city soon blended into the outskirts of its neighbors.

The Twelve Confederate Worlds still continued to think of peace. It seemed strange that the inhabitants of those twelve worlds did not realize their danger. They went about in the smug belief that they were invulnerable.

The one thing that most amazed those who studied the strange, two-legged aliens was the speed with which they continued to increase their numbers. In a very short time the four moons of Uranus were too small to hold them. An air of intense activity pervaded the four moons. They commenced building pyramids that were to be at least six miles high. As soon as there were completed the square, metallic cubes made their appearance and were stacked up by thousands near by.

The invaders leapt from the moons of Uranus to the five habitable moons of Saturn, which were members of the Confederation. The inhabitants of those five Confederate Worlds were unprepared. There was a steady whiz as the cubes shot through the air of those five worlds. They came in countless hordes.

Rhea, Dione, and Tethys, the three smallest, were snuffed out in a twinkling. Japetus and Titan put up so savage a front that they were able to hold them off. Each sent its desperate appeal for help throbbing through the ether.

Even though the invaders had many efficient death-dealing weapons and used them ruthlessly, the unprepared inhabitants of Japetus and Titan put up so grim a struggle, fought so fiercely with what they could lay their hands upon, that they were able to stop the forward charges time after time. Still it was plain that those pitiless two-legged invaders held



their most desperate attempts at resistance cheaply — held them in sneering contempt — held even the whole combined power of the Twelve Confederate Worlds in contempt — played with them as a cat would play with a mouse!

The Confederate Worlds awoke to their danger at last. Was it too late? They sought in their museums and in the old archives of their early histories for plans of death-dealing devices that their own ancient, blood-thirsty ancestors had used. They discarded their foolish dreams of peace and selected the ideas for the most terrible weapons that they could find; and they began to manufacture these with lightning rapidity. Meanwhile, the inhabitants were conscripted, and the use of the weapons explained to them; and they were soon ready to be sent out against the invaders. The Twelve Confederate Worlds did not make the terrible mistake of underrating their antagonists.

A great force of invaders had surrounded Eelee, one of the largest cities on Titan, and were slowly forcing the weary defenders back. The invaders fought with swift, death-dealing weapons, while the defenders had only sticks and stones to oppose them. Was it any wonder that the dispirited inhabitants of Titan were being forced back on every hand?

The city of Eelee was full of weary, trembling fugitives who had fled before the invaders from the surrounding open country. The morale of the defenders was breaking. Time after time they tried to fight through the slowly tightening ring of those terrible two-legged invaders. The defenders were slaughtered in their thousands. They were driven back from every nook and cranny until they met in the center of their city. This could hardly be called their last stand: they were merely waiting their turn to be butchered. In one

solid, compact mass they cowered in the public square in the center of the city. The only protection at their backs was a solidly built public building, Eelee’ s central station for wireless transmission of matter. Would help never come?

There came a shout of encouragement from the main wide entrance to the wireless transmission of matter building, and a solid line, some thirty deep, of fully armed Jovians from the four Confederate Worlds of Jupiter leapt out to attack. A wide avenue was immediately opened in the tightly packed mass of Eelee’ s cowering populace, and the Jovians leapt through and spread out fanwise in front of the defenseless inhabitants.

Each of the Jovians in the front lines carried on his back a small tank that sprayed out a hundred feet in advance a chemical, which ignited everything it touched and burnt with a hot, livid flame. Those behind them carried stubby metal tubes, which would bark with short, thunderous reports, and which left ruin and death in the ranks of the invaders.

Help had come in the blackest moment. Similar scenes were taking place in all of the larger cities on Titan.

Back, back they drove the invaders. The Twelve Confederate Worlds (now there were only nine, and two of those threatened with momentary extinction) hurled their conscripted forces across the void so swiftly and in such numbers that the invaders were startled. Reluctant to give ground that they had previously gained, the two-legged warriors contested desperately each inch of their retreat. From every direction they were met by the defenders, who were armed with weapons as good as their own.

Could these be the despised, peaceloving inhabitants of the solar system whom they had meant to destroy so as to have undisputed possession of the entire system? They could hardly believe



it, for the once peaceful Jovians fought with a ferocity that was terrible.

Whenever the invaders stopped and tried to stand their ground, the defenders swarmed up; the chemicals sprayed fire upon the two-legged invaders; and those in the lines behind the first came with their short metal tubes that roared with thunder and wrought havoc in the ranks of the invaders. The Jovians forced them back, always back, and began to surround the isolated detachments of the invaders and destroy them. Not till they had wiped them completely from Titan did they turn their attention toward the beleaguered inhabitants of Japetus.

The inhabitants of Japetus were still fighting desperately when the Jovians came. Following close on the heels of the Jovians came the first detachment from No. 5. There was also a steady influx of invaders. A desperate battle raged for possession of Japetus. Reinforcements were pouring in on both sides.

The invaders, who had successfully destroyed the inhabitants and buildings on Rhea, Dione, and Tethys, now turned again toward Titan. Once more the invaders stormed Titan. They did not drop down upon defenseless inhabitants this time. They were met and repulsed by a strong force of beauty-loving inhabitants from No. 5. Those beauty-loving beings from No. 5, despite their estheticism, fought with an incredible fury in defense of the union of the twelve worlds.

When the news of the first setback reached the invaders, from the four moons of Uranus and from their densely packed parent world steady streams of cubes shot out toward the Twelve Confederate Worlds. They were bringing new and better weapons to combat those of the Confederacy. They were coming at incalculable speed, using their own secret

means of propelling the cubes, besides the additional attraction that the sun’s gravitational force exerted upon them. But though the invaders could send their forces swiftly, the Twelve Confederate Worlds could transport their defenders ten times more quickly.

Prior to the invasion, the passenger service from world to world had always been subordinate to the commercial traffic of the wireless transmission of matter system of transportation that interlaced the twelve worlds. But with a few slight modifications the whole system of transportation was made available for passenger service. The Twelve Confederate Worlds were now able to hurl their defenders from world to world at the speed of light.

In a steady line the defenders would march into a station for wireless transmission of matter, enter the automatic transmission chamber and there receive the preliminary charge of specific highfrequency current that would cause temporarily suspended animation; then they would automatically be carried to separate vibrating chambers of high intensity, which would cause the electrons that composed the bodies to be impinged upon the sending apparatus in the compartment; a few minutes later, the process reversed, they would be ready to leave the receiving station at their destination. After the experience of leaping millions of miles at the speed of light they would be none the worse except for a slight touch of nausea.

N ow the invaders came in countless swarms. The number of cubes that had attacked the five moons of Saturn was as nothing compared to the flood of cubes that whipped past the orbit of Saturn and headed for Jupiter’s moons. The remnant of invaders who were still attacking Japetus shot out to



join the main body of invaders as they flashed past the moons of Saturn.

A detachment of cubes, about fifty thousand in number, leapt ahead of the main force of invaders and attacked the moons of Jupiter. The Confederacy hurled its forces there to repulse them. But it was only a feint on the part of the invaders, for their real objective was lone No. 5. They had been taught a lesson on Titan and Japetus. No longer did they hold the fighting qualities of the Confederacy in contempt.

They did not leap down upon the surface of No. 5 as they did upon the five moons of Saturn; instead, thousands of cubes filled with high explosives and ' noxious gases were directed toward No. 5’s surface. After that, the terrible, twolegged invaders landed and killed off all that were left of the half-gassed inhabitants. They also destroyed all the stations for wireless transmission of matter.

The invaders made No. 5 their headquarters. Cubes were pouring in from every direction. It seemed that they were abandoning their own world that circled old dying Neptune. The four moons of Uranus were also being deserted by the two-legged invaders. They were massing for one supreme attack. No. 5 would be the center from which they intended to sally forth.

The inhabitants of the Twelve Confederate Worlds realized it. Thousands of the defenders offered their lives, offered to steer large interstellar vehicles loaded to the limit with high explosives to No. 5. But those in supreme command demurred, for the Scientific Society had just perfected a new, terrible weapon. This was manufactured with all possible speed and sent to the eight remaining worlds of the Confederacy. Hope flamed anew throughout the eight sorely tried worlds.

The invaders did not delay an instant.

They had experienced only two setbacks. So far they had the best of it. They sent a stream of cubes filled with explosives and gases toward Callisto, the outer moon of Jupiter, and destroyed all life on it. At the same time they sent a mighty force to Mars.

The Martians had been preparing a fleet of swift interstellar vehicles and were prepared to offer stubborn resistance. As the invaders neared Mars, the Martians left the surface of their world and went out to meet them in the empty void. The two forces met, and from the start the Martians were outclassed. They were slowly forced back to the surface of their own world, for the cubes were superior in every way to the Martian craft.

From the six remaining Confederate Worlds, jets of intense light leapt toward No. 5. This playing of light on the invaders seemed so weak and ineffectual! It was the new weapon. The light at times appeared to be of delicate purple. It would grow until it was a bright purple, then fade into invisibility. It seemed the weapon of a child, and yet whatever it touched was destroyed.

The invaders shot their cubes out in every direction, but were picked off by the jets of all-destroying light. Whenever two jets of light touched a cube, there was a short explosion; that was all. The purple from the twin jets would fade, and the results that followed were the same as if the terminals of powerful electric currents had short-circuited there. The jets of light were merely carriers for an electric current that was capable of vaporizing any substance that came between any two jets.

The jets of light from the six worlds had now reached No. 5, and were destroying everything upon the surface. The invaders came to the bitter realization that this was the beginning of theif



end. They had waited too long. They should have attacked the Twelve Confederate Worlds on the day of their arrival. They tried to leave No. 5 by the cubes, but the twin jets of light easily picked them off.

The Confederation turned its attention to Mars. It sent its forces down upon Mars as the rain comes down in a cloudburst. The invaders were cut off absolutely from all reinforcements from their own kind on No. 5. Knowing that they were doomed, they maneuvered their cubes to form a protecting wall between them and their foes. The defenders became the aggressors. They began storming the barricade. The invaders were bunched together behind the cubes, waiting.

A low hum came from behind the cubes. It rose and rose. It came from the throats of the two-legged invaders. The sound was not displeasing. It gathered volume every instant. Though it was not very melodious at first, still it teemed with pathos. One by one the invaders joined in the song. It hinted of a mighty, daring attempt and of a bitter failure. It was their death song.

Meanwhile the invaders on No. 5 who had, through their great knowledge of stellar mechanics, guided their own world from out of the depths of space, were now working desperately in their attempt to install machines that would enable them to swing No. 5 out of its orbit. They had failed in their attempt to conquer the Confederation, and their only wish was to take No. 5 from out of the solar system and escape. _

They were installing the machines underground. They threw up shield after shield to protect themselves from the death-dealing rays. Two out of every five machines that they installed were destroyed by the twin jets of light.

The number of invaders left on No. 5 was very small. In desperation they started the machines. The speed of No. 5 began to increase, and she was rotating faster, too. Something had gone amiss. The jets of light, in destroying nearly half of their machinery, had upset their calculations. The two-legged invaders on No. 5 were seen to run wildly about. They tried to stop the machinery that they had started, but somehow could not do so.

The rotation of No. 5 became still swifter. Hundreds of thousands of cubes were hurled into the heavens by the centrifugal force of that rotating world. The Confederacy picked off as many as it could with the crossing jets of light, but some managed to escape and were seen heading for Neptune No. 5 was breaking up! The centrifugal force had become greater than its power of gravitation. Huge masses were seen to detach themselves and go whirling off into space.

Saturn, the largest body in the vicinity, was seen to draw fully one-third of the matter that had composed No. 5 in its general direction. The powerful gravitational force of the Sun drew many large pieces, some of which were more than eight hundred miles in diameter, toward himself. The Moon, circling the Earth, came from behind its protection and bore the brunt of a stream of small pieces that struck its surface. Life there was instantly destroyed. The surface of the Moon became partially incandescent. Parts of the Earth, thanks to the Moon, escaped practically uninjured. But there was only a wild kind of life existing there. Jupiter received its share. Two large fragments went hurtling toward Mars.

In destroying No. 5 the invaders had destroyed themselves and nearly all the life in the solar system. The survivors of



the Twelve Confederate Worlds made their way to the Earth, the least injured of the planets, and there they began

anew, in a strange environment, to build the civilization that had been wrecked by the invaders from beyond the Milky Way.:

November Only

By MARION DOYLE

Ghosts do not walk the earth in carefree April — Never believe your eyes if they tell you so:

Those shadowy shapes half hid in feathery hedges Are only wild-plum cowled with blossomy snow.

Nor where the sensual body of the earth Lies with her lover in each emerald glade,

For anyone knows that the ecstasy of summer Would break into bits the brittle heart of a shade.

In winter they cannot rise; they lie in durance,

Bound by the great White Beast with chains of sleet: The spectral visions you see of a winter midnight Are only whirlwinds of snow in the silent street.

But when November comes, and the wild geese flying Above the iron fountains of the trees.

Over the last bloom in the garden dying,

Fling down their call, the dead stir in unease —

Strain at their bonds grown pliant with year’s rust. Arise; shake off the gray sepulchral dust;

Repeat the well-remembered Sesame And walk the ways of men; rebellious, free.

For there is something fey about November:

The arras hung between the quick and the dead Grows thinner and more fragile than the leaf A sentient wind whirls lightly overhead.

SOMETIMES a story is published in Weird Tales so unusual, so striking, that it remains in one’s memory for years after its publication. Such a story was Shambleau by C. L. Moore; such was The Woman of the Wood by A. Merritt; and such was The Outsider by the late H. P. Lovecraft. In our January issue we printed another story that promises to equal the popularity of the stories just mentioned. It is Roads, by Seabury Quinn, which combined excellent writing with a strange plot involving the Crucifixion and Santa Claus; surely an incongruous mixture, yet the tale was reverently told and held the reader in a spell of fascination until the story was concluded. It is now six months since the issue containing that story went on sale; yet letters are still pouring in to this office — letters of enthusiastic praise, and a very few that contain brickbats. Not since Shambleau’ s publication has a story in Weird Tales had so much popularity.

Best Issue

C. H. Chandler writes from Wooster, Ohio: “The June issue of Weird Tales was one of the best, perhaps the very best, issues which you have put out — certainly the best since I began this subscription. The main reason for its excellence, I believe, was the fact that it was all good, genuine 'weird’ stuff — the material which belongs in your magazine — and the percentage of trash was creditably low. Top honors in a top-notch collection go to Henry Kuttner’s Thunder in the Dawn. It is a great story, one which future readers will place among the classics of Lovecraft, Howard, and Weinbaum, and which will be referred to in future letters to the Eyrie with the nostalgia that attends the mention of such classics. It is rich in sheer fantasy, but at the same time it is full of

vivid action, and clear and virile writing. As a story it belongs on the highest plane — rates A+ or whatever it is — in all respects. You scored again with Lovecraft’s The Doom that Came to Sarnath. Its leisurely tempo and archaic style gave it an atmosphere that rendered its horror living and convincing. And I’m looking forward to the next installment of The Black Drama. Author Field did a good job with The Hairy Ones Shall Dance; but werewolf stories are nevertheless a drug on the market. Here is something new, and something which promises to give the writer a real chance to make a story. Bloch abandoned his wonted verbosity in Slave of the Flames and, in my opinion, really achieved something. I enjoy good word-pictures, but when it gets 'thick,’ then there is no pleasure left in them. The remaining stories were good, too — more than mere filler. You have an opportunity to print,some real little gems among those shorter stories.”

The Girl on the Cover

Eleanor Braley writes from Kennebunk, Maine: "The lovely, lovely girl on the June cover has such big eyes, but I liked the idea of some clothes, because when they are in the state of nature, the covers remind me of some of those nasty sexy magazines that only that kind of people are apt to buy. It goes without saying that WT isn’t cheap literature.”

Praise for Smith

Claire Beck writes from Lakeport, California: "I’m drawn to send you a few comments. First I must praise Clark Ashton Smith for his poem Outlanders — this magnificently constructed piece displays the whole atmosphere and meaning of fantasy in a few lines. Such a work as this could come




only from the secluded chamber in the halls of fantasy where dwells Clark Ashton Smith. In printing Mr. Smith’s poetry, I feel that you’re presenting some of the finest things time will ever know. And in his fiction I think we see at first-hand the outstanding prose composition being done in America today. All credit to Finlay for his praiseworthy frontispieces. The best of the group, I believe, is that which illustrates La Belle Dame Sans Merct. It is one of the loveliest and weirdest things I have seen.”

The June Issue Pleases Her

Caroline Ferber writes from Chicago: “Eando Binder pleased me again with From the Beginning. I rather felt sorry for poor Tumilten. Not much to say about the tale — it left me rather speechless, but it’s certainly worth reading again — I feel that perhaps I’ve missed something and must reread to absorb it more fully. From what one of the readers mentioned in an early issue, this Gans T. Field is an interesting person and I feel, too, that his tales are too absorbing for mere expression. His Judge Pursuivant is quite a character — likable, yet surprizing in his knowledge of the occult, the Black Drama begins good. Now don’t let this Varduk turn out to be a buggy actor who escaped from an upstate sanitarium. Have him be the dead Lord Byron himself — huh? Veil, veil, veil, veil, veil! Bob Bloch puts a new light on fires. This pyromaniac must have lived in a strange world to be a Slave of the Flames. There is beauty in dancing flames, but the beauty ceases when they grow too large and become destructive. Quite unusual and most engrossing. Ah — once more we go through thrills, adventure, excitement, magic — a glorious combination with a roaring warrior and a brave lassie. Thunder in the Dawn was relished from start to finish. Thanx, H. K. Am glad to see you bring us Elak again in the next issue. Fine! Strange, questioning this Doom that Came to Sarnath. Who but HPL could write it so? How wonderful is the thought that this world is but a plaything or experiment for scientists to whom we are but microscopic particles. Leslie Stone writes a most possible thesis on the subject, in Death Dallies Awhile. Bring on your Nathaniel Hawthorne — I’ve no objection to him. Besides, I’ve found it a good argument in discussing WT with scoffers to state that we reprint tales from Poe and

Hawthorne and who you wish of the oletimers. Was much delited to note that some of the Eyrie roosters enjoy Nictzin Dyalhis. Seems to me he doesn’t write as often or get as much of a showing as he should. Let’s have more of this person with the fascinating name. Let me stop for a moment to frown at James O’Regan’s complaint about The Hairy Ones Shall Dance. You may not be as quick to jump at conclusions, but when I read the lines mentioning the professor’s powerful wrists, a flash came to my mind that here was the guilty person, if any. So you see, it’s not always the kind ole gent on the corner. This prof was altogether too subtle and I felt uneasy with him around for the greater part of the story. Thanx to Cliff Ball for fighting back at H. Sivia. Too many readers are much too technical about minor details.”

Bundle of Chills

Robert A. Graham writes from Beverly Hills, California: "I wish to take time out from my work and write my first letter of likes and dislikes of that bundle of utter chills in the shape of Weird Tales magazine. I quite agree that H. P. Lovecraft and Howard were your best pens. However, this man who lives near myself (whom I do not know) that sends along an utter terror once in a while, Henry Kuttner, really has something there, I think. Speaking of the covers: I would rather see more weird covers than so much of the nude — nudity seems to take away the weird effect and leave pure sex; however, a nude in the dim background would perhaps keep the chilling effect of the magazine. I don’t see how a person can get horror effects from looking at a beautiful nude — and this Virgil Finlay, as well as Mrs. Brundage’s drawings, really puts on a show when it comes to this.”

Quinn Heads the List

William F. Zuckert, Jr., writes from Washington, D. C.: "Just a few lines in praise of the May issue, which I believe should take its place among the best you’ve given us. Quinn’s Goetterdaemmerung should head the list, in my humble estimation. That gentleman is really hitting his stride now, following that gem. Roads, with his present yarn. Personally, I’m anxiously looking forward to the next de Grandin tale; I have a hunch it will ring the bell. It will be diffiTHE EYRIE


cult to try to pick the best from among the other stories; they are all swell. However, I did get some genuine shivers from Pigeons from Hell. It was a bit gory perhaps, but it had the stuff. The Isle of the Sleeper was grand, having that poignant dream quality well woven through it. This story will remain with me for a long time. I prefer the short story to the serial, but Thunder in the Dawn has given me the old 'narrative hook.’ Chances are that I will like it in spite of myself.”

Slave of the Flames

Violet Nelson writes from Kenmare, North Dakota: "Hurrah for Robert Bloch! He’s done it at last! I knew he would. He’s ceased to copy Lovecraft and is starting to be himself! Slave of the Flames is wonderful. Keep it up, Robert. You’re going to be a master. I haven’t read all my June copy of WT yet, but just couldn’t hold in about Bloch’s story.”

Lovecraft

Paul S. Smith writes from Orange, New Jersey: "I was greatly pleased with Lovecraft’s story, The Doom that Came to Sarnath, which appeared in the June issue. It is so beautifully written that it seems like a poem in prose. Would that the author was still with us! I find it very difficult if not impossible to believe that there will ever be another Lovecraft; but if William Lumley can maintain the high level of excellence he has shown in The Diary of Alonzo Typer, I think he will at least prove to be a worthy successor to the late master. This story and The Horror in the Museum by Hazel Heald are, I think, the most Lovecraft-like productions you have published. Another story which has always stood out vividly in my mind since its publication some time ago is The Three Marked Pennies. For ingenuity of plot I don’t think you have ever published anything which has surpassed this. Even our beloved O. Henry — a king among plot constructors — would, I am sure, have been nothing less than proud of this particular plot if it had been one of his own conceptions.”

Best of Its Kind

Howard B. MacDonald writes from Yonkers, New York: "In the latest copy of Weird Tales you invite your readers to tell you what they think of the magazine. I have

been reading Weird Tales regularly now for five years; so here goes: In general, I think it is splendid — far and away the best magazine of its type. I spend a great many hours a day in study, and do not care much for the usual run of fiction; but I do enjoy immensely a good weird story, every now and then. I am particularly fond of tales of witches, zombies, werewolves, primitive magic, voodoo, reincarnation, outre adventures, and 'grisly horrors.’ I do not care quite so much for interplanetary yarns (most of them seem essentially similar) or too much pseudo-science fiction; although, occasionally, such a story has a unique twist and plenty of human interest. I like mysterious maidens who are witches; descriptions of strange rites, anything dealing with the supernatural, and perhaps above all, time-travel stories, when they are ’logically’ worked out and present authentic bits of history or sociology as their backgrounds. I alsS like pure fantasies, once in a while, such as the stories you have about flowers and trees and living winds, etc.... I believe that in general Seabury Quinn is the most consistently good author you have today. Obviously he is a man of considerable culture and literary background; and he uses this knowledge very well in his stories. His literary style is smooth and pleasant to read; while some of his descriptive passages are excellent, and his characters well drawn. I think his Globe of Memories is one of the finest weird tales ever written. I am pleased to find so many of his stories in your magazine. I always enjoy the Jules de Grandin ones particularly.”

The Deep South

Dale H. Exum writes from Nimrod, Texas:! "The May issue of WT contains, I am convinced, the weirdest stories I ever read. Thunder in the Dawn is a mighty, wonderful tale. Pigeons from Hell did not quite reach Howard’s usual height of excellence in my estimation, however. I often wonder why more stories of the Deep South do not appear in WT. The South is steeped three deep in tradition and superstitions that should make her the lover of the weird’s paradise. Won’t some of you writers lay off the New England witches and warlocks and let us hear more about this black side of the sunny South?... The Secret in the Vault had a rather Poeish taste, don’t you folks think? It had a good atmosphere but sort of



left me flat — the way it ended. Speaking of Poe, may I ask why space is being wasted in the Eyrie discussing an author who’s off somewhere fooling around in the Great Beyond? It’s generally realized that Poe had both good and bad points, with the good outweighing the bad, at least in his writings. Poe can’t smell any of these bouquets you folks are handing him, nor do the rotten eggs hurled at him stain his cloak of fame in the slightest. What say we drop it there and discuss our living authors, whom sincere constructive criticism may help to understand our tastes? I think most of them do great just as they’re doing. Let’s keep the Eyrie strictly a place in which to discuss our magazine. Right?”

Howard Reprints

Bernard E. Schiffmann writes from Laurelton, Long Island: “For ten years or more I have been a constant reader of your magazine, most of the copies of which I have in my collection. Naturally I have enjoyed and have had many pleasant hours of reading over the course of years. Lately however, I have been a bit dissatisfied with the type of stories in your Weird Story Reprint each month. Let the classics remain classics and don’t reprint them in your magazine. Nathaniel Hawthorne might have been tops in his day, but fortunately that day is past. However, a plea, nay actually a prayer for a Conan reprint or at least one of the late Robert E. Howard’s stories.”

Two Brickbats

Bryce M. Walton writes from Twin Falls, Idaho: "A thousand congratulations on publishing Seabury Quinn’s richly and magically composed Goetterdaemmerung, the death of the Gods! Goetterdaemmerung is a pulsating, unforgettable example of what Mr. Quinn can do in the regions of great prose if he forsakes Jules de Grandin and lets his own inexhaustible imagination, magic poetic narrative, and inimitable style, run rampant. I sincerely adjudge it to be Quinn’s greatest yarn to date, and a monument and tribute to Weird Tales, the unique magazine, which in this case certainly published a bizarre tale indeed.... I could take up the entire Eyrie talking about Goetterdaemmerung and Roads and The Temple Dancer, named in the order of their excellence, but I have two brickbats to hurl at that May issue: There was an

appalling absence of two characteristics of Weird Tales that are very dear to me: the lack of verse, and the absence of those intriguing 'short shorts’ that, as Earl Peirce, Jr. said,... 'are not fillers but fillings.’ The poetry and those ultra-short stories always leave an unforgettable impression with me that the longer prose fails to provide. And while still on the subject of 'short shorts’: how about some more from Rex Earnest, who gave us The Inn? I haven’t really quite recovered yet from the dire effects of its shadowed atmosphere. However, I’ll add this ultimatum: if anything equal to the immortal Goetterdaemmerung could be published every month, everything else entirely could be dropped from the pages of Weird Tales, and the local news stand would still receive my two-bits regularly — and that’s the truth!”

Edgar Allan Poe

Seymour Kapetansky writes from Detroit, Michigan: “This is in reply to J. Mackay Tait, who in the March Eyrie disparaged the name and work of Edgar Poe. I don’t claim to be an authority on Poe but as I am writing a 16,000-word paper on Poe and his work for a college English class I do think I’m in a position to dispel Mr. Tait’s misconception that Poe’s work is a product of 'a diseased mind,’ that his stories are 'literary lunacy.’ If Poe’s horror stories suggest mental caveins, that is a tribute to his genius. But no diseased mind could have turned out the remarkable and vivid poetry, the logical criticism, the careful reviews, the stabbing observations of the marginalia, and the thoughtprovoking essay on the universe, Eureka, that Poe managed to write in his abbreviated lifetime. Mr. Tait writes that 'there is never any situation... in which all hope and humor are entirely absent.’ Has Mr. Tait ever had a nightmare? Poe was poverty-stricken and all his life had to worry about bread and butter; he had an ailing wife — he had feuds with petty literati and he had feuds with Longfellow. His troubles led him to drink and to drugs, like other literary iconoclasts and Richard Wagner. It is not admitted by the best authorities that Poe was mentally like an unworked jigsaw puzzle. Poe’s mind was not a lost one nor did it even stray. Prejudiced and half-truthed attacks on America’s greatest literary genius are out of order.”


255:

Superb Covers

Wallie Darker, Jr. writes from Melbourne, [Victoria, Australia: "Although I haven’t been a reader of WT for very long, because they have just recently started to come out in Australia, I feel I must tell you what I think of your magazine. I first started to read it in this way: I saw the April 1937 cover by Virgil Finlay, and became compelled to buy it, and I was surprized to find it did not contain the pulp found in other magazines. I ordered my copy for each following month, and managed to dig up all 1937 magazines and December ’36, as well, and all I can say is that they all are excellent. As for the covers, I can’t express my gratitude for them. They are superb. I was overjoyed to find in the December 1937 WT (that is the latest here) that Virgil Finlay was to have a page in each month. It’s something to wait for. I think the best author is Earl Peirce, Jr.... I could rave for hours about other things in your magazine but I have other things to ask. Could it be possible to get the addresses of some of the authors, so as to write to them? I’d get a great kick out of it.” [In common with other magazines, Weird Tales has an inflexible rule against giving out the names of its authors without their consent. However, any letters addressed to the authors in care of Weird Tales will be promptly forwarded to them. — The Editor.]

Against Logical Explanations

Jorge Thuillier writes from Havana: "Suicide Chapel is a good story, but I do not think it fits in WT. It would look better in a detective or 'horror’ magazine, with all its careful descriptions of splintered bones protruding through the skin, and its very common plot of girl-stealing gorillas. We readers of Weird Tales do not usually care for stories with 'logical’ explanations. We like better to meet ghosts, vampires, ghouls, and strange creatures that are able to disappear in a mist. Mr. Quinn has everything to write such stories: style, imagination, and two wonderful characters, Jules de Grandin and Doctor Trowbridge. Let us see them facing supernatural enemies, and not gorilla trainers. I am expecting from Quinn something like Roads, the loveliest story ever published.”


As 'Twas Told To Me

By Seabury Quinn

TJTere is a fascinating tale of ro- -*■ mance and witchcraft in Puritan New England, and the appalling fate of a lovely red-haired girl in that superstitious age.

T hose were narrow, ugly times, when men and women were doomed by mere suspicion, and haled forth to the gibbet on perjured testimony; when smug, self-righteous men actually believed they were furthering the cause of God by not suffering a witch to live. Mr. Quinn has built an intriguing novelette upon the witchpersecutions of that time, which will engross your interest from the first word to the last. It will be published complete

in the September issue of


on sale August 1st



Concise Comments

John W. Eyles writes from Sydney, Australia: "Roads, by Seabury Quinn, is definitely not a weird tale. But it is one of the most beautiful things that I have ever read. So, I’m glad that you printed it.”

L. A. Taylor writes from Asbury Park, New Jersey: "May I say that I only wish the magazine could be issued every week? I prefer it to every other I get. I read a good many, but they all wait unopened when I get Weird Tales.”

Richard Conrad Nicholas writes from New York City: "Let’s have more stories like Incense of Abomination, Roads, Pigeons from Hell, stories of the supernatural, ghosts, werewolves, devils, and that sort. Keep out robots, planetary and time travel; they belong in science-fiction periodicals.”

F. G. Cox writes from Laurel, Mississippi: "I have just finished this month’s issue of Weird Tales and will say your publication is holding its own remarkably well in face of the stunning loss of several of your most brilliant authors. My orchids this month go to A. W. Calder for Song of Death.”

Christopher W. Martens writes from Beechhurst, Long Island, New York: "Being something of an artist, I can appreciate Virgil Finlay’s drawings and illustrations. His darks and lights blended together are knockouts and worthy of outstanding praise. He has the ability of making one feel terror as well as see it. What he could do with one of Mr. Poe’s stories is nobody’s business.”

Apology

Because of an unforeseen accident, the pictures for this issue did not reach us in time to be used. Sorry!

Most Popular Stories

Readers, what is your favorite story in this issue? If you have any comments to make, please address them to The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago. As this issue goes to press, two stories are in an exact tie for favorite in the June issue, as shown by your letters and votes. These are From the Beginning by Eando Binder, and Slave of the Flames by Robert Bloch.

MY FAVORITE STORIES IN THE AUGUST WEIRD TALES ARE:

Story Remarks

( 1 )

( 2 )

( 3 ):

I do not like the following stories:

( 1 ) Why?

( 2 )

Reader’s name and address:

I

Address coupon to the Eyrie, WEIRD | *

TALES, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, | —

W. T.— 8


THE tiger was sinking into a crouch, his wicked old eyes blazing with hunger and fear, strikingly like die expression of an old roue whose wife holds the purse-strings, when he sights a lovely young thing in petticoats. He knew he was violating a beastly taboo; had known it every time he struck down a human being. But necessity knows no law; the hunger of a starving tiger is as important to the tiger as the hunger which impels a striker to break a scab’s head is to the striker. And like all forbidden fruit, human flesh produced a strange delirium of ecstasy, setting up wild vibrations in the shadowy thing that is a tiger’s soul.

Her screams roused him to madness. His tail lashed the grasses, his stringy old muscles coiled; then, just as Bernice threw up her hands to shut out the sight of doom, she caught a flash of color out of the corner of her eye. That sense which is politely called the feminine instinct told her it was a male human even before she got a good look at him.

The quick, harried glance showed her it was a tall man, apparently a native, clad in whites and a turban. Her heart sank as she saw he was apparently unarmed; though it must be admitted that this emotion was prompted by the fear that he would be unable to rescue her, rather than by the realization of the peril he was stepping into.

But he showed no sign of perturbation. His strong, dark face was tranquil, reflecting neither fear nor passion as he walked toward the crouching brute, which ‘had checked its spring and now snarled up at him, whiskers quivering with outraged resentment. The man folded his arms, almost wearily, and stood looking down at the brute. And then a strange thing happened. Bernice felt a distinct vibration in the air, almost like a faint electric shock. The man had drawn no weapon. He had made no hostile move, but she saw a change steal into the great shining eyes of the crouching tiger. They glowed weirdly, then flared wide with the shadow of fear. And with a rustle of the tall grass, the beast was gone, sudden and silent as a shadow itself....

This is a strange weird tale of India that you will not want to miss. Robert E. Howard’s part in the story is the last fiction that flowed from his inspired pen before his untimely

[THE END]

============================================================
by The contents of this magazine are fully protected by copyright and must not be reproduced either wholly or in
============================================================
death. It will be printed complete in next month’s Weird Tales:


By Robert E. Howard and Frank Thurston Torbett

Also


By Algernon Blackwood

Of all the schemes to beat the bank at Monte Carlo, the method used by this stranger from Tibet was the most fantastic — and the most practical.

AS TWAS TOLD TO ME THE MANDARIN’S CANARIES

By Seabury Quinn By Robert Bloch

A tale of romance and witchcraft in Puritan New A grim and fascinating tale of a torture-mad ChiEngland, and the fate of a lovely red-haired girl in nese ruler who fed strange food to his feathered that superstitious age. songsters in his garden of horror.


By Earl Peirce, Jr., and Bruce Bryan

An eery tale of strange surgery, and a weird monstrosity that was created by the daring attempt of an imaginative surgeon to modify nature’s laws of heredity.

September Issue Weird Tales - - Out August 1

Have You Had These

WHO has not experienced that inexplicable phenomenon of sensing an unseen presence? Who has not suddenly realized that he has been listening to a conversation within himself — an eloquent appeal to self from some intangible intelligence? Who has not had that tenseness, that sensation of a suppressed excitement, as though some power were seeking to manifest through him? Too long have the restrictions of orthodoxy and the ridicule of unenlightened persons kept these common-place occurrences shrouded in secrecy. Millions now admit the existence of an intimate persuasive power.,. but centuries of superstition have caused them to fear it.

Learn what the world’s greatest thinkers, artists, poets and geniuses found by accident... that the emotional self, the infinite intelligence just beyond the border of your thinking consciousness, is the source of the greatest creative power that the human mind can command. It is the region from which ideas spring, the fountain-head of imagination and forethought.

Accept this FREE Sealed Book

You cannot better your place in life by thinking only in terms of what you have read or heard. Only by the intelligent direction of your inner faculties will you receive that needed vision and impetus to carry you beyond the plodding routine-enslaved masses. The ancient sages and mystics were NOT day-dreaming in their secluded sanctuaries and temples, but instead they were invoking these natural God-given powers... their feats were not miracles, but the results of the same faculties which you possess.

The Rosicrucians, a time-honored fraternity (not a religious organization) devoted to a study of these Cosmic principles and forces, invite you to share this knowledge which they have preserved. With it you can gain the utmost from, every conscious hour of your life. Use the gift coupon below and secure without obligation, the fascinating FREE. Sealed Book, which explains further.


Scribe, Y. Z. B.

The Rosicrucians, AMORC,

San Jose, California,

I am sincerely interested in knowing more about this unseen, vital power which can be used in acquiring the fullness and happiness of life. Please send me, without cost, the book, “THE SECRET HERITAGE.” which tells me how to receive this information.

NAME


ROSICRUCIANS t* Moi,c l san jose, California

[THE END]
