============================================================
Weird Tales
Volume , Number 
Date: July 1934
============================================================
============================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS

  1. "Wild Grapes" by August W. Derleth
  2. "Magic Carpets" by Ethel Morgan-Dunham
  3. "The Thunderstones of Nuflo" by Ralph Allen Lang
  4. "The Disinterment of Venus" by Clark Ashton Smith
  5. "Drowned Argosies" by Jay Wilmer Benjamin
  6. "The Dead Man’s Tale" by Willard E. Hawkins
============================================================
============================================================
WILD GRAPES
by August W. Derleth
============================================================
fumes, Etienne-Laurent de Marigny often sits listening with vague sensations to the abnormal rhythm of that hieroglyphed, coffin-shaped clock.

Wm Grapes

By AUGUST W. DERLETH

A strange little story about the white cloud that hung over the unmarked grave of a murdered man

T HE echo of his neighbors’ mock¬ ing voices lingered in Luke Adam’s mind—"Wild grapes!” scornfully said, pityingly whispered from mouth to ear, from farm to farm and on into Sac Prairie. Standing there on his rickety porch, he smiled, his grim lips curving only slightly, his eyes hard and cold. His gaze went from the farmyard across the fields to the clump of cedars fringing his land to the southwest. Dividing the trees from the fields were the wild grapes he had planted.

He had planted them at night. Did those fools think of that? Not they, and the better for him. Darkness was a wel¬ come cloak for his work, since the body could not have been handled in the day¬ time.

Twilight did not obscure the strong green of the wild grapes. He consid¬ ered them in the growing darkness, the long line of them curving along the slope, and finally drove his eyes to the thick clump growing where the body of his Uncle Raisa lay. He complimented himself again on the sagacity he had shown in setting wild grapes to grow on die spot where the body was buried. No

expense had been incurred, and the broken earth on the edge of the field had excited no comment but the scornful voices of his farming neighbors, who thought him crazy to go to any trouble about wild grapes when there were so many of them in the bottoms not far from his land.

He was glad, too, that the old man had the reputation for taking long and mys¬ terious journeys and staying away for months at a time without communicating with anyone. All the old man’s friends nodded solemnly and said, "Raisa’s gone on another tear.” No one had suspected anything. Luke could appreciate the irony of their laughter over his wild grapes.

The stars brightened, and the after¬ glow faded to a fan of emerald light flung upward against the western sky. Luke lit his pipe and watched the slow smoke trail upward from his lips. A whippoorwill began to call from the bot¬ toms. Abruptly a small dark shape dropped noiselessly to the roof of the corn-crib and shrilled its flute-like call into the growing night.

Luke thought of the legend about


■whippoorwills calling for a dying man’s soul. He caught up a clod of earth and flung it at the bird on the corn-crib.

"Get out,” he muttered harshly. "You got Uncle Raisa—you don’t get me.” He laughed at his words, grimly.

One by one the whippoorwills assault¬ ed the silence, and from the sky came the harsh calls of nighthawks and woodcocks. An owl hooted mournfully from the grove of cedars. Presently the moon pushed itself into the sky above the low range of hills to the east, and long shad¬ ows haunted the ground.

Thinking of his uncle, Luke experi¬ enced a shudder of irritation at himself that he had not killed the old man with one blow. "They’ll get you for this, Luke, and if they don’t, I will,” he had had time to say before that second blow. And he had cursed him, too. Luke smiled, took his pipe from his mouth, and spat at a stone not far from the porch steps.

"C’mon, Raisa,” he murmured. "I’m still waitin’.”

He felt warmth creeping over him at the satisfactory knowledge of his owner¬ ship of his uncle’s farm. He had always wanted it; now it was his, even if the fools thereabouts considered him only a caretaker. When it would be plain to them that the old man was never coming back, even they would have to acknowl¬ edge him as owner.

He knocked out his pipe presently and stood up, stretching himself. Then he turned to go into the house. From the threshold he looked once more toward the line of wild grapes, fixing his eyes on the large clump in the center, now lost against the dark background of the cedars.

As he looked, he reflected that he had never before been aware of that patch of

sky showing through between the trees above the grapevines.

Even as he thought it, the sky moved gently to one side. For a breathless mo¬ ment Luke felt a shock of terror; then he took a deep breath, pressed his lips firm¬ ly together, and stared long and hard at the patch of sky.

The sky wavered a little, moved casual¬ ly to the north, and drifted southward again.

It was not sky! It was a whiteness above the secret grave, standing out against the cedars—not sky showing through from beyond!

Luke flung himself into the house, banging the door behind him, and stood with his back against it. Sweat flecked his forehead, and his hands shook despite his determination to control himself. He strove to convince himself that he had seen nothing, that his eyes and the night had combined to play a ghastly trick on him.

Presently he moved away from the door. He halted just before he reached the west window, hesitation looped about his legs, stopping their advance. If he went forward, he would look out of the window. He would look at the grave. And his eyes might trick him again.

He stood there, feeling that the house was pressing its walls toward him. A sense of ominous closeness enveloped him. Presently he groped for the table, found the lamp, and the box of matches. He struck one and held the dancing flame to the wick, his shadow grotesque against the wall and the ceiling. The small, poorly furnished room sprang into dubi¬ ous life.

A feeling of security returned to him with the light, and he sat down at the table, resting his head on his clenched fists. The noise of the whippoorwills

WILD GRAPES


dinned into the room, insistence in the wealth of flute-like notes that welled across the fields from the lowlands and the marsh beyond. As he sat listening to them, unreasonable anger grew at their calls, and he determined to go whippoor¬ will-hunting in the morning, intent upon paying them back for the fright he had got.

The fear having gone completely out of him, he rose abruptly and strode bold¬ ly to the window. He looked out. The white mass had grown. It lowered threat¬ eningly above the row of wild grapes, uncanny movement breaking its outlines. As he looked, the moonlight faded sud¬ denly, clouds blanketing it away from the earth, and the white shape against the cedars seemed to glow as if from some inner light.

He fell bade from the window, his heart pounding with maddening insist¬ ence. There was something at the grave. Terror possessed him suddenly, terror driven into fierce life at the fear that somehow Raisa Adam was coming back to get him, as the dead man had promised.

He made a frantic calculation. It was almost a month now since he had killed the old man. No one had suspected. No one had come for him. No solid flesh could rise from that grave. Yet the old man had said he would return, if LukeThe door swung suddenly wide, forced open by a gust of wind, and the night gaped blackly beyond. Lamplight lit the porch floor tentatively, fingers of flicker¬ ing light turned back by the darkness.

Luke looked out through the doorway toward the southwest, where the grave was. The white tiling was still there, moving with the wind, now this way, now that, and occasionally there were flaffing white arms seeming to beckon

him, or grotesque heads lolling horribly against the night.

He dragged himself from the room to the porch, where he leaned against a post, looking with fear-maddened eyes toward the line of wild grapes. There was some¬ thing about that whiteness—something that brought sudden hope to him. He stared, cold sweat smarting in his eyes.

Then he remembered. Phosphorus from decaying bodies. He had read of that somewhere. It sometimes happened. So-called ghosts in graveyards were noth¬ ing but phosphorus — he remembered reading about it. He almost sobbed his relief, and for a moment laughed weakly at himself.

He tempered his relief with the thought that he had better make sure about the phosphorescence. Immediately another thought occurred to him and brought apprehension. If it were phos¬ phorescence, someone might possibly notice it and investigate, though the spot was out of sight of all farmhouses and all roads save the poorly marked trail to his own house, and in sight of strange fields only during the day.

H e stepped from the porch, leaving the lamplit doorway open behind him, and strode away into the darkness, frightening up whippoorwills as he went. As he came into the southwest forty, un¬ easiness took possession of him at recog¬ nition of the fact that the phosphores¬ cence did not fade, that it seemed to have descended more closely about the clump of grapevines growing from the spot where the body lay concealed.

He halted uncertainly ten feet from the vines and looked. The whiteness was phosphorescence, he was sure of that. He felt vaguely that it ought by rights to be closer to the ground, but he could net be sure. And it moved oddly, sometimes


with the wind, but sometimes not. There was a very odd shape to it, too. He felt misgivings, and cast a glance backward for the reassuring sight of the rectangle of light from the house.

Despite a sudden feeling that he should go no farther, he stepped forward. He came up to the mass of vines and looked carefully down at the unmarked spot where he had noctumally buried Raisa Adam almost a month ago.

The ground seemed oddly broken.

He pushed away the grapevines and peered closer.

Suddenly he felt something close about his ankle, felt something whip toward his uncovered head. He jerked upward—and felt his arms, too, caught. Then he looked up.

His hoarse, terror-fraught screams were

muffled by the writhing mass of grape¬ vines which descended upon him, their rustling like an echo of Raisa Adam’s dying voice, their sentient movement vengefully alive.

H e was found two mornings after.

He had been strangled; there were still vines wound oddly about his throat. It was said in Sac Prairie that he had probably entangled himself somehow and had caused his death. Everybody said it served him right. In his struggles he had kicked up the ground so that the body of Raisa Adam was discovered.

The farmers who dug the old man out

[THE END]

============================================================
MAGIC CARPETS
by Ethel Morgan-Dunham
============================================================
said he was not a pleasant sight. The big grapevine which Luke had planted above his victim had rooted itself firmly in the decaying flesh and clung fiercely to the body when they moved it.

agic Carpets

By ETHEL MORGAN-DUNHAM

Crinkled petals pink or white, hanging by a thread. Crinkled petals purple, crinkled petals red.

Form your plume-like fleecy balls, flaunt them in the breeze All throughout the summer, rivaling the trees;

But when autumn days appear, or the clouds are dark,

Fall down slowly on the ground, mingle with the bark That was shed before the leaves, now a salmon sheen, Make weird carpets of the grass, veil the living green.

K,

ampires of the Moon

By A. W. BERNAL

“Hie finger of Death was pointing at the two escaping Earthmen.”

A sensational story of the Masters of the Moon and their mindless slaves —and a terrible threat against the inhabitants of Earth

The Story Thus Far WO space-ships of the Trans-spatial Service Legion—the Thunder¬ bolt and the America Vll —had vanished when Captain Richard Starr sent his younger brother, Lieutenant John Starr, and the latter’s closest friends. Lieu¬ tenants Hall Bradley and Rusty Steele, to search for the missing vessels.

In the Meteor IV the trio of Earthmen left Moon Headquarters and strayed into the interior of the satellite, where they were captured under weird circumstances by the eery inhabitants of a city hidden away in a cavern of phosphorescent light. Fortunately there was a breathable atmos¬ phere in this inner world.

Steele, separated from his companions.



was able to converse with his captors— living mummies—by means of a thoughttransference helmet of his own invention. He was taken to see the Ten—die ruling council of the moon-men.

Meanwhile, Captain Starr had learned of the capture of his brother by a mystify¬ ing radio message. With Lieutenant Jerry Smith he had started out, in a con¬ verted ore-carrier—the only ship at hand —to rescue the imperiled trio.

In his reckless haste to reach the Moon City, Captain Starr cracked up at the bot¬ tom of a shaft that connected the moon’s surface with its interior.

The ore-carrier was smashed beyond repair and Jerry Smith emerged from the wreck with a broken arm and a disabled knee.

But Captain Starr was able to carry on afoot. He had not left Smith far be¬ hind, however, before he was confronted with the Meteor IV, which was returning to the moon’s face. Starr prepared to die, for he believed the stolen cruiser to be manned by moon-men.

In the meantime, Steele had learned that the half-alive mummies were Yultats, under mental control of the Xinthquuls —deathless brain giants. The Yultats had no minds of their own.

The Ten were bent on terrestrial con¬ quest, and Steele was offered the choice of helping willingly or by force. He ap¬ peared to fall in with the moon-men, so as to have a chance to escape, intending to return armed to free his comrades.

When Steele came across the stolen cruisers, he bowled over intervening Yul¬ tats and sprang to the conning-tower of the nearest one, before the mummy-men could stop him. He stepped inside the control room, then froze in horror.

The control room was devoid of instru¬ ments; the ship had been dismantled.

12. Steele Escapes

TEELE, his face now set grimly, his lips a thin, hard line, turned slowly tc face the Yultats. By this time every Yultat within sight had dropped his work and was hurrying toward the Thunderbolt. Steele’s eyes swept around in a quick, wide circle. Not very far away lay the America VII, also probably dismantled, and beyond that, the Meteor TV. And Steele saw his chance.

How long he had been in the Moon City he could not tell, but he knew it could not have been long enough for the Yultats to denude the control room of the Meteor TV. If he could but reach her!

The pavement around the Thunder¬ bolt now swarmed with Yultats; some had even reached the ship-ladder and were scaling it. Steele longed for even one of the four pistols in his vanished weapon-belt, but his desperate eyes, searching for some sort of weapon, could only find a bar of steel lying upon the floor of the control room. Yet the Yul¬ tats did not seem to possess even so prim¬ itive a weapon as that.

Steele snatched up the bar and jumped hard as he could, just as the first of the mummy-men reached the top of the shipladder. From the uppermost part of the Thunderbolfs hull the Earthman shot completely over the heads of the inter¬ vening Yultats and covered half the dis¬ tance to the America VII ere he touched the ground. Scrambling to his feet in a flash, Steele was off toward his goal, jab¬ bing, crushing, pounding a way through the ranks of the Yultats who tried to hin¬ der him.

Swinging the bar in a rapid circle of death and destruction, he bore down upon his practically defenseless antagonists and rammed them asunder. But as he reached the side of the America VII, Steele per¬ ceived a thick mass of Yultats ahead

VAMPIRES OF THE MOON


through which he could not possibly smash his way. A glance to the rear showed him another equally solid wave of running mummy-men. He was hemmed in, caught between the two mobs!

Then it was that his muscles, accus¬ tomed to Earth’s greater gravity pull, stood him in good stead. Steele put all his strength into a great leap. As though he had been shot from a gun, the Earthman soared high above the advancing horde and landed squarely atop the rounded hull of the America VII.

As he hit the ship his feet shot out from under him on the sloping metal surface. He clutched at a projection to save himself from falling, and in doing so, let go the steel bar, which dropped, clanging, to the pavement below at the feet of a band of Yultats. For an instant Steele thought he was fated to follow his weapon, but he finally managed to drag himself to temporary safety near the ship’s conning-tower.

A single brief look showed Steele that her control room was bare, and this time not even a convenient bar of steel dis¬ closed itself. He was trapped securely; escape seemed out of the question.

Best to die fighting, though, he told himself, as he clung, panting, to the con¬ ning-tower. Far better to die swiftly than to become a Yultat, a dead-alive thing, for eternity. Steele aimed a kick at a repulsive head that was appearing above the top of the ship-ladder, then wheeled to face the Meteor IV now so near, yet so utterly beyond reach. With his last bit of strength, he sprang hopelessly toward his unattainable goal.

A horde of Yultats swarmed over the Earthman as he landed, preventing him by sheer weight of numbers from doing further harm. In a trice, a dozen pairs of arms had him in grips of steel, and he

was lifted and carried helplessly off in the direction of the inner city. He was cap¬ tured.

F inding he could not move his body a fraction of an inch, Steele lay quiet, racking his brain for a plan whereby he might accomplish a quick death. Funny the Xinthquuls didn’t order their slaves to remove his thought-helmet, Steele mused, but then they were probably too busy controlling the mobs of Yultats to bother with details.

Thought-helmet! Control!

Why hadn’t he thought of that before? What a fool he had been, for not trying this newly formulated plan before! Of course, it might not work, but if it did, the trick would snatch victory from de¬ feat. Out of the corner of his eye Steele saw that he was being carried past the Meteor IV; he was at the ideal spot for the execution of his plan. So without further delay he set to work.

First he must get his hands free to work the dial of his thought-helmet, to set it so that he could commune with the Yul¬ tats. He was puzzled only for a moment as to how he was to do this; then a way suggested itself to him.

Lustily, with all the power his lungs could command, the Earthman began singing the latest tune of the day. To the Yultats—or, more strictly speaking, to their controllers, the Xinthquuls— music was an unknown thing. And it is to be doubted that, even though they had been acquainted with song, they would have recognized their captive’s obstreper¬ ous, discordant bellowings as such.

But Steele’s stentorian caterwauling had its desired effect. The Yultats stopped dead in their tracks, turning dull, lack-luster eyes upon the Earthman. Cau¬ tiously, carefully, they began lowering him to the ground, considerably loosen92


ing their grip. Ydt Steele remained mo¬ tionless. still singing his clamorous song.

Up to this time he had held himself rigid; now with one final outburst he climaxed his song by allowing his body to become suddenly limp. He sagged heavily and felt himself slowly slipping from the grasp of tiie Yultats. The Xinthquuls must have been utterly dumfounded at Steele’s noisy bellow, followed as it was by the quick relaxing of previously tense muscles; certainly they must have been considerably puzzled.

Then with a whoop, Steele jerked him¬ self erect, wrenching loose from the lax grip of the Yultats. With a bound, he was free of that group before they had recovered the power of motion. He was still a considerable distance away from the Meteor IV, though, and a now slowly turning mob of Yultats separated him from it.

But the spot where he stood was mo¬ mentarily free of the half-alive creatures who had once been men, and this gave him the brief time needed to set the con¬ trolling-dial of his helmet. Then he con¬ centrated hard.

It worked!

One of the Yultats that had been cartying him was about to pounce upon him as the Earthman sent out his concentrated thought impulses. The Yultat stopped short not two feet away from Steele, then wheeled and headed back to his fellows. As he met the advancing group of mum¬ my-men, he swung heavily and sent one of his erstwhile helpers crashing to the ground. The others soon stopped also, and in a moment they were all inextrica¬ bly mixed in a vicious brawl.

Steele laughed aloud at the success of his attempt to usurp the mental control of the Xinthquuls, and began running in the direction of the Meteor IV. As a magnet attracts iron, the Yultats were beginning

to close in on the Earthman. But as each group drew within a certain distance, Steele’s thought-commands overcame those of the Xinthquuls, with tile result that all around Steele’s immediate vicinity the causeway was filled with madly fight¬ ing Yultats.

However, this could not keep up. The pace was too steep for Steele’s mentality to cope with. He was soon compelled to walk very slowly to concentrate his ener¬ gies further in warding off the Yultats. Sweat trickled down his face, while, as soon as he had passed, the Yultats ceased their fighting and joined the others of their kind in pursuit.

Soon the weary Earthman was held at bay, completely encircled by groups of battling Yultats; yet hundreds more were pressing forward, hemming him in. His powers of mental control were pitifully limited.

He was just about to give up, to admit he was beaten, when a brilliant idea came to him. Changing his mental command, Steele forced the near-by Yultats to stop fighting and rush to his side. Quickly they picked him up and dashed as fast as they could run toward the Meteor IV, whose blue-black hull loomed close at hand.

Without bothering at all about the dis¬ tant Yultats out of his range, Steele made as many of those near him as his weak¬ ening powers of command would permit come rushing to him. Soon he was the middle of a multitude of Yultats, packed closely together, and running smoothly in triangular formation. The Earthman had made himself the center of a human wedge!

Try as they might, the Yultats under control of the Xinthquuls could not force their way through the ranks of Steele’s protectors to lay hands upon him, but were turned ruthlessly aside or trampled

VAMPIRES OF THE MOON


underfoot by the Earthmari’s efficient bodyguard. And it was in this strange manner that Steele at last obtained the goal he had been striving so vainly to reach, borne to his destination on the shoulders of the slaves of his enemies!

J ust as he was triumphantly scaling the ship-ladder of the Meteor IV, after having been carefully set down by his bearers, something occurred which nearly spelled disaster for the Earthman’s bril¬ liantly conceived and executed plan.

One of the Yultats some distance away had but recently emerged from the under¬ ground laboratories to join the chase. In his hand he carried a tiny container of the greenish gas of suspended animation. Waiting for the precise moment when Steele’s protectors halted by the Legion cruiser, he had then hurled his vial at the ship. The creature’s aim was good, and the little bottle smashed on the metal hull of the space-ship just above Steele’s head at the moment he set foot on the lowest rung of the ladder leading to the conning-tower. The Earthman saw a cloud of shining mist spring suddenly into being directly above him, but he was not to be caught again at this last mo¬ ment. He instantly recognized the gas Starr had warned him about; so, gulping down a deep breath of clear, cold air, Steel mounted the ladder in a single bound, and in a twinkling had dived into the control room, banging the door to be¬ hind him. He was safely enclosed in an absolutely air-tight chamber.

The Earthman breathed a prayer of thankfulness that came from the bottom of his heart. Outside of the fact that all the weapons that habitually ornamented the cruiser were missing, nothing in the conning-tower of the Meteor IV had been touched. He flung himself at the controlboard.

With a lurch, the Meteor IV lifted off the stone pavement and soared high into the air, half-way to the cavern roof. Two or three Yultats who had grabbed at the rising ship and found hand-holds, soon let go to drop back upon the heads of their fellows far below.

The first thing Steele did was to shoot over to that part of the city where Lieu¬ tenant Starr was stationed. But when he hovered momentarily over the spot where he had last seen his fellow Earthman, he found that area devoid of life. The mummy-men had rushed Jack off to some inside hide-away, until Steele was taken care of.

But there was something left. A whine of constantly rising pitch denoted the presence of the flame-gun which was warming up, preparatory to goihg into action. Steele dived frantically at the controls as the ship’s walls began to be¬ come red-hot, and like a streak of jagged light the cruiser swept in a zigzag course across the cave of light and entered the ragged black opening of the tunnel mouth ere the Yultats could again train their death-dealing weapons upon the escaping Earthman, inside his fleet ship.

From the other side of the city, a shiny new ship jerked erratically skyward, like a dying moth, then crashed heavily back upon the thick carpet of moon-weed be¬ low. The Earthman was free of pursuit; the moon-men were not yet fully able to control their own ships.

13. Betrayed

ezzling suns! Starr, don’t shoot! It’s Steele—Rusty Steele of the Le¬ gion!”

Captain Richard Starr stood aghast. Slowly, bewilderedly, he returned the pis¬ tols with which he had been covering the Meteor IV to their holsters.

u You, Lieutenant?” he cried hoarsely,



while a thrill of relief surged through him.

"Yes sir. I’ve just come from the Moon City. We’ve got to get back to the Station as fast as possible.”

Starr scaled the ladder to the conningtower in a flash and tumbled inside the control room. The two stood in silence for a time, eyeing each other. It would have been exceedingly difficult to tell which was the dirtiest. Their once splen¬ did scarlet tunics and white trousers were scarcely more than tattered, besmeared masses of rags. Starr’s head with its gro¬ tesque patch of blood-stained bandages was rivalled by that of Steele, whose sweat-matted hair, escaping from under¬ neath the thought-helmet, was plastered against his still perspiring face.

"I’m mighty glad to see you, Steele,” grinned Captain Starr, at last. "You are certainly a sight for sore eyes!”

"Well, if I may say so, sir,” quoth Steele, grimacing back at the grimy appa¬ rition before him, "you’re a sight your¬ self, although I’m not sure about the 'sore eyes’ part!”

They both laughed a bit, then ceased guiltily, as each thought of the precious minutes he was wasting, instead of carry¬ ing on with his vital mission: the one to rescue his brother, the other to warn Earth of her impending doom.

"Let’s get started, sir,” said Steele, reaching for the controls. "It’s a long way back and it’s very urgent that I get to the Station at once. I’ll tell you what’s doing on the way up. I have a big job ahead of me, setting up a weapon, when we get back to Headquarters. I radioed the boys to get the parts ready for me, but-”

“Wait, Steele,” Captain Starr inter¬ rupted. "Tell me about Jack. Is he all right? Tell me now, before you start the ship. I’m not going back with you!”

"But sir! You can’t-”

"I told you I am not going back to the Station with you! I am not going to turn back now that I am so near to him. Hurry up and tell me all that is important about Jack and the moon-men, that has occurred since he sent his last message. Quickly!”

Seeing that his superior was not to be dissuaded from his mad attempt to con¬ tinue on his way to the Moon City, Steele hastily related all the incredible events necessary to give Starr a full understand¬ ing of what had occurred down in the inner world, while he had been held cap¬ tive there by the mind-vampires.

His recital finished, Steele paused for breath, looking quizzically at his captain.

"Sir,” Steele began again, persistently, "hadn’t you better return to the surface with me now, and later-”

"No!” Starr cut him off short. "I am all the more determined to get to Jack, now that I have learned that the moonmen are more hostile than I thought at first. With the unexpected turn events have taken, I can not be certain how long I have to save him. Quick, give me your helmet!”

Steele, with some difficulty on account of the way the thing was jammed on, re¬ moved his thought-helmet, and handed it doubtfully to Starr.

“Do you think you can use it, sir?” he asked dubiously.

"No. But it will prevent those vam¬ pires from stealing my mind. Hurry now, and, get me a life-shell! Hurry!”

Without further parley, Steele opened a trap-door in the floor of the cabin and pulled a lever on the control-panel. In an instant a shiny life-shell—one of those slim metal space cylinders that every cruiser is supplied with for emergency use—slid into place under the floor-open¬ ing.

As Starr, after patting his weapon belt

VAMPIRES OF THE MOON


to make sure all his pistols were in place, slipped down into the cramped quarters of the two-passenger life-preserver, the thought-helmet on his head seemed to glint reassuringly to the staring lieutenant.

"Pick up Lieutenant Smith on your way to the surface,” Starr called, just his head appearing above the floor. "He’s camping at the bottom of the big shaft. And now I am off. Good-bye.”

With these succinct sentences, Starr drew his metal-enclosed head inside the life-shell and sealed himself within. The last he saw of Steele was a round, openmouthed face surmounted by a tangle of rust-red curls.

In a flash, though, the lieutenant awoke to action. With a quick jab at the con¬ trol studs, he caused the life-shell to be catapulted along its oiled groove and out from the hull of the mother ship. Starr, inside the slender craft, was busy at the controls and tire tiny cylinder shot down the dark tunnel, quickly vanishing around a bend in the passage.

Without further loss of time, Steele nosed the Meteor IV swiftly up the tunnel toward the shaft and Headquarters. He had a big task ahead of him, and the sooner he was at work the better.

I T was not long before Starr in his speedy little life-shell was shooting out of the blade tunnel-mouth into the cave of light. So quickly had he reached his destination, in fact, that he found himself drawing dose to the high walls of the Moon City without even having had time to think of a plan of war. However, he was in no mood to tarry long on the out¬ side of the wheel-shaped city and he de¬ cided to diance all in a single bold stroke.

Tremendous odds: one man against a city!

Having found that gate on the other side of which Steele had told him his

brother was working, Starr eased his craft to the spongy carpet of moon-weed just outside the city wall. Leaving the en¬ trance port of the life-shell standing wide open, Starr leaped lightly to the ground and stood, ankle-deep in phosphorescence, before the mighty gate of metal.

The Earthman, having decided to resort to a rash plan of swift action, speedily flashed one of the four pistols from his weapon-belt and aimed it at the huge closed portal in front of him. The squat, ugly-looking pistol in his steady grip was his most powerful weapon—a blastor.

Without hesitation or pause, the man of the Legion squeezed the trigger of the blaster and held it firmly down, expend¬ ing all its fearful energy at one shot. A livid, searing streak of jagged light leapt, crackling, from the weapon straight toward the heavy barrier in the wall. The blinding energy-beam, of terrific power, played for a long moment over the metal surface, snapping angrily all the while. Suddenly the high gate began to buckle; it seemed to writhe and twist under the awful impact of the blaster’s beam. Sev¬ eral rills of molten metal appeared at the base of the portal. The whole gate shone white-hot for a few instants, then crum¬ pled into a shrivelled mass of glowing metal, and dropping to the ground, lay sizzling amidst the moon-weed. So great was the heat of the metal now, at the cli¬ max of the charge from Starr’s pistol, that soon naught was left of the gate but a fiery pool of liquid.

A single tremendous bound carried Starr through the white-hot aperture in the wall to the inside of the city. Hav¬ ing had his clothes scorched and his skin blistered during the brief time he had spent in the air in his leap through the now open stonework in the wall, Starr felt perfectly certain that should a Yultat attempt to get to the life-shell within the



next ten minutes, his legs would be burned to cinders beneath him. But the Yultats apparently did not have any such intention. They stopped whatever they had been doing and stood stock-still as Starr strode unwaveringly straight ahead.

He cast anxiously about him for a sight of the scarlet and white uniform of his brother. At the same instant he dis¬ cerned a man in the red tunic of the Le¬ gion, Starr saw out of the corner of his eye that a considerable mass of Yultats were surreptitiously edging toward the gate to cut off the Earthman’s retreat.

Wheeling swiftly, Starr sent the last tremendous bolt of his blastor flickering savagely straight into the midst of the host of Yultats. A moment of lambent, crackling flame and smoke; then the air became filled with whirling ashes and rock chips. The acrid odor of burnt flesh came sidceningly to Starr’s nostrils.

This took care of the majority of Yul¬ tats in the immediate vicinity. The area was a deserted one, as Starr gratefully ob¬ served. He carefully returned the empty blastor to its holster, since he had not the means of recharging it with him at the time, and drew his slug- and flame-pistols in its stead.

K eeping up a desultory fire from first . one then another of the guns, to keep the Yultats at a distance, Starr ad¬ vanced to his brother’s side. The younger Starr had been engaged in scooping up little measures of water from a running streamlet and mixing them into strangely tinted pastes which were continually pass¬ ing him on an endless belt. Now, though, Jack raised dull eyes to his brother’s face and rose jerkily to his feet. A slow smile grew upon his face.

"Jack!” cried Captain Starr joyously, but he was wary of the other’s vacant eyes and mechanical smile.

Starr inserted his pistols each into its holster and stretched forth a welcoming hand. Yet he was alert for trouble. He was not quite sure whether or not the Xinthquuls were trying to trick him.

And lucky it was for Captain Starr that he had anticipated danger, for while his brother’s eyes stared dully into his own and a thin smile played upon his lips, the younger Starr’s fists were clenched and his biceps twitching.

"Jack!” moaned the captain aloud to his apparently unhearing brother. "Jack! Don’t do that! You mustn’t hit me! No! It’s your brother, Jack—it’s Dick! Dick! Don’t you see? It’s Dick! You-”

But at that instant Jack launched a bone-crushing blow aimed at his brother’s face.

"Jack! Don’t!” Again the captain pleaded as he sidestepped.

But Jack merely turned and shot out another fist.

"Jack, forgive me! I don’t want to, but I’ve got to,” cried Captain Starr, and ducked, at the same time ramming his shoulder into the other’s midsection. He was using an old trick he had learned while a boy in training-school.

With an upward surge of his body, the elder Starr thrust his attacker heavily back¬ ward, throwing the latter off his balance. Then before the younger man could steady himself, Captain Starr snapped his lithe body sideways, bringing his arm up in a mighty swing with the same move¬ ment.

Captain Starr’s hard fist caught his brother on the point of his upthrust jaw. With a painful grunt that seared the captain’s heart like a red-hot knife, the younger man careened backward off his feet, landing on the stone causeway in a crumpled heap.

Gathering up the senseless Jack and slinging him over one shoulder. Captain W. T—6

VAMPIRES OF THE MOON


Starr pivoted and strode off in the direc¬ tion of the gate. Since the Xinthquuls could not control an unconscious man’s mind, he knew that Jack would offer no resistance for awhile. By the time Jack would come around, the captain hoped to be safely on his way back to the moon’s crust, out of reach of the ghastly mindvampires.

Continually peppering the crowd of Yultats with heavy slugs that nearly tore their heads off their bodies, Captain Starr managed to stave off an attack until he had nearly reached the still-glowing hole in the wall. Then an ominous grinding snarl caused him to stiffen to a figure of stone, while the hair on the back of his neck rose like the quills of a porcupine. His blood was chilled in his veins.

For that rapidly scaling whine behind him told the seasoned soldier that in one of the near-by buildings a huge flame-gun was warming up. At Captain Starr’s fal¬ tering feet was a softly glowing circle of light, the sighting-beam of the monster death-machine. The finger of Death was pointing at the two escaping Earthmen now, and no mistake!

The flame-gun’s rising whine would at any instant now be almost beyond pitch of the human ear, and when that moment came Captain Starr and his precious bur¬ den would be no more. Already a tor¬ turing tingling was twisting along his spine, Captain Starr realized, and went into action.

W ITH every bit of speed he could muster, the captain bent low, threw himself aside out of the circle of death, and, allowing Jack to sink to the ground, drew two pistols from his weap¬ on-belt. He squeezed both triggers.

Out of one a single slug whined harm¬ lessly high into the air. From the other sang a tiny sphere of flame straight for W. T.—7

the crew of the monster gun on the bal¬ cony of one of the tall stone buildings. Thrusting the slug-pistol back into its holster in a single movement, Starr whipped out his last remaining pistol— a pow-pow.

The little globule of flame had touched the very tip of the Yultats’ weapon and flared into a livid sheet of destruction. There was a sharp crack like that of break¬ ing crystal, and the sighting-beam of the big machine, smoking strangely, went out. The crew of two Yultats standing around the flame-gun dropped from the balcony to the street below, two burnt and black¬ ened corpses. More Yultats quickly filled their places.

Yet still that ominous whine from the squat weapon of the moon-men. But now Captain Starr, in spite of a numbing, agonizing shock which was coursing through his veins, took careful aim with his pow-pow and sent one of its shells at the flame-gun.

Poiv!

A direct hit! The flame-gun sprang apart, exploded like a bursting bubble. A jagged piece of metal came hurtling past Captain Starr and through the open gate¬ way to bury itself among the glowing weeds there. The only trace left of the machine on the balcony was a blackened, smoking area on the stone.

A second later Starr went diving out the aperture in the city wall. He and Jack were safe! There was not one of the Yultats whose muscles would allow him to jump across that broad area of terrif¬ ically heated stone. Jubilantly, Captain Starr piled his unconscious brother into the cramped space of the little two-man life-shell. Fortune had indeed smiled upon him. Captain Starr was thinking, and he was heartily congratulating him¬ self on his good luck in escaping so easily, when a sudden popping of moon-weed


caused him to pause with one leg inside the life-shell and look back.

The Earthman’s taste of sweet triumph turned to bitter ashes. There, ankle-deep in moon-weed, stood Lieutenant Bradley, two pistols in his hands. The cunning of the Xinthquuls had triumphed at the eleventh hour! They knew that while a true Yultat could not leap the lane of hot stone, a mentally controlled Earthman with his stronger muscles could.

And so it was that Bradley stood, guns in hand, eyes now glinting with the lust to kill, about to fire upon his own com¬ rades!

14. Crucifixion

"TT NBUCKLE ^ our w eapon-belt, Out¬ 'Ll sider, and throw it upon the ground at my feet,” flatly intoned the menacing Bradley. "If you try any trick¬ ery, I shall not hesitate to fire both guns at you.”

The commonplace phraseology of the command did not strike Captain Starr as interesting at the moment. His brain was working with lightning-like rapidity, seeking some way to ward off imminent death. He did not doubt in the least that the enslaved Bradley would, if necessity demanded, carry out his threat.

Starr would have unhesitatingly flung himself at the threatening lieutenant, but, half in and half out of the life-shell as he was, he could not do anything swiftly. Then, as he fumbled with the buckle of his weapon-belt, he thought he saw his chance. Cautiously he swung the pivoted searchlight of the shell until it pointed at Bradley, concealing the act under the movements his body went through as he wriggled out of the broad white weapongirdle.

Captain Starr stood apparently motion¬ less with the heavy belt in his hand for a moment, as if reluctant to drop it to the

ground. But, under cover of the side of the life-shell, his right foot was feeling for the guide-beam switch on the controlpanel.

Suddenly the brilliant guide-beam flashed out from the searchlight, sending its dazzling light full into the face of Bradley. At the same instant, Starr swung the girdle in his hand in a sweep¬ ing arc and let it shoot out of his grasp.

As the rays of the guide-beam struck Bradley, his muscles reacted with such in¬ voluntary swiftness that the controlling Xinthquuls were taken by surprize. They were a fraction of a second too late in causing Bradley’s fingers to press the triggers of his pistols. The man’s arms had jerked up in front of his face to shield his eyes just before the guns went off. And then Starr’s hurtling weaponbelt wrapped itself about Bradley’s head and sent him sprawling backward to the ground.

One of the slugs from the enslaved Earthman’s guns whistled high over Starr’s head, but the other smacked into the searchlight. Instantly the beam went out amidst a jangle of smashing glass, while the searchlight’s fragments whizzed in all directions. A chunk of metal tore past Starr’s forehead and but for the pro¬ tecting helmet would have ended his life then and there. As it was, he was blind¬ ed by a spurt of blood in his eyes from a cut on the forehead received as the metal bounced off. His left hand, which had been grasping the searchlight, was smashed and bleeding; the thumb was lacking from its upper joint.

In spite of the pulsing pain, Starr forced himself over the side of the shell and flung his arms around Bradley while the latter was yet entangled in the weap¬ on-belt. The wounded Starr’s good right hand encircled Bradley’s throat and tight¬ ened like a contracting steel band.

VAMPIRES OF THE MOON


In his fury, the captain would have choked out the life of the fallen man but for a sudden overpowering surge of weakness. He was losing blood and his strength was fast ebbing. He realized that even should he gain the safety of the shell, he would in all likelihood faint ere he could get out of the cave of light.

But he must save Jack; get him to the Station at all costs. Bradley and himself were not so important. But Jack must be saved.

The man beneath him wriggled to free himself. Starr shot him a look and felt his problem was solved. He ripped off the protective thought-helmet and quickly thrust it on Bradley’s head. Instantly the latter ceased his struggles; he was full master of himself again.

"Listen, Bradley,” Starr hissed in the dazed young man’s ear before the Xinthquuls tore down his will and secured con¬ trol over his mind. "Listen, Bradley! Get in that life-shell and get out of here as fast as you can. Lieutenant Starr is in¬ side. He’s hurt; get him up to the Sta¬ tion as fast as you can possibly make it. No questions now. You’ll understand later; hurry and do as I say!”

Starr felt the insidious suggestions of the moon-men eating at his mind and steeled himself against them. But he knew he could not long hold out; soon he would, against his will, hurl himself at the throat of the young man before him. With difficulty he spoke.

"Did you hear my command? Get go¬ ing, sir!”

Bradley’s military training came to his rescue. Without the faintest conception of what the situation was, he found his blank mind being filled with but the one idea supplied to it by the Captain. Obe¬ diently he wheeled.

"Yes, sir!” he snapped and was in the life-shell in a trice. The hatch slammed

shut and the tiny two-passenger space¬ ship shot like a bolt across the cave of light and flashed out of view into the yawning tunnel-mouth.

At any rate, though he must pay for it with his own life, Jack and Bradley were safe. That was some consolation, Starr thought as he found himself involuntarily striding toward the wall of the Moon City. He strove to direct his movements, but to no avail; in a moment more his mind had been completely swallowed by the Xinthquuls.

D imly, although for the most part the next eight hours were a hideous, pain-filled blackness, Captain Starr felt his body being subjected to all sorts of tortures.

As soon as he had been brought to the inner city, the Xinthquuls caused him to be disrobed and placed in a peculiar metal cylinder. Then the hypnotized Earthman was treated with throbbing, pulsing rays and crackling electric currents. For a long time, flickering pencils of blue and purple sprang from queer machines to caress the body in the cylinder with eery tenderness. Strange tinglings and muscle¬ pulling twinges coursed through Starr’s inert form. Then at last it was all over.

But Starr did not awake to conscious¬ ness. Instead, he walked like one in sleep from the room whose air was per¬ meated with the acrid tang of ozone to a long metal hall upon the walls of which were shelf after shelf of scientific instru¬ ments of a surgical nature. Two dull¬ eyed mummy-men strapped his body se¬ curely to a sort of table. Then the veil was withdrawn from the Earthman’s mind and he became again a person.

Starr found his body to be in splendid condition. He felt absolutely no pain or ache in any part of his anatomy. The cure he had been subjected to had been a



marvelous one indeed. However, he did not long muse over past events, for into his brain trickled, like a physical stream of icy water, the following thoughts:

"Outsider”—Starr’s mind felt as though it were being exposed to the chill of space—"Outsider, listen to my thoughts. First let me assure you that it was not through a feeling of compassion that you were revitalized. It was because my own body met with an unfortunate accident. I was in the space-ship that crashed when we made an attempt to prevent the escape of one of your fellow beings.

"Although my body was completely smashed, my brain was unharmed. Since I am one of the Ten it is imperative that I be kept alive. Therefore my brain was removed and sealed in a brain-case while a hurried search was made for a body suitable for it. We were going to utilize the fellow Bradley’s, but he had to be used to fight you and escaped. I was forced to take you and recharge your rather unlovely body. However, you will have to do until I can get a better one.

"Now, from my brain-case on this shelf at your left, I shall direct the delicate op¬ eration of removing your meager brain from your head and substituting for it my own. Do not attempt to struggle, for you are bound in such a way that you are powerless to move. I am about to begin now, and please do not lapse into uncon¬ sciousness from the pain until you have to, for it will be fascinating to study your mind’s reactions to the various stages of the operation. Farewell, Outsider; your present life has about run its course, and you will soon be back into free Time!”

Although Starr manifested no outward sign of emotion, due to his constricting bonds, he was seething inwardly. The dull speech of doom had been delivered in a toneless, calm manner to the Earthman as though the usurpation of his mind

was a trifling occurrence. Under the goad of the pulsing thought-message of the Xinthquul, Starr’s mind was in a turmoil, a fever of rage. The nearly demented Earthman must lie helpless while an au¬ tomaton, a mindless Yultat, cut out his brain under the guidance of a moon-brain reposing in a gleaming metal tank on a shelf across the room; and though the pain of each cut of the pitiless surgeon’s knife would surge through his dying brain to be read with cold, scientific de¬ light by the Xinthquuls, the Earthman would be able only to cry out his agony on the rack.

The Yultat, bent low over the Earthman and with eyes dully expressionless as ever, was beginning to operate. The sweat-bedewed forehead of the tormented man had been bathed with some prepara¬ tion of the moon-men and now the scalpel was being raised. Its keen-edged blade flashed menacingly in the white light of the room. The knife-point pierced Starr’s skin and slowly began to cut its way across his forehead. The Earthman’s torture-twisted brain could no longer withstand the probing, anguishing knife¬ point; the demon-wings of pain brushed Starr into the ocean of hideous nightmare, to be drowned in awful torment.

15. Doom

B y the time Lieutenant Jack Starr had regained consciousness, Bradley was nosing the little life-shell into the airlock at the Station. They did not tarry long there. During a hasty meal, the two be¬ wildered men listened to an excited, nerv¬ ous Rusty Steele.

Steele was chafing at the very necessary delay forced upon him by the time re¬ quired to erect his weapon and set it up inside the control room of the Petrovsky super-ship that had eventually arrived at Moon Headquarters, Amid the bustle

VAMPIRES OF THE MOON


and confusion of the toiling men working on the Petrovsky, Steele found time to tell all the recent arrivals—both the two men who had escaped from the Moon City and the three officers sent from Earth on the emergency ship—of his plan for getting Starr safely out of the clutches of the mind-vampires.

Steele’s mysterious weapon was at last ready and installed in the Petrovsky’s con¬ ning-tower. The speed with which the deed was done would have astounded the anxious Earthman had he not been in so great a hurry to get down inside the satel¬ lite to the inner world.

At any rate, the Petrovsky shoved off from the Station a scant seven hours after it had arrived. But now aboard her was every available Legionnaire at the Station; her every cabin was crowded with men and weapons. If Steele’s weapon failed, the Earthmen were prepared to make a battle of it anyway. By mutual consent, Steele himself took control of the ship, although aboard her was a Major Whitehead who officially should have been in command. Steele nosed the speedy craft down the black lunar tunnels with almost reckless speed. All knew only too well that if Captain Richard Starr were yet alive his life was far from secure.

Like a bullet the silent speed-ship tore down the pit of the giant staircase and down the black horizontal tunnel at its bottom. Although it was with almost un¬ believable speed that the Petrovsky had been brought almost to the entrance to the cave of light, it seemed to the de¬ spairing comrades of the captured Richard Starr like eternity before Steele had cut off the guide-beam and begun to decel¬ erate the slim cruiser. At last the ship rested on the uneven floor of the tunnel just within the shelter of the tunnelmouth, with the cave of light and its wheel-shaped Moon City in full view.

Without a word, while the rest of the company of rescuers stared across the haze of die cave of light at the incredible Moon City, Steele set to work upon his strange-looking machine.

"Hadn’t we better get a little closer, Rusty?” suggested Jack Starr anxiously.

"No. Here, look through this ’scope. See that gun on the wall there? It’s aimed squarely at the mouth of this tun¬ nel. We’d get no more than half-way into the cave before we’d be blasted out of existence. That gun is a new one; the one they used on me was farther back.”

"I guess they haven’t seen us, so far,” put in Bradley. "But suppose they do find out in some way that we’re here and try to get our minds. You know, one man running amuck in this craft could ruin us in no time. Have you thought of that?”

"Yes,” replied Steele without looking up from the wiring he was working on. "Yes, I’ve taken care of that. Here, Bradley, you take this key and unlock that cabinet in the wall. It contains a bunch of improvised helmets that I think will alter all thought-impulses sent or received to such an extent that they will be ren¬ dered harmless. You see, I don’t want any one here to send out waves that will conflict in any way with the ones I am sending. Here, Jack, hand me that coil, will you?

"Now,” Steele addressed the assem¬ blage after all had donned the odd pro¬ tective helmets taken from the locker, "this is the idea. Thought is merely a disturbance in the ether, set up by the brain. It differs from other etheric im¬ pulses only because of its peculiar wave¬ length. I have not time now to go into detail, but here before you is a machine which will amplify all thought-impulses sent out by my brain to a very high de¬ gree. I think I shall btf able to control



my thoughts by sending them along a directional beam, but if you should feel queer things going on inside your heads in spite of those helmets I gave you, do not be alarmed. But no more delay, to battle! Wish me luck!”

T he stillness of interstellar space seemed to fill the crowded control room as the round-eyed officers watched the red-headed man before them don a peculiar set of what resembled ear-phones.

Steele’s usually smooth forehead creased itself into many wrinkles and his eyes closed to mere slits with the force of his concentration. He was thinking hard on a mental command, and the magic of his instrument was wafting that thought out over the ether straight to the citadel of the mind-sucking Xinthquuls.

For a long instant he sat, taut as a stretched wire, fingers slowly pushing on a tiny nickeled lever on the control-board of the thought-amplifier. Through his nearly closed eyes the Earthman could just see the faint glow of his directional beam quivering out from the Petrovsky to the Moon City in a delicately probing fin¬ ger.

The eyes of the hushed officers were fastened almost in awe upon the deeply lined, agonized face of Lieutenant Steele. The intense concentration of the young man seemed to crystallize about the space¬ ship like a solid thing.

Then the watchers saw a smile—an ex¬ pression of triumph—appear on Steele’s face; he relaxed with a long sigh. Yet he still was careful to keep the lever of the amplifier well down.

"Sizzling suns!” he yelped delightedly. "I’ll bet I nearly blew those infernal moon-men’s brains out! I was worrying about not being able to overcome the whole bunch at once, but after I got the Ten by the ears the rest was easy. I sent

out such a strong wave that I think I must have paralyzed them at first. But we’re all right now. I can hold them for a long time yet. Happy days! I’ll bet that the Ten are in a sweat now all right!”

"But Richard! Did you get Dick?” demanded the younger Starr impatiently.

"You bet! I had a couple of Yultats grab hold of him and chuck him in one of those shiny new space-ships of theirs and bring him out. I had ’em park their bus right alongside this one.”

But Jack Starr had left before Steele had half finished. It took the lad but an instant to fling open the door of the Pe¬ trovsky and leap to the conning-tower of the moon ship. He soon had that door also wrenched open and was on his knees beside his brother’s form on the floor in another swift movement.

"Dick! Dick! Speak to me!”

"What are you yelling so loud for, you young idiot? Do you want to have the whole gang of moon-men on us?” Cap¬ tain Richard Starr’s voice was weak, but it was as music to Jack’s ears. The elder man struggled to a sitting position and placed a hand gingerly on his forehead.

"Dick, you’re hurt!” Jack had seen the long thin red line that ran from tem¬ ple to temple on the captain’s forehead. "What were they doing to you?”

The captain rose unsteadily to his feet, waving aside the proffered arm of his brother.

"Let’s get out of this, Jack. I’m not hurt badly. Something exceedingly strange must have happened just when that devil with the knife was getting well under way. What’s up?”

"Tell you later, Dick. Here, hop in¬ side this ship; the whole gang is here.”

"By Jupiter!” thundered the old major upon seeing the scarred and mutilated Starr, "you’ll get a promotion out of this as well as a medal and a year’s leave, if

VAMPIRES OF THE MOON


I have to resign and give you my place!’ r

"Hey, everybody,” bellowed Steele as soon as Starr had been doctored up a bit, "let’s get started. I’m hungry.”

But Bradley, who had been sitting quietly in a corner thinking, now looked up and spoke.

"What are we going to do about the moon-men? As soon as you leave that amplifier things will start to happen. The Xinthquuls will regain full mental control of themselves, and you know what they’ll do then. They may not be able to fly their ships yet, but they’ll learn. They’ll find a way. And once they get out of this cave no power on Earth can stop them. It will be just as they said. They weren’t lying when they said that their weapons are vastly superior to ours. And if even one ship of them gets away from the power of the amplifier—Earth is doomed! Doomed! Why, with all the armament we can muster, we’ll be abso¬ lutely at their mercy, like insects before men! Suspended animation gases . . . rotting red gas! Why, if they once loose those upon Earth, our planet will become nothing but a tomb; our entire civiliza¬ tion will be turned into stinking pools of decaying jelly! What power have we-”

"Here, wait a minute,” interrupted Steele. "I had forgotten all about that, hadn’t I? Bradley’s right. We’ve got to do something. Something big. Big enough to get rid of these vampiring fiends for ever. Just what . . . I’ve got it!”

Steele pushed his power-lever all the way down, and his forehead creased in thought. "Look out that port,” he urged.

One of the officers was peering out across the hazy distance to the Moon City through a telescope. He saw the huge death-machine mounted on the city wall slowly pivot until it pointed directly at

the center of the citadel. The Earthman could imagine the crew of Yultats, under the powerful impulses of the amplifier, carefully aiming the weapon at the inner city of the Xinthquuls. Suddenly a livid streak of flame belched forth from the gun.

O nly the man with the telescope could see what had happened up to this point, but now the entire assemblage saw a quick burst of scarlet billow up all about the fairy castles of the cruel moonmonsters. Like a living thing the red cloud spread, twisting and rolling over the entire Moon City. Tentacles of shimmery crimson developed from the central bubbling mass of raw color and writhed deep into all the cracks and crannies of the metal and stone edifices. At the same instant the main cloud seemed to swell and expand as if it were absorbing food into itself. A second more and the very highest spires of the doomed metropolis were hidden by a swirling, probing blan¬ ket of blood-red death. Steele laughed and threw down his head-gear. He mopped his perspiring face.

"That’s the end of that. That gas will completely dissolve every single thing of organic nature in the city. Nothing in all creation could withstand such a great quantity of it. Look, it’s all over now. See, the color of the gas is fading; that means that it’s beginning to dissipate. I cut off the amplifier’s power just as I caused the tank under the very heart of the city to be blown up. I wonder how the Ten felt when they saw that their own Yultats had sent them to destruction? I hope they knew who did it.

"Before I had ever heard of the mind vampires, I always thought wholesale kill¬ ing was a crime. Now it’s a pleasure! Those moon-men were worse than an in¬ sect plague back on Earth.



"We’ll have to come back in a couple of days when the gas has all gone, if we want to examine the city at close range. Can’t take chances with a gas like that.

'Well, what’s the matter? What are you all standing there like gaping idiots for? Starr’s safe. We’re safe. The Moon City's ghastly inhabitants are de¬ stroyed. What are we waiting for? Let’s get back to the Station as fast as this bus can go. Let’s forget the excitement and get some food. I’m hungry!”

To Steele, the affair was at an end. All the breathless events of the past pe¬ riod were over and to be forgotten. That he, as well as Captain Starr, was due to receive a Shooting Star — the highest [THE

award that could possibly be obtained by men of the Legion, given only to the bravest of the brave—did not even occur to him. The horrible doom that had menaced Earth with hideous obliteration had been thwarted; therefore why not forget it?

Forget it! The names of Jack and Richard Starr, of Bradley, and of Steele himself would go down in history as the saviors of their planet; as men who had faced and overcome danger the like of which had never before been imagined in the history of Earth. Why, their brave deeds would be the talk of the world. Forget it, indeed!


[THE END]

============================================================
THE THUNDERSTONES OF NUFLO
by Ralph Allen Lang
============================================================
But Rusty Steele was like that.

END]

Vhe(Tf

hunderstones of Nuflo

By RALPH ALLEN LANG

A grim, story of Haitian Voodoo, of revivified corpses, and the gruesome death that stalked the deck of the yacht Oberon

T HE old dark jungle gods that walk in Haiti have left strange inscriptions upon official records of the Black Republic, but few events there recorded surpass in strangeness the case of the yacht Oberon, found off the coast of La Gonave on the morning of September 21st, 1923, with sails furled and anchor down, but manned by a crew of dead men.

Except for her appearance of complete desertion, the Oberon would have at¬ tracted no immediate attention, for while appearing storm-ravaged to some extent,

she still was sufficiently seaworthy. The boarding party found other marks of a violent storm she had weathered in shat¬ tered spars and a deck swept clear, but nothing to explain the staring-eyed ring of dead men grouped around the capstan, as though their last act had been to let go the anchor.

Strange it appears even to me, who know more of the facts than any other living white man. The Oberon’s owner, De Gooch, was a friend of mine, or in¬ timate acquaintance at least, and I had sailed with him on that last ill-fated

THE THUNDERSTONES OF NUFLO


voyage. A Frenchman, he had become interested in various phases of occultism, and especially in the darkly mysterious practises represented in African and Hai¬ tian Voodoo. It was this interest that led to our acquaintance in the first place; for I had spent several years of study in Haiti, winning in some measure the con¬ fidence and secrets of the ritualists, and he had sought me out. De Gooch was well supplied with means to gratify his whim—I scarcely think it was more than that—and I accepted his proposal because I felt that adequate financial backing would enable me to pursue my studies on a larger scale, not only in Haiti but in

Africa as well. He asked only to accom¬ pany me and share whatever knowledge and experience I chanced upon; exchang¬ ing, in a word, his financial aid for the benefit of traveling with one in the con¬ fidence of the natives.

I T all goes back to that gray Septem¬ ber morning when we stood at the entrance to Nuflo’s boumfort, drawing in with relish the cool, clean air, and let¬ ting the freshness of dawn dear our eyes and brains after a night spent in the dose air of the Voodoo temple, heavy with the odor of body-sweat, and stupefyingly charged with the mad pulse of the Rada



drums. Old Nuflo, the papaloi, whose fame with the thunderstones had gone abroad through the island, had exercised his weird power to relieve a drought; and rain was falling gently over the long green strath, thunder rumbling fitfully through the lowering sky. De Gooch looked a bit shaken by his experience, but there was a nervous brightness in his eyes, almost feverish, and an unreadable expression that I did not like. He ex¬ cused himself on the pretext of verifying some particular point of his notes, and re¬ entered the houmfort, where I saw him move to the altar and stand before it briefly. When he returned I was finish¬ ing my farewell to Nuflo, for we were to sail that day to the land of my long de¬ sire, Africa, the dark, the mysterious.

A ship’s boat was waiting to take us off, and as we pulled away from the shore De Gooch’s eyes gradually lost their strained expression. He leaned easily against a large knapsack he had carried ashore with him, and regarded me quiz¬ zically.

"Really, my friend,” he said jestingly, "you appear almost en famille amongst these natives. Your farewell with yonder darky, so expressive of mutual regard, was quite striking. Is he then so great a wizard? The rain-making was convinc¬ ing, I own; but one can never quite get rid of the thought that coincidence had a hand in it.”

His tone and manner were lightly pro¬ voking, and I accepted the challenge in a like spirit.

"Spoken like a true skeptic,” I re¬ turned, "and it must be admitted that there is some slight reasonableness in your lack of faith. Nevertheless, in the light of still more unexplainable wonders I have witnessed, my own doubts are neg¬ ligible. This same Nuflo, for instance, is said to have far darker powers than those

we witnessed last night. I have not seen them displayed, but am far from ready wholly to doubt.”

"And what is the nature of these so extraordinary powers?” His lightly ban¬ tering tone still held.

"Among other things he is reputed to be familiar with the sorceries of the culte des morts, and even to be acquainted with the ghastly processes by which buried corpses are taken from the grave and by means of sorcery given the mechanical ability to walk and act as though they were alive. The active existence of these zombies, as they are called, is not lightly to be laughed off, being attested to not only by ignorant jungle peasants but also by many of the more enlightened natives. No matter what part of the island you may be in, you will be told, upon inquiry, that zombies are actually being used to work in the fields at no great distance away; and natives who have never de¬ ceived you will testify to haying had vis¬ ual proof of their existence. I, myself, have seen at a distance what was pointed out to me as zombies; plodding, shuffling figures with heads bent down, laboring in a cane-field under the close supervision of an overseer or keeper. At that dis¬ tance I could not, of course, satisfy my¬ self as to their nature, but I am satisfied that behind the zombie belief there is some mystery worth any effort it may cost to bring it to light. As it is now, the thing is hard either to refute or substan¬ tiate; for it is impossible to gain the con¬ fidence of these reputed keepers, and diffi¬ cult even to approach them.”

We readied the ship as I finished speaking, and De Gooch, impressed and interested, but smilingly quizzical, al¬ lowed the conversation to drop as we went to our cabins. The Oberon was already a-flutter with white sails as the crew swarmed through her rigging, and

THE THUNDERSTONES OF NUFLO


by the time I had finished changing clothes we were under way.

The Frenchman was moody and pre¬ occupied as we stood together watching the dark isle fade from, view, and I could not help but wonder at the noticeable change in his attitude toward Voodooism, approaching indifference, which he had exhibited on the way out to the ship. His manner had appeared distrait and nervous when he had re-entered the temple, a manner quite different from the casual skepticism he had exhibited in the boat.

It was not until later in the day that I realized how completely his once seem¬ ingly authentic interest had evaporated. And it was only by accident that I learned, with anger and chagrin, what his re-en¬ trance to the Voodoo temple had meant; the heavy price I must pay in loss of native confidence for the financial aid he had offered. While opening a bottle I had suffered a slight cut from broken glass, and remembering the first-aid kit De Gooch habitually carried in his knap¬ sack, I went to his cabin to get it. There my hand encountered, as though of no more consequence than hotel souvenirs, nothing less than the thunderstones of Nuflo.

F orgetting the medicine kit, I made my way on deck to where he was talking with the captain.

"This is the end of our relationship," I told him hotly. "I see my folly in thinking it possible to pursue my studies in company with one whose only pre¬ vailing interest in the Voodoo religion seems to be curiosity. Put about the ship! We are going to return these to where they belong, and then we part company."

Anger struggled with shame in his face, and finally merged into an expres¬ sion that can only be described as a par¬ ticularly evil nastiness.

"But what have I to gain by turning back?” he grimaced, in a manner that was wrath-provoking. "Leave me you shall, I promise you, but it will be on the shores of Africa, or more probably France; for I begin to lose taste for this business that so fascinates you.”

Turning from him I made my demand to the captain, a phlegmatic Hollander. To my protestation he declared that al¬ though he was master of the ship while on the open sea he had nothing to say regarding its destination, a matter which was up to the owner, De Goodi. Nothing was to be gained from him, and I turned away with the intention of securing the thunderstones at least, to keep until I was able to return them to their rightful owner.

Divining my intention, De Gooch sprang forward, and we arrived at the cabin together. To my consternation the knapsack containing the stones was gone!

Under the surprize of it we both stood nonplussed and bewildered for a long instant, and then I saw uncertain suspi¬ cion flick out at me from the French¬ man’s eyes. My own mind was working on a different track, and occupied with the thought that had struck me, I gave no heed to his attitude.

"Check up and see whether anything else is missing,” I directed sharply, and myself commenced a searching survey of the room. De Gooch followed my exam¬ ple without fully knowing what was in my mind, going first to examine the cloth¬ ing he had taken off upon reaching the ship. Immediately I heard him utter a startled curse, and read in his features an expression of the same ugly thought that had prompted my search. He knew as well as I did the Voodoo practise of securing a garment that had been worn next to the skin of victims marked for



vengeance, to be used in a death-charm, or ouanga. And the shirt which had ab¬ sorbed his body perspiration during that sweating night in the Voodoo houmfort was, like the knapsack, missing.

Neither of us could doubt that Voodoo vengeance, prompted by the theft of the thunderstones, had followed us aboard the yacht; its work already started before we were aware of its presence. De Gooch sprang to the deck and ordered an im¬ mediate search of the ship, while I ex¬ amined my own effects to see if anything was missing. Apparently I was not in¬ cluded in the wrath directed against the Frenchman, for nothing of mine had been molested. Going on deck again I learned that the search had been fruitless, De Gooch ordering the men back for a sec¬ ond effort. No known nook or cranny of the yacht was left unexamined, but the second search proved as barren of results as the first.

De Gooch slumped on a deck chair, scarcely attempting to dissimulate a ner¬ vousness verging on panic. Whether his mood was infectious, or whether unrest was in the atmosphere, the men also were sullenly ill at ease, although for the most part unacquainted with tire nature of our fears. A strained; waiting tension hung over the yacht like an oppressive, depress¬ ing cloud; and even my own spirits sagged as I stood at the stern-rail watch¬ ing the waves darken before the ap¬ proach of a starless night, with difficulty repressing a shudder at the sight of paral¬ lel fins cutting the water, a pair of sharks following the ship.

pon retiring to my cabin for the night I found sleep difficult, the dis¬ turbing events of the day forming a bar¬ rier that effectually warded off slumber. The breeze had subsided to a mere breath during the afternoon, and the closeness

of the air in my cabin seemed accentuated by the unnatural calm of the elements, vaguely oppressive to the mind. I lay fitfully tossing while the ship’s bell chimed off the periods of night, its in¬ dication of the passing hours adding to my restlessness.

Finally I could stand it no longer, and slipped into my robe with the intention of going on deck. I had purposely struck no light in order that my eyes might be accustomed to the darkness of the com¬ panionway, and as I closed the door be¬ hind me I was thankful for the precau¬ tion. Far forward, nearly the ship’s length away, a faint light was glowing rosily, spreading around the edges of a blob of blackness that I took to be some manner of screen intended to shield the flame from view.

Silently I crept forward, pressing as far as I could to the side in an endeavor to obtain a view behind the screen. As I drew nearer, my efforts in this were partly successful, one edge of the blaze coming into view, flanked by a crouching shadow. So uncertain was the weird light in its surrounding darkness that I could not satisfactorily make out whether this shadow was the shadow of a man, or whether it was the man himself, crouch¬ ing on the opposite side of the fire, and apparently kneading something with his hands.

I was about to attempt a still closer position when gradually I became vaguely conscious of a presence other than that of myself and the man I was stalking. Certainly I heard no sound, and the black¬ ness that enveloped everything precluded the possibility of seeing, but in some peculiar manner the intelligence was forced on me that some one was there in the darkness behind me. Apparently the figure crouching by the fire sensed something at the same time, for he jerked

THE THUNDERSTONES OF NUFLO


suddenly erect. I had one brief, unre¬ vealing glimpse of him, when suddenly a cry burst through the ship:

"Fire!”

Instantly the scene was alive, lights flared up, and running figures appeared from everywhere in answer to that cry which is most dreaded at sea. Immediate¬ ly I sprang toward the sheltered fire and the dark figure beside it, who stooped to snatch up something as I approached. Then, as effortlessly as though he were part of the night itself, he faded away into the blackness, leaving me totally un¬ able to tell even the direction in which he had disappeared. I turned to find De Gooch at my side. His, evidently, was the presence I had felt in the darkness, like myself stalking the mysterious flame.

With upraised hand he halted the ap¬ proaching men, one of whom had raised the alarm upon seeing the glow forward. Impatiently and briefly he explained to them the mistake, ordering them back to their quarters. When we were alone again, the captain having also grumpily retired, we turned our attention to the scene of the shielded fire.

The glow had proceeded from a tiny flame kindled upon a heavy tin pannikin, and from several candles ranged around in the form of a mystic pentagram. A small mortar and pestle, together with a brazier, lay beside the fire, the former containing traces of some dark-colored decoction that had been brayed in it. Various remnants of roots and herbs lay about the brazier, among which I recog¬ nized the poisonous leaves of the manchineel tree. Plainly, it was the layout of some malignant ouanga, and we could have no doubt for whom it was intend¬ ed. For among the remnants of other in¬ gredients were a few shreds of white fabric, such as might have formed a part of De Gooch’s missing shirt That he

recognized than as such was evidenced by the sickly pallor of his face.

His voice sounded harassed as he ap¬ pealed to me:

"What do you think?”

"The same thing you do,” I replied. "Voodoo vengeance is on the ship with us, bent certainly upon your destruction. Danger is present every moment the per¬ son who kindled this fire is loose on the ship, and I know nothing to counsel ex¬ cept extreme watchfulness. I am sur¬ prized that you did not immediately order the men to another search.”

"It would have yielded nothing,” he returned wearily. "The ship was thor¬ oughly searched today, and we should find now what we found then. And I wanted them out of the way while we examined these.” He indicated the Voo¬ doo implements; and then, gathering them all upon the pannikin, he threw them over the rail.

"Watchful I shall be,” he continued, accepting my counsel, "but not cowardly. I am going to bed again, and devil take the he-hag. Come what may!” And be¬ fore I could answer he left me, passing into his cabin alone. Courage, I reflect¬ ed, at least was one thing he did not lack.

F ollowing his example, I succeeded in finally dropping into a fitful, half¬ waking slumber, troubled by vague dreams. When I opened my eyes again dawn was gray on the sea, and some one was shaking me awake. Without being told, I sensed fresh trouble, as though the day held but a waking continuation of my nightmare dreams of the night.

Such, in actuality, proved to be the case, for I found De Gooch pacing beside the recumbent forms of three seamen, lying on the deck where they had slept after the night's alarm. So composed were their faces that I should have im110


agined them still bound only by sleep, had not the Frenchman’s manner indi¬ cated otherwise. Bending down for a closer examination, I found them pulse¬ less and cold, having evidently been dead for some time.

De Gooch had not yet called the cap¬ tain, and together we went to his cabin— only to find that the mysterious death had struck here also. As in the case of the sailors, the captain’s face and form ap¬ peared perfectly composed as though in sleep, but the heart had long since ceased to beat.

Returning to the deck we found the wind freshening into the promise of a gale, the sky still continuing gray and overcast. Under the fourfold blow of death our situation had become alarming; for besides the loss of Captain Schmidt, the number of our seamen had been re¬ duced nearly by half, the Oberon having been manned by a crew of seven. To go on, under the circumstances, seemed mad¬ ness; and the alternative, a retracing of our course to Haiti, held equal terrors for De Gooch. He gave orders to pre¬ pare burial canvas for the dead men while we debated what to do. But there was a note in the Frenchman’s tone as we talked, in harmony with the deep atmosphere of gloom that hung over the ship, which gave the impression that it mattered little what our decision might be. Port was over a day’s sail distant, and death was hovering on the wings of each new hour.

The bodies of the four dead men had been laid out in their canvas on the deck, the sailors starting to stitch them in with coarse needles. I thought of "the last stitch” of which I had read in Melville, and could not suppress a shudder. But the last stitch on these bodies was des¬ tined never to be taken, the last act of our floating tragedy and its final curtain intervening.

The sea had grown rougher as we talked, the continuing gale piling up waves in deep furrows that caused the yacht to lurch drunkenly. The sky, too, had increased in blackness, heavy clouds piling up from windward, while off on the horizon a strange copper sheen was visible, shading off in drab yellow. Cap¬ tain Schmidt doubtless would have made his preparations for the impending storm long before we awakened to a realiza¬ tion of its nearness, but we did bestir ourselves in time to save the main spars. The men were still reefing in, however, when the blow fell, starting in a weird staccato rumble of thunder like a burst from the Voodoo drums in Nuflo’s houmfort when his thunderstones had brought an answer from the sky.

There was something terrifying even in the natural menace the sound implied, and to De Gooch it seemed to be mad¬ dening. He started violently, and his eyes rolled wild like those of negroes in ritual¬ istic ecstasy. Then the storm struck us in the full swoop of its power, and I heard his voice in a hoarse scream as a wedge of flying tackle carried him over the side. A towering wave followed die wind’s destruction across the deck, and I found myself swept off my feet and suffocated by crushing weights of water. The world reeled drunkenly, driving from my mind all impressions but that of the French¬ man being hurled over the side tangled in the mass of tackle—a fate to which the wave was hurrying me also. Then I brought up with stunning impact against timbers, finding myself when the wave receded jammed in between the sternpost and rudder.

As freakishly as it had come the storm abated, and although I still clung to the supports in fear of being carried away, we were not again boarded by so heavy a sea. The wind fell off, after the first

THE THUNDERSTONES OF NUFLO

ill

sweep of its fury, and although the ves¬ sel still wallowed heavily .in the trough, I ventured to relinquish my hold and make my way along the deck. The havoc had been terrific, the main spars by a miracle having been left, but everything else had been wrenched away, leaving a clear-swept scene of desolation. But the thought that struck me most heavily of all was that I was alone on the ship, no human thing being visible except a figure dangling down from the starboard rail. Approaching it, I recognized the body of De Gooch, hanging by his neck from the tangled mass of tackle. His swollen face was a mottled purple, and the tongue protruded in a ghastly manner.

As i gazed in horror my attention was •aIl distracted by a sound from behind me, and I turned to see emerging from the compani-onway a dusky figure—a fig¬ ure that I recognized as Nuflo. And be¬ hind him, shuffling clumsily with heads down, appeared the four men I had seen that morning being sewed into burial can¬ vas, Captain Schmidt and the three sail¬ ors. I started forward, but Nuflo warned me away from them. Advancing past me to the rail he looked long at the figure dangling there, producing finally a ma¬ chete with which he severed the ropes and let it fall into the sea. I thought of the sharks I had seen the previous eve¬ ning, and did not look. When he turned to me his grim face was not without kind¬

liness, expressing something even of his wonted affection toward me.

"Agoue has preserved you, my son,” he said gravely, "and I welcome back the friend Agoue has given me. Your wel¬ come is secure both in caille and bournfort —but come no more in company with the skeptic and despoiler. These things rot the soul.”

After repairing the sails and tackle to the best of our ability we retraced the course we had followed from the islands, sighting land near evening on the next day. I spent the interval in a state of nervous and physical exhaustion, scarcely attending to the management of the ship, except to note that it was worked by the zombies, under the direction of Nuflo. Zombies I knew them to be, although he was silent before my questions, and would not suffer me to approach near to them.

I had recovered from my experience by the time we dropped anchor sufficient¬ ly to help drop the ship’s boat into the sea, and man one of the oars. At the beech we parted, after having first shoved the boat off and watched it drift out to the open sea. We parted; Nuflo to make his way hack to his own village; I to seek out the owner of a fishing-boat who would carry me to Port-au-Prince. With strange, mixed feelings I watched him

[THE END]

============================================================
THE DISINTERMENT OF VENUS
by Clark Ashton Smith
============================================================
disappear on his way, a form hard to identify with that of Nemesis. But on his bade was De Gooch’s knapsack.

Vhe

isinterment of Venus

By CLARK ASHTON SMITH

A bizarre tale of the strange yearnings and carnal desires that beset a brother¬ hood of monks when the statue of a pagan goddess was dug up in the abbey garden

P RIOR to certain highly deplorable and scandalous events in the year 1550, the vegetable garden of Perigon was situated on the southeast side of the abbey. After these events, it was removed to the northwest side, where it has remained ever since; and the former garden-site was given to weeds and briars which, by strict order of the successive abbots, no one has ever tried to eradicate or curb.

The happenings which compelled this removal of the Benedictine’s turnip and carrot patches became a popular tale in Averoigne. It is hard to say how much or how little of the legend is apocryphal.

One April morning, three monks were spading lustily in the garden. Their names were Paul, Pierre and Hughes. The first was a man of ripe years, hale and robust; the second was in his early prime; the third was little more than a boy, and had but recently taken his final vows.

Being moved with an especial ardor, in which the vernal stirring of youthful sap may have played its part, Hughes proceeded to dig the loamy soil even more diligently than his comrades. The ground was almost free of stones, owing to the careful tillage of many generations of monks; but anon, through the muscu¬ lar zeal with which it was wielded, the spade of Hughes encountered a hard and well-buried object of indeterminate size.

Hughes felt that this obstruction, which in all likelihood was a small boul1X2

der, should be removed for the honor of the monastery and the glory of God. Bending busily, he shoveled away the moist, blackish loam in an effort to un¬ cover it. The task was more arduous than he had expected; and the supposed boulder began to reveal an amazing length and a quite singular formation as he bared it by degrees. Leaving their own toil, Pierre and Paul came to his assistance. Soon, through the zealous endeavors of the three, the nature of the buried object became all too manifest.

In the large pit they had now dug, the monks beheld the grimy head and torso of what was plainly a marble woman or goddess from antique years. The pale stone of shoulders and arms, tinged faintly as if with a living rose, had been scraped clean in places by their shovels; but the face and breasts were still black with heavily caked loam.

The figure stood erect, as if on a hid¬ den pedestal. One arm was raised, caressing with a shapely hand the ripe contour of shoulder and bosom; the other, hanging idly, was still plunged in the earth. Digging deeplier, the monks uncovered the full hips and rounded thighs; and finally, taking turns in the pit, whose rim was now higher than their heads, they came to the sunken pedestal, which stood on a pavement of granite.

During the course of their excavations, the Brothers had felt a strange, powerful excitement whose cause they could hardly have explained, but which seemed to W. T .—1

THE DISINTERMENT OF VENUS


arise, like some obscure contagion, from the long-buried arms and bosom of the image. Mingled with a pious horror due to die infamous paganry and nudity of the statue, there was an unacknowledged pleasure which the three would have re¬ buked in themselves as vile and shameful if they had recognized it.

Fearful of chipping or scratching the marble, they wielded their spades with much chariness; and when the digging was completed and the comely feet were uncovered on their pedestal, Paul, the oldest, standing beside the image in the pit, began to wipe away with a handful of weeds and grass the maculations of dark loam that still clung to its lovely body. This task he performed with great thoroughness; and he ended by polishing the marble with the hem and sleeves of his black robe.

He and his fellows, who were not without classic learning, now saw that the figure was evidently a statue of Venus, dating no doubt from the Roman occupation of Averoigne, when certain altars to this divinity had been established by the invaders.

The vicissitudes of half-legendary time, the long dark years of inhumation, had harmed the Venus little if at all. The slight mutilation of an ear-tip half hid¬ den by rippling curls, and the partial fracture of a shapely middle toe, merely served to add, if possible, a keener seduc¬ tion to her languorous beauty.

She was exquisite as the succubi of youthful dreams, but her perfection was touched with inenarrable evil. The lines of die mature figure were fraught with a maddening luxuriousness; the lips of the full, Circean face were half pouting, half smiling with ambiguous allure. It was the masterpiece of an unknown, decadent sculptor; not the noble maternal Venus of heroic times, but the sly and cruelly W. T.—8

voluptuous Cytherean of dark orgies, ready for her descent into the Hollow Hill.

A forbidden enchantment, an unhal¬ lowed thralldom, seemed to flow from the flesh-pale marble and to weave itself like invisible hair about the hearts of the Brothers. With a sudden, mutual feel¬ ing of shame, they recalled their monk¬ hood, and began to debate what should be done with the Venus, which, in a monastery garden, was somewhat mis¬ placed. After brief discussion, Hughes went to report their find to the abbot and await his decision regarding its disposal. In the meanwhile, Paul and Pierre re¬ sumed with their garden labors, stealing, perhaps, occasional covert glances at the pagan goddess.


A ugustin the abbot came presently - into the garden, accompanied by those monks who were not, at that hour, engaged in some special task. With a severe mien, in silence, he proceeded to inspect the statue; and those with him waited reverently, not venturing to speak before their abbot had spoken.

Even the saintly Augustin, however, in spite of his age and rigorous temper, was somewhat discomfited by the peculiar witchery which seemed to emanate from the marble. Of this he gave no sign, and the natural austerity of his demeanor deepened. Curtly he ordered the bring¬ ing of ropes, and directed the raising of the Venus from her loamy bed to a standing position on the garden ground beside the hole. In this task, Paul, Pierre and Hughes were'assisted by two others.

Many of the monks now pressed for¬ ward to examine the figure closely; and several were even prompted to touch it, till rebuked for this unseemly action by their superior. Certain of the elder and



more austere Benedictines urged its im¬ mediate destruction, arguing that the image was a heathen abomination that defiled the abbey garden by its presence. Others, the most practical, pointed out that the Venus, being a rare and beau¬ tiful example of Roman sculpture, might well be sold at a goodly price to some rich and impious art-lover.

Augustin, though he felt that the Venus should be destroyed as an impure pagan idol, was filled with a queer and peculiar hesitation which led him to defer the necessary orders for her demolishment. It was as if the subtly wanton loveliness of the marble were pleading for clemency like a living form, with a voice half human, half divine. Averting his eyes from the white bosom, he spoke harshly, bidding the Brothers to return to their labors and devotions, and saying that the Venus could remain in the gar¬ den till arrangements were made for her ultimate disposition and removal. Pend¬ ing this, he instructed one of the Broth¬ ers to bring sackcloth and drape there¬ with the unseemly nudity of the goddess.

The disinterment of this antique image became a source of much discussion and some perturbation and dissension amid the quiet Brotherhood at Perigon. Be¬ cause of the curiosity shown by many monks, the abbot issued an injunction that no one should approach the statue, other than those whose labors might com¬ pel an involuntary proximity. He him¬ self, at that time, was criticized by some of the deans for his laxness in not de¬ stroying the Venus immediately. During the few years that remained to him, he was to regret bitterly the remissness he had shown in this matter.

No one, however, dreamt of the grave scandals that were to ensue shortly. But, on the day following the discovery of the statue, it became manifest that

some evil and disturbing influence was abroad. Heretofore, breaches of disci¬ pline had been rare among the Brothers; and cardinal offenses were quite un¬ known; but now it seemed that a spirit of unruliness, impiety, ribaldry and wrong-doing had entered Perigon.

Paul, Pierre and Hughes were the first to undergo penance for their peccancies. A shocked dean had overheard them dis¬ cussing with impure levity, certain mat¬ ters that were more suitable for the con¬ versation of worldly gallants than of monks. By way of extenuation, the three Brothers pleaded that they had been ob¬ sessed with carnal thoughts and images ever since their exhumation of the Venus; and for this they blamed the statue, say¬ ing that a pagan witchcraft had come upon them from its flesh-white marble.

On that same day, others of the monks were charged with similar offenses; and still others made confession of lubric desires and visions such as had tormented Anthony during his desert vigil. Those, too, were prone to blame the Venus. Before evensong, many infractions of monastic rule were reported; and some of them were of such nature as to call for the severest rebuke and penance. Broth¬ ers whose conduct had heretofore been exemplary in all ways were found guilty of transgressions such as could be ac¬ counted for only by the direct influence of Satan or some powerful demon.

Worst of all, on that very night, it was found that Hughes and Paul were absent from their beds in the dormitory; and no one could say whither they had gone. They did not return on the day following. Inquiries were made by the abbot’s order in the neighboring village of Sainte Zenobie, and it w.as learned that Paul and Hughes had spent the night at a tavern of unsavory repute, drinking and wenching; and they had taken the road

THE DISINTERMENT OF VENUS


to Vyones, chief city of the province, at early dawn. Later, they were apprehend¬ ed and brought back to the monastery, protesting that their downfall was wholly due to some evil contagion which they had incurred by touching the statue.

In view of the unexampled demoral¬ ization which prevailed at Perigon, no one doubted that a diabolic pagan charm was at work. The source of the charm was all too obvious. Moreover, queer tales were told by monks who had la¬ bored in the garden or had passed within sight of the image. They swore that the Venus was no mere sculptured idol but a living woman or she-devil who had changed her position repeatedly and had rearranged the folds of the sackcloth in such manner as to lay bare one shapely shoulder and a part of her bosom. Others avowed that the Venus walked in the garden by night; and some even affirmed that she had entered the monastery and appeared before them like a succubus.

Much fright and horror was created by these tales, and no one dared to approach the image closely. Though the situation was supremely scandalous, the abbot still forbore to issue orders for the statue’s demolition, fearing that any monk who touched it, even with a motive so pious, would court the baleful sorcery that had brought Hughes and Paul to disaster and disgrace, and had led others into impur¬ ity of speech or actual impiety.

It was suggested, however, that some laymen should be hired to shatter the idol and remove and bury its fragments. This, no doubt, would have been accom¬ plished in good time, if it had not been for the hasty and fanatic zeal of Brother Louis.


T his Brother, a youth of good family, was conspicuous among the Ben¬ edictines both for his comely face and his

austere piety. Handsome as Adonis, he was given to ascetic vigils and prolonged devotions, outdoing in this regard the abbot and the deans.

At the hour of the statue’s disinter¬ ment, he was busily engaged in copying a Latin testament; and neither then nor at any later time had he cared to inspect a find which he considered more than dubious. He had expressed disapproba¬ tion on hearing from his fellows die de¬ tails of the discovery; and feeling that the abbey garden was polluted by the presence of an obscene image, he had purposely avoided all windows through which the marble might have been visible to his chaste eyes.

When the influence of heathen evil and corruption became manifest amid the Brothers, he had shown great indigna¬ tion, deeming it a most insufferable thing that virtuous, God-fearing monks should be brought to shame through the opera¬ tion of some hellish pagan spell. He had reprobated openly the hesitation of Augustin and his delay in destroying the maleficent idol. More mischief, he said, would ensue if it were left intact.

In view of all this, extreme surprize and alarm were felt at Perigon when, on the fourth day after the exhumation of the statue. Brother Louis was discovered missing. His bed had not been occupied on the previous night; but it seemed im¬ possible that he could have fled the mon¬ astery, yielding to such desires and im¬ pulsions as had caused the ruin of Paul and Hughes.

The monks were strictly interrogated by their abbot, and it was revealed that Brother Louis, when last seen, had been loitering about the abbey workshop. Since, formerly, he had shown small in¬ terest in tools or manual labor, this was deemed a peculiar thing. Forthwith a visit was made to the workshop; and the



monk in charge of the smithy soon found that one of his heaviest hammers had been removed.

The conclusion was obvious to all: Louis, impelled by virtuous ardor and holy wrath, had gone forth during the night to demolish the baleful image of Venus.

Augustin and the Brothers who were with him repaired immediately to the garden. There they were met by the gar¬ deners, who, noticing from afar that the image no longer occupied its position be¬ side the pit, were hurrying to report this matter to the abbot. They had not dared to investigate the mystery of its disap¬ pearance, believing firmly that the statue had come to life and was lurking some¬ where about the garden.

Made bold by their number and by the leadership of Augustin, the assembled monks approached the pit. Beside its rim they beheld the missing hammer, lying on the clodded loam as if Louis had cast it aside. Near by was the sacking that had clothed the image; but there were no fragments of broken marble such as they had thought to see. The foot¬ prints of Louis were clearly imprinted upon the pit’s margin, and were discern¬ ible in strangely close proximity to the mark left by the pedestal of the statue.

All this was very peculiar, and the monks felt that the mystery had begun to assume a more than sinister tinge. Then, peering into the hole itself, they beheld a thing that was explicable only through the machinations of Satan—or one of Satan’s most pernicious and seduc¬ tive she-demons.

Somehow, the Venus had been over¬ turned and had fallen back into the broad deep pit. The body of Brother Louis, with a shattered skull and lips bruised to a sanguine pulp, was lying crushed be¬ neath her marble breasts. His arms were

clasped about her in a desperate, lover¬ like embrace, to which death had now added its own rigidity. Even more hor¬ rible and inexplicable, however, was the fact that the stone arms of the Venus had changed their posture and were now folded closely about the dead monk as if she had been sculptured in the attitude of an amorous enlacement!

The horror and consternation felt by the Benedictines were inexpressible. Some would have fled from the spot in panic, after viewing this frightful and most abominable prodigy; but Augustin restrained them, his features stern with the religious ire of one who beholds the fresh handiwork of the Adversary. He commanded the bringing of a cross, an aspergillus and holy water, together with a ladder for use in descending into the pit; saying that the body of Louis must be redeemed from the baleful and dol¬ orous plight into which it had fallen. The iron hammer, lying beside the hole, was proof of the righteous intention with which Louis had gone forth; but it was all too plain that he had succumbed to the hellish charms of the statue. Neverthe¬ less, the Church could not abandon its erring servant to the powers of Evil.

When the ladder was brought, Au¬ gustin himself led the descent, followed by three of the stoutest and most cour¬ ageous Brothers, who were willing to risk their own spiritual safety for the redemp¬ tion of Louis. Regarding that which ensued, the legends vary slightly. Some say that the aspersions of holy water, made by Augustin on the statue and its victim, were without palpable effect; while others relate that the drops turned to infernal steam when they struck the recumbent Venus, and blackened the flesh of Louis like that of a month-old cadaver, thus proving him wholly claimed by perdition. But the tales agree

THE DISINTERMENT OF VENUS


in this, that the strength of the three stout Brothers, laboring in unison at their abbot’s direction, was impotent to loosen the marble clasp of the goddess from about her prey.

So, by the order of Augustin, the pit

was filled hastily to its rim with earth and stones; and the very spot where it had been, being left without mound or other mark, was quickly overgrown by grass and weeds along with the rest of the abandoned garden.

ne Christmas Eve

By ELLIOT O'DONNELL

This strange tale was told to the author by a little boy who generally speaks the truth

**TSTfc OOR Auntie May, I do feel sorry

1-^ for her,” said the little boy with -®- the solemn eyes.

His sister nodded her head dismally. "So do I, Charlie, and I feel sorry for my¬ self. Granny’s temper is awful.”

There was a long pause after this, and both children gazed thoughtfully into the fire.

"I would rather have stayed at school for Christmas,” the boy murmured, kick¬ ing the heel of his left foot, "but for auntie and you. I—well, I detest granny —she is always scolding someone.”

"If I were auntie, I would elope,” the girl said. "I am sure Mr. Carson would do it.”

The sound of footsteps echoed along the passage, and a sharp, high-pitched voice called out, "May, May, wherever are you? It’s too bad of you to be idling away the morning doing nothing. Come and read the Guardian to your father, or alter this blouse for me. You know the dressmakers can never fit me.”

"Oh, dear,” sighed the little girl, "poor Auntie May. It’s granny. I really can’t stand her temper today of all days. She is sure to scold me for something.”

So saying, the little girl gently stole to the door, placed her brown head against it for a moment, smiled assuringly in the direction of Charlie, and stole out.

The fire was warm, the weather in¬ tensely cold, and Charlie felt too com¬ fortable to move far. So he simply crawled on all fours to the big screen near the fender, and curled himself up behind it. By and by he fell asleep.

He hadn’t been dozing very long before voices awoke him. At first, in his dreamy state, he couldn’t imagine who they were, but he soon recognized them as those of his Auntie May and her fiance.

There was nothing Charlie hated so much as eavesdropping, and he would have been the first to denounce anyone else; yet he didn’t like to call out, for fear they should think he had been listening, and he didn’t know how long they had been talking. He tried to think of some¬ thing else; he stopped his ears, but he couldn’t help hearing some of their re¬ marks.

"She really is beyond endurance,” the young man was saying. "I never met a woman with such a temper."



Auntie May sighed. "I can’t help it,” she replied. "I know she is very trying. I have often thought I would leave home and earn my living.”

The young man laughed ironically.

"Earn your living!” he said. "Good heaven! no other girl in England would do what you do for the paltry allowance you get, and with such an irritable step¬ mother to bully and hamper you every minute of the day. I feel as if”—here he kicked the hearth-rug fiercely—"as if I would like to-”

"Hush!” Auntie May whispered, plac¬ ing her little hand over his mouth; "re¬ member, after all, she is a sort of moth¬ er, and, I think, at the bottom she means well.”

"I wish we had enough money to marry at once; don’t you, darling?”

Auntie May’s eyes beamed. "I do in¬ deed! Oh, wouldn’t it be delightful, Hugh!”

Just then a big flame illuminated the wall by their side and made them both look.

“Isn’t she some ancestor of yours, dar¬ ling?” the young man asked, gazing at the portrait of a lady with curly hair and gray-blue eyes. It was a very pretty face.

May nodded. "My great-aunt,” she replied. "Poor thing, she had a sad his¬ tory.”

"What happened to her? She interests me because she is very like you, only not so pretty.”

May smiled a little sadly.

"You only say that to please me,” she said. "I’m not pretty now. I’m too old. Well, my great-aunt was engaged to be married to a poor man; her parents were very rich and they disapproved of the match. I imagine her mother’s temper must have been a bit like my stepmoth¬ er’s, perhaps worse.” Here Hugh grunt¬ ed. "Anyhow she was sorely tried, and in

the end eloped one Christmas Eve. At least so it was generally supposed, as she vanished, taking with her a diamond necklace of immense value. If we only had the money it is said to have cost, we could marry. The funny part is that her young man was seen in the village after¬ ward, and was alleged to have made in¬ quiries about her. What became of them both no one ever knew, and the parents would never allow her name to be men¬ tioned.”

"Rather strange about the young man,” Hugh said, stirring the fire thoughtfully with the poker. "Do you think she really did elope?”

May shook her head. "I can’t say,” she replied, "her parents declared that the young man was a bad lot and wouldn’t have him near the house. It was snow¬ ing when she was supposed to have left home, and no footmarks or any other traces of her were to be found. If she didn’t join the young man, where could she have gone?”

"Perhaps she committed suicide; she was very unhappy, wasn’t she?”

May shuddered. "How horrible!” she murmured; "and do you know she is said to haunt the house on Christmas Eve, though I can’t say I have ever met any¬ one who has seen her.”

Hugh caught hold of the little hand nearest to him and kissed it tenderly.

"Well, I wish I could see her, dar¬ ling,” he said, laughing. "Perhaps she might tell us a way out of our difficulty.”

Just then a well-known voice was heard from the dining-room. "Now then! May, come! your father wants you to make his tea. I suppose you are only canoodling as usual. Do you hear me? Oh, what a thing it is to be old!”

"Oh, dear!” sighed May, as she tore herself away from the strong pair of

ONE CHRISTMAS EVE


arms holding her down, "there is no peace for the weary.”

Hugh gazed longingly after her.

"There goes an angel of a girl,” he said aloud, "with a—well, a most un¬ pleasant stepmother,” and a subdued murmur from behind the screen re¬ echoed those sentiments.


A fter they had gone, Charlie came - out of his hiding-place.

The room was delightfully cozy, with its fire no longer throwing out yellow flames, but rich with crimson embers. Outside were knots of elms and oaks, erect and silent, with their branches covered with snow, and the moon peeked between them as much as to say, “You shan’t shut me out; I am deter¬ mined to see what Santa Claus is doing this Christmas.”

Charlie loved the snow. He thought Churchdale was at its very best when the leaves and meadows glittered with their mantle of white.

But his heart was bitter within him as he thought of his grandmother’s treat¬ ment of Auntie May, whom he loved pas¬ sionately. He sat and gazed at the pic¬ ture of her ancestress, and the longer he looked the more his imagination led him to believe the beautiful eyes smiled into his.

He heard a door open and a shrill voice cry out, "Charlie! come down to tea at once. We can’t keep the things on the table for ever!” Then Auntie May as usual caught it. And his grandfather’s voice joined in with quotations from the Guardian, to which they all had to listen, although it bored them very mudi.

Then his granny came out and stood at the foot of the stairs and called louder than before.

But Charlie felt very rebellious and he

did not go. He wanted to annoy her as a punishment for her behavior to Auntie May, and he also couldn’t remove his eyes from the picture.

Then he heard Mr. Carson suggest in a mild voice that Charlie must have gone out to tea at the vicarage.

After that there was a lull in the angry storm, and the old people’s voices sub¬ sided into calmer and more rational tones.

The room grew darker, for Charlie didn’t put any more coal on the fire, and the shadows from without filed in through the bay windows in rapid succes¬ sion.

"You are pretty,” Charlie sighed, as he looked at the clear eyes. "I am sorry for you if you had a mother with such a tem¬ per as granny. She is enough—well, enough to make me almost hate her; she is such a beast to Auntie May, always scolding. Yes, picture, I am awfully sorry for you. I heard this afternoon, you know, what a rough time you had. You have lovely eyes—just my favorite color. How I should get ragged if the boys at school heard me talk like this! They don’t care for reading, as I do. I think most of them will be doctors or lawyers, or some such things, but I couldn’t stand anything like that. I shall be a poet or an author, and make a name that will go down to— I don’t know what people call it—but I shall be in the papers and Idler and tip¬ top magazines like that. But I won’t love anyone as I do you. Do you hear me, pic¬ ture? You are my first love! Granny says, 'Love at first sight is all rubbish!’ She told auntie so, but she doesn’t know everything, although she thinks she does.

"Oh, I wish you would help Auntie May! It is Christmas Eve, and they say you haunt the place tonight. I shouldn’t be afraid if I saw you. Won’t you come and talk to me? I would like to ask you to kiss me, you have such pretty lips, only



it sounds a bit soft; and then a ghost couldn’t touch one—at least, one can’t touch a ghost.”

It grew darker and darker, and the fire flickered out its farewell in a tiny yellow flame that shot up its fork-like head and licked the face on the wall.

Charlie gave a little jump—the eyes were most certainly smiling at him now, and — why — good heavens! the hand moved.

He bounded to his feet; the picture was holding out its hands to him to help it down.

He didn’t feel the least bit afraid, but took the outstretched hands in his own. They were so cold that they sent a chill right through him. The lady shook her curls from her forehead, and leaped light¬ ly to the ground.

She didn’t speak, so Charlie held his tongue. He felt horribly shy, too, for the lady looked lovely; he was struck with admiration for the Empire gown she was wearing.

Putting one finger on her lips to enjoin silence, she glided to the conservatory door, and Charlie, who remembered the duties of a gentleman, hurried to open it for her. To his surprize, she passed right through it, and was waiting for him on the other side.

She smiled assuringly at him, and his momentary fear departed. He followed gladly after her, and though he had neither overcoat, hat, nor boots, he was unconscious of the cold.

She passed through the conservatory as if she was familiar with every inch of it, and then out onto the lawn, where the snow lay thick.

He kept close to her heels, and she led him down the avenue, dark, save for the few patches of light made by the moon.

Finally she struck off to the right, down a path he seldom visited, and came to a

halt in a tiny siding. Before her lay a dark hole overgrown with bushes and brambles. She pointed to it, and Charlie saw great tears in her eyes, while her lips moved as if she was talking to him. He knew she was in trouble, and a wave of love and pity swept through him. He sprang forward, forgetting the death-trap before him. But she anticipated his move¬ ment, and he felt for the second time cold hands stretched out to save him.

"Oh, kiss me!” he whispered, "just one—for you are too lovely for any¬ thing.”

It seemed to him then that something icy cold fell on his cheeks, just like the salt spray of the sea, and the next mo¬ ment he was in her arms. A wild paroxysm of happiness surged through him—a joy so intense and restful that the feeling of it came back to him again and again in the gray days of his manhood.

A drowsiness crept over him, and though he struggled hard to keep awake to see her face, it was without avail—he Sank swiftly to sleep.

When he awoke someone was bending over him. It was Auntie May, and he was lying on the hearth-rug beneath the picture.


“T wonder if there is anything in it,” -5- Auntie May asked herself, as Charlie finished his tale. "I’m afraid it was only a very pretty dream, dear,” she added, aloud. "See! there is the picture in its old place.”

Charlie raised his eyes. Yes, what auntie said was true. There it was, and he saw with a pang that the eyes did not recognize him.

He felt his shoes. "They are wet, auntie,” he cried. "Yes! they are, in¬ deed,” and so they were.

In the morning, Charlie took May and

ONE CHRISTMAS EVE


Hugh down the avenue. He was wild with excitement, and even Hugh was obliged to own that it looked promising. At last they came to the path, then to the siding, and then, with a shout of triumph, to the dark hole.

"By Jove!’’ Hugh exclaimed, "the kid is right. I don’t believe it was a dream, but the ghost after all. I will get down here.”

Auntie May begged him to be careful, but Hugh was a Celt, and very super¬ stitious.

So a rope was fetched, without the granny’s leave, and Hugh was lowered into the well. It seemed an eternity to all before he reappeared, but when he did so, they were rewarded for their patience.

At die bottom of the well, which was dry, lay a skeleton, still clutching in its hand a jewel-case. The latter contained a diamond necklace.

"That is it!” Charlie cried, the moment

he saw it. "That is the one the picture was wearing!”

And what little doubt they had on the point was set at rest, when the medical authority pronounced it to be the skeleton of a woman.

So they found a clue at last to that mystery of the Christmas Eve of long ago. The poor lady had missed her way in the snowstorm and had fallen down the well. She was laid to rest in the churchyard, and her spirit has never been seen again, though Charlie had implored it to come just for one minute.

Even the cross grandmother became in a better humor when she saw the jewels, and yielded, with a good grace, to the unanimous desire that it should be given

[THE END]

============================================================
DROWNED ARGOSIES
by Jay Wilmer Benjamin
============================================================
to Auntie May.

It was, and with the money it fetched, a substantial wedding dower was pro¬ vided for the young bride.

rowned Argosies

By JAY WILMER BENJAMIN

A weird tale of the sea

T HE Volcania had gone down. This much Charteris knew. It was all he felt he could possibly lay claim to knowing. Drifting five days in an open boat in the Carribbean Sea is not con¬ ducive to sanity.

Not that Charteris was going mad. Far from it. But he couldn’t understand the ghastly people who seemed to be trying to talk to him.

They were sailormen. He knew it But what a peculiar crew! There were

half-naked galley slaves with the great calluses still on their palms. There were old shellbacks, barefoot, and naked above the waist. There were men who had driven the great clipper ships from Can¬ ton to London in sixty days. And there were men like Charteris, who knew the intricacies of the great liners’ guts.

They were trying to talk to him—then Charteris shook his head.

"Dead men can’t talk!”

The sun beat down. The brazen sea re122


fleeted it. Water — water — WATER! That was Charteris’ sole thought.

Finally one old shellback, whose gaunt figure betokened great strength and great¬ er endurance, beckoned him, and Charteris heard: "I say, maty—don’t worry. Who do you want to sign on with?”

"What do you mean?” asked Char¬ teris. "You can’t-”

The old shellback laughed, and Char¬ teris shuddered. It is odd to hear ghosts laugh, and Charteris knew these were ghosts. Where else could men have come from in all that dying sea?

"Think we’re dead, don’t you?” said the shellback. "Well, we ain’t! Only time a sailor dies is when they plant him six feet under in a churchyard. There’s men here who served in every kind of craft, from a bireme to a liner.”

"Who are you?” asked Charteri..

"Me? Why, bless you, I sailed with Paul Jones on the Ranger. A good cap’n, that, only a bit of a driver.”

"Paul Jones? Why, man, he’s dead nearly two hundred years!”

“Not quite that,” said the old shell¬ back, and laughed.

"Ugh!” thought Charteris, "I must be going mad.”

’’Not quite that,” said the old shellback again. "Now you take Petrus here”—and he waved a hand toward a squat hairy half-naked man—"he sailed with Quintus Maximus when they stripped the Mediter¬ ranean of the Carthaginian boats.”

Petrus grinned and gabbled something. The old shellback translated. "He says it was a hell of a good fight, and you should have seen ’em scatter when the biremes came.”

"What? Served under Quintus Maxi¬ mus? Why, man, that’s nineteen hundred years ago!”

"Nigher two thousand — but what’s time, what’s time?”

And he spat.

That, thought Charteris, was the ragged limit. He must be mad.

There was silence once more until Charteris leaned his head against a thwart and began to cry, in long, racking sobs. The shellback reached over, and Charteris shivered at the touch of his hand. It was icy cold, in spite of the brazen sun still sending its red-hot rays to beat on Char¬ teris’ back.

”1 felt that way when they left me to drift, too. You know, I was the man they lost from the Ranger. But hell—here’s Hendrik Hudson. Want to talk to him about driftin’?”

"No,” said Charteris, "no—no—no— no—no—no—no-”

A voice broke in, a deep voice vibrant with sympathy.

"Poor youngster! They all feel that way just before they sign on. Myself, I felt it too.”

“Who are you?” Charteris asked wildly.

"Hendrik Hudson, cap’n of the HalfMoon.”

“What are you doing here?”

"I signed on to sail under Admiral Beresford. I command the Saturnta. Do you want to sign on with me?”

"What do you mean?”

"Young fool! Do you not know that we who sailed the seven seas still sail beneath her bosom? Look!”—and he stabbed a thick fat finger at the green waves.

Weakly Charteris crawled to the gun¬ wale and looked. Down below he saw a tall clipper ship sailing serenely. Her sails were gone, and in their places were long streamers of kelp. From truck to keelson she was wreathed with flying sea¬ weed, but about her decks moved sailormen going to and fro quite as if it were their normal life. Muffled by sixty fath¬ oms of water, he heard the strokes of a

DROWNED ARGOSIES

ship’s bell and a dim voice: "Three bells! Relieve the wheel and lookout.”

"But I know nothing about sailingships, Cap’n. I’m an engineer.”

"So? Nat!” And Hendrik Hudson turned to the old shellback. "Does Cap’n Lucks need an engineer?”

"Depends, Cap’n. I hear he needed a man with an extra first’s certificate.”

"Call him up, will you?”

And Charteris’ eyes bulged as he saw the sailor, Nat, produce a bosun’s whistle and blow an odd piping call.

The sea boiled, and up rose a man dressed even as Charteris’ old captain. The four gold stripes of a master mariner shone as they had in the days when Cap¬ tain Lucks had proudly trod the deck of the Titania.

"Hello. What’s up?” he boomed.

And Charteris noticed that there was a slight hiss to the S’s, as though the cap¬ tain had false teeth.

"This man, Cap’n,” said Nat, respect¬ fully pulling his forelock, "is gonna sign on with you.”

"Hmm. What can he do?”

"I’m an extra first, sir,” said Charteris, convinced by now that all this was more than just a dream, that it was indeed actually life.

D imly on the horizon rose a faint smudge of smoke as a long, lean coast-guard cutter drove its knife-like prow through the waters, searching for survivors of the Volcania. On the bridge a tense officer quartered the sea with ter¬ rible efficiency.

"God!” he thought. "To be left adrift here! Bos’n!”

His voice was sharp. He had picked up the white speck that was Charteris’ boat.

"A quarter west! Call the cap’n. I see a boat!”

"Aye, aye, sir!”

The wheel spun. A messenger raced aft to get the captain.

The captain took his position on the bridge and whistled down the speakingtube.

"Engine room,” he said, "bridge speak¬ ing. Can you get a couple more knots outta this hooker?”

The funnels belched black smoke. The destroyer’s frame quivered as her mighty engines thrust her forward with renewed speed.

She stood by Charteris’ floating prison. A boat was lowered and able seamen lift¬ ed Charteris, trying weakly to salute someone they could not see, to its security.

"I’ll be honored to sign on, sir,” mum¬ bled Charteris vaguely.

They had seen men adrift in open boats before. They knew what the sea and sun can do. So they looked at him sympathetically and went about the busi¬ ness of transferring him to the cutter.

Tenderly the hard seamen carried him below, still talking of things they did not understand, of drowned ships, and that ghastly whistle on the Saturnia.

Charteris gazed wildly about him. He seemed to be trying to place his surround¬ ings. "My new quarters, Cap’n?” heasked hoarsely.

"Take it easy, son—you’re all ship¬ shape now,” advised a grizzled bosun’s mate.

Charteris looked at the speaker without comprehension. Suddenly he fell back and began to babble unintelligibly.

The old bosun’s mate pursed his lips and spat thoughtfully. Then he bent for¬ ward.

His eyes widened. Swiftly he straight¬ ened and crossed himself reverently.


[THE END]

============================================================
THE DEAD MAN’S TALE
by Willard E. Hawkins
============================================================
"Cripes!” said he in amazement; "how’d this guy know Lucks— and know he had false teeth?”

Vhe

ead Man’s Tale*

By WILLARD E. HAWKINS

HE curious narratiue that follows was found among the papers of the late Doctor John Pedric, psychical investigator and author of occult works. It bears evidence of having been received through automatic writing, as were sev¬ eral of his publications. Unfortunately, there are no records to confirm this as¬ sumption, and none of the mediums or assistants employed by him in his research work admits knowledge of it. Possibly^— for the doctor was reputed to possess some psychic powers—it may have been re¬ ceived by him. At any rate, the lack of data renders the recital useless as a doc¬ ument for the Society for Psychical Re¬ search. It is published for whatever in¬ trinsic interest or significance it may pos¬ sess. With reference to the names men¬ tioned, it may be added that they are not confirmed by the records of the War De¬ partment. It could be maintained, how¬ ever, that purposely fictitious names were substituted, either by the doctor or the communicating entity.

T hey called me—when I walked the earth in a body of dense matter— Richard Devaney. Though my story has

» From WEIRD TALES for March, 1923.


little to do with the war, I was killed in the second battle of the Marne, on July 24, 1918.

Many times, as men were wont to do who felt the daily, hourly imminence of death in the trendies, I had pictured that event in my mind and wondered what it would be like. Mainly I had inclined toward a belief in total extinction. That, when the vigorous, full-blooded body I possessed should lie bereft of its faculties, I, as a creature apart from it, should go on, was beyond credence. The play of life through the human machine, I rea¬ soned, was like the flow of gasoline into the motor of an automobile. Shut off that flow, and the motor became inert, dead, while the fluid which had given it power was in itself nothing.

And so, I confess, it was a surprize to discover that I was dead and yet not dead.

I did not make the discovery at once. There had been a blinding concussion, a moment of darkness, a sensation of fall¬ ing—falling—into a deep abyss. An in¬ definite time afterward, I found myself standing dazedly on the hillside, toward the crest of which we had been pressing against the enemy. The thought came that I must have momentarily lost conTHE DEAD MAN S TALE

125s

sciousness. Yet now I felt strangely free from physical discomfort.

What had I been doing when that mo¬ ment of blackness blotted everything out? I had been dominated by a purpose, a flaming desireLike a flash, recollection burst upon me, and with it a blaze of hatred—not toward the German gunners, ensconced in the woods above us, but toward the private enemy I had been about to kill.

It had been the opportunity for which I had waited interminable days and nights. In the open formation, he kept a few paces ahead of me. As we alternately ran forward, then dropped on our bellies and fired, I had watched my chance. No one would suspect, with the dozens who were falling every moment under the merciless fire from the trees beyond, that the bullet which ended Louis Winston’s career came from a comrade’s rifle.

Twice I had taken aim, but withheld my fire—not from indecision, but lest, in my vengeful heat, I might fail to reach a vital spot. When I raised ray rifle the third time, he offered a fair target.

God! how I hated him! With fingers itching to speed the steel toward his heart, I forced myself to remain calm, to hold fire for that fragment of a second that would insure careful aim.

Then, as the pressure of my finger tightened against the trigger, came the blinding flash—the moment of blackness.


I had evidently remained unconscious longer than I realized. Save for a few figures that lay motionless or squirm¬ ing in agony on the field, the regiment had passed on, to be lost in the trees at the crest of the hill. With a pang of dis¬ appointment, I realized that Louis would be among them.

Involuntarily I started onward, driven

still by that impulse of burning hatred, when I heard my name called.

Turning in surprize, I saw a helmeted figure crouching beside something hud¬ dled in the tall grass. No second glance was needed to tell me that the huddled something was the body of a soldier. I had eyes only for the man who was bend¬ ing over him. Fate had been kind to me. It was Louis.

Apparently, in his preoccupation, he had not noticed me. Coolly I raised my rifle and fired.

The result was startling. Louis neither dropped headlong nor looked up at the report. Vaguely I questioned whether there had been a report

Thwarted, I felt the lust to kill mount¬ ing in me with redoubled fury. With rifle upraised, I ran toward him. A ter¬ rific swing, and I crashed the stock against his head.

It passed clear through! Louis re¬ mained unmoved.

Uncomprehending, snarling, I flung the useless weapon away and fell upon him with bare hands—with fingers that strained to rend and tear and strangle.

Instead of encountering solid flesh and bone, they too passed through him.

Was it a mirage? A dream? Had I gone crazy? Sobered, for a moment for¬ getful of my fury, I drew back and tried to reduce the thing to reason. Was Louis but a figment of the imagination—a phantom?

My glance fell upon the figure beside which he was sobbing incoherent words of entreaty. I gave a start, then looked more closely. The dead man—for there was no question about his condition, with a bloody shrapnel wound in the side of his head —was myself!

Gradually the import of this penetrated my consciousness. Then I realized that it was Louis who had called my name—


.WEIRD TALES

that even now he was sobbing it over and over.

The irony of it struck me at the mo¬ ment of realization. I was dead —I was the phantom — who had meant to kill Louis!

I looked at my hands, my uniform—I touched my body. Apparently I was as substantial as before the shrapnel buried itself in my head. Yet, when I had tried to grasp Louis, my hand seemed to en¬ compass only space.

Louis lived, and I was dead!

The discovery for a time benumbed my feeling toward him. With impersonal curiosity, I saw him close the eyes of the dead man—the man who, somehow or other, had been myself. I saw him search the pockets and drew forth a letter I had written only that morning, a letter ad¬ dressed toWith a sudden surge of dismay, I darted forward to snatch it from his hands. He should not read that letter!

Again I was reminded of my impalpa¬ bility.

But Louis did not open the envelope, although it was unsealed. He read the superscription, kissed it, as sobs rent his frame, and thrust the letter inside his khaki jacket.

"Dick! Buddy!’’ he cried brokenly. "How can I take this news back to her?”

My lips curled. Louis had no suspicion of the hate I bore him—had borne him ever since I discovered in him a rival for Velma Roth.

Oh, I had been clever! It was our "un¬ selfish friendship” that endeared us both to her. A sign of jealousy, of ill nature, and I would have forfeited the paradise of her regard that apparently I shared with Louis.

I had never felt secure of my place in that paradise. True, I could always

awaken a response in her, but I must put forth effort in order to do so. He held her interest, it seemed, without trying. They were happy with each other and in each other.

Our relations might be expressed by likening her to the water of a placid pool, Louis to the basin that held her, me to the wind that swept over it. By exerting myself, I could agitate the surface of her nature into ripples of pleasurable excite¬ ment—could even lash her emotions into a tempest. She responded to the stimula¬ tion of my mood, yet, in my absence, set¬ tled contentedly into the peaceful comfort of Louis’ stedfast love.

I felt vaguely then—and am certain now, with a broader perspective toward real¬ ities—that Velma intuitively recognized Louis as her mate, yet feared to yield her¬ self to him because of my sway over her emotional nature.

When the great war came, we all, I am convinced, felt that it would absolve Velma from the task of choosing between us.

Whether the' agony that spoke from the violet depths of her eyes when we said good-bye was chiefly for Louis or for me, I could not tell. I doubt if she could have done so. But in my mind was the deter¬ mination that only one of us should re¬ turn, and—Louis would not be that one.

Did I feel no repugnance at thought of murdering the man who stood in my way? Very little. I was a savage at heart—a savage in whom desire outweighed any¬ thing that might stand in the way of gain¬ ing its object. From my point of view, I would have been a fool to pass the op¬ portunity.

Why I should have so hated him, a mere obstacle in my path, I do not know. It may have been due to a prescience of the intangible barrier his blood would

THE DEAD MAN’S TALE


always raise between Velma and me—or to a slumbering sense of remorse.

But, speculation aside, here I was, in a state of being that the world calls death, while Louis lived — was free to return home — to claim Velma — to flaunt his possession of all that I held precious.

It was maddening! Must I stand idly by, helpless to prevent this?


I have pondered, since, how I could remain so long in touch with the ob¬ jective world—why I did not at once, or very soon, find myself shut off from earth¬ ly sights and sounds as those in physical form are shut off from the things beyond.

The matter seems to have been deter¬ mined by my will. Like weights of lead, envy of Louis and passionate longing for Velma held my feet to the sphere of dense matter.

Vengeful, despairing, I watched be¬ side Louis. When at last he turned away from my body and, with tears streaming from his eyes, began to drag a useless leg toward the trenches we had left, I realized why he had not gone on with the others to the crest of the hill. He, too, was a victim of Boche gunnery.

I walked beside the stretcher-bearers when they had picked him up and were conveying him toward the base hospital. Throughout the weeks that followed I hovered near his cot, watching the doc¬ tors as they bound up the lacerated ten¬ dons in his thigh, and missing no detail of his battle with the fever.

Over his shoulder I read the first let¬ ter he wrote home to Velma, in which he gave a belated account of my death, dwelling upon the glory of my sacrifice:

"I have often thought that yott two were meant for each other” {he wrote] "and that if it had not been for fear of hurting me, you would have been his wife long ago. He was the best buddy a man

ever had. If only 1 could have been the one to die!”

Had I known it, I could have fol¬ lowed this letter across seas—could, in fact, have passed it and, by an exercise of the will, have been at Velma’s side in the twinkling of an eye. But my ignorance of the laws of the new plane was total. All my thoughts were centered upon a problem of entirely different character.

Never was hold upon earthly treasure more reluctantly relinquished than was my hope of possessing Velma. Surely, death could not erect so absolute a barrier. There must be a way—some loophole of communication—some chance for a dis¬ embodied man to contend with his cor¬ poreal rival for a woman’s love.

Slowly, very slowly, dawned the light of a plan. So feeble was the glimmer that it would scarcely have comforted one in less desperate straits, but to me it ap¬ peared to offer a possible hope. I set about methodically, with infinite patience, evolving it into something tangible, even though I had but the most indefinite idea of what the outcome might be.

The first suggestion came when Louis had so far recovered that but little trace of the fever remained. One afternoon, as he lay sleeping, the mail-distributer hand¬ ed a letter to the nurse who happened to be standing beside his cot. She glanced at it, then tucked it under his pillow.

The letter was from Velma, and I was hungry for the contents. I did not then know that I could have read it easily, sealed though it was. In a frenzy of im¬ patience, I exclaimed:

"Wake up, confound it, and read your letter!”

With a start, he opened his eyes. He looked around with a bewildered expres¬ sion.

"Under your pillow!” I fumed. "Look under your pillow!”



In a dazed manner, he put his hand under the pillow and drew forth the let¬ ter.

A few hours later, I heard him com¬ menting on the experience to the nurse.

“Something seemed to wake me up,” he said, "and I had a peculiar impulse to feel under the pillow. It was just as if I knew I would find the letter there.”

The circumstance seemed as remark¬ able to me as it did to him. It might be coincidence, but I determined to make a further test.

A series of experiments convinced me that I could, to a very slight degree, im¬ press my thoughts and will upon Louis, especially when he was tired or on the borderland of sleep. Occasionally I was able to control the direction of his thoughts as he wrote home to Velma.

On one occasion, he was describing for her a funny little Frenchwoman who vis¬ ited title hospital with a basket that always was filled with cigarettes and candy.

"Last time" [he wrote] "she brought with her a boy whom she called - "

He paused, with pencil upraised, try¬ ing to recall the name.

A moment later, he looked down at the page and stared with astonishment. The words, "She called him Maurice,” had been added below the unfinished line.

“I must be going daffy,” he muttered. “I’d swear I didn’t write that.”

Behind him, I stood rubbing my hands in triumph. It was my first successful effort to guide the pencil while his thoughts strayed elsewhere.

Another time, he wrote to Velma:

"I’ve a strange feeling, lately, that dear old Dick is near. Sometimes, as I wake up, 1 seem to remember vaguely having seen him in my dreams. It’s as if his fea¬ tures were just fading from view.”

He paused here so long that I made

another attempt to take advantage of his abstraction.

By an effort of the will that is difficult to explain, I guided his hand into the for¬ mation of the words:

"With a jugful of kisses for Winkie, as ever her - ”

Just then, Louis looked down.

“Good God!” he exclaimed, as if he had seen a ghost.


“WT 1NKJE ” was a pet name I had

» ▼ given Velma when we were chil¬ dren together.

Louis always maintained there was no sense in it, and refused to adopt it, though I frequently called her by that name in later years. And of his own volition, Louis would never have mentioned any¬ thing so convivial as a jugful of kisses.

So, through the weary months before he was invalided home, I worked. When he left France at the debarkation point, he still walked on crutches, but with the promise of regaining the unassisted use of his leg before very long. Throughout the voyage, I hovered near him, sharing his impatience, his longing for the one we both held dearest.

Over the exquisite pain of the reunion —at which I was present, yet not present —I shall pass briefly. More beautiful than ever, more appealing with her vivid, deep coloring, Velma in the flesh was a vision that stirred my longing into an in¬ tense flame.

Louis limped painfully down the gang¬ plank. When they met, she rested her head silently on his shoulder for a mo-, ment, then — her eyes brimming with tears—assisted him, with the tender solic¬ itude of a mother, to the machine she had in waiting.

Two months later they were married.

I felt the pain of this less deeply than I W. T.—8

THE DEAD MAN S TALE


would have done had it not been essential to my designs.

Whatever vague hope I may have had, however, of vicariously enjoying the de¬ lights of love were disappointed. I could not have explained why — I only knew that something barred me from intruding upon the sacred intimacies of their life, as if a defensive wall were interposed. It was baffling, but a very present fact, against which I found it useless to rebel.

I have since learned—but no matter. . . . This had no bearing on my purpose, which hinged upon the ability I was ac¬ quiring of influencing Louis’ thoughts and actions, of taking partial control of his faculties.

The occupation into which he drifted, restricted in choice as he was by the stif¬ fened leg, helped me materially. Often, after an interminable shift at the bank, he would plod home at night with brain so weary and benumbed that it was a sim¬ ple matter to impress my will upon him. Each successful attempt, too, made the next one easier.

The inevitable consequence was that in time Velma should notice his aberrations and betray concern.

"Why did you say to me, when you came in last night. There’s a blue billygoat on the stairs—I wish they’d drive him out’?” she demanded one morning.

He looked down shamefacedly at the tablecloth.

"I don’t know what made me say it. I seemed to want to say it, and that was the only way to get it off my mind. I thought you’d take it as a joke.” He shifted his shoulders, as if trying to dislodge an un¬ pleasant burden.

"And was that what made you wear a necktie to bed?” she asked, ironically.

He nodded an affirmative. "I knew it was idiotic, but the idea kept running in my mind. It seemed as if the only way I W. T — 9

could go to sleep was to give in to it.

I don’t have these freaks unless I’m very tired.”

She said nothing more at the time, but that evening she broached the subject of his looking for an opening in some less sedentary occupation—a subject to which she thereafter constantly recurred.

Then came a development that sur¬ prized and excited me with its possibil¬ ities. Exhausted, drained to the last drop of his nerve-force, Louis was returning late one night from the bank, following the usual month-end overtime grind. As he walked from the car-line, I hovered over him, subduing his personality, forc¬ ing it under control, with the effort of will I had gradually learned to direct upon him. The process can only be ex¬ plained in a crude way: It was as if I contended with him, sometimes success¬ fully, for possession of the steering-wheel of the human car that he drove.

Velma was waiting when we arrived. As Louis’ feet sounded on the threshold of their apartment, she opened the door, caught his hands, and drew him inside.

At the action, I felt inexplicably thrilled. It was as if some marvelous change had come over him. And then, as I met her gaze, I knew what that change was.

I held her hands in real flesh-and-blood contact. I was looking at her with Louis’ sight!


T he shock of it cost me what I had gained. Shaken from my poise, I felt die personality I had subdued regain its sway.

The next moment, Louis was staring at Velma in bewilderment. Her eyes were filled with alarm.

"You — you frightened me!” she gasped, withdrawing her hands, which I



had all but crushed. "Louis, dear—don’t ever look at me again like that!”

I can imagine the devouring intensity of gaze that had blazed forth from the features in that brief moment when they were mine.

From this time, my plans quickly took form. Two modes of action presented themselves. The first and more alluring, however, I was forced to abandon. It was none other than the wild dream of acquiring exclusive possession of Louis’ body — of forcing him down, out, and into the secondary place I had occupied.

Despite the progress I had made, this proved inexpressibly difficult. For one thing, there seemed an affinity between Louis’ body and his personality, which forced me out when he was moderately rested. This bond I might have weak¬ ened, but there were other factors.

One was the growing conviction on his part that something was radically wrong. With a faculty I had discovered of put¬ ting myself en rapport with him and read¬ ing his thoughts, I knew that at times he feared that he was going insane.

I once had the experience of accom¬ panying him to an alienist and there, like the proverbial fly on the wall, overhear¬ ing learned scientific names applied to my efforts. The alienist spoke of "dual per¬ sonality,” "amnesia,” and "the subcon¬ scious mind,” while I laughed in my (shall I say?) ghostly sleeve.

But he advised Louis to seek a complete rest and, if possible, to go into the coun¬ try to build up physically—which was what I desired most to prevent. I could not play the Mr. Hyde to his Dr. Jekyll if Louis maintained his normal virility.

Velma’s fears, too, I knew were grow¬ ing more acute. As insistently as she could, without betraying too openly her alarm, she pressed him to give up the bank position and seek work in the open

air—work that would prove less devital¬ izing to a person of his peculiar tempera¬ ment.

One of the results of debility from overwork is, apparently, that it deprives the victim of his initiative—makes him fearful of giving up his hold upon the meager means of sustenance that he has, lest he shall be unable to grasp another. Louis was in debt, earning scarcely enough for their living expenses, too proud to let Velma help as she longed to do, his game leg putting him at a disad¬ vantage in the industrial field. In fact, he was in just the predicament I desired, but I knew that in time her wishes would prevail.

The circumstance, however, that de¬ prived me of all hope of completely usurping his place was this: I could not, for any length of time, face the gaze of Velma’s eyes. The personified truth, the purity that dwelt in them, seemed to dis¬ solve my power, to beat me back into the secondary relationship I had come to oc¬ cupy toward Louis.

He was sometimes tempted to tell hei: "You give me my one grip on sanity.” I have witnessed his panic at the thought of losing her, at the thought that some day she might give him up in disgust at his aberrations, and abandon him to the formless "thing” that haunted him.

Curious, to be of the world and yet not of it—to enjoy a perspective that re¬ veals the hidden side of effects, which seem so mysterious from the material side of the veil. But I would gladly have given all the advantages of my disem¬ bodied state for one hour of flesh-andblood companionship with Velma.

My alternative plan was this: If I could not enter her world, what was to prevent me from bringing Velma into mine? Daring? To be sure.

THE DEAD MAN’S TALE



U nversed as I was in the laws that govern this mystery of passing from the physical into another state of exist¬ ence, I could only hope that the plan would work. It might—and that was enough for me. I took a gambler’s chance. By risking all, I might gain all —might gainThe thought of what I might gain transported me to a heaven of pain and ecstasy. Velma and I—in a world apart, a world of our own—free from the sordid trammels that mar the perfection of the rosiest earth-existence. Velma and I— together through all eternity!

This much reason I had for hoping: I observed that other persons passed through the change called death, and that some entered a state of being in which I was conscious of them and they of me. Uninteresting creatures they were, almost wholly preoccupied with their former earth-interests; but they were as much in the world as I had been in the world of Velma and Louis before that fragment of shrapnel ruled me out of the game.

A few, it was true, on passing from their physical habitations, seemed to emerge into a sphere to which I could not follow. This troubled me. Velma might do likewise. Yet I refused to admit the probability—refused to consider the pos¬ sible failure of my plan. The very in¬ tensity of my longing would draw her to me.

The gulf that separated us was spanned by the grave. Once Velma had crossed to my side of the abyss, there would be no going back to Louis.

Yet I was cunning. She must not come to me with overpowering regrets that would cause her to hover about Louis as I now hovered about her. If I could in¬ spire her with horror and loathing for him—ah! if I only could!

As a preliminary step, I must induce Louis to buy the instrument with which my purpose was to be accomplished. This was not easy, for on nights when he left the bank during shopping hours he was sufficiently vigorous to resist my will.

I could work only through suggestion.

In a pawnshop that he passed daily I had noticed a revolver prominently dis¬ played. My whole effort was concen¬ trated upon bringing this to his attention.

The second night, he glanced at the revolver, but did not stop. Three nights later, drawn by a fascination for which he could not have accounted, he paused and looked at it for several minutes, fighting an urge that seemed to command: "Step in and buy! Buy! Buy!”

When, a few evenings later, he arrived home with the revolver and a box of car¬ tridges that the pawnbroker had included in the sale, he put them hastily out of sight in a drawer of his desk.

He said nothing about his purchase, but the next day Velma came across the weap¬ on and questioned him regarding it.

Visibly confused, he replied: "Oh, I thought we might need something of the sort. Saw it in a window, and the notion of having it sort of took hold of me. There’s been a lot of housebreaking late¬ ly, and it’s just as well to be prepared.”

And now with impatience I waited for the opportunity to stage my denouement.

It came at the end of the month, when Louis, after a prolonged day’s work, re¬ turned home after midnight, his brain benumbed with poring over interminable columns of figures. When his feet as¬ cended the stairs to his apartment it was not his faculties that directed them, but mine—cunning, alert, aflame with deadly purpose.

Never was more weird preliminary to a murder—the entering, in guise of a dear, familiar form, of a fiend incarnate,



intent upon destroying the flower of the home. I speak of a fiend incarnate, even though I was that fiend, for I did not enter Louis’ body in full expression of my faculties. Taking up physical life, my recollection of existence as a spirit entity was always shadowy. I carried through the dominating impulses that had actuat¬ ed me on entering the body, but scarcely more. And the impulse I had carried through that night was the impulse to kill.


W ith utmost cautfon, I entered the bedroom.

My control of Louis’ body was com¬ plete. I felt, for perhaps the first time, so corporeally secure that the vague dread of being driven out did not oppress me.

The room was dark, but the soft, reg¬ ular breathing of Velma, asleep, reached my ears. It was like the invitation that rises in the scent of old wine which the Bps are about to quaff—quickening my eagerness and setting my brain on fire.

I did not think of love. I lusted—but my lust was to destroy that beautiful body —to kill!

However, I was cunning— cunning! With caution, I felt my way toward the desk and secured the revolver, filling its chambers with leaden emissaries of death. When all was in readiness, I switched on the light.

She wakened almost instantly. As the radiance flooded the room, a startled cry rose to her lips. It froze, unuttered, as, half rising, she met my gaze.

Her beauty, the raven blackness of her hair falling over her bare shoulders and full, heaving bosom, fanned the flame of my gory passion into fury. In an ecstasy of triumph, I stood drinking in the pic¬ ture.

While I temporized with the lust to kill

—prolonging the exquisite sensation— she was battling for self-control.

"Louis!" The name was gasped through bloodless lips.

Involuntarily, I shrank, reeling a little under her gaze. A dormant something seemed to rise in feeble protest at what I sought to do. The leveled revolver wavered in my hand. But the note of panic in her voice revived my purpose. I laughed—mockingly.

"Louis!” her tone was sharp, but edged with terror. "Louis —put down that pis¬ tol! You don’t know what you are doing.”

She struggled to her feet and now stood before me. God! how beautiful—how tempting that bare white bosom!

"Put down that pistol!" she ordered hysterically.

She was frantic with fear. And her fear was like the blast of a forge upon the white heat of my passion.

I mocked her. A shrill, maniacal laugh burst from my throat. She had said I didn’t know what I was doing! Oh, yes, I did!

"I’m going to kill you !—kill you!" I shrieked, and laughed again.

She swayed forward like a wraith, as I fired. Or perhaps that was the trick played by my eyes as darkness over¬ whelmed me.

A few fragmentary pictures stand out - in my recollection like clear-etched cameos on the scroll of the past. One is of Louis, standing dazedly — slightly swaying as with vertigo—looking down at the smoking revolver in his hand. On the floor before him a crumpled figure in ebony and white and vivid crimson. Then a confusion of frightened men and women in oddly assorted nondescript at¬ tire—uniformed officers bursting into the room and taking the revolver from Louis’

THE DEAD MAN’S TALE


unresisting hand—clumsy efforts at lift¬ ing the white-robed body to the bed—a crimson stain spreading over the sheet— a doctor, attired in collarless shirt and wearing slippers, bending over her. ...

Finally, after a lapse of hours, a hushed atmosphere—efficient nurses—the begin¬ ning of delirium.

And one other picture—of Louis, cringing behind the bars of his cell, de¬ nied the privilege of visiting his wife’s bedside — crushed, dreading the hourly announcement of her death—filled with unspeakable horror of himself.

Velma still lived. The bullet had pierced her left lung and life hung by a tenuous thread. Hovering near, I watched with dispassionate interest the battle for life. For the time I seemed emotionally spent. I had made a supreme effort—events would now take their in¬ evitable course and show whether I had accomplished my purpose. I felt neither anxious nor overjoyed, neither regretful nor triumphant—merely impersonally cu¬ rious.

A fever set in, lessening Velma’s slen¬ der chances of recovery. In her delirium, her thoughts seemed always of Louis. Sometimes she breathed his name plead¬ ingly, tenderly, then cried out in terror at some fleeting rehearsal of the scene in which he stood before her, the glitter of insanity in his eyes, the leveled revolver in his hand. Again she pleaded with him to give up his work at the bank; and at Other times she seemed to think of him as over on the battlefields of Europe.

Only once did she apparently think of me — when she whispered the name by which I had called her: "Winkle!” and added, "Dick!” But, save for this excep¬ tion, it was always "Louis! Louis!”

Her constant reiteration of his name finally dispelled the apathy of my spirit. Louis! All the vengeful fury toward him

I had experienced when my soul went hurtling into the region of the disem¬ bodied returned with thwarted intensity.

When Velma’s fever subsided, when the long fight for recovery began and she fluttered from the borderland back into the realm of the physical, when I knew I had failed—balked of my prey, I had at least this satisfaction:

Never again would these two — the man I hated and the woman for whom I hungered—never again would they be to each other as they had been in the past The perfection of their love had been ir¬ retrievably marred. Never would she meet his gaze without an inward shrink¬ ing. Always on his part—on both their parts—there would be an undercurrent of fear that the incident might recur—a gris¬ ly menace, poisoning each moment of their lives together.

I had not schemed and contrived—and dared—in vain.

This was the thought I hugged when Louis was released from jail, upon her refusal to prosecute. It caused me sar¬ donic amusement when, in their first em¬ brace, the tears of despair rained down their cheeks. It recurred when they began their pitiful attempt to build anew on the shattered foundation of love.

And then—creepingly, slyly, like a bird of ill omen casting the shadow of its silent wings over the landscape—came retribution.

Many times, in retrospect, I lived over that brief hour of my return to physical expression — my hour of realization. Wraith-like, arose a vision of Velma— Velma as she had stood before me that night, staring at me with horror. I saw the horror deepen—deepen to abject de¬ spair.

How beautiful she had looked! But when I tried to picture that beauty, I could recall only her eyes. It mattered not



whether I wished to see them—they filled my vision.

They seemed to haunt me. From being vaguely conscious of them, I became acutely so. Disconcertingly, they looked out at me from everywhere—eyes brim¬ ming with fear—eyes fixed and staring —filled with horrified accusation.

The beauty I had once coveted became a thing forbidden, even in memory. If I sought to peer through the veil as former¬ ly—to witness her pathetic attempts to resume the old life with Louis — again those eyes!

God! Those eyes. There is a refine¬ ment of physical torture which consists of allowing water to fall, drop by drop, for an eternity of hours, upon the forehead of the victim. Conceive of this torture in¬ creased a thousandfold, and a faint idea may be gained of the torture that was mine—from seeing everywhere, constant¬ ly, interminably, two orbs ever filled with the same expression of horror and re-, proach.

Much have I learned since entering the Land of the Shades. At that time I did not know, as I know now, that my pun¬ ishment was no affliction from without, but the simple result of natural law. Causes set in motion must work out their full reaction. The pebble, cast into a quiet pool, makes ripples which in time return to the place of their origin. I had cast more than a pebble of disturbance into the harmony of human life, and through my intense preoccupation in a single aim had delayed longer than usual the reaction. I had created for myself a hell. Inevitably I was drawn into it.

Gone was every desire I had known to hover near the two who had so long en¬ grossed my attention. Haunted, harried, scourged by those dreadful accusers, I sought to fly from them to the ends of the earth. There was no escape; yet, driven

frantic, I still struggled to escape, because that is the blind impulse of suffering crea¬ tures.

The emotions that had so swayed me when I tried to blast the lives of two who held me dear now seemed puny and in¬ significant in comparison with my suffer¬ ing. No physical torment can be likened to that which engulfed me until my very being was a seething mass of agony. Through it, I hurled maledictions upon the world, upon myself, upon the creator. Horrible blasphemies I uttered.

And, at last—I prayed. It was but a cry for mercy—the inarticulate appeal of a tortured soul for surcease of pain—but suddenly a great peace seemed to have come upon the universe.

Bereft of suffering, I felt like one who has ceased to exist.

Out of the silence came a wordless re¬ sponse. It beat upon my consciousness like the buffeting of the waves. Words known to human ears would not convey the meaning of the message that was borne upon me — whether from outside source or welling up from within, I do not know. All I know is that it filled me with a strange hope.

A thousand years or a single instant— for time is a relative thing—the respite lasted. Then I sank, as it seemed, to the old level of consciousness, and the tor¬ ment was renewed.

Endure it now I knew that I must— and why. A strange new purpose filled my being. The light of understanding had dawned upon my soul.

And so I came to resume my vigil in the home of Velma and Louis.


A brave heart was Velma’s—dauntless t and true.

With the effects of the tragedy still ap¬ parent in her pallor and weakness, and in

THE DEAD MAN’S TALE


the shaken demeanor and furtive, self¬ distrustful attitude of Louis, she yet suc¬ ceeded in finding a place for him as over¬ seer of a small country estate.

I have said that I ceased to feel the tor¬ ment of passion for Velma in the greater torment of her reproach. Ah! but I had never ceased to love her! As I now re¬ alized, I had desecrated that love, had transmuted it into a horrible travesty, had, in my abysmal ignorance, sought to ob¬ tain what I desired by destroying it; yet, beneath all, I had loved.

Well I know, now, that had I succeed¬ ed in my intention toward her, Velma would have ascended to a sphere utterly beyond my comprehension. Merciful fate had diverted my aim—had made pos¬ sible some faint restitution.

I returned to Velma, loving her with a love that had come into its own, a love unselfish, untainted by thought of posses¬ sion. But, to help her, I must again hurt her cruelly.

Out of the chaos of her life she had slowly restored a semblance of harmony. Almost she succeeded in convincing Louis that their old peaceful companionship had returned; but to one who could read her thoughts, the nightmare thing that hov¬ ered between them weighed cruelly upon her soul.

She was never quite able to look into her husband’s eyes without a lurking sus¬ picion of what might lie in their depths; never able to compose herself for sleep without a tremor lest she should wake to find herself confronted by a fiend in his form. I had done my work only too well!

Now, slowly and inexorably, I began again undermining Louis’ mental control. The old ground must be traversed anew, because he had gained in strength from the respite I had allowed him, and his outdoor life gave him a mental vigor with

which I had not been obliged to contend before. On the other hand, I was equipped with new knowledge of the power I intended to wield.

I shall not relate again the successive stages by which I succeeded, first in influencing his will, then in partially subduing it, and, finally, in driving his personality into the background for in¬ definite periods. The terror that over¬ whelmed him when he realized that he was becoming a prey to his former ab¬ errations may be imagined.

To shield Velma, I performed my ex¬ periments, when possible, while he was away from her. But she could not long be unaware of the moodiness, the hag¬ gard droop of his shoulders which accom¬ panied his realization that the old malady had returned. The deepening terror in her expression was like a scourge upon my spirit—but I must wound her in order to cure.

More than once, I was forced to exert my power over Louis to prevent him from taking violent measures against himself. As I gained the ascendancy, a determina¬ tion to end it all grew upon him. He feared that unless he took himself out of Velma’s life, the insanity would return and force him again to commit a frenzied assault upon the one he held most dear. Nor could he avoid seeing the apprehen¬ sion in her manner that told him she knew — the shrinking that she bravely tried to conceal.

Though my power over him was great¬ er than before, it was intermittent. I could not always exercise it. I could not, for example, prevent his borrowing a re¬ volver one day from a neighboring farm¬ er, on pretense of using it against a ma¬ rauding dog that had lately visited the poultry yard. Though I knew his true intention, the utmost that I could do—for his personality was strong at the time—



was to influence him to postpone the deed he contemplated.

That night, I took possession of his body while he slept. Velma lay, breath¬ ing quietly, in the next room—for as this dreaded thing came upon him they had, through tactit understanding, come to occupy separate bedrooms.

Partially dressing, I stole downstairs and out to the tool-shed where Louis, fearing to trust it near him in the house, had hidden the revolver. As I returned, my whole being rebelled at the task be¬ fore me; yet it was unavoidable, if I would restore to Velma what I had wrenched from her.

Quietly though I entered her room, a gasp, or rather a quick, hysterical intake of breath, warned me that she had wak¬ ened.

I flashed on the light.

She made no sound. Her face went white as marble. The expression in her eyes was that which had tortured me into the depths of a hell more frightful than any conceived by human imagination.

A moment I stood swaying before her, with leveled revolver, as I had stood on that other occasion, months before. Slow¬ ly, I lowered the revolver, and smiled— not as Louis would have smiled but as a maniac, formed in his likeness, would have smiled.

Her lips framed the word "Louis,” but, in the grip of despair, she made no sound. It was the despair not merely of a woman who felt herself doomed to death, but of a woman who consigned her loved one to a fate worse than death.

Still I smiled—with growing difficulty, for Louis’ personality was restive and my time in the usurped body was short.

In that moment, I was not anxious to give up his body. At this new glimpse of her beauty through physical sight, my

love for Velma flamed into hitherto un¬ realized intensity. For an instant my pur¬ pose in returning was forgotten. Forgot¬ ten was the knowledge of the ages which I had sipped since last I occupied the body in which I faced her. Forgotten was everything save—Velma.

As I took a step forward, my arms out¬ stretched, my eyes expressing God knows what depth of yearning, she uttered a scream.

Blackness surged over me. I stumbled. I was being forced out—out. . . . That cry of terror had vibrated through the soul of Louis and he was struggling to answer it. Instinctively I battled against the darkness, clung to my hard-won ascendancy. A moment of conflict, and again I prevailed.

Once more I smiled. The effect of it must have been weird, for I was growing weaker and Louis had returned to the at¬ tack with overwhelming persistence. My tongue strove for expression:

"Sorry — Winkie — it won’t happen again — I’m not — coming—hack - ”

W hen I recovered from the momen¬ tary unconsciousness that accom¬ panies transition from the physical to the spiritual, Louis was looking in affright at the huddled figure of Velma, who had fainted away. The next instant, he had gathered her in his arms.

Though I had come near failing in the attempt to deliver my message, I had no fear that my visit would prove in vain. With clear prescience, I knew that my utterance of that old familiar nickname, "Winkie,” would carry untold meaning to Velma; that hereafter she would fear no more what she might see in the depths of her husband’s eyes; that with a return of her old confidence in him, the specter of apprehension would be banished for ever from their lives.

Coming Next Month

O NLY one light burned in that grim structure—one light, pale and yellow be¬ hind the masked window of the upstairs room. I knocked hesitantly, and there was no answer. My hand trembled on the latch. The door swung open, and silently we entered.

There in the dark we stood side by side, the woman and I, and neither of us spoke. In the far corner of the room a feeble shaft of light descended from the ceil¬ ing, revealing the top rungs of the ladder and the uneven surface of the wall beside it. The aperture was closed. From the chamber above us came the deep, singsong voice of Peter Mace, uttering words which brought sudden terror to my heart.

There is no need to repeat those words here. Enough to say that the horror, this time, was nearing its climax—that other voices, born of lips which had no human form, were slowly and terribly rising in a shrill crescendo, smothering the blasphe¬ mies which poured from tire boy’s throat. Even while the veiled woman and I stood motionless, those sounds rose to a mighty roar, screaming their triumph. And with them came the shrill, awful outcry of a woman in mortal anguish.

I wish now that I had yielded to the fear in my soul and fled from that evil place. I wish I had seized my companion’s arm and dragged her back across the threshold. Instead, I remained rooted to the floor. I stood rigid, listening to the medley of mad voices that bellowed above me.

The whole house echoed those wild vibrations. Words of terrible significance, of frightful suggestiveness, were flung out of monstrous throats, to wail and scream into the deepest depths of my consciousness. Again and again I heard names hurled out which bore sufficient significance to spike my soul with nameless and uncontrollable dread. And above them all, within them all, shrilled that wild screech of physical agony which tocsined from a woman’s lips! . . .

You will want to read this utterly different and startling story, about a corpsewoman, and a man who hid himself away from the world. This story of dark sor¬ cery will be printed complete in the August number of Weird Tales:

THE ISLE OF DARK MAGIC

By HUGH B. CAVE

-ALSODUST OF GODS By C. L. Moore

A fascinating story, stupendous in its scope, about a terrific adventure and the funeral pyre of one of the elder gods—by the author of "Shambleau.” THE DISTORTION OUT OF SPACE By Francis Flagg

A weird-scientific story of a strange being that came from the unplumbed deeps of outer space in * meteoroid.

THE DEVIL IN IRON By Robert E. Howard

A tale of Conan the barbarian, a weird and ter¬ rible adventure and an amazing island city of green stone.

THE BEAST-HELPER By Frank Belknap Long, Jr.

The story of a dictator who sought to hold power by allying himself psychically with a powerful beast.

Also, another thrilling installment of Arlton Eadie’s astound¬ ing weird mystery novel, "The Trail of the Cloven Hoof."

August WEIRD TALES Out August 1


T HE suggestion has frequently ap¬ peared in the Eyrie that we devote one page in each issue to biographies of our authors. We expressed ourselves as loth to run such a department, inasmuch as many authors of fascinating fiction lead very ordinary lives—in which respect they are not different from the authors who write for other magazines. But the question is up to you, the readers. If enough of you request an author’s page each month, we will swallow our objections to it; for the magazine belongs to you.

For Author’s Autobiographies Ernest H. Ormsbee, of Albany, New York, writes: "Being an old fan of yours, I have been interested in your Eyrie discussions about publishing 'get acquainted’ biographies of your various story contribs. Individuals have rights—and one of them is the right to privacy if he wants it. Readers also have rights, but I do not feel that among them is the privilege of digging up a writer’s privacy if he does not want it dug up. All of this puts the editor in an embarrassing position. There is a glamor about the mysterious writer 'whom no one knows’ that is bound to be lost by pitiless publicity. There is a solu¬ tion, however. The Literary Digest faced this same difficulty in regard to its cartoon¬ ists, and the editor overcame it by sheer common sense. Give the readers their biographies if they want them, but make them autobiographies: let the contrib submit whatever he wants the reader to have, or nothing at all if he feels that way. The average reader is a funny individual. He is easily satisfied, or at least pacified—and this autobiography is being fair to both sides. . . . Speaking of the nudes on your covers, I can best express my contempt for 'the

maiden aunts’ by repeating Judge David: ‘Some people want you to put pants on a horse!’ ”

Is This Sarcasm?

A. B. Leonard, of Portsmouth, Ohio, writes: "By all means give us an author’s page. Nearly all of the cheap magazines have one, and surely WT wishes to join this enterprising group. And, too, how can we, the readers, really enjoy the stories in WT unless we know what land of cigarettes the author smokes, or the color of his dressinggown? That one item alone has detracted from Seabury Quinn’s stories for years. If only we knew for sure whether he sports a mauve gown with cerise stripes, or prefers a quiet scarlet one trimmed with violet! Is it true that Edmond Hamilton smokes 'Interplanetarios’? Please tell us what Robert E. Howard eats for breakfast and what kind of soap Clark Ashton Smith uses in his bath. Does C. L. Moore prefer Sealyhams to Pekes and what does Carl Jacobi buy with the money he gets from his stories? How far did E. Hoffmann Price go in school? By all means give us an author’s page! Yeah!’’

Conan and Northwest Smith

A. Coffey, of Port Ludlow, Washington, writes: "I hare been a steady reader of your magazine since first you started publishing it, but this is my first comment. I have always found your stories varied and entertaining and am only asking now for you to keep up the stories of those two bold, very interesting and yet not so good young men, Northwest Smith, and Conan th ^ barbarian. Northwest takes us into the history-making, romantic frontiers of the future, while Conan brings them to us out of the past. So keep up the (Please turn to page 140)

Back Copies

a m

Because of the many requests for back issues of Weird Tales, the publishers do their best to keep a sufficient supply on hand to meet all demands. This magazine was established in early 1923 and there has been a steady drain on the supply of back copies ever since. At present, we have the following back numbers on hand for sale:








Jan.

Jan.

_

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

_

_

Feb.-Mar.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Mar.

_

_

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

_

Apr.-May

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

_

May

_

_

May

May

June

June

_

Jun.-Jul.

June

June

June

July

July

July

July

July

_

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

_

Sept.

_

_

_

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

_

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

_

Nov.

_

_

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

_

Dec.

_

Dec.

—

Dec.

Dec.

_

These back numbers contain many fascinating stories. If you are interested in obtaining any of the back copies on this list please hurry your order because we can not guarantee that the list will be as complete as it now is within the next 30 days. The price on all back issues is 23c per copy. Mail all orders to:


840 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois

139 -



'(Continued from page 138) good work and don’t worry about the covers as long as we have these two bold, bad and glamorous men with us.”

Man or Woman?

J. J. O’Donnell, of New York City, writes: "I notice a query in the Eyrie from a reader, as to whether M. Brundage, your cover artist, is a man or a woman. I took it for granted that M. Brundage was a man, but after thinking it over I am sure that I was wrong and I feel certain that the artist in question is a woman. Aside from the deli¬ cacy of this artist’s work (surely that be¬ tokens a woman), the initial M should have told me, for there are any number of feminine first names beginning in M— Mary, Margaret, Millicent, Mildred, Mar¬ jorie, Marylin, Mollie, Maizie, Mabel, Myrtle, Martha, to mention just a few— but I can not recall, offhand, even one mas¬ culine first name beginning with M.” CHow about Max, Manuel, or Manfred? Two presidents of the United States—Martin Van Buren and Millard Fillmore—had first names beginning with M; yet neither of them was ever suspected of being a wo¬ man.— The Editor.]

An Admirer of Howard

B. M. Reynolds, of North Adams, Massa¬ chusetts, writes: "The May issue of Weird Tales is by far the best since January, and your cover is certainly the finest ever done by Brundage. By all means stick to the nudes, as they really lend a certain amount of charm to an illustration depicting a fantastic or imaginative theme. It seems to me that the work of Robert E. Howard has been par¬ ticularly good of late, and his current story. Queen of the Black Coast, was the outstand¬ ing story this month. . . . C. L. Moore takes second honors with his gem of fantasy. Scar¬ let Dream, the best he has yet written for Weird Tales. Moore has great possibilities as a writer of weird fiction, and I sincerely hope that you will continue to print many more of his fine stories. ... It was also a great treat to read Sugarman’s The Gray Death over again. Why don’t some of those writers of ten years ago get busy and give us a few new stories? And by all means please continue to use only stories from your own

magazine in the reprint department. I hope you will soon decide to reprint the follow¬ ing: In Amundsen’s Tent, The Greatest Gift, Bimini, The Girl from Samarcand, and The Space-Eaters. ... As usual, Clark Ashton Smith gave us a treat with his little fantasy, The Tomb-Spawn, and A. Leslie’s poem Atavism was the best in months.”

From Far-away Africa

D. de Woronin, of Bulawayo, Rhodesia, writes: " ’Tis a long cry from the heart of the darkest of all continents to the land of space-ships and what-nots, but, seeing that I have been reading Weird Tales for over a year, I simply can not hold back any longer this mighty yell. Permit me, without offense to friend or foe, to unburden my mind. To start with, taken all round, the magazine is matchless and improving with every issue. The covers? I have two quarrels with them —no, not the usual ones re nudes. The first is that they do not always illustrate a story inside. The second is that, exquisite as they are, they could be improved by endowing the little ladies with more realistic proportions. . . . Without the slightest hesitation I pro¬ claim Shambleau the best story since January, 1933 (when I first started reading WT), and The Sapphire Goddess a very close sec¬ ond. With regard to the types of stories I like best—the weirder the litter, especially if die doings take place on some other plan¬ et, in some other dimension, or in the for¬ gotten past (like the Conan stories).”

For More Novels

R. E. Clarry, of Toronto, writes: ”1 had to write and tell you what a wonderful maga¬ zine you publish. It is easily the finest of its type on the market, and surpasses anything else I have ever read. Incidentally, this flat¬ tery is occasioned by my reading only one copy of your publication. I had never read a copy before I read your April number, so you see I am what you would call an 'in¬ stantly converted’ reader. It was the name of the magazine that drew me toward it. I have always been attracted to the bizarre, and I hoped to find this element in a maga¬ zine with such a ride: Weird Tales. But I didn’t stumble across the book till the other day, and just by accident at that. I had actually given up hope of ever finding it in Toronto. I came to the conclusion that the



tariff at the border had kept k out—it has with so many, you know. Magazines pub¬ lished in U. S. are infinitely superior to our own, to my way of thinking; yet they are not allowed to enter. Usually they must be printed in Canada on Canadian paper or they are barred, unless fabulous rates of duty can be imposed. ... I think your magazine eould become even better by the publishing of more novels. Short-stories have never ap¬ pealed to me as much as novels because they are too abrupt, too machine-made. A novel is more real, because it has looser, freer movement. The short-story is more compact, more compressed. The comparison could be likened to the machine-made and the hand¬ made cigarette. The one looks better, is

! tacked tighter; but it hasn’t the taste of the ooser, hand-rolled type. . . . Weird Tales is so definitely and essentially in a class by itself, that the modern, humdrum fiction that one can read anywhere pales into insignifi¬ cance. Your stories are entering new, un¬ trodden fields; but the fields of ordinary fic¬ tion are trampled into dry dust by the mul¬ titude of writers in them.”

She Likes Our Covers Writes Miss Viola Frank, of Gloversville, New York: "Weird Tales is supreme! Your cover designs are perfect! In fact, the whole magazine is perfect! I noticed in your May issue, one man was slamming the cover design—'nudes’ as he called them. Why? Certainly a woman’s body is nothing to be ashamed of. Please don’t change your covers any—I always have some of your magazines lying on my book stand and they certainly have caused a lot of people to start reading them. I haven’t any preference as to your stories. The Conan stories are always good. And the space stories are different—I also noticed that one man objected to these. I’d Ilka to see him find a story like Scarlet Dream and Shambleau in a mere interplan¬ etary magazine. I hope he sees that!’’

Let me prove wha t YOU R mind can demonstrate!

Are you tired of hearing what oan be done with the mystic laws of mind and matter, without being told how YOU can do these things, easily and surely? There is truth in claims made and the stories told.

For hundreds of years, in all lands* there have been noted men and women who demonstrated a rare and dependable system of creative mind power, and whose rise to success and attainment was miraculous.

This real knowledge, however, is not publicly distributed, as it is from! a sacred source. This rare and SE¬ CRET METHOD has been Preserved from the selfish, but is available to the sincere who wish to find happi¬ ness and mastery in life.

Write today for the free fascinat¬ ing Sealed Book which tells how you may receive this secret method used by thousands. Scribe B. G. O. ROSICRUCIAN BROTHERHOOD San Jose AMORC Calif.

i should, <

The NATURAL ^EYESIGHT SYSTEM Gives Your Eyes a New Deal

.. ___ i glasses, or think you sh

MONTHS' TRIAL OFFER-eontalning tl

jg-.

Revolutionary" System—will'bNATURAL EYESIGHT INSTITUTE, INC. Dept. 47-A Santa Monica, Calif.

"Cut Out the Nudes”

Paul Freehafer, of Payette, Idaho, writes: "My favorite stories in the May issue are The Satanic Piano, Vampires of the Moon,

§ ueen of the Black Coast (the best of the onan stories, by the way), and Scarlet Dream. ... I do not like your policy in regard to the nudes on the covers. I am a

is on sale the 1st of every month



faithful science-fiction and weird-fiction fan, and on numerous occasions 1 have tried to do my bit to introduce others to my favorite magazines. Unfortunately my success with Weird Tales has been poor. When I hand a copy to a friend, giving it a hearty recom¬ mendation, he will give first the cover and then me a fishy stare that says as plainly as words, 'So that’s the kind of magazines you read!’ Therefore I implore you, in the name of weird fiction, cut out the nudes and give us some really weird covers that express the true contents of the magazine.”

A Pleasing Variety

John Pemberton, of Palouse, Washington, writes to the editor: "Though I am not ad¬ dicted to writing fan letters, I may say that I have read your magazine constantly for eight or nine years, and never have I enjoyed it more than at present. You seem to have the happy knack of picking stories, while in general along the same line, different enough to keep the reader from becoming jaded with the everlasting horror and mystery."

In Defense of Hamilton

B. H. Lamore, of Silver Spring, Maryland, writes to the Eyrie: "Referring to the opin¬ ion of Mr. Donald A. Wollheim that The Man Who Returned 'was probably Edmond

Hamilton’s worst’, I wish to say that in this case Mr. Hamilton must be a wonder. I doubt that you have ever published a story in which the sequence of events was so ab¬ solutely logical. Each one was the inevitable result of the preceding one, and in my opinion there was not a weak point in the story.”

The Solitary Hunters Writes Henry Hasse of Indianapolis: "Please accept my belated thanks in appre¬ ciation of The Solitary Hunters. It was not only the best story Doctor Keller ever wrote, but was one of the ten best that ever ap¬ peared in Weird Tales. I was very pleased to see that the readers voted on every one of the three installments as being the best story in the issue. That sets a record of some kind, doesn’t it?” [It does.— The Editor.]

Ghouls and Vampires Charles Byerton, of New York City, writes to the Eyrie: "I always enjoy WT, but ghouls and vampires and interplanetary stories should be restrained a little. I put in a plea for the stories of 'haunts’ that are either not evil, or actually good. Charles Lamb’s old friend who did not fear the ghost children is a case in point. . . . Incidentally Conan’s contemporaries seem to have sold slave-girls nude—would not M. Brundage

My favorite stories in the July WEIRD TALES are:

(1) -Majd*r-&J.£ajd/jL'L

( 2 ) Tj.Xh.€-QlL{££-(2£S‘Jk'l

( 3 ) -

Remarks

_

.JUUtAjt. _

I do not like the following stories:

( 1 )---

( 2 )-

r

It will help us to know what kind of j stories you want in Weird Tales if you ' will fill out this coupon and mail it to | The Eyrie, Weird Tales, 840 N. Michigan I Ave., Chicago, Ill. I

Why?

Reader’s name and address:

_

H 3 3 4 H / x 0 k 1 a iv d

■WEIRD TALES

14}

do a good slave-market scene, with some of the merchandise cowering in the background while a princess in golden fetters is on the block?”

Up Jumped the Devil

Good old Jack Darrow, of Chicago, writes: "The May issue of Weird Tales might be called my birthday issue, as my birthday falls in that month. It’s a nice present, too. The cover is one of Brundage’s best. It is weird and well done. The new serial. Vampires of the Moon, is going to be a dandy. It’s the number one story in the May issue. But why such short installments? I do not believe that 25 to 30 pages is too long for your serial installments. Carl Jacobi scores again with The Satanic Piano. It was plenty weird and held my interest from the first word to the last. The conclusion of Satan’s Garden came fully up to expectations —a story truly worthy of E. Hoffmann Price.

. . . The interior make-up of Weird Tales has improved considerably. The illustrations are bener, the editorial comments on the stories between heavy lines look nice (use these with all stories), and the Eyrie is greatly improved. Let us have an author’s page if the author’s picture is included. The next issue is sure to be a corker with Wil¬ liamson having the feature story.”

Nothing Wrong, We’d Say

T. Schurgot, of Philadelphia, writes: "When I first started to read your magazine some years ago I was under the impression that anyone who read such stuff and enjoyed it as much as I did, and continued to read and enjoy it, was not quite right. However, since your magazine still continues to appear on the news stands and elsewhere, I have come to several conclusions. First, that pub¬ lishers do not print and publish magazines fust for the tun of printing them, so there must of a certainty be a pretty good steady sale of WT. Which leads me to the second thought, that there must be a lot of people like myself who like WT, and if so, maybe I am all right after all; so I continue to read your magazine with a great deal more of comfort. . . . My favorite authors are Robert E. Howard, with his marvelous scrap¬ pers (who doesn’t like a good fight?), Clark Ashton Smith, Seabury Quinn, Doctor Kel¬ ler, and Mr. Lovecraft. * , . I miss Solomon



NEXT MONTH

Dust of Gods

By C. L. MOORE

H ere is a fascinating story, cosmic in its scope, by the author of "Shambleau” and "Black Thirst.” It is a tale of the elder gods, who reigned on distant planets and worlds now frozen, in forgotten centuries, and an evil attempt to resurrect the thief of these legendary deities and restore it to power.

T hrough this tale strides the strange figure of Northwest Smith, the hero of "Black Thirst.” You can not afford to miss this story of his terrific adventure and the fu¬ neral pyre of a god. It will be printed complete

in the August issue of


On sale August 1st

To avoid missing your copy, clip and mail this coupon today for SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTION OFFER,


Enclosed find 11.00 for ■which send me the next five issues of WEIRD TALES to begin with the August Issue ($1.75 in Canada). Special offer void unless remittance Is accompanied by coupon.

Address

Kane, bur Conan, the mighty, the skullcracker, is my favorite just now.”

A Novel About Atlantis Carl J. Smith, of Port Felix, Nova Scotia, writes to the Eyrie: "Please write a six-part serial of Atlantis along die lines of The Last Days of Pompeii, with a vivid descrip¬ tion of life in the principal city, and lead¬ ing up to the destruction of the continent as a grand climax. The near approach of some planetary body could be the cause, with con¬ sequent terrific earthquakes, belching vol¬ canoes ; and the escape of a few survivors in the lurid darkness, etc. That would be some story!”

Against Interplanetary Stories Martha Evans, of Norfolk, Virginia, writes: "I would cast my vote against interplanetary stories, as they are seldom weird and do not belong in your magazine. As to vampire stories: if die authors would leave more to the imagination and not have so many corpses stalking around they would go over better. Some are weird and some are not. Ideal types of stories for Weird Tales are Price’s Tarbis of the Lake, Merritt’s The Woman of the Wood, Owen’s The Ox-Cart, and the strange and unearthly Scarlet Dream by C. L. Moore in this month’s issue. These stories are truly weird.”

From a Hardened Horror Fan Fred Anger, of Berkeley, California, writes to the Eyrie: "The April number was real good. . . . Hamilton scores with his Corsairs of the Cosmos —he takes the cake when it comes to weird-scientific stories; I never have read one that was boring. If C. L. Moore can keep up the pace set by Sham¬ bleau and Black Thirst, he is invaluable. He reaches horror in the extreme; it even makes some of us hardened horror fans shudder.”

Best-Liked Story

Readers, what story do you like best in this issue of Weird Tales? Write a letter to the Eyrie, or fill out the coupon on page 142. Your favorite story in the May issue, as shown by your votes and letters, was Scarlet Dream, by C. L. Moore. This was closely pressed for first place by Robert E. Howard’s stirring tale, Queen of the Black Coast.

W. T.—9

SAVE *1.50

ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION TO


And Accept This Specia I Offer

You may have experienced difficulty at times in finding Weird Tales on the newsstands. For this magazine sells out early and many small newsdealers don’t like to re-order a supply after publication date.

So make sure of getting Weird Tales every month by en¬ tering your subscription now and accepting this special money-saving offer.

The regular price of a two-year subscription is $6.00. But by filling out the coupon below, you can secure Weird Tales for two years for $4.50—a worthwhile saving of $1.50.

Or you may order a year’s subscription for yourself and another for a friend at the special price of $4.50.

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY and SAVE $1.50

WEIRD TALES, Dept. 8,

840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

For the enclosed remittance of $_._enter the following subscriptions at these

rates: (1 year — $3.00) 2 years—$4.50, saving $1.50 (Send either one 2-year subscription or two 1-year subscriptions).

Name_Address _

THE PHANTOM OF THE ETHER

<u>

T he first warning of the stupen¬ dous cataclysm that befell the earth in the fourth decade of the Twentieth Century was recorded simultaneously in several parts of America. At twelve minutes past 3 o’clock a. m., during a lull in the night’s aerial business, several of the larger stations of the Western hemisphere began picking up strange signals out of the ether. They were faint and ghostly, as if coming from a vast distance. As far as anyone could learn, the sig¬ nals originated nowhere upon the earth. It was as if some phantom were whispering through the ether in the language of another planet.

<iaS>

FREE BOOK

For Lovers of Fantastic Fiction

W E HAVE received many letters requesting us to reprint THE MOON TERROR in the magazine. This popular story appeared as a serial in WEIRD TALES in 1923, and is too long to republish in the magazine consistent with our policy. As a matter of service to the multitude of readers who have not read this story, we have had it printed in book form and offer a copy free with each subscription to WEIRD TALES for six months.

This book is beautifully bound in rich cloth, with an attractive colored jacket. It will make an excellent gift to a friend or a valuable addition to your own library. For a limited time, the Publishers of WEIRD TALES are giving this book away with each six months’ subscription to the magazine. Simply send $1.50, the regular six months’ sub¬ scription price for WEIRD TALES, and this book will be sent to you without further cost. Address: WEIRD TALES, Dept. S-48, 840 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

[THE END]
